

DBWAK’S —THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. 6. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOK—
Mining: and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
es.'o
advance,
ON ALL CLASSES o/° SECURITY- //
TRADE BILES DISCOUNTED. V
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.&I.C? LTP
HEAD OPPfCE: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
»xt to “Daily Telegraph” New Building,
18(5 Castlereaj>h Street, S 7 dney.
lot) <*e«rjsfe Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.YV.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
BUY
if*
v
Cash Coupon
on Every Packet.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
THE BEST !
u
m
6^
wmm
zs
m
y
n
£=2
£>/
iM?ea
w
and
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
J
1
m
for INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
w ••••V-v-
-&
The World’s Best & Cheapest Oil Engines
If you are an oil-engine buyer we offer you the Best Value on Earth in the
"Big* Chief” and “Field W” Engines.
Every Engine is self-contained on the one base; no extra tanks or pipes. Can be started in a few minutes
after its arrival on ‘the farm. Simplest, most economical and reliable Engines on this or any other market.
CASH OR EASY TERMS IN N.S.W. CASH OR EASY TERMS IN N.S.W.
CATALOGS FREE. CATALOGS FREE.
I
“The Engineers’ Depot,”
161 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
Write to 8 Spring Street, Sydney,
for a free copy of “The Referee," a
booklet containing much useful and
m
Supplied to the Naval and
Military Authorities of
Great
and
BL WHISKY (Bulloch Lade)
ORME, KEIGWIN (Kb CO. LTD.. SYDNEY Sole Agents.
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD. (MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.
FOR
Brass & Copper Rods, Bars, Sheets, Tubes etc.
LARGE STOCKS.
m
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
—- ' ——-
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 39.—N0. 1985.]
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
[Thursday, February 28, 1918.


CHATEAU-TANBNDA
SPECIAL * * * HOSPITAL
BRANDY
opppnted bv medical men and nurse* all over Australia as a spirit of great purity
Sd medicinal excellence. The enormous sale of CHATEAU-TANUNDA BRANDY
is eloquent testimony of its consistent high quality.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES Obtainable at all Hotels.
TucKer (H Co. Limited-Sydney-Proprietors.
GERMAN POW:
MUSTDIE
36?
9d. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
RILLS ALL INSECTS
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie” Dept. H„
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, and
sample tin will be sent post
free, or forward 9d. in stamps
for full-size tin.
DUERDIN & SALISBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
The Red Page
Fiction
Another of those long, indifferent novels of
London before nnd during the war is Dead
Yesterday , by Mary Agnes Hamilton (Duck-
worth, per Dymock’s Library). She pro-
vides a diffuse but 'acceptable picture of a
futile set of young people, all occupied in
their own sensations, all horribly bored by
themselves. “We’re too old. We’re effete.
We’re decadent., You can’t be the heir of
the ages on any other terms. We’ve no
-future ; we’re the slaves of our past. Every
emotion has been felt a million times and
expressed a thousand. That’s wliy we’ve no
poets and no painters. Above all, no men.”
Pose, this seems to us, but these people take
their poses seriously. The novel is practi-
cally written in dialogue; but it is not a
sparkling dialogue. The author’s conyersa-
tion may aptly be likened to her description
of the talk of ■filer characters: “The conver-
sation continued to be general and spas-
modic: always apparently oh the point of
expiring in. . r one attempt at an epigram,
only to be gananised into life again by some
new disconnected clutch at brilliance.” The
hero, a brilliant journalist, is -a# poor worm,
liis friend is of a finer typy. but lacks, as
nearly all the male eharactersydo, an honest
masculinity. The heroine is a rare charac-
ter-study of a line personality; but even she
takes her engaging self too seriously; and
this page cannot really feel the admiration
that the author expresses for the heroine’s
mother, a literary lady who seems to spend
most of her time writing important pam-
phlets and tiling cuttings. These people are
all too sophisticated; and though the author
probably means to make us see them as
sophisticated, she exempts the Celebrated
Author —which we don’t. What makes it
worse is that the novel is distinctly Pacifist
in tone.
We can all see the horror of war, and
we all hate war; but tins air of pitying
superiority, to the motives that prompted the
gallant youth of England to go to their death
rather annoys us. It isn’t as if.*, the pam-
phlet-writing Pacifist lady really helped to-
make things easier for war’s victims. The
uglier aspects of patriotism are unduly in-
sisted upon. The impulses that led England
into the war were certainly curiously mixed
• —politics and patriotism, honor and business
acumen, impulse and cool calculation; but
the main current for war was wholesome and
splendid. And as the war went on, there
was doubtless a certain weariness that the
author so well describes: “Incessant activity
made thought unnecessary: war news sup-
plied a daily false stimulus to dull imagina-
tions: the passion of hatred gave an* energy
to sterile emotions. To thousands war was
still a great external pageant, absorbing as
no cinematograph or theatre had ever been.
Hut others, and their numbers grew every
day, went about with a dumb prayer behind
their closed lips—a prayer for an end of the
slow agony of unendurable dread, of the
nameless things happening'behind those lines
on which ‘no change’ was reported day after
day. Young men who had left their previous
occupations, filled sometimes with the joy of
sacrifice, sometimes with the mere enthusi-
asm of change, set their teeth as they real-
ised. if their elders did not, that they were
going out to no high adventure, but into the
mouth of a dark monster, which might per-_
haps, at best, gorged with the youth of a
continent, lie down to sleep again for another
quarter of a century.” All the more honor
to them! Our criticism i§ that Mary Agnes
Hamilton does not say so.
Dead Yesterday is a feminised view of war
—4OO pages of thin, clever writing that, after
all, merely expresses the view of the female
that “war is just horrid.” In this novel
there is too much of the Mary Agnes atti-
tude.
■*
Christine, by Mice Cliolmondeley (Mac-
millan, per Dymock’s Library), is, after con-
sideration, classified as fiction. The author,
whom readers are cautioned not to mistake
for Mary Cliolmondeley, author of Bed Pot-
tage, states that the. letters of which the book
is composed were written to her, by her
daughter Christine, who died at a hospital- in
Stuttgart on August 8. 1914, of achte double
pneumonia. Alice Cliolmondeley further
asserts that she has kept Christine’s letters
private for three years; but now feels that
the time is ripe for their publication. The
letters, we are further told, are- published
without omissions. And the publishers add
that they have considered it best to alter
some of the personal names mentioned.
Yes but in letters written by a daugh-
ter to her mother, not for publication, there
would be all sorts of unsolved puzzles for the
ordinary reader. Apparently the mother
never gave her daughter any gossip about her
friends or relatives —for Christine in her
replies never refers to that gossip. And
Christine goes out of her way to inform her
mother that she is 22, and sft. lOin. high,
and possesses “a lucky facility in fiddling”
—facts that it seems unlikely for her mother
to have forgotten. Also, in her first letter
she explains exactly why she has come to
Germany, and why she couldn’t take her
mother with her. It is curious, too, that her
mother could come later on for a holiday to
Switzerland, when she was too poor to go to
Berlin, even for a fortnight, to see the
daughter she loved so much. No, this page
may ho doing Aliee Cliolmondeley an in jus-
tiee in refusing to accept her assurances ,
but these are palpably literary letters ; and
we refuse to believe that any young girl gave
to her mother what was so obviously meant
for an English public. And if this page is
right in its surmise, then what becomes ot
Alice Cholmondeley’s deliberate assurance
that the letters are genuineV All this in-
sistence upon the bonu-fides of these letters
is unnecessary; for they malie up an alto-
gether charming piece of fiction. The story
is simple; Christine, a girl with a real
genius for the violin, goes to Berlin to study
under the great violinist Kloster. lie be-
lieves furiously in her talent, and prophesies
for lier a triumphant world-fame. She is
taken up by a Prussian Junker family, meets
a Prussian officer, and becomes engaged to
him. Then the war breaks out, and owing
to the ill-treatment she has to suffer in her
vain efforts to get out of Germany, she is
taken ill and dies.
Christine, goes to Germany prepared to
believe the best of it. But first she discovers
tlifi rudeness of the Germans, especially to
women. “It is the funniest thing, their
hostility to England,' and the queer, re-
luctant and yet passionate admiration
that goes with it. It is like some girl who
can’t get a man she admires very much to
notice her.” Next their extreme sensibility
strikes her. “They’re the oddest mixture
of what really is a brutal hardness, and a
.squashiness that leaves one with one’s mouth
open.” The kindly Kloster is the only Ger-
man she meets who seems to see Germany
as it is—-and dares to speak about it. “We
like simple and gross emotions and plenty of
them; obvious tastes in our food and our
pleasures, and a. great deal of it; fat in our
food, and fat in our women.” And in
.Tune. 1914, she finds the Germans all in a
condition of tension, breathlessly waiting—
for what? Kloster terms them clever chil-
dren, with the immoral quality of children,
the easiest people in the world to govern,
because they so obedient and so inflam-
mable. And the English girl could not find
any trace of stolidity about them. Her nice
Prussian lieutenant tells her that Germany
is seething with the desire to fight.
Christine’s habit of expressing her own
opinions is always getting her into trouble.
Young German girls are not supposed to
have opinions of their own, just as the
married German woman is not supposed to
concern herself about her beauty. “To be
jretty when you arc a married woman,” she
s told, “is only an undesirability. It ex-
poses one easily to comment, and might
sause,- if one had not a solid character, an
ever-afterwards-to-be-regretted expenditure
on clothes.”
Acute and amusing criticism —too acute
for innocent Christine. It wasn’t her busi-
ness so neatly to sum up Germany and the
Germans in her letters to her mother, lhat
good lady would have been more concerned
to learn whether her Christine was wearing
wool underneath and whether she received
that blouse she sent her. But Christine
doesn’t tell her. And somehow she manages
always to be in the right spot to see all the
stirring events of the first days of the war,
and tcT meet the typical people at the right
moment. Her love-affair, and- especially her
lover’s proposal, wear the air of having been
excellently stage-managed; the final leave-
taking is too aptly melodramatic ; ana, witn
the “pull” that her Prussian lover had, he
surely would have procured her a passport
that would have taken her out of Germany.
No, a delightful piece of fiction, but alto-
gether too sophisticated, too popular, for poor
Christine.
Whether we are winning the war or not
we’re doing pretty well in art. In Maicn
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, are bringing
out, as a special number of Art in Aus-
tralia. The Fen Drawings of or man Lind-
say (12s. 6d.). This splendid collection of
the work of one of the finest pen-and-ink
artists in the world will be 'comprehensive
and representative of all his phases and
periods; and tlw majority of these pictures
will be here reproduced for the first time.
There will be 50 large plates. The letter-
press will include articles by Julian Ashton
and Sydney Ure Smith. In April the fourth
number of Art in Australia (65., same
publishers) will be a memorable issue, since
it will include 14 pictures in color and will
represent 25 years of Australian art. The
publication is timed to synchronise with the
forthcoming Loan Exhibition, representing
the whole period of modern Australian art,
to be held at the National Galleries of N. S.
Wales and Victoria. Finally, Sydney Ure
Smith and Bertram Stevens are at work on
a two-guinea volume, The Art of J. J. Hilder
(x\ngus and Robertson), with 30 color repro-
ductions of this'artist’s most exquisite work.
The “boom” in Hilders that followed the
early death of our most romantic and
brilliant water-colorist still continues; and
the fortunate possessors of his pictures could
sell them now at many times their purchase
price—but they won’t. Similarly the small
memorial edition produced for the Hilder
Loan Exhibition in 1916, published at 55., is
out of print and worth guineas. The demand
therefore justifies this ambitious publication,
and the reproductions will more than justify
its price, 425.
War
Interesting and actual is “Contact s book
of war-flying, An Airman’s Outings (Black-
wood). He suggests the subsequent era or
universal flight after the war, when designers,
freed from the subordination ol all factors to
war requirements, will give birth to machines
safe as motor-cars or ships, and capable of
carrying heavy freights for long distances
.cheaply and at an almost inconceivable speed.
“Contact’s” war-flying was done at the battle
of the Somme, as far back as 1916—and that
is equivalent to a decade in air-craft develop-
ment. All the makes of machines that he
flew have now been superseded by designs
infinitely better, while aerial tactics have
been practically revolutionised. He describes
many actual combats; and in one he indi-
cates the sense of strain incidental to air-
fighting. While attacked by three German
’planes he saw one Hun machine collide with
another, with the fortunate result that one
machine broke into two pieces, and the other
side-slipped, recovered and went down to
land. The third followed.
“In plain print and at a normal time, this
incident shows little that is comic. But
when it happened I was in a state of high
tension, and this, combined with the start-
ling realisation that a Hun pilot had saved
me and destroyed his friend, seemed irresist-
ably comic. I cackled with laughter, and
was annoyed because my pilot did not see
the joke.”
In an aerial combat all the faculties must
b.e concentrated on opening the attack, since
an air duel is often decided in the first few
seconds at close-quarters. “An airman should
regard his body as part of the machine when
there is a prospect of a fight, and Ins. brain,
which commands the machine, must be in-
stinctive with insight into what the enemy
will attempt.”
Flying in England, “Contact” is struck by
the view of the summer countryside»as seen
from above: “an unexampled scene, of which
poets will sing in the coming days of univer-
sal flight. . . . Ugliness and dirt are camou-
flaged by the clean top of everything....
Slums, the dead uniformity of long rows ot
houses, sordid back gardens, bourgeois public
statues—all these eyesores are mercifully
hidden by the roofed surface. The very fac-
tory chimneys have a certain air of impres-
siveness, in commou with church towers and
the higher buildings.”
We learn many interesting things: the
difficulty of keeping a straight course when
flying in a- cloud: the height at which an
average air battle begins—l2,ooo to 20,000
feet; what happens aerially on a “big push
day; the short life of effective craft: a
machine is good for a few months of active
service, just holds its own for a few more,
and then becomes obsolete except as a fram-
ing-’bus ; the growth 'of speed in aeroplanes:
when “Contact” wrote it was 150 miles an
hour, and the machine could climb more
than 1000 feet a minute to an abnormal
height, while by now the level speed of the
latest machines must be 200 miles an hour;
the inevitable extension of ground attacks
by air cavalry, probably by specially-designed
machines, armored underneath, and carrying
guns that fire downwards through the fuse-
lage—a novel striking force that may well
turn an orderly retirement into a disorderly
rout. .
And he describes the correct procedure ot
the British airman when he is driven down
upon enemy territory. “The observer digs
into the petrol tank as they touch earth, and
then runs round the machine. In a second
the petrol is ablaze and the fuselage and
wings burning merrily. Germans rush up
and make vain attempts to put out the fire,
mv friends are seized, searched and dis-
armed. Then they shake hands with the
German pilots, now heatedly discussing who
was chiefly responsible for their success.
The captive couple are lunched by the enemy
airmen, who see that the wounded observei
receives proper attention. At the risk of
incensing some of your eat-’em-alive civilian
friends, I may say we have plenty ot evi-
dence that the German Flying Corps includes
many gentlemen.”
lan Hay’s Currying On (Blackwood, per
Sydney Book Club) admirably preserves the
genial tone of The First 100,000. War to
lan Hay is a gentlemanly job; one keeps
one’s temper, plays the game and sees humor
in everything —probably in self-defence to
preserve one’s sanity. He admits that in
the late autumn of 1915, when this chronicle
commences, he and his fellows no longer
regarded war with enthusiasm. But still
lan Hay’s humor bubbles out. “Off duty,
the Sapper is the most unobtrusive of men
—a cave-man, in fact. But when engaged
in the pursuit of his calling, the Sapper is
the least retiring of men. The immemorable
tradition of liis great Corps has ordained
that no fire, however fierce, must be allowed
to interfere with a Sapper in the execution
of his duty. This rule is usually inter-
preted by the Sapper to mean that you
must not p«rform your allotted task under
cover when it is possible to do so under
fire. To this is added, as a rider, that in
the absence of an adequate supply of fire,
you must draw fire. So the Sapper walks
cheerfully about on the tops of parapets,
hugging large and conspicuous pieces of
timber, or clashing together sheets of corru-
gated iron, as happy as a king.”
And so Hay pictures his brother officer*
hoping that “the present scrap” can be pro-
longed for another year—that was in 1910.
—in order that England might receive the
benefits of Compulsory Service, All the
slackers would thereby have to toe the line;
for the first time in their little lives they
would learn the meaning _of discipline and
fresh air and esprit de corps. "Isn’t that
worth a war? Think of it! Croat IJritain
populated by men who have actually been
outside their own parish !”
Tommy, too, lias his own idea of fun.
Hay mentions an instance. At Festubert
there was a dead Frenchman buried in the
parapet. This poor chap’s hand stuck out.
just about four feet from the floor of the
trench. “1 never saw a member ot my
platoon go past that spot without shaking
the hand and saying, ‘Good morning,
Alphonse!’ I had it built up with sand-
bags ultimately, and they were quite an-
noyed!”
And the women of Engand ! One officer
tells of a bunch of munition girls whom he
mgt coming home from work. All were
young, and most were pretty. Their hands
and faces were stained a bright, orange-color
with picric acid,'“and will be, I suppose,
until the Boche is booted back into his sty.”
They had deliberately sacrificed their good
looks for the duration of the war. "But.
bless you, they weren’t worrying. They
waved their orange-colored hands to me and
pointed to their orange-colored faces, and
laughed. They were proud of them; they
were doing their bit! They nearly made me
cry.”
And lan Ilay looks forward to the return
of the armies after the war, the invasion of
England by millions of the wisest men she
has ever produced. Well, we’re hoping for
something like that in Australia, too. It
seems the only hope we’ve got left.
The competition, with a half-guinea
reward, for the most characteristic Aus-
tralian proverb closes on Saturday.
John Masefield’s play in verse, Good rri-
dny, is now available in an English edition
by Heinemann, for 3s. (id. It first appeared
in English Fortnightly, Dec., 1915. and
was reviewed on this page 3/2/T6,. and .sub-
sequently was included in an Am erica ry issue
of Masefield’s verse. -
“Milrrabit”: There is only one fault with
the Australian Nursery Rimes booklet. It is
rather flimsy in structure for the handling
of our little piccaninnies. An edition should
be on the market either in cloth or card-
board. Most parents would gladly pay the
extra cost for a durable article. As a hint
in the meantime I might tell you how I P ro_
vided a strong copy for my 18 months’ old.
who loves the pictures and can already give
the theme and the climax of them aM. They
appeal to her much more than the old world
rimes that delighted our young days. Two
copies are necessary, some paste and a few
old "exercise book” covers —the stouter the
better. A few strips of linen and the use
of the sewing-machine will unite the pages.
Good-luck to it! -
Science Progress, a quarterly review
for the scientific-minded (Murray, As.), bril-
liantly keeps alive the legend that in Eng-
land science is regarded as of some import-
ance. The scientific writer has often a
pretty wit; and Dr. 0. Mereier, a brilliant
humorist, is missing a fortune because he
confines his writings to scientific journals
and on scientific subjects. Probably he has
never heard of Stephen Leacock?
Will “Another Billjirn in France,’’ author of the
par. on 1?.I\ 20/12/T7, forward his name and
address? A correspondent who has discovered an
apparently infallible method of posting Bulletin's
so that they dodge tile “full hacks” and reach the
addressees, sending four copies every week, is eager
to try his patent method of foiling the sneak-thieves
upon that Billjirn; Incidentally, it may be men-
tioned that for the past two years a member of the
■las forwarded a copy every week to
ralian Soldier in the Trenches,” and
received one acknowledgment of the
of the paper in the Sinai desert!
on it the name and address of the
request, for acknowledgment if the
nore; but latterly, getting disgusted,
i: “If you’ve stolen this copy, damn
id the solitary acknowledgment from
the sender’s only solace.
Vance Palmer: Red Page (B. 31/1/’18) hovers
round Such is Life for a few moments with a yawn.
AVhy? Doesn’t that book strike the authentic Aus-
tralian note? Or does its wit and humor count for
nothing when there is a. bevy of commercial successes
waiting in flaring jackets? “trance Palmer claims
’• Not at all. The reputation of the book
doesn’t rest on any claims put forward at this late
hour. But neither does the fact that it was first
published 15 years ago relieve the reviewer from
decent obligations. There really was an Australian
before Anzac, and Joseph Furphy was one of its most
conscientious writers and interpreters _ His woiv
(like that of Francis Adams, Bedford, Price V arum:
and a few others) is worth more critical analyse
than the last novel from some English book-factory.
Boil Such is Life down into tabloids for tired Aus-
tralians? Again, why ? Furphy s t
wasn’t an excrescence that could be cut off « blatant
chunks: it was in hismiarrow Ped
isn’t a Tired Australian. Let it bjwnsh the wor
of competitions from its nnnd for a while and _dm
into—well, the third chapter, for instance, f Dipped.
Thanks!]


Vi
'a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ f» Farmers’ Wants
Canton
Treble-furrow, £2B.
Disc Plough
Rapid Root Pulper, £9/10/
Pony Feed Cutter, 77/6.
Canton Guard Lever Harrow, 95/-
ALL THE GOOD POINTS which the MAN ON
THE LAND DESIRES in AGRICULTURAL
IMPLEMENTS are CONTAINED in THOSE
ILLUSTRATED on this page.
The RENOWNED CANTON DISC PLOUGH, in
treble-, double- and single-furrow patterns, has 26in.
discs and is a most reliable implement. Treble Furrow
(weight 9001 b.), £2B; Double Furrow (weight 7801 b.),
£23 ; Single Furrow (weight 6301 b.), £lB.
THE CANTON GUARD LEVER HARROW is
invaluable in trashy ground. Bft. (weight 2031 b.),
95/-; 10ft. (2311 b.) £5/2/6.
RAPID ROOT PULPER, 4 double-edged knives, will
cut and pulp 30 bushels per hour by hand, and 125
bushels by power. Price £9/10 -
RAPID ROOT AND VEGETABLE CUTTER, 3
cutting knives, fitted also with slicing knives, will deal
with about 50 bushels hourly. For hand or power.
Price £B/15/-
The PONY FEED CUTTER, at 77 6, will cut
Hay, Cornstalks and all kinds of rough feed. One man
can cut one bushel of hay in 35 seconds. Cuts from
3-16 to 2 in. Weight, 1651 b.
The No. 8 CORN SHELLER is a dependable machine
which will deal with 20 bushels hourly. Price £6 10/-
No. 15, a TWO-HOLE CORN SHELLER, has a
capacity by hand of 25 bushels per hour, and 60 bushels
hourly if worked by power. Price £l3/10/-
The WIARD GANG PLOUGH makes a double
furrow 22in. wide, and from 4to 8 inches deep. Has
soft centre steel mouldboards £lO/5/-
The OHIO STANDARD FEED AND ENSILAGE
CUTTER is invaluable where fodder is siloed. It is
equipped with blower elevator and requires but slight
power to run. With Plain Table £25.
With Travelling Table, as shown • £3O.
Rapid Root Cutter, £B/15/-
No. 8 Corn Sheller, £O/10/-
. ; , v ,-.
Plow CO- ' SATAVfA N
Wiard Gang Plough, £lO/5/-
Ohio standard Feed and Ensilage Cutter.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Ride a B.S.A
B.S:A. Fittings are manufactured through-
out in the great B.S.A. Factories with the
well-known B.S.A. standard quality, material
and Workmanship. They can therefore be
relied on to give the same satisfactory
service which has made B.S.A. productions
world-famous. Every B.S.A. part is tested
and gauged to one thousandth part of an
inch, and
B.S.A. Fittings are
Guaranteed Interchangeable
Exact replacements of any part can be
obtained of all Australian Agents without
delay. Don’t be put off with any cheap
“pattern” substitutes, but look for the
B.S.A. Trade Marks on EVERY PART.
They are your guarantee.
Trace the life of a genuine B.S.A.
Fittings Bicycle from the time of
purchase, and you will find it one
long record of satisfaction to the
rider. Day in and day out it gives
unfailing service, and provides many
hours of real enjoyment because of
its easy running and comfort. Con-
trast this with the cheap “pattern”
machine, in which, as a result of
substituting cheapness for quality,
something is always going wrong.
You will make satisfaction certain
by having your bicycle built of
GENUINE
BSA
FITTINGS
You will find it truest economy, for
not only will you enjoy greater
comfort and security with three or
four times the length of service that
a cheap “pattern” machine will give
you, but your bicycle will always
have a good selling
value, as against the
“scrap” price that the
second-hand “ pattern ”
machine usually
fetches.
ite for B.S.A. Handbook.
D. Y. RENNIE “'•ErSu*,. Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
TRADEMARKS
Look for this Mark
on every part when
you buy a Bicycle.
mm


Grease Lubricators.
m
Specify......
“DESLYN”
(Reg. Trade Mark)
GREASE CUPS
and see you get them.
Scientific, Economical,
Easily Applied.
Used by N.S.W.
Government.
AUSTRALIAN MADE by
D. F. GLYNN MFG. CO., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Wholesale only). ’Phone 7680.
Write for Particulars and list of Supply Houses.
*
A treat
in store
HP
source,
You can taste the
delicious oriental fruits
and spices, which arc
blended by a secret
process with Fare
Malt Vinegar,
cret
s
£
«
'l\>
V
V^\yA7
m
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
318 Liftte Collins St., Melbourne.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
CELEBRATED
I
WBt
V!Si
m
*0
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the _ worst Corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—-;t, kills them. It is a painless cure—
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
~ n ° trouble, no preparation, no mess,
oolu in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
VI 7. *
2 w d n^, Ba,n i bury > FlinderB Lane, Melbourne.
T . W e B ™ d ' ey ’ Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
o arb J"i y Buildin &s> Brisbane.
f. U n dri . e . s Ltd -> Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [1
FOE OUEJ ICK AND WOUNDED
DUxo.- \\ hen you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
WAITING!
There is nothing so trying for a woman
these days as waiting —always waiting.
It needs a steady nerve and a strong heart to
carry on—do the day’s work with a cheerful face,
and have a smile handy.
Give yourself a chance to do this by keeping
fit—a tonic that really helps is
Phosformo
1 THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a nerve and cell food and strengthener
that is helping many folk over the worries, work
and waiting that the world is going through now.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- . 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 6C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK. THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
1
Extra Strong for
the Extra Strain
More rubber than in any other motor cycle tyre.
Same quality of materials as in Firestone Automo-
bile Tyres. You will know them by the red side
wall, black tread —a stunning combination,
Jirtrtont
Motor Cycle Tyres
possess great endurance because of the "extras”
which Firestone specialists "build in” to them. The
favorite tyre with the riders of the world because of
their great wear resisting qualities, built-in extras and hand-
some appearance. They represent the topmost value in tyres,
and meet the most exacting demands of the riders of the world.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Caragee
Write for Illustrated Literature
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Singers.
We shall walk daintily in later dew
On sweet, far mornings speaking these grave
words,
Wearing worn silver on our garments blue
While Spring is full of nests and cheeping
birds.
And when the clocks chime on and hearts
forget,
We shall be very still, as are the wise.
Nursing the dreams that make us fairer yet
For the wide wondering of newer eyes.
Above our heads shall soar large roof and
dome, .
Long windows flaking color through the
gloom,
Where the great music has its silent home
And rich old bindings in the shadows bloom.
But we shall rise and go away, away,
Down happy meadows to the calling seas,
And speak all moments of the yellow day
Or sing to moonlight in the lisping trees.
Leaves rustle brownly in the autumn wind.
All books shall fade. Bift, in a realm apart,
We shall go fearlessly through all the blind.
Green places of the ever-singing heart.
And we shall hear and know, too glad for
pride,
The hot, sweet words our rebel dreamings
hurled
Against cold thought’s despair come as a tide
Flooding across the evening of the world.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
A Summer Afternoon.
All the blue of all the sky
Is mirrored in the sea,
And the little breezes die
Where the sun glows drowsily;
Daisies prink the grass with stars;
Roses dream with drooping head.
Naught the quiet beauty mars
Here where peace and nature wed.
War has lost reality
In the light of noonday sea;
And the springs of all'the earth
Sing of joy and happy birth.
Pain’s a myth, Despair’s a lie,
Fear’s a gloomy fallacy;
Death’s a dreary dream, I wis—
There is nothing more than this.
Just the drowsy golden swoon
Of a sumrher afternoon ;
Just the singing of a bird
Then the Postman’s knock is heard
And dark fear will catch the breath—
Will he bring us neivs of death?
jsr.s.w.
M. MARTIN.
Lips o’ the Sea.
Down there the mermaids call and call to me
Of strange, dark-shining- sunsets and dim
noons,
And deep-sea, faery mermaid balms that be
Drowned there, distilled of tears and crescent
moons.
W hispers sou’westerly lisp in my ears;
Long chanteys in the dark ships croon and
sigh ;
And ghosts long buried in the fallen years
Look up, and beckon me insistently.
Oh, I must go! Lips o' the calling sea,
Low-hushing on the bosom of the world,
Long lullabies adrift, cry out for me,
Low murmuring in my memory; soft-curled
And dread and ravening sweet. Oh, I must
go—
And soon. Far dreams are there. A song
That follows me across all seas I know
Sings to me now, lost in this Jand-locked
throng.
A word is on the sea’s warm, quiet lips
For me; and I must go down once again
To hear. I will set sail in little ships
I know of old, and soothe this tired pain.
In sea-washed bows I’ll stand, and see the
day
Fade to a wine-red sun; and hear the word
The tides still keep for me so far away;
Deep in a misting dusk it shall be heard.
Far down into her sweet salt ways I’ll go,
My age-long trysting gladly there to keep;
I’ll watch the lights all wavering to and fro,
And hush me at the last, at home to sleep.
Great stars shall watch; and I shall shrivfed
be
Of all my sins; all things unseemly seen,
All things unworthy done, shall slip from me
At last, at rest in death, and sea-washed
clean.
N.S.W.
HILARY LOFTING.
Rondeau.
To prove my love what shall I do?
Just tell me how you’d have me woo.
My life is at your sweet command;
I’d crawl through Hell to touch your hand.
To sniff the subtle scent of you.
But try me, and you’ll find me true;
I’d thieve or murder at a cue
From you, or drop my fav’rite brand,
To prove my love.
Brave deeds would I perform, dear Sue,
Should you elect to tell me to.
But, still. I trust you have not planned
Tests of this nature to demand—
Of other ways I know a few
To prove my love.
VICTOBIA.
HARRISON O.


sras
o
m
m
ii
a
mm
»
SMmm
m
I. II
i
98
>■ T
■Hr*
m
m
m
m
m
m
MS
m
mi
\ r :'-
1
S 8
H
B
Si-
m
a m
mi
y
vSsS
OBTAINABLE FQOM ALL STORES
/VA hJ UFA <yrt/R£D Q'r'
PERDRIAU RUBBER COLTD.
SYDNEY. MtLBOUHNE. BH.SBANE PEBTH. A.PELMPE-
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 0 „ „ £lO
£43 15 0 „ „ £5O
£B7 10 0 „ „ £lOO
£875 0 0 „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6“ War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank ok Australia. October , 1917
inL/
“Rex” Camp Pie is on
for “a Long Run ”
Here's some “extra special” good “news” for
housewives who wish to
break away from the “ stereo-
typed forme ” of meal.
m
sks
\m\\
a
“REX"
CAMP PIE
is a “leader” among nourishing foods be-
cause it is “composed” of the choicest “sorts”
of meat skilfully cooked and seasoned.
l? 6X Cam P Pie may be “made-ready” for
the table by emptying it straight from the
tin. Your home folks will “rush” it like a
final extra!’
No need, to “press” anyone to eat, just “set
it with a salad.
Try it to-day.
Any grocer will supply you.
“Rex” Ham Pate
and “Rex” Veal
and Tongue Pate
should be given “ top
position" when you want
a change for sandwiches.
Try them.
Foggitt, Jones
& Co., Ltd.
Packers of "Rex" Pure Food
Products, Curers of “ Rex ”
Hams and Bacon.
tz
J 3 U-
m
Marine Engines
m
For All Boats
CalUe 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically
Electric Lights
Calllc 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Bass as Engine
m
Callle Five
Speed Row*
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7'910
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- t o four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise_ us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock; also
Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers
Limited,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY
71-75 Queen's Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE.
Martell s has a reputation of 200 years, and its richness
in higher ethers makes it of inestimable value in case
of sickness.
MARTELL’S
Fine Old Cognac
brandy.
The quality
that delights
•■ • *
Thorne’s is an exceedingly good whisky, and the more
cultured a man’s taste the more he enjoys Thorne’s.
It is of matchless flavor, undoubted purity, and
that has stood the test for 80 years.
Ask for Thorne’s next time.
THORNE’S
O.H.M. “Incomparable”
WHISKY.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, X.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.-No. 1985.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1918.
I'IUCE CL).
DAVID AND GOLIATH—AND WHAT PRICE GOLIATH?


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Mac mod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have lins
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week jor a
year, including Special Christinas Number, to any
aiiuukss in Australasia, post paid.
(■osl free to any address abroad, £ l 10s. per
n n n nl.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of tins paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
Tun Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will he understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction—-i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., U 1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City Neivs Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer ■ and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Per era, 16' Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id. :
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, Ijoz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
TTurZB-aHeizn.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1918.
DEMOCRACY WITH A SNAKE ON
THE PREMISES.
We are blundering on, accumulating experi-
ence on the journey and discovering that
the promised land is a long way off. At
one time it seemed to be only round the
corner. The way to get there was to
destroy political privileges, democratise Par-
liament, give the rugged honesty of the aver-
age man a chance, and then proceed to enjoy
the results. The main trouble now is that
the results provoke about as much joy as
the arrival of a cyclone at Mackay. The
destruction of one lot of political privileges
immediately led to a fresh crop. While
incompetence and muddle were being driven
off the premises futility and ineptitude
surged into the vacant space and started
grazing on the available nourishment. Par-
liaments, resting on the narrow basis of class,
were in the habit of showing an insolent
disregard of popular rights and national in-
terests. Parliaments called into being by
democracy have shown .themselves no less
ready to do the same thing and often with
an even greater cynicism. If any nation on
earth was destined in the scheme of things
to show the world how a people might be
made great and society raised to imposing
dignity by Parliaments run by party
machines, it is this Australia of ours. The
supply of Parliament is more copious than
anywhere else on the globe. Yet there is not
much doubt in the mind of any Australian
capable of occasionally detaching himself
from the party joss that Parliaments as they
were known to the population hereabouts
in a.d. 1918 will to the retrospective citizen
of a later day be viewed with wondering
amazement that such things were ever
endured. Not only is Australia burdened
with excessive quantities of Parliament; it
is working with a Parliamentary system so
inherently rotten that the dangers of it are
more sinister than anything which ever went
before. Either from popular casualness or
from the impossibility of converting Par-
liamentary institutions into effective instru-
ments of government, the breach between
democracy and the Legislature grows wider
every year. The democracy makes politicians,
and what the politicians are making of Par-
liament is not at all the thing the original
specifications provided for.
* * * *
Take Australia. The future of the
Commonwealth was not provided for nor was
its safety determined by the mere act of
bringing its constitution into existence. Every-
thing turned on the use to which Australians
put the opportunity before them—on the
adaptability of the machine they were work-
ing with and their own competence to grapple
with the business on hand. And how many
people are they who would say that in either
direction there is anything to be found
worthy of applause? The Commonwealth
Parliament stands to-day an object of con-
tempt to many, of mistrust to nearly all.
The enthusiasms of the peonle for the high
ideals of national life and citizenship which
gave the Commonwealth birth have almost
evaporated. If there are any enthusiasms
left they are mostly in relation to the
struggles of this party or that to beat the
other. On the one side are a crowd of poli-
ticians engaged in a sordid struggle for
office and the preservation of party votes;
on the other a people drugged into impotence.
Whether conceptions of government through
Parliament under modern democratic con-
ditions are not wildly insane may be open
to argument. What is not so open is that
here in Australia evidence is piling up that
the Commonwealth Parliament is grossly in-
competent to discharge its functions, and
shows no sign of ability to make itself any-
thing else. Contemplation of it through the
party glasses makes it look no better. It
is the same whatever party is in power—
and the people who support those parties
know it. They are beginning to know also
that the qualities through which men get
into Parliament are the very qualities which
turn that institution into the headquarters
of compromise and evasion. The other day
a report was published on Pearce’s admin-
istration of the Defence Department. Under
any rational system that report would be
the end of Pearce. But if this report con-
demns Pearce it more heavily censures
Parliament. Pearce is the creation of
Parliament. Parliament sanctioned every
one of his blunders just as it sanctioned
Canberra, the reckless profligacy of Fisher.
the conversion of the Northern Territory
into a sink for the taxpayers’ cash, the
wretched bungling of the national war policy
by Hughes, the creation of debts that are
only spoken of in horrified whispers, and
the hustling of the tariff into outer dark-
ness at a time when the country was and
still is being economically bled white. With
the State Parliaments it is just the same
old story of dodge and betrayal. It is no
good saying it is not Parliament that has
failed Australia —that the failure is with
the people. That is merely saying the same
thing in another tone of voice. The rock-
bottom fact is that the people’s democracy
falls down dead at the poll. In everything
that really matters Australia never had
more irresponsible Parliaments than those
of to-day nor more reason to feel confident
that those of to-morrow will be worse.
* * * *•
The incompetence of Parliaments to serve
the public is one of democracy’s great un-
solved problems all over the world. Upon
Australia, a nation in the making and there-
fore peculiarly susceptible to damage, the
question presses with perhaps greater weight
than upon any other country. There is
scarcely a single task to which the Common-
wealth and State Parliaments turn their
attention that is not bungled. The public
estate is treated as if it existed for no other
purpose than to be made the sport of jackals.
Issues that are admittedly vital to the
national life are tossed into the garbage
waggon, and the importance of trivialities
magnified a hundred-fold. Tremendous
responsibilities are either placed in the
hands of nerveless, unimaginative dullards
unfit to be trusted with a skinned rabbit or
passed over to the care of slick individuals
who ought to be making a book at the
ponies. The pull of the unclean interest and
the influence of the adventurer with a
plausible tongue and an elastic conscience
grow stronger and more persistent. And
every revelation the community gets of
Parliament being a Waster and a slacker is
followed by clamorous demands that it
should make itself responsible for the dis-
charge of wider and more complex obliga-
tions. Is this ini posture to go on to the
bitter end? The Bulletin submits to Aus-
tralians the proposal that they should
earnestly consider the'time to be ripe for
interpreting democracy in terms of the fair
deal instead of watching it march to corrup-
tion and decay. The supposed control of
the public over Parliament has degenerated
into a bitter jest. Political coteries and
combines have the Legislature as. completely
in their pocket as if it were a toy, and with
it, according to the tilt of the party majority,
they bluff their way through from year to
year. The public counts for less than
nothing, and it never will count for more
so long as it worships at party shrines and
listens to the Fiji uncle with a million to
give away.
WHAT SHALL IT PROFIT?
What shall it profit a man if he owns all the world
and his wife is a widow? —From the collected works
of Solomon Malaprop, Tenth Edition (gilt edges,
7s. 6d.).
And to this it may be added that it profits
a man very little if he has the highest wages
on earth and can’t get a job. This anoma-
lous position has arisen in some of the
States of Australia —notably in N. S. Wales.
Taking the Commonwealth as a whole there
has been an upward movement in remunera-
tion for quite a number of years wherever
statistics permit of the figures being closely
verified ; and the Ma community is the one
where the increase is most notable. Also it
is the one where the increase has bepn most
continuous. Furthermore, it is the Ma State
that supplies the most up-to-date figures,
and being the most populous section it is
the biggest specimen of good or ill fortune,
as the case may be.
* * * *
Now. this is the condensed industrial story
of N. S. Wales. The wages of its factory
operatives have risen more than 50 per cent.
inside ten years. The male operative aver-
aged £97 per annum at December, 1907 —
boys and men, skilled and unskilled workers
all put together. At June, 1917, the average
was £147 12s. 3d. The female worker’s re-
muneration rose in the same period from
£35 per annum to £57 9s. Id. She is gener-
ally a comparative youngster, only filling in
time as a “factory ’and” till marriage comes
her way, which explains her relatively
small earnings. The increase was continu-
ous, and both classes struck the summit in
1917. Male workers’ pay rose by £3O 15s. 4d.
in the first six years of the period, an aver-
age expansion of £5 2s. 7d. each year. For
the next 34 years the rise was £l9 16s. lid.,
an average of £5 13s. sd. each year. This
ought to have meant prosperity, a boom in
manufactures and a greater demand for
labor. That would be the natural order of
things. But the number of male workers in
the Ma State's “secondary industries”
dropped from 93,036 in 1913 to 88,698 in
1917 —a loss of 4338 men and bows and 4338
jobs. Girl and women workers were 1670
more in 1917 than in 1913, but that, didn’t
nearly make good the decline in males. An
easy explanation, of course, is that a large
number of men have gone to the Front or
returned in a disabled condition from the
Front. But the easy explanation doesn’t hold
water. Trades-union officials declare with
bitterness and gloom that there is an alarm-
ing increase in the number of able-bodied
unemployed. A recent report concerning the
Federated Boilermakers and Iron Shipbuild-
ers describes the last quarter of 1917 as the
worst on record. Boilermaking in particu-
lar is dead, and consequently the boiler-
maker, as a wage-earning animal, is prac-
tically dead also. He lives on memories of
the past, on odd jobs in other lines of in-
dustry, on his savings (if any) on lus rela-
tives, and on the union funds (if any). The
memories of the past are an especially frugal
meal. It is merely a chewing of lost oppor-
tunities. The Federated Boilermakers say
that the position is “very remarkable in view
of the fact that in every other country skilled
mechanics are at a premium.” Perhaps the
position is remarkable. Perhaps it Isn’t.
The situation of the toiler who can’t toil—
the man with ever increasing wages on paper
and a vanishing prospect of getting any
wages at all in reality—is amusing to every-
body except himself and his family. To them
if is tragedy.
One possible reason for the reduced 1 demand
for skilled workers while wages go up—
which going up usually signifies increased
demand —is the growth of strikes. The Com-
monwealth figures are available to the end
or 1916, and they show these results among
others:—
1913. 1910. Increase.
Disputes .. ... 208 508 300
Workers directly involved 33,493 128,546 95,053
Working days lost . . 623,528 1,678,930 1,055,402
Whatever the merits of the respective cases
may be the net result is bad for industry.
And considering that the number of Boards
existing for the express purpose of settling
disputes (Westralia not included) was 484
at December, 1913, and 554 at December,
1916, while those which had justified their
existence by bogging in and giving decisions
(to which the unions paid little heed) were
387 in 1913 and 525 in 1916, the position
looks like absurdity as well as calamity. It
is a case of more Boards, more fuss, more
litigation, more uncertainty, more concilia-
tion and arbitration, more regulations to ne
observed (they multiply till even a small
industry looks like an income-tax paper),
more strikes, more time lost, more wages to
be paid and less employment. The whole
thing is cumbersome and futile.
* *■ * *
There are other reasons—some of them old
and hackneyed through being written up so
often, yet as substantial grievances as ever
they were—why the industries of Australia
are either stationary or on the down grade.
Foreign-trade Governments say that the
tariff question is a weariness, and they wish
that Protectionist cranks would give the
matter a rest. If the Shoddy rulers would
give a rest to their miserable policy of
always leaving the benefit of the doubt to
the importer of foreign goods some agree-
ment might be arrived at. Also, it is a
favorite theory that while all the energies
of the Ministry are concentrated on winning
the war a debatable matter like the tariff
should be kept in the background. But'
seeing that the Ministry seems unable to
supply the Allies with either recruits or food
to any appreciable extent, and its military
administration has become a scandal, good
Australians no longer take its Win-the-War
policy seriously, and in any case they fail
to see what good the collapse of Australian
manufactures will do for the poor old war
The tale of the manufacturer, apart from
the question of increasing strikes and arbi-
tration and conciliatory red-tape, is some-
thing like this: —
(1) He has no assurance that the forced rise of
wages won’t increase indefinitely.
(2) He has to compete at very high and constantly
growing wages against countries abroad, many of
which have lower wage rates and almost all of which
have high Protective tariffs to give their industries
a distinct advantage against outside rivals —of whom
he is one.
(3) The war, by reducing foreign production, is
something in the nature of a tariff, but the
war won’t last for ever, and the Shoddy rulers are
carefully keeping the Australian markets open for
the benefit and convenience of the foreigner who
will want to rush his goods in as sbon as the big
trouble is over. No man cares to invest money—
perhaps money borrowed at high interest—on new
machinery bought at war prices so that Hans and
Frite, under the paternal care of Shoddy Ministries,
may reduce it to scrap-iron value as soon as they
have finished their career of plunder, murder and
destruction and have got back to business.
(4) Just to make sure of giving the outside com-
petitor every show War Profits taxation has been
invented. To start a new industry which shows a
profit, or to enlarge an old one and make a profit
out of the enlargement, and thereby furnish more
employment, is held to be a sort of crime, and a
special tax falls like thunder on the said profit. The
theory seems to be that the money is evidence of
a scheme to make gain out of the national mis-
fortunes. This is Protection for the other fellow
against Australia.
(5) The increase of wages, which comes any day
or every day, while the corresponding duty on foreign
goods never comes at all, makes very little pretence
of being based on the value of the work done. Some
responsible or irresponsible tribunal says that the
pay must go up, and it goes up or eke the factory
closes. The decline in the number of employees shows
that this crude artificial system has become top
heavy. It begins to look like the Leaning Tower of
Pisa.
The Labor party, which weeps over its
workless boilermaker and consistently keeps
foreign-trade sharks in office, might, think
over these propositions, and possibly gum
them in its hat. It can’t eat its cake and
have it. It can’t have local boilermakers and
imported boilers. It can’t have high-wage
men and low-wage goods. Either it must
vote strenuously for shutting out the im-
ported boiler with a 50 (or more) per cent,
tariff, or it must make shift with anything
up to 50 per cent, less wages, or it must
persuade the Government to make boilers
and pay for them out of loans at 50 per
cent, more than their value, or else it must
"go on the land.” Idea No. 3 is cordially
recommended by the Boilermakers’ Union
as the only remedy for an industry which
can’t stand on its own logs under tin* pre-
sent insane conditions. The State boiler,
taken three times a day, is to heal all griefs
and injuries. As a side issue a scheme of
insurance against unemployment is mooted,
so that everybody, however numerous, who
is out of a job because his industry can’t
pay the high wages demanded and yet com-
pete against all comers, however cheap, is
to be pensioned at the expense of somebody
unspecified till affairs improve, if they ever
do. When loan devices, Government stroke
devices, War Profits exactions and pensions
for the unemployed have all proved insuffici-
ent it may be that even the Labor party
will consent to put a bit of real taxation
on its beloved god, the importer, who is so
often a naturalised German or the son of
one. But it will almost break its heart
before it smites that rich and fat and low-
wage-paying person of frequently suspicious
antecedents. He is the blessed Ark of the
Covenant to the Labor majority, and to
criticise him is akin to throwing slush at
Diana of the Ephesians.
THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION.
IXlie writer of this article is I’eter SlmonoH',
who has been nominated by tlie new Govern-
ment of Russia as Consul-General of Australia.
He was invited to tell> us who the Bolsheviks
are, and why they aire, and where they are
going, and what he thinks his job is in Aus-
tralia.]
Much has lately been said about the Bol-
sheviks in the press all over the world; but
unfortunately it has been said all onesidedly.
Mainly they are described as being some-
what like wild bushrangers or street vaga-
bonds and drunkards, ignorant and even
illiterate. But that is only misrepresenta-
tion of the facts. The Bolsheviks are
honest, self-sacrificing revolutionists.
I see perfectly well that it must be very
hard for westerners and Australians to grasp
the real meaning of the Russian Revolution.
There is natural or rather historic difference
between the social life of the Russians and
other nations. In history, songs and legends
this difference shows itself. There was a
time when the Slavonic jfeople were living
absolutely without rulers of any kind, with-
out governments and without laws. They
were peaceful hunters and land-tillers; they
had no idea of warfare —they hated war.
Therefore they had no need of strong leaders
or rulers; they did not have any authority,
for they did not need and did not want it.
They dealt with their social problems in
their mass meetings called Veche. They
always were living in close settlements in
somewhat-communal life. But now and then
they were invaded by migratory peoples—
Polonzy, Pechenezy, Jews, Scandinavians.
Tartars, etc. Those invaders ransacked
their settlements, imposed on them indemni-
ties, and went away. The first Russian his-
torian, Nestor, says that at the end of the
ninth century the representatives of the
Slavs went to the Scandinavian Princes
Russ and called them, saying: “Our lands
are great and abundant, but we have no
order. Come, possess and rule us.’’ But
it is more probable that, as Scandinavians
used to invade them and impose on them
indemnities, they agreed to give a certain
part of their production to those princes on
condition that those princes defended them
from eastern and southern invaders; for
even much later we see that Slavs could say
to their prince: “We don’t like you, Prince;
we don’t want you. Go wherever you like.
We shall elect for ourselves another.”
And they did elect another, but they elected
from the same family Russ, whence comes
Russia.
Rater on Novgorod got rid of princehood
altogether. Probably Novgorod was the
freest republic that ever existed on this
globe. They elected their president, or
Posadsky, by full suffrage of men and
women. Their last president was a woman.
Marfa. It was no “petty republic” of
“savages.” The city of Novgorod itself had
over 400,000 of population. It was a world’s
market. Merchants used to come there from
all parts. Fortunately this Republic was
not invaded even by the Tartars, under
whose yoke Russia was for three centuries.
But the very liberation of Russia from under
that yoke of Tartarism brought it under
the real autocracy of Tsarism, which
abolished the republic Novgorod.
It is curious that the forefathers of the
Kossacks, who are the most reactionary
people in Russia now, were the first revolu-
tionists of Russia. Kossack means “Free-
man’’ ; the word is taken from the Mon-
golian. The Kossacks of those old days
were runaways—refugees from!: Tsarism and
serfdom, seeking full freedom in the wide
southern steppes, where they established
their republic. When this free fepublic sur-
rendered to the Muscovite Empire, those
who would not stand it went on to the river
Volga, and under the leadership of Stepan
Razin challenged all the Empire, but were
defeated. Again they rose and went against
all Russia, under the leadership of
Povzachoff, to be defeated once more.
We can see from this little sketch of
Russian history that authority and auto-
cracy, with all their attributes, are foreign
to the Slavonic people, who always strive


towards full freedom, or to anarchism, as t is
badiv expressed in English. I hat is pro-
bably why in Russia what, for want of a
more perfect word, I must call anai ch
understood better than anywhere else,
is not, of course, that anarchism wh c
embraces rioting and smashing-up ot any-
thing and everything. All popular songs,
poems and legends of Russians are j
\ earning for freedom and brotherhood. I hat
is our anarchism.
. » *
Now let us turn to the Western peoples
of Europe. We know that Westerners are
composed of Franks, Goths, A andals, Huns,
etc., all of whom migrated to Europe under
the leadership of strong, absolute rulers as
warriors. Their songs, poems and levends
are mostly about victory and heroism.
Westerners did not think of that freedom
to which Russia’s forefathers had been born.
The Westerners thought of a good, strong,
just and kind (to themselves, of course, not
to their enemies) leader. They were fortu-
nate. While Russians were struggling
against and keeping back tin* Tartars, the
Westerners were adopting and even advanc-
ing Greek and Latin civilisation and culture.
Through that civilisation and culture their
thinkers were grasping the meaning of
social freedom. But that understanding of
freedom was confined to a few thinkers and
idealists. The common people knew noth-
ing about it, and even now not many of
them understand it. Not many Russians
were fortunate to go to the West and get
education. That was only possible for a
few of the privileged class. But when those
young men came back to Russia they felt
themselves somewhat uneasy under the rule
01 the ignorant Court. Many of them were
willing even to leave Russia and remain in
the West amongst those who were educated.
Hence the courtiers of the Russian autocracy
looked on education as on something undesir-
able. Yet young men went and returned.
Followed the French Revolution, when
Russian troops went to France and stayed
there for some time, The officers of that
army came back to Russia with revolutionary
ideas. They did not any longer like the
system of absolute autocracy which had
replaced the old freedom. They thought and
decided to reduce the autocratic rule to con-
stitutional government. They organised
themselves into a group or brotherhood for
that purpose, getting into that group more
and more of new members. The climax of
that movement was the Decabrists’ rising.
But they failed and did not get a Constitu-
tion, for those on whose support they relied,
the soldiers, did not understand them. The
soldiers were instructed to shout on the
demonstration: “Long live Constitution.”
But they shouted: “Long live Ivonstan-
tine,” Konstantine being the brother of
the Tsar. Some of these rebels were shot;
some were sent for long terms to Siberia.
After that fiasco the remaining members
of the organisation decided to instruct, to
teach the revolutionary ideas to the lower
classes. Thus revolutionary principles went
wider and wider among the people. The
repressions from the Government were often
met with repressions from the other side—
that is, with terroristic acts. As the Rus-
sians, with freedom in their blood, were
much inclined to revolt even without a
specially organised agitation, this new agita-
tion had good soil for the harvest. Thousands
of young men and women went striving for
knowledge and education with the purpose
to teach the others. Tens of thousands of
them went from city to city, from village to
village “to spread the truth”—what is
called in Russia “to go into the people.”
These agitators never asked any reward or
pay. The authorities knew, of course, that
it was a bad look-out for them; hence they
went to suppress the movement ruthlessly.
Tens of thousands of those agitators were
murdered on the Tsar’s scaffolds or rotted
in gaols and in Siberian mines. But that
could not stop the movement. From the
blood of one martyr there sprang a hundred
or more new agitators. The repressions
were only making the reformers yet more
and more eager to their task. The head-
quarters of the directing organisations were
mostly abroad, in France, Switzerland or
England. But all over Russia there were
underground local organisations to receive
and to spread literature and new ideas and
tactics amongst agitators. To get into the
inner parts of revolutionary organisation
one had to do a good deal of hard work on
his own account. Breshk-Breshovskaya
says that she was working for two years
before meeting any member of a revolu-
tionary organisation. The leaders from dif-
ferent* parts of Russia and even from abroad
sometimes met and discusssed tactics, pro-
grammes, immediate aims and immediate
action to be taken. Opinions often differed,
of course : nevertheless they all and always
agreed in the main—that is, to overthrow
the existing system and to establish freedom,
equality and brotherhood, extending to full-
ness as the revolutionary movement passed
from the privileged classes to the people.
The question was only how and when. For
there were still antagonists of Tsarism
amongst high-class personalities; we see in
the movement princes and even millionaires.
* * * *
The main party called itself the Socialist
Revolutionist Party. But sometimes there
were specific organisations for some specific
purpose. Thus there was the Zemlia i Volia
(“Land and Liberty”). This organisation
was working mainly for emancipation _ of
the peasants. Though Social Democratism
was brought to Russia from Germany, it was
from the beginning and it is now quite dif-
ferent in its new home. It is purely revolu-
tionary. The main difference between Social-
ist Revolutionists and Social Democrats
was that Social Revolutionists believed in
spreading the agitation wider and wider —
that is. they worked amongst wage-earners
and peasants in the army, even amongst the
bourgeoisie and small property holders. They
contended that the wider and broader the
work was carried the better. But Russian
Social Democrats contended that it was
better to work in greater intensity amongst
the proletarians; that is, amongst tvage-
earners. They contended that if the pro-
letariat will be highly enough educated,
organised and prepared for a revolution, then
revolution will be carried, for all the rest
will inevitably follow the strongest lead.
Lor some time Social Democrats used to
organise and well educate only small groups.
Then, later on, when there was a great
number of active and self-sacrificing agita-
tors, they went wider, but still mainly in
workshops and factories. They also were
organising held workers, but only those who
worked for wages. Agitation from both
parties was so successful that the people rose
in discontent now and then without await-
ing any instructions from the organised
revolutionists. Again and again organisa-
tions heard from the rank and file that they
were tired of petty strikes and petty demon-
strations —that they wanted something deter-
minative. “Lead us, we are ready to die
for the truth,’’ wrote one worker to a revolu-
tionary organisation, and he was but one
of a million.
The organised revolutionists were often
made uneasy by such things: for they saw
that discontent was so great that it was
impossible to avoid outbursts, yet they knew
that local demonstration of any kind must
be disastrous. Thus discontent was coming in
rapidly from one side and organisation and
education from the other side. The educa-
tion was carried on by the Socialist Revolu-
tionists and the Social Democrats equally
well. But the movement brought to both
parties again and again new and tough
problems to deal with. Very often the old
tactics had to be discarded entirely and new
ones had to be found. The chief of these
were strike and street-demonstration, for-
merly peaceful, latterly with arms.
These quick changes, chiefly of tactics,
split both parties; so that Socialist
Revolutionists were divided into Maximal-
ists and Minimalists, and the Social Demo-
crats likewise into Bolsheviks and Menshe-
viks. The Maximalists are the left or ex-
treme wing of the Socialist Revolutionists,
and the Bolsheviks are the left or extreme
wing of the Social Democrats. The Mini-
malists and Mensheviks contended and still
contend that it was and is better to com-
promise with the bourgeoisie and move to
the ideal mainly through politics and the
snatching of small concessions. But the
Maximalists and Bolsheviks denied either
the wisdom or the need of any compromising
and desired to get to the same ideal by one
sweeping rising of the people—or, as the
Bolsheviks thought, of the proletariat: in
snort, by a great popular revolution, the
thing that is happening now in Russia.
The press calls the present Russian Gov-
ernment a Bolshevik Government. That is
not correct. There are working in full
accord Bolsheviks and Maximalists. As the
proletariat took the upper hand and the
peasants followed them, it seems that the
Social Democrats’ idea of organisation was
nearer right than that of the Socialist-Revo-
lutionists. But it may not be so. It is quite
probable that if the peasants had not been
prepared in some degree for the Revolution,
the task of the proletariat would be too
hard.
The aim of this now joint party of Bol-
sheviks and Maximalists is to establish in
the shortest possible way and the shortest
possible time the ideal Socialism in full. They
are trying their hardest and best to spread
their ideas abroad, because they know per-
fectly well that if the other nations of
Europe will remain Imperialistic, sooner or
later they will join together into a coalition
against the one Socialistic country. So Bol-
sheviks and Maximalists want Socialism
just as much abroad as in Russia itself.
The leaders of the movement don’t bother
about themselves. They are in it body and
soul. It is impossible to buy them with gold.
They could not sell themselves if they would.
Treachery on the part of any one of them
would be discovered at once, for they are
surrounded by the most watchful eyes of the
most experienced revolutionists, who have
oeen every minute under the Damocles sword
of the most cunning Russian secret police,
thereby learning all their lives to distinguish
between the lamb and the wolf in the lamb’s
skin. Whatever the Russian Revolutionists
do they do honestly, aflame with zeal for the
good of all, and their sympathy may be won
only with absolute sincerity and honesty. I
repeat that it is very hard, if not even im-
possible, to deceive them. They are too well
trained against treachery. There is no diplo-
macy to trick or deceive them. And there-
fore in dealing with them it is always the
best for nations and individuals alike to
remember the English saying that “The
honestv is the best policy.”
P. SIMDNOFF.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
His Excellency.
Last week’s outburst of disordered eloquence
about State Governors by some of the Labor-
ites in the N. S. Wales Assembly was a
first-class sample of hypocrisy and tactical
foolishness. The only visible results were
that one of the more noisy nonconformists
was officially thrown off the premises and
various right-thinking persons had an oppor-
tunity to make remarks about “disloyalty.”
The Bolsheviks’ pi’otests against the State
being saddled with an expensive official and
the maintenance of a more expensive system
of flummery are, of course, fundamentally
right. The unfortunate thing is that Labor
in office dodged its chance of reform with just
as much agility as the other crowd, and in
Opposition selects inappropriate moments for
blowing off hot air. If it had lived up to its
protestations a stranger would not have
arrived the other day to adorn himself with
exotic millinery and draw £lOO a week. That
he may be a very amiable stranger and enjoy
the change of air has nothing to do with
the matter. The truth is that his billet is
without justification, that he discharges no
function which requires perpetuation. Aus-
tralia in maintaining seven Governors is obvi-
ously playing the fool; and whoever is
responsible for misleading the monarchy and
the British Government into the belief that
Australia yearns for this extraordinary sup-
ply of Governor is a very unprincipled rascal,
whose identity ought to be revealed. Mean-
while The Bulletin records its continued
sympathy with Geokge V. over the unreliable
nature of his intelligence department, and its
commiseration with the seven well-meaning
persons who find themselves called upon to
do nothing with great solemnity for a mere
pittance and the glorification of Bunkum.
An Archangel named Jones.
Victorian Governments have a craze for
seeking the man (imported of course) who
will "make the railways pay.” It imported
tepeight, alleged to be a marvel who could
blow into a hat and bring out a surplus,
and he made things worse. Also he made
them hum. In the end a despairing Govern-
ment asked him to tell it how something
handsome might be cut off the tropical
jungle of expenditure, and the great boom
Commissioner sent back the letter with
“Impossible” written across it. That was
the end of Speight. The imported Tait
wasn’t much better than the imported
Speight, and he lacked the latter’s affa-
bility. He didn’t hum ; he buzzed. During
his time the railway smashes were remark-
able, not to say heroic. Various other in-
dividuals of tonnage were imported at dif-
ferent times to “advise,” and their general
decision was that, considering the inherent
rottenness of things, it -would be best to
write down capital. In other words where
£2,000,000 had been spent on construction
the amount was to be called (say)
£1,500,000 and the lines were to pay inter-
est on tuat, while the rest of the interest
came out of taxes. That wouldn’t make the
railways pay; it would merely make them
look as if they did. Now the Bow-wow
Ministry at Melbourne, still pursuing its
will-of-the-wisp, has written to the unsuc-
cessful Tait, who long since fled back to
Canada, asking him to find the man who
can do what he couldn’t do himself. And
Tait has recommended Jones, who is a
local man of long service and a subordinate
Commissioner already, as being as good as
anybody. So, on the recommendation of the
Canadian xait, the Australian .Tones may,
but probably won’t, get a show. But it is all
to very little purpose. As things stand,
Jones, if he is promoted to be a supreme
Jones, will fail, and Brown would fail also,,
and the collapse of Robinson would be ter-
rible. The trouble is that no Commissioner
is allowed to lay hands on the principal
cause of the shortage. If he did he would
hardly have a friend left in Melbourne, the
bloated city which runs the show, and its
thickly-peopled vicinity. Victoria, in fact,
wants to be shown how to become sober
without leaving off the drink. The great
cause of leakage isn’t over-payment of the
staff or over-lavish ness in repairs. It isn't
the deadhead, for he doesn’t amount to much
nowadays. The absurd duplication of short
lines in the districts adjacent to Melbourne
is only part of the misery, though hopeless
branches, built for political reasons, account
for a great deal of unremunerative capital.
But the overwhelming woe and disaster is
Needless Haulage. In other words the woe
is Melbourne itself —greedy, overgrown, in-
tolerant, insanely jealous and hopelessly
short-sighted Melbourne. It pulls the political
strings, and its gospel is that practically all
the foreign trade of the State must come
its way. If that involves many expen-
sive miles of superfluous railway building
and Needless Haulage the fact doesn’t mat-
ter to Melbourne. The richest section of
the State —part of the Western District —
is too far away to trade profitably with
Melbourne, and is steadily losing population
and drifting back to an aboriginal condition,
though it has a far better harbor than Mel-
bourne —Portland to wit—at its door,
But Melbourne would rather _ see it drift
than give it reasonable facilities for using
its harbor. If Portland harbor got tne
fostering care that Hobson’s Bay did there
would be a second Melbourne on its shore, to
the vadt enrichment of the State as a whole;
but the cantankerous metropolis would
rather that the State, including itself, wasn’t
enriched than that it should have a rival.
The population that would grow up in the
Western District under a sane policy need
not be stolen from Melbourne. It
would be a new population. The railway
traffic that would arise would only be Mel-
bourne’s loss to an infinitesimal degree. It
would be a new traffic —the traffic that Mel-
bourne has killed —rising from the dead for
the profit of the State Treasury, which is in
a great degree the Melbourne Treasury. But
Melbourne, like Sydney, is the kind of place
which would rather lose 2d. than see a new
city in its own State and make lid. The
first thing that tlie inquirer should do is to
study the railway map of Victoria and note
the strange angles and deviations that have
teen employed to make Portland further
away from the shire next door than Mel-
bourne, which is distant half the length of
the State. That is a very simple but hid-
eously costly arrangement. If at the begin-
ning of things Victorian influences had
brought the Sydney-Parramatta railway
round bv Melbourne, then it is obvious that,
for purposes of railway communication, Syd-
ney and Parramatta would be some 1300
miles apart, and either place would be 650
miles nearer to Melbourne than to its neigh-
bor 15 miles away. That is only a pictur-
esque enlargement of the policy from which
Portland suffers, in common with many
other good harbor towns in Australia. Then
the same inouirer should look at the railway
rate-book, and marvel at the wonderfully
small cost of taking a ton of goods to Mel-
bourne and the ’wonderfully large cost of
taking it to the place which was meant to be
Melbourne’s brilliant rival, so that the State
should have two great rich cities instead of
one. Then the same inquirer might look at
Melbourne and try to find out how so big a
place can have so small a soul. Finally, he
ought certainly to look at Jones and con-
sider whether that person can make a profit
out of such hopeless bigotry and such barren
materials. It is practically certain that he
can’t unless he is an archangel. And who
ever saw an archangel named Jones?
Insurance Against Doctors’ Fees.
“A.H.A.” wants it done differently:—
The strike of the Doctors’ Trade Union in Vic-
toria is merely another sign of our absurd topsy-
turvy method of dealing with the public health. • The
rob is being tackled from the wrong end. The
physician’s task is not to heal himself or anybody
else. It is to prevent his patients getting ill, and
payment ought to be made accordingly.
Let’s see how it would work out. I would pay
my doctor, say, ss. or £1 a week to keep me and
my household in good health. But his weekly wage
would be automatically docked as soon as one of
my household fell ill; and he would continue to
receive no wages as long as he had a patient. Thus
it would be to that doctor’s interest to keep my
family in good health, and, when illness supervened,
to effect a cure with the greatest rapidity. Always
remembering that his salary was likely to stop at
any moment, that practitioner would feel a deep
interest in my family’s health. He would get into
the habit of dropping in to see us every fortnight or
so, examining us for any symptoms of incipient ill-
ness and promptly prescribing the antidote. Little
Johnny's adenoids would never have a chance to
develop; Mary’s ingrowing toenail would promptly
be pruned; mother’s catarrh wouldn’t have a hope,
and I would be ordered to cut the lawn twice before
breakfast. I have heard of a case in M.L. where
the experiment was tried: my friend told me that
whenever there was news of an epidemic being at
large, early next morning the vvages-doctor would
be round with professional instructions how the
family could best safeguard itself.
Of course a doctor might let the family that
paid his salary slide; he might chance any illness—
and draw his wages for years without any worry.
But all the conditions of the contract have not yet
been stated. These refer to (1) the cost of medi-
cines, (2) the cost of surgical operations, (3) pri-
vate hospitals and nurses. That’s the catch in it.
The salaried doctor would not only have to get his
patient rapidly back to perfect health, but would
have to provide the means free. All medicines neces-
sary would be prescribed and furnished by him. He
would, of course, make his own arrangements with
the chemist; and the chemist, in return for the
salaried doctor’s patronage, would not overcharge
his customer. But while the doctor was curing my
family, not only would he be making no money,
but he would be actually out of pocket over the
trouble.
As to surgical operations, the salaried practitioner
would have to arrange for these with the surgeon.
Of course the surgeon would not charge exorbitant
fees to his fellow unionist: dog does not eat dog.
The price would be a log price, and probably it
would be a piece-work price. So much for an
appendix, so much for an amputated leg.
Further, this surgical-operation job might be
brought into line with the general tenor of my
suggestion by making each operation a case of “no
cure, no pay.” Thus, if the patient died under, or
immediately after, the operation, the surgeon would
get no payment: the corpse would have to be
written off as a bad debt. And the family physician
would be saved the payment for the job, though
unfortunately a dead patient would be no use to him.
This consideration would lead him to greater caution
in suggesting surgical operations; and there are
some doctors who have only two prescriptions for
married women —castor-oil or an operation. \\ omen
usually choose the latter: it sounds so much more
interesting. The surgeon, whose sole and simple
happiness is to cut people tip, would hesitate before
he recommended an operation that might result in
a dead loss to himself and his patient.
The cost of nurses, private hospitals, etc., would
naturally be borne by the family physician. These
would merely be part of his effort to get his patient
quickly well, so that his salary would revive.
Doubtless there are details that I have overlooked ;
but I am prepared to back my fancy by considering
tenders for professional attendance for this year —
the lowest not necessarily accepted.
The Federal Government is supposed to be
looking after returned Bxlljim ; which
naturally means that returned Billjxm is
being looked sifter mainly with hot air. In
the absence of Federal attention of the
more material sort, the Vic. State Var
Council has been obliged to turn itself into
a charitable agency. Hon. Sec. Speeding
puts the matter thus; —
When “the shouting and the tumult dies,” when
the- nice little girl clerks have finished cheering
Biiljim as he rides through the street in a deco-
rated motor-car, the reverse of the picture is often
found in his own home. Perhaps the butcher’s bill
has become a real drawn-out horror; perhaps the
landlord is threatening all sorts of reprisals for a
rent long overdue; perhaps the missus or the kiddies
are ailing for lack of the ordinary necessaries of
life. Anyhow, BUjLJIM wants a chance to square
things up, and the State War Council’s aim is to
help him do it. There is at present only some
£16,000 in hand, and as the calls amount to about
£2OOO weekly, the appeal has been launched only
just in time. The Council has hitherto made no
public appeal. Since its formation, shortly after
the war, it has received about £lOO,OOO from
various sources, as the result of private representa-
tions, the Education Department Patriotic Fund
being the largest contributor, £42,000 ; racing
clubs, £22,700. The Button Fund, Lucky Bag
Day and the Melbourne Cricket Club have also con-
tributed handsomely.
In the absence of sufficient Commonwealth
action, the public must come up to the
scratch. Returned invalided Billjim sim-
ply has to be looked after. This paper has
no delusions about lots of Billjims who
have come back. In hundreds of cases Bill
is a scallywag and a schemer. But in tens of
thousands of other cases he is a serious
young citizen who went out to do our job
at the great risk of his own life, and has
come home broken and incapable of dropping
back at once into his old place in civil life.
We have to remember that men are coming
back now who have bad three years of
awful strain ; and people who turn such as
thev adrift, careless of what becomes of
them, are guilty of a heartlessness which can
compare very well with anything that the
Hun did in Belgium.
The English Saturday Review has broken
the news that already more people have been
murdered during the Bolshevik upheaval in
Russia than during the first French Revolu-
tion. Surely that poor old French Revolu-
tion might get a rest from having mud
thrown at it. It wasn’t so very murderous,
after all, considering the circumstances. It
shook up the world because it beheaded a
king and queen and those of the nobility
who didn’t light out for safer parts; it con-
fiscated the lands of the nobles and abolished
the Church, and snatched the Church pro-
perty ; it gave the old religion the sack, ana
set up a very temporary Goddess of Reason :
it devised a new calendar, a new coinage, a
new paper money, a new flag, new uniforms,
and a new code of laws; it wiped out titles,


3a
-
Si
/-itvS Life and r~.
it
m
The Premier Motel of Australia,
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
SYDNEY.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
Crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
R. ths.
New Furnishings.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.
Automatic Telephones in every
Room. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Full Board.
Meals—a la Carte or Table d'hote.
Apply Manager.
WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPLY.
mm
m
m
m
~mrr
rs
mm
m
..
m
<C6e
“Gflusiralia"
Wfnler Garden
:ind obliterated the regulation which said
that no soldier could rise above non-commis-
sioned rank unless his family had been
"noble” for at least four generations. These
and other acts of suddenness gave the Revo-
lution discredit as the prize devil of history,
but it was really more sudden than murder-
ous. In proportion to the number of people
available for butchery it wasn’t in the same
parish for bloodthirstiness as the English
when they came to England and started to
wipe out the old British-Roman population
root and branch; nor did it compare with
Cromwell’s troopers in Ireland or the Aus-
trians in Servia. Furthermore, it didn’t in-
vent the idea of abolishing Christianity, for
the English did that in England, though thev
replaced the Deity with Tiior, Woden and
co. instead of the Goddess of Reason. Nor
did they devise the guillotine, for that was
only an improved edition of the old Scottish,
“maiden,” which was doubtless an adapta-
tion of something else. Probably the worst
blot on the first French Revolution was the
infamous Law of the Suspect, and that was
almost a cony of the legislation of Augustus
Caesar. The poor old Revolution, like many
another dog with a bad name, wasn’t so
black as it was painted, and it left many
olessings behind it to balance its account.
There was an announcement the other day
that the Federal Government intended
fixing the wholesale price of meat for
local consumption at the same figure
as the wholesale price of meat for
export. This wuis the outcome of a
report by the Inter-State Commission, which
recently made an examination of prevailing
prices and market methods. The report of
the Commission was to the effect that it had
listened to some good hard lying, and dis-
covered in Sydney a system of price-boosting
in sound working order. Wherefore it came
to the conclusion that the best thing for the
Government to do was to smoke the nigger
out of the woodpile, and give the public a
chance to get chops and steaks at the same
price as the purveyors thereof sell to other
people oversea. As soon as the Ministerial
decision to follow this advice was published
a loud yelp of alarm-was heard from indivi-
duals who had kept quiet when the Com-
mission was inviting evidence, and Hughes
was implored to take notice that the result
of carrying his alleged intention into effect
would be “disastrous to farmers.” The
Bulletin exhorts Hughes to stand fast,
and if these people come prowling round his
office any more to throw a speech at them.
The reasons they produced for doing nothing
were fatuous. _ One was that there was no
“combination.” If this was meant to imply
that every owner of sheep is not an active
member of a combine to push prices up it
was right enough. If it was meant to sug-
gest that certain carcase butchers, graziers
and export buyers have not been busy during
the war rigging the market against the re-
tailer to their own enormous advantage and
the profit of the general body of graziers,
the statement was plain perjury. The evi :
deuce on the point is irrefutable. Prior to
the wai* it pleased the grower well to see the
local citizen paying as much as or a little
more than the Englishman. But since then
prices have been pushed up and up and up,
until the sky alone seems the limit, on a
market particularly easy to manipulate. This
paper long ago urged that Australian ex-
ports should be subject, to an export duty
measured by the difference between export
and local prices. It still thinks that this
would be the better method of protecting the
community and bunkering the hungry market-
rigger. This is not a question whether a
Government can fix prices for anything and
everything with success, but whether it is
entitled to prevent the community being
forced to pay tribute to a gang of price-
controllers using the export market against
the local consumer.
<*■
The newspapers are demanding to know what
the Commonwealth Government means by
shirking its Constitutional responsibilities
and passing on to still another Royal Com-
mission the job of deciding how many re-
inforcements are really wanted. The answer
is easy and complete. Because Ministers
know quite well that nobody will take the
Government’s word ! The idea of a Commis-
sion is therefore excellent. Australia ought
to know with certainty what numbers are
required to maintain the fighting strength of
the five divisions. That appeals have failed
hitherto has been largely owing to the un-
questionable fact that the public has had no
confidence whatever in the Government’s
figures. How could it have confidence when
to-day one figure was quoted and to-morrow
another vastly different?
There is to be a report by a High Court
Judge on the number of recruits required. He
will be assisted by Knibbs and Legge, Chief
of Staff. The separation allowance is to be
increased by one-third, interest is to be allowed
on deferred pay after 12 months, enlisted
men are to be given leave to canvass for
recruits, recruiting-sergeants are to be given
10s. a head for each recruit passed into the
forces, and invitations to go to a ballot are
to be extended to men of military age. This
last proposal looks like an old friend in a
new hat. Cards are to be distributed among
citizens between 19 and 44 asking this definite
question :
Are you prepared, provided [number of]
other men in your [town, district, division] agree
to submit their names to a ballot, to submit your
name to a ballot, and to enlist if and when the
ballot results in your being chosen in the quota for
any month?
There is nothing to be said against all this.
The scheme will keep a number of people
busy, and there will be a general appearance
of great activity to cloak a general shirk.
But there are other things, and as Hughes
appeals for “suggestions” this paper submits
for his attention these :
(1) That the scheme (if it is a scheme) is one
which should be run by men who advocated reliance
in some such methods.
(2) That responsibility for failure should not rest
with a Ministry which rejected those methods as
dangerous and useless.
So far as the need for men is concerned, it
calls for more emphasis than the details of
the recruiting scheme. Men are wanted over
yonder—wanted desperately. And as the
months of this year go by the need will be
greater than ever before. In view of that and
of the issues involved, The Bulletin can do
no more than repeat its often-expressed ad-
vice to Australians: “Forget Hughes.
Remember Billjim. Enlist!” We are not
yet winning the war.
■«
Russia, broken and bleeding, now lies at
Germany’s feet, and when last heard from
the Hun was cheerfully using the boot. As
soon as the Bear commenced to skedaddle out
of the trenches and tear himself to pieces
in the rear, there was really nothing else to
expect. At any rate, the Germans have
achieved not only a military victory but a
diplomatic advantage of almost incalculable
value; and these achievements cannot be
discounted by words. The only place the
grim facts can be altered is on the Western
Front, and with the Americans thrown in
the job is a tougher one to-day than it was
last summer. Then the question was whether
the Allies were going to roll the invasion
back. That question still remains, compli-
cated by the return punch of the enemy, the
happenings on the Russian and Italian
Fronts, and the submarine. The submarine
is still putting in a lot of calamitous work,
and the general impression as to the relation
of shipping construction to sinkings is hor-
ribly wrong. The rate has been speeding up
lately, but for a long time it ran a dreadful
second to the torpedo.
N.S.W. Labor Minister Beeby’s amending
Arbitration Bill does not propose to correct
a piece of bad drafting in the existing Act
though it screams for alteration. Sec. 50 of
the 1912 Act, dealing with penalties for
breaches of awards, provides that where the
breach complained of relates to the defend-
ant’s failure to pay the full award wages
to the complainant, the Bench may make an
order for the payment of the back money
due. “Complainant,” in this technical
sense, means the person who exhibits a com-
plaint before a J.P. for the purpose of
having a summons issued; and later on the
section states that the only persons who
mfiy < take proceedings under it are the
Minister, an employer or the secretary of
the union concerned. Except in the frac-
tional number of cases where the union
secretary is also an employee of the defend-
ant and is proceeding on his own account,
no back money is ever due to these three
classes of “complainants,” and the power
of the Bench to make an order for back
money under Sec. 50 is therefore useless.
The workman who has been underpaid must
take out a separate summons under another
section,. and so the Ma Treasury gets an
extra six shillings. In these days of strenu-
ous finance, when no State Treasurer can
afford to lose six bob, this may be the reason
why the blunder is left unamended.
Seeing that so few men are enlisting, what
about returning to the Front some of the
officers who have been brought back to
Australia allegedly because their services
were needed here? If they were needed 12
months or more ago they are not needed
now, when there are a mere handful of
recruits to handle and plenty of good men, no
longer fit for active service, to do the
handling. There is, certainly, a strong sus-
picion that some of these officers were sent
back because they had proved no good at
their job; and if that is so, then they should
not be employed here, to the exclusion of
men who proved themselves to be capable
soldiers, and to the prejudice of good admini-
stration within the Commonwealth
To attract married recruits the Govern-
ment will increase the separation allow-
ance ; also it will allow 44 per cent,
interest on the deferred pay, though
why this employer should ■•defer" pay
any more than other employers isn’t obvious.
It is merely an old military idea ; and most
old military ideas are bad. But the Govern-
ment doesn’t say anything about pensions;
and the shabby treatment of returned in-
valided men in regard to pensions and other
matters has probably had more to do with
discouraging enlistment during the last few
months than all other causes put together.
An earnest young Australian who went to
the Front a while ago left behind him a
wife and two or three children. He is a
professional man, who naturally had uot up
to that time been able to make adequate
provision for his family apart from his
current earnings. lie and his wife decided
that somehow or other they must get £2OOO
more insurance. He got it, and now that
professional man’s family is living on bread-
and-dripping—and doing it quite cheerfully
—in order to pay the heavy war premiums.
Meantime the writer and tens of thousands
of others who are too bald or toothless to go
to the Front not only get insurance for the
same old premiums, but also put away much
the same old bonus certificates. There is
something heinously wrong about all this.
It ought to be easily possible for the stay-at-
homes to surrender their bonuses for one
year or more to a fund for the payment of
soldiers’ war premiums. One big office’s
State manager, written to recently on this
subject, said that they had “received several
propositions of a like nature,” and “feared
that the scheme is not practicable.” What
are the difficulties? It is to be feared that
they consist chiefly of the disinclination of
the offices to take on the probably hard work
of organisation. But so long as they don’t
try to do something, unitedly or otherwise,
the life insurance offices of Australia will
have to stand the reproach of neglecting the
one thing by which they might give great
help to recruiting. And the difference
between that and being on the side of the
enemy is not very great.
»
There is going to he another “Imperial
Conference.” Massey and Ward are going
from Maoriland, and possibly Hughes from
Australia, and with him most likely Cook.
“Matters of great importance have to be
attended to,” runs the story. Now, there
is nothing Hughes is less anxious to talk
about than this second trip ; yet the people
should know precisely what Hughes is
going to London for and what his attitude is
to be. This is particularly the case in rela-
tion to the war policy of Australia. What
does he propose to represent that as being?
And does he contemplate making it clear to
John Bull that the Commonwealth looks
forward to pursuing a policy which will
make Australia industrially and (it hopes)
financially independent? ' That Australia
should again be represented by Hughes is,
of course, a calamity. This is so not merely
because of his dangerously reckless tongue,
but because of his disreputable political
character. But he is known now; and it
is better that Australia should be repre-
sented by a man with the brand of shame on
his forehead than misrepresented as it was
before by one who at least seemed to have
representative standing.
“Konai”: Whatever may be the failings of
our Defence Department it at least holds
fast to the British War Office tradition of
not letting Desk A know what Desk B is
doing. This week the civilian police spotted
a man in our village for whom they held a
warrant as a deserter. So they roped him
in and restored him to the military arm—to
find that he had been purged of his desertion
and restored to his old rating several months
before, and was in his home town on a legiti-
mate 24-hours’ leave. The warrant had never
been cancelled! The same police office has
a trophy in the form of a still-uncancelled
warrant for the arrest for desertion of a man
who gave himself up before the warrant was
needed, did his C. 8., sailed for France,
earned the M.M., and was killed in action
two years ago! Poor Billjim’s shade runs
the risk of being turned back from the
Pearly Gates in pursuance of some long-for-
gotten “crime” warrant.
“G. J.H.”: That Pearce should regard the
Royal Commission’s report on the Defence
Department as complimentary doesn’t sur-
prise me. It was mild in comparison with
what he expected and deserved. Here is an
experience which I had the other day, and it
is a fair sample of Dismal George’s adminis-
tration. Last December, being retained to
defend a soldier on a charge of desertion, I
sent a written application to the Secretary
for Defence to produce certain documents at
the trial. I received no reply, and when the
man was tried the documents were not forth-
coming. Five weeks Inter I got from the
Department what purported to be an answer
to my December letter, informing me that
in view of certain circumstances that had
arisen it was not proposed at present to pro-
ceed against my client for desertion —the
very charge upon which the military authori-
ties had dealt with him five weeks pre-
viously !
E. M. Sabine, of an old Adelaide family,
gets the position of magistrate in the Adel-
aide Police Court, S. J. Mitchell, who has
held it since the death of James Gordon,
having moved up to be S.M. of the Local
Court and Commissioner of Insolvency.
Sabine lias had a purely legal training, hav-
ing been in and about the Supreme Court of
S.A.. mostly as Judge’s Associate, from his
early years till he was made magistrate at
Mount Gambier and then at Port Pirie.
William Cate, who lately got a heavy
blow on the head from a swinging chain on
the Murray, and died a little later, was one
of S. Australia’s most enthusiastic citizen
soldiers. lie was a servant of the State, bill
gave all his spare time' to military work,
particularly to machine-guns when they first
came in. lie was too old to be allowed into
the real thing when this war came, but his
three sons have gone to the Front.
Sydney business men are taking a hand in
raising money for blind and incapacitated
Billjims. P. W. Tewksbury, the Victorian
mining man, started the fund when he got
the late Iv. of K. to autograph an Australian
flag. Twenty-one other big pegs, including
Joffre, Haig, Jellieoe and Pierpont Morgan,
added their signatures to the flag, which is
to be disposed of by art union. The winner
is offered his choice of the flag or £2lOO in
cash. Second prize is £755. The whole of
the prize money has been donated, so that
the fund gets all the cash netted by the
sale of tickets. Sam Cohen, of David Cohen
and Co., is the hon. director; and John M.
Giles will hand over any information from
headquarters, Spring-street.
The Law in N. S. Wales lias a Christian
custom of allowing the casual drunk to
deposit ss. or so as bail, and then leave the
station as soon as he has sobered up. Under
this system the occasional jolly-dog has the
option of either turning up at court next
day and taking his chance, or forfeiting his
bail and letting the painful subject drop.
The practice has been in vogue for a con-
siderable time, and those who are best
qualified to judge, including higher police
officials, say it has worked excellently.
Nevertheless a deputation from N. S. Wales
Alliance has asked Solicitor-General Garland
to give the system the knock, because, among
other horrors, “it deprives the Alliance of
the opportunitv of getting into touch with
offenders and endeavoring to reform them.”
In other words, the deputation wants the
luckless and probably repentant booser
dragged out into the open, and scourged and
scarified and probably deprived of his job.
simply that he may be handed over to the
missionaries of Cold Tea. Garland, a cool,
calm Scot, promised that he’d “consider it,”
which was more courtesy than the impudence
of these heartless cranks deserved.
The unions are playing their enemy’s cun-
ning game all right, his idea being to make
them appear as people who don’t want to
help the Empire. The other day the Sydney
Boilermakers, who are largely unemployed,
refused to sign the shipbuilding agreement
and get to work. So far as can be seen
through the cloud of dust and the haze of
debris, the slow or lazy worker was to get
the full minimum rate of pay though he
might be worth only half of it. And the
first-class and strenuous worker was to get
double the minimum if he earned it. Herein
the union discerned the cloven hoof of piece-
work, the horns and tail of the task system,
a malignant incitement to hard work, a base
conspiracy to procure speed, and a vicious
tendency towards the exaltation of one *.rti-
san over another which might lead to the
creation of a trade aristocracy. The union
revolted against the offer of extra money and
turned down the proposition with an en-
raged countenance. If the shirker wouldn’t
climb, he was resolved that the worker
wouldn’t climb either. As the Scripture
doesn’t say but ought to : “How these boiler-
makers love one another” !
The tale of a sailing ship. It was loaded
with wheat. A German torpedoed it in
the Channel and the crew left. The Ger-
man also left, considering his job done. But
there was no dead burden of engines and
coal to weigh down the wounded vessel. It
was just a shell packed with wheat. Six
days later it was found still afloat, and after
13 days’ struggling against fearful weather
it was brought into port. Eight men did
the trick; a disabled steamer, if by any
miracle it had kept afloat, would probably
have required 50, and if the engines were
ruined even 50 couldn’t have done it. That
is the kind of craft that could be built
cheaply and quickly in Australia, and would
have been built if somebody hadn't been
interested in trying to make the labor unions
prove themselves to be pro-Germans—which,
of course, they are not.


r
&
bOORD & SON
V LONDON. ENGLAND. V H
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
1
%
DT
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
&l King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE &. ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
SPECIAL mi LIT ARY WIRELESS CLASS.
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN A TECHNICAL UNIT.
Our Instructors have arranged a Special Class for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army.
The Tuition extends over four months —Instruction three evenings a week. The course will be made
quite practical, use being made of the installations in the school, also of an aircraft set now being
installed especially for this course. The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and Motor-car Stations, Aeroplane Apparatus, etc., etc.
A SPECIAL RATE OF £8 FOR THE FULL COURSE has been decided on.
All particulars on application to THE MARCONI SCHOOL OFWIOELESS, Dept. C, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE THE EMPIRE.
JACKET-SWEATERS
—scarce Garments now!
Men who want these easy-to-slip-on sweaters would
do well to buy at once. Peapes introduce an excel-
lent Australian make (their own registered “Warri-
aral” brand). The actual value of these sweaters
to-day is considerably more than the prices quoted.
The “Warrigal” trade-mark vouches for the quality.
\est style (as shown), White, Grey, Brown or Navy.
Men’s. Outsize. Extra O.S.
15/6 16/6 17/6
Coat style, buttoning to neck, with turn-over collar,
1/ - extra.
Peapes Pay Postage.
Please state chest measurement and color required.
New catalogue sent on request.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
m
Ask for the
MARRIGAL.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion’ “Ducldy Long Log's
Her Majesty's “The Bing Boys Aie Heie
|j (LU;e “Peg o’ My Heart
Tivoli .’.V.V/.V. “Samples”
Union- Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Dick Whittington ’
Royal 4 ‘The Easiest Way
Kino’s “Turn to the Right”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Hon s Dk Luxe k Olymi-ia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba .....' Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
—
“Peg o’ My Heart." sweet, simple and un-
gainly as ever, carried the same old brown
dog into the English parlor at Sydney
Palace on Saturday, and sat unnoticed while
the beautiful daughter of the house allowed
the married-man friend of the family to
make love to her. Then, when the guilty
lovers realised that the Irish Question was
present, they angrily directed it and. its for-
tune of £200,000 round to the servants’
entrance. Cyril Mackay, the married waster
of the present version, burgled this early
scene of some of its force by pitching his
voice too low. As his ladylove (Beatrice
Yaldwyn) sent her lines across clearly, at
some stages it sounded like one end of a
telephone conversation. G. Kay Souper is
subdued as the slow lawyer who sends Peg
on unannounced to the inhospitable Eng-
lish house, ami so allows her ruined and
desperate relatives to snub their rich visitor
because she won't say who she is and
looks and talks like an incompetent
general in search of a “place.” The
dramatist is pretty merciless to all but his
principal puppet; but one momentarily pities
Mrs. Chichester (Doris Gilhain), the hard
and stupid snob who winces when her wild
Irish niece (whom she is supposed to make
a lady of) nervously calls her “Ma’am” arid
doesn’t dare to sit down. On that first-act
display, the upbringing of Peg on the
accepted English model would take about 50
years. Cecil Brooking as the fool-son Alaric
squeaks his defiance of all bankers when
news of the family’s ruin arrives, and Ger-
ald Henson is Peg’s pleasant but almost
inaudible lover. Sara Allgood, natural as
ever, carries the fresh little play as easily as
she does do°- Michael Her grim delivery
of Peg’s awful speech: “I’m a sow’s ear!
That’s what I am--a sow’s ear!” is truly
Irish. Present revival will keep the Palace
occupied until the “Aladdin” panto, is ready
on March 9.
The Bing Family (not forgetting the
Boys) have got Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on
a long lease. The ancient ballerinas who
hobble in on sticks are still dancing back
their lost youth and giving startling exhibi-
tions of plain Early Victorian underwear.
Nellie Payne, later on, in her song “Gran’-
ma’s Day,” shows how the same Early Vies,
could pile on the frills and flounces when
they wanted to.
“SAMPLES.” AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Eve (Jean Keith) in a “Modern Garden of
Eden ” Ballet.
Next Tuesday the Criterion sees the last
of “Daddy Long Legs” ; and on Wednesday
Marie Tempest will open her farewell Sydney
season with the first production here of
Somerset Maugham’s comedy. “Mrs. Dot.”
“Samples,” the Sydney Tivoli revue, is
keeping the booking office busy. One of the
turns that hits the house hard is young Jean
Keith’s all-Scotch song and dance about the
satisfactory manner in which the bonnie
heather is blooming. When the band makes
bagpipe sounds and her Highland kids begin
a reel, even the mild Hindoo feels impelled
to rise and howl “Scotland for ever !’’ It’s
the pipes and the kilts and the wild skirls
and the whisky that have made Scotland
terrible in war and the fun of the world in
peace.
To-night “Robinson Crusoe” will score a
century not out at Sydney Opera House; and
next week will see the close of this long-
distance pantomime. Kiddies are now ad-
mitted for sixpence to all parts of the house:
and it is rumored that the Fuller manage-
ment is considering the question of present-
ing a war-bond to every baby in the audience.
With a callous disregard for this paper’s
publishing arrangements Sydney James
announces that there will be a complete
change of programme at Sydney Playhouse
to-night. “Billy” has also chosen this incon-
venient date for his birthday.
** * *
At Sydney Hoyt’s and the Haymarket
Mary Bickford is showing what can happen
to a simple maid in the claws of the Prussian
military beast. There are torpedoings and
front-line doings, with sensational spying
episodes and other every-day war incidents
tuat would have been regarded as the wildest
fiction four years ago. “The Ship of Doom,”
a grim sea tragedy, finds a berth at the Cry-
stal Palace. At the Globe, the film version
of the stage-play of Whittier’s ballad of the
American Civil War, “Barbara Frietchie,” is
tne feature. Two of last week’s films have
cast anchor for another week—“ The Lone
Wolf” at the Majestic, and “The Law of
Compensation” at the Lyric.
Melbourne is waiting for something fresh
to turn up in the theatrical line. Last
“Reg o’ My Heart.” at
Sydney Palace.
Cecil Brooking as
Alaric.
Saturday neared
the end of all exist-
ing things, and was
the actual last
night of Ada Reeve
at the Tivoli. The
Tiv. returned to
conventional vaude-
ville on Monday,
when the admirable
Peter Dawson
rolled out his rich
voice as smoothly
as of yore. Also
Delmore and Lee
gymnasted as dar-
ingly as ever, and
Belle Sylvia re-
produced her deep,
commanding tones
in song and story.
r \ he newcomers to
the bill are the
Skatins? Novaks.
Red-Head Wilse >n
and Hamlin and
Mack.
At Melbourne Princess’s the three weeks’
session of “The Rajah of Shivapore” will'
be continued to Saturday, and its last night
will probably be more crowded than its first.
$ *J; Jjc
A revival of “Turn to the Right’’ is due
at Melbourne King's on Saturdav. with
some alteration of the cast since the first
time the three penitent crooks worked out
their salvation in the fruit trade. Mean-
while “Aladdin” i s passing away to quick
music. The nights of Abanazar are num-
bered and the days of Widow Twankey are
short.
“Whittington” is to last until Wednesday
next at Melbourne Majesty’s, after which
comes a revival of “You’re in Love” to play
the J.C.W. musical comedy co. back to notice.
This dry statement of fact will be repeated
in next Bulletin, so there is no need to
dwell upon it this week.
“The Easiest Way,” being a drama with
only six people in the cast, continues to suit
the treasury at Melbourne Royal. One of
the greatest differences between a drama and
a panto is in the latter’s utter inability to
be performed by six persons, and the demand
it makes to have two or three things
played by artists with special qualifications
for the job. Not one of the parts in “The
Easiest Way” seems to have quite the right
actor in it, nevertheless the performance is
interesting. Which proves that the author,
after all, has a lot to answer for.
Hoyt’s strongest picture-card in Mel-
bourne this week is “The Little American,”
with Mary Pickford a& queen of hearts.
Not the saucy child Mary of previous Pick-
fords, but Mary among the Huns in France,
caught and sentenced to be shot as a spy,
and showing dramatic feeling in a character
quite new to her. Little Mary’s name this
time is Angela Moore. The other featured
item in Hoyt’s varied bill is “The Heir of
the Ages.” House Peters is the Heir, and
the picture indicates that up-to-date
humanity gets its instincts from early fore-
fathers, who discovered them in caves.
The man of the moment on the Melbourne
“The Easiest Way,” at
Melbourne Royal.
J. B. Atholwood as
Jim Weston.
Majestic screen is
Bert Lytell, the
“Lone Wolf.” The
character was born
in Louis Vance’s
novel. He is the
last word in burg-
ling ability, and his
other specialty is
loyalty to his boy-
hood’s vow. He
swore to avenge
the death, through
treachery, of the
man who adopted
him for criminal
purposes, and his
wondrous tracking
of the culprit
brings the inevit-
able woman into
the case. A milder
subject for pic-
torial treatment is
“The It ege n e-
rates,” a Triangle
play with Alma
Reubens and Walt
Whitman in chief
parts. This is an
argument against
inter-marriasre. cal-
culated to make
spooning first-cousins unclasn their hands in
the Majestic gloom.
The Andersonian pantomime did so well in
Adelaide that manager Fanning gave all
hands a congratulatory picnic in the hills;
after which the principals gagged about it.
The show has now moved on to Broken Hill.
Une of its best items, by the way, is a
Russian dance by a small girl who deserves
to be named on the programme. The Tivoli
has contentedly returned to melodrama, with
“East Lynne”; Adrienne Lesley is stolen
away from Guy Hastings by Fitzherbert, and
little Gladys Gaul dies nightly to muffled
sobs. The Royal competes with another
classic, “Camille,” oh the screen, Theda Bara
being consumptive and amiable for a change.
West’s has Olive Thomas and “the best-
dressed woman in America,” whose name
(which is unimportant) is Mrs. Vernon
Castle; and \v ondergraph has Arbuckle,
Billie Burke and George Bebany a sound
Dago-actor. The Majestic, with the juggling
of Frank and Lank, the balancing of Ernest
and Vernon, and Bellora’s chirps and roar-
ings, has introduced varietv into a pro-
gramme that was in need of it. And the
jolly “English Pierrots” announce that the
Agricultural Show will shortly push them
out of their open-air Exhibition pitch. The
nights are getting cold, anyway.
Adelaide lias got rid of the irrepressibly
voluble Percy Brunton by passing him on to
Perth. He was once more charged in the
Police _ Court with loitering, etc., but on
producing a steamer ticket to Westralia was
allowed 24 hours to use it. This move-on
clause is often grossly unfederal when em-
ployed to shift one State’s criminals on to
another; but in the Brunton case it is fitting
enough. He does not really belong to S.
Aus. Also he is no criminal. But he is a
nuisance of which Adelaide thinks no one
city should have more than its fair share.
“Mary McCommonwealth” has nightmare:
No more rabbits will be taken for shipment to Eng-
land ; and if the war goes on long enough the word may
erne that will add sheep and cattle to the list. Then a
great despair will settle on Primary Industry. Straw-
berry will wander over the landscape and the merry
merino stroll with a long tail and a treble-banked
fleece from the Gulf to Broken Hill. If the war
goes on some more the outposts of civilisation will
see neglected flocks and herds with tossing horns and
tangled wmol raging across the broken fences and
knocking hungrily at the cabbage-patch and the
onion-bed. After that, machine-gun sections will be
employed to thin out the marauding beef and mutton;
and nature, adapting her creatures to their needs, will
turn the jumbuck into a fierce creature with short
wool, long legs and a disposition to dart out and
bite the passing stranger. No horror of invasion
could compare with the calamity of Australia eaten
to death by its own primary industries gone wild.
And the worst of the whole business is the extent to
which German influence may be exerted. Even now
there may a 8010 hogget spreading rebellion among
the West o’ Barling flocks. With the rabbits already
hoehing the Ivaiser, what more likely than that the
prize bull and the respected father of the cab-horse
should take up the cry? The mouse battalions ranged
in order of battle are dangerous foes; but if the
bulls declared war, what could stop their march?
It is a solemn thought, also, that the pig, so often
depicted as a Teuton, may think himself one ; and a
thousand great boars with German principles and
Bolshevik manners could hit George-street harder
than a herd of high-explosive bombs. Meantime, if
Europe doesn’t want rabbits there are hungry chil-
dren in our own cities who do ; and on the principle of
keeping the lower animals in their place, it seems a
reasonable suggestion that their place is on the plates
of those who in Australia find the cost of living the
supreme question at every meal.
“5.0.5.”: Sydney water-front had another
bit of excitement a few days ago. A clipper,
the Wee Clyde, left, a southern port on
Wednesday. That evening she was signalled
passing Jervis Bay. On Saturday after-
noon she had not turned up and was re-
ported missing. The owners, the relatives
of the crew, the underwriters and the marine
authorities began to bewail their luck, while
the naval brass-hats were divided between
theories of a minefield and a dash out of
the North Sea by the German Fleet. Then,
the same evening, the Wee Clyde sauntered
leisurely into port. The skipper explained that
as it was a bit rough he took his gondola into
Jervis Bay, and there he stayed until the
waters ceased from troubling, quite expect-
ing that his, movements would be made
known to Sydney. This incident shows up
the archaic signalling system on the N. S.
Wales coast. Some stations are Federal-
controlled; some are State mismanaged; all
are out of date; wireless there is none; and
when a storm rages the telephone lines are
blown down. The international flag code,
a splendid thing in its place, is too cumber-
tome for coastal signalling, and mistakes
are too easy. Years ago a boiler explosion
occurred on H.M.S. Wallaroo off Illawarra.
By flag signal the ship reported four killed.
On arrival in Sydney every available hearse
was lined up at Mrs. Macquarie’s chair. The
message had been received as “104 killed.”
From a Victorian doctor:—
The Bulletin refers to the “strike of Victorian
medical men against the Friendly Societies.” As
this may, and probably will, be taken as meaning
that all lodge doctors have struck, might I ask
you to let your readers understand that it is only
the members of the Victorian Branch of the B.M.A.
who have done so? Medical men who practise an
art, as distinguished from those who drive a trade,
do not strike.
It isn’t permissible for soldiers to write to
the press. This, of course, comes from a
Greenland whaler: —
A few days ago I cruised into No Man’s Land. It
was very misty, the fog lying over a turnip paddock.
(Old Fritz cultivated the ground behind his lines, and
the crops help to fill the larder for us now.) One of
our mob was filling up a bag this night and unknow-
ingly dropped in a skull. The cook seemed annoyed
when he emptied the peggy. “Here,” he said, “none
of your larks!”
“Billjack” : A lot of the brass hats were
surprised at Gambrai in their pyjamas. It
was something extra-special to see a night-
garbed top-holer skittering about looking for
the little lot he belonged to: mostly it had
fallen back at such a furious rate under
enemy pressure that it had forgotten to call
the Headquarters Staff!
“Jaeko” : N.S.W. Minister James’s declar-
ation that “cramming doesn’t exist” in our
secondary schools illustrates (1) that the
Minister doesn’t know his job, or (2) if he
does he is kidding the public, or (3) he has
had his own leg pulled dangerously. It was
at Waverley that James triumphantly
pointed to a crowd of youngsters who had to
look pleasant for the occasion, and asked
everyone to pass an eye over them and see
whether they were crammed. Which is just
about as sensible as looking at the label of a
beer bottle to discover the quality of the
contents. As one who has had experience
with the secondary-school system, I’d pro-
duce as evidence the crowd of kids to be seen
any day laboring up the streets under a pile
of text-books after school hours. But my
chief witness would be the Minister himself,
who, on the occasion quoted, gave out this:
Parents could considerably assist the Department
by sending their children to junior technical and
continuation schools in place of wasting, perhaps,
two or three years of their time at the high schools.
Everyone else who has recognised the expen-
sive weakness in our existing secondary sys-
tem has said the same thing, and no more,
for years past. And these .Tames has stigma-
tised as carping, ignorant critics! Instead
of going round whitewashing his secondary
schools, and turning somersaults in the pro-
cess, James could most usefully get busy on
solid reform as an essential part of our
win-after-tlie-war policy.
Sands and Mac’s Victorian Directory for
1918 is the same comprehensive production
as before, or even more so. Nobody has a
complaint to make against the huge Direc-
tory save Sands and MacDougall, the pub-
lishers thereof. They complain that it con-
tains a terrible quantity of paper, which
grows more and more costly. Next year’s
Directory they reckon will be a labor of love,
rather than of profit.


i,
mm.
m
You Can Learn Free
how to remove every blemish in a few days. Grace Duncan,
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years.
You have never used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel,
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus;
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a “fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey.” This
wonderful treatment, in just a few days, positively” removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way.
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint
of purity of a freshly-blown rose.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your
fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely prove to you before
vour own eyes in your mirror in a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No change in your mode of living necessary.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give you full
details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dept. 52, 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
HER MOVE.
“That letter is -in a woman’s hand —show it
to me.”
“Certainly , darlin gait’s from your dress-
maker asking for a cheque.”
“Kiwi” (Palestine) : We have been talk-
ing about him ever since it happened. Dur-
ing a scrap near Jaffa we advanced in a
long line toward Abdul’s trench and were
greeted with a hellish machine-gun and rifle
fire, with shrapnel thrown in. From the
centre of the line a vast Australian trooper
carrying a two-inch beard and a Lewis
machine-gun raced ahead, and taking cover
behind a heap of earth yelled for the rest of
the gun crew to bring along the blanky
ammunition so that he could have a shot
while his luck was in. At every spurt the
charging line made, the two-inch beard raced
ahead— with the gun! It was his fire that
kept Abdul’s head down. After we had
taken the trench I came across the whiskers
smoking a cigarette beside a bush and curs-
ing Abdul for having killed two of his crew.
“Christ!” he said. “Weren’t they dandies
to bring up the ammunition the way they
did!” It hadn’t occurred to him (and I
don’t suppose it has yet) that there was
anything much in charging with a Lewis
gun, so that ammunition was wanted.
* * * *
From an Englishman to his brother of
The Bulletin :
Pon t waste your sympathies on London. I am
ashamed ot' it:. The only people who deserve any
pity are the inhabitants of the very poor, densely-
populated districts where bombn have fallen. The
middle and richer classes have not suffered at all;
nevertheless they rush out of town carrying lying
reports and bewailing their shattered nerves, and
demand every available luxury to restore them to
their normal. Quite 99 per cent, of the alarm is
caused by our own anti-aircraft artillery. Very
alarming, too, are the fragments of our shells,
especially the caps, which blow off entire. These fall
like hail, and are the cause of very numerous casual-
ties. Many authorities are very dubious about the
utility of this artillery against aeroplanes travelling
90 miles an hour at a height of two miles or more.
Aircraft against aircraft, they say. It is probably so.
At last we have a separate Air Service, for which we
thank the Lord. The old fogeys of the Admiralty
and War Office hated this “new-fangled” weapon,
which had come to light since their days, and cold
blanketed it assiduously. Already, however, the Huns
have respect for our new department: it is rapidly
developing aerodromes, and aviation works are all
over the country, and any number of young men are
available. The only thing to worry about is the
brains branch. Our young men never or hardly
ever fail. But old military limpets hang on to the
top places, and they fail nearly always—mostly
because they have spent their lives finding the long-
est way round, so as to fill in time.
The story comes from a liamlet adjacent
to Geelong. The teacher of Class 11. in the
Sunday-school was having a word to say
about Resurrection Morn. His views were
conventional; he described the general rising
in the heat of the day, and threw in a touch
about the dust of ages and the dry bones,
and then solicited comment from the saga-
cious little ones. Only one boy had any-
thing of moment to say, and his observation
was terse. “Gee!” he said —“won’t there be
a rush on the pub!”
“Ex-Bombardier”: The O.C. I enjoyed
most was a genial gentleman who, before the
war, had been chair-
man of some im-
portant political per-
son’s election com-
mittee. But he
hustled round and
was presently camped
in Egypt with 1800
men to command. He
was at his best when,
having arranged his
invincible horse-
marines and dis-
mounted submarine
miners in hollow
squares, with the
massed bands in the
centre, he lifted up
his enormous voice
and roared: “Brig-
ade—’shun !” My job
kept me about one
yard due north of
his whiskers, and the
roar used to nearly
tear my tunic off.
The far-flung liorse-
marines having
’shunned to the last
man. their com-
mander would turn
in an agitated way
to his adjutant and
whisper desperately:
“Now, Blazeaway,
w hat’s n e x t—
quickly!” Sometimes
the faithful Blaze-
away wasn’t sure, and then both of them
would appeal to the major, a keen soldier
who is now well up the ladder.
* * * *
“A.G.”: He had a rich distillery breath
and his clothes were various. “I hae juist
came frae Paris!” he hiccupped. Somebody
who knew the Scotch language interpreted
his grievance. Jock and his cobber, one
“Plrchie,” had been denied Blighty leave
after a stunt in the line, so they took them-
selves to Paris on 70 centimes (7d.), and
had “Oh, aye, a braw time for three weeks,
ye ken,” until, it seems, Jock had beeu
arrested while on his way to “Erchie’s” wed-
ding. If two Scots can do all that for 7d.,
how much fun couldn’t they squeeze out of a
quid!
Sydney Telegraph’s “Progress of the
War” man did some fine pen-picture work
(22/2/’18) about “the Light Horse canter-
ing through the streets of what once was
Jericho.” It is devoutly to be hoped that
they will canter in moderation. Jericho,
destroyed by Joshua and co., rebuilt again
and again and destroyed every now and then,
at last struck its Waterloo. It was aban-
doned, and sand and dust and debris blew
DIAGNOSIS.
DOCTOR ( dwelling on abscess): “Does that hurt?”
OWNER OF ABSCESS: “My Gawd, yes! Oh, my Gawd!”
DOCTOR ( cunningly ): “Alia! I thought so.”
over its walls till it filled up and became
a mound or small hill. This looked very like
a hundred other small hills, but some learned
Sherlock Holmes got a suspicion about it,
and a great hole was dug like a crater, and
Jericho was found sleeping at the bottom
of the hole. The best way to get Light
Horse into Jericho would be to select very
Light Horse (Light Foal would be even
better) and lot it down by ropes to the main
thoroughfare—corner of Bourke and Collins
streets, opposite Federal Parliament House.
A regiment of Short Foal would be worth
considering, for the animals would have to
get round some narrow corners. Jericho
was a crowded place in its palmy days, like
most other very old cities. But that didn’t
necessarily show that the king was an in-
sanitary ass. When his tiny State was
attacked it had to rely on its tiny popula-
tion for defence, and it was necessary that
the microscopic capital should hold enough
able-bodied citizens to man the walls. If
there were parks and gardens within the
city there would be too much wall to defend,
so space was economised to the utmost,
wherefore the Light Horse won’t canter
through Jericho this time.
“Centurion”; Soon after
the occupation of El Arish a
couple of ’planes came over
one moonlight night and
bombed the first L.H. Brigade
ambulance. Colonel “Pat”
Dixon, who was in charge,
reckoned it was a mistake
and had magnesium flares lit
to show the red crosses on the
tent roofs. The Hun savage
was so pleased with this
thoughtfulness that when he
next raided the camp he came
down close and treated the
targets to a shower-bath of
machine-gun bullets, with
results that must have been most gratifying.
“Another Australian” : The matter of pay
which made the Billjim wireless men in
India sore may have been rectified, as the
Defence Department lately assured The
Bulletin that it was; but Billjim is still
insulted when he enters a hotel or theatre
bar in Bombay or Poona —or almost any-
where in India, for that matter —by a con-
spicuous notice which states: “Soldiers and
sailors will not be served in this bar. By
order.” During an interval at the Opera
House, Bombay, I was at the bar when three
Maorilanders strolled up and called for beer
(they had not seen the notice, and it tran-
spired that they had landed in Bombay that
evening). The Goanese “boy,” looking at
their uniforms, refused to give them a drink,
and you can imagine the bewilderment of the
strangers. I was in “civvies” and I beat the
regulations by insisting on the bar passing
me four bottles of beer. I assured the waiter
1 >vanted to drink the lot myself. That citizen
soldiers should be treated in this fashion is
abominable; and it doesn’t improve matters
that the humiliation should be in the hands
of native Indians.
It happened at Beersheba. Billjim on
foot was chasing a solitary Turk, and, when
the point of his bayonet was within a foot of
Abdul’s back, the child of the Faithful
dropped on his knees, threw up his arms and
yelled, “Mercy, cobber.” “ ’Ow the ’ell could
I ’arpoon ’im when he talked my own lan-
guage?” Bill asked afterwards.
* * * *
Joe Cook once offered a practical sugges-
tion for assisting the swarms of callers at
Victoria Barracks, who wander around seek-
ing an office where they can get the infor-
mation they are after. To save inquirers
from being shooed contemptuously away
from the wrong shop, as at present, Cook
suggested that a few kindly old men might
be employed as guides, so that the mothers
of soldiers wouldn’t have to spend hours in
vain attempts to get a civil answer to a
simple question. Of course the Defence
ANOTHER WIN-THE-WAR PARTY.
“You might have returned my engagement
ring."
“Well, one must do one's hit. It’s the fifth
I’ve got for the Old Gold and Silver
Fund.”
Department rejected the suggestion with
scorn. Under Pearce’s administration the
proudest characteristic of the Defence offi-
cials has been their unteachableness.
MAUD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I knew Maud in her garden fair,
A garden wide with roses set—•
Some, yellow as her golden hair;
Some, red as her red lhouth was yet.
And Maud walked in her garden wide,
Sat in the apple’s spotted shade,
And little of the world outside
Came ever to the sheltered maid.
Maud’s garden was a paiadise,
Where birds sang raptures overhead,
And hung their nests with quaint device
in tree and.creeper, and where bred
The shy white rabbit and the deer;
And Maud was happy, Maud was wise,
l'or Maud was eighteen, and no fear
Came ever to her shining eyes.
Maud’s garden like all Eden blew,
And now Maud’s years wore thirty-three.
Still, dappled, weaving shadows strew
The grasses ’neatli the apple-tree.
Maud loitered, basking half the day
Amid the roses’ ruddy rain,
And in Maud’s gentle face there lay
A questioning much worse than pain.
At forty Maud walked much alone
About her paradise, and ate
No fat, sweet apples she had grown.
Good folk went primly in her gate.
Now Maud sits lonely and despairs,
A thin, hard woman, tensely dumb.
In all the long lost lovely years
To Eden has no devil come!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON


“WELDON”
not only offers good style; it is
comfortable, light and easy fit-
ting to an unusual degree, A
model suited alike for town
and country. Brim 2 % inches.
Shades: Fawn, Slate and Light
Grey.
PRICE, 15/6 Post Free.
If vou haven't one of our new
Catalogues , write for Series Six —it
is free to you.
m
PIKE BROTHERS Limited.,
Toowoomba. BRISBANE.. Townsville.
m
SYDNEY
257 Clarence Street.
Electric FANS.
All Standard Types
in Stock=
British General Electric Co. Ltd.
MELBOURNE WELLINGTON, N.Z.
590 Bourke Street. 8 Willeston Street.
“II.II.”: Looking through the Epistle to
the Romans in search of a quotation
dawned on me that St. Paul was the original
“Answers to Correspondents.” Also lie was
the original Arbitration Court, though he
wasn’t a Waged Board. The churches re-
ferred their disputes to the strenuous little
1 readier, and his decisions were published in
the Scripture. He even gave an award gov-
erning fashions —that women should wear
their hats during service.
“The Fifteenth”: Billjim’s humor is
subtle at times. The official movie taker at
British Army headquarters was told that
Noreuil Valley offered excellent opportunities
for a star picture, featuring British batteries
being shelled by brother Fritz. Collecting
bis gear, the operator tripped off gaily.
Arrived at the top of the valley, a position
giving an excellent view, he waited for
brother to begin. His patience was not long
tried, for Fritz soon opened on the battery
in front of our position with a nerve-racking
5.9 salvo. Watching through our glasses we
saw the operator excitedly turn the handle
of his machine, till, on a 5.9 bursting a good
hundred yards from him, he bolted like a
startled fawn. A dishevelled Anzac, who
had been interested in the movie-taker,
promptly filled the position, and, steadily
turning the handle, continued to take the
picture—of the movie-man in his flight!
BEFORE CAPTURE—AND AFTER.
"Percy selects all my hats for me."
"Good gracious! I wouldn't trust George
to select mine."
"Oh. well, my dear, that's different — he's
your husband."
The popular assumption that if an accused
person pleads guilty he is guilty got a knock-
out lately from Madden, C.J., of Victoria,
The decision immediately concerned a gentle-
man who, while in a very unsober frame of
mind, “borrowed” a jinker and was over-
hauled in possession thereof. At the police
court he pleaded guilty and was committed
to the Criminal Court, but there his plea was
reversed. Madden told the jury that a man
might wu-ongly plead guilty, not knowing what
it was lie was charged with, or being in such
a condition that he was incapable of guilty
intention. After pondering the point for five
minutes the jury told accused he might
as well go and keen sober. But if every
accused who lias been in such a condition as
to be incapable of guilty intention is not
guilty, there are exciting times in front of
some people.
PUTTING TOO GREAT A STRAIN ON IT.
SHE: "Do you love me, Jock?"
HE: "Aye, lass, ye can bet yer life."
SHE: "Well, gimme yer whisky."
HE: "Na, lassie, I no loave ye sac much as that."
“O.B.” : The llun is an ingenious Beast.
Shortly after the outbreak of war a
Yankee dramatist named Foster was offered
$lO,OOO to write an anti-Jap drama on the
lines of “An Englishman’s Home,” for the
alleged purpose of awakening Uncle Sam
to the growth of the Asiatic menace. When
Foster learnt from the U. S. Secret Service
that the prize was to come through the Ger-
man Embassy at Washington, he saw that
he was being made the victim of a neat
Teuton scheme to scare the U.S. people into
continuing their neutrality. That ended
the business so far as Foster was concerned,
but some months later a story that was
practically identical with the plot that had
been previously offered to Foster was inno-
cently accepted for the screen by one of the
Yankee film firms, and, after several cuts
and emendations by the Yankee censor, was
run off in the U.S. under the title of
“Patria,” and is presumably twin brother
to the movie with the same name that has
been circulating in Australia.
* * * *
“Henry Horsecollar” prophesies :
What is the betting that, as soon as the Aus-
tralian Government is ready, in the year whatsis-
name, to ship the wheat in real earnest, the number
of fires in the stupendous wheat-stacks will be some-
thing wonderful unless a big wakeful force of armed
watchmen is put on? Hitherto the people who look
after German interests in the background haven't
found it necessary to burn the wheat. There were
plenty of strings being pulled to retard the building
of ships, and while the grain remained here the mouse
and the weevil were looking after the Kaiser’s in-
terests. That famous mouse which ate lions in his
old age was born in Potsdam.
“D.W.M.” : A querulous little man called
at my office to buy Gs. Bd. worth of advice
concerning his truant wife. While lie was
lying in the hospital waiting for a broken
leg to knit, the lady had grown lonely, and
on his return was found installed in another
establishment. The husband’s plaint ended :
“And she’s down there cookin’ for him and
won’t come back and cook for me, so what-
cher think I better do? She’s my wife and
I reckon I’ve got as much claim on her as
anybody.”
“Bill Bowya n g” :
Billjim has had to come
to Palestine to really
enjoy curs i n g tin*
priekly-pear. During
our advance on Jeru-
salem Abdul utilised it
in place of barbed wire
by digging his trenches
behind it and firing
through previously pre-
pared openings. It was
also a splendid hiding-
place for enemy snipers.
There were several acres
of ground covered
with pear at Gaza,
and this was in-
fested with Turkish
sharpshooters who
tore big gaps in
our advancing in-
fantry. Things
were looking bad
for us when the
artillery and aero-
planes took a hand.
Three high-power
bombs dropped on
the pear garden,
and all that you could swear to afterwards
was half a bushel of identity discs.
* * * #
“Incog” : In Australia, though voluntary
enlistment has been wholly relied upon, it
has always, I believe, been regarded as impu-
dence on the part of recruits to suggest what
arm they would serve in. That anybody
should dare to “dictate” to the military
emnipotents has been almost treason; and
this week I read an order that ho selection
of arm or unit will in future be tolerated.
America, regarding this war as a matter for
business management, is going on quite a
different line. The organisers of the army
actually consult the recruit—in every case
they consult the voluntary recruit —about his
predilections. More than that. they,
encourage recruiting for individual arms of
the service, and thus set up a spirit of
rivalry, not only in the work of recruiting,
but in training ; for naturally a man who
goes into a particular unit because he wants
to will take more interest in it than a man
who goes into a body for which he has no
friendly feelings and to which he has been
sent against his wish. For instance, a
Quarrymen’s Regiment was decided on a
few months ago—officially, the 28th Engi-
neers. The heads didn’t go into the camps
and pull out men to make that body: they
sent around to the big engineering firms and
told their requirements, and you will find
the result in the December numbers of the
engineering journals and magazines of the
U.S.A. The Engineering News-Record
has 12 pages of the advertising space usually
devoted to the big firms’ notices calling for
volunteers. This is part of the call
You will be given arms and taught how to use
them. But your daily job will be the work you
are doing now. You can enlist with your own
“liimkie” and work beside him. Officers will be
selected from volunteers. The best men get the
highest-paid places.
This advertisement is written for the U.S. Govern-
ment. Your Government is asking you quarry-
owners and officials to spare a few men for service
abroad. The Government counts on your co-opera-
tion to make the need clear to them.
Pay, of course, set out, and all the various
classes of men required—drill runners,
powdermen, hand-drillers, tool sharpeners,
etc. The pay offered runs from £6 18s. to
£2O clear per month. “More than half the
work of the army is work of daily life,” says
the American. “We want men who don’t
have to be taught how to do it.” And that
is just the difference between American
organisation and the Australian as I under-
stand it.
* * * *
“Gordarth” : The head stockman drove in
from the out-station to meet the lady at the
railway siding and take her to the home-
stead, some 14 or 15 miles out. He spoke
only once on the journey. Said he: “What
sort of a lambing do you think we’ll have this
time?” Nearly as good as the horse-tailer
who rode on a 70-mile sheep-drive with me.
and spoke once and then only to cast dark
reflections on the ancestry of his horse.
* » * *
Edwin Jones, one of Melbourne’s Ancient
Mariners, who went to Britain under diffi-
culties to do His “bit.” writes of his experi-
ences since he was ordered to Chatham :
This is a wonderland. Ships of every class in tile
docks and the estuary. Swarms of all ranks and
ratings, working at top speed. It is d great, abiding
joy to see with what thoroughness everything 'is.
done. For the absolute limit in efficiency I think
the instructors must be It. I note that the music
for drill is not supplied by a brass or fife band, but
by bagpipes. It is the best noise I've ever marched
to. We merchant men are continually meeting old
chums. Amongst others here, known in Australia,
are Forder of the Federal Line; Captain Crossland,
my old White Star shipmate, lately in command of
THE WAYS OF WOMAN.
THE MAN : “Aren't you coming in?"
THE GIRL : "No, I hate the sea: But there's
a nasty fat lady at, the hotel who said
I teas knock-kneed."
the Athenic; and several old P. and O. men. I sat
alongside one from the latter co. at dinner to-night..
He is navigator in a submarine, at present refitting..
At the outbreak of the war he was doing a course irt
one of the cruisers, and he described the rush of
ex-Navy men to offer their services. Many were
Fleet reserves—men with only 12 years’ service—
who had been in all sorts of jobs ashore. His ship
got among her crew Ellis, the hangman, who had
formerly been in the Navy. Who he was was not
known until after he had left for another ship. Then
one of the remaining men who had been a prison
warder disclosed the secret.
BREAKING THE LINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sky was flecked with battle-planes
What time our gunners ceased ;
Tall horsemen gathered up the reins,
Alert to be released.
A lull came down, and then a gale
Of lead upon our forces,
And through a hell of driving hail
We spurred our tardy horses !
Then rose a storm of hoofs tliit made
The red dust hem us round.
We rode with rigid gun and blade
On enfiladed ground.
The furrowed foothills echoed ba( k
A roll of muffled thunder,
When Abdul frit the swift attack
That ripped his line asunder.
And worn survivors further north
All vainly tried to stem
The human tide that hurried forth
Towards Jerusalem.
All through the startled night we rode.
And words were seldom spoken,
And lighter seemed each shoulder-load
The night the lino was broken.
PALESTINE.
GERAKDY.
THE WEARIN OF THE RAINBOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Tlie Syrians are the Irish of the East in their
sufferings for their faith, their love of virtue, and
their fidelity to the Holy See.” —Archbishop Cattaneo.
O Paddy dear, and did you hear
The news that’s goin’ round?
They say this craytur full of fear
Is Irish, every pound!
He hasn’t got a shamrock plot,
He’s only got his wrongs ;
At landlords he has never shot,
And where’s his ribil songs ?
God bless the Pope, says we, and hope
His Holiness is well;
But in New York they’d call it “dope”
This story that they tell.
No liar-rm we wish to this queer fish,
So gintle he salaamed ;
But kape him from us is our wish.
Him Irish! Him be damned !
N.B.W.
ROSCOMMON.


“SETTLING" PEOPLE ON THE LAND.
THE FARMER (to boss rabbit): "Well, old friend, you can have the farm. The Guv'ment says there ain't no ships, so I can't export you. I've paid half my wheat money to keep you down, and
I've been fined the other half for not keepin' you down; so now you can eat the mortgage, and be damned to you."


BLOCKING THE LIGHT.
Senator Pearce savs he is unable to indicate when the second and third reports of the Defence Commission will be published.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
TlTlie medicine that goes hand in hand with good health—a kind of twin brother —that
brings physical confidence, strength, mental energy and clearness, is ClefYlGntS Tonic,
because it possesses those specific properties that rebuild the human constitution. It
stiengtliens the working parts, cleanses the stomach, purifies the blood, thus creating new
conditions with good health results to the user. If any greater proof is required of the
poweis of this splendid medicine, the testimonies given afford it, written by those
who can well affoid by experience to judge of its merits. For the general good of
the public they are published throughout Australia, and are well worth reading.
Over 300 voluntary letters in praise of this nerve remedy have been received in the last few months, which may be seen and verified at the
o ices of the Company, C ements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle. Get it from your chemist or store to=day, and get well. Do not wait until to-morrow.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRINC
ECYPTIAN
CIGARETTES
FOR HIS ENCOURAGEMENT.
THE LASS : “You’re so—so different to the
other boys.”
THE LAD (flattered): “ Really! In what
way?"
THE LASS: “ Well — er —they are always
pestering me to marry them.”
March birthdays: Philip Fysh (Tas.),
83 on Ist: Justice Powers (High Court).
65 on 3rd; Edward Dyson, 53 on 4th: J.
Russell French, general manager. Bank of
N. S. Wales, 71 on sth ; artist Tom Roberts,
62 on 9th ; Dr. O'Shea (Coadjutor-Arch-
bishop of Wellington), 48 on 13th; Prof.
Gibson (Melb. Uni.), 49 on 15th; E M.
Smith, ex-Surveyor-General. S. Aus., 71. and
R. Coombes (Sydney Referee), 60, on ISth ;
biographer Fred Johns, 49 on 22nd; Geo.
Fairbairn, M.11.R. (Melb.), 63 on 23rd;
Bishop Anderson (Riverina). 59 on 24th;
’ Rear-Admiral Clarkson, 59 on 26th; Prof.
Mitchell (Adel. Uni.), 57. and Mrs. Camp-
bell-Praed, 67, on 27th ; Prof. T. G. Tucker
(Melb. Uni.), 59, Prof. W. B. Benham
(I'LL.), 58, and Prof. Jethro Brown (Pre-
sident of Industrial Court, Adelaide), 50. on
29th.
The Speck doesn’t intend to let the history
of its bad old days die with the oldest in-
habitant. John R. Betts, a Tasmanian
whose 80 years have mostly been spent in
police and other official duties, is now search-
THE BOLSHEVIKS' TOPHET.
AWAITUS (Master of the Crucible): “Come
on — it’s your own soup.”
ing. the archives and sorting out documents
which bear on the interesting epochs of
Van Diemen’s Land. John’s photographic
memory and wide knowledge have enabled
him to replace the details of many incidents
which are missing from the official records —
missing probably because a previous com-
piler found it more profitable to destroy than
to preserve certain personal histories.
Another Adelaide lawyer goes into khaki
A. J. Hannan. M.A., LL.B., a lecturer at
the University. Though only about .30, he is
Parliamentary Draftsman and assistant
Crown Solicitor. The S. Aus. Government
has only been able to give him leave to go
into camp on the condition that lie first
spends a few weeks in cleaning up Crown
Law matters of which he has the handling.
Edward Allan Box has been appointed
Secretary to the Commonwealth in London,
to the great disgust of senior men who were
in the running but not on the spot. The
job, _ until recently held by Capt. Muirhead
Collins, is one of the plums of the Federal
Service, worth £lOOO a year, with liberal
exes. Box is a pleasant-mannered tennis
player of 33, who has spent 14 years amongst
red tape, and was selected four years ago
as Secretary to High Commissioner Andrew
Fisher.
Frank Gavan Duffy, a Victori an solicitor,
will, at the end of the present term, apply to
be admitted in N. S. Wales. He is a son of
Justice Duffy, of the High Court.
t Mary Gaunt, daughter of a Victorian
County Court judge, maintains her reputa-
tion as the most adventurous of Australian
females. Werner Laurie, a London pub-
lisher, announces a new volume about her
travels—“A Broken Journey”—dealing with
her wanderings in war-time through Russia,
Finland, Norway, Sweden and other more
outlandish places, and culminating in
her capture by Huns in the Baltic.
Mary Gaunt never makes a journey
without establishing a new record of
some sort or other. This time it
takes the form of a visit to the Russian con-
vict-prison island Saahalien. “never before
trodden by the feet of a British or Austra-
lian lady,” it is alleged.
“Nemo”: That’s a big thing the R.C.
Bedemptorist Fathers have done in the crea-
tion St. Clement’s College, at Galong
(N.S.W.). The Bedemptorists have been
settled at Ballarat for some years. Only
one of the pioneers of the Order in Australia
is now alive. He is still at work at Bel-
fast, in Ireland—Father Hegarty. Father
“Tom” O’Farrell is buried at Athenry, in
Ireland. Father Vaughan is buried in Eng-
land. Father Halsen stuck to Australia to
the last. He lies in a grave at Sandgate,
close to Waratah. What an eloquent bunch
they were, Vaughan, the Cardinal’s uncle,
hardly superior to the rest!
The fat position of chief of Dalgety’s in
S. Aus., vacant by the untimely death of
Van Senden, is tilled by E. V. Day. who had
for years been second in the
Adelaide office. He also suc-
ceeds his old chief on the Wool
Board.
“87”: Re the late Sultan of
Egypt. Just after our return
from Gallipoli he was motoring
through Cairo, when Billjim got
in the way and was hauled from
under with a fractured leg. The
Sultan immediately conveyed
the injured man to hospital and
next day eased his pain with £25.
During a procession of Light
Horse through Cairo the Sultan
said that nothing would please
him better than to have a body-
guard of such men after the
war. Perhaps it may be ar-
ranged, for he will meet many
of the chaps wherever he’s gone.
“Light Horse”: You never
know when you’ll meet an old
cobber in this little debate. We
were riding through the main
street of a small village near
Jaffa, gazing at the inhabitants
who thronged the doorways of
the Jewish quarter, when what
looked like the oldest inhabitant
pulled one of us up and asked
if he didn’t come from Brisbane.
“Lived there once,” said the
horseman with the emu plume,
and was begged to call when he
had a few minutes’ spell. Bill-
jim had a yarn with the family
later on in the day. The
ancient Jew had been in busi-
ness in Brisbane in the ’eighties,
it seemed, but, attracted by a
colonisation scheme, he had re-
turned to the land of his fore-
fathers. The old chap put in
a good word for Billjim with
the rest of the village population, and
“bacKsheesh” fruit was plentiful.
It is el a imed that Mrs. Jane Cocking, who
passed out at Melbourne last week, was 102,
having been born in Kent on December 13,
1816. She was the daughter of a British
naval officer and arrived in Adelaide with
her husband (for some time an architect
in the Vic. Public Works Department) in
1848. Until a week before her death she
enjoyed capital health, never even suffering
from specs, before the eyes.
You never cr tell. There was a hard-
case with the colors up who made it so hot
in Melbourne that even the boys started to
get shortsighted when he was about. Then
it went round that he was loaded with 90
days when he was wanted at Pozieres. It
was quite true ; but
somebody who dug
deeper into his
record found that
when all the
s t r e tcher-bearers
had been shot down
and there was a
call for volunteers,
old 90 days had
stepped forward
and for 70 hours
on end had stag-
gered to and from
the firing-line with
wounded mates.
SENATOR
R. BUZACOTT
( W.A. ).
Vincent Dudley Dacey, son of the late J.
Tt. Dacey, decent old State Treasurer in the
McGowen Administration, doesn’t appear to
hav ■ long survived to wear the Military
Medal he had won. Six months ago he was
reported missing, and has not since been
heard of. Most probably a shell-burst gave
him a hasty interment.
The two most persistent men in Australia
appear to be George Swinburne and Dr.
Mor e.
“J.F.11.” sees a Mount Morganaire off:
The late W. K. D’Arcy was best known to Aus-
tralians as the lucky Mount Morgan millionaire—an
obscure Rockhampton attorney who got the correct
tip at the right moment, and built up a. pile beyond
the dreams of avarice. But during the latter years
of his life in his gorgeous mansion in Grosvenor
CONFIDENCES.
“ Dear, dear, I'm sorry. Aad what is she
doing when she isn’t talking?"
“Thinking of what she'll say next."
Square he was chiefly concerned in the development
of the oilfields of Persia. At the annual meeting of
the Anglo-Persian Oil Co. just held here (London),
glowing tributes to his memory were paid. The chair-
man declared that it was to D’Arcy’s enterprise and
farsightedness that the co. was indebted for its exist-
ence, and the fact that the concession remained in
British hands was entirely due to his strong spirit
of Imperialism. D’Arcy “had many traits in com-
mon with that other great pioneer, Cecil Rhoden.”
Even though he didn’t do much for the Australia
that made him rich, he deserves praise better than
most dead men. In five years he spent in Persia
£300,000 of his own money. Foreign oil magnates
made all sorts of tempting proposals in order to
secure a controlling interest, but D’Arcy was deter-
mined that the British Empire alone should have the
benefit. In co-operation with Lord Selborne, then
First Lord of the Admiralty, and Lord Strathcona,
High Commissioner for Canada, he formed the Anglo-
Persian Oil Co., and presently the British Govern-
ment put in £2,000,000, in return for shares for which
about six or eight millions could already be got.
The field, whose output is already huge, is reckoned
by some to be greater even than that of Western
U.S.A. Last year’s profit was £415,827, though
business has hardly started yet. Contracts let run to
over 15 million tons of oil and products!
Peter Murdoch was a sailing-ship captain
at the Port of Melbourne when it was called
Sandridge, and he used to sail between there
and Maori land in the ’sixties. But he got
into Port Pirie (S.A.) in its very earliest
days, and settled down as a Spencer’s Gulf
pilot. He died suddenly at Pirie last week,
aged 78.
When the Defence Department of Maori-
land explained to Major J. T. Large, a
Maori War veteran, that he was “too grey”
for Hun-strafing, the indignant volunteer,
who is an active youth of 71, proceeded to
demonstrate his fitness for hard going by
making a walking tour of about" 400
miles through the Far North country.
He was 24 days on trek, with his swag on
his back. Then he turned up in Auckland as
fit as an Alpine guide, and when last seen was
pursuing four recruiting officers simultane-
ously.
“Devilfish” on some respected townsmen:
“Wart’s” story of the Launceston Gaol (B. 7/2/’18)
does Brady the injustice of saying that Thomas Jef-
fries, nicknamed “the Monster,” was once a member
of his gang. Jeffries broke gaol and took to the
bush with one Bussell and another man. They got
hungry, and first Jeffries and Russell ate the other
fellow and then Jeffries ate Russell. Nobody bore
Jeffries much malice for this ; his really hellish crime
was committed when he plundered the hut of a stock-
man named Tibbs and forced Mrs. Tibbs to go into
the bush with him. She had a baby and as the
weight began to tell on her Jeffries snatched it out
of her arms and dashed its brains out against a log.
It seems to have been detestation for Jeffries’s crimes
and the discredit he had brought on the profession of
bushranging which made Brady try to save the hang-
man a job. Matthew Brady (he was not an Irish-
man, for his name was properly Bready and he hailed
from Manchester) was an escapee from “Hell,” other-
wise Macquarie Harbor, and of quite a different type.
So was his lieutenant, Peter Geary, a soldier who had
deserted from the 73rd Regiment.
HELEN IN HYDE PARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Walking together in the quiet joy
After the sunset glow,
My love and I talked gravely of old Troy
Three thousand years ago.
And down the ramparts of our memories then
We saw great Helen pass,
Hiding her eyes lest forms of fallen men
Showed darkly in the grass.
1, being woman and in love, sighed low
For the cold dead and white;
'But my wise love saw the long afterglow
Of beauty and delight.
Loitering among the leaves, a silence grew
Between us wisdom-deep.
We thought of snowy ridges and the blue
rEgean where men sleep ;
Of little graves beside a sobbing sea
Near Troja’s wind-swept plain,
Where, guarded by white walls of Memory,
Rest our immortal slain.
Then down between the trees to us there came
Our Helen in distress —
A girl, who read with heart and face aflame
Of War’s red piteousness.
She wept upon a name with sudden tears
And hid her blinded eyes,
Seeking some shelter lest our list’ning ears
Should hear her smothered cries.
Her hero in the clash of steel on steel,
Fighting for her afar,
Had perished that the world might know and feel
How near the ages are.
Helen of Homer, Helen of the Park!
And still the cycles roll,
Out of the light and onward to the dark,
To prove a woman’s soul.
Beauty is truth. My love and I passed on
With sighing of regret.
Let the steel clash ! The faith of men were gone
If Helen could forget.
X.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.


V
*
Y)
£
99*
m
4
id**
m
A Warranty of
all Pure Wool
A MAN may discriminate in choosing a fabric
for his suit—as to the pattern, the coloring, or
weight of texture. But having gone so far, he
invariably depends on the tailor with whom he places
his order for a judgment as to the quality of cloth.
as many men do, he calls for a standard of quality known to be worthy
a fabric of all pure wool —this and no less is his due.
Every thread of the fabric
of a “Marrickville” Tweed
and all other materials of
this name and brand carry
with them the warranty of
all pure wool.
With the trade mark of
Vicars stamped on every
two yards of the cloth, the
Customer is protected in
his purchase, if the choice
of fabric he makes for his
suit is an Australian made
Tweed produced at the
Marrickville Mills.
"Austral” Sac Suits
95/- to Measure 95/-
OF
VICARS’ Marrickville Tweeds
OTHER PRICES:
105/-, 115/-, 126/-, 147/-, 1576
To any address throughout Australia we send
patterns, together with tape measure and chart
which illustrates the “Austral” sample system of
self-measurement. We guarantee a satisfactory
fitting, and pay carriage on all country orders.
Those of our Customers
whose requirements are
met by a lower priced suit
than is quoted above will
find that an “Austral”
Sac Suit to measure of
Australian Tweed at 757-
touches the rock bottom of
tailoring value. The fab-
rics are not ALL pure
wool, but have both an at-
tractive appearance and
the qualities to withstand
hard wear.
Carriage is
oaid on all
Country
Orders.
COWING BR° 3 L T ?
PIONEER DISTRIBUTORS OF AUSTRALIAN GOODS
484-490 George Street, 3-17 Royal Arcade
AND 304 GEORGE STREET HUNTER STREET), SYDNEY
Carriage is
paid on all
Country
Orders.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Buildino-
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Dead
Corroding Dead
Antinionial Dead
Assay Dead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
buyers on a specially favorable
tariff of—
SHicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade,
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
BHAS:
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelati
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge*
STEEL CASTINGS.
We make the FINEST STEEL CASTINGS obtainable
ranging in weight from a Pound or so up to
SIX or EIGHT TONS; also MANGANESE STEEL
CASTINGS of best quality.
It will be to your interest to let us have your enquiries.
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmond
Victoria.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of Queensland —amalgamat-
ing the Itoyal of Queensland and the Bank
of North Queensland as from January, 1917 :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
July, 1917. . £17,220 6 p.c. = £14,268 £2952 £2952
Jan., 1918.. 17,242 6 „ „ 14,175 3067 6019
The small increase shown in the profits is no
doubt the prudent management’s way of say-
ing that things are going right with this new
amalgamation. There are, however, always
a few things to prevent an amalgamation
showing the full benefits straight away. For
instance, surplus banking premises; and
though in this case there was not a great deal
of overlapping, the Royal of Queensland con-
fining itself mainly to the South while the
North Queensland was strongest higher up
the map, there are no doubt Brisbane office
properties of which the bank would be glad to
be relieved. Apparently nothing has been
done in that way during the half-year,
premises account still standing at £157.500
-—which means something considerable in
taxes.
Capital is £450,000, the amount represent-
ing the net assets of the two banks after each
had viewed the other’s values with a cold
eye and written them down accordingly. De-
posits and other liabilities are £3,116,989 —
under £7 for every £1 of the shareholders’
funds. Liquid assets stand at £1,499,407 ;so
there is £1,617,532 of debt not liquid, and
this is represented by £2,087,726 of other
assets —the assets that were' latelv written
down by men who were practically buying
them. The margin is therefore so wide that
creditors won’t lose any sleep over their
risks. Gross profits were distinctly better
last half than in the co.’s first six months;
but working exes, were a couple of thousands
more ; and probably the staff of the old Royal
has benefited—it used not to be reckoned the
best-paid bank service in Australia. As for the
future—well, almost any well-managed finan-
cial concern in Queensland is justified in tak-
ing a hopeful view. Nothing but intolerably
bad political control can keep the great
Northern State back. And the State has
generally suffered not so much from bad con-
trol as from a suspicion that what it had
was a great deal worse than it really was.
It still seems to be suffering that way.
Sargents, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney
and Melbourne, who started with a deficit of
£46,235, representing goodwill (£45,000)
and preliminary expenses :
Towards
Reduction
Profits. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
June, 1910. . £6,038 10 p.c. = £4500 £1538 £36,278
Dec., 1910.. 8,076 10 „ „ 4500 3576 32,702
June, 1911.. 7.669 10 ~ „ 4500 3169 29,533
Dec., 1911.. 5,520 10 „ „ 4500 1020 28,513
June, 1912.. 7,159 10 ~ „ 4600 2559 25,954
Dec., 1912.. 9,308 10 „ „ 4700 4608 21,346
June, 1913.. 9,027 10 „ ~ 4850 4177 17,169
Dec., 1913.. 9,412 10 ~ „ 5000 4412 12,757
June, 1914.. 10,#29 10 „ „ 5000 5529 7,228
Dec., 1914.. 11,453 10 „ „ 5000 6453 775
To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
•Tune, 1915.. 8,680 10 ~ „ 5208 3472 2,697
Dec., 1915.. 8,454 10 „ „ 5312 3142 5,839
June, 1916.. 9,524 10 ~ „ 5312 4212 10,051
Dec., 1916.. 10,140 10 „ „ 5312 4828 14,879
June, 1917.. 8,158 10 „ „ 5312 2846 17,725
Dec., 1917.. 6,057 10 „ „ 5312 745 18,470
Costs have been mounting so fast that the co.
hasn’t been able to keep up with them. This,
generally speaking, is a business in which
passing on is comparatively easy; but the
process has its limits, and there are times
when competition is so keen that it promises
to pay better in the long run to put up with
a temporary loss rather than risk the loss of
custom. Further, current high prices mean
that wages are abnormal, and that the public
has an exceptional lot of money to jingle in
its pocket; but it doesn’t follow that Sar-
gents get the full benefit of that. In this
orgy of spending there is, in fact, a rush to
the higher-priced shops that have a name for
“smartness” which Sargents don’t aim at.
And no doubt also patriotic-fund shops cut
in a little —though probably Sargents don’t
mind that. So, one way and another, profits
have been suffering. But it seems highly
probable that the co. will do just as well
when the present orgy is over, and people
look harder at half-a-crown before spending
it on a meal. Almost everything will, of
course, depend on management then as it has
done in the past. Hundreds of women have
started little nie and tart shops in Australia.
Only Mrs. Sargent has made a big thing out
of it. And that is what the investor has to
take into account. Of course all sorts of
efforts will be made to nrovide the co. with
the sort of management that built up the
business. But it is a trade in connection
with which the public is very fickle, and
goodwill is very fragile: which is another
way of saying that success can only be looked
for with continuously good management.
As to the security for the principal, it is
vastly better than it was when the co.
started. It has improved a good deal even in
the past five years :
1912. 1917.
Capital.. .. ..£94,000 £110,954
All liabilities . . .. 24,247 51,407
Freeholds .. . . 24,344 70,000
Leaseholds . . . . 20,900 19,400
Furniture, plant, etc. .'. 39,560 55,720
Stock, cash, etc. .. . . 16,797 41,023
Capital and liabilities together have in-
creased by ±-±4,114, while into freeholds alone
(these include the premises in Market-
street) the co. has put ±45,656. Put it
another way: after paying a 10 p.c. dividend
regularly, the co. has provided all its addi-
tions to plant and furniture and all its addi-
tions to stock and cash. These additions com-
bined amount for the five years to ±40,386.
8 tan mo be Preserving Co., Ltd., Sydney,
jam manufacturers, fruit preservers, etc.
The co. began in 1014 with a deficit of
±0605, made up of goodwill, ±8956, and pre-
liminary expenses, ±649:
t —Dividends.-^
Fret'. Ord. To Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 8 p.c. serves. Deficit.
£9605
1914.. £3693 £794 £l6OO £1299 8306
1915.. 4571 1587 1600 1384 6922
1916.. 5390 1600 1600 2190 4732
1917.. 7543 1600 1600 4343 389
But though this co. was born early in 1014
the business was established very modestly
eight years before; and when 11. E. Pratten
and other men experienced in the trade came
in it was to provide capital for better prem-
ises and plant. The public subscribed ±20.000
of pref. capital and the vendors took 20,000
ordinary ±1 shares, on this basis: that no
dividend in excess of 8 p.c. should be paid
until the capital represented by goodwill
was equalled by undivided profits, whereupon
—-very properly—all shares were to rank
alike. Quickly upon the formation of the
co. a new factory was built and equipped
and things were ready for the war orders
that poured in. In spite of high prices for
tinplate and other requirements profits soon
wiped out the ±8956 of goodwill; and as more
capital was needed to carry the big stocks
another 15,000 shares were offered to share-
holders and over-subscribed in the first days
of this year. Allotment was made, on Jan.
28, so that the accounts now presented don’t
show the effects of this operation. But as
stock is ±22.000 less than it was 12 months
previouslv, total liabilities, which then ex-
ceeded ±37,000, were reduced to ±24,600
as at Dec. 31. Finance should therefore be
a much less difficult problem this current
year. Still the co. isn’t the sort to settle
down content with the business it has, nor
wait till everybody has agreed not to either
strike or try to dominate it before it pushes
ahead. “The increased capital,” the direc-
tors say, “will enable the co. to extend its
business and establish a depot in Tasmania
for the purpose of seeming adequate supplies
of berry fruits.” Even on the increased
capital of ±55,000 last year’s profit, after
striking off 10 p.c. (±1071) to cover deprecia-
tion of working plant and making provision
for taxes, was equal to nearly 14 p.c.; and
though war orders won’t, happily, last for
ever, there is, besides the local market, a vast
market in “the East,” much of it unexplored ;
and chairman Pratten’s wanderings up that
way probably won’t do the co. any harm.
* * * *
The Southland Frozen Meat and Pro-
duce Export Co. (Invercargill, M.L.) :
Dividends. Writ-
r — A ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., £ £ £ £ £
1905.. 5,976 5 p.e. 21 p.c. 1767 2000 2,209 23,701
1906. . 10,134- 5 „ 4 „ 2065 2000 6,069 29,770
On All Shares.
1907.. 15,571 6| p.c. = 2711 3580 9,280 39,050
1908.. 13,326 6 „ „ 2714 5889 4,723 43,773
1909.. 13,190 6 2729 6530 3,931 47,704
1910.. 21,101 8 „ „ 3641 6057 11,403 59,107
1911.. 22,593 8 „ „ 3642 8128 10,823 69,930
£22,761 of reserves transferred to capital 47,169
1912.. 15,444 8 p.c. = 5463 7913 2,068 49,237
1913.. 11,236 8 „ „ 5463 8054 46,956
1914.. 12,424 8 „ „ 5463 6432 529 47,485
Net.
1915.. 24,382 10 „ „ 6828 ? 17,554 65,039
1916.. 23,004 10 „ „ 6828 ? 16,176 81,215
1917.. 20,265 10 „ „ 6828 ? 13,437 94,652
This is one of the cos. which may be said
to be engaged in war work —the feeding of
John Bull and his Allies—and the wonder-
ful old gentleman hasn’t been much con-
cerned about the price. Prior to 1915 the
co. each year used to publish the amount it
considered necessary to cover depreciation.
Nowadays, however, all the writing off is
done on the quiet, and profits are shown
after making provision for repairs, renewals
and depreciation. What is going into this
stocking The Bulletin has no idea; but
it’s pretty certain that the co. during the
past couple of years has made good use of
the old device to camouflage its profits. But,
even if nothing has been put aside, a com-
parison of the net profits, as disclosed by the
accounts for the past three years, compared
with those of the previous three years, gives
some idea of the gorgeous time the co. has
been enjoying. Deducting the amounts
written off for depreciation, the net profits
for the three years to December, 1914,
totalled £16,702; the net profits for the past
three war years admitted by the co. have
amounted to £67,751. Or, here is another
method of comparison :
1913. 1917.
Liabilities.. .. ..£29,103 £75,435
Assets other than works.. 21,078 107,220
Excess liabilities .. £8,025
Surplus assets . . .. —■ £31,785
So. after providing a dividend averaging 94
p.c. p.a. and paying for extensions, repairs
and renewals, the co. has in four years im-
proved its cash position by almost £40,000,
and since part of these 1917 liabilities
are labelled “contingency liabilities” the im-
provement may actually be greater than
£40,000.
The balance-sheet figures have moved in
this way:—
1907. 1913. 1916. 1917.
Liabilities ..£25,598 £29,103 £64,308 £75,435
Works.. .. 95,981 129,711 117,567 140,957
Stock . . . . 9,107 12,130 22,712 50,514
Other assets . . 7,460 8,948 80,354 56,706
Capital 10 years ago was £45,188, and only
£334 of new money has been got in, though
five years ago £22,761 of reserved profit was
capitalised. Liabilities have increased by
£49,837. Meantime, works as written down
stand in the balance-sheet at £54,976 more
than in 1907; stock has been increased by
£41.407, and £49,246 has been added to more
or less liquid assets. The additions to works
and plant alone cover the increased liabili-
ties and leave a couple of thousands over;
so _the co., on its published figures, is over
£95,000 better off than it was 10 years ago.
For every £1 put up by shareholders there
are now assets of a book value of almost
£3 16s.
The N.S.W. Mont he Piete Deposit and
Investment Co. (Sydney) :
To lie- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1910.. £4687 12J p.c.-. £4687 £28,621
Premiums on new shares £3095 31,716
Dec., 1910.. 5858 124 p.c.=± 4859 999 32,715
Premiums on new shares 12 32,727
June, 1911.. 6081 p.c.= 4881 1200 33,927
Dee., 1911.. 5981 12| „ „ 4881 1100 35,027
June, 1912.. 6024 124 „ „ 4882 1142 36,169
Dec;,( 1912. . 6408 124,, „ 5410 1058 37,227
Premiums on new shales 2915 40,142
June, 1913.. 6972 124 p.c.= 6216 756 40,898
Dee., 1913.. 8766 124 „ „ 6571 2195 43,093
June, 1914.. 7531 124 „ „ 6640 891 43,984
Dec., 1914.. 5198 10 „ „ 5312 43,870
June, 1915.. 6594 10 „ „ 5518 1076 44,946
Dec., 1915.. 7096 10 „ „ 5625 1471 46,417
June, 1916.. 6246 10 „ „ 5625 621 47,038
Dec., 1916.. 7000 10 „ „ 5625 1375 48,413
June, 1917.. 6897 10 „ „ 5625 1272 49,685
Dec., 1917.. 6740 10 „ „ 5625 1115 50,800
Here’s another illustration of the difference
this war and every other war: this
co. hasn’t done as well in any half-year since
the trouble started as it did in either the
latter part of 1913 or the early part of 1914.
At June, 1914, the co. had £140,540 in
“advances, pledges and other securities and
other assets.” Thereafter the amount was
gradually reduced, until at the middle of last
year it was down to £133,654. And then
trouble started: the same old strikes began
afresh, and there was and still is distress.
If some multi-millionaire came along to-
morrow and added 10s. a week to every
Sydney workman’s wages, for perhaps a year
those who had previously found that
they weren’t getting quite- enough would
decide that the world was a beautiful
place, after all, and they would never
have to go to uncle’s. But by the
end of the second year—or, the
third —there would probably be just as many
hard-ups, just as many customers for uncle,
just as many strikes for a “living wage,” and
the new living wage would be quite a
different thing from the old living wage. So,
after the bogus war-prosperity had knocked
down this co.’s advances for a couple of
years, we now find the total back just
about to the old figure—June, 1914,
£140,540; December, 1917. £139,126. The
rather surprising thing is that, whereas the
gross revenue for the 1914 period was
£13,630, for the past half-year, notwithstand-
ing the much higher rate of interest now
ruling generally, the gross revenue was only
£13,491. Exes, are about the same, though
for the past term they were bloated by build-
ing repairs (£647). The co. is working
wholly _on its own funds (its total liabilities
are £3735) ; and, though it takes a very
watchful eye to prevent bad debts, especially
when business is spread over half a dozen
branches, in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane
and Newcastle, the co. has a fine record
behind it and excellent prospects ahead of
it. Hard times won’t do it any harm —-
especially when it can see them coming.
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors
anu Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.)
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1910.. £1351 10 p.c. = £750 £6Ol £16,344
Dec., 1910.. 1913 12 „ „ 900 1013 17,357
June, 1911.. 1826 10 „ „ 750 1076 18,433
Dec., 1911.. 1907 12 „ „ 900 1007 19,440
June, 1912. J 7838 , 10 ».. .750 1088 i . &
_ I lransferred to capital, £5OOO i 10,0 " : s
Dec., 1912.. 1732 12 p.c. = 1200 532 16,060
June, 1913.. 1528 10 „ „ 1000 528 16,588
Dee., 1913.. 1758 12 „ „ 1200 558 17,146
June, 1914.. 1610 10 „ „ 1000 610 17,756
Dec., 1914.. 1878 12 „ „ 1200 678 18,434
June, 1915.. 1488 10 „ „ 1000 488 18,922
Dec., 1915.. 1679 12 „ „ 1200 479 19,401
June, 1916.. 1503 10 „ „ 1000 503 19,904
Dec., 1916.. 1656 12 „ „ 1200 456 20,360
June, 1917.. 1453 10 „ „ 1000 453 20,813
Dec., 1917.. 1771 12 „ „ 1200 571 21,384
I here is. £-0,000 of a formal reserve fund
and £1384 of unappropriated profit. When
the unappropriated profit reaches £2OOO pro-
bably a 10 p.c. bonus will be paid and a call
of 2s. per share made. There are 20,000
shares of 505., paid now to 205.; of the
other 30s. ss. is to' be called up; the other
-• 'S. must remain as a reserve liability for
the protection of clients. The business of
the co. is growing very nicely; the value of
trust funds now being auministered is
£2,357,536, as compared with £1,659,882
five years ago, when, by the way, the co.
reached its 2oth year. And while business
prospects are excellent shareholders have
nothing at all to worry about so far as
their capital is concerned: over £38,000 is
m cash or public securities, and the small
balance in under-valued premises, including
those of the new Geelong branch.
* * * *
Vale of Clwyiid Coal and Brick Co.,
To lie- Re-
I lorits. Dividends. serves, serves,
dune, 1911. . £2558 10 p.c. = £2250 £3OB £9,918
? eC- ’ * 2775 10 » .. 2250 525 10,443
June, 1912.. 2658 10 „ „ 2250 408 10 851
Dec., 1912.. 3511 10 „ ~ 2250 1201 12,112
June, 1913.. 6364 10 „ „ 3000 3364 15,476
Assets written up and £15,000 capitalised.
Dec., 1913.. 6429 10 p.c. = 3000 3429 18,905
June, 1914.. 6316 10 „ „ 3000 3316 22,221
Cash Bonus from special profits, £7500.
Dec., 1914.. 4414 10 p.c. = 3000 1414 23,635
June, 1915.. 3396 10 ~ ~ 3000 396 24 031
Bonus, 12} „ „ 7500
Dropped out of Reserves, £1747 ( 14 > 784
Dec., 1915.. 2858 10 p.c. = 3000 14 642
June, 1916. . 2917 10 „ „ 3000 14,559
Written off renewals reserve, £1570 12,989
Dec., 1916.. 2634 10 p.c. ,= 3000 12,623
June, 1917.. 2955 10 n „ 3000 12,578
Dec., 1917.. 2905 10 „ „ 3000 12,483
In a case of this kind the disclosed profit
depends upon the slice cut off and put away
in the cupboard by the directors. In these
modern days the tendency is for Boards to
show as little profit as possible in excess of
the amount necessary to pay the dividend.
Ihis, of course, is with an eye to war-time
profats and other taxation, in some cases
it doesn’t matter. The clever metal-mining
people, for instance, simply got their own
way in regard to exemptions, excisions, etc.,
so it practically doesn’t matter now what
profit they show —it is almost impossible to
make them taxable. In the case of the Vale
of Clwydd the visible profit has been reduced
to something less than 5 p.c. for the half-
year by writing plant and mine down liber-
ally. Yet perhaps not at all too liberally.
ISiot one mining co. in 500 writes down its
property with sufficient emphasis—most of
them don’t write it down at all, and when
the last tap of work is done underground
the derelict still represents the original cap-
ital or more. Further, Clwydd a few years
ago decided to go in extensively for brick-
making, and spent over £12,500 on a plant.
Somehow or other brickworks are almost as
speculative ag ponies; the country within
100 miles of most cities is dotted with the
red ruins of abandoned kilns. No doubt this
co. was a bit late for the boom; and the
net amount carried to Profit afad uoss from
brick-factory account has throughout been
almost too small to see:—
June, 1912.. £760 June, 1915. . £995
Dee., 1912.. 944 Dec., 1915.. 217
June, 191 J. . 592 June, 1916.. 437
Dec., 1913.. 320 Dec., 1916.. 375
June, 1914.. 215 June, 1917.. :71
Dec., 1914.. 882 Dec., 1917.. ,23
That apparently is net profit, after deduc-
tions to cover depreciation ; but even sb they
are wretched figures to set against an invest-
ment of over £12,500. and the outlook is by
no means cheerful. Still, thanks to the Litli-
gow Coal Association, or vend, a rather more
than decent profit has been made out of
the very lightly-capitalised coal-mine; and,
though probably £20,000 has been put into
property and plant during the past five years,
it has all been provided out of surplus profit
—mostly profit written off against deprecia-
tion. Here are some figures:—
Dec.,’l2. Dec.,’l6. June,’l7. Dec.,’l7.
Liquid assets. . £16,144 £18,870 £21,309 £21,786
Liabilities . . 1,165 1,922 6,434 4,307
Surplus ..£14,979 £16,948 £14,875 £17,479


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
We are instructed by the Commonwealth
Government to pay the following
Increased Prices at Prodncing Centres
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- per
'"Unit MoS2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 per
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
ThePadfic Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States ot
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Monday morning. „
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/•
1/6
j 9d. (minimum
\ 15/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4ld.
Canada .. 2/4
1/2
7d. (minimum
11/8,20 words)
u. S. A 2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
\ll/8,20 words)
Week-end service with the United Kingdom
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brasil, Chili and Peru, vV est
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations may be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588.
J MILWARD. Manager in th-> Pacific,
— 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
The General Electric Company has developed and
standardised a mine type of Induction Motor, which
Alls the demand for a motor of more rugged mechani-
cal construction than the standard line of induction
motors. These are designed for heavy-duty motor
applications. Write to the Australian General Elec-
tric Company, Sydney and Melbourne, for particu-
lars. —Advt.
Adamax Roofing is weather-proof. It is the most
economical roofing, because it can be laid perfectly
Hat —the edges being secured with Adamax Roofing
Cement. It means a great saving in roofing timbers
—also in time required for laying the roofs. It
resists the ravages of gases, acids, chemical fumes and
all the elements —is ideal for use on mine buildings,
farm and station buildings, refrigerating plants, etc.
Full particulars in free booklet, “The Adamax
Series.” Address your request to Willi any Adams &
Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and
Adelaide. —Advt.
» * * *
For grind inf,' all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work, — Advt. [3
Pioneer Wood Pipe does not rust or corrode. Made
in sizes from 2in. upwards. Send for our illus-
trated catalogue, which gives full particulars, the
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. Telephone J221.J.
Contractors to all State Governments. Works: Lane
Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic. ; and Port Adelaide,
S.A. —Advt.
Australian and Other Patents. Obtainable throug.i
P. M. Newton, Patent Attorney, Opp. Commonwealth
Patent Office, Flinders Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
The manufacture of the Australian “Skandia” Crude
Oil Engine continues apace, and Nelson & Robertson
report inquiries from mining, dredging and other in-
dustries. The economy in the running cost of these
engines combined with the snjall amount of labor
required appeals to all power users, and all interested
are invited to forward particulars of their require-
ments. “Skandia” engines are designed for both
industrial and marine work, and the stationary type
is unrivalled for pumping, hauling, compressors and
all mining and general work. — Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felto. , Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * W
Kingston Oil Wells Co. will pay £lOOO for positive
evidence of a seepage of petroleum in any Australian
State. George D. Meudell, Chairman, 9 Scotts Court,
Collins Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines. Latest models
from English works. Immediate delivery from Syd-
ney stock of 8 nominal h.p. (20 to 30 brake h.p.),
single evlinder; 14 nominal h.p. (36 to 52 brake
h.p), double cylinders; 16 nominal h.p. (40 to 60
brake h.p.), double cylinders. Catalogues, specifica-
tions and further information from Arthur Leplas-
trier & Co., Circular Quay (East), Sydney. Queens-
land inquiries to The Australian Machinery Co., Ltd.,
Charlotte Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
IDF, VS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s Si Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rate® Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. — Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
ACENTS WANTED.
Established 1910.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
Mining & Sugar Mill
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails anti Portable Tram Lines.
J S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic: Walls, Chirencc Street, Sydney
Machinery
Telephone: City 4375.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS- IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street
SYDNEY— 2S O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Last half-year the jurpta: was i«reased £
of it. # , * *
Shareholders iu the Aerated Bread Co.,
Sydney, have been invited to meet am agie
tV tiio (“incellation of t>s. m the ft ot b
capital. The 0k1.A.8.0.. bought out by ttas
„ n had two businesses. Ihe hist pioveu
unprofitable and the lease was not renewed.
Then in September last the second lease ex-
pired and the co. got out. Thus the gpodwil
for which the co. had paid nearly ±IB,OW
entirely disappeared. Several years ago tli
co acquired Miss Bishop’s cake business, and
practically all that is left now is a factory
Camperdown and about a dozen teashops
bearing Miss Bishop’s name. Theie aie
35,000 issued shares.
The* latest molybdenite s flotation is the
Kingsgate, registered in Melbourne with
capital of 100,000 10s shares, the whole
issue being privately subscribed.
perty consists ot 391 acres at Kingsgate,
near Glen Innes (N.S.W.), and Hailey
Wright, recently of Boulder Perseverance
(W.A.), has been put in charge. #
The old Gulf Creek copper-mine, Barraba
(\ S IV.) which was closed down when tlic
grade' fell’to about 2 p.c., has for some time
past been worked by an adaptation of the
cementation process, used by the W allaioo
and Moonta to get the metal from oxidised
tailings. At the Gulf Creek, which is a wet
mine, sulphuric acid is added to the water in
the shaft; and the acidulated water acting
on the ores produces a solution of copper
sulphate in the workings. The water is
raised to the surface, heated to increase
action, and then passed by gravitation
through a series of concrete vats containing
iron. The iron replaces the copper in the
solution, the copper oeing precipitated as a
reddish mud, which is dried and bagged. Up
to a certain stage the water is pumped back
into the workings. The greatest quantity of
copper is, of course, obtained from the vats
nearest to the shaft. These are cleared out
about twice each month, while for those in
the lower stages a clearance once in six
months is sufficient. The ores affected are
estimated to be only about 2 p.c.; yet, by
this process, with about seven men, over 50
tons of the precipitate are produced annually,
and this averages 75 p.c. copper, though
some of it goes as high as 95 p.c. The iron
used in the vats consists of any old scraps
available —fencing and netting-wire, old tins,
galvanised-iron, etc.
* * * *
Cope’s Creek Central, Tingha (N.S.W.),
continues its fine run. No. 1 plant, for 41
days since December 21, has produced 14 tons
lewt. of black tin; No. 2, on Skeleton Creek,
8 tons in 42 days; and No. 3, also on Skele-
ton Creek, 8f tons in 49 days. The three
plants gave 30 tons 16cwt. of oxide, which
at £l9O is worth £5835.
* * * *
“G. Arden Hill”: Near the foreshores of
Port Kembla Bay is the skeleton of the
works of the old Australian Smelting Cor-
poration, Ltd. Originally the plant was
erected on the shores of Lake Illawarra,
Dapto, but when the Lake Illawarra harbor
scheme fell through and it was definitely
decided to construct a deep-sea harbor at
Port Kembla the company decided to trans-
fer its business to the latter place. All went
well for a while, and great things were ex-
pected ; then suddenly the order came
through to knock off. That was 10 years
ago, and not a tap has been done since.
There is something Pompeiian in the aspect
of the works. A half-completed chimney-
stack has the inside scaffolding just as it
was left by the bricklayers. There is a clay
truck half-way up an incline. Bags of
cement, hardened by exposure, are scattered
on all sides, and heaps of mortar and con-
crete confirm the fact that operations ceased
very suddenly. Big timber girders, staiths,
etc., stand well, except for warping, and the
greatest destruction is in the heavy iron-
work, which is crumbling away in great
scaly flakes. The overhead gantry is falling
to pieces as a result of the south-east gales,
and a railway leading from the works to the
old jetty, buckled and twisted, resembles
nothing so much as a switchback. The ruins
present a desolate and dilapidated appear-
ance alongside the thriving Electrolytic re-
fining and Mt. Lyell coke works.
* * * *
Last year the tin, molybdenite, scheelite,
antimony, gold and copper shows in the New
England district (N.S.W.) produced over
£400,000 worth of metals. Of the total,
however, tin represented £323,733. Molyb-
denite brought £23.102 (47 tons), scheelite
£16,189 (91 tons) and antimony £6339 (552
tons). Deepwater and Glen Innes produced
nearly all the molybdenite (45| tons), and
also bismuth worth £5OO. The Torrington
field produced tons of wolfram concen-
trates worth £13,491, compared with 130
tons in 1916 worth £20,260, the decline
being due mainly to some of the low-grade
ore being unpayable at the fixed price of
£2 12s. 6d. per unit of tungstic acid. Among
tin cos., Y Water produced £28,530 Gt.
Britain £18,360, and Vegetable Creek
£34,265. The district also gave diamonds
worth £2005 and sapphires £9OO. #
The 1917 total of Westralian gold divs.
was £585,255. This is substantially less than
the total for 1916, and is barely one-fourth of
the harvest of 10 years ago, when there were
dozens of dividend-paying shows. .Now
there are only eight. Great Boulder headed
last year’s list with £262,500, lvanlioe com-
ing next with £105,000. These two, with
the Golden Horseshoe and Edna May, ac-
counted for more than five-sixths of the
total. # »
Commodore (W.A.) justifies its proposed
reconstruction by claiming that a reef from
which the adjoining Inglistoii crushed over
an ounce is coming into its ground, oo tar
so good. But as values give out a tew
feet from the Commodore boundary, why
not continue the drive, by arrangement with
the Ingliston owners, and see what is theie
before asking shareholders to find any more
money ? If the mine is really worth another
chance the directors should be able to pro-
duce much more convincing evidence than
the bald announcement that “the manager
and others who know the nature of the lode
confidently expect values to make again.
* * * *
Further inquiries are being made concern-
ing the whereabouts of a Victorian co. which
three years ago acquired what were said to
be valuable magnesite deposits at Bulong
(W A.). The co. employed a few men tor
a time, broke out and despatched several
small consignments to Melbourne, and then
disappeared. Local residents are clamoring
to have the area thrown open again, and
unless the missing co. is heard from soon
this will probably be done.
•X- * * *
Bullrush Gold Estates the other day ap-
plied for further exemption on its only
remaining Westralian venture, the Loyal
Standard, at Yuin. It claimed that the
show was unpayable under existing conditions
and that it would be better for the State
that such labor as is available should be em-
ployed on more productive properties. Ibis
novel but sensible plea won the day. Ap-
plication granted.
* * * *
Tuckabianna (W.A.) had a mild boom
last year, but little has been heard since ot
the rich surface shows. Two ’totherside cos.,
Golden Butterfly and Hansel Mundy, are
developing their leases; but, althoug i
options have been given over other reefs, no
business has resulted. Values were not high
enough. The Government is putting a pri-
vately-owned battery in working order to
test the field. From developments it looks
as if Tuckabianna is going to be like many
other Murchison fields —rich in patches, with
short shoots.
* * *
Attention was first drawn to the Irwin
River coalfield (W.A.) by State Geologist
Gregory over 70 years ago. Later, when Mi.
Gregory had settled in Queensland, a Mr.
Robyns, of N. S. Wales, was impressed by
the other’s account of the field, and in 188 J
he organised a party of miners under John
Johnstone to have a look. Nothing work-
able was discovered until, some time later,
Johnstone struck an outcrop in a river-bed
some distance away from former operations.
This outcrop was opened up and 17 tons
were sent to Geraldton. As a result of the
tests there was a bit of a boom, with heavy
casualties. Meantime Johnstone returned to
N. S. Wales, and nothing more was done tor
27 years. Then —this was about the middle
of last year—he returned to the _ West
and secured a prospecting area in the
district. A 4ft. seam 9ft. from the surface
was discovered, but as the calorific. value
proved to be only 8500 thermal units, he
decided to sink near the original shaft. At
42ft., after going through almost 30tt. ot
rock, he struck a seam, and samples tested
by the Mines Department gave the best
results so far obtained from the field : moist-
ure, 9.48 p.c.; volatile matter, 32.59 p.c.;
fixed carbon, 49.17 p.c.; and ash, 8.76 p.c.,
with a calorific value of 11,380 thermal units.
Commercial trials have proved the coal to burn
well, with little smoke and few sparks. Before
the thickness of the seam could be tested,
however, water flooded them out. John-
stone and his party are now seeking assist-
ance to explore the seam. At present the
wretched Westralian output of poor coal
comes from Collie (production seldom exceeds
300 000 tons a year) ; and since for locomo-
tive purposes it takes from 140 to 170 tons
of Collie coal to equal 100 tons of New-
castle, it is of momentous importance to the
West that the Irwin River deposits should
be exhaustively tested.
. • * *
Jack Wharton’s Laloki (Papua) Copper
Mines trips on the stage. The mine is the
one which Klug fastened on to the Great
Fitzroy to give it body after it had been re-
duced to skin and bone. Then it was
passed on to Mount Morgan under option,
but was jettisoned because of war problems.
Then it got into the hands of the debenture-
holders, till Wharton took a 12 months]
option. This he passed on to the Laloki
Co., which to date has spent about five
thousand in unwatering the mine and testing
adjoining leases. Wharton and Erie Hunt-
ley, of the Hampden, crossed the water to
bless the venture and get any decent options
knocking about. One of these, the Mount
Diamond, has been already chucked, and
enthusiasm isn’t bubbling over the Elvina.
This leaves the field to the Laloki, which
seems to have a fair-sized body of lowish-
grade ore. The Board hasn’t said anything
about the grade of the ore or metal contents,
so it apparently hasn’t yet decided to buy.
* * *
Four Is. divs. and two of Cd. for the past
half-year represented more than half the
price at which Ajax, Daylesford (Vic.),
shares stood in the market all the teim.
Since then there has been a rattle forward
because a bit better stone made south in the
working at No. 8 level on the North Ajax
shoot. At No. 6 the crosscut from McMil-
lan’s lode has been a dreary waste, so some
piloting is being done here south on the same
old North Ajax lode, which also is to be
poked into 300 ft. north of the shaft by a
crosscut through new country. If blanks
are drawn here and at No. 12 the
Ajax will be exposed to the darts or the
bear crowd.
Debit at profit and loss, £38,459. Thus
endetli the first lesson of the Bendigo Amal-
gamated. When the prospectus was fledged
in March, 1917, the co. took over liabilities
of about £12,000 from vendor concerns. Lins
looked a fleabite in the light of Dyasons
estimated £03,000 of annual profits, but with
yields umpty-doo the lump of debts has been
im old-nian-of-the-sea to the co. Counting
in tributors’ yields, the Amalgamated to
December 31 got in £90,796 of gold from its
group of mines. Other receipts raised that
total to £93.203, leaving the gap of £38,409
to be filled. That has been done by leaning
on the Commonwealth Bank to the tune ot
£19,402 and getting in the first and
second calls. The co. now has £40,0 0
uncalled ; but debts amount to about £20,000,
which probably explains why the Board
wants power to borrow on the security ot
the assets. Dyason admits that the fall in
the yields hit his estimated profits to feheoi.
He has 50 prospecting faces going and still
has enough belief in the field to tell his
friends that a couple of good discoveries,
now that reorganisation has been carried so
far, would soon put him right.
* * *
New Tommy Burns (N.Q.) has a sick
look about it. During 1917 the No. 3 tunnel
was continued 125 ft., but it only proved that
the tin ore sunk on in the dee]) winze irom
No. 1 tunnel did not live to depth. When
this winze is connected with No. o tunnel it
is to be used as a pass for the ore mined
above it. It is also proposed to try some
of the faces which were passed over when
tin was £l2O per ton. But the fact remains
that the main ore shoot was lost and has not
been discovered again. This mine paid £lO
Is. in dividends on its old share msue and
Is. per share on its new issue. It has. £SJUU
in the bank, besides other assets, which in-
clude an up-to-date 5-hd. mill and tin-saving
plant. The co. owes £1537, included in
which is Government assistance money.
* * * *
Minnie Moxom, Mareeba (N.Q.) : has filed
its schedule in voluntary liquidation. lhe
mine has not had a decent chance. Anti-
quated milling plant was a big drawback
gold being left in the sands worth £1 per
ton. #
The boom in tin is responsible for another
Tas. flotation. A co. has just been formed
to work an area at Dawson’s Creek, neai
Waratah. Plant is being got together, and
the co. hopes to be producing within a month.
The Speck’s Government has called for
tenders for the Australian Metals Co. s
smelter and plant at Zeelian Mount Ljell
offered to take the show oft the hands of the
State, which had a stiff mortgage over it on
account of an old cash advance made to
keep the furnace in blast, but it has taken
three years to cut off the German nippers
clinging to possession. Of course the Bowes
Kelly-Lvell crowd will get the plant. A
good job, too, for they can be relied on to
give the small man a run.
. *
On Mt. Bischoff’s latest ss. div. shares
spurted to £l5, at which price Bischoft re-
quires to pay ss. per month regularly to re-
turn 20 p.c. For the half-year ended
December 31 the net profit was £12,4 <2. as
against £7084 for the previous term: £6OOO
was distributed in dividends and £-498 was
expended on new plant. Deserves are esti-
mated at 1,250,000 tons, but the value of
such mixed material is uncertain, despite
the official 0.3 p.c.
Waihi (M.L.) continues to shell out its
quarterly shilling. It has now produced bul-
lion worth £11,860,108, and still maintains
an average daily output of £lOOO. Extrac-
tion lately has been averaging 355. Along-
side, the Grand Junction is crushing 330 tons
every 24 hours for an average of »3s. lake
the parent it is splendidly equipped.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 34-)


Under
Royal
Warrant
mm
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Champagne
o>arksHeidsic<fc
Reims
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
sS B\SttOP. Sydney
wssSs£
Oxtord & tr f sydne>
, .-.'■
cs^sssa^^
And ”...,v
m
HOW TO MAKE HAIR GROW.
LA VON A HAIR TONIC WILL DO IT.
No matter how short, thin and straggling
your hair may. be you can quickly and easily
prow a luxuriant head of beautiful glossy
hair by the regular use of Lavona Hair
' Lou can make this hair tonic your-
self from the following formula: 3oz. bay
rum, loz. lavona de composee and 5 drachm
of menthol crystals, and you are certain to
be pleased with the results you obtain from
its use. Rub it well into the hair roots night
and morning and it will keep your scalp
clean, healthy and free from dandruff; it
also feeds and stimulates the hair roots and
promotes hair growth in an astonishing
manner. It makes dull hair bright and
glossy, stops falling hair and makes dry
brittle hair soft and silky. Any chemist can
supply you with the necessary ingredients at
small cost and the tonic is quite easy to pre-
pare, but we believe that a number of
chemists are now in a position to supply the
preparation in the complete form, under the
name of Lavona Hair Tonic. This would be
put up in sprinkler-topped bottles, and doubt-
less many readers will prefer this form, but
of course the contents of the bottles do not
, f lom the hair tonic that can be pre-
pared from the formula given. —Advt.
Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE. '
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF ■
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
» 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ a/n
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (Sl chandon.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FKSQ m, CO. LIMITED, Sydney
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydnb:y, February 25, 1918.
Aly Dear Akim,—
wiH l h \r (^V^ n ° r Il firs f ,ev6e the Bar
',f b M fpu Cl «e, the ( hurch with plain citi-
zcns. IheSeotchbyterians (his Excellency
is Anglican) got m, by chance, earlier than
wufi°a the I Vai > sit - y dons and other persons
who had cards of private entree, and persons
who had only their own pasteboard were
tangled up like very wild briar. Still the
levee ran itself to earth somehow. Vice-
Chancellor Purser (of the Uni.), in the black
«lk and gold braid of office, led the Senate,
shadowed by the acting-Esquire Bedell, Dr.
J.oyell. Ihe real Bedell, Major Jack Massie,
is behind a gun in France. Cullen, C.J.,
stuck to the IV indsor uniform of the Deputy
mMi burgeon MacCormick, just home,
nude Ins bow, and the bigwigs of the Law
Courts advanced in some disorder, owing to
the crush. “Where a mere alderman got
to amongst the swords and cocked hats,” says
a ievee-ite goodness only knows. Perhaps
they were under the big settee.”
And there was John Henry Cann in the
Railway C & C - ol< ? uel - Man y years ago the
nf' V /rT o ioner M were formed into a
tlm Of l de r Council, ostensibly to assist
tlie Defence Department in connection with
transport work. It was then suggested that
they should all be Colonels. “All right ”
said the Commissioners; and before they
knew where they were they were provided
ttWp »n C r Pe ? f mi , st gorgeous uniforms
apiece and swords and spurs. Three out of
f ? UI of tbese uni£ °rms and swords and
Renew nl ve never been worn • but John
leniy Cann gave some of his outfit an air-
the War** 6 ° V6e ‘ And that ’ s llow we Win
The beautifully-bearded Loch, old-time
hS SS°Ne f f VlCt « ri “i h , ad better luck With
ms pot Newfoundland dog than the David-
sons have had with their'"pet Newfoundland
c«it. Had Pansy been English she might
have been allowed in; but being something
( ustoms bar her, whereas the dog
was allowed to hear his master’s fruity voice
through the Ministerial trick of proclaiming
toi eminent House a stock-quarantine area.
premises °f the Imperial Service
Club are large enough to easily hold six men
a f D H a lem °n-squash. Intended for
olhceis of the army and navy who have t een
no a Lv Ve service, the Club is an enterprising
r ?iT- V r Se address is Penzance Cham-
ind' n Open o ed , the dOO1 ‘ with a speech
‘ (il a gold key. Such members as are not
•still on active service dutifully put in an
appearance, with President Col. Bob Owen
to lead the applause and lay a few remarks
lmve IS iK Wn ° n tl mi new altar - The Club will
ave. its use. I here s a reading-room and
provision for. light refreshments, and a few
™ mf y cbaiys >n which warriors old and young
may fight their battles o’er again.
t^« ed Cross executive munched its first
menr w un< *£ r tha new regime at Govern-
ment House the other afternoon. There was
a surprising attendance of sac suits to shake
hands with Lady Davidson.
Captain W. W. Paine, a returned AIF
man, is going on the Davidson staff as assist-
ant private sec.
lo,.w he r l m Vid m° nS ca “ ped in the eastern eal-
of the Town Hall at Saturday night’s
f lnl - concert of the shilling-pop series. This
}!J 7? la>st baven when Bradley’s orchestra
lets itself go. The experiment of putting o ur
most expensive people—or such hardy Sain-
fbVn brace themselves to sit out concerts
in February—two-thirds of the way down
the body of the hail has not been a success.
the Axmintfter and the padded chairs
oidn t reconcile them to the change from the
li'ont. So the eastern balcony comes into its
own again, as m the days of the musical
vAielmsford, who wailed gently on the fiddle
lnmseif.
One of the big “unsettled” estates out of
which the English taxmaster will get a haul
ns that of the late Captain Swinnerton Dyer
of the Scots Guards. It has been valued'for
PJ obat e at £152,712. Dyer married Miss
Maud Turner, a good Australian, some years
ago ; A few months back he was killed in
action.
The Leura golf committee has a rule, which
is strictly observed, that no male “eligible’’
may join the club or play on tbe links while
the war lasts. (I may say that the war is
sure to last for a week or so.) Only rejects,
schoolboys (who rarely hanker for the game)
returned soldiers and portly persons over
the active-service age-limit, can sport their
manly forms on these greens. Archie
Stuait, a son of Prof. Andv, who was in-
valided home after a bout of Gallipoli with
the A.M.C., is occasionally seen on the
course. He won the Leura Cup (with Mr.
fcotn a fortnight ago. It’s a battered
trophy—of no intrinsic value—which cun
be snatched from the pair if a double wants
t<> swell the war funds.
V ( ‘^ enslandei ‘’ Ma j°r Colin Campbell,
A.1.h., Commandant of Monte Video Camp
Weymouth (Eng.), a son of A. D. Camp-
bell. Of Indooroopilly (Q.), walked up the
aisle with an English bud a few weeks ago
She is Doris King, of Mill Hill Park. South’
Acton. She faced the ordeal in the fashion-
able fancy of the hour—white georgette
and silver tissue, with a fluff of soft white
lur to foot the tunic. The hero was badlv
wounded in the Landing.
Another A.I.F. man tucked the hand of
an overseas girl under his arm, in London,
to mumble the usual vows. He was Major
übert I arker, son of a one-time Westra-
r|”? ( Justice. The colleen is Irish—
,! e I n . J r da , ddy is a Ihuit.-colonel,
n.t.A., of Clonmel, Tipperary. Major
laiker is a veteran of the war. He joined
with the A.I.F. in the Beginning.
Major Noel Bridges, a son of the late
Sn D t?v a n Caplt B ated to a Scotch re-
cently—Doris Bonar.
Brevity from an overseas paper- “A
of V °Cantn” ter A S i ti - ng Australians is' that
GloSf* a Adrian Bethell from his wife,
Clarissa, daughter of Lord Glenconner.
Teunv« < ,n r<>S mi n<Jent was the Hon - Bionel
lennjson. There was no defence.” Svd-
ney and Melbourne remember Tennyson as
one of the chubby-faced youngsters of a
foimer Governor-General.
Another successful amateur auctioneer
this time at Tamworth. Mrs. Trim hS
mered down a lamb for £ll9. Also, a trot-
ing horse, which was given bv R. Lee
brought £l6O. Then came Dwyer’s ’ racer,
foi I ranee s Day. It brought £BOO.
limwT nV n jmngine one of Norman
Lindsay s native bears with a pair of slim,
nervous hands, you will have a rough impres-
?rev haii- if gentle K? o, i L ? he m °P of thick
Sw it iT'ia - S f b ack When Aus tralia first
saw it—is as picturesque as that of Billy
Bluegum, and the pianist’s eyes have that
innocents soft, deprecating expression.
Edward Goll, chief study teacher and
Kf/lMh “ * he U,,i ' ComervaS, m °" 0 d f
Ilusic, Melbourne, is a native of the once-
pleasant land of Bohemia. He comc-s of a
well-known Czech family which has fo?
decades jometl in any row tending to throw
oft the Austrian yoke. But the German boot
now kicks both Austrian and Slav. The
is a a 1 whoi 1 a dr . ea “ land of Appling cadenzas
a . w h°l, e . Australian continent away from
ihe disturbing wrangle. ’
A pupil of Emil
feauer —one of Liszt’s
most eminent stu-
dents—G oil came
into note during a
tour with the
swarthy Kubelik.
Afterwards Paris
clapped its best kid
gloves at his recitals.
Later he became a
celebrity in Eng-
land. The Aus-
tralian public knows
him as a brilliant
musician whose
Poetic temperament
oozes out at the ends
of his taper fingers
in exquisite render-
ings of a colossal
repertoire, which ranges from Chopin to
Bach, and he plays like summer lightning
round the heavyweight Tschaikowsky. His
wife knows him better as a sensitive child,
too shy to care for the adulation which is
meat and drink to many musicians, and
ready to be mothered after every big, tiring
recital. Here is May Moore’s latest photo
of the star.
Artist Julian Ashton is a sad father nowa-
days. Only a few months ago his youngest
son, Arthur, died in the course of dealing out
justice to the Hun, and now Percy Ashton
has gone bersark for the blood of those who
killed his brother. Percy should have had
no difficulty in getting into the navy on the
strength of his extra master’s certificate and
several years’ experience on deep-sea ships,
but he wants to get closer to the enemy than
ne might that way. While he goes as a pri-
vate in the Engineers, a plucky little wife
takes on the management of a copra and
coffee plantation which her husband has been
working in the New Hebrides.
An enthusiastic sailor calls for cheers:—
It is time some sort of Australian recognition was
shown to the ladies of Durban generally and to their
Billjim Comforts squad organiser, Miss Ethel Camp-
bell, in particular. Ever since the first lot of our
boys went through, these ladies have done their best
to gne Bill a not wholly-bad opinion of S’Africa.
M hen there is no shore leave they are
always down on the wharf waiting to distribute fruit,
sweets, cigarettes, etc. Lately a stupid regulation
lias been issued forbidding them entry to the wharf;
but our devoted sisters-in-war wait outside the
barrier and continue the good work. Incidentally the
motor-cars and drivers in the service of these good
people aie placed at the disposal of the wounded as
they journey through.
And I wish they could climb aboard and see
that 1 nvate Bill gets the fruit that is sent
tor him. There are nasty tales told about
the proportion that reaches the officers’
mess.
Queenie Fenton’s lucky star hovered over
her last week. She, Annie Egan and the late
Ivy Allen formed the Hotel Australia orches-
tra. Ihere was no room for her in a car in
which the other two girls were whizzed away
home at midnight, and she was waiting for
it to return and pick her up. The wait was
*C ">“8 that at last she took a cab home.
i\ext morning she read the story of a
tragic motor smash and the death of fellow-
violinist Ivy.
The lowing herd and our great wool in
uustry were well represented at the wedding
of Trooper W. F. A. Chase, formerly of
Carrathool station, in St. Stephen’s Kirk.
Brule Jean is a daughter of the late .Tames
Walker, of Sydney. Three bridesmaidens
attended to the heroine’s finery. Trooper
Eyle Chase, of Walgett, was second-best
man; and Mrs. Neil Garland, of Benah sta-
tion, Nyngan, the ’groom’s sister, was in the
crush.
A 4 the, “Hooray” party to Campbell Car-
michael, M.L.A., just back from the scrum,
Hotne Hearn was a vigorous performer. At
the piano, of course.
The Benevolent Society holds its 105th
annual meeting this mid-week. Governor
Davidson and his lady take part.
. • 7 ery o!d lady has 3 ust had her SOtli
bii thday at Mosman. She’s Mrs. Ivemmis
the widow of the picturesque Canon who
showed the way at St. Mark’s in the long
ago.
The 6th and 7th Light Horsemen are
casting their lines to get a haul for their
Comforts Funu. A ball in the Town Hall
is the bait.
Did you notice that Lady Denman had
been appointed Director of the Women’s
Institutes’ Branch of the Food Production
Society i On the other side, of course, where
even the heel of the day before yesterday’s
loaf has to be accounted for. Or is sup-
posed to be. But it really depends, I’m
assured, on what sort of person you are.
Aon can waste as you never wasted before
it you’re a “worker.”
The war has a grim influence on the
feminine hat. The autumn bandboxes bring
torth one, like the older French helmets in
shape, with the frivolity of black sequins
sewed into little tulle medallions, the whole
to simulate glittering chain armor. There’s
another, with a higher crown, but other-
Wise a fanciful copy of the Belgian soldier’s
cap of 1914—before he had time to get mil-
linery more suited for bomb-fare.
After thl ; ee , years in Britain. Lilian
Mitchell, a Sydney soprano, will lift up her
voice m the Town Hall. The date is March
and a big committee is working for success.
Mrs. Fotheringhame, the industrious
social scribe who ran the lately-deceased
Splashes for years before the Hollanders
took it over, has gone to Melbourne for a holi-
erl3';,, This, to quote Ada Reeve, is (almost)
a thing she never did before.” With the
steady jog-trot of a Shetland pony, she keeps
on moving all the time. On her return she
goes on the staff of the not-yet-out Ladies’
Sphere. It’s to be hatched in March.
The Alexandra Hospital for sick kiddies
hopes to stop the immediate howl of the wolf
with a cafe chantant at the Wentworth—pro-
bably early in April. 1
„„Z hat hard-worked garment, the tunic, is
presumably a survival of the fittest. It is
shown on the few autumn models that are not
one-piece coat frocks, and has what appears
to be a sag at the sides. This is not the
casuaky to which the home dressmaker is
addicted, but a deliberate dip, designed by
the best Scissors. Edged with a deep band
ot tur for those who can pay for the pelt.
T> assistant lion sec. C. Bell of the 2nd
.A.C. Cqmfoits fold, faced matrimony this
month. Persident O’Donnell handed over
regards * p ated) with the members’ best
wilf! ltn ' °f tf ! e late Alfred Bythesea
Vy eigall, formerly headmaster of Sydney
Grammar, is on duty at No. 3 A.G.H., Dart-
°. ri 7 “ 8 111 a mce, comfy position alongside
an internment camp; and no doubt because
the German who’s aloft can’t be sure to a
few yards where he drops his favors, it has
nevei suffered from an air-raid, although
it s on the course the ’planes often take.
. A young son of barrister Shand. K C
is being measured for wings in the Flying
Coips. The youth is one of many who have
come from Sydney University.
Australia Jane’s’ Brisbane gossip :
Colonel Sutton, D.S'.O., who has been on active
service ever since Sept., 1914, has just returned to
Biisbane. He soldiered in Egypt, at Gallipoli and
in France, and was on board the torpedoed South-
land. His two sons, both doctors, are on active
service with the A.I.F.
Mr. \V. ]{. Arehdall, Deputy-Commissioner for
State taxation, is a proud man these days. Hit
eldest son, Hoy, won a Military Medal at Pozieres*
and last week word came through that the second
son, Mervyn, has won a similar honor.
Brisbane Sock Fund is sending out an S.O.S. for
more wool and cash. Out of this fund enthusiastic
knitters have been clothing Billjim’s feet almost
from the beginning of the war. But now the
cash-box has run dry and the energetic ladies are
appealing for contributions. Address Secretary,
Methodist Book Deptt, Albert-street.
1 lit ate Crozier is putting in three months’
leave with his color-box. He has been “de-
taUed’ to paint the real thing—as he saw
i: at Gallipoli and elsewhere—from hurried
sketches'he made while the guns boomed.
Artist Nor ma n
Carter, moving with
the times, has been
cultivating stained-
glass windows. With
a skill which is ably
supported by his coi-
league, F. J. Tarrant,
the well-known por-
trait painter is be-
ginning to memorial-
ise himself, as it
were, in Sydney
churches and college
chapels. Not so very
many years ago a
stained window was
either done without
or i m porte d—at
great expense. Now
Australia is growing
its own arts and crafts men just as it grows
its own wheat and wool. In the Sydney
man’s reposeful studio hang from wooden
bars, long, narrow “cartoons” for many com-
missions—alas, mostly to commemorate
youthful heroes killed in action. In these big
drawings the artist’s technique is seen with
telling effect. His collaborator works from the
life-size cartoons. Then the great glass pic-
ture is baked bit by bit and otherwise pre-
pared for the final fitting together. Amongst
the latest and most beautiful specimens of
Norman Carter’s craft are windows in the
chapel of Wesley College—the recently-
finished seminary within Sydney’s ’Varsity.
In this little photo you see the man respon-
sible.
News comes of the intended wedding in
England of an Adelaide man, Staff-Captain
Arthur Waite. The bride-to-be is Irene,
whose father is that Sir Herbert Austin who
owns the Austin Motor Works, Birmingham.
The bridegroom, I suppose, is one of the
rich Peter-squatter-Waite tribe. Being on
the staff one concludes that he must be rich
And that’s how we don't Win the War.
Bessie Griffiths, a Sydney musician who
has been long away, recently gave an after-
no??.. concer t i n London, at which the local
nobility turned up in considerable force.
1 rmcess Louise sent an apology and put her
cold to bed.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


There’s a Reason
for the Popularity
of the
MR. E. F. WILKS ,
Genera / Manager.
PLAYER PIANO
THE PLAYER THAT PLAYS WITH A SOUL
Have you ever asked yourself WHY
NO! Then we will tell you.
ft
EASY TO PLAY.
THE Player Piano has finally arrived as an artistic instrument,
and the DUO-CONCERTO is the consummation of the most
brilliant ideas of the Player Piano world to-day. When you
come to realise the possibilities of this instrument in com-
parison with the earlier types of Players, it will make you listen
with wonderment and admiration. The day has passed when you
could select a Player Piano on its past reputation. The standard of
even a year back is hopelessly left behind with the advent of the
improved DUO-CONCERTO. Those musically educated always under-
stood that it was the lack of tone color in the music of a Player
Piano that made it monotonous and mechanical; they know that tone
color is to music what perspective is to painting, and that tone color
is as readily recognisable and as readily understood, even by those
who have not been schooled in the technique of art or music. Manu-
facturers have been experimenting for years past to attain this end,
but after exhaustive tests it fell to the lot of Mr. Gulbransen, of
Chicago, aided by the brain of the late John McTammany, who was
admitted to be one of the ten most famous inventors in the world,
to solve this problem. That other manufacturers have failed to over-
come the shortcomings of the Player Piano is not their fault they
tried hard enough. Rut that is no reason why you should accept an
instrument lacking the advantages obtainable in the DUO-
CONCERTO. If you will inspect this wonder Player it will set at
rest all doubts as to w 7 hat Player Piano you want.
Come in and see us and we will tell you
THE REASONS WHY !
We can also convert your own Upright or Grand Piano into
the latest 88-note Player Piano by inserting this wonderful
usuc%%oncerfo
MECHANISM
without mutilating the case or in any way interfering with the
ordinary hand-playing of the instrument. We will give you a
written guarantee with every installation, also a list of our
clients who have had their instruments converted.
If unable to call, send for catalogues (posted free).
CASH OR TERMS—£S DOWN AND SMALL MONTHLY PAYMENTS. OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
E. F. WILKS (a CO. LTD.
Macdonell Mouse, 321 PITT (Next to y.m.c.u
(Two Doors from Bathurst Street).
FACTORY: CORNER. KENT STREET and ALBION PLACE.
Tel.: Showroom, City 10752.
Factory, City 1144.


Academic
GOWNS & MOODS
For Members and Students of the University.
We stock in the Tailoring Department a large variety of
Academic Gowns and Hoods for Graduates and Under-
graduates of the University.
Undergraduates’ Gowns (as illus.) 32/6
B.A. Gowns 42/-
M.A. Gowns 55/-
Black Cloth Trencher Caps 12/6
also the following
DEGREE HOODS
stocked,Ready for wear.
Doetor of Laws, Doctor of Medicine, Doctor of Science, Master of
Arts, Master of Surgery, Master of Engineering, Bachelor of Laws,
Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science,
Bachelor of Dental Surgery, Licentiate of Dental Surgery.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
mm
Melt oman
I ▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
iSPEfIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
m
E. BROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER ■ THE • WOULD
Xf/'RITE MOTION PICTURE PLAYS;
™ ’ $5O cash. Experience unnecessary.
Details free to beginners. Producers’ League,
1109 Wainwright, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
£3600
IN CASH
PRIZES.
KITCHENER
FLAG FUND
Art Union.
Proceeds for N-S.W.
Incapacitated
Returned Men.
TICKETS
2/- each.
Particulars from Hon. Director, S. S. COHEN
(David Cohen & Co.) ; or the Organiser, JOHN
M. GILES, 10 Spring Street, Sydney. ’Phone:
City 1822.
Government Notices. *
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, January 31, 1918.
Examination for Appointment as
Staff Clerk, Class V., under the
Naval Defence Act 1910-1912.
ATTENTION is drawn to an advertise-
ment appearing in the Commonwealth:
of Australia Gazette, inviting applica-
tions from persons to sit for examination for
appointment as Naval Staff Clerk, Class V.,
in the above Department. The examination
will be held toward the end of April, 1918.
2. The following are eligible to sit for
this examination:—
(a) Males who are members of, or have-
served with satisfactory record in any
Expeditionary Force raised under the-
provisions of the Defence Act 1903-
1917, and members of the Naval
Forces who have been on active service
outside Australia, or who have served
on one of H.M.A. ships since the out-
break of war, and who will not have
attained their 51st birthday on Ist
May, 1918.
( b ) Other males who will not be less
than fifteen years or age, nor have
reached their 26tli birthday on Ist
May, 1918.
3. All applications must be on the proper
printed forms, and must reach the Naval
Secretary, Department of the Navy, not
later than 7th March, 1918.
4. Full particulars as to subjects of
examination, rates of pay, etc., can be
obtained from the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia Gazette, or from the Naval Secre-
tary, Department of the Navy, Lonsdale
Street, Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Legal Notices.
ERNEST DANIEL EGAN WEST.
UNCLAIMED MONEYS.
THE above, a drover, last heard of in
Sydney about 1897. If alive, write to
undersigned, when he will hear of something
to his advantage. Any person knowing him
since 1897 or with knowledge of his death or
marriage should communicate with the under-
signed.
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Culwulla Chambers,
Castlereagh and King Streets, Sydney.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, February 25, 1918.
Aly Dear Yarrie, —
Few of the old-time phalanx of iuter-State
racegoers are drifting into Melbourne to
watch this autumn’s gallops. Amongst the
faithful are Hugh Denison and his pretty,
brown-eyed wife, who knits hard for three
soldier-sons at the Front; Ben Osborne,
plump and twinkling, with his dainty missus
and a brace of pretty kiddies; Mrs. Guy
Makin, now of Adelaide, who used to deco-
rate Melbourne ballrooms as Dilvs Jones;
Sydney’s rich and statuesque Edith Dill,
who has a big heart-interest in lied Crossing ;
coal-baron John Brown ; Miss Una Clift, who
has a string of fast horses, headed by her
star performer Bombita ; also her friend Miss
Wray, the dashing golfer.
The Futurity Stakes, with Desert Gold
starring, drew another big crowd to Caul-
field on Saturday. A rain storm the night
before and a touch of autumn in the air
made some of the women come out and
swelter in velvets and furs. There was a
fearful medley of froclcing. The tussore
race-coat and the summer chiffon, both
rather dejected by the dampness, walked
alongside the newest autumn model. The
Kitchens from Sydney were out; Mrs.
Kitchen covered something dainty in blue
under a sensible racecoat. Desert Gold’s
owner, Mr. Lowry, was not present to see his
horse beaten; but he will be over from M.L.
in time for the Flemington gallops. Mrs.
Mowbray was in dark tailorings. Dr. Joyce
proudly paraded his invalided soldier son.
Mrs. Norman Falkiner wore white cloth
and furs, and sister-in-law Mrs. Otway
flared her short coat and skirt in large
checks. Colonel Peacock and his smart lady
were in sporting rig. Big Dr. O’Hara came
along with his usual bevy of daughters,
including bricie-elect Nan.
Matron Strickland, of one of Australia’s
hospital ships, is in Melbourne for a few
days’ well-earned rest. For nearly three
years now she and about a dozen sisters
have been tending wounded Billjims. Matron
has a Royal Red Cross hidden away some-
where, but is chary of displaying it. Her
generous reason for this is that she thinks
her devoted assistants also deserve the deco-
ration.
Pretty little Diva Meyers, daughter of
“London Stores’’ Meyers, has had her tall
young fiance, Lieut. Marks, with her. He is
from Salonica, and his leave gave him three
weeks in Australia. Dad Marks is a Fiji
merchant who owns more than his fair slice
of the island.
Squatter Leslie Anderson is in camp get-
ting ready to leave wife and baby-son for
service abroad. Leslie squats at Ivanhoe,
Warrnambool, and also on the Richmond
River (N.S.W.). He did service in the
Remount Department before deciding that he
must go up to the guns.
Sydney girl Sheila Chisholm, now Lady
Loughborough, is much in demand nowadays
as a poseuse for charity tableaux. She was
lately to take part in pictures at the Petti-
coat-lane Fair, at the Albert Hall, and at a
show at the Palace which Lady Lowther was
running. All the snappiest sassiety beauties
were roped in for the public to gaze on; in-
cluding Lady Diana Manners, Mrs. John
Lavery, Mrs. Ralph Peto, Lady Drogheda
and several other pages of Debfett.
Mrs. Mabel Balcombe Brookes —her Nor-
man is still in the Red Commissioning busi-
ness abroad —having crystallised in a work
of fiction her experiences of a sojourn in
Egypt, has been graciously pleased to have a
copy of the book accepted by Queen Mary.
Now, looking for new worlds to write up,
the author has cast her literary eye on India,
and threatens to do the same by that country
as she did by Gippoland.
The first Australian to become a Tommy-
waac (i.e., a member of the Women’s Army
Auxiliary Corps in England) was Daisy
Hamilton, member of a well-known Mild lira
family, who is now in Melbourne, having-
been granted a “compassionate discharge”
when her brother fell in France. The
Tommywaac enlists for the duration of the
war, receives the pay of a Tommy, and is
under military-strict discipline. She re-
leases men behind the lines for work in the
trenches. Miss Hamilton slaved as a clerk
every day and every second night, and had
a Sunday half-holiday once a fortnight. As
tiie only Australian in the corps, she was
given a goou time by Billjim officers when
her own officer “mams” were not looking,
for a Tommywaac is forbidden to hold con-
verse with anybody above the rank of ser-
geant. There is a fine spirit of comradeship
among the girls, and they manage to keep
merry and bright on bully beef and biscuits.
The cigarette is permitted and is in almost
universal favor. When .Miss Hamilton left
b ranee there was an agitation afoot to have
u included in the Tommywaac rations.
Newman College, within the University,
will be opened next month. The living
quarters are something that students don’t
often find. There are swimming-baths and
gymnasiums, and every four students have a
bathroom between them. Also each student
will have a separate study and bedroom, and
there will be hot-water radiators and electric
light, and all sorts of modern fixings except
a mortgage.
The house in which Alexandra Clubbers
chatter was, at one time, the private hospital
of Dr. O’Hara. The other day one of the
having to entertain a country rela-
tive. arranged a luncheon party at the Alex,
.lust as thev were about to sit down, the chief
guest screamed: “My dear jane, I couldn’t
possibly eat here! This is the room my first
husband died in !”
That bright young advertising expert,
Guido Baracchi, is at present determined to
go to gaol sooner than agree to refrain for a
period from making feverish utterances on
th.e soap-box. Provision for his sojourn in-
cluded the sweetest little safety-razor and
accessories, while a thoughtful pal provided
a tin of insecticide, which was scornfully
rejected; but the authorities insisted on
refusing Guido immediate admittance to the
►State hominy-house, though he clamored for
prompt action. His resolution wavered but
for a single instant. That was when some
brutal jester told him that he would only be
allowed to use the prison toothbrush, an
obvious slander on the management at Pent-
ridge.
Lieut.-Gov. Stone, of Westralia, took the
first stage of his return trip to Perth per
transcontinental last week, when he departed
for Adelaide. He is going to look around
that village for awhile, enjoying the freedom
of late denied him until Melbourne gave him
better sight by a successful operation for
cataract.
The Forrest lady has taken sick Bigjohn
away to the Gracedale hills. The invalid’s
face is still half-shrouded in lint, and he
suffers a good deal of pain, but hopes to get
back to Parliament when the season opens.
Niece Mfiriel North blew into the Grand
last week with the news that sister “T>illy”
had accepted an engagement ring from a
Hamersly soldier cousin. Billy North used
to come along sometimes in the Forrest train
in her pigtail days.
Viva Matheson, a 20-year-old lightweight
who rides a conspicuously well-conditioned
nag in the parades of the Purple Cross, cornea
in from Ashburton, where the Reay Mathe-
sons are now combining the pleasures of
near-bush life with the conveniences of the
city, after long experience of Further Out.
Horse-wise Viva is a great-grand-daughter
of Victoria’s first parson—that pioneering
Matheson who settled at Portland with the
original bunch of hard-doers.
The veteran poet George Gordon McCrae
lost a son and poet-artist ITughie an elder
brother the other day when Gordon McCrae
passed out suddenly. He was an architect,
and his wife was a daughter of F. T.
Derham.
Tom Fairbairn, a younger brotller of
political George, passed out last week in
Blighty, where he had been domiciled for
years. The Fairbairn brothers were a hand-
some brigade. Two inherited the paternal
fairness, the other trio the dark beauty of
their mother, an Armytage. Jess, the only
sister, was likewise a brunette. She is now
a noted Christian Science healer in the Fog.
The late Tom Fairbairn’s wife is likewise a
keen Scientist. Their only son Eric fell in
the trenches in 1915. Mrs. Tom was one
of the woolly Sirnson clan of Toorak, and
belonged to the smart set of the latter ’Bo’s,
which wore _ fringe nets and pioneered the
vicious habit of chocolate-chewing in the
local playhouses.
Dame Adelaide’s tablets :
Dr. Phoebe Chappie, who has been doing military
medical work in England since April, has moved on
to France as a captain in the Women’s Auxiliary
Corps. She writes enthusiastically *of her work at
the soldiers’ hospitals and with the Corps. Phoebe,
a daughter of the old headmaster of P.A.C., was one
of the first two women doctors to be sent to the
fighting zone.
The debut of the Returned Soldiers’ Orchestra at
the Queen’s Hall on Wednesday was a big success and
should bring the men plenty of engagements.
Dr. and Mrs. C. W. Hamilton, who have been in
England for nearly three years, came back this week.
The Belgian Croix de Guerre has been won by
Gunner A. B. Fotheringham, who left here in 1914
with the 3rd Light Horse, was invalided to England
from Gallipoli, and since then has done a year’s
fighting in France. He is the first St. Peter’s old boy
to win a Belgian distinction.
G. D. Cowan, who has been twice turned down at
the recruiting depot, left the other day for London,
where ne will do motor-car work for the Red Cross
Society. Our new Agent-General (Edward Lucas)
ami his family went by the same boat.
News has come from England of the death of the
Rev. G. S. Ives, who spent 20 years in this State and
left it only about three years ago.
A fete at the South Park Bowling Green on
Wednesday evening added a generous cheque to the
Trench Comforts and Bowling Association Patriotic
Funds. The Governor, who is one of our keenest
bowlers, did the honors.
The Hun spirit isn’t limited to Germany, as was
proved in the case' of a retired civil engineer who
was fined £lO for “one of the cruellest cases” ever
heard by the magistrate. In trying to kill a dog
this man (1) attempted to break its neck by bending
its head back as far as possible while he held the
poor brute on the ground with his knee (that lasted
for several minutes) ; (2) belted the animal on the
head and ribs with a pick; (3) jumped on its hind-
quarters. Defendant explained that the dog was a
pet of which he was particularly fond, and that he
murdered it in what struck him as the most effective
way to prevent its killing the neighbors’ poultry, lie
was merely fined. I’d have boiled him.
The first of the Eugene Alderman scholarships is
being offered by the University. It is worth £lB
10s., and is tenable for three years. It was founded
on private subscriptions collected to establish a
memorial to Alderman, and it is open to students of
all branches of music, with a proviso that should a
violin candidate show marked merit he may have
preference.
Since their appointment the women police have
been hot on the track of clairvoyants, palmists and
others of the kidney. The latest haul came from
Hindmarsh, and consisted of a mother and daughter,
who were relieved of £lO each. But that won’t
stop the business. Why not, as in the case of other
gambling shops, make it illegal to be on the pre-
mises? A few batches of misses and madams fined
would go a long way to settle the evil.
After trying us to the limit with weeks of gasping
heat the Clerk of the Weather hastily reformed his
habits and sent a beautiful day to the Central
Trench Comforts Committee for its button-selling
on Friday. Some of the best battlers for the fund
were a party of returned soldiers. They turned a
lorry into an imitation of an A.C.F. coffee stall at
the Front and sold gewgaws from it.
From an overseas journal:—
Amongst recent engagements announced in Britain
is tint of Mr. William Taylor (Bendigo) to Signorina
Snowdrop Stabile di San Nicola, daughter of Barone
and Baronessa di San Nicola, of Florence and Sicily.
I waitAjreathlessly for further particulars.
Young' Fayette Perry drawls out the naive
observation that she thinks she must be
“affally sla-ow,” as she has been in Aus-
tralia a year and has not yet landed a
millionaire fiance. People told her in
America that any pretty stage-girl visiting
Australia was “simply rushed.”
Nan O’Hara, eldest of the medico’s third
family, is to change her name to Hill on
March 11. The bridegroom is a woolgrower.
Sister Betty will be at hand to hold the
bride’s glove and bouquet, and only rela-
tives and special friends have been bidden
to the feast.
Carmen Delprat will be made one with
her Assistant Dutch Consul in April. Mother
is marooned in the U.S.A., and is not likely
to hostess the wedding reception. Carmen
thinks she will do without the bridal veil as
a slight war-time concession.
The younger Oreswick girl, daughter of
the racing squatter, is getting ready for
matrimony with her Dr. Martin. He has
been in khaki a long while.
Darcy Lane, a one-time Brighton charmer,
sends news to Melbourne pals of her second
dash into matrimony—this time with an un-
named military brass-hat. Darcy was Mrs.
Billy Luke till the legal shears severed the
cords. Further back she did a turn with the
“Hook of Holland” Co. as a show girl, and
delighted the front row of the stalls.
The late General Bridges’s family circle
was thrilled last week by the news that elder
son Noel had married a Scottish lassie from
Capar. She changed her maiden name
of Graham-Bonar to Bridges on Nevember
27. The bridegroom wears the major’s crown
on his shoulder and has the D.S.O. He is
doing a staff course at Cambridge just now.
Harold Luxton is coming home with his
bride. The ’groom has been recovering from
the wounds he got w r hen his ’plane fell 800 ft.
The fatted calf will not be alive to hear tne
tale, for the home people are making great
preparations.
There is an Equestrienne Club in Mel-
bourne led by Mrs. Embling, the colonel-
doctor’s wife, which prances for anybody
who has a patriotic show. The riders are all
local girls and women, and they supply true
Australian displays of horsemanship—two of
them, Gwen Johnston and Vi Farmer, of
Caulfield, are capable of real circus tricks if
required. On Friday night the Club gave a
big picture night at West’s to help the
Recruiting Committee. There were tine
movies of the girls giving exhibitions of
horse management, as well as war pictures,
with some of the A.I.F. men digging them-
selves in. Captain Dyett added a stirring
address, and a military band in khaki blew
appropriate music, while Mrs. Embling and
a squadron of girls sold programmes and did
other odd jobs. And yet the recruiting
totals are poor ! What does the public want ?
Henry Holden, of the Grand, has had
many extraordinary requests during his reign,
but the queerest came in last week when he
opened a letter pleading for wishbones from
the hotel scullery. Some patriotic workers
are going to gild them and sell them for
souvenirs next button day. The Grand cook
has started bleaching the relics for the
patriots.
The Lyceum Club is bent on having a
kiosk for Our Boys' Day. March 15. The
highbrow dames are making everything of
cretonne for the stall, which will offer only
useful home articles. The Lyceum reluct-
antly changes quarters in June. The mem-
bers are loth to give up their present corner;
but the space is not big enough to hold the
growing institution, every member of which
must have achieved something intellectual.
The brainy girls are taking a complete floor
of the big Auditorium building.
Rather rough on Adrian Holland for your
Johanna to state that he was required to
enlist in England. Adrian had volunteered,
and was asking if he could not pick his regi-
ment before the doctors decided that he had
the queerest heart on record, and must stick
to the piano.
Vasco Lourerio has been run to earth in a
dugout somewhere in France by Sergeant
Jack Cooper, of the Malvern Harriers. Sap-
per Vasco, of the French Army, is still going
strong, and proudly says he has been “all
around the world with a lead-pencil.” He
tolls stories of South America, Panama,
TJ.S.A., Canada, diggings in the north of
Canada, Italy, England and France. He
started drawing heads here on the Hygeia and
Ozone, and then worked the Sydney ferries.
His next “pitch” was the English; Channel,
where he worked the Channel boats, all at a
bob a time. When Jack Cooper struck him
he was drawing Billjims in a Y.M.C.A. tent
at a franc a masterpiecd. During the inter-
vals Vasco cleans out dugouts in the front
line and artistically whitewashes crosses for
graves.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


m
533
s
rrfffn
W
nrmwn
v*
lllllllll)l)»UIMIIIll
iinmi
■ JMIIIilll ll M 1/11/ HIM IMI> 111' II
'll
mill
iiimiiiniiiiiiiinmni!
imuivtniiiin iiiiiuni
i n uni nniiji DißHii i iniiil iiMniniiiiiimin ii) in HDiiiii ilm in i )in
iiiiimmim
iiniiiii) lijiiiniiji i ii i ii miHMi i ii i
jmmjmiiimiHmiji/iiirtlimiiiiiiHM HiHHHHi^^gjj^iHHi^ljHijiHHyjHiiiiHmiHjiiiiijjyj^^iyyg
m
fj,
Tilt
1
■
WM
m
w>.
v/,y/s/{Vt
m
m
WM
urn
: '
wm
55^
m
m
m
m
m
m
W:
m
1
m
m
w.
■///r
wm
a
m
m
m
m§.
m
mb
WWW
m
imm
m
7sy>>
WB.
%
■<>z: :■
E
w
e
m
m
w.
y/
'7
w
m
m
i
4#^
i
Vi
m
i
m
m
i
M:
1
a
i
m
v%.
Htt
u
W
M
I
1
lii®
*
ii
1
c:
1
3
I
m
a
£>>
t=
1
i lii mi 111 /in 1111 mu nun i
[UIiIUiUJ
3
LLUU
w,
uwu
mm
m
V>
a!
DEW-
Taste The Taste of Dewar’s is the Golden .Key which unlocks all the pleasant avenues of the memory. In
Dewar's Whisky there is‘something creamy and yet not cloying; something velvety and yet not heating; some-
thing rich and yet not obtrusive —something crisp and yet not crude Strong and yet gentle, Dewar sis the
Paladin of Whiskies


NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the mouth produce a
most soothing' and cura-
tive effecft in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma All Chest
Affections.
1/6 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward post free.
m
M-
m
[2
mm
m
IheTOP-NOTCH'ScotcM
SayWHE* Mao'.l
SdT
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
teonclainere : Can any observant bushie*
cr mere person familiar with wonga-wonga pigeons
and their habits tell me: (1) How can the sexes he
distinguished; (2) will the birds breed in captivity,
and, if so, under what conditions ; (3) do both the
male and female make the wearying and insistent
call or only the male; (4) can this call nuisance,
which gets on the family nerves, be prevented by
any means other than an axe or shotgun?
* * *
“New Vagabond”: Can any Abo. inform
me why cotton-tails prefer broom millet and sorghum
to young maize? Wire-netting, these days, is out of
the reach of the ordinary cocky, so other expedients
have to be resorted to in order to conserve a crop of
almost anything. A belt of rye about two yards wide
round a wheat crop will keep bunny off, but as these
are winter- and spring-growing crops, 1 want to
know what will keep him off summer crops when
traps and poison have done their worst.
* * *
"Port Alma”: Last week we saw a gigan-
tic octopus pass Port Alma (Q.) wharf, struggling
with a cow dugong. At a rough computation the
tentacles which appeared above the water must have
been 15ft. long. Some of the onlookers take their
dying oath to 20ft. The couple drifted up Raglan
Creek, and were still battling when a bend hid
them from view.
# * #
“Jacko” : Drover Comeran has as good a
performance to his credit this year as anyone else
in the business. Recently he brought 2400 cattle
from the Gulf to Bourke, a distance of 2300 miles,
with a loss of only 27 head. At Bourke the beasts
were trucked for Sam Williams, of Bathurst, and
arrived with a loss of only a further three. Comeran
has gone to Queensland again to pilot another mob
of 5000 from the Gulf to Charleville.
“Wandi”: The nardoo plant, which has
puzzled Reynard, ’ puzzles a goqd many people
until it is explained that it has no flowers. Ernest
Favenc thus describes it in “The History of Aus-
tralian Exploration :
The nardoo appears generally to be considered the
seed of the lentil, or some other plant of the bean
tribe, whereas it belongs to one of those cryptogamie
of flowerless plants, which, like ferns and mosses, do
not produce perfect seeds, but are increased by
cellular bodies named spores. The part used for
XV s - th f s P° re case > with its contained spores,
Is , of an ova! Shape, flattened and about one-
Wnt h ;° f V' l ,)ch ln ltS . lo '« est diameter ; hard and
homy in texture, requiring considerable force to
crush or pound it when dry, but becoming soft and
"’ hen + eXposed to moisture. The natives
Hkc flnm- Tn e ” ° St ° neS ’ and make jt into cakes
in soil at ,I e ,T eS V T tate in water > and
mitnritv bottom, where the plant grows to
and leov; the Water dnes up ’ the Plants die,
and leave the spore cases on, in many instances quite
covering the surface of the dried mud.' It Ts then
they are gathered for food. On the return of moist”
ure the spore cases become mucilaginous and dis-
charge their contents to form a fresh crop’ of plants.
Te W hare : At a post-mortem of a death-
adder killed on the South' Coast (N.S.W.), its bread-
basket was found to contain some very large centi-
pedes. These loathsome crawlers had turned from
bvid green to black, probably in the process of diges-
tion. Aduers also snap up flies, including the
domestic buzzers (house and blow-fly) and the large
bush sorts, such as the beautiful metallic-blue saw-
m t bP , he . Ve that the adder ’s food consists invari-
ahly of living creatures; that neither snakes nor
adders will touch carrion. Both, of course, will drink
milk. Black snakes have been seen to nose and
reject dead eels, but they make short work of live
ones if not too large. Have watched a black snake
busy chasing small brown eels (. Anguilla reinhardtii )
lound and round a shallow waterhole. Wonder how
Pixie’s” death-adder (B. 15/11/’l7) caught its
swallow? Perhaps the bird perched on the reptile’s
lead. Adders, by the way, sometimes promenade on
warm nights, as the black snake does. A bushman
of writer’s ken, who lives in an adder locality, says
that the devils invariably “gape at him” when he
meets them on dusty paths—a favorite resort. The
extra deadliness of the adder is due to the fact that
the poison fangs are hollow, not merely grooved, as
in the case of venomous snakes; hence none of’the
poison is lost if the fang strikes the flesh.
“Merrigal”: What Australian ’station
shears most sheep (B. 31/1/M8) ? Twenty years back
over 400,000 used to be disrobed annually at Momba
in the Wilcannia district (N.S.W.). Here are returns
from various runs f o r 1917: Wellshot, Ilfra-
combe (Q.), N. Z. and A. L. Co., 141,000 ; Terrick
Temple, Blaekall (0.), A . E. and M. C 0.,, Ltd.,
140,000; Goonoo Goonoo, Tamworth (NSW) Peel
River L and M. Co., 137,000; Darr River'Downs,
Longreach (Q.), Coleman and Watt, 127,000 ; North-
ampton Downs, Blaekall (Q.), and Walhallow, Tam-
worth (N.S.W.), 114,000 each; Bowen Downs,
(< H’ 109 ’ 0(>0; Thylungra, Adavale (Q.),
101,000; and Warenda, Winton (Q.), 100,000. A
urther lode into the past reveals some remarkable
pee ing\s. he late Thomas Edols’s Burra wane shed,
Forbes (N.S.W.), held 101 stands, and its full team
° ne year ln the ’ Bo ’ s relieved 273,000 woollies of
rt 9 cw a ! eS ' 1894 and 1895 > at Dunlop, Bourke
tN.S.W.) when it was Sam McCaughev’s, the tongs
accounted for 276,300 and 235,000 respectively, and
’ MOI ' eC (N - S - W -), in two successive years,
247,000 .and 243,000 were shorn. Milo, the king
shed of Queensland for many a dav, put through
248,000 in 1909 and 238,000 in 191 i, Ld Goonoo
Goonoo and AValhallow barbered 172,000 apiece.
THE OBVIOUS EXPLANATION.
COOK: "Do you know root's become of the biff piece er beef wot was in ’ere this mornin'?"
BILLY: “ Dunno, Boss. Mine tinkit that pheller carsk mus ’ leak.”
“Billy T.”: Art is a passion. It takes
hold of all sorts and conditions of men in all places
and circumstances, and manifests itself in manifold
ways, but it is always the same obsession. Why
should Horace Smyth have contracted art symptoms ?
He was far from all the affected areas; he was
careful in his habits and scalded all his milk.
Smyth was a man on the land away back of Gordon,
on the Geelong-Ballarat line. He was born on
the land, of poor and unimaginative people who had
no more ideas about art than a brown cow; yet
he took to painting things at an early age, and
devoted years to the decoration of a large square
iron tank set up on four short wooden legs at the
back of his house. He began by covering one sidd
0* the tank with white enamel, and on this he
painted all sorts of things.— -parrots, ’possums, wild-
flowers, native-cats, kangaroos, gum-leaves, etc.
Then he enamelled the other side, and did some
scenery. Eventually he had all four sides of his
tank covered with original paintings in oil. Then
Smyth painted out the first square, and started a new
series. His interest in his tank was as profound
as Raphael, Titian and Velasquez might have felt in
the masterpieces of their art. Then one night a
bush-fire came down and Smyth’s place' was ablaze.
Neighbors rushed to the rescue and found Mrs.
Horace Smyth, sadly singed, saving scraps of furni-
ture, while Horace, with two yoked horses, was
valiantly saving the tank.
* * « *
“Captain”: I can recommend the mission
boys of New Britain (New Guinea) for original
brain waves. During an eclipse of the sun I had
one of these nigs, who was awestruck at the
phenomenon. “Me think, boss,” he gulped, “kirosin
[kerosene] belonga Jesu’ Christ he go finish.”
“W.M.S.” : Albino dingoes are fairly com-
mon in Westralia. As a rule, they are somewhat
smaller than the dogs found in Eastern Australia.
Recently a party travelling in one of the still
largely-unknown regions met a whole tribe of
albinoes. In some parts of the West these wild dogs
become a great nuisance about camps by their raids
while the men are away at work. This was common
during the construction of the East-West railway.
Many people, by the way, seem to be under a mis-
apprehension with regard to the causes of albinism
in birds and animals. I have heard it ascribed to
hybridism. The truth is that it may, and does, occur
in absolutely pure-bred animals or birds which are
true to type in every other respect. The condition
is abnormal, of course, and is usually due to errors,
or defects, of pigmentation. An albino green-leek
(mountain lorikeet) recently shot in Riverina showed
very rare and striking beauty of .coloration. For
the most part the plumage was brilliant yellow and
white, with delicate pink edges on the tail feathers.
In the bird world albinoes seem to occur the most
commonly among the black and white magpies.
“Hydros” : The best time to get playtpus
skins is undoubtedly in the middle of winder. Yarns
to the contrary are ,rot.’ The “pussy” is no freak:
his overcoat in the winter is thick and heavy; in
the warmer season it is much lighter. When skin-
ning a pussy the city bushman opens it : from the
brisket down, the same as he would a sheep; but
men who know, their job draw the knife from the
shoulder •to the flank. Out that way there is no
division of the color of the fur. The belly of the
skin is almost white, while the, back is any shade
of brown, so that the most simple way to spoil the
skin is to introduce the knife to the belly.
DENSE.
SWOGGHEIM : "Dose tarn British —dey vos
know never ven dey vos beaten.”
SWINEHOGG : “Dot vos so. Vhy, it would
surprise me nod if dey vos Berlin reach
pefore dey vos give in!”
Good men at the game never hit a platypus.' When
the bullet strikes the water just under the bill the
platypus turns turtle and awaits developments,
which are supplied by a dog and, a knife. P.S.—
The season for the platypus does not open until
December 31, 1924.
(Continued on page 24. )
THE BREAKING OF THE DROUGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Like sweet music after sighing
Come the first faint whispers, flying;
Then the slow, large drops, uncertain,
Star the dust.... and pause.... then flicker,
Multiply, and quick, quick, quicker
Come the torrents tumbling after,
Till in hurricanes of laughter
All the heavens melt and mingle
With the earth in joyous madness,
And the dryest channels tingle
With a wild, exultant gladness,
And tho. life so long unspoken
Leaps through spells of silence broken.
Silvery threads from ledges plashing
Carol as they ripple, flashing,
Crystal rills in elfin treble
Trilling over rock and pebble,
Singing, singing, singing, singing,
In a tinkling melody,
To the deeper music welling
From each brimming hollow swelling,
With a thousand murmuring streams
Flowing on and flowing over,
Babble of the luscious clover,
Of the wealth of waving grasses that will carpet
hill and plain,
Babble of the wealth unstinted,
In the golden wheatfields minted,
Where the slender, springing lances drink their fill
of saving rain !
Falling, falling, swiftly sinking,
Mow the thirsty land is drinking,
Drinking in the welcome moisture, soon to rise in
growth again !
Sre the thickening arrows fleeting
H hile the little drums are beating.
Beating out in jubilation the swift onrush of the
rain ;
Beating out in pealing pleasure,
As the leaping, loosened treasure,
Flooding in unhampered measure,
Billows as the stormwind veers,
All its lucent coolness slaking
The parched paddocks, cracked and baking,
While the wan, denuded uplands smile again through
happy tears.
LABOR-SAVING.
ENTHUSIAST: “I suppose the Germans came
on that thick sometimes you cut them
down by the paddockful.”
EX-MACHINE GUNNER: “Sometimes they
were that thick ice just ringbarked ’em.”
Little, gleaming trickles slipping
From the branches black and dripping,
Patter on the beaded bushes, patter on the fallen
leaves ;
And the whispers softly fluted,
Like the lisp of viols muted,
Seem to speak the harvest season and the rustle of
the sheaves —•
Seem in faery laughter voicing
The renascent earth’s, rejoicing
At. the quick, sweet, tumbling showers that will
green the dusty plain.
Ah! with soft, cool hands of healing
Comes a blessed angel stealing,
Liquid-voiced and silver-footed in the shadows of
the rain—
In the tender, misty moisture of the fleet and fragrant
rain.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


Your Easter Suit
ORDER IT NOW
AT MURDOCH’S.
With only a month to go before the
Easter Season, you should certainly be
thinking of a smart suit to enhance your
appearance.
You can combine smartness and
economy if you wear
MURDOCH’S
Australian Tweed
Suits-to-Measure,
63/
These suits embody all the finer features
of high-grade tailoring, and for sterling
value they cannot be surpassed.
You are on the satisfaction path right
from the moment of ordering—we re-
fund your money if the suit fails to
please.
Leave Your Order To-day.
Early ordering cuts out worry. Call
and inspect our range of Suitings to-
day, or write for patterns. Fill in the
coupon now.
Other Murdoch Suit-to-Measure Prices:
70/- 84/- 95/-
DESK R.
MESSRS. MURDOCH’B IN PARK
ST., LTI)., SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Easter
Suitings at ...... . Suit-to-Measure,
icitlh tape and self-measurement form.
Name
Address
2-1
5^
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.
Sydney,
‘Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.
m
SHIRTS with Soft
“Baffy” Collars to match
m
mm
Fitted with “SPLIT-SLEEVES” (to give cor-
rect set to cuffs). “SLEEVE-LIFTS” (to
regulate sleeve length) and REINFORCED
INLAY FRONTS (which double the life of
each shirt). One of the new and popular Soft,
double “BAFFY” COLLARS (together with
a Link fastener) IS SUPPLIED WITH
EVERY SHIRT. In fine, medium, or wide
Blue or Black stripes on plain White Cambric
Grounds. Soft double Cuffs; 14in. to 17in.
neckbands. Be in the fashion and
wear the popular “Baffy” Shirt with
‘Baffy” Collar to match
(3 for 18/6).
COLLARS
Soft double style with link fastener. (See illustration.)
May be had with VERTICAL or HORIZONTAL
STRIPES, in CAMBRICS (Fine. Medium, or Wide
Blue or Black Stripes on plain White grounds). In
“TAFFATWILLS” (Smart Blue or Black
Stripes on Rich Cream grounds). Also in
PLAIN WHITE LINEN. Price
(3 for 2/6).
(STIFF “BAFFY” Collars, without Link Fastener
1/-
or eyelets—same price.)
Pure Fur Felts
Best Australian make. Fashionably
shaped and perfectly finished. Same
style as illustrated, with cut edge and
bow at side. Superior grease-proof
leathers. In all the latest Grev shades
with best-quality Black Silk Bands to
contrast. May also be had in
Slate. Brown or Black.
EXCEPTIONAL VALUE AT
10 6
Folding Pocket Felts
Pure Fur Felt. Best English make.
Light and Serviceable. Fit the
pocket easily. Colors- —Black,
Brown, Grey, or Steel
9/6
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
Leviathan
MELBOURNE.
m
m
™^2Saa.
mm
MHi
ssSv
m
A Letter from MR. FRED BLUETT,
the Celebrated Comedian.
I consider it my duty to write you
a word or two of praise for your re-
markable remedy, HEENZO. Whilst
on my return from England recently
I contracted a severe cold after leav-
ing Capetown. This worried me
quite a lot, knowing what was
expected of me on my reopening in
Australia. I was at a loss to And something
that would soothe my throat until I used your
HEENZO (Hean’s Essence), and I was more
than satisfied with the result. Needless to say,
I now’ always have a bottle of HEENZO (Hean’s
Essence) on my dressing-table, together with a
tin of your HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS.
Yours faithfully,
FRED BLUETT.
Over 6000 people have written to say
m
REGISTERED
. . NAME for . .
HE AN’S
ESSENCE
is the finest remedy they have ever used for
Coughs, Colds, Croup, Catarrh
And other Chest and Throat Troubles.
COSTS 2/—MAKES 1 PINT—SAVES 10/-
Each bottle of HEENZO (Hean’s Essence) makes a pint of the finest-
quality Cough Mixture. A pint of ordinary remedies would cost at least
12/-. HEENZO (Hean’s Essence) costs only 2/-, and money cannot buy
a better medicine.
Heenzo Gough Diamonds
are lozenges medicated with HEENZO. They are fine for the voice and throat.
Price 1/- per tin.
Obtainable at all Chemists and Stores, or from G. W. HEAN, Chemist, 178
Castlereagh Street, Sydney; or Hean’s Pharmacy, Wanganui, N.Z.
For
Your
Health’s
Sake.
Leamia, Curlewis, 8/11/’l7.
G. W. Hean, Esq.,
Chemist.
Dear Sir, —I have been using; HEAN’S TONIC
NERVE NUTS regularly since I obtained the
first supply a couple of months ago, and I must
say the result has been satisfactory to me, for
they have undoubtedly improved the state of my
nerves; and, what is more, since using them I
have put on over two stone weight, having
increased from 12st. 31b. to 14st. 71b. I may
mention that my height is 6ft and age 55 years.
This information is given as an instance of the
constitution-building properties of your prepara-
tion. Mrs. Griffiths has also received benefit
from the use of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS.
Yours sincerely,
A. D. GRIFFITHS.
The writer of the above letter is a well-known grazier. His
experience has been that of hundreds of other users of
Nerve Niff s
including Clergymen, Solicitors, Merchants and Mechanics, while
womenfolk of all ages and in all walks of society write daily to tell of
the improvement they have experienced in their health.
Headaches, Backache, Insomnia, Neuralgia, Rheumatism, Brain-
fag, Lassitude are all symptoms of depleted nerve force. If you
are a victim take the reliable Home Treatment—HPlAN’S TONIC
NERVE NUTS. They are Economical as well as Efficacious. Boxes
containing 12 days’ supply cost only 3s. each, or 17/3 for six boxes.
If they are not stocked by your Chemist or Storekeeper, send direct to
G. W. HE AN, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney; or Hean’s Pharmacy, Wanganui, N.Z.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladicr recommend them. Be sure
you get the with the signature:
Martin. Chemi; t, Southam; m. —Advt.
AVON
/*. TYRES.
More Miles 'orYour Money.
m
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
L>S*
&
CARRY AN ONOTO WITH YOU
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills itself in a flash,
cleans itself in the act of filling and contains sufficient ink to
write 20,000 words.
Never leaks-always writes smoothly—and is always
ready for writing:. Can be filled from any ink supply with-
out a filler without mess or trouble, in five seconds,
Onoto
Self-filling Safety Fountain Pen.
Price 14/6 and upwards ; also ONOTO
Valveless for those-who do not want a Self-
Filling Safety Pen. 10/6 upwards, of all
stationers, jewellers, stores, etc.
Manufacturers;
T. D. La Rue & Co.. Ltd.,
219 Bunhill Row, London, E.C,
Managing Agents :
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
Ask for ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens.
RENEW YOUR STRENGTH BY
TAKING PHOSPHATE.
RESTORATIVE OF VIGOR AND
VITALITY.
Ihe condition of the man or woman who
lias lost or her strength is pitiable, for,
above all, it is sti’ength that makes life
worth living and renders possible the full
enjoyment of all that life offers. Illness,
worry or anxiety may have sapped your
vitality and robbed you of your strength,
or old age may be responsible for tissue
wastage and consequent loss of power, but
whatever the cause it is possible for you to
renew your strength, to regain the vigorous
health which is your birthright, and to defy
the advance of old age by simply furnishing
your system with bitro-phosphate. This
product is natural to the human body; it
is present in abundance in vigorous youth,
but in later life, or in consequence of illness
or excesses, the quantity is reduced, and its
reduction is marked by such symptoms as
weakness, depression, insomnia, debility,
languor, irritability, inability to withstand
mental or physical strain, etc., and, noting
one or more of these symptoms, you should
at once commence taking this restorative
bitro-phosphate treatment. No ditliculty
should be experienced in obtaining the
treatment, for bitro-phosphate is now stocked
by practically all high-class chemists in the
form of small compressed tablets. The
desired results are obtained in practically
every case, and you do not have to wait
long for proof that bitro-phosphate is doing
you good.— Advt.
"I’ingin”: I always thought that the eel
more ov less masticated his tucker, but how is this?
Two fishermen in Nowendor Creek (N.S.W.) recently
hooked a squirmer about 3ft. long'. The post-mortem
revealed inside one tiger snake 3ft. Gin. long and one
water gohanna 12in. long. There were no signs that
either had been bitten.
* * * *
“Leo Lear”: Two natives that have dis-
appeared from Western Victoria in the past 25 years
are the bush cat and the bandicoot. Puss when
cornered was about the fiercest marsupial we had.
Some disease carried her off wholesale a couple of
decades ago, and I’ve only seen an odd one since.
Bandicoots, on the other hand, were harmless and
inoffensive. The nature of their abodes, grassy nests
almost on the surface, made them an easy victim to
the mobs of rabbit-dogs that scoured the land before
poison and netting were general. For about 50 yards
’coot could put up a good run, but after that he
blew out. Unlike the cat, his skin was valueless, so
he was never hunted. Maize-growers ir. Bananaland
blame the ’coots for devastation to crops just but of
the ground, but I know from experience that ’roo-
rats and ’possums must take their share of curses
for this unrighteous work.
* * » *
“Bill It.”: If “Fanuela” (B. 31/3/TS)
really pines to know why cattle feed head towards
the wind, tell him it’s because they have no tail that
end with which to whisk away flies and other tor-
mentors. Sheep prefer feeding in the same direction,
and horses always travel with less persuasion when
facing a blow.
“D.F.”: Pigs like their swill, but some
Penshurst (Vic.) pork has proved that it can go
without water as well as a camel. This fellow
disappeared during a hot spell and was not found
for J 3 days. He had fallen into a hole in a straw-
stack, and spent all that time with nothing to drink
and only straw to eat.
You can tell a tin-sera teller
wherever you meet him. If in town he will be condemn-
ing the storekeeper for the high price of tucker
(local) and the low price of tin (also local). If you
meet him out on the creek his pants will either be
cut half-mast or rolled up. Ills outfit generally
consists of about seven sheets of battered gal. iron,
11 of bark, a job lot of flattened kerosene tins and
bags, a few ancient hens, a pumpkin patch, and
/(near i stump or ant hill) a heap of dead marines.
You gauge his general prosperity by the size and
brands of the bottle heap. Every scratcher has a
rat —I have two, having been a long time in the
business. Also, every scratcher is a specialist on
some complaint, and will assure you of a herb or
concoction that will cure it. It is in front of the
local bush bar that he really shines. When Smith’s
Creek mine shut down for the last time and there
"ere only a dozen houses left, Nymbool still sported
four pubs. The scratchers kept them going. One
wiry old fellow named Jim Ferry was firmly con-
vinced that there was a couple of tons of tin in the
Hat on which stood the old hut that had sheltered
him for 10 torrid summers and 10 soaking wet
seasons. When the sun beat down on the cracked
earth and the heat burned up through the corns
and scales of his feet, Ferry would decide to run-off
the flat with the next wet, even if he had to let the
old hut go down the creek. Yes, wash up and
clear out. He’d show that storekeeper! But
vhen the creeks roared down in seething floods,
bringing logs, banjos and dead goats, and one could
just see the tops of stumps on the two-ton flat, Ferrv
would decide that the fall was not sufficient for the job.
He would make up his mind to battle along until the
dry season, then drive out the wash and banjo it with
the first storm. If there was any tin it’s there yet.
Tin-scratchers are quite distinct from tin-miners, and
usually frequent different pubs. Moreover, the store-
keeper shakes hands with the latter, invariably calls
him Mr. and presents him with a Is. pipe * about
Christmas time. Many scratchers have gone to the
Front; some have returned ; others will never return.
But the storekeepers are still at the old address.
CLEARING.
BARBER (squaring off a little slip of the razor): “Narsty pimple there, sir.”
BARCOO BILL: “Yeh, but I didn't tell yer ter grub the thing out!"
“R.D.W.”: On Wandah station, 12 miles
from Moree (&.S.W.), a couple of magpies built in
the same tree for four years, and each year they had
two young ones—one of the ordinary color and one
pure white, with pink eyes and legs. One white
baby was taken and sold for £5 to go to Sydney,
and the last year that the old birds built at the
address I bought the white chick for 80s. But he
lived only about four weeks.
“Nepia”: A deal of nonsense is written
relative to the Maori rat. Most of those in M.L. and
elsewhere who air themselves about the animal
ARDOR AND ANXIETY.
FLUSTERES LOVER: “Hallo! Who's speak-
ing? It’s me — George, Is that you, dear
—or is it your infernal old mother? If
it ain't you I'll ring off. If it is, I — eh?
Mhy! It is you—I thought I recog-
nised your dear voice.”
describe it as of the rodent species, and are thus
miles wide of the mark. The so-called “native”
black rat is not a native at all, but comes from the
Northern Hemisphere, and was one of our earliest
importations. It arrived at the same time as the
New Bedford whalers, and is a first cousin of the
Norwegian family. The only known relic of the
true More is in Vienna; the value set upon the skin
some 10 or 12 years ago was £l2O. This rat was
of the guinea-pig variety, covered in summer with
a reddish-brown furry coat, which he shed in the
winter, appearing then like the white flower of a
blameless life. lie used to live on berries, and would
become butter-fat. When in this condition he had
a habit of falling from his perch above ground and
bursting, much to the satisfaction of John Maori.
The cooking and preserving of the little chap was
done by a process known as spit-curing. A pointed
stake was inserted in the carcase, a fire lit, the fat
run off through totara-bark channels, specially pre-
pared, into calabashes, and later the cooked meat was
tossed into the fat and allowed to cool. The last
heard of the native rat, at least by the present
writer, was at Nuhaka, north of Napier, where a
Maori chief by name Ihakaphaunga bred a lcainga
° f them on a hill called Momolcai. That would be
about the year 1820.
* * * *
“Smokehouse”: The little palm-thatched
church was crammed full of perspiring niggers, and
the 15st. bride, panting in all the unaccustomed
discomfort of a white-flowered silk dress and mos-
quito-net veil, and girthed tightly with a broad
oiange-colored sash, tried to keep her feet out of sight.
The ’groom shuffled uneasily in a heavy blue-serge
suit, up-and-down collar and a large tie decorated
with the Belgian flag. Presently the missionary
looked over his glasses and said, “Why, Billy,
you’ve only one boot on.” Billy tried to hide his
naked No. 10 foot and glanced at his blushing bride.
“Mary he wear the other one,” he mumbled.
* * * *
Steve Hurt : Does any Abo. know the
life story of the insect we in the west
(N.S.W.) call the policeman fly? It is much like
the common house fly, but a little longer and thinner.
It makes one dive, straddles a common fly and goes
off with it. Should four or five of these John Hops
coirie about the house (or bush) the other insects
resign, though, like Billy Hughes, they come back
to annoy us as soon as the way is clear. I saw five
police flies shift 30 others in five minutes. What do
they do with their prisoners?
* * * .
“Surcingle”: Best horseman I know is 60
and a grandfather. Name is Neddy Bourke and he
lives at Crow’s Nest, 30 miles or so from Too-
woomba (Q.). About three years ago a place out-
side Newcastle got up a Wild West show, and an
old cobber of Ned’s travelled 800 miles, collected
him, brought him back, rigged him up in a red
shirt and let him loose in the ring. Ned on his own
saddled and rode all the “outlaws” present and
repeated the act when the show went to Newcastle.
“0.5.11 ”: Here you are—a dead-sure
white-ant cure. One of the sheds was infested with
the insects and we tried several so-called remedies
with no success. Then one of the hands suggested
sheep-dip. That did the trick. We poured old
liquid, that was in the dip and had been used a
year ago, all over the ant-haunts, and if one of
the host is alive now I don’t know its address.
“Konini”: Ever see a yellow eel? They
caught one the other day in Poukawa Lake, Hawkes
Day district (M.L.). Pure yellow and 2ft. long.
Wellington Museum has it now.
* * * *
“Steve Hart”: How is this for maternal
instinct? Going round my traps t’other morning I
found a domestic cat, which had gone bush, caught
by two front paws, and notwithstanding the pain she
must have been suffering she was lying on her side
suckling three kittens.
* * * «
“Jim Carew”: Will some reputable Abo-
liar explain this? Whenever a fire makes a clean
sweep of any bit of country in the Narara (N S.W.
South Coast) district there immediately follows a
thick growth of wattle. I have seen wattle patches
grow up like this times out of number, and I am
MIGHT HAVE BEEN MUCH WORSE.
AUGUSTUS: “ ‘Where's yer money?" ses she.
'Ain’t never ’ad any,' sez I. With that
she threw the glass er beer fair in me
face.”
HORACE: “Cryin' shame!”
AUGUSTUS: "It weren’t orl wasted, ’Orace —
I wuz forkin' to 'er at th’ time.”
piepared to swear before any Commissioner of Blankv
that there was no wattle there before the fire. I
remember one patch in particular through which,
within six months of a clean sweep, it was impossible
to pass without the help of an axe.
THE IMPOSSIBLE SACRIFICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
In Carrol’s barn a fire broke out,
A most unfortunate affair,
For Dan, home from the battle rout,
Was billed to have a party there,
And we had left in trust with Carrol
The party beer—a big, fat barrel.
The barn was just a cindered wreck ;
The drinks, the tucker, all were gone;
And fit to weep upon my neck
Dan told us how the flames caine on.
“A tub of water,” said the noodle,
“And I’d have saved the whole caboodle!”
“The beer,” cried I—“why didn’t you
Use that the early blaze to quell?”
Dan looked at me a blink or two,
And said he: “That’s all very well.
I drew a pail, but never threw it—
I hadn’t got the heart to do it!”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


>1
%
<
2
i
U
*3'
'2&Z*
V
s u
A
X
X
<
r/
<
\
*
fm
>
x
;
v:
-$>
w
sa
/
*7!
1
frfc
v
y
m
1 ft
'X
X
#
X
/
X
X"
is>
" I have travelled thousands
of miles on my Australian
* Dunlops/ and haven't had
the slightest trouble ! "
—half the motorists in Australia have
the same experience, they not only
get Satisfactory Service from their
DUNLOP TYRES
but they get it at a price not
approached by any imported tyre.
Patriotism and profit go hand in
hand when you fit “Dunlops.”
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES IN GROOVED,
THREE RIBBED AND RUBBER NON-SKID.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
ALL STATES AND N.Z.


The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
does NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, a 3 it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST —a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
4m
w-
\
S'
7%
"X
a
%s
&=*
Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (doublesize)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to—
W. G. MEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices—
Sydney. N.S.W., Wellington, N.Z.
14.
m
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“D.F.”: Down in Ilobayt, Pardon and
Featherstone have a 400-ton wooden schooner
on the slips at their Battery Point yards, the
biggest craft attempted in the Speck since
the old days when the Derwent was ahead of
the Clyde - in shipbuilding. There’s a move
on now to put down a couple more slips so
as to have three vessels going at once in
these yards. Up in the north-west of the
Speck.' where the ports are choked with
millions of feet of timber that can’t be
shipped, they are getting tired and are talk-
ing of turning some of it into vessels to
carry the rest, if they can raise the wind to
pay‘for the building.' Meanwhile D. C. Fin-
layson, of Devonport, has, as a reward for
going to Melbourne once a fortnight for the
past six months and sitting on the Prime
Minister’s doormat, got the promise of two
ships to build for the Commonwealth. At
least, expert Curehin has told him to lay
down two slips and keep his mouth open in
case anything should fall his way.
* * * *
“Snell” : Practically everybody in the re-
cent Brighton (Vic.) storm centre who had
hens no longer has hens. They were blown
into dim distance, and it rained noultry in
Caulfield and other parts in a direct line,
McTavisli was one of the greatest sufferers.
The visitation of Providence deprived him
of abqut 100 hens, ancient and modern ; but
a number of philanthropic small boys who
had had their sympathies deeply stirred in
the interests of the afflicted went out with
bags and bicycles, and gathered in all stray
fowls off the unoccupied places, and returned
them to persons reasonably supposed to be
their rightful owners, One such volunteer
salvage corps returned McTavisli seven sacks
full. McTavisli took the bundles, emptied
the Wyandottes out in the yard, looked them
over anxiously, anu said : “Aye, aye, laddie,
that’s verra weel. But were there no eggs?"
* * * *
“Cape Helles” : How we encourage volun-
tary recruiting. Shepparton Shire Council
(Vic.), which has yelled as loudly as any-
body about patriotism and national duty,
recently needed a rate collector and advertised
the position, adding, “Preference to returned
soldier.” Three applicants toed the line,
two of them returned men, the third a pro-
perty-holder with a job. Oh, yes ! Propputy
won handsomely by nine votes, the two
Anzacs scoring three and zero respectively.
And presently one of the nine councillors
will take the chair at a recruiting meeting.
“F.N.T.” ; Old “Wingen” Abbott,' com-
plaining, as usual, that he has been upset by
“swarms of agitators, delegates and scalla-
wags,” says lie “gradually substituted beef-
cattle for sheep without loss of income.”
Dr. Cherry, formerly director of Agriculture
in Victoria, made an important comment on
this matter in his “Victorian Agriculture,”
published in 19.13. He cited the experience
of the Board of Works farm at Werribee, and
showed that the return from “young cattle”
ranged there in those times from Is. 6d. to
as much as 2s. 6d. and averaged 2s. per
week, notwithstanding that the animals were
“bought on the open market without any
information as to age and breeding”—the
least satisfactory stocking process that can
be imagined. The practice of fattening
calves and steers by liberal feeding may
seem poor business to the average small
farmer; but there is, in the long run, far
less risk and expense in it than in raising
wheat or sheep. The average farmer, how-
ever, hates to see a beast “eating its head
off” for a year or two, so he gets rid of the
young lie-stock, thus saving himself a few
weeks’ work and a few bobs’-worth of milk,
while sacrificing the return which would be
his if he held' on.
* * * , *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”; Nearly every
“boot hospital” in Sydney holds out a sign :
“Boots repaired while you wait.” The first
man who displayed it in Sydney was one Jerry
Moore, Who nearly 80 years ago had a cob-
bler’s stall on the George-street frontage of
the old burial-ground, against the wall of
which he had book-shelves stacked with
second-hand books —such a stall as collec-
tors of to-day would gloat over. While he
was putting a patch on your shoe Jerry
would lend you a book to read to pass the
time. Eventually he gave up cobbling and
established himself on the opposite side of
George-street as a bookseller; and there he
flourished exceedingly.
“Jackdaw”: Talking about long journeys
with fish, about 25 years ago Jim Heard
lmuled the silver scales per waggonette and
four, in half-ton loads, from nemm River
(Vic.), via Orbost and Bruthen. to Omeo,
140 miles, weekly trips, when roads weren’t
roads. But fish were fish at Omeo. Un-
luckily one night, when Jim was a-nodding
and trusting to his horses, the shay toppled
over at Tambo cutting and killed Jim. The
Omeo fish supply was then cut off. as no
other driver would risk the hazardous job.
Heard was one of the best gee-ups East
Gippsland ever watched.
* * * *
“L’Fou”: “Colly” crows over someone in
northern Vic. getting the banana-flavored
passion-fruit to early in season. But
is early maturity the real crux? Can that
experimenter produce a crop prolific enough
to be payable at ordinary rates? My experi-
ence throughout southern Vic. is that this
strong-growing creeper blooms brilliantly
and abundantly, but sets most meagrely,
especially in its first five or six years.
* * * *
“Good Australian”: A strong combine
was created last year on the Pacific Coast,
from Puget Sound south to ’Frisco, to put
up prices of Amurrikin softwoods to Aus-
tralian importers, advantage being taken of
the shortage of shipping in the Pacific. Now
comes the glad news here at home that the
Victorian Institute of Architects has drawn
up a schedule of timbers that may well be
used in local buildings. Till very lately few
Australians knew the value of their own
splenaid homegrown timber, and most
of us don’t even now understand its
infinite variety. In the leading club
of San Francisco one of the finest re-
ception-rooms is entirely decorated and
wainscotted with Queensland, N. S. Wales,
Victorian and Tasmanian timbers, seasoned,
fitted and carved in California. It would
take a Ituskin to describe the extraordinary
beauty of that chamber.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: Here’s the recipe asked for
by “Darcy” B. 24/1/T8) to successfully
rear turkeys. Give the birds a large run—
the open bush, if possible—and see that there
is plenty of shade and water. Then, beyond
feeding them in the morning, take no notice
of them. The hen will do the necessary, and
there will be no reason to complain about
the death-rate. The young gobblers are fre-
quently killed by coddling and by being
cramped up too much. The best morning
feed is a moistened bran-and-pollard mixture
with (about twice a week) a little finely-
cracked corn in it.
* * * *
“The Wanderer”: About 77 years ago,
when Judge Therry tried the cases listed
at the Windsor (N.S.W.) Court of!
Requests—as the District Court was
then called—an old blacksmith named
Finnamore used to chalk up behind
the door of his smithy the items of
every job turned out. He brought an
action for £3O, which was disputed. The
Judge asked plaintiff to produce his books, to
which he replied that he had not them with
him. Case postponed till next day. black-
smith to produce his books. He did so by
unhinging the shop door and carrying it to the
courthouse on his shoulder. The reckonings
satisfied his Honor. Verdict for plaintiff
with costs.
* * -2- *
“Silas Snell”: When Blank. M.D., took
charge of the hospital, his attention was
presently drawn to John Doll. John was an
old man who might have taken on the office
of head tramp in an American comic film
without any make-up. He lived in a leaky,
tumble-down hut, and up at the hos-
pital every now and again half-dead with
some ailment the result of exposure or mal-
nutrition. After his third admission Blank.
M. 1)., mentioned the case to a friend, and
learned to his amazement that Doll had
made something like 30 thousand pounds out
of Creswick mines, and probably had it still.
In due time Old Misery was back at the
hospital, with influenza. The doctor expos-
tulated, pointed out the risk he ran, and
explained that if he did not alter his way of
life he would certainly contract a fatal ill-
ness. “As it is, you are half your time in the
hospital.” he said. Doll drew him down, and
in a faint caw, like that of a dying crow,
whispered: “Yes. but do you know of a
cheaper way of living?”
THE PRIDE OF THE HAM AND BEEF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Witness admitted that she was known in the
neighborhood as the Pride of the Ham and Beef.” —
Evidence in a recent suburban court case, Melbourne.
I sees ’er standin’ by the block,
A chopper in ’er duke;
A little, shinin’, curly lock
Is leakin’ out; her yaller frock
Is open by a fluke;
’N’ 3’ou can take it from the bard
’Er neck is white as driven lard.
As at the potted ’ead she chips
’Er eyes, in my belief,
Puts new blaek-puddin’ in eclipse;
’N’ redder is ’er lovely lips
Than strips of salted beef.
’Er cheeks are whiter, pinker far
Than nice, fresh, lean ham-rashers are.
She’s lift}' inches round the chest.
The chops she moves among
They are the brightest and the best.
Away from ’er I cannot rest.
I buys her pickled tongue,
A-hopin’ it will tell at length
Me love’s immenserty an’ strength.
I longs ’er pig’s cheek to possess,
’Er pickled feet prefers;
I buys ’er pork ’n’ bacon, less
To eat than cheer me loneliness
With somethin’ that was ’ers.
Cooked meat’s ’er speciality—
Gorstruth, she’s made a ’ash of me!
victoria.
BILLY T.
IN THE MATTER OF COMPLAINTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“The records of the postal service show that only
one letter or postcard out of 27,834 is reported
missing.”— P.M.G. Webster.
Why should we make reports? A screed goes wrong.
War has its chances; and we grin and bear
The circumstance with fortitude as strong
As that the heroes in far Flanders wear.
Reported missing! Why not let it rest?
We must believe the postman did his best.
If we should write in anger and in haste
Denouncing the department’s evil ways,
Much precious time and ink we needs must waste,
For in such case we know that silence pays.
In three months’ time the P.M.G.’s reply
Would tell us the complaint had met his eye.
Then we should be compelled to further state
The size and color of the envelope,
The stamps it bore, the contents and the date
And all the grounds of our despair and hope.
The splendid energy and time thus lost
Would merely add to the department’s cost.
Knowing these things, we bear the ills that come.
With luck a letter may get safely through;
But if it doesn’t we are wisely dumb
And write the missive that was lost anew.
Our solemn silence, born of knowledge wide,
Is the department’s solace and its pride.
So few complaints! War rages up and down
The borders of the lands with sword and flame.
To win with speed our own affairs we drown,
Nor heap upon our rulers scorn and blame.
And so the whole Post Office stands to praise
The monumental meekness of our ways.
N.S.W.
MARY McC.
The Inky Way.
“Chevron"’: Another pressman has won
the Military Cross—Lieut. It. S. Larkin,, of
the Flying Corps, younger son of H. 8.. G.
I.arkin, the smooth-faced g.-m. of Billy
Hughes’s steamship line. The youngster,
who is only 19, was born in Adelaide, And
was a junior reporter on the Argus before
he left for Blighty in 1916 and gained his
commission at 17. When he began recon-
naissance work in France he was the young-
est pilot in the squadron. Ilis big brother,
Flight-Commander 11. J. Larkin, left in 1914
with the Light Horse signallers, was wounded
in Gallipoli, and transferred to the li.F.G.
He won the Croix de Guerre with Balms at
Bapaume last year.
* * * *
“Chickasaw” : Another Australian abroad
who has made himself very much at home is
John lievelstoke Rathom, who, as editor of
the Providence (uliode Island, IJ.S.A.)
Journal, has exposed dozens of German
plots and won for his paper a wide reputa-
tion. Kathom, who has the face of a pros-
perous prelate, was born in Melbourne, edu-
cated there and at Harrow (Eng.), began
his press career on the Yarraside, explored
New Guinea and China, saw service in the
Spanish-American war, and was in S’Africa
as the New York Herald’s correspondent
with Australian troops. It was he who
forced the recall from America of Von Papen
and Boy-Eel, unearthed Dr. Heinrich Albert
and his corruption fund, revealed the Teuto-
Mexican plot, got Consul-General Bopp, in
’Frisco, two years’ gaol, and gave warning
three weeks beforehand that the Canadian
Parliament House would he burnt. Three
years ago he met with ridicule. But the
nation has found out a lot of things for
itself since then.
* * * *
“P.X.”: In every daily-paper wedding
“Mr. Smith acted as best man.” I do wish
those reporters would for a change say that
“Miss Brown acted as bride.”
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang”: I hope the Mitchell
l ibrary or the Defence Department is mak-
ing a collection of Bllljim’s regimental
magazines. The Mirage, edited bv Oliver
Hogue at Tel-el-Ivebir, has long since ceased
to exist; but copies could be procured from
Billjim’s relatives in Australia. Barrak,
the magazine of the Camel Corps, is now in
its third issue, and going strong. Last issue
contained a long article on the two years’
•work of the Corps; it was written by Cap-
tain R. W. Creswell, since killed at Beer-
sheba. The first issue of The Cacholet.
the organ of the Australian Camel Field
Ambulance, is edited by Charles Barrett,
late of Melbourne Herald • it is the best
production so far, I think. Another maga-
zine which will cater for the literary tastes
of the Light Horsemen is to make its appear-
ance shortly.
* ♦ # *
“Jim M.”:—
When (11. 24/l/’18) talks about Max Mel-
drum teaching that Art is a science, he speaks
through his hat. Now that Fred McCubbin is gone,
Meldrum is the most striking figure in Vic. Art
circles and is easily the best artist and master in the
State. Wtiat candidate for the job at the Drawing
School can point to a picture of his (or hers) that
cculd compare with Meldrum’s “Portrait” and “A
Peasant of Pace,” both in the National Gallery? But
why argue? It isn’t a question of capability. Mel-
drum has no chance of being appointed, simply
because he’s not “in” with the naice people.
Worse still he has radical political opinions! Imagine
du gouts like Frank Madden, Gyles Turner (who
deprived Melbourne of Gilbert’s bust of Law Son),
and a few more of the type handing Meldrum the
billet !
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: A rarity even in good private
collections is the Journal of Australasia.
first published in July. 1856, by George
Slater, 94 Bourlce-street East, and printed by
W. 11. Williams. It was of 48 pages. The
first number contained “The Settlement of
Port Phillip,” from John Batman’s journal;
Daniel Bunee’s “Three Years’ Wanderings
in the Australian Colonies”; “Journal of
Current Events,” interesting- because of the
advent of Responsible Government; notes on
current theatricals, and a page of notes and
queries. From January, 1857, it was illus-
trated with engravings on wood, and occa-
sionally had original music, including one
song composed by S. Nelson, of the Nelson
family, of the ’fifties. I have 18 consecutive
numbers, which means, I think, the entire
issue.
* * *■ *
Jane Ada Fletcher, Tasmanian bush-
student, her kick: —
Re proposed Readers for the State schools. It
would indeed be interesting to Australian writers
to know if the real Australia is being represented.
This is how I have fared in the competition for
Supplementary Readers in Victoria. For three years
in succession my publishers entered a series of
short Australian stories and sketches for Grades 111
and IV. Turned down each time. Some of these
stories are embodied in my book published 1917;
others are on the home shelf, including a series of
stories of Australian animals, seldom written about.
Nor are our weekly papers that run children’s pages
any more patriotic. One wonders why preference is
given to the stuff they use while our own bush lore
is cast into the wastepaper basket.
DEATH SENTENCES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
I have an entente cordiale
With Death, for to my mill
He brings much grist. As, one by one,
Men who have something said or done
Of public int’rest fill
The seats on Charon's ferry, I
Write pars concerning them, and buy
My beef and beer with what I earn.
Death does me thus a kindly turn.
Within my brain-box is a “morgue” ;
And there I’ve stowed away
Obituaries by the score;
Each month are added three or four;
And almost every day
I take one out and start off pat:
“John Brown’s demise reminds me that”
He’s helped me live, so, at the end,
I'll greet Death as a dear old friend!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


99
H
Asphaltum
has been tried and tested in this country
under every conceivable condition, on every
class of building.
It has successfully met the most exacting
roofing demands—that is proved by its use
in these big contracts,
’‘Adamax” Outbid Ail Competitors
in These Jobs.
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Commission—Lee-
ton Canning Factories, 20,000 sq. yds.
Messrs. Upton & Co., Ltd., Factory, Alex-
andria, Sydney.
South Australian Wheat Board Buildings,
42,000 sq. yds.
W.A. Government' Freezing Works at Wynd-
ham, 13,200 sq. yds.
The Public Works Dept, has “Adamax” on
its approved list; contracts to the N.S.W.
Railways for 1917-18 were secured by
“Adamax.” There are many other instances
of this almost universal preference.
Needless to say, the most exhaustive tests
were conducted before “Adamax” was
accepted for these contracts.
“Adamax” Costs One-tHird
Less than Galvanised Iron.
Railage charges are reduced one-third.
“Adamax” will not Rust, Rot nor Pinhole.
Neither will it sweat. It needs no preservative
paint. “Adamax” reduces the temperature of
houses 12 to 14 degrees in Summer. There are
many other superior features of Vital Interest.
Write for FREE BOOKLET , which gives full
particulars.
“KLARO”
The Water Clarifier
“Klaro” achieves in a few hours, and at
trifling expense, what has been almost
impossible heretofore—the clarifying and
purifying of water in Dams, Tanks, etc.
Conserved water, .especially in country dis-
tricts, quickly becomes contaminated. To
drink such water exposes one to grave danger
from disease.
“lilaro” Makes the
Water Supply Safe.
it is extremely simple in use, yet absolutely
. effective in all cases., The desired quantity
is simply thrown into the tank or dam and
then well stirred. In from one to two hours
all the sediment, mud or fine vegetable
matter will be precipitated to the bottom,
leaving the water crystal clear and pure.
“Klaro” is quite harmless and has no dele-
terious effect on the water whatever.
For stock or household water supplies
“Klaro” is indispensable.
All good storekeepers sell “Klaro” in lib.,
31b. and 51b. boxes. If not stocked in your
town, post us 35/-, by cheque or postal note,
and we will forward a 151 b. .case direct.
“Klaro” is supplied to storekeepers in one-
sized case only, containing 561 b., made up of
lib 31b. and 51b. boxes.
m
o
ADA MAX
m
m
mm
m •
i j 8
TrnjL-
□
m
William Adams &, Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
PERTH: 33 King Street.
BRISBANE : Cor. Edward & Mary Streets .
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.


A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold, double-cut Diamond-
set Expanding Wristlet. Watch, full jewelled Lever
movement, £lB/10/-. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ pure
Diamond & Aqua-
marine or Tourma-
line Necklace,
15ct. Gold,
£4/15/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18et. Gold,
A. Saunders’ Diamond and Ruby set
Brooch, loct. Gold, £4/10/-
All Diamonds, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond
Cluster Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £B/10/-
m
m
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Earrings,
loot. Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Jling, 18ct. Gold,
£lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
King, 18ct. Gold,
£27/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15ct. Gold,
£4/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lO,
A. Saunders’
pure double-
cut Diamond
Trefoil Cross-
over Rin",
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold, Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Diamond Jewellery.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond
Crescent Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £75.
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
£35.
A. Saunders’ Diamonds and
Pearls set Necklace, 15ct.
Gold, £25.
in'
1
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond
Crescent Brooch, 15St. Gold, £3O.
Larger Diamonds, £45.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
set Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £75.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Circle Brooch,
15ct. Gold,
£5 / 1 0 / -
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
■Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
set Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 Georg'e Street, Sydney,
Opposite Railway Station.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid Gold double-cut Diamond-
set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full jewelled Lever
movement, £l3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond
Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3/15/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
set Earrings, 15ct.
Gold, £75.
Smaller, £5O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
and Ruby or Sap-
phire Cluster Rimr.
18ct. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
and Pearl Necklace,
15ct. Gold, £l5,
All Diamonds,
£22/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
set Ring, loot.
Gold, £45.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Knife-
edge Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £lO.
Larger Diamonds, £l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saundei's’ Lady’s solid Gold, Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled Lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £7/10/-. Extra quality,
£B/10/-. 15ct. Gold throughout, £lO,
£l2/10/-
■a-ysKHH
BJLS
METROPQLE,
SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manages.
///
X
\
Grown on British own€d plantations
in the British West Indian Island
of Montserrat.
M Shipped in British vessels. M
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers.
*mno ton* Letcher & Webb, Ltd. — Liverpool A London,
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merbie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders, a rare book by Defoe, 1/3,
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, If-. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 10d., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics' Work-
shop Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/3. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3/6.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. WYll
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Mysteries
of Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Not Guilty (Blatchford), 1/-. The Art of
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and My Neighbor,
9d. Britain and the British, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/6. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, etc.,
1/6 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal- Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. The Doctor, Cures for All Diseases.
1/6 posted. Letter-Writer Up-to-Date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/-.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/9
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
NO MATTER WHAT BOOK YOU
WANT, I’VE GOT IT.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Established over 25 years.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bdsh Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY
STOCK CAN BE GOT FROM
THIS ADVT.
Write for mv
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking:
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO
DUTY. ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSE-
WHERE SENT.
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/6.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason? by Paine, lOd.
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Night of Temptation,
1/9. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney (only).
m~BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. "T*!!


Amusements.
!( 1 T 10 It 1() N T H BA T It 15, SV I)NE1.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LID.
T.AST FIVE NIGHTS.
KATHLENE MACDONELL
With CHARLES WALDRON
In the ever-delightful story of girlhood,
DADDY LONG LEGS.
Plans at Paling’s.
m
ABBEY
SHOES!
The comfort in Abbey Shoes
promptly dispels the old idea that
smart footwear must pinch some-
where. Abbey Shoes AliE dis-
tinctive —none more so, yet they
are comfortable because they are
built on correct lines.
They are made in half and full
sizes, and in narrow, medium and
wide fittings, hence you are assured
perfection of fit.
We illustrate One of our latest
models—a special High-Grade
Patent Bal;, with Perforated
Golosh and Grey Suede Legs.
Price - - 50/-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre. Sydney.
TIRED ALL THE TIME.
People who are tired all of the time and
never feel rested even after a long night in
bed, who cannot regain weight and strength,
whose step lacks elasticity, and who feel
no joy in living, are debilitated.
A medical examination might easily show
that every organ of the body is acting nor-
mally, but the pallor of the face will usually
show that the blood is thin. This is the
root of the trouble.
Debility is a loss of vitality, not affect-;
ing any one part of the body but the 1
system generally. The blood goes to every
part of the body, and the use of a blood
tonic like Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills quickly |
tones up the system. The first sign of re-
turning health is a better appetite, im-
proved digestion, a quicker step, brighter
eyes, better color in the cheeks. The rich,
red blood, reaching every organ and muscle,
carries renewed health and vigor. The
nerves are quieted, sleep becomes more re-
freshing, and with persistent treatment and
proper living the debilitated patient is once
more able to enjoy life.
A useful booklet on “Diseases of the
Blood” will be sent on application to Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Box 594 8.P.0.,
Sydney. It tells women of all ages how
to be well. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are
sold by most chemists or storekeepers at!
2/9 per box; six boxes 15/3. —Advt.
Amusements.
Hurry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIV O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY
Nightly at 8. Matinees Monday, Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents (by arrangement with
Andre Chariot)
THE GAY LONDON REVUE,
SAMPLES.
“I* I YOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
RESUMPTION OP VAUDEVILLE.
Peter Dawson, Annette George, Hamlin & Mack,
The Skating Novaks, Fred Bluett, Red-head Wilson,
The Two Grahams, Belle Sylvia, Kate Gourlay,
Delmore & Lee.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
HE IC Ma.IES T V ’ S, SYI>N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Ma tinges Wednesday and Saturday.
The Brilliant Spectacular Revue,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE,
A Gorgeous Spectacle eclipsing anything hitherto
staged.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDN E Y.
Direction .T. & N. TAIT.
LAST NIGHTS
and
Matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays
of
PEG O’ MY HEART.
SARA ALLGOOD AS “PEG.”
Plans at Nicholson’s.
p A I/A C E TIIEAT It E. SYDN E Y.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, MARCH 9.
.1. & N. TAIT & BAILEY & GRANT'S
Gorgeous Pantomime Extravaganza,
ALADDIN
And the Wonderful Lamp.
First-nighters’ seats from J. & N. Tait, Banking
House, Pitt Street.
Box plans open at Nicholson’s, Monday, March 4.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UN lON 1* ICTU It E TIIE A T RES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films;
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. BAiutiNGTON Miller, General Manager.
BTO/*Od HJLOCIL
M33AXO 3HI
For the
Child to
be Strong the Teeth
Must be Sound.
Many a youngster’s health is under-
mined because of decayed teeth.
Destructive acids are formed in the
crevices where food particles that eat
away the enamel remain.
the oxygen
TOOTH POWDER-
neutralises the acid secretions and
removes all germs and bacteria.
Oxygen, which is Nature’s great puri-
fier, is a powerful ingredient of
Calox —every crevice and recess is
thoroughly cleaned and the mouth is
left free from all impurities.
TEST CALOX FREE
(A Free Sample will be sent any-
where in Australia) to all who attach
name and address to this advertise-
ment and address to Geo. Wills and
Co., Ltd., 480 Collins St., Melbourne,
or 60 York St., Sydney, enclosing 2
penny stamps to cover postage.
Calox is procurable from
All Chemists and Leading Stores.
F. 28.2.18.
c
lc,KSg)
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDER.
QUICK and KEEN
A quick, keen shave is the result of using a sensible
Razor like
“THE. PLUM.”
Its silver-steel blade is tempered so accurately that, no
matter how stiff the beard, the “Plum” will leave the
face as smooth as velvet.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 307-
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
It’s a Masterpiece—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, .Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information with out delay.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction HEN & JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
POSITIVELY LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
THE RAJAH OF SHIVAPORE,
By DAVID SOUTER and ALFRED HILL,
Popular Prices. Plans at Pianola.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
LAST SEVEN NJGTITS OF .1. C. WILLIAMSON'S
Gorgeous Pantomime Extravaganza,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
Plans at Allan’s. 'Prices as usual.
T" K A K E RoY A L, MELBOURNE.
* Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR
in
THE EASIEST WAY.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to G p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday at 2.30
FAMOUS PLAYERS-LASIvY, MAX
SENNETT. ARBUCKLE, etc.,
FEATURES.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
MARY PICKFORD in
THE LITTLE AMERICAN.
Also
HOUSE PETERS in
THE HEIR OF THE AGES.
Prices as usual.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, MARCH 2.
J. & N. TAIT'S
, Brilliant New Comedy Co. in
TURN TO THE RIGHT,
A MASTER PLAY OF MIRTH.
Prices as Usual. Plans at Allan’s.
|y| A JESTIC THEATRE, A 1 EL BOURNE^
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
OLIVE THOMAS
wants to be a vamp, but Ma won’t let her. in
INDISCREET CORINNE.
5-ACT TRIANGLE SPARKLE.
MatinCes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURN E.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICIv.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
m
MOTOR LORRIES
I=2=3 and 5
Tons
Capacities.
There are 105 replacable bushings in the 3-ton Denby, 102 in the
2-ton, and 86 in the 1-ton model.
Every part that wear will a ffect is protected by one of these bush-
ings. They can be renewe d when worn at a slight cost, and the
truck is as good as ever.
They add to manufacturing cost—but they form one of the many
ways in which Denby construction saves you money.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
British
The AH
rd
READINESS*—and suitability for long
or short journeys, under any conditions
give to the STANDARD LIGHT CAR
Owner a satisfaction which can only
come from the possession of a good
article.
Send your name to our
Agents.
Agents-
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, S>; t iey.
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO., Ltd., Coventry, England.


BEAUTY WITHOUT ROUGE, CREAM
OR POWDER.
A PARISIAN COMPLEXION SECRET.
Contrary to the usual belief, the most
beautiful French ladies rarely use rouge or
creams or powders containing bismuth or
caustic alkali, claiming, and with very good
reason, that such preparations not only give
a made-up appearance, but ultimately ruin
the complexion. When asked what they use
to preserve and enhance their beauty,* they
invariably give the credit to the regular use
of an inexpensive lotion (obtainable of anv
good chemist) prepared by mixing 2oz. Rose
Water with 2oz. Flowers of Oxzoin and I
dram Tincture of Benzoin. Apply every
night and morning with a soft cloth or
sponge. It quickly tones up the dullest skin
and gives a fresh rose-bloom complexion,
such as is usually seen only in youth.
Although nothing has yet been 'found which
completely removes deep wrinkles, this makes
them far less apparent, and a lady using it
regularly is certain never to have a badlv-
wrinkled face.—Advt.
PARAMOUNT PICTURES
The pictures that are known throughout the
world as the best and cleanest in every respect.
The pictures that you wouldn’t hesitate to let your
children see; rather would you send them that they
may be better for the education contained in them.
;***»
c
* * * *
.
I
1
I
m
I
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE TERM OF THE TRADE.
ACTRESS : "What’s become of Stormer?
Resting?”
ACTOR: “Yes. He’s at the war.”
In the matter of Conscription Hughes
couldn’t break his pledge to save the Empire.
But he could do it easily to save himself.
Apparently with Hughes it’s Pearce-at-
any-pnce.
The newest military order in democratic
Australia is that Billjim mustn’t communi-
cate Ins grievances to the press. This is
merely another illustration of Pearce’s bad
judgment. It isn’t a gag that recruits want;
it is a gas-mask.
was . announced on Monday for the
•111 1 .time that the Hughes Government
will begin the construction of six vessels
almost immediately. The names have been
already selected. They are the Slacker, the
Shirker, the Sloth, the Tortoise, the Traitor
and the Too Late.
While we are howling at the Defence
Lepartment we might spare a squeak for
Home Affairs and its brilliant and economi-
cal administration of the Northern Terri-
tory. By June next the elephant will have
cost the Commonwealth £(>,533,918. This
HIS LITTLE SPELL OFF DUTY.
AMARYLLIS : "Oh. you poor thing, you do
look tired! Have you been waiting here
long?"
BIGGS : “Got an hour's leave from camp, and
I’ve been standing in front of this in-
fernal shop for forty-fire minutes.
Agnes is inside buying a reel of cotton!”
year there will be a deficit of £223,000,
besides £60.000 for new public works. To
“govern” 3554 white people costs £lOO,OOO a
year. There are 10 farmers and there are
20 officers in the Agricultural Department,
including a parasitologist to look after the
others. There is an officer of the Mines
Department to every 10 miners or there-
abouts ; and as every year the number of
miners is less the officers will presently win.
Meantime, encouraged by this brilliant
example of the Commonwealth Government’s
“organisation,” Hughes proposes to “organ-
ise” the industry and commerce of the whole
Commonwealth. And nobody locks him up.
The Party system doesn’t make for
clean politics. There is no Hansard and
no newspaper report dealing with those
secret inner Parliaments which really run
the show, while the public, which pays the
bill, only gets the husk of a foregone conclu-
sion in the outer or visible Parliament. The
Caucus members come out with a unanimous
resolution in their mouths, and what induce-
ments were offered to make it unanimous
they know, but they don’t tell. Once the
secrets of the N. S. Wales Labor Caucus
leaked badly, but the member, now deceased,
who used to listen at the keyhole was dis-
covered, and since then more precautions
have been taken.
The Vic. State recruiting committee
shoWed what it thought of the Federal ship-
building scheme. Two or three days after
the public was told that the Ministry had
agreed to plank down £230.000 for the'State
shipbuilding yards at Williamstown, the
committee advertised a recruiting meeting
therfe. It reckoned that any recruits who
came along could do their bit at the Front
and be back in plenty of time for the ship-
building.
For the salaries of Vic. Ministers £B4OO
is appropriated, and they can distribute the
total as they please. Bowser, the new Pre-
mier, who is making economy his watchword,
takes £l4OO a year, leaving the other mem-
bers of the Cabinet £lOOO each. This fol-
lows the later example of the Peacock
crowd, though when Jack Murray was in
Alec’s Ministry he drew £llOO and his
leader £l3OO. Watt (Premier 1912) allotted
£l2OO each to himself and Jack Murray
(Chief Sec.). The McLean Government
(1899-1900) paid all its members al ke.
Hughes in his speech at Bendigo said he
wasn’t going to be “dominated”; if there
was any domination—if he wasn’t allowed
his own way in the National party—then he
would join the Bolsheviks. Transfer that
attitude to the shipbuilding, and you get a
pretty good idea why the business hasn’t
been started.
The War-time Profits Tax, besides giving
the foreigner work which the Australian
ought to have, is also making the Australian
pay more. Cooper's, of Adelaide, who make
a specialty of bottled beer, announce that
they will not take any new customers. Tne
demand has overtaken the co.’s maximum
supply. By a big outlay of capital it could
readily increase its output and earn more
money; but most of it would be
confiscated as war profits, after which legis-
lation might come in with a view to smash-
ing the whole business. It is a case of
laying a good deal to nothing or thereabouts;
so the co. stands pat, and the public pays
and the importer smiles.
“Copabella”: This recruiting is a pathetic
thing. I accompanied a Parliamentary big-gun
to a dinner-hour meeting at one of the fac-
tories noted for consistent Sister-Susie work.
There was an audience of about SO men, 200
women and 50 flappers. All listened atten-
tively while the Parliamentary gun spoke his
piece. Then the women twisted their apron
corners and looked down on the machine
siiop floor, and the men cheered spasmodi-
cally, while two sergeants—one a bundle of
trench-nerves —pleaded with perspiring in-
coherence for “just one man more.” As we
left the works-office afterwards I noticed a
very fine blackwood honor-board in the vesti-
bule*, “A fine record!” I said to the manag-
ing-director. “We’re proud of it,” he said.
“Every one of our eligible men is, or has
been, at the Front—the works chemist, 25
hands and my two sons leading them in Sep-
tember, 1914. Eleven will never come back,
one of them my own hoy. All our employees
are now either married or returned soldiers
—we will not employ any others—and on
our women’s side we give preference to the
sisters, daughters and wives of soldiers!” I
indicated the Parliamentary gun and the ex-
hausted-looking sergeant. “Then why this?”
I asked. The manager shrugged his shoulders.
“God knows!” he said.
“Alec”; Recall this from The Bueeetin
of Feb'. 1, 1912
Sixty-three years ago, a shipbuilder called Fletcher
came to Australia and started to work at his useful
trade. He died the other day, at Port Adelaide, in
his 92nd year, leaving the industry very much as he
found it in 1849. Of course, the country has not
done without ships; it has been importing them at
top speed all the time. The seas are now alive with
foreign-built steamers, and the harbors littered with
the aged and coal-stained ghosts of worn-out imports.
Within the last few years, enough ship-building orders
to establish the industry 10 times over have gone to
Bull’s workshop from this country. The fleets have
almost been built anew, so rapidly lias sea commerce
gone ahead ; but Australia has missed the chance to
get the vitally important industry going oil a large
scale, and to make the country a fit place for the
skilled artisan whose living is" gained about a ship-
builders yard. Under present .conditions,, a ship-
wright might almost as well journey to Switzerland
as come here.
BIZ.
Uaitef l Press Agency’s correspondent at
Washington says the Military Committee of the House
r»• 11 e P r . esen tati ves is framing’ a War. Appropriation
£ 1 4W)'oOO'OOO) 0 ” t0tal S6Ven bil]ion dollars (about
Mars : “Some bird that!"
No matter what the Argus says, Hughes
speaking at Bendigo immediately after pub-
lication of the Commission’s report, was
well advised to make his motto: “Defiance,
not Defence.”
EVERY HOPE.
POET: “Do you think it is a poem that will
live?"
EDITOR: “It ought, to. The good die young."
THE SLACKERETTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Larl;n, yes! All sorts of merry times they had
together, week by week,
At picture-shows and pantomimes, her pink, young
ear against his cheek ;
Gay days at lunch and matinee, grey nights beside
the whispering sea,
With supper later—any way to part him from his
£ s. d.
Oh, she was his own girleen when expensive joyance
was in view—
A taste of.lobster, one or two
Cool, sparkling glasses, brimmed, and then
A taxi out of town again.
'lhus passed the time in dalliance sweet with Girlie,
gayest of the gay,
Lntil, one morning, down the street three shuffling
soldiers went their way ;
And one was halt and one was blind and one walked
crabvvise in between.
And Percy, mooching on behind, saw what he never
yet had seen—
He saw, beneath a smoky sky, the glories of the
stricken field
Irf one enflaming flash revealed;
Saw men go struggling on to die,
And... .“Why,” he said, and trembled, “1... . !’*
And so he did. And when he came to break the
news to Little Miss,
Did she, alll kindness, breathe his name and greet his
coming with a kiss?
With broken words of tenderness upon her fondly-
faltering tongue
Wept she in bitter, proud distress, her soul with pain
and pity wrung?
Vay, nay ! When Percy, rather fit, told her the news,
he saw her stare
At him, with quite a chilly air.
“Well,” he explained, observing it,
“Why—well, I got to do my bit!”
Not one faint moan of sorrow did she give, suspired
no quivering sigh ;
Her long, black, drooping lashes hid no extra
moisture in her eye;
-Vo who-hoo-whoop she uttered —shed not one wild
tear upon his chest.
“Arrh, rats!” —these were the words she said; and
then and there she gave him best,
And sought Another—much the same of silken sock
and shiny shoe,
A merry-minded joyster, who
Was truly very nice and tame,
And gladly joined her giddy game.
VICTORIA.
YOU?
HOLDING ON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
“Senator Pearce declared that he would not resign,
and refused to take dictation or suggestion from the
press in the matter.”
No ! I will not resign ! The press may rave
As far as my strict muzzle will allow.
Their utmost scorn and wrath I gladly brave
And keep my job with an unruffled brow.
No matter what reports may get about
I stick and stick until they kick me out.
I know there are a hundred thousand men
In broad Australia abler than myself,
Stronger to wield the sceptre of a pen
Or pile the simple dockets on the shelf;
But I am here, and here I mean to stay,
While there is office and the office pay.
I know the war is quite a serious thing,
I know the tears that blind a nation’s eyes,
I know that there is nothing I can bring
To aid Australia in her enterprise;
But I hang on through all the red distress
And all the growing clamor of the press.
Because I keep my job some men must die.
’Tis little wonder where such muddle rules.
But who can blame me? A stout patriot I,
Heedless alike of wise men and of fools.
My country calls me, and I do my best,
Officially—to sit upon her chest!
Whv should I yield my place? The foe may win,
Or we may lick his legions out of sight!
But changing horses in the stream were sin ;
And so I see my duty and sit tight.
What odds if the dark future must be taught
In shame and tears the havoc that I wrought?
No! I will not resign! Come one, come all!
I’m planted, and I do not mean to move.
My back is absolutely at the wall
My own heroic sticking-power to prove.
Though the press bawl in language large and rude,
The Kaiser knows my attitude is good!
On, on, on, on through chaos to the end !
God save the war! The big-hats round me throng,
Eager my reputation to defend
• And keep my spirits up and courage strong.
They want their jobs as much as I want mine—
God help them if I offered to resign !
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


An Ideal Country Library of
Australian Shilling Novels.
m
m
m
No better library can be secured by
the reader of fiction Outback than
the “Bookstall” Series. Altogether
there are over 100 Australian novels
possessing the widest variety. The
best Australian authors are repre-
sented.
TY\B
CALLING VOIC£
EF Christie
One Shilling Each—All One Price— Posted 1/1
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
HERE IS A RAN DO VI SELECTION:—
“IN RACING SILK.”
liy GERALD R. BALDWIN.
A tintop racing story containing a
delightful love interest.
“A REBEL OF THE BUSH.”
By DON DELANEY.
A splendid Australian historical novel
dealing with the Macquarie period.
“LOVES OF LANCELOT.”
By EDWARD DYSON.
A delightful series of amusing love
adventures by Australia’s greatest
humorist.
‘ ‘ ABORIGINALITIES. ”
From The Bulletin.
A collection of the gems of humor that
have appeared in The Bulletin’s
famous column.
“THE CALLING VOICE.”
By E. F. CHRISTIE.
A charming story which contrasts life in
the bush and in the city.
“THE BREED HOLDS GOOD.”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
A great war novel by the famous Aus-
tralian sporting novelist.
An enjoyable book all about the
Australian dog;
“AUSTRALIAN BARKERS
AND BITERS.”
By ROBT. KALESKI.
1/-
each.
The latest STEELE RUDD Selec-
tion Story:
“THE OLD HOMESTEAD.”
Over 100 Good Australian Shilling Novels
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street,
—■ SYDNEY.
Obtainable at all Bookstalls and Booksellers in the Commonwealth
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
double-
sided
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
p:
mm
10-inch
double-
sided
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
A Few Selections from List No. 26 NOW ON SALE.
“REGAL” RECORDS are BRITISH MADE.
BANDS.
G 7365
( The March of the Anzacs .
i Kitchener’s Brigade March
Regimental Band of H.M. Welsh Guards.
Regimental Band of H.M. Welsh Guards.
G 7364 —Overture “18X2.” In 2 Parts
.Silver Stars Band
G 7390
(v-ouuuctea oy Albert w. Ketelbeyi.
-Son ff s the Boys are Singing. (In 2 Parts.) Silver Stars Hni.,l
Introducing: We’ll All Have a Holiday in the Summertime, Taffy's Got ills
Jenny, Underneath the Stars. The Same Sweet Baby. Part 2-When
Don, re pa a ck Lo Un & ’You? g TSbIe f s rOI1 ‘ H ° me * They Called * Dlxiel « urt -' Broken
G 7388
f Vale of Avon March ..
( Royal Fusiliers’ March
Wingate’s Band.
Wingate's Band.
07386
The Maid of the Mountains” Selections
Introducing: Dirty Work, Farewell Husbands and' Wives
a Way. ’
Maid of the Mountains” Waltz
Kegal
Love
Regal
CONCERTINA SOI ID.
Orchestra.
Will Find
Orchestra.
07389
\ Stars and Stripes For Ever, March
l Washington Fost, 3larch
Alexander Prince.
Alexander Prince.
G 7393
VOCAL.
j Eternal Father, Strong to Save
) Now the Day is Over (Dykes)
The Temple Quartette.
The Temple Quartette.
G 7396
f Daddy
i My Treasure
Miss Joan Murray, contralto.
Miss Joan Murray, contralto.
07394
f TiH 1 Wake, from Indian Love Lyrics Frank Hallidav, baritone.
( Kashmiri Song, from Indian Love Lyrics Frank Halliday, baritone.
G 7398
1 Take Me Back to Dear Old Blighty
/ Some Night, Some Waltz, Some Girl
Dorothy Ward, comedienne.
Dorothy Ward, comedienne.
G 7407
f Oh, How She Could Yacki, Hack!, Wicki, Waeki, Woo.
/ Down Where the Swanee River Flows .. Duets, Trevor & Thompson, comedians.
07401
S Pals Together Shaun Glenville,
( Where Did You Get the Name of Hennessy? .... Shaun Glenville,
comedian.
comedian.
G 7397
S Cohen (Jets the Wrong ’Phone Number .. Joe Hayman (the Original Cohen)
(Cohen Proposes Matrimony Joe Hayman (the Original Cohen).
07406
(Fancy You Fancying Me William Thomas, tenor.
I Ireland Must Be Heaven, For My Mother Came From There.
William Thomas, tenor.
G 7403
( ZIG-ZAG: “Hello, My Dearie”
I THE BING GIRLS: “Let the Great
Duet. Annie Rees & F, W. Ramsey.
Bijj World Keep Turning:.”
William Thomas, tenor.
G 7363
j SOME: “Have You Seen the Ducks Go By?” ... Sybil Goodehild, comedienne.
(SOME: “Jingrle-.Tohnnie” Sybil Goodehild, comedienne.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola. Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Ptv..
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd.. 123 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—II. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
WORMS.
THE SYMPTOMS.
The symptoms of worms are manifold,
embracing not only facial indications and
depression of the whole system, but serious
irritation and much distress.
IN VERY YOUNG CHILDREN much
of the irritability and fretfulness is often
due to the presence of worms. Restlessness,
fitfulness, sudden starts, hardness and ful-
ness of the belly, irregular movement of the
bowels, and excessive secretion of saliva
from the mouth are invariably indications of
the irritation caused by worms.
IN OLDER CHILDREN the same symp-
toms are present, but more distinctly defined.
Grinding of the teeth, violent movements of
the legs and arms, and an undue flow of
saliva, which causes frequent efforts to
swallow. When awake there is a constant
desire to pick the nose and scratch the irri-
tated parts. The bowels are irregular, and
frequently the movement of the worms
causes diarrhoea, alternating with costive-
“umj . Tbe breatb is usually foul, and the
child is languid and peevish; the tongue
preternaturally red, or alternately clean and
covered with a white slimy mucus. A short
dry cough, frequently slimy stools (excre-
tion from the bowels) ; emaciation; slow
fever, irregular pulse; and sometimes con-
vulsions. Loss of appetite frequently alter-
nates with a craving for food. Indeed, the
latter symptom is most pronounced in many
cases, and many mothers have experienced
the insatiable appetites of their children
without realising the cause.
A MOTHER’S GRATITUDE.
“I don’t know how to thank you for curing
my little girl and myself,” writes Mrs. N.
Walters, care A. Hunter, The Penang,
Gosford, N.S.W. “We both had the worms
very badly, and I tried so’many so-called
remedies, and they did no good. The little
gild was very bad and thin and always whim-
pering. She was really bad. I was very thin
and could eat like a horse, and the food did
™ e ?°r, gooc * ’ so * saw y° ur Comstock’s
Dead Shot W orm Pellets, and I got some
and tried them, and I could notice the differ-
ence at the beginning; that is four months
past. We both look the picture of health
now, thanks to your Worm Pellets. They
deserve the highest of praise, and they get
it from me. I shall recommend them to all
my friends, and I am very grateful to you.
It was a happy day that I first started to
use them.?’
D
a
RP&mxm*
(£O5
barters 7i
-vers
■Vinton
Nanmne
SI
Cun namu)la
Wall
Coolgardie
T 5
Arm
Port
Pirie
W\\W*
f Vi
bUTN
So°
BaV\^ a
OURNE
BAR
m.
fH
mu
m
'Mil
HS
K
""111
(Mill
SB
BS
13
mm
AUCKLAND
J
Wm
CHART i
NEW
ZEALAND.


RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special li isky
foie Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUrjft ?
m
LEWIS &WTIITTY MAKERS
Although successful against self-enfeebled
foes Hun arms are still confronted on the
West with the stern resistance of the spirit
of right, inspiretli that spirit of right King
George IV." topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
IT’S GREAT
m
how I find I can
get p.way for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Eyes and Crowle Etd., Pirie St.* Adel-
aide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0.,
Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto Supplies Co.
Pty., Elizabeth St., Melbourne; K. R.
Russack, 377 a Elizabeth St., Sydney;
Philip Franltel & Co.. Edward St.,
Brisbane.
CAPILLARIHE
m
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
9
w "
m
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Last week was full of grief for early
backers of Newmarket and Australian Cup favorites.
Lingle went amiss; likewise the trusty but luckless
Chrome. Also Red Pennant came under suspicion of
unsoundness, and Yoorala, the flying filly who was
supposed to hold Aleconner safe at the Newmarket
weights, failed to endorse the stable opinion when
finally tested on the track. Yoorala, seemingly, bad
not been severely tested in the first instance or else
she had staled from overwork. She made the running
for half a mile or more in the Futurity Stakes and
then faded away.
The roar of the multitude was an accompaniment
to the Futurity race from start to finish. \\ hitefield
was seen to be left without a hope when the barrier
rose, this being one of the very unsatisfactory starts
that disgraced the machine during the afternoon.
Desert Gold" was always in the front three, and, after
Hoprig had made a brilliant dash and the Maoriland
champion had collared him at the distance, the issue
was thought to be as good as settled. But Wedge
was coining with a determined run in pursuit of the
beautiful mare. The contrast in their way of going
was very marked; Cairns seemed to shake the last
ounce out of Wedge, whereas Desert Gold kept the
even tenor of her way in a comparatively effortless,
low stride. All the same, the rattling Wedge was
catching the mare, who has never been subjected to
the indignity of the whip. He won by a neck, whilst
Panaere, a length and a half away, was pipping
Hoprig for the £3OO third money. The shouts for
the winner on returning to scale- had a ring of pro-
vincial feeling in them, as well as the note of jubila-
tion that comes of having backed a victorious second
favorite 'at 7 to 2 because the first favorite was odds-
on. The local representative of speed had downed
the great mare front Maoriland. Nevertheless there
ivas nothing much to shout about. Wedge is.a mighty
fleet finisher in a fast-run race; but what about
Desert Gold? She had been giving 13lb. to the horse
that ought to nave won the last Epsom at Rand wick,
and 21b. to Panaere, a previous Epsom winner, who
was 11 length behind.
The happiest punters had the blues —Two Blues for
the Woodcliff Handicap and Blue Cross for the
Hawksburn Handiban (2nd division). Blue Cross was
a second faster for the six furlongs than Pistolaire,
winner of the first division race, and if the Caulfield
course were an infallible testing ground for the
straight six at Flemington, this slippery gelding
would look a pretty good thing for the Newmarket
with only 6st. 121 b. (or thereabouts) to carry. But
Saturdav’s running pointed to lots of Newmarket pos-
sibilities. If Hoprig and Wedge are fancied on their
Fiituritv form, then Perdo, who beat Hoprig hand-
somely <up the Flemington straight on New Year’s
Dav. and Petracia, who was faster than Wedge for six
furlongs a fortnight previously, must be counted in
it Delinacre. Panaere, Poitrina, Headwind, The
Hague and perhaps Silver Lake, the Tasmanian, have
real pretensions at time of writing. And there are
others, such as Pah King, Pistolaire and Aleconner.
One can’t do better than follow Newmarket form in
trying to pick a Newmarket winner. Headwind and
Petracia ran second and third in last year’s record-
time race, and both are going strong, for the coming
event. Petracia looks remarkably well at present and
is likely to be in great heart on Saturday. The
writer prefers her to anything else in the sprint.
As for the Australian Cup, due next Tuesday, _it
seems pretty certain to go to something born outside
of Australia, unless Wallace Isinglass, Two Blues or
Prince Bardolpli can defeat the foreign opposition.
On the Woodcliff Handicap running, tall, good-looking
Escomb is still short of condition, for he failed at
the end of 11 furlongs. Otherwise he might he tipped
with confidence. Shadowland also is presumed to he
unseasoned, though he looks more muscular than his
compatriot and stable-companion. If Red Pennant
comes from under the cloud before Tuesday next he
will start first favorite. And so on trough a long
list of “ifs.” The writer fancies Wallace Isinglass,
Defence and Prince Bardolph, with a leaning to the
Prince. He at least is a proved stayer insofar that he
ran away with a Sydney Cup. And Bardolph is very
well just now.
* * * *
“Mujik” ; Red Pennant for the Australian
Cup, eh ? Well, it may come off, but I’ll be hanged
if I can see any reason for expecting such a happen-
ing or why anyone should think the chance good
enough to risk 'his cash on. It certainly is not a
punter’s bet, anyway. The only thing this nag had
done up to last week, in addition to losing, was to
win the Sydney Handicap on October 3. He started
at any old price, and arrived home with the rapidity
of one of Brown’s cows. Four of the starters fell on
the journey, and most of the rest were dead beat
before the last furlong. Red Pennant had 6st. 101 b.
aboard, and when anyone says he ran like a stayer
it ought to be added that everything else ran like a
mule. Of course, he ought to stay, and probably
will, but there is nothing in past performances to
put him in the same class as a stayer with, say,
Prince Bardolph.
* * * *
The Sydney-owned Red Fox, winner of
the Alma Stakes for two-year-olds at Caulfield on
Saturday, doesn’t owe anyone much so far. He has
won twice in four starts. The first appearance was in
tfie A..J.0. Breeders’ Plate, won by Almoner. In this
he finished out of sight. By Christmas he was more
forward, and on the first day of the A.J.C. meeting
attracted attention by suddenly coming to light in a
field of 23 with a run which carried him into fourth
place behind Aranap, Woorawa and Pamphlet. He
wasn’t hacked that time, but on the second day
started favorite among a dozen and blew them out.
There were some smart youngsters in that lot too—
Princess Lucy, Pacific, Slake, Ormint and Peat. Red
Fox is the" property of Cetigile’s proprietor. He
might he heard from again later in life if not asked
for too much in the meantime.
Up till Saturday Wedge seemed to have a
remarkable capacity for running seconds. IV hen
Godby brought him over to Sydney in the Spring lie
did it three times in a week. He was just snuffed
out by Satin Bird in the Epsom and put up a great
struggle with Cetigne for the Rosehill Spring Stakes.
The cup of woe was filled when Merrimee, a rank
outsider, turned the trick on him in the Shorts. Then
the fine-looking black was taken back to Melbourne
and ran second some more.
If it were always “horses for courses” the
best place to keep the Sydney-trained Two Blues
would be near Caulfield. In Sydney he ran one
pretty fair race and several in a style which would be
good enough up-country if the rest were not long off
the grass. Then lie goes to Caulfield and runs third
in the Bond Cup and wins the Woodcliff Handicap at
2 to 1 in a field of 13.
* * * *
When llsrry Nathan, . of Sydney, art
dealer, connoisseur of stoush and dilettante in horse,
won the A.J.C. Cup at Randwick with J. C. William-
son’s cast-off Cadonia five years ago, he appropriated
about £lO,OOO. Cadonia was a. 25 to, 1 chance, ho
there was nothing to grumble at just'then. \V hat
happened next was explained by Harry to the Regis-
trar in Bankruptcy last week. It was mostly a
harrowing story of the horse that didn’t win, winding
up with something about the promising colt that was
going to get it all back but broke down and was
finally “turned out by the trainer to get rid of
him.” The moment Cadonia hit the post in the Cup
a hoodoo seems to have gone to roost on the pre-
mises. Several times it looked as if he couldn’t
lose, and they put in on him with disastrous results.
Finally he won a suburban handicap, and was sold to
a German buyer for £1250. Later, Nathan sold
other horses to the German, and had accumulated
others, to go to the same place, when war inter-
rupted proceedings and everything went up in the
air. At one time Nathan owned Cherubini. He raced
him with calamitous consequences, and sold him for
a song or something. The next heard about the nag
was that he had won the Australian Cup. Later he
had St. Medoc —a fearful frost that cost £9OO to
acquire and realised £BO. There is an awful warn-
ing in all this to anyone named Nathan, who was
on the inside, but of course the cheerful person who
is on the outside can be relied on to take no more
notice of it than a crow.
P. S. O’NEILL, who rode the winners of
Hobart and Launceston Cups.
Parkie O’Neill has already piloted over
half a hundred firsts in Bananaland this season, these
including the Guineas and Champagne Stakes on
Master Walken. He was doing the Speck with his
family when the annual “fortnight” was rung on,
and, chancing to vet the mount on Ordella at the last
moment, took the Launceston Cup. He advertised
his native State at Hobart a week later by winning-
both the Cup and Wilson Handicap on the Brisbane-
bred Ladino. Parkie rides at 7st., but was only
Ist. 101 b. when he started in the game. His vie-
tories include the Queensland Cup, Sandgate Handi-
cap and Chelmsford Stakes (on Sassanoff)., and he
has also ridden winners in India. He is a full
“Sloaner,” aiid when finishing close appears to be all
eyes clothed in colors.
“Mujik” : The A.J.C. is accused of har-
boring an intention to run a 1,2, 3 tote at Randwick
during the Autumn meeting, the division being on the
basis of 60, 25 and 15 per cent. The inducement to do
this is probably the fact that this system has been
relatively successful lately at the ponies. If the
intention is to run the new' system in addition to 1
and 2 dividends on the main machines, the Club
contemplates doing a foolish thing. If it is in-
tended to pay on the winner only on the main
machines, cutting up the pool in the outer joint
into three dividends, then the project is half com-
mendable and half absurd. Randwick is not a pony
course. The betting there is very different to what
prevails at the other place. And the 60, 25 and 15
cut is a fool method of betting, anyway. The reason-
able thing to do would be to pay on the winner in
the big machine and divide the investments on the
other into a flat dividend on the three horses. This
would attract to the contraptions money which is now
warned to go to Ike. But why perpetuate Ike ? And
what is the object really aimed at in this double-
barrelled business ?
* * * *
“Mujik”: When Tango King ran into
third place among the Maiden ponies at Kensington
(Sydney) on Saturday, one solitary speaker had the
rough ’un in the. machine, which held £ 204 10s.
Whereupon he advanced 'to the pay : out window and
lifted 20 per cent, of the pool—£36 Bs. This may
be taken as a first-class sample of what may come to
you if you are the only one with a winning hand.
But the rest of the dividends during the day on this
tearaway system were an awful warning. The winner
of the Maiden paid 10s. 6d., which means that the
public laid 20 to 1 on —odds which if mentioned by
Ike would have caused loud yells for the police. The
second nag paid 9s. 6d., which meant something like
taking 18 to 20 that you wouldn’t get your money
back. In other events drawers of 12 3 divs. bet
this way: Took even money, laid 2 to 1 on; took
evens, took 2 to 1, laid 10 to 7 ; laid 10 to 8, laid 2
to 1, laid sto 2. And so it went on all through the
piece. An indulgent Providence may know what sort
of place-betting' this is, but to me it looks about the
most deplorable illustration of human foolishness that
the mind of man ever conceived. There were 12
races at Kensington on Saturday and 36 placed
horses. The system in vogue allowed place bettors
to luse four times and get their money back once.
In the other 31 cases backers (except the lone indi-
vidual who took 36 to 1) took 5 to 1 or worse five
times and 6, 8 and 11 to 1. Also they took evens
seven times, and in continuation of the game laid 20
to 1 on twice, 7 to 1 on, 6 to 1 on, 10 to 3 on
each once and bet from 3 to 1 to 5 to 4 on in the
remainder. How long- a punter can keep going at
that sort of game may be worth inquiring about when
it soaks in a bit more.
If the owner of Desert Gold didn’t provide
the winner of the Futurity be heard something soon
after that made him feel better, for on Saturday
afternoon his colt Estland outed Biplane in the
Guineas at Wanganui (M.L.). A day or two before,
on the same course, Biplane downed Kinmark and
Ilymestra in the Jackson Stakes, winning easily. It
is reported that he pulled up with a limp. But he
wasn’t limping on Saturday, and is not likely to have
been started .if there was anything wrong with him.
The colt is said to have looked a winner till Howry’s
animal came at him inside the distance. They ran
the mile in “41.”
* * *•
Marie Studholme, a fillv by St. Carlo
—Studholme, was the star of the recent Gawler
(S.A.) meeting. After carrying Bst. 71b. to victory
in the Novice Handicap (five furlongs), beating 18
others, Marie was saddled up again an hour later
for the Railway Trial (six furlongs), for which there
was a field of 12. Again she was successful. Her
dividends were £6 15s. and £4 Is.
■*. * * *
Of course the bowling may have been as
dinky as a hot drink made from cold water and the
fielding as lively as a tombstone, but the Wellington
North (M.L.) team lately got a chance of keeping
the scorer busy. In this match a team of
returned soldiers was walloped by an innings and
605 runs. The losers scored 18 and 10. The
winners put up 633 for seven wickets, made in 4}
hours. The first wicket fell in 71 minutes for 168,
the second 47 minutes later for 47. In previous
matches the team opposing the soldiers made 378
for seven wickets, 563 for six, 633 for seven, and
419 for eight, a total of 1993 runs for 20—all of
which makes it look as if getting into khaki helps
to give a bit of ginger to the cricket Of the other
cove. But whether this sort of thing is cricket or
just an exercise in bashing loose stuff o.ver the boun-
dary is another matter.
Wicket-keeper 11. Carter (Waverley) had
his eye in against Middle Harbor on Saturday, In
the first innings (total 158) he kept Hie extras down
to a no-ball bv Kippax, and in the second innings
only t)vo sundries crept into a total of 74. Inci-
dentally he stumped three, caught two and threw
out another.
* * * *
Up to the end of the last round in Sydney
premiership cricket 183 players had lifted a bat in
11 clubs, and only T. Andrews, M. A. Noble, D.
Walford and E. L. Waddy had always got double
figures. Last season nary a batsman did it.
* 0
O. Asher (Sydney), who took nine for 117
against North Sydney, was the wieket-skittler in
the last round of premiership cricket. Asher, who has
taken 41 wickets averaging 15.09 this season, swung
a useful arm against Glebe in the final match last
year, gathering seven for 37. This landed the
premiership on Sydney’s sideboard. H. Stevens
(Waverley), by producing a bag of 9 for 119 against
Middle Harbor on Saturday, lifted his year’s effort
to 34, averaging 18.02. Last year he took 55 at an
average of 16.16.
* * * *
As a member of a Ballarat Courier team
in a match the other day against the local Baptists,
G. Kennedy, who has been playing cricket for over
30 years, scored 158 not out; and when the Dippers
went in he bowled right through the innings, and
took 10 wickets for 50.
* * * *
The Australian mermaids’ swimming
championships at Melbourne left no doubt about the
superiority of Fanny Durack (N.S.W.), who won all
the free-style events —100yds. (lmin. 12 2-ssec.),
220yds. (3min. 3 3-ssec.), and 440yds. (6min. 3sec.).
Mina Wylie (N.S.W.) was second in each struggle,
and also won the 100yds breast-stroke (lmin. 30sec.).
The only record crumpled was the 440yds. In this the
Durack' effort was 13sec. better than the world's
previous freshwater best. Fanny’s next move may be
to pack a costume for a call on the water-sprites of
Yankeeland.
* * * *
The annual swim through Adelaide was
highly successful this year. There were 128 entries,
and most of them started; the course is ohe mile
200 yards, from the broad lake by the Torrens weir
to the bottle-neck behind the Jubilee Oval, giving the
bunched competitors time to get strung out before
the finish. The handicapping this year, though
generous, was not so unreasonable as in some past
cases, the limit being 6min. —quite enough in a half-
hour’s swim. The scratch man, Spencer Major, from
Port Wallaroo, went through in 28min. 42see., and
was a good fourth. The winner, Roberts, from subur-
ban Gilberton, had 4min. Most of the starters
finished, though some took 50min. or so over it.
There were two girls in the crowd.
* * * *
“Seed”: When “Mat” (B. 14/2/’18) makes
a loud noise about there being “no chance of all the
wild duck shot at Lockhart being' used” he doesn’t
know what he is yelling about. His arithmetic also
is about as reliable as his g'uesswork. The facts are
that 45 shooters got 1178 birds, an average of 13
brace apiece, and that the poultry was distributed
among the friends of the party, who thus had the
material for a good meal free and without getting
wet feet. All of the assassins were baldheads, except
two, and both these were rejected men.
* * * *
A decision given by N. S. Wales District
Judge Seholes the other day might stand on appeal
and it might not. A citizen of Bathurst had an
office and some friends. Therein he and the friends
played banker. He was charged with being the
keeper of a common gaming-house and fined by
a magistrate. The judgment was taken for review
before Seholes. The case for the appellant was that
he and the friends met in a haphazard way, and
wanting to pass the time adjourned to the office
and played banker. They met in this way and
passed the time on three occasions, and he’ „
it was outrageous to say that when a man c .
encountered friends and took them to his
play banker he kept a common gaming-house.
Scholes thought so, too, and said the conviction
would be rubbed out. Now, putting the m
this particular case aside, there is this to be sa .
if the Bathurst citizens had been Chows and had
been found playing fan-tan they would not have had
a dog's chance of escaping a fine. It they had been
plain bottle-ohs enjoying two-up the owner of the
place might as well have pleaded guilty at once.
And between the games known as fan-tan, two-up
and banker there is in point of gambling intensity no
margin of difference. Banker is purely a gamble.
There is no play in it. There is the plain hazard
of a bet on the turn-up just as in headin -em on
the fall of the coins. Also it is a game that lends
itself to a ramp of a particularly deadly kind, the
law may call hazards a gamble anti banket
innocuous pastime, but that doesn’t make its ear's
any shorter.
"Tarwin’’ • Fired Ins last shot at 54, I*.
Humane, one of Victoria’s best-known field and trap
shots. Born in the bush, and a gun enthusiast from
bovhood, lie passed through every phase of the game,
from ’roo shooting with the old muzzle-loader to the
front rank of Melbourne range marksmen. Advanc-
in«»* years left his skill unimpaired, and at oO he
grassed 43 sparrows out of 45 from 25, 26 and 2<
yards rise. His knowledge on Jill points of the game
was phenomenal, and as a snipe shot he scarcely had
an equal. He mustered sufficient strength to leave
his invalid chair for one afternoon, and motored to
the Melbourne Club’s New Year meeting. A few
days later he crossed over.
* * * *
“Roahermil”: Saw Stevenson and Inman
playing here in London tlie other night. I had
often heard Stevenson called “The Apostle of Touch.”
He certainly is. Although the match of 10,000 up,
level, was called a draw, the Apostle was a couple
of thousand in front at the death. Inman was dead
off. He says the army life will ruin his touch.
Young Frank Smith was over here, but I believe he
has returned home.
*■**■*■
“Fax”: The funniest of cinema, screen
effects is a picture of bowlers at. play.- You get
the players moving more than twice as quickly as
they ever do move on their field of battle, and are
struck by their incredible activity. You see the
champion bending with his missile in his hand.
Then the cannon-ball seems to fly from his grasp —and
the rest is a blank: the terrific pace has beaten the
machine! Watching these old gentlemen play
bowls on the screen, everybody who has never seen
it on the green must marvel at the daredevilry.
* * * *
It was Bright’s disease that beat Frank
Gotch, the lately-dead wrestler. Goteh was a fear-
fully rough man-handler, but made a. lot of money at
the business and had the wit to hold it. What a nice,
sporting game wrastling is, though! When Gotch
met Zybsco, the Polish giant, at Chicago in 1910,
Zybsco held out his hand for the preliminary courtesy
of a shake. Gotch met him by suddenly diving
beneath the outstretched paw and employing his new
invention, the toe-hold, an agonising form, of torture
in which the only alternative to surrender is a broken
leg. And the referee stood it, too.


let me mare you a
STRONG MAN!
broaden your shoulders, develop your lung- eaiJacrty in
fact make you a healthy, sturdy man erect in flgme,
firm in step, with an easy, natural, confident bearin
Tiidirious exercise is the natural way to secure bettei
health and greater strength. But be sure the exercises
are suitable to your physique, state of health and
stitution.
Learn a good system such as
MY POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH AND
STRENGTH EXERCISES,
where every movement is prescribed for the very good
reason that it will effect improvement, rapidly and
permanently.
Bv simple study of your individual physical shortcom-
ings, a simple, 'yet scientific, course will be prescribed,
specially for you. The internal muscles and the
muscles which are not generally used, get paiticuiai
attention. , , . .
The aim is to make a steady, all-round improvement
that will be certain to secure better health and bcttu
spirits—more energy and sounder sleep.
Give me fifteen minutes of your time each day, and 1 11
make a different man of you.
Full particulars of my methods and fees are given in
mv booklet, “Health and Strength from Selt-Gulture,
which will be promptly sent to you if you will write
for it. Just write your name and address across this
advertisement. I’ll know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage to
REG. L.( )B AKER,
“ The All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
702 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
mp
'V/
'/■m
f'ft
Wherever
You Need
Current
/COLUMBIA
Batteries
are used to
run engines and
tractors, motor
cars and motor
boats. They
ring bells; oper-
ate telephones
and signals; light
lanterns and portable lights.
Columbia
Batteries
are all-round utility batteries. They
operate as well for heavy as for light
work. They are portable, compact,
non-corrosive—easily connected in the
circuit. Dependable, uniform, strong.
Columbia Batteries sent abroad are
so constructed as to give satisfactory
results under every
climatic condition.
They are protected by
moisture-proof cartons
and carefully packed.
Dealers : I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us :
National Carbon
Company
Cleveland, Ohio, (I. S. A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
"Carbon Cleveland”
klf o.&fll
?y IGNITOBi
W 3* 2 *
Ife
sHf«ctwr«
i
Brisbane-Sydney
Express Beaten
BY 37 M'NUTES
Boyd Edkins does record
JOURNEY IN 26 HRS 3M/NS
Another Tribute to
“SHELL
benzine-
m
v\W v
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
ondim
Catalogue " D " with Pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. C™:
109-113 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
Idjkg
Marine Engines
m
For All Boats
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started>
Electric Lights
m
Callle 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
m
Caille Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7'a 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete
line of marine
motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This em-
bodies one- to four-
cylinder designs in
standard and
heavy-duty types.
Also the most per-
fect rowboat motor
ever produced.
Catalogs giving de-
tails gladly mailed
on request. When
writing, please
state which type of
engine interests
you and advise us
of the service you
wish it to perform.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
DELIVERY FROfl STOCK ; ALSO SPARE PARTS.
Sole Australasian Agents—
BENSON BROTHERS LTD
76=78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
71=75 Queen’s Bridge Street, Melbourne.
/
i
9
9
m
>
THE BEST FOR ALL
-Athletes
Bosisto’s
Parrot Brand
Eucalyptus Oil
Essential to
Athletic Fitness.
Remedy
for Colds, Bronchitis,
Rheumatism, etc.
'v .
CAUTION— Always ask for
BOSISTO’S
PARROT BRAND
as substitutes may be
offered to you.
I
J
m
m
The “StockmarF
Riding Barf
“^easoned'TaoW^iow -
Calf, with' Elastic Sides
• andDoobleTags; Dust*_
sroof,_ light, Icomfort--
’ dhlePserviceable - Easy j
off, the-
t°c k man”- is a boot
.’thatno Australian horse-
- man should be without.
. Obtainable in all aizes.
£
: &
mm
m
(■:■
iH
/S*
i
V»
211-
• - 'ofikfAWQ Guarantee SqtisfactM
s..
Lincoln,- Stuart and Co, Pty. LtcL
* “Specialists in G.utiTtting-liyi'Mail’- '
244-254 Flinders Street, .^Melbourne"!..
m


Sec This Woolbale
m
Send
Your
Wool
to
Carson
It contains the Best Possible Advice
to Sheepowners.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
WOOL BROKERS, LTD.
Sydney AND Brisbana.
[3
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE , PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS.
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO an ft OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointmert
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence ifl
its unsurpassed "virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment, Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
m
the superior force of
LAXO-TONIC
PILLS
Take two of these Pills
to-night before retiring;
the morning will find you
with a clear head and a
vigor and brightness as
surprising as it is delight-
ful. These Pills are a
Tonic Laxative, cleanse
the system and act directly
on the Liver.
‘‘Thera’s Health and
Strength in every Pill."
0
-/V L L
m
W&Qr> j
fjOssdrd
COJZS&TS
They Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
The standard Remedy which has, outlived the Centurlea
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15W6. CURES Write for Rent
BLICHT., fALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHt!
«• GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road, London. England
Insist on Singleton’s’'—refuse all substitutes.
r-.
m
ft
r- v
■'A.:
■ft
ft-
ft
rL? \ ,/ftr
1 % "» V
-W A
m\ ft-
Vf '; -ft V v \\ / V* *
VV! W ft'j P
Vv^\! Vv 1 vflA /
i
•H
\\\'<
?rPr
ft
1
y*
*©k
The Strength of ATLAS m a drop of
PLUME BENZINE
THE ability of Atlas to carry the Globe on his
broad shoulders is positively outdone by the
ability ot “Plume” to create power,
Fill up with “Plume” and you get a spirit so rich in
heat units, so full of energy, that the maximum of
horse power is developed in your engine.
Every gallon of this popular Benzine is of the same
high quality—a quality that ensures “easy starting,
sweet running, more miles.’’ All garages sell it.
Vacuum Oil Go. Pty. Ltd.
Throughout Australia and New Zealand.
m
Eight-Cylinder Automobiles
for IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT.
A cablegram order through your local bank
or export house will bring one of these power-
ful cars to you as quickly as shipping facilities
permit. in service the world over and
adopted by the United States Government.
7-passenger Touring Car, $1650 7-passenger Sedan, $2300
4-passenger Foursome, $l7OO 3-passenger Roadster, $1505
PRICES F. 0.8. DETROIT. WIRE WHEELS $lOO EXTRA.
KING MOTOR CAR COMPANY,
Export Department,
50 Union Square, New York, U.S.A.
safkuard you r HealtH
oTJ*Coffis Broiiii)^
CWorodyne
Tli© Original and Only Genuine.
THE 11BST MKDICIXK lOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of IJKOXCIIITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, SJ-.
Made in England.
The Newcastle and Hunter River
Steamship Co. (N.S.W.) :
To Re-
Oec., Profits. Dividends, serves. Reserves.
1908 ..( £5,103 6 p.c. =£6ooo ) £11,516
Written off, £2500 )
1909 .. 6,152 6 „ „ 6000 £152 11,668
1910 . . 7,239 6 „ „ 6000 1,239 12,907
1911 •• 5,837 6 „ „ 6000 12,744
1912 .. 8,969 7 „ „ 7000 1,969 14,713
1913 .. 10,027 7 „ „ 7000 3,027 17,740
1914 .. 12,753 7 „ „ 7000 5,753 23,493
1915 . . 14,933 8 „ „ 8000 6,933 30,426
1916 .. 24,652 9 „ „ 9000 15,652 46,078
1917 . . 9,948 9 „ „ 9000 948 47,016
Don’t take much notice of the 19105 figures:
probably half of the proht or thereabouts
was derived from the sale of the Karuah to
the Commonwealth Government. In fact,
this paper doesn’t know whether any one
year’s figures are worth very much, because
the profits are shown net after ship and pro-
bably other assets have been written down ;
and the extent of the writing-down isn't men-
tioned. However, by odds and ends of evi-
dence one would judge that the directors cut
off very liberal slices of profit. Look at
this, for example:—
1907. 1912. 1914. 1917.
Ship property . . £78,850 £ 56,551 £43,192 £39,990
Freeholds, etc. .. 3,679 1,700 1,357 1,077
Plant, etc. .. 5,467 3,414 3,166 4,577
Liquid assets .. 35,580 69,491 91,231 129,453
Now there has been no increase of capital in
those 10 years and an increase of onlv
£lB,OOO in the co.’s liabilities. Yet liquid
assets have been piled up to the extent of no
less than £93,867. Meantime, of course, ship
property has shrivelled in the books from
£7B-850 to £39,990; but that’s a matter per-
haps of book-keeping. All that is quite cer-
tain is this: the co.’s net assets, apart from
ships, premises arid plant, have increased by
£•*>,ooo in the past 10 years; and about
£49.000 of that improvement has taken place
during.the past five years. How much less
the shipping property is worth we don’t
know.. But it seems to be able to earn more
than it did five or 10 years ago—especially
10 years ago. Still there is no doubt that
before long the eo. will have to spend a good
deal of its £75,000 of cash and deposits on
ships ; but that will be chiefly because of the
growth of trade. The day that the Broken
Hill Prop, decided on making Newcastle the
headquarters of its steel industry meant a
lot for Newcastle, and incidentallly a lot for
this co.
* * * •
Star Exploration, formed in 1910 to
acquire tailings at different treatment plants
and other assets from the Hannan’s Star
Consolidated at Ivalgoorlie, gave a further
account of itself in London the other day.
The co.’s interests now include shares in the
Lake View Star, Mount Morgans and Bur-
ro? 11 Corporation, as well as holdings in
Nigerian tin, S. African asbestos and S.
American railways, the whole being given a
book value of £20,000. There was at the
date of the meeting £5OOO cash in hand, but
the co. owed nearly £12.000. A div of 6
p.c. absorbing about £1350 was declared. It
was a dip in the dark.
* * * *
Tyrconnel, Kingsborough (Q.), has had
developments of late which, if the mine were
situated in any other place, would have
caused its shares to leap. Each month has
shown increasing yields, and the co. now has
a credit balance in the bank as well as a
new 10-head battery almost paid for. Janu-
ary returns were only from a partial clean-
up and gave 2Sooz. smelted gold from 250
tons, with the boxes not cleaned up, and
these always turn out a couple of hundred
ounces of amalgam. Certainly it is only £3
addition the co. sells its sands
and has a good-grade concentrate. The
stone drawn came from the north end.
which is all virgin ground. Ex-manager
Morgan ceased driving in No. 3 level when
his stone altered and pinched to 2ft., and the
same occurred to the stone in No. 4 level.
Work disclosed that there was no alteration
to the stone between these levels, so it was
decided by present manager Harley to eon-
tinue driving in No. 3 level, with the result
that his formation changed to 10ft. of high-
giade reef. With haste driving was recom-
menced in. No. 4 level, and now 14ft. of the
same quality stone is showing there. The
snaft has been sunk a further 60ft., but it
* s g° in g down 100 ft. before opening out.
In the sink a 2ft. cross reef worth 2oz. was
struck. The co. should be on the dividend
I^aaoa 01 ? the end of this year. There are
140,000 shares paid to 2s. 6d.
* * *
About a couple of out-of-the-way shows:
For about three years Messrs. Hanlon and Ward
have been working a wolfram lease, the Hidden
Tieasure, on Hatch’s Creek (N.T.). The nearest
points from which supplies can be obtained are
Oodnadatta in S. Aus. (700 miles) and Duchess
Cloncurrv (Q.) (350 miles). The syndicate has
averaged 60 tons a year since it started, the lowest
bulk assay giving 66.6 p.c. and the highest 74 p.c.
There are three shafts and an open cut, but the
deepest shaft-down 65ft. on a 4ft. body of ore-
lias not been worked during the past 12 months on
account of shortage of experienced labor. A party
of six miners, however, recently set out per camel
from Duchess under engagement to the show; and
100 tons are expected to be raised this year in
addition to pushing ahead with development
About eight months ago wolfram was discovered
ai Wauchope Creek, 70 miles west of Hatch’s
One claim-holder, Turner, got 23 tons in about six
months and though there are only 12 to 14 men on
the field, production already exceeds 40 tons wolfram
Another promising find is said to have been located
about eight miles out from the AVauchope, but noth-
ing very definite has come in about it yet
Hanlon blew into Duchess the other’day. He savs
that there are a number of copper shows, some
going as high as 40 to 45 p.c., in the centre of the
continent, but costs are quite prohibitive. Galena
bismuth and scheelite are also to be found. He
says that the climate in his part of Centralia is
nthts H f 3 h!an, ; et is wanted f °r summer
nights. He has great faith in Hatch’s Creek and
reckons with something better than a bridle-track
to connect with Duchess, mineral production would
Centra £ h * is sending specimens of
Museum wolfram and scheelite to the Sydney


'.. x .
• ;* C
;■, »: 'V A I* »
3 .»:■ /**
■
%5
jj
V. *
sr«k -' it
I V ye*> *»••%:' I ~-:
K» fevA f . *te* 1 Ay ..'
S#s®/x: jVC\ -iV* .
Hii
a-
sk* *
-A. :■'
& ' *'
Mtf-
&
v
ft •
s*
LI
; 7-
~.> ... ;.
'-' • --' V ~ ■ X tlk
- J
hs.
*e»\
*sp
MjR
bSi»SS
K SA UGW
am
A.' ‘ K "-
» *•
B '■^■■i'r^maart
.A
;>4
* ! /<y
Jkv*
o Mf '
»-.^ x
« ; J* I^'.*
A
.;' ••• V-.-rf
~ - w , | .
.. V ' -.;J ' ‘ ■'■.• '■ i"■ ' '''-♦?- $
. . • . .O &
AA ; ■
' ..vj:,,: ; #«
". *
’•' •• ;2 : f' ’ -
• | . ggg §i ,
-«
A Business Man in Fairyland
Tired and worn! That is the state of the average
business man when he reaches home at night.
Too weary to go out —too indifferent to seek the
relaxation which he needs and would enjoy.
For such men, the Beale Player-Piano provides an easy step into
a fairyland of real pleasure. All the favorites in light operatic
music, ragtime, folk songs or old time ballads can instantly
be played. You arrange your own programme and play it as
your mood dictates. Bedtime comes in surprisingly quick time-
bringing with it the sweet slumber of a mind refreshed.
THEY ALSO SERVE WHO
BUY A WAR LOAN BOND,
Head Office 8i Showroom!
333 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY
m
&C ? LTD
Factory ?
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST
ANNANDALE
Branches at Bathurst. Orange. Lismore, Newcastle Goulburn. VICTORIA : '^ aples j" a " Melbourne •übuita.
TASMANIA: Williams Bros.. Hobart ; Maples. Launceston. SOUTH AUSTRALIA : _ John Evans Ltd . Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Queen St.. Brisbane; Kent St.. Maryborough;
Sydney Street, Mackay ; Cairns
Flinders Street, Townsville; Rockhampton.
m


This is the Improved
ASCOT Shape.
m
m
The slight a Iteration to the
shape of tiirn-bnck points giyes
the Ascot a pleasing smartness.
I 1 its neatly and is ideally com-
fortable. Like all
m
COLLARS
this shape is made in two
qualities. The Ascot as illus-
trated, linen faced, 9(1. each.
The Fiat, 1/- each.
Heights of both, Ifin. and 2in:
Sizes of both, 13Hn. to 1 Sin.
Order by distinguishing name.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
m
WEAR
(T^/nco^
SHIDTS& PYJAMAS
ALSO
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
m
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone nia,| - v times as efficient
“, . rll . an ‘> Powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six decrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
boolclet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
MeareEar Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
Toy Dog Lovers 8 Breeders.
FOR SALE.—ALL-BLACK PUG PUPS, Corrard
prize-winning stock; splendid heads, short
bodies. BLACK AND FAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE WHITE POMER-
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCHES; YOUNG
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome young PEKIN-
ESE DOG. Bargains—no reasonable offer refused.
Inspection invited.
KTRNBANK. Arthur Street. Croydon, N.S.W.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking; Botanical Gardens.
m
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR GAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 vears.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. EUab. 1891.
m
The “Bulletin”
Stock Saddle
AND
The “Bulletin”
Park Saddle.
Two ■of the most Popular Saddles we make.
They both have pigskin seat, the “G.S.”
panel, with leather down sides, long flaps, and
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle.
£7/0/6 Complete.
£6/15/6 without Stirrups.
£6/9/6
without Stirrups
and without Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
in N. S. Wales.
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 13/6; post, 1/-
Saddle Cloth, 6/6; post, 9d.
WRITE TOR CATALOGUE.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or, It in
Australia, Nearest Railway Station.
The Kemp Saddle
AS USED BY
PROFESSOR KEMP
OF
BUCK JUMPING FAME.
In this saddle it is impossible for rider to
be thrown on to head of saddle, while it
also has all the benefits of stock kneepads
without their disadvantages. See how the pads are brought
high up, level with the pommel. The seat and skirts are
made in one piece of kip leather, making a wonderfully
comfortable . seat. The fittings included are Solid Nickel
313 Stirrups, Bevelled Leathers and Folded Girth.
£B l5/ - Complete, or £B' 5/ - without Stirrups.
Freight Free to any Port or Railway Station in N. S. Wales.
Cash with order.
WALTHER 8 STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS
393 GEORGE STREET,
> 32 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
r
mm Hi
HORLICK’
MALTED MIL
*o>
For dispelling that tired feeling—for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies—take Horlick’s. Horlick’s
Malted Milk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
TRY IT AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN
I
WD
*wd Travel
jV«S
.
cftPMfiLlhiQ
taIINIAN
m
Oder
PUTS A SPARKLE
IN YOU
Because it is made from only the purest juice
of the AVorld Famous Tasmanian Apple. It is
not only a delicious Drink, but has a most excel-
lent tonic effect on the system. Doctors recom-
mend it for its diuretic properties. Order a
dozen from your grocer.
Victorian Agents:
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
m
Sixth War Loan.
ALTERNATIVE RATES
~. I •
The 4i per Cent. Loan.
Interest is 4i per cent, per annum, free of Commonwealth and State Income
Tax, exempt from any Wealth Levy.
If Subscription is fully paid by 10th April, 1918, £3/15/- Interest on each
£lOO will be paid on 15th December-, 1918.
If purchased by instalments (10% deposit and 4 instalments) £3/12/0
Interest on each £lOO will be paid on 15th December, 1918.
Thereafter Interest paid half-yearly at 41 per cent, per annum.
HELP YOUR HOMELAND—BUY WAR LOAN BONDS.
The 5 per Cent. Loan.
Interest is 5 per cent, per annum, subject to Commonwealth Taxation, but
free of State Income Tax.
If subscription is paid in full by 10th April, 1918, £4 Interest on each
£lOO will be paid on 15th December, 1918.
If purchased by instalments (10% and 4 instalments) £3/17/6
Interest on each £lOO will be paid on 15th December, 1918.
Thereafter Interest paid half-yearly at 5 per cent, per annum.
BEFORE SUNSET BUY WAR LOAN BONDS.
Prospectus and all information at any Bank, State Savings Bank, or Money
Order Post Office.
28th March, 1918.
FORREST, Treasurer.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Devonia: Please don't send stamps with
pars. The MS. of that sort of contribution cannot
be returned... .F.H.: Don't you believe it; the
padres are not in the way, and the boys like their
company nearly always. There are times, of course,
when they don’t get it-—especially on troopships,
where the officers’ quarters are so much more comfort-
able. But the boys resent the neglect. One N. S. Wales
padre, returning the other day on a big transport
with invalids, let the troops see so little of him en
route that when he did come in at the finish he was
hunted back to the officers’ deck. .. .J. 8.: Yes, but that
doesn’t disprove the funk, does it? Rut: Nobody
■"• comes “out to Australia” in this paper if we can
stop him. This isn’t out. It is in. .. .Pukaki:
Don’t know the record load of wool drawn from shed
to railway. Don’t very much want to know. Guess,
however, that whoever holds the record is a flash
fool who wrecked his vehicle and all the culverts
in the process. .. .Birregurru: No; it’s not the prac-
tice to acknowledge pars. Last one not up....
L. J. O’t: What about the cat ? It gets dose to
the human voice sometimes.... O.B.: Never before
have our pioneers had such a tribute paid to them:
May the next Generations be as good and true,
As the Old Pioneers did for you ;
Stick to your colors of Red, White and Blue,
For there was never one cried wh'at he had to do.
There’s many a lesson to be learnt from this old
crew,
Only a few living but they’re as good as new ;
For they have never forgotten the days that flew,
And of the sights they tell us of, too.
. ...M.D.C.: The “Wind” is labored stuff that can't
get a free breath... .C.H.: We don’t buy novels nor
do we profess to supply general information
A.D.A.M.: No. .. .C.H.L.: If you want copy back in
case of rejection, send stamps with it....R.8.:
“Almost Home” doesn’t quite strike it... .L.8.C.G.:
The yarn gets lost in the telling Y.E.A. (or
something): No hope of reading it K.H.: “Swing-
ing the Lead” too long for interest... .A.S.: Not up.
H.W.W.: Doesn’t thrill W.C.K.: Fair verse,
but lacking freshness and interest Nomen:
Nothing in them... . Ecce: Nice moral tale with the
usual suggestiveness 8.F.: “Cassidy” has no yarn
in him.... Plain Dealer: No 1.6. G.: There is
not enough in Mrs. Jones Matta Parr: Hint of
skill, but no more J.C.E.: No use.... Doc.:
Tame stuff H.W.R.H.: Tame, dull “Eagle” that.
. ...C.L.D.: You have a very long way to g 0....
A.G.G.: “Eliza’s” yarn is about as thrilling as a
beetroot... M.8.P.: “Grey Day” must go back....
E. : “Inez” doesn’t pull at the heart-strings....
C.R.H.8.: The verse isn’t strong enough to carry
it. .. . J.H.: “Dreams’" fails a little in craftsmanship.
Try it again. .. ,L.W.: Doesn’t make a yarn....
R.1.G.: Crude stuff.... X.Y.: We don’t care for it.
H.T.: The “Thrush” is close up M.A.: Look
up the pronunciation of “hyperbole” and see whether
it rhymes with “soul” Roma: No J.M.N.:
No use... .T.A.C.: Well, see one stanza in print and
shudder:—-
Now women not of tender years are numerous to be
found,
Who have no chance of happy homes with children
playing round;
And with an anger fiercer than the storms that sweep
the bjy.
They cast a vote with vengeance for to take our
lives away.
H.H.W.: “Dora” is no yarn. But what about
the remark that “she could generally depend upon
catching him Saturday afternoons”? What kind of
bait ?. .. . A.N.: Look in the paper and see the sort
of stuff we print. We . want that—and better
F. : Horrible yarn with no special point....
J.M.P.: Chopped prose cannot masquerade as verse
here. ...D.G.S.: Too slight E.M.: Moral attitude
in “His Past” beats us. “Days that make men”
sounds like a nut-cracker chorus.... Sandstone: Wo
want meat. You can keep the parsley and other
trimmings E.V.S.: Very thin stuff R.E.N.:
Fair verse; but a hundred better things have been
written on the same theme 0.C.: Not up
C.C.: The yarn is horrible, but not convincing
J.C. : The “Wedded Lover” is not a pleasant beast.
J.K.B.: Very poor shout .T.H.C.: It doesn’t
amount to anything except a puzzle in caligraphy.
. ...G.E.L.: Not nearly good enough... .M.R.:
Sorry, the shovel has it on this sample. .. .A.D.8.:
Doesn’t get to grips with things ; still it might sell
elsewhere C.C.: Heavy, artificial stuff Lorr.a:
No use... .Nairda: You’ll have to get more freedom
from the conventions. But there’s promise—lots of
it... .Binnong: “Bush Camp Fire” fails through
bad versification, weak thought, absence of atmo-
sphere and lack of anything interesting to say....
/.V.: No interest for any human creature....
G. : Can’t imagine any publication on earth
sighing for it .... L.J.C.: No use.... Bipod: Never
met a “Wind” as clumsy as that liatharos: No.
....First Offender: Try to say something... ,L. 1.:
Maddening thing, but not interesting. .. .H. 8.:
Heavy, dull and tuneless W.L.V.: “Apostle” held
for inquest. Others not for us R.E.F.H.: Find
out how many stamps to put on your yarns before
you post the next lot—if there is a next 10t....
C.P.H.: We don’t want it.... R.P.: Solemn lecture
on “Laughter” not in demand G.P.M.: N 0....
E. : Dreary sort of curse E.A.: No, thanks
F. : Not our style... .H.C.: Easy verse that says
nothing. .. .F.J.N.: Good enough sonnet of its kind:
but why deal with abstractions?....Oairan: No; the
metre jangles out of tune and the thought fails in
places. But it’s a good try... .E.M.E.: Not enough
there. ... Amos Manbis: Neither verse nor ideas soar.
E.A.M.: Easy, feeble stuff Fanuela; Hardly
possible to use that method of criticism. “Mem’-
ries” doesn’t seem better. “Idyll” wants better
handling—particularly at the end R.N.C.: Verse
too rugged. .. .H.D.A.: Nothing. .. .E.M.8.: You
must learn Jo think and write without leaning on
bad models 1.C.8.: It’s a very lame attempt. ...
C.H.T.: Boots good to a point, but goes weak at
the end R.M.: A good yarn of its kind, but
hardly ours.... L. 8.: Don’t care very much for trick
verses ; they must have uncommon cleverness to get
through. .. .T.D.S.: Verse nothing; yarn too crude.
Binghai: Very clumsy Jonmurra: Old gag in
rotten verse.... Graduate: The yarn isn’t much and
the ground has been worked before... .8.H.: No;
but, anyhow, a man who writes on both sides’of the
paper doesn't want a hearing... .Bro: Lamentable.
... • G.A.: Awful verse.... N.T.: “City Mission” is
lame verse carrying lamer thought V.K.: Moral
slush A.D.: That “Flea” yarn in maddening
verse turns up about once a month A.H.T.: Not
nearly... .Whitelaw: Verse too rough DN •
Nothing in that....E.A.V.: It bored us....CJt”
No.


*-•——
||| "
If
'
', I> >'-•*/!• " .• ‘ *■
■; ||
V; • i ' - *wSBfer lvi
£
as
j£
111
... a, A '?
M
V vs
•-: : mmSk
\Wst
; ■• :
Pi
?M
p*Mw?Ls i
■ill"
i at
Iff
SH
m
IV
W
’
': -I
iilil
ifi
SfS
‘";Vf?'.;
ft-;;--
■
Hi
i
f ?-f
Sis
>rr
I?a
m
Belts Reclaim the Seventh
The demand for Klingtite Belts has
of late been sharply increased by the
very real need of saving coal.
Inefficient transmission belts cause
an unavoidable waste of power
equivalent to nearly one ton of coal
in every seven.
Klingtite Belts make it possible to
reclaim this seventh ton.
They are reclaiming it in hundreds of plants
representing every industry in Australasia.
Yet it is now hardly two years since the first
Klingtite Belts drove pulleys in a factory in
any part of this Continent.
Five years ago, no experienced engineer in any
part of the world dared hope that an improved
type of transmission belt could salvage the
seventh ton.
So the first Klingtite Belts were grudgingly
installed by master mechanics, who hoped
only that they would give longer wear per
£ s. d. of cost.
That desired longer wear they gave in full
measure and unfailingly.
At the same time the output of the power unit
they served was undeniably increased.
They salvaged power and saved coal.
Since that recent time millions of feet of Klingtite
Belts have established in all parts of the world, a
power-saving average of 14 per cent. —a saving of
one-seventh of the power created by the units served.
The demand for them has reached a pitch of volume
which inferior belting, with a generation of endorse-
ment for long wear, has not attained.
The very swiftness of their adoption by Australian
engineers is incontestable evidence of their merit.
Their price is a little higher than that of ordinary
belting, but the real or ultimate cost is lower by far.
They give longer service per £ s. d. of cost and
unquestionably do reclaim needlessly wasted power
and coal.
Transmission and Conveyor Belting—Steam, Air and
Water Hose—Goodyearite Packing—and many other
mechanical necessities are stocked by us in Adelaide,
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane and Perth, and of
which immediate delivery can be given.
ELDER,
SMITH & CO., LIMITED
27-31 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
84-88 William Street,
Melbourne.
12 Martin Place,
Sydney.
334-338 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Western Australian Agents: ELDER, SHENTON & CO., LIMITED, Elder Buildings, William Street, Perth.
m
m


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Calines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Lta.,
'lei.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4Sio! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
IUJNDABERG
* ROCKHAMPTON |
(Tt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 0.
Leaves Sydney, March 9.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 20
Leaves Sydney, March 23.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, March 2.
‘Passengers only.
Pull Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hun It In g, Public Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman); The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, ICt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A.;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June .30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480.000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,’669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —-Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
head OFFICE --- BRISBANE.
Brandies—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa,. China, the East
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHEI_,DON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LY'SAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
.TAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector lor
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of (faui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
, , land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual
at Interest lor
fixed periods, r.no
Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni
Marine Risks
ture,&c. Rents also assured
on Wool, Merchandise.
Hulls of Vessels, Freights.
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN lIAIGH, General Manager.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
the “ALL-RED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
m
m
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF N£W SOUTH WALES,
ISstablished 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £3,904,860
£2,875,000
£3,904,860
£10,684,720
The Hon. Sir Charles K. Maclvellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq. ; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
835 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
- £2,000,000
- £2,000,000
- £2,000,000
£6,000,000
m
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England; The
London County and Westminster Bank Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Z boug/it than st
Fairfax.®£chertv
SOyears aso'f
m
m
m
m
mm
Selected Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£l4.
3 Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£lB/18/-
2 Choice Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£l5.
5 Selected Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£lO/10/-
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE n
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to al)
other Queensland
Ports. j
S.S. RUPARA, March 2.
S.S. MORIALTA, March 9.
S.S. PARIXGA. March 16.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Oliice.
G. S. YUIIX & co„ i/ri>„
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice versa,
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
T Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
1* rom Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorgre Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to. Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbali,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports,
Melbourne and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first’ port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Inter-State Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
narticulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visitiDg London
J\. should read the British Austral-
ian. 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
r-ontaining mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia aud news of Australians in Europe
■md at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High Ilol-
born, London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information withont
"barge.


i
w
n
sal
w
*
m
. ■ M
X
i
mm
m
fifty*
•ass
£|t§
? r
SMs
■M3
»S*
- : Z*r. ' \
si
KODAK PICTURES
pleasure in the making
pleasure in reviewing
7he most charming hobby for man, woman or
child is the making of Kodak pictures, which
involves no hard work and is daylight-all-the-
wav. You not only get the keenest enjoyment
from making the pictures, but you have fine
records that will last forever, and which can be
reviewed and enjoyed again and again.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak
Junior is ail excellent camera
—both simple and dependable.
Takes pictures 2| x 3J inches.
Price 55/==.
The No. 3a Folding Auto-
graphic Kodak is the most
popular camera in the world.
Takes the popular postcard pic-
tures, 5|- x inches. Price £6.
Ask for a demonstration.
Of any Kodak dealer, or
KODAK (AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
Incorporating BAKER & ROUSE PROP. LTD.
379 George Street, SYDNEY; “ The Block,” 284 Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane. The Valley. 37 Bundle St., Adelaide. 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
Buthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. Denham St., Rockhampton. 34(i Argent
St. Broken Hill. Dixon St., also corner Eambtoii Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z.;
3 ilorne St., Auckland, N.Z.; 76 Stuart St.. Dunedin, N.Z.; and Christchurch, N.Z.
lUiimiiiii
HIIUIIIIMtIII
imiiMuitM
%
I.01(1
A
r't
%
ft
v ;
0
L
1H
>v^3
r
/
*1
K
02
vvW\
Am
mvv«
<2O
03
'©■ 6
ryi
His Masters Voice
ReQ- Trade Mark.
When the weather turns wintry
—when it is wet and cheerless outside and home is the happiest haven —
then, particularly you would appreciate good enlivening music. Let us
emphasise the necessity for GOOD music. None other is tolerable.
You get THE WORLD’S BEST when you get
His Master's Voice
—the best instruments, the best artists, and inimi-
table recording. It is the success of “His Master’s
Voice” reproduction that has won for it the exclu-
sive recording of the triumphs of all the celebrities.
Hear the" Zealand
It embodies, in portable and convenient form, all
the excellent reproducing mechanism that has
made “ His Master’s Voice” famous. It has the
unique “Gooseneck” tapered tone arm, and “Ex-
hibition” sound box ; internal “floating” horn with
wooden grille; double-spring spiral-drive motor,
speed indicator, etc. It is beautifully finished in
Polished Quartered Oak, with nickel-plated fittings.
Price - - - £l4/1916.
Look for the Dog Trade Mark.
Instrument Catalogue, record lists and name
of nearest accredited dealer on request.
The GRAMOPHONE Co. Ltd.
163 Pitt Street , SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Regd. Trade Mark.


THE GRESHAM,
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
Under the new management of T. M. Ahern, the
following improvements have been completed New
Commodious Lounge, whole of Ground Floor;
New Dining-room, seat 150 persons ; New' Kitchen;
New Automatic Elevator; New Hot-water Sys-
tem throughout; New Bathrooms A- Lavatories.
Missing Friend s.
T E ES, RICHARD A. Write
Emily, Harcourt Road,
your sister
Payneham,
Alterative
Mixture
Splendid Tonic. Will pre-
vent DISTEMPER, which
is so prevalent.
Price 2 6, 5 -
Booklet ‘B,” “ Hints to Dog: Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
ms
Mil
Stud Hereford Bull Calves of Distinction
THREE FOR SALE.
'\rrw'VTTrc! t , New Zealand Breeder of Stud Herefords, FRANK
MOORE, BUSHI PARK, KAI IWI, WANGANUI, is exhibiting three
splendid Stud Hereford Bull Calves at the
SYDNEY ROYAL SHOW.
These animals will he sold at the Auction Sales which are held
during Show Week. Messrs. HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN Svdnev
will act as Auctioneers. ’ J
All three Calves are by the Great Imported Bull “Rufus.” He
is a Bull of magnificent quality, being a grand handler, and having a
rich coat and a great wealth of flesh all over. Among his strong points
are Constitution and wonderful Bone and Size. These he has trans-
mitted to his progeny.
as a calf realised the highest price at Mr. A. P. Turner’s
Great Dispersal Sale in England. There has been a strong demand for
his Calves, which are limited in number. On their dam’s side these three
Calves are all descended from the famous “Amethyst” strain, which
has been so phenomenally successful in New Zealand. They are equiva-
Jent to imported animals, tracing back as they do to “Amethvst”
Bush° r p k B B [ ] eedors shoul(1 not miss this opportunity of securing a
THE NEW AND UNIQUE MAGAZINE.
SEA, LAND AND AIR
will Entertain as well as Educate Old and Young.
SEA, LAND AND AIR
The Contents will tell
ABOUT THE SEA
ABOUT WIRELESS
ABOUT FLYING
ABOUT SOLDIERS
ABOUT SAILORS
ABOUT SHIPS
SHORT STORIES
DESCRIPTIVE ARTICLES
ATTRACTIVE NEWS
ILLUSTRATIONS
PARAGRAPHS
CARTOONS
Price 9d.
ARTICLES BY ALFRED NOYES, ARCHIBALD HURD, HILAIRE BELLOC ETHFT
TURNER ARE SOME OF THE FEATURES OF THE FIRST NUMBFT? L
PLACE YOUR ORDER NOW. —THE MAGAZINE WILL BE AVAILABLE IN MARCH
* \ \\ \ V \ f ll
!su
v m /:
m
J
The World-famed
House for Quality Gems
Designs unique and exclusive are outstanding features of our unequalled
DIAMOND RINGS.
Vi ith eight Australian Houses, and two the largest in London, our
Diamond Purchases and our Sale of Diamond Kings are
ten times larger than those of any other Australian Firm.
Extensive buying for ready cash makes possible our
Low Prices and Splendid Values.
Call and Inspect or write
for Catalogue to
STEWART
DAWSON’S
SYDNEY.
Strand Corner.
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
Grlen Huntiy”: William Saunders, who
the other day was found lying dead across
his bed in a hut on the banks of Broken
Creek, near Devenish (Vic.), was probably
the last of the original Georgia Minstrels,
ile was born in Alabama 75 years ago, and
in his earlv days was a slave. Gaining his
Ireedom after the Civil War, he came here
with the first Georgia co. in 1877. That lot,
which was under the management of Charley
Hicks and Billy Wilson, made a hit at Mel-
"Peg o’ My Heart” at
Sydney Palace.
Gerald Henson as
Jerry.
bourne Princess’s
with “Uncle Tom's
Cabin,” the cast
including Charles
Crusoe, J. Mat-
lock, Sam Ivienan,
Ilosea Easton and
Morton Jackson.
Saunders was
mostly cast for
female parts, but
was also a capital
end-man. He left
the stage about 20
years ago to go on
the land, and of re-
cent years had a
job at a sawmill.
“H. 0.”: The
statement by
“Fax” (B. 21/2/T8)
that Kathlene
Macdonell, heroine
of the weeping
“Willow Tree”
episode, also left
the stage during
the Brisbane run
of “Outcast” owing
to a titter in the
gallery, d oes not
surprise me. The
absurd entrances
and exits of the
three leading char-
acters in the last
act of “Outcast”
(during which the
titter occurred) give tlie play a strong re-
semblance to farce, and in Melbourne it
almost invariably caused a ripple, especially
from crowded Show-week audiences. Another
reason why the gallery sometimes becomes
restive when Miss Macdonell is on the stage
is that the Canadian actress’s enunciation is
so poor that it is often a strain to follow the
trend of her remarks from the stalls or
circle, and the gods are always inclined to
resent the action of a performer in whisper-
ing secrets to the conductor of the orchestra.
ialapousi ’; Other stars besides Tvatli-
lene Macdonell have taken prompt measures
to reprove a giggling audience. It was the
opening night of a rotten co., and at the last
moment they substituted “Hast Lynne” for
the advertised bill. Now, Tallangatta w r as
ted up of the weepy drama; yet all went
well until the death scene of i.ady Isabel,
wdien a large'lady heaved a sigh and whis-
pered audibly. "Oh, she’s dead, poor dear!”
"Dead be bothered,” burst out the hand-
maiden from the pub, who had suffered an
overdose of Beetle Willie’s erring ma.
"The next waggon-lord of them that comes
along will brinsr her up again.” The audi-
eLce tittered, whereupon the heroine rose
REG WYKEHAM, ONCE ACTOR, NOW
SOLDIER.
The drawing is by Daryl Lindsay, the one member
of the astonishing family who hasn’t hitherto fol-
lowed art. lie hardly knew that he could draw until
he got into khaki. Theft- brother Bill finis encouraged
him to illustrate regimental tags; and now he is
being found guilty of excellent work, some of which
has been printed in London.
from her deathbed and advanced towards
tee footlights. In lurid language she told
the crowd her opinion of its manners.
Nor did she desist until the drop-curtain was
urgently lowered on her head.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Drury Lane's “Alad-
din,” with Madge Tithcradge in the title-
role, differs from all previous pantos, at this
historic house. In fact, Arthur Collins re-
fuses to label it pantomime, preferring “fairy
musical comedy.” Collins has seen the
splendid results achieved out of the Aladdin
story by Oscar Asche in “Chu Chin Chow,”
and has decided to follow suit. He has
discarded the popular music-hall songs of
the season, hitherto supposed to be indis-
pensable in Christmas panto., substituting
for them specialty-written lyrics that con-
tribute to the development of the story. Tne
comedians have also been suppressed, and all
through the emphasis is laid on the dramatic
features and situations of the story. This
necessitates three acts instead of the cus-
tomary two. F. Anstey, the writer of this
new version, has provided Madge with sev-
eral excellent opportunities for emotional
acting, notably her scene of terror in the
cave. Although under pressure of war con-
ditions economy is the order of the day in
stageland as elsewhere, Drury Lane con-
tinues to maintain its brilliant spectacular
Christmas traditions. Three scenes—the
interior of the cave, the flying palace, and
the Princess’s wedding—are feasts of color
and artistic grouping.
Aladdin’s Slave of the Lamp in the
Drury Lane show is another of Australia’s
old friends—Caleb Porter, the forceful char-
acter mummer who scored with Wilson
Barrett and later with Oscar Asche.
Osswald Stoll is not allowing the Bing
Boys’ boom to peter out. His newest
Alhambra revue is “The Bing Boys on
Broadway,” and all the Sammies in Blighty
are crowding in to see it before taking part
in their own show in France.
“E.T.”: Hied in Worcestershire, in
December, aged 02, Fred Storey, the versa-
tile mummer and remarkable dancer who
toured Australia with the Nellie Farren-
Fred Leslie burlesque company. He was a
many-sided artist who of late years was as
well-known in England for his scene-paint-
ing as for his mumming. G. A. Storey, the
Royal Academician, is his uncle. His only
daughter, Sylvia, is Lady Poulet.
Ambrose Manning (last seen here in “The
Whip,” “Harbor Lights” and “Via Wire-
less”) had a comedy part in Bairnsfather’s
rhe Better Ole,” but his voice gave out
and he was replaced by Henry Weuman,
brother of Charles, the J.C.W. potentate.
“J.F.H.”; Enormous crowds in Trafalgar
Square, London, buying war bonds and cer-
tificates. Madge Titheradge not only in-
vested a modest thousand, but recited the
Song ol England,” by Alfred Noyes, from
the top of the war “tank.”
“Old Vic” from the other side :
One of London’s historic theatres, Sadler’s Wells,
is about to be converted into a warehouse. Fallen
on evil days, it finally became derelict after the
failure of experiments in running it as a music-hall
and picture palace. Sadler, who built it 177 years
ago, had a suburban public-house and pleasure-
gulden for visiting Cockneys and pilgrims to neigh-
boring wells or springs which cured people of gout
and rheumatism. Mrs. Siddons, Edmund Kean, nib-
din, T. P. Cooke, Ilenry Irving, Grimaldi (most
famous of clowns) and Sam Phelps are a few of the
eminent players who trod its boards. It was under
the management of Phelps in the ’fifties that Sadler’s
Weils attained its zenith. His brilliant and scholarly
Shakspearean revivals drew all London up to the barn
in Islington. Two members of the company—William
Hoskins and Rose Edouin—afterwards emigrated to
Australia. Rose (Mrs. G. B. \V. Lewis) played the
child rOles in the Shakspearean productions at Sadler's
Wells, and she is probably the sole survivor of the
splendid company. It was while Hoskins was play-
ing at this house that a young stage-struck wine-
merchant’s clerk named Brodribb came to him for
advice and instruction. Hoskins was favorably im-
pressed by the ardor and appearance of the youth and
coached him for a few months. The young man
afterwards called himself Henry Irving.
Bill B.”: Billjim thought he was going
to see the home-made goods when he paid
his five piastres at the Kursall (Cairo) the
other night to hear “Alice Le Mar, the Aus-
tralian vaudeville star.” He even took a
bouquet and a bag of cooees. When a young
lady with a Cockney twang began to sing
about Erb and ’Arriet, Bill threw his
and cooees under the seat, mur-
mured “Dear mother,” and went around to
the opposition show to see the film, “Red
Cross Work in Australia.” Once he saw
the face of a girl that he used to know—
and you should have heard the racket.'
“Thames”: Walter Bentley professes to
recall in the S. M. Herald “the picturesque
old colonial days on the Thames gold-
held (M.L.),” where he played with
Ins own company “to crowded houses
at one pound for admission, a sum
tiequently paid at the door in nuggets.”
This was in 1873. Now, I lived on the
lhames from ’O9 till ’7B. The theatre at
which Bentley starred was owned by John
Bennett, and the highest prices charged were
•Is., 2s. Od. and Is. Henry Talbot, a bigger
star than Bentley, played to those prices.
As for the nuggets, the diggers never ten-
deied them, simply because there were no
nuggets, the Thames being a quartz-reef field
from first to last. Bentley picked the wrong
field.
“Drying Room”: A visiting lady-star
has a weakness for Turkish baths, and when
she saw the sign of the Crescent and soap-
suds in Westralia she asked her husband to
wait a minute and fled to investigate. Hus-
band sauntered towards the door and met
his wife flying out again like a comet. “No
bath to-day, dear,” she giggled, and ex-
plained why. The establishment was kept
by a grave and mature gentleman who
explained to her that his wife, who formerly
attended to the ladies, had unfortunately
fallen ill. But that makes no difference ”
he explained elegantly. “In her absence 7
attend to all the ladies. Sex is nothing at
all to me. madam—nothing at all!”
“W.F.K,”: Narrow squeaks on the stage?
\\ ell, when Pollard’s Opera Co. played “The
lorty Thieves” at the opening 'of His
Majesty’s, Perth, a block of jarrah fell from
the gridiron during the first act. and
ricocheting on the scenery, aeroplaned for the
trombone-player. It lightly brushed his ear.
banged the concrete auditorium and skidded
up the aisle. At the Royal, Adelaide, when
Bland Holt, in the “White Heather,” was
making his exit per bicycle, he steered over
the footlights into the orchestra. The
trombone-player was momentarily absent
that time, but arrived to see Bland untying
himself from his band parts. P.S. —I was
the trombone-player on both occasions.
“Norbell”: Talking about interrupted
shows. Fifteen years ago William F.
Hawtrey put up “A Message from
Mars” in Ivalgoorlie for the first time
“The Easiest Way" at
Melbourne Royal.
Brockton (Frank
Harvey) in a sus-
picious mood.
there. A cloud-
burst occurred
just as the rag
went up, and
owi n g to the
noise on the iron
roof hardly a word
from the stage
was audible, al-
though the actors
and actorines were
spouting their
darnedest. The
pantomime con-
tinued for half an
hour, and then
Hawtrey ordered
the curtain down.
He went in front
and explained the
position in dumb
show. After his
semaphore message
the orchestra blew
and banged until
nine o’clock, when
a lull occurred.
Then Hawtrey
“rang in,” and we
began the play once
more. The show
wasn’t out till after
midnight, but no-
body cared; you
could get into any
pub on the Golden Mile at any hour of
the night in those times.
HER MAIDEN MODESTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
She came to stay at our hotel
(She had a gorge 11 aunt in tow),
And all the lodgers liked her well
On sight, and wished to let her know;
But she was simple, she was. shy™
Demurely Prudence passed us by.
tier skirts were longer than they wear
That garment on the Block these, days.
She seemed to take a special Care
To hide her ankles from the gaze
Of cheeky men. No wind that blew
Displayed the modelled calves of Pm.
Upon the stairway blushingly
Her garments she would closely hug,
And pattering to the bathroom we
Saw something smothered in a rug.
A coy survival seemed Miss Pru
Of far-off eighteen-fifty-two.
Then I beheld in some distress
A gymnast’s marvellous display.
Oh, bare the lady was ! Her dress—
Two ounces and no scruples, say !
That of itself was nothing new,
But, man, the acrobat was Pru !
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
BUSMAN’S HOLIDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Away from the shrill “Beginners, please!”
Away where I scent the blest sea-breeze!
Full length on the beach I lie at ease
And forget the insistent small boy
Who bustles you up to the scratch if you
Show signs of being late for your cue—
Oh, the bliss untold, and the peace that’s new
In the land where there’s no call-boy!
Forgotten the horrible stage-wait scare,
The limelight s hiss and the footlight’s glare,
From school let loose, set free from care,
_ And shaking a leg that’s looser;
Nerves are relaxing off the chain—
W ho wants to see the old show again ?
Ocean and forest and hill and plain—
This would baffle the best “producer.”
Still, it’s dreadfully dull at the set of siun;
Amusement there is little or none ;
Now, in town the pleasure has just begun....
And the theatre biz is humming....
I’m off! In half an hour I’ll be,
If the train’s on time, per courtesy
0f the management, in a stall seat. Gee!
twill be great to see some mumming!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


mm
1*9135*
ym
i•*•**
«fflS
•%
3S
> *Ssi
5^
..Miiwiwai
4 ?;
~. . • ’Sffißr
n
god
M
»
■ ...\
: V-v.
. ‘ v t.
>S J; J ' I
I :
’
: ■
•» ‘‘.V-'-'.
■''VSE'l#'*■.»■’'■
,« :
Si?
■ ■
v/j; --^ r
■' * ssssk
■ r Z
■ V* <*>%
f v- : ,
' " I
llillllg
. :■' X‘
•-"r *•-*'
.
t” ,-'
. ,%>;•
raasmiOEKKiE^amizxr;;
; '> y ;
cn. jkW.sirdwood
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whisky.
***** 'fraJvcm J ft.
*"*" tiu.ru£pa
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
*T*HE above portrait of General Sir W. Birdwocd is one of a new series of drawings specially
I executed for us by W. jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of M. Venizelos, Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir Douglas
Haig, General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W. Robertson, General Foch, General
Cadorna, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, Peter 1., General Sarrail, General Brussilcff,General
Russky, will be sent to any address on receipt of if- postal-note, or \2 penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES vGATSON & CO. LTD., 26 Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
■'%
% /
V
/
r\
j
v
n
1
€
>c
M
/
\tX*
% kJ
Hk
1
\ r
/ %I
%.
r
J I
%SftCSr
1
I
J
%


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Why Have Grey Hair?
Few people know that grey liair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few nights
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy and has given perfect satis-
faction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret.
Blackheads, Oily Pores, etc.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment rids
the skin of blackheads, oiliness and enlarged
pores almost instantly. It is perfectly harm-
less. pleasant and immediately effective. All
you have to do is to drop a stymol tablet,
obtained from the chemist, in a glass of hot
water, and after the resulting effervescence
has subsided dab the affected portions of the
face freely with the liquid. When you dry
the face you will find that the blackheads
come right off on the towel, the large pores
contract and efface themselves and the greasi-
ness is all gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft
and cool. This treatment should be repeated
a few times at intervals of several days in
order to make sure that the result shall be
permanent.
The Magnetism of Beautiful Hair.
Beautiful hair adds immensely to the per-
sonal magnetism of both men and women.
Actresses and smart women are ever on the
look out for any harmless thing that will in-
crease the natural beauty of their hair. The
latest method is to use pure stallax as a sham-
poo on account of the peculiar glossy, fluffy
and wavy effect which it leaves. As stallax
has never been used much for this purpose It
comes to the chemist only in lib. sealed origi-
nal packages, enough for 115 or 30 shampoos.
A teaspoonful of the fragrant stallax gran-
ules, dissolved in a cup of hot water, is more
than sufficient for each shampoo. It is very
beneficial and stimulating to the hair apart
from its beautifying effect.
How to Remove a Bad Complexion.
Cosmetics can never really help a poor com-
plexion; often they are positively harmful.
The sensible, rational way is to actually re-
move the thin veil of stifling, half-dead scarf-
skin from the face, and give the fresh, vigor-
ous and beautiful young skin underneath a
chance to show itself and to breathe.
This is best done in a very simple way, by
merely applying mercolised wax at night, like
cold cream, and washing it off in the morning.
Good mercolized wax can be obtained from
any well-stocked chemist. It absorbs the dis-
figuring cuticle gradually and harmlessly,
leaving a brilliant natural complexion. Of
course, this also takes with it all such facial
blemises as red blotches, tan, moth patches,
sallowness, liver spots, . pimples, etc. As a
freckle remover and general complexion beau-
tifier this old-fashioned remedy is unequalled.
The Powder Puff Passes.
Every normal woman is always interested
in any plan by which she can quickly enhance
her beauty, provided the plan is perfectly safe
and simple. Ever since the discovery that
ordinary cleminite, such as any cheihist can
supply, is an instantaneous and harmless
beautifier, there has been a growing demand
for it from smart women everywhere. They
usually get about an ounce and add just
enough water to dissolve it. A little of this
perfectly harmless lotion gives a beautiful
complexion to any face instantly. It renders
face powder quite unnecessary. Moreover, its
use cannot be detected. The skin is instantly
beautified but appears perfectly natural
under the closest scrutiny. T 3
Neat Underwear.
THE
.WOVEN NAMES,
jly I ish, Ej^ectiVe
Made ir*
.Australia
May BE PROCURED THROUCH-
any up-to-date Mercer or Draper.
OUR NAME ON THE BOX
4s a guarantee of Quah^
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen. 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
Poirol
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
LETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St. , Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worIL
m
The development of energy
depends on continued good
health ; health depends on
the will-to-be-healthy.
Resolutely determine that
you will be healthy; the
empire needs healthy men,
men who radiate energy, as
never before in its historv
HE daily habit of taking a half teaspoonful of Kruschen
Salts in a tumbler of hot water when rising is
a healthful and invigorating practice. Not only are the
salts remedial, cleansing the system of excess of uric
acid, but they contain certain valuable tonic properties
that no other salts possess. The daily use of Kruschen
braces, invigorates and energises while keeping at bay
Rheumatism, Gout Lumbago, Sciatica and Constipation.
m
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
mm
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
ALL. BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 237-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Krusclien), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
mm
C'T'E'n
A I LK
BULL-DOG
DIE-STOCKS
WHEN you screw pipe, do it with the least labor, bother
and complication possible. BULL-DOG DIE-
STOCKS give you the 5 big Oster features
%
plus the easy-pulling ratchet.
(1) Self-locking, adjust-
able dies; (2) Self-cen-
tring guides, lever-oper-
ated ; (3) Dies open up
after cut (to lift off pipe
without backing up), and
reset automatically to
size; (4) no loose bush-
ings to lose or mislay;
(5) no small, breakable
parts.
Vor details write Australasian
Representative,
05TER BULL- DOG
RATCHET DIE = STOCK
No. 102 R screws six sizes
of pipe to l^in.
Ask your dealer to show it.
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, G.P.0., Melbourne, Australia.
The Oster Mfg. Go.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A. [3
Sixth War Loan
Serve your Country by Subscribing
It is your duty as a Citizen,
If you have not the money on
hand the Commonwealth Bank
will make liberal advances to
enable you to subscribe.
Bonds held in safe custody free of charge
For all particulars apply to any Branch of the
Commonwealth JSanfc of Hustvalia
101« DENISON MILLER, Governor
H. E. Taylor resigns from Christ Church,
Hawthorn (Vic.), after 30 years’ service.
His predecessor, Wood, began in ’54, the year
of the foundation, and droned there till ’S7.
Two men in the one pulpit in 63 years.
Dear Bulletin, —“Wart” perpetuated an
ancient error when (B. 7/2/’lS) he referred
to the late John Batman as the “founder
of Victoria.” The first permanent settlement
in what later became the colony of Victoria
was established at Portland on Novem-
ber 19, 1834, an enterprise with which Bat-
man had nothing to do. “At that time,” in
the words of the first settler himself, the late
Edward Hentv, “there was no white man
nearer than King George’s Sound on the
west and Twofold Bay on the east.” —Yours,
Frank: Henty.
“L.A.G.”: I’m doubtful now about the
theory that a flour-laden ship would he
ensinkable. The following is from the
Saturday Evening Post (8/12/’17) :—
A ship loaded with flour for the forces in Mesopo-
tamia was sunk in the Mediterranean. Three addi-
tional ships with duplicates of this cargo were all
torpedoed in rapid succession.
“Opal Ring” : “Murkah” has a lot to learn
about telegraph regulations (B. 31/1/T8).
Figures are allowed in private messages, but
at a different rate. Ordinary rate is 9d, for
16 words local and Is. inter-State. Figures
(which come under the head of cipher) are
charged for at Id. per word, with a mini-
mum of Is. Nobody would kick against
(say) a date or hour appearing in the text
of a telegram ; but when business houses use
figure codes it is a different matter, and you
can’t stop one without stopping the other.
There is a heavier responsibility on the
operator with a code message, as a mistake
in one figure may alter the meaning of the
whole message. So I reckon the extra charge
is fair enough.
“Sr”: Is this an old trick? A Melbourne
clerk was in the Commonwealth Savings
Bank waiting at the counter to pay in £32.
A stranger tapped him on the shoulder, in-
dicated a half-sov. note on the floor and in-
quired if the young man had dropped it. The
y.m. stooped down and thankfully picked up
the flimsy, but when he arose gone were the
32 quids and the kind stranger l The half-
sov. note was a sprat to catch a flathead.
“Sliprail”: An industry which should
prove a big one is the boiling-down of bunny.
At Yeoval (N.S.W.) works were recently
erected capable of treating the 2500 rabbits
that are dragged in daily. After the meat-
extract has been got the bones and flesh are
bagged up as fowl-feed and fertiliser; glue, a
medicinal oil and a lubricating oil are also
bj 7 -products, while the skin is sent on, for
felt-making. The only objection to the new
industry is that it is entirely Australian.
“New Moon” : If the trade doesn’t get a
fairer deal pretty soon, The Bulletin will
have to rechristen Bananaland. Bananas
there still are by the thousands of tons. But
where, oh where, is the profit? Between
Townsville and Cooktown there are deserted
banana clearings every hundred yards or so.
You see, the boats don’t call, as a rule, and
when they do they are often slow and freights
are skyhigh. The shipping cos. seem to judge
fairly accurately the prospective profit on
each shipment, and collar about 75 per cent
of it. That’s why the clearings are deserted.
But Fiji’s rejoicing!
“P.R.N.”: When Budd, who was hanged
the other morning, was carried in to Mel-
bourne Hospital with his throat frightfully
gashed, he was as near to passing out as
man could be. An honorary surgeon was
called in, just about the time when all good
clubmen are getting home, and after two
hours’ work patched him up. At one period
proceedings were suspended because the
patient seemed dead —and the tussle with
death went on for days. It’s not so bad
for the doctors; but I wonder what the
nurses were thinking on that last grisly
morning.
In Victoria the egg-farming returned-Bill-
jim thinks he has found a weasel at work
among his profits —the miller who mixes
smut dust and tailings with the pollard and
sells the combination as though it were
wholesome hen-fodder. The results are a
reduction in the egg-output and frequent
funerals in the yard. The Government has so
far neglected to fix a standard for pollard,
so the swindling adulterator, if he does exist,
has a fairly free hand. John Mickelburgh,
who holds a useful position as president of
the Utility Poultry Ass. —the U.P.A. wants
to see fowls grown for their eggs and flesh
instead of for the beautiful markings of their
feathers —has been making representations
to Dave Oman, the new Minister for Hens,
and Oman has responded with the usual
promises. But this isn’t quite a case for
ordinary promises. It’s the returned Bill-
jim who is struggling to get on his feet that
these thieves, it is said, are mostly swindling ;
and that’s almost a hanging matter. Or
ought to be.
Served his last summons at Yarraville,
Fred J. Davis, a man who made a stir in
Vic. police circles in the ’90’s. Educated for
medicine, but, with so many others, hard hit
by the Boom, he joined the force 27 years
ago. He was only a young Melbourne bobby
of a couple of years’ standing when he
rashly hauled up before Panton, P.M.. a
young squattocrat for offensive behavior. The
charge was dismissed, and Panton said biting
things to the bobby. Davis reckoned the
bench was nacked, and, being a whale for
principle, sought to appeal. The Depart-
ment refused to go further, but in response to
Davis’s fulminations told him he could do it
privately. Davis had a whip-round among
the men in uniform, borrowed other money,
and went to the Supreme Court w r ith his
squattocrat. He won, and the casq went
back to Panton for re-trial; but Davis spent
many long years paying off the costs. It
wasn’t a healthy thing in those days for a
plain John Dunn to “crash” a P.M., so Davis
faded away to the ouscurer suburbs. Ever a
fighter, he bobbed up again a few years
later when John D. grew restive under
the rising cost of uniform cloth. John D.
reckoned serge quite dear enough, and Davis
fought the case for it, and won again. Of
late years he has been plain-clothes man at
Footscray. G.p. began to grip him in 1916.
and he died hard, practically in harness.


Country Club, £395
Light Four, £365
m
S’
Motor Cars
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Magneto Ignition
AiniHi
i
Overland Light Four-Cylinder Touring Car
wm
mmm
m
Twam i''.
Overland “Country Clu^
A New Achievement—and
Its Value to You
From motor cars that emphasize the
utmost economy without sacrifice of
quality, to the very highest type of car
in the luxurious class, virtually every
size and type of motor car is represented
in the Willys-Overland group of models.
This is a new achievement in the
motor car industry.
Its has necessarily
been gradual, involving as it did the
accumulation of vast resources, exten-
sive physical properties, an. enormous
amount of equipment and the training
of a huge organization.
This has been distinctly a Willys-
Overland aim and achievement.
ts.
From the beginning the policy has
been the quantity production of motor
cars of quality.
It has been a steadfast policy to
share the economies and advantages of
quantity production with buyers of
Willys-Overland motor cars.
Heretofore this policy has benefited
certain classes of buyers only. But now
there is a quality motor car in the
Willys-Overland group for every class of
buyer.
Straight through from top to bottom,
quality considered with price, will show
you values in every class, possible only
as the result of this consummation of
Overland plans.
Orte executive organization,
—one factory management,
—one purchasing unit,
—one sales management,
—one dealer organization, produce
and sell all of these models.
Enormous economies thus effected
are thus distributed so that every motor
car shares proportionately.
Any buyers of Willys-Overland
cars regardless of class, save materially.
See the Willys-Overland cars first.
Let us show them to you today.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE:
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
'*Country Club”
Willys-Knight Model
Four-Cylinder Touring Cof
Complete Catalogues anti Prices on Reguest from
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney. HEATHORN & CO., Hobart & Launceston,
EAGER & SON, Brisbane. AUTOCARS LTD., Adelaide.
KELLOW FALKiNER LTD., Melbourne. ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N r Z. FARMERS' CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z,
The Willys-Overland Company Toledo, Ohio, TJ. S. A
Manuiactuiers of Willys-Knight and Overland Motor Cars
and Light Lorries


VULCAN TRADING CORPORATION
General Merchants
importers and Exporters
Manufacturers ’ Agents
120 Broadway - New York, U. S. A,
The entire facilities of our great organization are at your
disposal for the conduct of your export
and import business.
Inquiries for raw and manufactured products of any country are solicited.
Offers on all raw products of your country are desired by our import department
Liberal advances will be made on consignments .
All inquiries and offers will receive prompt attention.
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE:
FRANK B. SMITH, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
’Phone 9148 City.
m
1 !' n"'! 1 " !
si
II
arSK
1 M i jii ff
t
*k
liiiii
IK
\w
J
I
111
111
:
mmm.
m
\
mm
9m
• *
r*s^
-t* *
3jgl
■
1119
ill
HUDSON
SUPER
SIX
V -
roriMMii jm
:: T
.HUDSON/
\ SUPER/
\ SIX/
PLENTY OF POWER in HUDSON CLOSED CARS
The tremendous reserve power of the Hudson Super-Six motor carries the
Hudson closed cars with ease. None of the slugcrishness so common to most
.. o o
cars of this type is found in the Hudson.
Hudson Limousines, Town Cars and Landaus are masterpieces of design,
In beauty and luxury they are distinctive. Many cars that cost more do not
equal them.
On the boulevards of all the leading American cities and throughout the world
you see Hudsons. They are the choice of fine car owners.
Dalgety &, Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety &l Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Kellow-FalKiner Motor Co., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide
W. Johnson &, Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address: HUDSONCAR—DETROIT.


Suffered 4 Years
With Dandruff
Fell out of hair as soon as
touched. Scratched and head
broke out and was painful.
Eruptions came as pimples.
Very inflamed and itched.
Healed by Cuticura.
From signed statement of J. R.
Gray, Lake Goldsmith, Beaufort, Vic.
It is so easy to prevent skin and scalp
troubles by using Cuticura Soap, and
no other, for all toilet purposes, assisted
by touches of Cuticura Ointment to first
signs of pimples, rashes, dandruff or
irritation. Bathe with Cuticura Soap and
hot water, dry lightly and apply Oint-
ment. At once the itching ceases, sleep
and rest follow, and healment in most
cases results in continued use.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address :
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIES
SP£CIAUSf
TWO
l/A/SS
#J S
WRITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
p.N°
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
m
520 GEORG E5 T SYDNEY
ZT /iOTMTER S T NEWCASTLE
ELEY
CARTRIDGES'
Always Reliable
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL*
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs. T.S. Black
Powder and ij oz. of shot.
• ELEY
*3BO
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 38
S&WRevolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS.
420. George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS. L? LONDON
. £
t -
:
m
Wh.
* %
(''(ttwrm/*,
«v
s
••Before / Sit in a Chair / Like to Know Whether It Has
Been Polished with an Oily Substance or with
TV/TOST LIQUID POLISHES remain on the
IVI surface, gathering every bit of dust and
dirt and soiling the hands and clothing. Dis-
criminating housewives add to the comfort of
family and guests by polishing their furniture
with Johnson’s Prepared Wax—
“ The Dust-Proof Polish”
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a perfectly hard,
dry, glasslike polish of great beauty and durability.
It never becomes soft or sticky in the hottest weather
or from the heat of the body. Consequently it does
not gather dust or show finger prints.
Polish All Your Furniture
—including the piano and organ —with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. You will be surprised at the won-
derful improvement. It gives Craftsman Furniture
that soft, artistic polish so appropriate to this style.
It entirely removes the cloudiness from Mahogany,
restoring its original gloss.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping Hining room tables bright and tempting.
Hot dishes have no effect whatever on it.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Keep
a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos. Piano Woodwork
Floors Furniture Motor Car
yjHNSOAffr
io "»*o»*i** m«*
fe-/
N
Obtainable from all good Dealers —or
■ Use this Coupon for Trial Tin - -
I enclose 6d. for trial tin of
Johnson’s Prepared Wax
sufficient for a good test. Also send book
on Home Beautifying, free and postpaid.
Name
Address
I usually buy from.
Fill Out thit Coupon and Pott to
s. c. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street. Sydney, N. S. W.
i
-r.
lk>
ltv
15>£aui\y
16 l&.rgely a nrvAH-er* cpf*
'JDe.rfeC't CSomplc^ciorv^
m
m
SOAPS
Jznsure skin loveliness & add a zest to the toi/et.
PRICE’S, London. Liverpool, Manclvesfer, Glasgow, Etc.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of. Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
There are always plenty of crows waiting
around for a peck at the cadaver of marital
affection. Here is one of them, advertising
in the Argus : “If he smacks you, smack
him back and sell the furniture to,” etc.
“Captain” : About every third rustic pub
in England is “The Pig and Whistle.” The
quaint old label is a corruption of “Peg and
Wassail.” In the wassail bowl there were
pegs placed one above the other so that each
drinker might know when he’d had his
whack. “Pig and Whistle” is easier said,
aDyway.
“Steve Hart”: “It’s like this,” said the
commercial. “The W.T.W. Party has de-
cided” “The who?” says Cocky. “The
Win-the-War Party!” “The Win-the-War
Party !” snorted dad. “You mean the Waste-
the-Wheat Party, don’t you?”
“As at every former great moment in the
war, the people of the Allies are nervously
apprehensive that the Germans have some
new destructive machine in reserve,” says
the Age. The Bulletin regards the situa-
tion with philosophical calm if Germany’s
success depends upon the Ivaiser having a
new arm up his sleeve.
The person who refuses to pay his debts
because the law allows him to do so in war
time should be required to register, just like
a bankrupt or an old-age pensioner. Then
if it transpired that a rich politician who
voted for the moratorium was using it as a
device to keep poorer men out of their money
he might get three cheers.
Alf Farthing, secretary to the Vic. Cab-
inet, has at last rewarded the police force
for putting him into Parliament, for it was
owing to an emphatic report of Farthing’s
that the Government decided to give John
Hop an extra bob a day. The member for
East Melbourne worked it out that £3 9s.
lod. a week was the lowest possible amount
that would buy bare necessaries for John,
married and with four Hoplets, allowing
nothing for the family’s ice-creams and pic-
ture shows, and making no provision for
boots for himself. The mental picture of a
John Hop without boots moved the Cabinet
to grant the extra money forthwith.
“Billy Blue” : Apropos of the struggle of
the Stinking Fish party to prevent Australia
growing its own barristers, on the ground
that the beastly colonial was naturally not
fit for the job—anyway, not till he had
spent a few years in England. Even after
G. R. Nichols had succeeded in beating
down opposition and getting the necessary
law passed, it was still for many years im-
possible for an Australian barrister to be a
judge. It was not till IS6I that this law
was altered in N. S. Wales. We are mak-
ing some progress, after all.
In the hope of making Binghi a self-
supporting proposition Vie. Aborigines
Board has decided to place on the Lake
Tyers (Gippsland) reservation all the
people under its care. The last count
showed the number of the Board’s pro-
teges to be 133 full-bloods and 136 half-
castes. Some of them are from across the
Murray, but none claim Gippsland as their
hereditary country, though this was origi-
nally the seat of the great Ivurnai tribe,
which was divided into five clans. Tyers
belonged to the Krauatungalung clan, of
which there are none left. The last wild
man “came in” in 1871. He was a Biduelli
tribesman, born at Bukkanmunji (now
Buchan, where the caves are), on the Upper
Brodribb River.
At Richmond (Melb.) Court recently five
greengrocers were fined various sums for
“topping” the tomatoes in their windows.
The names of the defendants were Lopes,
Barbutus, Barca, Picone and Rodiquerz. A
community that allows its retail trade in
fruit and tomatoes to be almost monopolised
by swarthy Dagoes hardly deserves protec-
tion from the law. At the present time
hundreds of returned soldiers are looking for
chances to turn an honest penny as vendors
of what the public wants, and if the resi-
dents of Richmond formed a White Aus-
tralian League for giving their local returned
soldiers a chance, the tinted “topperers”
would soon be snuffed out. Practical patriot-
ism might as well begin at the fruitshops and
barrows as anywhere else.
“O. Blin” : German Foreign Minister von
Kuhlmann, who has just married the
divorced wife of John Freeman-Mitford, is
still tenderly regarded in the loftiest sassiety
circles in London. He spent six years in
the Fog as Councillor at the German Em-
bassy and rapidly shed the Prussianism
which he ever wore lightly, and became a
model of English fashion. Before the war
he was known at all the swell London clubs
and was among the first guns at the annual
grouse and partridge massacres. In Ber-
lin, which he visited regularly, he anglicised
his set and started an epidemic of golf,
English tweeds and afternoon tea. Von
Kuhlmann is an undisguised Anglophile
whom every good Junker should regard with
suspicion. He was born in Constantinople,
where his papa found a mint in the Ana-
tolian railway. The son is now 44.
The new Russian leaders are, as usual,
being pictured as obviously bad, mostly-
bearded desperadoes. But political heretics
rarely live up to the wild fancies of law-
abiding people. Nicolai Lenin has a face of
severely respectable cut, with a sumptuous
forehead and whiskers. Trotsky is a bald-
headed Jew whose heavy black brows dis-
parage the effect of features that might
otherwise serve Charlie Chaplin in a
“movie.” Godwin’s face would make an ex-
cellent poster for “The Silver King.” Stir-
ner. who wrote one of the most revolutionary
books on record, was a mild-looking, spec-
tacled pedagogue. Lasalle was a handsome
Jew who inspired hopeless passions in Some
of the frauleins of his time. Tucker, Bakunin,
Kropotkin, Prudhomme, Fourier, all provide
evidence of the fact that a high, if erratic,
intellectuality softens Nature’s coarsest
attempts at caricature. On the other hand,
this paper knows a red-faced policeman of
the most unimpeachable virtue whose awful
visage is torn with Prussian Frightfulness
when he is directing traffic.


A
misM
No talking-machine
manufacturer dares
to make this test.
ISTo ordinary talking-machine manufacturer
dares to invite a public comparison between
a great artist’s voice and the reproduction
of that voice by his talking machine. No
ordinary talking machine could sustain such
a test.
The NEW EDISON
has been tested in this manner before two
hundred thousand people. Great artists such
as Marie Rappold, Anna Case, Alice Verlet,
Christine Miller, Marie Kaiser, Elizabeth
Spencer, Helen Clark, Arthur Middleton,
Thomas Chalmers and numerous others have
matched their voices against Mr. Edison’s
Re-creation of it, and two hundred thousand
music-lovers have confessed their inability
to distinguish real voices from Edison’s
Re-creation of them.
The New Edison is the most wonderful
instrument in the world —the only instru-
ment that Re-creates music.
Write to-day for interesting illustrated
catalog, post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay),
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROC"F. TOMPSIT'” & CO.. Melbourne.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
THE AUSTRALIAN
J “SKANDIA” ♦
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
UNLIMITED SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
mi
«X 1
SBSi
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight,
about 541 b Freight paid,
£4/15/'
■
m
SSS
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
B30. Riverside Arms Co. D.B.B.Ij. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full choice, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 7$ to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7i to 7| lb. — 4? /I /
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,wO/lU/"
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/15/-
' '
B31. Stevens Arms Co. D.B.B.L. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip, low hammers, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders; weight
of 12-gauge 7$ to 8i lb.', 16-gauge, 7A to 8 lb.— -f A/IH/
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid, / “
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £4/15/-
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample l/=, post free.
m
B33. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2jin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight, _
7Jib. Freight paid, J/5/"
B34. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
12-gauge, similar description to B39. Freight paid, £10/5/-
m
Owing- to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date.
830. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2 Jin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7Jlb Freight paid,
£7/15/-
m
818. Winchester Automatic Repeating Rifle,
1903 Model, special 22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges in
3 seconds; weight, about 521 b .; sighted
point blank to 100 yards; will kill at 500 Freight paid,
£6/1 51-
SWEET CROP Smoking Mixture.
Really Delightful.
\}4oz. tin, 1/1 (post free).
m
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibr,e, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/2/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/5/-
With i-Octagon Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, £5/5/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full <
20in. round barrel, weight about s|lb
1892 Model,
r half magazines,
... Freight paid,,
£4 17/6
mm
828. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892 Model, 24in -
octagon barrel, 22-calibre rim fire; magazine takes 25 short, 20
long, or 18 long rifle cartridges ; weight 511 b _
Freight paid, SU/"
Same as above, with round barrel
Freight paid, 75/-
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
Illustrated Sportsman's Guide ( Catalogue Bl), also 1918 “Sure Catch’’ Anglers’
Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or loth lists. They
are money savers.
L IkfirfcrShnmnns lU.
wsnwLia's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS •
71PfD TOBACCONISTS
nm
BBS
City Sports Depot
119 King St also at
Hewcastle £ Brisbane


EJ
m
m
m
m
m
Icii
m
p]
lr*j
m
m
m
iSs
typ
m
m
m
fciN
m
m
m
m
m
m
fcl?
rciN|
[pliiy
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
[P»U^
m
m
Backache! Why?
Do you rise in the morning with a groan? Do you feel that you are
getting old? Having made up your mind that you are a martyr, do you
vent your ill-humor on the family? After a while, the pain and stiffness
leave you, and you forget your troubles until the next morning, when
the same dull pain in the small of your back, the difficulty of bracing
your nerves, brings back all the dire forebodings of the day before.
This is the way Kidney Trouble creeps on its victim, and you are
starting on a long journey towards ill-health and infirmity. The
Kidneys are overtaxed with the work of cleansing out the impurities
from your blood. Each day there is an accumulation of waste which
must upset the body. It forms Uric Acid, and Uric Acid is the most
insidious form of poisoning that can take place in your body. The
number of ills to which it leads is almost limitless, and though middle
age is the most favorable season for their activity, even the youngest
child often suffers, and sometimes dies from the different manifestations
of Kidney Trouble.
A change of diet is an advisable precaution, but a reliable, specially-
prepared remedy for Kidney Trouble, such as Dr. Sheldon’s .Gin Pills, is
the safeguard for your health. Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills stimulate your
sluggish kidneys to reaction, and assist the work of removing impurities
from your blood, which the kidneys have been unable to accomplish
unassisted. Then their tonic action so revives the kidneys that are
filtering the blood that the work is done automatically as by a perfect
machine. Your back straightens up, the pulling, dragging feeling
gradually leaves you; in the morning you can leap from bed, feeling a
glow of health and vigor, and meet life with a smiling face. It is the
duty of every man, not only to himself, but to the world at large, to keep
his health in the proper condition for his daily task; and for the victim
of Kidney Trouble Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills give just the little boost
his organs need to make them his slave, instead of his being a slave to
ill-health.
Gin Pills Will Help You.
If you suffer with Pains in your Back or Sides, or have any signs
of Kidney Trouble or Rheumatism, such as puffy swellings under the
eyes or in the feet or ankles; if you are Nervous, Tired and Run Down,
or bothered with Urinary Disorders, Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills for Backache
and Kidney Trouble are the Remedy which will quickly relieve you of
your misery- You can secure an original bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin
Pills for Backache and Kidney Troubles from all Chemists and Store-
keepers for 1/6; or, in larger bottles, holding more than twice the
quantity, for 2/6; or, if not obtainable locally, will be sent post free on
receipt of price in postal notes dr stamps by the
SHELDON DRUG CO. LTD, 15 O’Connell Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
m
rt-*i
IwusJ
m
mm
m
m
m
m
m
rciNi
IP'USI
m
mmm
m
fCINI
L23J
m
m
m
mm
m
m
m
D" S HELDONS
m
BACKACHE,KIDNEY. BLADDER
AND UR I NARY TROUBLES
m
$
c&
$
r"
B*#
(J
PROFIT
BY
ECONOMY.
Co Uf
Profit is definable by value received from given expenditure:—
When you buy one ton of food that is ALL FOOD for LESS you make profit on buying.
When that food —which is both palatable and digestible—gives better results, your profit
is proportionally increased.
MEGGITT’S —THE Linseed Oil MeaI— GIVES RESULTS.
The Boy on the Bag Guarantees Quality .
Feed your Horses, Cows, Calves, Pigs and Poultry on
MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL.
Commence using Meggitt’s, and note results.
Mr. A. E. Whitelaw, Hill Top, who when first approached was somewhat sceptical, writes: —
“Like a lot of people I took a lot of convincing at first as to the value of this Meal, and can-
say now, without hesitation, as regards horses and cows, I have not struck its equal ; being served
out in small quantities it produces magnificent returns. Not only do I find it economical in use, but
once most stock taste it —well," : 'you cannot get them out of your way. My experience at feeding
times is that the animals cannot get it quickly enough.”
Pamphlet No. 2, instructing how to feed, mailed free.
Full particulars from Agents: Wm. Adams Ltd., Perth; Clarkson, Ltd., Adelaide; Har-
risons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston;
R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; Blair, Reed & Co.. Ltd., Box 941,
Wellington, N.Z.; or
MEGGITT LTD.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil\
and Oil Meal Manufacturers'
26 RING STREET,
SYDNEY.
The Lovers’ Walk.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
BY the slowly flowing river
Lies the old, shadowed walk,
Where the lovers, two and two,
Ere the falling of the 'dew,
Of the sweetest thing on earth in the soft
shadows talk.
For, though honey has a sweetness,
As the tasting palate knows,
Yet young love is sweeter, sure,
Than the honey, pale and pure,
That the brown bee gets from the heart of
the rose.
Though there’s music in the waters
And the singing of the birds,
Yet a richer music dwells
In the tale each couple tells
In that scene of green enchantment, as they
put their hearts in words.
Though they have not throne or sceptre,
They are kings and queens, in truth ;
And their realm is all their own,
And they rule in it alone,
For the wonder and the splendor of the world
belong to youth.
Neither man nor maid may hasten,
Neither man nor maid may baulk
The river on its way,
As it murmurs, day by day,
By the singing, scented places of the old
Lovers’ Walk.
There the wattle has its season,
And the lily flames awhile,
And the pink boronia blooms,
And the orchid lights the glooms
Of the deep, green gully and the far forest
aisle.
There the wattle fades and withers,
And the lily on its stalk,
But new couples, wreathed and crowneu,
Through the seasons, round and round,
Dream their dreams, link their hands on the
old Lovers’ Walk.
There they tell the one *tale over
As they plight again their troth,
And they bend above the stream
In the sunset’s dying gleam,
And the river seems indifferent, yet the river
mirrors both.
Oh, how many happy lovers
Has that gleaming river glassed!
Oh, what folk alight with joy,
Dancing girl and glowing boy,
Youth and Beauty linked together in the
dim, sweet past!
Now a frond goes down the current,
Now a flower the eddies turn,
But the lovers never sigh
As they watch them drifting by,
Nor bethink them of the moments that are
like to flower and fern.
Yet a hungry sea is calling,
Though a distant sea it be,
And the lovers’ golden hours
Are as drifting ferns and flowers,
And a river, not their river, takes them
onward to the sea.
Oh. the splendor and the raptures,
And the hours of rose and rhyme!
Oh, the passion-thirst that sips
At the fount of rosy lips!
Oh, the slow, moving waters of the river like
to Time!
As the fading of the wattle
Or the lily on its stalk,
Or the dewdrop from the grass,
So the glory goes, alas,
From the sweet dreams dreamt on the old
Lovers’ Walk!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Tank’s Full.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
WHEN the bed of that river of Car-
pentaria which had been a mile-
width of dry sand since the last wet
season became a torrent in its deeper chan-
nel, a man at Ambo had spanned the stream
with a coil of No. 8 wire carrying a hook
and chain fastened to a flat-boat. It had
been a great convenience for two days, and
then forty inches of rain higher up made the
river a mile-width of swirling saddle-colored
water, and the wire was sunk five fathoms
deep if the flood had not carried it away.
The world was sodden and steaming. Camp
gear and coach leathers grew a mould like
that of cheese. Food, bread, harness and
soil rotted in the steaming water. Earth
vomited new springs in its surfeit; the river
banks covered their chocolate soil with
“fat-hen” and quickly-growing grasses; the
plains beyond were a black pot of glue,
poison-peach, rosella, lilac and spear-grass
almost pushing themselves through the slurry
and the steam. Grass trees, pandanus and
zamia grew as if to be seen. Once in three
days when the sun broke through the rain
the lettuce-green feathers of a chance-sown
poinciana dripped moisture as they shone.
By night it was the same—rain and steam
and a Turkish bath with sweating trees in
it; tree-boles shining with patches of pale-
green light; a million phosphorescences
which were insects and fungus; thunder,
lightning and the well-heads of the rain in
endless discharge. A mile of mad water
with green islands of trees and capes of
tree-tops bowed to the swirl of water that
was not clean, but rich, nauseating mucilage
like a Nile flood in a fat season. Masses of
floculence like dirty wool and brewer’s yeast
escaped the eddies and raced with the
current.
Tom Tuft, the coachdriver, who had once
been a red man, and was now, by intimacy
with the glue-pots, a black man, looked at
the river as he stood by his coach that
slowly settled in the mud, and cursed all
water and such damp things as are non-
alcoholic.
Then he went to the near hind-wheel and
tapped at the canvas which made the space
between the wheels half a steaming tent; for
the oltside was open to the dead air of the
deluge.
"Coach is settlin’ down,” he said. “If y’
don’t want to be squashed ye’d better come
out, the both o’ yers.”
A groan answered him, but the tent-
dwellers did not delay. They appeared at
the other side of the coach. A girl, damp
but not saturated; and a bearded man who
scratched himself even when crawling oui
and cursed the prickly-heat without ceasing.
“When can we leave here, Mr. Tuft: '
asked the governess of Ambo station, pite
ously.
“Y’ can see, miss, we can’t go back ovei
the river, and it’s no good goin’ on, because
the other river’s up and not a camp between
here and there. So we’ll sit till it hardens
We’ve got tucker.”
The girl said nothing. The prickly-heal
subject groaned as he drew from under the
coach his Consolation and Familiar —a
champagne case with eight gold-topped
bottles still charged with tonic forgetfulness.
Tom Tuft walked towards the river as the
passenger pulled the case from beneath the
coach and, armed with a bottle, climbed into
shelter.
“The scratchy bloke,” said Tom to himself,
“is too soft for this country. I’d be
drowned before I could sit under a coach
for three days with a governess and a box o’
fizz. An’ me other passengers gone on walk-
ing barefoot an’ a hundred-weight o’ Queens-
land on each foot. I s’pose they got tired
payin’ their fare an’ then spoilin’ their
clothes draggin’ the coach through for
nothing.”
He laughed at the humor of passengers
paying and then playing at horses. “Confi-
dence-trick in the ‘raja—that’s what payin’
coach-fares is—an’ opening fifty gates at the
finish. Hullo!”
He started at a revolver shot that rever-
berated through the thick air and saw two
cocoanut-like objects in the red-brown water,
the flood hurling them' like stones from a
sling.
“One bloke towin’ the other....an’ the
second cove’s g0ne....N0; here he is again.
The first bloke —why, that’s Jimmy from the
Wire Fence.”
Wire Fence was shot into the green of an
almost submerged tree that bent like a whip
to the weight of the water. He gripped a
hidden branch with his legs, and drew the
man who had so often disappeared out of
the current. Tuft saw him encouraging the
white-faced, black-moustached man he had
freighted ; saw him release a strap from the
other’s wrist, show the pale man how to grip
the tree-tops with arms and legs, and then,
releasing him, enter the current again and
shoot diagonally down stream in the direc-
tion of the further bank.
“Now, what’s he gone back for?” said Tom
Tuft. “I’ll see to the other bloke. Hang on,
mate. Y’ ain't got much further to come.”
“I finish now,” said the man in the tree
thirty feet away. The tree-top sagged and
the flood went over him for a moment. Tuft
saw his pale face lifted bravely to the leaves
—the face of a man sick, not with fear, but
of stomach.
“Rest a bit,” cried Tom Tuft. “Then see
that little beach there—make for it. I’ll get
you.”
The man turned on him a despairing eye
and nodded, took a long breath, left the
tree, and the water went oyer him. Tom
Tuft ran down stream cursing the swimmer
to hearten him, and with tears of apprehen-
sion in his voice, shouted: “You drown yer-
self an’ I’ll give yer a damn good hidin’!”
The man smiled, made for another tree,
rested and gave himself again to the river;
and Tom Tuft, holding to safety by a
branch, entered the water ■ ! and drew him
ashore. He lay panting in' the summer
grass, and the flies had their will until Tom
Tuft brought a rug and threw it over him.
“What did y’ want to cross for?”
“Thatta Wire Fence —he want beef.”
“What! No tucker?”
“Chicken an’ ’am ; no beef. Wirea Fence
say you gotta the beef.”
“Yes—what a mad bloke Wire Fence is!
What did he go back for?”
“He tie our clothe on the head of two
horse. They turn roun’ an’ roun’ in the
water —then go back. He bring horse soon.”
“I see—they was ringin’. Well, he’s too
mad to be afraid. There he is.”
“They saw the white figure of Jimmy from
the Wire Fence gleam in the green of an
island beyond the rain—hurrying not for
modesty but from flies. Then he disappeared.
“He’s a fool.”
“No —he man-fish. There now! Wit’
horses.”
The man-fish appeared, and his clothes and
those of the Italian were strapped to the heads
of two horses. Wire Fence used his hat mostly
to beat the heads of the baulking steeds
towards the eastern shore, striking at their
eyes as they tried to ring, until at last he
forced them fairly into the current and the
current forced them easterly. He watched
them clumsily make land-fall, and then he
swam to a tree and beat the water from his
precious hat and floated quietly ashore. Tom
Tuft welcomed him with very plain talk on
the foolishness of attempted suicide; but
Wire Fence laughed, wrung the water from
his fair hair and moustache and caught the
horses bearing the saturated clothing. He
threw a bundle of sodden rags to the Italian,
and they dressed.
“An’ yer mate’s as mad as you are, Wire
Fence.”
“Tonio’s all right—ain’t you, Tonio?”
“Bonza,” said Tonio; “ribuck, per Dio.
Wireafence bring me by safety with strap in
the hand.”
“I never see you once for three minutes.”
laughed Wire Fence. “You walked on the
bottom all the way. Was he long cornin’
round, Tom?”
“I am conscious of when I lard.” said the
Italian. “It is the sickness in the tree that
shall make me well.”
“Have y’ got a drop of anything, Tom?”
“No. I’m done. I got plentv o’ beef.
There’s a prickly-’eat chap in the coach—■
(Continued on next page.)


YOU CAN ALWAYS TELL THE
MAN WITH KIDNEY TROUBLE.
The man with kidney trouble
is cheerless in expression, sal-
low and heavy-eyed. His
back troubles him day and
night —spoils his sleep, and
makes him dizzy and faint
after the slightest exertion.
Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills make the kidneys well;
they are the one medicine
that is especially for kidney
and bladder troubles —the
one medicine that cures men
and women and protects
them against such advanced
kidney complaints as Bright’s
Disease, Diabetes, Dropsy,
Rheumatism, etc.
Every Picture j
TeJ/s Sfory 7
h it
I
sJTT
3 ill!
m
\
\
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Serious Kidney
Trouble-
Inflammation of tHe
Kidneys.
Sydney Man Cured After
Long' Suffering;.
Mr. George Woodroffe, 10- Roseby Street, D,rr.in-
moyne, Sydney, says: “I have derived great benefit
from the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Seventeen years ago a cold settled on my kidneys,
and eventually inflammation of the kidneys and
bladder set in. and up to the time of taking Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, some little time ago, I suf-
fered terribly. I have been treated by some of the
cleverest and best-known Sydney doctors, and was
for seventeen and a half weeks in the hospital,
where I had one kidney removed. Though the
various treatments eased me for a time I was not
cured, and would soon relapse into my former ill-
health. I also took different remedies advertised
to cure kidney complaint, and they did not even
give me temporary relief. My brother was always
worrying me to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
if I only took one bottle. To please him, I got
them, and before I had finished the bottle I felt
much better; in fact, I had not felt so well for
years; the pills were woraing wonders for me. I
continued taking them, and am now perfectly cured
of every symptom of kidney trouble.”
Mr. Woodroffe confirms the above, thirteen years
later, and says: “My cure has lasted, for lam still
free of the terrible torture of kidney and bladder
trouble. If ever I feel the slightest pain near my
kidneys I take a few doses of Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills, and they never fail to relieve me at
once.”
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
-Hi’s got a case o’ fizz. I’ll ask him for a
~<ottle.”
There was no meanness in the prickly-
neat subject. He had already got out a
bottle of wine from the case and a flask of
whisky from a valise. He and the governess
joined the little group in the rain, glad of
ihe opportunity for movement.
Wire Fence, unfed that day and upset by
iarge swallowing of river water, was quickly
affected by the champagne. His drunken-
ness took the foolishly humorous procedure
of many surveyings of the river, thereafter
returning with the unnecesary information
tiiat ‘the tank” was full. His cackles of
merriment that followed every such state-
ment were suddenly interrupted by the arri-
val of a mud-caked centaur —a man naked
to the waist riding a horse no more dis-
guised by mud than was the man. Him the
coach-driver greeted indifferently as Billy
and Nor’-West.
He was a very slow talker, but five
minutes of cross-examination discovered the
fact that Deep Creek, seven miles ahead, was
temporarily fordable and certain to be up
again to-morrow. He had been sent to tell
them so by the passengers who had walked
ahead, and were now dry at the wayside inn
on the further side of the creek—they and
the passengers by the rival coach which was
bogged to the bed three miles beyond the
hotel.
“The coach can’t travel,” said Tom Tuft.
“But all yous can walk there. We’d better
start now.”
With the governess perched on the saddled
horse and the men walking barefoot—the
prickly-heat subject groaning at every step—
they made the creek in a lull of the rain and
to the light of a few watery stars, and were
wetted to the skin and washed as to clothes
in the crossing, to be again muddied in the
black soil before arriving at the Deep Creek
Hotel. Beyond it was a lake—white gums
up to their middles in quiet water; dogs and
man and horses and cattle unpleasantly
warmed to the bone in water and steam, and
all life but that of frogs and the white-anc
discontent—the termites glad of soft soil
and working three shifts to make another
giant termitarium.
There were four other women at the hotel
-two coach passengers and the publican’s
wife and daughter; the last a girl made
queruloiis jby the wet season and over-work
and snapping at everybody. Stream-tinners
driven in by the rains were there, in various
stages of alcoholic foolishness, and these the
querulous daughter shrilly advised to keep
their place an’ go to the shillin’ table.
There were loaded waggons bogged to the
axles, horses floundering in the mud, tiger
beetles seeking artificial light and death;
and the roarings of drunkards singing to
kill time, whereas time had been killing
them from the day of birth. The tin-
scratchers were all barefoot. The etiquette
of a tin-scratcher makes him shed his boots
whenever he comes to town ; wherefore they
say in that region, as a simile for a “white”
man, “as good a man as ever went barefoot.”
Jimmy from the Wire Fence and Billy
Nor’-West had another bottle of champagne
with the prickly-heat subject, who had fallen
back on male society now that the governess
was not near to sympathise with him. The
little galvanised-iron oven which was the
Deep Creek Hotel was bursting with people;
the three women passengers in two beds in
the room of the landlady, she and her daugh-
ter removing to two stretchers in the same
room, with a blanket hung as a partition.
Two of the passengers—an acidulated hard-
faced lady and her daughter, an impudent,
shrill girl of eighteen with a nose so tilted
that it looked twisted —had retired already.
The governess with a despairing groan fol-
lowed them. Tuft and his four companions
had been told to sleep on the dining-room
floor, but Wire Fence caused the revocation
for himself of the concession, being in such
bad case bv reason of the wine that every
ten minutes he knocked upon the iron of the
house, cried “The tank’s full!’’ and departed
cackling.
“That settles it,” said the publican’s
daughter. “Y’ done yerself in now. We
ain’t goin’ to’ have you singin’ out all night.
Stay in the rain with the tin-scwrtchers.”
Billy Nor’-West killed a carpet-snake on
the wall plate above the shillin’ table;
without, great green frogs croaked of the
self-evident existence of water, chorussing of
all the kinds of water there be: “Deep
wat-ah,” “Cold wat-ah”; “Hot wat-ah,”
“Fresh wat-ah.” Barefoot men gambled
and quarrelled, and one —skinned in patches
so that he looked like a harlequin painted
from a design by some uncertain amateur —
sang of some lady who was or had been the
pride of his heart.
They talked of the deafening cicadas and
crickets of the day; of the indecent speed of
the grass to maturity; of gross fatness in
stalk and leaf of every plant and every
bloated vine. They ate and drank without
relish in the bar, which was merely a
waspery with beer and whisky in it, and
they helped the wasps drown each other in
the water-jugs. A large, black dog—-which
barked never, but bit silently, and suggested
a four-footed devil —pursued the goats around
the house and drove them under the house
and out again into the rain they hated.
The publican’s daughter, her work done,
sat on the little back verandah and played
on a mouth-organ sixteen bars of “Ring the
Bell, Watchman,” even unto seventy-times-
seven. Only when Wire Fence, making his
usual ten-minute rounds, cried joyfully “The
tank’s full!” she went angrily to bed.
The publican closed the bar after turning
all the tin-scratchers into the rain. He then
withdrew to his couch on the floor of the
dining-room, after carefully locking Wire
Fence out with the others —a happening
which Wire Fence regarded as a great and
splendid joke.
The daughter of the hard-faced coach
passenger, once the physical gratitude for
shelter had departed, began to rail at the
appointments of the house. She objected
most violently to a toilet-set of white delft
with fierce red roses blazoned thereon —-roses
which appeared to her to have been stolen
from the loudest of Brussels carpets.
Whereat the publican’s daughter hated her
with a bitter hatred.
The hard-faced lady meantime carried on
a loud conversation with the landlady on
intimate subjects, although the governess
remarked that the hotel was a sounding
board, and at that the daughter said
•‘Ssssh!” to which the hard-faced lady re-
joined “Ssssh yourself,” and continued to
make private and confidential remarks in a
very public voice.
The nublican’s daughter, with a final snort
of disgust at all coach passengers, removed
eight souashy insects with red-hot feelers
and four goggle-eyed grasshoppers which
roosted on her bed-curtains and opened the
window to the air. Immediately a hundred
diaphanous flying things entered and com-
mitted suicide iu the candle-flame and ex-
tinguished the light; and the head of Jimmy
from the Wire Fence showed black against
the starlight.
“Tank’s full!” said he. The publican’s
daughter threw the candle-stick and missed
him, and he went away laughing.
The dog chased the goats around the
house and half a dozen sleepy voices cursed
him. Then he pursued a score of them
under the verandah, and they fled over the
dozing tin-miners and fled off them again,
and ten miners charged each other with
assault. Men arose fighting. There was a
noise as of butchers beating meat. A boot-
less man ran around the house and another
bootless—and shirtless—man followed him
at intervals.
After the third circumambulation the pur-
sued was joined by another, who demanded
that the pursued should “Stay and be a man,
Bob Prilly!”
“I didn’t take his pound,” replied Bob
Prilly indignantly. “He says I stood on his
mouth an’ shook a pound orf him; an’ he’s
hit me on the eyeball an’ swolled it like a
ant-hill.”
“Stay an’ be a man,” said the other, and
immediately after expressing this noble sen-
timent he fell down in the mud and the
goats ran over him. He escaped from the
animals, crawled to the house and clutching
it arose and said again: “Stay an’ be a
man.”
“I will! He ain’t goin’ to chase me round
an’ round mud’oles without me boots. Y'
see this ’ere stick? Soon’s he comes out I’ll
hit him right on he’s eyeball—jus’ where he
swolled me. I’ll up like this an’ hit him like
that, an’ I’ll”
“Bob Prilly,” shouted the pursuer as he
rounded the verandah, “where’s me pound?
Who stood on me mouth? Bob Prilly? Wait
till I come an’ eat yer.”
But Prilly forgot to be a man, and ran off
on his rounds.
“Stay an’ be a man. Bob Prilly,” cried
the man of the noble sentiments, and imme-
diately fell down again, and was run over
by. the shirtless man hot-foot after Bob
Prilly. But Bob Prilly had run from the
hotel, and the pursuer lost him.
“Tank’s full!” said Wire Fence on his
rounds, beating the iron with his fists as
accompaniment. He went away laughing,
and the people within sighed and settled
themselves to sleep,
Whack! Thump!
“Muth-air!” cried the hard-faced woman’s
daughter, “there is hurgelars tryin’ to break
in!”
Her mother took up the tale, talking most
chillingly and virtuously to the bad bush-
ranger who sought to destroy the sanctity
of my lady’s chamber.
“I can assure you, my good man, that you
are making a great mistake—which will only-
recoil on yourself.”
The governess spoke; “The most foolish
thing possible is to talk to such people,
Ignore them, and they will go away.”
“I’ll ignore ’em if i get to ’em—if pa was
here he’d show ’em. Cads, that’s what they
are.”
The sulking daughter of the publican was
silent no longer.
“You’re dilly,” she cried from the dark-
ness beyond the partitioning blanket—and
n 9 t y et forgetting the insult of the toilet set
w^b the Brussels-carpet roses. “Can’t the
j? 00r oa * s camp under the ’ouse an’ hit the
“ oai ! with their ’orns, ’cause they’re mad at
getting their feet wet?”
The dog routed the goats fronj beneath
the house and drove them around the veran-
dab and-over the tin-miners again,
And the lightning flamed in fathom
lengths all through the hot night.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
My Hands.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
V 7) these I knew: Sweet, gracious
hands, star-white;
./ / Clear palms of mother-tenderness
that seemed
A holy benediction in the night
Smoothing the tumbled ' pillow where I
dreamed.
Oh, lost, wise woman-hands with touch so
fragrant-light!
Brown, dimpled hands, showing the scratch
and scar
Of childish wounds; outstretched in eager
haste
To grasp at life—how strong and weak you
are!
Mighty as dreams, futile as dreams laid
waste —
Oh, clinging baby-hands that lead us far and
far!
And these I know: When first they drew
anear
To where I, desolate, sat far apart,
Scarce did I see, for falling tear on tear,
Until (sweet God!) they closed about my
heart.
Oh, strong man-hands, most dear—most
perfect and most dear!
N.S.W.
MARGARET FANE.


* s
WESTIN CHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN D RIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu=
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
IV/Jlttl
YOU
ARE
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance.
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
V 4
: :
«
2%
“Nerves”
Oar nerves are similar to an intri-
cate network of telegraph wires.
Controlled and nourished by a
portion of the brain —known as
the nerve centres —the delicate
threadlike nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres are
capable of continually supplying
nourishment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong and
healthy. But directly the nerve
centres become weakened by
overwork, worry or anxiety, they
are unable to transmit the
necessary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
“on edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump ”
—you get irritable —you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
m
The Wine of Lite
Because, being a powerful nerve
food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets right to
the root of the trouble, and, by
creating a supply of new nerve
force, stimulates and revitalises
the whole nervous system. Try
4 Wincarnis ’ for ‘ Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy. ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.w.
If any illustration appearing in iuk
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
D
\m
r*»
3E
IA
>
m
i-, a
r, 1
m
* £3
A Book of
192 Pages
c i_ l_e: d
“POCKET
QUEENSLAUD”
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
"Telling all abouf ft)«
Millions of Acres
offer file land for
intending sefflers
will besenfyou
by filling in fbe
Coupon below.
S.B.
A'arna. ___________________
Address
auzertSLA/VD rrvr£LL/G£HC£
& TOUtZ'ST a OR£A(V. &WSBAHE
ji*sa
3*l
Are you a „
Happy Cyclist?
An enormous amount of
pleasure is to be found cycling
amid the beauty spots of your
locality. Get out on a bicycle
for holidays and fine evenings
and enjoy your share of the
life and interest of the road.
Every.hour so spent is adding te
your store of happy memories.
SIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
"THOROUGHLY BRITISH."
You will then enjoy cycling at ils
best. The B.S.A. Trade Mark —the
three piled rifles—is acknowledged
the world over as a guarantee of
the highest standard attainable in
material and workmanship.
B.S.A. FITTINGS ARE GUARANTEED
INTERCHANGEABLE
1
B.S.A. Handbook
Free.
D. Y. RENNIE,
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
Ktw To Keep jUatthy
Almost everybody requires at times a little medicine, that is at onee
cleansing and strengthening in its action. Men and women, even of
the healthiest, occasionally need a reliable remedy which will relieve
and correct liver, stomach and bowel derangements and at the same
time, act as a general tonic. For these purposes there [is no family
medicine better than Beeeham’s Pills. So pronounced are the
benefits derived from the use of this famous preparation that many
people have come to regard Beeeham’s Pills as indispensable to the
maintenance of health. Carefully compounded from- specially
selected ingredients of great medicinal value. Beeeham’s Pills may
be confidently relied upon to correct to relieve strengthen and
restore. Any disorders of digestion or run-down condition of the
system should be treated at once with
Bcecbam’s pills
><
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/la (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
f 'f
10/-
Post Free
m
( Patented)
Pio 5
10/-
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
m
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE.
8
v\
N;
Rim Fire Cartridges for Target
and Game Sliootmg
IN choosing your rim fire cartridges, whether
email bulleted caps or larger calibers, ally your
firearm with, a name and trade mark that is tke
surest guarantee to accurate skootmg and non-fouling.
Xke Remington XJMG brand will
prove worthy of your confidence.
Obtainable from leading dealers and
gunmakers.
Descriptive catalogue
free upon request,
REMINGTON ARMS
UMC CO.
D. D. BRYANT, Maneger
Box 686, Melbourne
m
ft
I
LL
L
msm
m
V
i
>•
jg***.' -
The
Saddle
which makes
comfort always
possible is the
BROOKS
m
Have you tested it ?
if not —-
ASK
YOUR DEALER


m
IMangrovitel
m
m
I
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
"MA-NGliOs HE" llawliide, which
differs from all other so-called llawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World's Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
g z.e on n °
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
Am
* * S
&<? '*•
laft..
'
sea? u -1 .
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 I.atrobe Street, Melbourne. .Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
Charles Atkins & Go. Ctrl,, Adelaide. John Keid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Lower the Cost of Building. Use
S22Z&. FIBROLITE
Defies Time’s Touch
A
TRABfJABK
<Re*.> Cement
The Australfan-made
Asbestos Cement Sheets,
the most inexpensive build-
ing material on the
market to-day. “Fibro-
lit'e” is Fireproof, Paint-
ing Costs and Insurance
Rates are 25% less than
for weatherboard. A sav-
ing in Timber and Time
is also effected, because
less studding is required.
Send for samples and prices.
JAMES HARD IE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY.
’Phone (K 39 (i lines.)
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at Brisbane and Adelaide.
m
T§
/ :
' /
¥
E
I
l
TRY
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS
It is Helpful to those who need a r e-in vigor ating' stimulant.
m
Two High-class Australian-made Oil Engines.
Our stocks of the popular TANGYE Oil Engines are now low, clue to Messrs.
Tangyes’.Big Works at Birmingham, England, having some time ago been taken
over by the Munition Authorities for War purposes.
We have, however, negotiated Agencies for Australian-made Engines, which are
most creditable productions, and which we offer with the same degree of
confidence. «
THE “TRIUMPH.”
A vertical-type Benzine or Kerosene Engine, made
in two sizes only, viz., 3S and 5 b.h.p. (Stationary
and Portable). Has Magneto Ignition. Excellent
THE “STAB.”
A portable Horizontal Kerosene Oil Engine, made
in three sizes, 6J, 8 and 10 b.h.p. Has Magneto
Ignition. It is a High-grade Portable Engine at
a very LOW Cost.
m
DALGETY (Si CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
Agents for Buncle Chaffcutters, Gane Milking Machines, Clayton Portable Engines, Tangye Pumps, E.R.B. Separator Engines;
finish throughout.
m
:
“''l.
$
3
!l
Sheep Shearing machines
a great success
The Wolseley Sheep Shearing' Machines hold the world’s record for machines sold
and number of sheep shorn annually. They are wonderfully popular and never
fail to give the utmost satisfaction.
Cost of upkeep and breakdowns are insignificant, it being impossible to get
more dependable and smooth-running machines.
The newest improvements are always to be found in the Wolseley. Obtain details
from
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED, Australasian Agents —ALL BRANCHES.
m
i\W*-.
IN THESE DAYS of
KEEN COMPETITION
QuicK Changes of Feeds and Threads mean so much to the Shop
or Factory interested in Speed and the Redudion of Costs.
Can you. afford to be without Modern
High-speed Machine-Shop Equipment?
Call and insped, or write for Catalogue of our HIGH-SPEED
LATHES. They have new and distinctive features designed
to show definite saving's on your worK.
m
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
m
m
The Fastest & Most Economical Well Borer.
We have for Sale a No. 4 Traction, complete with Full Equipment and
_ ( >are Tools. /
Price and All Particulars from —
THE MODERN WAY
to deal with Waste Matter, whether it is for a Great Citv, a Factory, an
Orchard or the Home— J
IS TO BURN IT AND UTILISE THE ASH,
"Gutkridg Destructors
WILL DO IT
without Smoke, Smell or Expense.
The “Guthridg,” for Large Installations,
£W to £32 10s.
The “Household," for Homes,
£2 2s 0
Adopted by Government Departments and Hospitals.
Write for Full Particulars.
OEoTRUCTOt?
N GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Machinery Merchants & Manufacturers, 350 George Street, Sydney.
