

WHISK
R. Q. WATKINS «SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 10*7 Kent Street, Syaney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractor s’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New south Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
8M:
'
liSi
Advem.ce Morve y
OIS ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
F/ISK TERMS and LOWEST INTEREST.
NSW-MONT DE PIETE D6l C?IJ D
MEAD OFFICE 74 CASTLEREAGH SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building. And at 39 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W. Telephone; City 9328.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 216-211 Swanston Street, Melbonrne.
159 George Street West, Sydney. 40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT. General Manager.
THE "AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says:—
“Tlie Company is very
well managed, and the
name is quite a house-
hold word in Sydney.
Its reputation is excel-
lent, and, although the
money-lender is gener-
ally regarded as a
vampire, the charge
cannot be laid at the
doors of the N.S.W.
Mont de Piete D. & I.
Co. Limited.”
Install this Modern
Sewage System.
No matter where you live you can
and should have a modern Sewerage
installation. It safeguards the health
and adds greatly to the value of a
property.
The one system that has proved to toe
free from all offensiveness and trouble
is the
Oxidising (Non-Septiq System
of Sewage Disposal.
In this system the Sewage is treated
by air. It is entirely different to
the Septic System, costs less, is abso-
lutely inoffensive and harmless. There
*is no smell in the hottest weather.
Call or send for interesting Booklet,
which gives full information and testi-
monials from well-known authorities.
MONTGOMERIE -NEILSQN
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, Sydney.
’Phone, City 8976.
Argu^i^
9
*
S7V
£
Nothino
to Argue
& B^ C<^
"^m
.. Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
J
jgj=W=«g
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
AVON
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
1
lUiimiimiimwunmuimuiuimiiiuiiHiiiii
illlllliii
illlllimiiiiiiimiiiiiiHciiiiiiiiHiiuiiiiiilllll
iimmiimiiiimiuiuiiiimiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiii
“Not the same as others.”
MAIiTHOID’S most enthusiastic supporters to-day are those who
have at some time used something else because it looked the same.
When purchasing Roofing, users should remember, in their own best
interests, that MALiTEfOID is different. A cheap Roofing to buy is
a dear Roofing to use.
Actual samples and illustrated booklets are obtainable from
Malthoid agents in every district throughout Australia and New"
Zealand, or will be sent, post free, on request from
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Srfrthur
o
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
MACHINERY.
Road-Graders for Building Good Roads.
MAKING AND GRADING EARTH ROADS, CLEANING OCT WATER TABLES,
MAKING FIRE-BREAKS, Etc,
We carry large stocks of the best procurable and most up-to-date Machines.
SEVERAL DIFFERENT SIZES STOCKED TO BE WORKED BY 2, 4 or 8
HORSES OR TRACTION-ENGINE POWER,
CATALOGUES AND FULL PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION.
Queensland Enquiries: The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
We now have large stocKs of the famous
A.W. BRAND OF HIGH-SPEED TOOL STEEL
covering all sizes in rounds, squares and flats.
Manufactured by Sir W. G. Armstrong, Whitworth & Co. Ltd.
Sole Australian Representatives—
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
GIVE YOUR OWN
COUNTRY A SHOW!
TRY
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIAN BEST
-
The Bulletin
VoL 39.—N0. 2024. j
[Thursday, November 28, 1918.
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


d
Your Mirror
will give
you
the pleasing ''
assurance that
your Complexion
IS what It shout*,
be If you use
m
...
...
. /•*£> —'
EC*
i > n
v -iS,w \
jTETLOW’S
FACE POWDER
It imparts a delicate bloom to the
Complexion, so pure that it will
not harm the most sensitive skin.
Sold In five Tints ~~
White. Cream. Pink. Flesh and Prunettc.
by all Stores. Chemists, Perfumers and
first C/ass Drapery Houses
Per
ENGLISH 7i° PRICE '
box
Wholesale Dislribuling /\genrs>
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
/LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS?-
HENRY C. QUELCH ts CO.,
4 & S. Ludgate Sq.. London. Eng..
Jtquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents'. —R- E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
The Best—Most Economical
Watch is a
OTHERHAMS
ENGLISH
LEVER
Gold Medal Watclv
Gent’s or Lady’s Sizes.
Keyless or Non-Keyless.
PSA
IT WILL LAST A LIFETIME.
Supplied by all Shippers & Retailers.
If a less expensive Watch is
required buy a
ROTHERHAMS SELECTED
SWISS WATCH.
Examined by Hotherhams 9 Experts.
es&Aw
|«OT H C M
past
fROTMCOMAMSROT ft 4
»ROT H C R H A M &.«tOT HR*
%JQT MU m*H£I«DTMC«
A
mB
RMAHSROTHd
wmamSROTmI
fcLRHAMSOOTI
NOTE I It will have this label on
! the back.
SOLD BY JEWELLERS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.
BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few —the more
stoical among us—can avoid worrying over past and prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the results
of worry from being noticeable in our apnearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. -Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Some Hints about the Hair.—An Excellent
Shampoo. —Few women realise how all-impor-
tant. a really good shampoo is if the hair is
to he kept in perfect condition. To shampoo
the hair properly, sh.Vxe it down, comb it out,
then dip the fingers into a little pure olive or
almond oil. and thoroughly massage the
scalp. Then mix a teaspoonful of stallax
granules in a cup of warm water. Fill a basin
with warm water, into which the ends of the
hair can fall, and shampoo the stallax mix-
ture into the roots in the usual way. Rinse,
and dry by fanning, or in the open air, if the
weather permits. Should the hair be excep-
tionally greasy, the oil massage of the scalp
should be omitted. Stallax can be bought at
any chemist's in quarter-pound sealed pack-
ages. It keeps indefinitely, and one package
is sufficient for 25 or 80 shampoos.
A Tonic for Thin or Falling Hair. —When the
hair falls unduly, or has become thin and im-
poverished, a tonic should be applied every
night for six or eight weeks. To make a
simple and inexpensive but most efficacious
lotion, at home, take a quarter of a pint of
bay rum and add to it one ounce of boranium.
Shake thoronghly. and, leave for 30 minutes;
then strain, and add sufficient water to make
half a pint. Every night massage the scalp
for 10 minutes, going over the entire head,
then dab the mixture into the roots with a
soft sponge. Regular brushing for a few
minutes every morning will also help to im-
prove the condition of the hair.
A Greasy Skin and Blackheads. —A greasy,
oily skin, with blackheads and enlarged
pores, is a sore trial, and many a girl goes
through life with her appearance entirely
spoiled with these unsightly blemishes, which
may now be so quickly and effectively removed
with but little trouble. To remove blackheads
and the dull, dirty look of the skin which
accompanies them, dissolve one stymol tablet
in a glass of hot water. Allow the efferves-
cence to subside, then dip a small soft sponge
into the liquid and bathe the face. Leaye on
the skin for a few minutes, then dry with a
towei, and the blackheads will come right off.
For a greasy skin, bathe the face three times
a week with stymol and spray with cold water
every morning, using a vulcanite throat spray.
The Secret of a Good Complexion.—The secret
of a good complexion is so simple that, were
it only more widely known, there would be
no such thing as a rough, blotchy skin.
Nature has decreed that the outer cuticle,
when It shrivels and dies, shall be removed;
hut s 6 many women fail to realise this. To
remove, by absorption, the dead outer skin,
and preserve the complexion in all its pris-
tine beauty, mereollzed wax is recommended,
ordinary creams and lotions being quite in-
effectual for this purpose. Smear the wax
over the face and neck, rub it gently into the
skin, and leave for the night. In the morning
wash it off. using a good soap, such as
Pileuta, and all the dead skin will be removed
with the wax. Then apply a lotion to re-
move any trace of greasiness and brace up
the skin, making it firm and white. The lotion
can be made at home quite easily, by mixing
one ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls
of hot water. Bottle, and, when cool, apply
to the face with a soft sponge, or the tips of
the fingers, allowing it to dry on the skin.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS*
C.B. —Clynol berries will reduce your weight..
Thev are harmless, and no alteration need be
made in your diet. They have also one great
advantage over other flesh-reducers: they re-
duce so gradually that there is no fear of
loose, flabby skin and wrinkles.
ZULA.—No, I am afraid I cannot tell you how
to prevent yourself from biting your nails.
You must exercise your will power.
CONSTANCE. —To remove the yellowness
from your skin, get a tin of mercolized wax
and apply it every night, rubbing it well into
the skin. Leave it on till morning; then wash
it off with warm water and a good soap, t~l
To give a color to the cheeks, get a little col-
liandum and rub some on a leather. Apply this
to the cheeks. It gives a perfectly natural-
looking flush to the face, and is quite unde-
tectable. (3) To remove the blackheads, take
a stymol tablet and dissolve it in warm water.
When the effervescence has subsided mop the
lotion over the face, allow to remain on for
a few minutes, then wipe off, and the black-
heads will disappear.
GEORGIE. —I am not surprised to hear that
the electrolysis treatments were not success-
ful. They seldom are. Get an ounce of phe-
minol and a tube of tekko paste. Use them in
conjunction, and you will soon be rid of the
troublesome superfluous hair.
SHEILA. —To restore your hair to its original
color, get two ounces of tammalite and mix it
with three ounces of bay rum. Apply to the
hair every night or morning. In a couple of
weeks there will be no sigh of the greyness.
Tammalite is not a dye, but a natural re-
storer.
ELSIE.—To remove the roughness from your
skin, use a lotion made by mixing clemimte
with warm water. Allow the lotion to cool,
then bottle, and use after washing the face
every morning. I 1
it*
<3^
>s
>■s^4
a«
k.
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
'WINTER SEASON
Bwron falls - Barron Gorge
the wonderful hinterland
•Sunshine , Palm Trees .
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and Scenic splendour
A Booklet felling all about if
is yours for the asking
ft// in //its coupon:-
8.8
/fame
Address.—
/a /ha Z> tree for o/
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau,
x Brisbane, QUEEN
'f
H
,3
Bengers Food Ltd.,
regret to announce that in consequence of GOVERNMENT
LIMITATIONS placed upon EXPORTS they are unable to
keep their Overseas friends fully supplied at present.
Immediately these restrictions are removed every effort
will be made to send out sufficient stocks to meet all demand.
Any communications on this subject should be addressed to our Sydney Office.
fsdf
Food
is in great demand for Civil, Military, and Red Cross
Hospitals, and in Convalescent and Nursing Institutions.
From a Captain of the Royal Army Medical Corps.
“Your Food was of grreat assistance to me in my treatment of convalescent dysentery cases.”
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: 117, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Ani at NEW York IU.S.A.) 90, Beekman St. Depots throughout CANADA,
’H3OMOd NVIAIH3D V ±ON
MUSTDIE.
NON POISONOUS FOWDtR.
THEfiKOIT INSECT DESTROYER.
1 flies.
Fleas
Bugs.
Mosquitoes.
*ss
“MUSTDIE”
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecticide
or common insect powders, some of which are sold
under fancy names, for “MUSTDIE” contains
an ingredient particularly fatal to that common
house pest aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “MllStdie,” . Dept. H, Box 1520
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin, forwarded post free;
or send 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
“MTTSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
W. Per tin. J 4
THE RED PAGE
The Plays of Schnitzler
Jules Claretie’s phrase, tin realiste aile,
once applied to Daudet in a spirit of critical
respect, might well describe the uncommon
Viennese dramatist, Arthur Schnitzler, who
ms the rare distinction for an Austro-German
of being exceedingly friendly to the English.
Schnitzler’s pictures of life are absorbing
md vital, but though they are German and
genre in many particulars, they are relieved
Tom heaviness by the sustained laughter of
his idiom. Dipping into a tongue that
appears foreign to his style, he has captured
many a word that smiles, many a sentence
that quivers with gaiety. And yet where
his dialogue may have lightness and merri-
ment, the underlying theme may be audaci-
ously tragical. This seems the. case in his
“Liebelei,” where his pen dances over a
trumpery middle-class intrigue and holds up
bourgeois ethics for our superior pity. The
result is triumphant in its analysis of emo-
tions, and recalls Anatole France iu its atmo-
sphere of irony. But Schnitzler’s irony is
not so subtle and self-detached as France.
And in cunning he is often Anatole in
knickerbockers.
Of his plays one prefers those of modern
tone, though one at least reviving a great
last must afford a magnificent spectacle.
This is “The Veil of Beatrice’’ which may be
described as a contest of egoes spread out in
five acts of rich blank verse. The whole
drama is a swelling pageant of language and
color, and supplies some fine bird’s-eye views
(as it were) of mediaeval erotics. Most of
the modern dramas are consciously amorous,
but the development is often enlivened by a
piquant playfulness. To take a case, Schnit-
zler’s “Zwischenspiel,” where a husband’s
and wife’s amors are poised in a satiric equa-
tion, is more a delightful episode of comic
import than a story of liaisons in serious
vein. Schnitzler’s sense of ironic comedy is
often present, it may be said, when his dis-
section of mind's and motives is most skilful
and elaborate. In his “Der Freiwild,” a
biting reflection on the duel; in his
“MSrchen,” a poppy-show of attitudes on the
Fallen Woman ; in his “Anatol,” a series of
olay lets on sentiinqntal adventures, the
lupior is as handsome as the psychology is
decisive. But Schnitzler is uot always so
impish and delicious, and in the case of “Der
Emsame Weg” he has got, in a sense, beyond
his metier. In this advanced sexual play he
breaks off his principal motif with tire
suicide of a rather precocious neurotic. The
effect is somewhat violent and unhealthy and
is Ibsenish without logical justification.
However, it is in the play known beyond
Austria as “The Woman with the Dagger”
in which Schnitzler displays his curious bril-
liancy. The title is taken from a painting
in an art gallery, and the manner in which
the author explains the origin of the canvas
is both imaginative and ingenious. The three
features of the play are the use of the idea
of an hypnotic trance; the dialogue’s change
from rippling prose, to imposing blank verse.;
and the transportation of the two principal
characters from the Twentieth Century back
to the Middle Ages. From this brief descrip-
tion it will be guessed that the conception is
fantastic, but it is valuable for its literary
character and a favored type of Schnitzlerian
heroine. Pauline in the drama isr a lady
who dingle-dangles in the web of destiny
and gives parlor displays of “advanced
ideas.” Bluntly speaking, she is a trifle
over-sexed, and reveals her innate morbidity
when she is unfaithful to her husband, not
through love.of her lover, but through the
fatalistic influence of the aforesaid trance.
It may be submitted by Grundies tha*
Pauline is a moral disaster, but she miiF 1
not be judged by standards that are “respec -
able” or suburban. She is of a class some-
what unnatural and apart, and - belongs to
neither of the sexes, but to super-sex created
by mental almighties. In a way she is a
relation of Shaw’s Ann Wliitefield and some
of the lovely ladies in “The Dead City” and
other creations of d’Annunzio’s fancy.
The strength of Schnitzler as a dramatist
lies in his dialogue, his psychology and an
almost uncanny gift of dramatic construc-
tion. He can build a play with stunning
skill, but his love for keen compact acts,
polished and completed with fastidious care,
has led him sometimes to appreciate the epi-
sodic niceties of the acts before the coherence
and cumulative beauty of the play. In short,
some of his dramatic efforts, of which “Liebe-
lei” is a typical example, are somewhat
wanting in continuity. And it is for that
reason that Schnitzler has a fine reputation
as. a one-act dramatist who has three series
of one-acters to his credit in the accurately
named “Marionetten” and “Lebendigen Stun-
den” and the afore-mentioned “Anatol’
series, which have been translated by Gran-
ville Barker and presented by him in London
theatres. All of those trifles are practically
plotless, but they furnish pungent and happy
synopses of lives. Furthermore, they have
the appeal of those short stories that are
finely spiced with irregular suggestions anc
the urbane philosophy of the man of the
world.
JEAN SIBI.
The Lending Library
The writers of books and most publishers
have no bouquets to bestow on that middle-
man whose small lending library is übiqui-
tous. He buys one book, say, at 3s. 6d., and
he pay lend that to a hundred readers at 3d.
ur'Bd. each for the reading of it. The author
gets about 6d. out of the whole transaction,
the publisher about an equal sum, the middle-
man, who did none of the work and took no
risks, pockets all the rest. In far-back towns
where travellers and others would buy books
if they could get them, the librarian —who
calls himself a bookseller —often refused to
sell a book, when he had only one or two
copies, for fear he might lose an odd 6d. be-
fore he could replace it, It paid him better
to lend than to sell.
This trader or pirate holds that when he
invests in a copy he has the right to sell or
lend as he chooses. Against which the author
argues that if the trader duplicated a book
i htindredfold, that is, reprinted it in a cheap
(Continued on page 26.)


w aee
E
CONOMY allied with excellence is the basic principle
that governs everything offered in Anthony Horderns’
= Clothing Department. City men, and men from every
part of Australia, consistently select their requirements from the
suits and such-like available at the New Palace Emporium,
where the stocks are so diversified
that they meet the requirements of
every section of the community.
As an example, we illustrate a
Suit that is what a good suit should
be—stylish comfortable, and durable,
at prices that conform to existing
economic conditions. It is con-
servative in style, honest in workman-
ship, and reliable in material, and it
is a rational suit for country wear.
There is a full -range of sizes, including £ sizes
for tall figures, and \ sizes for stout figures.
The Coats have 2 or 3 button fronts, medium
lapels, with or without vent, flaps on pockets ; the
Vests have medium opening and 4 pockets, with
guard hole ; the Trousers have side or cross pockets
and hip pocket, with plain or cuff bottoms. The
following are some of our leading values :
Neat Dark Designs, in Cotton Tweed... 451-
Dark Shades, in All-Wool Colonial
Tweed 50/-
Newest Effects in English Tweeds
and Worsteds... 65/-, 75/-, 80/-
High-Grade Worsted, Dark Shade,
Special Value 85/-
Ail-Wool Australian Serge, Guar-
anteed Dye 90/-
!
m
w r/
v t
■lj-LAxj
/• "/?^_
:V
■*>-- •V'-;S^« !
'•<J
; v';-.V;.
:X TO
IV-
i.l
v.’
Sx >*>!
K‘ ilfta
'rtfvi
*5
■v<‘»- „■ Jr, a « 'fr’ ■: •■
■•*?•■•<{ as
rtT.S
>V-
«<♦*:!
rT?
''•cJ’Yvy'
ANTHONY HORDERN £ SONS.L”
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
'UVfcV
B rickfield Hill,
Sjy dr\ e_y. §sli§)


30
35
-SO
25
&
40
20
■ .T
W
o©@o@
\
5
ss^
45
10
si
50
*«te.
2*
5
55
am
60
0
s*B
t#
llllll#
■
.
.
* " '
_. J
fill
mim
Ten Thousand
Throe Hundred
a Forty Two
Miles •••
l/Vhen
it's
Time to
Re-tire
BUY
“FISK.
: f
traof.
The life of ANY tire must be
measured in miles. The tires
that will pay YOU best—what-
ever make your car may' be —are
FISK TIRES, for not only do Fisks
“live” for MORE miles, but they
retain their unequalled resiliency,
strength and comfortable riding qualities
THROUGHOUT.-
More than Ten Thousand Miles is not unusual
in “roadworthy-service” yielded by “Fisk” Tires.
No other tire can match “Fisk” for durability and
consistency, for the reason that “Fisks” are produced
by a special secret process —a process that welds purest
Para rubber and finest sea-island cotton together, with an
inbuilt strength and toughness unsurpassed.
NONSKIDS
Read this Motorist’s Experience with “Fisks.”
This is to certify that this Fisk Non-Skid RED TOP Tire
No. 188-1(77, 31x4, has done 10,342 miles, with heavy loads
over rough roads ; went over 7,000 miles without using a pump.
Can highlv recommend same as one of the finest Tires on the market.
(Signed) B. HANNAFORD, Mil/icent, S. A.
Fit “ Fisks” for Economical
Free-from-t rouble Motoring
The ideal combination is:—
“Fisk” PLAIN TREADS for your front wheels,
and for your rear wheels Fisk Non-Skids,—The
“GRIP OF SAFETY” Tires. Produced in all sizes.
ASK YOUR GARAGE.
AGENTS—
New South WaIes—JAMES WARDLE U CO., 4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
South Australia—JAMES WARDLE 8 CO., West Victoria Square, Adelaide.
Victoria and Riverina —JOHN F. GOULDING, 515 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Sole Agents for Australia —JAMES WARDLE 8 CO., Adelaide.


Columbia
Qry ftaftCTlM
When Your Engine Stops
When family auto, truck, tractor, or motor
boat chokes up and loses its gait, it is then that
you realize the advisability of carrying an extra
set of Columbias.
Columbias put the spark of life into en-
§ines, autos, trucks, and tractors; they ring
ells, give speech to telephones, light lanterns,
make motor boats go.
Wherever battery power is needed, Colum-
bias are the simplest source —full of energy to
the very brim. Steady, reliable—proof against
trouble.
Special attention is given to the all-important
detail of packing for export.
No. 6
jLUMBI&I
?ignitor\
Patented September fc: 1910
PRY CELL
W.K.IW FOB u.s More
GENERAL IGNITION
—Manufactured by—
|STI(MI CARBON CO M
\JCL*VILAND. OHIO. U.Bvk.
The Fahnestock Spring
Clip Binding Post, shown
in the illustration, is a Co-
lumbia feature that sells
batteries. With this Bind-
ing Post it is a simply a mat-
ter of pressing down the
spring and
inserting
the wire
and the
connection
is made.
ds
PRESS
DOWN
MERE
Dealers— lmmediate de-
liveries can be made. Write
for catalogues and details.
National Carbon
Company, Inc.
Export Department
Cleveland,Ohio,U.S.A.
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland”
fdsf
The World’s
Appetiser
HP
sauce
Made in England, but en-
joyed all over the world.
The flavour of H. P.
is so delicious and
so different from
any other sauce you
have tried before.
dsf
"muiuniMinimmiiiMMimimimiiiliiuiliMiMiiiimin
ttADE FROM LEMONS ONLY §3
"KJ? BROOKES
I
i tenon squash
LARGEST SALE IN THE WORLD fl
|&n=s* Tali tfi? Tkk j.^%
:<: .... ||§|f ; p e.stiff ?<?"■ 'i*Jur
4tfiur
m
Y,y
tV" >
mz
or & Aa£*m
81
IpAl
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Horn A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G. ; Samuel
Hordern, Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. W. APPEItLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly i£1.000,000 was paid during 1917 in,war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
1.,e Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
’ . •
When he
writes home .
The world is brighter,
hearts are happier.
And in his mind kind
smiling faces are pictured
as he writes. Oppor-
tunities for writing at the
front are fleeting. Many are lost for want
of an ever-ready pen. So a happy sug-
gestion is, send him a “Swan” Fountpen.
ds
WAN
la
best stands the racket of Active Service. Simple
and quick to use. No mechanism to wear or get
out of order. Can be“loaded” with “Swan” Ink
Tablets and water when fluid ink is unobtainable.
Sold by Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern - from 15/- up.
Standard Pattern from 12/6 up.
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
■
MABIE, TODD & Co., Ltd.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c.
Sydney—(Wholesale only) 225 a, George Street.
London Factory—3l9-329, Weston St., S.E.
Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New
. York and Chicago.
Branch : -T. A. RTTRKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a. George Street, Sydney
r.
” ;! WfljjS):
l
*'
' ' £&!
v r r
f*
Ji
wL
ay:
'<trv
/
The NEW EDISON
a splendid instrument
Mr. Ed son s new art as embodied in his greatest invention —The
NEW EDISON—has laid upon music lovers the whole world
over an obligation they gladly and gratefully acknowledge.
By means of this wonderful instrument, the voices of the most gifted
artists are actually “ re-created ’’ with such utter fidelity, that even
in direct comparison, musical critics have failed to detect the
difference between the voice and its “ re-creation.’’
One listens enthralled to the golden notes issuing from the cabinet
with the same degree of perfection— even to the minutest overtones
—as though directly from the throats of the singers themselves.
Get one for YOUR home
this Christmas.
Its possession is a never failing source of delight enjoyed by every
member of the family, and greatly enhances the attraction of home life.
Write at once for full details, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only) 364-372 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Dardanelles.
Pale stars look down upon Gallipoli’s crag,
A faint wind creeps, soft fingered, from the
South,
And stirs the grass upon that mounded earth.
The breaking waves that on the untrodden
sands
Chant ceaseless requiems for the exiled slain
To-night are vibrant with a note so high,
So full of triumph, that the wing&d theme,
Like some grand fugue, beats upwards to the
skies.
God’s sentinels about those desolate graves
Turn their rapt faces to the changeless sea,
Where England’s ships, and gallant English
men,
Pass in the night, and greet the unconquered
Dead.
VICTORIA.
PHILADELPHIA ROBERTSON.
Greed.
There’s no wine but the king of wines
When a man has found his day.
There’s no woman but his woman
When he lifts his month o’ May.
There’s no fight but his land’s fight
For a true man to fight:
And there’s no death in all the world :
There’s only a man’s “Good-night.’’
N.S.W.
J. STANLEY HUGHES.
My Foe.
I have a foe, a sleepless foe
Who sets my blood aflame,
And dogs my steps where'er I go—
Sir Task, it is my name.
I cannot scare him, though I frown,
Nor trick him with deceit;
From morn to night be tracks me down
With grim, relentless feet.
Last thing at night he comes to me
With sure and stealthy tread,
And when the dawn breaks rosily
He bends above my bed.
Through year and year, and hour and hour,
He binds me like a slave,
And turns each honeyed moment sour—
A murrain on the knave!
If I w’ould eat ’tis by his grace,
If I drink deep—behold,
He watches me with darkened face
And lips compressed and cold.
Last night I dared his worst, and broke
The thraldom of his gloom.
And yet to-day, when I awoke,
He stood within my room.
I rose, rebellion in my blood,
And cast him from my mind,
And sought the outer world, and stood
Bareheaded in the wind.
How fine it was! How fair and fine
That glorious festival
Of sea and sky, and beach and pine,
The sun high lord of all!
The while I watched, too rapt for speech—
My soul grown lit and large—
I saw the breakers on the beach
Like white-maned stallions charge.
And then, while Freedom flashed and filled
My spirit with new power,
A shadow dulled the scene, and chilled
The joyance of the hour,
For there, an alien to my mood —
Jaws set and stern as Fate,
Unmoved by my delight he stood,
With eyes that said “I wait!”
And forthwith then I sped to town
And sought a certain street.
Where careless folk go up and down
With dancing eyes and feet,
And there I met a jocund crowd
And joined them in their fun—
Their pranks, their play, their laughter
loud—
Good fellows everyone!
And straightway, linking arms, we
sought
A place of merriment,
Within whose walls there lurked no
thought—
No shade of discontent.
A tavern ’twas, a tavern old
Mellow as Time itself,
With goblets tall and cups of gold,
And oaken bench and shelf.
A rosy damsel, coy and fair,
Poured wine our thirst to quench—
Oh. by the muses nine, I swear
She was a winsome wench!
The red wine sparkled in the cup,
And Joy possessed the throng,
While evermore, twixt sup and sup,
We raised a royal song.
And then, while up and down the floor
We danced a merry reel,
I saw him standing at the door,
His eyes as chill a steel.
The rosy lights grew dim and blurred,
The singing voices dumb ;
Within his eyes there was a word-
A stern, commanding “Come!”
And forth I went at his behest
From that fine fellowship.
Rebellion dead within my breast—
A slave beneath the whip !
My foe he is, and.through the vears
Beneath his yoke I bend ;■
Yet times there are when he appears
A great'and noble friend !
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


@BKy
U
C
ft
D
We Guarantee 4000 Miles to Ford Owners
with 30 x 3i
PERDRIAU TYRES
although this is not by any means their maximum life.
The covers are shod with the famous Perdriau Super Tread, and the
unusual mileage results thereby obtained by many Ford owners have
resulted in an increased demand. Through the Perdriau policy of
working always on the upward grade, constant improvement in quality
keeps step with heavier production.
We specialise also in high=grade Laminated Tubes to fit these covers—
Perdriau Super Tread Tyre-30 x inch. Cover, £6/16/6.
High Grade Laminated Red Tube—Heavy, 24/-; Light, 19/-
Ask your Loul Garage to fit a set or write to the Manufacturers for a Price List and a sample piece of the Super Tread Rubber.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd. am states.
SEND FOR PRIVATE TRUSS
PAMPHLET—FREE.
The Real
TRUSS
Exaggeration does not enter into our claims on
the merits of DENVER’S ELASTIC TRUSS.
It is designed to give a proper fitting, full and
comfortable support—a support that, will hold
you under all conditions and relieve you of
anxiety and worry.
In this respect we claim that DENVER’S
ELASTIC TRUSS has proved its efficiency—it is
to-day a boon to thousands of Ruptured persons.
It is famed from end to end of Australia. C|'t
one to-day.
Single 20/-, Double 27/6
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
Camp Pie
Industries Right Hand
Food is a very big factor in the success of industry.
Give the workers a good wholesome and sustaining mid
day meal. Make them sandwiches with “REX” CAMP
PIE. This appetizing canned delicacy makes the kind of
sandwiches you really enjoy—sandwiches thqt sustain.
“ Rex Camp Pie comes to you ready cooked, packed in
a fine jelly.
Grand for Picnics, Lunches—all occasions.
GET A TIN TO-DA Y.
-A
fnl) FUtUß r'
FI
sue/
i
$
i
ti-
iV“
i : :4&
■'■Tr-r.l.ji 1>.;.v., ..
VvJS
rag
a
i
®p
mTln "i !Ui ii l iiinii-<'iiiimii-'iinimn
IN
P|i^
An,^ AM ' &ACON VEAI
Ci!? "TONGUE.
Always keep a tin of “ REX
LUNCHEON CHEESE in the House. |
Sold by Grocers Everywhere.
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “ Rex ”
Curers of “ Rex
Pure Food Products
” Hatns and Bacon
J. 417
on? 80
GOODRICH
FULL SIZE
Black Safety Tread Tyres.
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
WE’LL STICK by what we’ve said about
GOODRICH TYRES.
They certainly are doing wonders on the cars
of our customers.
Without exaggeration
GOODRICH
Tested Tyres
are rolling up bigger mileage and giving our
friends lower Tyre cost than any other make.
You can put a GOuDRICH TYRE on your car
and leave worry at home in the garage.
In tests in 1917 GOODRICH TYRES averaged
6*321 miles.
Always: “BEST IN THE LONG RUN”
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St,
MELBOURNE.
13 Castlereagh St,
SYDNEY.
300 Adelaide St,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vol. 39.-No. 2024.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1918.
War-time I’rice, Sd.
PLEASURE BEFORE BUSINESS.
“Australia has become a tourist bureau for Cabinet Ministers.” —Newspaper complaint.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
"Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
\ Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 10s. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stumped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
SOOO words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Breiver and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.—lf. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, P:
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
lsd. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; SJO2. to 10oz., 3d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 31 d.; elsewhere, joz., lid., and id. each
additional Zoz.
'THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1918.
THE AUSTRALIAN INSURRECTION.
When Russia gave its old tyrants notice to
quit it had a brief experiment in the way of
real democratic government. —the rule of the
people in the interests of the people. The
experiment failed owing to the profound
ignorance of the masses, to invasion, military
disaster, the disorganisation caused by hordes
of refugees, blockade, Hun intrigues, imperi-
alist intrigues, anarchist intrigues, and the
incapacity of the leaders. So the Mensheviks,
with their ideas of pure majority rule, went
out; and the Bolsheviks, with their pro-
gramme of rule by a self-appointed junta
and a minority of butchers, robbers and
cranks, came in. Australia is in the Men-
shevik stage without the ignorance—at least
it spends a lot of money on compulsory edu-
cation ; without the invasion, the civil war,
the bankruptcy, and without the ruins of a
corrupt old regime to block the way. It has
genuine government by the majority of the
people, and if things are amiss then the cor-
ruption, laziness or incapacity of the people
is to blame. Yet Australia also has its Bol-
shevik organisation, which waves the red flag
on all possible occasions, and has also waved
the enemy’s Hun flag; which preaches “direct
action,” meaning thereby direct insurrection;
government by a junta backed by an organ-
isejl minority which will forcibly take the
power out of the hands of the majority;
transfer of authority from the people’s Par-
liament which acts in the light of day to One
Big Union sitting in semi-secrecy; and the
general strike to starve and terrorise the
community into submission to the junta’s
terms whatever they may be. Also it men-
tions unlimited paper money, repudiation of
the public debt; the confiscation or “taking
over” of all workshops and factories; the
“taking over” of the banks; the reduction of
working hours; and a local defence system
under which every local defence soldier will
have charge of his own gun and keep it in
the house ready when the One Big Union or
some similar body gives the order. Of the
last six propositions the confiscation of fac-
tories and the reduction of working hours
are official. The others are much talked of,
but are not, so far as is known, quite defi-
nitely on the programme as yet.
Insurrection, or revolution which is suc-
cessful insurrection, is. of course, possible
in Australia. It is possible in any country
where things are not so good as a fighting
section thinks they should be. and how good
it thinks they should be is for itself to decide.
Also it decides on its own standard of good-
ness, wherefore men have fought to restore
a Bourbon sovereign who was a patron of
the Inquisition, and to maintain a clerical
despotism decorated with polygamy. Bol-
shevikism is said by tradition to have com-
menced in Heaven, and the movement is
alleged to have had a chance even there, and
to have only been put down by extensive
military operations, for Lucifer, Son of the
Morning, seems to have been no sloush of a
commander. There are three notable ele-
ments which might furnish recruits for any
wild-cat cause in democratic Australia. One
is, of course, the instinctive criminal class —
the folk who assault the umpire at football
matches: the chronic hoodlums who commit
battery for infinitesimal gains or no gains
at all, and who use coarse language on
general principles; also the amateur hoodlums
who appear on occasion, like those who took
possession of Adelaide the other day for no
visible reason.
* * * *
The element with inherited disease is be-
yond estimating. The deaths directly
ascribed to venereal trouble are generally—•
in N. S. Wales at all events —about on a
level with those charged to alcoholism, but
the original patient who dies doesn’t count
so much as his or her erratic descendants.
It is the curse which, in the words of Scrip-
ture, goes down to the third and fourth
generation, and the fourth generation of the
one person originally accursed may easily
count up to 27. They include quite a num-
ber of types—not all, of course, in one
family. There is the nervous semi-intel-
lectual son with a staring expression and
one fixed idea, who may be a religious
maniac, or a teetotal crank, or a wild-eyed
regenerator of society (possibly in Parlia-
ment), or a hard drinker, though more often
he is a hard and numerous father of erratic
children. There is the unballasted and semi-
criminal son with a great lack of regular
occupation ; also the sexual pervert and the
son whose name, by common consent, is
never mentioned. This section of the commu-
nity furnishes most of the lunatics, including
those who are not sufficiently definite to be
put under restraint; a very large proportion
of the violent class of criminals, and some
of the raw material of Bolshevikism.
* * # #
The plain, dull, honest class is a great
source of strength in a country like Aus-
tralia. It was, and is, fostered —probably it
was created—by the shortsighted Tory Free-
trade press. That benighted institution
ranted without end about the “wealth”
or the “undeveloped wealth,” or the “un-
paralleled natural wealth” of the country,
because it wanted to convince the public
that there was abundant security for the
foreign loans its crowd gambled with, and
because its importing friends would have
had a bad time if the public had realised
that this was quite an ordinary country,
which should get a hustle on and make
things for itself like any other place. By
a long lifetime of reiteration it drove the
idea into the minds of possible revolution-
aries that there is almost boundless “splosh”
floating about somewhere, and that our cities
are, as Bluciler, the Hun. said of London,
wonderful places to loot. The employee in
many industries —mostly male industries,
and especially those which are directly or
indirectly helped by the loan policy—receives
far higher wages than the average for less
work than the average; but even the high
wages don’t look as high as they ought to be
in a land so sodden with boundless re-
sources as the vicious Tory newspapers say
this one is.. The case of the Cairns
gas-strikers, whose pay had gone up
from £3 ss. to £6 per week, and who laid
the town in darkness to support their demand
for an increase, doesn’t look remarkable
after all, considering the circumstances. All
sorts of newspapers had just been impressing
all and sundry with the vast possibilities of
a land which had put up a £40,000.000 loan
(most of it to be expended locally) without
turning a hair. And no great stress was laid
on the fact that if the Government hadn’t
printed nearly £60,000,000 of paper money
for local circulation, and the banks hadn’t
lent their credit or their endorsement to help
along about £20,000.000 worth of the sub-
scribers, the £40,000,000 loan might have been
a trifle less joyous. It is surprising that the
Cairns vas-stokers didn’t demand £l2 a week
in their natural excitement. It will take the
misled community a long time to realise that
the total value of everything produced in
Australia in 1916 (last-published figures)
was only £270,427,000, of which about
£100,000,000 had to go in payment for im-
ported goods and foreign interest bills, and
that the balance was a mere £34 and some
shillings per inhabitant for the year. A lot
of borrowing and paper money helped things
out for the time being. This country is not
like Britain, which collects about
£150,000.000 a year from money lent abroad,
reckoning only the foreign investments which
are in sufficiently big amounts to pay income-
tax, and earns many millions more on the
high seas as a carrier of other people’s goods,
Australia pays other people for carrying its
goods, and it doesn’t collect interest abroad
—it is collected from.
* * * *
Australia may have an insurrection—it is
a thing that even happened in Heaven. It
has some of the raw material. It lacks which
is usually the strongest element—the people
who are excluded by corruption and tyranny
from political pow T er—for in Australia no one
is excluded. The countries that enjoy such
complete freedom can be counted on the
fingers of one hand. But as a set-off there is
a large class which has been taught, as if it
was something more sure and holy than Holy
Writ, that there is vast, unspecified imagi-
nary wealth lying about in some place as
hard to locate as Sheol or Fairyland, and
they feel that they are excluded from their
share of it by witchcraft, or midnight con-
spiracy in a cellar, or some other device. If
there is an insurrection, and it gets out of
hand, respectable Tory editors may be held
over a slow fire to make them reveal the
whereabouts of that hidden treasure, the
“boundless natural resources.” That sort of
thing happened to many respectable people
in Servia when the Bulgarians came along—
people who hadn’t even professed to know
the whereabouts of any resources.
THE NEED FOR INDUSTRIES “ISN’T
APPARENT.”
“From many quarters the suggestion has been
thrown out that new industries should be started
as a means of employing the returned men. The
necessity for this, however, is not by any means
apparent. The returning men are not additions to
our population—they are part of it, temporarily
withdrawn for war * service. Our industries satis-
factorily employed these men before the war, and
there is no doubt that they can re-absorb them
when normal times come.” — Senator Millen, Minister
for Repatriation.
So Millen, the Foreign-trader, of the
Foreign-trade State of N. S. Wales, heaves
a sigh of relief, like the sigh of a bankrupt
elephant, to think that this country may
get along after all without establishing new
industries, How these Foreign-traders
loathe new industries! They mean educa-
tion ; the knowledge of liow to make an
intricate machine, which leads to knowing
how to improve and invent machines—a
thing wholly different from importing
machines—signifies more in the way of edu-
cation than half the things that are pattered
in schools and universities. New industries
imply an interference with the doctrine that
the trader should stand for the highest class
of intellect, and below him the Australian
should be a beast of burden ; a dragger out
of raw material: an animal carrying roots
or seeds or the fluff of beasts to more en-
lightened people’s ships to be manufactured
by more enlightened people’s hands and
brains; and a pick and shoveller making
railways to lay foreign rails, so that foreign
vehicles may run on the rails. Above all
things, new industries are bad for the rich
aristocracy of importers, and are a nuisance
to politicians who know little except trading
and dealing and land agency.
* *• * *
Senator Millen says that “our industries
satisfactorily employed these men before the
war,” which is correct in a sense, for some
people are easily satisfied. Thus between
1897 and 1917 MIIXEN’s State found em-
ployment for 10,139 additional civil servants
apart from the railways and tramways,
where increases are necessary, and apart
from the wages men employed in building
railways, or in the new State workshops,
for they are not civil servants. By much
more than doubling the salary-list, it “sat-
isfactorily employed” quite a number of
people, though the recent Commission of
Inquiry is plainly of opinion that the thing
was overdone. If that source of employ-
ment keeps up its rate of enlargement it
will yet be necessary for Millen’s State to
import civil servants, the population being
used up. Then employment was found out
of loan money to a wonderful extent before
the war. In the year to June, 1907, the
new loans amounted to £1,058,553, and as
the interest on old loans was £3,047,618 N.
S. Wales was paying out £1,989.065 more
than it received. It hadn’t become honest,
for it hadn’t left off borrowing nor
started repayment, but it was more honest
than usual. For the year to June, 1914,
the new loans were £9,126,844 and the
interest on the old loans was £3,881,011 (it
is wonderful how the interest bill increases),
so there was £5,245,833 to spend. For pur-
poses of temporary razzle or finding employ-
ment at the expense of posterity, the State
was thus £7,234,898 better off than ten years
previously. That was finding employment in
dead earnest. The interest bill is now so
much larger that it would be necessary to
borrow £11,000,000 or £12,000,000 this year
so that the existing industries would be on
the basis of things as they were before the
war, and the money can’t be got. For
dazzling operations of that sort the credit
of the State is a broken institution.
* * * *
The simple obvious fact is that N.S.W.
was on the edge of a precipice before the war.
The waT rescued it at the moment. The
State loans still went on at a wildly extrava-
gant rate, though not at a rate that would
have saved the situation ; but then there was
also the State’s share of the Federal war
loan expenditure and of the £50,000,000 or
so increase in the paper-money issue. A
system which was so close to its last legs as
to have reduced the amount set aside towards
repayment for old debts from £450.602 in
1913 to £5632 in 1914 got a new lease of life.
But it was a temporary lease. To talk as
Millen does, as if the old system could be
resumed, is as absurd as to imagine that the
old crude, slow, wobbling aeroplane of 1914
can be resurrected or the old musket of
Waterloo. Like the Bourbons at the Res-
toration, he proposes to take up the old
methods and run them in the old way at the
old address. It can't be done. In 1915
the State’s bis - sources of income apart from
manufactures, which the Senator seems to
regard as quite unimportant, might be classi-
fied thus: Pastoral I; Borrowing II;
Agriculture III; Mining IV. Now a vast
army of unemployed is coming back to find
that No. II is turning into a liability instead
of an asset by reason of the growth of the
interest bill. It is the only industry that
returns regularly to bite its maker.
* * * *
If manufactures are to grow without any
special encouragement so as to give a chance
to those returned men who don’t want to be
patronised by perspiring and benevolent and
self-important Ministers, it might be sug-
gested that agriculture should show its bona
fides by doing likewise. Of course such a
suggestion would be absurd. The manufac-
turer doesn’t ask for encouragement in
the same sense as does that tender plant,
the Production of Raw Material; he rather
asks for equality and freedom from active
insult and robbery. That is to say, he asks
for a tariff against outside competitors some-
w r hat similar to that which the United States
or Canada or Germany levies against him,
and he asks that an infuriated Government
run by Freetraders shouldn’t take three-
quarters of the earnings of any new industry
he starts and call them War Profits, as if
they were in the same category as a Repatri-
ation Minister’s salary. On that basis he is
ready—dozens of him—to do his bit of repa-
triation'at his own risk, without subsidy or
loan and without being a salaried official or
having an expensive office. He doesn’t desire
to supersede any Senator who is raising a
dust of debentures and advertisement and
laboriously buying a selection for cash from
one man so that he may replace him by two
men on credit. It is a slow hand-labor sort
oi process, but it helps, and there is a lot to
be done when the second-biggest industry of
the State is practically dead and the burial
expenses are to pay. And it is of no import-
ance that Senator Millen doesn't see the
necessity for new industries. Many people
who believe in going on the land and living
on ’possum have or had the same idea. And
Freetraders and importers in general have
the same idea with a modification. They
think industries in other lands, with them-
selves as middlemen importing the goods at
a big profit, are of supreme importance, but
local industries which don’t require their
services are not. Their ideal State is one
Avhere the wool-agent stands at the gate col-
lecting “commish” on the raw material going
out, and his brother the importer stands at
the gate gathering “commish” on the finished
wool coming back. The need for new indus-
tries which would interfere with both of
them isn’t apparent to those men of “com-
mish.”
P. ENTERPRISE, PURVEYOR OF
SLUMS.
A cruise made by Inter-State Commissioner
Piddington through some Sydney slums the
other day had three results. The newspapers
reported Piddington’s remarks about what
he had seen. A “minute” was composed by
Lord Mayor Joyful Smith about municipal
resumptions, the crux of the rigmarole
being that money was scarce. A mem-
ber of the Ministry made softie observa-
tions concerning a Bill which will give local
bodies greater powers in regard to “housing
the people.” And there the matter which had
stirred Piddington’s bowels will end. Any-
way, other Commissioners have made similar
remarks previously. Other mayors have bur-
bled about resumptions. And yarns about
Bills and powers and all the rest of it have
been as numerous as deceased rabbits on the
Paroo. But the slum and the almost-a-slum.
and the place that is going some day to be a
horrible affront to every decent civic idea is
either where it was before or may be found
round the corner. There are acres and
acres of these places in and about Sydney.
A vast amount of oratory and money has
been expended at various times incidental to
cleaning up particularly odoriferous localities
—mainly, it would seem, for the special bene-
fit of property-owners in the immediate
locality. Yet for every slum pulled down in
one place a dozen have sprung- up somewhere
else. The manufacture of the potential slum
has been one of Sydney’s most thriving indus-
tries during the Bloat period. Some of these
areas are inexpressibly horrible. Others are
only horrible in a modified way. so to speak.
And added to these are plentiful localities
which, while technically escaping the descrip-
tion of slum areas, are by reason of their
frowsiness, their dull monotony of aspect and
the overcrowding of building material and
humanity, are just as calamitous monuments
to social failure , as the collection of
tumble-down kennels. It is no use
anyone trying to make out that in this busi-
ness of housing Sydney's achievements up to
date are anything but a repetition of
the evils prevalent in older cities. Year after
year increasing numbers of young Aus-
tralians are born into an environment which
makes the street their playground—the stffffy
hovel they call home a place endurable only
to creep to at dark. And these young Aus-
tralians are the material out of which the
men and women of to-morrow are being
fashioned : the citizens to whom the obliga-
tions of democracy are to be entrusted, and
upon whose vision and imagination the
future of Australia will in a large measure
be dependent. Sydney is wickedly short of
homes that are homes for the families of the
men who do the laborious and skilled work
for the community—homes into which some
of the finer things of life might enter. And
when Piddington or someone more or less
apathetic makes opprobrious comparisons
between the shacks of Sydney’s byways and
the East End of London, all we hear is a
Joyful Smith groaning about money, or a
Minister mumbling platitudes. The cure
of this disastrous disease must start at its
root. The slum is everywhere the symp-
tom of monopoly. It represents * the
power of capital to bold up society
for ransom. So long as it is profitable
to own slums just so long will they be owned
and just so long will our citizenship be
degraded. The Australian has always had
an amazingly tender regard for Propputy.
Large hunks. of the continent were given
awny gratis in an earlier time. Now some
of them are being bought back at fabulous
cost to give men who fought for the freedom
of the Commonwealth a chance to earn a
livelihood on its soil. And after Propputy
has constructed something that develops into
a cesspit and lives indolently on the proceeds.
Australia can think of nothing better than
to either. purchase the abomination or con-
tinue living in it. P. Enterprise, as a
house-provider, has clearly been a dismal
failure. And as under existing methods
Municinal Enterprise and its big brother
State Enterprise are merely aliases assumed
in order to exploit the suffering mob, the
chance of Sydney being purged of slums
looks about as remote as the Day of Judg-
ment. _ The astounding thing is that Prop-
puty is allowed to escane with the loot.
Perhaps the slum breeds this complaisance.
WATT LETS THINGS SLIDE.
That increasingly futile person. Acting
Prime Minister Watt, being asked when he
proposed to hustle along with a real Protec-
tionist tariff, gave the most absurd reply
possible. He said
He could imagine, after studying the speeches
of President Ti i lson and his famous Fourteen Points,
the auestion of the tariff would be considered at
the Peace Conference. Until then it might not be
prudent for Australia to act.
It is difficult to see what President Wilson
and the Peace Conference have to do with
Australia’s tariff. But if there is the faintest


prospect that they will attempt to meddle
with the internal affairs of Australia there
won’t be much satisfaction in retaliating witn
a demand for better drainage for niggers m
the United States or anything like that, lae
obvious course is to strengthen out position
noiv by establishing a tariff at least equal to
that of the United States and Canada for
stringency, and to present the Peace Confer-
ence and President Wilson with an accom-
plished fact. If any person whose country
has a high tariff already is going to propose
that tariffs should not be increased for a
certain number of years. Australia shouldn t
be the one fool who is left in the lurch. If
any low-tariff advocate —and President Wil-
son is one, at least in theory—is going to
propose a general tariff disarmament, he
shouldn’t be able to quote Australia as a
bright and phosphorescent example of low-
tariffism. Two questions —irrelevant and
perhaps grossly impertinent, but exceedingly
dangerous to Australia —may be dragged up
at the Conference. The tarm is one. Another
is the right of a country with a mere surface
fluff of population to keep out the people of
well-meanimr colored Allies who are short of
breathing space. On the second question,
Australia will be the country in all the
world which will be aimed at as everybody’s
cockshy. By importing white men’s goods on
a stupendous scale, and borrowing money to
pay for them, instead of telling all white men
by medium of its tariff that they must come
here and make the goods here, it is liable to
be quoted before the Conference as the big
horrible case of a country that has lost its
chance and a race that is unfit to hold a
continent in fee. It is too late to do very
much by way of reform, but Australia can
still assert itself as a land with a patriotic
though belated tariff to defend, and one that
doesn’t mean to remain empty for ever.
Unless it does something of that sort, it will
appear rather as a dog-in-the-manger which
keeps out colored Allies on pure dog-manger
principles. Even at a time when so many
precedents are going overboard, and despite
President Wilson’s insidious remarks about
“economic freedom” as one of the peace con-
ditions, it is difficult to imagine that the Aus-
tralian tariff can possibly be dragged into the
discussion. But Acting Prime Minister
Watt apparently thinks it will be dragged in.
And wnen he is asked what he is going to do
in the way of self-assertion, Acting Prime
Minister Watt says he is going to let things
slide. A wonderful slider upon the face of
the earth is Acting Prime Minister Watt.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Government by the Gag.
It is explained on behalf of the Federal Min-
istry as an excuse for extending the War
Precautions Act, for which malignant com-
modity Australia is in the first place in-
debted to Labor politicians, that “various
Departments had advised the necessity for
this extension.” There never yet was an
Act or regulation, however oppressive, which
officialdom could not be incited to recommend
the importance of. This particular Act has
called into existence a veritable host of
parasites on the body politic, from secret
John Hops and censors to members of
“Boards” and office-boys. Not unnaturally
everyone of them has a vested interest in
maintaining the Act until Gabriel begins
his overture. There are parts of this Act, or
rather some of the regulations issued under
its authority, which can easily be defended
and which obviously enough it is desirable
to continue for a time. But there are other
parts—or regulations incidental thereto —
for which no defence has ever been possible.
The perpetuation of these represents a gross
abuse of Parliamentary power, for they re-
present an invasion of the legal rights of
every citizen in the Commonwealth. By this
Act new crimes have been invented. The right
of criticism has been reduced to a mere shadow.
Freedom of meeting and of utterance is for
some people but a memory. Journalism has
been so gagged that its existence is almost
a national peril, for there are few things more
dangerous anywhere than a controlled press.
That some measure of control was desirable
during the war no one can doubt, but in
Australia the power to control has from the
very beginning been abused. llow dearly
Australia has paid for this the public may
perhaps never learn. And now the Federal
Ministry yearns to go on with the
game. The Commonwealth has lived
under a sort of Ministerial despotism as com-
plete in some respects ns was ever exercised
by the Great Mogul. The war is practically
over. Issues of stupendous importance are
before the world. On their settlement de-
pends in great measure the future of Aus-
tralians and other peoples. Many issues are
in the making of more than ordinary com-
plexity. The alleged justification for the
censorship, was based on military and naval
considerations. Where do they come in after
the fight is done? Australia is supposed to
be a democracy. But is it? If this Act is
extended, at any rate so far as the censor-
ship and the regulations about meetings and
speech are concerned, it is no more than a
community with the job still in front of it
of recovering the rights of self-government.
This paper suggests to Watt that, if only as
a matter of academic interest, he should con-
sider whether, in view of the rapidly grow-
ing distrust of Parliaments in Australia,
there is any real advantage, even to the
special interests served by him, in giving
the community further reason for regarding
the Federal authority in the same light as
a defaulting solicitor?
4.
The Art of Polite Letter-writing.
According to the London correspondent of
Melbourne Age the personal relations be-
tween Cook and Hughes are rather less
cordial than before they fused. In those
days they spoke to one another with frigid
politeness, and about each other with loath-
ing. Now they do not speak at all. Any-
way, the Age man in London says so. They
write —or rather Cook writes, to Hughes,
and Hughes drops the correspondence into
the fire ;od goes on making speeches. It
makes a joyful story, this, of the two Aus-
tralians, who are not Australians, addicted
to violent reciprocal hate being thrown to-
gether when the local machine blew up
departing Londonwards arm-in-arm, and
then starting to look sourly one at the other
over yonder. Thus the Age recorder: —
Hughes and his colleague, Cook, have been in
London three months, but during this time they have
never met. Cook is quartered at the Savoy Hotel as
the guest- of the British Government, and Hughes
lives three miles away, in a private house at Chalk
Farm, which has been provided for his use by the
British Government. Cook is most anxious to meet
Hughes, but so far has not been successful. He has
repeatedly written to Mr. Hughes, but has received
no. reply. Some of the letters have been decidedly
indignant, and have indicated to Mr. Hughes that
something unpleasant will happen to him when he
returns to Australia; but still Hughes preserves a
stern silence and keeps himself to himself. All
matters affecting the relations between the British
Government and the Commonwealth Government are
settled by Hughes and British Ministers without Cook
being consulted. All matters referred to Hughes
by his Cabinet in Australia are decided by him with-
out consulting his Cabinet colleague in London.
Of course, in the days to come, someone in
the Federal Parliament will move that
copies of correspondence that passed be-
tween the ill-assorted pair be laid on
the table, preparatory to being printed
and circulated among the electors. The
motion will naturally be carried with
loud applause, and then the public will get
what the Nationalist publicity agents are
waiting for. In the meantime the character
of Joe’s epistolary efforts is an interesting
subject for the vagrant fancy of Brother
Watt to speculate upon. The Bulletin
has an idea that they may have been some-
thing like this :
Sept. 14.
My Dear Billy, —
Where are you? Have you gone to the Front?
Have you won the war? I have not seen you for six
weeks, and as there is nothing in the papers about
you, we are getting anxious. Come and have some
chewing-gum with us on Sunday.
Cordially yours, Joe.
Sept. 18.
Dear Billy,—
Eyery day for six weeks and four days the papers
publish one of your speeches. I fear that your studied
loquacity may be misinterpreted. Will you be there
if I call to-morrow morning?
Yours faithfully, Joe.
, Sept. 19.
Dear Hughes, —•
Really, I must ask you to make an appointment.
Watt cables me that the position is getting rather
• difficult. Perhaps after your last speech, to-morrow
would be convenient.
Yours, etc., J. Cook.
Sept. 26.
Sir,—
I hav e waited patiently, I hope, indignantly, I fear,
for an answer to my last communication. I say
nothing now about your extraordinary attitude. I
merely remind you that (1) I am your colleague,
(2) that we are the joint representatives of the Com-
monwealth, and (3) that we have not seen each other
since arriving in London. For my own protection, I
must ask for a formal appointment within 24 hours.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Joskph Cook.
Sept. 27. Midnight.
Sir,-.
Your insolent disregard of my letters is only
equalled by the audacity of your personal attitude
towards a political associate. My greatest regret is
that Warwick egg was not made at Lithgow and
heaved by a more powerful arm. Your conduct is
grossly offensive and paltry. It is also characteristic.
J. Cook.
Sept. 28. 6 a.m.
Sir,—
Don’t forget that there will be a reckoning in Aus-
tralia. Something very unpleasant will happen to you.
It will astonish you.
.T. Cook.
Sept. 28. 10 a.m.
Sir,—
More speeches, I see. The papers full of them. Is
your cackle never going to cease?
J. C.
Sept. 28. 11 a.m.
You may go to blazes. I wash my hands of you.
Any communication you may desire to make to me
must be addressed to my solicitors at Parramatta.
And Hughes may have said to his third
assistant typist: “Here! Cable addressed
to the Chief of the Secret Police,
Bendigo or Brisbane—‘Am being worried by
unfortunate person named Cook. Send over
squad reliable men protect me. lie seems
dangerous. Advise me if anything known
of him Australia.’ Send that off at once,
marked ‘Take precedence of war news.’
Now, where do I speak to-day? Ah. yes.
Meeting of business men interested in
Greenland whale fisheries. Good. Must
keep the Empire together, and a harpoon
does as well as anything else.”
The Way to Hell is Wheat.
It was announced the other day that an
impassioned appeal about wheat had been
sent to Prime Minister Hughes, now blowing
off in England. He was urged to get rid of
1,000,000 tons of the substance even if he had
to take 4s. Od. per bushel or less. The neces- ;
sity is urgent to raise money with which to
repay some of the millions which the banks
have lent to the Government, and which the
Government lias used to supply the wheat-
grower with half a living wage. Wheat at
4s. 9d. per bushel in England means about
4s. per bushel to the grower in S.A. or Vic-
toria or N. S. Wales, and his position is a
subject of interest. He requires about 400
acres of good ordinary soil in an ordinary
situation. If he settles in the usual way
about 10 or 15 miles by a moderately good
road from one of the decaying towns which
are characteristic of the agricultural districts
in at least three States, he may get what he
wants at £5 per acre. Supposing N. S. j
Wales is his State, he has a splendid crop of
decaying towns to settle near. To quote a
few: Aberdeen, Balranald, Bathurst, Berry,
Blayney, Bombala, Bourke, Bowral, Braid-
wood, Broughton Vale, Carcoar, Campbell-
town, Castlereagh, Cudal, Cudgegong, Denili-
quin, Gerringong, Gosford, Goulburn, Cun-
dagai, Hay, Hill End, Hillgrove, Hillston,
Jamberoo, Jerilderie, Kiama, Mittagong,
Moama, Morpeth, Moruya, Mulgoa, Nowra,
Nyngan, Parkes, Parramatta, Picton. Port :
Macquarie, St. Marys, Shellharbor, Slioal-
haven, Ulladulla, Warialda, Warren, Went-
worth, Wilcannia and Wyalong. Everywhere
the town that has died of wheat and cen-
tralisation and Foreign-trade holds out its
phosphorescent arms to the new settler, and
in Victoria and S.A. the situation is the same
or worse. Having acquired £2OOO worth of
land, the settler faces a liability of perhaps
£1 per acre for improvements, including a
small shack without a bathroom—the kind
that the city trades-unionist would regard
with alarm. Another £6OO will purchase
implements, horses, vehicles, etc., on a very
moderate scale. Having invested £3OOO or
gone in debt to that extent—the Government
permits him to pawn himself and his family
for, say, 32 years if he has the luck to get
Government land, and the storekeeper, who
is himself only the dummy for city firms,
sometimes gives three years’ credit because
he can’t help himself—the wheatgrower is ,
ready for business. Probably he has 200
acres under wheat. The house-garden (if he
hasn't one he has to buy vegetables or r
without), tank, barn, stable and dog-kennel
all require space. Then some land has to lie
fallow every year, else it will be exhausted by
constant cropping, and there must be a scrap
of timber to keep the home fire burning. With
a good 12-bushel harvest there are 2400
bushels, which at 4s. per bushel means £4BO.
The costs (seed, cartage, horse-feed, repairs
to implements and sundries) are commonly
reckoned at £2 per acre. That is £4OO, and
it leaves £BO as support for the wheat farmer
and his family for the year and as return on
an investment or interest on a debt of £3OOO.
Of course, there are small side-lines, and
many farmers gamble in sheep and make
money—or lose it. If this was a Protection-
ist and decentralised country—if the spin-
ners, weavers, bootmakers, ironworkers, etc.,
etc., to whom the N. S. Wales farmer must
sell his goods, were at Bathurst and Armidale
and Bombala, instead of at Manchester and
Sheffield—the grower would get the whole
4s. 9d. per bushel, miserable as it is, instead
of 4s. Then he would have £l7O instead of
£BO from his main crop. But the Foreign-
trade curse and the One Big City curse for-
bid. Some reasons why the wheat bubble
has burst are these:—
(1) The local market becomes further and further
off as the little towns die and the country manu-
factures are removed to the city.
(2) The boom which increased the wheat area
of Australia from 3,228,631 acres in 1891 and
5,115,965 in 190? to 12,484,512 acres in 1916 made
Australia more and more an exporting country.
The price became not what would give the farmer
a living wage, but what the goods would bring in
England after paying freight on the longest voyage
in the world.
(3) When the bubble blew out after 1916 —-the
area sown in 1918 was only 9,698,221 acres, and it
is less for 1919. so the blowout is sudden and awful
—two things happened. The influx of fools with
money, who bought wheat land and lost their
money, left off. Even in the short period between
1902 and 1916 over 7,000,000 acres of fools went
into the business, while since then 2,700,000 acres
of ruined or disillusioned folk got out. And as a
result the unearned increment practically stopped.
The gamble in wheat land finished. The farmer
who was losing Is. an acre and giving his work
for nothing could no longer make £1 an acre by
selling to a “mug” and got out.
(4) The fact that a fool country couldn’t, or
rather didn’t, build ships during the recent war
was the climax. The fanner, instead of getting
the splendid war prices, had to. take any job lot
price that was offered for grain that might not be
delivered for years.
The Way to Hell is Wheat. And wheat has
got there.
The Beaten Foe.
No one can say that the Hun is an imposing
figure in the hour of defeat. Compared with
the little peoples, which asked for no con-
sideration even amid their worst misfortunes,
he presents rather the aspect of a spanked
cur, and his desire to turn informer for a
consideration is not beautiful. If the people,
or a little more than half of them.' who now
denounce their rulers as the worst of crimi-
nals for causing the war had denounced four
years earlier, the war wouldn’t have hap-
pened. In 1914 thfjre certainly was a llu.n
uprising of which the censorship allowed very
little news to leak out, but it wasn’t this
kind of uprising. When the rush of soldiers
to the Front had left the innards of the coun-
try weakly defended, the populace became
possessed with a mania that the land Avas
filled with spies, dubious foreigners, unreli-
able neutrals, and people who disapproved of
the Kaiser and the war. For a few strenu-
ous days or weeks there was almost a reign
of terror. It was next door to suicide to
drive on the roads near the border, especially
after dark, for loyal peasants who were too
old for service threw up barricades and laid
ambushes. Motorists near the border were
all under suspicion of being French, Russian
or British agents. Those who didn’t stop
were shot at, and those who did stop were
searched and probably shot. In Berlin itself
men and women were mobbed to death in the
streets because they were suspected of having
a foreign appearance, and several Bavarian
officers wei'e butchered because their dark
hair suggested that they were bogus Huns
masquerading in Hun uniform. Now the
attitude of these same people is that they
are, and always have been, unanimously
peaceful, that they abhorred the war, but
were driven into it by their monarchs, who
were the only responsible parties, though how
so few monarchs drove so many million
people all on their own is hard to under-
stand. Anyhow, thg monarchs have fled.
Recognising that there is nothing more terri-
ble than the rage of 100,000,000 informers
all turning king’s evidence at once, and ali
ready to burn their old gods alive to convince
the Allies of their absolute and chronic peace-
fulness. Apparently these servile folk would
gladly disembowel their queens and princesses
if they imagined that human internals would
be accepted as part payment of the indem-
nity. A characteristic appeal is that of the
new Bavarian Government—following in the
steps of the new Magyar Government—which
informs the Allies that Bavaria is now a
“People’s Country,” and urges them to treat
it with friendship accordingly, and only “hit
the guilty”—the guilty, of course, being the
monarch Avho Avisely got away in time. It
is a simple plea, but the Allies care little
whose country Bavaria is, and refuse to
believe that a few monarchs turned a great
part of five States to ashes single-handed
while 100,000.000 philanthropists strove
vainly to hold them back. The other side of
the picture is that, despite the armistice, the
retreating Huns are still committing out-
rages on the civil population through force of
habit, and the excuse offered is that the com-
mon, brutal herd has got out of hand. The
higher officers are not responsible. They are
of the _ ruling caste, like their kings, and
wouldn't hurt a fly even under chloroform.
Meanwhile a cloud lies heavily over the Hun
land—a cloud of terror lest the soldiers, the
men of the worker class, may break loose on
their return, and behai'e as they have been
doing abroad for the past four years. It
would not only be unpleasant; it would give
away the show.
The Empire’s saviours are in amazing quan-
tities noAv that the legions have won the
war, but in the South Seas Hughes of
Australia and Massey of M.L. are in a
class by themselves. The Commonwealth—
and presumably a number of other good-
tempered countries —was elevated during
the week by a brace of cablegrams which
passed between Hughes in London and
Massey in Wellington. They are worth
presenting:—
Wellington, Wednesdav.
Mr. Massey has received a cablegram from Mr.
Hughes, expressing, on behalf of the Government
and people of the Commonwealth, their great admi-
ration for the part played by the soldiers of Maori-
land, and now in the hour of decisive victory they
send them their hearty congratulations.
Mr. Massey replied: “On behalf of the Govern-
ment and the citizens of the Dominion, I thank
you most heartily for your cordial telegram of
felicitation in the hour of final triumph. Maoriland
warmly reciprocates Australia’s congratulations.
Throughout this colossal struggle, Maoriland soldiers
have been proud to have been joined so closely with
the Australian forces, whose records of heroism and
military achievement worthily upheld the best tra-
ditions of our race. The imperishable associations
formed on Gallipoli and other historic fields of
battle have created a lasting bond between both
Dominions. May the best energies of both peoples
continue to be devoted to building up more firmly,
in the Pacific, our partnership in the great Imperial
Commonwealth of nations to which it is our privi-
lege and heritage to belong.”
The Bulletin is not sure of the relation of
that eminent agricultural politician Massey
to the franchises of M.L. (though it has a
very good notion), but it is sure as to where
Hughes stands. For him to be cabling from
London congratulations to the nations on
behalf of Australia is akin to a Christie
Minstrel farce. The Australian people and
the battalions which have been their pride
will —and do —properly honor Maoriland’s
remarkable fight abroad and grit at home:
1 but the appreciation is not fulfilled by smug
cablegrams between a pair of politicians
A Song of the Great Surrender.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The battleships Lion and Australia were in the
lead.”— Cable.
It was the ship Australia that proudly led
the way ,
The war-prows in their triumph behind her
white wake stringing;
And o'er the clean, grey ocean a voice from
far away,
With a lilt of yews and waters upon my
heart came singing:
We are the guardians of the grey road,
Where the great foam-banners blow,
Where the oars dip strong
To a viking’s song
And the dead sleep well below.
Who shall come up by the spray road?
Who shall go down by the green V
Would they rob or reave,
They shall ask our leave.
The fog and the shoal between.
(Danish man, Danish man,
Hear the Saxon sea-drums beat!
Well ye fought, and well ye ran—
Yield your fleet! Yield your fleet!
liound the Kentish headland clear
Alfred’s ships are in your rear,
With the king’s flag in the van.
Hear the Saxon sea-drums beat—
Yield your fleet! Yield your fleet!)
We are the watchers of the blue road
Where the hot, sweet, spice-winds blow.
Where the white sails fill
And the long waves spill
On the coral beaches low.
Now who shall come up by the new road?
And who shall return by the old?
Let them fight or run,
With pike and gun
Our way of the seas w r e hold.
(Spanish king, Spanish king.
Hear the northern breakers beat.
Hear the English bugles sing—
Yield your fleet! Yield your fleet!
Far your scattered navies ride.
At the will of wind and tide.
Ere the wild sea-leopards spring
Through the gate of no retreat,
Yield your fleet! Y T ield your fleet!)
We are the masters of the red road.
Where the swift death creeps below,
Where they shake in fear
As our keels draw near
For the secret thing they know.
Now who shall come up by the dead road,
By the flame-road'yet untrod?
Lo, bolt and fire —
Be it son or sire—
We hold the seas for God!
(German pride, German pride.
Hear the screws that thresh and beat.
Mark the ships that hither ride !
Yield your fleet! Yield your fleet!
Nothing did your stealth avail.
Answer to the ancient hail
Of your master on the tide '
Bring your ships to kiss his feet —
Yield your fleet! Yield your fleet!)
We are the guardians of the white road,
Of the road where all may go,
Of the hope that is strong.
Of the light that is long,
And the glory still to grow.
Now who will come up bv the bright road.
And who will return by the red?
Good watch we kept
The while ye slept,
And the fear of the night is dead.
The ships of all the ages behind her white
icake stringing,
I tcatcli our own Australia that proudly leads
the wag:
And down the golden future through all my
heart goes singing
A lilt of years and waters from far and far
away.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


T he Farmers'& Settlers Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this co-operative
company.
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Office: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
who have little or no touch with the people
they accidentally represent. Hughes has
a bond of elastic with Australia. The fur-
ther it stretches the better for him—until
it breaks, and Massey would be better ad-
vised if he saved the cost of cabling to the
man-who-didn’t-win-the-war and placed it to
the credit of the hospitals dealing with the
influenza scourge with which he is so inti-
mately interested.
The Rub-out.
So far the conditions of armistice all seem
to be going according to schedule. The Ger-
man is beating over the Rhine at full speed,
and the ceremony of disencumbering himself
of his false-alarm navy has been carried out
with promptness and despatch. On the
purely spectacular side this surrender of a
tr<tpiendous naval force appears to have been
a very striking circumstance. No such thing
or anything even resembling it has ever
occurred before. On the material side the
surrender means a reduction of German sea-
power to relative impotence. Whether a
people who have given a navy away will think
it worth while to again commence accumulat-
ing ships of war remains to be seen, but it is
morally certain that the Germans will not
begin to think about navy building for a long
clock. They have many more urgent problems
on hand. Among them is the job of finding
out where they are. The news about them is
fragmentary and confusing. Broadly speak-
ing, the picture formed by the disjointed
scraps of information is of a struggle between
the right-thinking Socialists and the whole-
hog Socialists. The former, which includes
what is known as the Majority group, appear
to have more or less support from the official
crowd, the Conservatives and the numerous
abdicated kings. They are the Socialists who
lied with great industry to their French and
English “comrades” a fortnight before the
war, voted for war credits in the Reichstag,
yelled loudly for victory and defended the
Rape of Belgium. The whole-hog Socialists
are the followers of Lieiskneciit (who
denounced the war from the beginning, voted
against the appropriations and was gaoled
for “treason”). Liebknecht is all for Govern-
ment by the proletariat— at once, and he is
said to be preaching Bolshevism. Probably
everything in Germany will hinge upon the
attitude of the soldiery. As its last reported
attitude was alleged to be a wild generosity
in giving away rifles and helmets and iron
crosses, the situation generally is somewhat
complicated.
♦ —.
The Necessity for More Imports.
Our native clothes-drunk land is putting in
a special effort this year at the purchase of
foreign goods—-millinery and other fluff being
the biggest item —in order to prevent local
industry and local wages,. and the acquisi-
tion of more taxpayers and more people to
share the debt burden. As an instance, Vic-
toria, during the first ten months of 1918,
imported £22,463,878 worth, as against
£15,978,861 worth for the first ten months
of 1917. That was at the rate of about
£27,000,000 a year, and the part that was
manufactured goods represented more than
the value of all the manufactured goods pro-
duced in the State during the same period.
Victoria’s factories employ about 114,000
people, so the imports of manufactured goods
meant the loss of work and support for
114,000 people and their families, and all
the other people, from the cow-keeper who
supplies milk for the infant to the under-
taker who buries the oldest inhabitant,
whom the 114,000 with their families would
have supported in their turn. Of Victoria’s
imports for ten months £23o,24o,rer>resented
liquor for the beer-drunk, and £8,343,324
represented fluff of one sort or another for
the_ clothes-drunk. Of the latter item
£1.500,000 stood for woollen goods. The
wool is grown in Australia, carried long dis-
tances at great cost on loan railways, past
towns that should buy the stuff and make it
up but which only moulder; it is put on hired
shipSs; made up at great cost by hired for-
eign labor; brought out again on hired for-
eign ships; and (a lot of it at least) humped
per the borrowed-money railways and past
the mouldering towns back where it came
from. It is the return of the prodigal pants,
and the prodigal son wasn’t a patch on the
event for expensiveness. All the same, Tite
Btlixetin doesn’t object to imports. It
would like to see more of them —under the
right circumstances. If Australia imported
twice as much as it does, and had ten times
as many people to pay for the goods, and
collected 100 or 200 or 300 per cent, more
Customs revenue, this paper would be glad,
for Customs revenue is a most useful thing.
Australia’s imports are insanely large in
proportion to the population of the country
but absurdly small in proportion to its area.
That is shown by the example of the highly-
protected United States, which is only the
same size' as Australia yet imports six ‘times
as much. If Australia were to shut down
hard, by a hard-hearted tariff, on the pur-
chase abroad of such absurdities as pants
made out of its own wool, and jewellery
made out of its own gold and silver, and
utensils made out of its own tin and copper,
and other things that it could easily supply
itself, it would still be a buyer of many
things. And when its highly-protected in-
dustries had made its population 50,000,000
instead of 5,000,000, leaving it still the most
thinly-peopled white man's country on earth,
it might easily be twice as good a customer
to Great Britain and the Allies as it is now.
For want of Protection it is the poorest cus-
tomer of its size that Britain possesses, and
Britain has to lend it much of the money to
pay for its purchases. The Bulletin makes
no disguise of the fact that it believes in
imports—believes a great deal more honestly
and sincerely than the futile Argus or the
short-sighted S. M. Herald, which, in Scrip-
tural phrase, only live for the day and to-
morrow are cast into the oven.
Pie-crusts.
One of the promises recently made by the
N. S. Wales Government was that there
would be no present increase of taxation for
peace purposes. The field was to be left
open for the Federal Government with its
war burdens to carry, and the State, having
already far more than doubled the tax
revenue inside four years, and having twice
as much to spend as sufficed before Labor
came into office, was to be content for the
moment and economise. Of course, the
pledge isn’t to be honored ; a ITun’s oath is
in the same category with a State Govern-
ment’s promise, unless it promises to spend
more money. About a dozen petty devices
appear under the heading of stamp
duties which are already so numerous
that an ordinary person is as liable
to fall over them as a citizen of Berlin
is over the police regulations ; and some of
the devices are mean as well as petty. For
instance, deceased estates of small amount
have hitherto been exempt from duty, but
now it is proposed that even a property of
£lOOO or less, which the late lamented
couldn’t take with him, shall pay 2 per cent.
—£2o on £lOOO or £lO on £5OO. Properties
of that size are worth, perhaps, £OO and £3O
a year respectively, and if they happen to go
to a dependant Avliose ordinary income van-
ished with the deceased it looks a patheti-
cally humble variety of political “graft.”
A tax on banknotes is included, though
as banking is a matter of Federal
jurisdiction it is difficult to see where
Holman and Fitzpatrick come in. The
only banknotes now are those which
weren’t presented for payment when the
Federal issue took the place of the old joint-
stock paper money. There were in Australia
£233,000 worth unaccounted for at recent
advices, a good deal of the amount being
probably burnt or drowned, and the hungry
Government proposes, till the Common-
wealth rules it out of order, to charge £2 on
every £lOO or part thereof that it can reach.
The habit of letting a widow off with half
the usual death duties when the inheritance
from the deceased old man is worth less
than £lO,OOO, is to be abandoned. The old
woman is to pay full rates if she inherits
over £5OO0 —say, £5 10s. or £6 a Aveek—and
half-rates below that. One way and
another, the Government which pro-
mised not to increase taxes expects to pick
up quite a lot of small moneys by searching
the clothes of the dead and otherwise. And
as it still contemplates starting with loan
money, a gigantic State business in meat,
which is also dead, the new revenue may be
required to make up the shortage. The
success of Premier Ryan’s State butcheries
in Queensland has probably moved llolman
and Co. to a new ambition. But the Ryan
Government, with a solid Bolshevik sort of
party behind it, drove a hard bargain with
the pastoralists. by which they are compelled
to supply the State butcheries at much less
than private butchers pay and much less
than the export rate. The pastoralists
grumbled, but fearing perhaps lest a law
might be passed Avhereby each sheep would
have to bear a sixpenny stamp and also re-
ceive a liberal education, the grumble wasn’t
A r ery loud.
+
Some More Points.
Points count in a lengthy contest, as
every sporting scribe knows, and the Hun
is piling them up assiduously. Bulgaria
and Turkey surrendered at discretion, and
Austria did very little better. Germany
clutched, as a drowning octopus clutches at
a straw, to U.S. President Wilson’s rather
vague and Avordy “points,” and accepted
them wildly, and actually succeeded in get-
ting some recognition of them at the arrange-
ment of the armistice. President Wilson
was never a soldier or a man of affairs. He
was born far from the madding crowd in
a quiet little town in the mainly agricultural
State of Virginia. He was a Professor of
Jurisprudence, and for a time he practised
law in Atlanta, the State capital of Georgia,
a harmless city about half the size of
Adelaide and a centre of old Confederate
sentiment. He represents the Democratic
party:—the one that was “agin’ the war”
every time there was a war. This party, in
1564, when the Civil War was nearly won,
put up McClellan against Lincoln as its
Presidential candidate on the principle of
surrender, at the 11th hour and in the
autumn of the 59th minute, to the slave-
owners and the disruption of the Union. It
made a good fight—in fact, if Grant had
not thrown away soldiers’ lives like flies to
scoop a sensational victory on which the
Republicans could appeal to the country
the Peace-and-i Surrender candidate might
have won, and there might be no United
States to-day. Wilson, the lawyer and
college professor, was reared in this repose-
ful atmosphere, When he expounded the 14
objects of the war he spoke for himself—
that is to say, he expounded his own view
to Congress, as a man who had never seen
strife; and his people, who hadn’t seen big
strife then, though they certainly have done
so since, were to some extent impressed.
The wily Hun, as already mentioned,
secured a sort of informal recognition of
Wilson’s utterances in the matter of the
armistice, and thereby laid some foundations
for a claim to easy terms at the peace. Since
then the Hun has spread himself, in pathetic
appeals on behalf of his women and children
addressed to the President’s wife and to
Miss Jane Adams, an estimable lady who
isn’t so well known as she doubtless should
be, but who sounds as if she wore spectacles.
The Hun’s hope of making a separate peace
with the United States, which isn’t a member
of the Alliance, and using it as a lever with
the Allies is plainly not dead. 1-Ie has lagged
as much as possible in the evacuation to
show that he isn’t being quite pushed out
but is partly retiring with dignity and has
an excuse to keep his army together. In
Roumania the German commander even de-
manded that his force should take its arms
and baggage (probably plunder) away with
it; wherefore Roumania declared war, so as
to put itself in a legal position if it was
necessary to give a shove to the enemy who
had occupied its territory in time of peace
and reconciliation. And Hun agencies of
some sort appear to be at work trying hard
to secure the return of a fairly-amenable
Labor majority in the British House of Com-
mons at the approaching elections. The
faith of the British Laborite in the Hun
Socialist as a brother seems to be reviving
under judicious treatment, and a big London
meeting got so far as to howl down Minister
Bonar Law and to break into cheers for
Liebneciit, the German Socialist. So the
Ilun is accumulating points wherever he can.
To raise revenue under the Entertainment
Tax Act the Federal Government is now
pursuing the citizen, for Id., who plays a
game of billiards, rides on a merry-go-
round, enters a swimming-bath or gets on a
donkey, every time he does it. The new tax
imposes Id. for every entertainment-pay-
ment not exceeding Is., and a ukase issued
from .Melbourne this week calls upon the
proprietor of a swimming-bath, merry-go-
round, billiard-room, donkey, punching-ball,
shooting-gallery, slippery-dip, swing-boat
and slot-picture contraption to register him-
self as a collector of taxes from his patrons.
This business . of taxing people for getting
into the sea in an enclosed place as an
alternative to springing in somewhere else
and taking the chance of being devoured by
a shark, seems to The Bulletin to call for
loud and firm remonstrance. ‘Unhappily,
owing to the kaleidoscopic character of the
financial operations in other lands, this
paper is unable to swear that the people in
no other country are taxed for washing them-
selves, but it has a strong suspicion that
the Australian Nationalist party is estab-
lishing a new principle in taxation. Is or
is not William Watt prepared to give the
address of any Government which leaves
the populace no choice between being taxed
for a safe wash in salt water or being
chewed by a grey nurse? Watt may, of
course, explain that the citizen still has the
alternative of going down to the shore with
a bucket and getting enough mosture in
safety to pour over himself, publicly or
otherwise, which would be just ' like
Watt. The whole of this business looks
inexpressibly shabby—a paltry chasing of
kids for coppers and obviously swinging
jolts on to the poorer sections of the com-
munity. . Even the billiards tax looks like a
mean side-line in discrimination. The
average man who hires a table to play upon
will have to shell out, but what will Fat,
operating on the privately-owned furniture,
pay for a hundred up? Exactly Od.
-♦—
“Jean S.”: The Nationalists in the Reps,
are a mass of mutually dissentient elements
united only in their hatred of Labor. I have
calculated that. there are about 748 different
subjects on which they can dissolve into half
a dozen disagreeable minorities, finding occa-
sional points of unanimity in details, but
wrangling freely about basic principles and
ready to put up a. polite approach to a dog-
fight on anything injurious to their personal
feelings. In the Corner and nearby these
fervent anti-Socialists are seen in all their
wonderful dissimilarity. Tuere is the verv
moderate Protectionist, Bruce Smith who is
ready to second Austin Chapman' in an
offensive against Hughes, but won’t be trod-
den on in the rush to deal trouble to the
i oreign-trader. Likewise Chapman’s howl
for economy will bring Gregory to his feet,
though the member for Dampier would
sooner be “dealing it out” to Defence Min-
ister Pearce. Jowett, on his part, numbers
1 earce, Hughes and the Empiah among his
innumerable gods, but he will head any
movement to declare land-taxation a thistle,
and have it suffer according to the Act. Cap-
tain S. M. Bruce, who lounges on the back
Corner bench, also declares land-taxation
rathah a bothah, but deriving his mental
stimulants from Flinders-lane, lie is hardly
Chapman’s twin on the Tariff question
Rogers and Sampson stand for wheat, Sin-
clair for cow, Leckie for both and lots
more besides; but though they are moved to
moist commiseration for the poor landholder,
there are ideals dear to their neighbors that
leave them cold. Going afield one will dis-
cover equal antagonisms. Archibald, a
virulent land-taxer, is a Hughes idolator.
Fowler, on the contrary, nourishes for
Hughes a malignant contempt that has
made him a fanatic. Palmer has peculiar
enthusiasms, and has dedicated his intellect
to the problem of eradicating Mannix and
Rome. The only possible point on which
this human archipelago will make two
groups will be the suitability of Hughes
for the Prime Minister’s billet. And in the
light of recent speeches that matter, if it
could come to a division, would afford some
interesting voting.
There were no bands playing nor any flags
flying in the vicinity of the State Nationalist
fort when the figures for the Monaro
(N.S.W.) by-election went up the other day.
The result of the poll gave the Ilolman-
Fuller misfits a severe jolt. At the general
election Labor presented Gus Miller with
a majority for the seat of 1591 on a poll o£
6303. This time the Labor majority for
Jack Bailey, on a poll of 5637, was 1663.
Holman and Co. had made a desperate
struggle to win the seat—and were allegedly
confident of at least heavily reducing the
surplus—in order to show Labor the warn-
ing on the wall or something. What they
now see is a message intended for themselves
and an abrupt reminder that Holman is by
way of being a sort of Jonah. Bailey, who
succeeds the lately-dead Miller, is a well-
known man in the A.W.TJ. lie is a grand-
son of a pioneer of the Monaro, Thomas
Boid, who was a member of the Hume and
Ilovell exploring party."
S'.A. Leg. Council, though not allowed by
Parliamentary usage to criticise individual
Judges, has given a nasty one to the whole
S.A. Bench by throwing out at the last
moment the Fourth Judge Bill, which was
passed by the Assembly and considered cer-
tain to go right, through. The argument
was that, as the girl said of the new baby,
there are “many things that we need more.”
The opinion was freely expressed that a
Bench of three might induce lawyers to talk
less, and so shorten the time of hearing
cases. _ There had been meanwhile much
discussion about the new appointment that
seemed certain to have to be made. Cleland
or Piper or Isbister. all K.C.’s, bad a big
claim;.but some preferred Dr. Richards, who
has been doing Government work for years
past, or Jethro Brown, the ex-university
professor, who does not seem happy in the
Industrial Court. In the bad old times the
judgeship would have been grabbed by the
Ministry of the moment for its Attorney-
General ; but the Labor party has the credit
of having abolished that bad precedent, and
Harwell has disclaimed any ambition for the
job. Anyhow, the unexpected action of the
Leg. Council has put all speculations to sleep.
“The Deacon”: Laid down the crozier.
Bishop Verdon, R.C. head of Dunedin
(ALL.). He was imported by his late
cousin, Cardinal Moran, to guide the des-
tinies of the just-opened Ecclesiastical Col-
lege at Manly (N.S.W.), but he was too
gentle and easy-going to make a success of
his job. _ While the college was getting
heavily in debt, and Moran raving mad at
it, Verdon would be playing the organ to
himself, or busy composing another chapter
for his book on Gregorian Chant and
Ecclesiastical Ceremonial—the work being
a masterpiece of its kind. Things came to
a head at last, and the Bishops, -who all
liked the gentle prelate, gathered to his res-
cue and appointed him their representative
in Rome. He had actually begun the jour-
ney when he was recalled to bish in Dunedin.
Arch. Redwood is the only one alive of the
then hierarchy. Archdeacon Murphy, dead
now two years, was Verdon’s successor at
Manly, and pulled the financial nuts from
the incinerator. Next president of the col-
lege was Dr. McDermott, P.P., now of
Leichhardt, who was the greatest of them
all, and who got the Bill through Parlia-
ment a few years back to sell portion of the
College. grant. He will be a likely place-
getter in the Dunedin episcopal stakes.


3576
ƒ
5/fe Ideal Beer for the Home
ABBOTS
LAGER-
Brewed from Pure Malt and Hops.
TAKE NO OTHER.
fd
ďf
ƒs
df
Rational Dress for Summer.
The conventional three-piece suit of heavy Tweed is rapidly being
replaced by silks, cottons and lighter Tweeds in “No Veste” styles,
more suitable for Australian Summer weather.
Peapes’ quote a very light open-weave Grey Herringbone Aus-
tralian Tweed, made up in the sports style with half-band at back,
three patch pockets, no lining except in sleeves. Trousers: side,
hip and fob pockets and permanent turn-up. A cool suit of
distinctive style.
Ready to wear... £3-10-0
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state height, chest, waist and inside
leg measurements.
New catalogue, just issued, will be sent on request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
ller Majesty’s •
Criterion Madame a
Hov al “Hearts of the World
palace “ Eye^ of
Union Theatres' 7.7 Moving Pictures
H OYT ’ S Moving Pictures
MEUBOUUNE SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty-s “Hello, Everybody !
I{ OVA [, “Hearts of the World
Kino’s '. “The Wearing of the Green’’
Tjvoli “Everybody’s Doing It’’
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melra Moving, Pictuies
Britannia’.. Moving Pictures
Of all the parts in which Muriel Starr lias
been seen by Australian audiences none tits
her so well, or she tits none so well, as that
of the wife of Louis Floriot, in Bisson s
“Madame X.” It is a harrowing story, that
of the woman who, after deserting her hus-
band and child, returns to seek reconciliation
and is thrown off the premises, and after -0
years’ pilgrimage through the ooze and the
slime of life shoots her temporary companion,
the thief Baroque, in a pub. To the unlovely
part of the wretched female, physically a
wreck, and saved only from complete
demoralisation by an abiding love for the son
she had never seen since his infancy, the
leading woman brings appearance, action
and speech almost painful in its per-
fection. The play was given a revival on
Saturday at the Criterion (Sydney), and in
the scene with Baroque at “The Three
Crowns” and in the concluding act in which
she is placed at the bar of the Assize Court
on an indictment for murder, Muriel Starr
played with all the accomplishment which
made her characterisation of Madame X in
its original production such a well-remem-
bered episode. The pla'y turns wholly upon
the half-hag and half-martyr who once was
the pretty, frivolous Jacqueline. It is a play
of artifice, and, to a very great extent, of
unreal people. The degraded wife and
mother is almost entirely an artificiality, for
women who go to the Devil don’t go in the
way portrayed, nor are they anything like so
feminine. With the leading part in less cer-
tain hands than Miss Starr’s the piece would
easily be ruined, or, at any rate, come close
to bathos. As played by her, two of the acts
hold the audience in the grip of a firm illu-
sion. “Madame X” owes more to the actress
than to the dramatist. The cast in the pre-
sent production, apart from the lead, is a new
one. Louis Kimball, as the son of
“Madame X,” at
Sydney Criterion.
J. B. Atholwood, as
Merivel, confidential
missioner.
Madame, gives an
excellent perform-
ance. Tli e same
may be said of
Frank Harvey, the
unforgiving hus-
band, after making
the qualification
that there are other
parts to which he
is better suited
than that of this
rather too theatri-
cal lawyer. Of the
others II a r old
Moran, as Floriot’s
friend, is amazingly
monotonous, and
Arthur Styan and
James Atholwood
make a pair of
quaint apparitions
as Perissard and
Merivel. Perhaps
there have been such individuals as P.
and M. If there have not, there ought to
have been.
The Repertory movement under the J. and
N. Tait management is getting well into its
stride. Last week at the Palace (Sydney)
“The Doctor’s Dilemma” was played for the
third and last time; and to-day (Thursday)
John Galsworthy’s “Pigeon” is to take its
trial flight, with Shaw’s “How He Lied to
Her Husband” as a curtain-raiser. In both
the “Pigeon” and the “Dilemma” the men’s
parts outnumber those of the women, which
is a fortunate circumstance, as the co. is dis-
tinctly weak on the female side. If to the
fine acting of the repertory men could be
added, say, the brilliancy of an actress like
Emelie Polini, who plays nightly under the
same roof, the combination would scintillate
in any literary play it might attempt. As
leading lady of the new movement, too, the
star of the “Eyes of Youth” would get such an
opportunity to show her versatility and
charm that her acting might easily become a
great tradition of the Australian stage. The
regular theatre, as it is to-day, does not give
much chance for building enduring reputa-
tions ; and the future Siddons or Bernhardt
will have to win her laurels in the play
whose first appeal is to the intellect.
Gregan McMahon’s venture has already
proved a success. He offers the genuine
article ; and with the company strengthened
as suggested, and the matinees shifted from
Thursday to Saturday in order to give stage-
lovers of Sydney ay. opportunity to be pre-
sent, the literary drama might yet eclipse all
other brands of show in popular esteem. Cer-
tainly no other kind of matinee held on
Thursday would have filled the Palace as it
has been filled for the opening of this experi-
mental season.
The Royal Comics, led by Florence Young,
are still anchored at Her Majesty’s (Syd-
ney) with “Ivatinka.”
*
Brest is the dramatist who compresses
three plays into one and leaves his nice
young heroine fresh -and unspoiled at the
end of the evening. Because its author
accomplished both these wonders, “The Eyes
of Youth” is in its seventh week at the
Palace (Sydney).
** * *
Sydney James and Co. are serving
“Pierrot Pie No. 8” at the Playhouse (Syd-
ney), and the public keeps on passing the
plate. “The Lies of Truth,” which lightly
burlesques the Emelie Pdlini play, is good
fun.
“Time, Please” has been wound up again
for a week’s run at the Tivoli (Sydney),
and is ticking along brightly. The best 15
minutes of the show go past in the cafe
sketch, in which Barry Lupino, disguised
with a full set of red weeper whiskers,
ancient dress clothes, spectacles and bedroom
slippers, flaps about miserably as the senior
wowser waiter who finds himself acting as
the servant of Sin. lie scores again in
“Dinner Time,” as the gasbag foreman who
invites Rego to put ’em up.
“Hearts of the World,” D. W. Griffiths’
big war-film, fills the Royal (Sydney) with
the battle smoke that is past, and revives
memories of the early days of the war. One
of its effects on the watcher is that he comes
away with a heart hardened against Ger-
many. The Hun was so horrible that some
of us are in danger of forgetting that he was
not a convulsion of nature or an Act of God,
but a reasoning human being who chose to be
a gorilla in massed formation.
* * * *
Pistol-shooting is the feature of the week
at the movie houses in Sydney. The Crystal
Palace is showing “Tempered Steel,” wherein
Petrova defies the pl’oud traditions of her
southern U.S. family by going on the stage,
where she attracts so many lovers that she is
forced to thin them out by drilling a hole in
a particularly insistent fellow who attempts
to diminish her beauty by a douche of vitriol.
Beauty unaccompanied by an automatic is a
dangerous asset apparently in U.S. At the
Lyceum, in “Cheating the Public,” Enid
Markey shoots her harsh employer, who
has grown to a gross fatness on the under-
paid labor of herself and her underfed bro-
thers and sisters. He seems to have been
an unpopular person, for it turns out that
a bullet from a dismissed forema.n penetrated
him before that of the girl’s arrived. Per-
haps it was a dead-lieat. Anyhow, nobody
was reprimanded for the murder. Hoyt’s
and the Haymarket also push a revolver into
the hands of their heroine, Dorothy Dalton.
She holds up a gambling outfit where she is
the stakes. “Tyrant Fear” is the name of
this wild Canadian story. Chaplin is taking
a plunge into diplomacy at Hoyt’s and the
Haymarket. “Triple Trouble” is his little lot.
A Sydney side-show :
The few loan pictures that are on view brighten up
the exhibition of the late Walter Withers’s oils and
water-colors in Anthony Horderns’ Gallery, In
the years that have passed since the artist’s death
the work he left behind him appears to have been
well picked over. Consequently the loan pictures
are strong and brilliant by contrast. Still there
are some desirable things for sale if one has the
guineas about him. Daughter Margery Withers
hangs 19 oils, of which No. 63 (Self Portrait) has
a special interest. No 60 (An Eltham Road) is a
well-composed study of light and shade, and No. 55
(A Wet Day) is an inviting opalesque. No. 57
(The Dam) mixes still water and distance charm-
ingly. No. 70 (The School Girl) is the surest of
Miss Withers’s water-color portraits. The 14 oils
by Meynell Withers, young son of the late Walter,
are very creditable, and his future development
should be interesting. He has still a good deal to
learn about composition and the modelling of
clouds; but his boyish work can stand with that of
many artists twice his age.
The Tivoli (Adelaide) is reviving that
always-reliable melodrama of George Dar-
rell’s “When London Sleeps.” The Majestic,
except that Paul Stanhope continues to be
Spike Murphy through a succession of light
“revues,” is having a new team in, including
Davey, the returned-from-Gallipoli juggler,
the handsome Marzon and Florence pair,
and Brightie and Carlyon. The Royal, in
between spoken shows, is putting up a film
of “The Better ’Ole.” Other pictures are
a triumph of the feminine —Mae Marsh in
“Sunshine Alley” at West’s, and Marguerite
Clark at Wondergraph in the garden idyll
‘•Prunella,” which has been already given as
a play more than once by the Repertory
Theatre in Adelaide. The King’s re-opened
for one evening with a clever amateur ren-
dering of “Trial by Jury” ; and John Demp-
ster’s choir of women delivered the concert
which the tram-strike had caused to be post-
poned. The musical season at the Royal
ended triumphantly with the musical comedy
“High Jinks,” which is a very ordinary play
“made” by two great tunes.
Melba’s big effort on behalf of the Lady
Northcote Orchestra Fund attracted a huge
audience to the Melbourne Town Hall on
Saturday afternoon. The melting heat of
“EVERYBODY’S DOING IT,” AT
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
The villain (Frank Greene) and the hero
(Charles H. Workman) in “The Drama of
Yesterday .”
the day threatened stout people with evapora-
tion, but the hundreds who came to enjoy
remained to perspire with the diva and the
orchestra. Melba’s programme was a selected
series, judiciously blending the sweetness of
the chanson with the more florid feelings of
operatic airs. Her two opening arias from
Mozart’s “Nozze di Figaro,” with the full
orchestra in support, were just large enough
to show that the wonderful voice retained
all its old reserve of strength and fascina-
tion. Her singing of Duparc’s “Pliidyle”
brought all its exquisite color to the surface,
and there was the same revelation of un-
uttered sentiment and unsuspected beauty in
the bracket of little French items which
followed. The greatest of these numbers
tries to imprison a fancy so fleeting that it
almost eludes the composer, but Melba’s ex-
pressive genius gave the item an eminence it
rarely has attained in other singers. Fritz
Hart’s orchestra, which embellished the
somewhat demonstrative futilities of the
“Figaro” overture, caught all the dark
glamor of Sibelius’s “Valse Triste” and made
a tremendous effect of Tschaikowsky’s Sixth
(Pathetic) Symphony. In the last-mentioned
work the composer orchestrates his griefs
with gloomy pomp, employing all the tumult
of brasses, drums and cymbals to illustrate
emotions that would seem everyday from the
strings and woodwind. There are, however,
some impressive passages in the iscore.
Especially striking are the muffled and por-
tentous pizzicatos of the big fiddles slowly
beating down the scale towards the end of
the first movement. They suggested Jehovah
descending the golden stairs in Celestial
slippers.
:!: * % *
Potash and Perlmutter have returned to
the rag-trade for five nights at the Royal
(Melb.). Adams and Waters, as the impul-
sive partners 1 , are now shouting the mutual
aspersions which make their business com-
munion bearable. So far as memory serves,
they seem not less audible than the previous
holders of the roles. Indeed, if there is any
difference between the two lots, the present
P. and P. practised their elocution in a larger
hall than the original disputants, and hence
strive for greater effects of emphasis and
feeling. As before, the noble clothiers risk
insolvency to go bail for the young Russian
refugee, Boris Andrieff, whom a brutal Czar
tries to drag from the U.S. Boris’s troubles
prove an overwhelming load of tragedy for
George Edwards, whose voice and complexion
are alike marked with despair. Maggie
Moore, as Mrs. Potash, certainly amplifies
the character, but she serves as a sort of
sedative to the picturesque Rosie Parkes,
who, in the character of the designing Miss
Goldman, works for the maximum of captiva-
tion with the minimum of personality. Mattee
Brown, as Irma Potash, keeps her small
place in the picture, whilst Frank Haw-
thorne (Mark Pasinsky) stands out from the
collection of sundries by his effusive geniality
and wealth of gesture. Next Saturday the
Royal will temporarily become a screen-
house, and “Hearts of the World” will throb
for a space.
The energy of the people in “Hello, Every-
body,” at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), is not im-
paired by the fact that they have now been
repeating themselves for nearly six weeks
without much relief in the way of new patter
and songs. It takes much longer than that time
to convince the rare birds in the aviary that
they are developing into parrots and require
a change, especially if the salary is an aid
to forgetfulness, and the opportunities for
promotion are not entirely extinguished by
the fact that they happen to be unrelated to
the management. It is great to have an
uncle or a grandfather on the directorate, but
merit is also a valuable asset. Maude Amery,
who lately followed Maggie Dickinson as
leading dancer, won her place by her own
good work, and The Bulletin should say,
after an inspection of her efforts, that she
deserves to hold it against all-comers.
Allen Doone is giving his ancient Irish
blarney to a decreasing band of followers at
the King’s (Melb.). There was only a
moderate house on Saturday, when he sought
to introduce some lire and feeling into the
yarn of “Molly Bawn” by giving an impas-
sioned rendering of Robert Emmet’s Speech in
the dock and by warbling with bogus anguish
“The Wearing of the Green.” Those were the
only two points of emphasis in the decrepit
narrative, but the song and the speech have
been done so often that they are losing their
power to electrify the simple patliriots whose
sacred sintiments Doone appeals to. In the
play Allen makes a fancy-dress ball the
excuse for his political demonstration, and it
is also at the ball that any real action
develops. At this stage Marcia Amherst
(Ethel Bashford), who has deeply offended
her fretful grandpa (Frank Qullenane),
hurries him into his last sleep before he can
alter his will to the damage of herself and
her racketty cousin, Philip Shadwell. But
grandpa has already willed the disinheri-
tance of the conspirators with profuse legal
formality, and has actually left them worse
off than the weird Indian apparition called
Dimitri, who has hung on the trail of the
deceased in a white turban and red trousers.
Of course, it is Ireland’s most illustrious
colleen (Edna Keeley) wbo succeeds to
grandpa’s millions, and it is superfluous to
mention that Erin’s greatest minstrel (Allen
Doone) succeeds to Edna Keeley. Next
Saturday Doone’s pastime will be “The Wear-
ing of the Green,” a dear old costume play
with unusual openings for song.
“Everybody’s Doing It” is staggering
along under its load of unimpressive patter
and music at the Tivoli (Melb.). The pre-
eminent feature of the show is Girl, but
there is not enough of that desirable sub-
stance to compensate for the weakness of the
other details. In another way of speaking
the entertainment hasn’t sufficient leg to
stand on, and needs the help of a lot more
calves to achieve that allurement which is
imperative in revues.
“The Whispering Chorus” is the longest
film in sight on Hoyt’s Melbourne screens
this week. Seven acts of melodrama tell the
story of John Trimble, who embezzles from
his employer, bolts from his wife and con-
dones his offences in the electric-chair,
Valeska Suratt, as “The Rich Man’s Play-
thing,” shows how to become the gaudiest item
in the human toyshop where millionaires
and similar animals buy some of their happi-
ness. Vivian Martin, whose purpose in life
is to play futile flapper heroines in a grown-
up manner, sticks to her line ip “The Trouble
Buster,” though her career in this film is
more meteoric than usual. The fourth of
Hoyt’s sensations is “Tyrant Fear,” wherein
the spectator sees Dorothy Dalton sold like
a side of mutton. At the Majestic the painted
eyes of Petrova are staring out at devout
crowds in her remarkable story, “The
Fife Mask.” A Triangle comedy-drama,
“Wild Life,” follows Petrova and discloses
our old friend William Desmond buying a
ticket for the early door wherever trouble
tends to thicken.
The announcement that owing to the rav-
ages of influenza only 26 out of 80 members
of tile Maoriland House of Reps, could attend
the other day, suggests a radical overhauling
of the local quarantine laws. In between
times there will be a few by-elections at
which the source of the importation of germs
can be expected to afford material for violent
language. The casual way in which M.L.
deals with epidemics is most amazing. Appa-
rently the front door is kept wide open—or,
at any rate, in such a condition that anyone
with a deadly germ in his kit can pass right
ia. The deaths resulting upon this foolish-
ness include David Buick, of Palmerston
North, and Arthur Hindmarsh, both members
of the Reps. Buick was by way of being a
farmer. He also owned a racehorse or two.
At the last general election he defeated the
now also dead Robert McNab, who had been
Ward’s Minister for Lands.


THE WORLD AGAINST HER.
ERMVNTRUDE HUGHES: “Friendless, hungry and desperate, I beseech you not to desert me and my cheild." (As he turns indifferently on his heel). “David!.... DAVID!.... Abandoned!. . . .BETRAYED!! !”
(Kioto curtain, green limelight, as Erm. writhes centre.)


LEAD
British Owned and Controlled.
SILVER
The Bro Ken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Smelting Works : Port Pirie, S.A. Coke Works : Belianibi, N.S.W.
Branch Offices:
LONDON : 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building. SYDNEY :25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead Chemical Lead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Linotype Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY
FAVORABLE TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High -Grade;
Slags, etc., containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Registered
BHAS:
Brand.
LITHARGE
All Enquiries to
be addressed to
the Secretary.
ANTIFRICTION
LINOTYPE
METALS
PIONEER" Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
makers! J. C. LUDOWICI CSL SON LTD.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
E. Rich and Co., Ltd., merchants, station-
supply people, etc. (head office in Brisbane,
formerly in Sydney) :
Available for
Sept Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
190 a!. £12,810 4p.c. =£7,921 £4894 £3,509
Reserves.
1906.. 12,998 4 „ „ 7,921 5077 1,568
1907.. 14,205 5 ~ ~ 9,902 4303 5,871
1908.. 10,501 5 „ „ 9,902 599 6,470
1909.. 8,009 5 ~ ~ 9,902 4,577
1910.. 10,196 5 „ „ 9,902 294 4,871
1911.. 13,778 5 „ „ 9,902 3876 8,747
1912.. 2,223 4 ~ ~ 7,921 3,049
1913.! 9,018 4 „,, 7,921 3 097
1914.. 9,118 4 „ „ 7,921 1197
1915.. 15,687 6 ~ „ 11,882 3805 9,148
June,
1916.. 15,325 6 „.. 8,912 6413 15,561
1917.. 38,918 8 ~ „ 15,843 3075 18,636
1918.. 27,451 10 ~ „ 19,804 7647 20,2.83
From the profits for the nine months to .June
30, 1910, £5500 was set aside in a suspense
account to meet war-time profits taxation,
and out of last year’s profits a further £3OOO
was added. Now the whole of this £SSOO has
been transferred to reserves. So the
profits for 1916 and 1917 _ in the
table have been credited with these
amounts set aside for taxation. They are not
the true profits, though ; war-time profits
taxes have still to be paid, though the Act
was such a bungle that when the current
accounts were published neither the Commis-
sion nor the co. knew how much would have
ti) be paid for any of the past three years.
E. Rich and Co. had such a good time last
year that after distributing a record 10 p.c.
div. there was £7647 remaining which the
directors considered sufficient to cover any
taxation calls.
The co. has now been established 20 years.
The business had its beginnings in the N. S.
Wales Outback, and, later, Edward Rich
came to Sydney.s But drought and other
troubles gave the concern a bad buffeting,
and for a time it was being propped up by
Dalgety’s. Later on it shook itself free again,
but the going was not too easy. Four or five
years ago the management decided to relin-
quish its Sydney interests and extend in
Queensland. Brisbane is now the co.’s head-
quarters, and its Sydney interests are appa-
rently confined to working the old free and
bonded stores on Circular Quay. The co.
used to do a big station-supply business, but
except for supplying some of the largest pas-
toral concerns it has practically given up that
business. Nowadays E. Rich and Co. are
general merchants, and also forwarding and
commission agents. This change of policy
has worked out very well, and the profits for
the past year indicate the possibilities of the
business.
Naturally there have been some big changes
in the balance-sheet figures. Go back only
five years:—
1913. 1917. 1918.
Liabilities
Mortgages .. ..£21,350 Nil Nil
Other debts .. .. 12.378 £13,062 £13,263
Freeholds, etc. .. 59,743 63,239 63,011
Book debts .. .. 71,872 72,466 75,306
Stock. . . . ... 87,313 64,928 68,208
Shares in other cos. 2,907 1,907 1,907
Cash and War Loan 18.036 38,059 43,014
Capital has remained stationary at £198,037
in shares of £1 each fully-paid. Liabilities
are now £20,465 less than they were live
years ago. In the meantime £S3O7 has been
added to more or less liquid assets and£326B to
properties, etc. So provided ample allowance
has been made for depreciation the co., besides
rearranging its affairs, is something like
£32,040 better off than it was in 1913. Of
course, as mentioned above, war-time profits
taxation will take a bite of that surplus.
However, the co. is now doing very well, and
is apparently well-established in the North-
ern State. The Board is working on sound
lines, and, given a reasonably good run, there
should be profitable times ahead.
The Farmers’ Fertilizers Corporation
(Sydney), which started in May, 1911, with
a deficit of £7064, represented by goodwill
£5OOO and preliminary expenses £2064:
Dividends. Bonus to
May, Profit. , — A - N Customers. Deficit.
3911.. £7064
Aug., Pref. Ord.
1912.. £1375 6 p.c. 5 p.c. £726 £99 6514
3913.. 1549 6 „ 5 „ 995 Nil 5960__
1914.. 1173 6 „ 5 „ 1064 Nil 5851
1915.. 415 0 „ Nil 229 Nil 5665
1916.. 983 6 „ 4 p.c. 988 Nil 5670
1917.. 1184 6 „ 4 „ 996 Nil 5482
, 1918.. 1403 6 „ 5 „ 1187 Nil 5266
things have not worked out anything lil^e
what was forecasted in the prospectus.
Arthur H. Hassell, who used to import over
20,000 tons superphosphates annually, con-
ceived the idea of forming a co. to manufac-
ture acids, superphosphates and manures in
Australia. Other factories in the Common-
wealth were making good profits, and as
there was only one other co. at work in N. S.
Wales the proposition looked promising. He
reckoned that with a capital of £50,000 the
first year would show a net profit of £9052,
equal to 18 p.c. on the capital. But the
capital has never been fully subscribed. It is
now' made up of prefs. £3976 and ords.
£18,963. But of the ordinary capital no less
than £5OOO represents shares paid for the
goodwill of the old Hassell fertiliser business.
The vendor has, however, foregone his div.
on these shares during the past few years,
and the amount has been used to write off
preliminary exes. In addition to the pay-
ment for goodwill it was also arranged that
the vendor was to be appointed managing-
director for 15 years at a salary not less
than £5OO p.a. Further, he was given a
contract to sell the co.’s product on a com-
mission of 7s. 6d. per ton. This arrange-
ment, however, has been varied in the co.’s
favor and 2} p.c. is now paid on the gross
"sales.
The co. has to go abroad for most of its
raw material; but owing to freight difficul-
ties supplies have been unobtainable. So the'
. factory has been limited to handling local raw
materials, with this effect on the sales
figures:—
1913 ..£47,684 1916 ..£30,102
1914 .. 38,107 1917 .. 19,547
1915 .. 44,387 1918 .. 12,778
The result of this small turnover is that
£10,904 is held in cash. Stock on hand
stands at £3253, property and premises,
£6662 (on which there is a mortgage of
£4500), sundry debtors owe £1790, and plant
is included at £ll9l. Apart from the mort-
gage on the property, liabilities amount to
only £409. When shipping becomes normal
again it is clear that, if the co. is to become
of consequence, more capital will have to be
got in.
* * * #
The United Insurance Co. (fire, marine
and accident), of Sydney:—
Written To Re- Re-
Pfofits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1905.. 21,603 12Jp.c.= 9,673 4712 7,218 138,957
1906.. 20,032 124 „ „ 10,675 9,357 148,314
1907.. 16,855 124 ~ ~ 10,675 6,180 154,494
1908.. 18,531 124 ~ „ 10,675 2,856 157,350
1909.. 11,353 12} „ „ 10,675 113 565 157,915
1910.. 15,250 124 „ „ 10,675 - 4,575 162,490
1911.. 24,650 124 „ „ 10,675 13,975 176,465
1912.. 24,020 124 „ „ 10,675 13,345 189,810
Transferred to capital, £20,000 .. 169,810
1913.. 31,062 10 p.c.= 12,000 19,062
1914.. 30,302 10 „ „ 12,000 18,302 WT^TiTI
1915.. 30,612 10 „ „ 12,000 24,612 231,786
Transferred to capital, £20,000 .. 211,786
1916.. 37,619 10 p.c.= 14,000 23,619 235,405
1917.. 43,662 10 „ „ 14,000 29,662 265,067
1918.. 66,272 10 „ „ 14,000 52,272 317,339
Transferred to capital, £40,000 . 277,339
This Australian co. has had a wonderfully
good year—so good that after paying the
usual 10 p.c. div. there was enough profit left
to transfer £40,000 to capital (equal to £1
per share and making them now paid up to
£4 10s. each), and still leaving over for the
strengthening of reserves an amount equal to
almost another 9 p.c. of the paid-up capital.
Put another way, the profits for the year
were equal to 47.3 p.c. of the paid-up capital.
This very fine result was due to the re-
markably small losses experienced during the
12 months. The figures are shown in this
comparison:—•
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £58,499 £32,855 £19,580 56.2 p.c. 33.5 p>.
1900.. 70,779 38,589 25,296 54.5 „ 35.7 ~
1905.. 88,609 42,250 35,832 47.7 „ 40.4 ~
1910.. 111,906 55,094 49,276 49.2 „ 44.0 „
1914.. 170,819 77,427 74,370 45.3 ~ 43.5 „
1915.. 188,287 88,220 77,029 46.8 „ 39.4 „
1916.. 203,942 94,259 87,055 46.2 „ 42.7 „
1917.. 209,004 91,664 91,512 43,9 „ 43.8 „
1918.. 210,947 66,204 98,954 31.4 „ 46.9 „
As far as The Bulletin can see, there has
never been anything like it in the co.’s his-
tory. As to the increase in the expense rate
that has been entirely due to increased taxa-
tion, over £SOOO more being paid away in this
way last year compared with 1917.
The United is now in its 57th year; but
only during comparatively recent years has it
been getting the support which, as a reputable
Australian office, it deserved. Perhaps the
management was not as energetic as it might
have been; for this is a business in which
superior organisation counts. Since Federa-
tion the Australian spirit has developed, and
there has been a growing confidence in the Aus-
tralian fire and accident cos. It used to be a
remarkable fact that while nobody thought of
passing the doors of an Australian institu-
tion with life business, there was a prejudice
against the local fire offices. However, in the
past 10 years the United has considerably
more than doubled the business it had acquired
at the end of the previous 46 years. And there
is no reason whatever why, with thorough
organisation, future expansion should not be
even more rapid. The N. S. Wales Work-
men’s Compensation Act of two years ago
opened up a vast new and profitable field for
the insurance cos., and the United should
secure a big share of this business in addition
to its growing fire business. It is in a par-
ticularly strong position to carry consider-
ably more risks. Capital and reserves
amount to £4s7,339—practically £40,000 more
than the aggregate losses of the past five
years. Looked at another way, the funds are
equal to 212 p.c. of last year’s premiums. A
proportion of 150 p.c. is considered good: so
the United’s figures show exceptional strength.
The distribution of the funds is equally
satisfactory. Of the total assets of £590,516
no less than £453,226 (76.7 p.c.) is held more
or less liquid—in Government securities, de-
posits, cash and debentures. Of the balance
£87,251 is in premises and £33,009 in mort-
gages. Interests and rents last year brought
in £20,482, and a 10 p.c. dm on the increased
capital will absorb only £lB,OOO. Thus the
whole of the underwriting profit, together
with a couple of thousands from interest are
available for strengthening reserves after pay-
ing the increased dividend.
* * * *
The Castlemaine Bkeweky and Wood
Bros, and Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.)
Written To Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1905.. 13,000 4 p.c. = 10,000 3,000 57,730
1906.. 15,019 4 „ ~ 10,000 3,000 2,019 55,711
1907.. 15,522 4 „ „ 10,000 3,500 2,022 53,689
1908.. 14,754 4 „ „ 10,000 2,500 2,254 51,435
1909.. 13,767 4 „ „ 10,000 3,000 767 50,668
1910.. 13,387 4 ~ „ 10,000 2,250 1,137 49,531
1911.. 10,346 4 „ „ 10,000 346 49,185
1912.. 15,551 44 „ „ 11,250 4,301 44,884
Assets revalued and written up .. 38,000 6,884
1913.. 15,803 5 p.c. = 12,500 3,303 3,581
Reserves.
1914.. 27,676 5 „ ~ 12,500 2,000 13,176 9,595
1915.. 27,130 5 „ „ 12,500 2,000 12,630 22,225
1916.. 18,775 5 „ ~ 12,500 10,000 18,500
1917.. 17,990 4 „ „ 10,000 7,990 18.500
1918.. 20,000 4 ~ „ 10,000 5,000 5,000 23,500
The accounts show the profits for the past
year as an exact £20,-000; receipts were
£117,290 Bs. 6d. and expenses £97.290 Bs. 6d.
But The Bulletin will be surprised if that
coincidence shows the precise results of the
year’s trading. For many years some of
the profits had been used to make good old
losses. Apparently in 1914 the management
was in the position to disclose more profit,
and the figures suddenly leaped. No doubt
provisions are still being made to meet con-
tingencies. Owing to the neat price-fixing
agreement arranged between Bung and the
breweries last year—enabling both parties
to make a little more—receipts have in-
creased for the past 12 months. So have
expenses, as this comparison shows: —
1914. 1916. 1917. 1918.
Receipts . . £90,858 £110,698 £102,537 £117,290
[■Expenses . . 63,182 90,923 84,547 97,290
Trading profit £27,676 £19,775 £17,990 £20,000
Still it is possible that the increase of
£12,743 in the expenses as compared with a
year ago includes something more than the
increase in ordinary exes., and additional
excise duty and taxes.
This shows the movements in the balance-
sheet figures over 10 years:—
1908. 1916. 1917. 1918.
Liabilities . . £57,259 £105,242 £104,572 £102,606
Properties, )
plant, etc. ) 227,478 237,497 226,797 219,562
Goodwill J 30,000 30,000 30,000
Freeholds (Spe-
cial Account) 50,623 75,525 75,130 71,375
Sundry debtors 51,173 41,414 47,173 41,523
Bills, cash, etc. 9,566 987 3,451 2,805
Stock . . . . 24,484 35,988 34,157 50,841
Liabilities are very substantial—£49,l4o
is owing to the bank, £22.308 has been raised
in deposits, and mortgages amount to
£18,895. In 1908 there was a surplus of
more or less liquid assets over liabilities of
£27.904 ; now there is an excess of liabilities of
£7437. The co. has put a lot of money into
pub properties. Whether this was good
policy only the future can tell, and the future
of Beer is at present obscure. The Coal
City, however, is a rapidly growing industrial
centre; so, provided there is no further
interference with the Trade—and certainly
the Newcastle district won’t vote itself any
drier if it has a say in the matter—this
co. should be well placed to make good
profits. Capital is £250,000.
*■ * * *
Mount I,yell Mining and Railway Co.
(Tas.) :
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves
Sept., £ £ £ £
1909. . 286,092 17* p.c.= 210,000 20,083 661,198
1910.. 226,092 17* „ „ 210,000 20,223 657,067
1911. . 174,417 12* „„ 150,000 19,432 662,052
Premiums on new shares, £21,685 683,737
1912. . 147,683 6j p.c.= 75,000 20,690 735,730
1913.. 58,476 Nil 64,987 729,219
Premiums on new shares, £738 .. 729 957.
1914.. 113,536 11* p.c.= 144,884 25,872 £72,737 \
1915.. 273,989 5 „ „ 64.460 100,506 781,760 1
Written off mine property. . 168,088 613,672 ]
1916.. 280,563* 16J p.c.= 209,494 42,249 642,492
1917.. 318,333* 12* „ „ 161,149 49,722 749,954 I
191 S. . 357,625* 16J „ ~ 209,494 110,397 787,688
*After providing for War-time Profits TaTT"" —‘
The £110,397 shown as written off is made
up of £50,397 for depreciation of mine plant,
etc. (compared with £49,722 for 1917), and
£60,000 appropriated for new plant expendi-
ture for the current year. The profits are
shown less provision for war-time taxation,
but the amount set aside this year is small
compared with previous appropriations:—
1914 .. £3.571 I 1917 ..£180,634
1915 .. 22,301 | 1918 .. G 1,403
1916 .. 167.767 |
Last year the reserve for taxation amounted
to £303,354. Apparently the Treasuries
have sent in bills for £99,757 during the
past 12 months, for the reserve now stands
ac £265.000. Whether the whole of this
amount will be called for is doubtful: in
which case the record profits for 1916 and
1917 were actually something better than
shown iu the table.
Shortage of labor and reduced working
hours have restricted the output, and the
cost of copper-production has been increas-
ing rapidly. This gives the Mt. Lyell’s per-
formances for the past three years :
1916. 1917. 1918.
Ore mined (tons) . . 334,890 200,379 264,542
Blister produced (tons).. 6,576 5.532 5,773
Contents:
Copper (tons) .. 6,505 5,766 5,705
Silver (oz.) .. 371,170 295,126 320,344
Gold (oz.) .. 8,865 7,455 7,042
In 1915 the cost of producing blister per
ton of ore was 18s. 7.83 d.; in 1916 it was
£1 3s. 6.74 d.; in 1917, £1 6k. 6.49 d.; and for
the past year it had climbed to £1 9s. 1.70 d.
Of course, with metals at war-prices this
increase of over 55 p.c. on the 1915 figures
has not created much concern. It was only
natural that with copper realising big prices
costs—particularly as concerned labor —
should also have increased. The difficulty
will be to get costs down to anything like
the old figures when the slump in prices sets
in.
Recently the first calculation of ore re-
serves since March, 1916, was made, and
though during the 24 years 422,985 tons have
been taken out of the Mount Lyell and
South Lyell, and 234,804 tons from the
North Lyell, the reserves are slightly more
than they were iu 1916. Here are the
present figures, together with assay values:
Ore. Copper. Silver. Gold.
tons. p.c. oz. oz.
Mount Lyell .. 2,028,747 0.49 1.48 0.04
North Lyell . . 1,036,300 6.0 1.33 0.005
In the North Lyell no account has been
taken of the occurrences at 1000 ft. and
1100 ft., proved by drilling but yet insuffici-
ently developed to be estimated. However,
the _above figures Show total reserves of
3,065,047 tons. Calculated at the recent re-
duced rate of output, reserves in sight will
provide about 12 years’ work; at the old
rate, about nine years’ work. The profits
for the past year, after deducting allowance
for depreciation, were equal to about 235.
per ton of ore raised. Exactly what is
the future of the copper market nobody
knows precisely; so, for purposes of calcu-
lating future profits, it is safer to work on
the pre-war results. Since the present co.
started in 1903 dividends have averaged
about 9s. 6d. per ton. The same rate of
dividend on the present ore reserves would
give shareholders almost a million and a half
• —equal to about 235. per £1 share. Besides
that, at September 30 there was a surplus
of liquid assets over liabilities of £623,854 —
equal to almost a further 9s. 9d. per share.
In addition there are the interests in other
cos., including the Mount Read and Rose-
bery mines.
The Mount Read and Rosebery Mines,
Ltd., was formed to acquire 1697' acres on
the Speck West Coast, held by the Hercules,
Tasmanian Copper and Primrose cos. These
cos. were battling with extremely refractory
ore—“a dense intimate mixture of zinc
blende, galena and iron pyrites.” Last year
general-manager Sticht spent some months in
the U.S.A. investigating the electrolytic treat-
ment of zinc ores, and he now reckons that,
given cheap power, the problem can be
solved. A parcel of 110 tons treated at
Anaconda (U.S.A.) proved the ore to be
“exceptionally suitable” for this method of
treatment. E. R. Crutcher, who was with the
Anaconda co. from the inception of the pro-
cess there, is now engaged with the Mount
Read and Rosebery on preliminary labora-
tory research work. As soon as possible au
experimental plant, capable of a ton of metallic
zinc a day is to be installed to supply work-
ing data for the larger plant. The rest is
dependent upon the satisfactory settlement of
“the power-supply question.” And as it will
be some time before sufficient hydro-electric
power will be available, an oil flotation plant
equal to 200 tons ore per day is being in-
stalled “to fully work out the special concen-
tration problems presented by tlie ores; and
also to derive the profit from the sale of their
metallic products.” Meantime the mines are
being further developed with satisfactory
results. Under its agreement with this co. the
Mt. Lyell was to raise not less than £240,000
l)y debentures within six months after the
termination of the war. Meantime Lyell
is financing the show, and to date £129,857
has been advanced.


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
W estmghouse
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
HIGH
ECONOMY
STURDY
SIMPLE DESIGN
CONSTRUCTION
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
are in the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to 20,000 Kilowatts.
rstmhm(
■ Manchrstcr
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
The spirit of coolness and comfort is ever atten-
dant upon the G.E. electric fan. It affords a clean,
safe and economical way of keeping cool during the
hot sultry weather. A large shipment of all sizes
has just arrived, and these are being demonstrated in
our showroom. Call in and see them. Australian
General Electric Company, Wentworth Avenue, Syd-
ney ; and corner of Queen and Little Collins Streets,
Melbourne.—An vt.
* * * *
The approach of summer makes it imperative for
every stock-owner to give a thought to the purifica-
tion of drinking water for his stock. If he is content
to let them drink muddy, slimy water he' cannot
expect them to keep in good condition. All over the
State careful stock-owners are using Aluminoferric in
the proportion of one pound to every 2000 gallons of
water. It ensures pure liquid water in dams, wells,
tanks, etc., at very low cost, by precipitating all
impurities and leaving the water clear and pure,
free from any ingredient injurious to man or beast.
Let us go into details telling you how it will be to
your advantage to use Aluminoferric. William
Adams & Co. Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide.
—Advt.
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant' was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
* * * •
Above or below ground Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe
is the most satisfactory conduit. No fluid can harm
it, neither can it taint any fluid. As a pressure pipe
it is unexcelled. We also manufacture bore casing.
Send for illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns Bay, Lane Cove, N.S.W.
P.O. Add.: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories:
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic ; and Pt. Adelaide,
S.A. Contractors, to all State Governments.— Advt.
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
. —Advt.
* * * »
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 353 Flinders‘«Lane, Melb.— Advt.
What armor-plate is to a battleship so is Pabe
Anti-corrosive and hard-wearing Paint to all expose
metal surfaces. It protects them, and renders ther
impregnable to elemental onslaughts. Pabco is mos
economical to use, because in quality it halves th
expense and doubles the length of service. Pabco i
not affected by sea air, chemical fumes or salt wate
—and it is non-poisonous. It is put up in one-gallo
tuis and five-gallon drums. Price 12s. an America
gallon. Call or write for booklet to Spriggs’ Asbestc
I'te Company, 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engine'
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, i:
leceiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves
The Federal Government has placed an order for :
large marine set, and their example has been followec
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia
lasmama, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies
Ihe workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com
pares with any imported engine on the market
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Svdney.-
Advt. ’ • J
. Road-graders for building good roads, for mak-
mg and grading earth roads, cleaning out water-
tables, making fire-breaks, etc. We carry large
stocKS of the best-procurable and most-up-to-date
machines. Several different' sizes stocked, to be
worked by 2, 4 or 8 horses or traction-engine-power.
Catalogues and full particulars upon application.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East,
Sydney. Queensland enquiries: The Australian
Machinery Co., Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coldison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. —Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Ass:
Kequisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertlinp
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braur
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowe
Iff 8 - „f all ° r wrlte f °r particulars. 11. B. Selby &Cc
Ltd., „6o George Street (between Hunter and Boi
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Adv
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Thc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Inoome (Gross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridge*
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) applied for a further
suspension of labor conditions the other day
for its Cobar Gold and Chesney leases, and
unfolded another ambitious scheme. The
latest is the formation of a new co. with a
nominal capital of £250,000 to purchase the
smelters and accessories of the Great Cobar
for 100,000 shares, and providing for a
working capital of £25,000 each to be sub-
scribed by Great Cobar, C.S.A. and the Gov-
ernment. The idea is that the Cobar and
C.S.A. .should make contracts with the
new co. to smelt all their ores. Unissued
capital is to be available for other interests
to join the co. Apparently no great rush
has been made to embrace the proposal, and
as C.S.A. recently at its annual meeting
decided to go on with its Kandos works, it
would appear that that co. is not too keen on
the scheme. Great Cobar will have spent
this year about £13,000 endeavoring to locate
basic ore in the Great Cobar mine to flux the
silicious ore of Cobar Gold. Many thousands
of tons of basic and silicious ores have been
found, thereby increasing ore reserves and
extending the life of Great Cobar, provided
the price of copper remains high. In addi-
tion to this work, £3OOO has been allocated to
diamond-drilling in the shear zope south of
the existing workings in G.C. Suspension
for six months was granted by the Warden,
who did not ask if any effort hqd been made
to work out a scheme to treat the.huge body
of Cobar Gold ores, exclusive altogether of
Great Cobar.
Great Cobar, after playing with its Great
Peak Gold leases for years, abandoned the
Blue and Brown lode sections, retaining only
the small Conqueror section. Both aban-
doned portions have been taken up, and a co.
of 1000 shares, of which 000 are issued, has
been formed to work the Brown lode section.
Practically all shares are held by Great
Cobar officials, and already wild rumors are
afloat. The same talk flew round sbme few
months ago, when certain of the G.C. staff
became interested in the Great Gundabooka
claim, but silence out there reigns supreme
once more. As thousands of pounds’ worth
of gold have been found in the vicinity and
the workings are only shallow, there’s a
gambler’s chance. But the formation is very
erratic.
C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.), is kept well
before the public, and the recent balance-
sheet was accompanied by elaborate reports,
photos, plans, etc., of operations. However,
shareholders would have appreciated some
information as to the future, more especially
as to _ the possibility or otherwise of zinc
troubling the smelters; also, whether the
zone of enriched copper ores has been nearly
depleted ; and further, as to ore reserves that
are likely to be profitably treated by the pre-
sent plant. These are matters which materi-
ally concern the shareholders, and should
have had more attention in the reports. The
Government put down a railway to assist
this co. after securing reports from its
officers, but it yet remains to be proved
whether the mine will justify the expecta-
tions, . and at present the Government is
becoming inquisitive and asking questions
as to certain promises which were made by
Great Cobar and C.S.A. when the matter of
constructing the line was before the Public
Works Department. At present the C.S.A.
directors are concerned as to the possibility
of the railway being closed. The report, in
referring to the Tinto section, doesn’t hold
out any hope of a bonanza being struck there.
The ore for the smelters this year has been
drawn principally from between the 457 ft.
and 500 ft. levels in the parent mine.
* * * *
An increasing number of shareholders in
the Mt. Dudley (N.S.W.) consider it’s about
time the management got a move on and
began to prove, by a series of substantial
crushings, that the mine is worth the high
value the present price of shares puts on it.
Quite a number of people are optimistic
about the show; but there are several good
judges who regard Mt. Dudley as particu-
larly patchy and risky. They recall the
previous holders’ crushings, referring to them
as of a “falling average”—that is, the first
crushing was the best and the last the worst.
However, there is now a good plant at the
show, and news of successful crushings, etc.,
would be very welcome to shareholders.
Developments at the old Sunny Corner sil-
ver-mine (N.S.W.) have been promising
enough to warrant the introduction of a
stamp battery and concentration plant,
which is being erected. Some big makes of
payable stone have been disclosed in new
workings, averaging between 20oz. and 80oz.
silver to the ton, with a few dwt. of gold
and about 12 p.c. lead. Ore is being sent
direct to Port Kembla for treatment, but
some of it is also being reduced to matte
at the mine. In addition to the big deposit
several small veins have been located in the
southern end of the workings giving high
values. Nine tons broken from one of the
makes returned £92 from Port Kembla, while
other parcels averaged 60oz. of silver to the
ton. The general output has been hampered
by road-transport difficulties, the ore having
to be carted from 10 to 14 miles before
being railed. The old show is reckoned to
have many years of new life in sight. In
addition to the big black lode, an iron lode
formation carrying fair values has come into
sight. An underlie tunnel was started for
the purpose of carrying the tram-line under
it. and this struck the deposit after 6ft. of
driving, and the drive has now been extended
90ft. An intermediate seam of white pug
ore is also being worked, but the values do
not justify the sending away of the stone.
The mine is now owned by Wilkinson and
party, who have declined proposals for hand-
ing over to a co.
* * * *
The old Federal gold-mine near Welling-
ton (N.S.W.) has changed hands, the pre-
vious lessee having been deprived of his hold
over the lease on the recommendation of
Warden Burke. William Vincent, who was
in the original syndicate that re-opened the
property, applied to the Court for possession
of the place and was successful. The War-
den refused to allow time for starting work
beyond the usual 14 days, and Vincent agreed
to get biisy. The water difficulty has always
been serious in the Federal, but steps are
being taken to beat it. Precisely what re-
cent working has produced was not made
clear in the argument, in which the figures
given conflicted badly.
* * * *'
The N. S. Wales Phosphate Co., Ltd.,
which started business about four years ago
on a phosphate rock lease on top of the
Wellington Caves, has gone into liquidation.
The show started with £50,000, of which
£33,000 was in fully paid-up £1 shares, and
the remaining 17,000 in contribs. During the
period the co. had held the lease £25,000 had
been spent on plant and treatment of the
rock, for which there had always been a
ready market. About 6000 tons of phos-
phates had been taken out of the mine, the
earnings being between £BOOO and £9OOO. If
the good material had not cut out. operations
would have been continued. The mine is
being dismantled, but the co. does not mean
to go out of business altogether. Experi-
ments are being carried out with another
class of deposit in the locality, and if suit-
able the stuff will be sent to Sydney for
treatment.
* * * *
Gwalia Central (W.A.) has issued another
annual report, but, as usual, it contains
little information of any real value. Acootd-
ing to the accounts the co. had at the ehd
of last year £3636 cash, and was owed about
£4OO. Milling with the co.’s own plant was
started in August last, and since then some
500 tons have been treated for . a return of
about £l9OO. The Board claims that pros-
pects warrant additional plant and the ex-
pansion of both development and ore treat-
ment, but as the gold in the property is
contained in small, elusive leaders, nobody
will be more surprised than The Bulletin
if things turn out well.
* * * *
Tributors multiply at Kalgoorlie. There
are now hundreds burrowing along the
Golden Mile, and many are doing well. Last
month the tributors on the Associated
Northern got £8585 from 2183 tons, and
handed over to the co. £1379 in royalty.
Those on the Boulder Perseverance obtained
£6608 worth of bullion, another party on the
Lake View and Star paid £409 in royalty,
and another on the Associated £212.
* * * *.
Other efforts to get riches having failed,
Greenfinch (W.A.) has decided to give the
divining-rod a trial. Someone in the business
reckoned that he might be able to find some-
thing by this means, and he was promptly
appointed to prospect the property. The
divining-rod has been tried over and over
again on the Westralian goldfields. A
diviner appeared at Kalgoorlie about 10 years
ago with a divining-machine, which he
declared indicated by sounds the class of
country beneath the surface where it oper-
ated. For instance, rock containing tellu-
ride was alleged to cause a buzzing, while
that containing free gold was located by the
sound of some other noise. But he convinced
nobody.
Associated Northern (W.A.) claims to
have opened up a good deal of payable ore
in its Ora Banda holding during the past
year or so, and milling may be resumed
before long. Some optimists declare that
developments in what is known as the Gim-
let lease are likely to give the co. a new lease
of life, but at present prospects do not
warrant this belief.
* * * *
Last month Bendigo Amalgamated crushed
7873 tons for 31940 z., inclusive of gold from
the plates and tributors’ yields. This works
out well on the way to lOdwt. per ton and
is a bit more encouraging than previous
returns. Three of the big claims seem to be
on pay dirt: Constellation, where 590 tons
averaged 695.; Northern, where 1080 tons
returned 605.; Carlisle, 1861 tons for 295.
per ton; and Virginia 873 tons for 455. Cer-
tainly plates and tributors have helped; but
the latter earn good profits for Dyason, so
generally the figures read better. Work at
the Constellation now shows that he looks
to get a good width of stone on the west leg
of the South Moon reef, with the best gold
on the hanging wall side. To the south the
reef is pitching under the level with pros-
pects more than decent, while north they
are decidedly good. The Pyke reef in the
same mine continues a duffer.
Another flutter at the Glengarry, Colbi-
nabbin, must be due to simplicity, or the
remarkable fact that a Victorian co. hasn’t
gone into debt to put up plant. So far a
shoot 20in. wide followed at 100 ft. for 250 ft.
is the pride of the Northey Bros. All the
talk is of ounce yields, but either the battery
will have to go slow or,, mining go down if
outputs are to rustle the market. Reserves
are on the small side even for the plant sup-
plied.
Mining on the side-lines at Bendigo has
not got any show off the call-list, but Joe
Sheard, at the Tambour Major, has hopes
that way. This is because lie has “colors”
at the 743 ft. crosscut north. There he has
been on the hunt in the faulted region for
a pay rim of quartz. Overhead in big quartz
bodies gold was got where the slide made
through them, and profits showed up. A
second chance is being followed by Sheard at
344 ft. on a west-dipping slide.
The first return from the Kaluinpang
(F.M.S.) dredge was two tons tin oxide.
Working through tailings is the excuse for
the poverty-stricken output. But. if so, why
wasn’t an early warning sounded? Those in
the show, on the strength of the flogging
done to get Kalumpang for Trong, had
banked on a lib. per cub. yard yield, where-
as the two tons gives only a decimal-point
return. However, those on the plant pro-
mise better ground directly. Certainly they
are backed up by good boring records. The
first sampling was by Lewis, of Ivampong
fprae. His results were ,checked by Bethune,
long with the Freemans. His finding is 90
acres of lib. dirt, but the presence of one
or two Chinese open-cuts on the area, and
the dodging into a run of old tailings, fright-
ens the timid into the belief that they are
far more extensive than assumed. So it is
just possible that another Trong disappoint-
ment may happen. A second Malayan show
that looks somewhat sick is the Ronpibon.
Some revenue is coming in from the Deebook
dredge, but Ronpibon itself is inanimate.
Dredging plants cannot be got for love or
money, and some of the crowd are getting
cold feet because they don’t think tin will
keep up until a plant can be secured.
* * * *
From sales of tin ore Mt. Bisclioff Ex-
tended (Tas.) got in £17,059 last half-year.
Had the new plant been able to get to work
earlier the tonnage would have been better
and dividends twice as big. The co. isn’t
badly off, even if it is the belated Cinderella
or the field. It has £BOOO in War Loans,
and another £BOOO represented by cash,
stores and fixed deposits ; so debits of £6750 for
plant, £3070 for sundry creditors and £l5OO
of bank overdraft are all well provided for.
What the co. wants are ore reserves and a
higher grade of material to handle. The
battery yields only about 0.860 p.c. tin per
ton, and with 17 inches of a lode to work
on costs can never be cheap or the margin
of profit much. Although only low-grade stuff
was got in the No. 9 level, that does not say
that enrichments may not exist in the big
area being developed below No. 7.
Yen Brown, at the King Island Scheelite
mine, all the winter had to keep on gum-boots
to shut out mud and slush, in his open-cut.
Still the mill churned out a 1.003 p.c. wol-
fram product and netted £8224 for John
Brandon’s office and Block 14. The recovery
from handling 10,557 tons was 68.9 p.c. of
the mineral, so net profits work out at over
15s. 6d. a ton. The grade of material was
a shade lower than the SO,OOO tons in re-
serve, which go 1.009 p.c. wolfram due to
the richness of ore in No. 2 workings above
the No. 3 adit, and hanging-wall ore between
No. 2 and No. 3 adits. Troubles ahead are:
(1) price of metals; (2) increased mine
costs; and (3) the shading of metal contents
with depth. The first and last factors are
all-important. Ven Brown testifies that the
lode consists of impregnations, between re-
sistant bands of slates lying within a lode
channel 280 ft. in width in places. The new
re-treatment plant is giving an 82 p.c. ex-
traction instead of the old 69 p.c.
j* * * *
“Good Australian” : The good news comes
from Reno, Nevada (U.S.A.). A new pro-
cess of treating oil shales has been perfected,
not merely invented, for extracting crude oil
from shales containing 30 to 40 gallons of
oil, 301 b. to 371 b. of paraffin wax, 271 b. of
ammonia crystals, 7 gallons of coal tar, and
45,000 cubic feet of natural gas. From the
spent shale after treatment the inventor
claims he can make a shale brick to be used
as a solid fuel in place of coal. This brick
gives 60 p.c. more beat than coal. The total
ccst of the treatment of the shale to produce
these fuel bricks is less than 3s. 4d. a ton.
This opens up a pleasant vista for Capertee
and Murrurundi and several other shale
deposits in N. S. Wales. It is claimed there
is enough oil shale in the State of Utah to
supply fuel for the entire United States for
centuries.


THE SLUMS OF SYDNEY.
“In the ease of a great many places I visited the Sydney slums resembled somewhat the slums I was shown in London.” — Inter-State Commissioner Piddington.
LOCAL MICROBE (to visiting friend): “Oh, yes, my dear sir, we can do this sort of thing as well as the dirtiest city in Europe.”


&oti«
$ sydn FV '
PERTH AND LONDON
• Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDIN G’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lewt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
The “Rita”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful S minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 Rooms,
comprising Private Suites, Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts, Bathing, Roof Garden.
Illustrated Prospectus and all particu-
lars forwarded on application.
Telephones : Y2IIS and Y 1266.
/
t J
Don’t
Stay
DEAF!
You can hear—and we
will prove it by send-
ing you, post free, an
ACOUSTICON.
10 Days’ FREE TRIAL
No deposit or expense.
Familiarity with the
‘Acousticou’' breeds
increased satisfaction
Over 329,000 deaf people now hear perfectlv
with the “Acoustieon,” including the Prime
Mimste l , Mr. W. M. Huches. Convince vour-
selt at our expense—and DON’T STAY DEAF.
Lamson
Storei
Service
Co.,
102 Daking House. SYDNEY
152 Olderfleet, MELBOURNE
W.A.-
N.Z.-
—Little and Co., 861 Hay St., PERTH.
'church ct ° r ' 200 High st ’ Ct ? R[ST '
sdf
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
sd
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
fds
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Charles Bown, an old identity amongst
fire-fighters in Sydney, died last week in his
S3rd year. His uncle, T. J. Bown, who
owned a racecourse at Cook’s River long
years ago, was superintendent of the first
fire brigade formed in Sydney; lie was also
a maker of fire-engines. On his death Charles
Bown became' superintendent of the insur-
ance brigade, tbe engine-house of which was
in Bathurst-street. He was superintendent
until 1884, when the control was taken over
by tbe Government. On the creation of a
Board of Commissioners Bown was appointed
chairman, a post he held until a few years
ago.
News is to hand of the death of D’Arcy
Irvine, in Algeria. Years ago he was
organist of the Anglican Cathedral in
Perth, and for some time he taught music in
South Aus. His daughter Lalla still does
so. Settling in Algiers, chiefly for health
reasons, he became editor of the North Afri-
can News, and was till his death professor
of organ and piano at the Algiers Conserva-
torium.
After 33 months in Turkish prison camps,
Capt. T. W. White, an old Bulletin cor-
respondent, reckoned last August that he
had had enough and bolted to Russia.
After two months’ wandering, he turned up
casually at Salonica on his way to England.
His last letter to this paper (it was art-
fully addressed to “Mr. Ed. High ter, 214
George-street, Sydney”) got past the
Turkish censor and was published. Capt.
TROUBLES TO GOME.
“Priority of return will be given to married
men.” —News item.
THE FLAPPERS: “ Fancy the married men
coming home first. Don't the military
get things upside down!”
White, who is the son of the late C. J.
White, a well-known Melbourne locksmith,
was in the first batch of four officers to gain
wings at the Point Cook Flying School, and
had seven months’ active service with
General Townshend before he fell into
Abdul’s hands.
Two of Adelaide’s best-known citizens
have been appearing in the 50-years-ago
paragraphs of the Register. H. C. E.
MAYOR SHIELD.
of Hobart.
Muecke was one of
the first directors
of “the company
recently formed
for the purpose of
working the salt
lagoons on Yorke’s
Peninsula.” L. A.
Jessop, now chair-
man of the A.M.P.
Soc i e t y’s local
Board, made a
modest first appear-
ance as a member
of the committee of
a (now long for-
gotten ) Band of
Hope quartz ven-
ture. Those were
the days when
South Aus. had just,
discovered that it
had gold-bearing
stone nearly every-
where, and had not
yet found out by
painful experience
that the trifle of
metal cost more
than its value to
get.
Recruiting ceased at Adelaide on Monday
(November 11) at 4 p.m. The last man to
be passed as fit for the A.I.F. was E. G.
Grossman —it was rather a doubtful honor,
considering that the cables bad indicated
the Hun was down and out, to be the last
to line in, but in this case it was a credit-
able distinction. Grossman bad already been
at the Front on two occasions, wounded first
in the leg and on the second occasion in the
abdomen, and was a disappointed man when
he learned that he could not be in at the
death knock.
Henry Copas, a well-known horticulturist,
who recently died at Lockleys (S.A.), was
introduced to this vale of tears at Langley,
England, in 183 S. At 13 years
of age lie entered the Royal
Nursery, Slough, where he
served three years and then
assisted in the Duke of Suther-
land’s garden at Cleveland.
Next he enlisted in the Scots
Greys, but in ISG2 he married
and entered the nursery of John
Veitch and Sons, at Chelsea.
There he met one Giles, of
Grove Hill, and John Baptist,
nurseryman, of Sydney, and they
decided him to emigrate to Aus-
tralia. Copas arrived in Adel-
aide in 18U5, worked for J. Skel-
ton, and then started in partner-
ship with C. and E. Pitt, at the
Payneham nursery. Later he
commenced on his own account
in the same district, and while
there made the Adelaide Oval in
1872. He travelled the S.xV.
northern areas for 30 years and
laid down numerous fruit-gar-
dens.
Melbourne Athenamm Club
lost its oldest surviving member,
and the V.R.C. and V.A.T.C.
one of their original sports,
when old Fred Row went west
last week at 02. Arriving in the
barque Hamlet as far back as
1844, he proceeded to Hangar’s
New England station as a wool-
classer. When the Victorian
gold rush started he and his
brother brought horses to Vic-
toria, and after establishing a
fellmongery at Balmoral in the
Western District made for the
Bendigo diggings. Later they
opened a store at Long Gully
and a wool-scouring business at
Abbotsford, and with the late
Goldsborough purchased the
Traralgon cattle-station, which
covered most of the country in
Central Gippsland, between the mountains
and the sea.
Russell Coldham, who is standing as an
Independent Nationalist at the approaching
by-election for the Corangamite (Vic.) in the
Reps., is a son of the late John Coldham, an
early-day Western District settler. John
had Grassdale station, in the Merino dis-
trict, and was a tough old lad who made
a special business of breeding blood-
stock and supplied much fast horseflesh to
the racing talent of his time. Russell Cold-
ham is a solicitor, practising at Ballarat,
and his late brother Walter also pursued
Costs as a barrister. Should he see either
the Farmers’ Union or Returned Soldiers’
party candidate at the bottom of the poll on
the first count, Coldham ought to have a
pretty good chance of winning Corangamite,
owing to his lifelong association with the
electorate. Deany, of Warrnambool, when
he filled the shoes of the late John Murray in
the Vic. Assembly, did this trick, though at
the start he was only a few dozen votes
ahead of the lowest candidate on the list.
“Bill B'owyang’s” tribute :
When Captain J. B. Moylan, of the Imperial
Camel Corps, crossed the river after an unsuccessful
battle with pneumonia at Port Said recently the
Cameliers lost one of their most popular officers.
Moylan was a sergeant in the Ist A.L.H., and when
he received his commission he was transferred to the
3rd Company Camel Corps, then keeping an eye on
the Semissi on the north-west frontier of Egypt.
His fellow officers were Captain F. Naylor, Lieuten-
ants Linford, Rae and Alwayn. The first three
officers were afterwards killed in Palestine, whilst
Alwayn was so badly wounded at Gaza that he was
marked unfit for further service. Lieut. Linford was
one of the detectives who rounded up the Jackson
gang of motor bandits at Johannesburg. On the
outbreak of war he joined a South African unit
and fought in German West Africa. Later on he
was discharged and came to Sydney, where he joined
an infantry regiment. Afterwards he transferred to
the Camels, and when he saw several of his men
killed at Rafa he picked up a Bedouin pitchfork
and dashed forth to exterminate the enemy. A
German machine-gunner pulled the lever and Lin-
ford fell riddled with bullets. Moylan fretted over
Linford’s death for a time and later on was appointed
Q.M. to one of the Camel battalions. He did not
have an enemy in the Corps, and had he lived would
have returned to Australia with the original Anzacs.
Dead in Cornwall, England, lately, Cap-
tain Harry, at 83. He was skipper of the
ship Hesperus in the old days, and well
known through his constant trips to Aus-
tralia. He was a strict teetotaller, in times
w hen that was a rare accomplishment; also
he boasted of never having had an accident
at sea. His wife was a South Australian
lady. In later life Captain Harry was
placed on the Royal Naval Reserve, and the
Orient Co. put him in charge of many of
its Mediterranean and Norway tourist-trips.
THE POINT OF VIEW.
“It looks like peace is in sight now, Bill.”
“Not from ’ ere , it don't.”
A notable Queenslander died of pneumo-
nia at the Front, on November 15—Rev.
Father E. J. Sydes, of the Jesuits —55 years
of age this month (24th). lie was born in
Brisbane, educated at Ipswich Grammar
School and graduated at Melbourne Univer-
sity. He was called to the Bar in Victoria
in February, 1891, and practised in Banana-
land courts. As a layman lie was prominent
in R.O. work, and in 1903 left Australia to
become a Jesuit priest. After visiting Rome
he began his novitiate at Tullabeg. in Ire-
land. He completed his studies at Louvain,
Belgium, and later was at Milltown Park,
Ireland. He was ordained in Dublin,
and coming to Australia was stationed
at North Sydney. Later he went to India
and again returned to North Sydney, where
he was very popular. About two and a half
years ago he enlisted as a chaplain in the
Australian forces.
James Symons, who has for many years
acted as reader for the George Robertson
publishing co., has bought up the interests
of his firm in the various productions which
are still having a sale, and has started a
publishing show of his own. Like most
other Australian publishing houses, Robert-
son’s general policy was to let the author
take the financial risk of publication. The
firm did its bit by distributing the goods
and accepting 40 per cent, of the gross pro-
ceeds in payment. If Symons can do any
better than this he should get a good share
of patronage.
Fate played a poor trick on a long-serving
digger when Herbert Ilawkesworth. a son
of the Edwin Ilawkesworths, of Marnock
Vale (Vic.), went under to influenza in Eng-
land last month. Ilawkesworth joined up
in August, 1914, and took part in the Land-
ing. Later he was Wounded at Cape Helles.
and on recovery he went on to the Western
Iront. He received another wound in
1 landers which failed to stop him, and he
survived several other struggles with the
Reaper. Then, when he was about to sail
tor home, influenza bore him down.
THE KING HIS CROWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our fathers they were rebels by backwood, bog and
glen;
Our fathers and their fathers were hanged and
hunted men :
Our fathers marched from Creswick to die by Digger
Town,
And we joined up for England and the King his
crown !
We’d fought with tongue and pen
For years the wrongs of men —
And then we fought for England and the King his
crown.
Now Scotty was a black Scot, cursed England with
his elan ;
His feyther’s gre’t-gran’-feyther had been “a Charlie's
man.”
But Scotty left in Flanders, wi’ blackest curse and
frown,
A hairy leg for England and the King his crown.
O’er hills by rieht his ain
He stumps wi’ micht and main
And monny a curse for England and the King his
crown.
Now Paddy was a red Celt and known in any land
(His heart he always carries in the heel of his right
hand).
He went to gaol for Ireland before the moon went
down,
And left his scalp in Egypt for the King his crown.
And now, with silver pate,
He voices Ireland’s hate
For everything in England and the King his crown.
My father was a Norseman, and the Norseman was a
Dane
(It was a Queen of England left Denmark in her
pain)'.
A rebel while my beard was red and While my hair
was brown,
I've yapped four years for England and the King his
crown—
“ Flag-flapper, turncoat, clown!''
Old comrades wince and frown !
I sold their cause for England and the King his crown.
The King he was a married man, as most of us
should be;
The King he had his children, and we had two or
three.
We heard the screaming women when the German
sacked the town—
And so we fought for England and the King his
crown.
We played our little part—
A rebel has a heart
To keep, as well as England, or a King his crown.
Perhaps we’ll find that we betrayed the rebel cause
in vain;
Perhaps some day we’ll dare to raise the rebel flag
again.
Remember then, in our defeat, before you shoot us
down,
That once we strove for England and the King his
crown—
You'll shoot us just the same,
But we shall die as game,
As any died for England and the King his crown.
We’re not all saints and martyrs; we’re not all eyes
and hair
(One failed to fight a wrong because he found a girl
too fair).
We’re rebels to ourselves at times and sin by field
and town ;
And yet we’d fight for Nazareth—and the King His
crown.
Dear King, so meek and mild !
We’re each a little child-*-
’Tis not ourselves, but Someone and —a queen her
crown.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


\
sPII
m®.. ' -">■
m i: ■
4*
A**
‘
a^ v
■K-
: :
iis^v.
.
'
MM
jjf
Jm II
■Wf
mthw® %
a, ■ I '
| H|
W* .;r.*v *
n
1
'
. ■■ .
v',
5* f
■*,**%•
SL*
f. M
:■■■■■■■-.
k
11 i
iUmI i-
**.’&?
v m
m
*ufUt* :■
’ •* '
ill
■
1
4 m
■
v':,;.
£
m • $*
H
IS||#- 5
OWtfKjj
SMOKE
T obacco
Plug Cut and Mixture
W.D. & H O. WILLS


BEAOTY, LADIES, BEADTY!
Beauty is everywhere a right welcome guests
Beauty can afford to laugh at all distinctions.
As culture Jjegets taste, taste begets beauty. Even
as music soothes the soul, so beauty soothes the
heart.
The thought 0.1 beauty lasts long after other things
have been' forgotten.
Is beauty vain because it will fade? Then are
earth’s gree'n i;obes and Heaven’s light vain.
The beautiful is like sunshine to the world.
A beautiful woman is a paradise'to the eyes,
rersonal beauty wins almost without anything else.
Wc must carry the beautiful with us or we find it not.
The Ladv Mary TVentworth-FitzWilliam,
The Viscountess Bridport,
The Countess of Rothes.
The Lady Sibyl Findlay,
The Dowager-Lady Barclay,
The Hon. Mrs. Errington,
Lady White,
and other ladies at Court, as well as all the leading
actresses of Eng-1 and, have testified to the harmless
purity and the excellence of
JOHN STRANGE WINTER’S TOILET
PREPARATIONS,
which have been awarded SIX GOLD MEDALS at
International Exhibitions in London, Paris and Rome.
You can buy them at any chemist’s or depart-
mental store, viz., Farmer’s, Civil Service, David
Jones’, Horderns’, Lassetter’s, Waters’, etc., etc.
Hair Food (Oily) 3/9, (Non-Oily) 4/9, contains no
dye.
Dry Shampoo, 3/9. Lakshmi Lotion, 3/9.
Lakshmi Cream, 3/9. New Face Cream, 3/6 and 4/-.
Powder (3 colors), 3/6. Soap, 3/6 box (3 cakes).
Dental Cream, 1/6. Carmine, 1/4.
Creme Marquise, 2/'6. Curative Ointment, 2/6.
Perspiration Powder, 2/-.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Powder (name the
tint) or Soap, or Dental Cream, or Face Cream, to
John Strange Winter, 32 Depot, 26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney; or Taylor & Colledge, Ltd., Charlotte Street,
Brisbane ; or John Strange Winter (Vic.) Co., 218-222
Queen Street, Melbourne.
\Aeltojiiaji
[SPECIALTIES
Creams
ird
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
48
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALE - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“8.T.”: They employed Ernie at our
boarding-house in th*. capacity of general
manager of the boot-cleaning branch and
principal rouseabout. lie was a thin
shuffling, mendacious scamp, with no good
habits and general characteristics that won
him “The Limburger” as a love name. It
was generally supposed that Ernie the Lim-
burger would pinch anything he could lift,
but he was forgiven much because of the im-
pression that he Avas a poor simpleton who had
had no home-training and had never known
a mother’s love. It was Guest suggested
the merry jape, when Allan fell out of the
poker and whisky class for amateurs, and
lying back in his chair produced his cele-
brated impersonation of the pale, limp, life-
less victim to strong drink. Guest put a
round spot of raspberry jam on Allan’s
white brow, ran a gruesome streak down his
cheek, placed a large Colt’s revolver in his
right hand, and then went down stairs and
THOUGHTFUL CHILD.
“What ye keepin’ on cryin' tor? Didn't you
tell me your tooth had stopped achin'?”
“Yes; hut daddy's never seen me with tooth-
ache. I'm goin' to keep on cryin' till
he comes home.”
told the Cheese to go presently and square
up Mr. Allan’s room. We lay low in the
adjacent compartment and waited to see
what kind of a complex fit Ernie would
evolve in the excitement of the moment.
The Limburger came into the dark room,
sprung the electric bulb, and looked at the
unhappy wretch lying there in his chair. He
looked at the revolver, he looked at the
wound, and then he went gently to work on
the alleged corpse. The climax had passed—
Ernie Avas going through the body’s pockets!
The settling of the breach between Adel-
aide Tramways Trust and its men is a dis-
tinct score for Barwell, Attorney-General of
S.A. He has plenty of pluck, tut tact had.
not hitherto been considered his long suit.
When he started in on this case by publish-
ing the opinion that the men were in the
Avrong, he seemed to have no hope as a con-
ciliator. But presently lie got three
leaders on each side to discuss the trouble
across a table, and it Avas settled fairly
soon. He had the advantage of coming in
when both sides Avere rather “war-weary.”
and where the Industrial Arbitration Court
had failed he succeeded as Minister of
Industry, earning the special thanks in
S.A. Assembly of Opposition-leader Gunn.
Abfalter, vice-president of the Federal
Association of traimvay employees, was in
Adelaide, and had a big hand in the settle-
ment. The men formally expressed regret
for throwing up all Avork on Peace Day
without previous notice, and the Trust
promised to “absorb” all the old hands
within a month. Adelaide was tramless for
six days, and the only satisfaction the public
got was in the form of walking exercise.
* * # *
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Apropos the
Sydney Post Office bells (B. 21/1 l/’l.s>.
The peal of bells in St. Patrick’s Cathedral.
Melbourne, were cast by J. Murphy, of
Thomas-street, Dublin. I saw them before
they were shipped for Australia, and on each
was an inscription which told that they were
for “Melbourne, South Australia.” For
years they lay in the porch of St. Francis’s
Church, until St. Patrick’s tower Avas ready
for them.
* * # *
“Chasuble”: It was the anniversary last
Sunday of Trinity Church, East Melbourne.
Over half a century ago the edifice was
bravely established by Vicar Wollaston,
father of the Avcll-known Collector of Cus-
toms. Bishop Perry meant the bluestone
church to be the nucleus of the Cathedral
as Chapter House; but Moorhouse wisely
determined to plant the Cathedral on the
present site of St. Paul’s, in the thick of
the Melbourne traffic.' The most curious
church fire in local history was the burning
of the original bluestone Trinity Church at
East Melbourne. The present one is brick.
* * * *
“0.L.”: The Melbourne University man-
darins are being blamed for their apparently
close-fisted attitude towards returned-soldier
students. A country scholar, coached in his
own district, is not allowed to sit for any
extim. until the full year’s fees have been
paid, though the’’’City student for the same
money has a complete course of lectures
thrown in. When
a returned soldier,
living in the Back-
blocks, is required
to pay £2O or so
for his exam.-privi-
lege, it looks as
though the Uni.
people were hardly
doing their full
duty. A lesser point
is that before any
student can sit for
his first-year exam,
he must pay a
guinea, in addition
to his other fees,
for a printed sheet
certifying that he
has matriculated.
Passing the en-
trance-exam. goes
for nothing unless
this guinea be paid.
Education, of one
sort or another,
must be the base of
the whole repatria-
tion edifice. Per-
haps the Melbourne
University council, since it controls the
State’s chief seat of learning, will prepare a
detailed statement showing exactly liow much
the establishment has already done to wel-
come the nation’s fighting-men back into the
national life.
* * * *
“Camelero”: With the exception of the
French Foreign Legion the Imperial Camel
Corps was probably the most cosmopolitan
unit that has taken part in the war. Picked
men from Australian (four companies),
M.L.. English, Scotch, Indian, Soudan and
Egyptian regiments formed the 18 com-
panies. Tn proportion to their strength
A FAIR QUESTION.
HE: “I dreamt last night I proposed to a very pretty girl.”
SHE: “And what did I say, dear?”
they had probably more casualties and re-
ceived more awards than any other British
unit engaged in the war. The Corps were
mobile infantry, and when they went into
action they left their animals miles behind
them. They did more than any other unit
to put a spoke in the wheel of the Senussi
invasion of Egypt. Day and night in
small bodies they patrolled every portion of
the Libyan desert, suffering at times from
hunger, thirst and septic sores, and it mat-
tered not which way the warriors of the
Senussi moved they encountered the Aus-
tralian camelmen. Eventually the enemy
retired beyond the Tripoli border and the
Camel Corps trekked across to the Baheria
Oasis. In pursuing the Senussi through
this wilderness they rode over ground never
before visited by white men. Having cleared
the oasis our camel men found themselves
up against the Turks between Romani and
Bir-el-Alb. Here a Turkish camel corps
were making things unpleasant for the
Light Horse. Their camels were fast, but
before many weeks had passed they found
those of the Australians were superior in
speed and stamina, and Abdul’s cameliers
soon ceased to exist.
A Parliamentary committee in S.A. has been
inquiring into the condition of the big West
Terrace Cemetery, which, after the bad old
English fashion, was fixed just on the edge
of the city itself when Adelaide was laid
out. The old place was reported to be a
full' house as far back as 1883, and a new
one was planned away out on the north
railway line; but water close to the surface
made the area useless, and the old ground
was extended. The committee reports that
even this is very wet in winter, and that
various waterlogged vaults ought to be in-
spected. It finds that, though there are
only about three burials a day, two of these,
on an average, are effected by “the opening
of ordinary graves, and the removal there-
from of the human remains to make room
for other bodies.” It expresses its own
opinion in favor of the sane and healthy
system of cremation, available just alongside
the cemetery, but very little used. Other-
wise it can only urge extending the area of
the old cemetery out to the unoccupied west-
ward. Thus Adelaide need not for the
present be buried on top of itself, so
to speak. The cemetery is to be placed in
the care of a special Board, instead of
being just one of the many items controlled
by the Superintendent of Public Buildings.
* * * #
Fruitgrowing settlements on the Murray
have been noted for their patriotic activities,
but the palm or gum-wreath goes to little
Waikerie. which sent 200 men to the war
from n Population of under 1000. When
Repatriation was commenced in 1010, Wai-
kerie settlers formed a committee for the
purpose of providing for the district soldiers.
A local fund was raised by a Repatriation
day and a voluntary levy of one per cent, on
the fruit crop was agreed to by settlers in
the area. The local committee resolved to
keep in order out of the funds thus placed
at their disposal the blocks of the men who
HARD TO SATISFY.
“George, I would love something I can't
get.”
“Um. What's that?”
“I don't Know, George, dear.”
had gone to the Front. Voluntary labor has
been organised and the returning soldiers
will find their holdings not only cared for
but considerably improved. More than £4OO
has been spent on this work and the com-
mittee still has over £llOO in hand.
{Continued on page 18.)
THE KING’S HOME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Albert of Belgium made a triumphal entry into
Brussels last week.
Past Gothic houses four red years war-worn,
A young king rode to-day.
Through Bruges, Ghent, and little towns forlorn
He came a blackened Avay
To Brussels, where the last word proves at last
The home-fields’ magic breath—
The home the stubborn, broken hearts held fast
In pain, in shame and death.
Beneath the shouting voices in the street
He hears the good soft word ;
In music of the drums and marching feet
Low sings a homing bird:
“It is the king’s green home for him again,
The tall king’s place of rest;
The years will wipe away the honor’s pain,
By God and memory blest.”
The triumph’s pageant fills the day and night
AVith victory’s high song;
The darkened Brussels town once more is bright
In hope withheld too long.
The allied neighbors sing the sounding lay!
Of Belgium’s valiant part;
But Belgium’s king hears fields’ and children’s praise
AVith a man’s quiet heart.
x.s.w.
HILARY LOFTING.


11l
'
i U
v—. ..
'
. .. . <
fc.% l '' >k4 W * j§f®l
■
m \
I m: I * m
„ .**, * ... - IW, '
■
■ ■■"■
■
48)1$
■
* v :■
mf
4#
X }, ■
W
I
X
m
! #
a f
\
m
(ft.
1 !
■ ■■'»l
m
m
■
m
m
.
>■
if m
mm
mm
.
■' ■■
m
■
.
m
m
msms
1
wmmm t-m <
mm
■ -
• *• s |
■ r
' ,?•> v ,*% V" i
Has /food
ver
BARNET CLASS RUBBER CO LTD
All Jtates and New Zealand
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALASIA


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
A Letter to Clements Tonic from a Well-known Clergyman
showing the
great value
of Clements
Tonic to all
Professional
People.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
A Further Great Endorsement of a RealSy Fine Medicine.
CLEMENTS TONIC, LTD. “ The M
, . _ Tressider Avenue, Hauerneld.
. Somehow the writer would never have anything to do with patent medicines of any description, having a decided
prejudice against any that were largely advertised. f
A bottle of your remedy, however, was placed in my hands, and out of courtesy to my friend, who had an interest in
my welfare, I ventured to take it as advised.
With pleasure I write } r ou that since taking Clements T onic my system is braced up and my general health much
improved.
In such a calling as mine the nervous tension is always high, and I
assure you that it is good to find something that really benefits.
A good thing is always worth passing on.
I am, Sirs, yours sincerely, (Signed)
fsd
Pastor,
Leichhardt Baptist Church.
A remarkable remedy when used consistently for weak nerves, brain-fag or want of sleep,
never be without it. All chemists and stores sell it.
essioual persons should
Most of England has got the Hun
correctly focussed now; but there is
still a stupid section which looks after
its enemies more tenderly than it cares
for its friends. In England, as late as Sep-
tember last, some British Tommies were
taken out of hospital and placed in tents to
make room for some German prisoners who
looked as fit as boundary-riders! And this is
how Philip Gibbs described English prisoners
that he met on the frontier:—
they were captured in March and April,, and are
deplorably thin, weak and hollow- They say
they have been for six months on a starvation diet.
Many suffered from dropsy, swelled out horribly
and died. They were usually covered with vermin
and were not allowed to get their hair cut. They
were made to work in the ammunition dumps,
carrying shells. The Germans treated the British
worst of all—worse even than the Russian prisoners.
What is this flabby modern disease of the
English—incurable humanitarianism ?
THE WEEK-END PROBLEM.
SHE: “Do you know there’s a rumor going
round that I’m engaged to that horrid
Mr. Blinks?”
HE: “Good Heavens, who will it be to
next?”
SHE: “Don’t know. I haven’t decided yet.”
DANGERS OF THE SURF.
SENTIMENTAL MOTHER (in background): “I first met your dear pa in the surf, lie saved
me from a rentery grave.”
WILLIE: “Wonder if that’s why dad went pop when I asked him to teach me to swim?”
I E. W. Greenwood, M.L.A., who fights
tne demon Drink and hits him where he
can, is afflicted with the usual short-
coming of the social reformer —a love of
wild and whirling assertions and vague
generalities. The other day
he informed the Vic. Leg.
Assembly that sly-grog shops
have lately sprung up like
’mushrooms in Melbourne,
and mentioned, incidentally,
that fully 90 per cent, of the
licensed retailers of fer-
mented and spirituous liquors
are trading after hours. If
the latter statement is cor-
rect, it is difficult to under-.
stand how the proprietors of
the sly-grog emporiums are
able to keep the wolf from
the caslibox. With 90 per
cent, of the pubs trading-
after hours, no citizen need
walk far for a drink, and
only a congenital idiot would
pay anything from 2s. 6d.
upward for a bottle of beer
at a sly-groggery when Bung
is ready to supply the same
quantity of moisture for lOd.
Another of Greenwood’s ex-
cited remarks was that in
connection with a recent sale
of a Melb. hotel an adjacent
sly-grog tabernacle was in-
cluded in the prospectus as
an asset. He was implored
by members to disgorge the
name of the pub, but al-
though protected by Parlia-
mentary privilege he em-
phatically refused, for what
lie vaguely described as
“obvious reasons.” Green-
wood’s contention is that
Bung and the sly-grog ven-
dors work hand in hand, and
that sly-grog can be scotched
by curtailing the meagre
trading privileges now allowed to Bung. He
seems unable to realise that sly-grog shops
can only flourish where-men are made furtive
by Act of Parliament. Left alone, the thirsty
citizen would not dream of paying treble.
* * * *
From the spot:—
It was my first winter at the Front. We were
feeding in a trench that was like the sort of bog
you lose a cow in, and our food, in accordance with
the chances of war, was a good deal mixed up with
the sacred soil of France. Suddenly Henry spoke.
Henry was a boy off a Western District, Vic., farm,
and his tone was that of one profoundly cogitating.
“Cornin’ to think of it,” he said, “ain’t pigs
pertickler?”
Thank Heaven Germany has got a few
friends left. One of them extends an anony-
mous offer of food and shelter through the
S. M. Herald :
Wanted, Lady Help or Companion, 3 in family,
for light household duties only, good home. German
preferred. Apply , Herald Office.
What all-Australian household is it that
wants to employ Miss Frightfulness?
A Melbourne city pawnbroker, having no
bunting to display the fervor of his loyalty
when the armistice demonstrations broke
out, and finding that the crowd was disposed
to deal ungently with such business people
as neglected to advertise fealty in three
colors, had hasty resort to the paint-pot, and
painted the three balls, the ancient symbol
of his trade, red, white and blue.
“Vic.”: Bush-missionary Flynn’s just-
published Inlander formulates a scheme by
Lieutenant Peel, of the Australian Flying
Corps, for bush missionary work by aero-
plane. Well, there w T ill ultimately be higli-
speed devil-dodging that way even
round the South Seas. The occa-
sional descent of a gaitered angel
will be impressive to the isolated
heathen, and should have a stimulat-
ing effect on the collection.
A Bananalaud bishop once trav-
elled west to re-dedicate a church
that had been burnt down and re-
built. After a fine sermon he said
he would like to make a few remarks
about the building. He expressed the
hope that the parishioners would put
a fence round their new church, for
he did not like the idea of goats and
the like making the space under the
church between the piles a resting-
place. A real old bushwhacker, sit-
ting at the back on his bToad-brimmer,
got up at this and mumbled: “Well,
mate, I reckon that’s the most sensible thing
you’ve said this morning.”
* * * *
“W.D.” from Flanders :
You ought to see Fritz’s dugouts! One we punted
him out of was like a big underground city. Feather
beds, if you please, a vast dining-room, electric
light, a canteen with beer and the choicest of
liquors and cigars. We thought we were in for a
good time there, but the “heads” soon rallied a
strong guard around the place. The news I told
you about letting Fritz have a bit of rope came
true. we were only fencing about till we got
strong enough, and we’re betting odd francs on
getting the sausage-scoffers over the Rhine by
Christmas, and when -we’re finished with them the
Yanks will put the boot in, and that will be the
end of their little section. It’s a cruel game this.
Out of my company there are only a few left of
the originals—and net a single officer. Some of the
sights I saw in this last big scrap I cannot describ •-
1 don’t want to see another like the last
‘'stunt.” In one place I saw about 50 Germans
flattened out like pancakes where the tanks had
run over them. Fritz laid mines all over the place
for the tanks. One of our fellows put his foot
on one and got blown to bits. (A few minutes
before we had just enjoyed a bottle of captured
German lager together.) It is dangerous to touch
anything where Fritz has been.
This bjg battle is the first where all the Aussie
divisions were engaged—Aussie artillery, Aussie
aeroplanes, all Aussie —and we never did better.
General Foch gave us great praise and some kid-
stakes about being the quickest and best fighters in
the world —so that’s that. Our chaps, old and
young, will stop at nothing; but if you hear any-
body saying that we’ve got no discipline you can
call him a land and estate agent. The morning
our battalion got relieved in the thick of this
battle I saw our Fifth and Tenth Battalions going
into action. It was one of the greatest sights 1
ever saw in my life, and I’ve seen a lot since I
left home. Every man kept his place except the
wounded or the killed, and they were getting
pinged off in hundreds. I tell you straight I
blubbed a bit on seeing a few of ’em go out to it
so cool and the others stepping up as if nothing
had happened. I wish some cold-footed wasters were
over here just to see such a sight—once. It would
wake them up.
“Billy T.”: It was on the Tuesday night,
after Melbourne had peace-demonstrated till
it could hardly stand, that Weelrite and Dull
came perambulating down the moonlit
street, bringing Croker home. Or perhaps
it was Dull and Croker bringing Weelrite
home, or Weelrite and Croker bringing poor
old Dull home. There was no great cer-
tainty, but each was animated with the
highest sentiments and the most fraternal
intentions towards the other ; and when they
came to the doorway they debated the matter
among themselves. Dull insisted he was not
the man being brought home. It was all a
mistake, he said. He was so sober that he
was almost ashamed of himself, considering
the tremendous nature of the occasion, and
hi> distinctly remembered it was Croker who
was to be brought home. Croker needed it.
Obviously Croker was as drunk as a chloro-
formed cat. Poor old Croker, he was so
easily gassed. Croker scouted the idea. He
was not drunk. He was only lying down
because he was tired. As a matter of fact
he was not lying down at all, he was lean-
ing on the door, but that was wholly imma-
terial. Weelrite had the casting vote. He
said dear old .Tim was that drunk he couldn’t
contain himself. When a man couldn’t con-
tain himself, and split up into two distinct
individuals, it was up to his friends to take
forcible action. They opened the door, they
took hold of Croker, and despite his clamor-
ous protest, they pushed him in, and closed
THE PROTEST.
RIDER: “Sit still, can't yer !”
the door after him . Then they listened
“Tim’s his wife givin’ him pertickler flamin’
Gallipoli!” said Weelrite. “Well, tha’s no
business ’f ours,” said Dull. “I done my
do oty by him. Now I’ll see you home.” And
Jinked arm-in-arm they went their way.
Meanwhile Croker lay sleeping on the grass
011 the other side of the door in the big adver-
tising hoarding through, which they had
thrust him.
SOBER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hot as the chasm between the upper void
And the empurpled deeps of nothingness,
I sweltered, like a soul with grief upbuoyed,
Beerless and broken in remote distress,
Y hen through the vivid darkness came to me
Gurgles of refluent amber splashing wide
About the tangled troughs of infamy
That long in dreams had petrified and dried.
“Forbear,” I said, “forbear. The die is cast.
What hope of reason or redress is here?
Have I not nailed my cobwebs to the mast?
V hat froth of sound is this upon my ear?”
She murmured fitfully; and though I wept
Stern tears upon that desolated shore,
A thousand thoughts about my being crept
And stung my flesh through every vivid pore.
All loftiest dreams, forsaken of their sleep,
Become as toys upon an idle tongue.
Ihe shallows have their voice; deep calls to deep;
Nor shall truth die for all the songs unsung.
Bubbling the bliss of ancient tenderness,
A ghost of gladness went along the sky;
Fain were my lips her spirit robe to press,
But lightly as the wind she hurried by.
Up the steep mountains of my soul’s despair,
Step by slow step, I went in evil case.
The tufted breezes playing in my hair
Returned not to their elemental base.
Not yet forgotten, not yet all afraid,
I sinewed half my soul to bear the shock.
Laws are for slaves! For slaves this law was made!
The first stroke clanged—and it was six o’clock.
K - S " r -
PAT O’MAORI.


- ~
jfe
till®®
Si
■
'« ,.
'•* >->
Wmm
1
1
■
S«K • . .
- V
jgataf
ft. '
. ' i
. :
j
Hi * s 4 Sfl!!
-dfzi
* Ipf wmi
vcm
||Pjr
; 4, v-
r
hz 1
.
mm
./■' :
WW
*
a*
m
l : .-H
i
* • ?■
el If U
1 t» *»*ii* s ■’ ■
$ $ 9 Hf;..,. ' & h .
• i r
f mx,
#.JM *
ss®4
•: ;
hik
.-'■Si
yC—/
'A
Mm
x
• \
k !*R
.
mmm
m
it
“ADAMAX" ROOFING for REAL PERMANENCE.
Certain competitors of ours have stated that “Adamax” Roofing is only
bought because galvanised-iron is so scarce and that after the War is over
“Adamax” roofing will go out of existence.
We take this opportunity of stating that
“ADAMAX”
Asphaltum Roofing
is here to stay, and that behind it is the selling organisation of a firm that
for over 30 years has been associated with merchandise of real worth
merchandise that gives its buyers the honest value they look for and
should get.
We sell “Adamax” Roofing on its merits, and in comparison with Galvan-
ised-iron “Adamax” conies out an easy winner.
It is Rust-proof, Rot-proof, Blement-proof, TIME-PROOF, Trouble-proof.
Acids, Gases, Chemical Fumes, etc., harm it not, whereas they quickly
settle Galvanised-iron.
There is nothing in “Adamax” to dry out —so that Rain, Heat, Cold,
Wind, etc., have no ill-effect on it (you know how they damage Iron Roofs).
“Adamax” saves time, worry and mone}\
It Costs only One-third the Price of Galvanised-iron.
Have you a lo'gical reason why “Adamax” should not be your choice? —
just as it was of the Imperial Authorities, who ordered 120 miles of
“Adamax” for covering Wheat- and Wool-sheds in Australia alone.
We would be pleased to go into details with you and put you right on any
point of doubt. Write for free Booklet, “The Adamax Series.”
“Adamax” is sold in rolls 72 feet x 3 feet in 1-ply (thin), 2-ply (medium),
3-ply (thick), each roll covering 22 sq. yds. allowing for 2in. overlap.
, .. .... f
William Adams & Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH : 33 King Street.


LOGICAL DYSPEPSIA TREATMENT.
' IMPORTANCE OF ELIMINATING
ACIDITY AND FOOD FERMENTATION.
During the last two or three years reports
have frequently appeared in the Press con-
cerning the remarkable value of bisurated
magnesia as an antacid, and its ability to
relieve most forms of digestive and stomach
trouble arising from acidity and fermenta-
tion has often been demonstrated. Until re-
cently. chemists could supply bisurated mag-
nesia in powder form only, half a teaspoonful
of which, taken in a little water after meals,
almost instantly stops all fermentation and
neutralises acid; but sufferers will be glad to
learn that they can now obtain this excel-
lent remedy in the foi’m of 5-grain compressed
tablets, two of which are equivalent to half
a teaspoonful of the original powder. These
new tablets of bisurated magnesia can now be
obtained of chemists everywhere, in handy
pocket flasks containing 60 and 150 tablets re-
spectively, and it is certain that they will
prove as popular and as efficacious as the
original powder form of bisurated magnesia,
which, of course, is still obtainable. — Advt.
-
m
m
:S\ l
Wm
m
m
f
M
»
SMP«i
&
r
-•7
5 ■’
Wk
ffl&mp/e/w
Sunshine q
I for AlLAninnals. Cheaper
2/pcr Block or £2/6per o/\i
:...-..v.:..^^—L.:_•_.■. . . • ... ~:1..1 - ." ■ ■:
POLITICAL
POINTS
A new pawnshop device in N. S. Wales is
the proposal that the Minister may take
£1,000,000 of the depositors’ money annually
from the Savings Bank and advance it to
settlers to prop up, among other things, the
partially busted wheat industry which the
importing policy and the One Big City
policy are hustling to the grave. The money
is apparently to be lent out by the Govern-
ment; perhaps if the Bank did the lending
it might be too particular about security.
And the Lands Department is to hold the
mortgages, so that the local member may put
in a kind word for the borrower in arrears,
and get the matter put on a sentimental
rather than a business basis. As for the
Savings Bank depositor—well, he is to find
the money. The strength of the institution
is supposed to lie in the fact that it is run
on hard business principles, leaving distressed
settlers and consumptives and the like to be
helped out of revenue. Still the new depart-
ure may pan out all right.
After all, this yarn about Hughes being
open to censure on the ground that as the
“guest” of the British Government his
“host” was entitled to -certain considera-
tions is not entitled to much notice. If
these Jeames-like criticisms embodied the
only objections to which the garrulous little
man’s conduct was open he would have an
easy job in brushing them aside. Hughes
did not go to London as the guest of John
Bull in any social or political sense. He
went as the representative of Australia, to,
on the allegation of Lloyd George and the
heavyweight dailies, participate in import-
ant deliberations concerning the war. The
offer of free nourishment and a bed while
he happened to remain thereabouts may or
may not have been an act of benevolent
hospitality; but to suggest that it imposed
an obligation upon Hughes to conduct him-
self in any other way than if the Common-
wealth taxpayer liquidated the bill for board
and lodgings is merely silly. Anyway, as
quite a lot of people think an Australian
public man who goes to London ought to
only open his mouth to ask for some more
pheasant it might be as well if the Federal
Parliament passed a resolution imploring
Bull to cut the “guest” and “host” business
out and permit Australia to provide the re-
freshments in the ordinary way. The idea
of men like Spruce Myth, M.H.R., that at
these London corroborees the position of
the men from oversea is akin to that of the
tenantry going to dine with the lord of the
manor cannot be squelched too soon.
Speaking of this country’s chances of
development during the world’s post-war
activities, Orme Masson, chemistry-prof, at
Melbourne University, told a daily paper
that “one fundamental requisite for success
is that the nation must realise that its pro-
gress is dependent on science, and must en-
courage it, utilise it and trust it far more
than it has done in the past.” An excellent
line of talk, of course, but the Australians
to whom the advice is apparently directed
hardly need it. Such men are themselves
alive to the possibilities of their discoveries,
but are handicapped by a Parliament which
is a traitor to the development of Australian
industry. During the early days of the war
an Australian scientist worked out a batch
of dyes which he declared to be capable of
doing everything the German fabric-dyes
could do. Lately, another local inventor did
the same thing, extracting his colors from
a totally different raw nroduct. Either may
be a good thing, yet neither has a chance of
a helping hand from any Australian Parlia-
ment. Of the two lots of dyes, the exploita-
tion of the original line was specifically
blocked by a Federal Minister, who wished
to close as many avenues as possible which
might divert private investors’ cash from
the Treasury. The little enterprise is there-
fore, after four years, still being conducted
in a small building instead of under an acre
of factory-roofs, while Germany waits her
coming opportunity—with the aid of the
foreign-trade politicians—to knife the baby
industry in a vital spot. Australia has pro-
duced a large assortment of scientists, parti-
cularly of. late years, and has plenty more in
the making—men who amply “realise that
the progress of the nation is dependent on
science”; but the Government which has the
power to apply the labors of these scientists
is in no hurry to do anything important
about the matter. Its members seem to
think that the fact that they have won-the-
war ought to be quite enough for the pre-
sent, without worrying about what is going
to happen to Australia when the German
comes up smiling to do business as usual.
ANOTHER
ABDICATION.
OUTBAVCK VISITOR : “And they tell me you’re
a king?”
KING BILLY : “No, Missus; not now. Mine
tinkit I turn plurry Republic.”
A member of the Hawthorn (Vic.) Tram-
way Trust has just resigned because he dis-
approved of the members shouting them-
selves a weekly dinner, out of the Trust
funds, at Bs. per mouth. As the Trust holds
all its meetings in secret, and the members
might have shouted themselves trips abroad
to gain experience in the management of 10
miles of line, the resignation calls for a deep
groan. Conscientious objectors of that
calibre are too valuable to be lost in these
whooping times.
The Vic. Farmers’ Union has decided to
give its overworked gen. sec., J. J. Hall, a
mate to share his burden. Hall, who previ-
ous! y edited the Farmers’ Advocate, besides
doing cross-country expeditions,
speaking at meetings and generally
building up enthusiasm among the
farmers for their own cause, is to
be managing-editor of the paper.
The new gen. sec. is E. E. Roberts,
formerly associated with the State Recruit-
ing Committee.
“F.”. jf y OU get the right angle on the
Holman physiognomy its vulpine cast is un-
mistakable. William had a mighty narrow
escape of being something other than a
Premier. Get him with his back to the wall,
and he fights like a cornered fox every time.
Recent instances: The Nortongriffith; the
swapping of billets with Wade and the job-
bing of Gregory into a place for intercepting
a fat salary. There was another instance of
the slick young-man methods when Holman
got cornered the other day. Someone kicked up
a row about exclusive information concerning
a Royal Commission’s report being surrepti-
tiously acquired by S. M. Herald, and
a question was asked in the Assembly by
Labor-leader John Storey about whether the
Premier had any knowledge of the circum-
stances. Holman’s reply was at once an
evasion and a suggestion that Storey knew
HIS FORTE.
THE ARTIST : “To draw a character well
an artist has to act the part himself.”
THE DIGGER : “I reckon you are test on the
shirker ”
something of the abstracting of confidential
Ministerial documents from their place of con-
cealment. Pressed later to a point where he
had to answer directly, Holman was forced to
admit that the matter complained of had been
furnished from his office with his personal
knowledge and approval. There is only one
word to describe the act of a man who to
escape responsibility for a tricky perform-
ance flings a piece of mud at a questioner—
but The Bulletin is not going to use it.
But other people are not so circumspect in
their language, as Holman is beginning to
discover, and, strangely enough, this dis-
covery seems to be running a dead-heat with
another one—that a change of air or some-
thing would be mighty agreeable.
“Pressman”: Any lunatic who enjoys
chasing information without catching it
should try the Vic. Railway Department.
One day, having occasion to make a simple
statistical inquiry, I started at the front
entrance of the Spencer-street railway offices
by asking a porter, not at all busy sweeping
out the main hall, how to find the den of a
certain official. The porter politely directed
me. resting statuesquely on his broom the
while. When found, the party I sought was
affable indeed, though reserved about the
matter of my inquiry. I had better see So-
and-so, he told me. He would lead me to So-
and-so himself. He did. So-and-so was most
kind, but preferred not to take the responsi-
bility of telling me what I wished to learn.
I ought to ask Such-and-such, to whom he
would introduce me at once. Thus the
matter proceeded until at length I found
myself in the office of one of the Commis-
sioners, who most obligingly gave me 20
minutes of his expensive time—but not the
simple bit of information I was after. It
was so simple and ordinary that the distin-
guished head of the service probably hadn't
ONE DANGER EEC APED.
“Unemployed yesterday held a demonstration in
Brisbane and demanded work.”
“I'm glad the war ain't affected us that
way, ’Orace."
got it about him. But I had had a really
wonderful run through the department.
“Solomon Malaprop’s” reflections :
Speaking in haste, certain Laborites in Australia
have sent the warmest congratulations to “fellow
workers in Russia, Germany, Austria and other
countries.” Allied States, including republican
France, which held up the banner of freedom at
fearful cost from the first day of the war to the last,
are lumped together after the manner of the notice on
the basket of penny debris at the second-hand book-
shop, but the enemies receive special and kindly
enumeration. Tlmj world isn’t dead sure yet that the
new order of things set up by the fellow-workers in
Germany is much different from the old.
Anyhow, the Kaiser’s officials are still in the Govern-
ment offices at Berlin, and one of the Kaiser's
sons is still at Potsdam, and people begin to
notice that the alleged signed deed of abdication has
never been produced, and the flag selected for the
new alleged Hun republic is, curiously enough, the
resuscitated rag of the old Holy Roman Empire.
Anyhow, the doings of 10 or 12 or more millions of
German and Austrian and Bulgarian uniformed
“fellow-workers” in the occupied lands were so un-
speakably devilish that one would think only a set of
people with diseased minds and criminal instincts and
Hun sympathies would send them warm congratula-
tions without waiting for more evidence. As for the
fellow-workers in Russia, they did what the One Big
Union folk want Australians to do—"took over the
workshops” and secured for the worker “the entire
produce of his labor.” Being all able-bodied seamen
except those who were mad or wicked or deformed
seamen, and the navigator having been hanged on
suspicion of being an oppressor, the ship seems to
have steered anyhow. At all events, 40,000,000
workers are starving, or nearly so, because the
whole product of their labor has failed them. One
trouble is that a harvest was practically missed. In
the hasty breaking up of the big estates everybody
was uncertain as to which was his bit, and authority
seldom lasted long enough to issue titles, and hardly
anybody cared to sow land which might be someone
else's land, and a sort of flurry was the result. Now
the bitter Russian winter has set in, and the fuel
supply has failed amid the stoppage of work and the
breakdown of transit. Almost the only warm thing
that very many Russian workers have to cook a rat
or a bit of dog or a nettle on is the congratulation
sent them by some Australian Labor authorities.
THESE KINGS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
These kings!
What splendor to them clings!
They stalk through Time with pride,
And dread walks at their side.
Earth trembles at their nod;
They have the ear of God.
Their whisper makes a war;
Their smile will peace restore.
Their touch ennobles slaves;
Their vengeances dig graves.
Time with their exploits rings—
These kings!
These kings!
When Man, full-stature, springs
And ’gainst these deified
Dares measure human pride,
One word upon his lips
The ermine from them strips—
That proud word, “Liberty!”
Which kills autocracy.
When Man dares stand alone
Then topples every throne.
To ignominy Man flings
These kings!
These kings!
Time his revenges brings.
Comes Revolution then
They are not even men.
Would they withstand their fate?
Quick, let us abdicate!
(The stealthy, hurried flight!
The motor through the night!)
We’ve only lost a throne—
Our lives are still our own 1
They fly on craven wings,
These kings!
These kings
Are only underlings.
These petty autocrats
May slink away like rats;
But history doth show
That Caesars do not so.
For they, last of their line
Of tyranny divine,
All rebels would defy,
At least as kings to die l
The poet nobly sing°
Such kings!
These kings!
Their feeble pasturings!
This Kaiser had his chance
Of deathless arrogance.
He might have staggered down
Still wearing robe and crown.
He might have greatly passed,
A tyrant to the last;
And to the world have shown
His funeral pyre his throne!
They do not do these things,
These kings!
These kings!
And in a vision swings
Within a hempen noose
A craven who could choose
To die in regal state—
And chose a felon’s fate I
That criminal a-swing,
Who might have died a king!
He ends his kingly race,
A white cap on his face.
Away with all such things—
These kings!
N.S.w.
LOLA LINGLE.


WHERE THE CRITICS AGREE in matters
affecting Art, there is frequently the widest
difference of opinion among the authorities.
Following a concert the newspaper criticisms often
contradict each other diametrically. It is therefore the
more remarkable in the case of an instrument like the
Pianola that critical opinion should be practically
unanimous.
All Musical Authorities prefer
«* PIANOLA
PIANO—!
There is practically not one musician of note who has
lived during the past decade who has not publicly
expressed a favorable opinion of the Pianola,
Of even greater significance is the
fact that these great musicians, while
endorsing the Pianola, have been
careful to make a sharp distinction
between the Pianola and so-called
“player-pianos” that seek to imitate it.
The Metrostyle.
First amongst the devices which are exclusive features of the 1 Pianola Piano is the
Metrostyle. This is the only device ever invented which enables the novice to interpret
music with the perception and feeling of a trained musician, and to actually reproduce
the composer’s own intentions in the matter of expression.
Likewise in the THEMODIST, THE GRADUATED ACCOMPANIMENT control, responsive,
easy action and many other exclusive PIANOLA advantages is soon found adequate ■ reason
for the unchallengeable leadership of the reliable PIANOLA PIANO.
A can aniii be obtained from
: — TII“STEINWAY, AEOLI.
m-MADE AEOLIAN WEBER.
The PI AN OL
noted, Pianos
THE ENGLE
the PIANOLA COMPANY, and in the following
IN STECk"' AEOLIAN STROUD, FARR AND, AND
I. J. PADEREWSKI:
“The Pianola is the best;
unsurpassable, supreme.”
JOSEF HOFMANN:
“I unhesitatingly pro-
nounce the Pianola the
best.”
MORIZ ROSENTHAL:
“The Pianola is vastly
superior to all others.”
HAROLD BAUER:
“I consider the Pianola
superior in every way.”
MARK HAMBOURG:
“The Pianola is in a musi-
cal position far ahead.”
FRITZ KREISLER:
“The Pianola is far
superior.”
SEND THIS COUPON to the PIANOLA COMPANY.
Please send me catalog and price-list of Pianola
Pianos, showing how I can purchase an instrument
for cash or easy terms, and what allowance you can
make on my present Piano, ichicli is a
Bought about
Name
Address
The PIANOLA
Company Pty. Ltd.
348 George Street, Sydney.
252 Collins Street, Melbourne.
436 Queen Street, Brisbane.
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
73
U)
/


BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
fds
MADE BY
" MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
" THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAYERLEY PEN.”
L5£D
Water Lifted 500 ft.,
Pumped a Mile,
at a cost of about Id. per hour.
OUR FARM PUMP
ENGINE will do this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood, work shearing-
machines, etc.. It can be
attached to a windmill of
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needsnomechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
attention. Hundreds sold
and giving satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
if interested in water supply or irrigation
state your working conditions and we will
quote. We stock Steam, Kerosene, Petrol
and Hot Air Engines, Centrifugal Pumps
and “Myer’s,” “Gould’s” and “Deming’s”
Pumps for all services. Mackie’s Rock
and Water Borer, Working Heads and
Plants for deep well and bore pumping a
specialty. Immense stocks Challenge
Windmills and Water Supply accessories.
We erect plant if required and give easy
terms. Catalogues and expert advice free.
Langwill Bros. 8 Davies Pty. Ltd.
110-1 H Sturt Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
Near Princes Bridge.
Kino George IV
fill m WHISKY
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Mookingah”: Alf Bates, a half-caste
youth of 17, was recently sent out to pick up the
horse tracks of a man lost on Yandama station, in the
North-West, near Milparinka (N.S.W.). Bates got the
tracks 20 miles from the homestead, and for three
days he followed them, campii.g overnight, and on
again at daybreak, across huge plains, over shifty
sandhills, up and down dry watercourses, over the
Yannaminta stony ridges, down towards the Punna-
kunyarra waterholes, miles from any habitation,
thence on to Lake Wallace, where he found the
man’s saddle and his foot tracks going through the
gidgee towards Quinambye. For another 20 miles
the black followed the wandering footsteps of the
lost man, and at last found him lying under a
bush, still alive, but half demented, and suffering
from exposure and a fall from his horse. It was a
three-days’ exposition of tracking that has had no
equal for many years, most of it over country that
showed no marks to the uninitiated; but the lad
of the bush followed the signs unerringly. From the
time he picked up the tracks until he found his
object he tracked horse and man over 70 miles, the
last day without food, and o’vcr 50 miles from any
habitation. A motor-car party out assisting in the
search reached Bates the morning after he found the
injured man.
* * * *
“Man in Bush” : Re “Sarto’s” demand for
a good word for the leatherhead (B. 5/9/18). In
the Department of Agriculture’s book, “Food of
Australian Birds,” it is reported that six of the birds
examined contained ants, beetles, moths, earwigs,
grasshoppers, flies, ground beetles and wilga-secds.
Leatherheads subsist on insects and the honey from
bush trees, and especially orange-trees, and inciden-
tally fertilise the blossoms. One vineyard near me was
swarming with caterpillars devouring the young leaves
and fruit, when a flock of leatherheads and soldier-
birds assembled and ate them all. They also frequent
the corn and devour the grub that lurks in the top of
the cobs, but they don’t eat the grain. Only in
times of scarcity of natural bush food do leatherheads
consume grapes. Silver-eyes do the damage in
silence, and the raucous-voiced leatherhead is wrongly
accused.
* * * *
“Pompy”; This winds up all the argu-
ments about guns and projectiles. A few days ago
was out at the Gap (Cooktown) after Torres Strait
pigeons, when I came across an abo. with his Mary
ready to act as retriever. The sportsman was armed
with what had once been a gaspipe. It was well
splashed with mangrove mud, one hammer was tied
THE OLD AND THE NEW.
“The Australian public must be prepared to witness drastic changes in national habits, methods and even
language, due to military discipline and foreign travel of our impressionable young manhood.” —Daily paper.
OLD BILL: “ How's things, mate?”
YOUNG BILLJIM : “ Orright, digger. Ain't it a bonzer soir?”
on with elastic, and I guessed by the water marks
on the butt that Binghi constantly used it as a
paddle. I asked him how far the curio could sneeze
its lead, and he replied proudly: “Good pheller gun
this one, mine tinkit him kill about ha’f a mile.” I
took his word for it, and let him have that corner
all on his own.
AS YOU LIKE IT.
THE VISITOR (returning thanks after being entertained): “As for the musical part of
the programme, I — er — well—I can’t speak too highly of that.”
“McNorth”: Despite the strenuous efforts
of Governments and missionaries, sorcery remains
the obstacle in the way of progress in the South
Seas. Practice of the Black Art has been made a
punishable offence in all the islands, but because the
pourri-pourri man works with the greatest secrecy
and his victims refrain from giving him away con-
victions are rare. Missionaries point out that the
Almighty is a greater pourri-pourri man than the
local article, and that He can blow the other fellow
to rags. But the missionaries’ account is not backed
by any concrete evidence such as the native mind can
grasp. Some of these pourri-pourri frauds can pro-
duce astonishing results. There was a case in a
Papua hospital which puzzled the new-chum doctor
of the time. The patient was a young native who
was perfectly sound in every way. There was
nothing wrong with him except that he was dying.
The doctor worried the case out, and at last con-
fided in a white man wise in the ways of natives.
The white man said “sorcery,” and interviewed the
sick nigger in the native language. Out came the
whole storyi The patient had a young wife who had
attracted the attention of a big-gun sorcerer. The
sorcerer demanded that the girl be handed over at
once. The husband had paid trade goods to the value
of £2 for his wife, and he refused to deliver the
girl unless that amount and a camphor-wood box as
profit was paid back. The pourri-pourri fakir did
not argue about it; he quietly told the husband that
a stone would grow in his stomach, and that in
seven, days he would be dead. Straightway the
young man obligingly began to die. Lying in bed
at the hospital he told the white man the size and
position of the stone in his stomach and of the pain
it caused him. The white man then poured into the
patient s ears a tale of the wonderful power of the
white doctor as a sorcerer. This doctor, he said,
could take away the stone that the pourri-pourri man
had put there. Then he and the doctor collaborated,
with the result that a stone off the road, a whiff of
chloroform and a framed-up operation effected a
complete cure.
“Mrs. Lance Rawson” : Re Sturt’s desert-
pea. In 1870 a friend of mine at West Maitland
(N.S.W.) had two very fine specimens of this plant,
the seeds of which she had sent her from Central
Queensland, with instructions to boil or to put
them into boiling water before planting. Both these
plants flowered most generously, but they would not
grow any way but straggling over the ground.
Many of the native seeds will not germinate until
fire has gone over them—wattle, waratah and
Christmas bush are a few—although I have managed
to grow wattle after soaking in boiling water.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Many of the widely-scattered
waterholes and tanks in the dry back country teem
with insects, so thick at times that it is impossible
to dip a pannikin of water without getting several
millions of them. In some holes the water remains
a muddy color, and these are comparatively free,
though they may contain plenty of yabbies (which
indicates that this maligned crustacean may be put
to a better use than providing sport for the small
boy). The muddy water is made as clear as crystal
with copi, which is gathered on the hills and put in
the iron tanks and casks used at the homesteads for
holding water. It is the still, clear water that
becomes thick and green and scummy with insects.
Drovers, stockmen and other travellers who have to
drink it and have not time to boil it first use a
handful of soft grass as a strainer. Common to
see a man drop the grass on the surface of the
water, pat it level and drink through it. An old
tough carries a piece of muslin or hessian for the
same purpose.
* * * *
“Pick”: It is quite true that cattle go
berserk at the smell of fresh blood. They will roar
frantically, fight each other, or viciously attack
any person or animal that comes near. But horses
are not affected that way. At the sight of a dead
companion, however, they are painfully perturbed.
They will tremble violently, exhibit unmistakable
signs of fear and dejection, and resist every
attempt to bring them near the corpse. The finest
bit of horse-management that ever I saw was once
when Luke Malone, piloting a spirited four-in-hand
mail-coach team from Cooma to Michelago, struck
a dead horse in a narrow cutting at Jew’s Flats.
Luke’s only hope of getting past was to steeplechase
over the defunct, so he counselled his box-seat
passenger to hang on, and then shook his team
into a gallop. When nearing the obstruction, the
horses snorted violently and lurched with zigzag
bounds madly from side to side of the cutting. The
coach surged like a boat in a heavy sea, and the
mailbags were scattered in the dust, but the
master-hand kept things going until team and coach
with a bound were over the obstacle and steadied up.
The box-seat passenger then let go his hold to catch
his breath before it departed for good. I was the
box-seat passenger.
“H.V.E.” : Re “Dr. Nil” and “Nor’-West’s”
remarks about the dusky wood-swallow, which bird
they assert 1 confused with the bee-eater. I practi-
cally went to school with the bee-eater at Mitta-
gong (N.S.W.). This wood-swallow (which I called
“bee-bird,” a common name for it in some
quarters) breeds in stump-tops, hollows, etc., in
the clearings around Oaklands. The gorgeous
bee-eater I met later, tunnelling for nesting pur-
poses into the banks of the Snowy Hiver, Southern
Monaro. Whenever I’m rightly convicted of confus-
ing two such totally different birds as bee-eater and
dusky wood-swallow, I’ll leave off studying wild-
fowl and go in for canary-farming.
* * * *
“Pompy” : Has any Abo.-liar ever seen a
gin with twins? In all parts of Australia I have
seen numerous and sundry gins and pics., but never
came across black Mary sporting a double.
(Continued, on page 24.)
MORNING TIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I go out at birth of day,
Before the hurly-burly
Of life takes charge of every way
With visage grim and surly,
I find the velvet grass aglow
With dewdrops pin Aland pearly ;
And this I feel, and t*is I know,
Wherever, light of foot, I go,
That bush and flower, and bird and tree,
And all I hear, and all I see,
Are glad to find me up and out
All in the morning early.
A pleasant time it is, in truth,
A time of sweet adorning,
A time of hope and health and youth,
When, song and sunshine warning
All sluggish folk that day’s begun,
I rise, and slumber scorning
Go out to greet my the lord, the sun,
What time, the night and darkness done,
He spreads his glory over all
And makes the world a festival,
A feast of beauty and of song
All in the early morning.
llow pleasant were this life of ours
I f Sorrow never found us;
If all our flowers were fadeless flowers
And Youth forever crowned us,
And Fortune had no shafts to hurl
Wherewith to maim and wound us;
If we were always boy or girl
With eastern lights of rose and pearl
Forever burning up above;
Oh, sweet it were to live and love
With morning splendor in our souls
And morning ever round us!
N.S.W.
NOMES.


THE HEHNING PLAYER PIANO.
SHCJT-
-In position to be played l»y
hand.
THE VICTOR PLAYER PIANO.
The banisher of lonely moments. A
most delightful instrument, which
everyone can play.
THE PLAYOTONE.
A very tine Player indeed, at a most
moderate i>rice. Aslt for particulars.
Also Estey Organs.
Pi an os that are
Guaranteed.
AT PALING’S the purchaser of a Piano or
Player Piano is sure of satisfaction.
PALING’S guarantee protects the
buyer, whether the purchase is a Piano,
Organ or Player Piano of the highest
grade, an ordinary cottage Piano, or any
other musical instrument.
PALING’S GUARANTEE stands for
the finest qualities in Tone, Touch,
Appearance, Finish and Durability. Can
you afford to ignore this protection ?
Give the family a surprise for
Christmas ! Call at our Showrooms and
purchase one of our beautiful instruments
on Easy Terms. We shall be glad to give
you full particulars. Ask for PRINTED
PRICE LIST.
Catalogues free. Please write for one, mention the
particular instrument you are interested in.
PALING’S,
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, LISMORE
and TOOWOOMBA.
THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO
Makes Home-life Happier. America’s
most artistic Player. Exquisite tone
quality and touch.
»'St
THE niSTEY PIANO. Model B.
Specially recommended for hot climates.
Stands in tune for very long ]>eriods.
THE WONDERFUL VICTOR.
Academy Model.
Renowned throughout Australia for its
remarkable durability.
GRAMOPHONES.
New Hiipmobile car.
THE COMFORT CAR.
THE Hupmobile’s good reputation is not due to chance. It is the result of painstaking
care exercised over every part and operation entering into the car’s construction, from
making the first drawing in the engineering department to tightening the last nut on the
completed car.
Specifications.
BODY TYPES —Five-passenger, two- or tliree-passenger single seater.
WHEELBASE—II 2 inches.
CYLINDERS —Four, east en bloc, removable head—B2 mm. bore x 140 mm. stroke.
STARTING —Two unit system Automatic release.
IGNITION —Dixie high-tension magneto.
CARBURETTER —Special Stromberg, with two adjustments.
PETROL SYSTEM —Stewart-Warner vacuum feed. 13 Imperial gallon tank—two gallon
reserve.
LUBRICATION —Pressure system. Gear pump driven from cam shaft.
COOLING —Thermo-syphon, 'extra radiator capacity.
CLUTCH —Dry-disc type. Seven steel plates faced with asbestos fabric. Fully housed.
REAR AXLE —Floating type. Spiral bevel gears.
TYRES —815 x 105 mm. clincher type. Plain in front, all-weather tread on rear.
UPHOLSTERY—Genuine leather, stuffed with real curled hair.
TOP —Neverleek, khaki.
Rain-vision windshield; head, tail and instrument-board lights; petrol gauge; motor
driven horn; ammeter; foot and robe rails; tyre carrier ; extra rim ; side curtains
tonneau carpet; hood cover; pump, jack, full set of tools and tyre-repair outfit.
Write for complete illustrated manual and prices.
DEALERS.
!. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.,
Brisbane.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.,
Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO.,
LTD., Perth.
Hupmcbile
The Comfort Car,
Ij
1/
r
A
mm 9
IlSil
.M
L
DEALERS.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE.
LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICIv & CO., LTD., Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’
CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
OF CANTERBURY, LTD.,
Cashel Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand.
Hupmobue
The Comfort Car .


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
129 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COFFINS ST.. MEFBOURNE.
QUEENSFAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS.
EAGFE STREET. BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRAFIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIFDING. GREN-
FEFF STREET. ADEFAIDE.
Van der Taks Cocoa Essence
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE.
riamn'acUueil in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
A Square Meal in Every Cup.”
Obtainable ail Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
Agents: Mr. J. P. WILSON, Brisbane.
Mr. DAVID BLASHKI, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Messrs. MADDOX & LAWRENCE, PERTH
Mr. W. R. LANGSFORD, ADELAIDE.
Wandi”: What “N.F. describes as an
extraordinary freak of nature —a fig-tree growing in
the fork of a gum and throwing a root to the ground
25ft. below —is a very common thing on the north-
eastern rivers. On the Richmond I have seen num-
bers of figs which started their growth 100 ft. from
the ground and had thrown down a network of
roots, twining round and round the host, and killing
it. In every case the host is eventually strangled,
and ultimately disappears within the huge
root spiral. It is said that when the host
has completely crumbled away or no longer supplies
a support the fig-root becomes the trunk, and in time
appears like an ordinary trunk that has grown up
from the ground. I have never stopped to watch
this development, but there is plenty of evidence of
its correctness in the big scrubs and in the forests
adjacent to support it.
“J.D.”: Barney Barnes, the skipper of
the rig on Springfield station, Barcoo River (C.Q.),
is still poking his drills further into the earth. The
bore hole he is busy with just now is down 5950 ft.,
which is very near a mile and a half. Owing to the
great depth the delving is slow, also expensive to
the owner, but he is a well-known sticker. The
present cost is in the vicinity of 90s. per foot. This
is easily the deepest hole in Bananaland, if not in
Australia, and is still being pushed further towards
a big water-supply or the roof of Sheol.
* * * *
“Wart”: A few weeks ago one of Laun-
ceston’s all-the-year-round swimmers, while taking
his morning dip in the Cataract Gorge, nearly
succeeded in capturing what he thought was a young
turtle. A few days later the creature was found dead
about a mile down the river. The Curator of the
Museum declared it to be a Murray tortoise (Chelyms
masquaria), but how it could have got to the Speck
no one seems to know. A good many years ago 1
was taking a dip in the Cataract Gorge when some-
thing which appeared to be about as big as a
Dreadnought came up alongside me. 1 think I went
close to beating the 50yds. record in making for
shore. It was a young whale, and Launceston had
a whale hunt at its front door. Almost anything in
the way of a boat was manned and the weapons
ranged from firearms to an axe. The whale could
hardly come up without being almost underneath a
boat or two, and then bullets, axes, paddles and boat-
hooks flew about quite indiscriminately. It could
not get out of the Cataract Gorge, because the water
at the entrance at low tide is only a few feet deep,
whereas the Gorge itself is 50ft. or 00ft. deep. By
dinner-time there were two or three thousand people
watching the sport. It was not till about three
o’clock in the afternoon that the whale came up
alongside the only boat armed with a harpoon. The
iron was jabbed in and the exhausted creature died
without a murmur. Perhaps it was the Crown
Prince of the family.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: The best hated man at
Waddy was Oliver Nett. Nett owned the paddocks
north and west of the township, and held his fences
as sacred as if they were English hedges. If a
youngster went on to his land to collect a few sticks
Nett would presently come charging through the
bush on his great, raw-boned, fiddle-headed steeple-
chaser Carbon, full of fearsome oaths and blaring
like a trumpet, dancing his devil-possessed neddy on
the heels of the (hild, sending it yelling home, half
dead with terror. Because Ned Davis went from the
bedside of a little sister scared into fits, and took
an adze-liandle to Oliver Nett, Esq., in Oliver’s own
kitchen, Nett gaoled him for 11 months. If any
man’s cow, or a poor woman’s goat, or a misguided
horse drifted over Nett’s grass, Nett was out in
feverish eagerness to pound the brute. When Gable’s
two sons were caught shooting parrots in Nett’s
corner paddock, and defied the lord of the manor,
Nett provided two travelling witnesses to prove that
a loaded gun was levelled at his head, and Steve
Gable went to gaol. Nett denied the people Of
Waddy access to water over his land, and they were
compelled to cart or carry it a mile further from
where the creek emerged on to the common land.
You never heard a good word of Oliver Nett in all
Waddy from one year to another, and when the fire
broke out in the squatter’s ricks late that night in
a hot December, you might have sworn to it that
no .man in Waddy would have lent a hand had Nett
and his brood been frizzling in the middle of the
blaee; and you would have been wrong. As a
matter of fact, when the fire was seen lapping
the clouds, practically every able person
in the township ran to lend a hand, and
no one more eagerly than Ben Davis. Nett had
gaoled Ben’s only son, he had openly accused Davis
of sheep-stealing and orehard-robbfery, but these
matters seemed to be wholly forgotten. There is an
instinct of preservation in men, an intuitive respect
for property that generally sends them battling
against destruction wholly irrespective of personal
interest. The people of Waddy worked for Oliver
Nett much as if he were the best friend they ever
had. Black with smoke, their eyebrows singed
flat, burUt, and scarcely able to stagger, they toiled
and struggled in the blinding heat to keep the fire
from the greatest haystack and the storehouse. But
the roof of the latter blazed up, and foremost among
the amateur salvage corps was Ben Davis. He
carried out a ton of assorted goods. He rescued Nett’s
desk and his books, and then when Nett’s house
was threatened he got at that and stripped room
after room. He seemed possessed of a savage enthu-
siasm against the fire, and when morning broke stood
among the heaped-up household gods of Oliver Nett,
a grimy, swart, almost unrecognisable object, and
Nett went to him and shook his hand before all the
people, and indicating the valuables piled about said,
“You see, Ben Davis, I trusted you!” And that was
Ben’s reward.
“C.8.H.”: The art of peeling the hide off
bunny, after strychnine has done its worst, has
reached a fine art amongst the cockies’ sons in
Gippsland (Vic.). Tallies of 500 in eight hours
for rabbits picked up off the furrow are common.
HIS JUSTIFICATION.
PEACEMAKER: "But what made your husband strike you so cruelly, Mrs. Mangles ?”
MRS. MANGLES: “ W — w — well, yer see, I ref used ’im money fer the drink , an’ — an’ — an’
then he found out I’d been an’ give threepence ter the Mission in China.”
One expert claims that, when fairly warmed to the
job, he can remove a rabbit’s clothing in 11 seconds.
He dazzled me when I saw him on the job. He
commenced with a few slashes of the knife, and the
remainder of the operation was too fast for me to
follow. All I saw was a nude rabbit and a handful
of fur.
“The Immature Male”: It happened on a
long coach journey West o’ Sunset. The city bloke
was assimilating Outback information in large
gulps, and, catching sight of some magpies carolling
from the top rail of a stock-gate, he asked old Bill,
the driver, what they were. “Them's magpies,”
replied Bill. “Ah, magpies,” said the new-ehum,
“are they—er—indigenous?” Bill looked puzzled
for about three seconds, then his brow cleared.
“Indigernus? I should smile! Why, th’ blankers ’ill
eat anything ! '
“Slug-stalker” : A pest which needs drastic
methods applied -to it in N. S. Wales and Victoria
is the harlequin bug, a green shield-shaped insect
which carries more stench to the square half-inch
than any other crawler on earth. W T hat it doesn’t
destroy by devouring is polluted so awfully that
the plants perish in disgust. The egg clutch usually
totals over 100 per pair of insects, and 90 per cent,
of these are fertile. The remedy is a shallow tin
filled with kerosene. Drop the pests into it. The
breeding season begins in November.
“Shepherd”: I visited the insect stadium
a short time ago, and, after some delay, witnessed
a fierce contest between a mason-spider and a hornet.
The spider evidently did not want a fight, for he
would run along the ground, taking shelter under
grass or stones. It began to look like a pursuit
race; but, as the spider was crossing an open track,
on the way to his home, the hornet pounced on
him. The spider instantly lay on his back and
watched for an opportunity to bite the hornet out of
action. But the hornet was quick as well as
hungry. With one determined thrust of his sting
he ran his enemy through and began to eat him
at once. He circled round his victim awhile and
then" attempted to carry the body away whole, but
this proved impossible, so he snapped the legs off,
threw them away, and flew off with the balance.
“Baixoo”: “C.” (B. 29/8/’18) can rest
assured that the buffalo bagged by his Winchester
at Cork, on the Diamantina (W.Q.), some years ago
holds the record for being the long-distance wanderer
from the breeding-grounds in the Northern Territory.
No other specimen has been seen so far south, though
some time ago it was rumored that one had been
located on Dubbo Downs (S.W.Q.). When the male
buffalo becomes too old and decrepit to put up a
good scrap the young bloods of the harem combine
and hand the ancient his passport in no undecided
manner, possibly in revenge for indignities put on
them in their early youth. Usually it means a
battle to the death. The animals are mostly found
about the banks of the Roper and other streams that
empty into the west side of the Gulf of Carpentaria,
but occasionally strays wanfler round towards the
Peninsula on the east side. Some of the older males’
hides are at least half as thick as that of the rhino-
cerous. Buffalo shooting for the pelts was in vogue
years ago on some of the principal islands in the
Gulf, and tens of thousands were slaughtered, but
the monetary return was indifferent. The flesh is
very coarse, dark, tough and unpalatable.
“V.D.” : The flies in our kitchen enjoyed
a joke at the expense of a hungry hairy-legged spider
who apparently understood nothing about the trans-
parency of glass. The window was closed, and on
the inner side of the pane a dozen flies were strolling
about when Hairylegs appeared on the outside. He
selected a big juicy blue-bottle, crouched and sprang.
His amazement when he failed to connect was ludi-
crous. He spun round like a top and then rushed
indignantly after the escapee. When he failed again
he sat down and pondered a bit. Again he moved
to the attack, but this time he exercised strategy.
Three times he moved in a circle round the intended
victim, spinning a web calculated to hold any insect
that lived. Then he crouched back, cracking his
knuckle-bones, and waited. When the bluebottle
walked through the web and calmly strolled away the
astonishment of Hairylegs made his eyes bulge out
of their sockets. For a whole hour that spider exer-
cised every subterfuge and trick he knew to snare some
dinner. He spread barbed-wire-entanglements of every
description over every inch of the window-pane before he
gave in. Then he departed, shaking his head slowlv
from side to side, apparently to sign the pledge.
* * * *
' “ Bill B -” : Along the Hawkesbury and
other coastal rivers of N. S. Wales a small greenish-
brown bird has a plan of its own for the protection
of its family. It selects the flimsiest flexible twig
it can find hanging within a few inches of the
water, and on this suspends an elongated round nest
of grass and fibre, with a small lateral entrance.
Any robber attempting entrance deflects the twig
and takes an involuntary bath. Apparently the
nests, closely interwoven with cobweb, are water-
proof, and when a fresh occurs in the stream they
are often afloat, with the lady occupant industriouslv
attending to the hatching operations within. I’d
like to know the name of the winged houseboater.
* * * *
“Melos”: In addition to the tree-lucerne
recently eulogised by an Abo. .writer, there are two
other fodder-plants I can recommend to the man on
the land. One is Bokhara clover (Melilotus alba), a
biennial, but permanent if allowed to seed at the
end of the second year. This fodder grows to a
height of Bft., and is excellent feed for stock; safe,
too, in that it does not produce excess of gas in
the intestines of the beasts as does the other variety.
The other plant is Phalaris bulbosa, a succulent green
fodder which may be cut or eaten down repeatedly.
It is a quick grower, reaching a height of about 7ft.
at maturity, drought- and fro-t-reaisting. and an
ideal meal for horses, cattle and sheep.
* * * *
“Taboobo” : “Nor’-West,” in a recent Buj.-
lptin, states that the bee-eater’s destructiveness to
bees is a matter of opinion. Is it? Not in North
Bananaland, at any. rate. For further enlightenment
on this point T might refer “Nor’-West” to Ban-
field’s “Confessions of a Beachcomber.” The author,
who lives on Dunk Island, N. 8., there explains how
his bee-venture was prematurely nipped in the bud
by the ravages of these and other (including the
white-rumped wood-swallow) winged marauders. He
was faced with the hard facts that he must either
exterminate the pests or give up bee-keeping. A great
birdlover, he chose the latter course. Exit the bees.
* * * *
“John Quill” : I feel sure that if “Bill It.”
and “M.” (recent Abo. pages) make long, deep
gashes in the bark on the trunk and principal
branches of their backward kurrajongs the trees
would improve in size rapidly. All kurrajong-
become hide-bound.
* * * *
“McNorth” : Touring Torres Strait in the
mission vessel, we came to the island of- Yam, and
on the padre and I going ashore the whole popula-
tion came to the water’s edge to meet us. There
were two or three hundred of them—big, fat bucks
clad in lava-lavas or faded khaki trousers; coarse,
masculine-looking women; and a flock of naked and
'semi-naked nippers, ranging from wcaners up. The
mob clustered round us and insisted on shaking our
hands, allsame white man. Dirty paws were thrust
upon us from all directions. We grabbed more or
less blindly till the worst of the rush was over,
and then settled down to steady work till the last
straggler was finished off. When we were leaving
the island the whole pump-handle process was re-
peated. I badly wanted to hold my nose with my
left while I shook with my right. But it wouldn’t
have done. The padre denied having taught them
the white man’s method of salutation. I was glad
they did not want to rub noses.
* * * *
“Veronal”: Try some samples of euphonic
abo. place names: Jindabvne, Eurungonia (a salt-
lake on South Coast, N.S.W.), Narooma, Umeralla,
Cootapatamba (the lake where the eagles drink),
Brewarrina and Illawarra. As regards creature-
names of abo. origin, there are merole (magpie),
lowan (lyre-bird), koorah (kangaroo), koala (native
bear), and brolga (the native companion, or Aus-
tralian crane). Few fish had enduring abo. names,
but morwong, natin.vgai and wirrah still stick.
* * * *
“G.A.” : Four young swallows were hatched
in the nest over the door of the back shed, and they
were doing well until the mother was accidentally
killed. After that Mr. Swallow seemed to have a
busy time feeding the youngsters on his own. They
demanded tucker ceaselessly from daylight to dark.
When we anticipated that the babies were fully
fledged we examined the nest. Two were well nour-
ished and lusty, but the other two had starved to
death. Nature evidently sends a family just large
enough to keep the parents fully employed, and when
mum passed out it took all dad’s energy to feed his
share. He didn’t make the mistake of losing all the
fledglings through half feeding. He knew his limita-
tions and brought a couple to maturity? Anyhow,
that’s how I worked it out.
“Q.P. ’: The Sturt desert-pea, which just
now makes a vivid picture out beyond Broken Hill,
has shown exceptional hybridisation this year. A
novelty bloom recently secured was of scarlet with
base of light purple (instead of black) and wings
of creamy white and scarlet edges. Director Bailey
(of S. Aus. Botanical Gardens) asserts that the
blossom is original in color.
TWO TRACKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When golden grows the skyline,
And morning lights the sea,
The track that goes to the eastward
Is the chosen track for me.
For when the sun comes driving
His cloud-flocks, golden fleeced,
I seek the joy of morning
And the hope that’s in the east.
When down the heavens gliding
The sun lights hill and tree,
The track that goes to the westward
Is the chosen track for me.
For when the sun goes driving
His cloud-flocks to their rest,
I seek the calm of the day's end,
And the peace- that's in the west.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


VI
1
II
/
&
A
01
'l
y\
sr Ar
(1M
rr
II
Cigarettes of the Highest Class
at Moderate Prices.
CIGARETTES
are essential to the discriminating smoker.
They are of premier quality and nominal
price. The atmosphere of luxury in
smoking' is thus created without a feeling'
of extravag'ance.
The Famous Red Pacßet
No. 333 Per Packet 6^’
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Obtainable of all High-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD.. LONDON.
1g
wm
/,


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That makes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases.
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taken at the commencement of a Cold; but the
class of case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to make any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE'S
BRONCHITIS CURE—a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST,
WEAR LUNGS.
r 4)
ttsm.
am
iar
*
R 4
%
h 2
13.
H-—
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney, N.S.W. Wellington, N.Z.
form to supply his customers, he would be
prosecuted for an infringement of the Copy-
right Act, and that between duplicating it
and lending it a hundred times over for
money there is only this difference: In re-
printing it the librarian would have to risk
a small outlay, but in hiring it out he takes
no risk at all. The claim that the lender
brings the books within the reach of the
poorest, who would not be able to enjoy them
if they had to buy them, would be right
enough if others were not robbed in the pro-
cess —if author and publisher received a roy-
alty on every copy lent, to which they are
more entitled than the middleman.
With public libraries and schools of arts
so common and handy there is no
necessity in any case for the private
lending library, and if the author re-
ceived fair play from the governing
bodies it would be made illegal for any per-
son to engage in such a business. No pro-
fession has been more abused than that of
letters, no worker more unjustly treated than
the author.
The lending library does further mischief
in that it is a potent means of disseminating
disease. The books go into all manner of
places, are mauled over and over by unclean
hands, read in bed and stuck under pillows
in sick rooms ; they are handled by numerous
persons suffering from contagious complaints.
Many people do more reading when they are
sick or convalescent than at any other time,
and a lot of them have an evil habit of wet-
ting the thumb or finger with the tongue to
turn over the pages, and hundreds of volumes
that are a living storehouse of bacteria are
placed in the hands of readers.
There are a few other remarks I would
like to make about this kind of lending
library, but seeing that peace is looking for
an opening I’ll refrain.
E. S. SORENSON.
The Inky Way
“Australia in Palestine” is the title of a
new soldier book to be published shortly
(posted to any part of the civilised world—•
Germany, Bulgaria and Turkey excepted, as
they are not civilised —at 65.). It will be a
literary and pictorial record of all that is
best and most picturesque in connection with
our crowd in the Bible country. George Lam-
bert will contribute; official-correspondent
Harry Gullett and Sergeant Charles Barrett
(of the Argus) will edit; Warrant-Officer
David Barker (of the Anzao Book) will
see to the pictorial side; and Sergeant E. G.
llodda will be the secretary. The volume
will be produced in Australia.
“Copy Boy”: The Historical Society re-
cently started a search for the first file of
Victoria’s earliest newspaper. A file of the
Port Piiillip Gazette, 3838-9, containing
all the numbers up to 102 with the excep-
tion of the first, was found in a forgotten
corner of tlie Bendigo School of Mines. The
only companion volume is in the British
Museum. A still earlier publication (it
started a few months before the Gazette)
was Johnny Fawkuer’s Melbourne Adver-
tiser. Two copies of the second issue—
January 8, 1838 —have been brought to light,
but a No. 1 copy has not so far been dis-
covered.
A Satchel of Books
The Common Weal (The Australian Baptist Pub-
lishing House; 2s. 6d.) is a collection of addresses
delivered at various times by T. E. Ruth, a Mel-
bourne parson. The author admits that his “studies
in social subjects make no claim to sociological
adequacy of statement.” This, of course, disarms
criticism. Yet it may justly be said that though
without Ruth’s reservation his work would be open
to sonic rather harsh commentary it would still be
open to commendation. Any man who tackles public
questions in a way that may make people think—
who shows them reasons for getting out of the
mental ruts and intellectual bogholes^—does something
useful. Ruth does this —sometimes, at any rate. The
trouble is that he is often too high pitched. Meredith
Atkinson supplies an introduction, concisely written.
Atkinson seems to be afflicted with an idea that
working men and women are losing sight of the
moral issues incidental to social and industrial
development. lie may be right, but this writer is
disposed to think that taking a broad view of the
world the indications are the other way—that Labor
is harking back to the idealism of an earlier time.
Poems of Adam Lindsay Gordon (N.S.IV. Bookstall
Company). It will be a boon to many to have
Gordon’s work in this cheap and handy edition. The
prefatory sketch is by A.G.S. Here is his criticism:
“His poetry is intellectually obvious. Often
crossed with a personal warp, commonplace wisdom
is its typical woof. Everybody’s wisdom makes
Everyman’s prophet. The world and the Bush hold
many defeated people; Gordon preserves the reflec-
tive sorrow of his own defeat in Everyman’s verses.”
All which is rather clever writing than weighty
judgment. In as far as it is true, it applies equally
to William Shakspeare and Robert Burns; but
Gordon has individuality, force and melody which
remain over when all is said.
The Meaning of Industrial Freedom (Geo. Allen and
Unwin, Ltd., London) is not a full statement of
the case. There are only 44 pages of it, and a lot
more paper than that is needed to make the argu-
ment of the Guild Socialist reasonably clear. The
writers, G. D. 11. Cole and W. Mellor, merely touch
the fringe of their subject, so to speak. But what
they have to say is an incitement to seek further
literature on a matter which has only come seriously
forward of vccent years. The Utopian Socialists
thought mainly in terms of morality. Marx changed
this. Socialism of the “scientific” order became an
economic doctrine. The old idealism vanished. Social-
ists laid all their stress upon distribution of income
—little, if any, upon freedom. Socialists became
opportunists. On the question of production Social-
ism has been practically dumb or disposed of f the
issue by promises of democratic control through
Parliaments. Hence the growth of State Socialism,
for which State Capitalism is a better term. The
Guild Socialist aims at the abolition of both capital-
ist and bureaucratic control. To him “State enter-
prise” is anathema. He wants the control of every
industry to pass into the hands of the Trades Union,
and insists that the real duty of unions is to make
their organisations absolutely blackleg proof and then
fight for control to the death. Anything else would
. allegedly not be worth bothering about, and least of
all would concessions of partnerships, increased
wages, shorter hours and so on. It boils down to
a plea for the control of all property by organisations
of workers.
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Sulphide Corporation is going to have
a thorough try for potash in S.A. With the
approval of the State’s Geology Department,
it has taken up over GOO acres on Yorke’s
Peninsula. The stuff, when got, will be
shipped to Cockle Creek, N.S.W., for treat-
ment. The Earl of Ivintore, a Governor of
S.A. long ago, is chairman of the Corpora-
tion, and a returned soldier, son of the late
Federal Speaker Holder, will be in charge at
Port Vincent, from which the raw material
will be shipped. The public is told candidly
in advance that the probable cost of the
potash will be about £2O a ton, and that pro-
tection will be needed if the foreign article
is not to kill it as soon as things become
normal again after the war.
* * # *
“F.C.”: A recent Bulletin par. to the
effect that “some of the worst rubbish [ food]
sold in Sydney is guaranteed under the N. S.
Wales Pure Foods Act,” has switched some
light on to a point that has long worried me,
viz., why Victorian manufacturers making
goods for the local market only should brand
their stuff as up to the standard of another
State. Before me lies a label, on a baby-
food container, marked “Guaranteed under
the Queensland Health Acts. Tasmanian
Food arid Drug Act, and N. S. Wales
Pure Food Act.” I have seen that
on labels of a dozen different commodi-
ties, but there is never a mention of the Vic.
Pure Food Act. I don’t know whether it
is more stringent than the others, but possi-
bly the local authorities might be more in-
quisitive. Anyhow, why shouldn’t every
manufacturer be compelled to have his goods
passed as up to the standard of his own
State? Then he need not bother about the
others. Honesty begins at home —or it
should.
* * * *
E. T. Stringer is the hustling secretary to
the Old Metals Branch of the Victoria
League Comforts Fund in W. Aus. referred
to in a recent issue of The Bulletin. For
less than five months’ work £lOOO has been
handed over to the fund, and the collection of
old metals, waste materials, bottles, tins,
sacks, rubber, newspapers, etc., is going
on at full pressure. It is being proved that
rubbish (so-called) can be turned into com-
forts. “Recollect to collect” is the motto of
the committee.
* * # *
“H.”: William Hutchinson, M.L.A. for
backbloeks Borung (Vic.), though he is
Minister for Forests, seems to have a re-
markably hazy idea of what’s what in the
State’s timber-trade. H. R. Mackay, Con-
servator of Forests, lately expressed the
opinion that the interior construction of
dwellings should on no account be done with
unseasoned timber. Yet Hutchinson has
since been reported as stating that “if the
rule were strictly enforced, building opera-
tions would be hampered because of the fall-
ing-off in soft woods due to the scarcity of
shipping.” It is an absurd plea. Anybody
who wants to buv seasoned softwoods can
get all he is able to pay for at a high price
for imported, but at a considerable reduction
for seasoned Australian timbers. For various
reasons—such, for instance, as the War
Profits Tax and the lack of small-job labor —
house-building in Melbourne has fallen off by
about one-third ; but the industry doesn’t at
present suffer through any deficiency in
seasoned softwoods, and Hutchinson should
know it. Since the war huge quanti-
ties of such timbers have been brought
overseas and now lie in the various yards,
where they have piled up much profit for the
holders ; while as for Australian stuff, there
are plenty of soft or semi-soft sorts available.
Consider the Bananaland and Tasmanian
floorings such as hoop and celery-top. Hoop
pine is nowadays a standard flooring, and
can be used for other interior work. Celery-
top pine is in general use by the Vic. Rail-
ways ; and Tassy’s handsome King William
pine forms a beautiful substitute for the
more expensive Californian redwood. All
these and lots of other Australian timbers are
much used, and can be bought at compara-
tively reasonable rates. There should be a
Parliamentary ukase against the use of any
unseasoned timber in houses, either inside,
outside or underground.
* * * *
“Wart”: The paper famine does not seem
to have affected Red Tape yet. A little while
ago I designed an article which I thought
was worth protecting under the Common-
wealth Registration of Designs Act. I wrote
to the State office for particulars and forms.
The result was a letter and tw T o forms. The
letter told me to copy one of the forms six
times, to fill all in and affix copies of the
design to seven of them and send six unfixed
copies of design. I gut this batch away and
received in return a form which invited me
to authorise all communications re the appli-
cation to be sent to the same address that I
had already put on the top of eight forms.
When I filled this in and returned it I re-
ceived another form, which stated that my
application had been received, etc. The
next communication came from the Central
Office, Melbourne, and informed me that my
application had been numbered. Then I re-
ceived a two-page blue form, which wanted
to know if I was a Hun. Well, I will be if
they keep on like this a bit longer.
* * * *
Narrogin (W.A.) has a quaint little in-
dustry all its own —a doll-factory—and the
output is superior to anything imported. The
Narrogin dolls pride themselves on not being
foreign-looking. They are claimed to be the
prettiest and best on the market, and as they
are supposed to represent the various types
of feminine beauty in Narrogin, it may be
suspected what the local girls are like.
That’s the sort of patriotic boost that might
be copied by some of our eastern Australian
manufacturers.
* * * *
“F.N.T.” : The rabbiter has taken matters
into his own hands and in future will attend
to Melbourne’s supply problem without the
aid of outside jobbers. The Hawkers and
Dealers’ Union, working with the Rabbit-
trappers’ Union and the A.W.U., has evolved
a co-operative plan by which the three organi-
sations will combine to handle bunny from
burrow to barrow. Trappers will provide
the carcases, which will come direct to repre-
sentatives of the hawkers’ organisation and
will be at once offered to the public, from
house to house, and at stalls in the principal
markets. It may be taken for granted that
the Melbourne housewife will soon have an
inexhaustible supply of fresh, cheap bunny,
to take the place of the present unsatisfac-
tory issue by the “ring.”
To meet the demand for roofing material an
Adelaide firm is now commencing to produce
red tiles at Beverley, S.A. The cost is less
than that of galvanised-iron, if that were
procurable, which it isn’t. Quotations for
the latter are sure to remain very high for
some time after the war, if the profiteers
don’t come to light with large stocks stowed
awav waiting for higher margins. The end
of the war will probably result in a lot of
lines being rushed into the market for fear of
a collapse in prices.
“Werrimee”: A common “smoke” in the
Texas (Q.) tobacco area is “planters’ plug,”
which is used by the growers and by many
other local residents. When a traveller asks
for a pipeful of baccy he is handed a lump
of raw leaf, dried and tightly twisted. The
“plug,” before it is cut, looks like a piece of
rope, and is about a foot long. It is a mild,
unsatisfying smoke to the stranger, the very
opposite in strength to the manufactured
article —the strong black “Texas twist.”
This latter is very much favored in the
Queensland bush, a good augury for the
future when the industry is properly devel-
oped.
Billjim is giving Australia an advertise-
ment that local manufacturers and exporters
ought to make the most of. Traders from the
wide world during the last three or four
years have been taking an interest in the
Commonwealth that previously hardly knew
it existed. The secretary of the S.A. Cham-
bers of Manufactures has had communica-
tions from Holland, France, Russia (before
the Bolsheviks ran amok), U.S.A., Canada
and Italy desiring to open trade relations
with Australian firms. Sample letter which
recently arrived from Italy:—
Before the war a considerable part of the Italo-
Australian trade passed through the medium of
principally belonging to enemy coun-
tries. In order that this shall not be repeated
when conditions are normal again, it will be
opportune now to further the establishing of direct
relations between exporters and importers of our
two countries. We are at all times ready to put
members in direct connection with the best Italian
firms interested in Australian trade. We are also
prepared to find for the Australian exporters reliable
agents and representatives for the Italian markets.
One of the requirements—after building up
the tariff wall —will be to see that the enemy
isn’t on the job again in disguise.
* * * *
Even in advertisements we can sometimes
find a useful hint. For instance, the ad. of
a big packing-house in an American paper
asks: “Why has America the best roast beef
in the world?” (Apparently the Yank
doesn’t seriously consider the legendary
“Roast Beef of Old England.”) It goes on
to answer the query by explaining, after deal-
ing with the scientific breeding of broad-
backed cattle, “great packing plants with
stockyards were established near the finest
cattle lands, and systems were developed that
carried the dressed meat quickly to every
corner of the United States.” The Yank
evidently doesn’t appreciate the glories of
the great Australian centralisation policy.
Run on his methods New South Wales would
have killing centres at plains like Bathurst,
Bourke, Goulburn, Tenterfield, Tamworth,
etc., and the output would be hustled swiftly
to the metropolis in cold-storage cars, while
by-products such as manures would be pro-
duced out in the country that requires them.
Incidentally, large industries and popula-
tions would spring up and dot the State with
cities, instead of springing into Sydney and
helping to extend the slums. But the Aus-
tralian bullock must be brought stifling to the
Sydney slaughter-houses, and the workers
must crowd into the swollen city, to live
seven in a room and so complicate the great
problem of living that expensive Boards
have to sit and inquire into it at enormous
expense.
* * * *
“G.A.”: Castor-oil is found to be the only
satisfactory lubricant for rotary aeroplane
engines, so the United States has sown
108,000 acres with castor-oil plants—seed
supplied by the British Government. Why
not cultivate these plants in Australia?
With our variety of climate and soil we can
find suitable conditions to grow anything.
Very large quantities of castor are used in
the Commonwealth for medicinal purposes,
and also as crude oil for lubricating. India
is the present principal supplier and some
comes from Java.
TYRE TROUBLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘On February 13 we again went to Lilydale, and
were again delayed with tyre trouble.” — Evidence in
recent Melbourne divorce case as given by co-respon-
dent.
“I took the lady to a retreat in the Gippsland hills,
but experienced tyre trouble, and we could not return
till morning.”— Co-re. in a more recent case.
This is the great progressive age,
A time of breathless hurry,
And swift machines we must engage
About affairs to scurry.
We woo on wheels, and roaring go
Where in absurd emotion
Once on his knees Love went. Too slow
Was Lochinvar, who could but show
A one-horse-power devotion.
We have the motor-car to-day;
It beats all gallant horses
iii hastening the get-away
And speeding up divorces.
Out clouds of smoke and dust we cast
Effectually to screen us.
Best our love philter is, and last—
’Tis petrol. Never was so fast
That rapid creature Venus.
But Cupid is among us still.
lie lurks by pathways narrow
To manifest what wicked skill
He has with bow and arrow.
Not through our hearts with malice dire
The mischief-maker rakes us,
But shoots his arrow in a tyre,
And while we sit in helpless ire
Slow Trouble overtakes us.
VICTOR!.*.
D.


a
r;\
un
For Christmas!
Tit PHONOGRAPH EXTRAORDINARY!
Plays any Disc Record, from the largest to the smallest,
with a clear, life-like reproduction.
In over 2000 Australian Homes the Folk are loud in their praise of the
extraordinary qualities of the Stewart Phonograph.
J
y>\
•-
n/
IV
7 A
Further Shipments have
arrived, and the Stewart
Phonograph is now
offered for A LIMITED
TIME ONLY AT 40/-
■ PHONOGRAPH . r - ■'
7,0 80 9Q • 'lOO .0. - ■
1 i' l ' ot 0;'
rfi.-'r PHOI'IQGRAPH CnR^OP'ATHIN
P-HEAGO
LkS A-
MM
m
/
Special Price
for Christmas and
the New Year,
1401-
NEVER AGAIN will
the Stewart Phono=
graph be offered at the
above price.
THE aim of the builders of the Stewart Phonograph was to
meet the world-wide demand for a convenient, compact
machine containing all the qualities of the larger, higher-
priced outfit.
The Stewart Phonograph has more than fulfilled these aims.
THE MOTOR, the most important part of the Phonograph, is
acknowledged by Phonograph Experts to be equal in every way to
motors found in machines selling at many times the price of the
Stewart. The Gears are all machine-cut from solid steel, the
Wearing Parts throughout are beautifully finished and correctly
fitted, ensuring an absolutely silent, smooth-running, everlasting
motor.
THE TONE ARM is of sufficient length to play the largest
record, and is fitted with the Stewart Universal Reproducer, which
plays any type of disc record of any make, any size or any price.
The Tone Arm also lias an automatic needle-stop, which prevents
gouging or damaging the records in any way.
THE TIME CONTROL is an exclusive feature of the Stewart
Phonograph. It is instantaneous —allowing the desired time to be
obtained immediately.
Eor attractive appearance, for accurate and life-like reproduc-
tion, for up-to-dateness and durability, the Stewart Phonograph is
superior to any reasonably-priced phonograph ever before offered.
It weighs under 101 b. and requires no special cabinet or stand, but
can be placed in any convenient position. It can be taken with you
in the motor-car or boat, and you will find it an extremely enter-
taining companion at your picnics or other outings.
This moderate-priced Phonograph, with the extensive line of
fine, popular-priced records now on the market, gives you an oppor-
tunity to have a lot of real fun and wholesome enjoyment at very
little cost.
1 9 IS
LI
MM
m
Nursery favorife>
When this advertisement reaches you, the
Stewart Phonograph will be on sale with the
leading Storekeeper in every town in Australia.
Look for it in the windows or ask
your dealer for full particulars.
If you are not near the Storekeeper, drop a Postcard to Box 1565 G.P.0., Sydney, and
you Avill receive an illustrated pamphlet and full particulars by return mail.
r(V
m
m


A. Saunders’ Polished Oak Cabinet Clock, Eight-
day Movement, strikes' hours on Cathedral-tone
Gong, half-hours on Bell, 30/-
ii
A. Saunders’ Travelling Roll, all metal, unbreakable
fittings, 30/-
JJmaller size, 21/-, Larger size, £2/10/-
Serviceable Oifts
A. Sanders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing 6 Table Knives, 6 Dessert Knives,
3-piece Carvers, 6 Table Spoons, 6 Table Forks, 6 Dessert Spoons, 6 Tea
Spoons, Square Xylonite Handles, £l2/10/-
s
viLi
A. Saunders’ Pocket Wallet, Morocco Leather,
with Perpetual Calendar and Purses, Solid
Silver Corner Mounts, Shield and Strap,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
A- Saunders’ Enamel Iron Clock, Eight-day Movement, strikes
Hours and Half-hours on Cathedral-tone Gong, £5.
A. Saunders’ Real Ebony Brush Set, complete with
Two Hair Brushes and Comb, extra quality Silver-
drawn Bristles and Silver Shields, 25/-
A, Saunders’ Combination Shaving Outfit, including Safety
Razor, Shaving Brush and Four Extra Blades. Pure Silver-
plated, 12/6. Solid Silver, 25/-
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET, Opposite Railway Station, SYDNEY.
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £5,000,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
ample security and efficient management assured.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
F
OR OUR SICK AND
BOYS. —When you have
WOUNDED
finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
0t J.Collis Browne's
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Gepalne.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and iu the Cough of BRONCHITIS anti
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 115, s]-, 5/-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BL
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
e-iven to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
0917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly’s Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
M,oll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana. 2/- each posted.
Educating the House, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of .Temp-
tation, 1/9. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength posted, 4/-. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry’, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/9. How to Train for
All Sports, 2/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How _to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 1/9. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted,
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/9. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
in. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Handybook, 2/-. Complete
Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life of Deeming, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron. and many others, all at
4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
AH These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards,, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
sat Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll's AA’orks, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coar.es;, 1/9 posted.
Crevasse's Advice to a AA'ife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/9. The AVife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, , 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. AVebster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (AVhy
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous A’erses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Damaged
Goods, 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
AATzard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life's Shop Window, 1/9. Three
Weeks. 2/- posted.
AVRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, (j 7 gs 9 Market Street, Sydney (only).
i«- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
c
via v.*/
o " 7
7,
,S : '
S*H3
gg
&
*
m
V
'
&,00?
'~7 :
BSB
ms
sSjsl
/
irj
S#
£?
-<£?)
is®
s*v
W
r M
r /¥sl
mz
77,
m
wm
V/v
SSCS
s&s
•.'/
r^s
ssa
m
m
BE2
S@
■±m
1 ':
WM
n
sgi
:K : :
H
HI
K?
Sgg
V
r' ...••
-fT
feslS
HR
• -
i®3B
n:
3sj§&s£
S
m
T
m
&£$
v^-i
(i#
gp?:
fiP
rf
ggs
i.V“r>'* / ,/ .
.'--V
y/W
irTanTiFi^
Vs\ J
il&
m
fm
a
v
/
A/
M
SS
'X
«ftS
■
S-Sv!
SSS
S&J
M
C/
14?
wi
Mi
SsWfc
rl —— Tbi
ciKJVn oh !jj
:*.V,it
Ir^SfSfcWSSgSJJ*
“Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Sings out gaily,
“ Go it, you ! ”
When the coward
Kaiser runs
Into Holland
From his Huns.
With his murders
And his loot
He’s the dirt
On Europe’s boot
“COBRA” says,
“So long, old chap !
“ Ycnill be polished
Off the map ! ”


Shaving with an old-fashioned
razor is nothing but a habit.
Once try a Gillette and you
would not go back to the old
style for ten times its cost. The
sdf
sdf
_ NO STROPPI NO NO HONINfI
makes shaving easier, more
comfortable and cheaper.
Sold everywhere,
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia :
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street.
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
KNOWN THE
WORLD OVER
Government Notice.
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT.
Vacancy for Instructor and Investigator
in Forestry.
\ PPLICATIONS for the position of
INSTRUCTOR and INVESTIGATOR
in the Queensland Forestry Service will be
received up to Ist January, 1919.
Salary £4OO per annum and quarters
valued at £5O per annum.
Applicants should be qualified Foresters
with some experience in Forest Adminis-
tration.
Applications should be addressed to the
Under-Secretary, Department of Public
Lands, Brisbane.
W. GORDON GRAHAM,
Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Lands,
Brisbane, July 5, 1918.
(V^p
k:
muinninimfliii
l!!l!!MfM!!!i!]}TPJMilirnrnil
17/6
Post Free for this FIIMNEY “ROUGH RIDER” HAT.
rkHnij 8 A mt f °r every Bushman orman who rides. Just the Hat to wear when
inches w ’ l,r eakneck” pace. The brim is wide and shady 3J
adjusted 1 can . n ''t fl °P over the eyes. The strap around crown can be
co«r services Vul r Sh j I'i a . ‘ <s:rip -” Impossible to blow off! The color is a
ordinary Brown, and the price is 17/6 post free, no more than the cost of an
Send a postal for 17/6 and your size, the hat will reach you by return—post free.
zruney 9 s
*<d/Lg Dr&pors of Qu&eiuJdjid
Big Block, , Brisbane
POVERTY
POINT
CHARLIE
CHAPLIN'S
MILLION
DOLLAR
COMEDIES.
SUPED
FCATURES
Wallace Brownlow, the light operatic idol
of a couple of decades agone, has of late been
tramping the Fuller circuit. Recently,
on reaching Sydney from Maoriland, Wal-
lace, grown much stouter, flopped into the
quarantine net, where he suddenly found
himself restored to something approaching
his old popularity. Soulful spinsters purred
to one another of the songs they had heard
him sing in the long ago, when they were
young and Wallace younger still, and arch
dowagers crowded him into corners and
urged him to warble that sweet little thing
about love. It was very refreshing for Wal-
lace.
“Snowy” Baker, ex-boxing magnate, of
Sydney, is to be given a big opportunity by
a Los Angeles studio to make good as a
movie star. The big Lasky firm is to
show him in “The Lure of the Bush,” the
Australian Outback picture, which was made
in New South Wales, just before he left for
America. Baker showed his ability as a
thrill-maker under conditions which allowed
no trickery, and when he submitted his copy
of “The Lure of the Bush,” in Los Angeles,
the directors saw what could be made of it
with the help of judicious faking. As In; is
returning to Australia in a few weeks’ time
it is assumed that extra scenes will be made
here to build the production into a bigger
feature before the film is released in U.S.
Australian movie production should get a lift
from this bit of news. It is only by local
productions reaching a level that will bear
comparison with the best that a permanent
industry can be built.
“W.W.” : The parsons and picture-show-
men of Hobart have not been friends for some
time. The parsons objected principally to
Sunday-night performances. It was a sort
of drawn battle, and left much soreness in
“Madame X ,” at
Sydney Criterion.
Arthur Styan as
Perissard, exhumator
of family skeletons.
holy places. Some
of the clergymen
adopted theatrical
methods in order
.to “wean the young
from the Sunday-
night pictures” ;
but mostly the
young refused to
be weaned. The
other night a pic-
ture-show manager
flung the first
official news of the
European armistice
on his screen and
promptly asked the
big audience to
kneel with him in
a short prayer of
thanksgiving. After
the prayer the
orchestra led off
with “Praise God
from Whom,” and
the audience rose
and sang like a
congregation. A
few days later the
Council of Churches
met, and the showman’s little ser-
vice was referred to as gratifying evidence of
the spread of religious feeling, or something.
So that’s all right.
The Williamson Opera Co. is not likely to
forget its recent Adelaide season. The
coming of peace, the simultaneous visit of
the French Mission (who had one cheerful
Entente evening at the Royal) and a tram-
way strike made a brisk month of it. Dur-
ing the riot on Armistice Day a mob, headed
by men in khaki, invaded the Royal and in-
sisted that nobody should “work” that even-
ing. The house being booked full, manager
Myers bought them off by promising a free
matinee for soldiers the following Monday.
When the day came, he sidestepped neatly.
The Returned Soldiers’ League had met
meanwhile, repudiated all connection with
the riot, and absolved him from the promise
“obtained under coercion.” He kept it, how-
ever, merely changing the scene to Keswick
Hospital, lie has since assured the League
that there was “no intimidation.” Merely a
crowd of civilians and soldiers “demanded
that I should either dose up altogether, like
the other theatres, or give a free show, men-
tioning, as an alternative, the forcible closing
of the theatre” ; on which he “informed them
that we intended to show, whatever hap-
pened,” and made the matinee suggestion.
“The utmost good feeling prevailed.”
“Snell”: At a special mid-day service of
thanksgiving in Melbourne Town Hall the
other day, Melba, after singing several
things, received an urgent, clamorous
appeal from the audience for “Home,
Sweet Home.” She resisted for a time,
but finally sang one verse, then broke
down, and burying her face in her hands
fled from the platform. She was brought
back, but remained in a broken-down con-
dition, and could sing no more. It was
most impressive, but I could not for the
life of me get out of my mind a story I have
already told of the greatest soprano of all
time dragged back to sing “Home, Sweet
Home,” to a persistent country audience,
when she was most anxious to catch the
Melbourne train, collapsing in precisely the
same way, and rushing off to the station
while the contrite audience mourned the
great lady’s pathetic distress, imagining her
still prostrate in her dressing-room.
The Terry theatrical family is the most
numerous of all. Fred, brother of Ellen, has
“ Time , Please!” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Wauser Waiter
( B[?]ry Lupino).
been presented with
his portrait, sub-
scribed for by some
30 British man-
agers under whom
he and his Julia
N e i I s o n have
played from time
to time. He. is
represented in his
most famous char-
acter, Sir Percy,
in “The Scarlet
Pimpernel.” Fred
described the Com-
pliment as unique
in the history of
the British stage.
Reference was
made to “the splen-
did Terry tradi-
tions.” and to the
fact that at the Ellen Terry jubilee celebra-
tion at Drury Lane 22 parts were filled by
members of the family.
“Glen bluntly” : Wallace Brownlow who has
returned to Melbourne and is lifting tip his
baritone at the Bijou, just a few months be-
fore the 25th anniversary of the first Aus-
tralian performance of “Ma Mie liosette,”
in which lie and Nellie Stewart won all
hearts. Everything that Wallace had not
been before he came to Australia he has been
since. His list of occupations includes sol-
dier (he fought in three of Bull’s little Afri-
can wars before he was 21), sailor (in which
capacity, when he shipped before the mast as
a youngster, he first visited this country),
prospector, pub-keeper, mailman, sub-editor
and corpse, for while on his last visit to
the U.S.A. he had the joy of reading his own
obituary. He made his stage start in the
“legitimate” at the London Imperial, annexing
15s. a week for playing a small part in “Louis
N 1.,” until he had a difference of opinion with
the manager, the result of which was that
the boss found himself at the bottom of a
flight of stairs while Wallace was still at
the top. Then he went and sang before
D’Oyley Carte, who gave him an engagement
in the “Princess Ida” chorus at £2 a week.
His first big part came in 1888—Sir Richard
Cholmondeley, in the original Savoy produc-
tion of “The Yeomen of the Guard.” His
last notable successes were gained in the
U.S. 15 years ago in “Johnnie Comes March-
ing Home,” “Love’s Lottery” and the first
English production there of “Madame But-
terfly.” Now a genial cynic of 57, with a
voice that is still worth listening to, he has
outlived the wanderlust and reckons that
Australia is the best country in the world
to remain in.
Hundreds of theatrical people all over
Australia will regret Harry Trevorah, who
died suddenly in Adelaide last week. As a
young man, though never quite a “star,” his
fine voice was very useful to the Firm’s
light-opera enterprises, and on tour he often
played lead. For the past 20 years or so he
had been in commerce in Adelaide. His
reminiscences are to be published in book
form.
Several veterans who will be recalled by
old Australian playgoers appeared in the
gteat historic Drury Lane pageant that was
recently organised for the benefit of the
theatrical charities. Genevieve Ward
appeared as Lady Macbeth, a character she
“Time, Please!” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Bizonker (Fred
Monument).
played first at
Drury Lane, in ’76.
E. W. Royce,
more familiarly
known as “Teddy,”
who came out to
Australia with the
Gaiety burlesque
companies in the
’eighties, was on as
Grimaldi, the most
famous of the
Drury Lane clowns.
Royce was for a
long time a mem-
ber of the renowned
Gaiety quartette,
his partners being
Nellie Barren, Kate
Vaughan and Ed-
ward Terry. He is
the sole survivor of
the group, and his
debut dates as far back as 1860. He was
the Harlequin of the pantos of the ’sixties.
Age, 76.
“Harrison O.”: While we’re talking of
condemning plays made out of short stories,
a long search would be necessary to dis-
cover a more futile thing of its kind than the
sketch “Arrest Me” in the J.C.W. revue,
“Hullo, Everybody.” A man desirous of
being gaoled makes several unsuccessful
attempts to get himself arrested for theft,
assault and other misdemeanors. Along these
lines he fails, and giving up in despair, and
pausing for a moment to listen to the strains
of a church-organ, he is promptly nabbed for
loitering. The idea is a smart one—which is
precisely how it appealed to me 10 or a
dozen years ago, when I first encountered it
in an O. Henry yarn, “The Cop and the
Anthem”! As it came from the slick
Yankee, the story had the virtue of original-
ity, it was sweetened with the milk of
human kindness, salted with epigram, and
its climax came with a snap. Whoever is
responsible for “Arrest Me,” having appro-
priated the idea, proceeded to embed it in a
doughy lump of dulness. The fact that the
origin of the sketch is not acknowledged
may mean that the perpetrator has the begin-
nings of a conscience. On the other hand, it
may mean something quite different.
“Bill Bowyang” : Billjim is always willing
to oblige. An English company in Cairo
had been staging “Charley’s Aunt” for
several nights. One evening the leading
actor and his understudy failed to put in
an appearance at the theatre, and 1 the
manager poured his troubles into the ears
of the audience. Ten minutes later a
bleary-eyed digger presented himself at the
manager’s office and offered to take on the
missing actor’s job. Explained that he
had taken the part scores of times with a
country touring show in Australia. The
manager gladly accepted the offer and Bill-
jim delivered the goods to much applause.
Unfortunately his O.C. was amongst the
audience, and next morning he was paraded
to the orderly room. “Look here, my man,”
said three stars, “you came over -here to
(shoot blanky Turks, not to make a darned
ass of yourself at a music-hall. Proceed
to the Front in the morning.” The last time
I saw the digger he was one of a concert
party entertaining troops in the Jordan Val-
ley.
“Orb” : One would conclude from the fre-
quent references in The Bulletin, both
in prose and verse, that the Australian stage
was a favorite vegetable target, and that
many actors might have set up a green-
grocery business. During a long experience
as a playgoer not once have I seen as much
as a tomato in flight. It leaves me wonder-
ing pensively whether poets and others ever
speak the truth.
Hartley Manners’ war-play, “Out There,”
which failed badly in Melb., where it was
withdrawn after a week, and was not pro-
duced at all in Sydney, has netted £136,000
(not dollars) for the Yankee Red Cross fund.
“J.F.H.”: Arthur Collins has just com-
pleted a record of 21 years’ continuous man-
agement of Drury Lane. The “national
theatre,” as it stili proudly styles itself, has
had a multitude of managers during the past
three centuries, but very few of them found
it a paying proposition. The late Augustus
Harris, starting management there on a few
hundreds of borrowed money, falsified all
prophecies of insolvency by raking piles out
of spectacular melodrama, opera and gorgeous
Christmas pantomimes. Collins was liis chief
lieutenant, and on succeeding to the control
soon after the demise of Harris, bettered the
instructions he had received, and carried
business in the old house to a much higher
pinnacle of prosperity. His pantos., in par-
ticular, increased in splendor year by year,
and after running their course on the vast
stage of Drury Lane have been
reproduced in Australia and America. H<
kept up the Harris traditions of military,
naval and spectacular melodrama, a peculiar
blend of thrilling situations, homely senti-
ment and unsophisticated humor. A number
of afterwards-eminent players served a use-
ful apprenticeship in the interpretation of
these pieces, among them being H. B. Irving,
the late George Alexander, Mrs. Patrick
Campbell and Violet Vanbrugh. Henry
Irving’s farewell season in London was
played at Drury Lane under the manage-
ment of Collins, and Forbes Robertson also
said good-bye to the Cockneys from the same
stage. The last-named most dignified,
scholarly and accomplished actor has pro-
mised J.C.W. Ltd. an Australian season as
soon as the seas have been made safe.
“Hamer”: In England they are beginning
to learn about Australia; but I note in-
accuracies in some of the information handed
out. A movie film has been showing the
public that the Ilawkesbury Bridge, river
and neighboring spots, on the railway to
Newcastle, are “on the South Coast, line”;
and similar mistakes occur in nearly every
Australian picture shown. A little careful
supervision could with advantage be exercised
over this valuable form of publicity.
“75” : When Uncle Sam came into the war
the N’Yark Metropolitan Opera Co. dis-
missed 20 of its principal warblers who were
suspected of pro-Hun sympathies, and at
latest was being threatened with a series of
actions for heavy damages. Margarita
Arndt-Ober, who was born in Germany, is
asking for £lO,OOO. The co. replies that by
her conduct and utterances she has “shown
an intense hatred of the United States.”
“Norbell”: Even the essentially-Aus-
trulian film, “The Lure of the Bush.”
couldn’t dodge the American publicity
fiend. He announces one of the attractions
as, “Breaking the Bronchos.” The wonder
is that he refrained from altering the title
of the picture to “The Pull of the Prairie.”
“J.M.H,” : Not generally known that Madge
Titheradge has a sister, Frances, on tire stage,
who has been somewhat eclipsed by the
superior effulgence of Madge. But during the
absence of the latter on a summer holiday,
Frances has been playing her leading role in
“By Pigeon Post,” at the London Garrick,
and acquitting herself very creditably, too.
She is the second of the four daughters of the
late. G. S. Titheradge. Dion, a son, is also
on the stage, so that G.S. may be said to
have founded a theatrical family akin to the
Terrys, the Farrens and the Comptons.
CHASED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Girl-guides in camp at Sopwell, near St. Alban’s,
last night listened to interesting camp-fire yarns told
by the Dean of St. Albans. After this he amused
the girls by singing. . . . They cheered and applauded
vociferously, whereupon he turned and ran down the
drive. With one accord the girls followed and
cheeredl till he was out of sight.” —London Evening
News.
The Dean was chased
By merry maids! A lively scene
Was that, I’ll swpar ! In laughing haste
They chased the Dean.
But had I been
Where, it appears, was so much waist
To grapple with, you would have seen
Short chasing. Yet, of course, a dean
Must needs be chaste 1
LONDON.
HAMER.


BONDO Salt LicKs
Are Better and Australian.
i
m
«*..
1
.
m. - * ti '
*
I
m
lilLi ! * ’
i ■’ -Hi
f f • r\3
f H
Hills
/dvr:
w
BEU
jgp
mSSrjki
m
m
ii
%mm . * '. ~ -
/y/ < V/, /' I'A '% >, X 'V^I
SWITH *•
JUUUS
i • • ’
m.ji
'“*>■**. -
s all animals
They are cheaper—by
not less than 50 per cent.
—than imported licks.
H E Manufacturers of Bondo Salt UicKs claim without fear and with
| the justification of experience that their article has no superior in the world.
* It is cheaper because there are no freight and export charges. It is better
because it is made in Australia by the latest methods and machinery and by skilled
chemists and artisans.
Every storekeeper, saddler and blacksmith should at once get in. touch with our
agents to handle this universal line. It is better, cheaper, and gives larger profits.
No fewer than 700,000 cases of Sa/t Licks were so/d in Australia
last year. Are you getting in among these profits?
Wholesale Distributing Agents : VICTORIA : Dalgety 8 Co. Ltd.; WEST AUSTRALIA: Fothergill 8 Co. Ltd., Fremantle.
BOND MANUFACTURING CO.,
72 and 74 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.


9
Lit
SYDNEY OR BRISBANE.
NMIOJto
w
Hatioh^
V
oils
l L J OMp ANY
Mot orors
SSfcP-M,
MOTOR 0115
For the Motor Car
For the Motor Cycle
For the Motor TrucK
For the Motor Boat
For the Aerial Engine
lubrication with National Motor Oils is the
greatest safeguard against loss of power and
wear and tear. Their protective quality
never varies.
Obtainable ail Storekeepers and Garages
in 1-gallon tins, 4-gallon tins and barrels.
Ask also for National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL, OIL CO., LTD.,
4 Bridge Street. Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Adelaide.
WANTED. —Practical Motor-car Ex-
V? ports. No branch of industry offers
such possibilities. The inmost details of
motor-car operation and repair learnt by
mail by our Practical Course with its won-
derful working models. Recommended by
Lord Montague, England’s greatest motor
authority. Send for free Prospectus M, con-
taining full information.
JAS. RODGER, 159 E Manchester St.,
Christchurch, N.Z. [2
Power Books.
Business Power, £1 Is.
Power of Will, £1 Is.
Power for Success, £3 3s.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
HAMILTON g CO., 31 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Sydney’s Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
This beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, being RIGHT ON THE HARBOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Fine New Bedrooms have ju-t
been ere ted, built over the water,
every room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Boat, to and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Tels.: YlO3l. MOSMAN, N.S.W.
" Y 1952.
ZINC
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
BRAND
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER <bha|> BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
"Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
listless Pulveriser
Grinding Mills for All Classes
of Material.
Write Us on Your Grinding
Propositions and we will
quote you for a Suitable
Machine.
Separator Screens for Super-
phosphates, Chemicals, Ores,
etc.
We also Manufacture Packing
Machines for Filling Packets
or Tins.
Keg and Barrel Elevators.
Platform Elevators for Boxes
and Packages.
Gravity Runways or Con-
veyors—no power required to
drive.
Steel and Cast-iron
Conveyors.
The Universal Dpstless
Pulveriser, Rigid and
Swing-hammer Types,
Size No. 10, with
Shaker Peed.
Flour Mill Machinery.
Mixing Machinery.
Dressing Machinery.
We can Quote you for a Com-
plete Self-raising Flour
Plant.
Friction Hoists.
Apron anti licit Conveyors.
Combined Grinding und
Dressing Plants.
Hoiler Feed Power Pumps.
Suction Sack Cleaners.
Ilottle-fllling Machines.
Concrete- anti Mortar-mixing
Machines.
Adjustable Feeders.
Factory Experts and Con-
sulting Engineers.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. »
SYDNEY’S LEADING SEASIDE HOTEL
The best place to spend a holiday.
CRONULLA BEACH HOTEL.
Table d’Hote LUNCHEONS & DINNERS, AFTERNOON TEAS de luxe.
Direction —CronuUa Hotel Ltd. J. A, GRANT, Mgr.
AJur
2/6Box:
VALISSA '
SUperb Complexion Powder.
jffie die Scent ofO/dJime Gardens.
Soothes with its delicious fra-
grance and velvety fineness.
TRY IT TO-DAY—IT’S REALLY
LOVELY. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Perth,
Brisbane,
London.
Stewart Dawson’s
10 Establishments
are daily devoting their energies to provide
their clients with the World’s Finest Values
in Precious Stones.
Auckland,
Wellington,
Christchurch,
Dunedin,
London.
KlooB.—Diamonds
and Emeralds,
£l4/10/-
K923.—A1l Dia-
monds, £35.
Gifts of
Precious Stones.
All these Mountings are Pure Platinum and
18ct. Gold.
No other Gift in the whole list of valuable
things has such personal appeal as a
Diamond Ring.
JBXB. —Three-stone
Diamond Ring,
£lO.
D 3035. —Diamonds
and Pearls,
£B/10/-
K 734. —Diamond
and Emeralds,
£55.
« Call and Inspect, or Write for Catalogue.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Largest Jewellers of the Empire,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
“I’ve Struck It—
The Real Thing in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time and makes the business a
pleasure. “The PLUM’S the Razor for me.”
THE- “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
While Germany boils it is worth recalling
a saying of Bismarck to the late Sir Charles
Dilke, when he was a guest of Bismarck's in
Germany :
“People,” he said, “look on me [Bismarck] aa
a monarchist. Were it all to come over again 1
would be republican and democrat. The rule of
kings is the rule of women; the bad women are
bad, the good worse.”
But none of them—good or bad —could play
the game so low down as Bismarck when it
suited him.
“Monkbarns”: Re Count Bentinck, who
invited the Kaiser to his castle in Holland.
In the time of England’s W illiam 111.
the Dutch Beutincks divided into two
branches. One branch remained Dutch, the
other became English. This was. through the
close attachment of Count Bentinck to W il-
liam of Orange. Ilis diplomacy paved the
way for William to get the English crown,
and it is not too much to assume that the
present Dutch /Ctount Bentinck hoped that
Kaiser William would conquer England.
William 111. made his Bentinck the Duke
of Portland, ancestor of all the Portlands
since. A duke of the clan was twice English
Premier. Other distinguished men of the
family were Lord William Bentinck, Indian
Viceroy, and Lord George Bentinck, who
headed the Tory rebellion against Peel, with
Disraeli as chief lieutenant.
“11.5. K.” (from France) : Don’t celebrate
our return with fireworks. We’ve seen all
we want here. Fritz was busy bombing us
from the air when the searchlights focussed
a ’plane, and a storm of shell and machine-
gun fire turned him back home, dropping
his bombs as he fled. Almost exactly the
same thing occurred with a second machine.
Then a third was caught in the limelight.
By this tinje troops of every kind were
eagerly watching the show, some half
dressed, some standing on the wet ground
without boots or socks. Presently, amidst
the bursting shells and machine-gun bullets
(you can see the tracer machine-gun bullets
up to about 10,000 feet), appeared a wink-
ing light, which we knew to be one of our
’planes signalling to the guns to cease firing
in order to give him a chance to get to
grips. However, the guns did not stop, for
a few minutes, and the eager flier ran risks
of being knocked himself. Then the artil-
lery stopped firing, but some of the excited
machine-gunners who had failed to take in
the situation, continued to hose the . sky.
Our aviator gave a couple more winks
and dashed through the searchlight 'beam
fire at the Hun. In about 10 seconds
the German machine burst into flames
and began to fall, while the British
airman disappeared in the depths of
the sky. Hoarse cheers rolled across
the valley. As the blazing enemy ’plane
fell its supply of colored signal-lights
caught fire and became disengaged.
The machine, streaming flames, raced to-
wards the earth like a comet, and spreading
out behind it was a fantastic tail coritposed
of strings of red, blue and white lights.
The unlucky Hun had not laid all his eggs
and when his machine hit the ground,, the
ones remaining exploded, scattering in pieces
the already destroyed aeroplane.
“Yarrum”: Henry Parkes’s Education
Act killed one man as surely as if a thunder-
bolt had hit him. An old-time squatter out-
back in N. S. Wales had fenced in a big area
of land and fattened cattle and sheep thereon
until his banking account was one of the
bulkiest in the State. If there was a
meaner man in Australia I never heard of
him. No cow of a struggling cocky found
her way into the squattage but was promptly
landed in the nearest pound, and it cost the
poor people much needed money every year
for releases. After a bit came the “Haet,”
and children in remote places got a chance. to
i develop intelligence. The boys became wise
about reserves and other matters of the kind
that their uneducated dads were perfectly
ignorant of. Young Brown even had the
audacity to get a map of the parish, and,
next time the family cow was pounded old
Graball was confronted with the document
and asked/what he was going to do about
having fenced a reserve! He didn’t know.
His fences were removed, and the accumu-
lated bull and his wives of the locality
roamed at sweet will over the extensive ex-
property of Graball. The blow killed the old
squatter within a week.
“L.L.W.”: In England and in Europe
Ido, a reformed and simplified descendant of
Esperanto, is rapidly shoving its parent into
the background. The ancient adherents of the
older lingo are furious, and refuse to listen to
any “reforms.” They have made a sort of reli-
gion out of sticking to the original unim-
proved “language.” Northcliffe is supporting
the Idists, and an article by him in the
London Daily Mail brought over 4000
letters from rebel Esperantists, who wanted
simplifications introduced. Pitman and
Sons are publishing the Idist text-books by
the thousand, and 310 societies and 1250
members of academies and universities have
already pledged their support to the reform.
The most significant fact, though, is that
former strongholds of Esperanto, such as
France, Switzerland and Holland, are now
lauding Ido. The chief reforms introduced
are (1) abolition of accented letters. This
enables articles in Ido to be printed in any
newspaper in any country. To print Espe-
ranto special type must be used. (2) No
agreement of adjectives and nouns. (3)
Abolition of accusative inflexion. (4) Scien-
tific internationality of vocabulary. The
members of the Sydney Esperanto Club
were a week or so ago considerably stirred
by the resignation of their secretary, w T ho,
after vainly trying to persuade the old hands
to have the merits of the two languages
openly discussed, refused to hold office any
longer, and deserted to the Ido camp.
The Congregational Church of W.A. lost
a brilliant young minister when the Rev.
Hubert Hitchcock was killed at Villers Bre-
tonneux. He studied at the Cong. College
of Victoria, and was appointed assistant to
the Rev. S. H. Cox, of Trinity Church,
Perth, and worked the suburbs of Victoria
Park, Burswood and Bickford. He enlisted
as a private in February, 1916, in the 51st
Battalion. Only 23 when they closed his
account.


Demand the
Genuine
'-.it
■
n*
m 3ss®
- ■
we
s >o
l)
k
■
m
«'■
feg
sw
■
SE
Look for the
Name Rossard
Why women in war time insist upon
i
The Original Front-Lacing Corsets
The name fiossard on the inside of the, corset guarantees the
increased efficiency of any woman who works —whether it be
house work, office work, factory work or any one of the many
duties that patriotic women have so cheerfully and uncom-
plainingly assumed during these war times. No garment is so
essential for the well being of the women of our country as the
Gossard Corset.
The name fiossard i s your guarantee of health. Your
family physician will tell you that a correctly fitted Gossard
safeguards your health by giving a hygienic body support
that can be found only in the unequalled design, soft pliable
materials and scientific boning that characterize these world-
The name ffOSsard is your guarantee of true corset
economy. It is your guarantee of a wearing service that
alone is worth the price of the garment whatever price you pay.
Only in a Gossard can every woman attain the ideal proportions
of her type and so these original front-lacing corsets permit a
clothes economy by enhancing the beauty of the most inex-
pensive gown or costume.
It is your guarantee of inimitable style. The perfect front
and perfect back of a Gossard are and always will be the despair
of those attempting imitations.
Below is a list of the leading stores, all selling the genuine
famed corsets.
It is your guarantee of a priceless all-day comfort.
A correctly fitted Gossard will conserve your energy
and increase your efficiency.
(Msard
They Lace In Front
Gossard Corsets. You can identify them by the
Gossard signs displayed in their windows and by their
advertising of Gossards. Insist on the genuine. Look
for the name frOSSard on the inside of the corset.
Australian Dealers
Allan & Stark, Ltd., Brisbane
Buckley & Nunn, Ltd., Melbourne
Carroll’s, Townsville
Farmer & Company, Limited, Sydney
A. W. Kirby & Co., Ltd., Rockhampton
James Marshall & Co., Adelaide
Made in the
United States and Canada
W. T. Waters & Co., Ltd., Sydney
The H. W. Gossard Co., Inc.
Largest Makers of Fine Corsets
Toronto CHICAGO • NEW YORK buenos aires
Worn with Health and Comfort
by Women the World Over
• ns?
0
* -m
m
Ideal Figure
Tall Slender
Ideal Figure
Short Slender
Ideal Figure
Tall Heavy
Ideal Figure
Short Heavy
Ideal Average
Figure
Ideal Figure
Large Below
Waist
Ideal Figure
Large Above
Waist
Ideal Figure
Short Waisted
Ideal Figure
Curved Back


JZSJlosiery
PECIALIZED
methods in desi&n-
in£ and knitting pro-;
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and 're-
splendent beauty/un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
WARATAH
Fencing Wire
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
The Austral Nail
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
A WIRE SUPERIOR
TO ANY IMPORTED.
Support Home Industries
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU, HOBART.
¥
S \U';
<T>
l-S:
'thu
/f 4synfff</ t
TASMANIA
Australia’s Playground.
All information from Tasmania’s mainland
offices —
Sydney: 262 George Street.
Melbourne: 59 William Street.
Brisbane: 41 Queen Street.
Perth: 50 William Street.
Send 9a. for illustrated guidebook and
accommodation list. Other literature posted
free.
Tickets issued at Melbourne and Sydney
offices to any part of Tasmania. Special coupon
issued at Sydney for a Fortnight’s Holiday in
Tasmania, £l3 10s., including fares, accom-
modation and local trips.
Accommodation arranged through mainland
offices.
The i Hobart and Launceston bureaux book
for all local trips and to all parts of Tas-
mania. Have your correspondence addressed
to our care.
E. T. EMMETT, Director.
TYPICAL EXAMPLES OF
imviD
JONES''
"V2YIXIES
FOR MEN
AND BOYS
USSRilifiniitiiw
ILLUSTRATIONS below show typical examples
of David Jones’ “Orient” values for men and
boys. We confidently claim that when quality,
workmanship and price are considered our
values compare more than favourably with
those obtainable elsewhere.
Orders sent by post receive the prompt and per-
sonal attention of our Country Order Dept,
sdf
“Orient
*
cambric
tunic or
golf Shirts
*lls‘3«6 / 6
Orient
flannel
two-piece
Suit,
rea<ty to wear
allii VS ZjS / '
m
%J 3
S Menu Orient*
Pyjamas.
*| of striped,
rj Ceylonebbe.
I ,i q 4
‘Orient"
White Moleskin
Riding Breeches
all sijes 146
Hack or (an
calf lace
Boots
»J! riyrs <2i
ƒ
Orient
tussorette
two-piece
Suit
ready to wear
sdf
sd
D. J. all wool
umHrinkable
two piece
surf suits
"Orient"
Cowhide Suit-case
from 33*6
aoco
ciffife
iU3. BCOOES
p\
loft.
7
"Orient '
pure fur
felt Hat ,
•u^lOfe
tweed
cotswold
Su.it
Cor boys Gto .
15yea« 2^/'
Wl
a
1
5
fds
>
. *&
PwSt»v
n
“Orient"
Strawßoater
all s'6
We pay carnage on all above goods except tobacco .
DAVID JONES, LTD., Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
“Melb” : The other Sunday, at the Salva-
tion Army Headquarters, Colonel Birken-
sbaw, late of Sydney, preached on the news,
fresh from England, of the death of Colonel
Barker’s widow. Barker started the Army
in Melbourne on Collingwood Flat, wfthout
even a roof to cover its blood-and-thunder
flag from the rain, except that Dr. Singleton
granted him the use of a shanty in Welling-
ton-street. The Salvationists made saints of
Barker and his widow ; yet Barker was not
well treated by General Booth, who had been
rendered very suspicious by the action of
Major Moore, whom he sent to the United
States. Moore tried to found an independent
“army.” Booth feared this, without any
ground, from Barker, and superseded him
with his son Ballington Booth.
Died this week in England, Gibson
the foremost softgoods genius that Melbourne
has produced. Mark Foy w r as the rag-pioneer
who observed that big retail draperies could
flourish in a Melbourne suburb. The Col-
lingwood shop at first was simply under the
sign of “Mark Foy,” an attractive kind of
mi me, easy to remember. But Gibson was
the genius behind the shop. They had only
40 employees at first. Now there are 2000 in
Collingwood alone. Foy stopped in Colling-
wood two years, and then removed to Syd-
ney, leaving Gibson behind, virtual monopo-
list of the firm of Foy and Gibson. The
latter went to London a little before war
broke out to enjov a holiday.
C. Hampton Thorp, second son of John
W. Thorp, of Paeroa (M.L.), has been
appointed director of publicitv for the Aus-
tralian Y.M.C.A. in Britain and France. He
was on active service for a considerable
period, both with the Light Horse and the
Australian Infantry, and was wounded at
Polygon Wood in September last when
attached to the 29th Battalion, A.I.F. To
be in the fashion he has written a book, “A
Handful of Aussies,” which was to be pub-
lished by John Lane.
One thing the historian will say about the
German, anyway : That while the king indus-
try prevailed in Europe he got more out of it
than anyone else. During the last couple of
centuries German princelings and princesses
have married into every royal house in
Europe, and some of the results have been
very queer. Bodley, the historian of modern
institutions in France, explains:—
There is scarcely a throne in Christendom which is
not filled by one of Teutonic race. In most of the
reigning families of Europe the strain is wholly
Germanised. Even in the line of Bernadotte, the last
living and effective relic of the Napoleonic legend,
German intermarriages have un-Gallicised the
Swedish dynasty. Moreover, if France had to take
as ruler either of the pretenders who advance heredi-
tary claims, the choice would have to be made be-
tween an Orleans, whose father was half a German
and who himself married a Teutonic princess, and a
Bonaparte who has no French blood in his veins but
who had two German grandmothers.
But, to-day, a German tvho happened to be
wandering round looking for any old thrones
would be about as welcome as Spanish ’flu’.
“Solomon Malaprop” writes in sympathy :
The Hun is most persistent in shoving his domestic
affairs on the notice of the Allies, being apparently
under an idea that his kitchen squabbles and his
alleged Spring-cleaning are of such world-wide import-
ance that these same Allies may stop fighting to
hear about them. He explains them chiefly to Presi-
dent Wilson for four obvious reasons; (1) Wilson
is not a soldier, nor has he ever been an active
politician ; (2) he is the only ruler among the big
Allies who hasn’t personally inspected the Hun hor-
rors and been personally convinced that the Huns —
plain Hans or high Hohenzollern—are hogs alike;
(3) he is a plebeian, and is expected to burst with
vanity when imperial William appeals to him as
against the royalties of Britain, Belgium, Serbia and
Roumania, and to be melted at the spectacle of two
emperors condescending to throw themselves on his
common chest; (4) the U.S. didn’t sign the agree-
ment for No Separate Peace subscribed by the other
Allies, so it has reserved the right to draw out.
One of the latest explanations to the common sort
of ruler who has a pair of Kaisers flinging them-
selves on his waistcoat is like this: In future, Ger-
many can only declare war by the consent of both
Federal Houses instead of only by consent of the
Bundesrath (Federal Senate) as heretofore, thereby
getting far ahead (on paper) of Britain, where the
Sovereign can declare war (on paper) off his own
bat. Of course many wars start without a declara-
tion, and then the two Houses will be in the position
of the N. S. Wales Assembly, which has absolute
control of the finances but is peacefully told that
the money is already spent and asked what it expects
to gain by making a fuss. All the horrors
in Belgium took place without a declaration of war,
and the present occupation and looting of Russia and
Roumania are going on amid profound peace. The
Federal Houses apparently can’t declare profound
peace. Then President Wilson is assured that in
future the Chancellor, who will still be put in power
by the Kaiser, can only remain in power while he is
supported by a majority of the Reichstag. While the
Kaiser reserves the right to imprison members like
I.eibneicht, who don’t support the Chancellor, or
to call them out for military service, it will be a
mighty poor Chancellor who hasn’t a majority. More-
over there is no assurance that the Mayor of the
Palace, or whatever new official the Kaiser may create
with the Chancellor’s powers, but without the name,
will require any Reichstag majority. Anyhow, the
Chancellor is to be responsible for the acts of the
Kaiser. AVhat will happen to the poor husk of a
creature that remains after the reality of power has
been transferred to the Mayor of the Palace, should
the p.n. for his responsibility fall due, doesn't
appear. Presumably he will be sacked and a new
husk appointed by the Kaiser. Anyhow the Minister
for War will be responsible to the Reichstag, which
isn’t likely to do him much harm. And officers of the
army and navy are only to be promoted or appointed
or sacked with the Chancellor’s approval, but of
course he can approve contrary to the will of the
Reichstag, and apparently that body can't do any-
thing with the accomplished fact except be very
angry. It really doesn’t matter to the Allies what
cobwebby rights the new Constitution (if it really
exists) professes to confer (while it lasts) on the
Reichstag to give “slack” to the Kaiser’s minion, so
long as the army exists and the Kaiser is head and
Gott thereof. Half a regiment can blow out the
most beautiful Constitution ever invented. And even
if the Constitution lasts—well, the Allied nations
don’t, like the people who are behind it and would
feel safer if they were wholly disarmed. The Allies
have met some four millions of Hun “workers” in
arms, and have found them four million hogs. The
news that the Chancellor is to be “responsible” to
that kind of people almost makes one feel sorry for
the Chancellor.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares, !
f Apn’.v
ORIENT S, N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Bonolralu—San Francisco,
Yosen dte Valley—Niagara Falls,
Great Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING, JANUARY 1.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Bunlciiig, Public Companies. &c.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES;' E. 11.
MACARTNEY', M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP
Iv.C.M.G.; Hon. A. .1. THYNNE, M.L.C.; THOS-
WELSBY. • ’
Generax Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
„ i Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Ilart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
II15AI) OI F ICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED,
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £130.000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. : FRANK N
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHt!
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street),
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Descriptipn of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock..
Preference Shares..
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£529,988
750,000
1,000,000
500,000
2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New Zea-
lannn i o uiinr i o land> Fiji> Samoa; Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian United Steam Navigation C^ d .
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Biackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
a
Shipping:,
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH HOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
NEXT SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
R.M.S. MAKURA, December 3; to be followed by R.M.S. NIAGARA.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacitlc Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,'“JfcTSSE
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Reach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENIOI!Y PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
A TOUR for TWO
to the Solomon Islands
fds
The First Prize in Burns Philp’s JACK’S DAY drawing;—a
First-class Trip for Two to Norfolk Island, value £27—having;
been re-donated by the Winner, W. H. Pope, Esq., is to be ag;ain
raffled for the joint benefit of AVAR CHEST DAY and JACK’S
DAY’S FUNDSr Burns Philp & Co. have now increased the prize
to a FIRST-CLASS BOUND TRIP for TAVO PEOPLE from
SYDNEY and BRISBANE to the SOLOMON ISLANDS (36 days’
tour), value £57, and available for six months.
TICKETS, 1/- each (by post, 1/1 %), from WAR CHEST DAY COMMIT-
TEE, 115 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, and all Branches throughout N.S.W.,
or upon personal application to all shipping companies’ offices.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
fsd
Directors
fsd
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., President.
'J'he Hon. Janies T. Walker.
F. B, S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithful!, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidlev, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the iworld.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of .Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Sir JOHN RUSSELL FRENCH, K.8.E., General Manager.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
ByrewiiTOa
SYDNEY. ■
fSr pe a n u General Banking Business p ‘i n n *r p e al
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to anv part of the world
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth. United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1 /'
Branches, and over 2 Y5O Agencies at Interest at o<y
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon per annum '*/o
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific, up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor
1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
HAVE YOD A SAVINGS ACCOUNT?
This Bank offers you every facility for Banking your Savings.
Deposits received
from 1/- upwards.
132 Branches and
500 Agencies
throughout the
State.
&
3
5
C 0
4
NTEREST
C 3
ON
DEPOSITS
4c
s
rt
Interest paid at 3%
per cent, per annum
on every £ up to
£5OO.
jVo Agencies at Post
Offices.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE,
Huddart Parker L|m
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. ' Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney ’
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
barge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION. PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
DIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
10. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
“THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are if Yied in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbak,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
Mothers! Its
R E M E DY
Cl^RE©^
OF
THE
CHARMS
A SEA TRIP
need no longer be marred by the
dread of mal-de-mer
MOTHER-SILL’S Sea-Sick Remedy
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERSILL’S has received the un-
qualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest
testimonials from the world’s greatest
men, women and institutions.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists , in Barr/e & Small Boxes.
Mothersill Remedy Co., Ltd.,
Corner Clarence and Market Streets,
Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNES'S
OR MONE.y RETURN ED


HEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1906
QMBM’
«E PLUS ULTRA
f
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
.ini;
•$
au\
V*
O »»gS.oS S»^
—<crt O P J
ate uuw *~ 3Tai^“
*K§»V»ISk
V l |‘S t si,fSS
&IJS ****%*!*»
St-
&£&*£*•* gaTS 4 ®*
Si-®’s*Jst-* wd
256 «diBe0 lcb fl o«s c v
®°^fin g totV«° sy ciney
ST*-22
df
PAULINE et CIE
ANNOUNCE THEIR
SPRING AND SUMMER SHOW.
MILLINERY on and after Wednesday, August 7.
COATS and SKIRTS, FROCKS, etc., on and after
Tuesday, August 20. 3rd Floor,
Denison House Chambers, George Street, Sydney.
A CONSEQUENCE OF THE WAR.
The prohibition of export of all foodstuffs
from Great Britain is a matter of common
knowledge, and no further explanation is
needed of the bareness of this market of
many old established lines, such as Bourn-
ville Cocoa, Cadbury Cocoa, Chocolate, etc.
Concerning these latter inquiries are being
made every day, and assurances are being
given that such old-time friends will not slip
from memory.
Cadbury’s works at Bournville are still in
active operation, the only limit to their out-
put being supplies of raw materials, and it is
to be clearly understood that there is no in-
tention of closing Cadbury’s depots in Sydney
and Melbourne, even though all local stocks
have run out. They will be kept open, and
responsible representatives will be in attend-
ance, awaiting the return of better times,
which everybody hopes will not be too long
coming. Cadbury’s Cocoa is still to be found
on most of the country storekeeper’s shelves,
and soldiers’ parcels of chocolate and of cocoa
and milk powder, for direct despatch from
England, may still be ordered through any
reputable storekeeper, grocer or confectioner
in this country. Incidentally, it may be men-
tioned that Cadbury Bros, have granted the
Red Cross Wool Depot the free use of two of
the main floors of their premises, including
office accommodation, at 267 George Street.
Sydney, where a good trade in knitting-
wools and woollen piece goods is being done.
-—Advt.
In tho Heart oP
<J^elbourn<?
—handy to everywhere—sums up the position
of the Queen’s Arms Hotel. You can choose
no better hotel for YOUR stay in Melbourne.
The Queen’s Arms offers modern, homely
accommodation and excellent cuisine.
Tariff, bv the day, 10/6. Write now.
QUEEN’S ARMS
HOTEL
C? SWANSTON ST
& FLINDERS
LANE .X
V"
int't uu ini
Claud R. Kerr,
Proprietor.
im
1
ft At Thi K'S
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
scaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVEID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
. Amidst the general hooray over the
armistice, the only consul who couldn’t
wear a victory; smile at the celebrations was
M. Watteeuw/ The Belgian official’s younger
brother Paul was killed in France on Sep-
tember 20. After fighting four years for his
beloved and battered country the former
’Varsity graduate died when the long dark
night of oppression was breaking into roseate
dawn. The news came through just before
Sydney banged every empty tin-can as a
sign of its joy.
Queensland’s Excellency Goold-Adums’s
projected trip to Broken 11 ill had to he re-
voked owing to a recent “crisis” in the Q.
Parliament. lie’s been to Tassy, and will
look in at Sydney this week on his way
north.
One of the tall and handsome Dight family
of pioneers died the other day at Burwood,
aged 75. He used to represent Singleton in
the State Parliament. Charles Ililton Dight
was an authority on that interesting ani-
mal, the sheep, and its frequent companion
the Dry Season.
On a blustering Sunday morning the first
big batch of 1914 Anzacs came home. If
Peace has come, the men, instead of being on
leave, are probably back for good. At the
Anzac buffet the youngsters were the most
excited (after mother had kissed her war-
rior) of the war veterans' relatives, and
small brothers hung on to any portion of
their hero’s gear they could lay hands on.
On Monday morning the sun-tanned war-
riors marched from the Domain to the Town
Hall. Here and there the girls broke through
the lines, and the policeman's half-hearted
command to keep back fainted away on the
cheers of the multitude. In the Town Hall
Mayor Joynton Smith welcomed the long-
absent Aussies, and the big hall had to take
on the tired old problem of “How do you
make a pintpot hold a gallon?” The organ
platform was backed by a white bhnk of
V.A.D. pinnies. In front of them the red
capes of the Army sisters glowed like embers
—still warm —of the great war. Oratory
flowed from ex-Recruiting Minister Orchard,
and the specs of N. S. Wales Minister John
Garland flashed as he spoke his little piece.
Chaplain Stacy Waddy, who wears the
invalid’s armlets, recently told the Red Cross
dames some stirring tales of war-time in
France and around the old Jordan Valley.
To the stretcher-belarers—the unarmed and
silent heroes of ma'ny awful days and nights
on the Western Front —the tall Australian
admitted he could give no adequate praise.
James Allison, a good-looking member of
the N. S Wales squattocracy, who placed
the plain gold circlet on Fayette Perry’s
finger in Melbourne, married in the first
place a daughter of the late Sydney Burde-
kin. He’s been a widower for some years.
Fayette Perry is strikingly childish in
appearance.
Mrs. James Ashton, now nearing U.S.A.,
is going on to London with her son. He’s
one of the youngsters who waited for suffi-
cient birthdays to join the Royal Flying
Corps. In spite of Wilhelm’s sudden col-
lapse the Sydney boy will stick to aviation,
and mother wants to be handy for a while.
High-quarters got round the U.S. passport
dragon.
The sub-regal Davidsons will pack up for
the Sutton Forest chalet in December, and
shut the doors—in a comparative sense—of
the old in Macquarie-street. The
present expenses of housekeeping on a big
scale are enough to make anybody’s hair
curl, so the word goes. Pity there’s no Gov-
ernors’ union to bring the high cost of feed-
ing swarms of visitors before the Court
which has been sitting on camisoles.
Saltmarshe, A.D.C., will take off his offi-
cial trappings early in the coming year. He
wears a medal won at Mons. Aide Stan-
ham goes on for a while longer. .
The Summer Exhibition of some Austra-
lian artists’ work begins on December 4 in
the Royal Exchange Buildings.
Mr. Cussen, of Thursday Island, has been
holidaying in Sydney. The big man, after
25 years on that tropic isle, has a typical
John Bull aopearance, and the fresh com-
plexion of a debutante. He’s one of the
awkward propositions of the people who nag
about the awful climate of the North.
Ferguson and her Ex.
will be in Sydney for Christmas, going into
residence at Admiralty House about Dec.
12.
The Walter Swinsons are going to the
Moss Yale hills for Christmas. Lately
they’ve been ruralising in the Maitland
district.
The King’s Hall was packed by our most
expensive clothes-wearers on the occasion of
tenor Philip Wilson’s recent song recital. In
the audience were Justice Gordon and his musi-
cal wife, the Harry Levy family, Mrs. Wal-
ter Watt (she was Miss O’Brien, of Yass,
not so long ago), the James Chalmers, Reg-
gie Marks and his wife and a young daugh-
ter with vocal aspirations, and two-thirds oi
“the profession.” The draw was a new song-
cycle—“On Wenlock Edge.” The Staell
quartet (aided by Frank Hutchens at the
piano) supplied the necessary' background.
The Wilson vocal organ, melodious and pure
in tone, though lacking in fire, was effective
in this interesting cycle. He warbled eariy
in the evening a charming group of little
French songs. Doris Easson was the accom-
panist.
Tasmania has a Returned Soldiers Build-
ing Fund, and Hobart is rapping at Ma s
door with a collection-box. From December
4 to 7 are the dates to be observed.. Five
acres of first-class land have been given at
Cambridge, and (hush!) the allotment is to
be raffled to swell the fund. Tickets Is. each.
Florence Rodway, Norwich Chambers,
Hunter-street, Sydney, and Mary Jay,
Phillip-street, have authority to dispose of
chances to get away with a bit of the Speck.
From Brisbane :—•
Margaret Berry, native of Kildare, Ireland, and
trainee ot the Dublin Model Training School, arrived
in the Brisbane River from Sydney 45 years ago to
take charge of the girls and infants’ department in
the National School. She remained until August,
1905. Before coining to Queensland Miss Berry was
in charge of the lion-vested school at Bathurst, and
also put in 34 years at the old William-street school
(Sydney). Her death was recorded last week.
Ena Hetherington, only daughter of J. W.
lletherington, thrice Mayor of Brisbane, is engaged
to Capt. J. I*. Ramkema, M.C., an original 9th
Battalion man who won his commission at Gallipoli
and left ail arm in France.
Lieut. Arthur Snelling, a Rockhampton boy, has
won a M.C. His younger brother was the first
Central Bananalander to score a D.C.M. and has
since collected a French M.M.
Antonia Dolores has been warbling in the North
and West, and enjoyed everything but the bush-fires.
A tour of the Darling Downs will be completed
before the singer returns to Sydney. *
Staff-nurse A. M.’ Heffei'fiah, a Toowoomba girl, has
been mentioned in Haig’s despatches for “conspicu-
ous services.”
Red Cross Commissioner Murdoch is
amongst the recent batch of homing pigeons.
This able administrator, who put in three
years of organising work overseas, reducing
wastage to a decimal fraction, blushed to
have his good works unveiled by . leading Syd-
ney business men. The lunch in his honor
was served at Usher’s.
Oils and water-
colors by the late
Walter Withers
(Vic.), his daughter
Margery and a
young son of 16
came suddenly over
the Murray in the
care of the artist’s
widow. There was
a chance of getting
them hung in An-
thony Horderns’
Fine Art Gallery
before the Waller
(also Victorian)
show started. The
boom which makes
Australian artists
rub their eyes, to
make sure they’re
awake, continues. The Walter Withers
pictures, bold and virile landscapes, are
selling well at good prices. Daughter
Margery (photo by Mina Moore), who
promises to take a leaf from dad’s port-
folio, shows special aptitude for portraits,
and several commissions, waiting her atten-
tion in Sydney, will bring her to N. S.
Wales presently. For six years a student
of Melbourne Art Gallery, she had
of prize-winning, and got a special £5O re-
ward for figure painting. The picture, a
big canvas called “The Letter,” is at present
on loan in Geelong Gallery.
Centennial Park was again the rendezvous
of thousands of people on Saturday after-
noon when Lady Davidson called Sydney
women war-workers together for a Thanks-
giving. On the dais were clerics of various
denominations (Archbishop Wright’s lawn
sleeves in the centre), the Governor and her
Ex., and Commandant Lee and his lady.
The thunder growled like a hungry tiger
while Kipling’s Recessional Hymn was up-
lifted in many keys by the scattered congre-
gation.
Mrs. Bennett White, of Mosman, who
captained the “Cheero Girls,” had a visit
from the local equivalent of the stork re-
cently. The bundle (it’s a girl) has been
christened Meta Lorraine.
A cheerful spirit passed out when Lieut.
Beg McLean, of the 19th Bat., died of
double pneumonia on November 8, while
on convalescent leave in Ireland. He
recruited hard for the N. S. V ales
“Sportsmen’s Battalion,” and got away
to the other side early this year. A wound
on October 8 sent him to Blighty, and less
than a month later came the cable announc-
ing his death. He leaves a widow and two
fine kiddies to mourn for him.
What is the War
Chest? Briefly, it is
the Australian Com-
fort's Fund, by which
Billjim is mothered
on every Front. For
months to come de-
mobilisation will be
slow. Australian
soldiers in thousands
will still be overseas,
and the War Chest
voluntary organisa-
tion of N. S. Wales
intends to go on
helping the men who
have given Australia
thrills of pride for
over four years. In
Sydney the head-
quarters of the Chest
—which is to have a big day out to-morrow —
is in Elizabeth-street. In that busy hive
where mountains of socks, grey-blue hills of
shirts and pyjamas and cavernous packing-
cases appear and disappear before ceaseless
industry, the youngest worker is, perhaps,
Captain Moseley. He admits that next April
will (d.v. ) bring him his 86th birthday. But
that’s nothing. The imperishable spirit of
youth still bubbles over in his optimistic tem-
permament. The active young man spends
most mornings in the year at his self-
appointed task in the depot. Approximately,
he has cut up .17,000 yards of the short-length
of tapes that are sewn on to Bill’s duds. He
has pasted miles (not counted) of labels on
to tins for the Front. Buttons, badges and
other insignia of the procession of Days, he
sorts, counts and does up in schedule quan-
tities. His son, Dr. Moseley, after long war-
service in the A.M.C., got the D.S.O. for
attending to wounded under heavy fire. Re-
cently in France, while in comparative
safety at a dressing-shed behind the lines, a
shell broke in, and the N. S. Wales man
lost a leg. ‘'But it might have been much
worse,” is the only comment of his cheery
dad. “He’s lucky to be alive!” Captain
Moseley and his wife (she used to be Miss
Billyard, of historic Elizabeth Farm) took
a trip to England in the early days of the
war. Here is a photo, of him. His nephew,
Lieut. Billyard-Leake, R.N., was, by the
way. one of the heroes of the Zeebrugge
naval expedition.
The Anzac Buffet celebrated its third birth-
day last week. Lights winked fitfully in the
stiff southerly wind, but accompanists kept
the piano tingling when Harry de Roebeck,
Miss Ray, and artists from the National
went through their song or patter. The Cul-
len lady and various Red Cross chieftain-
esses gave the evening party their presence.
Miss Evans was in charge as Commandant
of the Domain haven where on summer days
Billjim sips tea under the grateful shade of
a big fig-tree, and A. L. Blythe was general
rcuseabout of a pleasant gathering.
Comforts funds’ workers are sticking to
their shirt-and-pyjama pledge. Many of the
depots have a lot of wool in stock, and piles
of other raw materials ; and they mean to go
on till the last bugle-call has sounded.
Aussies abroad will have the same inclina-
tion to put their heels through their socks as
in the past. “Six months should give the
depots a fair chance of winding up their
yarn and closing their war-time machines,”
says a Susie in authority. There’s a short-
age in some of the poorer comforts-lockers,
too, that would look the better for a helping
hand. A reasonable amount of debt was
often incurred, rather than let Billjim suffer
any hardship that could be overcome. In a
rush of Days the comforters have had scanty
chance of getting ahead with their own
accounts.
Pianist Laurence Godfrey Smith gives his
first concert after over three years in khaki
on December 3. Mrs. Alex. Gordon will be
the songster.
Word has come by cable of the death at
Rabaul of Mrs. Gillies, wife of Dr. Gillies, of
the. A.M.C. She. belonged to well-known
Maitland folks, being a daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Guthrie Harris of that urban settle-
ment.
Mrs. John Fell’s “Eastern Bazaar” is to
be a notable War Chest Day fixture.
A usually peaceful plot, Lyne Park (Rose
Bay), will have a garden fete on Dec. 4.
The Junior Red Cross, by one of its
branches, is behind the movement.
The recent mannequin demonstration
(Miss d’Alroy in charge) in a city firm’s
palatial showroom lured an eager herd of
women to see the latest duds. The manne-
quin, a Paris creation, is of course possessed
of the figure, long and willowy, on which the
best clothes hang in the best possible way.
She is the ideal prop from which is suspended,
mostly from the shoulders, the semi-fitting
loose coat frocks, the one-piece dress, or the
evening gown which looks like a summer-
night dream, lightly fastened together with
a wisp of tulle. A queue which suggested
the first night of a Melba opera season
stretched across the velvet pattern of show-
room carpets from the lift cage to the door
of the room wherein was the great dress
parade. Tired V Not they. There was
always the dress of the lady ahead to
silently tear to pieces.
The Apollo Club is indulging in extensive
rehearsals for its Christmas concert on
December 18. In the programme will be
two compositions by Alfred Hill. _ “The
Farmer’s Revenge,” as yet unheard in Aus-
tralia, and “Crossing the Bar” are their
labels.
The Joan of Arc committee still buckles
on its armor for the war-widows and orphans
of fathers who never will return. This year
the organisation is going to make the Christ-
mas gifts a super-festivity. 386 Pitt-streel is
the address to which Peace offerings may be
sent. The lion, treas. is Mrs. George Shipley.
The Royal Flying Cross, for experimental
work in connection with the air service, has
been chptured by Major Eslc Sandford,
youngest son (he’s only 28) of Mr and
Mrs. William Sandford, of Sydney. The
newly-decorated man had his first war ex-
perience in New Guinea. From there, he
moved on to England, where he acquired
wings in the Naval Air Service. He was
in France when he was last beard from.
War Chest depot stalls will range in an
unbroken front from Pitt-street end of
Martin-place to the recruiting stand on the
29th. So no one will have any opportunity
of forgetting the good cause.
The Cavell House Calendar is just out—
a happy coincidence with the liberation of
Belgium from the Hun. There’s an excel-
lent little print from a picture of old Parra-
matta Bridge, by Wilder (lent by Mrs. Wil-
liam Macleod for, the purpose), in the issue.
This is limited to 1000 copies. These will
fye sold for the Edith Cavell House for army
nurses. Miss Theo Cowan (hon. organiser),
Berry-street, North Sydney, or Miss Ethel
Davey, hon. sec., 32 Elizabeth-street, will
forwhrd copies on application.
The Minister of Fashions (or whoever
regulatesi these things) has decreed that the
correct silhouette for the coming season
should be very narrow, and skirts, of course,
will be slit to allow the enclosed to walk.
One firm has turned out heavy cloth suits,
the skirts cut at the hem in so many places
as to be equal to a fringe, something like
the squaw women of America go in for.


Diamond Set
Bracelet Watches
The delicacy of design, sturdiness of construction
and unerring precision of the Company’s Bracelet
Watches create a standard that fully satisfies the
most exacting patron.
Platinum and Gold Watch, with high-grade Swiss
Lever Movement, set with a circle of fine quality
diamonds, fitted on Platinum and Gold Expanding
Bracelet. In case,
£B5 -0-0
Selections are sent on approval at the Company’s
risk.
5 PER CENT. DISCOUNT ALLOWED ON ALL
CASH PURCHASES.
A copy of the Company’s new illustrated Christmas
Catalogue will be sent post free on request.
Hardy Brothers M
JEWE LLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Melbourne Brisbane London.
The Ideal Xmas Present
A Camera.
There is nothing more suitable for presentation to man, woman or child
than a camera : it gives pleasure to the recipient and to his or her friends
also, and at the same time it gives an occupation to the owner’s leisure
moments that is both instructive and refining. For this reason it is
particularly suitable for young people.
We have a most complete range, in all the best makes —Ensigns, Kodaks,
Brownies, Sandersons, Thornton-tPickards, and many others, at prices to
suit all requirements.
dsf
DAYLIGHT LOADING FILM CAMERAS.
Box-form Ensigns and Brownies —
10/-, 15/0, 18/6, 23/-
Folding Ensigns—
-45/-, 55/-, 57/6, 65/-, 72/6
Folding Autographic Brownies —
37/6, 48/6, 62/-, 67/6, 78/6
Autographic Kodak Juniors and Kodaks—
-67/6, 75/6, 80/-, 89/-, 97/6 to £l5-/2/-
PLATE CAMERAS.
Magazine—
-10/-, 14/-, 22/6, 27/6, 32/6, 40/-, "62/6
Folding—
-35/-, 37/6, 45/- to £6/5/-
We invite your inspection—send for Christmas Catalogue if you live out of 1 town, it
will be posted to any address.
Assaying and K.elining
at Harringtons’ Laboratories.
Our laboratories are equipped with the latest appliances for all classes of Assays
Analytical ami Metallurgical Work —we specialise in the refinement of Ores, Residues
and Waste Products of Jewellers, Dentists, Opticians and other metal-workers, every
grain of metal that is of value being- extracted and purchased at market rates, less a
small charge for refinement, and in order to thoroughly satisfy every client.
We Reserve Reference Samples of Every Order Until
Settlement is Complete.
Materials collected in city or suburbs; free of charge. Give us a ring—City 8690 (3
lines), or any of our branches, and our traveller will call.
II?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney. 266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland. 42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
r*
3386
*rt* 'fe
r**>.
r a
HU
*
I
ft
y
Australasia’s
Largest - -
Demand can
be Supplied
NOW
Reliable ARSENICAL Dip is an ABSOLUTE NECESSITY.
To the experienced sheep-raiser this fact stands recognised in its true worth—for he KNOWS that an Arsenical Dip is an absolute essential to the
wslfsTG of his flocks
But the Australasian sheep-raiser has had a “scare”; he has been given the impression that supplies of RELIABLE Sheep Dip will not be
available for the coming season’s “dipping.” We want to relieve him of any anxiety—here and NOW —for
wuarsHEEP pTp
saves the situation —and saves it well—as it can be supplied in “Quality” and “Quantity.” to meet
Australasia’s largest demand.
It is not a random claim when we say that “VALLO” Powder Sheep Dip is Chemically and Physically
equal to the very best Sheep Dip EVER imported, but—a claim that can be substantiated either in
actual practical test or by independent chemical analysis.
“Vallo” Powder Sheep Dip is an ARSENICAL Dip of the Very Highest Possible Quality—THE Dip
that ENSURES eradication of ALL sheep-infesting vermin such as Ticks, Lice, etc.; THE Dip that
PREVENTS “Scab,” reduces possibility of Fly Strike to a minimum, and is longest-lasting in destruc-
tive action against all such sheep scourges, keeping sheep clean and impervious to contagion from
“dipping” to next shearing.
You will find that Dipping in “Vallo” Powder Sheep Dip will result in Bigger and Better Wool
Yields —-increased weight of Meat—and Better Prices at the Sale-yards.
Manufactured by A_ VICTOR LEGGO 8 CO.
Works : Yarraville and Bendigo.
Mines : Southern Cross, W.A., and Queensland.
Head Office : 524-26 Collins Street, Melbourne.
who own their own Arsenic Mines, and themselves prepare the whole of the ingredients used
Distributors in Victoria & Tasmania—A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO., Melbourne.
AGENTS—
New South WaIes.—DANGAR, GEDYE & CO.
LTD., 9, 11, 13 Young Street, Sydney.
North Queensland. —CUMMINS & CAMPBELL
LTD., Townsville.
South Queensland. —BRABANT & CO., Brisbane.
Central Queensland. —AVALTER REID & CO.
LTD., Rockhampton.
South Australia.—JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Adelaide.
West Australia.—MALLOCH BROS., Perth.
n “VALLO”
Powder Sheep Dip.
A W««u» *"*’*'*
..DIRECTIONS TOR USEi
PROCURABLE ALL STORES.


The Chateau Napier,
Leura,
Mountains, N.S.W.
THIS modern Residential Hotel is unique
in its situation on the highest point in
Leura. commanding extensive views for over
60 miles.
A new wing has just been added, furnished
in the most modern and luxurious manner.
House heated with American ideal heating
system.
A new smoke-room with sunny open bal-
cony has been added.
Electric light throughout.
Tennis-court. Billiard-room. Motor-garage.
Golf Links and Bowling Green right bandy.
Private Sitting-rOoms.
Tel. 121 Ivatoomba
RED CROSS SHORT-STORY COMPETITION
FOR RED CROSS “RECORD.”
Ist Prize, £l5; 2nd Prize, £7/10/-;
3rd Prize, £2/10/-
Open to any Member of Red Cross Society.
(Subscription 2/'6 per annum.)
STORIES to be not more than 3000 or less than
2000 words, clearly written or typed on one side of
the paper.
Australian subjqpt preferred, but not imperative.
The decision of the Judges to be final—and en-
tries to be in by 18th December.
Prize stories to become the property of Red Cross
Society.
Entries to be sent to Editor Record, Red Cross
Headquarters, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, by noon on
18th December, accompanied by name and address
of sender in sealed envelope—each story to be signed
by a nom-de-plume, which shall also be written on
left-hand corner of envelope containing name and
address. The envelope will be opened by Chairman
of Red Cross Committee after the stories are judged.
m •
FR2
ft
FR!
If",
<5
&
m
FR3
QUALITY GIFTS
AT FARMER’S.
Every department at Farmer’s abounds in seasonable
Gift suggestions, these Perfumery items being specially
suitable for women folk. Farmer’s Christmas Gift Book
will be sent post free on request.
Fill. —Yardley’s Lavender Water; an
acceptable present. PRICE .... 10/6
FR2. —Fiver’s delicate Azurea Perfume.
PRICE 6/6
FR3. —Swansdovvn Powder Puff, in silk
bag. PRICE 3/6
FARMERS
“Best for the Chest.”
NAZETHA PASTILLES
Unrivalled for
Coughs, Sore, Husky or
Irritated Throats.
The Most Reliable Antiseptic as a
Prevention Against Diphtheria <fc Meningitis -
All Chemists sell NAZETHA PASTILLES for IBox.
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Mtdba sang on Saturday afternoon in the
Town Hall to the Fritz Hart orchestra for
the Lady Nortlicote Permanent Orchestra
Trust. The guinea- and half-guinea-pigs had
booked up the house a fortnight ahead, and as
many latc-comers as the watching firemen
would allow came in and stood ail through
the afternoon. The day was fearfully hot, so
the doors were opened between numbers to
keep the close-packed crowd from suffocating.
All the vice-regals were there. Lady Helen
had blue etchings in the framework of her
transparent black gown. The Stanley lady
looked plump alongside her in black-silk cash-
, mere. Melba was radiant 7n a gown the
I color of faded rose-leaves. .Among the
bouquets handed up was a string of pink
roses, while some Anzacs offered a laurel-
leaf lyre. Melba slipped the roses round her
shoulders and held the Anzac trophy aloft.
She sang half a dozen times according to pro-
gramme and took encores generously.
Alberto Zelman bossed a good orchestral
conceit on Saturday night in the Town Hall;
but the musical crowd Could scarcely absorb
it after Fritz Hart’s afternoon show. How-
ever Zelman got quite a good house. A. C.
Bartleman sang and Florence- Brown made
the ’cello a joyous ally.
Having received a request or an ultima-
tum or something from the royal George,
Melba leaves for England at the end of
December. With peace a return to the for-
mer glories of Covent Garden is expected,
with the difference that more will be heard
of the works of English composers who were
"discovered” in their own country during the
war.
Chief Stoker Stephens, of the Australia,
is by long odds the most interesting speaker
at present before the Melbourne public. He
has orated at numerous places, always secur-
ing keen attention, and, in return, giving
fresh-cut speeches. lie’ll never get into
Parliament that way.
The Presbyterian mission at Oodnadatta
(S.A.), which thought no small pumpkins of
itself because, in pre-war times, it was
bossed by chaplain Frank Holland, M.C., also
cherishes most affectionate memories of little
nurse Bett, who served at the mission hos-
pital before she, too, went off to the Front.
Nurse Bett. while at the Back o’ Beyond,
acted as nurse, doctor, cook, teacher and any
other occupation that required willing hands.
In her time at Oodnadatta she travelled
hundreds of miles by self-pushed railway
trolley, visiting emergency-cases. Her war
record is what might have been expected
from such a trier. Chaplain Frank Holland,
who came to be known as “The Cocoa
King” in the trenches, inherited from
his father, William Holland, his liking
for open spaces. The elder Holland is re-
markable in being that rare bird, a squatter
turned parson, a son of a Scotch pioneer who
settled in the Otago (M.L.) district many
years agh.
The Officers, of Elsternwick, were exulting
over the release of their son Aubrey, who has
been a prisoner in Germany for nearly two
years, when news came of son Hubert'being
gassed. Geoffrey Officer, another son, a 1914
man, was killed in France.
The Nicholls dame (Hobart) and Mrs.
Keating (Launceston) are here representing
the Apple Island in the Children’s Welfare
Conference.
William Duddy, a grizzled Queenscliff
(Vic.) municipal-councillor, shares with his
daughter some of the honors of war service.
Duddy, now back in Australia, did his bit
with the Remount Unit, while his daughter
toiled in hospitals. Nurse Duddy was one of
the girls who evacuated from Amiens during
the last Hun onrush.
Lieut. Wallscourt Kelly, who was wounded
in France some time ago and made a fair
recovery, now belongs to the Indian army.
He has been doing military duty at Sangor,
Central India.
The Federal Government House Red
Crossers lately had a movie taken of their
work. . The film was run off on Friday
night in the Auditorium, and Lady Helen
was present, attended by the decorative Cap-
tain Duncan, the gent-help who loves to
wear all his plumage. Her Ex. sat in the
balcony, and all the Very Best war workers
w£re grouped about her. When one pro-
cession of workers was passing across the
screen a superior dame spoke out of the
darkness to a friend; “They are all mixed
up together! Some of them don’t know how
to put their clothes on. You know, all sorts
of people work with us.”
The picture is a fine complete record of the
endless Red Cross activities. It begins with
the packing and sorting squads, and shows
smart flappers carting food from the Red
Cross Kitchen to Caulfield Hospital in special
motor-carts. Then it shows the rest-rooms
and nursing; the automobile corps and their
processional work; Red Cross work at the
Front; shipping nivd hospital work aboard a
boat, and the first-aid on Anzac beach. All
this, as well as Australian scenes of farm and
station life before the war and a fine view of
Melbourne streets and St. Kilda-road during
processions.
William Oman, of Bonnie Doon, Derrinal-
luin, who is a brother of David Oman,
M. for that neighborhood, and a mem-
ber of a long-established Western District
family, has been in England for a consider-
able time past, holding down a voluntary
job as Red Cross searcher for missing sol-
diers.
The Stanleys are planning a visit to
Tassy. They have been invited to put up at
the State vice-regal hut.
When the homing Anzacs arrived on
Saturday morning they were taken through
the crowded streets to the Exhibition for
lunch. Their relatives were not allowed on
the pier or in the cars, hut were given cards
of admission to the Exhibition and invita-
tions to lunch with their men. It meant an
embarrassing time for diffident Anzacs. An
officer read out each man’s name, and the
owner of it stepped forward to receive his
charging relations on his chest. So all the
tears of joy and hugs of welcome had to be
taken in public.
Squatter Alec Creswick has sold his Mal-
vern mansion (next but one to State Govern-
ment House) to a syndicate which will use
it as a girls’ college.
Elsie Crowther, the late Brighton school-
master's only daughter, who has been doing
V.A.D. work in England, is hastening back
to her widowed mother. Elsie is engaged to
a doctor-colonel in the Cold Country.
Mrs. Mabel Emmerton Brookes has can-
celled her projected trip to Egypt, her Red
Cross Commissioner husband having cabled
that he is hurrying back from Mesopotamia.
Sister Madge Leitch, after three years’ ser-
vice on the Australian hospital ship Kanow-
na, has come ashore and been appointed
matron of the Macleod Military Sanatorium,
near Heidelberg. A sister, attached to an
Imperial nursing unit, sends a coo-ee from
Egypt, where she is now stationed after
seeing service in India, England and France.
Dr. B. Donaldson, of Ballarat, daughter
of Dr. J. B. Donaldson, of Lintop, is leaving
for India as a medical missionary.
Mrs. Jopp, wife of Lieutenant Jopp. is
in sleepy Hobart. She and her husband, a
N. S Wales man, have settled in the Apple
Island, and are renting bachelor Bailey’s
house on Brown’s River.
Vandyck has here
caught Esther Pater-
son in one of the
few moments she
could steal away
from her pencil. She is
not now an artist, but
an industry, turning
out drawings, pos-
ters and designs with
great rapidity. Re-
cently she finished
her first poster
executed for the
forthcoming J.C.W.
panto, in Melbourne,
and when it deco-
rates the hoardings
everybody will won-
der why recognition
of Australian talent
has been so long delayed. Soon the damsel
will issue her first book of chaste and cun-
ning views of the ideal flapper. P.S. —The
flapper apparently has a use after all.
Mrs. Field, from Tassy, has been finishing-
up her race frivolling with some peace
parties. The Quamby Club was her strong-
hold last Friday for lunch. Her mother,
Mrs. Iluon, helped hostess the glorified affair.
Mrs. Harry Howard, Mrs. Bob Staughton,
Mrs. Lawrence, Mrs. Dalrymple, Mrs. Tom
Ledingham and Mrs. Brentnall were among
the birds of paradise. Ostrich feathers are
coming into the boom. They were on every
woman’s hat and around her neck.
Archbishop Mannix has been making some
degree of peace with his critics by preaching
a peace sermon at St. Pat’s Cathedral. He
never introduces the least of his hot- stuff into
his sermons and points out the complete
neutrality of the Pope. Germany and Aus-
tria, with Spain’s consent, wanted to whisk
Benedict away from Home to Spain, and a
steamer was actually rqftdy; but the church-
man refused to budge.
The Austral Salon, of which the late John
Madden’s widow is president, has found a
new home at last. Formerly the association
had a rather stuffy establishment in Flinders-
lane which included a barnlike hall, where
ThtvlM itVaUowS
embryonic talent to perform before member!
at SfLno C o 1$ ’{£ con b L?L C £sTa b S
over a neat set of club-rooms at the more
modern Hardware Chambers, in Elizabeth-
street, where the young fiddler and piano-
pounder will be further uplifted with mild
applause, perfectly ladylike criticism, and
muffius and cakes as interludes. The Salon,
which was started long ago to show
that the Best People really could
recognise true Art when they saw it,
lias of late years been the particular hobby
of Mrs. Sam Staughton and Mrs. Quinnell,
both of them ardent political busybees; and
nowadays the gatherings are hardly distin-
guishable from an A.W.N.L. tea-meeting, Art
having become all mixed up with politics,
However, members have not forgotten their
obligations to Billjim while occupied with
matters of intellectual upliftment, the asso-
ciation having done its share of war-work
since 1.114.
Joyce M. Nanki-
vell, who has just
had published a
book, “The Solitary
Pedestrian,” b y
Champion, of the
Australian Authors’
Agency, belongs to a
huge clan of Nanki-
vells in Bananaland.
She’s a regular coun-
try Australian and a
good horsewoman.
Some time ago she
migrated to Mel-
bourne and got a
job as secretary to
Dr. Leeper. The
new book is a series
of sketches which
record impressions
and happenings since her extreme youth in
Bananaland. An earlier dip in the inkwell
resulted in a fairy-story book, “The Cobweb
Ladder” (Lothian), which has had a good
sale in Australia, U.S. and Canada.
They are earnestly going to work to
establish a women’s college at Melbourne
University, on the model of that in Sydney,
though extraordinary difficulties were in the
way for t the College. The Govern-
ment help promised could not be claimed
until there had been three years of working
up. Then the college began at Strathmore
House, Glebe Point, with only one pupil!
Indeed, after that, for a little time, it had
none.
From the Adelaide watch-tower:—
Major W. R. Snow, whose services with th# Royal
Air Force have won him both the D.S.O. and the
M. 0., aame back to Adelaide on Thursday. Surgeon-
Major Jose, M.C., returned on the same day.
A double pathos attaches to the casualties reported
since the signing of the armistice —and news of a
good many, have come through to this city within
the last few days. The Brown dame’s nephew',
Richmond Baker, is reported missing after doing
good work with the 4th Air Corps Squadron. Gunner
“Dick” Bowen, second son of the late Henry Bowen,
has died in an English military hospital. Corporal
M. G. D. Murray, a nephew of the Chief Justice, has
died in a French military hospital at Damascus. He
leaves a widow and two children.
A Military Cross has come to Lieut. J. R. S.
Evans, son of Dr. Evans, of Hindmarsh.
The appeal for funds for the French Red Cross is
to be launched on December 2, when General Pau
and his colleagues will be here for a few hours
before finally bidding farewell to South Australia.
On Thursday evening at the King’s Theatre the
Adelaide Operatic Society staged “Trial by Jury,”
the proceeds being for the Goodwood Orphanage. On
Saturday afternoon and evening a gypsy-tea at
Austral Gardens added a useful cheque to the funds
of the Returned Soldiers’ Association.
The estate of the late Mrs. H. C. E. Mueeke has
been sw'orn for probate at £37,000, all of w'hich goes
to members of the family.
Nelson Wood is giving at Victoria Hall the one-
man show which he now makes an annual event. He has
been in Maoriland, and supplies a lot of highly-
colored scenery. Perhaps the best small thing in the
show is the coast of New South Wales as seen
from the Bulli Pass. The best picture is also the
biggest. Wood has been commissioned to do the drop-
scene for the new Wallaroo Town Hall. Here he
has been able to work on the large scale that suits
him best.
The Cheer-up Society in Adelaide, the first of its
kind in Australia, is asking for funds to help it to
keep up till the end the willing service it has given
to all soldiers, either going or coming. The free
meals it has supplied can be guessed at from the
estimate published that the washing-up in the four
years of war has totalled 12 million pieces of
crockery.
A * Ballarat V.C., Lieut. Billy Dunstan,
faced the bridal music last week with Mar-
jorie Carnell, daughter of ,T. 11. Carnell, of
Ballarat Fast. The wedding was in St.
Pauls, Bnn&rat*. The bride wore white
georgette uud aud her bridesmaids
walked in maize-colored flimsies. Subse-
quently when the newly-weds travelled to
Melbourne the bride was in black-and-white
tailorings.
T Harold Gillespie, of Mentone, a brother of
Nurse Millie Gillespie, who has been war-
working in partnership with her old friend
the Doughty dame, has just returned from
a wandering motor honeymoon with his
bride. He married Bertha Frazer, daugh-
ter of John McNeil Frazer. Major Lawson
lent the honeymooners his house at Ferny
Creek for a spell during the motor tour.
Adela Pankhurst, who since she became
the wife of able-seaman Walsh, has given
up the habit of getting herself arrested, is
now the proud and pretty mother of a
young son.
The babies now tumbling into the w r orld
have reason to fear the christening font.
“Peace” is a Quakerish life handicap for a
girl, but half a dozen youngsters at least
have been labelled “Armistice.”
Australian soprano Elsie Davies, who re-
patriated herself from Italy in the early days
of the war, is back in Sydney from another
singing-trip to Maoriland.
Musician Frank Williams, from Adelaide,
is Melba’s guest at Coombe Cottage. He will
produce Gluck’s opera, “Orfeo,” in which the
Melba students are to appear.
Artist Marion Jones, who, when things
are more settled, will he going abroad under
the terms of the Art Gallery Travelling
Scholarship, has been given a commission by
Lady Helen to do a portrait of the youthful
Lord Ava, a nephew of her Ex., who plays
about these days at Federal House.
Agnes Macintosh, well known in Mel-
bourne as a painter of dainty bush scenes,
is back after a busy month in various parts
of the Blue Mountains. Several of her
upland glimpses are on view in the Women’s
Art Club Exhibition in the Athenaeum.
Barrister Jo Woolf hangs something
unique in his gallery of paintings. He has
what are alleged to he the only two water-
colors painted by G. F. Watts. Their delicacy
makes the passing critic wonder why the
artist dropped his water-color brushes.
News of the artistic Coates pair comes to
hand from London. George, who has been
acting as a sergeant in a London military
hospital, is engaged on a large canvas,
“Bringing in the Wounded,” which he con-
siders the most ambitious thing he has yet
attempted. Mrs. Coates (she was Dora
Meason in the days when she came second
to George in the contest for the National
Gallery Travelling Scholarship) has resumed
painting, after three years of war work.
This year she exhibited with the Royal
Society of Portrait Painters.


Born 1820
—.still going strong
a
&
a
%
%
•?
* i
ft
Hurry ups
--Hullo- ! *
’ X
vV
%
/<? &
a
<>
a
<*»
'l%
/
&
c
?s£
'*+4
4&.
\ v N
'/J
H
i\\i
>&32i
€
7--<:*. \*i-x »-*>.
J
m
i£
C-"
Sf
Sx
■*
C vJ/c^^y
Johnnie Walker: “‘A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.’ ”
Host: “And a ‘Johnnie Walker in the hand is worth two in the bottle.”
If you pay a good price you should get a guarantee.
Johnnie Walker u ßed Label” is guaranteed by the name on the
label and the Non-Refillaele Bottles in which it is put up.
It is quality protected.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland.


Admiral Beatty’s long North Sea vigil has
demonstrated the invincibility of the British
Navy. Sound judgment built the fleet, and
King George IV. whisky the necessary wisdom
to maintain its prestige.— Advt.
IS
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Government Notices.
Marine Board of Launceston, Tasmania.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posi-
tion of Engineer to the Marine Board
of Launceston. Applications, together with
credentials, must be received on or before
the 15th day of January, 1919, addressed to
the Master Warden, marked “Application for
the Position of Engineer.” Applicant to
state date when*,he will be available to com-
mence duties. Salary £5OO per annum to
commence with. Particulars as to duties can
be had on application to the undersigned.
GEO. S. MEREDITH, Secretary.
Marine Board, Launceston, Tasmania.
23rd November, 1918.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Weat Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, OfIITED, Redfern, Sydney,
LEWIS &Wi"IITTy
MEtBOUf\ME& SYDNEY
sdf
CARRY AN ONOTO WITH YOU
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills itself in a flash,
cleans itself in the act of filling:, and contains sufficient ink to
write 20,000 words.
Never leaks—always writes smoothly—and is always
ready for writing:. Can be filled from any ink supply with-
out a filler without mess or trouble, in five seconds,
Onoto
Self-fillinq Safety Fountain Pen.
Price 17/- and upwards: also ONOTO
Valveless tor those who do not want a Self-
Filling: Safety Pen. 12./6 upwards, of all
stationers, jewellers. Stores, etc.
Manufacturers;
T. D. La Rue & Co.. Ltd.,
219 Bunhill Row, London, E.C,
Managing: Agents : /
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
Ask for ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
There is no doubt about it, the crowd who
go to Sydney pony courses like the place tote better
than those who attend similar places reserved for
the full-sized contraption. At Moorefield on Satur-
day £8174 was handled on the machine. At Rose-
bery the total for the day was £14,761. Of course
there are several reasons for this, one of them being
that “specking” for places is a more popular pastime
at one place than the other. But at the ponies the
straight-out one-dividend machine has hut a dubious
popularity. The investment in it on one race on
Saturday was a whole £22; on another fully £*22
10s. Yet in the main the s.o. gave better prices
than the hooks. Anyhow 10s. on each winner on
the machine would have shown a profit of £53; the
same investment with Ike, £3l 15s. When Sir Area
arrived in the Maiden someone took £2O ss. for 10s.
But it was a false dividend, there being only one
ticket issued out of 59. So far the s.o. tote at the
ponies lias worked with only trumpery arithmetic.
Well, there is this to be said, anyhow-
that even if the yarn about Sydney suburban racing
being necessary for encouragement of the horse-
breeding industry is a jest the microscopical stakes
attract a multitude of runners, of a sort. At Moore-
field on Saturday there were 43 battlers for the
Kogarah Stakes, so it was cut up into three episodes,
winners £5O apiece. The quality of them was from
fair to dreadful, and it would require a fairly sport-
ive imagination to find even a plausible reason for
maintaining a dozen of the mob as specimens of
racing quadrupeds.
The Flying at Moorefield on Saturday was mainly
remarkable for the punters once more rushing in to
give financial support to Bimeter. Lucifer only knows
what the disappointing Maorilander has cost the
crowd during the last few months, hut it must be a
mighty substantial sum. Carrying Bst. 71b. and
Albert Wood he started at threes in a field of 18
and never had a hope. Another once brilliant per-
former was well-backed, too. This was La Steppe,
one of the smartest sprinters in Sydney a couple of
seasons ago, hut a calamitous disappointment last
year. She had 9st. up, went out at fours, and showed
such swiftness that at the end there were 17 in
front of her. The stake ( £75) was annexed by the
Li nacre filly Riz Biscuit, owned by Agar AVynne, of
Victoria. Having run inconspicuously in recent efforts
at Randwick and elsewhere, Riz Biscuit was marketed
at 20’s. What particular joy a man like Agar Wynne
extracts from running for such stakes at such a
meeting cannot he guessed at.
* * * *
If looks and if Saturday’s fine performance
in the Nursery Handicap at Moorefield count for
anything, the future of the Malt King colt Walpole
may be full of payable possibilities. Kelso picked
the handsome chestnut up for 100 guineas at the
yearling sales. How the “experts” came to over-
look him is, of course, nothing to wonder at, as he
is by an Australian sire of the second generation—
a detriment that the beautiful English brood mare
Royal Pet could not reasonably expect to wipe out.
All roads along the beaten track of breeders lead to
“back lines,” not “outlines.” Anyway, Walpole is
a smart colt without a doubt, and the best hope of
sportsmen who are fond of a horse and like to see
him given a chance is that Ivelso will go very easy
with this chap in the meantime.
Syce Lad, winner of the Bananaland
Derby, helped himself to the Mooney Memorial at
Brisbane Tatt.’s last week, running the mile and a
quarter with Bst. 101 b. in “6i.” It , is confidently
believed up north that this galloper is capable of
doing really big things. He may be one of the
exceptions, hut times and performances registered
in Bananaland have usually been a had guide to what
was going to happen further south. Anyway, Syce
Lad doesn’t owe anyone anything. He cost only
90 guineas as a yearling. There are one or two
others addicted to quick transport in Bananaland
just now. For My Lady took the two-year-old event
on Saturday with 9st. aboard, covering the five fur-
longs in “11.” And when Molly’s Rohe annexed
the King’s Plate at the recent Q.T.C. meeting she set
up a new Australian record for 11 furlongs—2min.
18-f Sec., which clips Isec. off Carlita’s time in the
Williamstown Cup.
* * * *
Since winning the Doncaster of ’l6 the
Andria gelding Eurobin has not been exactly a gold-
mine, hut latterly he seems inclined to develop
a liking for a distance, and may begin to earn some
more oats. He ran second to Rael Loein in the
Moonee Valley Cup a week or two ago, and was
third in the Final at Flemington. This looked an
encouraging preliminary to the mile and a quarter
handicap at Epsom (Melb.) on Saturday, in which
Eurobin, with Bst. 91b. aboard, was in a field of
moderates hacked down to 3 to 1 and duly took the
proceeds. Among the starters was the Maoriland
Kilflinn, who, after a win over Desert Gold at Wel-
lington (M.L.), was bought by the Rajah at war
prices and brought to Australia. She hasn’t been
a gold-mine either.
The last glimmering idea that the Linacre
horse Mistico is anything like the champion his
Westralian performances appeared to indicate must
surely have evaporated on Saturday at Epsom
(Melb.). Carrying Bst. 101 b. in a six-furlong race
for £B5 and' starting at 6 to 4 he went down badly
to Sep Miller’s Haylass. In the West Mistico won
over all distances with all sorts of weights, and then
having his address changed to Vic., promptly
started doing the other thing. Removing winners
from Westralia seems almost as risky as shifting
them from Bananaland. Yet Early Morn, a nag
with a not very attractive record in Westralia, came
over to Sydney last year and won three end.
When Uracca won the first race (Sari
Bahr Stakes, one mile) at the Victoria Park Patri-
otic meeting (South Australia) on Nov. 16, H. P.
McLachlan, the owner, was the most surprised man
on the course. lie usually has a pound or two on
every horse he races, but did not back Uracca, as
she had proved in trials very tired at the end of half
a mile. His thoughts must have been unprintable
when he saw the mare run away with the race
and pay the remarkable dividend of £65 9s. No
rider had even been arranged for, and at the last
moment a lad named Kirsop was engaged- He was
put up under similar circumstances a few weeks
previously on Viscount Beaver, at Morphettville, and
got past the post first then, too, also paying a huge
dividend. Punters are getting the idea that the lad
is an uncanny horseman.
A couple of quick gallops were registered
at Victoria Park (S.A.) the other day. Fatal Error
set 3min. 52see. for the two-mile steeplechase, and
thus equalled Steelbit’s S.A. record made on the same
course. Rose Anton got over' five furlongs in lmin.,
and may he now included with First Shot (Chelten-
ham) ami Brolly (Randwick) as holding the records
for that distance in Australia.
More than a couple of the bigger punters
had to ask for time after the V.H.O. meeting, hut
it is not likely that any of them hoisted the white
flag. One who had gone shy about £lO,OOO weighed
in correctly after being given time to get his second
wind, so to speak, However, there were a few of
the somewhat smaller enthusiasts who fell badly in
the soup, and some of them are likely to stay there.
Meanwhile the problem of whether the turf would
not he safer for democracy if the really “big”
punter got punted over the rails is a matter of
more than academic interest. That this person is at
least sometimes an absolute pest to racing in more
ways than one can he taken as a certainty. In these
instances there seems to be an aroma about nearly
every event lie touches, and the smell is none too
pleasant for the hooks, owners, trainers or jockeys.
In other eases the “big” plunger is often enough a
plain william-goat, addicted to taking risks of the
most extravagant kind, and hugging delusions about
driving Israel off the face of the earth. The quite
certain thing is that in spite of a long succession
of assaults the annihilated Ike is a curiosity of great
rarity.
* * * *
“Some Boy” : Talking about betting sys-
tems (B. 21/11/’! 8) the idea of applying a rigid
Scheme to racing is obviously fantastic and lias been
shown to be so many times by (1) preliminary argu-
ment, and (2) the calamitous results of experiment.
But some of the things done by people who have
backed horses on the principle of going mad first
would, if collected into a story, make an amazing
hook. I know a man, now rich, who, betting on a
system in my company at the English Derby of ’O6
made £2700. His “system,” devised on the way to
the course from London, was before each race to
notice a lady’s dressing ami millinery, fix on the moled
carrying the nearest approximation to the coloring
thereof, and go bald-headed on it with Moses. He
never went to u racecourse afterwards. I know
another man who won a terrace of houses in a Syd-
ney suburb by hacking a Doncaster and Sydney Cup
double, punting separately on the winners, too, on
the ground that one nag was well bred and the other
was owned by an Irishman. He wasn’t drunk, either.
But the strangest of all the freak betting to come
under my notice was that of a Melbourne man whose
house was burgled the night before the weights came
out for the Cup of 1900. He was out of town and
on returning was told that Sikes had made a clean
sweep of the available, valuables. That evening he
dreamed that Clean Sweep fell while the Cup was
being run. Next day he had a brain wave, backed
Clean Sweep early and frequently. Since then he
has worked only for fun.
* * * *
“Harrison O.”: I was standing beside
McShortddds, waiting patiently in the hope that the
favorite would lengthen from 5 to 2 to 3 to 1. Sud-
denly an excited person with his hat in his hand, his
Hair rumpled and his necktie in a knot under his
left ear forced his way through the crowd. “What
price Heartache ?” he demanded breathlessly, and on
being informed “twelfth to von” promptly booked
120 to 10. In less than a minute nine or a dozen
eager punters had thrust pound and ten-shilling notes
into the hands of the defenceless McShortodds.
Promptly the price became tens, but another half-
dozen rushed to make bets at the reduced odds. I
didn’t, because I chanced to know the “head” who
hooked the first bet. Heartache justified the opinion
held of him by most reasonable persons by running
seventh in a field of nine, which meant that within
a space of about 70 seconds Ikey had been enriched
by anything from £2O to £3O, less whatever stipend
hC hr" -ccreed to pay the “head” east for the part
of a man who had just rushed from the stable loaded
with inside Information. It is not a new trick, but
it is wonderful how often it works with the unsophisti-
cated slaves of the ring who watch to ascertain which
way the money is going. Sometimes a couple of
bogus bettors are engaged to set the hall rolling.
When it comes to creating public confidence in a
rank outsider, two “heads” are better than one.
“Solly” : Just a few names for mokes, sug-
gested by the war for consideration bv owners with
a taste for nomenclature after potentates: The
Crownless Prince, William the Last, Vacant Throne,
The Duke of Bolshevik, Princess Nomore, Tir-
pitziskers, King Sausage, Der Nag, Edirplavan
(very effective and original, spelt backwards), King
of the Sneeze, Majestic Mo, Admiral Rhineschwine,
Sweet Slaughter, Bolting Monarch, Noble Nobody,
Escaped Criminal. Any of these would he more
appropriate than to let a colt out of Bread and Jam
stagger along under Breadjamerkoff, or something
like that.
* * * *
“Musketoon” : What age is it possible for
a horse to attain? The English journal Horse and
Hound recently published a statement from a corres-
pondent that his son, in the Argentine, owned a
horse which was 47 years of age. This old equine
was a polo pony. Commenting on the communica-
tion, Sir Willoughby Maycock stated that a horse
owned by the late Sir Francis Petrie was shot when
it reached the age of 60. Perhaps the oldest horse
in N. S. Wales is a piebald cuddy owned by Alf
Austin, of Quirindi. It draws a load of wood almost
every day, and its age is given as being 46.
Here’s au idea for sports promoters on the
look out for novelty on the cricket-ground. A batting
competition, in which each batter \yill take three
overs from three top-notch howlers, with usual
fielders, the highest scorers to take the prizes. At
a similar affair lately in Leeds (Eng.) the bowlers
were Hirst, Rhodes and Drake.
When inter-State cricket is resumed next
month the game may have a needed tonic in it. The
Victorian Association is out with a suggestion to
restrict matches to three daj-s with an earlier start-
ing hour. N. S. Wales Association wants a change to
the eight-ball over.- The eight-ball over has been
used in Sydney grade cricket since 1915-16. That
it isn’t over burdensome was shown by Arthur Mailey
gathering under it, in its first year of trial, the
greatest number of wickets (102) since premiership
cricket got going. Both innovations will be con-
sidered at the inter-State conference at Sydney early
in December.
* * * *
Ryder, of Collingwpod, is not likely to be
omitted from the next eleven to represent Victoria.
Playing against Carlton last week his score stood at
119* not out. He gave two chances. The tally in-
cluded more than a dozen boundaries and one mighty
smite for six.
* * * *
Young Trend, of North Melbourne, is ;i
living example of how a man may escape obliteration
by a whisker and still play good cricket. While
serving at the Front a bullet came into collision with
his nose, smashed the cheek-bone and then, bouncing
downwards, bored through a rib. The incident
brought Trend right to the brink of Nowhere, hut
he pulled up, and on Saturday at Melbourne 1 put. 29
on the scoring-sheet against East. Now, is there any
way of calculating the odds that had turned up in
this young Australian’s favor? To begin with, the
chances of a bullet that reaches the nose not com-
pleting what it might be expected to do must be
millions to one. The chances of it lodging in the
ribs must be more millions to one. And further
millions to one must he involved in the probability
of when it got there not entering a vital organ.
Then there are the chances incidental to having been
thus damaged (1) recovering, (2) playing cricket.
Yet there are people who say that the odds against
drawing a winner in a sweep are too big to risk
a dollar on. If luck is on the premises the odds
matter nothing.
*• * * *
In n Geelong College v. Xavier match the
other day Sharland (G.C.) made 146 and Kean
(X.C.) knocked up 114. Kean’s 114 puts a fine
finish on a brilliant school-time sporting career. He
has played in the First Eleven and the XVIII for
the last three years, and this season he rowed in the
Xavier crew. In his spare time Kean plays with
Melbourne seconds, and M.C.C. “heads” have a
suspicion that when the game gets going again the
young man will have to be noticed.
* * * *
S. C. Freeman’s big hag (14 wickets for
141 runs) for Gordon against Central Cumberland in
the last round of Sydney grade cricket is the best
match effort for many moons, in 1914-15, L. Wall
(Balmain) took 14 for 29: in 1915-16, Arthur
Mailey’s 14 for 96 and C. Grimmett’s 14 for 115
touched the same mark. Jack Scott’s 13 for 73 last
year was the. best in the past two years. Another
to swing a strong right arm was Alec Kermode (Bal-
main), who unset 7 for 46 against Middle Harbor.
That effort lifted his tally to 19 wickets, averaging
15.73. After the English XI toured Australia in
1901-2 Maclaren invited Kermode to play with
Lancashire (Eng.) as professional. There the Aus-
tralian built, up a reputation as a wicket skittler.
Kermode’s height and ability to turn the hall either
way on any kind of pitch are factors which may
help him to a place in Ma’s next XI.
Fly-weight Jimmy Wilde (height sft.
; weight 7st. 21b.), who,easily beat the feather-
weight Joe Conn (height, sft. 64in. ; weight, 9st.)
at Stamford Bfidge, London, on August 31, lifted
£1620 as the winner’s share of the purse. The
loser annexed £lOBO. If such huge prizes as these
are hung up in war-time what sort of purses are
going to he offered for biff when nobody lias a war
to pay for ? A boom in scraps seems almost certain
in America and England—possibly in France. And
it is a mournful circumstance that as a general rule
the more swollen the prize money and the more
adipose the promoter the more rotten is the actual
disturbance.
* * * *
The stocks of Jack Dempsey, claimant to
the world’s heavyweight title, slumped heavily after
Willie Meehan had finished with him at ’Frisco at
the beginning of last month. They met in a four-
round disturbance for patriotic-fun pumoses, and
an extraordinary feature of the arrangement was that
the articles provided for a referee’s decision. Ap-
parently Willie gave Mr. Dempsey a severe handling.
He got the decision anyway, and the noise made h,v
Jack Kearns, Dempsey’s manager, a celebrity well
known in Sydney, was a fearsome circumstance.
Kearns seems to have decided that, in order to re-
store Dempsey’s reputation, it was necessary for him
to show the referee to have been all wrong. So they
came together again last week, and the brief account
of the proceedings shows that Kearns had spoken in
a hurry. Meehan fell upon Dempsey like the wallop
of Doom, and a few minutes later the man was
putting out the lights. The winner is a naval sailor-
man, usually spoken of as “Fatty.” Photographs
of him show vast masses of adipose tissue.
The defeat of Dempsey will not cause any exces-
sive demand for crape in the States. The spectacle
of biff specialists wrangling over alleged titles, and
clamoring for dollars, while a fight to the death was
going on across the water was viewed generally with
the cold eye of disfavor—as it richly deserved to be.
Indeed, the nominal champ., Jess Willard, who ob-
jects to fight either at home or abroad, has become
something in the way of a national toast.
* * * *
Jim McManamey (North Sydney High)
added two more to his array of sprint titles last
week, when he won the 100yds. All Schools and
100yds. 16-year age championships. McManamey has
already graduated with honors at football, cricket,
swimming and boxing.
The long-hung-up prize-money attached to
the Stawell (Vic.) Easter Gift has at last found a
pocket. On protests, A. Roach (first), W. Dennison
(second), and B. S. Burling (third) were all dis-
qualified, and Pearse (the only other starter) takes
the cash. It is certainly a novelty for the last
arrival to gather the first prize, and leave the pro-
moters with the balance of the spoil. It deserves a
freak athletic record niche all to itself.
* * * *
A fine athlete was wasted when Douglas
Murray died in Damascus, at 31. He was one of
the A. B. Murray squatting clan of S. Aus., and a
nephew of the Chief Justice. For St. Peter’s school
in 1905 he put up the intercollegiate long-jump
record to 20ft. 11 Jin. ; and then, going on to Cam-
bridge, he surprised Oxford by taking down C. B.
Fry’s record and put the inter-university figures up
to 22ft. OAin. In England, he was a lieutenant in
King Edward’s Light Horse. When this war broke
out he sold his station at Grenfell (N.S.W.), gor
back to Adelaide, and enlisted there, feeling that InV
proper place was with the Australian forces.
* * * »
One-time Australian cyclists got more than
a crust out of American cycling this season. For
the all-round championship, Bob Spears (N.S.W.)
arrived first (152 points—24 firsts, 2 seconds, 9
thirds and 8 fourths) ; Alt' Grenda (Tasmania) was
second, and R. J. McNamara (N.S.W.) fourth.,
Spears was second (to A. Spencer) last year; and in
1916 these three Australians and Alt' Goullet (Vic-
toria) filled four of six places at the top of the
championship tabic.
‘ The awaiting enthusiasts rubbed their
eyes in surprise and timekeepers lifted watches to
their ears when 11. A. Parsons (Vic.) flashed under
the light at Sydney G.1’.0. one evening last week.
On a 7-li.p. Indian Parsons traversed from Melbourne
to Sydney (565 miles) in 20hr. 58min. The whiz
was so hurried that it clipped lhr. 22min. off Fred
Berry’s figures, put up in March this year. Parsons
deserved his good luck, since in an effort not long
since he was well inside the record when a smash-up
made him a candidate for medical help. Parsons
holds motor-cycle records for 10 (7min. 21 l-ssec).
25 (22min. 9 2-ssee.), 50 (44min. 35fsec.) and
20 miles (31ir. 20min.). The motor-car record be-
tween the two cities belongs to Boyd Edkins (IChr.
33min.).
* * * *
“Nimrod”: As “Pick”: (B. 7/Tl/T8)
complains that I cast ridicule on his story about
breaking a pipe-bowl at 100 yards and killing a
cockatoo at 600 yards, and then happily blithers
about shooting rabbits through the head at 200
yards and making possibles on a six-inch bull at
400, I merely ask in a spirit of mild inquiry to
be told where on this planet they use a six-inch bull
at 400 yards?
* * * *
“Nor’-West”: Well, if it is true as alleged
by “Mopoke” (B. 26/9/’18) that the carp is good
eating, someone ought to start some breeding experi-
ments in the north-western rivers of N. S. Wales.
Up that way the animal is composed of so many
bones that the meat doesn’t get a chance to hang on.
“Sarto” : “Red Fin” (B. 14/11/T8) is
talking through his dundrearies when he says that
the Murray at Albury will not support the fishing
industry on account of the illicit practices of “pro-
fessionals,” and that he has to travel 20 or 30
miles up or down stream when he wants a good
day’s angling. I’m not a pro. myself, and I don’t
like fish, but I know anglers who have gone out at
Albury and, like the ancients on Galilee, have fished
all day and caught nothing. They blame the nets.
Next day they go to the same place and, like old
Peter and his mates, catch more than they want,
although overnight the nets were working as usual.
Anyway, fishing is about the most cruel “sport”
going—from the bait’s viewpoint. To allow a frog
to swim about with a hook through the hind legs is
mild compared with skinning the poor brutes (who
live for hours afterwards), or tearing or cutting
them to pieces while still alive.


Exercise is Necessary to Keep Your
Body in Cood Repair!
In order to have a perfectly healthy body you must have
every function working in a harmonious manner, and that
means a certain amount of regular exercise—it means that
you must keep the muscles of your body in good repair.
These muscles were given for a certain purpose not to lie
inactive, ru*t, become full of neurotic poisons, but for use.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
is thorough, modern and most successful.
The secret of my success with my clients is that I give each
and every one the most strict and personal attention in
prescribing my exercises—thus you would receive exercises
that are most suitable for your individual physique, just as
the particulars you furnish tell me you require.
If .vou want to enjoy better health —to have a strong and
healthy body—write to-day for my booklet, entitled
“HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE,”
which tells all about my methods, fees, etc. Just write
your name and address across this advertisement and send
it to me, with three penny stamps for postage. I will
k.iovv what you mean. ,
REG. L. (‘Snowy’)BAKER }
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,’’
819 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
m
P
Keep Your Dogs Healthy.
BEDDOME’S DOG
SOAP.
USED BY THE
LEADING BREEDERS.
Absolutely pure, keeps
the coat healthy and
free from vermin.
Price, 9d,
ALTERATIVE
MIXTURE.
Healthy, active dogs
always result when
this splendid tonic is
used. Prevents worms
and distemper.
Price, 2/6, 5/-
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dogr Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
THE DOG MEDICINE SPECIALISTS,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable from dOHN BRUSH LTD.,
Ceorgre Street, Sydney. [3
F
EVERY DAY FILL UP ON
SHELL
BENZINE
D
L M 1 L |AT hills
EVERYWHERE
Route
Mp fßlAi on
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAfI ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY, THE GENERAL MANAGER, THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
Box 220 G.P.O.
SYDNEY.
Qhemish
,„u Ha^
je,jMxfe^rX^^
THE FINEST MEDICINE
IN THE WORLD-
for the man whose working-day is spent in-
doors is Fresh Air a la Indian—a splendid
tonic for work-tired nerves, a panacea for
dulness —a sure health and pleasure maker.
SEE THE 1918
Indian Motocycle
The Greatest Motor-Cycle the World Has Ever Seen.
CATALOGUE WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Pty. Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., Ltd., 156
Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle & Mot®*
Agency Ltd., Adelaide & Creek Sts.
sdf
ii i miamninii
REM
YOU could not make a better invest-
ment than in a bottle of Rem Oil. One
drop judiciously applied to the wearing
surfaces of light machines will prolong
their usefulness and render them capat 'e
of better service. Every household should
have a bottle of Rem Oil. For firearms it is
unexcelled, being at one and the same time a
lubricant, powder solvent and rust preventive.
Ask your dealer for further particulars or
send for special descriptive circular, also
complete catalogue of Remington UMC
Firearms and
Cartridges.
5>
r
\
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative, Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
sd
Marine Engines
For All Boats
m
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started.
Electric Lights
fsd
Callle 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
f
Gallic Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an flour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- to four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole
Australasian
Agents—
Benson Brothers Limited
76-78 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
71-75 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, MELBOURNE
138 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
GENUINE PALM BEACH
A FABRIC whose good points are legion—for warm-day
suits. A fabric entirely reliable, beautiful, durable.
A fabric that washes as readily as linen, and leaves
the tub fresh as new. A fabric cool and porous—that tailors
with wonderful ease.
The trade-marked Palm Beach label is on every garment.
In buying yardage look for it on the selvage. the name
Palm Beach is registered in the United States and Foreign
Countries. Refuse imitations.
Your local drygoods dealer or merchant tailor can supply
you.
In Australia trade-mark for piece goods is registered;
registration pending for clothing.
THE PALM BEACH MILLS
GOODALL WORSTED CO.-
A. ROHAUT DEPT., Selling Agent, Div. S, 229 Fourth Ave.,
NEW YORK, U.S.A.
HOd MOO!
‘the GENUINE CLOTH
MFD. BY GSQBAU WOBSSED C&.
THIS MARK.


sdf
sdf
In the public eye.
On the public neck.
The Defence Minister
leads the great administration
that stands to protect Australia.
COLLARS
as leaders in Australian Industry
conform to the Highest Ideals of
Protection.
SHAPE ILLUSTRATED:
The “MINERVA * Linen Faced. Price 1/-
Height, ljin.. ljiri., 2in., 2-Jin.
Size, 13Jin. to 18in.
WEAR
SMIRTS& PYJAMAS
. ALSO
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA,
old by all
Leading:
Retailers. [4
"THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.'
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARItY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
88 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Perfection
PIPTK RUBBER
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
The Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to be a safe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the va=t number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the poisons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should b > taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
sdf
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
Switches Switchboards
Meters
m
ff
i VO
AMPERES
:
r ~—S
* §
.J.
I®
STjrr
„ i!
SIP
iw
Manufactured by
THE AUSTRALECTRIC COMPANY
;S>- > PWre:'V*
THE AUSTRALECTRIC COMPANY.
97 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Resistances
Transformers
Condensers
Fittings.
Repairs
Testing
Calibrating
Coil Winding
a Specialty.
Telephones:
Telegrams: EXPANSE.
4254 \
4255/
CltT.
FOR COLDS, CRAMPS & SPRAINS
USE
Vaseline
Trade Mark Registered
Capsicum
Petroleum Jelly
Cleaner than a mustard plaster,
and will not blister the skin.
Relieves rheumatism, gout and
toothache.
For sale at all chemists and general
stores, in handy sanitary tin tubes.
Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Go.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
LONDON MONTREAL MOSCOW
sdf
.Vow
Aim? «
Then have a JHOI
g% at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
(LOCAL!
M
T
1
X
WHY “Fx (SL R” RINGS?
Because of their surprising value.
Because of their super-excellence.
Because the lower grades of gems are
not stocked.
Because superlative expresses our only
quality.
Because they are made on the premises.
Because there are no intermediate profits.
Because we are sole agents for one of
Amsterdam’s largest and oldest dia-
mond cutters.
Choice dia-
monds, set in
platinum and
18ct. sold,
£lB.
Three Fine
diamonds, set
in platinum
and 18ct. gold
Ring, £2O.
Selected dia-
monds, set in
platinum and
18ct. gold
Ring, £2O.
Because every newest design is at once shown.
Because our prices are lower than in London.
Because there is no duty on loose gems.
Because all our rings are set in pure platinum and 18ct. gold.
Plain Figures,
Cash only.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
W.H. (London) : Don’t think you’re right.
Anyway, you libel both parties. How could the
Felton Bequest interfere so much as you say with the
Galleries of London ?... .Colon: It wasn't Germany,
anyhow. The Hun is only one of the bunch. . . .A. 11.:
Can’t see any use in reviving that. By the way,
could read only about half of it. .. . 8.G.E.: If you
can’t send anything original, don’t pass over cheap
magazine rehash....B. Brogan: Have you ever heard
about the law of libel?....Bunvip: Well, oft you go:
The God we worship undefined.
We treat as a servitor almost brain blind,
And lightly fling a sort of tip
To save from Hell a fellow mind.
We burn incense, as to placate ,
A demon God of understate,
And in all manner of antipodean wit,
Make God the devil of the gridiron pit.
. ...E.C.W.: You thought you had a fortune and
woke up to find you hadn’t. Well, you're somewhat
different to Billy Hughes. He woke, up to find that
a fortune was waiting for him from a thistle-eating
country. . .St. Cecil: Not up. ...Conelas: Too rugged.
. ...R.S.: The “Culprit” has been sentenced....
L.P.J.: No J.M.: Try again G.L.C.: Very
crude.. . .Immature Male: No. .. .W.E.T.: Too ragged.
. ...T.S.: A long way yet. .. . Lauris: Not strong
enough... .A. J.S.: We don’t reprint... .T.S. W.: The
sentimental interest isn’t wide enough S.F.T.: No.
.. . .A.8.C.: Try elsewhere. . . .J.M.M.: There’s a hint
of freshness in it, but you can’t rhyme “claw” and
“door” down our street.... X-ray: It creaks....
II.B.: Go again... . M.C.M.: The lament arises too
heavily.... M.M.: Don’t know what it means....
H.R.U.: The sonnet is poor in form, and thin in
idea. Don’t get the notion that there is any difficulty
about arranging the rhymes and lines of a sonnet.
Any verseman can do that. The difficulty is in
getting song, force and beauty under that arrange-
ment .... Kemo: The vefses don’t seem good enough
for the thought.. . .H.S.L.: Not nearly... .G. 8.: Fair
verse... .Plodder: The feeling is better than the verse.
. ...D.McC.: Nothing bright. Stand for a seat
in Federal politics.... Hannibal: Worse than usual —
usual is the very devil.... A.E.G.: “Matilda” isn’t
dressed well enough... .T.S.G.: A very convenient
1i0n.... J.A.: No u5e....R.5.: Why don’t you get
down to real work?... .Mrs. Harris: No yarn....
8.M.K.: Bad verse. .. .G.W.W.: No use... .C.E.S.:
We plodded through the spider scrawl and found
nothing worth the trouble... .V.K.: Get something
new to write about. P.S. —And send the recipe to
ycur best friend... .Bellerive: “The telephone” is in
your best manner: —
Shop talk and merry prattle,
A husband rung up by his wife
Sentiment and urgent message,
From the mighty throng of Life,
By its interlacing cords are guided,
News of joy and news of woe,
While the daily hours doth drifteth,
Voices travel to and fro,
Message of a loved one dying,
Altered in a solemn tone.
News of birth, death and marriage
Travel by the telephone.
. ...E.D.: “Dawn and Dusk” doesn't thrill. Get a
new theme. Incidentally, where did you steal that
heading?. .. .R.N.: “Culture” no use... .F.W.F.: If
you had offered it as a rattle-trap we would have
bought it C.M.C.: “Remembered” is forgotten. ...
M.8.P.: Not quite up....H. Bee: Away behind....
Melanethon: Very wobbly... .A.H.P.: Enclose stamps
with the copy... . E. 8.: That “laurel wreath” is as
tangled a mass of ill-grown vegetation as we have run
into... . A.D.8..: Go again. .. .T.U.: War drummings
will take a lot of drumming now. .. . J.A.W.: Well,
“go insane” if you want to ; but don’t do it here. ...
D.A.: Very poorly constructed... .A.L.H.: No use.
. ...O.B.: There’s a fine pathos in it: —
For this our heroes fought and died,
The love for their country and pride;
To leave their loved ones it sorely tried,
For there’s many a lonely one sat and cried.
Not until the furnaces are smokeless and cold,
Will our boys be tallied and all told ;
For some have gone to their fold,
Others are fighting still brave and bold.
Soon may we see the last of this task,
To hear the last of the bugles’ blast;
To join in with us with a flask,
Their health and luck to last.
May we soon see the great ship's mast.
Plowing through the foam making for home ;
Lying on our sunny shores to bask,
For evermore to be home, sweet, sweet home.
. ...A.M.P.: According to Charles White’s “History
of Australian Bushranging” (Angus and Robertson),
Ben Hall was born at Breeza, Liverpool Plains, and
for two and a half years attended school at Murrurun-
di. He left there at the age of 10 and never returned.
....Merlin (France): Thanks; we’ll keep it in the
scrapbook... .J.C.C.:, But what about him ?...D.W.
No; it would not.
TO ARTTSTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.8.A.: Didn’t you learn that joke at mother’s
knee?... .Rup: Two of them unsuitable... .R. 5.11.:
You should learn a little about the correct arrange-
ment of feet G.R.M.: No V.A.J.: Doesn’t hit
enough. .. .J.P.J.: Not for this market.... Roy A.:
Study and be patient... .11.8. J.: Gloomy work....
J.L.F.: Swear off ink now. .. . J.J.C.: Unable to use
pencil sketch. .. .E.T.: Won’t do. . . .A.M.C.: It isn’t
well done. . . .N.M.D.: No merriment in them....
M.H.D.: It’s going home.
“N.A.”: The Federal Government ought
to tighten up the waterside supervision in
connection with imported literature. I don’t
mean the sort of printed stuff that’s brought
in by the case, but the document that’s hid-
den in the coat-lining or boot of the “Swed-
ish” fireman. A couple of months ago I was
talking with a half-drunken Russian sailor
at Sydney. I started to commiserate with
him over Russia’s pitiable plight, but he
wouldn’t stand for it. “Lenin knows his
game all right,” said the seaman. “The
Bolshevik administration is not as short of
money as many think. Millions of pounds’
worth of literature of Bolshevik propaganda
has been circulated throughout Europe.”
From what he told me I gathered that
Lenin realised that a Bolshevikised Russia
alone could not exist, but thought that a
revolutionised Europe might carry on. The
Russ also said that pleas were sent from
Russia to organisations throughout the
whole world with the object of overthrowing
things in general.


Stop Muring
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
U
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528 Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
i
Corns Ouicklv.
At last a real ' does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just as good has ever beeD
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
sd
fds
If, .
Handy Corn Cure will get rid of every corn
you nave got without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or. turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
V- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
§m
1
mm
■a
mm
m
t 4
j,
G-
li
& \
$2
% sm
}s?f
tt::
NsjWi*!
-..-
Ki
&J;5;
i>!:LsN
HI
■I
C/1M
EAT
Australians are such heavy meat eaters that we are fast becoming a
nation of dyspeptics, and it is telling on the general health of the country.
One of the worst results of dyspepsia and stomach troubles is loss of
appetite. You must eat to live, and if you begin to feel you can’t eat, bad
times are coming unless you begin quickly to take Chamberlain’s Tablets for
the stomach and liver—they restore appetite and relieve stomach troubles.
It is of the most vital importance to you that you do not allow dyspepsia,
stomach or liver troubles to get a firm hold on you, for they will surely shorten
your life.
The one remedy which is guaranteed to increase the flow of bile, purify
the blood, strengthen the stomach, tone up the whole digestive apparatus and
give you a relish for your meals is
CHAMBEPLAINSTABLCTS
Jor the Stomach o Liver.
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienc'd travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
may be avoided.
Firm.
When you ask for a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate and permanent
relief.
Horlick’s Malted Milk contains
all requisite forms of nourish-
ment. That is what makes
Horlick’s so rich —so delicious.
If you have not yet tried Hor-
lick’s, there is a great treat is
store for you.
HORUCK’S
.MALTED MILK i
Sim
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C,
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worM.
DENBY
MOTOR, LORRIES
Capacities 1,2, 3J and 5 Tons.
The great power of the Denby engine, the
high mechanical efficiency of the Denby
internal gear rear axle under all speeds and
loads, and the unusually great road clear-
ance, make Denby Lorries able to handle
heavily loaded trailers, even over bad
roads or in forests or stone quarries.
A. HATRICK & COMPANY, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A
fs
df
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
sdf
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough—you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled,
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD."
Missing: Friends..
Harold chorley wood, write or!
cable home. MOTHER, Elms Street.
Legal Notices.
TN THE ESTATE OF JOHN MURPHY, late of
Onepah Station, near Tibooburra, in the State of
New South Wales, deceased, intestate. EDWARD
MURPHY, brother of the abovenamed deceased, who
was a miner in Boulder City,-Western Australia, and i
who was last heard of in that city in '1912, is re-
quested to communicate with the undersigned re-
garding his share of the estate.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers, Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Amusements.
Harry llickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
"|*l VO LI T HEAT KB, SYDNEY.
LAST THREE NIGHTS.
LONDON’S LATEST SENSATION,
HONI SOIT.
The Most Delightful Revue Triumph ever staged.
Plan at. Nicholson’s and Tivoli.
-J-IVOLI THEATRE. M lOLHOU BN K.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY.
LAST NIGHTS OF
GAY CARNIVAL ATTRACTION.
The Winning Revue,
EVERYBODY’S DOING IT,
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
CU ITl5n I O N T II 10 A T It E, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
TO-NIGHT AT 8.
M/VTINEES WEDNESDAY AT 2.
M.YDAWE X
A Poignant Study of Man’s Inhumanity.
With MURIEL STARR in her greatest part as
MADAME X.
Box Plan at Paling’s. l Day Sales at Callose’s.
HE It MA.IIOST Y ’ S, SYI)N K Y.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinf-es Wednesday and Saturday at 2.
.T. C. WILLIAMSON’S ROY/AL COMIC OPERA CO.
In the latest and most delightful of all Comic Operas,
KATLNKA,
Excelling anything previously introduced by this firm.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
Business Notices.
CHARACTERISTIC
OF HUNT’S.
To dress well requires good judg-
ment, and good judgment favors
STETSON HATS
because of their rare combination
of irreproachable correctness of
style and quality.
Our Present Display of Stetson’s
is most complete, and includes
the popular colors in
Greys, Self and Black Bands,
Fawn-Slate Greys, Bark Bottle-
Green and Browns, etc.
Prices from 35/-to 63/-
Other Makes from 16/6
R. Hunt 8 Co.
Gentlemen’s Outfitters,
314 George Street,
(Between G.P.O. and
Hunter Street),
Sydney.
Amusements.
“THEATRE ROYAL. SYDNEY.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
TWICE DAILY, AT 2 AND 8.
D. w: GRIFFITH’S
GREATEST TRIUMPH,
HEARTS OF THE WORLD.
Plans at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
• Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
EMILIE POLINI,
with CYRIL MACKAY ami HARMON LEE, in
EYES OF YOUTH.
A MASTERPIECE OF STAGE PRODUCTION.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
DLAYHOUSE, CASTLEREAGH STREET.
■ (Between Liverpool and Bathurst Streets,
Sydney.)
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEE SATURDAY, 2.30.
PIE NO. B—“LIES OF TRUTH.”
THE DOWN-TO-DATEST TRAVESTY.
Book Plans Paling’s and White Rose.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UN lON I'IC TU R E TIIICAT It K |S
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER ,T. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO- LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
URIt MAJESTY’S THEATRE,MELBOURNE
■ 1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.55.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the real Revue,
HELLO, EVERYBODY.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TIIEA T R E ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
* Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 30.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Greatest of all
Picture Spectacles,
HEARTS OF THE WORLD,
D. W. Griffith’s Stupendous Creation.
Amusements.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees: BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT, j
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, NOVEMBER 30.
Reappearance of
ALLEN DOONE and EDNA KEELEY in
THE WEARING OF THE GREEN.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
|y| A,J KSTIC T H EAT RE, MELBOUHN K.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG
in
THE SAVAGE WOMAN.
Matinees Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
H OVT'S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE. BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
DOROTHY DALTON in
TYRANT FEAR.
VIVIAN MARTIN in
THE TROUBLE-BUSTER.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Mutinies Saturday 2.30.
THIS WEEK'S FEATURE:
THE GREAT ARTCRAFT DRAMA IN SEVEN ACTS,
THE WHISPERING CHORUS.
Prices as usual.
IygUI.Ii.Y THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world's films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gR It ANN I A VIIEATRIL M EURO U RNH,
PRESENTING THE TRTANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
I'nco: 3d. and fid.
Wanted.
\\J ANTED for Rockhampton, for lengthy
**' season, small oostume-comedy com-
pany of five or six people to do one hour’s
entertainment nightly and change twice
weekly. Apply, giving salary required, per-
sonnel and full particulars of repertoire, to
BIRCII AND CARROLL,
Rothwell Chambers, Brisbane.
■lf any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
"T n
w.
My pipe of peace
Will always be
A good old trusty.
c
S*'T VvV '
&
■7
P
f/
Booked for Home ! He’ll leave
all guns behind, bar one—his
“good old gun”—the “G.8.D.”
“G.B.D.’gets the Diggers’award
for Smoke=service.
&
the perfect pipe.
ds
YOUR
FOOTWEAR
either makes or mars your appear-
ance, therefore yon should exercise
the utmost care in its selection.
ABBEY SHOES
are always correct in style, perfect
in fit, and give the utmost in long
service.
They are made in half- and full-
sizes, and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide.
We illustrate a special Fatent
Derby Shoe, in a very smart, made-
to-order style.
Price - 42 1-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Ci.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Resistance to Disease
Why is it that one person can work all day
standing in cold water, or in driving rain
and cold winds with no harmful effect, while
another with less exposure contracts colds,
pneumonia, rheumatism, sciatica or some-
thing equally distressing and dangerous? _
Because in the first case the body was. in
such perfect balance that there was “resist-
ance” to disease. In the second there was
lack of tone that invited ill-health.
Keep your system toned up with Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills, and foods that once dis-
tressed, you will be harmless, exposure will
bring no fears of rheumatism and neuralgia,
and even germ diseases need hardly to be
dreaded.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills assist digestion,
correct the lassitude, the palpitation of the
heart, shaky nerves and the pallor of face
and lips that are the result of thin, impure
blood.
Try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for anaemia,
rheumatism, neuralgia and nervousness. Take
them as a tonic if you are not in the best
physical condition, and cultivate a resistance
that will keep“ you well and strong. Get a
box from the nearest dealer, who will charge
you the old price, as there has been no in-
crease. 2/9 per box; six boxes 15/3.
FREE. —A useful booklet, “Diseases of the
Blood,” will be sent. on application to Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Box 594 G.P.0.,
Sydney.— Advt.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
EOR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.


BEFORE AHD
AFTER
s
Thicken Your Hair
With Cuticura
If you have dandruff your hair wiil
become dry and thin. Cuticura Oint-
ment gently rubbed on spots of itch-
ing, scaling and dandruff and followed
by a hot shampoo of Cuticura Soap
will usually remove the worst cases.
Nothing better than Cuticura for all
skin and scalp troubles. Ideal for
every-day toilet uses.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
CHRISTIES
specmust
TWO
LINES
$
irt
FOP
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS?
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
Tht STRAND
520 GEORGES 7 SYDNEY
V FOOTER S T NEWCASTLE
r* *
If you must
rear baby by hand
adopt a food which approaches
most closely to Mother’s Milk,
and which yields positive results.
Mellin’s Food is the tried and
proved equivalent to Mother's
Milk; its success is evidenced
by world-wide recommendation.
Simple to prepare; no tedious
cooking —it is alike a boon to
the nursing mother and satis-
fying to the child.
Mellin’s
Food
Write now for sample of Mellin’s Food and
uieful Handbook—-The Care of Infants'—Free.
Then there’s his Bottle Mellin’s Feeding
Bottle is the perfect and simple Feeder.
Messrs. Collin &■ Co. proprietary, Ltd.
m
araas
HORROCKSES*
Ixrrwclet/iA and CcUlcceA
WILL you im Tnt END.
1 ESTABLISHED 1791
"HORROCKSES?
ON SELVEDGE
fsd
f
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 2Jd.
NEURALGIA!
It is so easy to catch those debilitat-
ing Colds, Influenza, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, etc. Help yourself to
avoid these by taking
Dhosfonno
I THE ROYAL TONIC
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 8C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
THE ELEMENT OF CERTAINTY
enters into your use of Ireland’s Bak-
ing Powder. Housekeepers are learning
that Ireland’s Baking Powder assures
success in every baking.
It is gaining the confidence of House-
keepers because it unfailingly produces
perfect results under all baking condi-
tions.
IRELAND'S
BAKING POWDER
AU 57
will revolutionise your baking. You can avoid costly 1“J st too
much” or “not quite enough” will not spoil the bake—you will be thankful toi sucn
a dependable aid in baking. .
Order a tin of Ireland’s, and be certain that every baking will finish with a per ec
result. SOLD EVERYWHERE.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle
BOSTOCK’S DRY CLEARER
FOR
Wbite & Colored Sti<dg&CanVaS Shots.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
It never fails to give entire satisfaction, being easily applied, does not
rub off, and is unequalled in every way.
COLORS: —White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne.
BoStock’S Violo Polishes. Ltd.,
SYPH€Y.
For liiue Shafting,
Machine Tools,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling anti
Factory Equip-
ment, etc., etc.
sdf
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
Bearings.
!vL
S-
-A
i
t
W
-E
fl
J
■
I
I
i-
L -4
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The SKF Self-aligning Ball-bearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
GARDNER, WVERN & CO.,
Chief Agents ana Ball-Bearing Specialists,
Office^ Road, S. A ’ Street’
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street. BRISBANE . . . 367 Queen Stieet.
“Hollow Back”: This is dinkum oil:
Several Billjims entering an old French farm-
yard about two hours after Fritz had de-
parted, found a live cat nailed to a door by
its . foreleg. Their first thought was to re-
lieve the suffering puss, but the withdrawal
of the nail caused an explosion that finished
both victim and rescuer. Fritz is a beauty!
“Scoffer, Junior” : A published calculation
is to the effect that in the voluntary recruit-
ing campaign from January, T 7, to Septem-
ber, TB, it cost £4 4s. 6d. worth OT persuasion
to capture each soldier. That is the Federal
Government’s expenditure alone ; shire coun-
cils, municipalities, private-people,. railway
departments, and all sorts of inst:i; tions gave
a hand. In two places which I kr. jw person-
ally a single soldier was roped in and. the
expenses, including banquet and decorations,
ran to about £5O each time. Also, there was
much loss of employment and some horses
were scared and bolted. One of the men was
rejected and one was too late. I suppose
they didn’t all get banquets; still voluntary-
ism is expensive.
“Billy T.”: Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Strut
occupied a picturesque, clay-plastered log-
hut, swarmed over by sarsaparilla-creeper,
tucked away in an elbow of the hill where
the creek turns to flop over Dolly’s Fall at
Two-Foot. The outside of the hut was lime-
washed, and all about it a showy little
garden floated white,.red and yellow roses in
the summer air. We had our sluices within
50 yards of Arthur Strut’s front door, and
our arduous labors were lightened by comic
relief provided by Arthur, with the hearty
co-operation of Mrs. Arthur. Arthur must
have been 68, Milly was not far off that
respectable total. They had the conjoint
old-age pension, and, being relieved of the
necessity of earning a living,, could devote
themselves to argument. Milly’s favorite
weapon was a chair-leg, kept always handy
in case of emergency; Arthur contented
himself with a 2ft. length of inch hose. The
feature of the Struts’ family life that tickled
us most was the suddenness with which they
could depart from frenzied dispute and
mutual belaboring- into a state of cordial
affability, even affection. I’ve seen the two
belting into each other with a heartiness
amazing in two so old, and stopping suddenly
with a squeal from Milly: “My gracious, the
milk!—it’s boilin’ over.” A pause for inves-
tigation, and then Arthur: “Much spilt, ole
girl?” “On’y a drop.” After which the argu-
ment might be resumed with its. former
ferocity, or the couple might continue in
friendly confab. Once Milly’s screams were
so distressing that we felt called upon to
interfere in the name of our common human-
ity, but, really, Arthur was getting the worst
of it, a chair-leg being more effective than a
rubber hose at close quarters. The disputa-
tion had come to a head in the garden in the
grip of a prodigious rose-bush. Milly was
torn off. “He sez it’s Artie,” vociferated
, Milly. “She sez it’s Jim, after ’er father.
Dam’ ’er father!” snorted Arthur. “There,
’ark at him, insultin’ me pore old father. It
is Jim?” “Artie?” squealed Arthur. “Jim!”
“Artie!” “Jim!” This went on for a
minute or two. “But who—what —which is
Artie or Jim, as the case may be?” asked
Cox. “Meanin’ Bill’s little boy,” said
Arthur. “Bill’s second little boy,” said Milly.
“Well, what is he, anyhow?” “He ain’t
born,” said Arthur. “Yet,” said Milly. “But
he would be Bill’s second son.” “And who's
Bill?” “Bill’s our eldest son,” said Arthur.
“Supposin’ we’d had a son,” said Milly.
Arthur put an arm round Milly; Milly
patted Arthur’s hand. “Supposin’ we’d had
a son, ole girl,” said Arthur sorrowfully.
“Only supposin’,” said Milly. We left them
in a condition of affectionate mutual com-
miseration.
THE RECKONING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
You called us to the colors and we came to fill the
ranks
From fettlers’ camp and college, from the count-
ing-house and run;
The workshops and the waterside, the benches and
the banks;
Four years is long to suffer, and we have not
nearly done.
We left the cup untasted and we left the lips un-
kissed,
The crops we toiled to harvest and the goal we
hoped to win,
We left them at your bidding—do you think of all
we missed ?
The blood runs red at twenty and our life was to
begin.
We came as wild as brumbies and we learnt to take
the bit;
We saved you from the spoilers and you babbled of
your debt,
Your wealth and peace and safety and the price you
put on it—
You promised very freely, but you have not paid
us yet.
The drafts you never sent us and the pledge you
never filled t
(Your wife may walk in satin and there’s roses on
the way),
But mates we loved at morning by the fall o’ night
were killed,
And, when you pay the living, there are still the
dead to pay.
The prosy old conventions and the nicely hedged
estates,
The peace that came to Pharaoh when he knew
the plague was stayed,
You hug these to your bosoms; but we’ve learned
to live as mates,
And sunk old scores between us—and we’re coming
to be paid.
Our youth? Did boyhood spare us when the open
breaches yawned?
You hailed us as your saviours and the players of
the game.
You chose your part—spectators—now another day
has dawned:
We learned to fight as brothers and we mean to
stay the same.
We graduated grimly and we’ve taken our degree;
We know the utter values in the school where
men are made;
We come to claim our birthright in the new democ-
racy—
Oh, you who drunk the pottage, we are coming to
be paid !
N.s.w.
ELLA McFADYEN.


\£asssx\. place
in
e
■
>
This buildi/n
•will be roofed
ith.
Certaiweed
x
w
Rocking
rS
ft*
ay
s
m
Wl
*
w«
W.
5-
j*
Af/
I
The roof is the last to go on
your building. But —if that
roof is to be efficient and eco-
nomical, its selection is of first
importance. Put
Certain-teed
Roll Roofing
on your building and you will get
the most efficient and economical
roof possible. Certain-teed is economical
to buy, inexpensive to lay and costs prac-
tically nothing to maintain. It is water-
proof, noiseless, fire retardant, clean, sani-
tary and gives the utmost roofing service.
Does not affect the taste or odour of water.
Specify “Certain-teed” for your roof and
refuse all imitations. Certain-teed is guar-
anteed by the Worlds largest manufac-
turer of roofing.
Our local distributor
will tell you how this
roofing is made
Call or write today
and learn more of
Certain-teed Roofing
Australian Representative—
C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee Bldg.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
SYDNEY AGENTS—
John Danks& Son Pty. Ltd.
Janies Hardie & Co. Ltd.
Wunderlich Ltd.
James Sandy & Co. Ltd.
F.
3 PLY
% SttUAR*
go IX** •**'**
**•*
• It o*'*** - „
••••
.».« u** ••
im «h* '*
oxrg r*****"*'
u-n*
IM • rt«M
Qrtairi'tee 2
J?OOFIN<S
a* 4
i*»“ “Vi
llu,
j 1?? .7.
i iiiiii
UilllUlns
aon
Ct 'bir> t*ed Promts
HP IABEL RgQUtPjS
Dependable Gyns
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
WE HAVE AN UNRIVALLED SELECTION,
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOQN,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post tree.
sd
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight
about Freight paid,
V
£7 '
7; 7'77
Smoke Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/2, Post Free.
1J23. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
I 2-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, _ _ __ . ,
Greener cross-bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about 7jlb ,' Freight paid, 3L*lO/10/“
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing- to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
ďs
ƒd
ď
833.
19X1
barrel, 28in., full
Magazine holds 5
Weight 7£lb ...,
Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
choke, take-down system, chambered for 2|in. shells,
cartridges, rubber butt-plate. ,
Freight paid, £ll/11/-
POWDER
Just arrived large shipment of Gunpowder.
You are advised to make an early purchase.
AUSTRAL
F.F.F
DIAMOND GRAIN
E. C. SMOKELESS
... 3/9 lb.
... 3/9 lb.
... 5/- lb.
... 11/9 lb.
PLEASE NOTE —Powder cannot be posted.
MINIMUM FREIGHT on any quantity
packed up to 281 b. is 10/= in N.S.W.
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
f
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, D. & E. fore-end, side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, beauti-
fully engraved, weight about 7 fib Freight paid,
£l4/14/'
sdf
sdf
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating
Shot Gun, 12-gauge, slide grip, steel barrels, take-down
system, magazine holds six cartridges;
weight about 71b Freight paid,
£ll/11
ds
Harrington and
Richardson’s
S.B.B.li. Gun,
12-gauge,
top action, solid ease-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol
grip, walnut stock ; weight about 6§lb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an
ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
B2-Auto-Ejector, 45
Fostage—2/6 N.S.W.;
4/8 Inter-State.
ac
aVSTRfILm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS’
nm TOBACCONISTS
fd
City Sports Depot
99 King SC also at
flencastle d Brisbane >


TWO FAVORITES
Miss MABEL BATCHELOR and REXONA
*; &
Miss MABEL BATCHELOR,
(from a photo).
Try the
REXONA
REMEDIES.
They consist of Kexona the Rapid Healer,
and Rexona Skin and Racial Soap. They
are universal favorites with everyone who
values a pure and healthy skin. Rexona
will at once heal all the minor injuries to
the skin, as well as the more serious ones,
and Rexona Soap protects the user from
disease, and ensures both health and
beauty. Rexona Soap is also unequalled
as a shampoo, making the hair soft, fluffy
and luxuriant. Those who try it will not
be disappointed.
Miss Mabel Batchelor, who toured
through Australasia with the J. C.
Williamson Comic Opera, Ltd., and
the Lemmone Concert Companies, is
the popular professional lead for the
Mosman, Petersham, Railway and
Tramway, Eastern Suburbs and many
other N.S.W. and inter-Statc Musical
Societies. Miss Batchelor writes as
follows:
1 am writing to make a
strange request; it is that you
will enrol me as one of your
Rexona Girls. At our home we
are devotees of Rexona Soap
and Salve. I have all sorts of
soaps and perfumes sent me,
because, I suppose, of my con-
stant public appearances, but
I love Rexona and use it only.
Wishing Rexona Soap and
Rexona Balm continued suc-
cess.
I am,
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) MABEL BATCHELOR.
0 L—
-4»h»eph,
p^nh* l Anjolufel
4 H«als -< K e i lßbl ,
A
K*r
tC2*
I*!
J=»
Cleans* V
Ml
EfRESHINC SOOTMIN
HEADING ANTISEPTIC SOAP
M’EOICATEO ON THE SAME PRINCIPLE
as the famous Rexona ointnentjC><2s3
Rexona,
1/6 and 3/-
Rexona
Soap,
II-
ASK FOR A
E
H AT
U N R I V A. LUE D
it
111
VV3J
$
for
Style & Finish.
OF ALL U p
ui
A
A.
.-CO
&
MAKERS:-
fRESS k C° UP
'.ON DON » ENGLAND.
Wholesale Agente-
COX & MAILER.
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
mmmMt
W///////////A
The Brand that guarantees
British make and best value.
"Sa&etC
Underwear
To see the Jason Brand on a garment
to know that Australasian wool, skilled
British labour, and expert tashijt.ing have
gone to its making.
New " Olympic" Brand.
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which
Jason All-wool goods are made, the manufacturers
have introduced temporarily lower lines containing
a percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee
of quality as the regular lines. Your dealer will
supply you. Sole manufacturers
Jason Underwear Co., Leicester, Eng.
Ab 67 <l>
The Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WOMAN of mine, can love like ours
be told .. .
By sudden pressure of warm lip to
lip ?
You are no flower from which a bee may sip
A passing honey in a bell of gold.
Oh, golden bell that, ringing, still I hold,
Hearing full music round me flood and drip .
Oh, woman-song, your least white finger-tip
Is worthier reverence than the gods of old .
To them I rear dim altars in far woods,
Clouding with incense their neglected shrines,
And with a heart-cry that is more than prayer
Filling the silence of their solitudes;
But in the dream of you there glows and
shines,
A white divinity of finer air.
Oh. I have taken kisses red and sweet,
And thrilled to pressure of your warm, white
hand;
And all my blood could feel and understand
A heart, life-warm, that gave me beat for
beat.
God set fine wonder in your little feet
That run to execute His high command
Through the green shadows of Love’s garden
land,
Where longing and delight for ever meet.
These feet, these hands, these lips, this happy
hair,
And all the rounded sweetness that is you
I hold but as I hold the gentle south
That cools the summer with delicious air.
Your body is a gracious plant that grew
To bear the blossom of your singing mouth.
Only in song may my great love be spoken,
As bird that answered bird from tree to tree
In moony summer nights, of Arcady
When under boechen leaves or shadows oaken
The silver bondage of all sound was broken
To reach the diamond heart of melody.
Take the clear song that is the soul of me
To wear upon your ear—love’s fondest token.
We have gone out so far —so very far—
I cannot toy with words as with sweet
flesh.
The witching moon, the flame-choir of the
sun,
And the far music of the morning star
But hold me netted in a golden mesh
From the love-height of language yet unwon.
0 heart of mine, in song we soar away
Up where great angel liarpings fill the deep
Of some vast air beyond old stars that keep
The aeon-hours of God’s eternal day.
The thronging harmonies that all souls pray
In all green worlds arise and round us sweep,
Blent with the dreams of far dark suns that
weep
The long tear-threnody of thoughts that slay.
Wide armed, we gather from the boundless
whole
An organ music deeper than all seas
And sweeter than all winds in seraph strings
To speak at last the language of the soul. ...
To speak—nay, to be silent. Not of these
Is the dream song of my imaginings.
0 soul of mine, with humble looks and e'yes
We shall return to quiet fields we know
To watch the hedgerow blossom bud and blow
And see the dawn-star melting in the skies.
The little winds shall pass us full of sighs;
And we shall hear the lilting ripple flow
Where pansies wonder and young grasses
grow
Making the melody of earth grown wise.
Simple and very wise our love shall be
As, touching Heaven, it lingers in the dew,
And knows the sweet, old earth is undefiled.
Then will you lean with a far look to me,
And hear the music of all song come true
In pattering footsteps of a little child.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
The Best Place to Live when
Hard Up.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IS it better to be hard up in the city or
hard up in the country? No one would
willingly be hard up anywhere, but as
there are more hard-up people than million-
aires knocking around it is a question that
exercises the minds of a good many.
Often a man who is frying in the pan of
poverty remarks that he would shift his
address if he could be sure that he wasn’t
going to step out into the fire. There is a
degree of respectable poverty, which the
luckless one who bottoms it considers the
limit. He says to himself that things can’t
be worse, no matter where he goes. There
is another degree of poverty known as the
lowest ebb, as exemplified by the chronic
dosser in Sydney Domain and the sundowner
in the bush. They never improve, and they
can’t get worse—unless they change places.
If the Domain dosser were dumped down in
a far-back locality, where the population has
so much room to breathe in that one house
is lost sight of long before the next comes
into view, he would think he was faced with
bitter times indeed. In comparison Ayith
them the Domain, with its seething life sur-
roundings, would seem a place of joyous
comfort; whilst the sundowner, missing the
hospitality and freedom of his whilom
haunts, would soon discover that he had not
known before what it was to be hard up.
Neither of these persons has any ambition
beyond scraping up enough day by day to
live on, and the query propounded at the
beginning of this dissertation has no bearing
on anybody who lias no ambition.
It particularly concerns the married man
who has a young family, and who wants to
do his best for them. Two such persons are
Theophilus Smith and Solomon Jones. Both
are industrious, but have drifted into bad
times. It is so easy to become hard up—
about the easiest thing I know—that no
plans and specifications are needed to show
the way. Smith belongs to the country, and
the only time he would ever think of visiting
the city would be when he had plenty of
money in his pocket. He uses no sweet
.adjectives in his description of the bush, and
is blind to the sublime beauties of all that is
rural when his financial statement shows a
deficit and there is no immediate prospect
of making an improvement. He promises
himself all his life through that when his
fortune-ship, by some miraculous means,
arrives at his door he will transplant him-
self in town, where he can see something and
enjoy life.
Meantime he considers the town the worst
place on earth to be hard up in. Nor does
he speak without experience. He has sam-
pled it in past pleasure jaunts, when he in-
vaded it in the Christmas and Show seasons;
and once, when he lost his money in the
company of some new acquaintances who
had formerly resided in his district and knew
his father (grand old man his father was,
too, when those chaps knew him). Then he
made the alarming discovery that meals and
beds weren’t sold on the time-payment sys-
tem. Nobody wanted to associate with him
if he hinted that he was “broke” ; and when-
ever he answered an advertisement for an
able-bodied man of his qualifications he
found forty-nine other able-bodied men there
before him. He went to the registry-offices,
but none of them had a job for an impecuni-
ous person. The humblest position demanded
references and a five-shilling deposit, besides
a guarantee that the first week's wages he
earned would be paid over to the agent. And
Smith didn’t want to buy work because he
loved it. He only wanted a temporary job,
in which lie could earn enough to pay his
fare back to the rustic charms of the old
homestead and the green splendors of the
everlasting bush. Those wide lone spaces
were alluring then. He saw them as in a
vision splendid; whilst the endless rows of
brick piles and the rushing traffic depressed
him. He was an outcast in a crowd, an
exile in his own capital; lost and lonesome
in the hub of a continent. And that was a
more hopeless feeling than ever came to him
in the most solitary parts of an unpeopled
interior.
At last he exchanged his holiday clothes,
including hat and boots, for an old rigout
and a blanket, and with a fruit-tin for a
billycan a transformed Theophilus Smith set
out for home on foot. He had no dinner to
start with, and no idea when it would be
ready. That only put him in a greater
hurry to get out of town ; to hit the road
where houses dwindle into mile-posts; to
propel himself into the wide spaces where
people are less plentiful and more .thought of.
Scattered settlers at first did not rush forth
and embrace him. Nobody showed any ;
pleasure at seeing him. The boasted hospi-
tality of a generous land wore a peculiar
complexion in urban and suburban areas. It
was reserved for the well-to-do. Hospitality
in the bush is the real thing without trim-
mings ; it takes no account of the wayfarer’s
condition. Far on the outward track he
came upon a teamster’s camp, and the team-
sters greeted him cheerily: “Good-day, mate.
Come and have a feed.” By-and-bye, he
reached a settler’s hut, and the settler said :
“There’s not much doin’ just now ; but I can
give you a week’s grubbin’, if you care to
tackle that.” He had arrived; and thence-
forth he had no fear of to-morrow.
Though Theophilus Smith lias now a
modest hut of his own, which rears its un-
pretentious roof in the centre of a small
selection, he is still hard up, but under what
he reckons much better circumstances. The
selection, being untilled and remote from
butter-factories and sawmills, produces
nothing that can be turned into money; but
it produces a lot that saves money. He has
only to pick up his wood and cart it home
from the paddock, so that the homely fire
burns on however bad the times are. Strikes
in the coal-mines and on the wharves never
worry him. If he has to cart his water also,
or even carry it in buckets from the creek,
he has the consolation of knowing that he
has no water-rates to pay, and can use as
much of the precious liquid as he feels in-
clined to carry. Milk, butter, honey, jam,
eggs, poultry, bacon, vegetables, fruit, wild-
fowl and other game the small selection pro-
vides him with. In the creek or lagoon he
can catch fish ; and in very bad seasons, when
ordinary meat goes up to famine prices, he
can fall back on rabbit, wallaby or kangaroo.
At a pinch he can kill old Strawberry. Of
timber he has more than he requires. He
can burn his own bricks, if he wants bricks ;
and he can roof his sheds with bark. If he’s
out of work for a year at a stretch he won’t
starve, whilst there is always plenty to do
about the premises to keep him in healthy
exercise. Flour he has to buy always, unless
he is an extra energetic and economical per-
son, when he may even grow, thresh and
grind that for himself. As the country
storekeeper gives him at least three months’
and not infrequently twelve months’ credit,
lie prefers to buy flour, together with what
little clothes and sundries he requires in the
leanest days that come his way. His wife
has to make her own bread and her own
pies and puddings and tarts; but, living in a
clean atmosphere, with trees and grass all
around, instead of dusty streets and grime-
belching chimney-stacks, for this labor there
is compensation in the comparatively light
house-cleaning.
Smith makes his 2001 b. bag of flour hang
out as long as possible. Being an honest,
law-abiding citizen he reflects that he ought
to pay what he owes before running up .
another big account, and to keep down ex-
penses he draws freely on the estate’s natural
resources. Its productiveness is merely a
matter of will —the fruition of Smith’s activ-
ity. Potatoes, pumpkins, maize-meal, arrow-
root and other home-made foods lengthen the
life of the flour-bag not only in season but
throughout the year, for they are comesti-
bles easily grown, easily made and easily
stored.
Though Smith lacks many of the conveni-
ences that Jones considers necessary to a
comfortable existence, he has conveniences in
other ways that Jones is a stranger to.
Jones belongs to the city. The first upset-
ting knock he gets when hard times come is
the landlord’s. The landlord comes on Mon-
day morning. He comes every Mon-
day morning, and his face grows longer and
longer as Jones continues to find a new ex-
planation as to why he hasn’t got the rent.
Jones’s resourcefulness" in that respect is
wonderful; but there are no other resources
about the premises except the furniture, and
that is not negotiable while the rent is un-
paid. The back yard grows only clothes-
lines, and the front flower-pot develops
nothing eatable.
Jones has to depend wholly on tradesmen
and the tradesmen can’t depend on Jones, so
(Continued on next page.)


sf
MAKE ZAM-BUK A DAILY NEED.
ACCIDENTS are always happening in the kitchen, in the garden, at
the children’s play, and during every kind of work or athletic
pursuit. - .
Directly Zam-Buk is applied to a wound or sore it alleviates the pain
and inflammation, reduces any swelling, and prevents the place taking
bad ways.” Zam-Buk also has splendid antiseptic properties.
In a natural way belonging to the natural extracts from which it is
manufactured, Zam-Buk stops the growth ggj
fnr t he festering of a neglected or wrongly-treated soie, it Kins
or nullifies all dangerous influence at once, and causes the tissues, which
it has first made clean in a medical sense, k nit toggher once more
until all trace of the sore or injury lias gone. Zam-Buk is the ideal
healer for daily home use.
BADLY-SCALDED FOOT PERFECTLY HEALED
<;•
yft
NO"
I§§
K
•o
1
ms
» - Pitts • pimplis » icxtHVry
1 • RHtUHMtSM - SCIMttH - SKQ VICS-
soRt hubs & bucks • cnKvn» nnHos-tij
”3
UNEQUALLED ran CRICKETERS,
CycLIST'S, FOOTBALL RLAyERS
v C SPORTSM EN GENERALLYy
5»®5
Mrs. Mabel Ford, 10 Denham Street, Surry
Hills, Sydney, writes: —“Some two years ago
my little girl, Edna, was badly scalded on the
foot. The foot was blistered all
over, and these blisters afterwards
broke, leaving raw wounds. She
was unable to get about at all, and
became so bad that I took
her to a hospital. The treat-
ment she got there did her
no good, so I brought her
home again and commenced
to dress the wounds with
Zam-Buk. This soothing
balm drew away all the heat
and inflammation, and per-
fect healing quickly followed.
When my little boy knocks
and bruises his hands,
knees, as he very
often does. Zam-
Buk heals his
hurts quickly.”
Zam-Buk is in-
valuable for
Cuts, Bruises,
Burns, Boils,
Eczema, Pim-
ples, Running
Sores, Itch
and Injured
conditions of
the skin gen-
erally. From
all Chemists
and Stores at
1/6 and 3/6
per pot.
‘RUB IT IN.”
C." BRAND AUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prise Medals.
df
Works: Birmingham, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. 9
<
Beyond dispute, the present war is the
greatest engineering competition ever devised.
SUNBEAM
productions have always achieved distinction
in competitions. To-day Sunbeam cars and
UNBEAM -COATALEN
IRCRAFT ENGINES
are engaged in playing their parts in well-
nigh every theatre in which the Allies’ arms
are engaged, and are winning greater laurels
in this test of unprecedented proportions and
duration than any of the many conspicuous
ones they have gained in times of peace.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St., London, England
WORKS • • • • Wolverhampton, England
a deadlock is reached before his meditations
on the scarcity of jobs has got half-way to an
idea. The baker wants his money, or he is
apt to forget in three days where Jones lives.
The milkman presents his bill, and if it isn’t
promptly paid he will be sure to run short
of milk next day and remain co indefinitely.
The woodman must be remunerated on the
spot, or the fire will go out. In desperation
Jones might steal some of his own fence, or
boil the kettle with a picture-frame or a
superf|uous door. He can’t shoulder his axe
and go down the street for a load of wood
when lie wants it. He can’t do a hundred
things that are commonplace to Smith.
Where it is an advantage to the latter to be
well known to business people, it is some-
times a great disadvantage to Jones. The
shopkeepers know when he is out of work,
and they know that he has nothing to fall
back on and no securities. Credit is soon
stopped everywhere. Perhaps the first to stop
his credit is his landlord, who gives him
short notice to find a new home. That is
nearly as difficult as finding a billet. When
he has succeeded in discovering a tenement
in keeping with his reduced circumstances
lie can’t get a carrier to remove what is left
of his movable property without cash, and in
the end he has to do some heavy lumping in
the starlight. In a week or two the new
landlord begins to look askance on his new
tenant, and Jones, in consequence, becomes
addicted to moonlight flitting. Smith, on the
other hand, should he find himself turned out
of house and home, could shift on to an unset-
tled part of the creek and stick, up a bark
humpy to shelter the family. until he had
time to look around.
Jones has not the experience of the country
that Smith has of the city. >lf he had, he
would find some means of getting on to the
land, for. with the liberal assistance given
by the Government, it is not a very difficult
task to make a home there. He can get out
by rail, for that matter, though his pockets
are empty, and there are many ways in which
he can make a start in the new life. With a
little taste of it. he will soon come to think
with Smith that it is better to he hard up in
the bush than hard up in the city.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
Macready's Marriage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN the Gulf country Spring comes on at
the end of the year after the annual
wet has begun. It brings with it clouds
of insects and sticky flies that incline men’s
thoughts to ungodliness.
Yet, in the great wet of 1911, Drover
Macready, sitting in the fork of a coolabah,
with a food reserve of two tins of salmon
and a python snake, felt those vague stir-
rings that impel men to go mate hunting.
Watching that murky sea that stretched
away to the Flinders River, he let his mind
emerge from its usual phlegm to consider
women and the desirability thereof.
“I’m forty now,” he mused. “I don’t know
any white women I could yoke up with.
Now, there’s some of those young gins who
can cook and sew and bring along the tail
of the mob. The trouble is getting them,”
lie ruminated.
That autumn Macready went out to the
Territory, 400 miles away. When he re-
turned to the little Gulf settlement that he
frequented he created quite a sensation, for
behind his horses rode a comely half-caste
gin, whose arrival attracted the attention of
the police sergeant.
“Is that gin your wife, Mac?” he ques-
tioned.
“Of course,” asserted the drover stoutly.
“Anyway, she belongs to the Territory.”
Not satisfied, the sergeant interviewed the
lady. “Who are you?”
“Me Missa Macready. That feller Mac
my husban’.”
The sergeant grinned, and as the lady did
not really come under liis jurisdiction the
matter ended. Macready’s string of pack and
spare horses, with much clinking of hobble-
chains and plaint of muffled bells, resumed
their journey to the river-bend ; the legality
of Macready’s alliance recognised, or at least
tolerated, by the State of Queensland. Now,
Denis Macready was known from Urandangie
to Van Rook as a meek, patient man, never
aggressive even when drunk. True, he may
have shot an odd bush nigger in self-defence,
and doubtless had cheated death often by
flood and field, for the Gulf extends no sanc-
tuary to a craven. Yet, somehow, the acqui-
sition of a female seemed a venture foreign
to and not expected of him, and certain
piratical spirits thought fit to investigate,
So it happened that Macready had numbers
of visitors at his camp—brigandish-looking
men with rectangular faces and sweeping
moustaches; tall, wiry, clean-shaven grin-
ning men; small, restless, serious men, all
with sun-yellowed faces, all walking a little
stiff-kneed, as if still in the sway of the
saddle.
'“Hullo, Mac,” they would say, cheerily.
“How was it out of Boorooloola?”
Macready pressed his visitors to a drink
of tea. and spoke in his rambling way of the
Territory; but little did they see of Mrs.
Macready, who kept to herself after bestow-
ing that quick furtive glance with which the
half-caste takes bearings. Visitors also came
when Macready might have been absent; but
were also disappointed.
Sitting in front of his tent. Macready
smoked and made hobbles, waiting for the
rainy season to come and go. Sometimes,
especially of an evening, he would gaze west-
ward as if expecting something from that
quarter. And one day there- did come out
of the lonely west, in the fringe of a
cyclonic storm that presaged the nearing wet
season, a man fierce and lowering like the
cloud-banks that followed his path. He
wore a short, bristling beard; and his fea-
tures were awry and disproportioned, as if
chopped out with a . blunt axe; his eyes,
those of a hawk. Stopping before the police
station, he accosted the sergeant:—
“I’m Blue Bob, the butcher from Booroo-
loola.” he announced. “Heard of me?”
“I think so,” grinned the policeman.
“What do you want? Giving yourself up
for something?”
“Be d —d,” grunted the man ; “yer can’t
prove nothing agin me.' Some prawn of a
man from here came and stole my gin when
I was away. I’ve been travelling six
weeks.”
“Good trip?”
“No,” snapped the stranger. “Alligators
got one horse. Myalls follered me awhile,
but I settled them.”
“Well,” snapped the sergeant, “none of
your monkey tricks over here. Understand
that?”
“Git on, pack-horse,” growled the travel-
ler.
It chanced that Macready was riding
towards the township, when, at a turning,
he espied Blue Bob. At first he was in-
clined to flight, but a new sensation, the
dominance of woman possession, surged
through him, holding him to confront his
enemy.,
“Git outer my road, yer cow,” roared Bob,
the rage of months burning in his eyes.
“You can’t get her,” stated Macready,
simply.
Swearing sulphurously, Blue Bob spurred
his horse against Macready’s and landed
home on his nose with a round-arm thwack.
Macready’s horse bolted off the road, closely
pursued by the other. The drover checked
his animal near a gum, and around it the
horses worked absurdly. Sharp branches
tore plasters of skin from their faces, and
Macready’s eye was puffed. But he had been
thinking the while that this human cyclone
might be faced and weathered like other
storms he had fought through. So, wrench-
ing a stout branch from the tree, he sheered
off, and then pulled back so that Bob’s horse
went slightly ahead. Down came the branch
on the other horse’s rump, causing it to bolt
forward. Bob tugged at his reins, but
Macready continued to flog the horse and
rider alternately, galloping on his flank. Red-
faced with passion and cursing horribly, Blue
Bob was driven thus into the town itself.
Yet Blue Bob, though sore and aching, was
not finished with. That evening he
approached Macready’s camp on foot, smok-
ing his pipe as a sign of peace—for a glowing
pipe goes not with wrath. Macready sat
immobile, waiting his coming.
“I’ve come friendly,” lied Bob. “Yer
know what I am. If I wanted Cherry, I’d
take her if I had to kill you. But I heard
things this evening about her, and I’ve
changed my mind. Before I knew her she
had two friends —Left-hand Charley and
.Tim. Both died. Alligator got one and beri-
beri the other, so Cherry said. She nearly
did for me once. You can have her; I only
come to ask about that track through Wooloo-
goorang.”
Macready gave him the information, and
as they talked, vague fears of the female of
the black blood stirred him. Bob’s scheme
was well laid. “Once she gits that madness
on her, you’re gone to the mountains,” he
said.
Macready thought of little displays of
temper, of sullenness that now took a sinis-
ter aspect. Blue Bob’s scheme of scaring
the drover into abandoning Cherry might
have succeeded had he stopped there. But
as he walked away lie saw Cherry, the
much desired. Forgotten at once was the
need of patience. Turning, he walked back
to Macready, who was meditating deeply.
“There’s one thing I forgot,” he said,
advancing casually. “It’s this.” Spring-
ing forward, he clutched Macready by the
throat. But a second later his grasp re-
laxed. and he fell inert to the ground.
Cherry bad entered into the discussion.
Unlike her prototypes of chivalric days, she
did not languish while her suitors fought.
More sensibly she indicated, by medium of
an iron pot, which lover was to be discarded.
On the following day Blue Bob got vio-
lently drunk, and Macready got married.
A. P. ROGERS.
Gone to Fairyland.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALL the way to Fairyland it’s sweet the
Pk wild flowers are,
“* And all the way to Fairyland is not
so very far,
Not, at least, for such as you, who had the
pixie lights
Always glinting in your eyes on summer
moonlight nights,
Who saw at dusk the feet in green a-twink-
ling on the lawn,
And watched the knights go riding by all
silver in the dawn,
And heard the brownie-laughter in the crack-
ling autumn fires,
And had a host of stranger thoughts, a world
of quaint desires.
All a-down to Fairyland the dear green ways
lead back,
First a straight -white valley; road and then
a winding track,
Very quiet and.very green and far too dear
to tell;
But you who wall not come again you know
those green ways well.
First a straight white valley road where
moths of evening flit,
When across the deepening blue the summer
stars are lit;
Then a vagrant winding track that goes tip-
toe between
Tall and secret forest-trees and bracken tall
and green.
All the way from Fairyland betwixt a day
and night,
When the first shy stars came out above the
dying light,
Like a silver thread of sound the silver trum-
pets blew,
And who should hear but you, my dear,
since they were blown for you!
You left the. smoking fields of France, you
took your happy way
All a-do-wn to Fairyland between a night
and day.
And oh ! that way to Fairyland was hushed
and green and sweet,
Bitter sweet and honey sweet to "weary
blood-stained feet.
All a-down to Fairyland, if I could take my
way,
I’d sometimes dare the winding track as
far as mortal may....
If only I would say your name; but that I’ll
never do,
For fear you shouldn’t come, my dear; for
fear it isn’t true.
VICTORIA.
M. R. B.


msm.
-m
m
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTfNCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
IniKMUfl 3KIBI I n
3uy
noA
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? \.JO you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St„ Melbourne, Vic.
Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite
flag. or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
to
sdf
IV
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
Now
Cl
f
GUM
PERKS
the
right
tight
SERVED
lit
UM
mmM
&
m
m
6 Barsln
each packet
for 3d.
This favourite. long-lasting,
delicious sweetmeat gives you
the greatest value in refresh-
ment you can possibly buy.
Get if at Chemists, Confectioners,
Tobacco Shops and other Stores.
Send it to
Soldiers and
6 Bars
in a
sealed
packet
for
3d.
Flavour^
J. C. Gambles 8 Co., Sole Agents, Rosebery, Sydney.
The
E
an
(jf
m
13
lllil
(g
Lilli Hii]
G
iiirt 1
sfd
Used the
World Over
53
MOTOR
...CARS
Mt&oy A
fe^ffrr’s
Si! x
..^'l
m
inss
; 4 A
KJi
iYPy
iinn
; i;
'I
r|ti
:
W
VjCbsyttfc
KsAW
ifei!
Tf| *rCx *''*i
:v/..c
Kl
& ~
£ssss
V v«
sH
;? j
m
# .
War Service
Continues to engage the whole of the energies of -
the Wolseley Factories, and we are still unable to
supply private customers.
AVe shall, however, be pleased to receive enquiries,
and to add your name to our rapidly-growing
Wafting List.
AGENTS:
F. H. GORDON & CO. DTD., 133-135-137
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KEDLOW FALKINER MOTOR CO., Russell Street,
Melbourne.
HOWARD CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
G. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
WOtSELEY MOTORS LTD.
ENGLAND.
H oprietors : VICKERS LTD.
- /£


jfiSA NGROVITEjI
f
JlsfJUilarN
ni
Saves Power—Saves Money.
It keeps the pulleys moving and lasts lone
-under any conditions.
MANGROVITE RAWHIDE BELTING
will not stretch, but will give maximum power
all the time. Use Mahgrovite and get belting
satisfaction. Tanned by our special Man-
grovite process.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near G. P. 0.), Sydney NSW
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co.! Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd Adelaide
>.V, •
X
*£H it
CIRCULAR SAWS
Manufactured from BEST SHEFFIELD
CRUCIBLE CAST=STEEL PLATES.
I2in. to 541 n. usually kept in Stock.
SAW SPINDLES
tin. to 3in. with Bearings and Fast and Loose Puileys.
8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd,
379 Kent Street,
Syd ney.
264 JLatrobe Street, Melbourne;
Charles Atkins & Co., Adelaide.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane
ivaigoorlie and reman tie
i reiuanue, *V.A.
Paul & Gray Ctd„ Newcastle.
Dick’s Belts
Ensure Efficiency.
A machine out of service means a double
loss—-production loss, and wage loss.
Minimise stoppages for' belt repairs by
using
DICK'S BALATA BELTING
(The Original & Genuine).
Dick’s Balata Belting is noted for its
flexibility and absolute dependability.
Send for booklet and full particulars.
Sole Importers—
JAMES HARDIE & CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. WYNYARD & YORK STREETS, SYDNEY
’Phone 8456 (4 lines).
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
J. WILDRIDQE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97
While the Greatest.. Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING—-which is pertinent to the times
-jfheir DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe'conditions they can-be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong-
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
sd
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
fsd
Latest Motor Jack.
Endless chain, quick and easily worked. Strong, com-
pact, 10- to 18-mch extension. Lift 1 ton. Size
over all, lOin. x sin.
Price 25/“
For up—Place under car, stand clear from dust and
grease, pull endless chain.
For down —Pull chain opposite way.
Useful other purposes. Highly recommended by
D. 8 W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.,
Ironmongers, 276-294 BRUNSWICK ST., FITZROY, MELBOURNE
-fIRSQKi ' a..
PUMPS-Good Pumps Only
f
We munufaetarc what is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation ; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from 12in. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include:—
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
JS*
Oft
£
■taAoB Hash
o
o
$
■
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: Jib,, 50/-: ilb., 25/-; 2oz„ 7/6.
11b. Flux will braze broken casting 15 teet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
Employed^by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St, Hilda, Vidoria.
d
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
, Ar t " , n
ssss
v
Runs on
Kerosene
Safe.
Reliable
One Gallon of Kerost
will light 32 Lamps
hours.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Queensland: SMELLIE & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
FAIRBANKS
MORSE
-M
Semi-Diesel Marine Engines
DIRECT reversing electric starting device
IMPROVED CYLINDER HEAD CONSTRUCTION.
The photo, inset is the
well-known “Albatross,”
now converted to a motor
schooner and fitted with
twin 60-h.p. Fairbanks
Morse Type “Co” Semi-
Diesel Engines.
The owners express the
highest satisfaction with
the work of these Engines
and say that, despite ab-
normally rough weather
on a recent trip, she aver-
aged 6 knots on Sgals. oil.
Length of this iron ves-
sel 131 feet, width 21
feet, depth 10ft. 7in.,
mean draft fully loaded
10 feet.
fdsd
Used in Large Numbers by U.S.A. Navy Ccpt.
DAHCAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD.,
9-13 YOUNG STREET,
Circular Quay. SYDNEY.
fsd
•N* GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydney,
Electrical, Mining' and Milling' Engineers and Manufacturers.
Designs, Drawings and Estimates
prepared for Partial or Complete
Mining, Milling and Quarrying
Plants or for any particular purpose.
Special Machines and Appliances
Designed and Manufactured in our
Works, Camperdown.
Material and Workmanship Guaranteed.
DORR PATENT CLASSIFIER.
SOME SPECIALTIES
DORR PATENT THICKENERS
Classifiers, Agitators.
MODEL E “CARD" PATENT BALL-
BEARING CONCENTRATORS.
“EVERLASTING” VALVES.
Guaranteed not to Leak.
“HYDROMAX"Hammer Rock Drills.
JIGS, ROLLS, ROCK-CRUSHERS,
SCREENS, CLASSIFIERS, DISINTE-
GRATORS & all Mining Machinery.
