

DEWAR’S —THE SPIRIT SUPERB
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
Mining’ and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCHONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
9
mMi
mm
ms
m
mm
®pgP
We
Advance Money
ALJL CLASSES of SECURITY
ON
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS and LOWEST INTEREST.
NSW-MONT • DE• PIETE-DfiTO L TD
MEAD OFFICE 74 CASTLEREAGH SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
18(5 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W. Telephone: City 9325.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Street West, Sydney. 40 Adelaide Street,
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THK - “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says:—
“The Company is very
well managed, and the
name is quite a house-
hold word in Sydney,
Its reputation is exeel-
lent, and, although the
money-lender is gener-
ally regarded as a
vampire, the charge
cannot be laid at the
doors ot tho N.S.W.
Mont de -Piete D. & I.
Co. Limited.” '
A Modern Sewage System
WHEREVER YOU LIVE
Don’t put up any more with one of the
greatest inconveniences of country life.
Homes, schools, hospitals— no matter
where situated —can now have city sew-
age conveniences and safety by installing
The Oxidising <■»*»&)
Sewage Disposal System.
The Oxidising System is being installed
all over the State—over 600 installations
have already been made. It has been
proved to effectually treat all Sewage
matter, and there is ABSOLUTELY NO
OFFENSIVE ODOR as with the septic
system,. Inexpensive to instal, and first
cost the only cost.
IVe shall be glad to send you full
information.
Write for Free Book
ami tarn all about this great boon to
'count; v .n sidei t
Mon tgomer/Q - Nei/son
Oxidising Sewage Disposal
30 Young Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 5976.
9
$
50
Nothimo
to Arcuc
About!"
%&,.. Are the Be<sf
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
L
gsdg
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
“ Not
the same
MS
ethers
n
mm
Costs less than half the price of galvanised iron .
It answers all requirements better than iron,
is more economical, does not rot, rust or leak,
and requires little attention.
Ask for samples and illustrated booklet,
post free.
Thi Paraffine Companies Ino. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Chaliis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock
Sugar Mill Machinery.
P all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
tfrihrY&fiiaAOueAsea
O MACHINERY
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
“National” English Engines.
Immediate Delivery from Sydney of New Stock of IjATEST MODELS.
GAS ENGINE AND SUCTION-GAS PLANT 43 to 46 b h n
O?LENGI#Is ENGINES n ’ n ’ *’
3i.. 4 and 7 b.h.p.
PETROL ENGINES ! ..!!!!!!!!: i!:. .13 and 3 b.hip.
1 (ONE) SUCTION-GAS PLANT, SUITABLE FOR 100 to 120 b.h.p. ENGINE.
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER TUBES
Solid Drawn Tubes—
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles—
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Enquiries solicited. Correspondence invited.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
t
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Voi. 39.— jNo. 1996. J
[Thursday, May 16, 1918.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


“Yes! I Don’t Think”
Some people will tell you that the
ordinary fountain pen neve leaks,
and is always ready to write,
You’ve had one and you know, and can say in the Follies’ immortal words:
“ Yes, I don’t think.”
But there is one pen that
-Never leaks
- frills Itself in a flash
-Writes right and shuts tight
You have heard of it—you know people who swear by it—but have you got one
3et yourself ? '
, , . , . v7/_ . aion ONOTO Valveless for those who do not
wan tsfSelf- FiUilig'saf et y Pen JZ/6 upwards from alt stationers, jewellers and stores.
Manufacturers : Thos. Db La Rue & Co. Ltd.. 167 Bunhill Row. London. E.C
Managing Agents :
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
Sydney.
Onoto
Pen
SeU-FUllng - •
Safety Fountain
>
vij
n
Ask for ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens
THE ROUND TABLE
A Quarterly Review of the politics of the British Empire.
The March number contains many excellent articles.
Of special interest are those entitled The Victory that
Will End War; Three Doctrines in Conflict; Pales-
tine and Jewish Nationalism; America’s War Aims:
and the usual useful summaries and criticisms ot
political events in the United Kingdom and the
Dominions. Of note amongst the latter is one on the
Great Strike in Australia.
Price 2/6 per copy. 10/- per annum.
Macmillan & Co.. Ltd., Russell Street, Melbourne.
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from Indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of the food, thus allowing the
natural digestive ferments to act, and if
taken regularly after meals they so improve
the digestion that a strict diet becomes
unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
are most useful to those who suffer from
Heartburn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—TINS, 1/6.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz.: —
The Lancet, The Practitioner, etc. [1
%sm
gjfrtO
Mimim
ro'#
DS
ON
-'f
The Red Page
Georgian Poetry
“They.”
The Bishop tells us: “When the hoys come
hack
They ivill not he the same; for they'll hare
fought
In a just cause: they lead the last attack
On Anti-Christ; their comrades’ hlood has
bought
New right to breed an honorable race.
They have challenged Death and dared him
face to face.”
‘‘Wie’re none of us the same!” the hoys reply.
“For George lost both his legs; and Bill’s
stone blind;
Poor Jim’s shot through the lungs and like
to die:
And Bert’s gone syphilitic; you’ll not find
A chap who’s served that hasn’t found some
change.”
And the Bishop said: “The ways of God are
strange!”
, Siegfried Sassoon.
The Volunteer.
Here lies the clerk who half his life had
spent
Toiling at ledgers in a city grey.
Thinking that so his days would drift away
With no lance broken in life’s tournament:
Yet ever ’twixt the hooks and his bright eyes
The gleaming eagles of the legions came,
And horsemen, charging under phantopi skies,
Went thundering past beneath the oriflamme.
And now those waiting dreams are satisfied!;
From twilight to the halls of dawn he went;
His lance is broken; but he lies content
With that high hour, in which he lived and
died.
And falling thus, he wants no recompense,
Who found his battle in the last resort;
Nor needs he any hearse to bear him hence,
Who goes to join the men of Agincourt.
Herbert Asquitix.
It’s a Queer Time.
It’s hard to know if you’re alive or dead
When steel and fire go roaring through your
head.
One moment you’ll be crouching at your gun
Traversing, mowing heaps down half in fun.
The next, you choke and clutch at your right
breast —•
No time to think —leave all—and off you
g 0... . .
To Treasure Islands where the Spice ivmds
blow', ,
To lovely groves of mango, quince and lime —
Breathe no good-bye, but ho, for the Red
West!
It’s a queer time.
You’re charging madly at them yelling '‘Fag!’’
When somehow something gives and your feet
drag.
You fall and strike your head; yet feel no
pain
And find... .you’re digging tunnels through
the hay
In the Big Barn, ’cause it’s a rainy day.
Oh, springy hay, and lovely beams to climb!
You’re back in the old sailor suit again.
It’s a queer time.
OY you’ll be dozing safe in your dug-out —
A great roar —the trench shakes and falls
about —
You’re struggling, gasping, struggling, then
.... hullo!
Elsie comes tripping gaily down the trench,
Hanky to nose —that lyddite makes a stench —
Getting her pinafore all over grime.
Funny! because she died ten years ago!
It’s a queer time.
The trouble is, things happen much too
quick;
Up jump the Bodies, rifles thump and click,
You stagger, and the whole scene fades
away:
Even good Christians don’t like passing
straight
From Tipperary or their Hymn of Hate
To Alleluiah-chanting, and the chime
O* golden harps... .and... .I’m not well
to-day
It’s a queer time.
Robert Graves.
Lament.
We who are left, lioiv shall we look again
Happily on the sun or feel the rain
Without remembering how they who went
Ungrudgingly and spent
Their lives for us, loved, too, the sun and
rain f
A bird among the rain-wet lilac sings—
But we, how shall we turn to little things
And listen to the birds and winds and
streams
Made holy by their dreams,
Not feel the heart-break in the heart of
thin [is? ■
Wilfrid Wilson Gibson.
From “Georgian Poetry. 1916-1917.” (The
Poetry Bookshop, Gondon.)
The third volume of Georgian Poetry
(1916-7) (The Poetry Bookshop. Devon-
shire-strect, Theobalds-road, Ix>ndon) in-
cludes selections from IS writers, nine ot
whom appear in this series for the first time.
But several of these poems have appeared
in one or more of the other similar antho-
logies. Georgian Poetry . however, includes
many poems that do not treat of the war,
though none, it seems to this page, quite
so suitable for quotation. All lovers ot
dogs will admire a poem, too long to quote,
by J. G. Squire, entitled “To a Bulldog,’
btginning thus: —
We shan’t see Willy any more, Mamie,
He won’t be coming any more:
He came back once and again and again,
But he won’t get leave any more.
We looked from the window, and there was liis cab ;
And we ran downstairs, like a streak,
And he said: “Hullo, you bad dog,’ and you
crouched to the floor,
Paralysed to hear him speak... .
The same poet is responsible for a cubist
sort of thing, beginning:—
The*lily of Malud is born in secret mud.
It is breathed like a word in a little dark ravine
Where no bird was ever heard and no beast was ever
seen,
And the leaves are never stirred by the panther s
velvet sheen....
Ho hurtles on like that for pages. Harold
Munro agreeably works the vein of The,
Blue Bird in “Every Thing.” Man, he says,
Has failed to hear the sympathetic cadi
Of Crockery and Cutlery,
and he makes vocal his Bed, “the old im-
petuous Gas," even the Soot and the Putty,
and concludes that there is not much to
choose
Between the purposes of you and me,
And your eventual Rubbish Heap, and mine.
Ralph Hodgson is represented by three
delightful poems, one on “Babylon" begin-
ning : —•
If you could bring her glories back !
You gentle sirs who sift the dust
And bm row in the mould and must
Of Babylon for bric-rl-brac;
Who catalogue and pigeon-hole
The faded splendors of her soul
And put her greatness under glass—
If you could bring her past to pass !
There is good poetry a-plenty in England
now.
Chesterton, Historian
The popular histories of England, G.-Iv.
Chesterton explains in A Short History of
England (Chatto and Windus, per Melville
and Mullen, Melb.), are written against the
people: in them the populace is either
ignored or elaborately proved to have been
wrong. Even Green’s Short History of the
English People is too short for the people
to be properly mentioned. Especially is
Chesterton concerned _ with the neglect of
medieval civilisation in these popular his-
tories. We hear about the Great Charter,
but we are not taught that “the whole stuff
of the Middle Ages was stiff with the’ parch-
ment of charters. The carpenter heard of
one charter given to the barons, and mostly
in the interest of the barons; the carpenter
did not hear of any of the charters given to
carpenters The boy and girl reading the
stock,..simplified histories of the schools prac-
tically never heard of such a thing as a
burgher, until he appears in a shirt with a
nobse round his neck.”
Chesterton’s qualifications as a historian
need some searching for; but his attempt,
which abounds in wild guesswork and is
not free from errors, is interesting and, be-
cause he gives the ordinary bloke a show,
is valuable. For Australian children still
have to memorise the important fact that
some monarch or other died from a surfeit
of lampreys.
Chesterton emphasies the' fact that France
and England are Roman remains. Britain
was directly Roman for 400 years—“longer
than she has been Protestant, and very
much longer than she has been industrial.”
And he insists that popular fable is always
nearer the historical truth than the edu-
cated opinion of to-day. So that the place
of Cceur de Lion in fable is far more like
his place in true history. “Richard, as the
typical Crusader, did make a momentous
difference to England by gaining glory in
the East, instead of devoting himself con-
scientiously t domestic politics in the ex-
emplary manner of King John. The acci-
dent of his military genius and prestige gave
England something which it kept for 400
years—the reputation of being in the very
vanguard of chivalry.”
This medieval modern Chesterton asks us
nor to look at the shadows but at the common
daylight of the Middle Ages. ‘ln the arts
of peace, and in the type of production, the
Middle Ages stand singular and unique....
The dynasties and the Parliament pass like
a changing cloud and across a stable and
fruitful landscape The medievals not
onlv had self-government, but their selt-
tovernment was self-made. Modern local
government always comes from above: it is
granted or imposed. “Men banded together
in guilds and parishes long before Coca!
Government Acts were dreamed of in
modern constitutional countries there are
practically no political institutions thus
given by the people; all are received by the
people. There is only one thing that stands
in our midst, attenuated and threatened, but
enthroned in some power like a ghost or the
Middle Ages: the Trades Unions.”
So .Chesterton traverses the long course
of English history, and gives lus own inter-
pretation of its events. It may not be the
true interpretation, hut, at all events, it is
a bright one. Thus, “We talk of the disso-
lution of the monastries, hut what occurred
was the dissolution of the whole of the old
civilisation. Lawyers and lackeys and
money-lenders, the meanest of lucky men,
looted the art and economies of the Middle
Ages like thieves robbing a church. Their
names (when they did not change them)
became the names of the great dukes and
marquises of our own day.”
Inevitably “the spacious days of Queen
Elizabeth” were.' to Chesterton, not spacious
at all. England did not then realise that she
was groat; she first realised that she was
small. “England achieved, at the beginning
of her modern history, that one thing human
imagination will always find heroic —the
story of a small nationality. The business of
the Armada was to her what Bannockburn
was to the Scots, or Mnjuba to the Boers —a
victory that astonished even the victors....
It was the greatness of Spain that was the
glory of England. It is only when we realise
that the English were, by comparison, as
dingy, as undeveloped, as petty and provin-
cial as'the Boers, that we can appreciate the
height of their defiance or the splendor of
their escape.” And in a noble passage Ches-
terton tells that story. “The uncanny com-
pleteness and abrupt silence that swallowed
that prodigy touched a nerve that has never
ceased to vibrate.”
Of the Irish question Chesterton wisely
says that it is a tragic necessity that the
Irish should remember England’s treatment
of Ireland ; but that it is far more tragic that
the English forgot it. Me speaks of the
accession of George of Hanover as the
entrance into England of “something hardly
mentioned in medieval or Renascence writ-
ing, except as one mentions a Hottentot —the
barbarian from behind the Rhine.” In the
American rebellion Chesterton finds that
America forced the quarrel. “She was not
thinking of her wrongs as a colony, but
already of her rights as a republic We
did not really drive away the American
colonists, nqr were they driven. They were
led on by a light that went before. That
light came from France, like the armies of
Lafayette that came to the help of Washing-
ton.”
In England’s historical rivalry with
France, Chesterton points out one of his-
tory’s ironies. This rivalry was due chiefly
to England’s desire to keep any foreigner
from menacing her from the Flemish coast;
a secondary cause was the two nations’
colonial rivalry. Now “in order to keep the
French out of Flanders we flung ourselves
with increasing enthusiasm into a fraternity
with' the Germans. We purposely fed and
pampered the power which was destined' in
the future to devour Belgium as France
would never have devoured it. and threaten
us across the sea with terrors of which no
Frenchman would ever dream.”
Lighting up this chronicle of Chesterton’s
ideas are glowing English. That
describing the defeat of the Armada is
equalled only by this of Nelson, who “died
with his stars on his bosom and his heart
upon his sleeve” :
“There is no word for the memory of
Nelson, except to call him mythical. The
very hour of his death, the very name of
his ship, are touched with that epic com-
pleteness which critics call the long arm of
coincidence and prophets the hand, of God.
.... And he remains the incarnation of a
spirit in the English that is purely poetic;
so poetic that it fancies itself a thousand
things, and sometimes even fancies itself
prosaic. At a recent date, in an age of
reason, in a country already calling itself
dull and business-like, with top-hats and
factory chimneys already beginning to rise
like towers of funereal efficiency, this
country clergyman’s son moved to the last
in a luminous cloud and acted a fairy tale.
... .In outward action he led his ships to
victory and died upon a foreign sea ; but
symbolically he established something inde-
scribable and intimate, something that
sounds like a native proverb; he was the
man who burnt his ships, and who for ever
set the Thames on fire.”
In discussing modern English politics
Chesterton is at his best. He suggests that
the working-class was allowed votes only
when it had been rendered too w r eak to use
them. “The old parliamentary oligarchy*
abandoned their first line of trenches be-
cause they had by that time constructed a
second line of defence. It consisted in the
concentration of colossal political funds in
the private and irresponsible power of the
politicians, collected by the sale of peerages
and more important tilings, and expended on
the jerrymandering of the enormously
expensive elections. In the presence of
this inner obstacle a vote became about as
valuable as a railway ticket when there is
a permanent block oh the line. The facade
and outward form* of this new secret gov-
ernment is the merely mechanical applica-
tion of what is called the Party System.
The Party System does not consist, as some
suppose, of two parties, but of one. If
there were two real parties, there could be
no system.” .
Concluding his tale, which, despite Ches-
terton’s tendency to fireworks and his slap-
dash methods, has an inherent coherency and
a moral, he comes to the war. “The English
poor, broken in every revolt, bullied in every
fashion, long despoiled of property, and now
being despoiled of liberty, entered history
with a noise of trumpets, and turned them-
selves in two years into one of the iron armies
of the world.” But he fears the spread of
Prussian regimentation into England: he
sees the Belloc bunyip at the end of the
passage—the Servile State. _ “And there are
moods in which a man, considering that con-
clusion of our story, is half inclined to wish
that the wave of Teutonic barbarism had
washed out us and our armies together; and
that the world should never know anything
more of the last of the English, except that
they died for liberty.” . • , ,
Chesterton needn’t fear: Labor in England
-—and elsewhereI—will 1 —will be able to look alter
itself when the war is won.
The industrious Arthur Wright obliges
with another Bookstall racing yarn. Over
tlu Odds. A freak will necessitating the
marriage of an unpleasant bookie before he is
40, a missing husband, and a racehorse which
the reader instinctively knows will win that
race in the last chapter, lead up to a com-
plicated plot full of surprises. The author
does this sort of thing deftly and with verve.
Australian
Grace Ethel Martyr, author of After-
words and 0.1 . (Aust. Authors Agency,
Melb., Is.), writes careful verse on war
themes; but there seems to this page too
great an insistence upon the reception in
Heaven awaiting most of our Billjims. We
are shown him “pressing up the Great
White Way,” received by The Christ with
welcoming'hands; or entering Heaven, and
“smiling to find it home, a dear familiar
place of friends and light”; or led by an
angel over “cloth of gold,” with crimson and
royal purple burning and glowing over Ins
happy head, and blinding light so strong
that it is “like a shout of triumph” ; or joy-
ously taking his place “in that White Com-
pany” ; or held by Christ in His heart; or
standing before the throne waiting for One
to call his name. This familiarity with
Heaven, this definiteness about the after-
wards, lowers the poetic worth of her verse.
But Grace Martyr can do better than that.
There is a poetic thought in “Westward :
The mellow moonbeams lend their loveliness
And lay their limpid light across the sea—
A path of silver stretching to the West,
A shining highway to the veiled unknown,
Across the shimmering ocean’s gentle breast
Is it the night wind’s silken-soft caress
That stirs the murmuring waters dreamily?
Or has some happy soul in passing, flown
Across the waves? Perchance his eager feet
With swift and fleeting touch have lightly pressed
The silver sea —the wrinkling ripples seem
Like shadowy footprints ! Surely, it were meet
That such a burnished beckoning path should
gleam
To lead the hero homewards, to his rest.
And in “Rain” the author has very cun-
ningly caught the monotony of her desola-
tion by a repetition of rime and phrase:
I hear the sound of falling, falling rain,
Like dead hands beating on the window-pane,
And still it sobs and sobs the same refrain —
That he is gone nor will he come again.
Perhaps on such a drear night he has lain
Out in the darkness there, a'mong the slain
Uncovered to the pitiless, falling rain.
I hear the moaning, crying wihd complain,
The sound of pattering drops beats on my brain,
That I shall never see his face again,
But lonelv wait and wait for him in vain,
And, weeping with the longing and the pain,
My tears are falling, falling with the rain.
He has preserved his honor without stain,
But all I hear is sobbing, driving rain,
That beats and taps upon the window-pane.
I only know he will not come again.


vee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR FASHION
ECONOMY
m
«r
*
1
4
l /c:
FX 56
FX4
FASHION - and ECONOMY go hand in hand in the FASHION SHOW
EOOMS at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM. Ladies who cannot
personally inspect the displays should consult ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ PORTFOLIO OF THE WINTER FASHIONS. Write for a
copy, posted free on request; it will solve the problem of economically con-
forming to the prevailing modes.
No. Fxs6.—Coat Frock (as illustrated) in
Fine Serge, Navy or Black, girdled with
Self material, panelled front —
Sizes 30in. 32in. 34in. 36in.
42/6 45/6 47/6 49/6
No. Fx49. —Coat (as illustrated) in Fawn
Covert Coating, dared, deep pockets, shoul-
der Collar.
Sizes 42in. 45in. 48in.
52/6 52/6 55/6
No. Fx4s.—Coat Frock, in Fine Navy
Serge, pleated centre front and back, shoulder
Collar, high belted.
Sizes 24in. 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in. 39in.
27/6 29/6 32/6 35/6 35/6 37/6
No. Fxs2. —Coat Frock, in Heavy-weight
Navy Serge, Empire yoke pleated, pockets
and belt.
Sizes 24in. 27in. 30in. 83in. 36in. 39in.
21/6 22/6 24/6 27/6 29/6 32/6
153
J 7/
023
FASHIONABLE FURS.
5.50
No. S5O. —Black Rabbit Cape
(as illustrated), a most effective
fur, with durable lining.
Cape, 35/.; Muff, 19/6; Set,
54/-
No. 555. —Australian Fox
Set (as illustrated), in Black,
prettily finished off with tails and
paws'.
Stole, 79/6; Muff, 49/6; Set,
£6/9/-
S 55
No. SBo.—lmitation Black
Astrachaii Necklet and
Muff, edged with Sealette.
Set 19/G
No. SCO.—Natural Musquash,
nicely lined with silk.
Collar. 73/-; Muff, 39/6; Set,
£5/13/-
No. 511. — Smart Coat and Skirt (as illustrated),
in Covert Coating, pleated coat, hip pockets,
finished strap and buttons, high-waisted skirt, Fawn
shades only 67/G
No. 823.—Cream Serge Coat and Skirt (as
illustrated), pleated back and front, held at waist
with belt, step collar and revers, plain skirt, finished
strap £6/6/-
No. 362. — Stylish Coat and Skirt (as illustrated),
cut in. graceful lines, in Fawn Gabardine, Silk-
lined pleated coat, panel back, narrow belt at sides,
full skirt, belt at waist £5/15/6
No. 874. — Well-cut Suit (as illustrated), in Fawn
Gabardine, full-style straight front, belt and
pockets 47/6
No. 7002. — Gabardine Coat and Skirt, full coat,
roll collar, finished self buttons and belt ; in Fawn or
Mole 55/-
Similar design, No. 133, Black or Navy Cloth,
without buttons on collar 65/-
No. 443. — Costume of Mole Gabardine, button-
ing high to neck, with deep turned-down collar, pleated
back, finished ball buttons and strappings, skirt eased
at back with shaped belt £5/19/6
No. 013.—New Design Coat tffcd Skirt, in
Covert Suiting, new panel back, large, revers,
straps and self buttons, skirt finished shaped belt at
waist; Fawn shades only £6/6/-
Similar styles in Black and Navy Serge, No. 257 , 59 /6
Fine Serge, Black or Navy, No. 4101 .... 90/-
Cloth, Black or Navy, No. 1816 42/-
Face Cloth, Navy, N0.'339 £5/15/6
Tweed, Grey shades only, No. 1819 52/6
Covert Coating, Grey, Fawn, Navy, No. 322 . 95/-
Gabardine, Fawn, Mole, No. 265 39/6
Gabardine (Cotton), Brown, No. 4121 35/-
Gabardine, Covert shades, No. 256 55/-
Tw’eed, Grey, No. 4161 55/-
No. 415. —Tailored Costume, in Navy or Black
Coating Serge, coat has Fur collar, self revers,
double belt, box pleats on hips, plain, high-waisted full
skirt £5/10/6
No. 811.—Stylish Costume of Gabardine, new
long Coat, panel back, pleated at sides, smart collar
and cuffs of Black Musquash Fur; in Mole, Nigger,
Fawn or Saxe £B/8/-
Also in extra out-sizes, in Mole or Nigger, waist measure
32in. to 38in £9/9/-
m
FX6O
No. Fxss. —Coat Frock (as
illustrated), in Heavy Navy
Serge, flared, belted and patch
pockets.
Sizes 26in. 28in. 30in. 32in.
17/11 18/6 18/11 19/6
No. FxGO. —Woollen Cardigan Jacket (as
illustrated). Grey, Brown, Saxe, Cream and
Navy, fitting child 2 to 5 years.
Sizes 16in. ISin. 20in.
11/6 12/6 12/11
No. Fx6l. —Woollen Sweaters, Saxe,
Brown, Cream and Navy, fitting ■ child 2 to 7
years.
Sizes 16in. 18in. 20in. 22in.
8/11 10/6 12/11 14/11
No. Fxs7. —Woollen. Sweaters, Cream,
Grey, Brown, Heather and Navy.
Sizes 18in., 20in. 6/6; 22in., 24in., 27in. 6/11
No. Fxsl. —Coat Frock, in Navy Serge,
deep collar, girdled with Self material.
Sizes 24in. 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in. 39in.
22/6 23/6 24/6 25/6 27/6 29/6
No. Fx46.—Coat Frock, in Amazon
Cloth, box pleated from small yoke, high
belted.
Sizes 26in. 28in. 30in., 32in. 34in., 36in. 38in.
19/11 21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6
Ik
M
874
Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


William Adams & Company Ltd.
Engineering Works,
125 George Street, Redfern, Sydney.
For First-class Machine Work
we claim equality with the best imported articles.
' J ■ . - w
lOin. Centre Lathe Manufactured at
our Redfern Works.
A Sample of our High-grade Work.
Our shops are equipped with modern tools and
prepared with modern methods for dealing
expeditiously with all high-class repetition work.
Oil Engines, Machine Tools. Gear Cutting, etc.
William Adams & Company Ltd.
Sydney:
175 Clarence Street.
Melbourne:
, ,• . ( : -
521-523 Collins Street.
Brisbane:
Edward and Mary Streets.
Perth:
33-35 King Street.
Adelaide:
98 Currie Street


IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Mdlin's
Food
Messrs. Mellin’s Food Ltd., London, desire
to inform the public that, in consequence of
Government prohibition and difficulties of
export from the United Kingdom, they have
made complete arrangements with their
American branch factory for a continuance
of shipments of Mellin’s Food to Australia.
Mellin’s Food as manufactured in America
is of the same standard composition and
quality, is prepared from the same formula,
and is in every way identical with the English
article.
Stocks of American-manufactured Mellin’s
Food have reached Australia, and Dealers and
the Public can now be assured of adequate
supplies.
All enquiries and requests for samples and
literature to
GOLLINg'CO. PTY.LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
dsg
MADE BY
- MAC NIVEN & -
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
“they come as A BOON 4 A blessing'to men,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.’
“De Reszkes,” by
Jove ! What luck !
Cigarettes are the only home
comfort a man can enjoy on
Active Service. Why not send
your friend a regular supply of
“De Reszkes”— he's worthy of
the very best. Buy some on
your way home. Post the parcel
with your own hands —
then you know they will
reach him safely.
Sold Everywhere
ft
2
D*KeszKe
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA..
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand-
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured. All
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Randwick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
CELEBRATED
K
*
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain, it is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
r ' aid In packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef. 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [t
For Line Shafting,
Machine Tools,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling and
Factory Equip-
ment, etc., etc.
dsg
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
I-
s-
\J
mr
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The SKF Self-aligning Ball-bearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
Chief Agents and Ball-Bearing Specialists,
BRANCHES—
MELBOURNE-
Office, 384 City Road, S. Melbourne
Showroom, 36!) Flinders Street.
SYDNEY . .
BRISBANE
. 225 Clarence Street.
. . . 307 Queen Street.
. Xhe
PRICE’S
Haying:
ticks??)
Vou secure Lather
thats Jragranf
Lather that lasts.
PRICE’S, London.
mm.
PRICES
LONDON
Liverpool, Manchester, Glasgow,
2
%
itnfflHnnniniißiii
Extra Strong for
the Extra Strain
More rubber than in any other motor cycle tyre.
Same quality of materials as in Firestone Automo-
bile Tyres. You will know them by the red side
wall, black tread —a stunning combination.
'Presfotte
Motor Cycle Tyres
possess great endurance because of the “extras”
which Firestone specialists “build in” to them. The
favorite tyre with the riders of the world because of
their great wear resisting qualities, built-in extras and hand-
some appearance. They represent the topmost value in tyres,
and meet the most exacting demands of the riders of the world.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander ifair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Frkser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing: Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garage 9
Write for Illustrated Literature
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Magic Fiddler.
Oh, where are you leading me, fiddler of
mine,
With the tink and the clink of your little
gold strings?
My heart is adream on a bubble of wine,
And the lip of my cup has been kissed by a
king’s.
My senses are singing a fairyland song
To your music of mirth, and I cannot keep
still.
Oh, my feet beat a dance as you lead me
along
With your “Follow me, follow me over the
hill.”
What light on the water! What joy in the
air!
The stars are all nodding and keeping in
time;
And slim little evening with one shoulder
bare
Is running with bracelets and anklets
achime.
How glad are the glow-worms that light
the green wood!
And see what a feast at the tree’s mossy
root!
White nuts and brown spices and cinnamon
good
And blossom bells brimming with pink
pixie fruit!
On, on ! I will follow you over the way
By red rosy walls and the old rustic mill;
For my heart knows all tunes that your
fiddle can play,
As it knows all the laughter that twilight
can spill.
I cannot come back, for those little tunes
press
As close as the grass and the star-song
above —
Oh, it all comes of wearing a fairy-green
dress
And drinking sweet wine from a white cup
of love!
N.s.w.
ZORA CROSS.
In Green and Blue.
Green is for tired eyes,
Blue for a long thought;
Old and very wise
Are the lessons the sky taught.
But folly lives in the green;
And the green for me
Under the rustling sheen
Of a laughing tree.
Sea that is very blue
As I look from the hill,
Old and wise are you
When the winds are still;
Old and wise am I
When my heart is slow;
I have looked at the old sky,
And I know—l know.
Sea that is very
In the lapping pool,
Close have I looked and seen,
Where the weeds are cool,
How the dimpled folly goes
In laughter and sighs,
Rippling the water that knows
More than the wise.
Sky that is very blue,
if my heart could stand
And look at the heart of you
From the highest land,
Would I find green folly there
Laughingly rise
Through the pools of the dimpled air
That seem too wise?
Green is for merry heart,
Blue for a long thought;
Would ye tear with a word apart
The lesson the world taught?
Blue and green of fine weather!
God bless the laughter and sighs
That go always together
In the heart of the wise!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Our Jim.
The lean years pinched ; the lean years went,
' An’ fat" years came on laggard wing.
Misfortunes saw their savin’s spent,
Yet dad an’ mum knew how to sing
Of golden hopes that loomed ahead,
But now —but n0w....0ur Jim is dead!
Mum braves the shafts of Sorrow well,
But dad is droopin’ like a flower.
Big Jim—his pride! Hot tears trill well
Into his eyes.. . .to see him cower
Makes cry in’ catchin’. My! we dread
To talk aloud since Big Jim’s dead !
When our Jim went, dad worked the farm,
Though he’d retired a goodly span.
“Hard graft,” he said, “will never harm
A willin’ an’ a healthy man.”
Of course we humored this kind whim —
For dad was doin’ it for Jim!
Dad has lost heart —he’s quite convinced
That all he’s done is labor lost;
Though hard the graft, he never winced
About the worry or the cost.
’Cos Jim was fightin’ o’er the foam,
An’ he mus’ see the harvest home!
Mum braves the shafts from Sorrow’s bow,
But dad is wiltin’ like a tree
That’s ringbarked. . . .Nearby days may show
That it’s within Fate’s grim decree
To send ol’ dad —a whilom whim —
Out west, a wingin’ after Jim!
VICTORIA.
RITA SUNYASEE.


mm*
H
m
v
&
*4
S^x.
COAL LOADING AT. PORT KEMBLA, N.S.W.
RUBBER CONVEYOR
1
In connection with the Government’s proposal
for the BULK HANDLING OF WHEAT, the
keynote of the whole idea is the use of a series of
Rubber Belts for the. conveyance of wheat from
the trucks to the vessels loading nearby.
Mining, Industrial and Manufacturing concerns
with vast handling and transport "problems to solve
are making the utmost use of Rubber Belfs.
Perdriau Belts are in general use and giving
entire satisfaction throughout Australia.
Our illustration shows a section of the Rubber
Belts loading coal at Port Kembla. These belts
were manufactured by us and are said to be the
largest endless Rubber Belts in the world. They
load coal into vessels at a rate of over 600 tons per
hour. • .
Full particulars and prompt attention to all
inquiries.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
ALL STATES.
SAVE THAT
HORSE!
It is unwise to risk losing or ill-using a good animal through haphazard or rough
methods. Drop us a line. We will send you FIIEE our instructive catalogue of
DENYER’S VETERINARY SPECIALTIES.
They embrace the very latest, most reliable, safe and humane instruments and
appliances for the correct treatment of your stock. They include the well-known
Denyer Emasculators, also Mouth Gags, Drench Bits, Tooth Rasps, eto., etc. There
are also all instruments for the better, easier and safer treatment of Cattle, Sheep,
Dogs or Poultry. Write to-day. A small amount goes a long way towards a
» complete kit. -
Y
m
n o
DENVER BROS.
.the VET
HOUSE
£O.l GEORGE 5T
SYDNEY
Round Australia with Rex Goods
;.; v j>s
-. The Lawn & Pier
' • SI Kilda - Vic.
'f HP
A Fine, Sunny
Afternoon
A walk along the esplanade
where the fresh salt breezes
from the bay bring a healthful
bloom to the cheeks and give a zest to the appetite—then
home, and tasty sandwiches of
“REX’'
Luncheon Cheese
with a cup of hot tea. "Rex" Cheese has a spicy piquancy
of flavor which is voted by connoisseurs superior to all other
brands. Its creamy consistency makes it easy to spread,
and eliminates all waste.
The process of maturing takes much longer in "Rex” Lunch-
eon Cheese than usual, thus it aids digestion and. is never
harmful.
For sandwiches, or on biscuits, there is nothing so tasty as
‘Rex” Luncheon Cheese.
Sold by all Grocers in air-tight tins.
Be sure you get "Rex” brand.
Also try "REX” HAM PATE, and "REX”
VEAL AND TONGUE PATE for Sand-
wiches. They are made from the choicest
meats, by the "Rex” Chefs.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.,
Packers of "Rex” Pure Food Products.
Curers of "Rex” Hams and Bacon.
J. 208
AL.34.
S..Q-M& a* s
GOODRICH
Full-size
Safety “ BAREFOOT” Tyres
FEEL STRONGER. ARE STRONGER.
The Safety Tread on Goodrich Full
. Size Tyres is made of a very unusual,
secret and exclusive Compound,
which is called “ BAREFOOT
Rubber.
“ BAREFOOT’ Rubber tells you
of its superiority. Black Treads of
the new BAREFOOT’ Rubber,
which is stretchy as a rubber-band —
close grained as flint—and so tough
that it gives the maximum amount
of mileage with a minimum of wear.
Get to know this wonderful Tyre —-
fit one to your car —test it yourself.
DUVAL ®. CO.
145 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
300 Adelaide St,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.-No. 1996.
THURSDAY, MAY 16, 1918.
Pbice 6d.
MARRIED SOLDIERS’ INSURANCE.
A fund is being established to insure married soldiers, with dependants.
THE CHILD: “Our daddy’s gone to the war to fight for you. Will you help us if he gets killed?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White >lan.”
.Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Miisgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, TO ANT
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Post free to ant address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum. ■
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
nil Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, sap, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications lor return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending _ MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or ivash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, liudgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egtpt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Tloung; Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Cetlon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros,, Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord llowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise; Soz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Sid.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, hoz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
THURSDAY, MAY 16, 1918.
TRUTH AND DEMOCRACY.
The foundation of democracy is truth. The
theory that the mass of individual citizens
working together at the problems of State
will do the right thing and the wise thing is
dependent upon each individual citizen know-
ing the whole truth about the matters with
which he has to deal. The present war is,
in the minds of the citizens of the Allied
nations engaged in it, a struggle between
democracy and military autocracy; but, in
waging it, democracy has been so ill-advised
that it has for the greater part failed to use
its most important weapon. In a word,
fighting for democracy, it has allowed those
in temporary authority to become autocratic,
and, in doing so, has failed to come to the
real test as between system and system.
■* * * *
Never since the days of the Saxon kings
has England been, democratic. From age to
age despotic sovereigns permitted small sec-
tions of the people to have a say in the con-
trol of public affairs. At the close of the
seventeenth century —after one king had lost
his head and another had been compelled to
sprint from his crown —Parliament in Eng-
land represented only a small minority of
the people; and by the middle of the
eighteenth century, owing to the movements
of population, which created “rotten
boroughs,” half the seats of the Commons
were in the pockets of a few wealthy men.
Then the franchise began to be organised
and extended on a more decent plan; but
meantime a system of party government had
come into existence which destroyed all the
democratic effect of the organisation and
extension. Never at any time have the
people of England had a real say in the
government of England. Always that gov-
ernment has been in the hands of clique
and class; and while some theory of democ-
racy was always preached by the crowd-
flattering aspirant to Parliament, the sub-
stance was never there, in that the people
were never told the whole truth or allowed
to exercise their alleged powers beyond a
mere choice between those in power and
those who wanted to be in power. Once in
seven years or less John Hodge was taken
to the poll to vote for one party or the other
—that was the sum total of the exercise of
John’s alleged democratic rights. When
his vote was cast Parliament took no
more notice of him than it did of the turnips
in the field; and there Was never any idea
that he should be told about anything that
was going on. But party politics blinded
not only John Hodge; it kept the bandage
tight over the eyes of most of the big players
of the game itself. Something appeared in
print, something was reported in Parliament;
but the main art of statecraft lay in getting
at a fragment of the truth lying behind all
the semi-truth which was, in effect, false-
hood. The system was not democratic, nor
open, nor fair to the people or their leaders;
but always there remained the hope that by
the slow Brjtish mode of reform real democ-
racy based on truth and knowledge would
grow out of it.
* * ■* *
When the great war arrived, Britain
entered it with a whoop for democracy.
Another nation which had got 'into much
closer grips with the realities of popular
government was there standing on the defen-
sive against autocratic power. Democracy
was the winning word, just as it had been
at the hustings; and it was used for all it
was worth in urging the essential rightness
of the British cause. Nobody need doubt
that that cause was right, and that the Ger-
man force compelled the Allies to take the
stand they did ; but democracy became more
and more a sham as the war rolled on its
calamitous way. To the statesman of the
hour it seemed out of the question to light
autocracy with the weapons of democracy.
With the cry of democracy on their lips
they proceeded to create the stiffest sort of
despotism and to wage war in the enemy’s
way, while the people who did the bleeding
and put up the cash were kept in practical
darkness as to the course of events. It was,
of course, expected that this doing of evil
that good might come of it would be crowned
with success; and in politics success is held
to justify everything. But the success has
not come; and, on latest information, a kind
of fury has taken possession of that portion
of the alleged democracy which in the ranks
of the army is face to face with the real, red,
ruthless foe, that facts should have been so
perverted or obscured by the people in
power. Whatever political upheavals may
result, the crisis of British history seems to
have arrived; and, win or lose, a real democ-
racy may emerge from the war-smoke. The
German guns began in 1914 to batter roads
to the east and west on which Imperialism
might make its triumphant march. The
effect on the east was to break Imperialism
into little pieces; and now in the west a.
similar result is being arrived at. In Berlin-
itself democracy is yowling between hunger-
pangs for recognition; and it is pretty clear
that, in London, truth, which is the sole
foundation on which a true democracy can
be built, is going to be insisted upon with
some violence. Only in Australia is the
autocracy created by the war in the name of
democracy tolerated with complete meek-
ness ; which means, in the plainest of terms,
that only in Australia is the Prussian idea
holding its own. Our alleged Win-the-War
policy brushes the people aside as an utterly
negligible quantity.
* •* * *
Yet the chances are that true democracy
could have thumped the Kaiser to a stand-
still before this. A democratic army is not
by any means the unheard-of thing that a
few big-hats suppose. Such an army was
seen in England 270 years ago. It had little
discipline except on the field; it chose its
own leaders; it discussed with its officers
the conduct of campaigns, and did all sorts
of military abominations; but it never lost a
battle , and it set every throne in Europe
trembling in fear lest it should cross Dover
Strait. Similarly, the first armies of the
Involution, though small, badly munitioned
and often very much put of hand, kept the
game going in a fashion that a few years
later made the achievements of Napoleon
possible. That army had only a. rude hint
of democracy about it—a lot of the old ser-
vility remaining as an aftermath of the
Bourbon serfdom —but such democracy as it
had, with the enthusiasm which democracy
roused, made it a solid fighting institution.
At any rate, whatever may be the needs of
the army in the way of order and discipline,
and whatever the chances of our present
armies winning, the thing behind the armies
must revert to plain democracy if victory is
to be real and lasting. On present appear-
ances, there is a fair chance of Germany
emerging from the struggle with a large
measure of political freedom, while the Allied
nations win through to success and find
their former freedom gone. That result, in
all but name, would be a Prussian war-lord’s
victory.
* * * *
Let us get down to plain bedrock in con-
sidering this matter. Truth is the only
foundation on which a democracy can stand;
therefore any person who obscures or per-
verts truth is opposed to the cause for which
the Allies are fighting. People begin to real-
ise that in London; and the realisation is
going to make a lot of difference to the big-
hats who stand in the road of war-efficiency.
Let us realise it here in Australia. It is the
Australian people who are in this war. who
do the paying and the bleeding and the
weeping. Our armies are under an outside
control, and must take the place dictated in
the great fighting machine; but the people at
home have a right to their democratic free-
dom resting on democratic truth. We do
not believe that the Kaiser can beat our
democracy; why should a lot of much
smaller people be allowed to tread on us? If
that question is pushed outside practical
politics now. we may reach a crisis before
many years in which it will arise with jagged
force to hurt somebody.
RECONSTRUCTION.
The war has hurried Australia on to a
point that might have taken half a century
to reach under the conditions of peace. The
Federal system as we know it has been a
failure. It is not a question now whether it
should be changed, but what the nature of
the change shall be. The load of debt on the
nation’s shoulders and the immense new
expenditure the people will have to provide
for apart altogether from the debt, make it
impossible to continue the Fourteen Houses
of Parliament lunacy and a duplication of
responsibilities and effort in almost every
direction. Either there must be a national
Parliament, with a reconstruction of the
States for purposes of local government and
administration, or Australia must go back
to the old divisions or something like them
and abandon the idea of becoming a united
nation. The latter choice would be a
calamity. But the prevailing waste and
muddle means calling tenders for the same
thing.
* * * *
In the days before Federation the idea of
unification got a poor hearing, partly
because many people believed that it was put
forward with the intention of hamstringing
the Federal movement and for the rest
because it looked impossible to get
agreement on the subject. But the
arguments that carried force then are
not the arguments that come . forward
now. In those times the controversy
was in the main speculative and dealt with
what might be. In these times there is the
experience gained in 18 years of a hybrid
system, which has worked out in a way
almost wholly different from what was ex-
pected. The results are to be seen in a
growth of the cost of government to a figure
which turns the hopes of an older time into
ridicule; in debts that are mountainous; in
extravagances almost unbelievable; in taxes
imposed by rival authorities without regard
for one another or the taxpayer; in an over-
lapping of legislation and administration; in
squabbling over this, that and the other; in
dodge, confusion and waste of effort, time,
opportunity and money. National policies
are neglected. The Federal Parliament works
with one eye on the State Parliaments and
the other on the State ballot-boxes —even in
carrying on the war. For their part when
the State Premiers met in Sydney this week
the first thing they talked about was the
intrusion of Federal legislation and expendi-
ture upon the States. Most of what they had
to say was perfectly right. The absurdity of
it all can be seen by anyone, just as a blind
man can see the folly of an arrangement
which to achieve this end maintains numer-
ous Parliaments, gives eacli of them unlimited
power to waste the public assets and makes
the wretched citizen pay two bills instead
of one.
* * * *
It had for a long time been fairly clear that
under any conditions there was only a remote
hope of the people and politicians thinking
in terms of Australia so long as the" States
and Commonwealth remained in the rela-
tionship established by the Federal Consti-
tution. The enthusiasms generated by the
establishment of the Commonwealth were
beginning to evaporate under the influence
of a parochialism even more sinister than
prevailed originally. Political parties in the
Federal Legislature were becoming in a.
sense mere branches of the State Parlia-
ments, and the hope that the abler minds
would be drawn into the Federal arena had
ceased to be seriously held anywhere outside
of Melbourne. The double-barrelled system
had commenced to react upon itself with con-
sequences disastrous to the political thought
and national ambitions of the people. And
if the war has done nothing else for Aus-
tralia it has at least shown the community
the futility of the plan the nation has been
working on. But in showing this the war
has done something else. It has laid the
foundation of economic conditions which will
compel a change of method. Australia will
soon be faced with the naked realities of a
struggle for existence. Waste and shirk and
extravagance will be crimes against the
people, if they be then possible, which is
doubtful, for at rock-bottom these disasters
in the past have only been the results of the
casualness and demoralisation caused by
flinging unearned millions about for the
people to scramble for. Unification offers
a way out; and the sooner the States begin
to find where they stand on this matter the
better weather they will make in the rough
times to come. The war cannot go on
indefinitely. "When it ends all the old
problems of production and population and
trade and labor and taxation will be on the
table, each bigger and more urgent than
before. The prevailing system failed _us
yesterday. It would land us in the ditch
to-morrow. It is a painful truth that a
State could do better for itself working lone-
handed than tangled up with five others in
the prevailing confusion. But to allow
them all to work lone-handed would
mean national suicide. The. real job before
Australia is to make Australia a reality, and
the only way to start will be to cut out all
the lumber that was left in by mistake when
the contract started.
THE IRISH ANSWER.
Dear Bulletin, —The Irish Question has
long been an exasperation and a thorn in
the flesh, just like the Eastern Question, and
the Balkan Question, and the Chinese Ques-
tion (if it is still alive), and the Woman
Question (whatever that may be). It is
large, long, persistent and not easy to define,
and the Irish Answer, which is always com-
ing to hand, never proves satisfactory. Now
I beg respectfully to submit my theory. It
consists in the withdrawal of the British
garrison—not so much the armed and uni-
formed garrison, which doesn’t matter to
any extent, but the other one The trouble,
it seems to me, only began to look incurable
when the other ope came to Erin to stay.
It is an irreconcilable element, and even if
it has the best intentions, which it probably
hasn’t, for hardly anybody has, that doesn’t
improve the case. A great deal _of the
world’s damage is done by people with good
intentions. I allude of course to the Presby-
terian and in a small degree Methodist
colony, which dwells so loudly in a corner of
Ulster. The Anglican settlers, though they
date back further, have made far less dis-
turbance, perhaps because they take their
creed less seriously, while the other folk are
in deadly earnest, and are a cause of earnest-
ness among their neighbors.
Britain has had bigger complications, but
none that could make more row for its size.
Consider a few examples:—
When the Romans came to Britain they were
people of a new race, a new language and a new
religion. Also, what was a great drawback, they
o>ved allegiance to an outside Power. But the
language difficulty and the racial difficulty were got
over. As for the religious discrepancy, the Roman
went on the simple principle that any old faith was
much the same as any other old creed. Provided it
didn’t include human sacrifices or treason against the
emperor, he was willing to give it house-room among
his own gods. He ran a boarding-house for gods.
He held it as the respectable thing for each man to
belong to the catechism of his ancestors, and believed
that no temple, provided it was any sort of a gentle-
man, should throw bricks at any other temple. His
greatest Objection to the Early Christians was that
they were savagely disrespectful to Jupiter, and that
they invented a hot place for G'.esar to go to unless
he became one of them. As regards the domination
of Rome, a time came when a Briton could become
C,esar just like anybody else provided there was a
vacancy and he got there first. That alleviated the
position. The Roman was a Superior Person, but he
wasn’t a bad specimen as the times went.
The Saxon was a beastly Superior Person. He
didn’t make England part of a foreign empire, for he
brought his throne —a whole lot of thrones —with
him, so he lacked one bad quality. But he stood for
an imported race, an imported language and an
imported worship. He got over the dislike of the
Roman-British population by practically wiping it
out.
The Norman was the most Superior Person ever
born. His religion was all right, but he had every
other disappointing feature —difference of race, differ-
ence of speech, and his foreign connection with
Normandy, and later also with Anjou, Maine, Poitou,
Aquitaine, etc. But above and beyond all other
things he was the most Bumptious Party ever born.
In the end, however, he lost his great continental
possessions, and with them the support of his con-
tinental army, and became merely a small alien
garrison in a large infuriated land.. So, perforce, he
climbed down from his pedestal by instalments and
pretended to be a human being, and became more or
less English. So the Norman Question may be said
to have settled itself.
But the Irish Question, which is now the
Corner-o£-TJlster Question, takes an awful
amount of settlement. Home reasons :
(1) The Ulster Presbyterian is a Superior Person
of the sour and unpicturesque sort. He is the Toro's
anointed, and he doesn’t forget it.
(2) He represents an intruding race.
(3) He also represents an exotic religion.
(4) At first he represented in some measure a
foreign speech.
(5) 1-Ie was, and is, backed up by a Power outside
Ireland, so that in addition to being himself, which
is bad, he is another person’s small brother and
hanger-on, which is worse. This arrangement shows
no tendency to die out as was the case with the
Normans, for the Government at London is quite
healthy. Nor is it smoothed over as was the way
with the happy-go-lucky Romans; who would have
regarded it as quite in order for an Irish officer to
assume the purple in a palace beside the Thames if
the Irish army acclaimed him and the other armies
didn’t put up more than six rival candidates.
(6) He got his footing by dispossessing native pro-
prietors, which was the orthodox proceeding. But
he lacked the halo of conquest, for his bit of land
wasn’t the prize of his own how and spear. He was
sent over as a sort of bailiff in possession; also to
some extent as an individual whom Great Britain
could do without; also as a protest against the Irish
national idea and the Irish Church.
(7) And for most of his term of residence his
privileges, as against the Catholic voter, who had no
vote; and the Catholic member of Parliament, who
wasn’t allowed in Parliament or anywhere near it;
and the Catholic landowner, who wasn’t permitted
to own any land ; and the Catholic religionist, who
was liable to penal servitude if he was found having
his own religion, were as large as those of any self-
important invader of the lot. It was self-importance
without the dignity of complete self-reliance.
The invasion was large enough to be
annoying and not large enough to be decisive.
If the new people had been like the Franks
and Goths, who did their own conquering,
set up their own metropolis in the stolen
land, and took their religion very much as
it came, the country might have felt that it
had only experienced a casual change of
figureheads. But all the conditions were
unfavorable. Most people wear their creeds
loosely buttone'd, or not buttoned at all, in
times of peace. But Catholic Ireland was
worried first by Catholic England on the
groilnd that its church was untidy and not
up to sample. Then Reformed England,
under the Tudors, started to teach it the
only true faith all of a sudden —a new true
faith which the Tudor crowd had devised
and on which the varnish was still damp.
About this time Ireland sat up and took
notice. On the heels of this visitation came,
in breathless haste, still another only true
faith, and its forerunner was a dour person
who brought his synod and his presbytery
and his catechism and later on his Covenant
in his carpet-bag. (This person even man-
aged to make his creed the established church
of England for a few years, but that is a side
issue.) He didn’t attempt to diffuse him-
self in a friendly way, but took up a strong
but aloof position in a corner of the island
as if he were a Pharisee or a fortification.
Everybody sat up in real earnest. The
bailiff grew so violently Protestant that he
couldn’t sleep at night for thinking of his
Protestantism. The bailiffed was filled with
a fervor that he had never known before.
They remain very much like that to this
day. The one can’t forget that his people
once promised to be about the greatest of
the second-class nations —lack of territory
forbade any greater ambition—and that now
they are only the remnant of a race which
has been scattered to the four winds. The
other hardly disguises the sentiment that if
the scattering could' be continued it would be
a good thing, as making more room for a
much more desirable person, in fact, the
most desirable person—to wit, himself. And
some unfortunate remark about the walls of
Derry, which have made almost as much
commotion in their time as the walls of
Babylon, happens now and then to aggravate
the case.
The matter might surely be settled if the
Presbyterians were removed to Scotland,
whence most of their ancestors came. The
community that was sent to Ireland could
be sent away again, especially considering


the improved means of transit. There are
only about 450,000 persons involved, mostly
women and children, and in these days when
Britain shifts 10 times that number of armed
men around the map the figure is relatively
unimportant. As for the cost of removal
and re-settlement and compensation for dis-
turbance. it would look a trifle to a genera-
tion which has grown accustomed to shovel-
ling out £100,000,000 of war expenses before
breakfast. A good part of Scotland is thinly
peopled and is losing population. The cli-
mate is alleged to be healthy; there are many
fine and almost untenanted harbors; the
water power is past enumeration ; and the
Solemn League and Covenant grows luxuri-
antly. With space and time and money and
more water power than anybody knows what
to do with there are the best of possibilities.
—Tours, etc-., Henry llorsecollar.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Peace “by Negotiation.”
The futile voice of Queensland Labor poli-
tician Higgs was heard last Friday
demanding peacfe by “negotiation.” The
same day it transpired that Roumania has
at last got the article that Higgs wants. It
is to abolish its army—all but 30,000 men.
It is to pay all the expenses of a large Ger-
man force which will be permanently sta-
tioned in the country to supervise the collec-
tion of the output of wheat, meat, oil and
sundries and their export to Germany and
Austria, the miserable country receiving no
assurance of payment. It is to freely admit
German and Austrian products; to admit
Hun warships to its ports and rivers ; to
give up part of its territory, while the rest
is governed by German, Austrian, Bul-
garian and Turkish officials. Also it is to
pay an impossible indemnity and obey any
further orders which it may receive. That
is the fate of the country which got the Hun
peace that Higgs recommends so cordially.
Yet the utterly crushed little nation which
has got Higgs’s tranquillity didn’t come into
the war voluntarily. It simply received a
postcard from the Hun telling it that neu-
trality wasn’t allowed; that it must put its
army under Hun control as an instrument
for the butchery of Serbs and other Allies
and lend the Hun all its resources—or take
the consequences. There is also for the en-
couragement of Higgs the case of the new
republic of Finland. Like Roumania it has
bought peace by negotiation. The worst that
has happened to it is a Hun occupation, the
annexation of everything that is useful to
the Hun, the seizure by the Hun of its Cus-
toms revenue, the enrolment of its male
population in the Hun army, and the appoint-
ment of a Hun ruler.
The Lloyd George Ministry.
A letter written by General Maurice,
until lately Chief Director of Military
Operations, stirred up something like a poli-
tical earthquake in London last week.
Apparently it was a brief letter and the
point of it simple. In effect Maurice
announced that replies given by Lloyd
George and Bonar Law to recent questions
relating to (1) Haig’s fighting strength.
(2) the extension of the British line before
St. Quentin, and (3) the number of troops
in Egypt and Mesopotamia had been con-
trary to fact. The first Ministerial answer
was a statement that the Government pro-
posed to set up a judicial tribunal to in-
quire secretly into the allegations. Asquith
suggested that the matter was entirely one
for the Commons and should be investigated
by a select committee. The Ministry,
after thinking for 24 hours, abandoned the
idea of a judicial tribunal and decided to
state its defence directly to the House and
take a division. Meanwhile Asquith was
violently assailed by the Lloyd George
newspapers for conspiring with the military
to overthrow the Government, and Lloyd
George flamboyantly claimed that the
motion to appoint a committee of inquiry
was equivalent to a vote of censure. The
end of it all w r as that the vote w 7 as hurried
on before the Irish members who were over
in the distressful isle could get back to
Westminster, and the Government found
itself held up by a huge majority—293 to
106. But judging from the tone of debates
in the House of Commons during the last
few months, the enthusiasm with which
some of the newspapers turned to assail
Asquith instead of proving Lloyd George
to be beyond suspicion, and the fact that
the Commons voted in the dark, this paper
would judge that the majority is a long way
from being a true indication of wdiere the
Ministry stands. The Government is a
stop-gap, and it can be taken as certain
that unless its leader soon begins to win
the Avar he will go out. The reason the
Commons have not struck him down already
is that there is no workable alternative to
a Ministry composed of similar elements
and no other man than the vigorous little
Welshman coukl be expected to do some of
the things Avliich had to be done in the past.
But the war has not been going according
to time-table. The old Lloyd George tone
suits neither the hour nor the surrounding
circumstances, and the new tone is not
reassuring. No Government such as this
one, holding office on sufferance amid such
conditions, could possibly hope to be popular
unless it could point to unmistakable suc-
cesses in the field and in domestic adminis-
tration. This the Lloyd George Govern-
ment cannot do. It is retained, therefore,
not for its own merits, but because of the
demerits of Asquith and his gang of mili-
tary muddlers —many of them now displaced.
Asquith as leader of the Opposition is the
mainstay of Lloyd George as Prime Minis-
ter. So it comes down to this. The Com-
mons didn’t answer the question whether
George and Law are what Maurice said
they are. It simply said that it shuddered
at the very thought of Asquith back in
office.
Currency and Other Matters.
Treasurer and Acting Prime Minister
Watt threatens strong measures against
people Avho hint that the Federal currency
isn’t safe, and therein he has some justifica-
tion. The< face value of the currency is pro-
tected by a gold reserve which, on all ex-
perience, is more than ample. And so long
as a crowd which has, so far, shown neither
foresight nor serious regard for sol-
vency doesn’t get a chance to tamper with
that reserve, the paper money can’t deterio-
rate. The only disquieting feature is that
the people wdio manufacture and tolerate the
State Parliaments and Ministries do the
same for the Australian Parliament and
Ministry, and some of those State Parlia-
ments and Governments seem to skate
towards insolvency with a light heart, as
these figures show :—•
Direct Taxation per hear, largely oaving to the
FACT THAT THE “PERMANENT AND REPRODUCTIVE
Loan Works” don’t Reproduce Much.
Year to June, N.S.W. All the States.
1913 .. .. £0 15 10 £1 1 5
1911 .. ..£155 1 5 11
1915 .. .. 111 8 184
1916 .. .. 1 13 4 1 13 0
1917 .. .. 1 19 0 1 16 10
At the same rate of rushing-to-the-Devil:—
1922 .. ..322 2 12 3
1927 . . ..4 5 4 3 7 8
1932 . . ..5 8 6 4 3 1
These are not Federal war expenses, but
purely State charges, Avhich would have been
much worse if the Commonwealth hadn’t
relieved the State Governments of old-age
pensions and other unproductive expendi-
tures. The figures represent the multiplica-
tion of jobs which don’t produce any corres-
ponding revenue, but are a dead weight on
the Treasury; the lavish increase of pay
wdiere there is a political pull (teachers, for
instance, being the most scattered tribe of
public servants, haven’t much pull) ; and
the lavish investment of 5 p.c. oi’ p.c.
loan money in p.c. undertakings that buy
votes. (By increases of railway and tram-
way rates the growth of taxation has been
made rather less than it would otherwise
have been.) The last three lines of figures
show where the States may expect to get
unless they reform, Especially in the loan
business. But they can’t reform without
admitting that the policy of the past has
been hideously foolish and corrupt, which
their leaders show no sign of doing. Nor
can they reform without breaking the news
to a large and already dissatisfied crowd of
voters, some of whom already talk repudia-
tion, that they have been living in a fool’s
paradise largely of their own creation, and
that the real causes of dissatisfaction haven’t
quite commenced yet. As the possibilities of
taxation aren’t unlimited and the willing-
ness to pay taxes is far from unlimited, it
may be assumed that some at least of the
States are skidding cheerfully towards repu-
diation or default or some sort of breakage.
The moral is that as the State electors are
the same as the Federal electors, and their
policies and ideas can’t be dissociated, this
isn’t a time to be bumptious about the secur-
ity of anything—except perhaps the note
issue. That stands in a category by itself,
the only risk being that the Heaven-born
muddlers xvho have deteriorated so many
other things may find a chance to try ex-
periments with the currency also. Against
the Heaven-born muddler in powrnr there is
no guarantee.
It Must Come Out of Loans.
Mr. James (-N. S. Wales Minister for Education)
urges the finding of £500,000 to catch up arrears of
work in providing necessary school accommodation.
....This money, of course, would have to covie Out
of loans. —Sydney Telegraph.
Yes, of course, it must come out of loans.
Yet schools are not a permanent and repro-
ductive work, for nothing is permanent, and
since the abolition of fees State schools pro-
duce no income. Possibly the theory is that the
State is too lazy and shiftless and extrava-
gant and too much diseased by the long-
established borrowing habit to want to pay
its ordinary expenses out of its own ordinary
pocket. Possibly the theory is that it can’t
pay, even now when wool and meat and wheat
and minerals command almost record prices
in the world’s markets, and when paper money
is abundant, and though the past six years’
revenue has been the biggest on record —that
is to say, the revenue for the year to June,
1912, was the largest up to date, and that
for 1913 was larger, and for 1914 larger still,
and 1915 beat all its predecessors, and 1916
beat that in turn, and 1917 topped them all.
Also it is a time when the war, in a financial
sense and so far as the State Governments
are concerned, is still more of an asset than
a liability, for the States don’t pay war
expenses and they profit indirectly by 1 the
expenditure of Federal war loans. If the
Ma community under these conditions can’t
meet the cost of buildings in which to teach
the rising generation its ABC, then there isn’t
the slightest visible hope that it can meet
the school loan when it falls due, and the
poor, misgoverned, disheartened place might
as well call itself bankrupt at once. A school
loan is especially infamous, for a school, so
far from yielding revenue, is a constant
source of expenditure. It involves equip-
ment, repairs, cleaning, teachers’ salaries
and sundries. The Minister who proposes
charging items of that sort to posterity should
be disqualified for life, and the same should
happen to the members who support him;
and the papers which openly or tacitly sup-
port the proceeding should be proceeded
against under the War Precautions Act for
discouraging honesty and self-reliance, and
promoting a belief in the insolvency of the
Treasury. Still it is too much to hope that
anything of the sort will happen. The nation
has been so rotted and corrupted by the easy
habit of crawling to foreign capitalists for
the loan of a crust that probably only one
person in a hundred notices the shameful-
ness and cowardice of the business. New'
South Wales agitated most strenuously in
bygone years for the abolition of the
kid’s school fees, and when the old
man and the old woman got rid of
that trifling liability they smote their
chests and reckoned that a great thing
had been done in the cause of Liberty. In
the matter of selling the kid’s liberty to the
hungry financier neither the wretched old
man nor the unthinking old woman seems to
be in the least agitated. Perhaps Minister
James and his colleagues might consider this
question: Seeing that the revenue of their
State rose from £13,839,139 (£8 Bs. sd. per
inhabitant) in 1911 to £20,495,996 (£ll Os.
7d. per inhabitant) in 1917, and seeing that
the Government with £6,600,000 more to play'
with in the last year than the first, is less
able to find the price of a common ordinary
school now’ than it was then, how much
money per annum is needed to keep these
political Jugginses out of the ditch? So
far the rule has been that the more money
they have the more they are ditched.
Pay for the Dog and Bark Yourself.
A railway is wanted from Coonabarabran
to Burren Junction, and Ball, N.S.W.
Minister for Works, wags his coat-tails in
blessing the project, but admits that he is
helpless to carry it out. The only people
who can do it are the people who live in
the district; and if they will raise the money
the work will be pushed ahead. Again,
Webster, P.M.G., calls upon us to look
after the mail bags and see that nobody
steals them. This is getting right back to
the simplicities of primitive life. It is
putting public fueling and the public’s desire
to protect itself in place of a police system
controlled by Governments. Every man his
own policeman if you will; but every man
his own policeman while a police force is
maintained at great expense to do the work
for him is another matter. All along the
line there are indications that -our central-
ised Governments are failing. The Federal
Government advocated conscription and had
the pow'er to put it into force, yet threw the
onus of decision on the electors; and when
defeated it clung on to office and attempted
to prosecute the war without the powers
which it had declared were necessary. If
the people must do the work of Governments,
why go to the needless trouble and expense
of having the Governments at all? Every-
thing points to the conclusion that the great,
efficient democracies of the future will handle
their affairs in small sections. Centralised
government is merely a hurdle which democ-
racy must jump every time it requires to
take a step forward. After all, Attica —a
parish on the seaward spur of a Greek moun-
tain —was and is a bigger thing for all time
than that vast Imperial Russia that recently
fell in a sprawling heap. Given a thousand
new Atticas, and Australia has a chance of
greatness that, will never come through
clumsy centralisation.
♦
The Mania for “Boards.”
It is a cold day and a long wet night when
some Ministry doesn’t appoint a Board of
four or more paid members, with a salaried
president and a remunerated secretary and
some stipendiary expert assessors. The
Board inquires into and watches over the
interests of Something; and is in constant
touch with another hired Board which is
devoted to the promotion and advancement
of Almost Anything; and a third wage-earn-
ing Board which keeps an unsleeping eye on
Dashed Near Everything. These report to
a Centra] Council with a reasonable hono-
rarium, which Council collates and revises
their conclusions, and sends them to the
Government Printer to be laid before the
public annually, bound in cloth, and quite
unsaleable at 7s. 6d., though they cost
a great deal more. Information for the
enlightenment of these Boards is supplied to
a great extent by local bodies, whose special
knowledge enables them to advise bn all
matters connected with pastoral, agricul-
tural and ux-ban districts, also irrigation
areas, drainage areas, cactus-infested areas,
rabbit-haunted areas, sludge-channels and
abandoned selections. The ideal institution
of this sort has a wide range. For instance,
if its business is Spirits it naturally deals
with disembodied spirits ; bottled spirits ; and
spirits that gibber in the night, with a tele-
scopic department to see the spirit coming,
and a telephonic department to hear it gib-
ber, and a meteorological department to
ascertain what kind of night it mostly gib-
bers on, and whether it gibbers more on
Friday than any other day, and at what
stage of the moon it is most active. The
Chief of Police arrests the spirit if it has
drunk too much of itself. The Government
Architect is a paid member of the Board, his
business being to decide what kind of build-
ing is most patronised by spirits, with a
special eye to the construction of wine vaults.
The Superintendent of the Zoo and the Chief
Medical Officer are also paid members, their
business being to decide whether dogs can
see ghosts and the effect of absinthe on the
kidneys. The Chief Lunacy Officer reports
monthly on high spirits, low spirits, methy-
lated spirits (with the assistance of a house-
painter at union rates) and elementary spirits.
A special clerical, literary and political depart-
ment spreads itself on evil spirits, imported
spirits, unclean spirits, adulterated spirits
and the Spirit of Freedom; the Historical
and Pilotage Society, assisted by a ship-
captain and a diver, considers, without fee
and from purely patriotic motives, those
spirits which Owen Glen dower called from
the vasty deep; likewise the Flying Dutch-
man and Hosier’s Ghost; and the Fire
Brigade writes exhaustively on the alleged
spontaneous combustion of old people who
have been large consumers of rum. And that
is about all, except that the N. S. Wales
Cabinet, in its haste to disseminate the sur-
plus, has appointed a Board of Trade which
looks neither better nor worse than the rest.
Cocky and His Wheat Bags.
When the farmers of Australia read what
Mnjof Purcell has said about cornsacks
they will discover another reason for bless-
ing the dominating personality that has so
carefully guarded their interests. Purcell,
on remount business in India, was asked to
investigate the matter of woolpacks and
cornsacks and the steep prices thereof. Ip'
saw many jute manufacturers, who were
quite candid. There was no increase in the
cost of producing sacks, they said ; but when
the war restricted freightage the merchants
—to whom the manufacturers sold—cornered
the stocks and raked in coin. The manu-
facturers then reckoned that they might as
well have a bit too, so naturally prices
jumped still further. Major Purcell had
observed that Argentina was being supplied
with sacks at about half the rates charged
to Australia, and naturally he asked why.
The manufacturers were frank, about that,
too —Argentina got its goods at bedrock
prices because its Government dealt with
the manufacturers direct. Australia could
have done the same and might'still do so,
but its Government preferred to deal with
the merchants —and Australia had to pay for
it. These manufacturers told Major Purcell
that for two or three seasons they have not
only been willing but anxious to save the
Commonwealth over £1,000,000 by supplying
the Government direct; but the Government
decided “not to interfere with the usual
course” —the “usual course” being to put
the farmer at the mercy of all the rooks in
the world. Incidentally there were no
scruples about departing from “the usual
course” when the farmer’s wheat was com-
mandeered and put in unprotected stacks to
be the prey of mice and weevil. The scruples
only began to work when it became a ques-
tion of interfering with the other parasites.
«
Time to Look Ahead.
About the great Sea Trek: —
There is a problem waiting for the pacifists, and
the party which professes that any really serious
attempt at Defence is an outrage on “liberty,” and
those who say that all men are brothers, and that
the Devil isn’t as bad as he is painted, and for
the T.W.W. and Bolshevik folk who write so many
of the Labor manifestoes these days, and those who
say they will begin to consider the security of the
country when the capitalist or the wage system or
drink or gambling or the present artificial basis of
society is abolished, and “class-consciousness” is fully
established, and “victimisation” is a thing of the
past, and the public debt is repudiated, and every
Saturday is made a holiday. The problem is this:
What is the best place to go to if the Hun wins the
war, and takes Australia as a natural consequence?
The choice will lie between (1) staying here and losing
everything, including the. last shred of liberty and
probably life itself, and (2) getting away in a penni-
less condition and making a fresh start. Leaving out of
account the migrations of barbarous races in the long
ago, civilised peoples have done or attempted the big
trek before now. The Dutch prepared to move bodily
by sea in the worst days of the Spanish war, but the
luck turned, and that trek didn’t come off. The Boer
States were founded by a little community taking up
its bed and walking. Venice was created by refugees,
and they built so well that their republic lasted 1000
years. Three-fourths or more of the Irish nation left
home because home wasn’t a good place to live in,
and Erin became, like Jewry, a scattered people
under many alien flags. But these happenings were
in days when the world had lots of breathing space,
and some of them were in days when No Man’s Land
could be found round the next corner. The Boers
had a handy land refuge, which we haven’t. The Irish,
the Venetians and the Dutch could find abundant
shipping, which we can’t. Yet there will be the neces-
sity to adjourn somewhere somehow if things go
wrong. The Hun knows by his small experiments in
Schleswig-Holstein, Poland and Alsace-Lorraine that
he isn’t the kind of ruffian that subject populations
take kindly to, and that they are a constant worry and
danger. He makes no disguise of his intention to
prevent the danger growing to overwhelming dimen-
sions, and the only way is by thinning out future
annexed races and keeping them thinned out. There-
fore, if they want to live, the pro-Huns who oppose
Australian defence, openly or otherwise, should look
ahead for once and think about their future place
of residence.
♦
Ireland and the War.
Ruraidii O’Conor: “Plain Australian,”
after making the statement that Australians
don't care a damn about the Irish question—
a remark which is refuted in every issue of
every daily newspaper in the Commonwealth
- —asks what is going to happen if the Boche
licks England. I don't profess to be any
sort of prophet, and the question does not
affect the real issue; but the Boche hasn’t
licked England yet and doesn’t look like
doing it. Still, as “Plain Australian” is so
deeply interested in the matter he doesn’t
The People’s Offensive.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Labor leaders of Britain are not for a
separate peace. Their whole procedure is to organise
a common front; and to do it, not as they believe
the Governments had done prior to President Wil-
son's initiative, by arriving at the least common
multiple of their several ambitions, but by cleaving
through to what are the great common denominators
of democratic purpose.— Paul Kellogg on ‘‘The
Uritish Labor Offensive.’’
Kings had . their small ambitions. These
are gone.
Seldom their dreams soared higher than the
sweep
01 some large sword on which the white sun
shone
Gilding its bloodied edge. But we shall reap
In broader harvest-fields where faith makes
good
Above the shock of battle red and rude.
War is upon us as a rolling flood;
But not as sheep for slaughter are we sent.
Ours the chief price to pay in tears, and
blood—
Our graves fill a tormented continent—
But for the pure tears wept, the true blood
shed
We shall take vengeance worthy of the dead.
This is our Revolution. In the storm
Shall all thrones shake to their last tinsel
shine.
The Song of Hate is prelude to reform.
The guns’ loud blasphemy a voice divine;
This is the People’s war, and through the
smoke
Of battle-torment breaks the age-old yoke.
Not an imperial triumph, not the lean,
Poor promise of a victory in trade
Shall satisfy us when our eyes have seen
The new sun rise, the old lamps break and
fade;
But through the rolling clouds of dust and
fire
We march to touch the goal of Man’s desire.
Bet the wheels turn ! Stand to your post of
toil!
Give of your [jest! The long dark breaks in
light.
The feet of Labor stand on ransomed soil;
‘Tis Labor that shall triumph in the fight.
Above the wreck of Thtngs-tha t-Are we see
The flaming banner of the days to be.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


INSURANCE of FARM and STATION PROPERTY.
The Farmer, when he sets out to purchase new machinery, selects what he considers will give him the best service. The Farmer and Pastoralist should also
decide the placing of their insurance business by a similar test.
Whicli Insurance Company Offers the Best Service?
Undoubtedly
T*l e Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
A Co-operative insurance Company owned by Farmers and Pastoralists .
The Company offers absolute protection against all risks at current rates.
Its profits are the sole property of co-operators —the men whose business created the profits, and who thus obtain their insurances at absolute cost price.
The Company was established solely in the interests of the nrimary producer, and its staff are specialists in all branches of insurance affecting agricultural and
pastoral property and products.
NOTE. On July 1 the Company will occupy more commodious premises at 129 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Present Head Office: 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
give a damn about, there may be a means of
arriving at a fair guess as to the probable
result in the event of things going wrong
with the Allied arms. In 1169 there was a
Teuton invasion of Ireland as an aftermath
of the conquest of England by the Boche of
those days. That Boche in the matter of
arms, equipment and organisation had a
greater advantage over the Irish native sol-
diery than the German of to-day could have
over any voluntary armies raised in Ireland.
So terrific was the invader in his heavy
armor that the Irishman, accustomed to
another mode of fighting, was absolutely
unable to hurt him in any way at nil, while
he could butcher the peasantry and lay waste
the country to his heart’s content. He did
butcher and lay waste; but the Irishman in
spite of his sufferings and agonies still kept
standing erect. The conquest of Ireland
was regarded as complete on the occasion
of Prince John’s visit in 1185; but in 1885,
exactly 700 years later, there was only one
small corner in the north-east of the country
where outside an armed fort the English flag
could be raised or the English national
anthem sung. If Irishmen under the fright-
ful handicap of lack of arms stood upright
against the first Teuton invader for 700
years, “Plain Australian” needn’t worry
too much about how erect they would stand
in the event of a second invasion. As to the
statement that plain Australians don’t give
a damn about Ireland and its affairs, it is
worth noting that one-third of the plain
Australians in this Commonwealth are of
Irish descent; and if “Plain Australian”
happens to belong to the Teuton element,
that is hardly a reason for assuming that
the people round him don’t care. The
real tragedy, in which all the thinking world
is interested, is that when a world-war is
being waged for the principles for which
Ireland has stood through all the centuries,
the bitter mismanagement of English rulers
has prevented the weight of a nation that
never shirked the test of a fight being thrown
into the great struggle.
+
Official Dope—and a Protest.
A long rigmarole from the Secretary of
State for the Colonies, introduced with the
explanation that it “gives official news of the
operations on the West Front,” was printed
in Australian newspapers on Tuesday.
Allegedly the despatch was transmitted to
the Governor-General for the information of
the Federal Government. Actually—or, at
any rate, this paper assumes it to be the
true explanation —the despatch was sent out
for propaganda purposes, though what the
propagandist had in his mind Heaven alone
knows. The net effect of the farrago is to
make the Minister responsible for it. seem
like nothing so much as a rooster trying to
outcrow the poultry at Berlin. The story
is barren of anything dimly resembling infor-
mation. Boiled down, it is that the Allies
are giving the enemy beans, that the Iluns
are on the verge of quarrelling among them-
selves, that Ludendorff’s reserves are near-
ing complete exhaustion, that the time is
drawing closer when his defeat is inevitable,
that he is working “feverishly,” that the
Allies have complete confidence, that Focii
is using the French reserves with masterly
skill and Germany is drained of re-
sources. Turned upside down this is exactly
what the German is also saying. Further, it
is what some of the British newspapers and
most of the “experts” have been saying every
day for over three years. Some of it may
be true, if heavily discounted. But it is all
as stale as week-old mutton, and the general
effect of it a gross perversion of the situa-
tion it pretends to deal with. So far from
giving a picture of the position on the
Western Front capable of reconciliation with
recent events and current happenings, it is a
mere exercise' in the gentle art of camouflage
and an insult to the intelligence of the public.
When Australian citizens are told one moment
that their duty is to secure the enlistment of
every man capable of bearing arms and are
“officially” doped the next with bombastic
certitude about victory, the time is ripe for
someone or other to knock off. In most earnest
protestation The Bulletin puts it to the
Governor-General that further instalments of
this mischievous trash should be pushed back
to where they come from, with an intimation
that Australians are neither fools nor chil-
dren. The German may fail in his offensive.
This paper fervently hopes that he. will.
But nobody with the brains of a rabbit can
fail to see that he is making a stupendous
effort and that the British and French
armies are facing terrible trials. Nonsense
about the German being exhausted and all
the rest of it long ago became a sickening
substitute for the cold truth that the war is
shaking the Allies to the boots, and that all
hands are wanted on the job. The exploits
of the German armies, the fate of Poland,
Russia, Roumania and Servia, the tone
of the Reichstag and the attitude of
the Radical press behind the Rhine are all
against, the theory that the German yet feels
himself to be on the last lap. The best that
can be said is that the Allies in the West
have fought with superb courage against
an enemy still powerful and resolute, and
that the longer they can continue to hold
him down the better will be the chances of
resisting a made-in-Germany peace. Until
he is convinced that the Channel ports and
Paris are beyond his grasp he will keep on
fighting; and after everything has been said
he is certainly not convinced on that point
yet. Meanwhile recent activities by the
Navy at Ostend and Zeebrugge have been
cheerful to hear about. Over in Russia the
crop of chaos appears to be giving a record
yield. Apparently the Germans are simply
seizing one place after another as quickly as
they can shift around the landscape. So far
the only thing the Bear seems to have got
out of the revolution is a kick at either end.
If the German could find a third extremity
the poor beast would get it there, too.
Always the Nark.
A big thing in its way is the musical part-
nership which is being finalised by the Con-
ference in Sydney this week. When the
Universities got together in Melbourne in
1006 for the local jubilee, they discussed
joining to combat the English bodies which
examine here in music, and take thousands
of pounds out of the country every year. It
was arranged that Melbourne and Adelaide,
the only two with Chairs of Music, should
do the examining. Hobart supported the
scheme warmly from the first, and Brisbane
and Perth have done so since they came into
existence. Sydney was the Nark. Sydney
Uni. did not and does not teach music, and
was not proposing to play second fiddle to
the others which did and do. So the Uni-
versity scheme has all along had to battle
without the support of one of Australia’s
chief universities, and this has naturally
barred its claim to be a thoroughly Feder-
ated affair. Now that N. S. Wales has a
Conservatorium of Music, that body repre-
sents the Ma State, and the whole six are
at last federated for musical purposes. It
is still not quite a University federation,
Sydney Uni. being outside, but at any rate
it represents all Australia. The English
examining bodies can now fairly be asked
to withdraw, just as Oxford and Cambridge
withdrew from examining in ordinary sub-
jects when satisfied that Australia’s stan-
dard was high enough for educational pur-
poses. The standard here in music is now
high also, so there can be no valid reason
why they should remain. If they do we
shall have to educate Australia tQ view them
as mere fee-grabbers.
—
An important advance in Australian steel-
manufacture was assured by the Tramways
Conference held the other week, when the
engineers of various trusts from all the
States met to agree on the adoption of a
standard Australian rail. Up to now all
the tramway rails have been imported in
various sizes and styles. There was the
girder rail, with a narrow groove for the
wheel flange, used in N. S. Wales. The
Adelaide and Melbourne rails differed from
one another, and both were declared to be
better than the Sydney importation. Bris-
bane has the American standard rail. The
Conference decided on a uniform pattern
for all the States, so that Australian manu-
facturers can specialise on the one type
instead of dissipating on various types all in
limited demands. The object of the Confer-
ence was, practically, to establish a new
Australian industry, and one weeps over the
natural pathos of the Melbourne Argus re-
port of the gathering. Said that organ of
foreign-trade:—•
Another aspect related to the difficulty that exists,
owing to the war, in obtaining steel rails from
abroad. It was thought that for some time in the
future, at any rate, tramway rails would have to be
procured in Australia.
One can hear a wail of sorrow in those words
“for some time.” In the depths of its soul the
Argus is asking “How long, O Lord, how
long?”
“Two Seas” : Consider the business methods
of the Wheat Pool. Last November I was
encouraged by reports that the business was
“under entirely new management” to write
to the State Wheat Office in Sydney asking
for a quotation for a truck-load of damaged
wheat for pig feed. Most firms, run by
plain business men and not fool politicians,
will send me a reply in a day or two. They
want to do business—their tucker depends
on it. But I waited over a month before I
got a reply from Sydney informing me that
if I wrote to the Wheat Inspector at Goul-
burn I would be attended to. I wrote to
that Wheat Inspector the same day (January
31), and am still awaiting an answer to
my application to purchase some of the
wheat that is being allowed to get into such
a rotten state that even pigs won’t look at
it. Still, these hod-carriers and muck-
shifters who mag their way into Parliament
are looking around for fresh fields in which
to expose their ignorance, in spite of the fact
that they have wrecked every business they
have put their hoofs into. When will the
country kick them out of the road?
“Mamba”: Somebody’s bright idea of
starting returned officers again from scratch
makes me blink. An artillery officer pro-
moted from the field must undergo (Army
Orders) a course of five months’ training
at the school in England ; which means that
to make an officer re-enlist and regain pro-
motion involves a sinful waste of money,
besides being a queer way of recognising
long and (as proved by promotion) success-
ful service. Incidentally a quaint sort of
unit may be expected at the Front shortly:
ex-Colonels, ex-Majors and ex-Captains
shouldering rifles under their one-time cor-
porals and sergeants! What a chance for
someone to get a little of his own back!
From the Gallery:—
Watt’s troubles accumulate. The job of soothing
his wrangling majority whilst prodding his Cabinet
to greater energy is taking all the velvet out of his
voice and knocking the kewpie out of his smile.
One pressing worry is the clamor over the enlistment
of minors without their parents’ consent. The dis-
senting voices of parents have converged and united
in a wail of protest from Watt’s side of the House.
But Watt’s greatest nightmares are Pearce and the
Censorship. To be constantly sniped in the Chamber
over the futilities and follies of Pearce’s department
makes him yearn for more enlightened direction at
the Victoria Barracks. Then there is the Censorship
still guilty of unimaginable idiocies of suppression in
the case -of news of no military value. The other
night Tudor submitted to Watt a couple of galleys
of local comment from the Labor Caul, which the
Censor had practically blue-pencilled in globo. Even
a quoted par from the Patman’s organ, Liberty and
Progress, had been cut out entirely, and Tudor natu-
rally asked “Whaffor?” Watt looked at the copy in
blank amazement. The absurdity of the case made a
spoken apology seem superfluous.
Dr. Mannix pleads the resolutions of the
Paris Conference as an excuse for his alle-
gation that Australia is engaged in a “sor-
did trade war.” This speciously ignores
the fact that Germany began the war, and
that the avowed purpose of the Paris Con-
ference was to devise means to prevent Ger-
many from getting into a position to ever
wage such another. Why not also accuse
the seamen of Britain of sordid trade motives
in resolving that they will not work on
ships trading with Germany for a certain
period ?
Higgs’s demand for a Protectionist tariff,
the same to be handed out promptly, roused
the Shoddy papers to a fine exhibition of
astonished hypocrisy. They wanted to know
if Higgs wasn’t aware that the war had ob-
structed imports to an extent which made it
a very big tariff in itself, and they told Higgs
to go away and get information. Truly the
Pecksniff press, which has so long been selling
Australia to German importers, is an insti-
tution that never alters. The war is a tariff,
but it is a tariff that may stop at any
moment. No manufacturer can raise money
for any big enterprise if he is merely to be
a sort of warming-pan for the Shoddy paper’s
pet Plun, and is to have all the world’s cheap
labor turned loose on his high-wage industry
when he is no longer essential. “Come and
work for us till we can get our cheap alien
[Hun or otherwise! back again, and after
that you can go on the land or to the Devil,”
is the cry of the Freetrade paper.
Victoria has had little luck with its labor
leaders since the days of John Hancock,
the sterling soul who horrified Duncan Gillies
by thanking God in the Assembly for the
sacred right of Revolution. Now Elmslie,
the pleasant, patient, painstaking man who
was Labor Premier for 13 days in 1913, has
come to the end of a ] long, weary illness.
By trade a stonemason he got into promi-
nence first as a union secretary, and, winning
Albert Park in 1902, had very little difficulty
in holding it till his death.
Coneybeer, who has been Speaker of the
S. Aus. Assembly for the past three years,
is threatened with serious opposition from
George Laffer.
“T.D.”; As to the future of Ryan, of
Queensland, much depends upon the fate of
the bill which Ryan proposes to introduce
for the purpose of cutting short the judicial
careers of Pope Cooper, C.J., and other
elderly Judges. If the guillotine measure
goes through, then Ryan will step up to the
bench ; if not he will probably change places
with Page of Maranoa.
Home and Territories Minister Glynn,
wffio doesn’t look a humorist, says he has
consulted three experts about the afforesta-
tion of Canberra, the capital of Australia.
Probably it is the only thing to be done
with it. No Ministry is worried over the
afforestation of London or Madrid, or even
of Melbourne or Sydney, but ’Berra is in a
category by itself.
An auction-sale of Melbourne city property
last week was a painfully earnest plea for
land-value taxation. Just 79 years ago,
when surveyor Robert Hoddle planned the
Melbourne of the future, he snapped up a
central block for £5B. Half of it remained
in possession of the Hoddle family until this
irunth. when it was “sacrificed.” A bid of
£70,000 for the larger portion was below the
reserve, and the rest was sold for £15,100.
So Hoddle’s investment of half of £5B in the
year 1839 is worth more than £85,000 to-dav
on the open market, though what the
Hoddles have done to make the increased
value is hardly worth mentioning. The
State which doesn’t recover the value it
creates throws away the property of the
people.
Blundell, being out of the S. Aus. Parlia-
ment, and therefore necessarily out of the
Ministry, has been given a billet as organis-
ing secretary to the “National” party in that
State. He says he is going to fight the Go-
Slow policy, “a hellish doctrine,” in the in-
terests not only of the nation, but of trade-
unionism, which, he declares, it threatens to
kill. He is quite right ; but if it isn’t
scotched it will probably kill the nation first.
After a long, long sleep on the proposal,
the Defence Department has almost decided
to do its own butchering for the troops in
camp and transport, instead of buying the
great masses of meat through contractors.
There never was any reason why the military
shouldn’t have been purchasers and slaugh-
terers of cattle on the hoof, nor was there
ever an excuse for the costly system of get-
ting the bread supply through contractors,
instead of establishing camp bakeries. The
public would be staggered to hear how much
money has been paid to certain bread-and-
meat contractors during the past 45 months.
The Westralian Government has closed its
State meat shops because they show a loss
and the Queensland Government is opening
more State meat shops because, even after
reducing prices, they show a profit. . The
chances are ten to one that the Westralian
man is right. Any public enterprise can be
made to look better than it is by plausibly
charging a portion of the expenses to capital
(which is loans), and most of them are
bolstered up that way; but the habit of mak-
ing anything look worse than it is by charg-
ing capital expenditure against revenue has
never taken root in Australia. Ryan’s
State has far more loans to play with now
than Lefroy’s, wherefore Ryan’s steak and
pig’s-trotter stall is likely to pay, while
Lefroy’s isn’t.
It’s a queer world. There are white men
all over the globe who would be proud to be
mistaken for Australians, yet there are people
in Australia who would like to see their
sons going to fight disguised as Harry
Lauder. And it is one of the penalties
we have to pay for the voluntary system that
we must humor them.
Captain S. M. Bruce, who won Flinders
(Vic.) for the Phewsion, got his wounds and
decorations as an officer of an English regi-
ment. The M.C. came to him for a game bit
of work at Suvla Bay, whilst the Croix de
Guerre was France’s reward for another
operation. Bruce was fighting beside the
French in the first days of the Great Adven-
ture, and was one of a number of special
performers who were asked to elect a man
to wear the Cross. The Victorian got the
decoration by the unanimous decision of the
others.
Clarence Wells Didier Daly, the fearless
young Tasmanian who led the Sixth in its
attack on a German officer’s trencli in Gal-
lipoli in August, 1915, has died of wounds
in France. Joining as a captain, he was
lieut.-colonel and D.S.O. when the end came
—and he was then only 28. He had been
in all the big stunts of the Sixth, and for a
time commanded the Second Brigade, which
he rallied at Menin-road last October, and
won a special mention for it. He was thrice
wounded, and was temporarily blinded by
shell-shock in Gallipoli, where he was buried
by an explosion.
“Peter”: The military police are getting
rather rude in the execution of their duty.
In an alleged hunt for an Italian reservist
they broke into a shop at Richmond (Vic.)
the other night, with distressing results to
two unfortunate infants within. A while
back a search for an Australian soldier led
some more of these untrained police to
burgle their way into a house at three in
the morning only to discover two or three
women in a state of collapse. If the diplo-
matists must make domiciliary visits at un-
godly hours, the Government might at least
provide them with a burglar’s kit or get
them instruction in expert entry from one
or two professors out at the “Farm.” Their
present methods are conducive to ill feeling
and cause damage to propputy. If Pearce
doesn’t mind the ill feeling, he will surely
bo touched by the damage to propputy.
Sydney daily paper item: —
Though a substantial deficit is anticipated Minis-
ters are not alarmed about the general position.
Notable characters who weren’t alarmed
about their own position were Harold
Skimpole, Wilkins Mic-awber (save for
casual spells of depression), Charles Surface,
the Jubilee Juggins, the Prodigal Son (till
he was driven to fall back on the natural
resources of the country in the shape of
husks and hogs), and perhaps Sydney’s own
Dan O’Connor. As for the people who aren’t
alarmed about the country’s position, they
include not only the above-mentioned Minis-
ters but almost everybody. There is heaps
of company on that road.


0
m
IS a Hospital Brandy of incomparable purity and medieinal excellence. It is the consistently high
character of CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY which holds it on a pinnacle of widespread
popularity unequalled by any other Brandy in Australia to-day.
Insist on having “CHATEAU TANUNDA,” the Special Hospital Brandy. BUY WHOLE BOTTLES. ,
TucKer & Co., Limited Sydney -Agents.
The Belted Raincoat
—Peapes’New Style for Winter
The very latest in Raincoat styles and a distinctive novelty.
Loose-fitting, with waist-encircling belt, raglan shoulders,
deep collar to wear as shown, or turned up. A protective
shower-proof coat for wet or cold weather. No rubber used
in the proofing. Made of Fawn Egyptian Cotton Gabardine
with Poplinette lining to match. Ready to wear. -QQ! m
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state height and chest
measurements. Catalogue will be sent on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN'S OUTFITTERS,
309 and 3 U George Street, Sydney,
\
\
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion' “The Bird of Paradise’
Her Majesty's “Dick Whittington ’
Palace “De Luxe Annie ’
Tivoli ‘. “Time, Please”
Playhouse The Scarlet Troubadours
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Bing Boys Are Here”
Royal “Daddy Long Legs”
King’s “The Masquerader”
Bijou Fuller’s Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli “The Million Dollar Girl”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Olyaiima Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Athenaeum Alexander Watson
“Time, Please !” —the new featherweight
show put on by Espinosa—should keep the
wolf and the borehound from Sydney Tivoli
for weeks. With it the house makes a good
recovery from “The Million Dollar Girl” and
gets back to the cheerful level of “Samples.”
Barry Lupino and Espinosa are the prin-
cipals who do most of the lifting. They
are a bright, agile and busy pair, and Lupino
hangs up in the theatrical gallery a cari-
cature of an old head-waiter that ranks
with Field Fisher’s Alexis in “The' Girl in
the Taxi.” As he flaps about drearily in
bedroom slippers he moans at the humilia-
tion of having to prepare a private room
for two, and repents of having left his former
holy situation at the Wowsers’ Club. (The
Wowsers’ Club is one of the joyous inven-
tions of recent times.) In other sketches
he burlesques without effort a foreman, odd
jobber and vaudevillain, as well as sharing
an eccentric dance with Espinosa. A
Bairnsfather turn, with Barry as Old Bill,
armed with many famous jokes, reaches Aus-
tralia too late. Espinosa bursts into view
first as a staring “Buttons”; later he
is a stage Frenchman who fumes at the
ex-wowser waiter. But he makes his big
show as Midday in the Ballet of the Hours,
in which he shows his quality and gets
pretty close to flying. Beatrice Holloway
as Louise Svdney scores a pass in revue, and
young Noel Geddes is such a winsome young
woman that the smallness of her voice
almost escapes critical notice. Marie Eaton
attends to the songs that really have to be
sung and earns everyone’s thanks except
when she goes after a final top-note without
a step-ladder. Hugh Steyne is best as a
straw-haired idiot from Eton; Billy Itego
gets a few chances of speechless comedy;
Ethel Bennetto hovers about pleasantlv and
has a song to herself; and Zola Terrell
keeps her feet and dances weirdly with her
white arms. The Clints and Harry Whaite
are responsible for one or two striking
scenes, and there are some costume surprises.
Of a quiet show in a back street: —
Color at its most glorious ami design at its best
are to be seen at the exhibition of Modern Posters at
the Education Department’s gallery in Sydney. C.
Lloyd Jones collected an amazing variety of overseas
posters ; and, though the best of the French and the
Italian were submarined by the inartistic Hun, the
available English and American examples fill the
gallery with more genuine art than is usually sup-
plied by the annual exhibitions of art societies. A
special feature is the use the United States have made
of the poster to key up the community to prevent
waste of food in war-time. The London-Underground
Railways show a remarkable series, in which the
advertisement is subordinated to artistic and quaintly
humorous qualities. The exhibition is, paradoxically,
designed to show bill-poster firms how to make more
money for themselves by spending more on the artist.
The size of a poster, this exhibition shouts from its
dazzling walls, is of infinitely less importance to the
advertiser than good art. Also, it hints that the
way our men jumble posters together on hideous
hoardings, instead of displaying them symmetrically
and spacing them properly, lowers the advertising
value of each one. The show closes on May 28. All
profits go to the War Chest.
“8.5.” at another silent show: —
The Loan Collection of Australian pictures at the
Sydney G'allery deserves greater publicity than it has
received. Unless the fact of its existence is thrust
under the public eye every day, a great many people
will not know that it is there; hut the Government
does not approve of spending money on advertising
an exhibition of pictures. Much time and trouble
were spent by the director, G. Y. F. Mann, in get-
ting this collection together, from private owners and
the Melbourne Gallery. So thorough was his search
that he got far more pictures than he could or should
hang, and doubtless some hostile remarks have been
made about his rejections. Still the opinion of those
who know anything about the subject is that the
collection does represent the best art-work of the
last 25 years in Australia —except that Heysen does
not appear at all, for a reason which is unfortunate
but understandable. And it is believed too that the
collection shows better than anything else could that
a creditably high standard has been attained by
the Australians in their first quarter of a century.
Australian art virtually began in the ’nineties with
Conder, Roberts and Streeton. Before them were
immigrant artists who painted Australia as if it were
a part of Europe.
The small collection of Conder's decorative land-
scapes is rightly placed next to the Streetons. The
eccentric genius of Conder developed in a different
direction on his return to England, but he left his
influence upon Streeton, who was also affected by
Tom Roberts’s impressionistic methods (gained in
Europe, certainly), and carried them to greater
heights than either of his colleagues. The Streeton
panel is a magnificent one, its rich blues dominating
the room. Add the Streetons belonging to the Sydney
Gallery—“ Fire’s On,” “Still Glides the Stream” and
“A Cremorne Pastoral” —and one has an achievement
in landscape by a painter born and trained in Aus-
tralia of which any country might be proud. In
water-color Hilder is our top-notcher, and though
this collection of his work is small compared with
the memorial exhibition of 1916, it shows him at his
best, particularly in the big “Dora Creek.” Norman
Lindsay’s pen drawings put him in a class apart—a
class composed of such artists as Keene, Menzel,
Vierge and Phil May. There are also his remarkable
adventures in water-color, in which medium he may
go very far if etching does not entirely capture his
interest.
With the work of Streeton, Hilder and Lindsay
Australia can claim a respectable place in the art
world, and probably a higher one than any other
country has attained in such a short period. Lambert
might be added if it were not for the fact that his
technical mastery has been attained since he left
Australia. Gruner’s treatment of diffused light
through trees and on broken ground is another
triumph for the locally trained artist, and Long-
staff's portraits (though far from being a complete
collection) display a technical accomplishment of high
order.
The best paintings of David Davies, Tom Roberts,
Bunny, Phillips Fox, Julian Ashton, Bernard Hall
and some others are in this collection, together with
representative selections from Minns and a score or
more of other good men. Charles Wheeler, vyho has
scored a D.C.M. on active service, is a young painter
of the nude whose work has not been seen in Sydney
before, and is well worth seeing.
The sculpture is negligible—Australia does not
encourage the sculptor—but in pen and wash draw-
ings arid in etchings the exhibition shows what a
fine successsion of original talent we have had, from
“Hop” and Phil May to David Low, Percy Leason
and Ure Smith.
Allowing for the inevitable omissions, the Sydney
public is not likely to have again the chance of
seeing under one roof such a complete and satisfactory
collection of Australian art work as this, and anyone
who is interested in the finest expression of the
peaceful arts of this country will not miss it.
sfc sjc *
“Diek Whittington” has a little more than
a week to go at Sydney Majesty’s before he
puts the Cat in the bag.
* * *
For her last concert of the present series
in Sydney Dolores had a huge audience. The
plump little lady keeps her voice and com-
plexion* free from any hint of Time the
Destroyer and turns the other peachy cheek
to volleys of applause. Ernest Truman let
the organ go at the right moment as the
lady’s flute-like voice warbled round “The
Bright Seraphim.” Staell’s fiddle assisted
when de Georgio’s “Ave Maria” was on the
menu. Pena repeated his popular “hit” on
the piano. And, throughout, the audience,
true to tradition, wanted more.
Though “De Luxe Annie,” at Sydney
Falace, is designed to mystify the audience,
the workmanship of the psychological comedy
is so clever that the spectator who sees it
a second time, though missing the delight of
the surprise denouement, gains as keen a
"TIME, PLEASE," AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
“Danse Unique ,” by Espinosa and
Barry Lupino.
pleasure from following out and identifying
the author’s plentiful hints of the real state
of affairs. And Emelie Polini is worth see-
ing for herself more than once.
* * *
“Rasputin” has evidently not proved him-
self wicked enough to please Sydney Opera
House patrons, for he is to be superseded on
Saturday by that famous monster of in-
ipuity, “The Bad Girl of the Family.”
* * sp
The Scarlet Troubadors at Sydney Play-
house continue to provide the right bright
polite delight every night.
** * *
Evelyn Thaw’s picture-ghost haunts Syd-
ney Royal in “Redemption” until Friday.
On Saturday Jane Cowl takes the screen in
“The Spreading Dawn.”
** * *
Winston Chufbhill’s “Crisis” at the Strand
in Sydney goes off in a great burst of fire-
works. the Battle of Vicksburg having been
specially designed to suit the movies. S.
Diane s impersonation of Lincoln is carried
out with striking fidelity, but the Virginia
Carvel fails to convey the charm of the
novelist s fair rebel. The same is to be said
of the heroine of “The Right of Way.”
Rosalie drawn by Gilbert Parker’s pen is
much more appealing flesh and blood than
her shadowy portrayer at the Globe. Mary
Pickford tells the story of “Rebecca of
bunnybrook Farm” in the charming Pick-
l'd s and the Haymarket, and
‘The Silent Master” holds his tribunal for
harsh landlords at the Crystal Palace. If
he had only hung out his sign a few years
back, what lie could have done to lessen the
sorrows of Ireland! Even Mannix might
have been different.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal last Saturday a
revival of “Outcast” gave Kathleen
Mac-donell another opportunity to do her
best in a play that has some'" powerful
moments, several
bitterly humor|ous
scraps of dialogue,
and a fatal last
act. A young
woman of highly
improper character
comes in out of the
wet to wean a
weak and jilted
Geoffrey from the
derrink and drug
habit by her pre-
cepts and endear-
ments. Finally, the
doglike devotion of
Miriam to her con-
vert persuades an
erring society lady
that the only
decent thing she
can do is to return
to .the husband
whom she had
abandoned for
Geoffrey aforesaid,
whilst Miriam feels
that the only decent
thing she can do is
to return to Geof
without making a
husband of him.
This would indeed
be a happier world
for gentlemen of
easy virtue if there
“De Luxe Annie,” at
Sydney Palace.
Cyril Mackay as
jimmie Fitzpatrick,
the virtuous crook.
were many Miriams in it. Unhappily their
experience of Miriams goes no further than
the third act of “Outcast.” Up to the time
when the fiery young person dreams of
marriage and shrieks with jealousy, the play
is a warm, familiar study in sex relations;
but Act 4 is a pitiable lapse into crude
theatrical fiction.
* * * *
Kathleen Macdonell is artistic in the
lighter passages of this unlawfully-domestic
drama, and convincing in her outbreaks of
violence, where her harshest notes are the
most natural under the circs. Her threat to
make things hot for the other girl seems to
harmonise with the passionate tint of her
hair, yet her frequent indications of good
nature seem genuine. Waldron, on ' the
other hand, is never quite natural save when
the dialogue breaks into heated altercation.
When be is exchanging helpings of melted
butter with his dear old friend and coun-
sellor Roy Redgrave, the effect is somewhat
mawkish on both sides, though Redgrave
carries rather more stage weight than did
Lewis Willoughby in the same part. Beryl
Bryant shows increased confidence and apti-
tude in the part of the cold, fond matron
who gets shocked back to propriety. Be-
sides, she has two valuable assets in her
voice and her face, which is said to be beauti-
ful —and looks it. Plumpton Wilson and
Brampton are well placed, and the staging
is good. “Daddy Long Legs” again on
Saturday.
* * * .1:
“The Masquerader,” at Melbourne King’s,
continues to utter its warning against the
use of morphia in immoderation. Guy Chil-
cote Post, in his hour of death, babbling
scornful remarks to his shadow on the wall,
in the vague delusion that he is addressing
Guy Loder Post, will point a moral and
appal the public until further notice. People
get hearty laughs as well as some good
shudders at the King’s these nights. Also
they remark favorably on the briefness of
the intervals. The stage is often in dark-
ness for a. couple of minutes, but the periods
of utter silence between acts are short, and
the audience’s interest in G. B. Post’s dual-
impersonation gets no time to cool. A Red
Cross matinge happens at the King's on
Tuesday next.
* # *
This is the fifth week of “The Bing Boys”
at Melbourne Majesty’s. There is no differ-
ence to record in the order of bings, except
that the “Doll Girl” song has been cut out,
and another encore is usually demanded from
the small kids in big belltoppers who pay
their terpsichorean addresses to Nellie
Pa.vne. One night last week the girlie in
red who dances a duet with Clyde Cook
appeared not so petite as Maie Baird, and
probably she wasn’t. Maie is a mere packet
oi sweets, and Cook holds her on high or
turns her over in his arms as though he were
Samson before he got a hair-cut. But on
this occasion the sprightly little lady seemed
a lump of delight that weighed heavier than
was expected, and Cook’s effort to make her
look like 3oz. was a comparative failure.
** * *
“Samples,” at Melbourne Tivoli, will be
replaced by “The Million Dollar Girl” on
Saturday, the present co. being mixed with
some from the crowd that appeared in
T.M.D.G. in Sydney.
# ** * *
Alexander Watson’s first season at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum Hall is to close on Satur-
day in order that he may tour around, but
the strong demand for his recitals is bound
to bring him back to business in Melbourne
shortly. W atson is all things to all mono-
logues. Melbourne can’t remember another
reciter who rivalled him.
Saturday-night concerts at Melbourne
Auditorium help to keep the local popular
taste in music from dropping to the coon-
song level. The ballad concerts that
Chappell and Co. have arranged on a 2s. and
Is. basis strike the happy medium between
too classy and too commonplace. The best
of available voices get there in turn, and
the instrumental soloists are not too proud
to meet a respectable monologuist on the
programme. Blascheck had a say in the
proceedings last Saturday, and Cacialli, of
the late Italian Opera Co., was among the
singers.
At Melbourne Bijou Phrozo is still affect-
ing mechanical movement. A wonderful
engine hanging on her back is supposed to
give her motive force, though The Bulletin
suspects that she wouldn’t need the
machinery if there was a sudden shriek of
“Mouse!” Lew .Tames, a new comedian,
attempts to embellish a raw voice with a
Hebrew accent, whilst Con Moreni camou-
flages a naughty joke with an innocent man-
ner. Bertram and Raymond continue to
reiterate their mutual devotion, and a new
contortionist named Bonham is giving a life-
like imitation of a Phewsion politician.
Hoyt’s Melbourne house is showing Mary
Pickford as the sunshine of “Sunnybrook
Farm,” and her smile and her curls main-
tain an enchantment that seems to grow
richer with repetition. Mary, however, is
only a ray of innocence in the pervading
gloom of sex-drama this week. All those
who love the fair, frail lady and the glad
Vermilion Moment will get all they want in
the Pallas feature, “As Men Love!” House
Peters and Myrtle Stedman furnish some
clinging profiles for this murky production.
Melbourne Britannia began the week with
an exposition in Low Finance from the
“Shirley Kaye” heroine, Clara Kimball
Yeung. Clara comes to light again to-day
in a more feminine offering, “The Mario-
nettes,” with a new man, Corless Giles,
wearing the principal’s pair of trousers. At
the Melba the frank and flapperish June
Caprice led a three days’ spy-hunt in a Fox
comedy-drama, “Miss U.S.A.” For the
latter half of the week the star is Norma
Talmadge in “The Devil’s Needle.” This
film is a demonstration of drug-soaking,
beside which the performance of Guy Bates
Chilcote is a curate lapping milk.
** * *
“Grandad Rudd,” at Adelaide Royal, is a
better play than the old “Selection” so far
as it avoids melodrama on the one hand and
horse-play on the other. The talk is natural,
yet funny, and Bert Bailey gets every ounce
out of his part. That he once or twice
recalls the other veteran “Grumpy” is a side-
issue. Hero, heroine and villain are, as
before, slightly out of the picture through
not being up-country people like the others.
Several players are painstakingly funny.- but
for being natural the prize goes to Fred
MacDonald and Lilias Adeson. At the Tiv-
oli the old “Cabin” has been well staged.
Stanford is a dignified Uncle Tom, and little
Gladys Gaul a welcome change from some
too-mature Evas one lias known, and the
robust humor of Maud Goldspink at last gets a
chance in the part of Topsy. At the Majestic,
Mabel Morgan has a turn which recalls some
of her pantomime numbers, and Fred Bluett
has elaborated his old Boy Scout song. £oli
and Cornock have also dropped in out of
the panto.; but the recent programme has
needed a little more relief on the athletic side.
Wondergraph shows a strong Farnum film
in ‘‘The Conqueror,” which represents Texas
at real war with the Mexicans early last
century. Fighting is all over the screens
these times; even Olga Petrova at West’s,
though an American girl, gets into a Ruri-
tanian riot, in which her no-good husband,
who had skilfully pretended to be dead, gets
finished off in earnest to make room for the
local prince. The play is “A Daughter of
Destiny”—first time in Australia.


LADIES!
There is nothing more attra«stive
than a comely woman.
THE QUALITIES' THAT MAKE THE COMELY WOMAN ARE:-
The luxuriant Hair, the fine smooth Skin, the charm of
dazzling Teeth. Even the plain woman who cares for herself, and
does not despise those little arts which are, often enough, her
secret, becomes the Comely Woman.
JowtSntutftVtos\
Hair Food
2j/tipi*iubfyUftc?rrt
Hair Grower
DIRECTIONS
IZSS&Z3SZ 2
John Strange Winter’s
TOILET PREPARATIONS are the WORLD’S BEST.
Hair Food (Oily), 3/9; (Non-Oily), 4/9; Dry Shampoo, 3/9;
Dakshmi Dot ion, 3/9; Lakshmi Cream, 3/9; Creme Marquise, 2/6;
New Face Cream —Vanishing—(White), 3/6, (Pink) 4/-; Soap., 1/3
cake, 3/6 box of 3 cakes; Shaving Sticks, 1/3; Dental Cream, 1/6;
Carmine, 1/4; Curative Ointment, 2/6; Powder (White, Cream and
Pink), 3/6. , ,
Are used by ROYALTY and were AWARDED SIX GOLD MEDALS.
Obtainable from Civil Service* Washington H. Soul% Xasset-
ter’s, David Jones’, Farmer and Co/s, W. T. W’aters , Horderns,
McCathie’s, etc,, and all leading Chemists.
Send 3d. stamp (mentioning this paper) for sample of Powder
(name the tint), Soap or Dental Cream, and Booklet, to John
Strange Winter (Fondon, Paris, Borne). Sydney Omce: 26-30
Jamieson Street. Melbourne Office: 375 Collins Street, Adelaide
Office: Steamship Buildings, Currie Street.
VAeltoman
IJ 1 HIGH-CLASS
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
AIL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
gsd
E. BROWN @ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES * ALL • OVER • THE - WORLD
Amid the press for place and wealth,
Be wise, don’t juggle with your health;
All you may gain will be in vain,
If you are racked by care and pain.
And more than all, whate’er you’re told.
Don’t juggle with a cough or cold ;
All crude experiments abjure—•
Rely on Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. — Advt
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
ANOTHER UNDISCOVERED CRIME.
"‘Hie, p’liceman, somebody's robbed vie of me
’brefla .”
'“Why, you silly owl, you're carryin' it.”
'“Oh, no, this is one I found in me ('kip)
'and jusht now.”
‘Bully-t.”: On patrol in No Man’s
Land, our party called at an advanced
■outpost where a platoon was quartered to
see that Fritz didn’t come sneaking over.
The password was “Marjory,” and the night
very dark Presently a noise was heard of
someone feeling his way through broken wire
and shell-holes, and the sentry, waiting with
rifle ready, called : “Halt! Who goes there?”
Came a voice from the darkness: “I’ve for-
gotten her —— name, digger!” A little later
another noise and a challenge. Instead of
the password the reply came back: “I’m the
bloke with yer puddin’. Can’t yer see
the —— dixie on me block?” Of course
there’s an awful lot of bunkum about pass-
words; and Bill gets on to bunkum every
time.
“Rarawai” : The American guy remarked
that there was apparently no difference
between our Aussy headgear and that worn
by the Sammies. “No-o-o,” Billjim drawled.
“On’y ours is three years older.”
“Mimosa”: Under the new Repatriation
Scheme- an incapacitated soldier can have
his pension supplemented to reach £2 2s. per
week. And so it should be; but the trouble
at present in Queensland is over the matter
of deciding whether the man is fitted for
work or otherwise. Previous to this scheme
being introduced, the Officer in Charge of
the "Returned Soldiers’ Employment Office,
Department of Labor, had no difficulty in
obtaining employment for men willing and
able to work, and Queensland was without
unemployed soldiers; but since the Repatria-
tion Scheme has been in operation—that is
in regard to allowing men out of employment
£2 2s. per week —there are hundreds of un-
employed soldiers drawing sustenance, but
very few making application for work. This
obviously is a matter demanding strict in-
quiry, not because it means a waste of money
(I’m not worrying about that), but because
it is doing a lot of soldiers a lot of harm.
“Hamer”: This military habit of making
the best of "successful retreats,” and
“entirely satisfactory readjustments of our
line” may remain with us after the war; and
if we become thoroughly well trained in the
trick of rejoicing upon what seem very like
losses, life will become a more cheerful busi-
ness. In those days we shall be brightened
by items like this in the daily papers:—
The confidence of the creditors of the Gobung
Trading Co. is in no way impaired by recent proceed-
ings in the Bankruptcy Court, where it was ascer-
tained that a dividend of as much as eight pence in
the £ is likely to be paid. They point out that
they receive much more than 232 penee-in-the-
pound’s worth of experience, which will probably
save them thousands of pounds. The general manager
of the Gobung Co. has been relieved of that position.
He will be given an important post in the Com-
monwealth Bank.
With nothing but joyfulness and satisfaction
in all the affairs of life, the world will pro-
gress cheerfully backward until it arrives at
the asylum gates.
■** * *
“Kopai” : These patriots! My Victorian
village owns, for its sins, two rival patriotic
societies which sell buttons and similar
emblems once a month and wrangle together
all the days between. _ Their chief bone ot
contention is as to which of the pair is the
official and duly accredited society, and
therefore the one to boss the sale of em-
blems. So far the
pack at the north
end has won, on
points. Anzac Day
was planned to put
up a record, and both
sets of patriots
sapped feverishly for
button - precedence.
On the Day the
North-enders sent
down to the South-
enders to know how
many emblems they
would like. The South
smiled back: “Thank
you. Wehevours!”
They had got in
the day before, and
were selling merrily
before the North
awoke! Upon which
the out-manceuvred
North jumped on its
hat and sent back its
own buttons unsold!
A Button Day with
us is worth about
£2OO, so this being an
extra-special effort
the boys probably lost
about £250 in the
scuffle. After three years of war we entrust
our amelioration fund-raising to the petty
jealousies of a crowd of snaggling women.
* * * *
“Centurion” : The Turk and Arab run every-
where to dog in large, mangy and utterly
useless quantities. I was quartered for some
time at Berassa, on the edge of the Libyan
Desert; it occupies part of the site of
the great Graeco-Egyptian city of Oxyrhyn-
chus. Here there is a vast chamel-heap in
which the inhabitants burrow to obtain the
rich dust of long-dead generations for top-
dressing their cotton fields. There is a
great open cut, something like the one at
Mount Morgan. The rich compost is sieved
and the bones thrown in heaps, the dust
being carried on donkeys and camels to the
canal, where it is dumped into barges. The
town, the mine and even the desert round
about are infested with a moving cloud of
dogs as smellful as the fine dust caused by
the mining operations. These dogs are big,
ferocious brutes which put in the day chew-
ing the more modern bones in the mine-
dump and by night howl and fight in the in-
tervals of stealing anything accessible.
Saddles, bandoliers, etc., were raided as fre-
quently as food stores; but any injury to
THE CURRENT ECONOMY.
“For Heaven’s sake, Ethel, play some popular songs so that they can all sing. They’re
doing nothing hut eat and drink!”
the raiders was fiercely resented. Small,
easily-swallowed baits containing a five-
grain tabloid of bichloride of mercury were
our stand-lfy, and though the Gyppy may
have had his suspicions, he generally put his
cur’s demise down to the will of Allah and
left the corpse to be disposed of by the pack.
* * * *
“Fitz”: It happened on a transport.
Somebody had forgotten to lock the door of
the crockery cupboard in the men’s quarters.
During the night a heavy sea worked up, and
when the ship gave a big lurch the unfastened
door flew open. With a noise like a simul-
taneous offensive on two Fronts a few thou-
sand plates and dishes smashed on the floor,
waking everyone but the night-watchman.
Then came a moment’s silence and a sleepy
voice; “The old man’s ’ome!”
* * * *
‘'Mirrool”: My experience with regard to
the deduction of Is. all round for. “damages”
on troopships does not agree with that of
“Pills” (B. 9/5/T8). On our transport coming
home —over 1000 sick and maimed aboard —
the usual charge was made. The soldiers asked
the O.C. troops for a receipt of some sort;.
In fact, they went a bit farther than that.
Kesult: on payday the bob was entered, in
our paybook. The feeling on the subject
was so hot that the ship’s adjutant was
counted out when he was put up to address
the men on the subject of this wholly unfair
charge. By the way, and merely as illus-
trating how the soldiers’ pay is pecked at,
we had rather a peculiar charge made on
our way to Egypt in 1915. Two nights
before sailing our C.O. told us on parade
that our column had been invited to a per-
formance at a Melbourne theatre and that
he wanted all men to avail themselves of
the invitation. We were marched to the
theatre, saw the show and marched back to
camp again. The first pay 'On the boat was
3s. a man short. We were told that it was
to pay for the theatre party w r e were “in-
vited” to.
* * * *
One day early this month the Devil bor-
rowed a 400-ton coal train coming up to
Sydney from the South Coast and used it as
a thunderbolt, but failed to register a hit.
The experiment began when a long string ot
coal-hoppers was stopped at Sutherland so
that the fireman and guard could see to the
brakes before the engine started the long
skate down a steep grade. While they were
on the line the train moved off, and when
the driver in the cab found it was out of con-
trol he jumped clear. The train roared on
and was three and a half miles away in four
minutes. Then an up-grade stopped it, and
it was running back when a truck got off
the line and ordered a halt. Had it switch-
backed over the second hill it would have
tried another swoop and a speed-burst ot
miles.
They don’t seem to take much notice 0!'
serious allegations at the Sydney Town Hall
these days. Recently there was a ballot for
the City Council’s representative on the
Water and Sewerage Board. As it turned
out, there was a tie, and the Mayor, who is
Joynton Smith, gave a casting vote which
put the old representative out. So far,
though this may not have been the usual
thing for a presiding officer to do, the Mayor
did what he at any rate had a right to do.
But when the defeated alderman-candidate
wrote to the Council declaring that the
other candidate and his chief supporter were
permitted, to .bring voters up to the ballot-
box and scrutinise their voting papers, a
question was raised which might reasonably
have been expected to lead to, something
violent. Yet the charge wasn’t even investi-
gated—the letter of complaint was merely
“received.”
REMOVING HER SCRUPLES.
“I’m afraid I can’t go out with you any
more. You see, our league has decided
that single young women should not
‘walk out ’ with eligible s.”
“Oh, that’s all right, my dear — I’m married."
THE LAY OF THE LAST RESERVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This is a war of exhaustion.”
Klinger to hunger the grim nations stand
Above tiie countless graves of all the slain,
The guns outworn, the rifles in each hand
For lack of cartridges grown weak and vain.
Above them sing’s the lark. No aei’oplane
I-las means to keep its engine wheels at speed ;
And skeletons of armies in the land
Break into tears at mention of a feed.
Who shall be winner of this fearful fray
That makes no noise by day or sleepless night?
The beef is gone, the biscuit passed away;
This is a deadlier and a sharper fight—
Pull tight your belt; and God defend the right!
Nay, give us but one turnip large and fine,
One oyster in its shell of shining grey—
Sustained with these a man might break the line!
Lo, the munitions ! Through the moonless dark
One staggers with a pot of Irish stew.
Draw near and feast, ye valiant 1 No remark—
There is enough and just enough for two!
Nat heartily. Here is great work to do
All in grim silence knife and fork make play....
Kager they rise; and through the darkness—Hark !
Their wild offensive takes its headlong way.
Upon their stomachs all true armies fight.
Now up and at ’em. ye who have been fed I
The tumult sways across the startled night;
The last fierce word of war is swiftly said.
The leagues of dark are cumbered with the dead ;
And on one glorious plate of conquering stew
They turn the Teuton’s flank and break his right
And show the world what spuds and meat can do!
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
The medicine that goes hand in hand with good health—a kind of twin brother—that
brings physical confidence, strength, mental energy and clearness, is dements Tonic,
because it possesses those specific properties that rebuild the human constitution. It
strengthens the working parts, cleanses the stomach, purifies the blood, thus creating new
conditions with good health results to the user. If any greater proof is required of the
powers of this splendid medicine, the testimonies given afford it, written by those
who can wdl afford by experience to judge of its merits. For the general good of
the public they are published throughout Australia, and are well worth reading.
Over 300 voluntary letters in praise of this nerve remedy have been received in the last few months, which may be seen and verified at the
offices of the Company, Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle. Get it from your chemist or store to-day, and get well. Do not wait until to-morrow.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.IV.
“Shivers”: Another ghastly Sydney fire-
risk not named by the architects’ president
in his recent address is the horse-punt
crowded with motor-cars. An occasional
driver as he crosses the harbor will refill
his petrol-tank while his kerosene tail-light
is at work, or even with a lighted pipe or
cigarette in his mouth! Imagine what it
would be like if a well-saturated car burst
into flame in midstream! It takes eight or
10 minutes for a big punt to moor and clear
its load, and a lot of people can be grilled
even in eight minutes. Smoking should not
be allowed—it is prohibited on Government
punts—and all oil lamps should be put out
before cars are allowed aboard. Present
regulations are framed as if theatres
were the only combustible things around
town. The fire chiefs must have some bad
dreams when they look about and note the
possibilities.
* * * «
A Sydney Quarter Sessions snapshot:—'
The little red-headed man in the dock admitted
that he had married a lassie in Scotland years
ago. The sad little Australian second-wife (married
HER AMBITION.
THE MERE MAN: “Now, what would you
paint if you could afford to paint what
you liked?”
THE REBEL WOMAN: “The town red!”
four years, two children) assured his Honor that
accused had been the best of husbands. The arrest-
ing constable deposed that he had lived close to the
couple for months and had found them the best of
neighbors. His Honor (very distressed): “You know,
while your first marriage exists, your present wife is
a dishonored woman.” (No signs of distress from the
victim.) “Er —er—you’re remanded for the present.”
(Bigamist goes down -to await sentence. Wife goes
out dabbing at her eyes.) His Honor goes off to
wonder what the deuce to do about it. And out on
the sunny courthouse lawn two Australian toddlers
tumble about happily w'hile waiting for the absurd
proceedings inside to end.
“Phil,” somewhere in France, has a scrap
with his military conscience:—
Two of my sappers, dinkum Billjims, were missing’
when my party boarded the motor-lorry for home
after the day’s mix-up. A little later we passed a
Froggie’s cart on the road, and on the front seat,
driving the weary nag, were the missing ones! I
halted to investigate, and ordered them to dismount
and deliver. Whereupon one of them, with a mys-
terious, semi-tragic look, and with his finger on his
lip, said “Sh-ur, Cap.! Pork!” at the same time
lifting a corner of the canvas covering the cart and
revealing to my gloating eyes 10 succulent little
grunters. For one brief moment I faltered. The
temptation all but overpowered me. But just then
I remembered my early moral training (and also
the activity of the local gendarmerie), and sternly
putting aside the tantalising picture of real meat for
dinner I ordered them to let the live stock go.
While rejoicing in the knowledge that Billjim’s honor
was thus saved I am still wondering how it came
about that we had fresh roast pork for supper!
* * * *
“Lhama”: Talking about the long limb of
coincidence. Winding through a defile in
the Judaean Hills to the east of Jerusalem
we came across a Taube that had been
wrecked in a duel months previously when
we were fighting for the foothills. It was
embedded in the sand of a wady, nose on,
balanced perpendicularly. The date of its
outgoing test was 30/10/T7: and it was the
afternoon of 30/11/T7 that it had its last
fight and its final plunge. Incidentally, it
suggests that the Germans haven’t many
aeroplanes to spare when a machine tested
in Germany bn October 30 is destroyed
in Palestine only a month later.
* * * *
“Eighteen-pounder”: He was only a cor-
poral in the Army Pay Corps, so he had no
right to wear a Collar and Tie; and he had
but himself to blame when he was detained
by two Military Police in Swanston-street
and escorted to the Town Hall, where, before
six other Military Police and one civilian
trooper, he was made tp take off the offend-
ing decoration, asked for his pass and had
his name and his unit taken. Dismissed, he
went to the movies, with his donah, cursing
M’s.P. and their ancestors. Next morning,
whilst settling down
to his day’s work as a
clerk, he was ordered
before the Provost-
Marshal, and a crime
of being illegally
dressed was read out
to him. Having been
given a lecture on the
correct dress for sol-
diers, he was next
paraded before the
A d j u tant - General,
who, seeing the enor-
mity of the offence,
gave the culprit a fur-
ther lecture about
“imitating officers.”
On pleading that 50
per cent, of the Pay
Corps, wore collars
and ties, the District
Paymaster was sent
for and asked for an
explanation. Having
been dismissed, the
culprit was then
paraded before the
State Commandant,
who also went through
the official routine
and gave a lecture on
the proper wearing
apparel for soldiers,
and ended his remarks
by being original and
lining the corporal
five shillings. Nearly
choked to death by
red-tape, the corp.
found that he had
spent 24 hours with the Heads; and, as it
was now lunch hour, he went to the nearest
pub and drank the health of the King. And
that’s how we win wars.
* * * #
Freda Sternberg sees Uncle Sam at war:
Flags flew, bells tolled, the whole country talked
hard on Friday, April 5, the first anniversary of
America’s entry into the war. A few pessimists
dared to ask if the country had done all it might in
the year, but mostly it was a Hallelujah Chorus.
Taking into consideration the fact that not one
stroke was done before Wilson gave the word to
start, a vast amount certainly has been accom-
plished. The publicity work has been rn object-
lesson for the world. The Yank has b.een taught to
take his food very seriously. He has not been
brought up on ascetic lines, so it is not easy to
bring home the necessity for conservation. Still
the publicity is beginning to bear fruit, and quite a
number now take only three meals a day.
The third Liberty Loan is being filled at an amaz-
ing rate. All sorts of speakers are called into this
service. Billy Sunday has orated from many pulpits,
and Douglas Fairbanks, Mary Pickford and Charlie
Chaplin have deserted their studios to preach the
gospel of w'ar-saving stamps.
“War is a business” —that is Sam’s motto. And
as he has proved that success in business means
specialisation, every job he has to do in connection
with the war is done by a specialist. Thousands
of the best of them are “dollar a year men.” To be
a dollar a year man is to carry the stamp of super-
patriotism. It is these men’s wits against the wits
of the sharks who want here as elsewhere to make
money out of the war. In this connection one can’t
but observe the enormous value of the President’s
unselfishness. The money-maker in this crisis is
“no class.” There is no doubt about that.
WELL TESTED.
DOURTFUL CUSTOMER: “But are you sure it
won't shrink?”
MISTHER IZYMOSTHES : “ Shrink? Mine
friendt, efiery fire-brigade but von in
Melbourne has squirted vater on dot
thuit.”
There are 16 national camps. I have seen only
one. Several thousand seamen are in training at
San Diego. It's a wonderful sight, these men being
drilled amidst the beautiful buildings that were
erected for the great Exposition. One sometimes
wonders if the Yank will ever be able to get down
to real war conditions. At all the camps the men’s
huts are heated with steam and most of them have
flower gardens. Tulips, daffodils and hyacinths are
more beautiful than ever when they grow in Cali-
fornia, but—in a camp! “Why not?” asks Uncle
Sam.
His own objective is clear and splendid. “War,”
said one of the nation’s leaders to our visiting party
—“war has in the past spoiled men. ‘An old sol-
dier’—everybody knows what that meant. We aim
to make this war improve our men. We want to
make stronger men physically of the city weeds and
brighter men mentally of the boys from the country.”
There may be method in the daffodils, after all!
* * * *
“Billy”: We had a new charwoman in the
other day, a simple soul with a firm chin and
a stout arm. While she was doing her job I
was busy on the pretties, using an electric
iron. This implement the scrubber regarded
with great interest. Then all of a sudden
the light broke in upon her. “ ’Tis the first
time I seen a flatiron tied up,” said she.
“Argh! Thim husbantls grow cunnin’er
ev’ry day, the brutes!”
“Country Ped”: The most worrying ques-
tion among the best settlers in isolated parts
is: “How can we get the kids educated?”
Victoria’s Education Department has made
an honest effort to answer it. In districts
where the number of .children available does
not justify a school, the Department has
itinerant teachers who travel from house to
house, gathering as many children as they
can at each stop. But that does not reach
all these isolated youngsters; so in 1914 the
Department, following a suggestion made by
an anxious mother in the Otway Forest,
began teaching children by correspondence.
To-day 70 boys and girls are being educated
in this way. The special staff formed for
this work operates as far as possible through
the parents: special time-tables are even
prepared to help them. Some children thus
taught have already surpassed expectations
by gaining qualifying certificates at the usual
age.
“Copabella”: Such things make up in
some degree for the hardness of my lot as a
suburban reporter. It was a prayer-meeting,
mostly, of mothers. The of the
circle ’ was a lady who owned a notorious
beer-eater of a husband. Whether this was
what caused the lady to take to prayer, or
whether it was the lady’s excess that made
mm take to beer, the Scripture sayeth not.
The afternoon of the prayer-meeting there
was a family argu-
ment over hubby’s
shortcomings that
panned out a black
eye and a bent nose
to the lady, and right
on meeting-time a
substitute leader had
to be turned on. She
was new to the dis-
trict, but a woman
of great power in her
own parts. The
opening p r a y e r,
though comprehen-
sive in scope, was flat
in execution until the
supplicant swung on
to “our dear leader's
cross” and her “sad-
dened home.” This
seemed to be a
familiar subject, for
subsequent pleaders
warmed up to it with
abundant and par-
ticular detail. 1 could
see the chairwoman
was restless, bti t
when the supplica-
tions began to go into
details she could
stand no more. There
was a bang in the
middle of a. fervent
passage, and the sub-
stitute leapt to her
feet, in a purple
frenzy ! If she didn’t
give those women
pie! It was the sin-
cerest thing I was
ever at. Her hus-
band happened to be
a model of all a Ims
band and father
should be —and, like so many of her charm-
ing sex, her bump of humor was mislaid.
“F.A.”: Fritz’s airmen don’t always
trouble to mark the positions of the “spotted’*
guns on a map for the benefit of their artil
lery, One night after our battery had been
snugly fixed in the same position for a week
or more, four lights dropped from the sky-
one light in front of each of the four guns.
Of course a wise O.C. who was free to act
would have taken the hint. For some reason
(probably quite a good one) ours didn’t, and
about 2.30 the goods were delivered. The
first salvo got two of the guns and the other
pair went within a minute or so.
NOT THAT SORT.
“I believe Freddie struck a mine on his watt
to England .”
“Dear! Dear! Was he killed ?”
“Oh, no; she was ah American million-
heiress.”
THE CHAMPION PEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s always someone picking at the paths we walk
upon,
There’s always someone digging up the drain.
There’s always someone mourning- for the giants who
are gone,
And talking of the pigmies that remain.
There’s always some “I told-you-so” who knew but
couldn’t speak— S
In fact, there’s every sort of nark and bore.
But I’d rather have the lot of them and board them
for a week.
Than meefr the dreary citizen whose heart has
sprung a leak—
The busted undertaker type who tells you with a
squeak,
“I don’t see how we’re going to win this war!”
x.s.w.
KODAK.


“ON! ON!”
"The German offensive will last all summer.” — Cable.


HIS PLACE IN THE SUN.
(Scene: Somewhere in Australia.)


MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, in-
digestion, coated tongue, sallowness —take
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.” For
the cause of all this distress lies in a torpid
liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you are
drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely as
a robust man. It is a most harmless, effec-
tive stomach, liver and bowel regulator and
tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—-which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. [6
%
I was
DEAF!
till I got an
ACOUSTICON.
\/0U might not notice
1 it from clay to day,
but compare your pre-
sent hearing with your
hearing a few years
ago, and you will
quickly realise that
vour deafness is IN-
CREASING. If you
continue to do nothing
—if you put off using an “Acousticon”—you
may eventually become Stone Deaf. The
“Acousticon” makes good hearing easy,
benefits the ear tissues and actually checks
your growing deafness. Call for' private
demonstration, or write for free -booklet and
prices.
LAMSON Store Service Co.,
102DakingHouse (opp. Railwav St’n). SYDNEY; or
152 The Olderfleet, Collins St, MELBOURNE.
gsd
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
soaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
V M. TVtm KV**
m
t m
/
LEWIS &WHITTY
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Captain Murray G. Patten, M.C., who
was killed in action on April 4, had a distin-
guished career at the Melbourne ’Varsity.
He graduated M.A. with a first-class, and
after lecturing in logic and philosophy at
Ormond College for three years, went to
Europe and studied philosophy at Edin-
burgh, London and Freiburg. When the call
came, the brilliant student gained a commis-
sion in the corps raised at Edinburgh ’Var-
sity, and later was attached to the Northum-
berland Fusiliers, with whom he died.
Heitmann, M.H.R., has volunteered for
military service. Price, M.L.A. for Albany,
was the first Westralian legislator to go : he
is still at the Front. Cornell, a goldfields
M.L.C., also got into khaki ; but he is back
as sergeant seeking re-election. Heitmann
is a man of some quality. A Day Dawn
miner originally, he won into the State Legis-
THE TEACHER.
THE NEW CURATE: “ What did you think of
the sermon on Sunday, Mrs. Jawnes?”
THE DEAR PARISHIONER: “ Very good in-
deed, sir. So instructive. We really
didn't know what sin was till you came
here.”
ilature and went off to hard work during
recess. His defeat of Mahon for the Cool-
gardie seat in the Reps, was due more to
hie personal qualities and his ringing Con-
scription speeches than to the support of the
Phewsion.
Jerry McDougall, a Recherche Bay
(Tas.) blacksmith and sawmill manager—
officially 4061 Sergeant Stanley Robert
McDougall—has won the V.C. A fine, bullet-
headed, thick-set hero he is—as cool as an
anvil on a Sunday evening. His chance
came in the Ancre line, near Albert,
where a few weeks later his younger bro-
ther Wallace, 22, was blown to bits between
machine-gun fire and a German barrage. As
the grey waves loomed through the mist,
Jerry the blacksmith dashed out and killed
seven of the Huns with his bayonet. Then
he seized a machine-gun, and, firing it from
his hip, routed the remainder of the second
wave, which was joining the first. Ammuni-
tion ran out, and he charged anew with the
bayonet, killing three Fritzies and saving a
Billjim officer’s life. At this stage he
spotted another Lewis gun, dropped by the
THE POINT OF VIEW.
WOUNDED BIĹJIM: “ ’Ullo, Joe, what’s up?
You’re looking pretty miserable!"
JOE: “Yes, I’m worrying that I’ll have to
get into khaki. What’s up with your-
self?"
WOUNDED RILLJIM: “Oh, I’m worrying that
I may have to get out of it.”
first wave, into whose ranks he fired it until
his hands were scorched. Once he was sur-
rounded by 20 yards of solid grey Hun, but
he smashed the head of the attack and left
his mates to finish the work and take 30
prisoners. This khaki Hercules is 28, and
was the only recruit accepted out of a motor-
full of five whom he drove from Recherche
Bay to the Claremont camp. His dad, now
dead, was a pioneer sawmiller—and a fine
chip he turned out.
Years ago, in Wollongong (N.S.W.), two
printers tossed up to see which of them
would take a job as newspaper manager at
Mess Vale. The man who won and made a
moderate fortune was the late Speaker
McCourt. of N.S.W. Assembly. The loser,
Spencer Cornford, stayed on the Inky Way’s
sporting track, and as “Early Bird” wrote
sport till the end, which came last week in
Sydney. He was 68.
Dr. Walter Norman, dead in Adelaide at
67, had lived in retirement for years, owing
to failing eyesight, but he was a well-known
man in the old immigration days. He was
doctor in charge of immigrant ships for
years, acting in turn for three of the States
and Maoriland.
* William English must about take the
damper for the longest continuous service in
a bush school. lie will this year complete
his 40th year at Bandon, near Dungog
(N.S.W.). Three generations have seen
him chalk figures on the blackboard.
Major Charles Johnson, of Langwarrin
V.D. camp, is to be the pioneer Director-
General of V.D. establishments for the Vic.
Government, taking charge as soon as the
military can find the right man to fill his
place. Johnson is an Australian and one
of the Commonwealth’s front-rank bacterio-
logists. In his research years at Edinburgh
he was the right-hand man of the eminent
Prof. Greenfield ; and in this country, before
the war started, he gained considerable pres-
tige in the treatment of phthisis. As for his
work at Langwarrin, the latest records show
an amazing 300 per cent. of.success.
Passed out at Sydney, in the 71st lap,
Joseph Brooks, who was in charge of the
Ma State’s trigonometrical survey from its
start till 3907. Brooks came from the Cold
Country to South Aus. as a nine-year-old,
and was schooled in Adelaide, where he also
learnt his job as surveyor. In 3877 he got
a billet in the N.S.W. Lands Department,
and shortly afterwards began wandering
around the State with a portable observa-
tory to fix positions by astronomical
methods. From the base line at Lake George
(N.S.W.) he then started a series of trig,
surveys not even yet fully completed, as the
war has hung them up for the past three
years. When the new job of Director of
Surveys was created .11 years ago, Brooks
reckoned that his field work gave him a
mortgage on it; but the title went to Furber,
the computer at head office, and Brooks re-
signed in disgust. Since then he had amused
himself at astronomy, and was selected as
chief observer on three scientific expeditions
to Tasmania and Tonga for solar eclipse
purposes. For many years he raised a melo-
dious tenor voice with Sydney Liedertafel,
of which he was one of the founders.
One Reuben Iveirl, mostly of Melbourne,
has been before a London police-court earn-
ing three months on a charge of masquerad-,
ing as an officer of the Sydney. Reuben has
had a mottled career. During his earlier
operations in Victoria as Several sorts of
showman and lecturer, his success in evading
the notice of the authorities during his more
dubious enterprises was generally ascribed to
his being “a pal of Tommy Bent’s.” One of
his more notable cash-raising schemes was
the exhibition of a two-headed infant,
pickled in spirit. The State impounded that
trophy. Very much later he was up on a
charge of masquerading in uniform, but he
slipped out from beneath the hoof of the
Law with his usual dexterity. And even on
this occasion in London it was admitted that
the High Commissioner was very much in-
terested in him. There seems to be a string
somewhere.
When that most interesting Chinaman in
Australia, Louis Ah Mouy, just dead, was
engaged for Australia, 07 years ago, he was
a ship’s carpenter in the British mercantile
marine, reading English easily and speaking
it well enough. Captain Glendinning hired
him to. come and build six wooden houses—
three in Williamstown and three in South
Melbourne. He brought timber, Chinese
cedar, sufficient for the job. At that time
there were not more than 20 houses at either
place, the Marco Polo Hotel at South Mel-
bourne, still standing, being one of them.
After completing his contract and pouching
the money, Ah Mouy started as a carter to
the Ballarat and Bendigo goldfields. He got
£l6O a ton for loads to Ballarat and £2O
more for a load to Bendigo. Writing to his
brother at Canton to come and* join him on
tin new Tom Tiddler’s ground, the letter
was intercepted by the Chow authorities,
the news went around, and within two or
tin ee years there were 37,000 Chinese on
the goldfields. Ah Mouy turned the rush of
cheap labor to account in opening up mines
in the Yea district and elsew'here, and was
soon a rich man.
Law officials in South Aus. run to khaki.
Stuart, Master of the Supreme Court, was
for a year Commandant of the camp at
Mitcham. Ligertwood, who was then acting-
Master, but has been in private practice
since, has just en-
listed. Hannan, the
Parliamentary drafts-
man, applied for
leave some months
ago. The Govern-
ment told him then
that he could not be
spared at the mo-
ment; it has now
r e con s i d bred the
case, and come to
the same decision,
there being nobody
else available with
his experience, but
he has permission to
knock again after
the next session.
Also S. Aus. has
what is pretty cer-
tainly a record —two
ex-Attorney Generals
on active service,
Denny and Vaughan.
LEONARD
RODWAY,
Tasmania's Botanist,
and father of
Florence, the artist.
(’harles Gray, secretary of the Vic. Trades
Hall Council, holds his head higher these
days: son Rowland, who left for France a
couple of years ago, has won the D.C.M. He
has a regimental sergeant-major’s job.
At Longwood, the little town in the Kelly
country of Victoria that has won’everything
from the D-C.M. to the V.C., is St. Helena,
the home of the Tubb family, who secured
one of the district’s two Victoria Crosses
and one of its numerous M.C’s. To para-
phrase Henry Lawson, “there’s a road from
St. Helena, . there’s a road they all must
take.” It leads straight into the firing-line.
Among the adventurous lads who travelled
it is Private Frank Sanderson,' whose
narents live close by. Four years ago, aged
37. he left Victoria on a Finnish sailing-
ship, reaching England just after war broke
out. He joined the Royal Marine Light
Infantry—the “giddy harumfrodites” who
heard the word “Over you go, Royals!” at
Zeebrugge the other day. Having helped to
sink several submarines, and been nearly
sunk himself by a tinfish which missed his
ship by a couple of feet ( but the submarine
which sped it forth will never loose another),
Sanderson transferred, and was at the Battle
of Jutland. Later he went to France with
the Naval Brigade, and now lies wounded
at Abbeville. His brother, in training for
the Church, went from Gallipoli to France,
where he was killed after gaining his com-
mission.
MISSED OPPORTUNITIES.
THE MAIDEN: “ You know, I do enjoy these
delightful birthday parties so. Yet I
never have celebrated one of my own!"
THE BRUTE: “Isn’t that too bad! And yon
with so many opportunities!”
An unusual pair of Australians are help-
ing the Sammies to go safely to sea. Hinton
White, a son of the late William White,
one of W illiamsto wn’s early-day ship-
builders, left Australia for the U.S.A. in
3.893 on a lecturing enterprise. He told
about Australia for 10 years, all up and
down the States, during which time he
married a Vassar girl. Brother Wilfred
followed to the U.S.A. five years later, adven-
turing, and presently found himself with a
job in an old compass-adjusting firm in
Boston. He‘also married a U.S. girl; and in
time he climbed up to become the American
representative of the renowned British firm
of Kelvin and Baird, with a partnership
therein; and brother Hinton came into the
business with him. Nowadays, sent for by
Washington to control the manufacture and
supply of nautical instruments for the U.S.
Navy. Wilfred (now Dr. White) is Yankee-
land’s boss expert in the business, and runs
three factories under the eye of the Govern-
ment.
It recently befel Gurney, of the N. S.
Wales Government Entomologist’s Depart-
ment, to visit a State farm in the Northern
Rivers area, with a view to dealing with cer-
tain potato-bugs, or boll-worms, or something
which were organising an offensive on the
crops. His department heralded his advent
by wiring: “Gurney arriving Tuesday re
maize pests.” Cows, of course, are the local
goddesses, and the receiving telegraph-
operator Sent out the wire this way:
“Guernsey arriving Tuesday re maize tests.”
As a result, Gurney found that a paddock of
maize had been placed at his disposal for
meals. It quite took away his appetite, and
not until lie had denied the fact on oath
would anyone believe that he was not a cow.
THE SIEGE GUNS AT ARMENTIERES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Australian Siege Battery, caught in the
maelstrom at Armentieres, fought desperately for 24
hours. They extricated nil their guns. Theirs was
the last battery to leave. They refused to retire until
the enemy was outflanking them.”
The siege guns do not gad about ;
They much prefer in peace to sit;
And if you start to prod them out
From their secluded concrete pit
A dozen tractors you will need ;
The heavies are not built for speed.
If we retire they first depart;
They want at least a fortnight’s start.
But once they stayed just where they were—
Our siege guns at Armentieres!
Flung in the German rush to stem,
We infantry were backward pressed,
Until we found ourselves with them,
Our gunners, fighting breast to breast.
For they had stayed; each monster gun
Had waited just to see the fun.
Amid the gas, the sleet of shell
Those rest-eanip gunners gave them hell;
All day and night they did their share,
Our gunners at Armentieres I
With grey-clad masses on their flanks,
Those gunners harnessed up their guns;
They yanked those monsters big as tanks
Beyond the flood of swarming Huns.
They didn’t hurry much, ’tis true;
They couldn’t if they’d wanted to.
And yet this record proud they made:
Theirs was the battery that stayed,
The last to leave, the last to dare, i
Our siege guns at Armentieres !
x.s.w.
ARTHUR H, ADAMS.


•lw-
m mi
-'V - .
O
M
S.
:
mm
I
m
■
■SI
x
■
■
11
■
v-;
HI
B
m
m
(
ililii
.
:
.
US
I
n
m
11
nHHi
mmmm
-
; * il : ' k
■ .
m
m
h
m
'M
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
400
CLMN;
PIPES
m
£ very P ‘P e Guar^t eed
LMN
mmm


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Dead
Corroding Dead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Dead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Sliver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade?
s,a S s > etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
v
>
Registered
JBHAS
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
Leather PION EER Belting
FOR GO YEARS THE LEADING POWER TRANSMITTER .
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LUDOWICI <SL SON LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia (Mel-
bourne) / —Dividends.— *
Net Ord. Pref. To Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.
Mar., 1911. .£66,815 £35,773 £9,173 £21,869 £275,352
Sept., 1911.. 63,053 35,773 9,173 18,107 293,459
Internal reserves disclosed. . 35,000 328,459
Mar., 1912.. 77,104 35,773 9,173 32,158 360,617
Internal reserves disclosed. . 25,000 385,617
Sept., 1912. . 78,742 35,773 9,173 33,796 419,413
7 p.c. 7 p.c.
Mar., 1913 . 84,232 41,735 10,702 31,795 451,208
Sept., 1913.. 82,283 41,735 10,702 29,846 481,054
Mar., 1914.. 87,855 41,735 10,702 35,418 516,472
Sept., 1914.. 84,073 41,735 10,702 31,636 548,108
Mar., 1915,. 77,224 41,735 10,702 24,787 572,895
Sept., 1915. . 73,480 41,735 10,702 21,043 593,938
Mar., 1916.. 80,601 41,735 10,702 28,164 622,102
Sept., 1916.. 73,429 41,735 10,702 20,992 643,094
Mar., 1917.. 73,038 41,735 10,702 20,601 663,695
Sept., 1917.. 79,489 41,735 10,702 27,052 690,747
Mar., 1918.. 79,993 41,735 10,702 27,556 718,303
In these days it is a fortunate banker who
knows his own profits. At the best of times
profits are a guess; but because the future
is much more uncertain than usual, profits
are far more of a guess than usual.
What we call present profits depend upon
future behavior. Really it is a very clumsy
proceeding to cut a transaction running over
many years into six-month lengths and
before the transaction is completed appor-
tion a certain profit to each period as it
passes. What should we say of a farmer
who, having sown his wheat, went to his
bahker at the end of the first month, with
the crop only just showing among the clods,
and said that he had made a profit of £100?
Yet the banker’s own position only differs
from that in this respect: every six months
some transactions are completed and the final
results are visible. If conditions were always
the same it would thus be possible to arrive
pretty well at the fair proportion of profits
to be credited to any term. But seeing that
conditions vary, the true figures even for
the present can only be determined by a
prophet.
This paper can't get a prophet’s license; so
the best it can do is to consider what a
future built upon present foundations is
likely to be. First, in case of defeat. De-
feat —something that could plainly be recog-
nised as such —would of course be followed,
if not by demand for Australia, at any rate
for a huge money indemnity or corresponding
advantages in connection with Australian
trade, especially in the matter of the supply
of raw materials. We have to face that
alternative to victory. It seems hopeless to
expect that victory should mean a similar
indemnity for us. Wo, shall have to pay our
own bill. But this paper isn’t so sure that
the payment of the bill is from the national
point of view going to be the most serious
thing in the future. If Smith and Jones
and Brown lend their Town Council £50,000
apiece, it may be very awkward for some of
the townspeople to produce their share of
the interest and sinking fund ; but as long
as Smith and Jones and Brown remain
townspeople and spend their money locally,
the raising of the money to pay them may
not be so difficult. Similarly the huge in-
ternal debt that we are asked to believe is
going to smash Germany will probably do
nothing of the kind either. Our foreign debt
will cause a lot more trouble; indeed, our
whole salvation lies in the fact that the
Commonwealth has for the most part done
what The Bulletin had been told consist-
ently for the previous 20 years was impos-
sible. However, let that go. The point
that has to be made now is that the payment
of interest and repayment of principal of the
big local war debt will probably not cause
much national, though it may cause some
individual, discomfort, A far more serious
disturbance will be caused by the more or
less sudden stoppage of the expendi-
ture of war-loan money, not only here
but elsewhere. The direct effect of
that on us will be a large amount of un-
employment ; the indirect effect a tremendous
fall in prices of some of our staples. If
we and the rest of the world can pass through
that experience without a financial crisis our
luck will have changed.
The - extent to which banks are preparing
to meet the highly probable shock depends
less perhaps upon -what they show than upon
what they conceal. You can see what re-
serves there are but you don’t know" what
reserves are wanted; and you can’t know
that until you know" the prudence (or other-
wise) with which advances have been made.
Still you can get some idea of the policy
which has been adopted from some such com-
parison as this:—
Liabilities.
1914. 1917. 1918.
Notes .. .. £38,980 £33,538 £32,575
Bills, etc. . . 1,216,066 969,045 1,480,872
Free deposits . . 4,622,885 4,975,736 6,210,179
Deposits at interest 6,659,745 6,819,609 7,613,142
Liquid assets .. 4,873,689 5,712,602 7,086,622
Advances. . . . 9,306,647 8,885,793 10,133,870
Premises, etc. . . 431,171 468,887 390,237
Total liabilities now are £15,336,768, which
is a growth of £2,799,092 in the three war
years. Of that amount no less than
£2,212 933 is held liquid, and it is fair to
assume that more than twice the other half-
million -was employed financing the Wheat
Pools on March 31. And that is really ad-
vances to Government, too. So we come to
this: that over half a million more than
all the amount added to deposits, etc., since
the war started is held liquid, or as liquid
as the needs of the Government allow. This
suggests that at auy rate the National’s
directors are not deceived as to the real
nature of the present “prosperity.”
* * * *
The Mutual Life and Citizens’ Assur-
ance Co., Ltd., which is the Citizens’ Life
Association with the M.L.A. and the Aus-
tralian Widows' Fund grafted on to it:- —
Ordinary Life Department. Added
Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1905. . £255,330 £64,962 £33,545 £20,572 £136,051
1906.. 278,713 62,267 34,867 395 181,184
1907.. 299,001 83,803 24,190 12,925 178,083
(Amalgamation with M.L.A. took place at this point.)
1908.. 667,435 274,307 74,674 157,054 161,400
1909.. 692,089 321,484 58,392 1,745 310,468
(Widows’ Fund came in here.)
1910.. 941,605 481,526 84,252 2,524 373,303
1911. . 1,047,150 534,801 95,864 5,275 411,210
1912. . 1,098,748 593,820 100,391 2,631 401,906
1913. . 1,127,198 595,487 92,604 15,320 423,787
1914. . 1,162,249 604,258 102,274 1,541 454,176
1915. . 1,174,039 666,113 98,695 6,986 402,245
1916. . 1,191,225 676,011 82,324 6,837 426,053
1917. . 1,219,490 776,218 88,888 16,673 387,711
The control of this concern is in the hands
men with a long vision. Two years ago,
for instance, they proceeded .to do something
which has only in connection with the last
v\ ar Loan come to he generally regarded as
the right thing. “We know approximately
what amount will be added to our funds
each year,” they said in effect. “We know
also pretty well what other investments we
shall be able to realise within the next year.
It is our duty to make that money available
to the Commonwealth if we can get some-
body to make us temporary advances —some-
body whose business it is to make tempo-
rary advances and not permanent invest-
ments.” They found the somebody in the
Commonwealth Bank, which handles mil-
lions of Savings Bank money; and to the
M.L.C.’s bold policy must be credited the
setting of the pace in the matter of War
Loan subscriptions—it talked to other big
concerns in millions. The directors, who
cut their report down to a few brief sen-
tences, merely say on this point:—
Assets.—The assets amount to £12,763,735, of
which over 50 p.c. is invested in Government securi-
ties. The whole of the co.’s accumulations since
August, 1915, have been invested in War Loans.
But the trustees, who were appointed on
the amalgamation with the old M.L.A., are
a little more loquacious :
The recent subscription of £2,000,000 to the Com-
monwealth AVar Loan and £lOO,OOO to the Maoriland
War Loan brings the total financial assistance of the
co. to Empire war finance to over £7,000,000, a
fact of which we think policy-holders mav well be
proud.
Certainly the whole £7,000,000 hasn’t been
paid over yet; and the last £2,100,000 does
not come into these accounts, anyway. But
it is interesting to see how what has so far
been done has been managed. Take Decem-
ber, 1914, as a datum point; and this is how
it works out:—
Shareholders’ capital increased .. £91,775
Assurance funds increased. . .. 1,553,113
Sundry creditors increased .. 1,742,478
Loans on mortgage reduced .. 1,013,907
Total .. ..£4,401,273
The actual net increase in the holding of
Government securities in the three years has
been £3,774,173 : so that in addition to the
investments in War Loans the co. was able
in the early part of 1915 to invest a quarter
of a million in Canada, where it had been
invited to establish itself before the war. to
secure the freehold of its Sydney premises
and to add a little to its loans on policies.
But while the M.L.C. broke down a con-
vention and showed that it was for this
supremely important national purpose pre-
pared to borrow on the credit of its expected
accumulations, it saw clearly enough that
it could not do that and also take unknown
policy risks. And that war risks were un-
known risks has been clearly enough demon-
strated during the past three years. At the
outset, when it was going to be a march to
Berlin, offices issued war policies cheerfully
enough at 5 p.c. To-day some British office's
are charging 20 p.c. That men who go out
to fight for the nation should have to pay
anything at all extra for insurance is abomin-
able. The nation should pay ; there is very
little more reason why those who have in-
vested in insurance policies should do it
than those who have invested in bank or
brewery or shipping or any other shares.
There is an obligation upon holders of in-
surance policies to forego their bonuses, as
they are now asked to do, in order that
married men with dependants who go to the
Front may be provided with insurance
cover; but there is a heavy obligation also
upon investors in every other class of
security, and it is to be hoped they will not
lose sight of it.
The M.L.C. is a co-operative co. There
are shareholders who have guaranteed the
face value of the policies plus declared
bonuses and also a maximum expense rate.
In return for that —which is, among other
things, a guarantee of economical manage-
ment —the policy-holders in the Ordinary
department agree that the shareholders shall
have up to one-fifth of the profits that are
made. How this incentive to effective man-
agement works out: the trustees of the Aus-
tralian Widows’ Fund section certify in
their annual report:—
The great advantage of union to our policy-holders
is strongly evidenced by the fact that for the last
quinquennial period before the union the proportion
of surplus to premiums received by the Australian
Widows’ Fund was 14.6 p.c., whereas for the year just
closed it was 37.0 p.c.—a wonderful increase.
Of £254,357 of surplus divided for 1016 the
shareholders took £33,794. For 1017 the
actuary recommends “that £247,025 be
divided in accordance with the articles of
association and the amalgamation agree-
ments.” This means a slightly reduced
bonus —so far as M.L.C. and old Citizens’
policies, at any rate, are concerned. Com-
pared with the previous year (or with 1014)
the reversionary bonus on a whole-life policy
of 10 years’ duration is now £2 12s. as
against £3; on an endowment policy pay-
able at 60, £1 15s. as against £1 18s. per
£lOO of insurance in each case. The total
surplus is reduced partly by reason of
claims arising from the war (“claims by
death include £148,627 of war claims,” the
directors report), and partly by the adop-
tion throughout of a 3 p.c. pure premium
valuation. This, while reducing the present
bonus, makes it easier to pay larger bonuses
in the future. It means in plain English
that, throughout, it is now assumed that
future earnings will be only 3 p.c., and
reserves have been left sufficient to meet all
obligations if no more than that is earned.
All that is earned over 3 p.c. is available for
bonuses. The funds earned £4 17s. 2d. p.c.
last year. But this does not mean only an
increased capacity for paying bonuses. It
means a reserve for contingencies. This is
in addition to the general reserve of £.100,000
in the Ordinary department.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income. Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
1905.. £199,426 £51,095 £84,039 £8577 £55,715
1906.. 205,910 46,757 75,251 849 83,053
1907.. 235,086 55,770 82,820 96 496
1908.. 217,371 98,068 84,268 1734 33.301
1909.. 227,299 74,829 98,522 4746 49,202
1910.. 243,286 74,108 105,330 2755 61,093
1911.. 264,235 65,606 108,077 3916 86,636
1912.. 281,597 63.186 111,978 6196 100,237
1913.. 298,526 93,365 115,794 6594 82,773
1914.. 322,017 66,240 134,643 121 134
1915.. 337.959 72,835 143,912 121’212
1916.. 354.568 68,702 153.102 802 131,962
1917.. 382,807 88,527 165,190 159 128,931
The policy in this department is a contract
to pay a. specified amount guaranteed by
the capital, and the shareholders get the
benefit of most of the surplus. Last year
they received on this account £3S.TO6 out of
a surplus 0 f £58,791 shown as at Dec. 31,
1916. But it is not strictly correct to say
that this was all profit from the insurance
business. Of the amount shown above as
having been borrowed temporarily for per-
manent investment £1,521.884 has been
raised _by the Industrial department; and
there is presumably some profit in that, if
also there is an element of risk. Invest-
ments, etc., are also more or less protected
by a Contingency fund of £46.172;' and for
the benefit of pojicy-holders there is, besides
the actuarial reserve, a policy-holders’ bonus
reserve of £lB,OOO.
The Australian Mutual Fire Insur-
ance Society (now Ltd.), of Sydney:—
Bonus to Added Total
Policy- to Re-
Profits. Dividends. holders. Funds, serves.
Mai’., £ £ £ c £
1905.. 21,447 14} p.c. = 9,312 4312 7,823 122,277
1906.. 20,403 14} „ „ 9,262 4262 6,879 129,156
1907.. 21,562 14} „ „ 9,237 4238 8,087 137,243
<‘12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 124,743
1908.. 21,230 14 p.c. = 10,430 4430 6,370 131,113
1909.. 18,277 14 „ ~ 10,553 4553 3,171 134,284
1910.. 22,337 l4f „ ~10,983 4984 6,370 140,654
615,000 Reserves transferred to Capital.. 125.654
1911.. 24,005 13} p.c. 12,040 5140 6,825 132,479
1912.. 22,640 14 „ ~ 12,588 5388 4,664 137,143
1913.. 20,944 14} „ ~ 13,497 6297 1,150 138,293
1914.. 20,302 15} „ ~14,205 7005 137,385
1915.. 18,271 16 „ ~14,424 7224 134,008
1916.. 25,614 17} „ ~ 15,944 8744 926 134,934
1917.. 15.134 17# „ ~15,898 8698 '— 125,472
1918.. 32,193 18} „ „ 16,477 9277 6,439 131,911
If the figures for every year were like those
for the past year The Bulletin would have
to confess that it was quite wrong in suggest-
ing, as it has done hitherto, that the eo.
should change its plan for distributing pro-
fits. But the past year has been exceptional
—so exceptional that, after making the usual
distributions, there is more to lay by than
there had been in the previous five. In those
five years, in fact, nothing had been put by
at all, but £12,000 of old profit had been
divided. Indeed, reserves have to be
encroached upon when the underwriting
profit is less than 20 p.c.; for after paying
S p.c. to shareholders 20 p.c. of the pre-
miums are divided equally between share-
holders and policy-holders. In the early
days of the co., when the business was very
select, a2O p.c. profit was easy; to-day when
this and other Australian cos. are in the
general scuffle for business, it is much more
unusual. Last year, as this next table shows,
the loss rate was exceptionally low: —
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895.. £29,415 £6,717 £12,828 22.8 p.c. 43.6 p.c.
1900.. 33,888 8,131 13,765 24.0 „ 40.7 „
1905.. 36,088 7,149 15,009 19.8 „ 41.6 „
1910.. 41,845 9,890 18,748 23.6 „ 44.8 „
1914.. 58,522 21,992 27,899 37.5 „ 47.7 „
1915.. 60,538 24,518 28,498 40.5 „ 47.1 „
1916.. 71,557 23,618 32,594 33.0 „ 45.5 „
1917.. 72,621 36,255 31,466 49.9 „ 43.3 „
1918.. 77,867 22,366 33,234 28.7 „ 42.7 „
We find results of the inflation of prices in
m^st, unexpected places. Further, though
some* stocks are exceptionally light others
are exceptionally heavy because the people
who need them for manufacturing purposes
or for sale don’t know when they will be
able to get fresh supplies. Big stocks and
high prices mean big insurances; and that
no doubt explains how this co. can show a
reduced expense rate. Further, owing to
the bogus prosperity which is afflicting us,
the. moral hazard is greatly reduced. In
plain language, just at present it doesn’t pay
anybody to have a fire; and it does pay
thousands of people to take greater precau-
tions against fire than ever they took before.
Which largely explains the exceptionally low
loss rate. Later on
Taking risks (so far as one can judge
them by premiums) as a basis for compari-
son, the Australian Mutual is one of the
strongest fire offices in the world. This is in
a large measure due to the fact that for
many years the business was very conserva-
tive. At the end of 40 years the Australian
Mutual had a premium income of only about
£50,000. It has increased it by 50 p.c. in
the past five years. The result" of the slow
early development—which mostly meant a
very careful selection of risks —was that at
the end of 40 years its total funds were
times greater than its risks, as measured by
the premiums for a year; and even now thev
are three times greater. This is very nearly
twice the average strength of the leading
English cos. In bank balances, War Loan
and other liquid assets alone it has nearly
three times as mu,ch as the losses amounted
to in the worst year the co. ever experienced;
and it has another £145,000 in city property
and mortgages.
* * * *
The Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
(Sydney) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.*
£ £ £
Mar., ’ll.. 207,42 S 10 p.c.= 150,000 57,428 77,614
Sept.,’ll. . 210,830 11 ~,,165,000 45,830 123,444
Mar., ’12.. 225,601 12J „ ~ 187,500 38,101 161,545
Sept.,’l2.. 229,629 121 „ ~ 187,500 42,129 203,674
Mar., ’13.. 233,530 121 „ ~187,500 46,030 249,704
£260,000 of reserves capitalised.. I Airl
Sept.,’l3. . 255,440 121p.c.=203,125 52,315) 52,019
Mar., ’14.. 263,761 12i „ ~ 203,125 60,636 112,655
Sept.,’l4. . 256,361 „ ~203,125 53,236 165,891
Maf., ’15.. 272,708 121 „ ~203,125 69,583 «35,474
Assets written up, £3,250,000 ]
Bonus to shareholders (in Fiji 1 235,474
„ and N.Z. Co. stock), £3,250,000
Mar., ’16.. 261,250 6lp.c.= 211,250 50,000 285,474
Sept.,’l6. . 143,004 61 „„ 105,625 37,379 322,853
Mar., 17.. 145,758 61 „ ~105,625 40,133 3(52,986
Sept.,’l7.. 136,502 61 „ ~ 105,625 30,877 393.863
Mar., ’lB.. 142,641 61 „ ~105,625 37,016 430,879
* Exclusive of Replacement and Depreciation Fund.
Three years ago this co. was cut in halves:
and though the visible reserves were less
than £BOO,OOO the directors evidently
hCn’ved that the net assets were worth
more than the accounts showed,
for bonus shares to that extent were issued
in a new co. This new co. has been paying
o p.c.; so the shareholders have really been
getting altogether 12-J p.c. as they .used to.
In addition, though, as usual, the Board-
room echoes with moans, a substantial
visible sum has been laid by; and what has
been laid by that isn’t visible nobody knows
who isn’t in the co.’s secret counsels. Obvi-
ously. however, a co. which can issue
£8,250,000 of bonus capital without going to
the visible reserves can’t expect the public
to believe that it makes only what it shows.
At this stage it will be as well to look at
the published figures thus far of the other
co.:—•
C.S.E. CO. (FIJI AND N.Z.) LTD.
To
Mar., Net Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves
1916. .£328.830 6 p.c.=£202,500 £126,330 £126,330
191/.. 340,201 6 „ „ 210,000 130,201 256,531
1918.. 338,147 C. „ „ 210,000 128,147 384,678


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mlg. Co., Ltd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity
for power and lighting purposes is manufactured by the British
Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd. They offer the advantage
of undivided responsibility for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include; —Steam Turbines; Turbo-Generators;
Blowers and Cor’'pressors; Condensers; Gas, Oil and Diesel Engines;
A.C. and D.C. Generators and Motors; Electric Tramway and Railway
Equipments; Transformers and Converters; Switch and Control Gear;
Meters and Instruments; Lamps, Fans, and all Electrical Accessories.
Mancheito
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works—Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
Negligible maintenance costs arc assured if you
specify British Thomson-Houston Direct and Alter-
nating Current Generators for your power and
lighting supply. There are more B.T.H. Generators
in operation in Australia than any other make. The
reason is—reliability. Write for further particu-
lars and quotations to the Australian General
Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Water is a necessity for life, but water containing
impurities is the cause of much ill-health. Many
country water supplies draw their water from rivers,
and a “fresh” causes turbidity or often brings. down
vegetable matter. One ton of Aluminoferric will
clear 0,000,000 gallons of water. Is cheap and
effective. Used on Transcontinental Railway, Kal-
goorlie Mines, Sydney, Newcastle, N.S.W. Public
Works, Victorian State Rivers and Water Supply, etc.
Follow the lead of experienced people. Write for
particulars to Sole Agents: William Adams & Co. Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521-3 Collins Street,
Melbourne; Corner Edward and Mary Streets, Bris-
bane; 33-35 King Street, Perth; 96 Currie Street,
Adelaide. — Advt.
* * * *
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. f 2
• * * *
Wood Piping is being used successfully as bore
casing. Write for particulars and prices. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (Head
Office), Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O.
Ad. —Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
* » * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
♦ * *• *
The manufacture of the Australian “Skandia” Crude
Oil Engine continues apace, and Nelson & Robertson
report inquiries from mining, dredging and other in-
dustries. The economy in the running cost of these
engines combined with the small amount of labor
required appeals to all power users, and all interested
are invited to forward particulars of their require-
ments. “Skandia” engines are designed for both
industrial and marine work, and the stationary type
is unrivalled for pumping, hauling, compressors and
all mining and general work.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.—Advt.
“National” English Engines immediatelv delivered
from C. dney of new stock of latest models. Gas
engines and suction-gas plant, 43 to 46 b.h.p. Towns’s
gas engines of following b.h.p.: 2J, 31, 8, 101, 111, 22.
Oil engines, 31, 4, 7 b.h.p. Petrol engines, If arid
3 b.h.p. Large suction-gas plant, suitable for gas
engine 100 to 120 b.h.p. Apply Arthur Leplastrier
and Co., “The Quay,” Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—-Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Coulison it Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * • *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, . Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B
& Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bcurke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Th ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in
Write for
every State,
particulars.
\V. U. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire,
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS -IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Besides the bonus capital of £3,250,000,
carrying 6 p.c. preference, there is £250,000
ordinary capital subscribed by the parent
co., which thus gets all the divided- profit
in excess of the 6 p.c. paid to the prefs. The
latter, by the way, have no direct say in
the control of the co.; and if they can exer-
cise any indirect control they will be pretty
clever. In the three years the disclosed
profit of the two cos. has been :
O.S.R £829,155
Ditto (Fiji and N.Z.) .. 1,007,178
Total £1,836,333
Efen assuming that the cos. have not made
anything beyond that, they have still done
so well that, if it didn’t seem so like sacri-
lege, this paper would feel impelled to
exhort the Board to buck up. No capital
has been actually subscribed by shareholders
since 1907. when £l5 per share was paid for
15,000 £2O shares. That took the capital
to £2,500,000. Assume that the whole of
that was paid by shareholders in cash, then
the profits for the past three distressful
years of war have been equal to 73 p.c., an
average of just under 25 p.c. p.a. Whether
that is a fair burden to put upon an in-
dustry is a matter which scarcely admits of
argument.
We are, however, only concerned with
that here so far as it is likelv to affect the
future of the shares as an investment. What
case can the co. make out for itselfV First,
of course, it will urge that the greater part of
the profit is made out of the Fiji plantations
and mills and the M.L. refinery and connec-
tion. That is true enough, from one point
of view ; though some of the profit is really
made out of Australia, where a market for
the surplus Fiji production is found. But
this part of the profit is not made out of the
Australian producer. Governments which
permitted the co. to make such vast profits
in the past that, after paying 12 p.c. for
years, it could double its capital by produc-
ing £3,250,000 of undisclosed assets, cannot,
however, fairly go back and say that the co.
is now entitled to make profits only on the
capital actually subscribed by shareholders.
But they are entitled to say, as they
have said or tried to say in connection
with gas cos., that the C.S.R. shall not make
such profits again—that it shall make charges
sufficient to show, say, 7 p.c. on the present
value of its assets, and no more. So far the
Queensland Government, which is the most
interested, has attempted to deal with what
it feels is a rapacious monopoly by methods
which have admittedly failed; but it is not
likely to stop there. The great financial
strength of the co., backed by the nimble wit
of the management, has saved it from many
assaults in the past; and it is for the in-
vestor to decide whether that is going to save
the co. from the attempts at regulation which
are bound to come in the future. Nothing
could be much worse for the cane-growing
industry than the uncertainty which at
present prevails. Here and there a grower
is doing well; but for the most part the
heart is being ground out of him between
the upper and the nether millstones.
The Queensland Government has at last,
in consequence of “the disclosures made in
the report of the Gas Referee,” requested
the Auditor-General to make an examina-
tion and audit of the accounts of the South
Brisbane Gas Co. Some action upon that
report was undeniably called for. Either
the Gas Referee, a semi-judicial officer, was
violently wrong in his conclusions or the
management of the co. had been guilty of
something very like conspiracy to defeat the
law. The Bulletin some time ago called
upon the Government to take action, which
it thought might be done by a prosecution
for conspiracy. The directors were autho-
rised at their last general meeting to pro-
ceed against The Bulletin for libel for
making this suggestion. The directors have
now, however, issued a circular to the share-
holders : —•
There is not even a scintilla of truth in the
charges made, nor can we conceive there is a single
shareholder who will for a moment believe that the
directors and others aimed at would stoop so low as
to sully the reputations they have built up for
honesty and honorable dealings. Under the circum-
stances, therefore, we do not think any good purpose
can be served by spending the shareholders’ money in
prosecuting The Bulletin.
That is a matter entirely for the directors
and their advisers. The one thing about
which this paper is concerned is that the
charges made by a public officer and the im-
plications shall be'Cleared up. The Govern-
ment is evidently of the same mind; and
the appointment of the Auditor-General to
make an examination of the accounts is a
very proper first step. After that The
Bulletin will consider the propriety of
taking its own action upon the directors’
circular.
# * * *
“Good Australian”: It will probably be
too late for this protest to have any effect,
yet it is well to put on record that one of
the Commonwealth’s three finance bills con-
tains a dangerous departure in public finance.
Introducing the War Loan Securities Repur-
chase Bill Treasurer Watt stated that “its
primary object was to provide the Treasurer
with money out of War Loans to purchase
War Loan stock and ke_ep the market
healthy.” Another expression he used was
“to take the slack out of the market.” Watt s
defence for asking this power to buy bonds on
the Stock Exchange with loan money was
that the State Government always had the
power to use sinking funds to buy its own
stock on the open market. Now this new
power has an entirely different aim. He
asks for the right to set aside £1,000,000 of
loan money to dabble in Commonwealth
bonds on the Stock Exchanges of Australia.
Of all the dangerous, delusive and damaging
schemes to kill the market for war bonds
and create public distrust this surely is the
very worst. It is merely a revival of the
old land-boom methods in Melbourne, where
failing banks, building societies and finance
cos. used their own capital to buy in' their
own shares on a constantly dropping mar-
ket. The whole business looks sinister, and
some bad advice is obviously being given
the Treasurer by a person or persons accus-
tomed to a deceptive Stock Exchange prac-
tice of supporting a falling stock.
* * * *
From Gerald R. Campbell:—
In the timely article dealing with the subject of
the Insurance of Soldiers, The Bulletin concludes
that policy-holders in life offices should be prepared
to forego current bonuses in order that soldiers may
obtain relief from the present heavy premiums for
War Risk Policies. Certainly some general scheme
in this direction is most necessary in all Australian
life offices, if recruiting is to be facilitated and the
soldiers fairly dealt with by the civilians who do not
take the war risk. In our largest mutual life office,
at any rate, something has been done in the Ordinary
department at the cost of bonuses—especially that one
just declared—and it is to be hoped that the relief
will be still further extended by the management.
But I think you will agree that the burden must not
fall only on the policy-holders’ bonuses. In proprie-
tary or co-operative life offices the shareholders’
bonuses should also clearly share the burden; for
these, too, are portions of the surplus, which almost
entirely arises from premiums (and interest thereon)
paid by policy-holders in excess of actual require-
ments ; and the recent report of the most successful
Australian office of this class shows that shareholders’
bonuses are matters of some importance.
* * * *
Mammoth Molybdenite (N.S.W.) is giving
the Sydney Stock Exchange plenty of excite-
ment. The concentrating plant, like others
of its kind, takes knocking into shape, and
arrangements for sorting ore are primitive.
In a run of 85 hours it treated 101 tons
assaying 1.35 p.c. for 22161 b. of 85 p.c.
molybdenite. Excessive sliming involved a
heavy loss of mineral, but some of this is
recoverable. These teething troubles are
unavoidable. They are not half so import-
ant as the determination of whether there is
any considerable quantity of decent-grade ore
that can be got without costly picking.
* * # . *
Adelong Creek (N.S.W.), after scraping
along with a monthly yield of 90oz. from two
dredges, suddenly flashes the news that No. 1
plant alone has saved 130 oz. But No. 2
has done so poorly that it has been sent
scraping along the surface till it can dip into
better stuff ahead. While this change in for-
tune has befallen the Creek, Monty Cohen’s
Estates is dredging into poorer dirt. But
the Estates will give more rich patches yet.
* * * *
Cope’s Creek Central, Tingha (N.S.W.),
looks like having to pay a big war-time profits
tax, as since February it has shot out £9OOO
in divs., a sum almost equal to paid-up
capital. The co. was off the div. list from
1914 until a couple of months ago, so the
present run about evens up things. Of course
it is only rnacfe possible by the record price of
tin, so the war tax is fair enough, in spite
of some of the State Premiers.
* * * *
An interesting little game of cut-throat
is being played in western N. S. Wales.
Years ago, when George Blakemore was at
Great Cobar, he became interested in the
C.S.A. Great Cobar didn’t treat him well;
and he probably doesn’t feel that he owes
any debt of gratitude to the present co.
Since he left it the concern has suffered'
disaster after disaster, while the rejected and
despised C.S.A. has come further and fur-
ther into the limelight. Great Cobar has
fallen into the hands of the receiver; C.S.A.
has lately got a railway—built with
public money—and has started copper
production. The question is now which
is the dog and which the tail. In the
struggle to save something from the wreck
Cobar is promoting a movement to form a
co-operative co., on the lines of the Associ-
ated Smelters. It observes that that is
what the Broken Hill Prop, did when it
saw that the time was coming when it
wouldn’t have the ore to employ its furnaces.
But the Cobar district isn’t quite Broken
Hill, and the committee which has the job
in hand has a tough proposition. Meantime
C.S.A. stands out and nurses the 400,000
tons of ore which Blakemore told the Works
Committee there is in the mine of so low a
grade that “it would not pay them to get it
out and treat it. But,” he added, “if the line
were built they could get it out and send it
to Great Cobar, and the costs would so work
out that Great Cobar would get its flux for
nothing after the gold and silver had been
taken out of it.” This question of basic
ore supplies is of the utmost importance to
Great Cobar. Of course C.S.A. knows it,
and isn’t without hope that some day the
tail will w T ag the dog. Meantime, however,
while both sides dig in, the public in those
parts is likely to do a perish. The other
day Great Cobar applied for six months’
suspension on its Cobar Gold and Chesney
leases, which suggests that the before-men-
tioned perish has begun. Somebody ought
to have power to see that these lessees of
public property don’t use it as pawns in a
game. If the two properties must be worked
together for the public good and the benefit
of the public works which have been pro-
vided at great expense to serve them, then
both parties are likely to receive an uncom-
fortable jolt if they don’t promptly find a
way to pull together.
* * * *
A flutter is on in the Speck because John
Craze has got a couple of veins in the face
of the bottom tunnel of the Round Hill.
These have given samples of galena assaying
(55 p.e. lead, 91oz. silver and 4dwt. gold per
ton —welcome stuff, especially as Craze has
been stuck up with a big fault which appar-
ently affected the grade of the ore adversely.
His idea is that he may have reached the
downward continuation of the shoot that
carried rich galena in the upper level. But
the veins are so small that it isn’t worth
while making a fuss till a lot more develop-
ment has been done.
* * * *
Lyell (Tas.) is to distribute Is. 3d., which
means a morsel of £80,575 for shareholders.
Bulls have been bellowing for 25., but the co.
has to finance Mount Read and Rosebery till
a float or a loan is possible, and David Lums-
den isn’t the sort to take risks in war-time.
Union-secretary Little is issuing warnings to
miners not to go to Queenstown, because of
some mysterious trouble which is impending.
The story is that Sticht prefers the non-
unionist. If Little braves Bass Straits he will
find that all Sticht prays for is willing hands
of any sort to keep the two furnaces going
while copper is saleable at over £lOO.
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 14, after spending years
looking for another mine and finding only
poor imitations, met the unexpected at King
Island, Bass Strait. Of course the war
helped the wolfram proposition there; out
that doesn’t matter —except that the war
won’t last for ever. Meantime the King
Island Scheelite Co., with a capital of £30,000,
half of it representing mine purchase, is
showing a net profit of 60 p.c. p.a. Last
half-year it made £9444 net, and 2s. per share
(£10,000) has been paid in divs.-—the first.iu
December, the second last month. The mill,
handling 1.24 p.c. ore, treated 8264 tons for
tons concentrates assaying 71.7 p.c.
metal valued at £17,890 = £2 3s. 3d. per ton
crudes at a mine cost (including develop-
ment) of 15s. 0.84 d. The extraction is only
68.12 p.c. of contents; but by re-treating
concentrates manager Venn Blown expects
to add 6s. or 7s. per ton net to the recovery.
Additions to plant to do that and also raise
the duty from 500 tons to 750 tons per day
are in hand. The cost will be £lO,OOO,
which will steady divs. for the rest of the
year. But it is worth while; for there will
be at least a good market for wolfram long
after the war, the world’s available supply
at a moderate price being very small, and
this co. has at least 78,000 tons of ore of a
shade better than 1 p.c. almost ready for
handling. On March 31 —that was before
the second div. was paid—the co. had, besides
stores, about £10,500 net of liquid assets.
* * * *
A big effort is being made to get the
Deborah claim, lying between the Great
Southern and Lansell’s Red, White and Blue,
at work. McColl, Rankin. Stanistreet and
Cundy are the sponsors. They reckon that
if 42,000 shares of Is. 3d. each go off they
can give the ground a decent trial. The at-
, traction is that east and west in the belt in
which the Deborah finds a home there are
mines that have shown up among the best
in Bendigo. Cundy is a believer in the zone
theory of gold deposition. As this block of
1000 yards of centre-country reef-channel has
never yet been probed, he submits it with an
unctuous benediction suited to the times.
* * * *
Golden Fleece, Bendigo, has belted its way
for two years into the reefs associated with
the Fryingpan back, and now talks about
breaking the record of divs. won in 2dwt.
ground. Most of the time was spent on the
Comet run of stone, with a bit of side-step-
ping now and again on to the reef east of
the big Stafford fault plane. All this work
only went to prove much quartz and no gold,
so the co. is back again on to the Fryingpan
make to pick up the shoot of gold that went
underfoot at the levels above 730 ft. The
scramble for divs. on 2dwt. dirt would have
a better chance if Golden Fleece had a big
battery instead of its present power.
Extract from the half-yearly report of
Edna May Consolidated Extended : —•
Very hard cemented over-burden has been passed
through, and it is probable the celebrated gneissic
channel will be intercepted very shortly.
Well, what is going to happen then? So
far nothing has been seen in the Extended to
justify it being called a mine, and as far as
a Bulletin man who saw the show re-
cently could tell, there isn’t anything to
build on in the future. ,
*** * -
Last year S. Australia dug up 7213 tons of
copper valued at £902,475. This was 00
tons less than in 1916, but it was worth
£BO,OOO more. The production of iron—all
at the B. H. Prop.’s quarries—increased to
328,386 tons, worth £359,723. The grade is
over 60 p.c., and millions of tons are avail-
able. Gold production amounted to only
71450 z., and silver-lead was valued at
£12,018. There was a serious falling off in
the output of salt —46,858 tons, compared
with 66,400 tons for the previous year.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 34.)


Heelings
Cop
en
en
y
Est. 1818.
fe w
PI
ohehring«
ffIERRYBRAHW,
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
assists^
■I S' plt *iUri; fKS^Si
\
\
?«o»<A% e s '
V^ Stta« d ’ sydneV
256 , t s vdO«
SSSSSftSSa***'
sd
Nnd
Gvcty
1 SVioP®
suburb
PAULINE et CIE
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
George Street, Sydney,
Announce their AUTUMN AND WINTER SHOW
of MODEL MILLINERY on and after WEDNES-
DAY, MARCH 6. MODEL EVENING and DAY
FROCKS, COATS and SKIRTS, etc., oh and
after TUESDAY, MARCH 19.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 Rooms,
comprising Private Suites, Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts.
Illustrated Prospectus and all particu-
lars forwarded on application.
Telephones : Y2IIS and Y 1266.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
auce
“Better
than Either”
The Only Genuine Woroester Made in Australia—
GET A BOTTLE.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVEID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, May 13, 191 S.
My Dear Arinia—
When the Premiers came to Sydney to
talk over the sins of the Commonwealth
they brought their wives and as much bag-
gage as the Censor for War-time Propriety
among Politicians would pass without a
frown. For the week-end there was a whirl
ia joyous autumn weather to Jenolan ; and
this week the Governor’s lady devotes herself
to personally-conducted tours to adjacent
sights. Jaunts to National Park. Newport
and other breezy spots crowd' the ladies’
itinerary.
The opening of flip Conference was a pon-
derous affair in the Leg. Council Chamber,
wherein the marble noses of long-dead legis-
lators point eternally towards the chair.
Premier Holman, having been chosen presi-
dent, took the throne. Governor Davidson,
with Aides Saltmarshe and Stanhara, wear-
ing that expression of dignified martyrdom
which young Englishmen bring to such occa-
sions, had official sec. Budge to cheer the
proceedings. Governor Davidson’s lady sat
near by. Mrs. Holman came in late —she’d
been opening something—and trod on the
skirts of Premier Lawson’s speech. West-
ralian Lefroy was the only politician with a
pair of gloves, and he carried them gingerly
iu one hand. When Theodore, Queensland’s
Treasurer - , got up, there was a rustle
amongst the millinery present; but nothing
happened, and he didn’t have to be put in
irons.
The beauty of the decorations at the Pre-
miers’ feast at the Australia matched the
brilliance of W. A. Holman’s oratory. A
huge map of Australia hung over the centre
table, and about 70 knives and forks were
laid in a garden of autumn leaves and
exquisite crimson blossoms.
Premier Lee, of the Apple Isle, was
trained for the Methody Church, but changed
his mind before he turned his collar. Ilis
remarks retain a pulpit flavor, and there is
a solemnity about his long frock-coat —a
garment of unusual cut in a sac-suited Con-
ference.
The broad-shouldered Tevita Tui Vakano,«
Premier of Tonga, went to look at the con-
ference of the States’ Premiers. He has
himself been five years at the helm. With a
British consul as adviser, the tiny kingdom
manages its own affairs. Vakano, whose
mahogany face beams with benevolence (the
Tui means “noble”), had some education in
Auckland, though he must still handle Eng-
lish with care. He brought his wife to see
the shops—her first trip out of the land of
the hibiscus.
In his own kingdom Willie Holman lias
been First Lord since June, 1913, which
makes the two Premiers almost twins. Natu-
rally, therefore, a call on Ills brother was one
of the Tongan’s first pleasures when he
reached Sydney. You’ve got to imagine that
meeting. The visitor is at last seated. To
him what happens in Tonga is more import-
ant than anything that can happen any-
where else in the world. So he regrets to
inform his distinguished brother of the demise
of the great and never-to-be-forgotten King
George the Second. To which Brother
William replies that the throat of Australia
filled with emotion and its heart beat in
sorrowing sympathy for a smitten people
when the sad news went through the Com-
monwealth that the most distinguished
George the Second of Tonga had gone to his
eternal reward.
Probably Holman thought that that finished
it. But you and I may be quite sure .it
hadn’t. Tonga by the mouth of its Premier
next would have the great honor to announce
the accession of the beloved Charlotte
Sarlotta, if you please —to the Throne.
Whereupon it would become the bounden
duty of Australia by the mouth of its Ma
State Premier to say that to its profound
sorrow for the death of the distinguished
George the Commonwealth added the liveliest
appreciation of the virtues of the altogether
desirable Sarlotta. And then let s assume
that they bowed seven times each, the Pre-
mier of Tonga gingerly walking down the
steps and bemoaning an unhappy fate that
compels him to wear boots, while his brother
returned to the Treasurer’s old job of finding
another half-crown.
In Sydney there is a rapidly-growing
public opinion which intends to eliminate
hideous hoarding advts. and substitute Art.
To hasten the glad day the Minister in
charge of Local Government, J. D.
Fitzgerald, opened an exhibition of English
and American posters collected by Charles
Lloyd Jones, now o» this side, and hinted at
trouble to come. The trouble will be served
out by new legislation which will deal with
advertisers who flaunt their wares in un-
seemly fashion. Meanwhile there are, of
course, many Australian artists who are
doing attractive advt. work, and many manu-
facturers who turn plain boiled trade into
French meringue. War Chest angels, stand. at
the door of the exhibition collecting six-
pences, while others serve tea for the cause.
Surrounded by the posters, Wilfred John-
ston, a Comforts Fund Commissioner just
back, shook out the tattered remnants of an
Australian Comforts flag. It had been shot
off its base, so to speak, right up behind the
firing-line in France.
During bleak February, in Britain, Lieut.
G. Lees, of the Australian Flying Corps,
tucked the hand of Doris Russell .Tones
under his arm, after giving the lady a plain
gold ring. .She belongs to an old Sydney
legal family ; and he’s a Sydney boy.
There’s news of the engagement of David,
junior,—the Geology Professor’s medical son.
An English girl is the chosen.
The drawing of War Loan prizes in the
Hordern-Fariuer lottery scheme was as ex-
citing ns a church collection. The Town
Hall, so far from seething with citizens who
expected the £lOOO, wasn’t one-*bird full.
On the platform a huge blackboard gave the
lucky numbers that would send the winners
home in a taxi. But the cheerful pessimist
—a more frequent citizen than is generally
supposed—screwed up his eyes to read the
figures with a faith in his capacity for miss-
ing. The chief diversion was Mr. Speaker
Cohen’s game of marbles. Inadvertently the
little barrel was swung round without hav-
ing its front door closed, and out rolled the
numbered beads; whereupon the elect took to
their knees and groped under chairs to find
the agates. Norman Pope represented
Farmer’s; manager Harris was there for
Anthony Horderns’. The platform had its
photo, taken three times, but not once when
it was at its devotions.
Word has come through that Godfrey Lud-
low. the violinist son of a Sydney doctor, has
at last secured his release from internment
at Ruhleben, where he had been since the
outbreak of the war. He will go to Sweden,
where Leopold Auer has domiciled himself,
and will resume his studies under the famous
violin pedagogue.
There are not
many Australian
women who choose
the organ as their
pet. In Sydney.
Lilian Frost- —a Tas-
manian—is the best
known. But young
Australia is begin-
ning to put her fin-
ger on the stops.
Amy Chudleigli, _ a
pupil of Lilian
Frost, is, though a
mere slip of a girl,
assistant organist at
the Pitt-street Con-
gregational taber-
nacle ; and next
Sunday afternoon
she will probably
play on the Town Hall giant. Last year
the bright Sydney girl went to TJ.S.A. with
father. Australians don’t understand the
ways of Sammy-land till they get there. It
was summer. All the leading music teachers
and professors were having their three
months’ annual holiday. Besides this
breather, there’s a week at Christmas and
another at Easter —the rest of the year
solid work. “As I meant to take lessons
from a famous New York organist, it was
a disappointment to find he was just leaving
town for 12 weeks. All the teachers of any
importance were also away. So the best I
could do was to listen to some great organ-
ists giving recitals.” Amy chats of Lemaire,
once here on a visit, and just then (May,
1917) appointed city organist in ’Frisco.
The Auditorium there holds 10,000 people.
“Echo organs are placed in the walls, and
worked bv electricity from the big organ—a
wonderful effect!” Ocean Grove, a seaside
resort in New Jersey, claims the biggest
organ in the world; and there are other
U.S. places where half-hour recitals are part
of the day’s routine.
Canada had no w’hite bread on the table
when the Chudleighs came home that way.
It had its meatless and baconless days, and
no one worried. One has to go _ away to
know what a fortunate place this is at pre-
sent. Juditlt Fletcher supplies the photo.
Miss Badham, head of the C. of E. Girls’
Grammar, is back to her usual form after
her misadventure with appendicitis. So
there was a bazaar by day and theatricals
bv night in the roomy old mansion in Forbes-
street. Ostensibly it was to help war and
mission funds; but the party turned it into
a joyous welcome-home to the learned prin-
cipal'. Miss Badham is too big mentally to
have catty ways, so the Boy, if not en-
couraged, is at least tolerated at these school
sprees. Generally he is Grammar or King’s,
and gives a piquancy to muslin frocks and
butterfly bows.
Major Plant, D. 5.0., of Brisbane, was
recently wed in London. He chose a Queens-
land girl—Oona Brown.
Sydney Public Li-
brary is the homely
parent put in the
shade by a fashion-
able daughter. Even
the very ordinary
citizen can chat
fluently about the
Mitchell Library, the
dressy offspring of
the brown old mother
over the way in Mae-
quarie-street. Its
old-Australian flavor,
its rare pictures of
Sydney and its hand-
some cover all arrest
attention. Yet the
Public Library, in
spite of its air of
•stodge and respecta-
bility, can provide reading matter as sensa-
tional as any American picture-film—for
those who need that stimulus. Behind its
swinging doors thousands of books and news-
papers (these date back to early days) and
countless magazines await the public
pleasure. They are yours to read for the
mere asking. Books to the number of about
300,000, ranging from the fluff of modern
fiction to serious research works; pamphlets
on boiler-making and recipes for orange mar-
malade —they and their arrangement and
their cataloguing are mute witnesses to the
task of a highly-trained librarian.
Here is his photo. But if you ask W. 11.
Ifculd —Sydney stole him from Adelaide
about six years ago—exactly what a librarian
has to know, he ducks his head. “Possibly,”
says he, “I have the best staff, for their own
special work, of any man in this city. Thirty
of them—the majority therefore —are women.
Many are graduates. All are well-educated
and keen.” But the building is eminently
unsuited for its business. Some day it will
be replaced by a modern temple of which
the Mitchell Library will form a wing.
Meantime, light has taken the place of gloom,
burnished brass and shining window-panes
replace the grime of years ago. For relief
from all this the ardent chief goes home to
his almost equally beloved flowers, and on
the way dreams perhaps of the old age he’ll
spend in his orchard on the Murray.
With Dr. Stoiie Dixson in command, the
St. John Ambulance workers tramped on
the grass near Government House one day
last week. The Bonnets swept past, and
the ambulance brigade went through an
heroic display of their useful habits as
stretcher-bearers. Raridwick division has
raised the wind and produced a car. Gov-
ernor Davidson, who was ticketed as a
Knight of Grace of the Order of St. John,
gave his blessing to the new chaise.
Some time ago a little agitation was started
by Arthur Streeton and a few of the older
Australian artists in England, who thought
that the work of making on-the-spot war-
records in France should not be left entirely
to the younger men. Streeton had a special
grievance because, in spite of his years, he
lias been doing a lot of war service in khaki.
Now news comes through that Streeton,
John Longstaff and Fullwood have been
sent to France to do their bit of canvassing
under fire.
The guests at Taronga Park Zoo had
courtesy calls from the Premiers and their
ladies on Friday afternoon. A Government
launch whisked the party over to Athol,
where they were met by the three white
bears —always the first to hold out a paw
to the visitor from over the water.
Re-married a week or two ago, Mrs.
Ivirchener, recently of Killara, whose late
husband was a cousin of the French artist
Paul Ivirchener. The lady, who is slim and
charming, changed her name to Currie. lie
grows mutton in Maoriland.
Look here, Arini. mothers are patient; but
even their supply of the goods isn’t inexhaust-
ible. They pick up the paper in the morning
and see column upon column of—well,
for instance, this morning there is the simply
staggering information that >Mr. Andrew
Fisher had lunch one day last week with
Messrs. Smith and Jones —or two people
equally unknown. And Australian mothers,
who are simply aching for news of their boys
after the awful fivhting of the past six weeks,
go to bed sick with anxiety—will word never
come? Presently the message arrives—seven
weeks after it has been lodged. Cables
delivered this morning were lodged in Eng-
land on March 27 —six weeks and four days
ago. Such messages are far worse than
nothing; they simply give mothers a feel-
ing of utter helplessness; and if that is good
for recruiting, prussic acid is good for cats.
Meantime, however, they have the joy of
knowing that their cables have been held up
in order that we may know that Mr. Smith
and Mr. Jones had a drink one day last week
with Mr. Fisher.
The new Scotchbyterian Moderator, David
Smith, M.A., is a tall, kindly Scot long resi-
dent in the Mamma State. Soon after com-
ing this way he read the Wurrud in Chal-
mers’ Church, and married a child of
the manse—Margaret, eldest daughter of the
late Dr. Kinross, at that time head of St.
Andrew’s.
Another of the nice-looking Yates sisters
of Bondi has gone to the altar. Muriel was
quietly annexed by Lieut. Mae Donnell in
St. Mary’s, Waverley,. the other afternoon.
Her sister, who married an A.I.F. man.
Lieut. Pattrick, a year or so ago, was Matron
of Honor.
Lister Lister’s oils and water-colors are
hanging in Anthony Horderns’ art-gallery.
They reflect shadow and shine on the face of
the waters —South Coast, Middle Harbor
and Mosman's are in the catalogue—and
blue mists on mountain tops. Lister’s old
friend the white gum-tree is also present.
Howard Hadley, a fine pianist here for
a while, was at the second piano in portion
of Jessie Masson’s brilliant performance last
week in the King’s Hall. This recital
showed the Victorian girl as one of _ the
most forceful of Australian women pianists,
with a clean and clever technique. There’s
a flash in the lady’s black eyes which hints
at “temperament”—a useful thing, if the lid
doesn’t fly off, on a concert platform.
Nurse Hay, matron of Clarmore, returned
this morning after two and a. half years
fnriously-busy war-work, first in Egypt and
then in' France. It was a tearful home-
coming. On touching Australia she had
word that her father was dying at Cremorne.
After that she felt like getting out and push-
ing the tardy troopship. But even that
wouldn’t have got it here in time. Mr. Hay-
died on Tuesday.
Tickets for “Cupid Camouflaged,” the ama-
teur film-play which is guaranteed to contain
about 200 people, may be had from Mrs.
Spencer Brunton, Gladswood, Double Bay.
Don’t blink at the prices—a guinea, 10s. 6d.
and 5s. —for the lot goes to the Red Cross.
The J.C.W. firm and Goldwyn Pictures,
Ltd., have lent the Royal for the show on
May 81. The Alex. McCormick lady is
president of the committee ; Aileen Ross is
lion, sec., with useful help from Mrs. Ander-
son, who used to be Gladys Gould and surges
with energy.
Writing from Kobe, Japan, Gwen Fussell,
a North Sydney girl, sends word of her
sister, the wife of the ex-Sydney man, Com-
modore Domerchikoff, the Russian naval
officer of the marvellous adventures: —
She longs, of course, for Australia, as Russia is
an uncertain volcano for home-building. “Dom” is
on the Admiralty staff, but has never recovered the
effects of long imrhersion in icy waters when his
ship was torpedoed.... They want me, when travel-
ling is possible, to go to Petrograd to them; but ——
Here in Kobe we had the whitest Christmas —so
white that the hills couldn't shoulder back the snow.
Travellers come this way with thrilling tales of the
Bolsheviks, but we take some of them with a pound
of salt. Here is one. The mob dashed through a big,
crowded hotel, slaughtering people on sight, and
looted everything. “And what was everybody doing ?”
I asked. “Did no one in the crowd attempt to defend
himself?” “Er,” said this eye-witness, “I don’t
know; I left the day before!”
Tank headgear for women hasn’t reached
Sydney yet. Possibly the next War Loan
campaign will produce girls with their locks
in Victory hats. The millinery, which lias
already appeared in U.S.A., is fashioned like
the big grey hulk that lurched round our city
a few weeks back. It’s tied under the chin
and carries an electric torchlight in front.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
*/ LTD
JEWELLERS.
The Leading Jewellers in the Commonwealth.
Lady's Solid 18ct.
Gold Signet Ring,
£1 8 O
Lady’s Solid ISct.
Gold Signet Ring,
£1 1 0 0
Lad.v'e Solid tBct.
Gold and Blood-
stone Signet Ring,
£2 2 0
Lady’s Solid 18ct.
Gold Signet Ring,
£1 14 0
*SjsS?J
Lady’s Solid 18ct.
Gold Signet Ring,
£1 10 0
SIGNET RINGS.
Gentleman's Solid
18ct. Gold Signet
Ring,
£3 5 0
Gentleman’s Solid
1 Set. Gold and
Bloodstone Signet
R ing,
Gentleman’s Solid
18ct. Gold Signet
Ring,
£3 0 0
The Company has a'large variety
of patterns in Plain Gold, Blood-
stone and Sardonyx.
QUOTATIONS FOR ENGRAV-
ING ON APPLICATION.
Selections, with a flnger-size card
for measurement, sent on
approval, if desired.
rive per cent.
Cash Discount.
13 Hunter. Street, SYDNEY.
116-118 Queen Street,
BRISBANE.
THE WINDSOR CAMERA
British-made For
TaKes Splendid Photos.
For the beginner in photography, who wishes to purchase a
serviceable, inexpensive Camera, the Windsor, at 25/-, is one
that will give complete satisfaction.
gsd
It carries 12 i-plates (size SI x
and one or more can be exposed, taken
out and developed without disturbing the
others —thus, if the exposure is not cor-
rect, the mistake may be rectified before
any further plates are spoilt.
It is made of seasoned wood, covered
Black Seal-grained Letherette, with Black
Metal Fittings, and is fitted with an
Achromatic Lens, with Iris Diaphragm
and Magnifiers or Portrait Lenses, so that
sharp pictures can be taken as close as
four feet from the camera.
Two brilliant view-finders are provided.
Pictures can be taken either vertically or
horizontally. PRICE 25/-
The Treatment of Residues and Assay’s
is Scientifically done
at Harringtons’ Laboratories.
Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Metal WoYkers entrusting their orders to
us, can do so in the full confidence that they will get the best results possible, as our
Laboratories are equipped with every facility for the scientific and economical treatment
of Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis, and are
Manufacturers, in conjunction with Messrs. Johnson & Sons, London (Assayers to his
Majesty’s Government and the Bank of England), of their world-famous “Seales” brand
Silver. Nitrate <md Gold Chloride.
Materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum purchased, and we can supply those
materials pure, or in their alloys, in Plate, Wire, or Granulated.
We invite your enquiries—a ’phone message or letter addressed to any of our
branches will receive prompt attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney .
%
/
*
£
l
IP5i
1L hours slip by so quickly and
pleasantly when playing, that often your
evening is gone although you thought it
was only “just 9 o’clock.”
PIANOLA PIANO
Evenings
are a great source of pleasure, both player and
listener finding an inexhaustable “well” of enjoyment,
yes, and education too. Music hitherto unobtainable is
now easily available. Your programme can be so varied
so as to never tire. Fascinated—the instrument’s perfor-
mance magnUises the interest of all who hear.
Introduce the ever popular genuine PIANOLA PIANO
into your home and you’ll be surprised what you can
perform with its aid.
If you have a “silent” Piano, this can form a sub-
stantial portion of payment for a PIANOLA.
The genuine PIANOLA can be obtained only in the
following world-famous Pianos —The Steinway, Aeolian
Steck, Aeolian Stroud, Aeolian and the English made
Aeolian Weber.
Your enquiries are our pleasure.
Let us send you a descriptive catalog.
Zbe pianola Company
ptß.
XtO.
“The Centre for the World’s greatest Achievements
in Musical Instruments,”
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne;
436 Queen Street, Brisbane;
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
SEND THIS COUPON TO THE PIANOLA COMPANY.
Please send me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos,
showing lioiv I can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and what allowance you can make on my present piano,
which is a
Bought about
Name
Address
fTT.-r *r..U
r. 'ir
w
*
%
f
rtf


Mr. A. CARLSON (from a photo.).
FREE SAMPLES
HAIR GROWER
and Shampoo Powders.
C/o Mrs. M. Tobin , Boarding House,
Florence Street, Port Pirie, S.A.
Mr. John Craven-Burleigh.
My Dear Sir—l thank you for your letter and offer.
I am very pleased to state that my hair has im-
proved wonderfully since 1 got the last supply of
your remedy. lam quite satisfied it is a True Ilair
Grower. My scalp is now full of fine, silky hair,
and I still have 2i boxes left, so I won’t need any
more. I am recommending your True Hair Grower
to all my friends. I am sending you the last photo.
I have, as I sent all the others to my friends and
people, to let them see hoiv my hair has grown. You
may publish this if you please.—Yours truly,
A. CARLSON.
Mr.. Craven-Burleigh has received thousands of
unsolicited testimonials from people who have suc-
cessfully used his preparations. They are all
genuine, and open to the fullest investigation. In
order to ensure a fair test he desires everyone suffer-
ing from Hair Troubles to obtain from him a Free
Trial of his hair-growing compound. Send full
name and address, enclosing three penny stamps for
postage and packing to
JOHN CRAVEN-BURLEIQH (DEPT. 7a). 321 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel Sydney
(Now Fully Licensed)
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE,
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED-
TARIFF :
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ ... 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
*;.v
GAGE Hats
Vaf
are the
Correct
Expression
of
Good Style.
Obtainable only at Leading
Shops throughout Australia
and New Zealand*
IT’S GREAT
g
how I find I can
get awa.v for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0., Perth,
XV.A.; Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty.,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne; R. R. Rus-
saek, 377 a Elizabeth St., Sydney;
Philip Frankel & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Etd., Pirie
St., Adelaide.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, May 13, 1018.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Saturday saw the Melburnians (Church of
England Grammar) Head of the River. The
climax turned the Dark Blues on the bank
into dancing dervishes. The Pale Blues
(Geelong), who were Heads last year, were
glum but good-natured about it.
All the week crowds and motor parties
smothered in school colors have been strangling
the traffic from the Block to the Bridge. It
has been the week of the schoolboy and school-
girl—and of the Old Boy and the Old Girl,
too. In May Old Boys migrate to Melbourne
from the ends of Australia. Many are
wearing returned colors as well as their
school rainbow. For the time being mothers
and fathers have taken a back seat, and par-
ties are run by the children. Dances, din-
ners, house-parties and theatre-frivols have
made some swanky young sassiety matrons
feel years older.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart’s daughters (not yet in
their teens) gave a dinner at Menzies’ on
Saturday, and a theatre-party in Her
Majesty’s stalls. Edmund Jo we tt. had a big
theatre-party. The Billy Williamses were
the guests of their brood. The Stewart
Bruntons were hustled in a most undignified
manner by their party of excited flappers.
Bowes Kelly looked used to it; he is always
taking his lot about. Mrs. Dan Taylor’s girls
were theatre hostesses. And young squatto-
crat Campbell, of the winning Melburnian
crew, gave a dinner at Scott’s and the inevit-
able theatre-party.
There was a fealifully swanky Red Cross
party at the Mia Mia last Thursday. Sas-
siety “took” tea tables and filled them with
guests—Edward Miller, Prof. Baldwin
Spencer’s wife, Mrs. Geoff Syme, Miss Mait-
land McMicking, Mrs. Courtney Dix, the
rich Dalrymples, the Douglas Menzies and
others were among the hosts. Every
niche was occupied. There were two musical
programmes, one upstairs and the other
down. Downstairs had a start of half an
hour; then upstairs wailed its way into the
musical bedlam. There was an auction, of
course, and singing and dancing. Polly
Hurry painted some special programmes
with Australian bush scenes. Mrs. Gilruth
was a guest, and Mrs. Brennan, from
Bananaland. Scobie MacKinnons, Landales,
Brodribbs and Morrisons all came to tea
and shed money freely; and Miss Eadith
Walker from Sydney thinned out her fat
cheque-book a weeny bit. Captain Clifford
helped some of the professional sassiety
flower-sellers, and a batch of joyous naval
johnnies were handy-men.
The O.H.M.S. Fete is being organised by
every section of the Commonwealth Public
Service to help the Red Cross and Returned
Soldiers’ Funds. It happens in the Exhibi-
tion on May 18 and 20 (Saturday and Mon-
day). Governor Stanley will open it; and
there will be raffles and stalls and an autho-
rised post office for the despatch of parcels
to soldiers overseas. The Fete originally in-
tended squeezing into the Town Hall, but
grew to such proportions that only the Exhi-
bition will hold it.
Camperdown, the sheepiest of Western
District centres, has been giving a sniff qf its
woolly glories to the G.-G. and his lady.
Donald Mackinnon, the recruiter, made one
of the motor-party, which took a sandwich
at Booran, the Mackinnon family ranch.
Later, the Stewart Blacks, at Glenormiston,
handed round a cup of tea; and at the Cam-
perdown H.Q. of the Red Cross, with Mrs.
Edward Manifold offering the glad hand on
the doorstep, the Sisterhood put its best sock
forward amid deep sighs of complete happi-
ness.
Sir Francis Newdegate, Lady Newdegate
and their two daughters have come over
from the Apple Island to visit the G.-G. and
Lady Helen. Baby-daughter Susan furled
her fair hair to join the party as a grown-
up. She has been enduring numerous opera-
tions on her foot, and is limping along the
road to recovery.
Captain Booth, the new genthelp to the
Tasmanian Newdegates, has come over with
the family party. He is a youngster of
about 25 who has to get round with a stick,
having been put out of action in France.
The Newdegates are nervous about him —
they have had such a storm of matrimonial
engagements among their aides.
As it is the personal desire of his Ex. and
Lady Helen, Melba will probably return
about August, when she will be invested with
the Order of Dame Commander of the Brit-
ish Empire.
Gent.-help Conaht’s movie scheme is rush-
ing along amid suppressed shrieks of excite-
ment. The ballroom scene has already been
well rehearsed. The George Armstrongs are
down from Coombe putting up at a
Collins-street tavern for a week. George—■
Melba’s boy—is to be a villain in the film.
Mrs. Cass and Mrs. Morris Gibbs are also in
the picture; so is Jo Forster, the fair flapper
from Gippsland who is in the boom- just
now. The Kiss Trot is a new' dance-turn
that is to be shown on the great date. Mrs.
Leslie Stuart has the Kiss Trotters rehears-
ing in her ballroom, and they will put the
turn on at the big Bed Cross matinSe as well
as for the movies.
Lord Charles Fitzgerald, who is in the
grazing business at Riddell’s Creek, has had
w T ord that his son, Captain George
Fitzgerald, has been wounded in France. The
young man had already been casualtied tw’ice
—at Gallipoli.
The Charles Fairbairns, of Banongil, now
have a brig.-general for son-in-law, daughter
Esther’s choice, Colonel Wheatley, having
lately achieved another step.
Ilolford Wettefihall, of Glen Holford, who in
forgotten years used to sit in the Leg. Coun-
cil, was shocked the other day to read of his
death. However, on the morning succeeding
the melancholy announcement he was relieved
to learn, from the Argus, that he was in his
usual good health. The old man is now 78,
and has done a lot more than most people
for the good of the sheep-breeding industry.
The late Alexander Dennis, who used to own
most of Carr’s Plains in the early days, was
his father-in-law, and most of his large
family are occupied in watching the wool
grow.
After weeks of anxiety Mrs. John Coch-
ran has learnt that her son, Major F.E.,
who was reported missing, has been killed.
He was ( a Hamilton College and Melbourne
’Varsity' boy, who went to help settle the
Boer unpleasantness, was invalided home,
returned to see the finish, and th(m remained
in S’Africa, where he won fame as a tennis
player and partnered Anthony Wilding when
lie was in the Transvaal. In the present
disagreement he fought first in German
South-West Africa and then in France.
Muriel North, the Forrest niece, has gone
back to the West for a spell. She is in
■the doctor’s hands because of some trouble
with a displaced shoulder-bone.
The V.11.C. Caseys have wired from the
Fog that younger son Dermot has scored a
Military Cross. Elder brother Major Dickie
was put on to the Bird wood headquarters
staff after acquiring a Military Cross and
th(' Legion of Honor.
Another Melbourne girl has brought glad
rags from America. In one of the frocks she
looks like a gay little parrot; it is com-
posed chiefly of wide stripes of orange, demon
and light peacock blue on a cream ground.
But all critics are assured that it was one
of the least brilliant of New York’s striped
rigs.
Guido Baracclii has been untied from the
stake and permitted to go free once more
among his fellows of the soap-box. His six
months’ martyrdom was lopped off short
through the hands-all-round recruiting con-
ference ; and the Argus has done her part in
letting bygones be hasbeens by cutting down
the heroic one to 20 lines and referring to
him as “Guido Bftracehi. a law student.”
Now, like a good boy, Guido will get on with
his studies and we shall all be friends again.
Remember Ruby Moore, poor little Sumner
Locke’s pal, whose taste for amateur theatri-
cals and skill in teaching kiddies folk-dancing
brought her into notice? Like Summie, she
married a soldier after a trip to America and
England, and her hubby, Lieut. D. F. G.
Alsop, machine-gun officer, has just returned
from the Front, wounded.
The family of the Bob Whitings is over
all the . earth. Lieut. Harry, after long ser-
vice in France, is expected shortly in Mel-
bourne on sick-leave. Eileen (now Mrs.
Walker) is with her soldier hubby in Balu-
chistan, with Quetta as a city of refuge in
ease of trouble. Claire is in England, and
sees her sailor spouse Hammond Chambers
when he’s home from the North Sea. The
youngest, Dorothy, had a brief greasepaint
career, and is now war-canteening.
While at Singapore lately the manager
of the Felton-Grimwade business in Mel-
bourne was struck by the fine appearance of
a crowd of Serbian officers who had travelled
from Roumania through Russia, and had
shipped at Vladivostock. Some Serbian
rank and file were less impressive, but the
officers in their new uniforms made a fine
martial show. They were booked for Salonika
—a journey of about 18.000 miles to go a
few hundred as the crow flies.
Strong-man Clarence Weber, of Brighton,
lost his wife after a sudden illness last week.
There is a set of six young Webers to
mitigate the pain of the tragic departure.
Mrs. Bupert Mason Cox, who has been
appealing in Sydney for money from the
estate of her late father, Matthew Harris,
married one of Melbourne’s best-dressed men.
Bupert belonged to Melbourne and the Block
before he went to Sydney, and Melbourne
cannot believe anything bad of him. It knew
him as a busy young man who went soaring
through accountancy exams, and always
came out on top. His spare time was spent
in the fierce light that beats upon the Block
and the best ballroom floors; and his socks
and' ties were ever the wonder of parading
damsels.
Madame Adelaide’s bon-bons: —
One of the most emphatic -appeals at the launching
of the new recruiting scheme at the Exhibition
Building during the week was made by 001. Butler,
D. 5.0., son of the Treasurer, who is just back from
France. His hope is to raise, like Capt. Carmichael,
a thousand men to take back with him to the Front.
But tinder the new rule how can he do it unless he
re-enlists as a private?
The casualty lists are again hard upon us.
Amongst too many others, Major Priestley and Lieut.
Farmer have been killed in Palestine, and the John
Tassies’ son in France. Lieut. Farmer left for the
Front in January, 1915, and he had been fighting
almost continuously ever since. In 1916 he and
Ruby Adams were married at Port Said. The bride
went on to London, where she got work at the War
Office, but returned home in February last.
Alma Baker, who is appealing for battleplanes, has
received £2703, the cost of one properly-equipped
’bus, from Mrs. Syd Kidman. Her husband gave
the first Australian battleplane, in August, 1916.
Lieut. 11. H. Brooker, who was reported killed in
action in November last, has come to life again as a
prisoner of war in Germany, where he is in the same
camp as Lieut. Whitington, another S. Australian
who was officially reported killed before he had time
to die.
The Robert Shannons have been notified that their
only son, who was with the R.F.A., has died of
wounds. He left here in February of last year from
his school gate, and was only 19 at the end.
Poet Louis Esson and his wife, who used
to be Dr. Hilda Bull, acquired an English-
born son last week. Rationed London is a
poor place to be a baby in these times, but
young Esson will doubtless cheer himself up
with dad’s delightful Australian cradle-song
in “Bells and Bees.”
Dr. Kent Hughes became a grandfather
last week. His doctor-daughter, the widow
of Dr. Loubct, has a child. The young girl-
medico has been walking the Geelong Hos-
pital.
From a girl in the U.S.A.
Melba has been singing to the Sammies. Her
first concert was at Camp Lewis, where over 40,000
of the good Californian type are training. This,
camp is really wonderful from the organisation point
of view. Nothing that will make for the comfort of
the men has been overlooked, and a, huge Liberty
Theatre is part of the scheme. This night it w r as
packed with khaki, and stars and stripes were all
over the place. When the singing was over Melba
came out and, unfurling an American flag, asked
the boys to give three cheers for the Allies. They
obliged and added three for Melba. Her second
khaki concert was at Camp Kierhey, in California.
She also opened the new theatre on this spot, but
she sang in the open in the midst of a sea of khaki.
The boys refused to let her stop at the end of a
large programme, so she gave them “Annie Laurie”
as a wind-up.
News has come to U.S.A. from Australia that the
Lady Susan Fitzclarence is going to face the footlights
professionally. There is no truth in the report.
She has not any intention of doing more than
she did in Melbourne, when she acted Lady Teazle
with Cyril Maude. She is quite content to remain a
good amateur. At present she is touring America
with Melba, and when that lady settles do,wn for the
summer months in the house she has taken in Cali-
fornia the Lady Susan will still be her guest.
Ida Fink and her mother are nowadays located at
Los Angeles, California, where the movie studios are.
The local papers somehow or other got the idea that
Ida was the Rahnee, and big headlines stood out
above sensational stories which told of the youthful
marriage of the young Australian to the, Indian
prince. But she could not suppress her longing to
be a movie star, and eventually left “the court” for
Los Angeles. With such publicity for a beginning it
looks as if Miss Fink should go well in the movie
world.
Stella Power has returned with an impos-
ing collection of Yankee clothes and a view-
point to match. She sang at concerts given
by Melba at Philadelphia and Brooklyn, and
received some beautiful paper for other
warbles. Musical affairs in the States are
at a standstill, but Stella hopes to return
there for the next season. Meanwhile she is
booking Australian engagements. Melba will
be in Australia in August (submarines per-
mitting), but Freda Sternberg, her secretary,
will stay on to try her luck with her pen. On
arriving at Spencer-street Stella rushed for-
ward to hug a young man in khaki, and the
waiting crowd at once smelt romance. But
the kissee was only her brother, Lieut. Cyril
Power, who has just been invalided home.
Mrs. Ernest Scott (Emily Dyason) has
already given two concerts for the Red
Cross, each a great success financially and
musically. She is now preparing another,
which is to be held at the Melba Hall on
May 29. Nora Kyffin Thomas, the violinist
from Adelaide, and soprano Clarice Malyon
will help. Tickets, four shillings.
As we didn’t have a mechanically-minded
Government to give it a lift, it has
taken a long time for wool-spinning
to catch on in Melbourne. Long ago,
when knitting-wool was scarce and
dear, Miss Gordon, of Ballangeieh, dug
up a spinning-wheel and had several others
built from the model. This year, on Founda-
tion Day, Melbourne had an exhibition of
spinning-results. at which Mrs. John
McKellar of Ballangeieh and Mrs. John
Cook of Ellerslie both won first prizes. The
interest shown in that display has now’ begun
to bear fruit; of late weeks' there has been
quite a boom in the production of home-made
knitting-wool and a new voluntary-spinner
is coming forward every little while. A
bike-wheel, by the way, is the chief feature
or’ the Ballangeieh lAaehine, and a pair of
carders go with each, though some fleeces
don’t need carding.
Guy B. Post may be an actor, but he isn’t
an auctioneer. In an interval of “The
Masquerader” on Friday he tried to coax a
packed boatrace-night audience to bid for
one of the stage boxes at the forthcoming
Bed Cross matinee. The affair was
wretchedly stage-managed. Nobody had
made arrangements for a few bookmakers or
other affluent citizens to start the bidding :
the subdued lighting of the house amounted
practically to gloom, and the auctioneer
murmured his remarks in the tone of a ner-
vous young curate offering thin bread and
butter. I lis call for tenders was received
with deafening silence. After a while Guy
relieved the embarrassment by himself mak-
ing a bid of £25. Then followed some more
gentle pleading, to which there was no re-
sponse. The actor shrugged his shoulders,
washed his hands of the matter and fled.
Whereupon arose a buzz of nervous conver-
sation such as is usually employed to
smother a faux pas.
Artist Dorothy Meason Coates is busy in
London on kitchen clinics —educational in-
stitutions which show home cooks how to get
a roast-beef effect out of a handful of nuts
and do other conjuring tricks. But she has
been sparing time from the kitchen to get a
painting or so hung in conspicuous places
at recent exhibitions.
Tours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


€/
' *
1. gv:
it :: -
D!
CM f*
m
# *
! ! 4
■ ; i T'r:- h
,-< ■:•
I s .
; iuR
1
■
r n
ms
«: n
S' *
«
MB
** ’:• -:i
m
%■ v i .■
.. > . -
i
'■, *m.i
m
X.. 3
i
r ■ i
«,,p
wgggff*fpgg»»^^
'n'f «.'«#<>» »«■*» r.'» *»■>*• t< : i? *■
- ** 1 <£}?;■" ,
\ i • :tt rrrrrrr>•'*•**.**>.
, * -X ' t ■'■"V ' s. '• "v . V •' '-'' '.\
:
*?>
£w. V
AA>
THE MACNAH.
By Sir H. Habbotn, R.A»
THE ORIGINAL PICTURE THE PROPERTY .OF JOHN .DEWAR BLSONS LTtt
“THE MACNAB.”
24,200 GUINEAS FOR A RAEBURN.
When Raeburn painted this mighty
portrait of “The Macnab” he succeeded
once and for all in making a canvas blaze
with the unquenchable spirit of the High-
lander in all its dour ferocity. Resplen-
dent in the uniform of the eighteenth cen-
tury national service of the Breadalbane
Fencibles, the twelfth (and last) lineal
laird of Macnab was seen by Raeburn
as he grimly knew himself to be, and as
the proud and indomitable Highlander
would always be. And well does the
enemy know it to-day. The spirit of
The Macnab is still existent, and in the
fields of Flanders there have been done
deeds by Highlanders worthy of the tra-
ditions of the race. There is gtill a
kind of Homeric legend in Scotland about
The Macnab, and it was in full song
shortly after the death of the Chieftain
who lies buried near the grave of Fingal.
In the rare “Voyage d’un Francais” a
French visitor in 1816 bore witness to
this Scottish “heros d’Homhre” who left
a posterity of “trente k quarante Mac-
nabs.” Lockhart in his “Life” of Sir
Walter Scott states that “this singular
personage spent his life almost entirely
in a district where a boat was the usual
conveyance.” Sir Thomas Lawrence
declared the Raeburn “Macnab” to be
the finest portrait of a man within his
ken.
The Macnabs are a very old clan,
and in the Gaelic they are called
“The Children of the Abbot,” tracing
their descent to the Abbots of Glen-
dochart. In the reign of Alexander III.
they were acknowledged as a powerful
and influential family. Their possessions
were situated on the side of Loch Tay
and stretched along the course of the
Dochart to the head of Strathfillan.
Francis, the twelfth chieftain of the clan,
died in May, 1816, and was succeeded by
his nephew, who, however, was compelled
to sell his his estates and, with some
hundreds of his claasfolk, emigrated to
Canada.
In this notable painting Raeburn de-
picts “The Macnab” in the flamboyant
uniform of his regiment, consisting of a
green jacket with silver braid, red tar-
tan vest, kilt and plaid, badger-head
sporran, tartan stockings and black shoes ;
armed with a dirk, broadsword and pisfbl;
a bonnet of tall black and white feathers
on • his head. He is shown standing in
a mountain pass holding a pistol in his
right hand. The picture was exhibited
at the Royal Academy in 1819 and has
since been on view at various Loan Ex-
hibitions, notably in Rome in 1911, while
reproductions have made it familiar to the
general public.
Last year the painting, which had
formed part of the collection of the
Marquis of Breadalbane, was offered at
auction at Christie’s (London), and, after
spirited competition, was purchased by
Sir Thomas Dewar for 24,200 guineas,
exceeding the highest price previously
paid for a Raeburn.
Looking at the painting one can appre-
ciate the truth of Scott’s lines :—
_. _ Come one, come all! This rock shall fly
From its firm base as soon as I.


A BOON TO GROWING GIRLS.
Girls from tlieir teens onwards are very apt to become anaemic and nervy. These
conditions, if not properly attended to, seriously affect them in after years. It is,
therefore, essential that girls should have their Mood kept rich and pure and their
nervous systems well nourished. A reliable means to this end is provided in HEAN’S
TONIC NERVE NUTS, which are aptly termed “a boon to growing girls.” Nerve
Nuts are sold by all leading chemists and stores, price 3s. per box, containing 12 days’
supply, or six boxes for 17s. 3d.
A RELIABLE HOME-MADE REMEDY
FOR COLDS, BRONCHITIS, etc.
The treatment of' Asthma. Bronchitis. Colds, Influenza and Sore Throats calls for
something that will destroy disease germs from the throat and bronchial tubes, soothe
and heal inflamed mucous membrane, loosen phlegm, and tone up the general system.
For this purpose money cannot buy a better medicine than that, a pint of which
anyone may prepare in their own homes in a few moments by adding HEENZO
(registered name for Hean’s Essence) to warm water and sweetening as per easy
directions supplied with each bottle. As HEENZO costs only 2/-, and a pint of
ready-made cough mixture would cost at least 12/-, it will be seen that a big money
saving is to be effected by making your own HEENZO cough mixture. HEENZO
is stocked by chemists and stores.
A Signal Success
I 5> v
The TOP-NOTCH'Scotck
ABORIGINALITIES
“Eddyson”: This is the story of Dollman’s
sacrifice, as told by ’Enry the braceman. Dollman
bad drifted into the bar of Kate’s hotel at Swingle-
tree, taken his medium beer and drifted out again.
He should have been a tallish man, but was doubled
almost into a hunchback. “Rheumatism ?” I asked.
Enry grinned. “So,” said lie. “Ain’t yeh heard
how Dollman got that? I’ll have to tell yeh. It is
a great ole joke. But don’t mention it to Dollman
or he’ll fling a spade at yeh. It happened when the
ole Grecian Bend was workin’ ’cross the common.
All round here’s rotten ground, but the Bend shaft
was plumb in the centre of the rottenest patch. You
never knew what the reef was up to there. It done
everythin’ but talk, ’n’ ’twas like the Devil had
set it t’ get ez many men ez possible afore the lead
give out. One night there was a fall. in the T drive
where Dollman ’n’ Errickson was workin’. It got
the pair of ’em, but just on the edge of the drop,
both pinned more or less with broken timber ’n’
drift. Errickson was caught under a big log that
come right across the drive. Dollman saw how ’twas
with the ’elp of the few matches he had, ’n' found
that, though he couldn't free his own leg, lie was
able, by gettin’ a twist on himself, to get his body
under the log V hoist it enough t’ take the dead
weight off Errickson, ’n’ give him a charnce iv seein'
it out till the rescue party burrowed through. Clawin’
at the slabs on his side of the drive, ’n’ makin’ his
own back a stop for the log, Dollman held things
that way for 11 hours. ’N’ that’s how the fellers
found him when they broke through. The nails was
torn from his fingers, his eyes was startin’ from his
head, ’n’ his spine got that kink in it, but—’n’ here
comes the joke —Errickson idasn’t there! He'd
crawled out!”
“Tarwin”: “E.Z.” (B. U5/4/T8) asserts
that Burdy, of South Aus., and his d.b. shotgun
accounted for 778 rabbits in 10 hours. Allowiug that
the assassin was too busy to waste any time eating
during his 10-hour stunt, and that he killed every
rabbit he fired at, but never more than one, he must
have reloaded and fired once every 46see. Let go my
leg!
* * * *
“Tropicus”: The convolvulus that fes-
toons New Guinea’s beaches with its bell-shaped blue
and heliotrope flowers is an honored member of brown
brother’s pharmacopoeia. A decoction of the young-
buds and flowers is used by the dusky belles in coun-
tering the accidents of hasty affection, and a poultice
of the young leaves and tendrils, beaten into a green-
ish mass and applied to a “New Guinea sore,” works
wonders. I have used it myself, and can vouch for
its cleansing and healing properties. The sma?lied-up
leaves applied to bung eyes caused by insect bites act
like magic in reducing inflammation and swelling.
As a blood tonic it is extensively used, while an
extract of the leaves and flowers, boiled until the
water becomes the color of weak tea, is the native
cure for venereal disease. I have heard several
traders and bffehe-de-mer hunters say they have used
the extract successfully in treating dysentery, but
although the plant is a strong astringent I would
not ree -mmend its use in this connection without
ful l her advice.
WHAT'S IN A NAME?
“Who are those domineering old brutes bullying the waiter?"
“Oh, I don’t know their names; but it’s the civil-servants’ table."
AFTER ALL , SHE’D CHANGED IT.
BILL: “Suppose yer heard I got married.”
JOE : “No. Who’d yer marry?”
BILL (same old Bill —after a pause) : “Slowed if 1 can remember her name, an ’ I know
it quite well, too.”
“Bad Australian”: Even in this, ungodly
land (Argentina) they had sense enough to see the
possibilities of the ants’ mound, and after many
generations the custom has become so ingrained in
the people of the small pueblos that they build their
new brick homos (ovens) to exactly the same plan,
section and elevation as the white-ant nest. The out-
back South American builds his homo around and over
a circular pile of closely-packed reeds or pampa
grass, and when the brickwork sets he puts a match
to the stuffing and burns the innards out. Then he
lets the “poisoner” loose.
“Murua”: The little-known Trobriand
Group are a cluster of palm-clothed gems that stud
the emerald Pacific a hundred-odd miles north-east
of Samarai (Papua). They are the real thing in coral
romance. The natives are of the Melanesian type,
happy people with a fondness (especially on the
part of the star-eyed maidens) for Europeans, who
have exploited the rich pearl fishery. They are
advanced in arts and crafts, and produce a tremen-
dous quantity of carved weapons and ornaments,
which are eagerly bought by tourists from curio-
dealers in Sydney and Melbourne. Before competi-
tion set in the islanders did not get much for their
pearls. Stones worth £lO and £l5 were freely
bought for as many pence. The group is flat, but is
richly clothed in jungle, and produces vast quantities
of excellent yams, which are traded. Good climate,
gorgeous scenery, blue seas like billowing silk, dia-
mond-dusted beaches and splendid fishing and shoot-
ing! Add that the cost of living is negligible, and
what more do you want ?
“Ibis”: Re “W.M.S.” (B. 28/3/T8), re-
garding the policeman-fly. The wasps that he men-
tions are not by any means the only species Aus-
tralia possesses, and some of them for showy coloring
can rival any insect. The two species of Scolia
flower-wasp, for instance, are of a magnificent metal-
lic blue, the smaller (about jin. long) with a head-
light of bright yellow. Their food is pollen and
honey. Another species, the showiest of the lot.
wears a coat of metallic verdigris green, amazingly
brilliant—probably the only member of the insect
world to sport this color. (Its only parallel in the
flower world is the green Ixia.) This gentleman is
too much of a dandy to work, so he is found as a
parasite in bees’ nests. A third species has a black
head and thorax, dusky orange abdomen and irides-
cent purple wings; while another, of the mud-cell
building variety, is black banded with silver. By
the way, the old nursery rhyme immortalising the
wasp’s viciousness seems a libel. I have never known
of anyone being stung, though in our district (Lee-
ton, N.S.W.) we have great numbers of the black
and gold species. I have seen my pup making a toy
of one of these fellows without the yelps we expected.
“Bar goo” : Few have seen the porcupine
in its own family, circle, as the mother gives birth to
the children (three to five at a time) in some very
secluded spot. It is a delightful sight to a nature
lover to watch the parent pore, poke her nose out of
the home front door, scrutinise the vicinity for pro-
bable danger, and come forth with her babies ami
lead them away on a feeding expedition to the
nearest red- or meat-ants’ nest, the young follow-
ing in Indian file. The youngsters’ quills at this
stage, about four weeks after birth, are just begin-
ning to stiffen. The young are suckled as with the
pig, and if pickled for a week, even when they’re old,
their flesh cannot possibly be distinguished from
pickled pork. Immediately the family arrives at an
ant-nest, mother roots it up well to liven the dinner ;
then the party will quietly poke out their tongues, of
which there is an enormous development, and these
will at once become thickly covered with insects. As
a tunneller the porcupine stands alone. He bores
in a few minutes through the largest white-ant heap.
On an old cattle-yard I captured one of the family,
and, intending to cook him for breakfast, I dropped
him down a hollow corner-post and put a weight on
top. That’s the last I saw of him. He dug to the
surface 12ft. away from the post, and did the job in
a night.
“Te Whare”: The wild-birds when mating
have each their own peculiar methods of courtship.
For tenderness I select the dusky wood-swallow (bee-
bird), which snuggles up close to the lady of his
choice after bringing her grubs and other succulent
insects. On the other hand, some of the parrot tribe
make love much after the stone-age fashion, when
the caveman simply clubbed his heart’s desire insen-
sible and dragged her home by the hair. A male
rosella, parrot, for instance, having found a suitable
partner, invariably begins by biting her, presumably
to inspire her with respect. After this operation
the gaudily-dressed suitor spreads his tail fanwise,
flirts his wings and displays his points, in order to
attract the lady’s admiration. If she coyly murmurs
“Righto,” the pair look round for a suitable hollow.
* * * *
“Masetto”: Wangaratta (Vic.) furnishes
an instance of a snake fiercely attacking human
beings when disturbed. A citizen and his wife and
two children were driving in a gig when the wheel
collided with a reptile on the road. Getting entangled
among the spokes it was carried round and thrown
among the party and immediately fastened on to the
lower lip of one of the children. The mother promptly
seized the reptile and pulled it off, but in the
struggle was bitten on the hand and had some diffi-
culty in knocking the brute away. The driver applied
first aid to the boy and a doctor from the township
hurried and put the patients out of danger.
(Continued, on page 24.)
MULGA MICK'S REVENGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Mulga Mick he took a wife —a wife who wasn’t
his;
Though, judging by the way she went, ’twas all the
same to Liz.
He took her out across the miles, and in a sunset
town
The pair picked out a domicile and duly settled
down.
Bill Smith, who was her rightful man in judgment of
the law,
Evolved no threat that he would break old Mulga's
nose or jaw ;
He simply went about his work, contented and
serene,
And did jobs on the level runs, with big- sprees in
between.
The years went by. In Piker’s pub the men one
morning met.
"Good morning, Mulga!” Smith exclaimed. ‘‘Will
you join me in a wet?”
“I will,” said Mulga cheerfully, “if you’ll have one
with me.”
And so began what,might have been a most pro-
digious spree.
“Say, Mulga, why d’you clear with Liz?—jes’ tell
me really why!”
Said Bill when sober etiquette had gone a bit awry.
“I never did you any harm, I’m ’anged if I can see
The reason for that bolt that made a bachelor of me.”
“You know the reason well enough,” old Mulga Mick
replied;
“I swore that I would have revenge the day that
Dingo died.
You poisoned him, that dog o’ mine—a paltry thing
to do;
I swore revenge, and, by the gods, this day I’m
square with you!”
Bill Smith upon the counter laid his glass, and in
his eyes
Gleamed out a light that signified remarkable sur-
prise.
“Me killed your blarsted dorg! Get out! I alwiz
thought you luiowed:
’Twas Liz! What’s that I hear you say?—you’ll
poke along the road?”
SUNSET LAND.
R. J. CASSIDY


i; FARMER'S Si
OVERCOAT!
THERE is a fine tailored smartness in all Farmers
Men’s Overcoats which places them in the posi-
tion of distinction. Fashioned from dependable
fabrics of neat and exclusive patterns they show in the
finished coat as a Garment not only of protection from
wind and rain but as one of infinite worth and character.
Among new styles being shown to-day are the following five,
here illustrated. Inspection of complete stock invited.
PRI—FARMER’S OVERCOATS, in all-wool tweed, medium
shades in grey and brown, with Raglan sleeves, strap cuffs,
centre seam and vent - - - PRICE 70/-.
m
1
0.
%
%
fk
&
W.
mmmm
r fc
■i
\ *@»ssfc ••■•7
V -V- v .^T
*/'■?
PR3
sfp*¥k &
m
m
I* 5 ? -1
PR^
PR4
ra&K
PR r
PRS
H
fall
WMBWIM
fr^
PR2—THE RANLEIGE British tailor made from
best quality Scotch Tweeds in distinctive,patterns
and style. As illustrated - PRICE 155/-
Other Prices - 147/-, 168/- to 9 Gns.
PR3—FARMER’S RAINCOATS. We hold a large
stock of dependable Raincoats, in medium and
dark fawn Gabardine, with step collar buttoned to
neck, Raglan sleeves, full skirt, lined wool check
as illustrated - - PRICE 90/-
Other Prices - 105/-, 110,-
PR4_FARMER’S LATEST RAINCOAT, made
from all-wool Gabardine, easy slip-on shoulder
with belt PRICE 126/-
PRS-FARMER’S OVERCOATS, 'easy slip-on
shoulder and gauntlet cuffs. In dark grey English
[Cheviot, lined with black satin - PRICE 95/-
Other Prices - 70/-, 80/-, 90/-, 105/-
*•
We Pay the Carriage.
FARMER? /yoney
sd
IT PAYS
TO CLIP YOPR HORSES !
Clipped horses look better, feel better and do better work.
Men who have made a life-study of the horse are agreed that
clipping is most beneficial and humane.
Now is the Time to Clip Them.
Do It the Machine Way.
You never realise how slow and antiquated the old hand-clippers
are till you give your horse a hair-cut
gsd
The Stewart Clippers are used in the best stables in every country.
They have stood the hardest test for years and have never failed to come
out first.
The ...
Stewart No. 1 Hand-power Horse Clipper
is a peerless, enclosed-gear machine, marvellous for its
simplicity and effectiveness.
It is strong and sturdy and will give years of satis-
factory service. Long years of service is assured by all
gears being cut from solid tool steel, encased in dust-
proof casing. Like all Stewart Machines', it is fitted
with the Stewart Patented Single-tension Clipping
Head.
Price
£3
The Stewart No. 11 Grinder
For attaching to the
Clipping Machine. For
sharpening horse-clipping
knives. Anyone can use
The Stewart No. 2 Clipper
is a big, strong cut-geared machine, suitable for the
man who has a lot of clipping to do. It embodies all
the constructional excellence of the smaller clipper, with
a multiplication of power, and is used extensively by
professional Horse Clippers, Horse Slioers, Liveries,
Veterinaries, etc.
Price
£4
Cooper Engineering' Co. Ltd.
12 9 Sussex Street, Sydney.
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.—Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH —
360-fi COFFINS ST., MEFBOURNE.
QT7EKNSFAND BRANCH —
E. S. & A. BANE. CHAMBERS,
EAGFE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AI7STRAFIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIFDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADEFAIDE.
To keep your spirits free from care,
A brisk walk through the winter air,
If you in comfy clothes are clad,
Will warm your blood and make you glad.
But just before you venture out,
If of the weather you’ve a doubt
Mix hot, and drink a nip, be sure,
Of warming Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
“Sliprail”: Let me help “Breeza” (B.
18/4/’18) to kill crows with the aid of half a dozen
rabbit-traps. Shoot, trap or otherwise obtain a couple
of bunnies. Skin them and fix them securely to the
ground. Set the traps right up against the rabbits
and then go along three times a day before breakfast,
pull out the astonished catch and jog off to the
nearest P.P. inspector.
* * * *
“Dial Sight”: “Jimmie Pannikin’s” fare-
well plea for the planting of native trees on the
face of the continent he loved so well was worthy of
so good an Mistralian. During the last three years
spent in trying to do my bit I have seen a fair
amount of France, England and Egypt. The pic-
turesqueness of the first-named country is solely due
to the assiduity with which tree-planting has been
carried on for centuries. From Marseilles, up the
fine valley of the Rhone, right to the north-west
coast at Le Havre we passed endless avenues of
trees, mainly elms, poplars and oaks. No village,
however humble, seems to have neglected this work,
and many a hamlet that would have looked drab and
depressing was made bright and beautiful by reason
of the avenues into which the cobblestoned roads
had been transformed. How I wished to shout a
message to a certain far-off up-country town in
Aussie, treeless and baking under a summer sun, of
the effect of these plantations!
* * * *
“Melos”: If you want a two-piece suit
worth at least a fiver get two cornsacks and treat
thus: Slit No. 1 along the bottom and cut out an
inverted V-shaped piece, starting 12 inches from
each corner and working up to a point about a
foot from the top. Stitch the wound with twine.
You can please yourself about pockets and other
adornments. Then take No. 2, make an opening
for your headpiece, and cut armholes, by slicing
off corners. There’s no need to bother about sleeves
if you are in the habit of wearing a shirt.
* * * *
“H. Harrington” : Another casual! Jack
Dunne, of Priory (N.S.W.), was on his way from
Cobar to Shuttleton with loading on his five drays.
One, transporting rabbit poison, amongst other
goods, suddenly took fire, through some of the stuff
finding its way out of a broken tin. Dunne stopped
the horses and remembered that in this dray there
were also three cases of gelignite and about 1000
caps. In about three seconds the vehicle was in
flames and the horse, screaming with terror, had
the best part of his tail burnt off. There was no
time to take a referendum in a case like this, so
Dunne tipped the load and chanced the luck. Result,
two bottles of tomato-sauce broken! I wouldn’t
have done it for £lOOO.
» * * *
“Roger Roller”: In south-western N.S.W.
the depredations of the galah are enormous. His
tribe is legion and increasing, and they lay waste
the wheat-stacks at grass. In one instance, of 29
acres of hay only five were Cocky’s portion. The
bird has also a humorous twist. At Carrathool he
developed a fad of nipping the telephone wires
between railway stations, and so cutting us off from
the Big Smoke. His beak did the trick. The matter
was reported this way to engineer’s 3taff: “Galahs
bad cutting telephone wires.” Inquisitive officials
at once required the number of galahs concerned. I
have an idea they were only used to one. The man
who has to supply the information is now in the
throes of desperation, as the feathered frolickers
exist in millions, and until they are counted no one
can expect any brass hat to go farther in the matter.
JUDGE NOT.
’ORACE : “You was tight last night."
PERCY: “Wot! I wos?"
’ORACE. “Yes. You was that shickered I
could see three of yer."
HOPELESS.
TEMPERANCE GENT: “I can't see anything to he gained by hanging around this hotel."
THE OTHER: “Same 'ere, boss; strikes me we’re a couple o’ bloomin’ Jonahs."
“Wee Bobbin” : Will a tropical horseman
oblige? About 75 per cent, of the horses in the
Solomon Islands suffer from a form of swamp cancer
which attacks the pasterns only. This seems to be
the disease of any consequence that affects our prads,
and it’s got us beat.
* * * *
“Chink”: N. S. Wales is the only State
that has done anything definite in providing
troughs and feed-tables for wild birds, and .there
the good work lies to the credit not so much of the
Education Department as of individual enthusi-
asts like “Jimmie Pannikin” —men who have used
their mateship with Young Australia as a lever
to eject some of the savage element possessed by
every healthy kid. In Queensland the best record
I know of in this respect belongs to the little school
at outback Rolleston. There the kiddies have had
at least half a dozen species of birds housekeeping
in trees planted for that special purpose, and every
day the feathered Australians join up with their
human cobbers at lunch-time.
* * * #
“Aquila”: Ever hear of an eagle attempt-
ing murder and then committing suicide? It hap-
pened at Mount Read, on the Tas. West Coast, when
W. Fisher, a Hobart firm’s foreman, was climbing up
a haulage line. He had to grip the line with both
hands, and consequently had nothing wherewith to
repel the bird, which drove at him twice, and
knocked him down each time. Then, soaring high, it
volplaned straight down, missed its target, and struck
the ground with such force that it killed itself. It
measured 3ft. 6in. from tip to tip.
* * * *
“Felis Domestica”: Our cat, a well-con-
ducted black-and-white Souter who for a good reason
never proposes to the female of his species, behaves
like a clerk in Holy Orders, which he closely resem-
bles in appearance, until the moon is at the full.
Then he spends the hours of dusk and early night in
careering all over the house, running Marathons up
and down the stairs, tobogganing on the mats across
the polished floor, and behaving like a whiz-bang
until utterly exhausted. The waning moon puts an
automatic brake on him. Why? IIow?
* * * *
“Steve Hart”: Phosphorus is the right
stuff to settle crows, and this is the way to go about
it. When you skin a jumbuek leave a bit of flesh
and fat on the pelt, paint it with the poison, and
hang it on the fence or limb of a tree. I have got
27 crows from one skin. It is as well to remember
that you get no second catch in the same place. The
next bait must be at least half a mile away.
* * * #
“R.S.”: Would you kindly ask some of
the blokes for a recipe for tanning kangaroo-skins?
Must be a quick method, owing to the unsettled state
of the world’s affairs.
“G. 8.”: For the extermination of crows I
have proved the following l method very successful.
Instead of treating a dead carcase put a little
rabbit poison en small pieces of fat or liver and
scatter them round the corpse. I have stiffened
up to 20 of the cruel pests at the one spot. They
can never resist the fat, and liver is a good second.
* * * *
“Wart”: The Tasmanian blackfellow was
much behind his mainland cousin in the matter of
weapons. Where the mainland black had the boomer-
ang, the spear-thrower, shield, barbed and stone-
pointed spears and ground and hafted axes and
knives, the islander had only a pointed stick for
spear, a short waddy, chipped stone knives and axes
without handles. Yet he had got ahead of the main-
lander in inventing an intoxicating drink. The trees
from which the sap was obtained are still called
cider-gums. They grow principally up toward the
lakes, one or two very fine specimens being on the
eastern shore of Great Lake. Binghi cut a V-
shaped channel in the bark when the sap was rising
at spring time. The juice was caught and covered
over and left two or three days to ferment. The
resulting brew would make a blackfellow imagine
that he owned the earth and had a mortgage falling
due on the sea and sky. The receptacle used must
have been either the large mutton-fish shells which
the natives sometimes used for drinking vessels, or
the baskets made out of a single leaf of giant kelp
which were used for carrying water.
* ♦ * #
“Silas Snell”: Skilly had just lost his
only farm-hand, and he engaged Warbois on sight
although the man was carrying a donkey-load of
firewood on his back in heavily-timbered country,
and bore in his left hand an ordinary iron bucket
containing water, notwithstanding that the season
was winter, and wet at that. It did not
occur to Skilly to ask Warbois why he had
half destroyed himself carrying that waste
burden all day. Skilly was not an observant
man; if he had a besetting sin it was not
curiosity. And, anyhow, Warbois’s fancy for sail-
ing in ballast was no business of his. True, War-
bois did offer a sort of explanation. “A bit iv
wood’s ’andy,” he said. “So’s water. You offen
want water.” This was perfectly true, as Skilly
was quick to admit. Warbois put the wood and
the water in bis hut, and always locked the door
when he came away. He had a passion for collect-
ing firewood, and when opportunity* offered he carried
water up from the river and poured it in a hole by
the hut. The hole was not water-tight, and Warbois
grew suspicious. He said that it was a fearful dis-
trict for water thieves. He said a mate of his,
name of Carr, once died on the Great Western
plain through running short of water. He thought
something should be done 'to the water thieves.
He reckoned he would buy a gun. Warbois spent a
lot of his spare time watching the river, and said
it was a great shame the way good water was allowed
to escape. He thought he would tie the river up
one of these days. “How’d it be to hobble her?”
he said. Another thing that troubled W arbois was
the great profusion of eggs on Skilly’s table. There
had been a record crop of eggs, and Skilly was
feeding everybody on them, every day and each
meal of the day. Warbois said he thought Skilly
didn’t orter eat them. They orter be saved for food,
Warbois said. He collected egga secretly, and when
Skilly found 10 dozen in the bed in the hut War-
bois explained that he was making pets of them.
He cried when Skilly took the eggs away, and said
his was a lonely, loveless life. Later Warbois
came to the conclusion it was a mistake cows having
whiskers on the end of their tails, and had removed
seven before he was discovered. He had tied one
bunch to a cow’s chin. He said it would grow
there if encouraged. When it rained Warbois put
all the milk-pails and dishes out, and once when
he caught Skilly having a tub in the stable he
attacked his boss in a fury of indignation. “You
dirty swine,” he roared, “spoilin’ water, ’n’ people
dyin’ for the want of it." After a year of this
sort of conduct Warbois was still with Skilly. Then
one morning he turned up to breakfast with a gun
and fired at Skilly. He also fired at Mrs. Skilly,
and he hit Miss Skilly over the head with the butt.
All three were more or less injured. The police
removed Warbois. Warbois said he was a society
for the prevention of cruelty to eggs. What Skilly
said with open-eyed amazement was: “Damn if I
don’t believe now that that feller’s bin a bit off
his head all the time.”
* * * *
Henare gives evidence in an assault case:
What is your name and occupation?
What game, poss? Py cripe, you know me. Last
year I ring it te Tiko Tiko shed. I Henare te tog
trainer. , „
Where were you when the assault took place 1
I peen trinkit te shanty in te pub.
You were drinking in the hotel ?
Yes, tat te way.
Who paid for the drinks? .
Py cripe, you can’t do tat, poss. Tat te anti-
shout. I pay te trummer for te lon’ peer.
And each one paid for himself?
Too true, poss. You askit Pill Massey. Tat te
lor ow right, poss.
What started the assault? ...
Te pig ploke askit te little-ploke trink te smfta.
He shouted for him, eh?
Py cripe, no chans. Te little pcller say he te tee-
tote.
Said he did not drink?
Yes, tat te way.
And what tjjpn?
Te pig ploke he go sour.
Got angry, eh?
Plurry wild. . . ~ „
And did the big man strike the first blow?
Py cripe, yes. He call it te little peller te
German wowster.
And what followed? ...
Ten te pig bloke grappit te lon peer, and he try
pill up te little peller town te neck wit te pooze.
Te little ploke he te tee-tote. He shape up like
te prize fight, and land te pig pully ploke to goot
kick in te [Long think here.] What’s te fancy
name for guts, poss?
# * * *
“Koojack”: For as long as I can remem-
ber I have heard dozens of improbable and impossible
theories advanced as to the method employed by
Binghi to fix his handprints upon a rock. Now, at
last, I know. Find a browned sandstone, within a
cave for preference, take a piece of white sandstone,
powder it very fine, and load it into Binghi’s mouth.
Then place your (or his) hand on the surface of afore-
said brown stone and let him squirt the white sand
over and around the hand. In 10 minutes the print
is a fixture.
’TWAS MUSIC IN HIS EARS.
HER: “I can talk to you till I'm tired — and
what good does it do?”
H(IC)IM (in a vain attempt to propitiate) :
“M' dear (hie), I jush love t’ hear you
shpeak (hie)! You’ve voice like narp!"


HIGH-CLASS CIGARETTES
oVuielg or)
id their anilities
ffss C's>
AT MODERATE PRICES.
Sm&B&i
CIGARETTES
The Quality of State Express Cig'arettes
is exadlly the same as before the war,
and none of the substitutes now so
frequently employed in inferior
brands are used in their manufacture.
NEW RETAIL PRICES.
State Express No. 333 6d. per PacKet.
Sold by all High-class Tobacconists throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers: Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd., London, England.


From the Youngest to the Oldest
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
is the Safest and Surest Remedy in the World for
A’,i ife
**
-3
*
'^iS^<T(\
/
yi&i
idlin';
c ic*"cy.<y 5~' ,T, +
vjm
16.
Coughs, Colds, Croup,
Sore Chests
This Medicine can be given with Perfect
Safety and the Utmost Confidence to the
Youngest Children and most Aged Sufferers,
as it does NOT contain, and has NEVER
contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
The Reputation of and the Demand for
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cure are
Bigger now than ever.
Soothing
Price: 2/6 and 4/6
The Best is always the Cheapest in the end.
If not obtainable in your District, send
direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
Branches at Sydney, N.S.W. & Wellington, N.Z.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Padju'd”: I agree with “Country Ped”
(B. 11/4/’18) that “correspondence” col-
leges urgently require Government investiga-
tion. Recently a telegraph operator came
to me to laiow if I could fit him to pass the
Commonwealth wireless test. Having had
five years’ land and sea expedience I said I
thought I could. He informed me. as some-
thing of a joke, that he was radio instructor
at Gr*ab and Steele’s College. Astounded, I
asked him how he managed. “I read it out
from a’- correspondence course,” he replied.
•‘But suppose,” I said, “a student wants
something elucidatedV” “I bluster through
somehow,” he replied. An outlay of £1
would buy the three text-books from which
these exorbitantly dear lessons are mainly
lifted, but in my opinion it is doubtful if
anything tan really be learnt therefrom.
Most of these schools “guarantee” positions,
but as the wireless section of the Australian
mercantile marine is the monopoly of one co.
(to which none of the remarks in this par.
apply)? that guarantee is quite as useful as a
guarantee of a place in the Angel Choir.
“G.T.”: As what “Country Ped” (B.
11/4/T8) knows about correspondence col-
leges appears to have been learned in the
dormitory of one of them, let someone give
him a second lesson. The “reputable”
correspondence colleges which also run per-
sonal instruction schools (I admit they can,
unfortunately, be counted on the fingers of
one hand) in a great measure employ their
personal-instruction staffs to conduct the
postal tuition, such teachers giving certain
specified time each day to the setting of
lessons and correction of papers, said lessons
not being set from text-books and not being
corrected from keys. Personal explanations,
from the teacher’s own wide experience, are
given when mistakes occur. Also, these
teachers are generally experts in their par-
ticular branches. They’ve got to be. The
keen competition between the _ colleges de-
mands it. In the higher technical subjects,
such as engineering, architecture, surveying,
etc., these colleges, in many cases, pay high
percentages to highly-qualified, practical,
outside men to conduct their lessons for
them, thus ensuring sound, practical in-
struction and guaranteeing satisfaction to
those students prepared to work conscienti-
ously. “Certainly hundreds of ambitious
innocents are wasting their money,” says
“Country Ped.” Certainly thousands of
ambitious triers are getting sound instruc-
tion and being lifted out of the rut, where,
if correspondence colleges were not in exist-
ence, they would have no chance of receiving
instruction at all. “Registration and Gov-
ernment supervision is the remedy,” says
“Country Ped.” Correct. And the colleges
I have in mind would welcome the change
with open arms. It would give them a bet-
ter standing and wipe out the “penny-
snatchers.” However, when the registra-
tion and examination of teachers in busi-
ness colleges commenced in Victoria, the
Council of Education, or some similar body,
ser the papers for shorthand teachers. The
theory section of the exam, (the shell, ker-
nel, stem and branch of any shorthand
teacher’s equipment) could have been passed
by any student of average intelligence after
a few months’ instruction, while the speed
test was made the whole thing. Ability to
write high speed is a secondary consideration
for any first-class shorthand teacher. If he
has the ability so much the better for him-
self. though it does not necessarily follow
that his sudents will benefit. Registration
and supervision by till means, but let it be
by men who know.
* * * *
“F.N.T.”: A new Australian trade has
sprung up since the war put up the freight
on pianos. The business consists of refitting
dead pianos and putting them back on the
market at attractive prices. Young gentle-
men of brisk appearance and ingratiating
manners tour the suburbs as piano-tuners, a
job which isn’t like pulling teeth or repair-
ing weak hearts, no registration being neces-
sary—and no knowledge of piano-tuning
either. The “tuner” can get into most
houses “to have a look at the piano” by
quoting a bargain, rate for a plain tuning.
Once he gets the piano’s organs strewn
around on the carpet he discovers that the
moths have been at their work and a lot of
repairs are necessary, re-felting for instance.
He quotes a ridiculously low figure for that
job, too. A plausible practitioner, putting
his best gold-tooth forward, can soon smile
the housewife into letting him take a part
of the piano away for treatment, to be re-
turned in three, or four days; and that
closes the transaction. The removed part is
never handed back, but goes to provide a new
lung or liver for a decayed piano owned by
some obscure dealer far away.
* * * *
“Plumber” : The report of the Inter-State
Commission on the High Prices of Groceries
is an illuminating document in the best
academic style. The Commish discovered an
“absurd waste of effort and capital” among
small retail grocers (the 69 shops in the Mel-
bourne metropolitan area whose returns were
investigated actually lost £1874 last year) ;
also it found an “utter lack of organisa-
tion on the part of the public.” It recom-
mends co-operation in place of the eternal
wail about high prices and the everlasting
appeals to politicians to “do something.”
This advice has virtues, but is largely outed
by the Commish’s own asseverations regard-
ing the “dominating position occupied by
associations of wholesale merchants,” who
“frequently contravene the prices fixed by
the authorities.” Any small co-operative
concern dealing with them would have the
same chance of survival as the Servians had
with the Huns; but if trade unionists would
but tackle the job energetically they could
make themselves strong enough to be their
own wholesale merchant; or, at least, dic-
tate their own terms to the existing firms.
Such a scheme would put more money in
their pockets than miles of deputations or
gallons of talk—but it means hard work,
unselfish co-operation and little glory.
* * * *
“Wart”: The Serpentine Paint Co., which
is mining oxide at Beaconsfield (Tas.) and
turning it into paint at Launceston, will
have its product on the market this month.
Local users who have tried samples swear
it is the best paint in the world. The co. is
turning out burnt sienna, raw sienna, red
oxide, chrome oxide, mast color and sage
green—the last said to be unique in natural
oxides.
* * * *
“Werrimee”: Send this item from an old
(1874) file of the Narrabri (N.S.W.)
Herald to William Noah Hughes, ship-
builder :
In the Mehi River, a short distance down from
Moree, there was successfully launched a paddle-
wheel boat, named the Banjo Box. It. was built by
Mr. Michael McCabe. The machinery was con-
structed by Mr. McMahon. Dimensions: length of
keel, 16ft. ; breadth of beam, 3ft. 9in.; extreme
depth of hold, ISirj. She was worked by side wheels,
the motive power being supplied by the pedal ex-
tremities of her crew. Commander, Captain Blue-
skin. She was to sail for Moree; from thence to the
Barwon, down it to the Darling, to its confluence
with the Murray, straight then for Adelaide.
She wasn’t much of a vessel, but she was
worth more than a bag of speeches.
* * * *
In its noble work of eking out the meat-
supply, Australia’s bunny gets little moral
support from Professor Osborne, of Mel-
bourne Uni. The prof, has issued a warning
against the excessive use of rabbit as a meat-
substitute. Too much wile rabby may cause
a craving for “something stronger,” with a
possibility of malnutrition and anaemia.
Still, on many remote selections where the
housewife knows how to cook and where the
sizzling of beefsteak on the grid is seldom
heard, stuffed bunny will continue to. be a
pleasant change from roast ribs of pumpkin.
# * * *
“Peta”: It looks as if the Yanco irrigation
area (N.S.W.) is going to be the seed-bed of
noxious weeds for the entire Riverina. In
ordinary conditions dry spells kill off all or
almost all weeds, but here, where there is
always water in canals and drains, they know
no check. At the present time every road-
side on the area is thickly lined with stink-
wort, often Bft. high. So, too, are the canal
banks. Paddocks on neglected farms present
an extraordinary appearance, with their full
crop of what is locally known as Sendall’s
lucerne, in compliment to the Resident Com-
missioner. The seed is light as thistledown
and in a high wind travels indefinitely. A
little later on, as the docks take possession
of canal banks, seeds will blow into the
water and be carried from farm to farm
amidst thehearty cheers of the man on the land.
* * * *
All the pirates are not in U-boats. The
“associated” rate for water freightage
between Sydney and Melbourne is 14s. per
ton nowadays; but shipping space is very
scarce. Recently, under the very nose of
the Shipping Control Board, some enterpris-
ing Sydney people who had secured a boat
offered to transport stuff to Melbourne at
455. per ton —the 31s. in excess of the fixed
rate being for “commission” and “expenses” !
A similar little scheme was baulked several
months ago when the charterer of a collier
wanted £5OOO for a run to Adelaide. Later,
however, he was beaten down to about half
that figure; but before arrangements could
be finalised the Shipping Board stepped in,
seized the vessel and restored it to the inter-
state coal trade.
* * * *
During the few months Napoleon I. spent
in Egypt he started schools, libraries, col-
leges, a new code of laws, model farms and
sundries; also he incited the native, who had
given up hope under the Turk, to dig the silt
out of scores of miles of irrigation canals and
drive back the encroaching desert. Now the
British in Mesopotamia are showing that
Napoleon wasn’t the only boulder on the
beach. There was nothing wrong with that
country except the Turk, who had breathed
on the vast irrigation system for 400 years
and dried up Paradise. For a teetotaller the
Turk has a very hot breath. Already the
new British authority has reclaimed 300,000
acres by the simple process of setting the in-
habitants to dig the sand out of the irriga-
tion channels, and the inhabitant expects his
first square meal in centuries.
THE PRICE O’ VICTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Eh mon, the warl's gang- sad amiss,
The times is sail- agley ;
Waesucks for days o’ joy an’ bliss —
A’ tint it seems tae me.
There’s nobbut war an’ bluidy death
An’ wranglin’ fit tae deave ye,
An’ censor loons wha’s every breath
Is breathed for tae deceive ye.
’Tis all gone wrang ; there’s naething richt —
A’ daft frae last tae first—
As I was sayin’ yesternicht,
Tae my frien’ Jock McThirst:
I’m no, ye mind, avairse tae strife
In reason; I’m no lavish
In humbleness afore the wife,
Like puir, daft Rab McTavish.
But there’s in a’ a medium grist,
An’, look ye now, this war
Has gone the noo, ye mind me, juist
A mickle bit tae far.
Not that I grutch the price we’ve paid
In bluid an’ bone an’ muscle;
Ye maun pay that when a’ is said
In ilka muekle tussle.
But whiles we’ve done oor cantie bit
Tae niak’ yon Kaisov sair,
'Tis well tae fash oorsels a whit
Abobt what’s daein’ mail - .
I’m tellin’ ye it’s well tae mind
In a’ consairns ye nearly,
Ye dinna at the end o’t find
Ye’ve purchased aught tae dearly.
Now let ma perroration tell
The tboet that’s in ma heid,
That he wha runs ma vairses well
The same may richtly read:
Is it no' time tae stop the fray,
As I spiered o’ McClusky,
When they wad mak ’ a Christian pay
Ninepulicc the gill for whusky?
N.B.W.
ALISTER McALISTER McPHAJRSON.
The Inky Way.
Emily Mary Williams set out from the
Homoeopathic Hospital, Melbourne, on the
morning of April 25 to interview Peter. She
had long been associated with country jour-
nalism, and her signature, “Penelope,” was
especially well known in Geelong.
* * * *
Sydney D.T. on the Zeebrugge raid:—
It is not difficult to realise that two shiploads of
quick-setting comment, . sunk right across the
entrance to the enemy’s main advanced base for sub-
marines, constitutes a very effective achievement.
Thank Heaven, they’ve found a use for
Win-tlie-War speeches at last!
* * * *
“Chevron”: Talking of the noble record
of Longwood (Vic.), which has won more
war honors, probably, than any town of its
size in the whole wide world, I remember
going up there for the Aug us on one of the
late Allan McLean’s political tours. I met
the Argus correspondent, a delightful old
gentleman named Treyvaud. who assumed
(it wouldn’t be a safe bet nowadays) that,
being an Argus man, I must be a classical
scholar. lie mentioned that Napoleon’s resi-
dence at St. Helena was called Longwood,
and that a local school-teacher had christened
his house St. Helena. And he quoted a
classical tag. In after years the elder son
of that school-teacher won the Victoria Cross
in Gallipoli, and was killed in action- in
France. He was Major Frederick Tubb'.
And in France his brother, Captain Frank
Tubb. won the Military Cross. The appro-
priateness of that old gentleman’s quotation
comes back to me: “Exegi monumentum
acre perennius .”
* ■* * *
“Eddyson”: Luther Bradley, the Ameri-
can artist, began his career as a journalist on
a Melbourne weekly called Life, owned by
W. H. Williams, the tenor printer. Bradley
was artist and editor, and Victor Daley was
one of his valued contributors; but fre-
quently wide breaches in the space allotted
to Daley had to be patched by the harried
sub. with tatters from the American ex-
changes. Then came Thompson, who brought
glad tidings of temperance benefits and made
something of a hit in Melbourne. Bradley
had known Thompson as a medical student
in old Ma-aschewsetts. The temperance
evangelist haunted Life office, and a quaint
companionship was established between him
and Daley. The poet reformed, and was
notoriously sober for weeks, with the result
that confidence was restored, and Bradley
consented to start his serial. It ran several
weeks, dealing with a young man in a
trance, whom two Bohemian companions took
through the country, exhibiting him as a
mummy—the only long story Daley ever
attempted. Then there was a sudden re-
lapse ; the week’s consignment of the serial
did not turn up. Next week the copy was
still missing. So was the distinguished
author. Bradley finished the story himself
with a jolt calculated to dislocate the neck
of an interested reader, and shortly
afterwards Daley put in an appear-
ance. He explained: “It’s poor Thompson,
my dear fellow. Many of the people
he converts bring him votive offerings
of whisky. They bring their bottles
and place them at his feet as a demonstra-
tion of good faith, and an assurance that
they will never again taste, touch, nor
handle. He gets a quantity of whisky in this
way, a great deal more than he can drink
himself. You will remember I undertook to
write three temperance hymns for him.
Being a little short of money, he is paying
me in whisky—a bottle a hymn.” Daley lin-
gered in the doorway. “I shall not resume
the serial "this month,” he said. “I am writ-
ing a whole book of hymns.”
* * * *
In consequence of the shortage of paper
in England —and it is getting nearly as
bad in Australia—The Times daily output
is now limited to 120,000 copies, and people
who want it have to sign a form that they
will share their copy with at least one other
reader. The price has been put back to
threepence. The Telegraph, after a
prosperous career of nearly 60 years as a
penny paper, apologises profusely for raising
the price to twopence.
OLD POETS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where are the pleasing bards I knew,
Whose songs so glorified my 3'outh,
And rippled all the keen day through
With warp of beauty and of truth?
no robes of purple sheen
Nor wreaths (unless they be of rue),
But honest was their work, I ween.
Where are the singing men I knew?
Where do my early poets bide?
I hear at times a far-off strain,
But in no chariot do they ride,
Their homes glow never on the plain.
I see them not in gardens fair
Where good old men sit side by side,
Cut off from need, absolved of care.
Where do my early poets bide?
Where rest the poets in their age,
Whose melody was part of life,
Whose splendid violence did wage
With liars all inspiring strife?
I see the faded doctor there,
Bent low, and picking at the page;
His greying life no troubles wear.
Where rest the poets in their age?
To what kind haven have they gone
Now fire but sparkles in the ash ?
The lawyer sits his life to con
In soft contentment when the clash
Of argument is done, and he
Steps down to let the world go on.
Where are the bards once dear to me;
To what kind haven have they gone?
Where are the poets once I knew?
The tradesman crowned with snow
hath ease,
The broker drives the city through.
His age hath everything to please.
All other men have gentle end
To, mark new life with placid view,
In pillowed peace their souls to mend—
Where are the poets once I knew ?
VICTORIA.
E. D.


ms
V
hl*. *
, , sW* , , ,v Jr M
* I «** SHyl §g
*V, n *>
< .-«* '•. ... ■■'■ -.1 ■*%
/--.n “.' A ; '.j4* % s
. i ■ \ ••. i jS
'-
'< r * \ i M
■
:s -i-mm
«*.• St
sfl»
ft*
1
1
mi
M’ 1 -
i ßSpB»*s*s
■'■ -
papp**
*..■• -.
Ik®
z
‘qsasffl
•V'.i:
' ")*
w
gsd
g
Various types of Mine Locomotives are manufactured by
the General Electric Company, and just the correct type of
Locomotive can be secured for any specified set of haulage
conditions.
The rugged, durable character of G.E. MINE LOCOMOTIVES
is evidenced by the fact that they endure under the severe
operating conditions of mine service for many years.
For full information on this subject communicate with
A
4A
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, G? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
ii*
m
n
m
m
m
m
m
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE (Q.): The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd.* corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
PERTH (IV.A.): (has. Atkins I Co (W.A.t. Ltd.. Hay Street
ADELAIDE (S~A.); Lnbchaun & Johnstone* 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical £ Engineering Co. Ltd„
Auckland* Christchurch. Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock A C 0... Ltd.. Launceston; Me6fers. OUter
and Oliver. MarQuarie Street. Hobart.
13-TON INSIDE FRAME
LOCOMOTIVE.


M
V.
M
A. Saunders’ pure double-
cut Diamond Necklet,
15ct. gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Dia-
mond Circle
Brooch, 15ct. sold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunters’ dia-
mond and pearl
Scarf Pin, loct.
Gold, £2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS’ DIAMOND JEWELLERY
A. Satinders’ 15ct. Gold Links,
set pure double-cut diamond,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut diamond
Bar Brooch, 15ct. gold, £3/10/«
A. Saunders’ pure
doubl e-cut Dia-
mond Ring 1 ,18 ct.
gold, £75
A. Saunders’ pure
dou b 1 e-cut Dia-
mond Rinff, 18ct.
sold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond
Brooch, 15ct. gold, £2/5/-
A. Saunders’ pure
dou b 1 e-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £2O.
A- Saunders’ pute
dou b 1 e-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ ' pure
dou b 1 e-cut Dia-
mond Earrings,
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid gold, pure double-cut
diamond-set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled
lever movement, £lB/10/-. Guaranteed.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid gold, pure double-cut
diamond-set Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled
lever movement, £BO. Guaranteed.
A
v.'J'
A. Saunders’ Lady’s solid gold, pure double-cut
diamond-set Patent Expanding Wristlet Watch, full-
jewelled lever movement, £lB/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Links, set pure
double-cut diamond,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond
Cluster Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
. £B/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
dou b 1 e-eut Dia-
mond Ring, 18et.
gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ pure
dou b 1 e-cut Dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure double-out Diamond
Brooch, JLGct. Gold, £2/5/-
A. Saundars’ pure
dou b 1 e-cut Dia-
mond Earrings,
15et. Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Rina:, lSct.
Gold, £2O.
A. Saunders’ pure
dou b 1 e-cut Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
18ct. gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Suunders pure double-cut Diamond
Cluster Brooch, 15ct. gold,
£B/10/-
A. Saunders’ _ pure
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct. gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ pure
dou b 1 e-cut Dia-
mond Brooch, 15et.
gold, £3/107-
A. Saunders’ dia-
mond-set Scarf
Pin, 15ct. gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut diamond-set Bracelet,
15ct. gold, £27/10/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George St,
(Opp. Railway\
Station /»
Sydney
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut diamond-set Bracelet,
15ct. gold, £25.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing .. .
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY ss °e= s *
% Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
estate's PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full/ Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
THE thi/ag that the people should have
been s Jlowed to realise from the outset
is that wr: MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a. hand?
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
QtJ.Collis Browne's
CWorodync
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH- I
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery .
Of all Chemists . Prices in England, 1/S, 3/-, $/•.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention £ feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Ks! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
T he Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
0 F ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
3y L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Col uplete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human jleprotluction has ever before been
gI DR tO BYEN’S I Id ILLUST I:ATED EDITION
H 917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOON. ASK FOR it, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrib ' England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly’s Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3,
posted. ' Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
M\de Easy, 1/3. Ur-TO-DATE Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics’ Work-
shop Handybook, 1/9. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Motor Mechanics, 2)9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/-. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All SmRTS, 1/6. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/9. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. How to Read Faces and
Heads, 1/6. Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, &c.,
1/9 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing. 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1 /-»
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/*
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
AH These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6; Adam Lind-
say Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/9. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook. 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/9. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/9.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/-.
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/9 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Wizard’s Manual,
1/3. Speeches from the Dock, 2/-. Life’s
Shop Window, 1/9. Three Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
|BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


■,, ■ ■
1
;
ms
~,r
■■ i
m
3 t S
■%''<& m -A
J IMI
. \<i
I
■
i- -
» I sS* 4 '
, • , >i\ * * T&\
)’,V.
r: >*.--. i-
■
W' 1 < .
Is 5 - ; s.y
.•.
V : -: '■:■•.
m ■
Sill:
- v
:.-;||l,'SS''S.
.: 'l'
THOROUGHLY
AUSTRALIAN
0
c
’ *
**
m m
■
w±
B Jj D


SAYS PHOSPHATE INCREASES
STRENGTH AND ENDURANCE.
Weak, nervous, debilitated men and
women who become exhausted after the
slightest mental or physical exertion, to
whom sleep is denied, and whose drawn,
haggard features bear mute testimony to
their pitiable condition, can regain health,
strength and endurance in a few weeks by
obtaining from the chemist a supply of
5-grain bitro-pliosphate tablets, and taking
one regularly at each meal. All the abovg
painful conditions are due to weak nerves
and lack of nervous energy. Bitro-phosphate
feeds the starved, shrunken nerves, and
builds up a reserve of nervous energy by
supplying in the only assimilable form
those phosphoric food elements which are
the life of the nervous system. The results
following its use are most gratifying.
Sleeplessness usually disappears within a
week or ten days, thin people put on flesh,
strength returns to shrunken muscles, the
power of endurance is doubled, sunken cheeks
fill out, the eyes become bright, and all the
old nervous worries and dreads disappear,
and life becomes what it should be —worth
living. Try it and see.— Advt.
mr.
mm
v»i r
- -JMvm®
m
Somewhere—A Long Time Ago—
We read a pretty little story
About two sweethearts who
planted two acorns
Close together—
And .the young people were
separated—or one died
(It’s a long time since we read
the story) ;
But the acorns became oak
tree's,
Large ones, with wide, spread-
ing branches,
That twined about each other —
Like sweethearts —•
And one tree could not be cut
down
Without destroying the other.
And we in the industry are like
that —■
We’re mutually interdependent.
One end of the business
Is so wrapped about the other
That its success or failure
Depends on the success or
failure of the other.
Imagine a Film industry
Without Producers and Dis-
tributors—•
Or without Exhibitors!
It couldn’t be.
So let’s “pull” together—
And win together—•
How else can we serve you ?
PARAMOUNT PICTURES.
ALEC LORIMORE, Managing Director, 302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
HIS COMPLAINT.
“The Labor party stands for Peace by negotia-
tion.” — Vic. Labor Manifesto.
“ What’s up with tile little fellow?”
“Mistaken identity, my dear sir. He thinks
he’s the big fellow.”
The story was told last week that Premier
Ryan, of Queensland, was going to become
leader of the Federal Labor party—that it
had all been arranged with Tudor, who had
agreed to the change. Of course, Tudor,
when seen, announced that he hadn’t done
anything of the sort. But he knows quite
well that if Ryan did come into Federal
politics there would be a change not long
afterwards. As a party whip Tudor was
unequalled. He is patient, assiduous and
personally popular. The same qualities made
him a very valuable Minister for Customs.
But he is not a leader. He has little imagi-
nation ; he has less boldness. He is always
measuring his own weakness against the
strength of the party machine, and the result
is timidity. He could keep his wicket up
right through an innings, but he couldn’t
make the runs to win a match.
The truth about Ryan of Queensland is
that he doesn’t know what In; is going to do.
Under our Federal system he believes there
is. with normal conditions, more work and
scope in State than in national politics, there
being no national politics to speak of. This
indicates afresh the weakness of our present
system. Under war conditions the Common-
wealth Government has taken vast powers
REINFORCEMENTS.
ANZAC: “’Ullo, Bill, they’re sending the
Win-the-War blokes. They must be
gettin' down to the last man and the
last shilling.”
and is responsible for huge expenditures ; yet,
because State activities make so strong
an appeal in normal times, the Federal work
is being done by a very few first-raters and
a vast majority of second- and third- and
fourth-raters, while vastly superior men in
State politics stand by and do nothing much
except tinker vfth the village pump.
That Lloyd George should have to put up
with military “intrigues”—his Government
has just passed through another “crisis” thus
caused—is nobody’s fault but his own. When
he took over the job from the hesitating
Asquith he started to work with the old
bureaucratic War machine instead of mak-
ing a clean sweep; and every time since
then that he has used the small hand-broom
to shift some single incompetent there has
been trouble.
McGrath, out of khaki and speaking in
the Commonwealth Parliament of the Aus-
tralian soldiers who wanted to transfer to
the flying service and couldn’t get permis-
sion, lately put the case thus
Australians make the best flying- men in the world,
and many thousands of them desire to transfer to
the flying corps. Great Britain has the machines,
but is waiting for the men to mount them. General
Birdwood has granted some transfers, but has refused
them to many skilled mechanics and others who
would make good pilots.
Now it is explained by the British authori-
ties that “the establishment of new Austra-
lian squadrons would mean the withdrawal
ol fighting men from the lines.” So one
specially deplorable result of the shortage-
in Australian man-power at the Front is the
military necessity for keeping men in the
trenches who would be more valuably. em-
ployed in dropping bombs from the air if
the divisions in the field were not crying out
for reinforcements.
Sydney Telegraph on a financial matter:
The Federal Treasurer. .. .threatens to take action
against persons idly disparaging the soundness of
the national currencv. These persons, whoever they
are, will quite deserve all they get.... The Federal
notes are issued on the security of Australia un-
limited. The gold, of which the Federal Government
has an ample stock, is only the first reserve Back
of that is every stick of property and every penny of
income in the Commonwealth.
The italicised words are worthy of all con-
sideration. They apply to any paper cur-
rency—German, Austrian, Turkish. \\ ild-
cat-Central- American-republican, assignats of
the first French revolution, etc. Also they
apply to every public debt that is or ever
was —even though half of them or more are
in default and are as stiff as Jeff Davis’s
debentures. The Telegraph didn't finish
its story. In the last resort the only thing
that is behind anything in the way of pub-
lic lOU’s is the character of the people, and
if they have been taught that it is better to
borrow than to learn how to be sufficient for
themselves, and been assured by comfortable
daily papers that the “boundless natural
resources” will always see them through, the
character may prove rather flabby when it
is wanted.
Winchelsea Shire Council has sensibly
asked that provision should be made in the
new. Vic. Health Bill for
the licensing of boarding-
houses. At present any-
body can take in boarders
or be taken in by them,
there being no supervision
of the kitchen or sanitary
arrangements, or any regu-
lation insisting upon a
proper allowance of cubic
space per victim. The
kitchens of some compara-
tively classy East Mel-
bourne hash-foundries
would earn for their pro-
prietors a stiff tine if
attached to a pub or cafe,
and some of the cubicles
that masquerade as bed-
rooms howl for inspection.
But at the present rate of
progress the Health Bill
will not reach Parliament
until this generation of
boarders dies or acquires a
missus.
Victoria suffers not only
socially but financially
from the shamefully in-
efficient administration of
its Venereal Diseases Act.
Since the measure came
into force about 6000 male
sufferers have reported;
yet cases which require
constant treatment have
still to be sent to the
Langwarrin military camp.
The Commonwealth is paid
for their accommodation
and the cost is greater
than if the State attended
properly to the job. The position as
regards women is a scandal. Between
SOO- and 1000 have reported, but, owing to
the absence of night clinics at which girls
unable to leave their occupations in the day-
time could be dealt with, the health authori-
ties are faced with an impossible task.
For the nine months to the end of March
the Commonwealth’s war expenditure out of
borrowed money averaged £1,107,000 per
week, and out of taxation £177.000 per week.
The £177,000 apparently goes mainly in
etceteras. But it doesn't include all the
etceteras by any means. Even the cost of
the piebald Conscription referendum was
passed on to the kid.
The “wets” can’t get any comfort from the
latest trial of strength—at Launceston and
thereabouts, for a Leg. Council seat. The
retiring member, hon. Minister Shields, who
had the vote of Bung and the moderates on
a previous occasion, was this time vigorously
opposed by the former. Bung ran Oldham,
a wine and spirit merchant, who gave Shields
a close run when he first wooed the electors.
The third candidate was Peter Gannon, put
up by the Labor party—the first time this
section had nominated a candidate for the
Council. The result was a romp home for
Shields, who had the wholehearted support
of the Water Waggon. Gannon was lost in
the dust.
The door of N. S. Wales’s only match-
factory has been banged. The manufacturer
is generally imagined to be a person who
finds his raw material at his hand, so that
when his price is fixed by law it is only the
wage question which has to be considered.
But the raw material of one industry is
often the finished product of another, and
isn’t “raw” at all; and for want of a thou-
sand little industries which we haven’t got
and hardly dream of the manufacturer is
often only one remove further from the
importing biz than the importer himself, and
just one degree less a slave to the war-price
extortioner. The match-factory reported
briefly that its imported raw materials had
gone up so high that matches at 3jd. per
dozen were impossible, so it put on its hat
and took the mostly-imported tram-car home
at the increased fare.
A TOUGH OF THE REAL THING.
“The new Recruiting Depot in Sydney will have
bright surroundings. A brass band will be in
attendance.”
BILLJIM : “That’s orlright; but a bit o’ this
music ’d wake 'em up a darn sight
quicker.”
From the Gallery : —•
Labor's chance of achieving office appears horribly
remote when men like Higgs, Catts and Considine
are allowed to pour out their damaging eloquence.
Higgs is the party’s spruiker for a “negotiated peace”
and his advocacy is sustained by the delusion that
Fritz will eat our conditions out of our hand. He
scoffs at the “bitter-enders” ; apparently be prefers
to be a never-ender whose artless pacifism would give
Germany opportunities for further war. But on this
matter Higgs is quite insensible to reason or facts.
Catts is hardly less dangerous, though his insanity
takes the form of sowing distrust of certain inter-
national relations. When you add to those two the
truculent Considine panting to pose as a “Boshevik”
and succeeding very well, you feel that those and
their kind will be the. ruin of Labor. A while back
the now-absent Anstey declared that Labor was march-
ing to its Sedan ; it looks as if it is going there
via Bedlam and Broken Hill.
The great Washington, in April, 1778: —
We can talk about patriotism and cite examples
from antiquity of heroic deeds performed under! its
influence only ; but whoever shall rely on this, founda-
tion for the conduct of a long and bloody war shall
find out his mistake before it is all over. I do not
ignore patriotism, and I know that in war much has
been accomplished under its influence ; but I will not
dare to say that any important and long war could be
sustained by any such principle.
Well, thank God, that’s some consolation.
We are no worse than Washington expected
a country to be under circumstances such as
ours. But it only makes it clearer that
Hughes and Pearce, in heaping scorn upon
this paper’s efforts to get universal service
adopted early in the war, played Germany’s
game—doubtless through their profound igno-
rance of history.
THE COSMOPOLITES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A meeting was held in Brisbane and addressed
by orators in a variety of tongues. Russian, Finnish
and several other languages were spoken and polyglot
anthems were interspersed. Denunciation of the war
was the topic.”
We held a glorious meeting up in Brisbane Sunday
night
To down them ’owlin’ Jingoes an’ to help the cause
of Right.
We ’eard a power of speeches from a crowd with
lungs o’ leather
An’ we sung a ’eap of anthems, one by one and
altogether.
First Petrovitch the Rooslmn give his testimony
straight—■
’E knew, he sed, the Bolsheviks ’ad got the proper
gait;
They’d turned old Russia upside down, ’e owned, as
it was plain,
An’ now they only wanted time to get ’er right
again."
An’ then the glorious anthem of ’is motherland he
sung—
And ’e spit the words out bonzer in ’is own melojus
tongue;
We chimed along to ’elp ’im, an’ we done the best we
could,
Though the ’armohy resultin’ didn’t strike me as it
should.
Then Andrew Andrezinscki —'e’s a kind of Deutscher
Pole—■
Got up an’ told the ’eathens that his country ’ad a
Soul;
That Peace was all she wanted, an’ until she got the
same
She’d never ’elp the Allies in their sordid little game.
An’ then our chairman took the floor an’ read a
touehin’ letter
From Comrade Schwillinghausen, who remarked: “1
dinks it better,
Considerin' dot yOur Government dey vant to cut my
vizen,
To gif my speed) geschrieben, und to dodge der
tyrant's prison.
“I hope you vill gontinue to denounce dis bloody
var;
Der Kaiser did not vant it, as he told you vonce
before;
If France und England drop deir arms, der Krieg
vill soon be over.
Den all der vorld vill frisk aboudt, mein friendts,
among der clover.”
And then we resolooted in a general sort of way
That War’s a bloody madness and that we ’ad come
ter stay ;
That “this cosmopolite meetin’ is the universe’s
hub”—
An’ then we broke up cheerin’ an’ departed for the
pub.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


Palings Player Pianos
Victor Player Piano
. -S*.. I
Ou'tar
•nnuit
i * '-a’r . ' ■ i?
m
I'lV,
'^hi:
9Hi.
,
m
F you knew the immense amount
of pleasure you can obtain from
one of PALING’S PLAYER
PIANOS you would not hesitate
a day in having one in your home.
Our Players are far removed from the
mechanical type of Player Pianos.
We shall be pleased to prove this to
you when you call at our Showrooms.
Why not come in and hear them?
You can purchase on Easy Terms.
Your present Piano taken in part
payment and full value allowed.
Please write for Catalogue and
particulars post free.
We are Sole Agents for CHAPPELL,
BEHNING, ESTEY, LAFFARGUE and
VICTOR Player Pianos.
W. H. Paling s Co. Ltd
&38 Georg'e Street, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, NEWCASTLE and LISMORE
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£37 10
£875 0
will purchase a Cert
ficate for
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certifycr.tcs are payable to bearer, are, exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6- War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank op Australia. October , 1917
Give Him a Send-Off
Show that you appreciate
his unselfishness. Give him
a good time, and remember
Stewart Dawson’s
for
Soldiers’ Gifts.
We offer the Largest Variety
of Suitable Military Gifts in
the Commonwealth, and ex-
tensive buying for Cash
makes possible our Splendid
Values.
LUMINOUS WRISTLET WATCH,
POST FREE. High-grade Luminous
with Fifteen Jewel Three-quarter Plate Gilt
rnent, Radium Hands and Figures; in Solid
Hunting Case, with Screw Back and Fly-up
Air Accurate Timekeeper. Price
70/-,
Watch,
Move-
Silver
Front.
70/-
Other Gifts for Soldiers.
Soldier's Unbreakable Mirror, in case.. •• •• 2/6
Cartridge Pencil Holders .. .. •• 1/6
Oct. Gold-Mounted Tobacco P.ouches .. 12/6 to 17/6
Soldier’s Combination Knife, Fork and Spoon in
Leather Case .. .. .. •• •• 8/6
Auto-Strop Safety Razors .. .. •• •• 22/6
Others 12/6
CALL AND INSPECT OUR STOCKS, OR
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Stewart
Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER,
SYDNEY.
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have Tin?
Bulletin sent regularlj to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
oost paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
:
vis
m?.
m
S&S
One Fire
Warms the
Whole House
Warm from top to bottom is literally true of a house fitted with the modern
“Ideal” Systems of Warming by
“ IDEAL”
WARMERS and BOILERS
The many advantages include
Greatest Healthfulness.
Any desired temperature in
each room.
Cleanliness.
Attention required only twice
daily.
Absence of draughts.
Heat can be turned off in un-
used rooms.
Adaptability to any building.
Savings in renewals of decora-
tions, carpets, curtains,
etc.
Fuel cost one penny per day
per room.
Write or call now for full particulars and prices, and be ready for the
cold days and evenings.
Remember ! If Banks’ sell it—it’s right.
“DANKS,”
Otherwise JOHN DANKS AND SON PTY., LTD.,
324 PITT STREET, Near Liverpool Straet, SYDNEY#
391 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


A pessimistic outlook with an optimistic
spirit is perhaps the best kind of war in-
spiration to achieve success ; this is the war
inspiration imparted by that wisely-optimis-
tic spirit King George IV. topnotch
Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
WeBt Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMEB & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
——
TTsed since 15«6 C U R'E S Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLING EYELASHES WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210. Lambeth Road. London, England,
insist qq “ Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes*
AVON
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
i
m
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells abouit
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—•
“THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal ■School of Drawing,
44 Waltham Building's, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
•
YOU MUST BUY UNDERWEAR.
Underclothing for the WINTER DAYS is absolutely necessary to enjoy
HEALTH and COMFORT.
AUSTRALIAN 5r u 0 R 0 e L UNDERWEAR.
Vests and Pants made from Pure Cashmere Wool. Guaranteed against
Shrinkage.
34. 36. 38. 40. 42. 44.
WINTER-WEIGHT VESTS .. 13/- 13/6 14/- 14/6 15/6 16/6
EXTRA-HEAVY-WEIGHT VESTS 14/6 15/- 15/6 16/- 17/- 18/-
LONG-SLEEVE VESTS, 6d. extra. PANTS, 1/- extra.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOG “ B HATS.
Special Super-Knitted Heavy All-
Wool Hosiery, in Navy, /| /_
Grey or Heather, all sizes, "*■“/
TFe Pay
Postage.
£
fJrcF
HENRY BUCK
AND CO.,
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
Possibly there has never been better-class
fields for an Adelaide Cup meeting than those at the
three days just ended. - On the first day the only
wins for visitors were the first and last events, both
of which went to Robinson and Clark. In the Elder
Stakes, w.f.a., the brilliant Magpie had his first
race in Australia, and won comfortably from Wedge,
Whitefield third. The partnership s other win was
a Maiden Plate; the much-thonglit-of Escomb had
come down to that, after his failure in the Aus-
tralian Cup, and scored a win at hist. In that
company he was backed down to 10 to 1 on—a 225.
dividend on the tote. By way of contrast, the very
next race, a hurdle, returned £62 10s., with the
consolation of £9 2s. for the second. Local owners
did well on the day. Stagegirl (bred by Sol Green)
won the S.A. Stakes (2-year-old) for Patterson and
Bullock, Broken Glass (Eye Glass—Explosion mare)
the Leger for Mrs. Hawker, from Scobie’s Seabound.
And the big six-furlong Goodwood Handicap, with
Brewer’s Trillion favorite, was won easily by Flan-
nagan’s Pistolarie from Hawker's Mareca. It was
Dempsey’s first ride and first win in S.A., and the
time, lmin. 13sec., is a record for the State.
Flannagan came within a nose of completing .a
big double with the Adelaide Cup, his Shacko get-
ting as close as that to Robinson and Clark’s Els-
don (Symington—Eleetra), which had been backed
as though he could not lose. This Englishman came
to Australia as a sprinter, but is now clearly a
stayer. The time, 2min. 46sec. for a mile and 5 fur-
longs, is easily S.A. record, and within a fraction
of Fortune Teller’s Australian record, at Randwick.
J. V. Smith’s Rosanna was a bad third. Wedge was
top weight, but can hardly stay the distance, and
news from Hobart had something to do with
his starting at all. Robinson and Clark always
support the Adelaide meetings well, but this was
their first Cup. Elsdon paid only £2 9s. ; Shacko
gave £9 Is. —which would have been over £27 if
he had won.
* * * *
Sydney punters went ouh to Rosebill on
Saturday armed to the teeth and landed home with a
heavy cargo of spoil. I. Mo got hit both ways—•
straight out and on the double. Of seven winners
four were outright favorites, two were next door and
there was enough support for the ex-pony Toorak at
10’s to make the pay-out on the Granville Stakes a
painful business. The tote turned over £10,209,
and in no ca?e did the machine nay a winning divi-
dend equal to the price available in Israel. In five
cases machine place-bettors got less than they put
in ; once they got their money back and four times
they laid odds on.
* » * *
Imported Early Morn did it again on
Saturday. Starting at 3’s in the Rosehill Handicap
he came with a late run at the right spot and just
snuffed out the long-priced Dynasty on the line. Hav-
ing given this nag a chance to win. a race or two,
the probabilities are that the will now
get busy and see about stopping him. The main
point about the race was the evidence it gave of
Bruyere’s false price in the Newcastle Cup. Solely
on the strength of a flash run before getting punc-
tured in a race at Randwick a couple of months ago
and of some smart track work, the mare was backed
for the Newcastle event down to s’s in a field of 87.
On Saturday at Rosehill weight of money brought
her to 9 to 4. The stable seemed to reckon it a
certainty, but at no time did she look a winner and
finished a long way back. Certainly she had some
bad luck in the running, but it was a very ordinary
field. The performance suggests that the mare has
been a bit over-rated.
* * * *
Petalster. full brother of that good horse
First Principle, put up a record for the Rosehill
Course on Saturday, running the mile Auburn Handi-
cap in “39L” The little fellow, who is not so par-
tial to weight as his brother was, carried 7st. 121 b.
and had an easy win.
* # * *
Crossing the last jump in the Hurdles at
Rosehill on Saturday Bazil K. and Blue Gull had a
bump. The first-named got the worst of it, and Blue
Gull beat him home. Whereupon several excited
ppnters, reckoning that (1) there would be a protest,
and (2) that Bazil K. would get the race, started
doing business on those lines. But there was no
protest, nor did the stewards interfere—rightly, this
page thinks, since Bazil K. brought the trouble on
himself by running down the fence. At the settling
several of these late backers reckoned that in the
absence of protest they should not pay. The practice
in such a case is well established. They lost their
money, and deserved to.
* # * *
There was a time when the Earlston horse
Winston was reckoned good enough to start in the
best company, though Heaven only knows what he
was given a run in the last Metropolitan for. But
Winston won’t be started any more. He fell in the
Hurdles at Rosehill (Sydney) on Saturday and broke
his neck. He cost £577 as a yearling, and in the
five intervening years had not won a race.
* * * *
When Panacre started in the Shorts (seven
furlongs), the first event on the menu at Newcastle
on Saturday, he carried lOst. 41b. and most of the
cash. He was beaten out of place. When he went
out with lOst. 31b. in the last race, the Totalisator
Handicap, offers of 8 to l,were not rushed. He won
as he liked; whereupon there were loud yells of
derision from the crowd and the horse was led away
amid a chorus of “Boo” and “Hoo.” The noise was
not justifiable. There were some fairly smart horses
in the first race. In the second the field was con-
spicuously inferior, and, further, the journey was a
mile, which is Panacre's pet distance. It was later
explained by' the owner that he had backed the nag
in the mile for only 90 to 20 on a concession bet and
took 35 to 10 about another horse. To this page it
looked as if someone who lost a dollar over the Shorts
started to howl and all hands joined in on general
principles. The number of times the public stands
being rooked in silence and bursts into agonised yelps
over nothing is one of the most astonishing things in
connection with racing. #
There are a fearful lot of scrubbers racing
on Sydney’ pony courses, but sometimes a little ’on
happens along who can do things worth while. One
of these is named Arrow Head. On Saturday she
won the 14.2 Handicap at Ascot with list. 81b. on
board. This included jewt. of lead. Half a dozen
of the starters were burdened with Ast. lib. less than
the winner. *
* * * *
The A.J.C. looks far ahead and announces
the prize-money for next season’s big events, and the
Leger and Sires’ Produce Stakes of 1920. Half the
prize-money will be paid in war-savings certificates ;
and any surplus after exes, have been met will, as of
late, be passed on to the Patriotic till.
* * * *
N. S. Wales country pony-racing clubs are
demanding to know how it helps to win the war to
stop them holding a meeting while letting the Sydney
ponies have a run every week. No one has been able to
answer them, and this paper fears no one ever will
until they get hold of theright sort of string to pull.
Then the rest will be quite easy.
* * * *
Young Bracken seems certain to be at the
top of the winning jock,s’ list when the season ends.
At Rosehill on Saturday he had six rides and got a
double and a second. D. O’Connor, an auprentice,
had a couple of wins. Barden was in front once
and second twice. There are at least four apprentices
riding at Sydney meetings just now who look likely
to become really good horsemen —and at least two
jockeys who have been near the top for some time
and seem to be getting no better.
* # * *
Weighed out for the Final Handicap—
Denny Callinan, one of the best-known Australian
horsemen. In the years before the war Callinan had
been on winners all over the Commonwealth. He was
killed on Anzac Day in France, and the time hoard
said “35.”
* * * *
Elsdon was gelded'soon after his arrival in
Australia, and the policy
of unsexing the well-bred
Britisher was justified
by his brilliant victory
in the Adelaide Cup.
Defence, who took the
Australian Cup, is an-
other English gelding,
but the operation in his
case was not performed
until he had scored
many a failure. Old
Defence has, of late,
always seemed disposed
to do the best that is in
him, but Elsdon wanted
a lot of hard riding
at Adelaide. Apparently
he is a good natural
stayer, but no glutton
for work, whereas
Shacko battled it out
with the English horse
as though he thought
staying was his specialty.
RANDWICK
TRAINER
DICK O'CONNOR.
An honest figure disappeared from sport-
ing circles in Sydney last week when Spencer
Cornford (“Early Bird”) went west. Like most of
the early sporting writers he started as a compositor
and was in the S. M. Herald “companionship” in
the day’s when “Bill” Higgs, since then Common-
wealth Treasurer, was its caricaturist and chief
jester. For a whole generation he had been with the
Stab and Sun. and hung to his job until compelled
to give up through sheer weakness. He was Well
known as a judge at the pony meetings. At one of
his last course engagements, when the shadow of
death was already over him, there was a hostile
demonstration against one of his decisions, but the
little man was right, as he usually was in these
matters. One of his last scores as a tipster for the
Sydney Sun was Bronzetti for the Caulfield Cup, and
for the Melbourne Cup he refused to hear of anything
but Westcourt.
* * * *
“Mujik”: Buyers of yearlings at the
autumn sales are probably looking for names for
the nags. I don’t know where owners go for the
outrages they so often discover, but in case they look
on this page for an idea here are a few: Paralytic,
Pair of Crutches, Locomotor Ataxia, Indigestion, Pork
Pie, Anesthesia, Stop Short, Cold Feet, Sockdarner,
Stone Dead, War Weary, Breach of Promise, Holdme-
purse, Backslider, Misser, Dopewalloper, Stringtied,
Haltela. If there is nothing in that lot how about
Bedridden ?
* * * *
“Y.Z.”: It was $t a small race-meeting
near Wallace Town (Vic.). Two men had
trundled a barrel of beer into the trees at the
back of the grandstand, and here we found it. The
day was hot; we were a-thirst. Round the portly
barrel was a cardboard notice: “All Drinks Six-
pence.” There were two pannikins on top 'of the
barrel, and the two owners were just beyond, one
lying down drowsily drunk, one standing up, just as
drunk, and just as drowsy. My cobber tendered a
shilling, and asked for two pints. The standing
drunk kicked the prostrate one. “Dan!” he said.
“Dan! Dan! Here’s a bloke wantin’ to buy our
beer.” Dan sat up and blinked. “Wantin’ buy
our beer?” he hiccuped. “Well, stoush the cow!”
* * * *
To win 10s. and a sucking-pig a citizen
of Newcastle started to spend a recent Saturday
swallowing beer. To acquire the cash and the animal
he had to get outside 60 pints in eight hours. He
finished 2i hours ahead of timetable. It was a fool-
hardy thing to do, and could only have been per-
petrated by a man of exceptional recklessness or
stupendous ignorance about the limitations of the
human kidney. A pint every smin. 45see. for nearly
six hours may be something in the way of a record
guzzle. But it is a disgusting performance which
might well be left alone. If the winner scoffed the
pig for dinner on Sunday he ought to have felt fairly
full. But perhaps it was given to him for company.
* * * *
“Henry H.”: “Umfaan,” who writes (B.
9/5/’18) about the camel as a racer, didn’t add much
new aspect to the versatile beast. He can do almost
everything except cook. Even as a cab-horse he has
his points. I have seen a gaunt member of the tribe
who looked greenish in a side-light dragging an Arab
family in a four-wheeler (the kind you hire at
Hobart, where they all smell of cigars) at Aden,
while fat, middle-aged Pa Arab hit him with a colored
cotton brolly to make him improve his pace. And
I knew a small camel that seemed to do nothing but
reside in a back yard, where he had a job as watch-
dog. He is a weight-carrier, a sprinter, a trades
unionist (you should see him go on strike),
a bushranger (you should see an indignant
bull-camel hold up a small town), a scent factory, a
disinfectant (when he is hot the smell of him would
kill almost anything except himself), a fighter accord-
ing to no recognised rules, a Sunday-school lesson
among those who never saw’ him, a standing example
of ingratitude, and a sort of bagpipes when he lifts
up his voice in real earnest.
* * * *
Young H. A. Parsons attempted to shave a
little off the 22-hour motor side-car record between
Melbourne and Sydney last week. Perched on a
7-h.p. Indian, with W. Jenkins as travelling com-
panion, he lost an hour and a half through car-
buretter troubles on the run to Seymour. With a
fresh carburetter, however, he licked up the deficit
at Albury after covering' 33 miles of fearful road
near Euroa in a trifle under the hour. In the Ma State
he knocked minutes off the previous best up to 28 miles
of the Harbor; then the axle of the side-car broke
and the rest of the hurry had to be abandoned.
Parsons nromises another offensive on the record soon.
*' « * *
.Tack Worrall, who is having a hard battle
these times with a “leg,” can look back to the days
when he was the greatest of Victorian footballers
and a front-rank cricketer. And what he knew he
unselfishly passed on as coach to schools and clubs.
It is doubtful if there is anyone in Australia who
has done more for the two branches of athletics,
Twenty years ago John was the daddy of rovers in
premiership football; at cricket he captained Vic-
toria to victory in the Sheffield Shield, and tripped
with the ’BB and ’99 Australian Xl’s. His biggest
innings was 417 not out (out of 992) for Carlton
against University in ’96. Worrall’s pluck and cour-
age won many matches. 1-Ie left his 55th year behind
last week.
* * * #
A recent writer about the Papuans ex-
plains that when Brown Brother started playing
cricket he did it 200 a-side. Why not? If the
plan w’ere adopted in Australia the game might get
a new lease of life. There would be no need for
playing out premierships with several rounds. And
with half a hundred good solid bats at work the rest
could get away to the Front and be back before they
were wanted. The effect of an Australia v. England
rubber on these lines would be to add permanently to
the population, because it would take at least six
years to play off, and no Englishman would want to
break up his home and go back to find he was a back-
number.
* * * *
Burly Jim Stanbury felt the fire of youth
burning last week and tried to convince the military
medical officers at Sydney that 50 years and 18 stone
would be useful. But, like many another good sport,
he was passed out. It is 27 years since James
defeated John McLean for the world’s sculling cham-
pionship on the Parramatta River. Nowadays he is
as extensive in superficial area as three ordinary
citizens, and looks as if he was still growing.
* * * *
With flags half-masted and black arm-
bands worn for many a comrade gone down in that
greater game, Vic. League footballers started the
season on Saturday. Two more clubs—St. Kilda and
Essendon—decided that the games are little, if any,
hindrance to recruiting; only Melbourne now stands
out. Crowds were moderate and unusually courteous,
especially at Richmond, where umpire Nugent took
up the thankless job again. Nugent is now a Cap-
tain and M.C., and the barracker who loses his.block
over him will probably be handed some well-chosen
insults to think over. Collingwood celebrated its
silver jubilee by hoisting last season’s pennant and
emphasised the occasion by walloping its ancient
enemy Carlton by 65 to SO. As the Saints haven’t
played since ’l5, ’Roy, last year’s runners-up, were
considerably shocked at having to return from the
seaside leaving the thick end of the stick behind —
St. Kilda 40, ’Roy 34. Next Saturday the Ass.
resumes operations, and barrackers will get a
chance to break their two years’ silence. Wherefore
the uproar will resemble the bellowing of the Bulls
of Bashan, from Footscray even unto Preston and the
parts beyond.
* * # *
The final of the Melbourne public-schools
race on the Yarra last Saturday was rowed under
quite unusual conditions. As a rule, the crew that
draws the south bank has the advantage, and only a
direct north wind can give them the worst of the
luck. The Wesley boys got the outside berth this
year, and an untimely north wind handicapped them
a bit —a considerable bit, seeing that the eight
Wesleyans averaged 81b. per man less than the Mel-
bourne Grammar and 111 b. less than the Geelong
Grammar lot. Nevertheless the Melburnians can be
reckoned to have won on their merits, though with
positions reversed they wouldn’t have finished 24
lengths ahead. The first heats, on the Friday’, seemed
to give them a rather better show than either Wesley
or Geelong Gram. The neat-styled Wesley boys were
not fully taxed in beating the weak Xavier crew,
and Geelong Grammar didn’t make a very easy job
of beating the unfancied Geelong College, whereas
Melbourne Gram, had to row a hard race against
Scotch College, and kept well together in doing it.
The final lost some of its interest when Geelong was
seen to be in difficulties just after rounding the turn.
Somebody caught a crab and the boat practically
stopped for a couple of seconds. In getting within
half a length of Wesley at the finish the visitors
proved to be making good use of their big pull in
the weights.
* m *• * *
“Le Noy”: Somewhere in Western
Bananaland are two hills. At 500yds. from one
hill there is a small creek where ’roos go regularly
for refreshments. From the hilltop 500 yards from
the creek ideal ’roo-shooting is possible, without
changing one’s position. My mate, an expert shot,
using a .303 military rifle sighted at (say) 531
yards, has always hit in a direct line with the ’roo,
but about 10 yards short. Though the sight has
been adjusted accordingly, a direct hit could never
be wagered on. But when changing positions with
the ’roo he has scored a direct hit every time with
the sight at 531 yards and the ’roo just clearing the
hilltop. No readjustment of the sight has ever been
necessary. Can any ’roo-shooter tell me if all this
was due to gravitation and whether there is any
rule in regard to sight-adjustment when shooting
from a higher to a lower level?
* * * *
“Ironbar” : Here’s a bigger eel than the
one caught in the Manning (N.S.W.) which weighed
181 b. when dressed, and was 4ft. 2in. long. My
candidate was caught in a very small stream on the
South Coast by Joseph Ralph, now on active service.
It weighed 251 b. and measured sft. 3in. Another
was dragged out which went 18jlb. Some of these
large fellows when opened are found to contain full-
sized rabbits.
* * * *
“Orrie Cowie”: “Douglas T.” is quite
right when he votes for sudden death for the cor-
morant or shag as a fish-eating pest. Near Port Pirie
(S.A.), opposite Mount Ferguson, there is a small
inlet known as Shag Creek, where there are hundreds
of thousands of cormorants. Many times I have
taken parties for an afternoon’s slaughter amongst
them, and all seemed amazed at the sight which met
their gaze. We have frequently accounted for from
500 upwards with pea-rifles, and in nine cases out
of ten when the birds were hit they disgorged a
silver whiting from nine inches to a foot in length.
Until recently the S.A. Government paid a bonus of
Id. per head for the gorgers. As for “Leo Lear’s”
defence (B. 2/5/’18) that the birds deserve a verdict
in their favor owing to their destruction of the
yabbie pest, let me tell him that there are no yab-
bies within hundreds of miles of Port Pirie.
* * * *
“F.N.T.”: The steam-driven motor-car,
according to “Fifth Wheel” (B. 9/5/’18), has
“arrived” in the U.S.A. Interesting to note that
Australia’s first motor-car, built by Herbert Thom-
son, of Armadale (Vic.), was steam-pushed. Fur-
ther, Melbourne’s pioneer small cars, imported by the
same Thomson, were motor-buggies, using kerosene
fuel, as do the latest types. Dr. Bull, of the Uni.
Bacteriological School, drove one of them during its
occasional intervals of good health. The first large
steam-car imported to Melbourne was owned by vet.-
surgeon Adeney, of Kew. It was produced by the
White Co., of Cleveland, which concern long ago
switched to the internal-combustion engine. The
great difficulty in those days was the making of
small parts strong enough to stand the racking
strain of the road. When a steam-car baulked by
the wayside it generally meant a long subsequent
visit to the repair-shop. The matter of the water-
supply, too, was a serious consideration, as the stream
was used but once, and only a small tank could be
carried. Yet what speed and smoothness and driving
ease while the jigger was jigging 1


Why Wait Till You Get
a Thrashing'
before you learn to box?
Why run the risk of being an easy prey to the first “bully” that crosses
your path ?
Wli3 r take the chance of losing your prestige—your manliness in the eyes
of your fellows —through your inability to assert your rights when the
occasion- occurs ?
Why not learn to defend yourself, and become a REAL man—a man
always to be reckoned with —looked up to—and respected?
sd
g
sdg
I Teach Boxing by Post.
Teach you how to take your part—how to stand
up and deliver good hard punishment to any fellow
who dares to insult or belittle you.
I unfold to you my wide knowledge of the manly
art of self-defence —teach you every “hit,” “move”
and “stop” known to the world’s leading boxers.
My instructions are very simple to follow, and
you will find my lessons both interesting and bene-
ficial. You will be both pleased and surprised at
the rapid progress you will make under my per-
sonal guidance. Write to-day for my interesting
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which
describes my methods, terms, etc. Just write your
name and address across this advertisement and send
it to me, with three penny stamps for postage. I
will know what you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
"The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia.”
729 BELMONT BUILDINGB, SYDNEY.
w
SHELL
W*yj.
Public Notice.
CUTLERS' COMPANY.
SHEFFIELD
ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
A few years ago the Sheffield Cutlers’
Company, being aware of the great damage
done to the City and Trade of Sheffield by
the improper use by unscrupulous Manufac-
turers and Merchants in all parts of the
World of the name “Sheffield” upon goods
not manufactured there, established a Fund,
with the assistance of the City generally,
amounting to about £lO,OOO, to enable action
to be taken to suppress such frauds.
The Sheffield Advisory Committee, which
administers this Fund, has already taken
action through the Courts, and in other ways
in various parts of the World, against
Manufacturers and Merchants who have
unscrupulously taken advantage of the repu-
tation of Sheffield by using the name of
Sheffield upon their goods.
The Cutlers’ Company desires to bring the
existence of this Fund before the notice of
Manufacturers and Merchants all over the
World, and to say that they will commence
proceedings, without hesitation, against any-
one who illegally uses the name of Sheffield
upon goods which are not manufactured in
that City, upon proof being furnished to
them of the perpetration of such fraud.
The Cutlers’ Company will be grateful if
anyone in doubt as to the honest origin of
goods supposed to be of Sheffield manufacture
will at once communicate any information in
their possession to the Law Clerk at the
Cutlers’ Hall, Sheffield, England, so that
the matter can be fully investigated.
(By Order)
R. T. WILSON, Law Clerk.
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on ——
SHELL'
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD.
CAPILLARINE
<r
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Capillarine does all that is claimed for it as
a genuine Moustache-producer. The steady
demand for this preparation by the Military
and others proves its never-failing virtues.
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
m
i
Are
You
All Right ?
W HEN you have answered this hail of the
Indian rider, haven’t you felt a little
regretful ? As he has whizzed by up the hill
which has brought you to a standstill, haven’t
you envied him the quiet, steady beat of his
engine with its proof of power and pace and
dependability ? Haven’t you coveted the com-
fort of his Cradle Spring Frame, the never-
failing Petrol Supply of his bigger tank?
And noticing how seldom an Indian is in dif-
ficulties, haven’t you, in brief, wished that
you, too, owned an
CATALOGUE "D” WITH PLEASURE
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Rty. Ltd., 109-113 Rnssell Street.
SYDNEY: Milled gre Bros. Ltd., 156
Castlereagh Street.
AD ®J'^ IDE: E ye s & Crowle Ltd., 75-79
Pine Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency Ltd.', Adelaide & Creek Sts.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons
Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle and Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
m
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bail Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourkt
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
“ISKO,” “ISKO”
The Sure Way to Save Food,
Instal an “ISKO” REFRIGERATOR
IN YOUR ICE CHEST.
Can be fitted to any Electric-
light system.
No .more Toe Bills.
“Isko” makes its own Ice and re-
quires no attention.
Cool, Dry, Scientific Refrigeration.
Temperature automatically regulated.
“Isko” can be fitted to any Ice-chest.
Country Hotelkeepers, Squatters, etc.,
should not fail to inspect the
“Isko.”
Up-to-date Houses cannot afford to
be without it.
Write to-day for Pamphlet.
Benson Brothers l/i
SOLE AGENTS,
76-78 Liverpool Street,
Sydney, New South Wales
Telephones: City 3780-1-2.
I
r: '■
NORTH
BRITISH
Qyres
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
Oft
:v.% [/*)!:.-i
► •’•'v
%
Wd--£
a* -I ‘
/ *
smi-vi
M
I §Svr v :-v/
£*:.< sv^
•v. f/... k* *. . f •;
tys%W -
ifsv-'i.-v*'
i
£K*B
‘ ••..'.•vA.
lllll
:h3:-:
*nnnr
tffUJJWf
“The Tyres that
are Superior”
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY,
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
New South Wales: William Crosby & Co., 20 Loftus St., Sydney
Victoria: North British Tyre Agency Prop. Ltd.,
525-527 Collins St., Melbourne
Queensland {Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Adelaide St.,Brisbane
South Australia: Phoenix Motor Co., 114-122 Pirie St., Adelaide.


f-WM 1
'm
nine*
Jo
UiCACricU
CxiAXi
OHfr
«*S.i
•9c.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 2|d.
Constipation
Bowel and Stomach Disorders and resulting
Nervous Affections quickly and permanently cured
by Simple Natural Home Treatment —No Medicine
How a well-known
business man
CURED
himself permanently after many years of suffering,
is told in a 40 page Booklet, sent free to all who
send this advertisement, and -*d. postage to
J. P. GALE, 327 COLLINS ST . MELBOURNE
FOURNIERS
HYGENIQUE
MIXTURE.
(FOR LADIES)
Tested and Proved for Years.
WASTE NO TIME.
Immediately you notice any disorder of
the system take Fournier’s Hygenique
Mixture. It quickly removes all suffering.
There is Nothing to EQUAL IT, nor
Anything so Widely Known.
It is justly described as the
FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD.
Be sure you get FOURNIER’S
HYGENIQUE MIXTURE.
Refuse all substitutes which are injurious
and harmful.
Sold by Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.,
and all Chemists and Stores.
ffflWVMllfcUMa
m
MORBOCKSES' MORPOCKSES
HORROCKSES
Indian, Mada/wiamA
sdg
and NaUiAockA
PURITY or YARN
PERFECTION or MANUFACTURE
„ SEE
HORROCKSES*
ON SELVEDGE
mmmsasammsas-
R.OSH RELrALAH,
3rd Edition. Post, 2s.
SKINNER’S, 121 Castlereagh St., Sydney-
England’s
popular
SAUCE
imiimiMiiluiiiiw'
is now enjoyed
daily by those
who previous-
ly never used
sauce.
Try it to-day.
Of
all
Grocers.
u
feljpnjj
A Handsome Tile-Red
or Copper-Green Roof
would add to the value and attractiveness of youx home-
We have a beautiful prepared roofing with the permanence
of a tile roof at a fraction of its cost. This is COLORED
l-BER-0 IQ
COSTS MORE - WEARS LONGER*
The distinctive colors are per-
manent —built into the roofing.
Time and weather only add to their
pleasing tones.
Colored RlfcBER-OIQ possesses all
the enduring qualities of the gray
&U -Ber-OIQ, which has given more
than 20 years of constant service
without repairs.
When you put on (feU'BER-OIQ
you put an end to roof troubles.
Our customers tell us that other
roofings cannot compare with it.
Come in and let us show you
Colored RU-BER-OIQ (Ka-lor-oid).
Examine it carefully. Note the
color. Test the toughness of the
fabric. Then note that it contains
no coal tar, asphalt, paper stock,
wood fibre, or other cheap mate-
rials. Let us tell you what those
who have used it think of it.
We are local distributors of
fkll-BER-OIQ Roofing. The genuine
has the “Ru-ber-oid Man, shown
above, on every roll.
Send for Samples and Prices to—
Agents: KINGEOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO. LID., Melbourne.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
E. RICH & CO. ETD., Brisbane.
Good Cooks Recommend It.
Many of the foremost chefs who test all commodities,
and employ only the best that can be bought, use
IRELAND’S
BAKING POWDER.
Follow their lead—use Ireland’s Baking Powder
when you want light, well-risen cooking.
The correct proportioning of the_ choicest ingredi-
ents is the secret of the success of Ireland s Baking
Powder. .
Every tin is fully guaranteed. If, for any reason, it
does not satisfy you, return it to your grocer and
he will refund the purchase price.
At all grocers—say “Ireland’s, please”—and take no
other.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
f< ( /VK?.--'*.-
/-/=? r=: f-ANDS >
ran
BAKIEV
2&_ . Vrvirl
\
A Winner
Every Time
There’s no better
health - preserver
for your Cattle and
Horses than
Si
LESLIE SALT LICKS
They help digestion, tone up the spirits and build superb condition.
21- per Block, or 22/6 per Case of One Dozen.
Wholesale from: —
Retail: —
fBUZACOTT & CO.. 7-11 Market Street.
HOIiIISWORTH, MACPHERSON & CO., 252 George Street.
HOOKER, CHAPMAN & CO., 188 Sussex Street.
HARRY SHELLY, 185 Clarence Street.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD., Phillip Street.
WATSON & NOBEE, 257 Sussex Street.
.N.S.W. PRODUCE CO., 226 Sussex Street.
NOCK & KIRBY, LTD., George Street North (Near Quay).
Country Orders: Freight to be added.
ZINC
Electrolytically-
Refined Zinc,
Brand,
containing 99.95% Metallic Zinc.
Spelter, Brand,
containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust, containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Zinc Concentrates, Various Grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above Australian Productions
ZING PRODUCERS’ ASSOCIATION PTY. LTD.,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Paris House, Ltd. (Sydney), which paid
£10,500 for the goodwill and fixings of a
Sydney eating-house as from March, 1911: —•
Deficit
Writ- (Exclusive
ten of
Loss. Dividends. Off. Goodwill).
Mar., 1913.. £475 Nil £2165 £3420
Profit.
Mar., 1914.. 1121 Nil 4328 6627
Reserves.
Capital written off. £7OOO ; goodwill disappears 373
Sept., 1914.. 3152 Nil 667 2858
Mar., 1915.. 1213 Nil 1194 2877
Sept., 1915.. 1072 5 p.c. = 175 566 3208
Written off Debenture Reserve 450 2758
Mar., 1916.. 154 10 p.c. = 350 300 2262
Written off Debenture Reserve 300 ) jjgg
Written off other Reserves .. 773 )
Sept., 1916.. 196 5 p.c. = 175 1210
Mar., 1917.. 454 10 „ „ 350 1314
Written off Debenture Reserve 500 814
Written off other Reserves .. 500 314
Sept, 1917.. 373 10 p.c. = 350 337
Mar., 1918.. 859 10 „ „ 350 846
This co., which got into rough water and had
to jettison half of its capital (represented
by goodwill and frittered leasehold items),
feels better now. Still, a large part of the
capital of £7OOO consists of perishable
assets, the leaseholds of Paris House and the
adjoining Balfour Hotel. When the leases
run out these assets will, of course, dis-
appear; so in addition to paying dividends
the profits have to provide for a return of
capital. This is how things have moved
since the clean-up :—-
Sept., 1914. Mar., 1918.
Liabilities .. .. •• £8,297 £2562
Leases, plant, etc, .. 11,807 5827
Liquid assets .. .. 6,308 5082
If the unexoired portion of the leases is
worth all the balance-sheet says it is, and if
full allowance has been made for deprecia-
tion of plant, etc., then for every 10s. share
there are assets worth 11s. 3d. after provid-
ing for all liabilities and paying the current
dividend. Excluding the leaseholds and plant
the net assets are worth 6s. Bd. per share.
Future earnings, however, are uncertain.
The co. sub-leases its restaurant; the rest of
its profits come from the Balfour. And the
advance in the wholesale prices of spirits
without any increased charges to the public
is knocking holes in liquor profits: •
* * * *
The Co-operative Wool and Produce
Co. (Sydney)
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, ’05.. 4,783 6 p.c. =1335 1742 1706 10,170
June, ’06.. 9,526 6 „ ~ 1335 3183 5008 15,178
June, ’07..10,669 7 „ ~1559 4523 4587 19,765
Written off securities, £2615 .. 17,150
June, ’OB.. 8,066 7 p.c. =1560 2504 4002 21,152
Written off securities, £2840 . . 18,312
June, ’09.. 9,572 10 p.c. =2229 2924 4419 22,731
June, ’10..16,482 10 „ ~2229 6283 7970 30,701
June, ’11..10,779 10 „ ~3973 5311 1495 32,196
Mar., ’12.. 7.555 10 „ ~3000 3669 886 33,082
£4OO written off . . •• • • • 32,682
Mar., ’13.. 5,976 6 p.c. =2400 3164 412 33,094
Mar., ’14..10,018 7 ~,,2800 3784 3434 36,528
Mar., ’15.. 3,457 7 ~,, 2800 2945 -- 34,240
Mar., ’16..10,670 7 „ ~2800 4547 3323 37,563
Mar., ’17.. 9,631 7 „ ~2800 5902 929 38,492
Mar., ’lB.. 12,381 7 „ ~2800 8167 1414 39,906
Some of the profit credited to the past
year really belongs to its predecessor, for,
owing to a delay in appraising, the co. had
12,442 bales unsold and in store as at March
PI, 1917, which was 10,000 bales in excess of
the previous carry-forward. Of the past
year’s consignments (55,134 bales). 7358
bales were still awaiting appraisement when
the financial year closed. Glance down the
“bonus to clients” column in the table and
you will see what the co-operative side of
the co. has meant to the primary producer.
But it does more than is shown by those
figures. The co. makes no receiving charge
for wool; and it collects lj p.c. commission
all round, thus putting the little mail on the
same footing as the big one. The rebates
on the selling charges—3o p.c. on wool and
20 p.c. on other produce —have returned over
£46,000 to producers in the past 10 years,
and taking into account other allowances the
saving is considerably more than that. In
one recent five years the Co-operative calcu-
lated that it kept £30,000 in the pockets of
its wool clients.
Gross earnings last year. £29.920, were a
record, due principally to the high price paid
for the wool-clip; and higher prices mean
bigger commissions. Still the growth of the
business is not as brisk as might be expected.
Capital is £40,000. with reserves of an almost
equal amount. Into its Pyrmont, freehold
the co. has put £71,357. there is. £lO.OOO in
War Loan, and a further £lllO in cash and
odds and ends. The co. owes £193,624, and
on the other side is owed £194.385 —but
these figures are quite abnormal and no doubt
involve a lot of money in connection with the
Imperial purchase scheme.
* * * *
Papua still Gills to the prospector. J. H.
Sloane and two mates returned lately from
Domara, on the south coast, after prospect-
ing several branches of the Musa River. No
reward claim has been applied for, but the
prospectors brought back 660 z. gold obtained
by sluicing Puasia Creek, which is five days
north of Domara. The gold was a good
sample, the largest piece weighing soz. 7dwt.
Four days from Puasia another creek was
found to carry gold, and 23dwt. was obtained
by panning.
* * * *
A reciuest has been made to the West-
ralian Government to insist on the value of
all gold yields being declared at the time the
crushing is announced. Pure gold is worth
within a fraction of £4 ss. per oz., but if the
bullion contains silver, zinc, copper or im-
purities of any kind the value shrinks.
Joburg mill gold is worth about 755. per oz.;
cyanide gold only 60s. Kalgoorlie battery
bullion used to be worth about 80s., but at
Coolgardie it was worth only a shade over
705., and sometimes shillings below that. The
value of the bullion from some of the other
fields was often lower still. Nowadays when
a crushing of so many., tons for so many
ounces is announced there is nothing to show,
unless the value is given, whether the gold is
worth nearly 855., 60s. or 50s. This may
mean all the difference between profit and
loss.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
a
MmMii
mmmmu
U
: t
111 if J.
5 'MI ’i ..
||J7
ißlWlllllil
s f ill III!
w s•s«
5 •
tmmm s§§M
wiiiliiiiw
111
BBMBM
WM
temrSPi
mm
m
m
<>i
f ? X
f J
B* ■!
-:,' j;.
■
MB
■0
IB
■B
\
ss
sp§ppti
■/■’■•■
%
m!
4w;
life
v
;;
H
3
■
WMi
m,
s'
/.A
Mx&&iiSk.
£ Vi. -
Ss&
&ja»
Wmmmm
m
wm
mzm*
wy-k
mm
m
■ /
'', 's'/
Jb
Wfc
i
m
was
y r \t\
Wl
Cf+ ox<p
l
“Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Sees old Charley
Chaplin through.
Charley’s going
To fight at last,
So the time
Is coming fast
When the German
Beast who rides
Over France
Will split his sides.
Praise to “COBRA’
Will come after,
When the German
Dies of laughter.-


I Collars
?cr-
u
are made in 12 different shapes
to meet all men for all occa-
sions.
The style illustrated is dis-
tinguished h.v the name—
Randwick at 9d. each
“Minerva”
Linen-
faced
Is. each
Both exactly the same design
but different qualities. Linen-
faced, heights 11, 14, 2, 2{
inches. Sizes to 18 inches.
Pelaeo Collars are renowned
for long wear and tine lit and
finish.
Made in Australia,
•>
sd
SHIRTS& PYJAMAS
l ALSO
THE DEAF
HEAR! «
i
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing 1 Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
MpafA Ear Phonp ma »y times as efficient
raeaii rnwne and powerful a 8 the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and lor all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticnlars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel: 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
ScS
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5/-
Prepare Your Dogs for the
Coursing Season
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog: Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSES, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
a
BEBT FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN, ENGINEERS,
And Everybody’s Pencil Purpose.
Sold by High-class Stationers.
."W, 5Sy
PUTS A SPARKLE
c,?fW'U/V C
(iDER,
f IN YOU j
Because it is made from only the purest juice
of the World Famous Tasmanian Apple. It is
not only a delicious Drink, but has a most excel-
lent tonic effect on the system. Doctors recom-
mend it for its diuretic properties. Order a
dozen from your grocer.
Victorian Agents:
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
gsd
Jfquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
‘‘The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONEB & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HABROGATE, England.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Et-tab. 1891.
Why Throw BROKEN
PARTS Away ?
We are specialising in repairs by the Oxy-Acetylene Welding Process, and can
repair corrosions in boilers, broken, cracked or worn motor-car parts, including
cylinders and pistons, any factory machinery or household machinery; in fact,
any castings or parts made of Steel, Iron, Cast-iron, Copper, Brass or
Aluminium. Nothing too small or too large. Carbon removed from 4-cyl.
Motor-cars, while you wait, for 10/-
NOTE ONLY ADDRESS- ESTABLISHED 1911
A. L. WEST <a CO.,
Tel. City
4178
Top of Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Rear of 187
Liverpool Street.
The Royal Bank of Australia, Limited.
Head Office: Melbourne, Victoria.
SIXTIETH REPORT.
Presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary Meeting on 30th April, 1918.
The Directors have pleasure in placing before the Shareholders the annexed Balance Sheet and State-
ment of Accounts for the half-year ending '2Bth March, duly audited and certified.
The profits, after providing for a bonus to the staff, amount to .. .. £25,255 13 2
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz.: —•
To pay a dividend at the rate of 8 per cent, per annum
Transfer to the Reserve Fund .. • •
And to add to the amount carried forward from last balance
.. £12,000 0 0
.. 10,000 0 0
3,255 13 2
£25,255 13 2
The balance carried forward from last half-year, £8461 18s. 6d., with the above addition, £3255
13s. 2d., will amount to £11,717 11s. Bd,, from which it is proposed to transfer to the Reserve Fund a
further sum of £lO,OOO, leaving a balance to be carried forward of £1717 11s. Bd. The Reserve
Fund will then amount to £300,000.
During the half-year we have sustained a severe loss by the death of our valued Director, Mr.
William G. Sharp, and since the close of the half-year a further vacancy on the Board has been created
by the resignation of the Hon. Sir William H. Irvine, on his appointment to the position of Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court.
To fill the first vacancy, the Board, in accordance with the Articles, have appointed Mr. Edward
Norton Grimwade, of Messrs. Felton, Grimwade and Co.; and, in place of Sir William Irvine, Mr. Alfred
Ernest Bright, of Messrs. Gibbs, Bright and Co.
By order of the Board, H. T. WILSON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED.
For the Half-year ending 28th March, 1918.
Dr. (Including London Branch Figures to 9th February, 1918.)
CR.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised—
-600,000 Shares
of £4 each. . £2,400,000 0 0
To Capital Subscribed —
300,000 Shares
of £4 each. . £1,200,000 0 0
To Capital Paid Up 300,000 0 O
„ Reserve Fund 280,000 0 0
„ Profit and Loss
Account .. 33,717 11 8
£613,717 11 8
„ Notes in circulation .. .. 872 0 0
~ Bills in circulation .. .. 276,756 0 1
To Government Deposits—•
Not bearing in-
terest . . . . £65,105 11 3
Bearing interest.. 597,113 2 7
662,218 13 10
To Other Deposits—-
Rebate and In-
terest Accrued —•
Not bearing in-
terest.. .. £1,219,126 6 1
Bearing interest 1,052,167 6 6
. 2,271,293 12 7
£3,824,857 18 2
To Contingent Liabilities as per
contra ~ .. .. .. 383,461 0 0
ASSETS.
By Coin, bullion,
Australian notes
and cash at
bankers . . £954,662 15 6
~ Notes and bills
of other banks 1,147 3 3
~ Balances due
from other banks 16,150 11 5
~ Bills and remit- .
tances in transit,
and payable in
London.. .. 354,240 17 1
~ Govern ment,-
municipal and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures and funds 230,719 15. 2
~ Stamps. . . . 1,010 4 4
£1,557,931 6 9
By Real Estate, consisting of—
Bank premises .. .. .. 75,000 0 0
„ Bills discounted and other ad-
vances exclusive of provision
for bad and doubtful debts .. 2,189,226 11 5
„ Bank furniture, fittings, station-
ery, etc. .. .. . . . . 2,700 0 0
£3,824,857 18 2
Liabilities and securities of cus-
tomers and others in respect
of contingent liabilities as
per contra .. .. .. 383,461 0 0
£4,208,318 18 1 ,
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, rent, income and land
taxes and other charges.. ..£22,127 18 3
„ Balance .. 33,717 11 8
£55,845 9 11
B3 r Balance at 29th September, 1917 £30,461 18 6
Less dividend de-
clared 31st Octo-
ber, 1917.. ..£12,000 0 0
Transfer to Reserve
Fund . . -. 10,000 0 0
22,000 0 0
~ Balance carried down . . . . £8,461 18 6
~ Profits for the half-year after t
deducting interest accrued on de-
posits and rebate on bills current,
less reserves for bad and doubtful
debts .. 47,383 11 5
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance I ..£-280,000 0 0
£280,000 n 0
By Balance at 29th September, 1917 £270,000 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account .. • • .. . . 10,000 0 0
£280,000 p 0
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Karawai: Yes, but that wouldn’t be
thorough unless it was made compulsory for the lady
to report once a month.... Teller: The Common-
wealth Bank has no more to do with the issue of
notes than Anthony Hordern’s have... .A.P.D.: It is
quite enough for this paper to keep track of Aus-
tralia’s financial problem; and surely we’re giving
that enough attention... .Frilled Lizard: Not a fair
thing to print that... .Fanuela: Can’t say if Jack
Anwin, who won the Melbourne Cup on Bravo, is still
alive.... Jun: If we published that scheme for
getting the paper to your pal, the brigands would be
delighted. But your friend Billjim would be left....
Birdie: Sorry; very old....Eeek: “Her First Back-
block School” misses; try again.... H.L.W.: Don’t
know anything about the alleged remedies.... Garan:
There is not enough in it... .S.W.P.: “Jimmy” is
too slight for a sketch.... A. M.: We don’t reprint
verse.... Grade I.: He doesn’t thrill us.... K. J.C.:
Not up. .. .Puss-in-the-Cupboard: Shocking verse....
R.S.: “Hoo-Ray” might have been good if it had been
far less careless.... Roo: Lame... .P.J.C.: No use
here The Torch: No J.W.P.: Ditto A.R.J.:
Wouldn’t print it if it were the last word of the
prophet Jeremiah... .Mike O’R.: No, it won’t do.
....O.V.R.: “Memories” don’t hit us hard enough.
. ...Milly: Not nearly... .C.C.: Wobble and bump
verse... .L.C.M.: “McPhee” is not for us; but it
should sell elsewhere.... H.F.: Stiff, cold writing that
makes a possible story like a mere catalogue of events.
. ...P.E.F.: Verse not up; yarn fails mostly through
poor handling... .H.B.W.: Facts stated like that are
not a subject for verse... .H.P.: You have some dis-
tance to go, but except for an occasional bump over
the logs at the side, you are‘on the track... .F.D.:
There’s too much commonplace there. Don’t use
print-worn phrases, and don’t suddenly change your
metre without object.... A.A.B.M.: Can’t get up any
enthusiasm over the authorship of verse as bad as
that... .M.G.: Parody on the “Cry of the Children”
doesn’t excite us....R.C.: Don’t care for them....
G.W.F.: Verse too rugged. .. . F.U.: If “What purpose
serve we in the Universe?” applies to the verses, we
give it up A.G.J.: One might do. .. .E.R.: Don’t
write verse like a telegram. ... J.A.W.: Can’t find the
thrill.... N.B.: Very hard to say. If he wants to
write it’s the best indication that he will write; but
imitative verse written at 10 years of age is not a
proof of genius... .J.C.B.: “Johnnie” is miserable.
. ...O.B.: Finely free from conventional restraints:—
Anzac, Anzacs 1 The Boys of Australia's best 1
The Boys that made Australia’s history 1
May it for ever be known, their gallant test;
So eagerly were they waiting for the monitory.
Anzac, Anzacs! The Boys of whom we feel so proud
To recall the story of Gallipoli’s landing!
Never will it be forgotten as long as there are
clouds ;
For in memory of our Boys it will be striking.
Anzac, Anzacs! Although you have lost some mates,
Their memories will live and shine for ever,
As though they were living inside our gates,
For the love cannot die nor sword will ever sever.
. .. .M.C.: Sorry, but itfs miles away... . J.H.H.:
Stagger and jerk—especially jerk T.K.: Nothing
there... .R.D.: Not up... .W.J.S.: Doesn’t get us.
. .. .The Torch: No light there... .D.B.C.: “Rumors”
gets very near Myee: Too late Bellerive: “The
Paramour” has the epic vigor:—■
“Remember you are my paramour,
You’ve no legal claim on me;
Between us will roll the billows
Of the wide and splashing sea.
Appeals,” he cried, “are of no avail,
Thy vows of love I scorn;
The link is broke, for a distant land
I embark to-morrow morn.”
She wildly glared in the traitor’s face,
With the look of a startled snake,
Grimly stirred by a fierce impulse
To murder for vengeance sake.
Speedily the blow was stniek
At the threshold of the door.
Stabbed by a fatal dagger he
Lay weltering in lie’s gore.
Stricken crouched the murderess.
Who to end her ghastly part,
Beside her victim’s body plunged
The dagger through her heart.
. ...W.E.P.: No, they’re not far below standard, but
you still want more to say and more skill in saying
it... .C.C.: The “Morning” hasn’t skill enough....
K W.: They don’t score. .. .M.C.: “Wentworth Falls”
doesn’t seem to have an idea in it... .Drofder Mot:
It’s pretty rough stuff, but not without ideas....
Dale: “Babette” misses. .. .J.H.: All that without
on: stop 1... .P.I.O.: Not quite... .J.C.B.: In a
sennet every line counts. In your two sonnets there
is no striking line or phrase. .. .N.M.: Very thin
stuff... .N.O.M.: No use.... A.B.C.: “Recompense”
won’t do... .II.W.S.: You took no trouble and got
no result....S.E.M.: Very trifling... ,E.A.K.: Poor
stuff... .A.W.: Sorry you treasured it 30 years. It’s
a' rotten song... .Seebee: He won’t set them in any-
thing here... .P.McG.: Too thin and worn with use.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
J.R..: Vast, confused thing. The other has no in-
terest... .W.R.B.: Poor drawing... .G.K.: Very
muddy production.... Graph: The subject is dead,
and the drawing does not resurrect it.... Hirst: No,
it’s feeble to the last degree... .W.N.: The truth
must be told. You can’t draw.... Yaaka : Calculated
to depress anybody F.F.: Over the odds and badly
drawn... .Wade: Horse’s feet are mixed. Joke mis-
laid. (P.S. —Don’t find it.) ... .H.M.M.: Sorry....
C.E.: Hands trouble you greatly... .S.T.: Cheap wit.
. ...A.R.: Washed out... .D.I.S.: Scratches, and a
gag that looks old... .N.E.W.: Thrown out with
curses... .W.H.G.: We can struggle along without it.
“II. Horsecollar”: If recruiting can be
helped by raising a kilted regiment as pro-
posed in Sydney—why, let us have a dozen
kilted regiments! Very very few people in
Australia ever wore a kilt except once in a
thousand years as fancy dress, and it is a
great rarity even in Scotland. In fact,
most of Scotland’s population never wore it
even in the old, dead, romantic centuries.
Still the soldier can easily learn to struggle
into the unaccustomed garment which ex-
poses the knees to frost, sunburn, dog-bite
and ants, and the preliminary bashlulness
when the clo’ flies up in a high wind is a
temporary emotion. But how r about a
Binghi brigade—dyed, of course? In the
G. Washington v. George III. war a corps
of painted white irregulars—the Blue-eyed
Indians —bought on the British side, so there
is precedent to go upon.


The MERE MENTION of IT
©V
SJ
xl
A
si
W \
s
N
•*w
m
By
*
/
%
\
X
K
1
/
VO
EQUALLY AS GOOD AS MILK
—in fact better, for tbe reason there is no scouring'. “Once
the calves get a taste of it it is difficult to Keep them away.”
That is what Mr. Chas. Newing, of Berry, the owner of the First and Reserve Champion Ayrshire,
two years and under three, 1918 R.A. Show, says of
Meggitt’s
m
Linseed Oil Meal
UNSEEmMfA}
m
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
PAMPHLET \No. 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents:—
Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Wm. Adams Ltd., Perth; Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; Blair Reed & Co., G.P.O. Box 941,
Wellington; R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
or
MEGGITT LT
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oii Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 KING STREET, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.


Shipping-
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries,
for all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd..
Tel.-City 4246, 2 ,4, 6 Spring Street.
4Bl o! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY mm
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
♦ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
maokay }
BOAVEN
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, May 25.
Leaves Sydney, May 28.
OOOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, June S.
Leaves Sydney, June 11.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
8. A. ancl'W. A, ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, May 21.
"Passengers only.
Pull Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, rul)llc Cum panics. Ac.
THE ——
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
ICt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.; THOS.
WELSBY. ’
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., J?.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
‘Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669.4 6
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) *
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
UISAI) OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, Bouth Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
. LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
J- SLY > Esq., LLD.; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon. F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. j
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted
|ank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, Kew Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping &c.
Canadian - Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE,
the “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
Next Sailing: R.M.S. Makura, 30th May, followed by R.M.S. Niagara.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
Next connecting Steamer for Wellington will sail from Sydney on 6th June.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific. ” I
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
R.M.S. Makura will sail on 30th May, followed by R.M.S. Niagara.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY — PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
tor illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
m
i
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send jor further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP S CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
fm
£3,904,860
£2,875,000
£3,904,860
£10,684,720
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C M G
M.L.C., President. ’
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Hsq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. JLondon Office—2!) Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CommomPcaltKlskßitiit •' Hustralia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking Business
•n the
princi pal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
Branches, and over 27 OU Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
islands, New Britain, and The Pacific.
Interest at 0 0 /
perannum
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
PROVIDE A RESERVE FUND
by banking your surplus earnings Where they will
accumulate with interest at the rate of 3f per cent, per
annum, and be available when required.
Government Savings BanK o/ 1
New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards.
Interest Limit £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State.
No Agencies at Post Office.
The Bank that Pays 51% Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. PARINGA, May 18.
S.S. RUPARA, May 25.
S.S. MORIALTA, June 1.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Visitors are not allowed on Company’s Wharves
nor on board Company’s Steamers.
<*■ S. YULLjj'' & CO.. 1.T1)..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent East Passenger Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
i\ew Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained ori application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
I rom Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. Between Melbourne and Launceston three
sailings per week.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED.
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
america—cana da
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
barge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. AVIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILAVRAITH,
UcEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide:
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
t WEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are iOued in conjunction with
the N. S. AVALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


Used the
World Over
£5
MOTOR
...CARS
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough—you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
Horlicks
. MALTED
MJLK
T’Vfra. ikvw-'^'
WTII*
\
;at,%
eeps 1
lever '
The Ideal Food-
Drink( Milk, Wheat,
and Malt). Keeps
for years and never
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made
in a moment, any-
where. Only water
3
is needed. In hot climates it isj
k invaluable. Jk
r
e
r
<r
mm
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant—
so ‘Wincarnis’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because ‘Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Toriic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and '
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
n
z
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why over 10,000 Doctors
recommend ‘Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
•Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd.,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
MontserraT
SAUCE
K 5
§
&
'•n
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney,
Rare you n
uptureD
Have yon grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses,/ Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE. (
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors .-—Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman ;• Hon. E. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.U.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq. ’
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. W. APPERLY, General 4 Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES. A CASH BONUES EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1.000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917 was £585,39/. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from ’£s’ upwards.
</
THE AUSTRALIAN
“SKANDIA”
%
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
■*•••••
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON, Loftus Street, Sydney.
Poirol
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
LETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs Sd. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Pa v i n g Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PIN NEKS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC'.
684 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of tlie world.
The Secret of a Successful Shave
is now admitted by those who have given the matter
careful thought, to depend almost entirely on the kind of
shaving soap used. After three years of experimenting,
nemsrrs
SHflwna oreon
has stood the severest tests, and shown itself to be the
ideal shaving medium.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING CHEMISTS AND STORES
Enclosed in a
collapsible tube,
it can be kept
clean and asep-
tic. Concentra-
ted and free from
caustic, a very
small amount
will produce a
richcreamylath-
er that will not
dry on the face,
or burn the skin.
It will soften the
toughest beard
withoutthemus-
sy “rubbing in”
and the “morn-
ing hot-water,”
that were, here-
tofore, consid-
ered essential.
Antiseptic Rapid
Economical
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
109 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
17V*ctoriaStreet,Weliington,N.Z.
l|
I'
✓
G. MENNEN
CHEMICAL CO.
Enclosed please
And penny stamped
envelope for free
sample of Mennen’s
Talcum for Men.
Na
Address
City


HOW TO STOP PAIN IN STOMACH.
THE VALUE OF MAGNESIA AND HOT
WATER.
Generations of people have employed hot
water as a soother of pain in the stomach,
but modern physicians and specialists have
discovered and used successfully an addition
which renders'the hot water trebly effica-
cious. Hot water is still recommended in all
cases of stomach pain, from whatever cause
arising, but still better results are obtained
if a little bisurated magnesia is added. Hot
water attracts blood to the painful part, and
the bisurated magnesia neutralises the acid,
which is usually the underlying cause of the
pain. That is why such excellent results
follow combination of the two. Readers who
are subject to pain in the stomach, especially
after eating, should try this hot water and
magnesia recipe. It renders dieting quite
unnecessary, for by slowly drinking half a
glassful of hot water containing half a tea-
spoonful of bisurated magnesia immediately
after meals, the dangerous stomach acids are
destroyed, and food remains bland and sweet
until perfectly digested. The bisurated mag-
nesia, which is extensively used in hospitals,
can readily be obtained from chemists every-
where ; but to avoid confusion with the
acetates, citrates and oxides of magnesia or
equally unsuitable mixtures of bismuth and
magnesia, it is important that bisurated'
should be asked for very distinctly. —Advt.
n
A “FINNEY JERSEY COAT
POST
FREE
12/6
One of the little comforts
“Man wants here below.”
POST
FREE
12/6
Write to
FINNEY’S—
Queensland’s
Pioneer Mail-Order
House for Anything
and Everything
You Want.
“YOU CAN’T
BEAT FINNEY’S.”
You’ll need one of these Slip-on-easy Garments now the
cool mornings are here.
And it’s a good plan to buy Woollen Goods early these
days. That’s just what we did.
For wool —as you know—is not too plentiful. Why not
slip 12/6 into the post for one of these Snug Coats now?
You’ll learn first-hand this way how warm is their embrace
round your body—just where you want it. But though
they hug you like a man hugs a hope—still they’re as
comfortable to wear as mittens.
In all Wool, Navy and Light Grey colors —whichever you
prefer.
Sizes to suit all men whose chests measure 34, 36, 40, 48.
PRICE, POST FREE, 12/6.
1.1,h
A T rite to
FINNEY’S
for Catalog of Men’s
Wear—lt’s Free
for the Asking.
“YOU CAN’T
BEAT FINNEY’S.”
The Drapers of
Queensland,
FINNEY, ISLES & GO. LTD.
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
SUPED
FCATURES
“Smike”: Owing to the fact that the
heavy scenery of “The Masquerader” will
take four or five days to shift to Sydney
under present transport arrangements, the
Taits have been compelled to consider
another attraction as an alternative to keep-
ing the theatre shut up for a week. It is
for that reason that one of Post’s former
successes. “The Nigger,” is being rehearsed,
though “8.J.” suggests (B. 9/5/T8) that it
will only be put on in the event of “The
Masquerader” failing. “The Nigger” will
probably go on in any case, unless the Taits
consider it cJumper to hand over a bagful of
rent for nothing.
“Peter”: Lionel Belmore, who buttles
strenuously in “The Masquerader” at Mel-
bourne King’s, must be one of the most
experienced pros, we have ever had in these
parts. He was 15 years with Irving, eight
with Wilson Barrett, two with Olga
Nethersole, and 12 months with Lily
Langtry, and he has also served under
William Faversliam, the Shuberts, the
Frohmans and several other managers. He
can look back on 40 years or more of grease-
paint, and has crowned his long career by
“directing” some of the biggest stars in the
movies.
Bailey and Grant have taken over the act-
ing rights in
“G rump y,” and
will tour that
audacious . comedy
through towns un-
trodden by the
stylish boot of
Cyril Maude, with
Bailey in the star
part. Herbert’s
treatment of
Grumpy should be
an interesting con-
trast to Maude’s
picture of a dod-
dering solicitor who
was alternately
senile and alert ;
wherefore when he
has finished with
the small towns he
will find that the
cities where
Grumpy boomed
last year will be
“De Luxe Annie," at
Sydney Palace.
Maurice Dudley as
Cyrus Munro.
ready to see it again under the new con-
ditions.
“0.K.”: Lionel Belmore, the Brock in “The
Masquerader,” is a son of George Belmore, a
famous London comedian. Belmore did
notable things in his time. He was a remark-
able Silas Wegg, the wooden-legged impostor
in “The Golden Dustman,” an adaptation of
“Our Mutual Friend.” Nat Gosling, the
horse-trainer in “Flying Scud,” was another
of his parts, and he was picked to play the old
boat-builder in “Formosa,” at Drury Lane,
when the original Dion Boucicault produced
that first of the many melodramas in which
the demi-monde loomed large. He was asso-
ciated with Henry Irving at the outset of the
latter’s long reign at the Lyceum. Irving
played Jingle in a potted version of “Pick-
wick.” and George Belmore was Sam Weller.
Subsequently, when Irving appeared as
Charles the First in Will’s poetic drama,
wherein the King was heroised, the old
comedian assumed a solemn face with warts
on it, and played Oliver Cromwell. Daisy
Belmore, who came to Australia with Wilson
Barrett, was a sister of Lionel; her voice
w r as as thin and shrill as Lionel’s is thick
and fruity.
Fred Collier, the Melbourne basso now
managing weekly Auditorium concerts for
Chappell and Co., is a nephew of Collier, the
old-time Australian actor. In the days when
"Uncle Tom's Cabin” was a power on the
stage Collier was the representative Simon
Legree; and in the domain of poetic drama
he was an Othello of some class. Nephew
Fred’s one bid for dramatic honors was when
he sang the part of Mephisto to Melba’s
Marguerite at a Melbourne matinee perform-
ance. v
“J.F.11.” ( London) : Happily recovered
from the sudden illness that cut short her
career as principal-boy Aladdin in the Drury-
lane panto, Madge Titheradge made a bril-
liant return to stage duty at the Palace on
March 1. Al a crowded and fashionable
afternoon medley entertainment that contri-
buted a couple of thousand pounds to King
George’s Fund for Sailors, the Australian
scored an unmistakable triumph in the bal-
cony scene from "Borneo and Juliet.” Pend-
ing the production of a new play in which
she is to have the lead. Madge is going to fill
up the stocking by reciting in the big variety
houses.
That small pimple
on literature and
Art, the autograplv-
album, will be
about as welcome
as a cubic foot of
S'uh-cotton after
the experience of
Walter Bentley, of
Sydney. A lady
who had collected
the signatures of
various celebrities
and sub-celebrities
left her treasured
book of scrawls
with the ancient —
left it for long,
dusty months. Of
course the thing got
lost. Autograph-
albums are made
to be lost. When
it was as lost as
the tombstone of
Moses, the lady
asked for it back,
and, failing to get
if. sued Bentley ror
fit). Case dis-
Melbourne Bijou.
Con Moreni.
missed —and the running fire of applause is
still crackling in every artist's studio in
Australia.
“.T.F.TI.” from London :
On March 11 “Romance” reached its thousandth
consecutive performance at London Lyric amid mu Oh
enthusiasm, congratulation and generous distribution
of artistic souvenirs. There is no previous instance
of a serious play achieving such a score in London,
although of course the record has been exceeded by
things of the “Charley’s Aunt” and “Private Secre-
tary” order. Yet “Romance” was at first received
by the dramatic critics with coldness, and for the
first week or two it looked like failure and finish.
But Doris Keane was a firm believer in its ultimate
success, and she steered it through its early troubled
waters to packed houses and busy box-offices. During
its thousand nights in London she has been absent
only half a dozen times. She has, in fact, been play-
ing the heroine for five years, with very brief breaks,
appearing in it first at the Maxine Elliott Theatre,
N’York, in February, 1913, On the same night that
“Romance” reached its thousand at the Lyric, Oscar
Asche and Lily Brayton were rejoicing with their
friends and a densely-thronged His Majesty’s over
the 700th performance of glittering “Chu Chin
Chow.” It also will certainly achieve its thousand
in due course unless the nitrate king who recently
purchased His Majesty’s should get sick and tired of
its phenomenal prosperity, and discover some legal
method of bundling Oscar and Lily off the premises.
So popular is the Oriental show that Oscar and Lily
aer now playing it twice daily, with every prospect
of being compelled to do so until Christmas is well
in sight.
Found drowned last week in the Macquarie,
at Dubbo (N.S.W.), Jimmy Ashton, founder
of Ashton’s Circus and father of a whole
tribe of sawdust performers. He was
travelling with Cole’s Circus when the Ring-
master called him out. Death came very
simply. Apparently he leaned down to the
river to drink, fell forward and couldn’t
recover himself. The body was found half
submerged, with the legs resting on the
bank.
Lalla Miranda has joined the Carl Rosa
Co. in London.
Sylvia Bremer, now a film star in the
U.S.A., has become Braemar.
“J.F.H.” (London) : No less than 17 West
End theatres are running revues and musical
comedies, and countless others were doing
the same thing in
the suburbs and
provinces. The con-
fidently - predicted
early collapse of
these light enter-
tainments seems
somehow to have
been postponed.
The Hippodrome
has just presented
a new and gor-
geous revue. "A
Box of Tricks,”
which beats all its
previous spectacu-
lar records. Aus-
tralian Daphne
Pollard is a con-
spicuous success in
it.
There was
always something
of the movies about
the Bolshevictory
in Russia. Now the
secret’s out. Trot-
zky was once a
Little W. S. PERCY
sends his latest photo.
photo-play actor.
ll< appeared with Clara Kimball Young in
“His Official Wife” —as a conspirator or
something with a bomb. He got live dollars
a day—for one day.
“Private Boxer”: The Firm is going to
stage a new war comedy by one of the
authors of “The Man Who Stayed at Home’’
ai; Melbourne Theatre Royal on June 1. Its
title is “General Post,” but it has no con-
nection with the Taits’ prop at the King’s.
“O. Blin”: “Dr. Nil” (B. 2/5/H8)
appears to be incredulous regarding the
theatrical performances at the Ruhleben
camp near /Berlin. He needn’t be. The
Ruhleben Theatrical Co. started with Shaw’s
“Androcles and the Lion” —-an ambitious
project which was almost wrecked by the
scarcity of lions and ladies. John Roker,
an English pro. who before the war was
“producing” at the Metropol Theatre, Ber-
lin. is the mainspring of the machine.
Puccini is at work on three short operas,
comical, tragical and sentimental respec-
tively. The three pieces are to be produced
together. It is to be hoped that they w T ill be
properly labelled, so that the critics won’t get
them mixed.
Guy Bates Post, congratulating Aus-
tralians on their felicitous position in the
dramatic world, says : “Other countries have
to take the bnd with the good. After the
sifting out, Australians get the pick of the
successes, without being troubled to any ex-
tent by the failures.” That is all very well,
but Mr. Post cannot understand the. craving
Australia has, after a surfeit -of these “good
plays,” to see a few of the really bad ones.
London’s newest manager, .T. L. Sacks,
who has taken over the Empire in Leicester
Square and made a good start with a
sprightly musical comedy, “The Lilac
Domino,” is one of the rare smilers upon the
friendless, unacted genius. He has opened
an office in Gerrard-street, where, he says,
“anybody shall be at liberty to come with
any sort of proposition, sure of receiving the
welcome of civil treatment.”
Despite the broadening of public opinion
brought about by recent productions of
“Ghosts” and “Damaged Goods,” the Rritish
Lord Chamberlain would not pass Ibsen’s
“Realities” without alterations. Austin
Fryers, who is responsible for the production,
claims that the changes “will interfere with
Ibsen’s original conception and remove in
some measure that inevitability of purpose
and action so essential to the development of
Ibsen’s theory of heredity.” “Realities” is a
sequel to “Ghosts.”
“J.F.H.”: A memorial to members of the
profession who have fallen in the war has
been unveiled at the Old Vic., South London.
This remarkable old barn had a long period
of prosperity as the Royal Victoria Theatre.
It was originally the Coburg, but when Queen
Vic. selected it for her first visit to a theatre
after ascending the throne, it was rechrist-
ened. It is now the Royal Victoria Hall,
and presents plays, generally Shakspeare,
two nights of the week, opera two nights,
and lectures two. Popular prices—three-
pence gallery, shilling stalls. The memorial
which has been set up in this historic house
was carved out of a fragment of the old
battleship Britannia, blessed by the Bishop
of Southwark, and orated over by General
Ashmore.
The son of the late Antoinette Sterling
was called up for home soldiering in London
a few weeks ago. He’s 41 and runs a sing-
ing school.
Margaret Anglin is one of the not very
many stars Australia has seen on the up-
grade. The forceful woman lately did a
season of Greek tragely in N’York and
scored heavily in “Medea.”
Guy Bates Post tells the Argus that
his impression is that the church and the
stage till very similar functions:—
This Post impression, many feel,
In truth is rooted deep ;
Both church and stage delight to deal
With things that are or seem unreal,
And both conduce to sleep!
The rationed Londoner now' gets en-
couragement to fast from a song “It’s Up
to You,” specially put out by the Food
Economy League. “The war will be won
on bread.” says the song; and “You must
lose a bit of dinner if you want to be a
winner.”
“J.F.IL”: London has been revelling in a
bustling week of peripatetic tanks that have
collected millions to help on the war. Marie
Bohr weighed in with a tidy £lO.OOO. She
sat each day in the vestibule of her theatre,
tlm Globe, selling war-bonds to all comers.
She sold £2OOO ? worth to a well-known
dramatist. £5OO to Sir Charles Wyndham,
£5OO to May Moore (Lady Wyndham), and
£5OO to Sir George Buchanan. Mrs. Kendal,
in whose touring company Marie started hev
English career, also called and invested.
Josef .Kretschman, the well-beloved old
Bohemian who taught two generations of
young Australians to extract music from the
piano and violin, professed to be a Christian
Scientist, bequeathed his purse to the Salva-
tion Army, and was buried in the Roman
Catholic portion of South Head cemetery,
prayers being read by a Lutheran pastor.
There was nothing narrow about delightful
old Kretschman.
“Fax’’: The latest story re the Kaiser’s
“dippiness” leaves me unconvinced. William
is and always has been, plainly obsessed with
the idea of world-conquest, and in a quite
natural German spirit he talks of God as
bis partner. The Huns expect it of him.
His speeches, as Emil Reich explained in
“Germany’s Swelled Head,” written years
before the Vwar, are just what his people
want. But it isn’t likely that he is suffer-
ing from any more delusion than all ros r al
heirs-apparent are bred and bound to enter-
tain concerning their distinguished selves.
If he ever goes stark staring mad he will, in
a natural state of mental revolution, regard
himself as a starving beggar or a crushed
worm. Hallucinations run by the rule of
contrary.
THE PRECIOUS POSSESSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How Leslie Stormer scorned the press
I’ve often heard him say.
“They cannot mar a man, much less
Can they assure a fool success,
These creatures of a day !
"I scorn their praise, despise their blame,”
Said Leslie once to me.
“What know the scribblers of our game?
1 give the paper to the flame
Whate’er it print of me.”
Then came the fire at his hotel.
He saved himself, but wore
The scantest garb, lie stood a spell,
Then turned again, and with a yell
He dashed in at the door.
It seemed a splendid act. They thought
Of some dear child forgot,
And through the smoke once more be fought;
lint no sweet maid or babe lie brought—
He fainted on the spot.
The rescued tiling they gently took
From fingers reft of life;
The cro\Vd pressed pagCrly to look:
He'd saved his fat “Press Cuttings” book—
A fireman saved bis wife!
VICTOIIIA.
STARGAZER.
FLORAL TRIBUTES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
With a haunting, Mona Lisa smile,
A smile she’d rehearsed for hours,
The star bowed low as the juvenile
Collected a stack of flow’rs.
She traversed the house with a beaming eye,
Elate with her laurel crown,
And she flung a kiss to the gods on high
As the curtain rustled down.
But her smile dissolved when the curtain fell,
And her eye betokened rage;
She strangled a temperamental yell,
And fled from the flow’r-strewn stage.
Then the prompter questioned the juvenile
As he dabbled Jug harassed brow,
“In the name of all that’s imbecile
What’s rattled the old girl now?”
Said the juvenile: “A cruel slight
Has been offered her once again,
She only got nine bouquets to-night,
And she ordered and paid for ten!”
N.B.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


H
-
m-
■;s ..
S*
i *. »
i ■
'W
‘ .-Mr#*
_ ■
•v :
Sl
mm. .mm
SpH
' v
In War only the best of
equipment finds a per-
manent acceptance, and
this is particularly so
where the matter of
transport is concerned,
for on rapid and reliable
transit of men, munitions
and orders many thou-
sands of lives depend.
Over two thousand Stude-
baker Series 17 and 18
cars have been purchased
by the British War
Department for their
Officers and the Red
Cross in France. At
first only a few were
tried out but Stude-
baker stamina, reliability
and all - round quality
were so marked that the
British War Department
has since bought close
on 2000 Studebakers —-
all they could obtain, in
fact.
A Studebaker would be a
still better investment for
you right now —if you
intend to buy a motor-
car within the next few
months, or the next year
even. It is an accepted
fact, that motor-cars will
cost materially more next
Spring than they do now.
You will get in your Stude-
baker —comfort, power,
dependability and econ-
omy. These are the
essentials that the aver-
age man of affairs needs
in a motor-car, and you
get them all in the roomy,
fully equipped, economi-
cal Studebaker.
A Studebaker u 6” at its
present price - based
largely on the cost of
material bought and paid
for long before the U.S.
A. declared war —is un-
doubtedly the greatest
motor-car value .on the
market to-day. Perhaps
never again will you be
able to buy so good a
car at so low a price.
We have many times
sounded a warning about
diminishing stocks of
Studebakers everywhere
in Australia. The ship-
ping position precludes
the hope of any more
motor-cars for more
months than we care to
think of, so make up
your mind to purchase a
Studebaker now.
Stocks of Studebaker Cars are at present held by our State distributors and by 200 Studebaker dealers throughout Australia and New Zealand.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros,, 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Leonard Corricfc, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Adams Limited, Team Street, Christchurch (N.Z.).
A. Hill, 72 Collins Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
ESTABLISHED 1852
am


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdkll, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
tp kill the hair roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered phemlnol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair-
growth. The recommended treatment is
. designed not only to instantly remove the
hair, but to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Removing Her Skin.
The quickest and surest way to make' a
good complexion out of a bad one is to
actually remove the thin veil of faded or dis-
colored outer skin from the face. This can
be done easily, safely and privately by any
woman. The process is one of gentle absorp-
tion.
Get some pure inercolised wax from your
chemist and apply it at night like cold cream,
washing it off in the morning. In a few
days the mercolide in the wax will have
absorbed the disfiguring cuticle, revealing
the fresh young skin underneath; you will
have a beautiful, clear, natural complexion.
The process is pleasant, and harmless, making
(he face look brilliantly attractive and youth-
ful. It also effectually removes such blem-
ishes as freckles, tan. moth patches, liver
spots, pimples, etc. Every woman should
keep a little mereolised wax on hand, as this
simple, old-fashioned remedy is the best com-
plexioned benutlfler and preserver known,
Blaeklie&ds Instantly Go.
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess is now used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores in the
skin. You have only to drop a tablet of
sty mol, obtained from the chemist, into a
glass of hot water and bathe the face with
the liquid after the effervescence lias sub-
sided. The blackheads will then come right
off on the towel. The enlarged pores immedi-
ately contract to normal and the greasiness
disappears, leaving the skin smooth, soft and
cool and free from blemish. But to make sure
that this desirable result is permanent it' is
advisable to repeat the treatment several
times at intervals of say about four or five
days.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily be
' hanged back to a natural color in a few
days' time merely by the application' of a
simple, old-fashioned and perfectly harmless
home-made lotion. Procure from your cbem
ist two. ounces of tammalite concentrate and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this to the hair a few times with a small
"pongo, and you will soon have the pleasure
of seeing your grey hair gradually darkening
to the desired shade. The lotion is pleasant,
not sticky or greasy, and does not injure the
hair in any way.
Naturally Wavy Hair.
Good stallax not only makes the best possi-
ble shampoo, but has the peculiar property of
leaving the hair with a pronounced natural
“wave,” an effect presumably desired by many
ladies. A teaspoonful of the stallax granules
dissolved in a cup of hot water, is ample for
a luxurious head wash, and leaves the hair
with a peculiar lustre and fluffiness obtainable
from nothing else as far as known. It is per-
fectly harmless, and can be obtained from
most chemists, although since it has been but
little used for this purpose it comes only in
jib. sealed original packages, enough to make
up 25 or 30 individual shampoos. [2
Superior to Marking Ink.
X®
"3-
‘fflealXngj&os’
WOVEN NAMES,
ieat:
E^eetiVei:
Made ir*
Australia
MaY BE PROCURED TRROUCfT^
ANY UP-TO-DATE MERCER OR DRAPER.
OUR NAME ON THE BOX
ha. gooj-ftntec Quality
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking'
Alt Balcony Rooms.
Botanical Gardens.
Tariff, 15s. per day.
BROOKES
COFFEE ESSENCE
You'll like it too!!
QUEEN’S ARMS
HOTEL,
Corner Swanston St. & Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE
(Late CHAMPION’S).
TARIFF:—
Bed & Breakfast . . ... 67-
Lunch (Special) . . .. 1/6
Dinner . . .... . . 3/-
CLAUDE R. KERR, Proprietor.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
gsd
BV
APPOINTMENT
g
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
ds
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc*
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA*
$
srrMTf V
■
RU«
P
Nerve
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by daily habit and by simple
precautions he has kept his body fit
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fail him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
"T'HE habit of taking
* a half teaspoon-
ful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot
water every morning
before rising clears the
head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better —and rise refreshed ; you eat better—and
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give ;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
keeDS you fit —good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
gsd
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,6B Deansgate Arcade. Manchester. England.
MOTOR LORRIES
I=2=3 and 5
Tons
Capacities.
*'V'm
ft
CH.BARRIBAU.
ROOFER
m
The Denby is able to use a smaller motor and save you fuel expense,
because the power losses with the internal-gear axle are so much
less than with any other form of drive.
The only power you are interested in is the usable power delivered
•at the wheels. And Denby delivers its greatest power at the slower
speeds, when the load is heavy or the road rough.
That is only one of a score of points of Denby dominance
A. HATRICK & COMPANY, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition,
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
Savory item from Adelaide papers:—
Fry-Bacon. —On the 30th March, at Croydon,
William Fry, Athelstone, to Asinath Bacon, Henley
Beach.
In his diary of Collins’s voyage of explora-
tion to Port Phillip, “Bobby” Knopwood
records that on June 11, ISO 3, Mary Wiggins,
wife of a marine, was delivered of a son. Old
Harry Wiggins, a son of that son, is still
living at Blackman’s Bay (Tas.). The marine
and his family went on to Hobart after the
few months spent by the expedition at Sor-
rento, and the Wigginses are now a numerous
clan in the Speck.
A notable Melbourne prize-winner is Kath-
leen, daughter of Mrs. Mclnerney, the auto-
crat of the National Council of Women, who
is the first of her sex to gain the Caroline
Kay Scholarship in Geology. It was up to a
woman to do this, having regard to the his-
tory of the prize, which was founded
in memory of the daughter of a British
admiral who married a young Scotchbyterian
parson against the wishes of her parents and
lived with him in the Western District for
many years. There was a reconciliation
before pa’s death, and the old sea dog left, her
£5OOO, which, when she went to join him,
was handed by the widower to the University
to found two scholarships.
“Melb”: The silver jubilee of the Central
Mission, Wesley Church, has just been
marked by what they call a reminiscence
meeting. The most extraordinary is about
the organ. It seems to have been made in
Europe in some far-away time. Then it was
in a Dublin music-hall. A South American
priest bought it for his church, and shipped
it in a vessel bound for Melbourne but touch-
ing at Itio. However, baffling winds kept the
ship from entering Itio, and a storm wrecked
her at Melbourne Heads. But the organ
came out all right, and the Wesleyans bought
it for £5OO.
“8.M.”: It happened at a flying-school
where there were a number of Australians,
myself included. One day we had a party of
much social and political weight to inspect
the ’planes. My duties were to tidy up,
unlock the doors and look impressed. By the
time the tour of inspection reached the larg-
est hangar, the camp Low had caricatured,
faithfully and cruelly, the whole party, on
the dark green doors. Also he had written
their names. As I fumbled with the locks,
the visitors had a good view of their portraits
in chalk. After the victims had gone the
O.C. had us all lined up in front of the pic-
ture gallery. “Who did this?” he asked in
his best court-martial voice. No answer.
“What ass did it?” he repeated. No
answer. “Very well then. All leave stopped
for a month, and you'll hear more of this.”
The silence could be heard for miles'. Then
the culprit, a good sport, stepped out. He
was the son of one of the titled visitors, and
the cruellest sketch was that, of his own dad.
We didn’t “hear more of this.”
A. J. Hannan, a clever Adelaide junior
lawyer, has raised a new point in the in-
quiry about land purchases by the S. Aus.
Government at. big figures. He did not have,
he said, to show that the valuation of the
Surveyor-General—whose conduct was
under inquiry at the time —was wrong.
“Even if the Surveyor-General had hit the
correct figure by good luck, his negligence
was just as great if it could be shown that
his methods were totally wrong.” But The
Bulletin remembers a remark of Edward
MacFarlane, formerly Under-Sec. for Lands
in N. S. Wales, and for many years a very
capable district surveyor and chairman of
Land Boards. “We lay down most unim-
peachable rules for calculating annual rents
and capital values; then we apply our rules,
and commonsense tells us in half the cases
that the results are wrong.
“Talapousi” remembers a master-snuffle-
buster :—-
The death of the King of Tonga recalls the regime
of one of the most remarkable characters that ever
stalked through fact or fiction. Shirley Waldemar
Baker was a renegade missionary, who, when his
actions called for censure from his Board, and his
removal from Tonga was advised, conceived the
brilliant idea of advising the King to establish a
church of his own. He understood well the Tongan
character, with its love of pomp. As well as the
national church, he devised all the outward signs of
an important monarchy to gratify the old monarch.
He designed a national ensign, bought a gilt crown
and robes of royalty—velveteen and white rabbit skin
—and built an imposing wooden palace and a royal
chapel. Soon George Tabou I. became merely a
figurehead. Baker was supreme. He tangled the
unfortunate natives up with so many and such petty
laws that a dusky Adonis dared not rub noses with
his Venus in the dusk without fear of fine and im-
prisonment. Baker established himself and his
family at the palace, so that during his long absences
in Maoriland he had someone at the King’s elbow to
watch his interests. His most drastic laws were
usually framed in Auckland and imposed in his
absence, so that, on his return, the simple natives
would have got used to them. But the unwilling
subjects were not so simple. They began to hate the
despot and made attempts on his life. A son and
daughter of Baker’s were injured in the natives’
crude attempts to free themselves, and his savagery
in punishing without being sure of the offenders
raised such a revulsion among Europeans that they
threatened Baker and sent for the British High Com-
missioner from Fiji, then Sir Charles Mitchell.
Baker’s cunning secured him some respite; but he
did not keep his promises to the High Commissioner.
He thought leniency was weakness, became more
arrogant, drew pensions from the depleted treasury
for his injured‘Children, and even went the length of
hurling accusations at the High Commissioner. Two
years later, in 1890, he was offered protection on the
warship Rapid, until the arrival of a steamer, after
Sir John Thurston had conferred with the King and
the chiefs, and the doors of the palace had been shut
against him. Baker was forced to accept the position;
yet at daybreak the next morning he made an attempt
to force his way into the palace. He was met at the
gate by the King’s great-grandson and heir—the
King whose death has just been announced. The
infuriated Baker abused the youthful prince and
reminded him of his sojourns at the Baker home in
Maoriland. “You shall pay for your keep at my
house in Auckland!” was his parting shot. “You
have more than cut that out,” returned the boy, “for
the years you and your family have been living in
my grandfather’s house! ” Baker was paltry
enough to send the bill to the young prince. Need-
less to say it was never paid.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from tile nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed. 1
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Com Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
g
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
CHAMOERLAINS
COUGH REMEDY
ANY OLD
£OUGtt MIXTURE,
Cranny* Chamberlain
( COPVaiO*-rTEJDJ
if u
w*
k r
.>r
«s£=
J-
-41
/
r\^>
W
A
m
REMEDY
a,
mm
Cougfislokft
CROUP.
iht
BORE THROAT
influenza
Never force children
to take ill-tasting medicines.
START when they are babies and give them
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy at the first
symptom of a cough or cold.
There will be no forcing them to take it—they
will ask for it for the kiddies just love Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy.
There are parents who to-day give this medicine
to their children because they remember how eagerly
they themselves took it when they were kiddies.
But this is not the only reason.
They know from experience that for the treat-
ment of coughs and colds, croup and whooping
cough, nothing equals Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy.
It contains no narcotics and every mother should
be sure on this point about the medicine she
gives her child. Too much prominence cannot
be given to the danger of giving children
medicines containing opium or other narcotics
for many a little one has been permanently
affected by medicines of this description.
J'jfeaJtK L/A&fuw
Chamberlain’s
COUGH REMEDY
BE PREPARED.
Dike many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder has developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
can be summoned.
Those who have the interests of their family at heart keep a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, dysentery and
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bowels the attack may be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy.
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage. The excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains in the stomach for which
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied upon to do this.
: m
m
■ m
ymmm
wm
«
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron falls - Barron Gorge
the wonderful hmterland
.Sunshine , Palm Trees .
Tropical Flowers. A glorioua
season of soft sunshine
and scenic splendour
A Booklet telling all about it
is yours for the asking
/v// in /hrj coupon •-
v
Afome
'
8.8.
V
N
Address..
Director of
Infelligence ftTounst Bureau.
Brisbane, GOJEEJSrSI.AND.
jck
'<2s2Z
gasOß ns*?l'«tr, '
mQk
—a *?,'>
m
FOR £1 6s. t»d. you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid- To any address abroad. £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
“Fx & R” Wristlet Watches.
The “Fx & R” Wristlet
Watch is pre-eminently
the most reliable, the
strongest, the most
accurate watch on the
market.
It is not the cheapest
(when is the best the
lowest in price?).
But it is not expensive
or high in price at
£4/4/-
It will go to within a
few seconds in a
month, stand rough
usage daily, and last a
lifetime.
It is guaranteed for IS
years, and kept in
order for two years
(breakages excepted),
without charge.
“Fx & R” fully-jewelled, reliable lever movement, in solid silver case,
complete with pigskin military cover, 84/-
In nickel case, 70/-
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
Plain figure?. Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
£
THAT
means
comfort—the
comfort that is on-
ly possible with the
BROOKS
the saddle with the compensating
springs, which absorb all vibra-
tion, yet eradicate entirely any
tendency to bounce.
ASK YOUR DEALER.
Jk
THE MERIT OF A “PLUM”
is best appreciated by the man who has tried all other sorts of Razors
before discovering the “Plum” masterpiece. All the science in the
world can’t make a keener blade, or one that keeps its edge so long.
SEND FOR A “PLUM” RAZOR TO-DAY.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Stnsle Razor. Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654- GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OYEE 30 YEARS.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Amusement*.
Harry Rickard* Tivoli Tlieatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
TIVOLI T H E A T It K, SYDNEY
Nightly, 8. Matinee Wednesday 2.30.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents the Great London Revue
of the times, entitled
TIME, PLEASE.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Theatre.
'IYOLI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY, MAY 18.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents another Dazzling Revue,
THE MILLION DOLLAR GIRL,
The Rage of London and America. •
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
U E R M A .1 15 S T Y ’ S, S Y I) N E Y.
• 1 Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 1.45.
J. C. Williamson Ltd.’s Gorgeous, Spectacular
PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
CR 1 T E RI O N T H EAT R E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. Matinee Wednesday at 2.
MURIEL STARR
in first production in Sydney of the Hawaiian play,
THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PA LA O E THEATRE. SYDN E Y.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
•I. AND N. TAIT present
EMELIE POLINI
AND NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
DE LUXE ANNIE,
A Thrilling Mystery Comedy Drama.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
PLAYHOUSE, CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee SYDNEY JAMES.
Direction JOHN HOPKINS.
NIGHTLY AT 8. MATINEES SATURDAY 2.30.
THE SCARLET TROUBADOURS.
THE FOLKS WHO MAKE YOU GLAD.
' Programme Changed Thursdays.
Plan at Paling’s and Theatre. ’Phone City 246.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Saturdays 4/-, plus Tax.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTIIUE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATEIt J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
AV. Bariiinqton Miller, General Manager.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
the “Last Word” in Revues,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MAY 18.
K
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
KATHLENE MACDONELL
in a revival of
DADDY LONG LEGS.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present
GUY BATES POST
(the Greatest Actor who has ever visited Australia)
in
THE MASQUERADER.
A Dramatisation of Katherine Cecil Thurston’s Novel,
“John Chilcote, M.P.”
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING, MATINEES SATURDAY 2.30.
This Week’s Features:
REBECCA OF SUNNYBROOK FARM.
HOUSE PETERS in *
AS MEN LOVE.
Prices as usual.
THEN JHIM HAL L, MELBOURNE”
ENGLAND’S FOREMOST RECITER.
THE INCOMPARABLE
ALEXANDER WATSON
in
A Short Series of Unique Recitals.
Change of Programme Every Evening.
3/-, 21/-. Box Plan at Glen’s.
' CARLYLE SMYTHE.
Tj O U THEATRE. M EL B O U R N E.
Direction: BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
B
ILLER’S ALL STAR VAUDEVILLE.
key and Rose, Ted Russell, Ray Tray nor, Phrozo,
Leywood and Norell, Billy Seaton, Baron the
Ventriloquist, James and Selma, etc.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
Amusements.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
OLGA PETROVA
in
DAUGHTER OF DESTINY.
The first film from Mme. Petrova’s own studios.
Matin6es daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. POX and SELZNICII.
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
1 of the High Court of Justice dated the 7th
February 1018 made in an Action in the Matter of
the Estate of ANDREW SELKIRK JACK deceased,
Jack v. Jack (1917 J. No. 771) the following Inquiry
was directed, namely:—
“(1) An Inquiry who. was the heir-at-law of the
Testator at the time of his death and whether such
heir is living or dead and if dead who by devise
descent or otherwise is entitled to such real estate of
the Testator as descended to such heir-at-law.”
Notice is hereby given that all persons claiming to
be entitled under the said Inquiry are by themselves
or their Solicitors on or before the 30th day of
September 1918 to come in and enter their names
and addresses in the book kept for that purpose in
Room 317 at the Chambers of Mr. Justice Sargant
and Mr. Justice Younger the Royal Courts of Justice,
Strand, London, England, and prove their claims or
in default thereof they will be peremptorily ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday the 15th of October 1918 at 12.30 of the
clock in the afternoon at the said Chambers Room
No. 315 is appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the claims.
Dated this 15th day of March 1918.
CHAS. lIULBERT,
Master of the Supreme Court.
Note.— The said Andrew Selkirk Jack late of 72
Hough Street in the City of Chester and who died
on the 17th October 1915 was born in Scotland of
Scottish parents on the 9th June 1837 and is
believed to have died a bachelor. He had several
brothers the eldest of whom was Alexander Jack
born at Largo, Fife, Scotland, in 1828 and who
went to Australia between 50 and 60 years ago.
Another brother John Jack was born at Largo in
1830 and who is believed to have died before the
Testator. It is not known whether either brother
left any issue but persons descended from either of
them might claim to be interested in the real
estate of the said Alexander Selkirk Jack.
FIELD, ROSCOE & CO.,
36 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London, England,
Agents for Joliffe and Hope, Chester, England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
Business Notices.
The Edison
"AMBEROLA” 75
—a splendid
instrument .
The musical tastes of
every member of your
household may be in-
dulged in your own
home at any time.
Splendid Blue Amberol
records covering the
whole field of musical
entertainment are
played by this instru-
ment, and the “Am-
berola” 75, in either
Golden Oak or
Mahogany finish, is fine
value at £24.
!
The nearest Edison dealer will gladly give
a demonstration. Illustrated catalog post
free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
DIETING TO KEEP WELL.
Some people are born with a tendency to
certain diseases. What they eat either
aggravates this condition or tends to correct
it.
Anyone can see the importance of a proper
diet, but human beings, unlike the lower
animals, lack the instinct that tells them
what to eat and what to avoid.
It is a fact that proper diet and a good
tonic will keep people well under most con-
ditions, and restore ailing folk to health
except in grievous diseases where the need
of a physician is imperative.
Start to-day by writing to the I)r. Wil-
liams’ Medicine Co., Box 594 G.P.0., Syd-
ney, for a free copy of book “What to Eat
and How to Eat.” It contains useful infor-
mation on diet and describes the tonic treat-
ment with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills for indi-
gestion, nervous dyspepsia, troublesome con-
ditions of flatulency or gas on the stomach,
and discomfort after eating caused by lack
of tone in the digestive organs. Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills for Pale People supply the
stomach with well-oxygenated blood, without
which good digestion is impossible.
So, besides dieting, begin a short treat-
ment of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to-day.
Your dealer sells them ; an improvement will
soon show in increased appetite, better
digestion, refreshing sleep and ouiet nerves;
but never waste time trying substitutes—
always ask for Dr. Williams’.— Advt.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Navy Office, Melbourne,
24th April, 191 S.
Special Entry of Naval Cadets in the
Royal Navy.
TTENTION is invited to the Common-
wealth of Australia Gazette of
25th April, 1918, in which appears a copy of
the Regulations for the Special Entry of
Naval Cadets to the Royal Navy for train-
ing at the Royal Naval Colleges at Osborne
and Dartmouth.
Candidates for this Special Entry must
be not more than 181 nor less than 171 years
of age on the Ist of June of the year in which
the examination is held. No nomination is
required.
Applications should be made to the Secre-
tary of the Admiralty, Whitehall, London,
S.W., not later than the Ist of April of each
year. A form of application to be filled in
by the parent or guardian of the candidate
may be obtained from the Admiralty, Lon-
don.
Copies of the Regulations may be obtained
on application to the Naval Secretary,
Navy Office, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
tJv.'OXUJL A.JL V^V-'V/JLV,
Minister of State for the Navy.
JOSEPH COOK,
Business Notices.
>
im.'rife
Are You
Saving Money
by Cycling ?
A considerable proportion of
tbe money you are daily
spending on tram, train and
bus fares could easily be saved
by cycling. A bicycle pays
for itself over, and over again
by stopping this constant
leakage of pence which rapidly
amounts to pounds.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
ITTINO^
■THOROUGHLY BRITISH,”
and ensure years of economical
cycling. It is far cheaper in the end
to invest in the famous BS. A.
quality material and workmanship,
than to risk the doubtful bargain of a
so-called cheap “pattern” machine.
B.S.A. FITTINGS ARE GUARANTEED
INTERCHA NGEA BLE.
A
B.S.A. Handbook
Free
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildinfes,
MELBOURNE.
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver—healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
LittJe
Liver
Pills.
sdg
Carters
ITTLI
IVER
PILLS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price
GENUINE must bear signature
ry
»• i
I
1
< ■ ' fc
■ ' ' ;
f: V
ABBEY
SHOESI
If you desire a correct and distinc-
tive style for every occasion, you
cannot do better than make a point
of wearing ABBEY SHOES.
You are assured perfection in fit,
as they are made in half and full
sizes, and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide.
We illustrate a Tan Willow Calf
Oxford Shoe, with Perforated
Vamp. Very smart and service-
able.
Price - 35/-
WHITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between Q.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
TRADt-n ARK
( THEOXY6EM
TOOTH POWDER
H'Kcsun tßo&eioi
Every Tooth
Perfect.
In three words you have the ex-
perience of users of
the oxygen
TOOTH POWDER.
The oxygen does it. This great
purifier of mouth and tc*th goes
forth into every crevice and cavity
where germs lodge. The oxygen
destroys bacteria and neutralises
acid secretions —it cleanses and
sterilises the mouth and teeth.
Calox tones up the gums, is
pleasing to the taste, and free
from all gritty substances.
Calox is procurable from
All Chemists and
Leading Stores.
H
-i
F. 16-5-18.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


SI AND SCALP
TO CUTICURA
A
-SVC
The Soap to
cleanse and
purify, the
Ointment to
soothe and
heal
Pure and sure, these fragrant, super-
creamy emollients are wonderfully
effective for skin and scalp troubles
that itch, burn, torture and dis-
figure infants, children and adults.
Free Sample Each by Mail
For free sample each address post-card:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold
throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SPEc/aWe
nvo
L lA/E3
sdg
# IS
a h p ,
s
*
WRITE
• FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
ZC /MTER S T NEWCASTLE
ELEYi
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
~ iH
ELEY “ACHILLES”
A deep-shell, dark blue gastight
Cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 gr.) Smokeless Powder and
i£ oz. shot.
ELEY
'320 Revolver
ELEY
'32 Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale:
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON.
This is the Pen
for Active Service
—because it stands the racket .
The “Swan,” like a rifle, is made
true and sure. The ink magazine is
ample and, at command, the pen is
ready for duty immediately. There is
no misfiring, and there are no parts liable
to derangement. When fluid ink is un-
obtainable the magazine may be charged
with ink pellets for use with water.
Send one to your soldier friend. It will make wri-
ting easier and encourage him to send more letters.
Dins
\A
A
WAN
wm
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS ,
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6
Safety Pattern with
Screw-on Cap, from 15/-
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney— (Wholesale only),
325 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston Street, S.E.
Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch: J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
Dhosformo
I THE ROYAL TONIC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
If - - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton &C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
The most effedive and
pleasing Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/6 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to —
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
!
/j
m.
m
M
[l
Composition of the Australian naval and
military forces at —we’ll say Thargommda .
One brig.-general, 1 colonel, 1 lieut.-commander, 1
brevet lieut.-col., 7 majors, 17 captains, 22 lieu-
tenants, 33 warrant-officers, 1 reg. s^-‘ m % or ’
q.m.s., 3 col.-sgt.-majors, 2 col.-sergeants, 6- ser-
geants, 71 corporals, 142 privates.
Only seven majors, 17 captains and 62
sergeants to handle 142 privates the pool
fellows must be sweated to death!
“Chickadee”: As boyish and modest a sol-
dier as ever returned with honor is a young
friend of mine who was recently invalided
home with a Military Medal. His proud
mother insisted that he should show it to his
rich uncle, and the lad, against his will,
consented. The avuncular right-thinker
gazed fish-eyed at the heavy bit. of silver on
its rich silken ribbon of red, white and blue,
and then said he: “H’m —very pretty. But
wait and I’ll show you my golf medals!”
Peterborough (till lately Petersburg), on
the line between Adelaide and Broken Hill
—it is where the Broken Hill line butts into
the East-and-West transcontinental —begins
to think that its water-supply may not be
above suspicion. It has carefully placed the
saleyards, the cemetery and the sanitary
depot all within the catchment area. The
hydraulic-engineer first called attention to
this coincidence, nobody on the spot having
apparently noticed it; and now the Director
of Chemistry in- Adelaide, after one long,
careful look at the resulting fluid, has no
hesitation in giving the opinion that it
shouldn’t be fed to the pigs.
Some of Adelaide’s best-known hotels have
been warned that they will have to argue in
June why the Licensing Bench should not
wipe them out. There is no suggestion
against them in particular, but the Bench
has come to the conclusion that there are
too many in the city. (The Full Court of
S. Aus. said the Licensing Bench had no
power to consider the question, but the
High Court says it has.) So about 30,
mostly those which do not specially cater
for boarders, will have to show that they
are reasonably necessary to the public. The
best known are the Norfolk Arms in Rundle-
street, the Napoleon in King William-street
and Ware’s Exchange in Ilindley-street.
The S. Australian courts will one of
these days be declared black or bogus, they
are always defying Costs and doing some-
thing sensible. A bar door has to be locked
at certain times. One was not; but as the
handle had been taken away the effect was
the same. A Victorian case has decided
that “locked” simply means “securely fast-
ened.” The Adelaide Licensing Court
thought the same, but asked the Crown
whether it would like to have the point
reserved; then it added that, as the offence
was merely technical, if there was a convic-
tion there wouldn’t be a penalty. The
Crown took the hint and declined to bother.
“0.L.”: The customary seasonal outcry
is now being raised in Melbourne against
the “ragging” of freshmen at the University.
Mostly the choice spirits who conduct the
“initiations” are second-year students, try-
ing to go one better than their own perse-
cutors of the previous year. It is a con-
temptible business from any viewpoint; but
the two outstanding features of the case are
(1) that the “raggers” aye mostly of mili-
tary age and (2) that they prudently re-
frain from molesting any freshman w'ho owns
a ready left. The mob spares no lame duck,
however.
The shambling Defence Department,
which has lost and been robbed of so much,
isn’t quite as dead as it looks. It had a
warrant-officer in Melbourne Criminal Court
last week. He had taken away openly the
following Departmental treasures: Part of
an old fowl-house; the wreck of a wheel-
barrow ; an overcoat of 42 b.c. ; a toothless
rake ; a gun cover; some old clothes. Judge
Wasley put it to the jury that, while a
timber-yard employee would be technically
wrong in taking a handful of sawdust, it
wouldn’t be sensible to make a criminal of
the man for doing it. The jury thought so too,
and the verdict of “Not guilty” was cheered
outside the court. The poor old D.D. is a
whale on watching the rubbish-heap and let-
ting the safe take care of itself. You see,
the Best People would never think of going
to the rubbish-heap.
The president of the N. S. Wales Insti-
tute of Architects has been telling us for
our discomfort that, apart from theatres,
the authorities have no control over the con-
struction of buildings so far as their fire-
resisting qualities are concerned. Yet most
fashionable tea-rooms are crowded up next
the stars, and in some cases the alternative
to the lift is a spiral staircase made of soft-
woods. One panic shout of “Fire!” and
over would go the unfixed tables and chairs
in the rush to the exits. In the president’s
expert opinion there could be a first-class
disaster in such places without a sign of
fire, while “the actual event would be a
holocaust.” Another temptation to the Devil
is the large residential flat with softwood
floors and stairways and projecting oriel
windows of softwood and stamped metal
—things which “seem almost specially
designed to facilitate the spread of fire from
storey to storey, forming in some cases
practically uninterrunted flues from the first
floor to the top.”
“George Hooligan”: The Defence Depart-
ment has its own system of economy. Offi-
cers in camp are entitled to mess allowance.
If an officer misses two or more meals,
thus saving the Department something, it
encourages him not to do it again by stop-
ping his mess allowance for that day. For
instance, if an officer, going out on week-end
leave, remains in camp until after lunch
on Saturday he is entitled to his meal
allowance for that day. If he goes out
before lunch and does not eat the food he
doesn’t get the allowance either. It’s the
same in the detail camps. I know a bright
youth whose home was near one of them.
He used to turn out bright and early in the
morning and have a breakfast there. If he
coul.l hang on till lunch-time he collected
3s. 6d. If, however, there was nobody to
play Donkey or some other favorite game
with, and he left before he had eaten an-
other Defence Department meal, he had to
forfeit 3s. 6d.-


Don’t put on the roof until
investigate
m
you
Ti
ins
Sl
You can’t save money by covering your building
with an inferior roofing. But you can save money
by covering it with
Certain-teed
Roofing
It costs practically nothing to maintain a Certain-
teed roof. You save on renewals and upkeep. It
costs no more to lay than an inferior roof.
Waterproof, noiseless, fire retardant, it is guaran-
teed by the world’s largest manufacturer of roof-
ing. And it does not affect the taste of water.
Specify Certain-teed for your Roof and refuse
imitations.
MR. C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee Building:, Sydney, N.S.W.
Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation
SYDNEY AGENTS:
Wunderlich, Ud.
James Sandy & CoEtd.
John Danks & Sons Tty. Etd,
James Hardie & Co.
3 »IV % ftOUAM
?A&iZZX
3iis
S3i
v’-v
bs*6
ms
A\VA
»WkU
£&!*
mom£S§
jrABIt
//
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared 'for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
*
©TILTON
v7Ui? am* t * &
*2
SV2
$' ni).
a*
sB>
r -
*ss
Hi
*xi
Sit
THREE ~RTBBEZ> TYRES
Spencer«Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and -prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
¥r*Ffs,<Sc
- ' '^>4
f7TA
Sporting'
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
ds
“A marvel at the price." »
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, 18in., round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 211 b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
17/6
gds
“Splendid for all small game.”
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon or round barrel, 22 calibre rim fire
magazine takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18' long rifle cartridges case-
hardened receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights'; weight
s}lb„ take-down. Freight paid/
£5/5/-
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
m
C.1
r'*'
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Carrel Freight paid, £5/7/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/10/-
With Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, £5/10/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20
20in.
■, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
round barrel, weight about sjlb Freight paid,
£*si 2/6
g
“A good rifle at a moderate price."
821.
RiJle,
Savage 1904 Model
22-calibre, bolt action,
Single-shot
18in. barrel;
weight about 31b.; bead front and adjustable rear sight.
(Postage on 1 Kifle —N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
30/-
<f!H
Hr
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-sliot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sJlb. ..
Freight paid,
75/-
dsg
'‘Simple and extra strong in construction
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
(short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all. 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.) 00/0
’JMTSMtk
“A suitable weapon for the hoy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F..
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock,
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
open
27/0
Owing to market fluctuations, the prices here quoted only hold good
for two weeks from date.
dsg
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
3839. Remington Automatic Hammer less
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches.
Freight paid.
115/ -
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 45/- 1000/4/6 100.
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
ds
KOOLAH
SHAVING STICKS
Delightful to Use.
7d. each, post free
A perfect ralbiter’s rifle.
837. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12A, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or
11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open
front sights; weight. 441 b.
75/-
gds
83. Stevens’ Favorite Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F. round 24in.
barrel case-hardened frame, solid breech, block under lever _ _
action; weight 4ilb., fitted with ladder rear sight and open front, 35/“*
Fitted with Lyman Combination Rear Sight _
Same rifle, but 22 W.R.F. 25 or 32 calibres, 2/6 extra.
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
■Siami
—,
w
A. low-priced, reliable rifle.
811. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 calibre, rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll trigger
guard, rubber heel plate; weight, 2flb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
30/-
Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bl), also 1918 “Sure Catch"
Anglers' Guide ( Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write jor one or both
lists. They are money savers.
1C
Tjusrmua's greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS
aim TOBACCONISTS
g
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
Newcastle t Brisbane


REXONA and REXONA SOAP
needed in
Every Home.
Little Dimples Hage, the five-year-old daughter of a famous Queensland teacher of violin
and piano, was born with the gift of absolute pitch. If any note is sung or struck she can
instantly name it correctly. Both this clever little girl and her mother are Rexona devotees.
Read the following letter which was written to us by Mrs. Hage in praise of the Rexona
HI
, m
remedies
Dear Sirs, —
I think every mother
should have a pot of
Rexona on hand, for it
is simply wonderful how
often one has to fly to
it, for one cause or
another. I have been
using Rexona myself,
also for my little girl
Dimples, and it would
honestly be a hardship
now to try to get along
without it.
Whenever my little
girl hurts herself in any
way she always runs to
me for some Rexona,
and I can truthfully say
it never disappoints us,
for it always heals and
so quickly cures.
Knowing how good
Rexona was, I bought
some Rexona Soap
recently to try it also,
and I And it delightful.
1 shall always stick by
Rexona, for it is an
article of true merit, and
my little girl says she is
a Rexona girl, and
always will be.
Sincerely yours,
(Sgd.)
(Mrs.) MARY £. D.HAGE.
Tenella,
Moruben Road,
Mosman.
LITTLE DIMPLES lIAGE (from a photo,).
TRY THE REXONA REMEDIES.
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who values a
pure and healthy skin. The longer you neglect your skin the harder it will be to
care for it. Delay may result in eczema, ringworm, running sores or some of the
many and unpleasant forms that skin troubles so often assume. Rexona the Rapid
Healer and Rexona Soap are sure preservatives for the health and skin. Rexona
Soap ensures that clear, fresh skin and beautiful hair which go so far to give any
girl that natural charm and beauty which is her rightful heritage, and Rexona the
Rapid Healer will eradicate any disease which may be apparent, for it arouses the
skin to healthy activity, so that it quickly recuperates. Buy a tablet of Rexona Soap
from your Chemist or Storekeeper. It is beautifully put up and sold at 1/- per tablet,
or you can get it in boxes containing tliree tablets in a box. Rexona is supplied only
in triangular pots at 1/6; or in larger pots, holding four times the quantity, for 3/-
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize IVledalS.
sdg
Works: Birmingham, Engtand
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ft
sd
c n <
SUNBEAM
experience of standardising extra-efficiency
in the guise of the increasing numbers of
UNBEAM-COATALEN
IRCRAFT ENGINES
being supplied to the British and the Allies’
Air Services, involving, as it does, perfection
of design, methods, workmanship and
materials, must inevitably exercise its
influence on our post-war . production
of motor carriages for the public.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St„ London, England
WORKS - - • • Wolverhampton, England
2#
0L
gsd
The Urchin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
TIRED of the city, and spent,
Drawn by a scent on the breeze,
Out of the turmoil I went,
Back to the birds and the trees.
Not as a stranger I drew
Nigh to them, spirits aglow,
But as the urchin they knew
Ages and ages ago.
Under the sun and the moon,
Drawn by that magical scent,
Feet keeping: time to a tune,
Onward and upward I went.
Questing for what I had known,
Seeking for something, in truth,
Known to an urchin alone,
Wise with the wonder of Youth.
There in the song of the birds,
There in the forest, to meet
Something that is not for words,
Wild and elusive and sweet.
Hither and thither I sped,
Pushing,my way through the trees —
Ferns underfoot, and o’erhead
Flowers and the murmur of bees.
Breasting the bracken, I woke.
Blooms of the branch and the vine,
Wattle and laurel and oak,
Myrtle and gum-tree and pine
Mantling the earth like a cloth,
Green lay the moss o’er all things ;
Butterfly, beetle and moth
Jewelled the noontide with wings.
Beautiful birds of the Bush
Thrilled me with sweetness again—
Iloneybird, magpie and thrush,
Redhead and robin and wren.
Ybt, ah, the pity to tell!
Gone was the something I sought,
Gone was the magical spell,
Youth with his wizardry wrought.
Common the gold and the green,
Splendid no more with a glow
Such as the urchin had seen
Ages and ages ago.
Tame were the ways that were wild.
Vanished their freshness and joy—-
Gone with the mind of the child,
Fled with the heart of the boy.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Pansy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
nMIIERE had been an episode in the
career of Lieutenant Gregory Wicks,
11. N., which that young sailor-man
never referred to without using language
that can only be described as discreditable tb
an officer and a gentleman—even in days
when the habitual expletives, adjurations and
objurgations of the quarter-deck were lurid,
obscene and blasphemous beyond measure.
If anyone else referred to it, his brown face
would take on a tinge of crimson, his laugh-
ing blue eyes harden, and a moment of great
danger to the facial beauty of him who had
the temerity to mention it would ensue. So
much did its recalling anger him that even
the relations existing between himself and
the friend of his bosom, Ensign Patrick Cal-
der of the 46th, were once, in danger of
violent rupture because of it, and the Settle-
ment was on the verge of being entertained
by a duel between these bright young orna-
ments of the sister services and the garrison
life of Sydney. He had long learned to
answer to the nickname of Pansy because he
had to; but it was extremely unsafe for any-
one to bring up the story that had led to its
universal bestowal upon him. However,
since the bones of the gallant Captain Wicks
have lain these many years near those of
good Sir John Franklin, within the white
wastes of the Arctic circle, the incident may
safely be recalled now.
Very briefly, this is the tale of the girl at
Gosport and Mr. Midshipman Wicks, of
H.M.S. Victory.
In the year 1803, when the flagship of
Admiral Lord Nelson was preparing for sea
at Portsmouth, at the commencement of her
most celebrated commission, Mr. Gregory
Wicks, officially described as one of the
“young gentlemen” of the famous old line-o’-
battleship—already nearly 40 years afloat —
was sent into the village of Gosport for the
purpose of securing recruits for the Naval
forces of Gfeat Britain, who might be will-
ing or otherwise. It was immaterial to the
fulfilment of Mr. Wicks’s orders whether
they were the one or the other. With him
was a loud-voiced boatswain’s mate named
Thomas Martin, who had a red chin-beard
and w'hiskers, and ten men of some length
of service in the Navy, considerable hardness
of heart and fist, and a sardonic humor that
was well adapted to the business of the press
gang. They were afmed with cutlasses and
stout oaken cudgels, whilst their command-
ing-officer had his pistols and a hanger. It
was raining dismally and was very dark
when they landed on Gosport Hard about
eight o’clock in the evening.
Two men Mr. Wicks left with the boat.
There is no martinet like the martinet of
seventeen, and he breathed awful threats of
terrible and vague portent ere he led the
others up into the village.
“We’ll be back at any moment,” he said,
“and may the Lord help ye, ye swabs,
if ye leave the boat an instant. If any come
offering ye grog, drive ’em away; for if I
smell it on ye, ’tis two dozen apiece for ye.
Ye’ll see the First Lootenant, my hearties,
an’ ’twill be to your disadvantage, I pro-
mise ye. So mind what I say!”
“Th’ young snippet,” growled one of
them as Mr. Wicks and his party faded into
the night.
“Martin,” whispered Mr. Wicks presently,
when they had penetrated a little way into
a narrow street, wherein candlelight gleamed
dimly through the wet diamond panes of
closed casements, and dark eaves overhung
the glistening cobble-stones shining dully in
infrequent patches where the light filtered
across them—“ Martin, do ye take the men
and beat up the inns—all except the Goat.
I’ll go there myself and see hAw the land
lies. Be round the place, back and front, by
ten o’clock, and when ye hear my whistle —
one short and one long—break in. I think
I’ll have a likely lad for ye.”
"Aye, aye, sir,” growled the petty-officer.
Mr. Wicks left them at a corner and turned
down a cross street.
It is sad to say that Mr. Wicks contem-
plated a measure of treachery that was
entirely out of keeping with his frank and
open nature. It may be urged in extenua-
tion that he was in love, and that his age
was seventeen years. No man ever falls in
love so fiercely as he is apt to'do at seven-
teen, no man is ever more buoyant or more
despairing or more unscrupulous than he can
be in the affairs of the heart that beset him
before he comes of age. Nothing can daunt
him, nothing soften his ruthlessness, nothing
temper his rashness. There is nothing in the
world but himself, his adored one, and the
passion that rends him.
Down at the next corner, red blinds and
a flickering oil-lamp in an outstanding
bracket marked the position of The Goat
and Compasses—a tavern sign which, as has
often been explained, has no Masonic signi-
ficance. From the doorway under the lamp
—which opened on to the leeside of the
house, as the wind blew that night—a broad
band of light made a swathe of brightness
across the muddy street. Mr. Wicks came
to" the door, and went in.
There was no one in the low-ceiled bar-
room when he entered, and he paused a
moment —a handsome stripling he looked, in
his midshipman’s uniform, with its strange
little glazed pot-hat—before he knocked on
the- counter. Sounds of low voices were in
the room behind, and he knocked again before
the door was opened and a girl came in.
“Oh, you darling,” she cried softly, as she
passed before the shelves of sparkling bottles
and toddy and punch glasses. “’Tis you,
dear —oh, I am glad !”
She was a fair girl, and a handsome one.
She had a jolly, smiling face, and a wealth
of flaxen hair, and red, full lips, and her
eyes sparkled.
“Come here,” she said, and when Mr.
Wicks advanced shyly to the counter, she
leaned across it and kissed him on the mouth.
“Dear boy!” she murmured as she drew her
face away.
“Pansy,” he said —“is he here?”
She laughed prettily.
“No, then —he’s not, you jealous baby. But
he was here. He’s gone now. Come inside.
Do. I’m all alone. He sails at daylight—
thank goodness!—but he’s coming in later to
say good-bye. But we’ll —we’ll ha’ done
before he comes,” she whispered, blushing. I
“We’ll ha’ done our love-making, Greg dear.”
“You’re sure he’s coming again?”
“Yes," yes. You know what a fool he is
about me. But we don’t want him now, do
we? You only want me, and I only want you
— sweetheart. Ye’ve torn y’r pantaloons,
Greg. I’ll mend ’em for ye.”
She kissed him again, as they went through
the door, his arm about her slender waist.
There was a warm fire in the little room—
red coals in an iron grate—and the girl took
a conical tin implement with a handle, filled
it with old ale from a little barrel, and set
it amidst the coals. Also, she emptied, unseen,
of Mr. Wicks, a small wliite paper of greyish
powder into the brew. Then she sat herself
upon the knee of the blushing youth, and
smiled into his eyes, and pressed her red lips
to his, and hugged him with her soft arms to
her soft bosom. And sighed. And languished.
And Mr. Wicks felt that he was the Very
Devil.
“And what is my boy about to-night, with
his pistols and his sword? I declare he
looks as though he meant murder!”
“Listen, Pansy, love,” said Mr. Wicks, hesi-
tatingly. “You wish to be rid of this fellow,
and your father objects to him? This Car-
michael, who persecutes you with his atten-
tion?”
She sighed, and glanced over Mr. Wicks’s
shoulder in the direction of a glass-topped
door. A red face was pressed to the glass,
and the grin upon it was almost* audible.
“Dear one —yes. How can you doubt it?
How happy I could be if ’twas but you and
me.” she whispered. “Oh, would that I were
rid of him!”
“You shall be rid of the fellow!” de-
clared Mr. Wicks valiantly. “This very
night. I mean to press him. He’ll ’ not
trouble ye again, my Pansy. Damme if he
will!” he swore loudly.
The grinning face behind the glass scowled
for a moment —then grinned again, as the
girl- nodded towards it with a smile.
“The d—d coal-porter, the impudent black-
guard ! He called me Sonny. We’ll teach
him better than that aboard his Majesty’s
ship Victory. Better than that. He’ll find
the skipper of a Leith collier doesn’t count
for much in his Majesty’s sarvice. I’ll show
him who’s who!”
She slipped from his knee, ran to the
grate, and lifted the ale from the glowing
coals. She poured it into a pewter mug, and
set it on the round table at his elbow.
“Drink it while ’tis hot, dearie. And
ye’ll really take James Carmichael away?”
“ ’Tis easy, love. He’ll be here again, you
say? At ten o’clock my men will be around
the house. I’ve but to blow my whistle. A
short and a long blast,”
“Oh —la. la, la!” she trilled. “He’ll make
a pretty* Jack Tar to fight the Frenchies,
won’t he! Come, drink our healths, yours
and mine ! Oh, you dear thing ! Don’t —you
mustn’t do that!”
Mr. Wicks took a pull at the warm ale,
and then another. Ten minutes later he was
fast asleep, bending over the table, his head
pillowed upon his arms. At ten o’clock, from
a room upstairs, a whistle sounded, and Tom
Martin, with the Victory’s men, broke ob-
streperously into the tavern —about the time
(Continued on next page.)


£
I'Sxsm
STRAINED MUSCLES, CRAMP, STIFFNESS
and MUSCULAR TROUBLES GENERALLY.
ZAM-BUK SOOTHES PAIN,
STIMULATES THE MUSCLES
AND BANISHES ALL WEAKNESS
Sprains are said to be worse than
breaks. . Many a housewife thinks so
when she twists her ankle w hile tripping
thoughtlessly downstairs, and so does
the pedestrian who makes a sudden and
unexpected descent from pavement to
gutter. The thing happens so simply,
and is so acutely painful, isn’t it?
y
• iu« tiVJ.VMi
ft
ffea
n
,*ni
Most sprained joints take a long' time to
get well, which probably accounts for the
saying referred to above; but proper first-
aid measures, and treatment with Zam-Buk,
ensure the speediest possible recovery.
In serious cases foment the ankle (or
wrist, as the case may be) in very hot water
for some time, keeping up the heat of the
bath by constant additions. This will reduce
the swelling and lessen the pain. Then wrap
up in cotton wool and bandage firmly but
not too tightly. Later on cold water bathing
may be commenced, and Zam-Buk should be
gently applied to allay the inflammation.
This point accomplished, massage with Zam-
Buk is advisable. Rub the balm well in
with a circular motion, gently at first and
more vigorously as the patient can stand it.
These measures (and proper rest, of
course) will cure the worst sprain or strain.
Zam-Buk soothes the pain, and makes the
muscles and ligaments supple and strong
again. A pot should be kept handy in,
every home.
Sprained Ankle
Speedily Cured.
“While going down the back
steps I slipped and sprained
my ankle,’’ says Mrs. M.
Ebner, of Mort Street, Too-
woomba, Queensland. “The
pain was acute, and made it
almost impossible for me to
get about.
“My son strongly recom-
mended Zam-Buk, so we pro-
cured a pot and rubbed the
Balm well into the ankle and
surrounding parts. The swell-
ing quickly went down, the
pain died away, and my ankle
is now as supple and strong as
ever it was.
“Zam-Buk is a splendid
healer to have in the home.”
Rub Zam-Buk In to Rub Pain Out.
am
'EVERY HOME NEEDS A POT."
Zam-Buk Is excel-
lent for eczema,
ulcers, bad legs,
ringworm, rash,
barcoo rot, sore
feet, outs, bruises,
scalds, and other
Injuries and skin
troubles. Of all
chemists and
stores, at 1/6 and
3/6 per pot.
21
©
i
0
m
M
C 7 D
w w>
X
Guard Against Substitution
The “ VALET ” Blade, as enclosed with each Auto Strop
Safety Razor, is the only Genuine Blade for the Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
A Warning to the Public
There are many cheap, insidious substitutes of imitation
blades being foisted on to the public for the genuine
Auto Strop Valet Blade. The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.
Ltd. asks you to refuse them and to use only Auto Strop
“VALET” Blades in the famous Auto Strop Safety Razors.
Price in the Commonwealth, 3/- packet.
Price in New Zealand, - - 3/0 packet.
Obtainable everywhere throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO BLADE SO KEEN
NO SHAVE SO CLEAN.
that James Carmichael and his wife, laugh-
ing and giggling, shoved a dinghy out on to
the harbor, and rowed cautiously towar-ds the
riding light of the Four Maries, of Leith.
That dingy craft, slipping her cable, drifted
down on the tide towards Spithead—and this
is what the boatswain’s mate and the press-
gang found in the little room behind the bar
of The Goat and Compasses.
Mr. Wicks, snoring and past waking, sat
in a straight-backed wooden armchair, his
legs sprawled out, and his glazed hat tilted
over his eyes. On the table beside him, a
bunch of artificial pansies and blue forget-
me-nots, .fashioned cunningly out of silk,
rested on a sheet of paper, on which was
written in a crabbed hand: “With love from
Pansy Carmichael.”
“D—n my heyes!” swore Tom Martin,
gasping. “Look at our young cockchafer—
oh, look at him! O my Gawd!”
The slumbering midshipman’s trousers
were missing, and, instead of them, he wore
white feminine garments, flounced and frilled.
* * * *
Ensign Calder grumbled exceedingly when
he was roused at four o’clock in the morn-
ing, on a bright dawn in January, 181 G, by
the adjutant of the 46th —the genial Cap-
tain Blake —and informed peremptorily that
he must proceed down the harbor in charge
of an armed guard, to go aboard the convict
transport Dreamland, which had anchored in
Watson’s Bay the previous evening, with a
tale of trouble and mutiny, and some prison-
ers, who were to be landed immediately. But
before the morning was over he was ready
td vow that no duty had ever before afforded
him such keen enjoyment.
At the gangway of the Dreamland he was
met by the Naval Officer, Captain John
Piper, who had half a dozen heavily-ironed
men awaiting, his coming. He explained that
the ship was bound to the Derwent Settle-
ment in Van Diemen’s Land, but had b«en
driven past the island and up the coast of
New South Wales by a succession of heavy
southerly gales. Her captain had called at
Port Jackson for water and provisions, and
to land six men who stood charged with
mutiny and the murder of the chief-officer
and a soldier. Also, that Captain Carmichael
would be glad if Mr. Calder would step into
the cabin and partake of breakfast. Mr.
Calder was nothing loth, and he and Captain
Piper walked aft, whilst the soldiers weye
handed down some refreshment in the boat.
Three-quarters of an hour afterwards Mr.
Calder came out on deck grinning. The
prisoners were already in the boat, and h 6
shoved off hastily. When he was a little
the ship, to the great scandal of
the coxswain, he roared with laughter, beat
his fist upon the gunwale, and, rocking to
and fro, in an ecstasy of pent-up mirth,
murmured chokingly, at intervals :
“O Pansy— O Pansy!”
H.M.S. Emu, of which ship Mr. Wicks
was First Lieutenant, lay at anchor in the
Cove, and ordering the coxswain to run
alongside her, Mr. Calder climbed the ladder
and enquired for his friend. With much
difficulty he composed his features and waited
on the quarter-deck. Presently Mr. Wicks
came forth.
“Pansy, old boy, I’m in the Devil’s own
hurry, but there’s a ship at the Heads, the
Dreamland, and a lady on board who knows
you. Wants you to run down without delay.
Ta, ta—must be off. Got some birds to put
in their little cages.”
“Knows me? Who is she, Patrick?”
“I —er —didn’t catch her name quite, but
she’s very charming. Better run down. See
you this evening. Come to my quarters.”
Mr. Calder’s grin almost startled the sen-
try on the King’s Wharf as the boat drew
alongside. Having delivered his prisoners at
the gaol in George-street, he hastened to
the mess, to acquaint other appreciative souls
with the joke against Mr. Wicks, R.N.
Mr. Wicks arrived at Watson’s Bay about
noon. Boarding the Dreamland he asked
for the master, and in a minute or two that
worthy Scot made his appearance.
Mr. Wicks started as he saw him. In
some vague fashion he seemed to recollect
his features, and was uneasily conscious of
the fact that such recollection afforded him
little pleasure—though he could not tell
himself why.
“Good mornin’ to ye, sir; an’ what may I
hae th’ pleasure o’ doin’ for ye?” inquired
the big, red-faced man with humorous eyes
and a perpetual smile that hovered about his
kindly features.
“Good morning, sir,” answered Mr.
Wicks. “My friend Ensign Calder, who
has been here this morning, brought me a
message that you had a passenger—a lady.
I think —who desired to see me. He did
not remember her name. Might I beg you to
acquaint the lady, whoever she may be, that
I am at her service?” he said, with a polite
bow.
“Week there’s but one leddy aboar-rd, an’
she’s Mistress Carmichael, ma guid wife.
’Twill be hersel’, nae doot?”
Mr. Wicks looked at him in a puzzled
fashion. The conviction grew upon him
that he had some unpleasant recollection of
the master of the Dreamland, but he could
define the sensation no further. He followed
the captain into the cabin.
Seated on a settee,' engaged in needle-
work. was a very plump and very fair lady,
who had blue eyes and a pretty red mouth
and who smiled and nodded, as Mr. Wicks
halted in amazement a few paces from her.
“Well, Gregory,” she laughed, “do ye not
remember me?”
“My God!” muttered Mr. Wicks. “You —
you —and him !”
He flushed angrily and turned to Captain
Carmichael. “Sir!” he rapped out.
“Nae, nae, young gentleman- -dinna fash
yersel’. Pansy, here, and I—we but desire
for tae make amends. Never before hae we
had th’ chance. When we came again to
PoT-rtsmouth in th’ Four Maries—twal’ year
agone—ye were at sea wi’ Lor-rd Nelson —
Heaven bless his brave name —an’ never till
th’ mor-rn hae we had wor-rd o’ ye. Not till
Cap’n Piper spoke yeer name at breakfast
did we ken ye Avere i’ New Holland. He
spiered o’ Mr. Calder —-a bonny young soger,
yon—hoo ye were, an’ th’ guid wife here
wheespers it mus’ be yersel’. Sit ye doon,
sir. Will ye no tak’ a wi’ drappie' wi’ us
and forgie us? ’Twas all fair. I was in
love, an’ ye was in love. Ye’d ha’ pressed
me, gin I hadna stolen a mar-rch upon ye.
Noo, wouldn’t ye?”
Mechanically Mr. Wicks laid his hand
upon the back of the chair that Captain
Carmichael pushed towards him. He was
dazed, he could not catalogue his emotions.
It came to him that he ought to be very
angry. He was very angry, outragedly
angry, with Pat Calder. He would fight
Pat Calder, d —n him if he wouldn’t —the
scurvy rascal, to land him into this! But
somehow, he could feel no real wrath with
this kindly couple. And then Mrs. Car-
michael laughed merrily.
“Gregoty,” she cried, “come and kiss me !’*
“Aye, mon—kiss an’ be frien’s!” laughed
her husband. “Faith ye’ve done it afore —
I’ve seen ye.”
He laid his big hand on Mr. Wicks’s
shoulder and pushed him gently towards his
wife. That buxom lady stood up and threw
her plump, sleeveless arms about his neck.
She hugged him shamelessly. When she
released him the big sailor gripped his hand
and wrung it.
“And see here, Gregory,” laughed Mrs.
Carmichael, “here’s yeer pants —I’ve just
mended ’em. What ha’ ye done wi’ what I
lent ye? We couldn’t leave you barelegged!
Why, I believe ye’d forgotten all about me
—even forgotten my name.”
Suddenly the humor of it struck Mr.
Wicks. He threw back his head and laughed
—a boyish, merry laugh.
“Forgotten your name, dear Pansy ! No,
by heavens I haven’t —I promise ye. I’ve
never been permitted to!”
“Will ye no help yersel’?” beamed Captain
Carmichael, pulling the cork from a squat
black bottle, and placing glasses on the
round table. “ ’Tis real Mountain Dew. Our
boy’s named after ye—he’s at schule tae
Edinbro’.”
And so—but it was fortunate for Mr. Cal-
der that duty took him to Parramatta early
that afternoon.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Big Medicine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BERT MAYHEW might swank for ten
years round the show-ring at War-
field with his bonny mare, harness
bought yesterday and sulky delivered that
very morning, and win enough blue ribbons
to tie up the whole art gallery ; but Bob and
Bill had had enough of the Show. So they
only turned up their peeling noses when the
turnout came bouncing round to the cheers
of the grandstand. As a matter of fact,
before Bert’s caravan danced into the ring at
all the boys had turned down the whole
Show in three-ply weariness and extra-gal-
vanised disgust.
Fed up? They were choking! Perhaps
they had started too enthusiastically, touch-
ing admiringly every bull’s fat rump, pinch-
ing every prize sheep’s cushioned fleece, and
almost singing at the high art in the pigs.
Now they had rejected without a vote the
whole of the produce exhibits as bragging
bundles and bags of rubbish.
But the train was three hours yet, and
they had to live on meanwhile.
They turned their backs on the ring finally
and dropped under a big gum. A pip that
threatened to become permanent crumpled up
their brown, seamed faces.
Neither spoke, for neither had anything to
say. Half an hour of this didn’t improve
them. So they crawled on their feet and
wandered towards the crowd.
They got among the sideshows. “Good
Lord, here’s the last thing on earth —a round-
about !” said Bob. They tried it at three-
pence apiece. Afterwards they got over
their giddiness leaning against a platform
where a stale and faded lady invited the
world to witness a free exhibition of con-
juring with an egg and a black bag. “Could
do it better,” Bill snarled, “with a poddy
and the separator.” The lady heard him.
“Clear out and camp a bit,” she hissed.
They saw a fellow playing soft games
with a paralysed snake. The appearance at
his side of a pretty half-caste girl with bare
legs promised better. But they were too far
gone for a lady’s glamor.
“Let’s try a cup o’ tea. It’ll fill up time,”
said Bob. But they did not smile back once
at the pleasant Red Cross lady, because the
jam sandwich didn’t make' up for the thin
tea.
“Can’t smoke here, I suppose,” grumbled
Bill.
“No hope,” returned Bob; “come on—l’m
sick o’ sleeping here.”
Outside they fell in with a shooting gal-
lery. “Try a shot, gentlemen,” shouted the
bright boss of the war zone.
“Keep it,” muttered Bill.
And the funeral passed on.
They lay up against the outer skin of a
crowd, and waited. After a few jerks they
found themselves on a spinning-jenny. The
few bob they tried went the way of all flesh.
It was a bit of a tonic, but not strong
enough. “Try again, gentlemen,” gurgled
the jenny man. They left the hospital as
bad as ever.
“Never again!” wailed Bill. “No more
shows for me. Only run a bloke in for a
seven-quid rig-out to boil in.” He mopped
his face of sweat and dust.
They sank down and down a hundred
fathoms of dark-blue misery.
Through their underworld a shout, sharp
as a shot, rang out from the platform of a
show twenty yards away. “Just goin’ to
begin. Two bob, and ’ere y’are. Bill Lucas
will chop against a local champion.”
The spirit moved a bit. “Cripes, a wood-
chop !”
“After the wood-chop five rounds be-
tween” —
Before he could name the gladiators, two
radiant spirits had floated into the big booth
without touching the ground once, and were
arguing at the ringside with a fat man who
seemed to know too much.
A t a quarter-past twelve, as Bob was try-
ing to get out of his new pants sg> as not to
discourage the beautiful crease down each
leg, he remarked. “Best ever.”
“Dinkum,” replied Bill.
W. PARION.


Kf#
,,v, .e^i
It s>-
■- •
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu=
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book=
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
REMINGTON
mZw
1
moaerti
.22 Cal.
9
peatmg
Rifle
A modern .22 caliber
repeating rifle must
combine accuracy
witb convenience and
safety. The Remington
UMC Repeater bao a solid
breecb, is hammerless, easily
taken apart and sboots witb unfailing
Examine one at your dealer a or
accuracy,
send for descriptive catalogue free upon request.
ARMS UMC CO.
D. D. BRYANT, Manager
REMINGTON
Box 686, Melbourne
»
#
/
//
mm
n
g
sdg
No. 102
iin. to 1 \in.
(6 sizes in
one tool.)
OSTER
BULLDOG
DIESTOCKS
Oster Screwing
Tackle, Dies
and Extra Parts
are carried in
stock by
Ironmongers,
Machinery and
Hardware and
Plumbing Supply
Houses.
HT HE tools with five big features: (1) Self-
* locking, adjustable dies, (2) self-centring
guides, (3) no running back over newly-cut
screws, (4) no loose bushings to lose, (5) no
breakable small parts. Eleven convenient sizes.
Write for catalog.
Australasian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT, Box 251, G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A. [i
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win ivithout
lifting a hand?
sd
YOUR ILLS
WITH
BEECHArfs Pills
MOTORISTS!
Are you prepared to meet the advance in your running costs when
PETROL GOES UP
by any means other than paying the extra cash?
Why not BURN MORE AIR
and thus increase your mileage per gallon by at least 10% ?
Pit to your carburetter manifold
A Hand-controlled Extra Air CocK.
Can be easily installed in a few minutes.
Besides being A SPLENDID GASOLINE SAVER
this device can he used as an efficient air brake when coasting hills.
PRICES:
jin. Full Bore, Straight Nose, Extra-Air Coclf,
with all Unions, Clips, &c., and 4jft. Flexible Hose
Ain. ditto, ditto, ditto ■ ■ ••••
Jin. Full Bore, Bent Nose, ditto, ditto, ditto
Brass finish. Nickel finish.
15/- 15/9 comp.
18/3 19/- comp.
19/9 20/6 comp.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
: v-
m. m M
0
Q
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
CHAS.
■5
•u
Richmond, Victoria.


NGROVIT
LEATHER
LTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“AIAiS (jiKO VITE” liawhide, which
differs from all other so-called liawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
on * °
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
gsd
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle S Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 l,atrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
StOLOB£%
S®sS
SLIPS*
tnm : w**** :a.j ?**«
Fit*
Charles Atkins & Co. Rtd., Adelaide. John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Does Your Belting Earn Its Keep?
Time lost through stoppage of machinery,
or slowed-down machinery, soon makes a
hole in your profits.
Guard against such leaks l|y using
Dicks Balata Belting
(The Original and Genuine)
in all power-transmission purposes.
DICK’S BELATA BELTING has
greater flexibility than any leather or
composition Belt, and slipping is practi-
cally impossible.
DICK’S BELATA BELTING en-
sures utmost service, freedom from stop-
pages and minimum upkeep cost.
SEND FOR BOOKLET
and full particulars.
Sole Importers:
JAMES HARDIE & CO. Ltd.
Cor. York and Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Gray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their stfong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
*
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N. 2.
g
Little Monitor Petrol Engines
Specially designed for driving Separators, small Chaffeutters, etc.
Strong, simple and effective. Economic in working. Has magneto
ignition and many late advantages over others. Only one size
made, viz., ljh.p., and the special low price is £25. packed and
delivered free on boat or rail Melbourne. Further particulars
may be had on application. Inquiries solicited.
D. 8 W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.,
Next P. 0., Fitacroy, Melbourne.
Agents for Tomlin Incubators ; Syracuse Plows, Cultivators,
etc.; Planet Jun. Implements, Kangaroo Sewing Machines,
all Poultry, Farm and Garden Requisites.
BIGGEST MAIL-ORDER HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
COUNTRY ORDERS A SPECIALTY. WRITE FOR QUOTATIONS.
?'
<;
■taAOt
Ts
o
o
y
?^c/srtol2
&ON
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by IS razing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; Jib., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
11b. Flux will braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St. Hilda, Victoria.
K
/rS
'local
«o>s
K!
PATRIOTISM
.Your
Aim
Then have aSIIOT
at smoking
K \
1
1
X
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
ELECTRIC LIGHT FOR ALL
DEICO-LIGHT
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE ACENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
.
■
i
• ¥
'
mw
mm
sdg
sdgd
sg
'iste& 2-Stand Shearing Plant
The Outfit that “Swept the Poll” in the 1917 Season.
1?. I). McAIASTER, Esq., Dalkeith, Cassilis, writes, under date 24th January:
“I have pleasure in stating: that' i have given both of the 2 Stand Portable
Crutehing Plants I purchased from you an exhaustive trial, and with the
utmost satisfaction. They are handy to move about, economical to run, and
the Fairbanks Morse Engine is simplicity itself. Crutehing at the different
sheep-yards is, in my opinion, a far better method than doing the work at
the woolshed, as the saving for the lambing ewes in driving alone is very
considerable.”
SCORES OF SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Order Your Plant for 1918 now to ensure getting it.
SELF LUBRICATING
BEARING
LEATHER FRICTION
cone engages smoothly
a>»d silently
'VONE PEICE SPINDLE,
wllh long bearings
New improved'Lister' Bracket
for 2 Stand Combined Plants
(PATONT6O)
DANCAR,GEDYE & CO. LTD., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Eagle St., Brisbane
NOTE THE FEATURES OF THIS
LISTER BRACKET.
MY IS
EVERLASTING VALVES
“The Leak-proof Valve”
IN THE POWER HOUSE
SimlwlT THRfJUCH BLOW
■ - f“4*
FOR BLOW OFF,
MAIN STOP,
ENGINE STOPS,
AIR, AMMONIA,
WATER.
Typos for all Services and all Pressure to 30001 b.
Write for Book on Valve Practice—post Free.
BILLETT’S TUYERES
“Hot Blast”
IN THE BLACKSMITH’S SHOP
SAVE 25 PER CENT. ON COAL.
SAVE 30 PER CENT. ON TIME.
NO WATER.
CLINKERS DISCHARGED WITHOUT
DISTURBING FIRE.
25/- to 40/-
Full Particulars and Leaflets from
1
N. Guthridge Ltd., Sole Manufacturers, 350 George Street, Sydney. Works: Camper down, N.S.W.
