

SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. Gr. WA.TK.mS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Streefc, Syaney,
—FOK —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
f Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
■
r^opey
on all classes of
security
Trade Bills Discounted
TELEPHONE * CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “DAILY TELEGRAPH" NEW BUILDING
And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTAGE BENNETT, General Manager
The Sewage System
with no Drawbacks.
Wat private- houses or public institutions the
one system that is free from all disagreeable
features is the
Oxidising (Non-Sept ic) System
of Sewage Disposal.
Jt is entirely different from the Septic sys-
tem. The Sewage is dissolved and given
e$ in the form of odorless gas. There is
n«t the slightest suggestion oi' offensive
oAprs even on hottest days. The Oxidising
system a'so costs less than the septic.
■ Before you instal any process send for our
interesting 10-page booklet and learn the
many advantages of the Oxidising process.
MONTGOMERIE-NEILSOM
OXIDISING SEWAGE DISPOSAL;
50 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
u
PPLE
Nothino
to Arcuc
About!'
BN
6
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating' for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
J
dg gsdg
«m- INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily; f after
meals. 1
Awarded ISO First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
“Not the same as others.”
M,
y^3
■superior for
flat roofs.
Every yard of Malthoid roll roofing that lias ever been used, has supplied
a conclusive demonstration of its undeniable superiority over all others. >
Architects demand it for use on all large roofing areas, such as city flat
roofs, wool sheds, manufacturing premises, motor garages and vehicle
sheds, and for farm buildings and shearing sheds. Write for samples and
descriptive, illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L-
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc ,
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
o
MACHINERY.
Steel Moulds for Making Concrete Pipes .
“Leplastrier” “Quick-set” Australian-ma de Pipe Mould enables Shires, Municipalities aiul
others to Manufacture Easily, Expeditiously and Cheaply—
CULVERT PIPES from local material, with the addition of cement.
SIZES SUPPLIED: 12in. inside dia. x 24in. long. 18in. inside dia. x 2-lin. long.
15in. inside dia. x 24in. long. 24in. inside dia. x 24in. long.
If interested , WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Queensland Enquiries: AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CJ. LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane.
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER TUBES.
Solid Drawn Tubes—
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles—
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
GILBERT LODGE & CO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
OPALOID
axsvd
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Moutn.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Rowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
To]. 39.—N0. 2002 ]
[Thursday, June 27, 1918.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


A
FIRST
by Merit.
Here is the Motor Bicycle to
take you anywhere in comfort.
By sheer merit the B.S.A.
'Motor Bicycle has proved
itself the ideal solo and sidecar
machine. For business and
pleasure, town or country, the
B,S.A. will not only give you
reliable service but will also
prove most economical.
MOTOR BICYCLES
For Solo & Sidecar.
For over 40 years B.S.A. produc-
tions have maintained one hifch
standard of quality, and the material
and workmanship embodied in
B.S. A. Motor Bicycles are of this
famous B.S.A. quality. Every part
of a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle has to
pass the most severe testing and is
guaranteed interchangeable.
I
8.9. A.
B.S.A. Motor List
Free .
D. Y. RENNIE,
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Building*,
MELBOURNE.
PCK-MYER
DIMMER
KEEP
“WITHIN
THE LAW’*
by using
same.
A
15/« Post Paid Anywhere.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—ran illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High llol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
Afraid of Food
Sufferers from Indigestion very often become
faddists as regards their food, and find them-
selves in time reduced to a very meagre and
unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eu menthol
Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and
their antiseptic properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of the food, thus allowing the
natural digestive ferments to act, and if
taken regularly after meals they so improve
the digestion that a strict diet becomes un-
necessary. Hudson’s Euhientliol Jujubes are
most useful to those,who suffer from Heart-
burn, Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
Kl'E,
On
Gwt
SOLD EVERYWHERE —TINS I/O.
Recommended by the Medical World, viz. —
The Lancet, The Practitioner. etc. [1
An EXTRAORDINARY BOOK
First Edition, 10,000 copies,
exhausted in Seven Days.
How Russia Was Betrayed.
The Amazing True Story of
RASPUTIN
THE RASCAL MONK
m
As Disclosed by the Official
Correspondence and Documents
BY
William Le Queux
2/ posted.
NEVER before has there been placed
before the public such a series of
astounding disclosures as are to be
'found in this book. The rise from obscurity
to immense and diabolical power of this
“mock saint,” who controlled the secret
forces and lured Russia to her betrayal,
is intimately portrayed by the help of
official and confidential documents. The
author writes“As one who knows Russia
intimately, I confess that I have often been
astounded when examining the mass of docu-
ments which this dirty Siberian peasant (the
convicted horse-stealer who rose to be Rib
secret adviser of Nicholas 11.) had
secreted in his eellar in Petrograd, so
that the real truth of his traitorous deal-
ings with the Kaiser might be chronicled
in history.”
SPECIAL AUSTRALIAN EDITION
NOW READY.
Obtainable from all Newsagents and Bookstalls, or from
Melville Mullen Pty. Ltd.,
202-264 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“I readily admit that the career of Rasputin, the sinister power behind the
Russian throne, and whose story I am here revealing, will appear incredible to
my readers. No work of fiction of mine has contained facts so extraordinary as
the real life of this unwashed charlatan, who, under the active protection of a
debased church, succeeded in establishing himself in the apartments of the
favorite lady-in-waiting upon the Empress, and further to teach his horrible
‘religion’ to the innocent daughters of the Tsar.” —William Le Quenx.
[AUTHOR’S PREFACE]
Why This Book Was Written
In the following pages I have attempted to take the reader behind the veil
'of the Imperial Russian Court, and to disclose certain facts which In this
twentieth century may appear almost incredible.
A.s one who knows Russia, who has traversed the Empire from Virballen to
the Pacific coast, and who has met personally both the ex-Emperor and his consort,
as well as many of the persons herein mentioned, I confess that I myself have
often been astounded when examining the mass of documents which this dirty
Siberian peasant—the convicted horse-stealer who rose to be the secret adviser
of Nicholas II. —had happily secreted in the safe in his cellar in the Gorokhovaya,
in Petrograd, so that the real truth of his traitorous dealings with the Kaiser
might be chronicled in history.
I here publish the story of the mock-monk’s amazing career as a further
contribution to the literature upon Germany’s spy system and propaganda so
cleverly established as an insidious adjunct to her military attack upon the
civilisation of our times- .
The conversations herein recorded have been disclosed by patriotic Russians,
the truth has been winnowed out of masses of mere hearsay, and the cipher tele-
grams and letters I have copied from the decoded originals placed at my disposal
by certain Russians, Allies of ours, who desire, for the present, to. remain
anonymous.
Devonshire Club, London, SAY.
November, 1917.
WILLIAM LE QUEUX.
Melville 8 Mullen Ply. Ltd.,
262-264 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Red Page
Back Homo
The old home at Eurunderee is in other
hands now —the hands of an old school-
mate ; or the younger brother of an old
school-mate; or the elder son of an old school-
mate—-I told you I got them all mixed up
when I was up there last, after thirty years.
I met the youngest daughter of an early
sweetheart; she looked at me with the eyes
of a gird who died a middle-aged woman and
the mother of a family, and was buried
years and years ago. Wondering, half-
startled eyes—-as if she remembered. And
I was driven unto town by an early sweet-
heart of my mother’s, a grizzled old digger.
He was jovial at first, even frivolous, as lie
had been in the old days, and even within
my recollection; but he soon became grave
and thoughtful, and we smoked for the rest,
of the way. We had a drink or two together
at Flanagan’s Hotel, and he put his hand
on. my, shoulder; at parting and became,quite
fatherly—l was well past middle-age myself,
lie spoke to me in the kindest manner about
drink--//e knew —and he spoke about my
father, who was a teetotaller; and when I
saw him driving out again alone in the
afternoon, he was bending forward with
his hands on his knees, still sober and still
thinking, and looking back through the
years into times that I could see dimly. Per-
haps my eyes had reminded him of things.
I wondered that he kept sober that day. I
know I couldn’t have done it in those cir-
cumstances.
Dickens (I don’t think any war can kill
Dickens) tells how a child (and we are all
is so strangely drawn to one who
had loved (; nd lost) the other of its parents.
Perhaps Sy< aey Carton knew or felt it (and
didn’t think it strange) as he walked the
streets of Paris that fearful night, grandly
alone and calmly resolved on one of the
noblest deeds that ever a drunkard did. And
there have been some noble ones.
* * * *
The Old Place at Eurunderee is in other
hands now, and I’ve heard that Other
Hands are resolved not to alter a brick or
a stick of it save to replace a slab or beam
attacked by wliite-ants and level up a few
loose bricks on the floor of the back veran-
dah. I loved those old brick-floored kit-
chens and back verandahs.
The thirty-years tenant, Harry O’Brien
(I’ve called him McDermott in some stories
of the land of my own people), has bottomed
> on Payable Gold at last. He deserved it.
The last shaft in Log Paddock was never
bottomed. It never shall be now. It is
what it was originally intended for, and
what many other shafts, “golden holes” and
otherwise, are, but were never intended for
—a well for the benefit of Cow. (Let other
lands make their butter, and grow their
wool, and make their wars; let us grow
wheat and farmers, and build factories and
breed mechanics.)
Harry O’Brien and his last old mate
fought all the winter to bottom that last
shaft of theirs. But the water beat them,
as it had ever, in the years gone past, beaten
younger and stronger men, and even com-
panies and machinery and pumping-plants.
Harry died the other month in Mudgee Hos-
pital. after fifty years of cheerful bullocking
in scrubs and on flinty ridges, on flooded
flats and in damp shafts; on heart-breaking
fencing and tank-sinking contracts, or on
wages—-and ever to get a few pounds to-
gether to enable him to put down another
shaft somewhere. Through youth and middle
age and early old age; through blazing
droughts and private sorrows and endless
hopes and disappointments, but never in des-
pair—and all for Independence. He’s got
it now. They brought him down amongst
his children in Sydney last summer; but
he couldn’t stay here. I knew he couldn’t.
He went back and died hoping, in sight of
his last shaft. And his old mate, Billy Rine,
is hoeing vines for wages, over against the
sunset on Eurunderee—the saddest sunset
' in all the world, I think; where, amongst the
far-away golden seas and. islands in the
Western sky, El Dorado sits on his ever-
fading throne, unconquered, as he ever shall
be.
You can often see stars from the bottom
of shafts in broad daylight.
HENRY LAWSON.
A Censorship of Novels
I want a rigid censorship of novels before
they are 'published. I don’t mean as to their
morals, for it is hard to define what morals are.
If a novel hasn't enough morals the Public
Prosecutor can deal with it after publication.
My idea is directed to the facts. Many novels
profess to have some of these things in
them —historical, political, geographical and
other kinds, and they are often slummocky
and inaccurate. Yet the large class of per-
sons who read practically nothing save fic-
tion get tlieir smattering of knowledge from
these publications. They may be smatteml
unconsciously, but they are smattered all the
same.
I hold that rivers, mountains and towns
should be put in the right places, to begin
with. Rider Haggard found about six large
undiscovered and yet civilised kingdoms in
Southern Africa, including the one where
“She” hung out, and the one where King
Solomon’s Mines were located, and the one
which was approached by an underground
passage and raised two huge armies
and had a civil war and made Sir Henry
Someth!ng-or-other a king. To prevent mis-
conception and a rush of deluded immi-
grants, people like Haggard should always
be required to furnish maps. According to
his lavish way of doing things, the kingdoms
must have been piled one on top of the other
so that the bottom one couldn’t breathe. His
book about the glorious Phoenician city of
Zimbabwe and tbe happenings there should
have been ruled out as an attempt to spread
ignorance. I found two big buildings on the
site—huge, roofless structures built by primi-
tive brute force with piles of loose stones.
They never could have been roofed, for loose
stones don’t make good roofing. When Haggard
visited the scene of his great work some
years after it was written, a South African
archaeologist made him So wild by pointing
(Continued on page 3S/.)


*
iice
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EVERYTHING
BIG X EXCELSIORS
We here illustrate the BIG X 7-91i.p. EXCELSIOR, which possesses
every point desired by discriminating motor-cyclists.
Price £110
With Side-car,
r
J
BIG X EXCELSIOR.
The 1019 EXCELSIOR embodies four big exclusive features. These are the
NEW CUSHION SPROCKET, the AUTOMATIC COMPRESSION CONTROL,
the OIL- and DUST-PROOF HOUSING, and the EXCELSIOR NICKEL
STEEL FRAME, with REMOVABLE CENTRE BAR. These and other
improvements, combined with the efficient kick-starter and brakes, make the 1919
EXCELSIOR a motor-cycle which it is a pleasure to ride. EXCELSIORS are
fitted with 28in. x 3in. Firestone Tyres, and 3-gallon petrol tanks.
EXCELSIOR 7-9h.p. Motor cycle £110
EXCELSIOR 7-9h.p. Motor-cycle, fitted with heavy gauge under*
slung side-car chassis and English design coach-built side-
car £140
(Freight extra.)
CHALLENGE OIL ENGINES
TOT
CHALLENGE
The CHALLENGE Oil
Engine is greatly favored
by Men on the land,
who find it efficient and
reliable. CHAL-
LENGE Engines are
fitted with high-
tension magneto ig-
niti o n, and are
economical in fuel
con s u m ption. A
great point in their
favor is that they
start quickly and
run evenly. CHAL-
LENGE Engines are
capable of perform-
ing heavy work, and
require very little
attention.
We Stock THE CHALLENGE OIL ENGINE in Six Sizes, as follows
Cylinder, Stroke, Revs..
Weight,
lb.
400
850
1150
2200
8200
4000
Drive.
. Petrol
{ Kerosene
j Petrol
\ Kerosene
( Petrol
i Kerosene
f Petrol
I Kerosene
Petrol
Petrol
Price.
£35
£37
£57/10/-
£6O
re-x
£B7/10/-
£lO5
£llO
£l3O
£l5O
(Freight extra.)
VALUE IN MEN’S BOOTS
vA
yS®
m
€
.
NO. 1.
‘No. 2.
Neatness, Comfort, Long Wear and
Value are characteristics which pertain
to Anthony Horderns’ Footwear. This
association of good qualities has been
the means of making the Boot Depart-
ment at the New Palace Emporium
popular with men who want their
money to go the farthest. Here are a
few examples of unequalled economy:
Glace Kid Derby Boots (ns illustration No.
1), neat shapes, solid leather welted soles—
-19/6, 22/6, 25/-, 29/6
Black Glace Kid Balmorals, neat round
toes, solid leather welted soles —-
21/-, 23/6, 26/6, 29/6
Tan Willow Derby Boots, full round toes,
welted soles .... 17/6 and 22/6
Tan Willow Balmorals, medium toes, welted
soles ; 21 / -
Glace Kid Boots (as illustration No. 2), Bal-
moral or Derby style, patent toecaps, .welted
soles, straight or medium toes—
-19/6, 21/-, 26/6
Glace Kid Boots, no toecaps, full fitting', welted
soles, broad toes, 18/6, 21/-, 25/-, 25/6
Glace Kid Balmorals, patent toecaps, round
toes, Goodyear welts, OAKITE SOLES, 21/-
Box Calf Derby Boots, leather lined, Goodyear
welts, round toes, OAKITE SOLES .... 21 /«
( Postage extra —l/8 Inter-Statej 1/- N.S.W .)
Fashionable Footwear
Ladies who are discriminating shoppers make a point of buying their
footwear at the New Palace Emporium. The reason of their consistent
patronage is that, quality considered, Anthony Horderns’ Boots and Shoes
are not to be equalled elsewhere. Here are a few selections from the
immense variety of New Season’s Footwear.
LADIES’ BOOTS.
Ladies’ Smart Patent Colt Lace Boots (as illustrated),
extended last, black Gabardine tops, welted soles, leather Cuban
heels * 28/6
Also in Dull Kid Legs 29/6
Ladies’ Smart Glace Kid Whole-goloshed Lace Boots,
medium toes, Louis heels, pump soles, be-t American make.
Price 55/6
Ladies’ Smart Patent Colt Whole-goloshed Lace Boots,
plain vamps, medium toes, dull kid legs, pump soles, Cuban
heels • • 57 / 6
Ladies’ Smart Patent Whole-goloshed
Button Boots, extended last, dull kid
legs, welted soles, Cuban heels. Bostock's
best English make 39/6
Ladies’ Smart Patent Colt Whole-
Goloshed Lace Boots, medium toes,
dull kid legs, welted soles, Cuban heels,
49/6
Postage must le added to remittances.
i
H 1
SB
graft a
MENS COAT SWEATERS
Men who desire something
more than cosiness during the
cold weather —downright com-
f or t—should wear Coat
Sweaters such as are here
enumerated.
CAME LINE COAT SWEATERS.
Men’s Cameline Coat Sweaters,
Scotch make, all wool, superior soft,
fleecy finish; in assorted self shades
and various smart two-tone effects.
Chest . . 32in. 34in. 36in.
V collars . . 37/6 37/6 37/6
ALL-WOOL COAT SWEATERS.
Men’s Coat Sweaters, knitted all
wool, in best Winter weight, grey with
navy facings, grey with green facings,
and brown with tabac facings.
Chest 32in. 34in. 36in. 40in.
V collars 15/6 15/6 16/- 16/6
Polo.. 16/- 16/6 17/- 17/6
Men’s Coat Sweaters, knitted, all
wool, in heavy Winter weight, in navy,
brown or grey—
Chest 32in. 34in. 36in. 38in. 40in.
V coll. 25/- 25/- 25/- 27/6 30/-
MIXTURE COAT SWEATERS.
Men’s Coat Sweaters, knitted wool
and cotton, in medium weight; in grey,
brown or navy blue—
Chest 32in. 34in. 36in. 40in.
V collars 11/6 11/6 12/- 12/6
Polo.. 12/6 12/6 13/-
An Ideal
Winter
Garment
{Freight must he added to prices quoted.)
OIL ROOM WARMERS
The pronounced chilliness experienced in
the Home or Office can be appreciably modi-
fied by a GOOD ROOM WARMER. A PER-
FECTION or MILLER ROOM WARMER will
supply sufficient heat to make the difference
between discomfort and comfort most pro-
nounced.
They bum oil economically, and once the
desired degree of warmth is obtained the
burner can be turned down and the heat
maintained. If properly attended to there is
no objectionable smell. The portability of a
PERFECTION or MILLER ROOM W ARMER
is also a point which greatly commends them.
PERFECTION or MILLER ROOM WARMERS
are fitted with ruby fronts.
(Freight extra.)
MSS
•> • <L,L- •••
ANTHONY H ORDERN £ SONS.L™
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
ti§2
Brickfield Hill,
Sydney.


A DA M A
4
m
ADA
ds
dg
ADAMAX
ASPHAU'UM ROOFING.
T
ir ' * ?
fSSgI ,'v
wllviisk v < > ' - ?
' ■ 54tlk- ,;'-! -'' -■;
:: -•■.... ,
x*
hhhhhhh
v.
m
■
m
«iya^ca^»^aa^
iSM I^
•a 5
. %
T^,
mwmm
\*\ •«
Mid
M *
11 mm
M
* ’
•'. V; r t ->m
, £t4 Lf-
«ft
1
m m
& W»W
-u^rv"
agrem ;m
'■ : mm
mimm
#©?eis
rasa
*2
wmm
mm
JSC
in
Iff
■9
i
IMf
w
Pi
Now More Than Ever Before
“Adam&x” Sells on Comparison.
Always it lias sold itself to big and small users alike, when compared point by point with other makes.
After taking note of the way “Adamax” Roofing is finding favor everywhere, and how it offers so much
more for its price—no thinking man can afford to select any other kind.
“Adamax” was selected in open competition for these jobs':—
Leeton Canning Factories, Murrumbidgee Irrigation Commission, 20,000 sq. yds.
riessrs. Upton & Co. Ltd., Factory, Sydney.
South Australian Wheat Board Buildings, 44,000 sq. yds.
West Australian Govt. Freezing Works, Wyndham, 13,200 sq. yds.
Commonwealth Buildings, Canberra, 22,000 sfq. yards.
“Adamax” is on the Public Works Department approved list. Contracts for 1917-18 to the IST. S.
Wales Railways, and again for 1918-19, were secured by “Adamax.”
Adamax, the Time-proof Roofing, costs
One-third the price of Galvanised-iron.
3®
■
I 1H
it
m®
i:
It is light-weight, weather-proof, clean, sanitary and fire-retardant,
costs less to buy and less for freight; costs nothing to lay—any handy
man can do it; costs practically nothing to maintain, because it resists
the ravages of the elements—Heat, Cold, Wind, Rain, Gas, Chemical
Fumes and Acids.
It does not “pit” with sea air; it does not rust, pinhole, crumble of
sweat. The foundation is very long-fibred felt, thoroughly impreg-
nated with pure mineral Hydro-Carbon, then finished by a process
which makes it time-proof.
It is the preferable type of Roofing for Office Buildings, Garages, Hotels,
Stores, Warehouses, Homes of all classes, Mine Buildings, Farm Build-
ings, etc.
The Free Booklet, “The Adamax Series,” tells why it is superior and
how it saves you money all the years of its life.
William Adams 8 CS;
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE : 521-3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cor. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH : 33 King Street.
< Zhe


IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Mdlin's
Food
Messrs. Mellin’s Food Ltd., London, desire
to inform the public that, in consequence of
Government prohibition and difficulties of
export from the United Kingdom, they have
made complete arrangements with their
American branch factory for a continuance
of shipments of Mellin’s Food to Australia.
Mellin’s Food as manufactured in America
is of the same standard composition and
quality, is prepared from the same formula,
and is in every way identical with the English
article.
Stocks of American-manufactured Mellin’s
Food have reached Australia, and Dealers and
the Public can now be assured of adequate
supplies.
All enquiries and requests for samples and
literature to
GOLLIN 8 CO. PTY.LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
sdgd
The new
flavour
HP
sauce
This new, thick, fruity sauce
from England is simply de-
licious, and such a welcome
change to the old-
sauces.
Wouldn’t it be worth your
while to try the one and
only H.P. Sauce?
fashioned
Mquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet.” March 20,1915:
‘‘The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents :— R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
Used the
World Over
gds
gsd
MOTOR
...CARS
CELEBRATED
m
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the' removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef. 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Busman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [1
THE
-ss
-3^
.. icT
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £700,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors • Sir JOHN GRICE Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD. Esq., Vice-Chairman:
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Svdnev Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, .350 George St.
3 3 Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: E. J. OSBORNE.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Blshopsgate, E.C.
For Line Shafting,
Machine Tools,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling and
Factory Equip-
inent, etc., etc.
s
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
I
-JS I -
-
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The BKF Self-aligning Ball-bearing' Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
Chief Agents and Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE — BRANCHES—
Office, 384 City Road, S. Melbourne. SYDNEY ... 225 Clarence Street.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street. BRISBANE ... 367 Queen Street.
Coura
What we call courage is
nearly always primarily a
display of unusual nerve,
energy and enterprise. The
man who shows the great-
est courage in an emer-
gency is he who has kept
fit for any emergency.
*
V:
\
THE man who takes half a teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts
* in a tumbler of hot water every day feels fit every
day. His body is cleansed of impurities, his blood courses
freely in his veins; he goes to his work refreshed, alert,
keen and vigorous : he feels ready for action always. He
gets the best out of himself and out of life —and keeps at
arm's length lassitude, headaches, an inactive liver and con-
stipation —the evils of a sedentary life.
Get the Kruschen habit and keep fit.
g
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
sdg
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARSi
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia, t Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GFt EAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,6B Deanrgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Australian.
Lie close to my heart, little bird, lie close!
The hawk wheels high in the sky;
Fierce is his beak and wild his cry—
Lie close, little bird, lie close!
Lie close to my heart, little bird, lie close!
Thy shield unyielding ever am I,
But hovers the hawk with his strange cry—
Lie close, little bird, lie close!
Lie close to my heart, little bird, lie close!
Blood shall be shed, full tide to its flood,
Ere ever shall rise to the pitiless skies
Thy last-long cry, land that I love!
Then wilt thou lie, oh, close to my heart —
Over my heart.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.
’Twixt Palm and Pine.
’Twixt the palm and the pine
There are levels and levels;
For the pine grows aloft
In the white of the Snowiand,
While down in the Lowland,
Where green Nature revels
In shedding and sowing,
The fair palm is growing.
’Twixt the ptalrn and the pine
There can never be union;
For the pine loves the heights
Bare of blossom and grasses,
While the palm, nodding, passes
Her hours in communion
With earth’s sylvan daughters,
Its woods and its waters.
When I stand ’neath the pine
I am longing and longing
To be down with the palm
In the depths of the valley—
A-drowse in some alley
Where bell-birds are thronging
With notes, sweet and tender,
And round me green splendor.
When I stand ’neath the palm
I am yearning and yearning
To be up with the pine
On the crest of the mountains
Where born are the fountains,
And, evermore turning
And wheeling, an eagle
Soars stately and regal.
Not aloft with the pine
Where the winter winds riot;
Nor below with the palm
In the valley down under
Where paces green wonder —
Now voiceful, now quiet—
Dwell uttermost sweetness,
And peace is completeness.
Yet the pine is for some,
And the palm is for others;
And the folk of the palm,
Though they dream and endeavor
Age-long and forever,
Shall never be brothers
To those set above then,
The pine-folk, nor love them.
And the folk of the pine—
Though, as roamers and rangers,
They seek through all time
For a path that shall sally
Down, down to the valley—
Shall ever be strangers
To the palm-folk, who vision
Pine-heights as Elysian.
To the palm and the pine
Comes the sweetness of slumber,
But the hot heart of Man
Ever leaps in a hurry
From worry to worry
Till Death calls his number,
And —presto!—he passes
Like dew from the grasses.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Love and the Singer.
I sang of Love
Before you came,
Knowing of Love
Naught but his name.
Gay, lilting words
I used to strum—
A choir of birds
My heart’s become.
Each clear-cut note
Sharp as a sword—
And dumb my throat
On one grand chord!
N.s.w.
NORA McAULIFFE.
A Song of the Flesh.
I wouldn’t be a Dead Man
For all the harps on High;
I do not envy them their sleep
In little narrow beds and deep,
While white clouds sail the sky.
On frosty grass the new moon winks,
The world still laughs, and loves, and drinks,
While dull the Dead Men lie.
So pity all the Dead Men,
For thfough their souls find rest,
Their bodies strive to win again
The little joys and,song and pain
Which once gave' life its zest;
The girls and beers and boats and fights,
The busy days, the merry nights—
Things that the Flesh loves best.
Then, whdn I join the Dead Men,
I know I’d sleep more sound
If, like a highwayman’s, my bed
Had a finger-post set at its head
Pointing; down roads that wound
To north :and south and east and west
And all thle plapes I loved best
The lathing 1 , world around.
VICTORIA.
COTHBERT COLLINS.


Remarkable
Mileage Results
d 8&
A£tfae
x§r&
have been shown
with the Perdriau
Super Tread.
The original fine resilience and toughness of the substance of PERDRIAU TYRES are still further
emphasised in this notable recent improvement.
Be sure to Keep the Home Tyres Turning and continue to fit PERDRIAUS.
Perdriau
George Street, Sydney
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Flinders Street, Melbourne
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
!f
Veterinary Instruments.
THE “ECLIPSE” BRANT) EMASCULATOR is the most
perfect Veterinary Instrument of its kind in existence. Has three
different crushes, ‘with regulating screw, is perfectly safe, easy to operate,
and without the slightest danger of blood poisoning. Every instrument
warranted thoroughly tested, examined, and anatomically correct.
Write now for Denyer's Free. Instructive Cata-
logue arid Booklet —contains much valuable informa-
tion that will be profitable to you.
Price 50/-
Postage 9d. Extra.
DENYER BROS
“The Veterinary
Specialty House/ 9
281 George
Sydney
Australia with Rex Goods
•V
. S
-U
a
N
Queensland
mill"
jwiv
w^rv*
A Fine
Sunn£ Morning —
And Coolangatta
Fresh salt breezes —a wide expanse
of golden sands, and the continual
monotonous music of the waves—
what more would you have ?
Just one thing—a good lunch to appease healthy out-door
appetities. And what more tasty, satisfying luncheon fare
is there than —
\>MCh%r
“REX”
Luncheon Gieese
This cheese is a favorite “spread” at all times, indoors or outdoors. It is a
tasty and nourishing luindrr-satisfier.
"Rex” Cheese is perfect!v matured -this alone gives it valuable digestive pro-
perties. Its piquant mellow flavor is distinct from all others. Its easy to spread
consistency eliminates the need for butter, and facilitates sandwich making.
Try this economical delicacy to-day. Sold everywhere. Refuse everything
hut "Rex” Brand.
“Rex” Ham Pate and “Rex” Veal
and Tongue Pate
are two delicious all-meat
spreads. Try them.
Foggitt, Jones & Co., Ltd.
Packers of “Rex" Pare Food Products,
Carers of “Rex" Hams and Bacon j 24«
fheVerdict
fe/tfEP ON
tegs*.
I «s
oe c P e^
y-CvAf^
-vires
IS*g
TR^ 9 r
k
8
THE MOTOR
WORLD HAS
HANDED DOVMN
ITS DECISION
GOODRICH
FULL-SIZE
Black SAFETY
Tread Tyres.
SAFETY-
WHEN THE ROAD IS DRY YOU WON’T SKID—
BUT—WINTER BRINGS WITH IT THE RAIN, MUD
fh
AND SLUSH.
Then comes that feeling of insecurity
when driving on wet and slippery roads,
with the sickening slide when rounding
corners, making motoring a nightmare.
WHY NOT STOP THE SKID?
GOODRICH has solved the
problem with
THE GOODRICH
SAFETY TREAD
JUST LOOK AT THE FINGERS
MOULDED ON THE TREAD.
THERE'S SENSE IN THE
PRINCIPLE.
THE FINGERS GRIP ON THE
MOST SLIPPERY ROADS.
THE SKID DOESN'T EVEN START.
RIDE CARE-FREE—AND SAFE.
EQUIP YOUR CAR WITH
GOODRICH SAFETY TREADS.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St. 13 Castlereagh St, 300 Adelaide St,
MELBOURNE:. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.—N0, 2002.
THUKSDAY, JUNE 27, 1918.
Peice 6d.
FROM THE REAR.
THE MUDSLINGER; “Come on; 'ave another shot at ’em!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 Geprge Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 10s. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager. ,
On and after JULY 4, until further notice,
the price of “The Bulletin” will be EIGHT-
PENCE, owing to heavy increases in the cost
of paper, etc.
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS; to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a.
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgaie Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conwa)y Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu,
Egypt. — lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.—lF. G. P. Perera., 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,'
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet-otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bhoz. to 10oz., Hid.;,
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, boz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JUNE 27, 1918.
THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT
AT MUCKADILLA, AND OTHER
MATTERS.
It is a point of some interest that, if three
coastal cities were occupied by a capable
enemy, half the population of Australia
would be inside the fire-zone and liable to
bombardment at a moment’s notice. None
of these cities is heavily fortified and
heavily armed in the same sense as Liege or
Antwerp or Paris or London. Two of them,
Sydney and Adelaide, can be shelled by an
enemy roving up and down the coast and
can be outflanked by landing parties at
quite a number of points. Melbourne looks
a shade more defensible because it is a long
way from the Heads to the city, but the
Heads are not very wonderful. Australia has
practised the art of Congestion so persist-
ently that three centres, huddled together
on the blunt-nosed peninsular which is de-
fined by a line drawn from Newcastle to
Port Augusta are Australia to all intents and
purposes so far as concerns its population,
its money, its credit, its manufactures, its
railways, its political system, its power of
defence. In short they are, at a crisis, the
beginning and middle and end of things.
Australia has put up a few records: In its
dependence on imported goods and on the
luck of finding foreign ships to bring these
goods and foreign loans to pay for them it
is first in the race. In the matter of cram-
ming its people, its ready cash, its Govern-
ment machine, its industries and its means
of communication on exposed bits of sea-
shore it has no equal. And in its cheerful
assurance that its country is safe from
attack, and that it is the Happy Land which
rests under Divine special protection nobody
in modern times has got ahead of it. Quite
a large section of the community holds or
listens to the theory that Australia should
not meddle in war so long as the war —our
own Avar —is being fought outside Paris or
Salonika or Jerusalem, but should stand man-
fully on its defence when the conflict comes
right here. They don’t urge that anything
strenuous should be done in the way of
making hundreds or thousands of big guns,
or piling up fortifications at the many weak
points, or turning out rifles or munitions in
hot haste, or drilling a defensive army. They
merely discourse about defence in a general
way.
* * * *
If a serious enemy struck Sydney (or
any similar city), which is vastly more
accessible than Liege or Antwerp, there
would be a sudden crumbling of things. It
is good to have some money put by against
a rainy day, but if a few big shells struck a
few consDicuous buildings—the Savings Bank,
the Commonwealth Bank, the Treasury—it
might be difficult, after one hour’s shindy,
for any ordinary person to prove that he
ever had any savings. When the Land
Titles Department and the place where
births, marriages and deaths are registered
went under he might find it hard to prove
that he even had any cottage and allotment,
or any mortgage, or even to prove that he
was or ever had been, himself. It would be
a case of gathering up some food and clothes
and loose change and dodging the railway
station, which would probably be a burning
wreck and which would certainly be rushed
by a whole maddened population, and taking
the westward road to safety. Temporary
safety would begin somewhere between
Parramatta and Penrith, and famine would
begin in the same locality, for the vanguard
of the homeless retreating multitude would
eat the country bare. It would not be like
the retreat from Belgium, for there would
be no friendly adjacent countries like Hol-
land, France and Britain to make for. If
the United States or Mexico or Russia or
France find the invader on their border there
is Chicago and a score of other big centres to
fall back on, or the city of Mexico, or Moscow,
or Paris. But Australia has nothing of im-
portance away from the coast to retreat to.
There are small towns, dependent for most
things on the coastal cities, and, as a rule,
the best thing that lies behind them is the
end of the railway line—in other words,
there is the bottom of the sack.
Inside a very few days the refugee horde
which w r as scared from its accustomed
haunts before breakfast would begin to miss
other things besides its house and furniture,
its domestic cat, its savings, its life policy
and its birth register. There would be a
scarcity of clothes, boots and hats, which are
mostly imported and partly manufactured in
the places that loaf on the seashore. There
would shortly be a lack of salt, pepper, mus-
tard, pens, ink, paper, thread, buttons, pins,
needles, coal (an enemy who held Sydney
and its railway ends would control about
three-fourths of Australia’s coal-supply), of
railway rolling-stock (though there would
be a few tireless locomotives marooned on
each isolated bit of line). Other rapidly
increasing wants would be furniture, bed-
ding, building materials, galvanised-iron,
fire-grates and stoves, medicine, includ-
ing chloroform (the patient would have
to be sandbagged), surgical instruments,
crockery, weapons of all sorts except clubs,
cutlery, including things to kill sheep with
(and mutton doesn’t taste well when it is
suffocated or killed by having its head dashed
against a tree), cooking utensils, machinery
of all sorts, petrol for driving motor-cars (if
any), also tobacco, cigars and spirits. A
prompt scarcity would arise in the matter of
candles, baby-foods, tinned foods, biscuits,
rice, jams, sugar (except for refugees who
were starting life afresh in North Queens-
land), tea, coffee, cocoa, yarn, sponges, pig-
iron, mangles, cash-registers, photographic
goods, axles and springs for making vehicles,
locks, nails, tanks, telephones, fencing-wire,
jewellery, cornsacks, soap, and a thousand
other trifles. In fact the population which
didn’t stay to be enslaved by the invader
would find, inside a few weeks, that it had
left practically everything behind except a
little knowledge and the commonest kind of
raw foodstuffs, for the supplies at little
inland towns would be exhausted very early,
* * *• ’ *
There would be provisional Govern-
ments of course. Probably they would
number six or eight. When an enemy
wrecked or seized the big coastal lines
at the numerous places where they are
lying undefended on the shore the country
would divide itself automatically. Most of
the sections would have isolated bits of rail-
way and a trifle of isolated rolling-stock
with or without coal—mostly without —but
these would die off for lack of repairing'
material. For internal or cross-country com-
munication the little Commonwealths would
depend on telegraphs and telephones
until they, wore out, on bike-messengers
till the bikes wore out, on drays and
coaches while the supply of wheels
lasted, and on horsemen and pedestrians.
When things were so gradual there would be
no chance for one central authority. How
the Provisional Governments would be
formed it is hard to say. They would have
their uses while they lasted in the mainte-
nance of order. They would have to be far
inland to avoid the invader’s aircraft (Aus-
tralia seems to be short of aircraft, and it
would be almost impossible to build them by
hand at Booligal or even Thargomindah).
They would lack the dignity that comes of
clothing, and they would know that they
were only waiting, like the Republic of Ice-
land or the Kingdom of Elba, for notice to
quit. Things might be different if the coun-
try had a few great railway junction towns
in the interior —places that were building
and repairing centres for rolling-stock, and
which were- connected with as many lines
as possible simply that the train and engine
that were cut off from their usual habitat
by an invasion might have a refuge to fly to
and a back door of escape into the next
street. But no such places exist, and with
the varied gauges their value, if they did
exist, would be less than it should be.
* * * *
Australia has sent some 340,000 soldiers
to Europe, and fighting on a narrow front
they have proved themselves of wonderful
value. A similar force, retained to fight
our battles here, would be worth rather more
than 340,000 pins—but not so very much
more. It would have to abandon perhaps
three-fourths of the battle-front without a
blow, for the battle-front would be the whole
coast-line. It would be cut into sections by
the diverse railway gauges. It would be
cut into sub-sections by the breakage of the
railway lines at places Avhere they simply
invite attack from an enemy who holds the
sea. They would run short of the mostly-
imported necessaries of war inside a month
or a week. In short, they would be magni-
ficent but humorous. Yet the theory that
Australia should be defended on its own
sacred soil has strenuous advocates, who are
obviously traitors; and these advocates have
honest followers, who are obviously fools.
And when it is too late —when the Pro-
visional Government at Muckadilla is forced
to agree with the 'equally Provisional Gov-
ernment at Parragundy that the lost oppor-
tunity will never come back —the more
astute of these advocates will probably be
pensioned by the new owners of the country,
even as Jeremiah, the professional dis-
courager of Jerusalem, was pensioned by the
new owners of his native land for services
rendered.
FEUDAL CHINA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To go from the rabid industrialism of
Shanghai, where great electric signs wink
over perfectly-paved streets crammed with
the rushing traffic of an age of steel, where
Chinese women, carried like cripples from
the outer villages, tend on their crumpled
feet the cotton spindles of foreign syndi-
cates, to the provincial quiet and beauty of
an inland capital is like slipping into old
storybooks. Out of the blazing noonday you
pass through the great Babylonian wall into
a cool, dim twilight between long, winding
rows of shops and houses, and high, blank
walls enclosing the exquisite gardens of the
wealthy. You enter riding on a donkey.
Above your head waves a luxuriant growth
of banners, scrolls and shop-signs, shutting
out the heavens. A double string of coolies
passes endlessly, bearing the water-supply of
half a million people. The cobbled street
is wet and slippery from the leaking skins,
and one realises vividly the vast saving of
effort, the quiet efficiency there is in a com-
monplace water-tap. Strings of barges along
the canals and another stream of coolies
frequenting the lesser streets bear pungently
to your mind the lack also of a sanitary
system. Chairs, rickshaws, donkeys, camels
and wheeloarrows pour in a ceaseless torrent
over old marble bridges whose white loveli-
ness is mirrored in filthy cesspools. There
is no glare, no dust, and not half the uproar
of European streets; but there is a constant
and pervasive odor. The shops teem with
industry, and a thousand trades, wielding
the immemorial implements common to all
Asia, and still preserved in sculpture on the
walls of Boro Dudur in Java, flourish in
the stfeet. This city has a world-wide
reputation for its silk fabrics, but the shops
are small and seldom rise above two storeys.
Yet even here a few factory chimneys have
begun to fear their stalks. Quite recently a
silk filature, fitted with the latest appliances
of an up-to-date factory, was erected by a
Chinese firm. In the foundations they
secretly buried a young virgin, so that her
regenerative virtues should' stimulate the
firm’s profits.
Amidst this mediaeval setting, queerly
tinged with modernism, Chinese politics have
slipped back fittingly enough into feudalism.
This sudden change—for the Chinese system
under the IVianchus was essentially a demo-
cratic one—was a direct consequence of
Yuan. Shiii-K’ai’s dictatorship and the
acquisition of foreign armaments. Under the
old, loose rule of the Central Government the
provinces were a law unto themselves. Pub-
lic opinion, when sufficiently exasperated,
could always intimidate an oppressive vice-
roy. A battery of road-metal in the hands
of an infuriated mob could overawe a mili-
tary force armed with banners, birdcages,
fans and bows and arrows. So there was a
limit to the pressure that could be put upon
the “stupid people.” But to-day public
opinion is impotent. The forces of reaction
are armed with aeroplanes, machine-guns,
eight-inch guns and military railways. Under
the strong hand of Yuan Shih-Iv’ai, the
army was more or less cohesive. It could
be used for national purposes. To a certain
extent it would obey orders It was a rogue
elephant which Yuan tamed and trained to a
considerable pitch of efficiency. But on the
death of its chief mahout it broke its bonds.
It became a rogue elephant again; in fact, it
split into a herd of rogue elephants.
Feng Kuo-chang,. the President, admitted
the other day that he could not dismiss a
colonel from the army without the risk of
the colonel promoting himself a general and
forming an independent command. A con-
signment of munitions from Japan was
recently landed at a Chinese port. A neigh-
boring general—there are more generals in
China than politicians in Australia —des-
patched a regiment to the spot and com-
mandeered the lot. Feng protested that the
goods, were for the use of the Chinese troops
going to France ; but. the general replied
that he was anxious to throw them at the
general in the next province. The navy has
followed tfie prevailing fashion. Part of it
has gone to Canton, where it is at the dis-
posal of any party which is prepared to pay
its wages. A sub-section of this fleet again
detached itself and wandered into Shanghai,
on what errand has not been divulged.
The recent resignation of Sun Yat-sen
from the southern provisional, government
removes the last vestige or pretence of con-
stitutional government in China. The
tuchuns, or military governors, now reign
supreme. They are the true prototypes of
the robber barons of feudal times. They
are all generals commanding armies of from
five to twenty thousand men. Amongst the
starving population—Give millions are abso-
lutely destitute as a result of the flooding of
the Y'ellow River —they have an unlimited
field for recruiting. The tattered followers
of a tuchun have unexampled opportunities
for looting and blackmailing the terrorised
citizens of the towns which are unlucky
enough to enjoy their protection. There are
half a dozen tuchuns occupying strategic
positions on the Yangtsze, and another dozen
squatting in the South and North. They
bombard each other and the weary nation
with telegrams couched in sublimated patriot-
ism and full of that fine classical rhetoric
the Chinese are masters of. They are all
ardent pacifists. One, Feng Yu-hsiang, is
a Christian, his soldiers are alleged to be
Christians, and he always carries a well-
worn New Testament with him. He is a
young man, lives simply, and has a dash of
ascetic idealism in his nature. The mis-
sionaries are inclined to view him with appro-
bation, but it is mixed with caution, for they
remember that 50 years ago the Church in
China hailed as a deliverer the Taiping
Wang, an obscure Christian convert, who
afterwards slaughtered 12 millions of his
fellow-countrymen. The ingredients of cata-
clysm are always present in the Chinese body
politic, and Feng Yu-hsiang might be the
potential firer of the new revolt.
The Tuchuns, while professing peace, are
active in extending their own power. The
magnificent province of Szechuan, which
harbors a population twice that of France, is
the debatable land between North and
South, and has been invaded again and again.
Even a tuchun sent to oust the Bolsheviks
from Harbin has turned robber baron on his
own account, and now defies the Peking Gov-
ernment. This feudal strife is carried on in
feudal fashion. The capture of a city is fol-
lowed by its sacking and burning. The vic-
torious army is allowed the traditional three
days of looting, if there is anything left to
loot, for as often as not a city is sacked by
the departing troops. Although these armies
are equipped with Red Cross units the
Chinese conception of their functions is still
primitive. During the 1911 revolt a North-
ern general said he was prepared to accept
the services of the Red Cross provided no
rebel soldiers in the hospitals were allowed
to recover from their wounds.
It is impossible to discover in the present
disorders a single clear-cut issue. In 1911
the struggle was between the forces of autoc-
racy and republicanism. In the succeeding
years there was in command in Peking one
man of resolute character and with a definite
policy. To-day there are a dozen parties
struggling for place and power and a Presi-
dent confined to his palace as impotent to
act as any eunuch-ridden emperor. Through-
out the State a score of reckless and ambi-
tious men are throwing hundreds of thou-
sands of well-armed soldiers into a fratrici-
dal warfare which is devastating huge areas
of the country.
And from the financial 1 standpoint never
were China’s prospects of making good
brighter than they are at the present
moment. The Customs revenue, after meet-
ing the interest demands on loans, this year
left a surplus of 10 million taels. The
Allies have at last granted China the right
to revise her tariff, which had been fixed by
treaty at an arbitrary figure and caused an
annual loss to China of millions. The new
Salt Revenue already yields 71 million dol-
lars. By the declaration of war with the
Central Powers indemnities of 100 million
taels have been cancelled, and the Boxer in-
demnity of 20 million taels per annum has
been suspended by the Allies. Increased
taxation on land is raising additional rev-
enue all over the country. Never in its
modern history has the Chinese Government
had more money to play with. A great leader
arising now could start China on a course of
social and industrial progress that would
startle the world. One man led Japan out
of feudal anarchy into ordered government
and laid the foundations of her present
strength. To what heights China could rise
under firm governance was suggested by
Marco Polo. That artless tourist wandered
through the Celestial Empire in the 13th
century, when it was at the summit of its
glory under the great Kublai. He passed
through a pageant of populous cities, along
great smooth highways, safe for the weakest
traveller, over magnificent bridges, through
a countryside teeming with industry, along
roads which ran. just as they do now,
between continuous rows of shops from one
town to the next; and he was naively aston-
ished at a culture which, while not superior
to his own, was so much greater in achieve-
ment. The secret, he told us, was firm and
wise government.
FENG-SHUI.
AN OPENING FOR SOME GOOD
JESUITS.
The recent plaint of Federal Labor-leader
Tudor, supposed to be more level-headed than
some of his brethren, that five-sixths of the
wealth of Australia is owned by one-sixth of
the people, is one of these wails that lead to
no result. The statement may be true, but
no evidence was offered. At latest advices
one in every three adults who died in Aus-
tralia left a big enough estate to call for
probate, and as many married women, even
those with affluent husbands, hold nothing in
their own names, that makes the real propor-
tion better than it looks. And it is getting
better every year. Again, adults of 21 or a
little more can’t be expected to possess
wealth unless they inherited it from rich
fathers, which Tudor’s folk alleges to be a
nefarious thing, They haven’t had time to
accumulate money, and they also have an
influence on the figures. But supposing a
great wrong exists, why should it be so great,
seeing that the Tudor party controlled Aus-
tralian politics and N. S. Wales and Queens-
land State politics so long? Why was no
well-defined scheme put forward for setting
things right, or why isn’t some well-defined
scheme in existence now? Lamentation,
vituperation, repudiation, insurrection (called
“direct action”), red flags, hazy sayings
about raising loans without interest, bitter
weepings about “conspiracy” by parties not
clearly specified, hideously expensive stop-
pages of work, and veiled or unveiled
demands for surrender to the Hun —these are
not plans. The trades unions claim to repre-
sent Labor, and Labor is Tudor’s party, and
it was presumably its wrongs in the distribu-
tion of wealth that Tudor was thinking of.
Aggregate unionism has, and has had for a
long while, great chances to diminish or abol-
ish its much advertised poverty, and down-
troddenness of the machine was worked to
good advantage. Last year it demonstrated
its ability to sacrifice nearly £3.000.000 of
wages in strikes, mostly over affairs which
mattered very little. More than half this
money was thrown away in N. S. Wales
alone. If the strike luxury was cut dowfii to


bedrock and a sum about representing the
savings was raised, and devoted unobtru-
sively to buying up a controlling interest in
one financial institution after another, many
things ought to happen. The work would
have to be done quietly, the shares being held
in the names of reliable nominees. No wild
Judd person should be allowed to announce
that this or that concern was under
union control, and that more than half the
dividends were going into the coffers of the
oppressed masses, and that great ructions
might be looked for in the institution when
the present management was replaced by
patriots with ideas that had never been
heard of before. That would merely depreci-
ate the property and the profits. It would be
a matter of silence, patience and good
generalship, and the influence of com-
pound interest would do the rest. Every
year the Labor Trust or Co-operation which
held the shares and collected the dividends
on behalf of that five-sixths of the people
who, according to Tudok, own nothing, would
make more progress towards putting them in
possession of everything. After a few years’
sacrifice in the way of swearing off strikes
and putting the estimated savings into the
new movement, compound interest would do
the work itself. But Labor figureheads must
be content for years to look at their banks
from the outside, and feel glad in secret
because the capitalistic persons inside are
really their drudges and their serfs. They
must do their work without holding May
Day demonstrations on the financial door-
step or hoisting the flag of the Internation-
ale on the roof. Such doings don’t lead
to profits. Of course the talkative
leaders who want their election mani-
festoes printed on the balance-sheets would
have to go. The job is one for Jesuits, not
Judds. Such a programme, or anything re-
sembling it, would naturally arouse the tre-
mendous scorn of the roaring boys of the
I.W.W. brand, who don’t want to lose the
alleged poverty and the oppression and the
conspiracy and the unsuccessful strike,
because they live by conversation, and these
are the things they converse about. They
are purely destructive, and a policy of con-
struction would necessitate the employment
of very different men.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Where Every Hun is Pleasant and Only
We Are Vile.
The problem of the 19 unions which lost
their registration, and consequently their
official standing in the N. S. Wales Indus-
tidal Courts, by their participation in an
illegal strike doesn’t get on very fast.
At a recruiting conference it was agreed on
one side that the unions should be restored
to their old position, and on the other that
there might arise in consequence a better
feeling on the matter of raising soldiers by
voluntary enlistment to save Australia from
the threatening destruction. Also there was
to be an amnesty to certain strike prisoners.
The Cornstalk Government promptly applied
to the Court to restore the unions, and the
Court decided that it had no power and that
the thing must be done by Act of Par-
liament. This looks fairly honest, but
there is a clamor for the abolition of the
new unions composed of men who opposed
the illegal strike and helped to keep the appa-
ratus of civilisation going after a fashion;
and a question whether the amnesty is to in-
clude certain persons of the I.W.W. brand
who were convicted of sundry crimes quite
unconnected with the strike—“our comrades
languishing in gaol,” as one paper described
them. At all events there is no special
change in the recruiting attitude; in fact
the Labor speakers w'ho were painfully cold
before the olive-tree was held out to
/them serfU very much as they were, or
more so. Apparently Labor leaders, or
those who profess to be such, won’t begin
to pay, despite the Government’s obvious sin-
cerity, until they get the goods, and don’t
absolutely promise to pay even then. They
give no tick, and put no faith in anybody
unless it is the Hun. But they are willing
to suspend hostilities, though they specify
no guarantees for the Hun’s good faith.
They are willing to negotiate with
the profoundly honest Teutonic, while
he is still powerful, and trust to him
standing by the terms agreed upon, though
he need not do so. This belief in the Hun and
in nobody else except themselves is pathetic.
The desire to keep the war as far away as
possible instead of postponing serious defence
till it comes right here is “militarism.” The
proposal that the Hun should not get back
his Pacific islands and that he should not
be permitted to build up military and naval
and munition depots within a few days’ sail
of ill-defended Sydney is “militarism” and
“Imperialism.” Also it is a wicked device
of the “trading classes.” The trading
classes, which term includes everybody who
buys and sells things from the Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. down to the greengrocer
round the corner, are a stupendous combi-
nation of devils bent on plundering the
workers. The soldiers who defend Aus-
tralia represent a complicated Scheme of
oppression. The Ministry which is working
hard to restore the de-registered unions is
an object of dark suspicion. Even the nation
which, on the one-adult-one-vote system, is
the Parliament and the Government is more
or less of a disguised enemy. But no Labor
document of recent date hints at the Hun
as anything worse than an erring brother
who is suspected of struggling back to the
fold. The position as regards Russia is the
most curious of all. The Russian upset
“militarism,” disbanded the army, suspended
hostilities, entered into negotiations, made
peace, abolished the hereditary rulers and
the aristocracy, chased big landlords off the
premises, and set up what is persistently
cabled a “working men’s Government.” Then
the Hun annexed great areas of country
after the peace w r as made, appointed Hun
kings and governors, robbed the people to
the verge of starvation and beyond it, con-
scripted men without pay for public works
and war purposes, chased the ’working men’s
Government into the interior, and did
things compared with which the flogging of
the Australian Trades Halls membership
and the arrest of their families would have
been a trifle. Yet Labor literature still
speaks of the Hun as if he were a trustworthy
and sincere and well-meaning but possibly
misguided relative, w T ho should be approached
in a fine open spirit and who shouldn’t be
asked to pay an indemnity.
Squashed by His Orb of Fate.
The apologia of Senator Peabce to the
Senate:—
In Great Britain the Minister of War works on
an entirely different basis from that of the Minister
in Australia. Ministers in the former country are
not held personally responsible for every detail, as
they are here. In England Ministers deal with policy
and principles. There they have Parliamentary
under-secretaries dealing with the smaller questions
which the Defence Minister in Australia is sup-
posed to be responsible for. Unfortunately, the sys-
tem in Australia was inherited. Time and again
he had taken papers home and worked till 2 and 3
a.m., had a few hours sleep, returned to his office
and plunged into piles of papers for a few hours,
then had to rush off to a Cabinet meeting, and,
during the session, finish up in the Senate.
Even there he had to cope with Departmental
matters, and often departed home at all hours,
with matters that • required urgent considera-
tion. It was impossible for any man, no matter how
strong, to do this month in and month out, and
year after year. Federal Ministers had been working
in a vicious circle, being continually assailed by
press and public. As Minister of Defence he was
expected to attend to every minute detail in his
immense department, and at the same time to do
constructive work. It was impossible to do the two.
In a way Pearce’s plaint is true enough.
But it is mighty late in the day to squeak;
and it makes his record as a muddler no
better to think about to be told that he had
been trying to do too much. The brutal
facts are that he built up this dreary job of
imitating Sisyphus, and that the country
has had to pay millions before Royal Com-
missions discovered the folly of the proceed-
ings. Soon after Pearce became Minister
for Defence the war began to look a really
big thing, and the Department started to
expand like a gasometer. Many not un-
friendly observers, including The Bulletin,
represented to Pearce that he was getting
out of his depth, that the official machinery
was grossly incompetent for the job which
Australia was tackling, and that urgent
necessity had arisen for bringing the whole
system pnder review, in order to get effici-
ency and a fair deal. The Minister treated
these and other suggestions with scarcely
concealed contempt. Occasionally he was
foolish enough to imply that they were “dis-
loyal” or “venomous,” and throwing them
aside he went on “plunging into piles of
documents” and springing out of bed at
ridiculous hours and flopping round in the
midst of chaos. The allegation that Aus-
tralia “inherited” this mess is rubbish. When
the war broke out the Defence Department
consisted, relatively speaking, of two men
and a boy, and what it grew into as an
administrative failure was the fault of
Pearce. The Minister’s real job is to direct
the policy of the Department. That involves
getting the services of individuals to look
after the tuppences and their equivalents. If
Pearce prefers to spend his time in pursuit
of the small change, then he should get back
to a clerk’s stool. The deplorable position of
Pearce to-day is due to him being cursed
with the most fatal defect any man in a
responsible place can be proprietor of —the
incapacity to see the worth of other people
and to put their ability to its best use.
“Victimisation” as a Fine Art.
Dear Bulletin. —This is my text: —
In New South Wales the Labor Conference has
passed a life sentence on all who voted for or
advocated Conscription. In New South Wales no
Labor man who is expelled from the movement be-
cause of his views on Conscription can, as long as
he lives, be nominated for election as a member of
Parliament or Labor municipal councillor or for any
position in a Labor league. Mr. Tudor’s olive
branch, at best, is that those who have been expelled
from the movement can become merely hewers of
wood and drawers of water. Their duty would be
to vote for the party and they would not be per-
mitted to take any post in framing its policy or
shaping its destiny.— Labor Senator Thomas, N.S. W .
The Labor party, so far at least as the Ma
State is concerned, has made victimisation
a fine art. After every strike, no matter
how unreasonable it may have been, how
much violent language has been used, and
how much injury and misery it may have
deliberately inflicted in Kaiser W illiam
fashion on non-combatants, there is—pro-
vided the strike fails —a peremptory demand
for the burial of th® hatchet. But it is the
boast of the party leaders that they never
inter the axe. The general-strike organisers
who have deliberately adopted the Hun
policy of frightfulness—reasoning that if a
sufficient number of people who are in no
way responsible for the quarrel can be re-
duced to a sufficient degree of wretchedness,
the other party, being more humane than the
strike organisers, will give in—have invented
a perfectly new definition of peace as it
applies to their side. Having appealed to
force and been defeated they demand that all
persons who helped to resist their coei’cive
measures shall be sacked as unclean; that
the law-keeper shall be discharged with con-
tumely to make way for the unsuccessful
law-breaker, and that the law-breaker is
“victimised” unless the law-keeper is bounced
for his benefit. In addition, they reserve the
right to heave opprobrium at their opponents
after peace has been made, and to urge the
community to treat them as pariahs. This
is excommunication at its best and black-list-
ing raised to the nth power. The party, though
it is an uncompromising advocate of com-
pulsory service in the army which follows
Higgs and Judd, imposes a life sentence on
anybody who advocates compulsory service
for the defence of Australia. Some of its
alleged principles, such as its programme of
economy and its professed belief in arbitra-
tion rather than strikes, are scoffed at with
impunity by almost everybody in the move-
ment, but to have strong opinions about pro-
tecting our fatherland against the Hun can’t
be forgiven as long as the offender lives, and
he will probably be mud on his grave after he
is dead. There is room in the party for the
man who opposes even voluntary enlistment
and wants to leave the country absolutely
defenceless; for the man who believes in the
compulsory withdrawal of the army which
has already gone voluntarily to the Front;
for the person who demands that the Hun
should again be re-established in the Pacific
with his guns at our gates; for the pacifist
who holds that the Kaiser’s unspeakable
country shouldn’t be expected to remunerate
its miserable victims in any way, for that
would be contrary to the policy of “no indem-
nities” ; and for the people who tacitly lump
the artisans and peasants of Belgium and
Servia, who died in a hopeless struggle to
save their homes from ruin and their women-
folk from rape, with the shadowy horde of
“capitalists” who engineered the whole busi-
ness for their own sordid ends. There is
room, in short, for everybody who is polite
and forbearing to the Hun and rude or in-
different to all the Hun’S opponents. The
language used officially about William
lloiienzollern, who has been the boss apostle
of compulsory service for 30 years and a few
days over, is frankincense and myrrh com-
pared with the vitriolic speech aimed at
William Hughes, whose worst offence was
that he asked the people by popular vote
if they would have compulsory service and
abandoned it when they said “No,” as the
Labor leaders told them to. His unforgiv-
able offence was that under the Labor prin-
ciple of the referendum he gave the people a
chance to say “Yes.” He has just this much
room for repentance, it seems, that he may
come back humbly to the party, to stay there
as a subdued hanger-on till the refusal of a
nomination at next election wipes him out.
Yet there is quite a strong demand in the
Labor party that the blessed brother-Hun
shouldn’t be “humiliated.”—Yours, etc.,
Henry Horsecollar.
A Sunday Sermon.
Seeing that national self-reliance is an im-
portant item on the Australian Labor pro-
gramme to be considered in this month, it is
fitting to consider how much self-reliance the
country has on hand. Self-reliance is best
discovered in the matter of paying our way
and providing for adequate defence. When
these two things are done the rest is com-
paratively easy. Whether defence is adequate
or not doesn’t enter into the problems
of the State Governments, for it isn’t their
funeral or their bill. They can be best judged
by their peace finance, and their finances "are
always peace. Here are some recent figures
with a bearing on the case: —
Amount of
Interest to be
State Loan paid out of
Expenditure Year’s plain, honest
June, for year. Interest. Revenue.
1907.. £3,894,822 £8,500,000* £4,605 178
1910.. 8,384,542 9,201,909 817,837
Amount avail-
able for Razzle
after borrowing
enough to pay
Interest.
1911.. 11,926,123 9,533,689 2,392,434
1912.. 16,325,177 9,801,537 6,523,640
1913.. 18,429,274 10,586,388 7,842,886
1914.. 20,737,984 11,514,845 9,223,139
1915.. 20,825,839 12,676,917 8,148,922
1916.. 20,270,746 13,441,288 6,829,458
1917.. 14,579,955 13,934,914 635,041
•Approximate.
It doesn’t much matter for what purpose the
money was nominally borrowed. So long as
it was borrowed and put into circulation it
made so much more money to drift back to
the Treasury sooner or later as revenue. The
record suggests the struggles of a ship that
is steadily becoming water-logged, and which
lifts with a bigger effort every time till at
last it doesn’t lift at all. The difference
between 1907 and 1914 was roughly
£13,800,000 —£13,800,000 worth of drink and
visions. It was the difference between pay-
ing £4,600,000 of the interest bill with our
own money and of paying none of it with our
own money and borrowing £9,200,000 for
beer in additions ; but it takes an awful lot
of beer now to make the patient feel satisfied
—about £4,400,000 more in 1917 than in
1911—and it is every year a longer and more
uphill road back to sobriety. If the patient
had been compelled to swear off completely
through the stoppage of loans in 1916 he
would have been struck by £16,300,000 more
pain in the stomach and about £5,000,000 more
pain in the head than if the pledge had been
forced upon him in 1907—£16,300.000 less
borrowed money coming in and about
£5,000,000 more interest money going out.
Plunder and a Pew Reflections.
The witnesses who discourse on clothing and
sundries to the Inter-State Commission are
of many kinds and many opinions, but on
one point they approach unanimity. This is
that the upward skip in the prices of locally
“manufactured” goods is caused only in a
small degree by the rise in wages—the mat-
ter from which the Australian artisan and
his family benefit. The stupendous trouble
is the rise in the price of materials. And
it is specially pointed out that this doesn’t
apply in any great degree to local materials,
where the increase benefits the Australian
worker and his family, but to imported
materials. So far as this country is
concerned the big prices are no good to
man or beast. They are a tax or indemnity
paid to foreigners who may be non-unionists,
niggers, misers, food-hoarders, profiteers,
aristocrats, enemies, or any other sort of
undesirables. We have no voice in fixing
the size of the tax ; Parliaments, Inter-State
Commissions, Royal Commissions, Wages
Boards, Living Wage Boards, Basic Wage
Boards, Labor Conferences, people with new
banking schemes and all the rest are equally
helpless. They may pass resolutions, but
resolutions are of no more account than St.
Antony’s sermon to the fishes, which was
ignored by the crab and wholly disregarded
by the prawn. No one knows when the tax
will cease increasing; it is a sort of Hun who
plunders at random for reasons of his own
and turns a deaf ear to remonstrance. In
fact we can’t even locate its ear. It can
make the living wage of to-day an object of
mirth to-morrow, and if it puts the cost of a
working family’s customary mode of living
at more than the whole value of the goods
that the family produces, no effective remedy
exists. This country has got into the habit
of depending on a greater variety of imported
materials than any other country of the least
importance on earth, and its standard of liv-
ing has accentuated the trouble, for it regards
as common necessaries many things which
more frugal races reckon superfluities. So
it is, above all countries, a place to be plun-
dered with impunity by the foreign war-price
fiend. Ten Income-tax Commissioners rolled
into one are not half so full of impunity. If
Australia made a few hundreds or thousands
more things for itself it might fix its own
prices; but that, of course, would arouse the
fiscal issue, and a large section of papers
and politicians speak of such a thing off-
handedly as if it was equal to murdering one’s
grandmother.
From a wool man :
Are a handful to be allowed to grossly injure
the sheep industry? It is amazing that no one
in the federal House appears to realise that it
is time a hard foot was put down on the suicidal
practice of allowing some of our best stud merino
sheep to go out of this country to strengthen com-
petition against the home industry. This folly'
has been going strong for a decade or more, with
the result that South Africa, the country to which
our good quality has gone in truckloads, was rearing
a formidable head in the London market before the
war cut out competition by shutting up the London
saleroom, in the production of fine wool. Previously
we had a monopoly of that wealth-amassing product,
as the result of clever sheepbreeding for a century or
more. In the awakening that came to the Veldt after
the Boer war, South African stockowners grasped
the fact that they were behind the times, and,
shrewdly desirous of escaping about a hundred years
experiment and drudgery in sheepbreeding, came to
Australia and handed out bags of gold in return
for sheep; and they took the best offering. Like-
wise they sent their smart young men to learn at
our colleges and technical schools all we could
teach about the industry, and, to complete the
scheme, imported one of our experts. It was a
tribute to our casualness that the visitors should
be welcomed with open arms and that the prices they
paid were gloated over. This suicidal attitude was
calamitous enough in the old days, but that it should
be allowed to continue is beyond commonsense. Yet
it is recorded recently that Falxineks, the big
breeders, had sold a Wanganella ram for 2000
guineas to a South African buyer-—a record price, by
the way—and incidentally it was mentioned that
the same buyer had three years ago purchased
another ram of the same strain. To accentuate our
hopeless attitude let it be noted that the Ma State
Government is spending a large sum of money
establishing a sheep flock for the purpose of perpetu-
ating the Wanganella blood, and the South African
Government coldly refuses to allow pure Angoras
to be imported from that country to Australia, thus
preventing us from building up competition in
their big mohair monopoly. Both ways we are the
goat.
*.
Dr. Arthur, N. S. Wales politician, threw
a well-earned brick lately when he remarked
that Sydney University, by far the richest
institution of its kind in Australia, had
been promised another £300,000 by the
enthusiastic Minister for Education, while
the allowance for the treatment of venereal
disease is about £5OOO a year. And half of
that widow’s mite can’t be used, for lack of
accommodation—not for lack of patients, who
are being turned away wholesale. Dr.
Arthur urged that that frilly concern the
Conservatorium of Music might be closed as
such and the premises used for the treat-
The Recall.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Failing the consent of the Imperial authorities to
at once open up negotiations for peace, the Aus-
tralian divisions on service abroad be brought back
to Australia.— Labor Conference proposal.
Being back the legions! Well they fought
and long,
Writing Australia’s name across the world
In deeds that live in memory and song
Till the last flag upon its staff is furled.
Out of the quiet of the lands of peace
They leaped full-statured to the soldier’s
place ;
And as the world’s vast agonies increase
They stand breast-forward with a smiling
face
To victory toiling through the ranks of
shame.
Sound the recall in stalwart Labor’s name.
Bring back the legions! ’Tis the darkest
hour.
The world’s Thermopylae continues long.
The wrestling Truth strives with the bulk of
Power —
Woe to the conquered! Glory to the
strong!
Now is Australian valor needed most,
And, therefore, ’tis the moment for retreat.
Before the terror of the German host
Make our disgrace in all men’s eyes com-
plete !
Leave Prance sore wounded. Turn our
backs in flight.
The time to quit is in the hardest fight!
It was the happy thing the Phocians wrought
For Greece when Persia battered at the
door.
Vainly the proud Three Hundred strove and
fought;
Their warlike Allies gave the contest o’er,
Retired without a struggle that great morn
And left the splendid Spartans room to
die.
The ages held that treason in their scorn
And proved how grand it was to fight and
fly
That we, with ruin surging at the gate,
Might learn the way and proudly imitate.
The best Australian blood has dyed the sod
Of Europe’s stricken fields. Our graves
are set
With little crosses pointing up to God,
Who holds the scales of final triumph yet
For valor and high purpose. Should we stay,
Through us the battle-drums at last may
cease
And all the world beneath a kindlier sway
Reap the wide harvests of perpetual peace.
Can Labor stand for that? Away the
thought.
Not thus the progress of the cause is wrought.
Bring back the legions! There is much to
do.
We yet might organise a larger strike.
To the great Movement we shall still be
true;
And all the world shall know what we are
like.
We would not hurt the Prussian of the
Guard;
But the Australian public, they shall find
That we can swiftly smite and very hard
When things are not exactly to our mind.
By no mere facts can we be trapped or
tricked;
Proud Labor stands for poor Australia licked!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


2j&rszilZe£m.
On and after JCLI 4, until further notice,
the price of “The Bulletin” will be EIGHT-
owing to heavy increases in the cost
of paper, etc.
WAR-TIME PRICE, B<l.
Why Farmers and Pastoralists
should place their insurance business with the
Farmers’ $ Settlers’
Co-operative I nsurance
Co. of Australia Ltd.
FIRE—HAIL—WORKMEN’S
COMPENSATION-MARINE, etc.
Tj It is a purely co-operative company, owned by farmer and pastoralist policy-holders.
The entire profits are the sole property of co-operators.
*| It gives the best possible insurance service to the man on the land, because the Company
specialises in agricultural and pastoral insurance.
It offers absolute protection against fire, hail, workmen's compensation, etc., etc., at the
lowest standard premium rates charged by other offices. But with this advantage: all
surplus profits are available for distribution to co-operators—thus cheapening the cost of
their insurance.
Does any other office offer the farmer and pastoralist anything like equal advantages?
Though the Company has been in business not quite three years, its future is
assured, and splendid results can be looked for.
Reduce the cost of your insurance by co-operating with the thousands of farmers and
pastoralists who have already joined. Full particulars on application to the
Manager.
(HEAD OFFICE AFTER JULY 1: 129 PITT STREET.)
14 Martin Place, Sydney.
Branches in Victoria and
South Australia.
ment of the worst disease within human
knowledge. There is a great deal in the
idea. The piano isn’t an urgent or fatal
complaint, and it might well be turned out
to grass so far as the State is concerned
pending better days.
Sunshine and Gathering Clouds.
The sun began to shine again for the Allies
last week, thank Heaven. The Austrian
attack on the Italian front was received on
the end of solidly-massed disapproval, and
thrown violently back to where it came
from. There is no reason to suppose that
the wretched Austrian is capable of doing
any better if he tries again, or even that
he will be ready to make another effort for
quite a long time. The attack had been
prepared during several months and the
repulse was emphatic. There is no way of
knowing whether the enemy was surprised
at what happened. Probably he was not.
Anyway he had been so knocked about ever
since the war began that defeat could
scarcely be a novelty. The Russians mauled
him badly. The Servians did the same thing.
The victory over the Italians last season
was only achieved through putting a German
stiffening into the fray and employing Ger-
man generals. Since then the German
wants all the stiffening for himself on the
Western Front, and his generals have the
biggest job on hand they ever dreamed about.
Whether the stories about tremendous inter-
nal convulsions being in progress throughout
Austria should be swallowed whole is doubt-
ful. It is certain, however, that the popu-
lace is in a bad way through lack of nour-
ishment and that the harassed politicians
are feeling very sorry for themselves. The
disaster on the Piave will make the situation
no better, though it must be remembered that
in the natural course of events food will be
more plentiful at Vienna during the next
month or so than has latterly been the case.
Meantime happenings in France have been
quite peaceful for over a week, which can
lie taken as a sure sign that the next occur-
rences will resemble 75 tornadoes concen-
trated into one tremendous blast of unpleas-
antness. There are alleged to be reasons
for suspecting Prince Ruppreciit’s army of
an intention to leap forward in the direction
of Amiens. If it does the struggle will be
one of terrible intensity, for Amiens is a
place of great importance to Foch, and in
the military sense quite as important to the
Germans as Paris. A battle thereabouts
would have additional significance to Aus-
tralians, for our lads when last heard from
were standing right in the fairway. This is
a guarantee that Ruppreciit will find there
is something extra doing in that locality
when he makes a start.
The Yes-No Habit.
“Med.” : Until quite recently there was a
kind of embargo upon the enlistment of Aus-
tralian medical students, but the Defence
Department removed the barrier at about the
same time as it sanctioned the enlistment of
minors without parental consent. A few
days after this was made known, Professor
Anderson Stuart, Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine at Sydney University, told the
third-year men that it was their absolute
duty, not to enlist, but to work hard and
finish their course as soon as possible,
because (1) there was already a shortage of
doctors, (2) the shortage would still he
serious in the years ahead, and (3) because
no one could say that the war would be over
in two years. Soon afterwards, Professor
J. T. Wilson, in a letter to S.M.H.. expressed
exactly opposite views. He held that every
man possible should enlist, and that the
prospective shortage of doctors when it
occurred (as he admitted it would occur),
should he met then as ivoll as possible, and
should not lie given consideration at present.
Then Professor Chapman had a word with
the third-year men. In the main, he agreed
with Anderson Stuart’s opinion. The Aus-
tralian Medical Journal also concurred
with Anderson Stuart’s views. Finally, in
the Herald of May 19, Dr. St. Vincent
Welch spoke about the serious shortage
of medical-officers at the Front. (He has
been there, and knows.) If the practice of
bringing medical students back from the war
to finish their course is to continue, as in the
past, an absurd position will be created. Men
will leave the Medical School by one door
and come back by another —if they haven’t
been killed in the meantime. The position
as it now stands is very unsatisfactory for
the student. Most of them want to do the
right thing, but the Faculty of Medicine tells
them that their duty is to stay at home and
finish their course. Then, if they do this, in
the eyes of the public they are shirkers.
:
Wanted, an Aggressive Jaw.
Arrangements were lately made by which
Acting-Prime Minister Watt was to appear
in the N. S. Wales Legislative Assembly this
week and address the members thereof. It
seemed a novel sort of interlude for Watt.
capable of elaboration into a system which
would make Australia’s Fourteen Houses of
Parliament more fearsome institutions than
ever. According to Premier Holman the
intention of Watt was
to indicate a growing disposition on the part of
the Federal Government to secure the harmonious
co-operation of the States in the further prosecution
of the war.
To The Bulletin it seems as if Watt
ought to consider the expediency of more
Direct Action. If he took Holman by the
ear and intimated that in the judgment of
the Federal Ministry the financial policy
pursued by the N. S. Wales Cabinet was an
intolerable outrage upon the Commonwealth
and would have to stop, that the first time a
member of the Ma Government mentioned
floating more loans he would be interned
under the War Precautions Act. and that
unless the State discontinued being a reck-
less waster of the national assets, it would
be court-martialled, then Watt would be
making a laudable move towards co-opera-
tion in dodging chaos. No doubt the N. S.
Wales Government would be annoyed at the
proceedings, and its dignity might be ruffled
at the prominence of Watt’s fighting jaw,
but dignity is a poor asset to offer the bailiff
when he hands in his warrant and asks
wlmt’s to be done about it.
♦
Some Debts and How Not to Pay.
By way of reproof-
Those I.W.W. people who are allowed to write
Labor manifestoes, in which they hint darkly that
they know some way of raising lots of loans without
interest, might consider the old story of the original
(not the present) Bank of Brazil. For there is
nothing new under the inverted bowl of the sky—
even the folk who started for Paraguay in 1893,
because they had newly discovered how to run a
communal settlement on lines of equality and
brotherly love, were only doing something previously
attempted with similar results in Acts iv, verses 34
and 35. When John, King of Portugal and Brazil,
being crowned by Napoleon, shifted his capital from
Lisbon to Rio Janeiro, he put his shoulder to the
wheel and got the institution, one of the earliest of
its kind in America, on its legs, such as they were.
It issued shares and lent the subscribers paper money
with which to pay for them, and took back the shares as
security. So the bank had the scrip as security:
and the paper money, which had come back to it, as
payment for the scrip, and it had the right to call
on the shareholders to pay up their overdrafts and
redeem their scrip; and the shareholders had the
capital in paper standing to their credit in the
books, which were paper except the binding, and
that was leather. Brazil, unlike Australia, had no
foreign debt the interest on which had to be paid
in gold, and its exports exceeded its imports, and
the shifting of the Court to Rio stopped the habit
of paying a contribution to the Central Government
at Lisbon, so there was no need to send away metal
money. The wonderful bank actually prospered a
little, and was even accumulating a gold reserve
when the blessed Crown and Government decided to
move back to Lisbon. And as Brazilian notes didn’t
sell in Lisbon any more than Australian ones do in
London, all the people who were going back, wanted
their deposits in gold, and the shareholders who were
going back demanded that their future dividends
should be paid in gold. The institution was too
young to stand the shock and it died. Which was a,
pity, for it meant well, and though it was a wild
cat it was an honest sort of swindle, and it might
have become solid and respectable in time if the
Crown ancl dynasty and regalia and the appurtenances
hadn’t gone back to Portugal, and thus turned them-
selves into a foreign debt instead of a mere local
liability.
»
Thus S. Miller, of the Sydney Coach-
makers’ Union to Adelaide Daily Herald :
W T e cannot speak our minds in the public places,
for wherever there is a Labor propaganda speaker in
Sydney there are at least two expert shorthand-
writer's waiting to take down whatever is said. We
have no free speech.
Yet one would think that unless a speech
was very obscene or ungrammatical _ or
grossly libellous or was an incentive to crime
or to treason such as selling the country to
the Hun, the orator would rather like to have
his words preserved. If “free speech” is
the kind that is so horrible that the free
to be able to deny that he
said itl then the position is understandable.
But does anybody want speech that even its
author is ashamed of?
#-
“Digger” : The heads are always trying to
chaperone us. Extract from Corps Orders
No. 43, posted for the benefit of Billjim on
Salisbury Plains: —
CONDUCT OF TROOPS IN PUBLIC.
The C.O.C. lias noticed that some Australian sol-
diers walk about the streets and roads in daylight
in uniform, with their arms round women and not
infrequently the women’s arms round them. This is
very unbecoming on the part of soldiers in uniform,
and must cease. Commanding-officers will com-
municate this order to all ranks and notify them
that the Military Police have been instructed to
take action against anyone who commits a breach ot
it.
Billjim might reply that if it is unbecom-
ing in the eyes of the brass-hats tov him to
put his arm, in daylight, on the King s high-
way, perhaps for the last time on this earth,
around a girl’s waist, it isn’t nearly so d d
unbecoming as reeking of blood and filth on
the fields of France seems to him when he
thinks of what some of the brassbound ink-
pots of the army are doing.
—— ♦ :
Sydney Telegraph has reached the stage of
believing that the world is going to move
along under the burden of war debt without
losing a night’s sleep. It puts the telescope
to its blind eye and reports this way :
There are evidences that wages and incomes are
advancing in all leading countries. Australian
incomes have advanced something like 100 millions
annually since the war began. It may be said that
such increases are due to the war, but in a great
degree they have come to stay, and the burden of
debt will be lowered in consequence.
The main weakness of this is that wages and
incomes are in tho main not advancing at
anything like the rate at which the purchas-
ing power of money is declining. Of course
the “prosperity” created by flinging millions
of borrowed cash round may endure after the
scattering is suspended; and if it does the
Telegraph can take credit for having dis-
covered that plunging into war is the best
way to get rich quick yet devised by demo-
crats or kings.
“Bananalander” : I think “Windgauge” ( B.
3/6/M8) is astray in his facts regarding the
origin of the Billjim hat. The Brisbane
Volunteer Rifle Corps, predecessors of the
present Oxley Regiment, adopted this hat in
1888. I was then a non-com. in the corps
Avhich came into existence during the Rus-
sian scare, and we adopted a grey uni-
form with blue facings. We wore for the
first couple of years a grey helmet, with
bronze spike, chain and badge; but it was
so heavy as to give us headaches on hot
days, so we decided on the grey “Billjim”
hat with a blue puggaree. These lids were
made in Melbourne, and were worn turned
up at the right side, as we found that; the
brim got in the way of the long bayonet then
used with the Martini-Henry rifle. The hat
attracted the attention of Colonel French,
then Commandant, and soon after Colonel
Ricardo adopted it for the Bananaland
Mounted Infantry, who had worn white hel-
mets with red plumes up to then. Gradually
the hat came into general use by the infantry
and engineers for undress work, and, when
khaki was permanently adopted, became the
recognised and permanent head-dress of the
forces.
“Umntu’': Now that we are beginning to
study the French people and their history
with something like sympathy there is some
chance of our doing tardy justice to that
great French statesman. Jean Baptiste Col-
bert, the middle-class business-man who fos-
tered trade, revived industries, built ships,
made roads and canals, constructed harbors,
increased the revenue, and made France the
most prosperous country in Europe. Unfor-
tunately Louis XIV. spent money faster
than Colbert could raise it, and France had
to go through a time of national bankruptcy ;
but there was a quick recovery, and the
markets for silks, brocades and glass which
France captured under the statesman have
been retained unto this day. Colbert’s policy
was very simple. He protected home indus-
tries by a stiff tariff, and tried to standard-
ise productions that they might be known
in the world’s markets as reliable. He would
have been small potatoes in Australia.
“Pedess”: A word with “Country Ped”
and “J.Q.” on the subject of minimum age
for school attendance. They put up a good
case for late admission, and I agree with
them, provided the youngsters possess par-
ents who can and will lay the foundation,
mentally and morally. Generally, in coun-
try districts, youngsters come to school at the
age of about six, without the faintest idea
of the value of number or sound, which
should really be the natural outcome of
intelligent upbringing. At eight or nine
they would probably be no farther ahead
than at six, but would have two more years
of home neglect added. This would make
them considerably more difficult to handle.
School provides entertainment and recre-
ation, and what bush youngster gets a sur-
feit of them? Most teachers worthy of the
name don’t mind in the least taking on a
little extra work, if it will make up to the
children what is so sadly lacking in the
average bush home. To too many the out-
look walks on four legs and is spelt with
three letters. Two children aged five and
seven at my school were arranging then-
lunch so as to have a fair share for each
part of the day. “That’s for little play-
time, and that’s for big playtime and we’ll
keep this for cowtime,” i.e., after school.
“G.A.H.”: South Coast (N.S.W.) coal-
miners are at loggerheads over the question
of a levy for the support of members who
have been refused work since the big strike.
About 250 of the men have declined lo pay.
What with deductions for doctor, rent, coal,
hospital, stores, fines and sundries it costs
the miner about £l5 per year; and on top of
this, they say, not a pay is distributed 'that
there is not a collection for someone or a
levy for some union in distress. So they
jibbed. In an appeal to law the Miners’
Federation sought to make the payment of
levies compulsory, but was beaten on the
technical point that the defendants had
never signed an application-form, and were
therefore not legally members of the Federa-
tion. Eventually it was decided to accept
no fees whatever from “won’t-pays,” who
are henceforth to be considered outside the
pale. The “stalwarts” are suspicious that
the Government and the bosses are boosting
a new union, and more trouble may burst
out at any moment, as some of the men aver
that they would sooner live on lilli-pillies
than work alongside the “won’t-pays.”
“Curse o’ Moses” :
Labor men in N. S. Wales Assembly are right in
one thing: the conduct of the war is the business
of the Commonwealth, not of the State. If, as
stated by Dooley, M.L.A., there are 25 members on
both sides eligible for enlistment who can’t find
anything better to do as legislators than to discuss a
Federal affair in the State sphere, it is obvious that
all the spruiking of N.S.W. Parliamentarians on the
recruiting question would be of little value while
these eligibles remain in their ranks. The only
excuse for public men of the right age and physique
remaining out of the scrap is the importance of the
service they are rendering to the community. If
they are so little burdened with work that they can
give time to other matters that don’t immediately
concern them, by all means let them go. ' What
about a Conscription Referendum in the Assembly
itself to apply to those of its own ranks who fairly
come under the stigma of “shirkers”?
A feature of the war is the discomfiture
of Hun bully policy by an American counter-
stroke. Berlin threatened “reprisals” against
captive Americans unless President "Wil-
son cancelled the conviction of one
Von Rintelen, serving a sentence as a
German spy. The threat had done the trick
every time it was tried on the British Gov-
ernment, therefore Berlin fell back in
amazement when Wilson replied that repri-
sals were a game that two could play.
Reciprocal action upon great numbers of
German subjects in the United States was
threatened in the event of Kultur making-
first stroke. So the Von Rintelen threat was
abandoned as silently as all the reprisal
threats would have been abandoned had
John Bull decided on punch for punch.
Uncle Sam’s ability for handing out the
wallop is world famous, and if the wallop
isn’t there to meet Fritz’s bluff it will sur-
prise Australia.
THE GRAND OLD LAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A protest against the Federal Government’s pro-
posal to fix the price of meat was made at a meeting
of farmers and graziers in the Temperance Hall last
night. The chairman, Mr. W. J. McLean, said they
believed that the price should be regulated by the
grand old law of supply and demand (cheers), that
old law which had prevailed in British communities for
thousands of years. (Renewed cheers).” —News item.
What 0! the old law of Supply and Demand,
So fair and so just, likewise noble and grand.
For thousands of years it has governed the land,
Says Mister McLean,
And millions of mortals who labor for bread
Are healthfully sweated and scantily fed,
Till at length they are"laid in their last little bed,
At rest to remain.
Some men, law-abiding, are sowers of wheat,
Whilst others raise sugar or cattle for meat:
Sure, all of the foods ’tis the fashion to eat
Are grown on the land,
Save only the fish, which, by crafty device,
Is dragged from the water and put upon ice ;
And God made a law regulating the price—
Supply and Demand.
So farmers and graziers, and dealers in cod,
And all that’s produced from the sea or the sod,
Must stick to this law for the glory of God
(Their duty is plain).
And whether the vittles be dry or be wet,
And feeders be wealthy, or toilers in debt,
Let prices be all that the sellers can get,
Says Mister McLean.
The seller of labor, who works at a job
That’s well worth a “quid,” must be glad of a ‘">ob”,
When masters are in a position to rob
The toiler in need
For never did men in the Biblm age,
Whom farmers and graziers "" •«. oound to engage,
Have a chance of inflicting a minimum wage
On Abraham's greed.
Producers of meat for consumption to-day,
And farmers who gather in sunshine the hay,
Whilst charging as much as a buyer will pay
This law understand;
The law by which. Labor was sweated of old:
The law whereby Capital minted its gold:
The law that accounts for oppression untold —
Supply and Demand.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


e>
1
Stimulating:, blood-warming’ and health-giving. CHATEAU TANUXDA is a brandy
of a standardised quality of excellence, no matter what the condition of the market
may be.
Insist on having “CHATEAU TANUNDA ” the Special Hospital BRANDY, BUY WHOLE .BOTTLES.
TucKer CSL Co., Limited Sydney Agents.
A Hat for Windy Weather!
The soft Felt, which holds firmer on the head than any
other, is the best hat for Winter wear. The Peapes
“Warrigal” Felt, made in Australia, is an outstanding value
among present-day productions. It is, in shape, finish and
quality of felt, an admirable example of the standard
attained by Australian manufacturers.
Smooth finish, medium crown, adjustable brim, with
unbound edge. Colors: Mole and Nut Brown
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
13/6
Please state size and color. “Warrigal” Catalogue posted
on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
Men's Outfitters,
309 and 3H George Street, SYDNEY
The registered “Warrigal”
trdde-marh is , stamped on the
leather.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Pat ave “The Masquerader
Playhouse ''.'.'.' Cappelli & the Scarlet Troubadours
Un V ion Theatres ‘ ’'. ’.'. ’. ’. ’. ’’.’’.’. ’. ‘ ’ Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s ! . . . Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ■•••••■• Katinka
r oyal “The Man Who Came Back
King’s l - . “ De .#sl4£nS”
Bijou Dl <ii7 Da i ly »
Hoyt’s De Luxe k Olymima Moving l ictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
The considerable charms of “Katinka”
have touched Melbourne’s heart, and Her
Majesty’s is a very popular place of call
these nights and matinees. The music and
story are strongest in the first act and weak-
est in the third, but there’s a lot of Florence
Young in the third, and Florence can always
be trusted to put life into whatever comes
her way. There’s something doing when
that virile artist is at the wicket. Kitty
Downes introduces a touch of novelty into
a dance duet in the last act, and Kitty, like
Phyllis Amery in the previous scenes, is a
poem on two legs. So “Katinka” seems
*good for some more weeks. Phil Smith will
continue his irreproachable elopement with
'Gladys Moncrieff; and Olive Godwin, from
the pacha’s harem, will clear up the mis-
understanding until further orders. The
pacha, by the way, doesn’t appear in the dis-
turbance, but his numerous unmarried wives
lend enchantment to the scene. Man is made
to feel that Turkey is a pleasant country for
the idle rich. Marriage in Old Stamboul
may be sometimes a surfeit, but never a
'failure.
* * as a<
“The Nigger” has already run its trium-
phant course at Melbourne King’s, if last
Saturday’s advt. spoke truly. In any case
to-night (Thursday) would be the last of
the Guy Bates Post season. “De Luxe
Annie” is due on Saturday, and the advent
of Emelie Polini is understood to be keeping
expectation on tiptoe.
a; a; a-- a?
The Melbourne Royal has said farewell to
“General Post,” and silence will reign there
until Saturday, when Muriel Starr reappears
in a new drama. For the first time in Aus-
tralia “The Man Who Came Back” will
appear, bringing a message of hope and a
large assortment of thrilling incidents.
$ *
Alexander Watson is giving two more last
final recitals in Melbourne ere he gets away
to Maoriland. The Athemeum Hall is
otherwise engaged and the Town Hall is
dedicated to Pictures, so these next Satur-
day nights of Alexander Watson will be
passed in the Assembly Hall. On some
other nights he will take Shakspeare,
Dickens, Kipling and the Sentimental Bloke
into the suburbs.
** ❖ *
There is no superfluous friendliness, in the
rivalry between the Firm and the Taits. If
one decides to open
a season with an
important produc-
tion on a certain
date, the other can
mostly be relied on
to rush in a rival
production for the
same night. In
consequence of this
policy the only
show available to
Melb. playgoers at
a first-grade theatre
on the 27 th and
28th is “Katinka,”
the Royal and the
King's being closed
to permit of the
swapping of com-
panies and staging
of opposition
shows on the 30th.
sfc H? s*c
A t Melbourne
Tivoli to-night Ada
Reeve, the inimit-
able, is concluding
a final dash. She
is associated this
week with a vaude-
ville co. which will
Sydney Playhouse.
Tenor Cappelli.
be reinforced when she goes, and will hold
the floor until the new show comes along
from Sydney.
Stella Power, lately with Melba in
America, gives a concert at Melb. Auditorium
to-night (Thursday), with a view to reveal-
ing the latest developments in her sweet
young voice.
Bryant and Bryant, two of the latest
comers at Melbourne Bijou, are respon-
sible for an ornate electrical disturbance
wherein they juggle sundry implements in a
contemptuous manner. The turn has many
points of interest, the c-hiefest of which is
Mr. Bryant trying to knot himself around
a long silver bar. Two other strangers,
McQuoin and Taylor, occasionally win a
smile with their decorous frivolity, whilst
McLean and Lee have a comedy which extols
the lady’s curves in masculine clothes. In
the second part the prevalent Stanhope
is called “Dilly-Dally,” though “Dally” soon
proves to be superfluous.
** * *
How Mary Pickford’s beauty converts a
bandit to good works is told in “A Romance
of the Redwoods” at Hoyt’s, Melbourne,
this week. Mary’s bandit is named
Black Brown, and he is a wholesale
dealer in sudden death and disturbance before
Mary makes him a member of the Y.M.C.A.
George Beban, who professes to photograph
the mannerisms of the Amurkan Dago,
shares the sheet with dainty Mary. This
time George’s exuberant handplay is a
feature of “The Cook of Canyon Camp.”
$$ $ $
Charles Chaplin and his old pal Edna
Purviance, supported by various policemen
and a host of auxiliaries, are leading “A
Dog’s Life” at Melbourne Majestic. This
blameless absurdity runs for three reels, and
is a welcome shriek in the gloom provided
by Belle Bennett in “A Soul in Trust” and
Harry Morey and Grace Darmond in “The
Other Man.” Both films deal with the
tragedy of sex and give some of the latest
particulars.
* ❖ *
There is little that is fresh to be said
about “The Bing Boys,” now having a riot-
ous time at Adelaide Royal. Cannot is at
his best in this kind of thing. (Incidentally,
he gets a real chance to use his singing
voice.) Leslie Holland has had parts that
suited him better, but he is too sound an artist
not to score in this one. Minnie Love wears
gorgeous costumes, has quite unusual
chances and makes the most of them. As
for the support, the Register talked de-
murely of “a really offensive display of lin-
gerie .'... there is no attempt here to hide
anything... .undoubtedly much that is bare-
backed and barefaced.... approached the
limit of even footlights decency.” The
booking was already big, and —well, another
little advt. didn’t do ’em any harm. The
Tivoli has revived “Fauntleroy” with suc-
cess. Dorothy Seacombe is clever and pretty
(some of her newspaper photos ought to be
prosecuted for libel), but girlish beyond even
the powers of an audience’s make-believe.
Guy Hastings is an education in earls; and
Fitzherbert, as the elderly lawyer, shows
more than ever his marked resemblance to
an Adelaide Iv.C. Stanford is a good Yan-
kee grocer, without any of the accent of the
country. Half the bill at the Majestic now
is Walter Johnson’s co., with. Les Warton
and a merry lot in a revue which is just go-
as-you-please musical comedy. Newbury and
Amy Murphy give the programme high
artistic value, and there are big houses
twice every day.
* * * *
Pictures in Adelaide are frequent and
good. West’s have had yet another week of
Gerard’s “Four Years.” and thb Govern-
ment has recommended all school children
to attend and learn current history in this
pleasing way. Mary Pick ford, is at Wonder-
graph and at the Pav. it is the “Lone
Wolf’s” week to howl. The play does its
best to justify the claim of being “the most
sensational ever screened.” The Grand has
a section of the adventures of the jolly local
Waybacks.
** ❖ *
EAST LYNNE.
The gentle Lady Isobel
And Archibald, her sterner mate,
Stepped from the Shade to sadly tell
Of true love wrecked by cruel fate
Assisted by that devil’s son
Called in this world Frank Leviston.
This villain with his cunning art
Played on the young wife’s jealousy,
Till she, to make her husband smart,
Decided that with Frank she’d flee.
("The next scene showed a Paris flat
Where Isobel, deserted, sat.)
Bereft of name, and friends, and cash,
And moaning o’er her sin and shame;
Repentance, now, her mental lash,
To Madame Vine she changed her name,
And, standing on East Lynne’s hall-mat,
Speaks broken French, wears widow’s hat.
Another wife at Archie’s knee
In deep notes sings of “other lips,”
And Isobel is sorry she
Has burnt forever all her ships.
Then on the scene small Willie came,
His cheeks flushed with a hectic flame.
At 10.15 small Willie dies,
And Isobel, with dying groan,
Casts the blue glasses from her eyes
And by her Archibald is known.
Then all his anger she disarms.
And dies in his forgiving arms.
* * * #
The George Cross Co. resurrected “East
Lynne” for its farewell to Sydney audiences.
The Onera House on Saturday suffered from
a shortage of pocket-handkerchiefs, other-
wise all things went well, and if Miss Forbes
would remember to handle the dying Little
Willie with the gloves on, so to speak, she’d
spare the mothers in front an anxious
moment. The poor child might get a nasty
blow against the bedpost. That broth of a
bhoy Allen Doone will commence a season
at the theatre on Saturday. “Lucky O’Shea”
is the opening piece.
** * *
“De Luxe Annie” had the curtain rung
down upon her at the Palace this week after
a long and payable season. Guy Bates Post,
the big American with the quiet manner and
the uproarious street clothes, re-opens the
theatre on Saturday with “The Masquer-
ader,” and eager first-nighters are now
clamoring at laundry doors for the shirt that
never returned. Sydney theatregoers gen-
erally, though they are interested in the
gripping drama built on “John Chilcote,
M.P.,” hope, before the Post season ends,
to have a look at “The Nigger,” the color-
question play which the Taits have hidden
in their theatrical wood-pile. When “The
Nigger” was staged in New York money
was no object to the producer. A syndicate
of millionaires was running the theatre for
the novelty of the thing, and the show had
to be done regardless of cost. Guy Bates
Post was telling the Taits in Melbourne of
the size of an incidental brass band, required
to play a few bars of “Star Spangled Ban-
ner” behind the scenes, just at the finish of
the play. The musical conductor at the
gold-bugs’ theatre suggested that two or
three more trombones would add to the im-
pressiveness of the anthem. The manager
assented —thing had to be done properly—
MELBOURNE BIJOU.
From the Grafters’ Quartette.
but the extra- trombones called for a larger
supply of other wind instruments, and be-
fore the play was produced the incidental
invisible band had grown into a mob of 62.
The effect was more than impressive; it was
exciting for the two minutes that it lasted.
“Well, our’s is not yet a millionaire’s
theatre, and you won’t expect us to have 62
musicians on that little job. How many do
you think we ought to have?” asked John
Tait. “About six would do, I suppose,” said
Post.
** * *
“The Three Twins” will be carried out of
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on Friday night,
closely attended by Dr. Alfred Frith, of the
jolly lunatic asylum which is open at all
hours to singers and dancers. It seems as if
these featherweight musical plays have got to
that stage when even the skeleton of a plot
is an encumbrance. The pursuit race of the
Twins never slackens until somebody has to
work off a more or less irrelevant song or
dance. Then the traffic stops suddenly with-
out explanation and a sort of Sabbath quiet
descends. Everyone temporarily forgets that
the two real Twins and the fake one are in
leash just round the corner waiting to rush
on again. The moment the interpolated
item is over the theatrical traffic-constable
beckons, the plot begins to rattle as briskly
as eabhorses’ feet, and the audience wakes up
to the fact, that it is required to concentrate
again on the wearisome “complications.” The
effect of the interruptions is to make the
show seem like a farce chopped into short
lengths of 20 five-minute intervals. “Canary
Cottage” will be revived on Saturday, as a
sort of appetiser before “Oh, Boy,” due on
July 6.
Muriel Starr having advanced on Mel-
bourne a barrage of silence fell over the Cri.
(Sydney) for a couple of nights while “The
13th Chair” was conveyed to the premises
for the use of Margaret Wycherly and co.
on Saturday evening. First appearance in
Australia.
v v *l* 'l*
The end of “Time, Please!” comes on Fri-
day night at Sydney Tivoli. It is a bright
show which deserves to be remembered if
only for Barry Lupino’s fatherly head-
waiter. late of the Wowsers’ Club—“a. place,
sir, which is the resort of all Sydney’s lead-
ing thinkers. No, sir, not ‘stinkers’ —
thinkers !” Ada Reeve, with a good co. in
support, begins a farewell season of six
nights and two matinees on Saturday.
The Scarlet Troubadours are keeping the
electrics blazing outside Sydney Playhouse;
but the last-nights’ sign is up opposite tenor
Cappelli’s name.
Elsie Ferguson’s work in “The Rise of
Jennie Cushing,” the screen version of Mary
Watts’s novel, tops any of her previous
efforts. .Jennie, is one of the lucky girls the
books and movies tell you of. who, starting-
life with every handicap, flash past the
post an easy winner. Sydney Lyceum reels off
the story. Norma Talmadge and Eugene
O’Brien have dropped in at the Crystal Pal-
ace and hold the audience with a yarn called
“The Ghosts of Yesterday,” in which a half-
finished painting is the pivot. Mary Pick-
ford smiles from Hoyt’s sheet, and makes
“The Romance of the Redwoods” a very
vital theme. Francis Birtles, Australia’s
overlanding photographer, is handed a special
vote of thanks for bringing Binghi and his
ways of catching his dinner, and his danc-
ing, and his evening dress .to Sydney.
“Through Australian Wilds” is the name
of the film, and its address is the Alhambra.
On Violet Day in Sydney an equilibrist
attracted a crowd by balancing on two legs
of his chair on the lofty parapet of the Com-
monwealth Bank. But is there an Australian
Treasurer who hasn’t attempted the trick at
some time or other?
“N’lmporte’s” tribute: —
Salvage-officer Cox, of the Sydney Fire Brigade,
whose efforts to save the Himmelferb children in
the disastrous Sussex-street fire were no less heroic
for being unsuccessful, is one of the most promising
firefighters that Australia possesses. He has been
busy with the ladder and hose for over 20 years,
having joined the brigade as a young man, at the
bottom of the tree, and worked his way up to the
command of the Salvage Corps. It is not so difficult
to pick men to tackle the job of putting out fires
as it is to select a cool hand to go about quietly cover-
ing up goods with waterproof-sheets, to save water
damage on the bottom floors when the top storeys
are a blazing volcano. Cox is a fine athlete, and
was a member of the crew that wrested the whaler
championship of Sydney Harbor from the Challenger
and dished a crew from the U.S.S. Baltimore. He
was likewise runner-up to “Snowy” Baker on one
occasion for the Middleweight Amateur Boxing
Championship, a broken thumb robbing him of a
fight in the final. Though his particular job is to
save propputy, he was the first man into the blazing
second-hand shop last Thursday night in a gallant
effort at rescue.
•‘Dead Sea”: My cobber Bill blew into
the pay-office in Cairo and asked that his
pay-book should be made up. It didn’t take
long. “You’re overdrawn at the Egyptian
rate, but you have a credit of £50.” “Can I
draw that fifty?” “Oh, no; we’re not
allowed to pay above the Egyptian rate.”
Bill scowled and scratched his chin. “Well,
you see, it’s like this. I’ve got a letter here
from my sister in England. She’s practi-
cally starving and I want to send her fifty
quid. Can’t you manage it?” The pay-clerk
brightened at once. “Yes, we can fix that for
you. Sign the acquittance roll here and
we’ll remit the money for you.” But Bill
drew back. “Can’t I draw the money and
send it myself?” “No; we unfit forward it
for you.” Bill tramped to the door and
shot a glance of hatred at the official. “Well,
let her well starve!”
“ J.11.G.”: Just met Victorian infantry
and N. S. Wales sappers marching along
Forty-second-street, New York, with the
flag and band at the fore, through a cheering
throng. The Anzacs captured New York.
Their money, except the big pennies, which
everyone wanted for souvenirs, was no good to
them. Saw some of them trying to buy cigars.
Said a big New Yorker: “That’s all right,
clerk.” It was waste of time to argue. Even
the newsboys would not take money for
papers. Bars are closed to all uniforms,
but the Billjims had clubs opened to them.
As they marched I saw an Australian
painter come out on to an apartment roof
coo-eeing with a megaphone and waving a
boomerang. When halted at the N.Y. Yacht-
ing Club the crowd showered chewing-gum.
cigarettes and money. I saw one Kipling-
esque sergeant pick up a five-dollar bill.
Their walk and bearing was distinct from
American, British or Canadian. The Yan-
kee is the man hurrying to catch a car.
Walking is neither his gait nor his enjoy-
ment. The Canuck is a blend of Piccadilly
swagger and N.Y. quickstep. Our boys walk
as they breathe, with time enough for any
distance. They passed away down our street
one midnight singing, hilarious but orderly
and good humored, despite all the hospi-
tality. They’re great lads, and the world
will never spoil them.
From above the Speaker:—
The return of Warrant-Officer McGrath, M.H.R.,
tends to widen the crack in the Federal Labor party.
McGrath is a Socialist and an idealist, but he has
kept his mind clear of the insanities that color the
speeches of the pacifist groups. In a forceful utter-
ance last week he definitely repudiated the idea of
crawling for peace by negotiation. lie has seen
too much of Fritz at close quarters to cherish any
delusion about that animal’s aims and projects.
McGrath contends that a Hun who talks peace out
of the mouths of big Berthas will not be subdued by
the glossy beatitudes of Higgs or the Bolshevisionary
patter of Michael Considine. The returned soldier’s
oration is calculated to stiffen the independence of
the section that refuses to wave the red flag in the
face of Bull. Senator “Jupp” Gardiner, Matthew
Charlton, David Watkins, Jim Page, and probably
Tudor, Riley, West and Fenton agree with McGrath,
and it is significant that the squad embraces most of
the men who have sons at the Front. Brennan, Higgs
and Considine froth at the head of the other push,
and the difference between them and the Charlton
crowd is too vital to be healed in the Caucus-room.
It may be settled for better or worse as the lions or
asses prevail at the Labor Conference in Perth.


TASTE BEGETS BEAUTY
LADIES! Your personal appearance is a precious
asset, whether in business or society—cultivate it.
Every day you have to face someone with eyes
bent on inspection. Y'ou must be prepared to face
the critical world, now that you have become such
a great factor through the wastage of war.
Examine yourself for rough patches, conspicuous
nose pores, excessively oily and shiny tendency, or
if sallow and colorless or unduly tanned. The Aus-
tralian climate is a severe one.
All these conditions can be changed by daily care
and attention. Your skin is always continually and
rapidly changing. That is just the reason for its
treatment. To free your skin of tiny dead particles,
cleanse the pores, bring the blood to the surface and
stimulate the muscular fibres.
This done, then notice how wonderfully refreshed
your skin looks, and how it takes on the soft, trans-
parent, natural coloring every woman longs for.
If you allow your skin to remain lifeless and
inactive you cannot have that rich, velvety skin
with a radiant color that comes and goes.
Cleanse your skin thoroughly after shopping,
motoring, or a busy day at home, by washing it in
your usual way with John Strange Winter’s Soap—
SaVon Marquise. Then rub thoroughly into the pores
with the tips of the fingers John Strange Winter’s
New Face Cream (for oily skins) or Lakshmi Cream
(for dry skins), and tone up with their deliciously
fragrant powder—Poudre Marquise. Finally, having
made those teeth pearly white with John Strange
Winter’s delicately piquant Dental Cream, you will
look and feel 10 years younger.
If you persevere the charm will come to stay. It
is no use just doing it for a couple of days and
neglecting it. If you persist you will reap a big
reward. Casual treatment makes for no permanent
good.
Think how many years older your face looks than
skin that is unexposed.
John Strange Winter’s toilet preparations are used
by royalty. They have won six gold medals at
London, Paris and Rome. Their purity and excellence
is vouched for by the beauties of the world. They
are harmless to the most delicate skin.
Ask for them at David Jones’s, Farmer’s, Hor-
derns’, W. T. Waters’, The Civil Service, Washington
H. Soul’s, Lassetter’s, McCathie’s, etc., etc. Send
three stamps for a sample of soap, or dental cream,
or powder (name the tint) and booklet to John
Strange Winter (London, Paris, Rome), 32 Depot,
26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
Miltonian
|T 1 HIGH-CLASS
ISPEfIALTIES
ƒd
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN @ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES * ALL * OVER • THE • WORLD
With feet soaked in a mustard bath
Poor Gfandpa crouched beside the hearth,
And gasped so hard and looked so glum,
Despite three lots of steaming rum,
That Grandma, anxious grown for him,
Exclaimed at last to Uncle Jim—
“ This dread suspense I can’t endure,
I’ll send for Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”
—Advt.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
SURE EVIDENCE.
H E: “What makes you think she doesn’t
make friends?”
SHE : “Oh, because I’ve never heard any-
thing against her.”
“Drum-Major”: All sorts of picturesque
characters who deserve columns of news-
paper space are being crowded into para-
graphs to make room for war news, real
and imaginary. The “Red Bushranger,” a
sort of novel on two legs, has lately been
Hitting pathetically from par. to par. in the
N. S. Wales papers and attracting almost as
much notice as if he were a blowfly in a bar
window.' The unfortunate desperado needs
a manager and a press agent, the manager
to dissuade him from using the razor he stole
to cut off his invaluable red whiskers, and the
press agent to get an interview with him.
with photo., in the metropolitan papers. If
something isn’t done soon, Australia’s only
practising bushranger may be reduced to
distributing his own handbills.
Power, the animal-painter, who spent his
early years of struggle in Adelaide, and
there got his first Art Gallery commission,
has three big battle pictures in the Royal
Academy, London, this year. One is a
canteen interior, the others depict batteries
under shell-fire. The largest of them is a
9ft. canvas. “They put everything else I’ve
done in the shade. What a chance the Aus-
tralian Government and Australian galleries
have to get some records of the magnificent
things our fellows are doing at the Front.
When I was in France and Flanders among
our men I saw things that made me simply boil
to paint, and I only hone to God the Govern-
ment will give me a chance to do some of
it before the war is over and my ideas grow
cold.” Australia needs the inspired paint-
ings of Billjim in Armageddon, and will
demand somebody’s scalp later on if they
have not been obtained.
From the Bush:—
A recruiting .platoon on the march had halted
under a bunch of gums up-country in Victoria. In
the sunlight two sunburnt Australians stood stripped
for the examination that was to pass them on to
France, Egypt, the Balkans —God knows where—to
fight for such liberty to others as they demanded for
themselves. The enlisting officer broke the quietness
of the group around him. “One of that pair,” he
said, “was a farmer who agreed to join if the platoon
could find him a mate from the same district. We
shook up the car over the hilly north-eastern roads
and found him at the plough. I explained that a mate
was wanted. He nodded and walked to the car with-
out hat or coat, leaving his team on the headland.
When we reached the chap who was waiting for a
mate the two passed each other a hand and said,
simultaneously, ‘G’day.’ We’ll swear ’em in now,”
he concluded, “and they’ll go into camp in a fort-
night.”
* * * *
E. J. Stevens, of Brisbane Courier fame,
told the Leg. Council the other day that in
Queensland they had known of Judges who
had occupied the Bench while in such a state
as not to be trusted with the power of deal-
ing with life and property. One ’Onah had
to be douched with cold water to bring him
to his sefises; another had to be shaken out
of a sound sleep while sitting on an import-
ant case, like a sozzled citizen on the mid-
night train. The Bulletin understands
now the remark about Justice being “blind.”
* * * *
“Duglio”: After the big stunt on Novem-
ber 20 last a party of us were taking up
shells on the light railway to our forward
possie. On one truck we had 15 of the
“souvies,” and Avhen we came to
the incline the weight proved too
much for our pushing powers, so
we decided to lighten the load. We
took three off the front and then
the lot came down on their own.
The weight in rear had caused the
truck to tip. When the air cooled
a bit we found one of the boys
completely camouflaged with shell.
After we got him clear he stood
for five solid minutes taking an in-
ventory of himself, and then he
abso-dinkum-lutely exploded. “Well,
I’m d—d ! Twelve big shells
all over a man and he never even
got a blighty out of it!”
Each of those souvies weighed
2901 b. Another similar inci-
dent happened at the Chalk Pits.
Here the load was taken down
hill, and it necessitated a man
being on board to keep the brake
jambed hard on. This day the
brake snapped, and for the time
being his jills kidded himself
that he was a flight-commander.
Then the bump came, and, to say
the least of it, the pilot made a
rotten landing. Anyhow, when
we wei’e able to dig him out from
the shells and mud, in which he
was buried, head-first, he said —
well,'it don’t matter what he said
about being scratchless. Some of the most
deserving blokes have no luck at all.
* * * *
Billjim feeling lonely in London stopped
a Cockney workman and invited him to have
a drink. After shouting half a dozen times
Billjim broke up the gathering. “Well, so-
long, cobber, I must be off. You will do
me.” “Do you!” replied ’Arry, in a tone of
reproach, “I wouldn’t do you, matey, of a
bleedin’ ’a-penny.”
* * * *
The gentlemen of leisure who got away
with £l4OO worth of gew’gaws from a Collins-
street (Melb.) shop evinced strategy of a
class that would get them stars and crosses
over in Flanders. One made a careful
observation of the premises and position,
and the number and disposition of the enemy,
while purchasing an article which he returned
to exchange for a better choice at a time
when only one assistant was on duty. While
the latter went to the rear of an accommo-
datingly long room to get change the strate-
gist casually opened a slide of the window,
FULL RATES.
THE ARTIST: “You know, I hate to do this advertising work. It seems like selling my
soul.”
THE BITHNESS MAN : “Veil, ain’t I giving you a tenner for it?”
lifted out a choice tray of rings and departed.
When the belated salesman bounded to the
door he found that the thief’s mate had
affixed a chain and padlock to the outside,
and had been even inconsiderate enough to
take the key with him.
* * * *
A qqiet day in the clouds: —
A few days ago I left the aerodrome with another
photographic machine, and had arranged to pick up
a scout escort on the line at 12.0. They did not
turn up, as they had been in a scrap just previously
and got split up. Proceeded over the line at 8000 ft.
Had gone about two miles and had just taken the
first photo when we spotted 11 Hun scouts above us,
of which six went for us and five for the other plane.
Several started to dive at us, but before they got
into a good position to fire I turned sharply and
my observer (an Argentine boy) fired a burst which
seemed to tickle ’em up, as they discontinued their
dive and climbed about. 1060 ft. above us. I
turned homewards, but our friends above did not
approve of the move, and it was not long before one
of the birds came vertically down at us. I could
THE WORST OF DELAY.
“If you refuse to marry me I’ll enlist.”
“What a pity you did not ask me four years
ago.”
not see him owing to my position under the top
wing, but soon heard his guns cracking, and jerried
to what was happening, so sideslipped (i.e., put
on rudder without bank) outwards and put him off
his aim. Meanwhile my observer got a good head
on this chap, who flattened out just above us and
burst into flames —and so to Hell. Again we turned
towards home only to be dived at from behind by
another bird. Turned again in a complete circle,
followed by him, but as he got closer we banked
more and thus prevented him from getting under our
tail. His shooting was rotten, probably because
he was exposed to our fire. However, he about-
turned and made off home. Two more were after
us almost immediately, and we were upon our wing-
tips again on the same stunt. One of these chaps
let himself in for it properly; came right in close
behind without getting in a shot while we pumped
lead into him 600 to the minute. He “zoomed”
away to the right, looking very unsteady and then
did a foolish thing. He flew parallel to us not
more than 50 yards away. My lad emptied a
drum at him, and evidently must have cut some of
the flying wires, as his Germanic plane crumpled up
and broke into pieces, and so ——.
Pound our other plane and was glad to see him
O.K. He had managed to give the other five Huns
the slip without much trouble. Having regained
our height we went over again and got all the photos.
*# * *
“Murkah”: Fifteen years ago I read the
inscription on Mrs. Macquarie’s Chair on the
Domain shore, Sydney, without trouble; 20
minutes ago I had considerable difficulty in
deciphering some of it. The beating rain
and the cataracts of water that tumble over
the_ lettering in wet weather are noticeably
eating away the soft sandstone on which the
inscription was chiselled.! The century-old
relic is surely worth preserving. A pound or
two would purchase a covering of glass that
would protect the whole face of the rock for
ever or thereabouts. At any rate, if some-
thing isn't done within the next few years
there will be nothing much left to protect.
BEFORE THE RAID.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The radiant banners of the morn
Move flauntingly across the sky,
And Life, upon a silver horn,
Flutes cheerily to me “Arise
To see the world in bright array
And join the pageant of the day!”....
But I must die or I must slay.
The earth is fair, though battle-scarred;
Still yields the birds their cheerful sound;
New life, o’er earth that war has marred,
Sets healing greenness all around;
But as I viewed it, fresh and fair,
Death, hissing, hideous, through the air,
Fell on my comrade, standing there.
Such is the way of War; and we,
Its slaves, slink from the sight of day,
Destroyers of its harmony,
In mouldy caverns hid away.
To-night, with stealthy tread, I g 6
To find the hiding of the foe,
Since mighty War has willed it so.
Grim shadows creeping through the nights,
While, as with dark and mournful shrouds,
The heavens screen their feeble lights
Behind a drape of drifting clouds,
So shall we go, the order saith.
The chill of deadness in its breath,
The wind will sing its song of Death.
Yet. oh, how sweet it is to live,
Here, in the bounding hope of Spring,
Where joy has happy songs to give
In glad delight in everything!
Borne shall not see (mother day.
Though I may, haply, come away :
Life for my life my hand must slay.
PRANCE.
HAMER.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplieate books,
perfect, permanent peneopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. fl
hffdh
Mr. Edward Branscombe, one of the leading Entrepreneurs of Australia, writes of
Clements Tonic that it is a medicine that all theatrical persons should use.
The Garden Theatre,
Bayswater Road, Sydney.
An important testimony from Mr.
Edward Branscombe, the well-known
theatrical and musical entrepreneur,
to whom Australia is indebted for
the visits of the Westminster Glee
Singers, Sousa’s Band, and the
famous Russian Instrumentalists,
The Cherniavkis.
Mr. Branscombe was also the
originator and producer of The
Scarlet Troubadours, the first Cos-
tume Comedy Company to visit this
country, as well as the numerous
companies of Bandies which have
been performing in Australasia for
the past seven years.
TO CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
As a consistent user of Clements Tonic for the past nine years I have pleasure in testifying,
through my own personal experiences, to its undoubted efficacy.
The mental and nervous strain associated with all theatrical and musical touring work is an
ever-present source of trouble to those so engaged, and I have been no exception to this rule.
Particularly was this the case during the tours of Sousa's Band and The Westminster Glee
Singers, the latter alone extending over an uninterrupted period of two years and involving a constant
demand on the nervous system.
This demand was always unfailingly met by a course of Clements Tonic, and there is no gain-
saying the practical benefits I have derived from its use.
If further testimony were needed I could add that my opinion is strongly substantiated by.
similar experiences on the part of the many friends to whom I have recommended this excellent
remedy.
(Stoned)
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
All Chemists and Stores sell this medicine.
Get it and good nerves at the same time.
Melbourne’s loneliest bobby hides all ves-
tige of bis authority under the lapel of bis
coat while fulfilling a bumble role in a Com-
monwealth department. lie is the sole repre-
sentative of Hughes’s Warwick-egg police in
Victoria. The other two local members ot
the force are on bodyguard duty with the
undrowned king of Australia in Londoil.
“Yannatherra”: Does the Defence Depart-
ment think the war is over? In February
last I offered my services to the Flying
School, at Werribee (Vic.) through the
Brisbane centre, submitting my credentials
with a request that same be sent on to the
proper authorities. (I had been told that it
was etiquette to push these papers through
in this way.) Loud silence followed. In
April I wrote to Melbourne, and was advised
that no budget of mine had come to hand.
Wrote Brisbane again on the matter, and
was informed that all papers had been sent
on. Still silence from Melbourne. Com-
plained to Brisbane again. The brass hat
there courteously inquired again of the brass
plate in Melbourne if there was anything
doing about me, and the brass plate politely
replied to the brass hat that the papers
referred to were a blank as far as his depart-
ment was concerned. Perhaps P.M.G. Web-
ster got in some of his fine work. I dnnno;
but I see by the cables that we’re winning
the war, so I suppose it doesn’t matter.
THAT ENDED IT.
“Have you any reason for doubting my
word?”
“Of course, I have. I just don't believe you.”
Sydney had two savings institutions a
century ago. Robert Campbell, of “the
Wharf,” in order to induce working people
to put by their savings, established what was
known as “The Prisoners’ Bank.” He
allowed and 8 per cent, per annum for
the money. There was a contemporary,
William Hutchinson, an overseer, who was
known as “the Prisoners’ Banker.” This
individual, who became exceedingly wealthy,
allowed no interest and came under the ban
of Commissioner Bigge about 1820. The
savings in the hands of Campbell and
Hutchinson were handed over to George
Miller when he established what is now
known as the Barrack-street Savings Bank.
NOT CLEAR, ON THE FACE OF IT.
BEAUTY SEPCIALIST : “Madam, the only way to improve your complexion is to diet.”
CLIENT: “Ah! What color would you advise?”
“D. 11.5.” : Can anybody tell me why Aus-
tralia won’t recruit Australians in England?
S. America is stack full of Australians, and
many of them who went to London to
enlist when the war
started found that the
“Home” army was the
only one open to them.
The average Austra-
lian would rather,
apart from the higher
pay, be with his
brothers, and why he
is barred from them is
a mystery, like most
of the administration
of the Australian De-
fence Department. I
was born in Victoria
and served for five
years in the old N. S.
Wales Permanent Ar-
tillery, but when I
got to London from
here (Paraguay) three
years ago I was denied
the right to fight under
the Australian flag, so
joined the Royal
Fusiliers. And here’s
the hell of it. At
Lemnos I embraced
two lads bearing
“Australia” on their
shoulder-straps with
intent to ask a few
homesick questions re
rates for shearing, etc.,
and discovered that my
“dinkum Australians”
were from the wild
bush of London, who
had landed in Sydney
three months before the
outbreak of hostilities.
*- *■
A dingy little second-hand shop in Sussex-
street, Sydney, started to blaze the other
midnight, and the Jew who kept it roused
his wife and family of four and got them
safely downstairs—so he says. Then he
rushed for help and the mother and children
apparently took heart and ran upstairs again
to try and save some of the £2OOO in gold,
notes and silver that was hidden about the
building. When the fire raced upstairs
after them the mother jumped from
a front second-story window into the
street; but two sons and two daughters,
ranging from 21 to seven years, remained
searching and were found by the rescuing
firemen suffocated under the bed in a tiny
back room. Silver coins fell in showers
from the burnt-out upper floor as the men
worked, and one brass helmet said it was
the first time he had ever got tired picking
up money. Apparently, not as much as a
pound of the little fortune was lost! The
unhappv second-hand dealer was always ready
to help the police to recover stolen goods,
and there is the dreadful suspicion that
some revengeful Sikes put a match to the
place.
* * # *
From France :
Amongst the wounded < brought into the ward was
a young Billjim whom We knew at once was soon going
west. He was quite conscious, and an Australian
sister set herself to make his last few hours on this
•mad planet as comfortable as possible. lie
wanted to be propped up with pillows, and to
do this the nurse said, “Put your arms aroujid
my shoulders so that I can raise you gently.”
“You bet your life, sister,” whispered the
irrepressible lad with a smile: “it’s a long,
long time since I had my arms around a
dinkum Aussie girl.” And then he ended his
great crusade.
“The Old Soldier’s” communique :
It is nearly as certain as anything can be that
this war will be ended by the exhaustion of one side
or the other, and there is little doubt that the side
to fail will be the Central Powers, because from
the first they have been suffering from want of
food and other necessities. It is quite certain that
in the Crimean War Russia was much straitened,
and was weakened by transport and other similar
difficulties. It took at least four months to move
a regiment from Petrograd or Moscow to the
Crimea, and the loss of men in the process was more
than 25 per cent, from sickness alone. Sevastopol
was vvell and skilfully fortified with fieldworks,
since there was no time when the siege began to
fortify it permanently, and it held out well for
more than a year; but gradually the defence became
more difficult and at last impossible, until one
night we in the trenches heard a great noise in the
town and establishments. There were explosions,
shots, as if guns were being disabled ; the rumbling
of wheels as if artillery was being removed. At
daylight it was soon seen that the Russian advanced
trenches were not occupied, and they were cautiously
entered. Possession of the town wae not taken till
many days after, when it was found that in the
cellars there were thousands of sick and wounded
men lying abandoned, without surgeons, nurses
or even the few hospital orderlies who might
have- saved them from starvation, from which mam
died. Why should not the Germans and Austrians,
when they find that they no longer have men
enough to hold their trenches along the whole enor-
mously long line they have taken up, abandon the
whole ? It would be the wildest folly to attempt to
hold only a few small detached positions, for, with
the numbers the Allies can bring up, and their
already superior artillery, it would be quite easy to
batter out scores of small detached defences in a
few days, or even hours. The time for defending
small fortified positions is long past, and will never
return.
Silas W. Wilcox, an American oil-man,
said to an interviewer at Melbourne the
other day: “If the Australian drinks as
much as statistics credit him with, I must
say he carries his liquor well.” Since the
early closing he simply has to.
s * * * *
Uncle Sam has confiscated the American
estate, valued at £5,000,000, of a deceased
Hun, Adolphus Busch, who brewed the beer
that made Milwaukee famous. Apparently
Sam thinks that good beer needs no Busch.
“Monkey Nuts” : The grand cause of vege-
tarianism is now on its trial on the Italian
Front, and if Austria fails the cabbage will
go down in ruins. The cables mention that
Emperor Karl’s people and armies are so
short of provisions that the whole lot of
them will have to keep going on cow-food
for the next six weeks. In front of them are
the confident,- meat-fed English and French,
and the raging Italian with his macaroni.
If they win out, the beefsteak and spa-
ghetti will chase the market-garden stuff to
the edge of every menu in the world, and
vegetarian restaurants will blow up 1 like
punched mines. In the present crisis every
muttering vegetarian is a danger to the Allies
and should be interned under the War Pre-
cautions Act until the Austrian offensive is
broken.
* * * *
.Tack Hamilton’s lament: —
Gone west for the last time, hurried thither by the
machinations of a Hun submarine, the well-known
A.U.S.N. liner Kyarra. She played a prominent part
in her tender years in the great W.A. gold rush, when
Goolgardie and Kalgoorlie were in their zenith. Since
the outbreak of war she has done great service as a
hospital ship and as a transport. In the latter
capacity on one memorable occasion her gun scored
a bull’s-eye which sent one of Wilhelm’s tinfish to
Davy Jones. Now that Wilhelm has had his revenge
perhaps the authorities will explain wire the Kyarra’s
crew have not received prize-money in gratitude
for the lack of politeness to the submarine. All
that came their way was a curt acknowledgment
from a very brass-bound Admiralty rep. at Port Said.
One of the most interesting relics that went down
with the Kyarra was her rails, which were carved on
every available square inch with the names of Anzac
troopers that the ship had carried.
HER FRIEND THE CAT.
DOT: “I had nine proposals at Manly last
summer .”
GLADYS : “How disagreeably persistent a
holiday acquaintance can be!”
THE MYSTERY OF SHIELA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Card received ; wouldn’t send said number unless
openly; not blind, but have such deal with here; I
must leave to fate. Genqjne. Shiela.”
—Agony column.
Shiela must leave it to fate
Dealing with such as are here,
Simply contented to wait,
Free from compulsion or fear.
Sweet is my word in her ear,
Sweet is the card she received ;
But the number a secret must be.
Was it a sigh that she heaved?
Openly longing for me.
Openly—that is the wqrd ;
Knights must be bold in her sight.
Kisses at dusk are absurd—
Kindly, sir, turn up the light !
She was not made for the night;
Bright is her hair in the glow.
Beauty is more than all art.
Look knd observe there are no
Backstairs that lead to her heart.
Shiela, you puzzle me so,
Writing that strange cryptic line.
Faintly I ask myself, oh,
Is her number 909 ?
Will the sun on our first kisses shine ?
Not blind, dear ! Well, neither am I;
But your words lead my senses astray ;
And in darkness I’m pondering why
A “genuine” girl writes that way.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’MOSES.


THE QUEUE OF HONOR.
Six thousand appointments to the Order of Empire hare been made. So many titles hare been dying about lately that THE BULLETIN is expecting to hear of a sort of bread-ticket system of distribution.


WANTED ON THE PREMISES.
“No more military service abroad.” —Australian Labor Conference minute.


IF CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious “regulator” for stomach, liver
and bowels, for mamma, daddy,
and children.
If you are headachy, constipated, bilious,
or if the stomach is disordered and you want
to enjoy the nicest liver and bowel cleansing
you ever experienced, take a tablespoonful of
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—to-
night, and in the morning all the constipa-
tion poison, bile and clogged-up waste will
gently move out of the system without grip-
ing, and you will feel splendid.
Every member of the family should use
this fruit laxative as occasion demands. It
is just as effective for grandpa as it is for
baby. It simply cannot injure. Even cross,
sick, feverish children just love its pleasant
taste, and mothers can. rest easy after giving -
it because it never fails to effect a good
“inside cleansing.”
For 30 years California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—has been recommended by physi-
cians as the ideal stomach, liver and bowel
cleanser. Millions of families who are well
informed use nothing else.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and j
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by the California I
Fig Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind j
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs-—is sold by all chemists in bottles
of two sizes. Is. lid. and Is. 9d. [5 1
-*
DEAF?
Let Us Show
YOU that you
CAN HEAR.
Just write: “I will try
an ACOUSTICON.”
We will post you a
suitable instrument for
FREE TRIAL.
No deposit. No expense.
After you have tried it for 10 days you alone
decide whether to keep it or return it. Don’t
delay. Stone Deafness is only mild deafness
that has developed through neglect. So write
at once. The Free Trial places you under no
obligation whatever.
Lamson
Store (
Service
r. 102 Daking; House, SYDNEY
vw ’> 152 Older-fleet, MELBOURNE
fh
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
scaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's*
M. The
/
LEWIS &
WIiITTY:
MAKER’-Sl
s
:
YINO^
:: fW,®:* ;-v ! >:; ~
m’mmMmmmk
\ir -■'■»»
mz
m
"■ •-
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LUBSEED
OIL
July birthdays: Federal Auditor-Gen. J.
W. Israel, 68, on 4th; Canon Girdlestone
Young, (formerly headmaster St. Peter’s
College, Adelaide). 55, and A. W. Piper,
K.C., Adelaide, 53, on sth; pianist Percy
Grainger, 36, on Bth; 11. E. Barff (Warden
of Sydney Uni.), 61, on 9th; Archbishop
Spence (Adelaide), 58, on 13th; C. J. Dash-
wood, K.C. (Adelaide), 75, on 17tli; Tetley
Gant (Speck’s Leg. Council Pres.), 62. on
19th; Admiral Cresswell, 66, on 20th ; E. F.
Mitchell, K.C. (Melbourne’s eminent barris-
ter), 63, on 21st; Justice Gordon (S. Aus.),
68, on 26th; Justice Crisp (Tas.), 44, on
27 th ;.R. ,T. Collins (Auditor-General, Maori-
land ), 70, oil 28th ; Surgeon-Gen. W. D. C.
Williams, 62, and Mrs. Ellis Rowan, on
30th; Alexander MacCormick (Sydney’s
eminent surgeon), 62, and Geologist E. F.
Pittman, 69, on 31st.
Brigadier-General Monasli. who succeeds
“Birdy,” saw the light in Melbourne in 1865.
The ages and birthplaices of the others are:
Thomas William Glasgow, 42, Queensland
(Ist Division) ; Charles Rosenthal. 43, New
South Wales (2nd Division) ; John Gelli-
brand, 46, Tasmania (3rd Division). Though
Joseph John Talbot Hobbs, of the sth, had
been for years in Westralia, he was born in
England 54 years ago; so was Ewen George
Sinclair-Maclagan, of the 4th. who is 50.
DISCOURAGED.
RETURNED EX-ARTIST: “Well, I dunno, I
was looking forward to taking up art
again , but since I’ve seen you chaps
something seems to have put me right
off it,.”
South Aus. has lost William Oakley, one
of the vary few surviving of those who came
with Governor Hindmarsh, in the Buffalo,
in 183 ft, to formally found the province.
The veteran always declared that he was
born in 1817; but as he did not come ashore
for the proclamation under the historic gum-
tree at Glenelg, and as he did not marry
till ISSO, it seems possible that he may have
been a few years younger than he imagined.
Anyway, he well remembered Hindmarsh.
Oakley helped to push his family’s belong-
ings on a handcart, from Glenelg, through
the dense scrub which then covered the
plains, t'o a reed hut on the bank of the
Torrens, where the city gaol now stands.
“Nemo”: In the year 1848 the “Young
Irelanders” took up arms to drive the Brit-
ish from Ireland, but didn’t succeed. A few
of the leaders were transported, chiefly to
Tasmania. One of these was Thomas
Francis Meagher, who, after some years in
exile, escaped, became a general in the
American army, and fought in the war
between North and South. He married a
Tasmanian girl, Miss Bennett. Tom’s bro-
ther Henry had a son, Henry Lewis
Meagher, who now is a captain at the Front.
He was recently mentioned in Haig’s de-
spatches. So here we have the nephew of
the Van Diemen’s Land “convict” trans-
ported for treason in Ireland, risking his life
in France for the British Crown.
Big John Monash, K.C.8., has made
a record' in the British army (pro-
bably among the allied forces) by being
the first soldier who, a civilian when
the war started, has become a lieut.-
general. He is a Victorian. 53 years old.
8.A., LL.B. and M.C.E. of Melbourne Uni
versity. From Gallipoli, where Monash
Gully was called after him, he went to
France in command of the Third Division,
and on Birdwood's recommendation he was
promoted major-general in August, 1916.
A N. S. Wales journalist who just missed
the trip to England and France with the
bunch of other Australian editors was J.
CONSIDINE, M.H.R.
Ryan, M.L.C., of Lithgow Merctjby. He
was invited to go, and would have accepted
the offer; but the notice given him by the
Federal Government was so short that he
hadn’t a possible hope of arranging his
business _ and personal affairs. Perhaps
Prime Minister Watt thought that a coun-
try newspaper proprietor-editor had no
affairs worth mentioning; that all he had to
do before proceeding across the world was
to hire out the printing machine to the local
laundry, chain up the printer’s devil and
stick a To-let notice on the door of the
office. Ryan is ex-president of the N. S.
Wales Country Press Assoc, and of the Aus-
tralasian Provincial Press Assoc, and a
vice-president of the Press. Congress of the
World.
A name carrying much Australian historic
interest appeared in the obituary notices last
week, Francis Henry Blaxland, who died at
60, was son of John Blaxland, and grandson
of Gregory Blaxland, who, with Wentworth
and Lawson, formed the exploring party over
the Blue Mountains in 1813. Gregory was sent
by his elder brother, John, in 1804 to Sydney,
settled at Brush Farm, planted the first vine-
yard with shoots from Cape of Good Hope,
and made the first wine (for which he
obtained gold and silver medals). He
also brought buffalo-grass fi'oxn the Cape.
His son John married Eleanor Falconer,
daughter of an English banker, and had six
sons and one daughter. The youngest son is
the recently deceased.
John Salmond, Maoriland Solicitor-Gen-
eral, who woke up the other day to find K.B.
attached to his name, was a dozen years ago
Professor of Law at Adelaide University. As
a lawyer he is up near the top-hole, with a
reputation wherever law is studied in the
English tongue. His “Law of Torts” is a
text-book, and an honor he got not long ago
from Cambridge University is only handed
out once or twice in a generation. Being
called “Sir John” may make him a bit
happier than he felt lately when by a politi-
cal job he was elbowed away from the vacant
judgeship his merits richly entitled him to
get. That made a usually benign Salmond
a very sour one for a day or two.
“Mustard Gold’s” mate: —
John Kollo, who expired suddenly in a railway
carriage at Kanowna (W.A.) after a heart-wrenching
sprint to catch the train, was the pioneer of the
movement to locate local deep leads and spent some
20 years, occasionally helped by Government subsidies,
putting down bores at the Moonlight end of the
alluvial gutter. He groped in quest of the metal
in soft, spongy and expensive ground, living the
hardest life, and failed to find the Eldorado of his
dreams. He was a man of fine attainments, especially
versed in geology, but shunned the gilded crowd in
which he was fitted to move, preferring the old
Kanowna humpy with its dreariness and poverty
aspect. He had a claim on an old Scottish baronetcy,
but never obtruded the fact, and the title slid into
other hands.
There are changes at Australia’s Flying
School at Point Cook (Vic.). The 0.C.,
Eric Harrison, will go to England shortly.
When he was placed in charge he liad with
him Lieut. H. A. Petre, who came from Eng-
land. Petre lost no time in getting to the
Front, and after winning the D.S.O. and
the M.C. in Mesopotamia he resigned from
the A.F.C. Lieut. Marduel, a powerful
Frenchman, has just resigned his job as in-
structor, and Lieut. J. V. Tunbridge, a
Ballarat boy who recently came back from
Palestine with the M.C., succeeds him. Mac-
namara, V.C., who likewise won his award
in the Unholy Land, is also teaching the
Point Cook fledglings to flutter.
Old James Gormley, of the Ma State’s
Upper House, recalled the other day at
Harden that 74 years ago he passed through
the town in the company of a mob of cattle.
He was then at the mature age of eight.
Gormley was the first man to run stage-
coaches from Murrumburrah to Deniliquin.
Fare was £6 for the single journey, and
bring your own tucker.
Signaller Tom Skeyhill, who, with the help
of Dr. Moore, of Washington (U.S.A.), lately
recovered his sight after two years of dark-
ness, is going back to the Front if the doc-
tors will let him. Immediately after the
specialist’s operation he could
see. At first he was color-blind,
and the shock of the return of
sight took away his memory.
It returned soon, and liis sight
gradually improved until it was
almost perfect. “I am the hap-
piest man in America,” he ex-
claimed. At; first he was in-
clined to be boisterous; but
two days later liis nerves gave
way, and he was taken to the
Manhattan Eye and Ear Hos-
pital and placed in the hands of
the finest oculists in America.
lu his two years of blindness he raised over
£BO,OOO for patriotic funds.
“Melb”: Charles Summers, sculptor, who
appeared as a witness before the High Court
in Melbourne this week, is a son of the
eminent sculptor Charles Summers, who
worked as a stonemason in England until
his genius lifted him out of the trade. Sym-
pathetic and valuable patronage enabled
him to study under good masters. He won
the Royal Academy silver medal and the
following year its gold medal for “Mercy
Interceding for the • Vanquished.” Summers
(the father) made the mistake of coming
to Australia to dig for gold at Tarnagulla
(Vic.). No luck. He married a French
lady. A number of his years were wasted
in Melbourne, the only worthy piece of work
being the Burke and Wills statue. Return-
ing to Europe in 1866, he settled at Rome,
and maintained his high reputation.
R. A. Tarlton, formerly M.L.C. and a
prominent Adelaide citizen, but resident in
South Africa for the past 20 years, recently
passed the 90th milestone. He is proud of
being able to recall a great procession in
Birmingham on the passing of the Reform
Act in 1832.
“Trooper Bluegum”: In the big fight at
Musellabeh, Signaller Smith of the Camel
Corps worked day and night carrying mes-
sages, lugging bombs and repairing wires
under a hail of shells. At the end of the
scrap he emerged wearied and trudged back
to Bethlehem H.Q.’s for a rest. Here an
unlucky shell, gone astray from the locality
of the fighting, killed him in his dug-out. In-
cidentally, after the battle the Cameliers
received the congratulations of General
Allenby, who rechristened Mt. Musellabeh
the “Camel’s Stirrup.”
, Among the Bananalanders killed recently
m France was Lieut. Neaverson, of the
Northern Territory. He helped to argue the
point with Brother Boer with the Life
Guards, and was afterwards made Native
Commissioner in Bechuanaland. From
S’Africa he came to Bananaland, and when
this war started he was leading a peaceful
pastoral life somewhere near Camooweal.
He left with the 14th Light Horse.
On June 29, 1847, three Australian bishops
were consecrated in Westminster Abbey
Perry (Melbourne), Short (Adelaide) and
Tyrrell (Newcastle).
Lieut.-Col. George Furner Langley, of the
Camel Corps, and one-time Victorian school-
teacher and footballer, had a fine run of luck-
before he was wounded in Palestine the other
day. He left Aus-
tralia with the 21st
Battalion, and when
the Southland
bumped against a
torpedo in the
£Egean Sea he had a
miraculous escape
from death. He was
blown into the air
and dropped into the
engine - room.
Wounds: a few
scratches. After-
wards he served on
Gallipoli, and on the
Evacuation trans-
ferred to the Camel
Corps. He saw much
active service
against the Senussi
on the northern
frontier of Egypt,
and also distin-
guished himself at
Romani, his com-
pany being the first
in the Camels to
smell powder. He
has taken part in
every engagement in
Palestine.
THE LATE
COLONEL
ST. HILL, Tas.
The first lady pharmacist registered in
Victoria, Mrs. Clemes, died recently at the
age of 86 years. She arrived in Melbourne
in 1850, and was the widow of A. B. Clemes,
many years secretary of Stawell Shire.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Apropos old
Colonel Baillie (B. 20/6/M8). William
Douglas Hall Baillie, “Father of M.L. Par-
liament,” was born in Canada in 1827 and
went to England as a youth. He served in
the British army and fought through the
Sikh campaign. He was Commandant at
Chichester when he left England over 60
years ago. In 1861 he was appointed to the
Leg. Council of M.L.
Frederick Thomas Brentnall, M.L.C.,
Queensland, since ISB6, celebrated his 84th
natal day last week. He is the son of a
Derbyshire builder, and came to Australia in
1864 with four other young men, all five
being ministers of the Methodist Church.
Brentnall served the ministry for 20 years,
and retired from preaching owing to a throat
affection. He joined the literary staff of
the Brisbane Telegraph, of which paper he
became chairman of directors. While at
Wagga he united in the holy bonds of matri-
mony the Ticliborne claimant, Arthur Orton,
to the lady who for a while posed in England
as Lady Tichborne. She was housemaid at
the hashhouse where the parson lived. Of
Brentnall’s ministerial colleagues one still
remains. He is Rev. W. E. Bourne, of
Lmdfield (N.S.W.), now 85 or thereabouts.
There was one purple patch in the 45
years which Edwin Richard Living, just
retired, devoted to the service of the Bank
of New South Wales. He was teller at
the Jerilderie branch when it was stuck up
by the Kelly gang in 1579. Ned covered
Edwin while the rest of the gang collected
the booty. Living, a familiar figure at
Wangaratta (Vic.) for 29 years, was born
and educated at Castlemaine (Vic.).
IN THE TRAM-CAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They pressed about her everywhere, these men
Who sat and smqSced and read.
She heard one say: “The news is bad,” and then
She heard him counting—counting names of dead.
“A longer list to-day!” a man replied—
“ The best men seem to go.”
She heard them mutter as they read and sighed.
She heard the car-wheels on the line below.
She somehow wondered if they’d seen his name.
She sat and -watched her ring
That wrapped her finger with a yellow flame,
And sec her memory queerly voyaging.
These were his friends. They did not seem to know
That he had even gone!
They did nob see her ring, or see the glow
That filled the car with splendor as it shone.
And yet they pressed about her everywhere.
They did qot know or see.
They did nob know her dead man’s name was there,.
Or see her going to her lonely tea.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
KATHLEEN SAUNDERS.


i *
\
/' ;
1 % \
W x
\ (i / j
( \\\ A
( \ MV/,-: i
\ \
\ k /i
4a
i y
¥
- V' -
I I
7 :i
fV '
/ /
J \
n Vi V,
t
dm
r\
I
\
irSffiK
{ : .?•
> f n Mi
m
m.
M.
a
; X'
'mm
BrM
m
i * mw m
: f X-i'm-Wm
i ymmmM
i . 1 ■ k Sab 3*891
;
t* V•? J
-,3P fj
P~'4
~T:'
?s*: ix
as .&•
\
££sj/'£ l
s.
SZ6
mm
•:v\ e • Sft
y
if i
S -;/? 1
9?
I®
-
i -jfj
% ||
ft
•’ >•'s 4S'?.
<a
ja,
ilfls
"-“ % ;3 J J
I J
M
'ri i *_ w *
f> ttm fci
# -<ssi! if-. !
.1
i
/
5 -t
* '&
77
X a
■nt'V
?a j
3
ft Mm
■M
ra
U
ih
■i %
-■ ,
-• Q
7 $
v' i
1.-2
U- f.
A. f
< $
i
IK l
\
K ■ ‘ J
M
y
!\\
hJ
-
A
U
n i'
y^s.
} l ■■
m
m
'/!
s*2Sy
//
r *~~--'-£***
y-
l
3S i
j 1 y 4 I
I 1 ’i V '-
PS
\:v :
\
s?<
7
V\/l
\i
1 1 f
7/ I
pS
1 \ s
vm-
gg
■ ---;<> AR 0 * M g
tv
\ \
m
fSFS?-
3^S?
i
rV'V-
<»
x
&
r
TO BACCO
PLUG CUT MIXTURE,
FINE-CUT FOR CIGARETTES.
THE PIPE OF QUALITY-
LMN
400
pipe Guardi


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, EC. 2. ADELAIDE: G 2 Brookman’s Buildine.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Dead
Corroding Dead
Antimonial Dead
Assay Dead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
I.in o Metal, jLithargre,
Antifriction Metal
Registered
buyers ox a specially favorable
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silvcr-Leail Ores
< alamine Ores (High Grade;
■Mags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
Dead Drosses, etc.
> Brand.
BHAS'
•\>T INQUIRIES TO BK NDDKtflStD TO THE fiECTU'.T.Ul'V-.
FOR EVERY ENGINEERING NEED THERE IS A
PIONEER Leather Belt
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
j. c. ludowici <a son ltd
PIONEERS anil LEADERS SINCE 1858. 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY. ’
“ the steel OF THE FUTURE.”
Stcd Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12m. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance
Society, Ltd.: —
Oui:inarv Department.
Provided Added
for to In-
Ex- Depred> sura nee
U(?., Income. Claims. penses. ation. Fund.
1904.. £454,758 £248,313 £95,175 £111270
1905.. 461,668 281,453 101.078 £50,000 29,132
1906.. 466,326 335,946 104.564 25 816
1907.. 483,486 273,080 107,141 —. ios’26s
1908.. 488,932 321,453 98,473 69’000
1909.. 482,038 307,035 86,915 50,000 38,088
Standard Life business secured.
1910.. 557,103 333,339 115,976 107 788
1911.. 622,924' 316,776 167,165 200 138,783
1912.. 649,677 337,357 193,116 32,483 86,721
1913.. 627,143 284,56 S 158,571 10,143 173,861
1914.. 628,243 327,210 125,302 11,182 164,489
1915.. 616,237 318,307 92,326 11,081 194,523
1916.. 649,440 367,261 99,698 10,724 171 757
1917.. 692,062 368,618 1J2.911 8,175 202,358
The Colonial Mutual isn’t a furiously
aggressive office. For instance, when vet-
eran Edward Fanning died during the year
and left a vacant chair at the Board table,
Norman Bayles was appointed to fill it. A
tremendously respectable person, of course,
just as Bruce Smith is; and Bruce Smith
and C. J. Roberts, who was P.M.G. of N.
S. Wales in the dim recesses of last century,
constitute the N. S. Wales Board. Certainly
the dry bones were shaken a few years ago ;
and a very earnest effort was made to
attract good business-getters to the service.
First an Industrial branch was established
and then an Accident branch; and though
the Industrial was only a drain on the
Ordinary for some years, the corner appears
now to have been definitely turned. For 1916
there was a surplus of £12,072, of-which
£12,000 was used to refund money spent on
establishing the branch ; and for the past
year £17,000 was available for the same
purpose. This reduces the old “Extension
of organisation” account to £70,000.
And while the society cast its new nets, it
mended the rents in the old one. The assets
had been chosen unfortunately, and the
interest return was wretchedly low for years.
The new management set to work to write
down book values. This was at the expense
of bonuses, for the time being, of course;
but it had the effect of improving the future
rate of earnings. New investments have
also helped the rif.te upward; so that be-
tween one and tit; other there have been
these changes :—■
1907 ..£3 16 9b, x I 1913 ..£4 8 10 p.c.
1909 .. 4 3 3 * | 1914 .. 4 910 „
1910 .. 4 310 „ | 1915 .. 4 911 „
1911 . . 4 5 9 ri | 1916 . . 410 5 „
1912 . . 4 511 | 1917 . . 4 10 11 „
The improvement could be made to look
better than that; for in the foregoing the
rates for 1915 and later years have been cal-
culated on the earnings less the Federal
income-tax, which was first collected in 1915.
For the past 12 months income-tax was
£5787, or rather less than 2s. 9d. p.c. of the
meaif funds. The bill hasn’t increased as
much as it would have done had the society
not invested freely in War Loan. Compare
the three big lines among the combined
assets: —•
1914. 1917.
Government and other debentures £874,300 £1,998,941
Mortgages . . . . . . 1,441,303 1,197,158
Freeholds and leaseholds . . 844,500 836,121
In the three years the gross assets have
grown by £775,324; and as “Government and
other debentures” are £1,124,641 more, it is
clear that not only has all the new surplus
revenue been put into this line, but. also
£350,000 withdrawn from other investments.
Mortgages in particular have fallen further
into disfavor. The following comparison
shows the assets grouped under a few head-
ings now and 10 years ago :
r—1907. ; 1917. ,
P.c. p.c.
Mortgages ..£1,248,394 40.5 £1,197,158 25.8
Public stocks and
debentures .. 315,324 10.2 1,998,941 43.2
Freeholds and leases 930,475 30.1. 836,121 18.0
Gash and deposits 178,207 5.8 126,966 2.8
Other assets .. 413,301 13.4 473,974 10.2
And the directors are going further: they
subscribed nearly £750,000 to War Loans last-
year, and it is pretty clear that a good deal
of that money will be paid during the current
year. But why will the management persist
in lumping “Government and other deben-
tures”? Why put British and Australian
War Loans in the same heap with advances
to some small and perhaps tottering private
business which gives a debenture to secure
the loan? For the rest, all that need be said
is that, though the freeholds and leaseholds—
including a good many foreclosures—are still
ueavy, the general disposition of the funds
is now satisfactory.
V itii an improvement in the earnings has
come an improvement in the exes.:—
,„ __ Expenses Compared with Total Income.
190. j ..£'2l 1/ 10 p.e. I 1912 ..£29 14 one
1907 .. o 2 3 2 .. ! 1913 .. 25 5 8
J9OB .. 20 2 10 .. 1914 .. 19 10 3 ’
1909 • • IS 0 , 1915 ~ 14 19 7
1910 .. 20 10 4 .. : 191 G . . 15 -■ 0
1911 . . 26 16 8 „ 1917 . . 16 6 4 „
Still, on that basis, the figures have been
steadily moving up again during the last
couple of years. But there are other points
or view. In 1915 the figures were exception-
ally tow. because for various reasons new
business was not pursued so hard as usual.
If the old or renewal business is charged
with 7 p.e., «md single-premium and annuity
business with 8 p.e.. then the balance of
the exes., may be regarded as the cost of the
new business; and proceeding on that basis
we get these figures:—
New Premiums. Cost.
1013 .. .. £76,118 172 p.e.
1914 .. .. 64,082 log
1915 . . . . 51,766 125 ~
1910 .. .. 63,330 113 ~
1917 .. .. 78,421 107 „
Which throw quite a different light on the
history of the past few years.
Following on the improvement in interest
earnings and in the expense rate, bonuses
have looked up. After the quinquennial
examination to the end of 3909 a uniform
reversionary bonus of £1 was paid : £303,810
was required for the purpose = £32,762 p.a.
For the past year the reversionary bonuses
range from £3 355. to £1 p.e. on policies five
years or more old, and 17s. Od. on policies
under five. This calls for £73.241—m0re
than double the amount distributed p.a. 10
years ago.
Industrial Department.
Income. Claims. Expenses. Deficit.
1909 . . £3,481 £39 £14,587 £11,145
_ .... Funds.
Brought 111 from the Standard, £22,000 10,855
lr .y- „ Deficit.
1910 . . 54,908 3,483 92,844 30,564
1911 . . 60,484 0,254 66,630 42,964
1912 . . 77,516 7,710 62,755 35,913
1913 . . 86,155 9,356 53,556 12,670
„„„ . _ Funds.
1914 .. 97,030 15,476 49,623 19,267
1915 . . 104,807 18,809 48,735 56,530
1916 .. 121,308 15,616 51,245 110,977
1917 . . 138,458 21,530 48,284 179,621
The position is rapidly improving, though
the net liability under policies is still a
good way beyond the tangible assets. The
actuary reports these liabilities as £248,277.
The net tangible assets are as shown above
£179,021. The shortage, which lias thus
far been made good by the Ordinary branch,
should be wiped out within four years. After
that surpluses will be available for strength-
ening the reserves and for bonuses. The
funds are invested by the Ordinary branch.
Accident Department.
T Added to
Income. Claims. Expenses. Funds.
1910 . . £6,460 £679 £2202 £3579
1911 .. 13,166 3839 3910 5417
1912 .. 13,777 4872 5151 3754
1913 . . 11,875 5748 4320 1807
1914 .. 10,517 3103 4546 2868
1910 . . 12,250 3.480 5978 2792
1916 . . 13,238 4275 6110 2853
1917 . . 13,550 4451 6438 2661
The actuary’s examination showing a sur-
plus, £2715 was set aside to provide a bonus
equal to a uniform addition of 2 p.e. to the
policy benefits.
The Castle Salt Co-operative Co.
(Adelaide)
Nominal
nr Written To Re- Re-
May, Profits. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
1906. .£5,890 7<S p.e. =■- £4939 £750 £2Ol £4936
190(.. 4,883 6-f „ ~ 4116 750 17 4953
Loss.
1908.. 632 Nil 4321
Profit.
1909.. 6,426 71 p.e. = 4939 2000 3808
1910.. 10,863 10 „ „ 6585 3000 1278 5086
1911.. 10,909 10 ~ „ 0585 3000 1324 6410
1912.. 11,960 10 ~ „ 6585 3000 2375 8785
1913.. 10,262 10 „ ~ 6585 3000 677 9462
1914.. 7,677 71 ~ „ 4939 3000 9200
1915.. 2,956 31 ~ ~ 2469 1500 8187
1916.. 6,118 5 „ „ 3292' 2500 326 8513
1917.. 8,561 10 ~ „ 6585 1976 8513
1918.. 8,924 10 „ „ 6585 2000 339 8852
“Many circumstances,” the directors say,
“have combined to increase cost of produc-
tion ; but improved selling prices have re-
sulted in satisfactory profits.” Had local
circumstances favored the co. it might have
had a gorgeous time. But in the previous
year the season was over-wet. for one thing,
and labor was very scarce, for another, so
there was a serious deficiency in the salt
harvest; therefore there wasn’t much to sell
just when almost any price could have been
got for the stuff. The new harvest started
m January: and the drought which S. Aus-
tralia had throughout the early part of the
year suited this co. down to the ground.
The recovery was good; and new supplies
were promptly on the market In these
circumstances, seeing that the present
accounts didn't close till May 30, most
people probably expected the co. to show a
bigger profit. Certainly the co. may have
stuffed a bit away somewhere: it is quite
easy to do that by valuing stock (£26,948)
very conservatively. So far as the published
figures show, this is how the assets have
changed:—
1908. 1917. 1918.
Assets other than fixed
property and plant .. £32,123 £24,61S £32,601
Liabilities . . . . 21,503 3,046 11,244
Surplus .. £10,620 £21,572 £21,357
Between 1917-18 a year’s dividend at the
rate of 10 p.c. has been paid; and a few
hundred pounds have been put into plant,
etc. On this showing the co. hasn’t during
the past year made much in excess of the
dividend; but. as before remarked, every-
thing depends upon the valuation placed upon
the new stock of salt. The harvest, by the
way, is completed just about the time when
the accounts close ; so that every year there
is this question of valuation to consider. If
the accounts were made up to December 31,
or perhaps January 31. the stocks would be
nil or thereabouts ; and something more like
the true result of each year’s operations
could be arrived at.
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. of Maoriland (Dunedin) :
To Re-
March, Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1906.. £2BBO 15 p.c. = £l5OO £l3BO £10,597
1907.. 1697 15 „ „ 1500 197 10,794
1908.. 1880 15 ~ .. 1500 380 11,174
1909. . 1847 15 „,. 1500 347 11,521
1910.. 2185 15 ~ „ 1500 685 12,206
1911.. 1880 15 „,. 1500 380 12,586
1912.. 2190 15 „„ 1500 690 13,276
1913.. 1876 15 „ „ 1500 376 13,652
1914.. 1709 15 „ „ 1500 209 13,861
1915.. 1624 15 ~ ~ 1500 124 13,985
1916.. 1911 15 „ „ 1500 411 14,396
191/.. 1856 15 ~ ~ 1500 356 14,752
1918.. 1930 15 „ „ 1500 436 15,188
Little Dunedin lias two cos. looking after the
dead man’s money, and making a very decent
thing out of it. Of course it doesn’t take
much capital: of the £lO,OOO which the
shareholders put up and the £15,000 of pro-
fits that have been accumulated all that is
actually used in the business is £loB7—£lo9
represented by office furniture and stationery
and the balance by book debts. The balance
is in mortgages and debentures and cash bal-
ances. The only risks the co. carries are
(1) in connection with the investment of its
own funds. (2) that a Court will some day
hold that the co. has caused a client loss by
departing from instructions, and (3) through
the dishonesty of some of its staff. To pro-
tect clients the co. has £40,000 of un-
called capital; and no rotten investments on
the directors’ part can eat into that assur-
ance fund—unless, of course, the co. buys
shares with a liability. And as to the risk
of loss through misreading a will, the trustee
has alw'ays this great advantage: in case of
doubt he can go to the Court for directions,
though certainly a trustee co. that wore a
path to the Court would soon get into ill-
favor. The business isn’t growing with any
great velocity; in 1895 the total value of
trusts, etc., in hand was £2,230,784 and it is
now £2,480,469. But the interest earnings of
the co.’s own funds are enough now to pay
oyer 124 p.c. on the capital; so three-fourths
of the net earnings of the business are avail-
able for reserves, and that makes things
easy. It also makes an increase in the divi-
dend very probable presently. The Bulle-
tin’s idea is that in such cases directors
ought to get in capital for War Loan in-
vestment. Hero, for instance, £lO,OOO called
up and invested would bring in say £5OO. A
10 p.c. dividend on the capital would then
ask for £2OOO a year. In other words, the
shareholders would get their 5 p.c. on the
War Loan capital, their present 15 p.c. on
the old capital, and the dividend won Id stand
at 10 p.c. instead of 15 p.c. And there are
obvious advantages in reducing the rate of
dividend, especially when the total actually
divided isn’t reduced.
* * * *
Victorian Butter Factories Co-opera-
tive Co. ('Melbourne) : —•
Dividends. Bonus to Written
April, Profit. (5 p.c.) Clients. Off. Reserves.
1908.. £997 £l6l £784 £2,938
Loss.
1909. . 1,596 —* i 343
Profit.
1910.. 1,443 2,786
1911.. 4,193 162 2182 4,635
1912.. 7,102 163 £4829 2045 4,700
1913.. 3,208 403 1483 6,022
(6 p.c.)
1914.. 4,898 484 3734 1482 5,220
mo.. 3,817 699 1525 6,813
1916.. 825 703 604 1025 5,306
191/.. 3,322 703 696 1025 6,204
1918. . 10,823 710 3826 1218 11,273
This co. began 17 years ago, and, as with
most co-operative concerns, the beginnings
were very small indeeed. Only so recently
as 10 years back the share capital was no
more than £3224. But by that time the
directors, had got some confidence in the
future: in 1906 they had gone into debt
nearly £15,000 in connection with a box
factory and freezing works. The his-
tory of the co. since then has been a tale
of ups and downs, according to the seasons;
still on the whole there has been such pro-
gress that, after paying consignors a bonus
whenever times were very good, the co. is
to-day £9OOO better off than it was 10 years
ago, independently, of course, of the new
capital that has been got in. And perhaps
really a good deal more than £9OOO better
off; for, throughout, the policy of the direc-
tors has been to write down premises and
plant out of profits. Put it this way.
In 10 years £8613 of capital has been got
in, of which £5751 has been put into plant.
Apart from plant the assets in excess of
liabilities are to-day £15,045. Ten years
ago the liabilities in excess of assets other
than plant were £10,983. That indicates an
improvement of £26,028, of which, as shown
above. £2862 (the difference between £8613
and £5751) comes from capital subscribed.
The balance (£23,166) is profit left in the
business —not all true profit, certainly,
because some of it is to counterbalance wear
and tear of plant. But half of it or there-
abouts appears to be true profit. Not many
co-operative concerns in Australia have a
better record than that. Most of them are
too greedy and short-sighted to leave money
in the business.
A.M.C. Ltd.—This disaster is panning out
rather better than it threatened to at one
time; and lest worse should befall it the
directors now propose liquidation. It was
originally floated as the Australasian Motor
Cab Co., a London promotion of which
London ought to be ashamed. The promoters
called themselves the Straits Syndicate. They
might, as it turned out, have more appropri-
ately called themselves the Great Straits Syn-
dicate. Later on, when the rottenness of ithe
basis on which the co. was projected had
been established, the control was shifted to
Sydney, and the concern reconstructed. The
shares, for which the public had subscribed
(in strict moderation), were written down by
one-half. The attempt to run the usual taxi
business was eventually abandoned, the prin-
cipal difficulty being apparently to get hold
of the right kind of drivers. The co. then
withdrew its fleet from the streets and
started as a sort of livery stable. The results
were a bit better, but not good enough; so
the directors decided to sell the stock when-
ever opportunity offered —and to make oppor-
tunity when it didn't offer. Various auction
sales have been held, t;lie leasehold premises
have been sold, and a final clearing-out sale
has been advertised. Then there will be a
liquidation and division of assets. The assets
are:—
Cash (net) .. .. £9,253
Book debts, etc. . . 1,820
Sundries test.) .. 1,000
Total assets .. £12,073
Deduct say £473 for cost of liquidation and
P°ihis to be paid the manager, and £11,600
is left for division among 27,130 shares-
os. od. per share. Previously Is. per share
had been repaid. Australian shareholders in
the original co. will get back in all about 4s.
in the x of the money subscribed after draw-
mg noninterest for about nine years.
Shosti a nd Islands Plantations, Ltd. —
i(ii B b CO ' s i s 6y e pth year ended on January 31,
1918, and dividends are still in the distance!
Labor, labor, labor—-how rich a lot of people
could be if they could only get enough people
to make money for them! This co.’s land is
in the -British Solomons; and the supply of
native labor there has never satisfied' the
planters, and especially the planter with big
areas to develop. For the German Solo-
mons, though the native labor there seems on
the whole to be better, the old authority
used to allow recruiting in New Guinea; anil
when the British took over the German Solo-
mons it was assumed that the pre-war
harriers between the British and German
islands in the group would be removed. But
nothing of the sort happened ; and while 103
time-expired men were paid off bv this co.
last year, only 45 were recruited'; and the
entire torceat Jan. 31 was 137—barely more
tiian enough to maintain the present planta-
'''lf al] 1220 acres are under cocoa-
! ' ts T l220 i acr o?t of a total of 19,293.
fre £ h old title, is dependent upon one-
lenth of the entire area being cultivated;
fnrebf onV only 68 acres of the required
acres have been cleared. The
difficulties can be better gauged perhaps bv
the fact that at one time—two or three years
ago the labor force was down below 40
However, the plantation is now coming into
jeamig, and that, brightens the gloom a little.
The output of copra last year was 674 tons.
i thl Vr ar ]t shoul d be about twice as
much. Ihe gross proceeds from sales, etc
were made on the 453 contributing shares,
and the same Avill be made this year, accord-
mg to present arrangements. At 31st Janu-
Sw/wlr?"' fully paid *» flo ° *«•
c. Th , e Ulladulla Refrigerating Butter Go
South Coast (N.S.W.). turned out 161 tons
butter for the half-year to April 30, which was
about 34 tons less than for the corresponding


: s ———
The British Westinghottsc Electric and Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Tramway Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
Westinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
I
Manchester
Head Office (or Australia :
Queensland Building. 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works i TraHord Park, Manchester, England.
Negligible maintenance costs are assured if you
specify British Thomson-Houston Direct and Alter-
nating Current Generators for your power and
lighting supply. There are more B.T.H. Generators
in operation in Australia than any other make. The
reason is-—reliability. Write for further particu-
lars and quotations to the Australian General
Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.— Advt.
Water is nature’s thirst-quencher • for both man
and beast, and unless your supply is pure when you
receive it, much ill-health may result. Dwellers in
the country suffer the greatest disadvantage, as they
depend often on tank and river water, which very
often contains impurities and vegetable matter. One
ton of Aluminoferric will clarify 8,000,000 gallons
of water. It will not affect the taste, but will give
you a supply of beautifully clear and pure water.
For further particulars write to William Adams and
Co. Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Also at Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide. — Advt.
* * * *
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as thev can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis ‘Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
* * * V
Pioneer Wood Pipe, the ideal pressure pipe, is
cheap to buy and to lay, and lasts indefinitely, with
practically no'cost for upkeep. Catalogue free upon
application. The Australian Wood Pipe Companv
Ltd., (h. 0.) Burns Bay, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O
address: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane
Cove, N.S.W. ; Footseray, Vic.; and Port Adelaide,
S.A. Contractors to all State Governments.— Advt.
* * * *
Friction Clutches (2).—One by Heywood &
Bridges, 150 horse-power, to fit 44in. shaft ; ulsq One
Wilding’s Patent Disc Clutch, 250 horse-power, to fit
4 Jin. shaft; both in splendid order. Particulars
from Geo. liinnear & Sons, Rope Manufacturers,
Footseray, Victoria. — Advt.
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
■* * * #
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise de-
serves. The Federal Government has olaced an order
for a large marine set, and their example has been
followed by several of the largest trading firms in
Australia, Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch
East Indies. The workmanship of the Australian
“Skandia” compares with any imported engine on
the market. Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street.
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.— Advt.
• * * *
Steel moulds for concrete-pipemaking enable suit-
able pipes being made on site from local material
with the addition of cement. Moulds supplied for
making concrete pipes: 12in. inside diameter x
24in. long, 15in. x 24in., 18in. x 24in., 24in. x 24in.
Apply Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Head Office, Sydney.
Queensland enquiries: The Australian Machinery Com-
pany, Limited, Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B,
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
arc Born to
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
T 1“ 1.0.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established, 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. 11. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
period of the previous year. The manufac-
turing account showed a profit of £2631, bu.
expenses ran away with £2505. After allow-
ing for depreciation, a net profit of £96
resulted, and the usual div. at the rate of «>
p.c. p.a. on the paid-up capital of £2741 was
distributed. There are £4165 of more or less
liquid assets, and liabilities totalling £ot)69.
“Brown Coalite”: I think “Quidnunc” (B.
20/6/T8) missed the point. It is not a ques-
tion of Kiewa water-power versus Morwell
brown coal, but a problem of how to get the
most power from every likely source in Vic-
toria. The Kiewa hydro-electric scheme is
feasible and would cost a million sterling to
deliver 45,000 h.p. daily in Melbourne. The
Morwell scheme is not so economical, because
of the 90 (not 80) intervening miles from
the city, and the subsequent heavy cost of
upkeep. Besides there’s a strong clay over-
burden on the Morwell deposit, and it looks
a serious difficulty to remove it. Then there is
the excellent scheme, approved by C. H.
Mertz, for damming the Goulburn River at
Trawool, 60 miles from Melbourne, to give
19,000 h.p. per diem. And there is a poten-
tial 5000 h.p. quiescent in the Yarra at
Warrandyte, besides another 2000 h.p. with
a low fall at Bight’s Falls on the Yarra at
Collingwood. The Snowy River could be
harnessed near Mt. Bulla, on the N. S. Wales
border, to give a possible daily 10,000 h.p.
And above and beyond all, Government bores
years ago proved a bed of brown coal under
Hobson’s Bay and Melbourne, covering 700
square miles, running from Frankston to Lai
Lai, near Ballarat, and from Newport to
Bacchus Marsh and Little River. This brown
coal at Melbourne’s front door is good, con-
taining, roughly, 35 p.c. of moisture. Dried
to 10 p.c. moisture, the average analysis
gives 50 p.c. volatile hydro-carbons, 40 p.c.
carbon, and Bto 10 p.c. ash. This coal is
good enough for almost any use; it can be
burnt on step-up grates, pulverised, briquet-
ted, gassified and distilled by low-temperature
processes to give 12 gallons of oil and 251 b.
of sulphate of ammonia to the ton. There
are millions upon millions of tons of it on the
sea nine miles from Melbourne in a dry seam
134 ft. thick, easily mined at 350 ft. down, and
it ought to be utilised. What sense is there
in going to Morwell, for the mining costs are
the same at ss. 6d. a ton, the coal is the
same in quality, and Morwell is 90 miles
from Melbourne V
* * * -X-
Still another co. has been formed to work
Yetholme (N.S.W.) molybdenite. The
Yetholme Proprietary’s ground consists of 48
acres adjoining the Mammoth, and four-fifths
of the area are claimed to carry the lode, which
is reckoned to be of an average thickness of
20ft. There should thus be several million
tons of ore in the property. Values, how-
ever, are unproved; so it is proposed “to
get at average values and tonnage by cos-
teens, open cuts and shafts until the specula-
tive element of molybdenite mining at Yet-
holme is as far as possible eliminated.”
Engineer E. W. Finch reports that it is “sale
to estimate on a pietal content of ,5 p.c.,”
worth at present market prices £2 10s. per
ton. He estimates mining, treatment and
marketing costs at £1 6s. 6d. If everything
turns out all right,.the Proprietary proposes
to join forces with a neighbor to secure a
£50,000 plant. Nominal capital is £50,000
in 100,000 10s. shares. The vendors get
10,000 fully paids, 30,000 shares are reserved
and 60,000 are issued to the public at 2s. Of
course, the future of these molybdenite shows
depends considerably on the behavior of the
metals market.
* * * *
The Mammoth continues to treat more
stone and make preparations for duplicating
its battery; and the Mount Tennyson
Co. is pushing ahead with the preliminaries
for installing its crushing plant. The
machinery, unlike that of the Mammoth, is
to be placed at the foot of the rise instead
of on the crest, giving easier access to the
main western railway. The Lithgow lias
just been given four months to gain further
wind. To date over £2OOO has been spent
ou this show without any return; six cuts
having been put in, in addition to a 70ft.
tunnel, and there are between 1600 and 1700
tens of ore at grass. The main open cut
shows a face of about 40ft. by Bft. of dry
ore, but hand-labor has ceased to be prac-
ticable, and the co. is now out after the
necessary cash for a plant. /
Porter’s Hill, Barraba (N.S.W.), is show-
ing an activity unparalleled since the
adjacent Ironbark Creek was the scene of
gold-digging long ago. Two Sydney roofing-
firms are attacking the hill for its asbestos
contents. The deposit is a large one and
not confined to one hill. The fibre is of
good quality, but very short; and unless
much longer stuff can be discovered, the
producers will be handicapped by the fact
that they will be working what is regarded
as merely a by-product in Canadian asbestos
shows. Of course, further development
may disclose better-length fibre.
The new centrifugal pump at Edna May
has beaten the water, so sloping from
the bottom level is in fair swing again. The
hold-up last half-year cut profits down to
the lowest since the co. got on to its feet.
Here are the figures for the past three terms;
Apl., ’l7. Oct., ’l7. Apl., ’lB.
Treated, tons .. 17,083 18,092 11,850
Gold won, oz. .. 17,936 14,102 8,070
Grade, dwt. .. 18 14f 12]
Net profit, £ .. 38,960 28,096 12,855
Costs .. .. 34/2 32/10 44/41
Costs jumped from 325. lOd. to 445. 44d.
owing to the flooding increasing from
45,000 gals, to 60,000 gals, hourly. Williams
says the water under 385 ft. is a detail,
thereby confirming Blatchford’s view that the
water courses through a relatively narrow
zone of country. To keep the mill at work
Williams has raked clean all the stopes above
300 ft. except a small block of the hanging-
wall lode. Now he is up 45ft. above 385 ft. on
the main shoot with his stopes, and has
broken stone for 25ft. above the full length
of the 480 ft. level. The co. can now draw
on only 47,121 tons valued at 10s. 6d. per
ton at 385 ft., and 19,389 tons worth 675. per
ton at the 480 ft. level. This gives 40,260
tons of an average grade of 645. 6d. to pay
profits out of until the finish on the Deeps
boundary. Reserves have fallen by 10,000
tons in six months, and their valuation now
is £131,000 against £162,176 on October 31
last. If with the pumps doing better work and
no capital charges to face Williams gets costs
down to 30s. lie can beat out a profit of
345. 6d. per ton, or, roughly, 325. 6d. per
share. This seems to show that the market
is living well up to the mine estimate, as
there is no guarantee that costs can be got
down as low as 30s. Edna May’s record to
April 30 was 151,914 tons crushed for
£531,901 of gold and 140,703 tons of slimes
and sands treated for £88,268. giving the
total value of the output as £620,169. The
dividend return is over £270,000.
Trouble is alleged to be brewing in connec-
tion with Edna May Deeps (W.A.) manage-
ment. Recently a director had a look Over
the show, and, after having given an ear to
local gossip, is said to have returned to Adel-
aide fully convinced that the plant, erected
in the days when the co. was not flush of
money, is a joke, and also that the system of
working the mine is wrong. Exactly what
the visiting director intends to do is not
clear; but all sorts of rumors are flying
round. If a bomb is being prepared, probably
it is timed to explode at the half-yearly
meeting to be held in Melbourne next month,
when both local-director Duff and manager
Stuckey will be present.
* * * *
Hans Irvine’s Black Range Pinnacles
(W.A.) is to go under the hammer. Work
has been unprofitable since 1914; and re-
cently the taxation people swooped down
upon £B5O of the accumulated credit of
£1174, thus leaving the co. with practically
nothing with which to carry on, even if the
labor difficulty had been overcome. Pro-
bably it is better the show should go; it
was a poor thing compared with the old
Black Range mine, with its £245,000 dividend
record.
* * *• -X-
Parcels of concentrates from the Trans-
vaal arsenic mine, Southern Cross (W.A.),
are now being sent to Victoria for treat-
ment, so it will soon be known whether the
deposits can be profitably worked.
Led by George Dickenson and Tom J.
Greenway, the A 1 Gold Mines has taken
over a slab of the Moon country at Bendigo.
This is the block Eaglehawk wanted Mines
Minister Barnes to preserve from the
machinery dealer. Sonne of the plant was sold
by Dyason when he made up his mind to
unload the New Moon, Specimen Hill,
Clarence and New Argus leases. Still he
left enough at the New Moon to give any-
one anxious to test these blocks a fair start.
Dickenson’s crowd buy the New Moon
machinery as well as the equipment of some
of the other mines. They part up £lO,OOO,
and have a promise from Minister Barnes
of a grant of an equal amount, which is to
go in solid mining. Besides the Garden
Gully mine, the leases cover the Derby and
Paddy’s Gully anticlines, on which practi-
cally no work has been done. So there is
plenty of elbow-room in which the new
crowd can splash its cash. The result of
working the ground by cos. prior to the
Bendigo Amalgamated panned out this
way :
Calls. Dividends.
Specimen Hill . . £33,087 £153,600
New Argus . . 39,480 155,250
Clarence United .. 38,926 138,937
New Moon . . . . 11,560 371,728
These profits came from the centre forma-
tions. Instead of accumulating reserves to
test the side lines, shareholders grabbed
almost every available penny. George
Dickenson’s luc-k has been hearty since he
retreated from Walhalla, and he may pull
through where Dyason wilted.
* * * *
Chas. G. Gibson, economic geologist and
mine-valuer, was last year engaged to report
cm the properties of the Hampden-Cloncurry
Co. _ The following remarks embody his con-
clusions, very much condensed :
Duchess. —Developments along the bottom (1000 ft.
level) have been far from satisfactory." The lowest
limit of the (original) limestone bed was reached
at about 850 ft., and, although the shear-line con-
tinues strongly below this and is well marked along
the 1000 ft. level, it carries no appreciable deposits
of either bornite or ehaleopyrite. Very little pyrite
even is to be seen, and the general prevalence along
this level of the typical primary high-temperature
minerals makes it unlikely that there will be any
appreciable quantity of copper-bearing sulphides at
greater depth. “There is still a considerable quan-
tity of ore remaining above the 850 ft. level; but
when this is taken out I am afraid,” says Gibson,
“that the mine will have to be abandoned.”
Trekelano. —General geological features are very
similar to those at the Duchess except as regards
the actual structure of the ore body. As the pro-
portion of high-temperature minerals associated with
the ore is small, and as there appears to be so far
no marked increase in these minerals in the lower
levels, it is reasonable to expect no diminution in
the ore values for some considerable further depth.
The ore body is most erratic in volume. For instance,
at the southern end there is a shoot which at 80ft.
is 100 ft. long by 30ft. to 40ft. wide (maximum); at
200 ft., 80ft. by 20ft.; at 300 ft., only 40ft. by 10ft.
“The future of the mine depends upon the results
obtained when stoping is commenced on the main
bodies of ehaleopyrite,” which is the primary ore
below the 200 ft. “Although,” Gibson writes, “I
anticipate a certain amount of trouble, there is not
the slightest doubt that the mine will continue to
produce a large tonnage of medium-grade ore for
some considerable time to come.”
Mascotte. —The lode is formed along a small shear
plane. The values are erratic; along the bottom level
the ore is even more irregular than it was up above,
and has shortened. Gibson sees no hope at all
in it. “When the present shoot of good ore is
worked out, the property should be abandoned.”
Scalper. —The workings were full of water; but on
geology, verbal information and evidence got from
the dump “the deposit may be put down as unpay-
able” —which, by the way, is an unsatisfactory
expression. Unpayable at what price of copper?
And what cost-rate is assumed ?
IFee MacGregor. —The country rocks include
quartz, quartz-mica gneisses and schists, quartzites
and conglomerates. The lode is in soft mica schists,
and it is often hard to say what is lode and what is
country. Most of the original copper has been
leached into small more or less defined channels;
and much of the metal in the big rubbly quartz
formation in the top levels has probably been derived
from upper portions of the lode now denuded away.
Down to 220 ft. Wee MacGregor promises well ; “but
developments on the 320 ft. go to show that the
large bodies of apparently leached quartz above this
level are in all probability only residual and second-
ary depositions by shallow circulating waters and
not of deep-seated origin. The bulk of the ore in
the main vein is secondary.... As this vein in its
present enriched state does not carry anything
‘flash,’ it is more than likely that when the primary
sulphide ore is reached it will be found to be too
low grade to pay.” Still, as Gibson says, “almost
anything is possible in ore deposition. The history
of Australian ore bodies by no means supports the
view that the value of primary ore can be gauged
by the value of secondary. Gibson, evidently not
keen on his theory, admits that the co. is justified
in risking a bit more in exploring at 500 ft., having
already risked so much on railways, etc. “If the
shaft shows payable sulphide ore at the 500 ft. level,
the mine will be on a producing basis at once; if
on the other hand, no ore, or ore of too low grade,
is met with, then the present known ore tjiodies,
which the new shaft will drain, can be come back to
and taken out in the cheapest possible way and
the mine then abandoned.”
Wallaroo and Wattle. —Gibson thinks these of no
permanent importance.
Mi. McNamara. —This is an unproved show. The
mineral zone is a crushed band of slates, capped on
one side by a. quartz outcrop, with irregular gossan
and ferruginous slates hugging it. Small parcels of
high-grade ore have been taken out of potholes, and
there may be something good, Gibson thinks, under
the ironstone. Hampden at the time of the report
held this on option.
Pindora. —The geology is much the same as that
of the Duchess. The ore is “wonderfully uniform,”
and would appear to average roughly 4 to 5 p.c.
The question is: Will that pay at present? A test
thousand tons have been taken out since Gibson’s
report, and the mine is closed down for the time
being.
The Answer. —The ore bodies fade away into
breceiated schist. “Primary ore has undoubtedly
been reached on the 200 ft. level, and its nature and
the general appearance of the lode are not such as
to warrant any reasonable hope of improvement in
depth.”
Magnet. —The lode, in the usual schist, is con-
torted by granite. The ore has been found in small
lenses; and the general geologic features hold out
no hopes.
Hampden.— The lode channel is a band of crushed
slates, soft, oxidised and highly leached, even as far
down as 500 ft. Lower, large bodies should be met
with. But “these are almost certain to be of low
grade,” though they may admit of “satisfactory
concentration treatment.”
Salmon and Dingo. —The ore, of fluxing quality,
is jn lenticular limestone beds, apparently, which
may cut out at any moment.
H. C. Docf, who runs the South Aus.
Oil Wells plant at Tantanoola, near Mt.
Gambier, is down over 600 ft. of the 1500 ft.
mapped out, and already on the indications
optimists are laying odds that oil is a cert,
deeper down. Wet weather has been hinder-
ing operations lately. Dod has been battling
with flinty Ibars or running sand ever since
the starting of the plant in January. His No.
1 bore went down over 4000 ft. and took
£11,150 to complete, while the 600 ft. of No. 2
has cost £1470. Even though camp equip-
ment has run away with a further £2145.
Dod’s costs are a trifle compared with those
at the Commonwealth’s oil show in Papua.
The S.A. Oil Co. treats its Board handr
somely: they get £3OO a year to watch an
expenditure of £2700.
Briseis (Tas.) is distributing another six-
penny (£15,000), making the total amount
distributed £487,500, or 10s. 3d. per share.
The present monthly output is 25 tons black
tin, worth, roughly, £5OOO. The co.'s Wal-
lace dredging property in Victoria has
proved disappointing, and the directors are
on the look-out for another property. The
Cudgegong River, Gulgong district (N.S.W.),
is to be looked at and prospected for gold.
Bourke’s Hill, Emmaville (N.S.W.), is
handing out another sixpenny, making a
total of lk 6d. per share distributed. The
latest yield was 6 tons O'cwt. of black tin in
five weeks from one plant. This one plant,
by the way, has to provide dividends for
45,000 shares.


Charles
HEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1906
CMflMffl
NE PLUS DLTRfI
ft.
Ml
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
j§S@£
ate obtaitg^ ch Sb°P s *
ioWo^*
are S^ S '
-ntss sy dney
Sydney
King s Hvdney _,
at . sy wuw
: cP syd» ey
,* Sydney ,
**•» t
gyaw^*'
«"5L»’» voWt
Li „ *rmarli e }. _ nt\c
t at »ay^ja»ctio*
Sos«iltwS?Si“ rt
&SBfe££S«»
I'erry”g t
«*»s&SSr
Ox
?Lanonfg
0 iuv -
°,75E
Button «® aS aney
ehattl
Befool”
dU I at Hge" cV
ftnd^ S nEvory
a#
*BS»
PAULINE et CIE
ANNOUNCE
GREATLY REDUCED PRICES of their
Exclusive Stock of Model Hats, Blouses, etc.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
ACII) STOMACHS NEED MAGNESIA.
Drugs may give temporary relief from the
Pain which usually results from an excess of
acid in the stomach, but drugs do not elimi-
nate the acid, and in consequence the pain
returns —worse than before. To effect a
cure you must first eliminate the acid which
is the cause of all the trouble, and a sure
way to accomplish this is to take a little
bisurated magnesia after your meals. This
quickly neutralises the harmful acid; pre-
vents the food turning sour and fermenting,
soothes and heals the inflamed stomach and
enables you to again eat and enjoy the foods
you fancy, secure in the knowledge that no
pain or discomfort will result. Of course it
will be. understood that ordinary forms of
magnesia, such as citrates or sulphates, will
not accomplish these happy results, neither
will crude mixtures of bismuth and magnesia.
lou must get the bisurated magnesia, which
is a form prepared specially for use in cases
ot digestive and stomach trouble. This can
readily be obtained of high-class chemists
in both powder and tablet form,
the latter being especially suitable for travel-
ieis and others compelled to take meals away
irom home. —Advt.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 ‘Rooms,
comprising Private Suites, Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts.
Illustrated Prospectus and all particu-
lars forwarded on application.
Telephones : Y2IIS and YI26G.
Links Worn Daily.
Most m6n are shackled, but we are not referring
to life s disabilities, but to sleeve-links.
WE MAKE THEM.
, J Ve do more, we make them well and in perfect
ta mf and at rock-bottom prices. 1
links m d orl el T nee is va * st ’ diff erence between
'A* ade W men cultured skill and those
made by ordinary workmen.
thn' )l !?fi? rCateS artistic links a gentleman can wear,
the other produces for the masses. ’
n ° V lor ? l . to manufacture in exquisite
taste than ro make the commonplace.
\Ve know, because we make them.
Customs duties, importing expenses,
Heavy, Solid Gold Ljnks,
21/- pair.
In 15ct. Gold, 35/-
Pair Heavy Gold
Links, 18/6
pair.
In lfjct. Gold,
32/6.
etc., and so sell at London prices.
Plain figures
Cash only.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVEID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney. June 24. 191 S.
My Dear Akim,—
That indeterminate quantity which is
labelled Society surprised those who have
hitherto yawned at its gambols for patriotic
funds, by a series of tableaux last Thursday
at the Palace Theatre, so dignified and so
almost free from misadventure, that there
was a suspicion of something untold. Mrs;
L'. 11. Kelly, with a wide experience behind
the footlights and a keen dramatic sense, can
honorably accept the largest bouquet for
her share as lion, organiser of a brilliant
entertainment. Syd Ure Smith will
kindly remove his picturesque sombrero and
also bow to loud plaudits. He was the
artistic man who posed Darling Point as an
angelic choir and made Woollahra next of
kin to Botticelli’s models. The J.C.W.
firm. J. and N. Tait, the Tivoli and the
Playhouse lent stage properties.
After Fra Angelico’s infant angels had
smiled softly through the limelight, their
aunts and elder sisters adjusted their golden
soup-plates. Kathleen Finn, Rose Mcrivale
and Betty Higgins (daughter of a Penrith
doctor) were in this celestial collection. A
fresco by Botticelli, a.d. 1447-1515, was gar-
nished by Dorothea Madvellar, Marjory
Little (Venus) and Melanie Collins. Millie
Sheldon, a golden-lmired Madonna, posed as
Adoring the Divine Child in the Fra Filippo
Lippi manner. A big group after Ghirlan-
daio, with slim Mrs. Leslie Walford as the
Madonna shrouded in drapery, included
Morna MacCormiek, Mrs. Wilson and Philip
Wilson. C. E. Water's knelt firmly on a
cushion exactly opposite Bishop T. 11. Kelly.
In a series of smaller pictures Mrs. F. S.
Falkiner, who probably possessed the nearest
appearance to a “Mona Lisa” smile Bellevue
liill can produce, was a lovely vision in
royal-blue drapery over a white garment
that, true to the Old Masters’ notion of
female fashion, looked like a choir boy’s best
white pinny. Marjory Bowker’s silky
brown locks were buried under a gorgeous
red wig (Titian’s “Flora” was her “official”
place). When Archangel Michael Wilson
obligingly sang before the curtain “Amarylis
Beloved” in early Italian, his heavenly ex-
pression was ruffled by the crash of broken
glass, presumably an exploded syphon off
stage. The patient Griselda. Leslie Johnson,
starred” in a tale by Boccaccio. Cyril
Mackay in a becoming Buster Brown wig
and tights, appeared as Boccaccio from
the story of Isabella. Helen Mac-
arthur Onslow, a young and beautiful Aus-
tralian representative of the Grey Old
Mother in the North Sea, sat with great dig-
nity on an almost, perpendicular rock. In
the tableau Mona Rossiter, as Sydney,
meekly crept in at the back, but Mel-
bourne, represented by Molly Levy, took
the centre. Adelaide was forgotten. Cape-
town (Audrey Schute) was one of the best-
looking daughters. Flowers poured over the
footlights.
Dr. Neville Burkitt, whose father is a well-
known Goulburn healer, will shortly pack
up Ins stethoscope for the Front. "Before
going, he took care to secure the best
S} 1 \ he _ Kuows with a wedding-ring. She’s
llunily Hordern, of the Chatswood branch of
the family. The cake was cut at the Aus-
tralia after the knot was made as secure as
possible at St. James’s.
The Conservatorium staff adds pianist
Henri Penn to its teaching staff next term.
He s the earnest performer with the inky
locks and forceful wrist action, who played
recently at a Town Hall concert. Like
Goossens, he came to Australia with the
Belgian band, a brilliant combination which
shook our rafters with its stirring military
music a couple of years ago. Director Ver-
brugglien, meanwhile, is “thinking over” the
cabled offer to conduct the famous Boston
Symphony Orchestra. Muck, the ex-conduc-
tor. as I told you last week, was interned,
and Sir Henry Wood took the baton tem-
porarily. The Conservatorium chief is only
recently back from a trip to America, and
Boston was in his itinerary.
Chevalier Eles. Consul-General for Italy,
is in Sydney on official business and pleasure
combined. The pleasure is the part he is
able to take in giving an elegant top-dressing
to some of the carnival fun for Italy’s Day.
He will stay in Sydney over June 28.
The departing French Consul Chayet will
sink wearily into a deck chair after Sydney’s
determined effort to (figuratively) fall upon
his neck in farewell greetings. One of the
last big knife-and-fork send-offs was Japanese
Consul Shimizu’s dinner at the Australia,
which was graced by the local diplomatic
corps.
Hon. organiser Ferrari Passmore made a
success of a doubtful experiment last week.
One evening of grand opera called for Iler-
culanean efforts from all hands. The
operatic air is generally thick, if not with
missiles, certainly with expletives, even in
an extended season. But one night? Brave
woman ! The public had a treat, and the Royal
held a big audience. The first slice of the
musical melon, “Cavalleria Rustieana,” gave
soprano Emma Franceschi, as Santuzza,
every opportunity to warble sweetly and fall
with great violence at frequent intervals
(part of Santuzza’s business) on the hard,
unyielding stage boards. Belloni (billed to
leave for the Italian Front in a few weeks),
Dagradi. Mrs. Belloni, of the late Gonsalez
co. and Elsie Pascoe (too amateurish for the
minx Lola’s part), were in the cast. In the
fiercely dramatic second act of Puccini’s “La
Toscg” (musically the finest in the opera)
Marie Segur’S passionate acting as Floria
was the surprise of the evening. Vocally
not strong enough at times, she held the
stage by amazing histrionic powers for an
amateur. But, then, Marie is French. Sid
Macdonald, as the hapless painter Cavara-
dossi, sang excellently considering the diffi-
culties of a one-night performance, and
behaved in the most gentlemanly manner,
going through the torture scene (off stage)
without even removing his lace cravat. In
this act the usual appearance of the tenor
is in a raggy and horribly blood-spattered
condition. John McCormack, for instance,
used to totter in with sagging breeches and
the tattered remnant of a shirt on his broad
back. .Sid Macdonald’s groans, however,
left nothing to the imagination.
Mrs. W alker, who used to be Miss Eight,
returned from England this week. She is
the wife of Scotchbyterian parson John
Walker, recently chaplain A.1.F., and the
mother, of live fighting sons, two of whom
have given their lives for Freedom’s cause.
Mrs. Walker is going back to the Victorian
manse.
On June 27, for the'benefit of Italy’s Day,
there will be a juvenile party at King’s Cross
Theatre—a matinee, of course. The infant
Pudukota will be the “star.”
The news that Mrs. George Sargent’s! .son,
a prisoner of war in Germany for more than
two dreary years, is now in Holland caused
a rush of congratulations.
Herewith is a little
picture of Miss
Ettie Close, one of
the most consistent
of Brother Billjim’s
friends in London.
And this is what one
of them says of her:
She began by asking
a few of the convales-
cent Australians to stay
at her home in Oxford.
When she came up to
London in the autumn
she formed a most influ-
ential committee and
suggested a club. The
committee said “Splen-
did!” and kept on say-
ing it for a few months,
but did nothing. At
last one man-member came to Miss Close and asked:
“Look here, Miss Close, do you think that com-
mittee is ever going to do anything?” She replied
that she was fed up with committees, and would put
up half the money herself to start the club. The
man to whom she was speaking said he would put
up the other half, and, presto! in a couple of weeks
the energetic lady had taken the house and furnished
it, and it was full to overflowing with Australians
and Maorilanders, and has been in that state ever
since. And, best of all, Miss Close isn’t their patron.
She is their dear, motherly friend.
Miss Close must have been one of the very
earliest “voluntary aids.” Anyway, she was
at work on the hospital trains at Boulogne
in the autumn of 1914.
A wedding of special interest this week,
though it’s to be a very quiet affair, is that
of golden-haired IS ell Riley, whose forget-
me-not eyes have captured Andrew Madden,
of the City Mutual, The pretty Sydney
girl who has a turn for black-and-white
work, is a sister of Maud, whose fashion
sketches decorate S. M. Herald’s Woman’s
Page. Another sister is Mrs. Pat Ivenna.
And quietly keeping house for father till he
died, and lately for Maud and Nell, is the
gentle fourth J 1 ilev girl. Andrew is a
widower. The vacuum-cleaner will get
busy in the roomy house in Mona-road, for-
merly the Forbes Angus home.
Molly Douglas, an Australian girl—dad
lives at Geelong, or used to—has added
Lieut. Harold Sampson, R.N., to her posses-
sions. The wedding was in London.
Though “Cupid” hadn't a feather to dy
with as a movie feature, his recent appear-
ance brought about £llOO to the State
branch of the Red Cross. The country is
going to see the film:
Captain Rolf Sanger Brown, formerly of
the R.A.A., and now with the Australian
birdmen at the Front, had a short leave
when English buttercups were lifting their
wet faces to April showers. He enjoyed
himself at a wedding, too —his own, by the
way. The girl—it seems that girls are neces-
sary in these affairs —was Iris Merrett,
youngest treasure of the C. E. Merrett home,
Brighton (Vic.).
Beatrice Griffiths
(Mrs. Walter Swin-
son), the pianist, is
home in Sydney after
20 years’ absence.
She was a very
young girl when she
left for London
under the maternal
wing, though she
was the eldest of the
subsequently well-
known Griffiths trio.
She w r as a pupil of
the great teacher
Henri Kowalski, and
it wms by his advice
that she moved off
the Australian map
to a wider musical
field. A year’s hard
study in London followed. “Sydney gave
me a wonderful farewell in the Town Hall,”
says the youthful-looking little lady (here is
her photo fresh from May Moore’s studio),
“and I think it brought me luck. So did
the letter of introduction given me by Mr.
William Macleod, of The Bulletin, tlo
Phil May, for the Sunday evening At Homes
in the famous artist’s home were amongst
the most popular gatherings in genuine
Bohemia. Artists of world renown, writers,
and men and women whose names were
household words, assembled there. For over
two years and a half I rarely missed one of
those Sunday nights, and always delighted
- to play for the assembly.” After giving her
first recital in London at the Queen’s Hall,
the young Australian received word from
Percy Harrison (who died a few months
ago), then the greatest provincial manager,
that he would give her an audition. “For
this I had Melba to thank. She was in
London, or rather in a beautiful cottage at
Maidenhead, and had given me a letter of
introduction to the man who was able to do
so much for young artists. It worked like a
charm. After hearing me play one morning
—I was one of 70 to go through this hurried
ordeal —he engaged me to play that same
afternoon at a Patti concert in the Albert
Hall. A famous European musician had
not arrived to time. Harrison suddenly had
to fill a gap and —well Australia had the
luck to be there.” Thus, before an audience
of 10,000 people, in the presence of crowned
and coroneted heads (Queen Alexandra, a
noted amateur pianist in those days, asked
the name of the “young lady from Aus-
tralia”), Beatrice Griffiths made her first
great success. She was then engaged to tour
with the Adelina Patti concert co. Luck
helped conspicuous ability. Mrs. Swinson
is making this visit with her small boy and
his daddy. (Mr. Swinson is a lawyer'when
he is at home in London.) Beatrice was
born in West Maitland.
Muriel Griffiths, a sister of the clever
pianist, was the violinist of the trio. She
married a brilliant Australian, E. E. Simp-
son, of Sydney—a, B.E. of our Univer-
sity, Bachelor of Science, Perth University,
and now Government mineralogist of West-
ralia.
From the Brisbane Girl:—
Mary Eaton, a popular Brisbane girl who braved
submarines so that she might cross the seas to the
altar, has arrived safely in London, and will pre-
sently be married to Lieutenant H. W. Powell, a
son of Rev. W. Powell, a well-known Brisbane
clergyman.
Gone west, Lieut. Edwards, a Rockhampton boy
who had won the Military Medal and bar, and
the golo medal of Servia. He went through Gal-
lipoli unhurt, and was killed in France with a pal.
He charged a pill-box too well loaded with death.
Among a bunch of fliers who came home a few
days ago with a Military Cross apiece, won in the
air during the Jerusalem campaign, were Lieut.
Clifford Le Brun Brown and Lieut. Harold Livingston
Fiaser. Both were station overseers when they
enlisted: Young Brown filled a Light Horse saddle
to begin with, but swapped it in 1917 for a pair of
wings. Fraser, a Rockhampton youth, enlisted at
Blackall in 1916, and having won his three stripes in
the Light Horse transferred to the 67th Squad-
ron A.F.C., and got his commission at tlie ripe old
age of 27.
Slender Leslie Grant Cooper (she was a
flapper when the Tumult began in Belgium)
has undergone her share of the epidemic of
good-bye parties. She is about to cross the
;2 am i_ t 0 “ ake Lt.-Commander Pope, R.N.,
the happiest Aussie on the other side,
lhat s what lie says about the matter. The
1 ide-to-be is a sister of Mabel, one of the
Soldiers’ Club voluntary hard workers.
H. H. Wallace, a nephew of Miss Rose
Scott, who left Sydney with the Cyril
Maude eo. to tour the U.S., writes gaily: “I
am now known to the co. as ‘The Gaol
Bird.’ and will tell you why. In ’Frisco,
and other big cities that are very spick and
span in the strict observance of municipal
rules, I had been careful. Still, I crossed the
street, traffic permitting, where I listed. Then
came our arrival in Spokane. Following my
casual Australian habit of taking risks, i
pushed through the vehicular rumble and
landed safely on the other side of the highway.
Immediately a Semitic-looking individual in
plain clothes put his hand on my shoulder.
‘Say, guy, for crossing the street in our
town you are fined four bits, so I guess you’d
better pay up!’ As I believed four bits
meant four dollars, I resisted the stranger’s
effort to try and take me down. He per-
sisted. I told him to go to blazes. A crowd
assembled. The John Hop announced:
‘That’s the guy who won’t give four
bits to the Red Cross.’ ‘Don’t you
know' your dooty to the war?’ shouted one
bystander. I replied with some heat. ‘Come
on, guy, I’ve rung up a patrol waggon—
now you can't pay four bits. The inspector
will fine you 50 dollars.’ That party
explained the situation. The fine amounted
to about 40 cents (four bits) and goes to
the Red Cross. The man who collects the
fine for breaking a rule which is not men-
tioned on any signpost then gives a ‘tag.’
That’s a receipt. Of course, I shelled out.”
Dattilo Rubbo, the picturesque artist whose
flowing Byronic ties are the joy of the Cult,
is working an impassioned brush for Italy’s
Day. By his efforts a big 'array of paint-
ings were collected for the exhibition in our
Town Barn.
A tit-bit of gallantry softened the hearts
of. a corner of the crowd on Captain Car-
michael’s. going-away day. An old lady
handed him a bunch of violets. A dozen
yards further on he was giving them to
eager, grasping hands. Only a few blooms
were left, and a host of flappers pressed
close to Carmichael’s horse. He leaned
forward out of the saddle and gently handed
them to a woman with a baby in her arms
and with cheeks streaked with tears. The
girls cheered louder than a brass band.
The First Artillery Comforts Depot (even-
ing branch) had a novel party last week for
its funds, a “grown-up children’s” one. Ex-
cepting a few chaperones, everyone turned
up in the garb of childhood, many in the
sock and tunic stages, and not a few filled
their young brother’s suits delightfully.
Games of youth were renewed, dancing was
confined to the polka and the waltz, and at
supper the girls squatted on the, floor white
the boys, with proper party manners, waited
upon them. Miss King and Pascoe Pearce
were the organisers.
lours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
LTD
JEWELLERS.
and GEM JEWELLERY.
Diamond French
Cluster Ring,
Platinum Setting,
£22.
fdh
Diamond Five-
stone Ring,
Platinum Setting,
£lO 10 0
15ct. Gold and Platinum Diamond and Pearl
Brooch,
£9 15 0
Diamond Circle
Brooch, Platinum
Setting,
£3O.
Diamond and Pear]
Circle Brooch,
Platinum Setting-,
£l4.
15ct. Gold and Platinum
Diamond Circle Brooch,
£l6 10 0
Selections forwarded
on approval if
desired.
Diamond and Ruby Cluster, on Platinum Bar
Brooch,
£3O.
Five per cent.
Discount on all
cash purchases.
An Illustrated Catalogue sent Post Free on Application.
13 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON.
We Teach Photography
FREE to Camera Bayers
There are very few people to whom photography does not appeal. The pleasure of
being able to take* a photo of your children, friends, home and the many scenes you visit
is one that anyone can have, as we teach photography free, either personally or by post, to
any person purchasing a camera from us.
A fine camera to start this interesting
pursuit with is the IvIjITO NO. 1, as
illustrated. It holds 12 (4-J x
3i in.), any one of which can be taken
out and developed after exposure without
disturbing the others. It has two Bril-
liant View Finders, for upright or hori-
zontal use. Adjustable Focussing Front
operated by a thumb-screw at side, Focus-
sing - Scale, Time and Instantaneous
Shutter.
BRITISH-MADE.
With Rapid Achromatic Lens.. 30/-
With Rectilinear Lens ... 37/6
Other Magazine Cameras, 9/-, 12/-,
20/-, 25/- to 62/6.
Call and let us show you how to use
them, or send for price list, if .you live
out of town. W'e will post it to any
address.
I
All Classes of Metallurgical and
Assay Work Done at
Harringtons’ Laboratories.
The latest scientific appliances for the treatment of Residues, Sweepings and Waste
Products of Jewellers, Dentists, Process Engravers and other Metal Workers are installed
in our Laboratories, every grain of metal that is of value being extracted.
Every order is executed under the personal supervision of a qualified chemist from
Messrs. Johnson & Sons, Assayers to his Majesty’s Mint and, the Bank of England, and
clients entrusting their orders to us can depend upon receiving prompt service and
satisfactory results.
NOTE THIS POINT.—In order to thoroughly protect our clients,
rve Reference Samples until settlement is complete.
We collett material for treatment in City or Suburbs, free of Charge. Ring City
5690 (3 lines), and our traveller will call on you.
We can supply Fine and Sterling Silver, Electrolytic Copper, Gold Chloride, Silver
lie and Silver "Salts. Platinum and Platinum Alloys, at lowest market rates.
Photographic anti Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts anti Assayers,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in all States and New Zealand.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George St. North, Sydney ,
I LOOKED AT MANY
“TALKING MACHINES”
afffffn f f
Hi!
JC
5 mmL
■■l .■':!
»!a
ua
>nv.mU)
fcl l .;'i!U!<milH(
itimsm
.
;) » i n»»n
(Oaumm
i°.:
aeaaOOOOOO JCOODJ JfOiIOIJO
am^.l^.jqg-^o.fl*?? 0 -} 0 -"? a PiB
v)) n) »»»>»
fuuutuu
but did not
hear “real music”
until I heard
THE
AEOLIAN
VOCALION
Mv first impulse was to buy a
“talking machine" for the
entertainment of the family.
We met ill town, my wife and
I, to make the purchase. I
knew there were many makes,
but the first I heard seemed
good enough. To humor the
little lady we went to one
place, then another, yet I
thought the next was as good
as the last. Then we heard
the VOCALIC) N r .. ..The tone
was better , more musical than
any other I had heard. A
sense of satisfaction came over
me when the record stopped
automatically .
I HAD BOUGHT IT BEFORE THE SALESMAN KNEW! A
further demonstration of the Vocation’s refinements and wonderful
“Graduola” control sent me home gratified that I had brought complete
musical enjoyment to my home.
VOCALIONS PLAY ANY HAKE OF RECORD
and Cost No Flore than Ordinary Talking Machines
PRICES from £9, Cash or Terms
Descriptive Catalogue on Request
Manufactured and Sold Only by
The Pianola Company
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne;
436 Queen Street, Brisbane;
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Send Us This Coupon
with your name and address, and ive will mail an interesting
descriptive Catalog, showing the easy terms of payment that
will place a Vocation in your home without delay.
Please send me Catalog B describing the Vocation as
advertised in Bulletin
Name ~
Address


Mr, A. CARLSON (from a photo.).
«w,vww
FREE SAMPLES
HAIR GROWER
and Shampoo Powders.
CJo Mrs. Mr Tobin, Boarding House.
~ , Florence Street, Port Pirie, S.A.
Mr. John Craven-Burleigh,
My Dear Sir, / thank you for your letter and offer.
I am very ■ pleased to state that my hair has im-
proved wonderfully since. I got the last supply of
your remedy. I am quite satisfied it is a True Hair
Grower. ■My scalp is now full of fine . silky hair,
and I still have 2-h boxes left,, so I won’t need any
more. 1 am recommending your True Hair Grower
to all my friends. /am sending you the last photo.
/ have, as I sent all the others to my friends and
people, to let them see how my hair has grown. You
may publish this if you please'.—Yours truly,
~ _ „ , . A. CARLSON.
Mi. Craven-Burleigh has received thousands of
unsolicited testimonials from people who have suc-
cessfully used his preparations. They are all
genuine, and open to the fullest investigation. In
order to ensure a fair test he desires everyone suffer-
f r om Hair Troubles to obtain from him a Free
Inal of his hair-growing compound. Send full
name and address, enclosing three penny stamps for
postage and packing to
A3N(IAS IHHHIS XXId \ZZ Xd3(l) HDI3IHna=N3AV*iD NHOf
Hotel Sydney
(Now Fully Licensed)
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
’ARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from
„ (Daily) „
Bed and Breakfast
£3/15/6
11/6
6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
> file SzzZie&n.
On and after JULY 4, until further notice,
the price of “The Bulletin” will be EIGHT
PENCE, owing to heavy increases in the cost
of paper, etc.
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd.
. Legal Notices.
TITO the brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles,
cousins, first cousins once removed and
second cousins both paternal and mater-
nal of MARY ANN CALDER, daughter
of JAMES CALDER and BEATRICE
CALDER, formerly of Tain, Scotland,
and to all persons claiming by, through
or under them.
I I (LSI. ANT to an Order made on the 4th
day of June, 1918 by the Honorable Mr.
Justice Hosking, a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the 31st day of March, 1919, your
claims to the estate of Mary Ann Calder, who
died at Nelson, New Zealand, on the 19th
December, 1912, failing which the estate will
be distributed among those entitled thereto
disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 6th day of June,
iyio.
E. P. HAY,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Missing Friends.
FREDERICA HlLL(formerly Campion),
Widow of EDWARD KEPPEL HILL
late of Penrith, New South Wales. Informa-
tion required concerning the above, if living,
or, it deceased, particulars of death.
Communication to be addressed to
BEAUMONT & SON,
66 Gresham House,
Old Broad Street, London, England.
OE JOHN DALEY, late of Wharparilla.
A*' 1 5 r “ er ’ de .ceased. James Dale.v, son of
deceased, is notified that he is entitled to a
share in the above estate provided he claims
same before the 22nd September, 1919, failing
which Imwill forfeit all interest therein.
Ilie-ii of Millewa Chambers,
High Street, Echuca, Victoria, Proctor for
WiHiam John King, of Yea Bank, Manager,
Sole Executor of the Will.
P A AOkP^i N ’ J 0H f N w .fc erha P s known as John
Aitken), son of Williamina Paterson (or Aitken)
deceased, and who would now be about 22 years okl
or anyone acquainted with his whereabouts, please
communicate at once with NATIOKAIj
COMPANY, 113 Queen Street, SourneT
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, June 24, 1918.
My Dear Yarrie, —
“The Shop’’ in the Town Hall was opened
with a flourish by the Irvine lady on Friday
morning. Mrs. Arthur Robinson is'in charge of
the establishment, with Miss Ilentv second-in-
command and little Miss Falconner acting as
secretary. Mrs. Murphy, of Bananaland (at
present “flatting” at Cliveden), had a stall.
Frizes were given for needlework, and a
cousin of Miss Henty, who worked a marvel-
lous nightie, was a winner. Another award
was given for a sponge bag made of black
silk and gold tinsel. Its utter uselessness
reminded me of a red-plush pyjama bag I
was once permitted to gaze upon. It rested
on the bed of an Italian visitor of high rank.
A novel and sensible exhibit was a raffia
basket with long handles made to hold a
billy. That's the sort of thing to catch the
picnicker with. Pretty girls prowled about
with trays of fine linen clothes for sale, while
Mavis Thiel made money by charging three-
pence for wrapping up parcels (price in-
cluded paper and string and her festival
smile). ■
Mrs. Senator Keating .has made a name
for herself in Launceston because of the
wonderful success of her baby dirties. There
had been b.c. shows in Melbourne, Adelaide
and Hobart, but the Launceston, experiment
beat them all. It ran a fortnight:
Mrs. Kaumann, a friend of the Pethe-
bridge lady and remembered as a charming
hostess by officers who served at liabaul, is
flying round inspecting the sights. The
tripper is a descendant of' Queen Emma, a
Samoan beauty who married a wealthy white
merchant and acquired riches on her own
account by obtaining land grants from the
natives and establishing plantations and
trading stations.
The Rutter Clarke pair, who now shelter
in a Toorak hash palace, are excited over a
four-weeks’ visjt from son Geoff. lie has
clone three years as a lieutenant in Meso-
potamia. His younger brother escaped from
the Grammar School last year and got into
khaki.
The late Arthur Snowden broke away
from the firm of Gillott, Croker and Snowden
after the long and costly libel case of
Speight v. Syme, in which the firm under-
took the melancholy job of trying to get
heavy damages from the Age for its asper-
sions on poor old Speight’s boomsome mis-
management of the Victorian Railways. The
legal firm later broke into three pieces, each
member forming a new partnership.
The Black family, of Terang, have had
their share of bad luck. There were origin-
ally three sons. Neil, the youngest, went
down in the Waratah. The eldest, lan, had
a bad motor accident on the Caniperdown-
road and died next day. He left two sons.
Aow one of them has gone as the result of a
flying accident in England.
Mrs. Alderman Davey badly sprained her
ankle steoping out of. her taxi last week.
She is holding court at her flat and airing
a special series of sprained-anlde gowns.
A couple of local women who are fond of
entertaining children lately arranged a
juvenile garden party, and hunted round for
a barrel-organ, organist and monkey as a
cheap and effective way of entertaining
the guests. It was then that tliev
realised how the war lias played up
with music. The only likely-looking immi-
grant they could find possessed a machine
that was fitted with too many Irish airs to
be suitable in these stormy days. “And
where’s the monkey?” he was asked. Gui-
seppi shrugged his shoulders despairingly.
“Af-hlj, the poor monk ! ’e get the pheumon
an’ die’ on my ’ands. But,” eagerly, “I ’ave
im at ome stuffed.” G. Corsica didn’t get
the job.
The Penny Offensive, started by the Town
Hall elite, began with a polite cat-figlit.
It raged around the question of who should
be discovered pitching the first penny into
the big boiler when the movie man turned the
handle ; of his camera. However, the dis-
turbers of the peace spent so long getting
specially decorated for the performance that
to wait for them would have meant the loss
of a lot of money to the fund,- so the organ-
isers opened the receptacle to catch the
typistes’ pennies without further considera-
tion of the official fussers.
To help the special .Tune appeal of the
I.ady Mayoress’s Patriotic League Mrs
Davey arranged a card party in the Town
ilall on Wednesday afternoon. For the first
tune on record a large gathering of women
in the big room were calm and subdued. Late
visitors entered to find a solemn hush per-
vading the proceedings, broken onlv bv an
occasional tinkle of a teacup as the Y.A.I).
girls handed round refreshments.
l'rank Clarke’s pretty wife selected a pitch
on Parliament House steps when the poor
stock-owners hurried along to protest against
fixing the price of meat. Armed with a
basket of wool she sold it in wliisps for
buttonhole decorations, and thereby coaxed
il2 into comforts funds.
Tea-rooms that exist by profit and
don t sell Red Cross buns, will hardly
approve of the new “Patriotic-”.(late ’ “Billa-
bong ) in Centreway. which serves lunches
and teas on the Red Cross ticket. With the
exception of one or two experts in cooking
and cleaning, all the hands are unpaid ama-
teurs and the management is honorary ; so
the business can hardly fail to show a profit
at the end of the first month if the public
rally round. Naturally the rival shops have
not attempted to boom this highly unortho-
dox show.
Women of the Royal Golf Club (it ranges
over the breezy Sandringham links) are to
run a kiosk in the Cent re way on July 5.
Mrs. bred Thiel is prime .mover. There'will
be exquisite hand-made undies on sale.
r^iea tre matinee piled up close
on £4OO for the Red Cross. Mrs. George
ban bairn and Mrs. Ross-Soden gave all
materials for the tea-shop and sent vanloads
of stuff.
The “Win-the-War” Equestrian Club,
formed for the. alleged purpose of bagging
recruits and raising patriotic money, begins
to feel the burthen and heat of the day.
There seems so little to do , after all. It is
pleasant to parade down Collins-street on
some soldiers’ day with a score of pals
a-horseback, while the crowd cheers, however
but probably the outfit would have
fewer jests made at its expense if it put bv
the saddles mid went in for knitting and
ward-cleaning. After a lot of scrabbling
around among the straw in the hayloft, or
-wherever the ladies keep their books and
papers, the Club has managed to unearth an
unpretentious balance-sheet; but there is
really nothing in the document which calls
tor continuous applause by patriots or trul'v
earnest war-winners.
There is to be a big semi-official welcome
on July 6 in the Auditorium to returned in-
valided sailors from the North Sea and
thereabouts. Governor Stanley will be the
spruiker, and a host of dames are preparing
supper and music.
Hollander Tony Paanaaker (he made
determined but fruitless efforts to got into
Australian khaki) has written to his best
girls m Melbourne that he has enlisted in
America with the British army. Tony on
his papers named a Melbourne girl as iiext-
of-kni.
A chatty letter, written between air-raids,
comes from Stella Fitzpatrick, whose dad is
traffic-superintendent at Ballarat, and whose
uncle used to be chairman of Railway Com-
missioners. Formerly at the Homoeopathic,
she is now a nurse at Harefield. The raid
to which she gives most space interrupted'
her afternoon-tea, and she and her pals
ducked for the nearest tube, where they spent
two hours among “the rummiest ‘human
benigs and stray dogs from the East End.”
A lull gave them a chance to scoot along
Regent-street, but they hadn’t settled down
in a I lccadilly grill-room when another raid
began. After three hours under cover they
took a taxi to Paddington. Then came the
third raid, and-the chauffeur stopped his
chariot, collected his fare and disappeared.
Helped by an electric torch, the girls found
a darkened railway-station, and reached
train at 3.30 next morning. But
SteUa d ° n t C£U ' e a fig for thoir raids >" says
Poor Dr. Colonel Bryant is going round
with his eye in a sling and nursing sundry
bruises. He had been out on a bird-slioot-
ing expedition and went into a cafe for
some food. A returned soldier at a neighbor-
ing table made muttered remarks about mili-
tary cold-footers who stayed at home. The
Colonel has j’ust reason to resent such
hints and there was a tussle. It was an
uncalled-for affair.
Barrister Billy Schutt awhile back placed
his legal knowledge at the disposal of the
Navy Office for the duration of the war.
After he had been working there for some
tune, the authorities decided that his assist-
ance would not be wholly satisfactory unless
he sacrificed his moustache (a clean shave
or a beard is the Navy rule) and donned a
nautical rig-out. So Billy now wears a bald
face and a uniform liberally adorned with
gold braid, assumes a nautical gait, and
shivers his timbers at suitable intervals.
Young John Campbell, of the Toorak
squatting clan, has steamed oft to inquire
after a naval airman's job. Two other
Grammar mates go along with the same
objective—the Hunter Landales’ heir and
Ford Guthrie.
Aeroplane-engineer Aubrey Lock, of the
A.1.F., who left Malvern a couple of years
ago with one of Australia’s first travelling
workshops, has reached a commission after
a long, muddy, toilsome time in France
with the motor-ambulances. Lock, apart
from his venture in building an early-day
Australian ’plane engine, was one of Her-
bert Thomson’s assistants in that Victorian
inventor’s pioneering efforts.
The death of Paymaster Ernest Charles
Norton is an aftermath of the Sydney-
Eniden fight. After the sinking of the Ger-
man the slight little sailor was invalided to
England, and was for some time at Wands-
worth Military Hospital, suffering from
shell-shock. Then he returned to Australia,
and was subsequently transferred to the
Australian Naval Depot at Williamstown;
but the shock to his nervous system had
been too severe.
We used to smile at the idea of a practical
lady gardener, but here’s a successful one
who combines the hard graft with landscape
designing and the lighter branches. Her
name is Katie Crawford, the eldest daughter
of the late Anglican vicar of St. Andrew’s,
Brighton. She has a useful Arts degree, but
outdoor life appealed too strongly.
Adelaide's bit o’ gossip :
At last we realise there are some of the original
Anzacs on furlough in the State, and that something-
is due to them. The Government lias granted them
railway passes, and on Wednesday such of the men as 1
were in the city were guests of honor at an enter-
tainment at the Cheer-Up Hut. Their faces are
drawn and their eyes weary ; yet after a brief two
months’ respite they are to go back to the Front.
Anybody else like to go and give a,hand?
The Rev. John Blaeket’s son Joseph, who has
been in the fighting since Gallipoli, lias been killed.
Another son fell on the Peninsula, and two more
are at the Front. News lias also come of the death
of Lieut. R. W. Harrington, D.C.M., another of the
first men to enlist in the State.
The Victoria League had its seventh annual meet-
ing on Thursday* with Lady Galway in the chair.
Since 1914 it has made itself especially responsible
for the despatch of newspapers and magazines to the
A.I.F. overseas.
Education Minister Harvey has had word that his
son has been gassed.
Apparently even in German prison camps there are
some bright spots, and Lieut. L. A. Whitington seems
to have struck one of them. He is at Heidelberg,
close to tile Old Town and its famous University, and
is housed in comfortable barracks. If money is
wanted it can be got through a neutral country. The
prisoners have organised their own orchestra and
dramatic society.
Capt. A. G. Owen Smyth is here on furlough. He
Served with his battery on the Somme till the
autumn of 1916, and then put in a year with the
Uitli Divisional Headquarters Staff in Mesopotamia.
Violet Hay was celebrated for the third time on
Friday. At the memorial service at the South
Afiican Mar statue General Forsyth took the place
of the Governor, who is on a brief holiday in ilel-
bouine, and at the Hut Lady Galway unveiled the
latest portraits to be added to the “honor panels.”
One of our daily-paper editors got two invitations
eaily this month. One, from the Federal Government,
desired him to join the press delegation: the other
also from the Federal Government, begged him to
stay at home. The explanation is that Langdon
Bonython, of the Advertiser, has so immersed him-
self in Repatriation work that the Government felt
that he would be much more usefully employed if
he remained in Australia. He is one of the seven
Commissioners appointed under the Repatriation Act.
liita Daley has consented to become Mrs.
Liglis in the near future. Dr. ing lis is &
nephew bf the popular sheep-man Inglis of
lionise,y.
Phyllis Reynolds; sister of Mrs. Clive
Leonard, is off next-month to India to annex
young Wilfred Hunter. The prospective
bridegroom is a nephew of Charles Rome’s
widow. He tried unsuccessfully for a medi-
cal pass to the R.F.C. Clive Leonard, by
the way, is welcoming his invalided brother
pertie back from a gunner's job in the Aus-
tralian trenches. Bertie has a leg to be
mended. 6
The Conservatorium is going at ton sneed
again now that Melba is home. Sim always
up with the Lilydale birds, and manages
to get in some gardening before breakfast.
by ?°n r J 0 tlle sin g in g-hall at
Last Melbourne by .9.30.
St ' Leger . ha ® sta J 7 ed in
America. Ihe Conservatorium misses him
anc his music; he was always there when
wanted, both before and after his short spell
ol soldiering. 1
A Tasmanian in London mentions singer
Doris Carter m a home letter. Doris was
in an air-raid and escaped unhurt, though
the whole house was wrecked. Four other
Australians were injured.
Friday will be “Annual Lecture” night
with the Melb. Shakspeare Society. Sugdln,
M.A wdl deliver the address at the Assem-
bly Hall, Colhns-street. Title, “The World
through Eliza betliian Eyes.”
The Lyceum Clubbers, our Braiusturm,
are homeless for a week. The Club has out-
grown the available space at Alston’s Corner,
and has taken a whole floor in the Audi-
torium building. Members are transporting
precious things in bundles like a line of
anxious ants. Secretary Florence Wrigley
is resigning, and her departure is being
lamented amid the camp-shifting.
Poet-au tiior Vance Palmer, who will
shortly leave Australia in khaki, is to be
farewelled to-night by his literary pals at
Oxford Chambers. A dinner has been
arranged by authoress Ivatliie Prichard and
barrister Jollie Smith.
Gladys Taylor llain, author of “The Coo-ee
Contingent,” will shortly publish another
book. She is at present living at Tidworth,
England, where her lawyer husband, Major
R. E. Main, who was invalided from France,
is on the Court-martial staff.
Into a wintry world that is getting pain-
fully short of paper crawls Birth (Vol. 2.
No. 19), with a poem by Vance Palmer on
its forehead and five others in its little
inside. Birth (price 3d.) sizes up books
and people in Melb. pretty sharply. On its
back the Melbourne Literary Club notifies
that it meets every second * Wednesday at
Hardware Chambers, and has papers read to
it—often by ladies. This sort of thing re-
quires great devotion during a Melbourne
winter. While your mind is being improved
your feet are slowly freezing. If ever I
start a literary club in Melbourne I’ll com-
pile a library of rugs and footwarmers before
I begin on the books.
If the leading woman had not been of a
gentle and retiringdisposition there might have
been a row at a recent “last night.” The
star’s missus was a member of the co., play-
ing quite a minor part, and when the stage
was loaded with vegetation and the audience
was howling “Speech !” she toddled up and
inserted herself between hubby and his lead-
ing lady, whose place, according to theatrical
etiquette, is alongside the star. However,
wifie evidently reckoned that, however un-
important her lines in the play, her marriage
lines gave her a title to the lioness’s share
ot the limelight, and she placed her hand
upon hubby’s shoulder so that there might
bo no mistake about their relationship, what
time, I am told, an infuriated stage-manager
recited a chapter from the Koran from the
prompt wing.
John Turner, for many years the guardian
of the d.c. door at Her Majesty’s, had the
most diplomatic manner of breaking it gently
to women that they must not wear their
hats in the circle. Theatregoers felt great
concern when the doctors gave Turner one
week to live. That was nearly two months
ago, and the sick man is picking up health
every day.
On the last day of his seven years as
Asmstant-Adjutant-General for Victoria.
Gol. J. C. Hawker sent a weeping woman
away from his office. The tyrant had
declined to give an order for the issue of
a miniature uniform to her six-year-old son.
teuch is a military autocracy !
By a slip 0 f the linotype a Geelong paper
tiie other day described a lady’s injudicious
courtier as “the co-despondent.” There is
many a true word printed in haste.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


5S
N? 5
V
WO'
s^v
vx
522
z
«■*
m
m
m
X'Z
PI
5?<S
%\S
S$
<
I
3
%
s
*
K
4
1
§
£
>
m
w
I
ZN
C>
1
I
i
8
£
><s
§
fc
snzs
I
i
s
Li
&g
I
s$
*<3
I
Ss
/a
mk
as
/
/X
*S
ZN
SCS
S 3
$5
>^s
5^
Z
SZ
m
y
f>
mmm
<*
%
55N:
XX
>v
a
uT
&
m
m
&
%
v
%
2
v>.
■
n
m
«4^
fe
x
Y
z s
l
% V
X
/.
\i
?!
/
\
<SL
O


A RELIABLE HOME-MADE REMEDY
FOR COLDS, BRONCHITIS, etc.
Tlie treatment of Asthma, Bronchitis, Colds, Influenza and Sore Throats calls for
something that will destroy disease germs from the throat and bronchial tubes,
soothe and heal inflamed mucous membrane, loosen phlegm, and tone up the general
system. For this purpose money cannot buy a better medicine than that a pint
of which anyone may prepare in their own homes in a few moments by adding
HEENZO (registered name for Hean’s Essence) to warm water and sweetening as
per easy directions supplied with each bottle. As HEENZO costs only 25., and a
pint of ready-made cough mixture would cost at least 12s„ it will be seen that a
big money saving is to be effected by making your own HEENZO cough mixture.
HEENZO is stocked by chemists and stores.
A BOON TO GROWING GIRLS.
Girls from their teens onwards are very apt to become anaemic and nervy.
These conditions, if not properly attended to, seriously affect them in after years.
It is, therefore, essential that girls should have their blood kept rich and pure
and their nervous systems well nourished. A reliable means to this end' is provided
in HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS, which are aptly termed “a boon to growing
girls.” Nerve Nuts are sold by all leading chemists and stores, price 3s. per box
containing 12 days’ supply, or six boxes for 17s. 3d.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
o
ABSOLUTEtVIT
King
> WHISKY
»»
The TOP-NOTCH Scotch
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“Steve Hart”: The rabbit-pack of dogs
and dog-man are now a permanent institution on the
runs out back. And the breed! Shades of Gelert!
Black, white and brindle; a mixture of foxy, pointer,
whippet, greyhound and pure mongrel; mostly
mangy, worm-infested and half-starved (they get
only one feed at night, otherwise they won’t hunt).
It’s a remarkable sight, 20 or 30 of them spread
over the landscape yelping like all the devils in Hell
let loose. The bully of the pack is trained to retrieve
and takes the victim from the others. Sometimes the
dogman tied up the brutes and goes on the drink for
a. week or so. When he lets ..them go the verdict
mostly is “serve him ' right.” There are no strav
dogs in bush towns now. Even Binghi has sold his
lot. Any dog will bring 10s. ; anything with a grey-
hound in the family up to £2.
* * * •
“Muragb” : “Kabbionba,” supporting “Jim-
mie Pannikin’s” plea for the cultivation of native
plants and trees, mentions a scarlet-flowering correa,
but a leading nurseryman to whom I applied cannot
identify the vegetable from the description. Is it
known by any other names or habits? I have a
frontage of 600 ft. on a railway line, along which I
want to plant a hedge of this seemingly attractive
native.
“Te Whare”: There’s an abo. legend
about the birth of the Dromedary Mountain, on the
N. S. Wales South Coast. The great grandfather of
the black who told me the yarn had camped one
night beside a creek flowing through a flat. The old
buck had chewed his ’possum, and made things com-
fortable for the night, when a red light appeared in
the sky, accompanied by a rumbling as of distant
thunder. Then, about the hour when the stars begin
to pale, there was a violent earth tremor and com-
motion. The abo.’s gunyah, his crockery, glassware,
pots and pans and wives were shaken into a heap
and he himself was deposited among the embers of
the camp fire. At dawn the creek was still running,
but above it towered a hill fresh risen from the earth.
“Lachlander” : Among the tall timber
nearly every horse is decorated with a red rag hung
amid his chin whiskers to stall off bot-flies, but it is
about as effective as a bishop’s scalp-lock would be.
There are other bot-flies in Australia not nearly so
well known. The kangaroo has one, and in this case
the grub lodges in the throat. This particular hot
was first discovered by Broughton, of Morama station,
out Walgett (N.S.W.) way, a couple of years ago,
the full-sized maggots being found in the windpipe
and apparently causing no inconvenience to the host.
Local entomologists are now investigating the habits
of this insect. Another hot found along the camel
pads confines himself exclusively to the evil-smelling,
hump-backed beasts. He is an importation from
Arabia and does no noticeable damfige.
* *• * *
“Melb ’: The finest red-gum in. Fitzroy
Gardens has just been cut down, on the plea that it
was dying, the sign being a wither from the top.
Experts give its age at from 1000 to 1200 years.
The execution may possibly he justified, but there is
far too much eagerness in excising the big native
trees. I mourn a, splendid red-gum in Manuingtree-road,
Hawthorn, and another in Royal Park; and it has
needed a great fight to preserve one red giant at
Ivanhoe, near Heidelberg.
*’* * •
“Half-moon”: While camped on the east
coast of the Gulf recently I saw the home-coming of
some “spell-boys,” as the Binghis holidaying after
six or eight months on the Torres Strait beche-de-mer
boats are called. These Binghi boys arrived at the
home camp well-groomed and with a plentiful supply
of flour and other eatables, tobacco, mirrors and
trinkets. Gargantua was absolutely outclassed by
what followed. The whole camp looked at itself in
the mirrors with a “before taking” air, and then
proceeded to gorge, smoke and corroboree until there
was nothing left 'to eat, drink or burn. A sort of
hibernation period followed, after which Bing and
wife went forth to get tucker in the primeval style.
When spell-boys return to Thirsty Island to join up,
their garments demand immediate replacing. Other-
wise one daren't insult the august person of a Gov-
ernment officer with their smellful presence!.
HIS MISTAKE.
THE TAR (finishing narrative): “An’ I pulled
me knife from me pocket an’ killed the
shark.”
THE KNUT (butting in): “But you said you,
were stripped.”
THE TAR ( decisively): “Wot you want,
young feller me lad, ain’t a yarn, but a,
-argument.”
“Elong”: “Jimmie Pannikin’s” efforts to
protect our native flora were recently recognised by the
N.S.'VV. Department of Lands. In the early part of
1917, whilst inspecting in the Newcastle district, he
was impressed with the wonderfully prolific growth of
Christmas-bells and flannel-flowers on Crown land
south of Catherine Hill Bay in the Gosford district.
Thousands, of bundles of these beautiful blooms were
removed during the summer months by flower-sellers
and others from Newcastle and Sydney, and 'on his
reproachful representations the Minister for Lands
reserved two areas aggregating 1300 acres for the
preservation and growth of native flora. The Depart-
ment has named the larger reserve Fraser Park.
NOT TO BE CAUGHT.
BOSS: Hes, I. can give you some work to do, jacky; but I hope I won’t come around and
catch you asleep.”
JACKY: “Mine don’t thinkit, Boss. I bin what they callit a light .sleeper.”
“Melos”: An unerring indication of water
within striking distance below is a mistletoe cling-
ing to a tree —any tree. But do any of you want
water ?
* * * *
“Te Babarantiko”: In tbe Sydney
Museum is a card which gives Fiji as a
habitat of the crocodile, but I throw
doubt on the accuracy of the assertion.
I have seen most of the lowest-lying por-
tions of the island—ideal crocodile coun-
try—and I have questioned men, includ-
ing native-born whites, who for the greater
part of their lives have lived in these
localities, and they, like me, have never
seen a croc, or heard of Fiji as a croc,
country. Nearest to verification of the
claim is a fable about a “spirit” which
occupied a pool on Rotumah. After some
children had disappeared the natives set
to and caught the spirit in a net, and,
according to their description, it ought to
have been a crocodile. How it could have
got to Rotumah nobody knows, unless it
cut adrift, and swam from Santa Cruz or
the Solomons. I have met crocodiles, alli-
gators and caimans in their various home-
lands and know something about their
vocal powers. Once when having revolver
practice with some of the family who were
basking on the banks of the upper Fry-
River, Malaya, they roared something like
a bull as they were hit and slid into the
water. But that Was the only occasion I
ever heard them make a cry.
* * * •#-
“W.R.”: The ancient gin was chuckling
over reminiscences of Greenvale station, Charters
Towers (Q.), particularly of a murri who came in
from the bush in search of tobacco. The boss gave
him a very small piece, because “tobacco too much
money now, Billie.’’ Strolling round, the wild
fellow came across the sawmill, and, watching the
smoke rise from the stack, he found an answer
to the riddle of the “little mob ’baeco.” “My word,
no wonder boss can no gib it big mob ’baeco when
that phella sit down and smoke all day.”
* * * *
“Wart”: They are born tough in the Tas-
manian bush. Thelma Shaw, a kiddie not quite three,
wandered off at Mole Creek a couple of weeks ago
and was not found for three days. She was very
little the worse, and pointed out the hollow log where
she had slept. A few days later she was missed
again—and was found making for the tall timber.
But this time she was carrying a tomahawk to blaze
a track.
“Mrs. Lance Rawson”: What price this
for a swift passage? There used to be sulphuric-
acid works at Stockton, just opposite Newcastle
(N.S.W.). In those days (1859) the voyage across
harbor was generally made by small boat. One day
an absconding criminal landed from a boat just under
the acid works. The police were behind, but he had
a fair start, and he rushed along the shore. Seeing a
ladder against the shed wall lie ran up it and drop-
ped on the other side—into a huge pan of acid!
Half an hour later his disintegrated remains, con-
sisting mainly of a pair of boots, were scooped out
with a ladle.
BIBLE HISTORY.
FROWSY PRIMOS : “ ’Eard the other day of a
army medical, who took out a part of
a, corporal’s rib and, fixed, it up for a
jawbonc."
SECUNDUS; “Git fell outer this! That’s as
old as Adam."
"Assistant Billjim”: Is there a chance of
keeping a kookaburra alive in any foreign country?
I’ll be coquetting with the sharks at the end of this
month, and I want to take ruy old favorite away
with me if I safely can. If Jack iis to get crook, will
somebody tell me what his complaint is likely to be
and how to cure it?
(Continued on page 24. )
THE COOK’S MATE EXPLAINS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas seven bells in the midnight watch
On the good ship Jolly Knave;
We was steaming tight through the inky night,
And never another craft in sight,
When the look-out seen a sudden light
Pop up on a swirlin’ wave;
“Call the ’Eads,’’ roars he to the cook and jne,
“Or it’s us for a cold, wet grave.” ®
The skipper he crawls to the scupper rail
With his nightshirt blowing free.
Says he: “By the shade of a martyred Chow,
There’s a submarine on our starboard bow,
And I’d better look out and sink the cow,
Or the blighter he’ll sink me.
Train the four-inch gun on the rosy Hun,
And we’ll damn soon see,” says he.
Now me and the cook was married men
With wives of our own in port;
And we knew full well if there come a shell
It was six to one we’d be blown to Hell,
And never a live soul left to tell
How brave we had held the fort.
Says the cook to me: “By Judas tree,
But we’re up the stick, old sport.”
The skipper had gone to find his pants
While the gun was gettin’ lav’d ;
And I says to the cook: “See here, old chook,
In a manner of speaking, the whole thing’s crook,
And reads like a page from a story-book ;
Vet I guess we ain’t afraid?”
Says he, with a cuss: “It’s to blokes like us
That the Old Dart looks for aid.”
He hadn’t no more than said his say
When the skipper he comes on deck;
He cocks one eye at the inky sky,
And the other he trains on the light close by.
And he says, says he: “I can’t deny
There’s the chance of a lovely wreck;
But 111 bet my boots, when the old gun shoots,
Hans gets it in the neck.”
Now the cook and me was married men,
And his missus and mine were mates;
We had no gold, and we’d both been sold—
With a matter of fifteen kids, all told—
But our hearts was young, though our skins was
old,
And we didn’t like our fates.
“How surprised they’ll be,” says the cook to me,
“When we knock at the Golden Gates!”
The skipper he touches the old gun off
With a noise like a falling tank;
He biffs the night with a slab of white
That travels on like a flaming kite
Till it fetches up on the floating light
- That was guarding the channel bank.
And, '• ’Struth!” says he. “That’s one on me.”
And his langwidge was something rank.
Next day we was met by a long, thin bloke
With a note from the Harbor Trust;
And it ain’t no kid what the skipper did,
For they stung us a matter of fifty quid,
And we’re all in the hands of a greasy Yid
Who’s raising an awful dust.
So the cook and me, being spliced, d’ye see,
Have went on a desprit bust.
VICTORIA.
BERNARD CRONIN.


«
o
■ Id
.gQ
CO
I
H
co
w
RR72. LIGHT ZEPHYR SHIRTS, white
neckbands, soft double cuffs, white grounds, with
black and blue stripes. PRICE 5/6, 3 for 16/-
RR72a.. OXFORD CLOTH LOUNGE SHIRTS,
white neckbands, soft double cuffs, white grounds,
with neat stripe effect. Price 8/6, 8 for 24/9
RR77 (beIow).—WHITE STIFF-FRONTED
DRESS SHIRTS, open in front or back, one
stud hole. PRICE 7/6, 3 for 21/9
Better quality. PRICE ... 9/6, 3 for 27/9
RR 78. WHI T E PLEATE D
SOFT-FRONTED D RE S S
SHIRTS.
PRICE 7/C, 3 for 21/9
Better qualities—•
PRICE 9/6, 3 for 27/9
PRICE 11/6, 3 for 33/.
HR73. CEYLON FLANNEL PYJAMAS, special quality Ceylon medium
weight, neat designs, in stripes or colored grounds, Bradford collars and
pearl buttons.
36 to 42 inches. PRICE 12/6, 3 for 36/-
44 to 46 inches. PRICE 13/6, 3 for 39/-
RR74. HEAVY SILK AND COTTON PYJAMAS, made in our own
workrooms, best make and finish, white grounds, colored stripes, 36 to
42 inches. PRICE 27/6, 3 for 79/6
RR7S. WOOL AND COTTON TWILL PYJAMAS, similar weight to
Viyella, very soft finish and will not shrink, light and white grounds,
with various colored stripes, Bradford collars and pearl buttons, 36 to 42
inches. PRICE 27/6, 3 for 79/6
WE PAY THE CARRIAGE ON THESE GOODS.
A
at
RR76. CRIMEAN DAY SHIRTS, -good weight
of material, well made, very warm for told
weather, medium grounds, with various colored
stripes. All sizes. PRICE.. 12/6, 8 for 36/-
RR76a. —CEYLON DAY SHIRTS, good weight
for Winter wear, newest colorings, with heat
stripes, all sizes, PRICE .. 11/6, 8 for 33/-
RR7I) (beIow).—WHITE SHORT-FRONTED
SHIRTS, opening in front or back.
PRICE 7/6, 3 for 21/9
Better quality. PRICE ... 9/6, 8 for 27/9
RRBO. WHITE LONGCLOTII
SOFT-FRONTED SHIRTS, stiff
cuff's and neckbands. All sizes.
PRICE 7/6, 3 for 21/9
hdf
SATISFACTION
Obtained by installing tbe
Improved Belt-driven Shearing Machine.
Shearers everywhere speak in the highest terms of this Cooper product, and the demand for
this gear convincingly proves the success that has been attained.
Satisfactory service is one of the characteristics that always distinguishes the Cooper.
W. McKenzie, Bundabulla, Brewarrina, writes : 11 We have just finished our shearing after
a period of five weeks and three days' work, and the Cooper machines ran to the complete
satisfaction of myself and the shearers."
S. S. Weeks, Bourke Street, Goulburn : “After thirteen years' experience with every make of
machine 1 can safely say that the Cooper is, without doubt, the best machine I have
ever handled
T. Ellis, The Mole Station, Warren: “The plant of Cooper machines has just finished
five weeks’ shearing, and the machines went without a stop. Not one repair was required."
Leading Contractors and Wool-
Coopers are the most practicable
growers throughout the world all agree that the
and economical machines procurable.
n
The Handpiece
fitted with the
Cooper B e 11-
driven Machine is
The Famous COOPER Air-cooled Handpiece
which holds a record for efficiency and low cost of upkeep never before
approached. It will shear with ease the heaviest, dirtiest wool where
other handpieces fail.
Wool growers, Contractors and Shearers are unanimous in their praise of the Cooper Handpieces.
Write to-day for Catalogue and Particulars to
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
...
AV/>
134 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
480 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-B COLONS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS* FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Keep with your clients as much as you can,
That’s, the wise plan for a business man;
Absence through illness for orders is bad,
Patrons soon drift when you’re missing, my lad.
If in the winter with cold you take ill,
Bra.ce up your spirits and peg along still ;
At the first symptoms resolve to endure,
Trusting to Wood’s Great Peppermint Cure.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER'S LAGER
THE DILATORY LAW.
J. HOP: “Now, then, up you get an ’ come along with me.”
V. DEUNK: “’S’orright! Been waitin' for yer—thought you were never cornin’.”
“Ida D.”: The “lousy starling ” which in-
fests the spouting and eaves of houses, is frequently
blamed for causing human beings a peculiar sore
throat, which usually manifests itself in the early
morning, if it isn’t an old woman’s yarn, it is also
unhealthy to have a cage of canaries near a bedroom
window.
* * * •
“A. Field”: Can assure “Chloe,” who
doubts Mick Anick’s” assertion rc bi-sexual paw-
paw, that young trees brought by me from Kamerunga
Nursery, Cairns (N.Q.), of the New Era variety,
have almost without exception been bi-sexual, each
bearing male and female flowers. I couldn’t be mis-
taken, because I’ve had as long an experience of cul-
tivating paw-paws as Dad Waybaek has had of
growing whiskers.
* * * *
“FY7”: You can advise “Scrub” (B.
23/5/'18), who told us of the strange bird shot by
some ignorant ass on the N.S.W. Northern Rivers,
that it was not a jabiru, a native of South Africa,
but a representative of the stork family found in
this continent and Papua, and nowhere else. It is
one of Australia’s noblest birds. Solitary by nature
and an inhabitant of swamps, it is not so widely
known as the wandering brolga, though at nesting
time it may often be found in the latter’s company.
* * * *
“Terry Hy Hie”: Up near Inverell
(N.S.W.) men who encourage bees to work for them
are making a hubbub over the mortality among their
herds. Whole colonies are dying out, and this is
attributed to the tree-poisoning carried out by the
Government on a returned-soldiers’ settlement area.
Arsenic and soda are used on the timber, and an
expert has been detailed to make inquiries as to
the mixture’s share in the holocaust.
“N. or M.”: Information wanted concern-
ing the tailed spider, a small grey beast that has
apparently escaped the entomological Debrett. Seen
at a little distance it is like a small (about iin.)
garden-spider with short legs, but closer examina-
tion shows it to be more the shape of a scorpion.
The tail is sometimes lowered, sometimes curled over
the back, which is decorated with a little circular
design in black and white. I have found the freak
in only two localities, both on the eastern side of
the Derwent (Tus.), and it has appeared there only
lately. All the same, I do not think that it is an
importation. It constructs an entanglement with
threads running at all angles instead of the flat,
symmetrical garden web.
* * * *
“Bung”: Some time back an unknown
water-fowl, slaty-grey, with a long, reddish, ruffled
neck, appeared on Corunna Lake, South Coast
(N.S.W.). He chummed up with a colony of diminu-
tive divers, and, like them, never made use of his
wings, but depended upon long-distance diving for
his safety. When, at last, the usual gun-fiend got
him he was sent to the Curator of the Sydney
Museum for identification, and Was catalogued as a
Canadian grebe, totally unknown in Australian
waters.
THE PERSONAL APPLICATION.
ARTIST: “Little girl, do you think you could persuade your little brother to come and pose
for me at my studio if I gave you half a crown?”
LITTIE GIRL: “Wha-what for?”
ARTIST: “Why, I want to paint him.”
LITTLE GIRL: “ W-will it come off?”
“Yannatberra” : In April, 1917, I protested
in The Bulletin against the deportation of the settle-
ment of fine, healthy blacks from Palm Islands (Q.)
to a further-north mainland mission-station where
they had come in contact with the curses of booze,
tobacco and disease. I’m now happy to report that
the recent cyclone put an end to the experiment by
wrecking the settlement. The Protector of Abos.,
after viewing many other mainland sites, decided
that it was back to the Big Palm for the whole
crowd, including the smallest dog. The bucks are
there now, making ready the humpies. Pigs, goats,
wallabies and fish are plentiful at this camp, and the
flats will grow anything. The chagrin of the
numerous mainland Chows and occasional degenerate
white at the loss of the gins is magnificent.
» /* * #
“Dale” : It takes a lot to get the bush-kid
rattled. The other evening our young miss, all of
eight years, had been sent to bring a tinful of chaff
from the shed. She returned looking a little white,
without the chaff, rto announce that there was a
snake in the bag. When I got to his address with
a waddy I saw his movements under the folds of the
sacking, and bashed him into permanent Quietude ;
but before I could remove the corpse I had to untie
the twine with which Sis. had fastened the mouth of
the sack.
* * * *
“Stanley” : Crow-poisoning is dead easy.
One dry spring, when the devils were causing trouble
amongst the lambing ewes, I cut off in their prime
well over a hundred with strychnine and S.A.P. I
merely chopped the fat into small strips, rolled the
poison up in them and scattered them round a
freshly-skinned jumbuck. Crows that would never
croak again were found all over the paddocks for
miles around. Many of the baits had been carried
to the nests, for dead chicks were in plenty at the
foot of trees.
* * * *
“Smokehouse” : Besides helping to eke
out the tobacco supply and serving as a medical
dressing, cowdung has sundry other uses. Fresh and
mixed with water it makes an excellent wash for
earth or cement walls and floors, acting as a dis-
infectant and drying hard and clean. It is in
common use in this way in S'Africa, where it is used
by whites and blacks alike. The finest and fastest
tennis-court l ever played on was in Natal. It was made
of crushed antheap, ixj was sluiced over every morn-
ing with a strong solution of liquid cow T -manure and
swept when dry. It had a surface like a billiard-
table.
“Ibis” : A quaint cavalcade passes my
place daily trekking schoolwards. In the lead is a
high grey horse (it looks as tall as an elephant)
bestridden by three children. Big brother, fully
seven or eight, has the reins, one tiny sister clasps
his waist, and another clings to hers. Then comes
a second big grey (light draught variety they are)
with two small girls atop, followed by a still larger
moke of same color with a tiny maid of five perching
like thistledown on his roomy back. All three beasts
of burden are models of equine steadiness; nothing
short of a whiz-bang could hasten their decorous gait.
Is greyish-white a sign of mokish sobriety? Another
grey giant used to draw a lorry bearing a family
of six to school. The harness consisted of rope.
When arguments led to blows on deck (generally
concerning the opening of gates) Dobbin just stood
till they had it out. Then when the reins had
been collected from amongst his feet he started off
again. The general effect was most extraordinary.
The children were Norwegians, as like each other as
peas in a pod, except for size. They had white hair,
surmounting faces burnt red-bronze by our back-
country sun, and seated on the low-built lorry drawn
by a horse always high, but looking gigantic by
comparison, they presented a sight to make a music-
hall audience rock with joy.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: “Barcoo’s” champion frog
(B. 23/5/’18) is but a pup compared with the big
fellows that roam the forests of N.E. Papua. These
run 14 inches in length, with a lower chest that
would make a Christmas pudding look like a soap-
bubble by comparison. They carry quite a lot of
flesh, too, and are very popular with the natives as
an addition to taro and pig (long and short). Her-
man Paul, the veteran German digger whom most old
Yodda hands will remember, was the only white man
I ever met who cared for them. He one day served
up, at the end of a square feed, to a warden new to
the country a baked stuffed frog, looking much like
a human infant might be expected to look after an
hour in the camp-oven. When the anguished visitor
came inside again the host said, “Vot der hell did
you go for to do dot? You haf been enjoy him in der
ragout alretty!”
THE FULL LAGOON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the coming of the moon
Came the late monsoonal rain,
And it filled the low lagoon,
Pouring in by night and noon
Till the waters swelled and grew
Frorq a thin and shallow lane
To a highway, brave and blue.
Every strange, unlovely shape,
By the waters covered o’er—
Noisome flat and jagged cape,
Wilting weed and shell agape—
Leaving neither sign nor trace,
Shocked the eyes of man no more,
Beauty dwelling in their place.
To this scene made beautiful,
Strong of wing and swift of flight,
When the rains began to lull,
Came the gannet and the gull,
Came the swallow and, anon,
Trailing down at fall of night,
Came the black, majestic swan.
Peewits flutter down the skies,
Filling all the air around
With their strange, metallic cries,
While the crane, sedate and wise,
Blue against the green and grey
Of the farther shore, tree-crowned,
Fished and feasted through the day.
When no vagrant wind a-wing
Came to stir the peaceful flood,
There the oak found mirroring,
Like a vain and beauteous thing,
For its maze of filmy hair,
While the ti-trees seemed to brood
In the still and silent air.
Then to satisfy sweet needs,
Making beauty all-complete,
Came the warbler to the reeds,
And the honey-bird that feeds
On the red grevillea bush, '
Trilling ever, low and sweet,
And the magpie and the thrush.
In the quiet evening hour,
When the lengthening shadows crept
And the sun had lost his power,
While from breathing tree and flower
Perfumes stole on every side,
Now and then a mullet leapt,
Making circles in the tide.
If you saw this still lagoon
As I saw it yesternight,
When it lay as in a swoon
’Neath a late and lustrous moon,
To your eyes ’twould surely seem
Not of earth—no earthly sight—
But a vision born of dream.
N.B.W.
RODERIO QUINN.


NO extravagance can pos-
sibly secure for smokers
better or purer cigarettes than
vState Express. Made from the
finest tobacco possible to
obtain by the cleverest
Tobacco Experts in the World
they are universally recog-
nised as the perfection of
cigarette quality.
a
/
V X*’
• urn.."*'
SIQTEQiPRp&
CIGARETTES
were first introduced to supply dis-
criminating' smokers throughout the
world with cig'arettes manufactured
from pure tobacco leaf ONLY, and
to-day iState Express are recogniised
by connoisseurs as the standard of
all that is possible of attainment in
cigarette production.
No. 333
6d.
Per
Packet.
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Obtainable of all Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers
Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd., London, England.
I ..m their qualities.
£^s
Jffst'SS
13*


Some Beautiful Members of the Rexona Club
m
m
m
m
m
V\VW<XNxVvnxVSXVvWWVS WAN v\
Reading from left to right these Rexona girls are: Misses Hope Hunter. Ivy Burnham, Dorothy Brunton, Cecil Bradley, Gwen Burroughs, Grace Lavers,
Vera Spaull, Beryl Ferguson, Mabel Batchelor, Mattie Ive,
Gives Natural Beauty to Skin and Hair
That natural beauty of skin and hair which cannot be imitated can be obtained by regular use of Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. Ordinary Toilet
Soaps do not assert this influence. Many of them contain free alkali, w hich tends to dry the skin and destroy its delicate texture. Even the best
of such soaps can only cleanse; they cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona Soap contains the same soothing, healing, antiseptic balsams as
Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections is known throughout the world. Simply use Rexona Skin and
Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not quickly so othe and cleanse the pores, lessen the tendency to pimples, and leave the
complexion clear, fresh and velvety.
/a
m i
ii||p
lilil
»i
vST
■ ■
mm
■
51 1
•£:£:$:
,i$5&£
The Rexona Club of \Rexona Girls is now many thousands strong. All Rexona girls are beautiful girls, for Rexona and Beauty go together. Reading from
left to right these Rexona Girls are: Madge Elliott, Daisy Reveite, Jean Robertson, Dorothy Gardiner, Daisy Jerome, Jhelhe Kolle. Ethel Dane, Ivy Shilling.
REXONA SOAP for Health and Beauty.
Why not be a Rexona Girl, too? Rexona anil Rexona Soap ensure that clear,
fresh skin and beautiful hair which go so far to give any girl that natural charm
and beauty which is her rightful heritage.
To shampoo or wash the hair with Rexona Soap is an easy task, but the r^ BU J* s
are startling. It leaves the hair in such a beautiful condition, the scalp perfectly
clean and wholesome. The hair becomes light and fluffy, waving about the face in
abundance, as beautiful hair should always appear. Rexona Soap leaves a delicate
perfume, invigorating the roots of the hair, which prevents greyness. A few shampoos
with Rexona Soap effectively removes every trace of dandruff or loose and falling hair.
Radies who use it for the hair say that Rexona Soap is far better than any of the
so-called hair tonics.
TRY THE REXONA TREATMENT.
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who values a
pure and healthy skin. The longer you neglect your skin the harder it will be to care
for it. Delay may result in Eczema, Ringworm, Running Sores, or some of the
many and unpleasant forms that skin trouble so often assumes. Rexona the Rapid
Healer and Rexona Soap are sure preservatives for the health and skin. Rexona
Soap keeps the skin soft and pure, and Rexona the Rapid Healer will immediately
eradicate any disease which may be apparent, for it arouses the skin to healthy
activity, so that it quickly recuperates.
Buy a tablet of Rexona Soap from your Chemist or Storekeeper. It is beautifully
put up and sold at 1/- per tablet, or you can get it in boxes, containing three tablets
in a box. Rexona is supplied only in triangular pots, at 1/6, or in larger pots, holding
nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Askari”: Recently a parcel reached me
from Australia. It contained the following
articles: —
Toothpaste and chewing,gum (made in America).
Toothbrush (made in Japan).
Writing-pad (made in England).
Chocolate (made in Switzerland).
Preserved ginger (made in China).
Nuts (presumably Brazil).
Socks (wool spun in Europe).
Not one article of purely Australian origin!
Why? If the good people who send these
parcels only knew how we long for good old
A ussy stuff it would make them more
thoughtful. This is not an isolated case.
Quite 60 per cent, of parcels from Australia
are full of imports.
“F.N.T.”: An optimistic party named
Turner, one of Port Melbourne’s city
whiskers, has evolved a scheme to guarantee
the economic future of a company of married
returned-soldiers. Turner’s plan is that 30
allotments should be provided by his munici-
pality, free of charge and with certain im-
provements, to run a total of 15,000 fowls.
The allotments are to be at Fishermen’s
Bend, a wilderness of weeds and sand for
which no use has yet been found by the
Port: and each block is to offer a home to
500 laying hens, one returned soldier, his
wife and family. A section of 50 houses at
Port Melbourne, a mile of two across the
sand, is to be assigned to each family, and
all the spare table-scraps from each section,
given free, are to be used as fowl-feed.
Turner confidently declares that none of the
new poultry-farmers should make less than
£5 per week from eggs and dressed poultry.
It is a gilt-edged scheme on paper; but its
engineer has overlooked a few important
details: (1) that the ordinary “table-
scrapper” gets pig-fat, and therefore can't
lay enough eggs to be worth while; (2) that
whole wheat, which isn’t produced at Port
Melbourne, is an essential and highly-expen-
sive part of the egg-layer’s daily diet; and
(3) that the proved layer can’t be bought
in the open market in cheap lots of 500 at
a time. The originator of the plan might
prevail on his fellow-councillors to start
one (1) returned-soldier in the business and
get him to report progress in, say, five
years’ time. This would save 29 other sol-
diers and their wives a whole lot of time and
curses.
“F.”: One of Australia’s brainy motor-
engineers is busy on an invention for get-
ting 100 miles of road-travel from 2d. worth
of fuel. The experiment is being made with
a Ford motor-waggon, and the only difficulty
is to get the ’bus to start up promptly after
stops. It is run with producer-gas, and the
variations there are causing the trouble; but
Australian genius will overcome that. Then
the invention will, of course, have to be sold
to the foreigner so that we can import it at
greatly increased expense.
* * * *
Three among Adelaide’s best-known hotels
have had to stand a challenge before the
Licensing Court on the ground that they are
unnecessary; the Napoleon, close to the
Stock Exchange ; the Norfolk Arms ; and The
Exchange in Hindley-street, owned by the
Ware family for over half a century and a
meeting-place for all kinds of societies. The
Exchange is far from being up-to-date, but
counsel argued that this gives it picturesque-
ness and historic value. All three got their
licenses.
Anyone in need of a good money-making
means of livelihood should study the evidence
given recently before the Victorian Royal
Commission on the Fish Industry:—
Demetrius Mylonas, London Fisheries Co., said
that during the past fortnight he had paid no less
than 3d. per lb. and no more than 4d. for Murray,
cod, and had sold it for Is, per lb.
Stratos Streit, Ocean Fresh Fish Supply Co., said
that Victorian Murray cod was always sold privately
in the market. The rent of his shop, including rates
and taxes, was about £3O per week. The profits
were over £3OO per year to each of three investors
of £9OO each. This amount was in addition to
wages drawn by the • investors, who wpre working-
partners.
An ordinary man might call it profiteering
or something to that effect, but no Dago
would be so hasty. These are hard times and
a man must live.
#. * *• *
“F.E.H.” : Donald A. Swanson, of the big
building fn-m, has offered the most practical
scheme so far suggested for relieving the
congestion of Greater Melbourne, which is
particularly severe in Flinders-street, where
expansion is blocked by the river. His
scheme includes the straightening of the
Yarra from Princes Bridge to Spencer-street,
with a new bridge at the foot of the latter,
and two new wide roads from Swanston-
street to Clarendon-street (South Melb.).
The old Queen’s Bridge, with its heavy gradi-
ent, would be scrapped and the wharves for
the Geelong and Tasmanian steamers moved
nearer the inter-State wharves. This is the
only scheme yet submitted allowing for that
expansion of the railway system which is a
pressing necessity. But Melbourne would do
well to wait awhile and hang on to its 15s.
(The suggested improvements will cost at
least 155.)
“Purnona”: Adelaide Advertiser, remark-
ing on the progress that a certain river settle-
ment is making, states “it will soon leave
Renmark (a place of 30 years’ standing)
behind.” Following this a Berri man shot in
a letter that went off like a rocket: —
Berri district will in time produce a lot more stuff
than the slow-going, conceited, jumped-up, bank-
indebted, English-Johnnie-like apes of Renmark settle-
ment are capable of dreaming of.
He seems to have been suffering from a
severe form of Berri-Berri.
* * * *
“Pall Mall”: A Bendigo butcher, who is
also a shire councillor, has harrowed the soul
of the local fish-traders by getting supplies
of Murray cod and salt-water fish outside of
the ring and selling at about half the regu-
lation price. This scandalous attack on their
preserves has compelled the old fish mono-
polists to take the offensive. The interloper
brought down the price of Murray cod from
Is. to Gd. per lb.; the allied fish-vendors now
announced a great bargain sale at 4d. a lb.
At the moment, however, Bendigo is rally-
ing to the defence of. the butcher’s side-line,
and the enemy’s endeavors are directed to
cutting his communications.
*- * * *
“Quarter Single” : A man of principle, w r lio
took the oath in the Jewish fashion, proved
himself a sticker in the Carlton (Vie.) Court.
His name was T. Danziger, and he sued J. C.
Bourke, a local bung, for “a debt amounting
to threepence.” He got it —and 3s. Gd. costs
therewith. There was no appearance for the
defendant. Danziger removed any. imputa-
tions that might have arisen from his manner
of taking the oath by assuring the beaks that
he was not insisting on his pound of flesh.
He had gone into the pub for change of a
£1 note, which he got in consideration of
paying 3d. for refreshment. Danziger paid
the 3d., and said lie would call again for the
drink. When he did so the drink was refused
and the 3d. was not refunded. After the
proceedings were instituted, the licensee paid
the amount claimed. Where do these Chris-
tians get all the money that the Jews get
from them?
* Vr *
“V. 8,: Re a shipload 6f firewood im-
ported from America. The facts are that the
vessel curried oil and, necessarily, dunnage,
which amounted to about 150,000 ft. of pine,
mostly in 18in. lengths. This was sold for
a song, we’ll say, as the ship had to get rid
of it. As freights from the Pacific Coast
are about £8 per 1000 ft., I’d admire to see
firewood merchants monopolise shipping
space to bring kindling here. It would cost
about: half a dollar to boil the billy for
breakfast.
“D.F.”: All that “Iron Pot” (B. 6/G/’lBl
says in praise of Huon pine is right enough,
but his suggestion that it should be made
the central feature of afforestation in Tas-
mania will appeal only to the long-sighted.
This pine is a vegetable of very slow
growth, and Leonard Rodway, Government
Botanist (honorary) of the Speck, who
knows as much about Tasmanian trees —and
is as keen on looking after them —as any
man, reckons in centuries the time needed
for one of the tribe to grow into commercial
values. Hardly any tree in Australia,
unless it be the kindred King William pine
and the Oyster Bay pine, is restricted to
such a limited area. It grows nowhere but in
the valley of the Huon River and in the
basins of the Gordon, the King and a few
other streams on the western side of Tas-
mania. It is now practically a thing of the
past in the Huon country and in the West
it has been cut out on all accessible situa-
tions. It does not follow', of course, that it
would not grow in other places if it were
put there. The California redwood, one of
its distant cousins, is confined to a very small
area in its native country, but the Federal
Government proposes to spend between £4OO
and £5OO this year in trying it in the Can-
berra area. Why not give some of our
native trees a flutter?
* * * *
The Haw-liawthorn Tramway Trust, with
an uncomfortable feeling that its beautiful
new line is not standing the strain as well
as it should, has-taken Maorilander Struan
Robertson from his job with the Brunswick
and Coburg Trust and made him engineer
and manager. Sections of the line run
through shifty country, so it will be part of
Robertson’s duty to pin the track down and
keep it from sliding off into the neighboring
cow paddocks. His more trying job will be
to cope with the financial position, there
being too much cow paddock and not enough
villa along the outer portion of the route.
* * * *
Mossiface, on the Tambo River (Vic.),
missed its chance of wealth and glory a few
years ago. Somebody in England brought
out, with a flourish of bugles and a pound-
ing of drums, the prospectus of the Mossi-
face Steam Navigation Co. It perished
through some busybody explaining that the
Tamfco only gave room for vessels of about
2ft. draught. How the promoter thought of
Mossiface, or heard of Mossiface, or wanted
to interfere with Mossiface no one seems to
know, but the co. might have spent some
money in the place while finding out its
mistake if it had been left alone.
“Derwent” : The University prof. _ isn’t
always a fool when it comes to business.
John Hilton Mac Kay, who looks after
engineering at the University of Tasmania,
has also managed to keep going, in partner-
ship with a brother, something good in the
sawmilling and farming line near Smithton,
in the extreme north-west of the Speck.
They are the barons of the blackwood timber
business in those parts and on a good wicket
with Romney Marsh sheep. But, then, John
Hilton hasn’t always been a professor:
there was a time when he rustled for a living
at his trade.
BALLADE OF THE ULTIMATE PUP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tun inustering’s over, the drovers away,
But the boys hang about in the shade of the shed
And, marshalling points in a wondrous array,
Each liar is boasting the tykes that he’s bred.
The curs he has bartered, the mugs he has bled,
The “dirt” wiped away and the scores settled up;
But it all comes to this in the end, be it said,
There always is someone who’ll sell you a pup.
Good luck may be gracious, the girls may be gay,
The noddies all winners, the Burgundy red,
The skies blue and winning, with no hint of gray,
The night overflowing and no time for bed ;
Put the vintage delectable hideth a “bead.”
They are Apples of Sodom, the fruits that we sup;
We are sheep tb the shearing’ unwittingly led—
There always is someone to sell us a pup.
The tried and the trusted may lead us astray;
The women we’ve cherished, the friends that we’ve
fed,
As often as not. pop us into the dray,
Or tip us a winner that’s buried and dead.
They hand out a brick when we beg them for bread,
Pile weight on the burden and brim o’er the cup.
So firstly and lastly get this in your head;
There always is someone who’ll sell you a pup.
Envoy.
Then, mates, when it comes to the end of the fray,
Be it dose from a doctor or “crump” from a Krupp,
Take it easy and smiling,• but watch as you pray;
There’ll always be someone who’ll sell you a pup.
N.S.W.
J. B. HIGGINSON.


m
p’PP'P
te i
*ft
s&s
■
■
. .' •
Jln
wmr^
m&g?*
mm
h ■
'■:-•■■ ■ ” tm
M©
w~m
m
m
i
fcWSifiJst,
>X
tm 1
:
L JJ ;j
tfMir /
mzg
;?U§S
±-p-'^M
-« * •
I'SSNS
1
:PpSmm
----- -
MS
— ■ ... i.i
:■>
&
.
l I
I /
- ft
I .
. c .v •
Sooner or later you will come to it—
If _ Australia proposes to build
ships, which are so badly wanted,
then the best methods and facili-
ties must be utilised.
According to authorities this is
the way to hasten construction,
not only because it results in
more effort being put forth in
each calendar day, but because
it is the best way to dilute skilled
labour with unskilled.
'At the wood shipyard of the
United States Steamship Com-
pany the night shift has proved
its case.
“Contrary to expectations,” says the
New York Tribune, “it is found that
certain kinds of work go forward
faster by night than by day. With
the particular field of operations of
each gang bathed in artificial light
and with darkness shrouding the yard
as a whole, the men seem to concern
trate . more steadily and efficiently
than in the daytime.”
There’s a real need for Flood-
lighting. It is the one kind of
lighting that will put speed and
efficiency into night work. It is
the one kind of lighting that
every shipyard, dry-dock and
loading pier in the country needs
for protection.
G-E Floodlight Projectors—built
for hard service quickly in-
stalled —five distinct types —all
necessary sizes. Get the aid of
G-E Floodlighting Specialists—
send for literature —urge imme-
diate adoption.
Floodlighting is equally effective for night-shift work on Railway
.construction and loading of ships, as well as for the illumination
of buildings, which by this method are emphasised in strong relief.
n
ustralian Q
en
o
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, O? of QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS 5T MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.): Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical St Engineering Co.
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock St Co.* Ltd, LauncestonMt
Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ Afternoon Dessert Knives and Forks,
pure Silver-plated, Xylonite or Pearl Handles,
£3/10/-
m
A. Saunders’ Cake 1 Forks, pure Silver-
plated, highly burnished, 15/6.
iiiiiiiiKiiiiiiiiii
A. Saunders’ Jam Spoon and Butter Knife, pure Silver-plated,
hand embossed, 30/*
A Saunders’ Oak Cutlery Canteen, containing * dozen each Table fend
Dessert Knives, 5-piece Meat and Game Carvers, finest Sheffield steel,
'Xylonite handles; * dozen each Table and Dessert Forks, Table, De ssert
and Tea Spoons, A 1 Quality, £l2. /
TIT".™ -r gf-p
' ' ; % I /'
••■/
\ ;■W\
nattu^yt
A. Saunders’ Soup Spoons, pure Silver-plated, All Quality,
hand burnished, Velvet-lined Morocco case, £2/2/*
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Spoons, Butter Knife, Jam
Spoon and Sugar Tonga Combination, pure Silver-plated,
hand embossed, 20/-
•TteAk
ASYDNEY
LONDON
A. Saunders’ Nut Cracka and Picks, hand
engraved, 30/-
«*■ ....
■••mV*-;
A. Saunders’ Fish Servers, pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, hand
engraved. Xylonite handles, in silk-lined case, 17/6,
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street,
A.
Opp. Railway* Station,
SYDNEY.
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Compel
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager- I 1
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravislier of Belgium, win without
lifting a hand?
yeOUAW YOUR health
.Coflis Broils
"orodywe
'rlnal and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and in tile Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 115, 3 /a/-.
Made in England.
I dCHUTE. BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
rtcT.L Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/8,
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made East, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 6/3 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics' Work-
shop Handybook, 1/9. Quadrille C_ll Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pampi-ilet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler's Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow's Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Bod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Motor Mechanics, 2/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/-. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/6. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/9. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 post-ed. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. How to Read Faces and
Heads, 1/6. Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, &c.,
1/9 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
inq, 1/0. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man .from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3 Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. . Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/6.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the -Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. DR.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/9. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wipe, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook. 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, mv price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/9. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/9.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/-.
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/9 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Wizard’s Manual,
1/3. Speeches from the Dock, 2/-. Life’s
Shop Window. 1/9. Three Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
filß RHRFRT BEAR, the big book store, 67 869 Market Street. Sydney <only>.
©m nVBt TO THE COMMONWEALTH.^
■MM.


FOR,
’jQfDMONw
saaniMMoj
TIMS
,s3Mor
giAw
Mem
W>ol ,g Cotton
Underwear
Vests Stjes 36 sa 40
Usually 6/9 7/- 7/3
AU one Sale Price VII
sues
Pants 34 36 38 INS
Usually 6/6 7/ 7/6
All one Sale Price
(sf- e ach.
hd
Men's
ORIENT
pure fur
felt hats
in li£ht
slate
Usually 15/S
Sale price
i
m
SN
MenV
Orient"
Striped
Cambric
Shirts
Usually
36
Sale
Price
4 r 9
Boys'
Orient"*
Tweed
Cotswold
Suits
In brown &
grey mixtures
Siys fa boys
7 to/6years
Usually 45/'
-pL4O-
x m
ft m
t % m
.
m
masm
it
*S
fe'y
;
rl & 0
#n ; - r ' v ?
■
ii-- f /
: :. .
§ H MBs
vn,
ki 4 £*-
ask
5<
I
■
m
M
m
**•
1 jfiifl
m
m
V f-i'i.-v'
m
Hi
:
Men'.s’ "Orient.
TWeed Overcoats
In Grey or Blown. J\.ll sijes
Usually 50Sale puce 5t5^ m
Mens
Orient
Tweed
Sac
Suits
In Grey
mixtures
All
UsublKj
SO'
Sale
Price
45-
/
1 i
SBB
WE PRY CARRIAGE
DHVID JONES
Opp, G.RO.Sydney


WHAT PHYSICIANS PRESCRIBE
FOR NERVES.
THE USE OF ORGANIC PHOS-
PHORUS.
Something over sixty years ago Pelouz, a
French scientist, discovered a form of organic
phosphorus which, when taken into the
human system, was quickly converted into
nerve tissue. Nearly half a century later
Robin, a distinguished French physician,
began a scientific investigation of the use of
this organic phosphorus and its effect upon
the human system, with results that amazed
the scientific and medical world, and to-day
it is an admitted fact that in the treatment
of those ailments directly or indirectly due
to depleted nervous vitality, such as neuras-
thenia, nervous weakness, premature old age.
insomnia, lack of energy, fatigue, nervous
debility, thinness, etc., it is of great value.
To-day physicians and hospitals everywhere
i-ecognise its merits by its use in ever-increas-
ing quantities. It is therefore a matter of
more than ordinary interest to all such suf-
ferers to learn that this organic nerve-build-
ing phosphorus is now obtainable of chemists
everywhere in the form of five-grain tablets
of bitro-phosphate, at a cost so low as to be
within the reach of everyone. One of these
tablets should be taken with each meal, and
the results in practically every case are most
marked. Dull eyes become bright, sleep is
restored to the sleepless, the nerves regain
their strength, thin people put on flesh, and
the whole system becomes charged with that
strength, vitality and energy which makes
life so truly worth while. — Advt.
.1
11.
******
A discriminating public has come to realise that Paramount
and Artcraft pictures have achieved the goal of perfection on account
of their merits.
You will like the foremost stars, the superb direction and clean
treatment of Paramount and Artcraft pictures, and appreciate these
good qualities.
m
ff
a
POLITICAL
POINTS
Somebody suggested the other day that
Sydney Domain should be closed to speakers
and demonstrators. Nothing more insane
could be attempted. The Domain is the
great safety-valve of all the political discon-
tent in the State, and to close that might
Veadily mean an explosion. English states-
men tried the same kind of thing long ago
when they shut the gates of Hyde Park;
but the crowd laid hold on the huge railings
and pulled them down. Had the railings
been too strong, there would have been other
and bigger things pulled down. Nothing is
more dangerous than to compress hot air.
Lately there was mention by a Federal
Minister of a scheme for planting a forest
at the Federal capital city of Canberra. Now
another Federal Minister proposes to settle
returned soldiers on 20,335 acres there,
though he admits that only 680 acres of the
barren lot are first-class land, while 5370
acres aren’t even second-class. Why not
admit that the Canberra capital was a pre-
meditated crime, engineered by people who
didn’t want a place that might compete with
Sydney for importance; and then write it
off as a bad debt and plant Bathurst burrs
and rabbits in the main street?
THE WATCHDOG’S REWARD.
ANGRY PROPERTY-OWNER: “All right! If
yer WILL go outside th’ gate ter bite
burglars, I'll drown yer! Cummere!”
Before leaving Australia Hughes declared
emphatically, in the hearing of several jour-
nalists, that he would stick to Pearce because
Pearce had stuck to him. A man might have
the same excuse for retaining possession of
a scrub-leech, or a mole, or even a bunion,
but where does Australia come in? This, by
the way, appears to be the sense in which
the Win-the-War Government is prepared to
“stick it.”
The present N. S. Wales Ministry is the
champion forgetter and overlooker of things.
Its revenue suffers this year because of
sundry small finance bills which it would
have introduced, only they were forgotten
or blew away. Anyhow, it didn’t pass
any Act. as Victoria and Westralia did,
to legalise its Wheat Pool business. Conse-
quently it is ordered tb pay £1321 damages,
likewise the costs of three separate actions.
How many possibilities hang on this
decision it is hard to say. When doubt is
cast on the legality of some 150,000,000 or
200,000.000 bushels of wheat it sounds like
the letting in of many waters. -
The Australian Government will soon
have to buy a bigger sheet of paper to
write its shipbuilding programme on. It
already looks more like a cattle-station or a
public park or a desert than a mere docu-
ment. The list now amounts to 50 vessels —
20 steel and 24 of wood. That is to say,
the Hughes Ministry has 20 ships in its
mind’s eye, 14 ships in view and 10 ships in
the dim future. As for Ministers themselves
some of them live in Melbourne, but most
of them live in hopes of something turning
up.
If the Federal Labor Conference, which
at Perth last week rejected a resolution in
favor of abolishing the £5OOO Federal land
tax exemption, were judged by that decision
alone, it would have been a hard job to
show itself to be more progressive than a
brick wall. Of 718,569 freeholds in Aus-
tralia only 12.152 are over £5OOO in value.
These 12,182 are assessed to be worth
£179,668.830 —the other lot £276.207.274.
And it is this latter lump of wealth which
the Labor Conference reckons should pay
no tax. A tax of 3d. in the £1 would
yield £3,452,589. The same tax on the
£179,668,830 without exemption allowances
HOW IT’S DONE.
THE FLY: “Have you any felt hats made in
Australia
THE SPIDER : “Oh, yes; but we prefer to
import them."
would produce £2.245.860. This would give
a revenue of £5,698.440. At present the
contribution of over 455 millions represented
by freehold land values and further millions
by other tenures is £2,110.000 —and payment
of the tax has to the knowledge of successive
Lib. and Lab. Ministries been systematically
evaded. It ought to be somebody’s busi-
ness to explain what the Labor politician
thinks he is doing for Labor by standing for
this shameless defence of profiteering at the
public expense.
“0.K.”: Let us consider the words of
Senator Ferrieks, uttered at Perth: —
It is time negotiations were opened with a view
to ending the present orgy of blood and slaughter.
Let those who want war have their war, but let them
do their fighting themselves.
The sentiment is at least as old as the
French song. “Jeannette and Jeannot,”
which dates back to the time of Napoleon
or earlier
If I were king of France, or, what’s better, Pope of
Rome,
I’d have no fighting men abroad, or weeping maids
at home.
li' and if kings must show'
their might,
Let them that pick the quarrels be the only ones to
fight.
It was a popular item at suburban concerts
during the Franco-Prussian War of ’7O-’7l.
Circumstances suggest a parody of the old
song:—
A mil-i-tar-ist nation which, when ordered, cannot
choose
But fight for world-dominion, is compelled to win or
lose:
So as long as Fritz keeps biffing to assert his
master’s might
He will conquer all the Ferrieks who are not pre-
pared to fight.
The difference between Fritz and Ferrieks
is that the former is a drilled and armed
citizen soldier who dare not mention that
he would rather negotiate than fight, whilst,
the latter is a free recruiting-sergeant in
the Peace Propaganda forces. Pinned into
a corner it is mighty hard for brother Fer-
ricks to prove himself other than a humbug
in his alleged capacity of democratic humani-
tarian.
We are building ships at last! The Broken
Hill €o.’s offer was turned down because
the energetic, competent Federal Govern-
ment was going to tackle the job itself. The
offer of Walker’s, of Maryborough (Q-),
was likewise rejected. _ A similar order
to stand aside met Finlayson, of _ baa.
For the Government has been furiously
getting ready to do the job itself tor
over a year. A manager and a sub-manager
have been going ahead for six months, and
there are 51 men all told employed at 'vrl-
liamstown and 50 at Cockatoo Island. Aet
there are scoundrels who say that the ►-hip~
ping Board, which includes sundry ship-
owners, doesn’t want vessels built that will
compete with P.E. when business is resumed ;
From the Gallery :
For a couple of hours last week Federal Parliament
House was almost smothered with whiskers. Ihe back-
bone of the country had come in hordes to assault
the meat price-fixing scheme, and they clambered all
over the building in an endeavor to get into close
and angry converse with the author of their troubles.
Some advanced detachments ambled into the typists
department and left behind an odor of cowshed as a
memento of their visit, while in the Queen s Hall
Willie Watt and Massey Greene were surrounded by
a mass of tumultuous cowmen, whose low reverber-
ating mutterings and growls reminded one of lunch-
time at a zoo with tire meat in sight but not jet
delivered. All hands smoked until the Acting Prime
Minister, who is a heavy smoker himself, nearly
choked with the aroma of the assorted brands of
Outback tobacco. Finally the mob was headed off,
but not before it had made it clear to the Govern-
ment that if the price-fixing scheme is persisted in it
would return and become a permanent boarder.
N. S. Wales Parliament started another
session last week, and the first business was
to go ahead with the weary old debate
on the Address-in-Reply, which
means that days and nights were
spent in blithering about .every-
thing in general and nothing in
particular, at great expense.
Although the has no
more interest in the War than
the Devil has with standing on
his own tail, every member felt
that the time was ripe to ex-
plain his “war attitude.” Why
a body of men having nothing
to do with this subject should
persist in periodically drivelling
about it at vast length is an in-
comprehensible mystery. Pre-
mier Holman ought to arm the
Black liod with a club and
written instructions to anni-
hilate the first individual who
rises to orate about the matter.
The talk leads to nothing but the bill for
embalming the loquacity in Hansard. Ex-
penditure on embalming loquacity is un-
productive.
“O. B'lin”: When W. M. Hughes has
called himself off England this time Australia
will need relays of accountants to tot up
the bill. He is surrounded by press-agents,
valets, doorkeepers, and sundries, every one
of whom has to be bedded, boarded, shaved,
washed, taxied and amused at least once a
day. Tips and “personal expenses,” of
course, will not take a great deal
of calculation. All that will be neces-
sary will be to engage a tally-man to tick
off the number of barrow-loads. Remember-
ing that Joe Cook has a suite who can easily
rival Hughes’s forces in ' the matter of
ground and lofty travelling, I cannot see
how we can finance the show without raising
a special war loan.
Charles Wade, N. S. Wales Agent-
General, a few days ago got this off his chest:
He hoped that the okl system which had found us
prepared to buy in the cheapest market and go ahead
in blind confidence in our neighbors was over.
The Bulletin has been saying this for well
over 85 years. It has preached consistently
that we should buy in our own markets, and
consequently produce for our own markets,
and not have “blind confidence” that our
neighbors would always supply us with
goods, and with ships to bring the goods, and
with loans to pay for the goods. The paper’s
opponents included the Labor party which
sank the fiscal issue and held that nothing
mattered except industrial legislation (even
if there were few real industries to legislate
about), and a better distribution of wealth
(even if most of the wealth really belonged
to foreign financiers). The opposition also
embraced the rich Tory importers, largely
Hun supporters with Hun names. They in-
cluded the rich imports-barracking press
and short-sighted politicians like Wade. Now t
these people speak seriously about the awful
results of their own folly, as if it was some-
body else’s folly, and talk patronisingly
about the do'etrine of national self-reliance as
if they had invented it and had perished in
the last ditch in its defence.
W. M. Hughes, as cabled :
Since this war commenced we have frequently
imagined that we had climbed to the top of the
hill, only to have the cup dashed from our lips.
In other words, like Tantalus we had nearly
rolled the boulder to the summit when it
dried up and proved to be one of the apples
of Sodom. Then the wind blew on it, and
it wasn’t built on a rock like the daughters
of the horseleech, but had already seen the
writing on the wall and wasted its sub-
stance in riotous living.
A DIRTY CUSTOMER.
“After the War German commerce will be unable
to enter the United States, and steamship companies
will not he allowed to have docks or shipyards. It
will be the end of German trans-Atlantic commerce.”
— News item.
GERMAN-AMERICAN : “Ach! Yey dake mein
lovely cloothes vot keep me so vorm?"
UNCLE SAM: "Say! This is only the pre-
liminary to a hot bath"
One of the most persistent men in the
Vic. Labor movement is Henry Langridge.
whose hobby is the exclusion of employers
from membership of his party. Under Lang-
ridge’s scheme the brethren would have to
bid good-bye to Martin Hannah, M-L.A. for
Collingwood, who used to be a bricklayer and
is one of the most consistent friends the
toiler ever had, besides being a good Aus:
tralian in most directions and a barracker
for Australian industry generally. But.
unfortunately for him, Hannah has been
running a timber-yard and employing some-
labor. Each year Henry brings forward an
out-they-go resolution at the State confer-
ence, and each year the ‘‘ayes” grow more
numerous and the “noes” seem less certain
about their attitude. In another decade,
taking Henry’s present rate of progress,
there won’t be any bosses at the Trades
Hall. The T.H.C. will have to sack itself
entirely, or else wash down its own stairs
and tidy its own offices. It’s a gloomy pros-
pect.
THE MASTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Fisher, Australian High Commissioner, ques-
tioned regarding press cables suggesting his trans-
ference to Washington, replied enigmatically: “I am
t lie arbiter of my own late, t am not a pawn in
other men’s games.”
f am the master of my fate,
1 am the captain of my soul;
I care not for the snares in wait
Or who may head or tail the poll.
Nor. by the statesman’s deep design,
Nor chance nor luck I keep my place;
The simple glory’ that is mine
Must still be mine in any case.
I am no pawn in any game.
The kings may rise, the kings may full;
But l am free of praise or blame,
With my broad back against the wall.
1 left the place of “ayes” and “noes” ;
I left the hustings far behind.
Play as you will. You don’t suppose
That I am absolutely blind.
Caesar is dead ; Napoleon sleeps :
The Pharaohs hold museum shelves;
Whoever strives, whoever weeps,
The old Greek gods are still themselves.
Ask me no questions. I remain
The lord and master of my ways;
Whatever noisy persons reign,
I hold my job—Australia pays.
x.s.w.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


Beautiful Grand Pianos
at PA.LIMG*S.
CHAPPELL
Mignon Grand.
A perfect example of the
British Piano=maker’s.
art. Used in the lead=
ing Conservatoria and
Musical Colleges in
Great Britain.
BEHNING
Sheraton Grand.
Possesses a remarkably
full and resonant tone
of liquid purity and
resonance, and a touch
which is perfection
itself. Undoubtedly an
artist’s Piano.
SAMES
Boudoir Grand.
A small and compact
Grand eminently suited
for the home where
space is limited. The
Durability of this in-=
strument is assured.
BRITISH MADE.
BEHNING
Boudoir Grand.
An ideal instrument for
those who appreciate
artistic excellence of
tone and responsive-
ness of touch. Superbly
finished, just the Grand
an artist would love.
CHAPPELL
Bijou Grand.
This highly artistic in»
strument is finished in
Sheraton style and is
noted for its chaste
design and pure sing=
ing-tone quality.
Touch is perfection.
Any of these glorious instruments may be purchased on our Easy Terms, if required. Catalogues free.
your present piano taken as part payment and full value allowed.
W. H. PALING (& CO. LTD.,
338 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, LISMORE and NEWCASTLE.
Engineers, Farmers and Skilled Workmen should know the
OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING and CDTTING PROCESS.
The Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest addition to the engineer’s workshop and to the skilled worker’s bench,
portable, so that cutting or welding may be done at the bench, in the field or by the roadside.
It is simple of working and
CUT OUT COST OF NEW MACHINERY.
are “ wX'f""' rem “ l!able ™ riel * ° £ tha * «“ «* *>»« with Oxy-Acet.vlene. Following
N« 3 Teefh o°lS“ IS ’ «**»“• <*“*«- Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn
process °^ en ac^nely anj can welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other
6
4in. Steel Shaft, in head of 12001 b. Press and
frame, back of shaft-box, 14in. wide and Sin.
and 4in. thick, welded where chalk-marked.
Not possible of repair by ordinary methods.
Repaired in a few hours by our process, sav-
ing the cost of a new press and big loss of
w
rnr
nn
Oxy-Aeetylene Welding applied to Pipe Work,
Ammonia Refrigerating Coils.
Farmers, do not scrap your broken parts, but get them
welded by our process at the nearest engineer’s.
X
Poppet-head dismantled in Tasmania
to be erected in New South Wales.
Approximately 12,000 rivets were cut
out with the Oxy-Acetylene Metal-
cutter, without damage to the struc-
ture. This work was carried out by
A. L. West & Co., of Sydney.
THE COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN CO. LTD..
e Permanent Trustee Building
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents MELBOURNE: Eyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 173 Edward Street.
: loffCam & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


The Huns can still pay in men the cost of
their costly offensive. But as their capital
decreases the cost increases, inspireth that
capital multiplying spirit King George IY.
topnotch Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UNITED, Redfern, Sydney.
MILK
FOB ALL AGES
Horlick’s Malted Milk
is more beneficial than
tea, coffee or cocoa,
and is the best food
for invalids, dyspep-
tics, and those who
are below par. Ask
for Horlick’s at the
Soda Fountain.
Uj(TKM
IK
* s
win)
df
Why So Many Prefer!!
AEGE
HnePure WooL
UNDERWEAR
FOR WINTER.
Because it consists of PURE, HIGH-GRADE WOOL, and
has stood the test for over 30 years. Absolutely Supreme
for Comfort. Equal to more than double the life of the
cheaper grades of underwear.
STOCKED in Light, Medium and Heavy Weights.
Write for
Illustrated
Catalog “B”
Hats, Shirts.
Sion
Or
D
*<>
QtF
We pay postage throughout the Commonwealth.
HENRY BUCK & GO.,
SWANSTON STREET,
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
Any punter looking for a fancy wager
would probably be prepared to bet even money that
the winner of the Grand National Hurdles is not
more than six years old, or the winner of the
Steeple not more than eight. At time of writing
none of the popular picks for the Hurdles are old
stagers, but among the ’chasers 10-year-old Booligal
looks as dangerous as anything. His agb is against
him, all the same. AVell-seasoned jumping muscles
and the confidence that comes of experience are
needed in a nag that must go 25 furlongs round
the steeplechase course at Flemington, but he
seems bound to be waning in vitality when he gets
as old as Booligal. AVhen an ancient actually wins
under a heavy burden it is because the younger
battlers are a poor lot, or the best of them are
exceptionally unlucky. The chances of the ancients
are negative, rather than positive. Seems to the
writer that Old Mungindi (if he can be trained to
the day) is a more likely heavyweight than the
ever-respectable Booligal. And among the light-
weights Gulluleraine has been backed as though his
friends had no doubt of bis jumping ability, which
has not yet been proved at Flemington.
A real good thing for the G. N. Hurdles can be
backed for a lot of money this .year despite the AVar.
One or two of trainer Finn’s lot from Sydney will
carry the hopes of N.S.AAL The Adelaide champion,
Pistolier, will have a strong following if all goes
well with that hitherto erratic jumper. Bill Taft
may come from Tasmania with a story of his
rejuvenation. Bill certainly ran second five years
ago, though the race was as slow as a funeral when
he did it. There are at least five strong divisions
that expect to win the National for Victoria with
their respective peas, and whichever animal may
start favorite the books will probably lay 4 to 1
on the “feeld” until the barrier* rises.
Between the declaration of weights for
the V.R.O. Nationals and the carrying of them in the
race there isn’t much time for picking wrong
“doubles,” but the time has been sufficient this year
for blighting the hopes of a multitude of early selec-
tors. At the ouset Bardol was a popular pick for
the Hurdles, on the strength of the assumption that
he wouldn’t have been entered for the National unless
his jumping had improved since his first attempt.
Fully five and twenty others were coupled with Saman-
der and Caibye for the Steeple. Last week Bardol
was scratched for the three miles journey over the
sticks as not being equal to the job. Samander
dropped out of the Steeple because he had hurt him-
self at Moonee Valley on the previous Saturday, and
Caibye, the great top-weight, came a cropper at
Caulfield last Saturday and had to be shot. The
wholesale destruction of “double” chances left
Moses rejoicing.
Probably the Toolambool Hurdles at Caulfield was
a guide to the National result, as it proved to be a
year ago. On that occasion Merunqua and Bundong
fought out the finish, and a fortnight later the same
animals finished first and second at Flemington.
Kinlark (lOst. lib.), AVestendale (9st. 51b.), and
Rosyth (9st. 51b.) filled the places in the Toolambool
affair on Saturday, with not more than three lengths
between first and third. The running suggested that
both AVestendale and Rosyth are likely to beat the
winner over a longer course, although they will meet
him on worse terms. Also the performance of Pisto-
lier was encouraging. AVestendale has the advantage
in being the youngest of the party, and unless the
backing of this trusty jumper for the National dur-
ing the week was all bogus he must be very danger-
ous for the long race. Anyhow. Robertson’s stable,
containing AVestendale and the imported Calais and
Parulus, must be dangerous. AVhat five-year-old
Fastolf might have done in Saturday’s crowd will
remain a mystery till he gets another run. Fastoli
was left at the post.
* * * *
Caibye seems to have fallen a victim to
the bad policy of allowing a really great steeple-
chaser to go soft in his jumping muscles. For many
months this master of the game was never practised
over the sticks. On Saturday he was started, with
lost, up, for the Steeplechase, in which he had run
second last year. He was then a novice at fences
and sod walls, but had not long been unaccustomed
to jumping hurdles. This time he was out of prac-
tice at any sort of timber-topping. The last jump
of the treble was too much for him. He struck the
obstacle, fractured a fore-arm, and had to be
destroyed. The betting showed that Caibye’s trainer
(who was also his owner) didn’t think him ready
for the fray. He started at 8 to 1 for his final
outing.
Cobram won the race in which Caibye came to
grief, and doubtless the grey grandson of Carbine
will have backers for the G. N. Steeple if all goes
well with him up to the day. But they will have to
be a poor lot if Cobram is to take the cake. For
that matter they mostly will be a poor lot.
* * * *
Weights for the Epsom and Metrop. and
the “two Cups” appeared this week. For the Epsom
Cetigne stands on top with 9st. 121 b., which is where
he was last Doncaster, and in view of all the
circumstances is where he could naturally expect to
be. Biplane comes next with 9st. 101 b. alongside
Magpie. Both have been well looked after. The
same remark applies to Wolaroi, 9st. 71b., who was
handicapped for the Doncaster at 9st. 51b., and has
done nothing since. Why Some Boy (9st. 21b.)
should be reckoned within 21b. of Panacre over a mile
and 41b. better than Dame Acre looks a rather intri-
cate conundrum. Nor are there many racing men
who will be able to understand why George Graves
should be within 21b. of Dame Acre and the well-
performed Maorilander llymestra. It is most likely
that the winner of the Epsom can be looked for with
more confidence lower down than among this lot and
those in the same vicinity. It is a race in which a
good three-year-old always has a rare chance, and
there are at least a dozen of that age and descrip-
tion on the list. The Metrop. weights begin with
Lanius, Magpie and Biplane 9st. 71b., an arrange-
ment which gives Lanius none the best of it over a
mile and a .half. Here, too, it is just as well to
look down instead of up, and in both cases to await
developments and the cutting out of the mob that
obscure those who will be the Real Triers.
Desert Gold gets 9st. 61b. with Magpie in the
Melbourne Cup, and 9st. 81b. to Magpie’s 9st. 71b.
in the Caulfield. Biplane, missing from the crowd
for the long journey, comes next with 9st. 51b. in the
mile and a half. These are good solid lumps of
weight with which it has not been customary to win
either race ; but if the others were to have any sort
of chance there was nothing much else for the handi-
eapper to do. Even then it is fairly safe to say that
in each event there are two score of nags which
couldn’t win if they carried a rabbit.
* * * *
Kelso’s old plug, Chid, winner of many
races on Sydney courses, arrived in an unusual
hurry at the end of the ltosehill Handicap last week.
The animal had been a reliable earner of oats for
himself and Kelso, but had gone off for nearly a
year and a half. Most people reckoned him a back
number, and a win at an “outer” meeting on the
Wednesday didn’t make them think differently.
Wherefore Chid was at a long price when the field
went out at ltosehill, his chances with Secret Service,
Woodwild, Dynasty and Alasco being calculated to be
somewhere about those of the lamented Buckley. So
they would have been in ordinary circs.; but Dynasty
went off at a sprinting pace and, having run him-
self into the ground, left the rest without a kick —
except Chid, who had taken an easy trip astern. At
the end he ran over the tiring company and finished
as fresh as paint. A good horse is never too old
if he gets into a field that runs itself out before he
begins to feel warm.
* *■ * *
An apprentice allowance let Chid in on
Saturday with 6st. 91b. On Monday he had 7st. 61b.
aboard in the Birthday Handicap, run over a furlong
farther, and the public reckoned that the race was a
gift. This was where they erred. Chid hadn’t a
hope this time. The sometimes disappointing Mount
Alt' had been backed by the stable as a certainty, and
he ran out an easy winner from Sword of Honor and
Hitachi. Chid was well behind with the aldermanic-
looking Woodwild. This fashionably-bred animal
has been raced continuously during the last month
or two by owner Dan Seaton, but the why and the
wherefore is a bit of a mystery. Either Seaton gives
Woodwild credit for being a better horse than he
is or Woodwild is a better animal than he seems on
recent performances.
* * * *
A good-looking colt that has been carefully
brought up came to light at Rosehill on Saturday.
This is Sunnyside, by Sunshine from the Trenton
mare Finality. Sunnyside was a starter in the
Breeders’ Plate at Randwick last Spring, and finished
close up. He was given a couple of outings in
the summer and then allowed to take things easily
and grow until Saturday’s race for maiden two-year-
olds, 44 furlongs. There were 23 starters, and the
Eudorus colt Myamley, which had run a good second
to Pamphlet at Randwick three weeks before,
was a red-hot favorite. Sunnyside had the easiest
possible win in “581,” a record for the distance
at Rosehill. He opened in the betting at 12 and 10
and was solidly backed down to 4’s, while the public
pursued Myamley. Sunnyside cost .only 70 guineas
and has developed into a fine nag. Probably he will
be heard of again, tlidugh there may be trouble in
training him.
It happens that Booster seems to be a
particularly appropriate name for the horse that
wears it—a Tartan gelding trained by E. A. Mayo—
for the nag can unwind about as smart a finishing-
kick as anything lately noticed on Sydney suburban
courses. At Kembla Grange last month he just
missed. On Saturday at Rosehill he fractured his
maiden status with a swift flight over the last bit
of seven furlongs. Imported Quaestor, trained by
AV. Booth, had been backed like a certainty and at
the distance seemed a sure winner. At that point
Booster emerged from behind and, settling the cer-
t iintv iii a stride or two, hit the line with his tail
well 'clear of entanglement. He carried Bst. lib.
_„ n Hie distance in “271,” which, for a maiden
at Vosehill? is pretty slick work.
* * *
In a field of 11 these were the prices, on
offer bv the place merchants at Roseliill on Saturday :
one at' 6 to 4 “on,” one 5 to 4 “on,” three evens,
three 6 to 4, three 5 to 1. And there were people
doing busines’s at these prices, a circumstance which
to this pa °-e would seem incredible if it had not
been there to see. Of course, the heroic donkeys got
what they deserved. Neither of the nags they laid
odds on got into the picture, except at the wrong
end The fielders paid out 6 to 4 and two evens,
The" dinkum odds would have been 4 to 1, 7 to 4 and
5 to 4 V punter who misses once at the prices
above mentioned which are a fair sample of the
permanent menu, is down one; when he misses twice
he is up the pole. The way thev keep on coming
at it is one of the most amazing'things to be wit-
nessed on a racecourse.
* * * *
An old-time jockey, E. Gorry, made an
appearance in tlie saddle at Caulfield last week
aboard Amyntas in a seven-furlongs gallop. He
won the Caulfield Cup of ’B7 on Oakleigh, and the
Oakleigh Plato of ’B7 and ’BB on Surprise and My
L ort i
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” • The veteran
• t T p J. jin nawert out -it Flemington
(V’L) list week at 85, rode many winners in" his
\ T , aA v R,iinrnt o.m nn Pinvhrw
ln ’64 he won the Ballarat Cup on Playboy
for Pat lveigran Inhe iode the winner of the
n’ L - ?/r by n" L f a ° u nn of the Ts e
¥ X- Cup fo H m r ’ VI ifn in Nphida mu ’
n 6 !’ f0 i - o! a * mU AW ne H’ 2 nli S’wlf'
Dei by, 1867, Australian .
(th e _ c lream horse of Melbourne t up, c 0),
1868, MX. Plate on Mallocks Scandal, 1869, A ic-
torian St. Leger on John Moffat s Gasworks, Aus-
tralian Cup same liorse and owner; 1870, the \ ic.
St. Leger, with Wm. Pearson’s Lamplighter (same
Gf re ’m theH’iP sw
Studholme on hno t „I.} , < . , i
Legvr on P. Lewis s Blue Peter. It i, unde stood
that Cartels first wm of note was or» the fust (or
old l ie.) Deib}, in IGoO, when 1 e . vthe
to victory Thetrainer was the ill-Lted> Aiithony
Green, an all-iound pot, . > p >
who was killed in 1861 a: Kirk s.Bazaar by Ma tin
Rice with a single blovv of a heavy haminer while
in the act of examining the fetlock ot a horse. Rice
(a half-drunken cross-country rider who professed to
have a grievance Green) was hangec or t e
crime. Joe Carter, 1 believe, rode on the old Home-
»“» Smcl.ick »u established.
Another notable horseman passed out lost
week in Tom Biown, who had been connected with
racing for something like half a century. His
earliest triumphs were for William Winch, oi the
Great Northern Hotel, Newcastle, who had a few
horses of excellent quality. Brown won both Derbys
in 1872 on Loup Garou and, in the following year,
L r ker Om Tn o iB77 fo he th i e ode an i‘n
de g Mestre (now long dead), Vulcan winning the
Marihvrnong Stakes from 27 other starters. Among
Long. With the splendid string owned by Long, Tom
Brown did good work. He also trained for Jack
Smith, of Mamre, and Walter Hall. Failing eye-
sight kept him of late years from active work.
* * * *
“Glen Huntly” : Melbourne lost its best-
.r«.™
to Vic. when a youngster, and put in 10 years as a
jockey, in which capacity poet Gordon was one of
his rivals. Suthmier rode for many well-known
owners, including comedian Billy Barlow; was a good
cricketer, a crack bare-knuckle fighter, a smart ped,
and played a good game of billiards. At Wattle
Flat he walked Bill Wood, of Campbell’s Creek, over
a distance of a mile, for £75 aside. At no time
were the two separated by more than inches, Sam
winning in about fUmin. His last words were, “Be
kind to my horses.”'
* * * *
One of the surprises in Maorilafid inciden-
tal to the war is the increase in the totalisator turn-
over. When the disturbance started and the younger
section of the community began to drift away in
thousands the racing clubs commenced to reckon on
having a cold time in the cashbox. But their
revenues are greater than ever. Tote investments
have not grown by an odd thousand or so here and
there, but have bounded upwards by barrowloads
everywhere. At small meetings it is the same as at
big ones—cash wheeled up in ever-increasing volume,
Whether it is that the old men have all gone mad
or the army is giving the pay-roll a flutter only the
heavens can tell, but about the intense popular
anxiety to pick winners no possible doubt exists,
Meanwhile the law which prohibits the publication
of dividends in the newspapers is doing so well that
the entire population knows exactly what has hap-
pened five minutes after the numbers go up. This
wowserish prohibition against printing the most
important occurrence incidental to the greatest
national pastime or foolishness or whatever it is, is
a queer business. It looks as if Maoriland goes
racing in the same spirit as a lot of it habitually
goes to get a beer.
* * * *•
The meteoric rise of Western Suburbs in
this season’s N. S. Wales Rugby League Premiership
has been worth taking notice of. The club began
the struggle by being rubbed in the mud by Balmain
and Eastern Suburbs. This having seriously aggra-
vated them they proceeded to trample over all oppo-
nents in six successive matches, which aggressiveness
perched them on the top rung with Balmain and
South Sydney. On Saturday, West outplayed Bal-
main (the holder of the premiership for three sue-
cessive years), by 8 to 6; and lifted the match
points’ tally to 98 against 50. A. McPherson’s goal,
which made the difference between a draw and vie-
tory, was the twentieth he had booted through the
uprights. The nearest kickers to the midget are O.
Fraser (Balmain) and A. Oxford (South Sydney,),
both of whom have notched 13 goals.
* * * *
Frank and A. B. Burge, the burly brothers
who are making the jersied enemy trembie on behalf
of Glebe, are mighty scorers in this year’s N.S.W.
Rugby League play. Up to Saturday, Frank has
scored 14 tries and A.B. 12 goals. F. Burge (with
24 tries in 1915 and 27 in 1916) has the best trj-
getting effort for a season with the League. The
brothers were stalwarts in the Union before the
League found its legs. A.B. was one of the reinforce-
rnents sent to help Jimmy McMahon’s Mailables hop
England in*l9oB-9. * ,
„ T . , » ,
Cioson : Lured by accounts ot recent
uproars at Vic. League hoofball matches I betook
me to the ’Roy-Carlton game last Saturday—and fell
in. When ’Wood walloped its neighbor Richmond
a few weeks ago the ban-ackers got so annoyed that
they raided the soft-drink joints outside the ground,
commandeered the bottles and hurled them at the
enemy. Two casualties were removed to hospital. It
was like old times. A week later the bar on South s
ground was rushed and a willing offensive started,
but the supply of ammunition being limited the
argument petered out. Next, ’Roy v. Carlton promised
excitement; but all was serene as a Sabbath service,
So far ’Wood and South are in the front line, the
others tailing off symmetrically towards the base.
My next visit will be to a junior game, as I notice
a player in that grade was lately disqualified for
hfe for # stoushing the umpire. * *
,
Adelaide Oval has seen the unusual spec-
facie of a football match. That city has taken the
no-sport-in-war-time idea more strongly than any
other capital, and neither cricket, lacrosse, tennis
nor football gets any public chance except among
juniors. A lot of football clubs that wanted to carry
on oalled themselves a Patriotic Association ancl^all
profits go to war funds; but, even so, they cannot
v show on any of the most important grounds,
b hoW ever, a game between West Torrens and
West Adelaide was admitted to the Oval, as a
definite “Cheer-Up Society” affair. It was welcomed
by a big crowd, and there are likely to be other
nfatches. Between returned soldiers, volunteer re-
j eets f or e y es or turned-in toes and men who
rea Uy are indispensable, there is enough material 6n
t j le p reni i aes for football without creating insulting
i. lnff [, aire
*,* * *
Tlie other day an unkempt-looking person
wandered into a railway carriage at a suburban station
announcing that lie had just escaped from a nearby
lunatic agylum » produeed * pack P o f cards. With
se he proceeded to amuse himself more or less
fatuously / and flna ii y strt rted with the solemnity of
the insane to manipulate three of them in a mysteri-
Qus w when he offered to bet that no one could
, hdve been a rush to get
, ~. , Th . thi that haonened
“ e \ Jruia-e. lv\d 'annexed a tenne? and
' j ag ‘ ' w h en he got off at a convenient station,
~ H h t thi o_ nvld .. „. ood onP There are
),«a va " St'ibo “if 1 beit the bait-
frorrl a soup-kitchen. His “gee” looked like an alder*
man F or years they wandered round country pubs
anc ] s hows and races and sports meetings and city
“ co ff ee palaces” from Rockhampton to Adelaide,
They lifted thousands. Booze beat both,
* * ■* »
Though the shutters have been up since
war-clouds burst, the Australian Lavvn Tennis Associ-
atlun has + L3616 in tlie^ waliet. Of L27i4
T , r> , . • , , ' • ■ G
R- R- Bui’guez, who whizzed humedly past
the timekeepers in Banamtfand 100yds. championship
last week in 10 l-ssec. is only 18, the same age as
D. VV. Pierson, who finlShed within three feet of
Burguez’s time is 4yds. better than W J
W ssrssi
than the Queensland^ record of Stan Rowley. #
_ . , T rn i , ~
Lieutenant Les Trenerry, who gained the
Military Cross in France lately, belongs to a family
addicted to khaki. One brother was killed at
Pozieres. Two others, W .L. and Les, are perhaps
the only set of Australian twins to gather Military
Crosses. W. L. Trenerry averaged 29.43 for 17
innings with Paddington in 1914-15 Sydney premier-
ship cricket. Another brother is E. Trenerry, an all-
rounder who knocked up 14.58 per innings for
’Varsity last year, and wound up the season with
six wickets for 39 against North Sydney. Mention
of cricketing twins in khaki is a reminder that Basil
Rbey, who returned wounded recently, left twin-
brother Gerald doing his bit. They were the msep-
arable auburn-haired youths who did many fine
things for King’s School and Sydney \ arsity at
football and cricket. #
* . T _ .
Ivnockod out in France, feapper i rank
Somers, who figured as “Pat Summers” on the
stoush menu of Sydney Stadium and similar places
of brotherly love in pre-war evenings. He was 33,
and when not otherwise engaged used to hammer
out a crust in the Eveleigh (Sydney) railway work-
shops. Four brothers are in khaki.
* * * *
One-armed (left) St. John made a clean-
up of Bananaland metropolitan tennis championships
last week. In the singles he defeated Oxenham;
with Miss Campbell he won the challenge pairs,
He has represented the State at Rugby as well as
tennis, and is the only similarly handicapped Aus-
tralian who can boast of such a record. But loss of
an arm is not quite the handicap one might suppose,
Anyway, a Maoriland lady, Miss Ilitchings, of Napier,
was a’ rare good player with a single arm; and
years ago over yonder a one-armed jumper—his
name was Chute—was one of the best,
* * * *
Billjim samples the English fish : Fish is
really plentiful here and cheap, too. Such fish as
haddock, herring and mackerel, which the average
Australian—spoilt as he is inland by Murray cod,
perch, bream and catfish, and on the coast by
snapper, bream and whiting-—would scorn to touch
in ordinary times, are not bad. Salmon (beyond the
reach of most people), turbot and plaice are good
and expensive. But we can put it all over them
with snapper, flathead and whiting. Nor have they
a fin to compare with our garfish. And our oj'sters!
Well, they’re in quite a class by themselves. Of
course they have a climate which needs no ice to
keep it, and that means a lot with fish. But never
let an Englishman kid you that bloater is food for
gods. I took it aboard once, but the taste has lasted
ever since. _ All the same, when you come over, be
sure to arrive in May, and go straight for the salmon
to start with.
BLACK MACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He hung about the boxing-luill,
A skinny welterweight,
And would for any casual call
Lie patiently in wait,
No science had the black, but all
His appetite was great.
He took his dose of punishment
(The dose was often big),
Then on his humble way he went,
A bruised and battered nig,
And grinned ineffable content.
Cuts mattered not a fig.
He’d box “prelims” for half a quid,
And never call a halt
However hefty was the kid
They asked him to assault;
Or take the place of any squid,
Or boxer in default.
His nose was broke, his ear was stiff,
No feature was quite right.
“D’yer know why Mac’s so fond of biff?”
Said Sprig to me one night.
“His little missus beats him if
He doesn’t get a fight!”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


Are You a Real Man?
¥•
Can You Defend Yourself?
These are important questions to YOU. Unless you confidently feel
that you are able to take your own part, then you should certainly set
about gaining a practical knowledge of Scientific Boxing.
When it comes to a question between Man and Man you will realise what
a "Teat advantage you possess. You will be able to convincingly assert
yourself in a manner that will at once impress your opponent with YOUR
superiority. You will feel that confidence in YOUR power so NECESSARY
to ACHIEVE victory.
Why put off learning to defend yourself any longer?
I Teach Boxing by Post
There are 32 lessons in my course. Each tells in
clear, simple words how to deliver a serviceable hit,
and the best way to block it.
Photographs and diagrams show exactly how the
hands, arms, head, shoulders, body and feet are used
in attack and defence. Well-satisfied pupils in all
parts of Australia are constantly praising my methods.
This is an example of the letters I’m constantly
receiving:—
“I And your mode of tuition very easy to follow,
and I am HIGHLY SATISFIED with it and
progressing favorably.”
I am anxious to send you full particulars of my
methods, terms, and also an interesting booklet,
“Scientific Boxing in Your Home.”
Hadn’t you better write for it now, while you
think of it, and send 3d. to cover the postage?
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
748 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
W& 1 '
2
if '
‘SHELL’ BENZENE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
USE IT-AND PROVE IT.
arid* ImpwW 03 Co. Uk
r>i ARE YOU
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? _ Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Mothersill s
Lu
<r
CURES
THE
CHARMS
OF A SEA TRIP
need no longer be marred by the
dread of mal-de-mer
MOTHERSILL’S Sea-Sick Remedy
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERSILL’S has received the un-
qualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest
testimonials from the world’s greatest
men, women and institutions.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Large & Small Boxes.
Mothersill Remedy Co., Ltd.,
Corner Clarence and Market Streets,
Sydney.
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MONEY RETURNED
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough —you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled-
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
QVfc
cJe
tM*
Wo*
A*
#>*
Ke^
K
u*
im
UfC
-flrfte
ies
fr?
rf^
ut>
e f,cei°X
■XfO
L<fj
?<
BS
W 0
fit™.
fH
6?-'
o w
-r^°-
fc
pr<
■fh e
His Debt to
Wouldn’t
you gladly
pay such
a bill?
Think of all that the
ownership of an Indian
Motor-cycle would mean
to you—Speedy travel
w r hen and where you
willed, new scenes, new
pleasures, better health.
Aren’t these worth more
to you than the price of
an Indian?
CATALOGUE "D”
WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Brothers Ltd., 156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle and Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide & Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons Ltd., Charles Street,
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency, Hay Street.
iL-J
m
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
Marine Engines
nETROii
For All Boats
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started*
Electric Lights
hdf
Caille Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7'o 10
Miles an Hour
Callle 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- to four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you apd
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole
Australasian
Agents—
Benson Brothers Limited
76=78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY;
71=75 Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE.
NORTH
BRITISH
Jyres
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
n
m.
i
M* B
I
: ...
SMITH*
JULIU*
P/E
“The Tyres that
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY,
■ WHOLESALE AGENTS—
New Sooth Wales: William Crosby & Co., 20 Loftos St., Sydney
Victoria: North British Tyre Agency Prop. Ltd.,
525-527 Collins St., Melbourne
Queensland t Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Adelaide St„Brisbane
South Australia: Phoenix Motor Co.* 114-122 Pirie St., Adelaide.


'em
ituau
4>
Gam
m
m k
~,..
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 2Jd.
hfdh
HORROCHSES' MORROCKSES-MORROCKSES
HORROCKSES
ffla/isieletteA
Bjaa8MHM*»t»m»naa
FOR
safety
WEAR AND
COMFORT
„ SEE.
HORROCKSES'"
ON SELVEDGE
fd
Auction Sale.
GREAT CORNER POSITION, THE KEY TO THE
RETAIL CENTRE AT PITT AND KING ,
STREETS, SYDNEY.
THE COMMODIOUS OFFICES AND
CHAMBERS
of the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSUR-
ANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
THIS IMPORTANT BUSINESS POSITION
HAS FRONTAGES OF
51 FEET 8 INCHES TO PITT STREET,
and
71 FEET 5J INCHES TO KING STREET;
the southern depth line is 67 feet 10J inches, and
the eastern line is 17 feet inches.
The Site of that
ORNATE PILE OF BUILDINGS, THE HOME OF
ONE OF THE LEADING FIRE INSURANCE COM-
PANIES, which has so arranged for the conduct of
its LARGE AND VERY ACTIVE BUSINESS TO BE
IN A POSITION TO GIVE A PURCHASER
POSSESSION IN SIX MONTHS.
THE GREATEST RETAIL POSITION IN SYDNEY.
AN OUTSTANDING BUSINESS CORNER. WITH
WINDOW SPACE OF 123 FEET TO PITT AND
KING STREETS.
which could BE APPLIED to VERY GREAT PROFIT
by an ENTERPRISING RETAILER desirous of
ACQUIRING a UNIQUE ADVERTISING POSITION
always BEFORE THE NOTICE of the ARMY of
SHOPPERS making up the THRONG TRAFFIC of
Pitt and King Streets.
KING STREET must ALWAYS CONTINUE TO
BE the ACTIVE THOROUGHFARE IT IS, by reason
of the IMMENSE TRAFFIC LEAVING THE
TRAMS from the EASTERN SUBURBS and the
RAILWAY TRAMS in CASTLEREAGH STREET,
most of which passes this GREAT CORNER of the
MAIN RETAIL BUSINESS CENTRE OF THE CITY.
DICHARDSON AND WRENCH, LTD (in con-
-1 v junction with CARY BROS., 127 King Street),
will sell by auction at the Rooms, 92 Pitt Street,
on FRIDAY, 12th JULY, at 11.30 a.m.,
The above-described MAGNIFICENT CORNER
PROPERTY. PITT AND KING • STREETS,
CITY, which, by reason of the STABILITY OF
THE HANDSOME BUILDING, could be CON-
VERTED into MODERN BUSINESS PREMISES
with GREAT WINDOW SPACE for DISPLAY
OF GOODS.
Public Notices.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND.
THE TONGKAH HARBOR TIN
DREDGING CO. N.L.
OTICE ISIIEREBY GIVEN that a
Dividend (the 29th) of 10 per cent., or
Two Shillings Per Share, together with a
bonus of 5 per cent., or One Shilling Per
Share, amounting in all to £22,500, has been
declared, payable on the 22nd July, 1918, and
for this purpose the Share Register will be
closed from the 15th to the 22nd July
inclusive. By Order of the Board,
H. J. WISE, Manager.
Dated at Hobart this 13th day of June, 1918.
WANTED. —Men with the gift of elo-
quence, who can sway decisions be it
in business, in politics or in social life. Gren-
ville KleisePs great correspondence course in
Public Speaking trains you at home to
become an attractive, convincing speaker.
Send for free Prospectus S, containing full
information.
JAS. RODGER,
159 E. Manchester Street, Christchurch.
Special Offer
¥
STARTS
TO-MORROW.
STOCKTAKING
BARGAINS
FOR 14 DAYS ONLY.
June 28 to July 13.
ACT PROMPTLY AND SECURE THESE BARGAINS.
The values we now offer cannot possibly be
repeated at anything near the prices quoted.
Here is your opportunity to economise—
don’t miss if. Buy now for present and
future needs—send your orders to Desk R
if unable to call.
DESK R.
MESSRS. MURDOCH’S IN
PARK STREET LTD., SYDNEY.
Please forward special Pattern
Book of Suitings, 78/9 Suit-to-
Measure, ■with tape and self-
measurement form.
Name
Address
Special Tailoring Offer.
We have earmarked a portion of our
stock of high-grade Tweeds, and we are
offering them at this special price—
78/9
Suits-to-
Measure.
This opportunity, is absolutely unique
and affords you a fine chance to save
cash on your suit.
ORDER YOUR SUIT NOW.
If you can’t call write for special
pattern-book. Write for a copy to-day
A Bargain in
Men’s Soft Felts.
a
Murdoch’s Pure Fur Lounge
Hats, 2}-inch brims, Black
bands, bow at back, in
Slate, Black, Browns and
Fawns. Sizes, 6f to 7%.
SPECIAL PRICE,
8/6.
Postage Bd. extra.
Men’s Gaberdine
Sports Suits.
h
These two-piece Ready-to-
Wear Suits are splendid
for country wear—hard-
wearing materials, smart
in cut, style and finish—all
sizes at this
SPECIAL PRICE,
Men’s Tweed
Overcoats.
fd
Oddments in smart, stylish
Overcoats in up-to-date
Tweeds, single-breasted, with
fly front; lined throughout.
Sizes, 3,4, 5 only—clearing
at
SPECIAL PRICE,
Warm Winter
Underwear.
hfd
Now is your chance to secure
cosy comforts at savins;
prices—warm, winter-weight
Singlets, long or short sleeves,
sizes 34 to 44 in. Also Pants,
sizes 34 to 40 in.
SPECIAL PRICE,
4/6 each.
Murdoch's “Armourite”
Bootsat Reduced Prices
h
Our famous “Ar-
mourite” Soles
will wear twice as
long as ordinary
soles—and look at
the prices. Get a
pair to-day. Varied
shapes and styles.
SPECIAL PRICE,
In Black Box
Calf, Glace Kid
or Wallaby,
21/-
In Tan
Willow
Calf,
22/6
Boys’
Durham Suits.
fh
Nobby suits for little boys—
smart and dressy. Made
from good warm Tweeds, dark
shades that will wear well,
open front, belt coming right
round, yoke and tucked
front. Sizes 0 to 6, fit boys
2 to 8 years.
SPECIAL PRICE,
RSI
m
IN PARK ST LIMITED SYDNEY
Gomplofo OuffiPors
for Men Bops
out the probable sites of the vast Phoenician
fortifications that he left almost immedi-
ately. Popular novels like “The Prisoner of
Zenda” and “The Aztec Treasure House”
(w’hich revealed a great and unsuspected
Aztec empire in modern Mexico, as if that
country hadn’t enough troubles of its own)
also require maps.
Fictionists who deal with the old French
Revolution are generally pretty solid about
Robespierre (except when they cause him to
be betrayed by a girl), but about no one else.
A map wouldn’t serve here, but Robespierre
should be printed in italics to show that he
is a real character and has been audited. If
another Scott arises he should not be
allowed to make a number of his characters
at least 150 years old, as in “Ivanhoe.” Nor
should he bepermitted to permanently blight
the good character of Louis XI. by blaming
him for the murder of the venerable bishop
of Liege, who wasn’t venerable but drunk,
and who wasn’t killed till many years after
Louis had quitted these parts.
There is need for a rigid supervision re
poisons, medical prescriptions, diseases (in-
cluding brain fever, which is unknown, and
death by spontaneous combustion, which
never happened), signs of death (which are
mostly wrong unless decomposition has really
set in), the law of evidence, the habits and
customs of colored races, navigation, etc.
Probably a demand for some shreds of
accuracy would reduce the supply of fiction,
but I think we could struggle through with
less. There would be a saving of paper and
ink, both of which are scarce, and an in-
crease in the supply of domestic servants
through the diversion of lady novelists to
other paths of industry.
JAMES EDMOND.
The Inky Way
Lieut. Leslie Buchanan, who was editor of
the Darling Downs Gazette (Q.) when he
enlisted two years ago, and prior to that was
on the staff of the Sydney Telegraph, has
sustained his first blooding in France.
Official message says “Wounded; remained
on duty.” The big fellow is attached to a
famous Queensland battalion,
“75”: Harry Maddison, who recently
severed his long connection with the Argus,
was not long out of a job. Melbourne Herald
jumped at the chance of acquiring one of the
best-read journalists in Australia, and Henry
is now attending to its cables, which count
for much nowadays.
“Demos” : Hobart Daily Post, after a 10-
years’ struggle to keep the bailiff out, has
passed into the hands of Labor Papers Ltd.,
of Sydney, and on July 1 will come out as
the Hobart edition of The World. Re-
prganisation of the commercial and literary
staffs is proceeding. Manager Ben Watkins
has made room for Clark, of Sydney, till
recently connected with Truth. Dwyer
Grey, editor, remains in that capacity, and it
is expected that Howard Knopp, late of the
West Australian, who has been chief of
staff for some months, will go up to the
sub-editor’s chair. The Daily Post was the
first metropolitan Labor daily in the Com-
monwealth and it has had more editors than
any other rag in Australia.
Robert Harkness, the Bendigo music-
maker who used to keep the Chapman-Alex-
ander revivals going with gingery catches
and hymns, has edited an “Australian Pro-
hibition Songster,” to be printed shortly.
The contents were got together by means of
a competition for “the best collection of tem-
perance hymns.” There were 285 competi-
tors, from all parts of the Commonwealth,
and the winner, one William Berriman, re-
ceived the whacking sum of £5 ss. for his
load. Still, one can buy a lot of water for
£5 ss.
A Satchel of Books
Monogamy, a Series of Dramatic Lyrics, by Gerald
Gould (London, Geo. Allen and Unwin, Ltd.). There
is not much that is lyric and still less that is
dramatic about the series of more or less domestic
pictures in verse which make up this slender book.
Seven different husbands describe their experiences
with seven different wives; but the differences are
not acute or striking, and the collection as a whole-
presents a uniformity of the commonplace. The
verse is fair without possessing marked skill or dis-
tinction, and the only effects aimed at are those
which get dangerously close to the place where the
censor’s boot might be expected to appear. Still, the
moralist needn’t worry. The suggestion is never
clever enough to carry contagion.
The London Nights of Bellsize, by Vernon Rendall •
With Gold and Steel, by Cecil Starr Johns; Wanted
a Tortoise-shell, by Peter Blundell (all John Lane.
London).
Songs of a New Age, by Alfred T. Story (London,
Geo. Allen and Unwin, Ltd.), being indifferent
prose cut up into assorted lengths, with never a
hint of music or felicitous choice of words—common-
place thought about nothing in particular.
The Seraphim, by Arthur James Humphreys. I.
The Lion (London. George Allen and Unwin, ‘Ltd.).
There seems to be a religious motive in this collec-
tion of rhymeless verse; but it is amazingly dull.
The lines are arranged in three-line stanzas; but
they don’t appear to scan such, sing much or mean
much. Less appreciation cannot be offered -without
going into details.
The Science of Power, by Beniamin Kidd
(Methuen and Co., Ltd.,- London). The author of
Social Evolution preaches well and deserves a hear-
ing, if for no better reason than that he makes his
argument picturesque and can hold the ordinary
reader’s attention when treating of psychology,
philosophy and other matters not usually discussed
in the tram. Of course, the work deals with the
bearings of the present trouble in Europe; and the
essential paganism of Germany, which is parochial-
ism with a mailed fist, is contrasted with the broader
power, which is race-wide in its sweep, of the
growing world-revolution. The curious feature of
the book, and the one which will startle many
readers, is the place which in the author’s opinion
woman’s mind is to fill in that revolution. Thus
he declares that “it is not in the fighting male of
the race: it is in Woman that we have the future
centre of power and civilisation.” The arguments
by which this point is arrived at are subtle, lucid
and by no means unconvincing. Schopenhauer is
dragged about by the tail and made to eat up his
own conclusions; and the author remarks with force
that “Man has been engaged in discussing woman
in the past from the point of view of woman’s case
with man, or of man’s case with woman. But
civilisation is not ultimately concerned in a funda-
mental way with either of those issues. The cen-
tral problem is the relation of -woman, not to man,
but to the needs of society.” A well-written book,
good to read, and possibly the parent of a lot of
new and useful thought.


MEGGITTS —The Law
Stable
m
rr
■>*=»?
»*
<r.
U
&
I
v?
0
C
l
%
f.
\
1
\ x
f
%
X
V
£
s
I
42
i
As clothes oft proclaims the man, so you may judge a horse by the condition of his coat.
When you observe the dashing steeds of the Mounted Police, you agree that they are really beautiful
“CONDITION IN EXCELS IS.”
These Horses Receive 21b. of Meggitt’s Meal
They have Condition, Dash, Endurance and Beauty.
fd
per day
Mr. SMITH, of Camperdown, Sydney (who won at R. A. Show, Sydney, 1918, six prizes, including four firsts),
says : — Megqitt's Linseed Oil Meal contains all the essential qualities necessaiy for production oj bone and muscle and
maintenance of condition when in active work."
Have you tried this Cost-reducing' Food?
PAMPHLET NO. 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from all Agents: Messrs. R. S. EXTON & CO., Brisbane; HARRISONS, RAMSAY PTY., LTD., Melbourne
ADAMS LTD., Perth; CLARKSON LTD., Adelaide; F. W. HERITAGE & CO., Launceston & Hobart; BLAIR REED & CO.,
N. Zealand; or
; WILLIAM
Wellington,
MEGGITT LTD.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil anil Linseed OH Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 KING STREET, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
MEGGrrrs
UNSraonHfti
MEGGITT C?
, PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.


h
PELACO
COLLARS
No. 4—THE FI T
m
y
I
Science in cutting and shap-
ing Pelaco Collars ensures a
superior fit , which in turn,
gives a pleasing
smartness to the
wearer.
Ask for
The “Randwick” at 9d
The ‘Minerva’ (linen faced) I/-
for shape illustrated.
Height: iy z , 1%, 2, 2%tn.
Sizes 13 X to 18.
Made in Australia.
Wear Pelaco Shirts and
Pyjamas also.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing’ Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
dfh
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees 'of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticnlars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEOROE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc.,45 West 34th St. NewYork
""Si
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5/-
Prepare Your Dogs for the
Coursing' Season
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIbNS,
ABSCESSES, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
HUb
BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN, ENGINEERS,
And Everybody’s Pencil Purpose.
Sold by High-class Stationers.
df
I
ELECTROLYTICALLY-
REFINED ZINC,
h
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
bh as;
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
fdh
BV
APPOINTMENT
<?V#L
E*
TO
H.M. THE KING.
fd
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE t/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
r'K't c?'"~
* rn ir r-AND'S > «*•
A Baking Powder
Without Equal.
Light, deliciously-flavored Cakes, Scones, Pastry, etc., may
be made by even an “average” cook if
Ireland’s
Baking Powder
is used. Ireland’s is the most reliable Baking Powder,
because in the mixing of the purest ingredients procurable
each is accurately measured and used in the correct propor-
tion.
Moreover, every tin of Ireland's Baking Powder is guaran-
teed without restriction. Buy it and try it; if 3'ou are
dissatisfied return it to ,y<*ir grocer and he will refund the
purchase price.
Ask for Ireland’s Baking Powder and take no other.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
wh
©M ©FUME
©UAMOTIE©
9EGO. TRADE MARK
Ifor Dainty Home-Sewn
Lingerie and Baby Wear
is the most popular of all lingerie materials.
It comes back again and again from the
laundry pure, snowy, and fresh. There is
nothing more refined for dainty white lingerie.
Strong, pure, and perfectly woven, Tarantulle
fully repays for dainty home stitchery.
Made in three weights, Standard, Fine
and Superfine.
TOOTAL CLOTH a Fabrw
can be obtained in a fashionable range of fashionable shades.
PLAIN and CORDED —27 inches wide—every yard
selvedge marked TOOTAL CLOTH, and TOOTAL
GUARANTEED.
OTHER TOOTAL GUARANTEED LlNESTobralco,
Tootal Pique, Tootal Shirting for Women, Lissue Handker-
chiefs for Ladies, Pyramid Handkerchiefs for Men, and Tootal
Shirts made of Tootal Shirting for Men.
ALL COMMUNICATIONS TO '
MELBOURNE, G.P.O. 1035
h
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO. LTD., MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taleen oj communications insufficiently stamped,
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re cont)ibutions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Brisbane: The cutter-race between the
under-17 boys of the John Murray and a
crew from the Pioneer took place on April 16,
1914. The John Murray lads were Smith (since
enlisted), F. Hill (ditto), Jackson, Hoad, French,
C. R. Heathcote, Dnffv, Purcell (killed at Pozieres),
Hardie (he has won the M.M.), Callender (lost a
leg since then in action), Mott and Anderson (still
with the John Murray) .. .H.F.B.: Sorry, impossible.
But The Bulletin has, at various times, said a lot
on the subject... .E.O’M.: As they are both
thoroughly well backed we should accept the one
that offered the most money... .Richard Treforest:
Space out your lines. If you send in pars that are
solid junks of purple typing, the sub-editor can’t
edge his nib in to help you. Then your dazzling-
contribution goes overboard... .Inkam: (1) Don’t
know; (2) see answer to (1)....C. de M.: “There
are thousands of Indians in Fiji indentured to
plantations who now own their own block of land
and house. They grow rice, cane, bananas, etc.,
have their own fowls and ducks, and are happier as
the possessors of these than J. D. Rockefeller him-
self. What would these Indians be now had they
remained in India?” Don’t know. Perhaps that’s
what the Government of India is trying to find out
in prohibiting further indenturing... .Mawallok:
Goat yarn is as old as yesterday, and that’s as far
back as to-morrow is ahead. Rest go out on sus-
picion Trav.: (1) Can’t be helped; (2) we don’t
encourage it, but all the pen-names used by fugitive
paragraph contributors cannot be kept in mind—
especially the one you claim, which is likely to be
used by any man in the trade. Select something
original... .C. Coral: Can’t you write with a pen
instead of a pin point?....Spragg: Good man....
McC.: (1) No; (2) well, some day that crowd will
be hit and they will go to pieces like a house of
cards.... Bill Aussie: Miles off....W.B.: You’ll
grow older if you have luck....E.W. (London): No
use whatever.... J.A.Y.: From what we ean read of
it we don't want to read the rest, which we can’t
read M.A.: Very slight E.M.E.: Nothing....
R.S.: Point of the “wire” not sharply enough made.
. ...E.A.C.: Commonplace verse on a worn theme.
S.C.M.: The old jiggety-jog... .P.W.Mc.: Not
nearly up....Jerry Myer: Verse too rugged....
J.A.W.: The handwriting’s clear enough; but the
verse is crude both in matter and manner....
A.P.F.: Pretty commonplace brag.... J.V.G.: Very
small point to hang a yarn on....E.W.: Horrible
thing. Such isn’t “Life,” either... .A.S.: They
don’t appeal.... J.H.: Not up.... Hannibal: Dull.
. ...J.P.: Nicely done, but not what we want....
F.C.: “Only a Private” is sorry verse...'.K.: Too
lumpy... .Fatoe: Three rhymes won’t carry all that
mass of words... .H.B.: Perhaps we mightn’t
Scratch: Horrible verse. Can’t you get beyond the
“wore” “saw” rhymes?... .M.R.B.: Unless you can
offer a good excuse for varying the rule, a four-line
stanza should have four rhymes K.B.: Impossible.
R.L.C.: Dull yarn.. .A.C. : Not enough there.. .C.C. :
Good stuff, but wants a bit of revision... .F.B.G.:
Nothing there to justify stealing another man’s method.
Ecce: That’s been done so often before, and bettei
done... .E.J.: Stiff conventional verse... .E.Ch.F.:
Doesn’t make a yarn.... J.C.N.: No use R.S.PI.:
Doesn’t grip... .S.B.G.: Blank verse must be very
good to pass; yours is only fair.... Druid’s Oak:
Well written, but not for us.... J.H.: All brighter.
“Smiles that Follow” nearly did it....C.P.: A
long way off L.C.C.: Rather too frank Long
Point: Doesn’t convince. Somebody had to work
H.C.R. : No joy in it N.McC.:' You have an
original method:—•
Dainty little Wattle of Australia,
How do you Fair:
Up on the green Hills,
Or down in the Lair.
With your gay little Spray
AVith your Blossom so gay
AVith your bark full of wealth
To those on the land in Australia.
. ...O.B.: That’s your top note in descriptive verse
to date:—•
It was one Saturday market night,
AVe met Pat and Mike Snipe;
Come and join and have some tripe,
And sure you will be alright.
For ! Lo, before we finished our tripe,
Pat began to think he could fight;
So up he came almost tight,
Not thinking sure, with my left fell him
with my right.
Now Pat was beginning to think
That he had better do a slink;
For both eyes full, he began to blink,
And the best he could do now was to wink.
The following Saturday market night,
Pat was as. good as a juicy plum;
For never more I’ll get tight,
Of a market night my old chum.
....Teller: Moral tale of the “Bees” fails badly...
Vindictive Cabinet Maker: Not quite.... Lit: Not
bright enough. .. .Pasquin: Couldn’t you take a less
worn pen-name to tack to verses that are not up?. . . . ,
J.S.L.: Verse bumps too hard... .C.W.B.: No....
AALM.: Very lame stuff... .AV.E.Iv.: Sensible enough,
but dull and badly written... .F.T. (initials doubtful
owing to dirty handwriting) : “Conscription for
Mothers” is poor business.... H.A.tb: AVe don’t
reprint; and, in any case, that verse is far below
our standard.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
H,: Don’t copy a London Punch drawing and
borrow the joke M.F.G.: Ugly without being
funny S.T.: Too rough... . F.A.: Not well enough
drawn. .. .H.L.J.: Idea is done now, and your little
drawing can’t revive it A.E.G.S.: Cntde sketch.
. ...M.M.: The only hand shown is like a wooden sol-
dier’s. More study S.E.: Is the man strangling
the girl?. .. . J.J.: Out. .. .Bob: Hard and expression-
less .... Arnold AV.: They’re not bright ideas.
“Stuperry”: When the W.A.A.C. first
came over to France they had orders to
salute all officers, and, being very much alive
to their military establishment, they did it
punctiliously. The officers, good, sensible
chaps, reckoned that it was not quite the
thing, and decided to stop the foolishness.
The kibosh Avas applied thusly; Whenever
a Waac saluted a Scottish officer he returned
the' compliment by daintily picking up his
kilts and dropping the lady a sweet, old-
fashioned curtsey. Within a week the fol-
lowing order was promulgated to all ranks of
the Women’s Army Auxiliary Corps:—
DISCIPLINE. —The practice of saluting officers
by members of the W.A.A.C. will cease forthwith.
It did!


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME. — At the War.
4
S sfdKtsh
... jrak >*
? #•#
'W'M
= £ rf*
Ssg
*9@s;
m
m
rate
m§.
Of
yX
SfA
W?.
Ml
%
: M
Si
: X€
>aj
‘jw :
'4
r
V
v;{,S
W,
HH
f ,,K^
asss
w
X
n
7/
'//
//
&,
m
m
V
7j
y/7jy
x'fyfy /
-\y.
i
/* ..
S>
- >
w
S,.
1
m
feffei
■7" if;? ■■* V'~ f
-~. * Z- // /' ■•
4
*k .<$
JMm
\ \ \ ■> v
V
44
• Vs.
MM
vl
&>
awn
?:/
SUttlr'
SHr iSMxSwmmS
• JSS&foJ kitySmsmt
}/Mt(x.A .#s!>s(
Hml:
VslMf
4* "***-«»
#ll
*•»!
m#
i it-wvjSm'm
"*>*?
iv_
> /I s*i'? ME?*
.a m Imm
: hnmmm
till mm
;i ! .if
Nw
V
5w,.,...s w ,.,... ••
!!iffi
<44,
• • ''» •' &• .* fcif
Vaa-
-4 " ''’-• - ; -
*y %
riG
iifei
Mil®
. •■ ■ i-' -
■y^J^WG
Ts<%^C
?$&
* arj’-sh
//
///
a
' ;>
S.^sf
3S
Sgf
s
*&.
:-a : Va’4'
i
[ v »<i-. • ? * "
A
»■'- . r «jj
... K
a
•a*;
s *W | W«*» , s* , »a2»*s»r' i- : '
fiS®
« 9 «ef w '
- 4fT
~.w?s
•tfxtPT*
. ~-,<srtft«’ r '' y-V
2>54- v ~
■v""~
l^fe'.-.^*»M?wS> . ; t >.
: i
>» 'Sss§
,a p*
istt&' r ''' ' ii xa^inViii^ 1 '
|nd S«\
''•v^Sv
v. x
H Cobra,” Sfte Boot PolisK.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Stops the U-boat
Talking to
H unnish friends
In far Berlin.
As Fritz winds
His wireless in
Chunder swoops and
Rakes the deck;
Then a bomb
Completes the wreck.
D own it goes
In flame and foam.
“COBRA” sends the
Sea-hogs home.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraph}’. Cabiries-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting);—
SYDNEY >
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
"ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
BOWEN
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Heaves Melbourne, July 6.
Leaves Sydney, July 9.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, July 20.
Leaves Sydney, July 23.
MKLBOUBNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. anil \V.A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, July 2.
•Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
the '
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C. ; THOS.
WELSBY.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Olfice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Olfice: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— AY. V. RALSTON.
HEAD omen ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £116,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).,
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 86 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £.529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000) ,
Paid-up 1,'000,000 J
Uncalled Capital .. .. . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods { and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
qeorge hotel,
St. iUlda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping fte.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
[MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) ANI’
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
Next Sailing—R.M.S. MAKURA, EARLY IN AUGUST.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
Next connecting Steamer for Wellington will sail from Sydney on sth JULY.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific. ’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
i
*
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery* Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NE,W SOUTH W ALES,
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
- £3,904,860
- £2,950,000
£3,904,860
£10,759,730
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, It.C.M.G
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager,
Commonwealth
fdh
JM“3uotralra
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for a. 11
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom arfd abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Saving's Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
Al 311 mm mm m*.
Branches, and over 27 OU Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific,
Interest at
per annum
up to £300
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
PROVIDE A RESERVE FUND
by banking your surplus earnings where they
accumulate with interest at the rate of 3f per cent, per
annum, and be available when required.
Government Saving's BanK of
New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards.
Interest Limit £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State.
No Agencies at Post Office.
The Bank that Pays 31% Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
SYDNEY TO QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping at -
Townsville for
Lucinda Point,
Mourilyan and
Innisfail.)
S.S. PARINGA, June 29.
S.S. RUPARA, July 6.
S.S. MORIALTA, July 13.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Visitors are not allowed on Company’s Wharves
nor on board Company’s Steamers.
E. B. WAREHAM,
Manager.
15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
T Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. Between Melbourne and Launceston three
sailings per week.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks.
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
" VENTURA” sails 26th JUNE.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO„
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
barge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY. COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are iHued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QULENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
Lovers of real music
should own an
AMBEROLA
which plays the cele-
brated Blue Amberol
Records, thus placing
the leading musical
artists of the whole
world at your disposal.
This magnificent in-
strument has a sweet,
natural tone, and the
diamond stylus repro-
ducer renders unneces-
sary the constant
changing of needles.
Will
The “Amberola” 75, in a handsome cabinet
of either Golden Oak or Mahogany finish, is
moderately priced at £24. Inspect it at
the nearest Edison dealer’s, or write for illus-
trated catalogue, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


A Brooch of unique design
THE ROSEBUD BROOCH.
Coral—tHe
Birthday Stone
for June.
A Fine Example of the
Artist Jeweller’s Skill.
Those who seek a Gift that displays Novelty,
Daintiness and Beauty in conception, could not
wish for anything more harmonious to their
taste than the Brooch illustrated. The Rose is
carved from real Coral, most natural in effect.
The leaves and stem are of Gold, and exquisitely
chased by hand —features that combine for a
superb piece of workmanship.
This unique, carved Real Coral
Rose Brooch, 15ct. Gold, Hand
Chased,
Smaller Size, £3/3/-
A Charming and. Inexpensive Gift.
CALL AND INSPECT OR WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ORDERS BY MAIL ASSURED SATISFACTION.
STEWART DAWSON'S,
Strand Corner, Sydney.
For all Animals
The cleanest, cheapest and best way of salting your animals is
» with Leslie Salt Licks. They are' guaranteed absolutely pure, and
are put up in 51b. marble-hard blocks with a velvety surface that is
pleasant to the beasts’ tongues
They lick to the last. One block lasts one animal four months.
2
per
Block.
22/6
per Case of One
Dozen.
Wholesale from:
BUZACOTT & CO., 7-11 Market Street.
HOLDS WORTH, MACPHERSON & CO., 252 George Street.
HOOKER CHAPMAN & CO., 188 Sussex Street.
HARRY SHELLY, 185 Clarence Street.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSN. LTD., Phillip Street.
WATSON & NOBLE, 257 Sussex Street.
N.S.W. PRODUCE CO., 226 Sussex Street.
Retail
NOCK & KIRBY LTD., George Street North (near Quay).
Country Orders: Freight to be added.
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Bank!) Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 O „ „ £lO
£43 15 O „ „ £5O
£B7 lO 0 „ „ £lOO
£875 0 0 „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and interest is free of Income Tax.
6- War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and bbnefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. October, 1917
THE AUSTRALIAN
“SKANDIA”
&
%
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
m
: I
■ •• .
m
m
d~~.
1 £ 1
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON, Loftus Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, Iv.C.M.G., M.L.0.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.; Samuel
Hordern, Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, A 38,000,000
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1,000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
_The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
CAPILLARINE
1
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
It has been before the public for years, and is
daily proving its efficacy and genuineness as
a true moustache-grower. The military
“swear” by it.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AfTKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Win Fame as an Artist.
Study Drawing at Home
under Harry J Weston—Aus-
tralia’s famous commercial
artist. Every post brings
letters showing the extraordi-
nary success achieved by
pupils of the Weston School.
Beginners in art who started
the lessons “just to amuse
themselves” are turning out
work of merit and originality
beyond their most sanguine
expectations.
There is n c
reason why YOU
should not become
a successful artist
—bring II a r r y
Weston into your
home to help you.
The Weston
Course carries
students through
every phase of
Commercial Art,
and so thorough
and explicit are
the instructions,
so helpful and
personal Mr.
Weston’s criti-
cisms, that rapid
progress under
such able tuition
is certain.
“THERE’S MONEY
IN THE PEN.”
The above is
the title of the
booklet which describes in full the Weston
Postal School of Drawing both as a profession
and as a pastime. We should like you to
have a copy. Send us your name and address,
including three pennv stamps to cover postage.
The HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
54 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
fd
BBBF
11
-
II
*
)
Keep Teeth Clean la ;
aid appetite and digestion, \i
soothe your throat and stomach
with WRIGLEY’S, the famous 1
chewing sweet.
Send a box to your friend at the
front. It will give him long-lasting
refreshment through many a weary
hour. The cost is small.
Get it at Chemists* Confectioners and
stores —wherever confections are sold.
The Flavour Lasts!
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
I. C. Gambles & Coy.. Sole Australasian Agents
Commerce House
Melbourne
J
108
m
i
(S


IT’S GREAT
0
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale bv all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0., Perth,
W.A.; l)arby Auto Supplies Co. Pty.,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne; K. R. Rus-
sack, 377 a Elizabeth St.. Sydney;
Philip Frankel & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Etd., Birie
St., Adelaide.
HUNDREDS SAY SO!
“Many’s the razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM ” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKN,
654 CEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
\
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
?
31&3
NATIONAL
Motor Oils
It matters not what the
conditions of service, nor
the type of engine con-
cerned, to lubricate with
National Motor Oils is to
assure the zenith of engine
efficiency.
National Motor Oils are
of unvarying, high-grade
quality—clean, even-flow-
ing, and possessing high
flash-point and remark-
able viscosity.
Obtainable all
Garages and
Storekeepers
in 1-gal. tins, 4-gal. tins,
and barrels. Ask also for
National Motor Greases.
National Oil Co.
Ltd.,
4 Bridge Street.
Sydney.
James Wardle
and Co.,
Adelaide.
pj
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
SUPED
FCATURES
POVERTY
POINT
“Jwosp” : “Fax,” who wrote (B. 6/6/T8)
on the nasty question put to Maud Allan by
Billing, should not overlook that this man,
after dragging out the skeleton under the
excuse that he would show that the dancer
inherited certain criminal tendencies, backed
his cart and abandoned his suggestion. It is
obvious that the action hit directly at
Asquith and his pals. Billing belongs to
the Northeliffe forces, and got into the Com-
mons under their wing. In Justice Darling’s
court he really devoted his energies to push-
ing the political stunt, which had nothing to
do with the case. Darling had a sufficient
sense of fairness to stop Billing from getting
opt the names of alleged moral perverts in
circumstances which would have left them
no redress and no chance to reply. Surely
“Fax” doesn’t stand for that.
“75”: Milando Tilden, Gu.y Bates Post’s
sporting stage-manager, is a grandson of
Samuel J. Tilden, who was never President
of the U.S.A. but came near to it.
In 1876 he was the Democratic nominee and
scored the largest popular vote, but lacked
one electoral vote necessary to send him in.
Accusations of fraud were made by the
other side, and the electoral votes from
several States being contested, a decision was
given in favor of Rutherford B. Hayes.
They have a practical way in London of
encouraging stage students. At the recent
annual public performance of the Academy
of Dramatic Art, there was a year’s engage-
ment by the leading managers Vedrenne and
Eadie as a prize. The judges were author
Barrie, actor Du Maurier, and the widow of
Beerbohm Tree.
“Y.Z.”: The dullest and most stupid things
shown in our picture-theatres are in the
“Australian Gazettes.” These are supposed
to be pictorial resumes of the events of the
Commonwealth week, and if they are a
reasonable re-hash of Australian happenings
then nothing hap-
pens here that is
worth while. We
get a purposeless
scrap of football, a
section of a horse-
race precisely like
every other section
of every other
horse-race ever
presented, a Gov-
ernor or two doing
some utterly unin-
teresting thing in
the presence of a
score or so of
utterly uninterest-
ing pqpple (usually
with umbrellas
up), and a bit of
soldiering selected
with great care for
its lack of novelty.
Have we no indus-
tries in Australia
that might provide
stimulating pi c-
tures? Is there
nothing in wool-
growing, cattle-
“ Time , Please !” at
Sydney Tivoli.
Constable Billy Rego
investigates.
raising, mining and a dozen other of
our special businesses that might be more
inspiring than the spectacle of an Excellency
planting a tree or a Lord Mayor speaking
violently but silently in the presence of a
scant gathering of depressed Wesleyans?
Madge Telfer, the Sydney soprano, who
went Europewards four years ago with the
Quinlan co.. has a part in Oscar Asche’s
“Cbu Chin Chow” pantodrama. Madge puts
in her spare time at the Anzac Buffet.
Henderson, who owned the hotel at Tin
Camp, Gippsland, tells of the shameful con-
duct of the Roscoe Dramatic Company:—
It was a fearful wet week, and Thursday was the
wettest of the seven. Along towards four in the
afternoon comes a tall, dark, wet feller in a sort of
dog-skin coat, follered by three bits of wet ladies, a
wet: fat cove an’ a wet boy, an’ further oil still three
wet blokes haulin’ a small covered cart with a
shiverin’ ole bloke in a blanket pokin’ his head out
in front. Says the tall dark bloke to me: “We are
the Roscoe Dramatic Company, brothers an’ sisters
in misfortune. We are very wet. Our horse has
died on our hands. Our heavy lead is sick. Could
you, sir, provide us with accommodation ?” “I could,
for cash,” says I. The tall bloke sighed. “We have
made a collection,” he said. “We have five shillings
and sixpence. Would you, in the name of our com-
mon humanity, rent us your stable for one night for
that sum?” Struth, how wet they was! I thought
it over, an’ of kindness let ’em have the stable for
five an’ six. “Mind,” says I, “no tucker.” In all
your life you never saw a theatrical company as wet
as this one was. Well, they crowded into the stable,
an' the women took the barn end, an’ a fire was lit.
In the mornin’, early, they was up an’ off, haulin’
their cart, with the sick bloke in it, an’ it was well
on in the afternoon afore I discovered the dirty, low
trick they played me. I said no tucker fer five ’n’
six; an’ they agreed. But watcher think ? When I
come to look, blowed if the wretches hadn’t bin an’
at? a ’ole bag of carrots 1”
'’‘Harrison O.”: The manufacturer of
“General Post” earns respect by not bespat-
tering his dialogue
with epigramsi,
paradoxes and other
odds and ends of
wit. In most of the
Marie Tempest
comedies everybody
was laboriously
witty. Even those
whom the author
told us were dull
dogs could not open
their mouths with-
out making a noise
like Oscar Wilde.
Servants brought a
cocktail in one
hand and an epi-
gram in the other,
and young asses
whose intellects
were supposed to
be clothed in ten-
nis flannels fired off
more bright re-
marks in an even-
ing than an eight-
eenth-century wi t
would have deliv-
ered in a month at
Bath. Although
nobody says any-
thing very clever,
in Terry’s comedy
nearly everybody is
amusing. levity
is not necessarily
“The Scarlet Trouba-
dours,” at Sydney
Playhouse.
Reg Hawthorne in
something Dutch.
the soul of wit, and a play in which all
the characters are trying to “show off” can
become as maddening as juvenile precocity.
“Stargazer” : The aptest quotation arrived
in the Academy of Music, Ballarat, I hate
to say how many years ago, but there re-
mains a faint idea that Plain Bill Holloway
ran the company. Certainly Oily Deering
was in it. When somebody in the pit threw
an egg (she proved to be an incensed bar-
maid) it was he who got it in the ear.
Bearing his yolk bravely, he faced the audi-
ence, and holding his nose quoted: “Rich
gifts wax poor when givers prove unkind !”
“Floater”: Announcing its new show at
Melbourne Royal J.C.W. Ltd. remark that
it is not “a play of crooks and crime, but a
story of real people.” Considering that the
Firm was the first to feature the “crook” in
a long list of plays covering almost every
field of criminal enterprise, the above
declaration has an unusual gleam of humor.
“Ancient Prompter” : Winter Hall, the ex-
Christchurch (M.L.) schoolmaster, who was
wont to figure on local stages as a more or
less “heavy” father, evidently lost no time
in getting into camera-focus in America.
He is back in Australia on the films. This
time he is a paternal uncle to Mary Pidk-
ford in a just-released version of one of
Bret Harte’s out-West mining yarns.
“Winter Test”: Zola Terrell, the serious
young bare-footed dancer who specialises in
“attitudes queer and quaint,” put on her
street clothes and fled temporarily from
Sydney Tivoli last week because the manager
insisted that she should wear the gauze trous-
ers which she had on this occasion discarded.
I have seen her in the said leg-envelopes,
and there wasn’t enough of them to make. a
row about. The endurance of the stage girl
these June nights is something to marvel at.
In “Time, Please!” the show in which Zola
revolves, there is one slow Egyptian number
during which the chorus is clad in flimsy
that wouldn’t weigh down a dragon-fly. Yet
I have never heard of a stage girl dying of
pneumonia. Do show girls die, or do they
just fade away and become boardinghouse-
keepers?
“K Flat”: Verbrugghen, the imported Bel-
gian music chief who may be snatched away
from N. S. Wales Conservatorium by the
Boston Symphony Orchestra, approves of the
patriotic suggestion, made in a pamphlet
sent him, that Australia should have a
characteristic scale of its own based on the
notes of the Australian singing birds. He
thinks it might be done in a thousand years.
The pamphleteer went back to work greatly
heartened after receiving this bit of expert
encouragement.
The casual Australian turned up in a
Melb. suburban movie show the other night.
Between films the official announcer stood
up and said: “If Mr. John Jones is in the
audience, he is wanted at home immedi-
ately.” Mr. John Jones arose in the Gd.
seats. “What’s the matter?” he asked.
“You’re house is on fire,” said the announcer.
Mr. Jones sat down, and appeared to deliber-
ate, and then addressed the spruiker again.
“Hey!” he said, “if Igo out do I get my
money back?”
“0.K.”: Under the system which has ruled
up to now good voices have been trained in
everything save a clear and artistic enuncia-
tion. In many cases the foreign teachers are
not qualified to give instruction in the
national diction. The word love, for
instance, is rendered as “lof,” or “lowve” or
“lorve.” For years the instructress in sing-
ing at Melbourne University Conservatorium,
and at the Germanised Conservatorium of
the late Marshall Hall, was a German
woman who simply murdered her pupils’ dic-
tion. On the rare occasions when they
sang in “English” the words were incom-
prehensible. What we want is a Singers’
Patriotic Union, sworn to cultivate its voices
in the finest possible expression of the lan-
guage of their fathers.
“S.T.S.”: After seeing Bert Bailey’s Gran-
dad Rudd, forcible yet fairly restrained, one
is eager for his Grumpy. Will he adopt the
whole bag of pantomime tricks that got Cyril
Maude the easy laugh? It seems almost in-
evitable ; in fact, “Grandad” himself has bor-
rowed at least one of them already. And it
is understood that Bailey’s Grumpy is to be
shown mainly to the less critical audiences
that had no chance of seeing Maude. Any-
way, much repetition is bound to tend to
broadening of details. Walter Richardson,
brilliant as the perky veteran in “The New
Henrietta,” elaborates all his business more
than he did last year. And Bailey himself
supplies a bad example, in the map-of-Bris-
bane incident in “Our Selection.” Originally
it was a careless man indicating a plan with
a knife, and damaging the tablecloth in the
process; it has broadened into a fierce and
apparently intentional slashing of the cloth.
“J.F.H.” ; In London they have been specu-
lating on the next actor-knight. It is taken for
granted that there will soon be one on
account of the recent death of Sir Herbert
Tree and Sir George Alexander. Four are
supposed to be in the running: Cyril Maude,
H. E. Irving, Fred Terry and Oscar Asche.
Maude is a distant connection of the peerage,
and as he is the senior actor-manager, with
a good record, nobody will be surprised if
he is told to “rise Sir Cyril,” H. B. Irving’s
claims are that he is the greatest character
actor on the contemporary English stage
and easily the most intellectual and artistic
of London theatrical managers. But if con-
spicuous financial success were the sole
qualification, Oscar Asche would undoubtedly
be entitled to first call.
“Harrison O.”: For a comic opera to
have one or more recurring refrains —-such
as the “Merry Widow” waltz, or “My Hero”
in “The Chocolate Soldier” —is legitimate
and pleasing, but, like many a good trick,
it becomes a bore when overworked. Rudolph
Friml employed it cleverly in “High Jinks,”
the lively tune that was supposed to approxi-
mate to the perfume that set everybody a-
tingle being let loose at appropriate
moments. Fqr “You’re in Love” the same
composer manufactured a sentimental dirge
that cropped up on numerous unnecessary
occasions and seemed to cause agony to all
who intoned it. In “Katinka” he goes one
worse, with “Rackety Coo” —a noise in-
tended to suggest the passion of turtle-doves.
The tune (which recalls Sullivan) is not a
bad thing of its kind, but it happens about
every 10 minutes, and often for no apparent
reason (except, presumably, that it saved
Rudolph the trouble of writing others in its
place), so that before the evening is over it
is as unwelcome as the rate-collector who
blooms, in the autumn, tra-la. The first few
times i't comes as a rackety coup, after that
it is a mere racket.
“Smike”: Guy Post, the Yankee mummer,
has no respect for established institutions.
He has abolished the call-boy on the justifi-
able ground that no self-respecting mummer
should need an alarm-clock to jolt him into
position in a play. Post has also scrapped
the prompter, because he is superfluous in a
co. which must be word-perfect before the
opening night. However, if any actor’s
memory should go off the line, Post is
always handy to furnish the missing lan-
guage. It is one of his charming eccentrici-
ties to learn the whole play and keep within
range for this rare emergency. If you hap-
pen to “go behind” at a Post performance,
you will find him hovering about in a
nervous, anxious manner suggesting a Euro-
pean Prime Minister waiting for a royal
accouchement to take place.
“U.S.A.”: Have just seen “The Wan-
derer,” a tale of the Prodigal Son, with
Nance O’Neil playing the mother and
Jimmy O’Neil, an old American actor, the
father. The second act is a riotous sowing
of wild oats, the most prolific sower
being depicted by Australian actress
Jean Robertson. She gained immediate
recognition in New York, where the
sowing of wild oats keeps the unem-
ployed busy. She will be practically
“made” after appearing in this Belasco pro-
duction. Belasco
has been known to
interview 100 men
before picking one
for a small part.
He is to the stage
what Ince is to
pictures. But it
needed an artist to
see a successor to
Florence Reed in a
girl who had never
played a vampire
before. It is an
important role,
almost a star’s
part, as Nance
O’Neil appears only
in the first and
third acts. Nance’s
curse on her son's
enemies in the last
act is a great hand-
kerchief producer.
The play is beauti-
fully staged and has
a fine cast. The
vampire’s gorgeous
skirt, containing
Melbourne Bijou.
Paul Stanhope.
many allegoric figures', was designed by
Belasco. Included in the co. is a trninloail
of sheep, dogs, asses, etc. By the way,
Nance O’Neil has recently acquired a hus-
band, by name of Hickman. lie is not of
the co.
“0.K.”: Some unconsciously snobbish
lines in .-“General'Pest” (which professes to
be a sermon against snobbery) were not
understood by Melbourne audiences. When
the baronet complains that he is reported in
the local paper as speaking of a “shower of
mullets,” instead of “bullets,” his democratic-
ised son laughingly informs the old man that
the mistake might have been worse. “Mullets
are quite nice fish,” says the converted
bounder; “a shower of haddocks would have
sounded much more dreadful.” Now, every
non-superior English person knows that the
tasty smoked haddock is tabooed by nice
people on account of its cheapness only,
whereas the flavorless red mullet is esteemed
on account of its comparative scarcity.
Mullet, in Britain, is one of the frauds of
gastronomy. One remembers it as a fish of
no character, cooked between layers of tissue-
paper, or something, in order to give it dis-
tinction. and served with red-wine sauce,
which provides the flavor.
OLD ACTORS' HOPES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'111? fine old pro. of seventy-five
talked with the brisk young pro. of eighty.
They wondered not they were alive,
But talked of Alt in accents weighty—•
How this or that new-found professor
Was only fit to be their dresser.
“These fellows,” said the elder pro.,
With righteous indignation seething,
“tiet all the chances now, who go
Upon the boards while they are teething.
The ignorant and pert barnstormers
Crowd out experienced performers.
“•lust look at me. What I don’t know
Of acting isn’t worth the mention.
Some day in Melbourne town to show
As Hamlet is my firm intention.
But rivals intrigue to delay it
Until I am too old to play it!”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
WHERE HE EXCELLED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I will not boast of work of mine,”
Young Haresfoot said, “but in my line
I claim with confidence sincere
To have no living equal here.
“No disrespect I seek to cast
On fine old actors of the past.
Indeed, they’d beat me, so I hear,
In stuff not in my special sphere.”
I asked the pro. almost divine:
“And what’s your sphere, your special line?”
“Pure farce and comedy,” said he,
“And costume stuff and tragedy!”
VIC T OKU.
S.


■>
n
M
rr.h
< >JP . Snß • ' 1 ‘ ,«**
y
£§J
,
:• . .
H
a
kihiv;
■
•■ ...
H
■
-
- *■
m
m
HI
«Hiai
mm
m 1
m I
*
ii
5*5
i
Z
■ ;*
.1
59
Ji
m
m
y,i-
■y
Wm
Hi
m
s»
wm
ft&m
* y "
■
Value in a motor-car is
determined by the true
worth of the product in
relation to the cost to the
customer, plus service
rendered.
Studebaker cars are not
cheap cars, neither are
they low priced.
Quality does not begin wi th
cheapness, neither does
the highest price signify
VALUE
quality. Stude baker
prices are based entirely
on value—full value for
your money —a policy
successfully carried out
by Studebaker lor 65
years in every country
where vehicles are used.
Modern efficiency requires
a motor-car to stand hard
shocks and strains —con-
tinuous service—to have
good spring suspension,
ease of operation, plenty
of power with economy
of upkeep, simplicity of
design and long life.
These are all in the
Stuclebaker, and make
the name Stuclebaker
synonymous with
“VALUE.”
Stuclebaker cars are not
built from units made by
various parts-makers
they are manufactured,
not “assembled” cars.
Quality purchases of raw
materials, plus quantity
production and long
years of experience, must
produce the best
“VALUE.”
Stocks of Studebaker Cars are held by our State distributors and by Studebaker dealers throughout Australia and New
Zealand; but as these stocks are limited , and no new shipment expected before late September, it is particularly advisable
to make application for deliveries without delay .
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Leonard Corrick, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
General Motor Co., 51 Collins St„ Hobart, Tas.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui.
ur*fl'
>5
'
;;
'
s isom
v ■


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
There are plenty of reasons wliy grey hair
is not desirable, and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you should
have grey hair if you do not want it. To turn
the hair back to a natural color is really a
very simple matter. One has only to get from
the chemist two ounces of concentrate of tam-
malite and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply to the hair with a small sponge
for a few nights and the greyness will gradu-
ally disappear. This liquid is not sticky or
greasy, and does not injure the hair in any
way. It has been used for generations with
most satisfactory results by those who have
known the formula.
Blackheads Fly Away.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into gen-
eral use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a stymol tablet
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full of
hot water. After the effervescence has sub-
sided bathe the face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large
oily pores immediately close up and efface
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at intervals of four or five days
to ensure the pennanenbe of the result.
Emergency Complexions.
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull
or greasy can be made beautiful in a moment
by a perfectly harmless home recipe. If you
have no cleminite in the house, get about an
ounce from your chemist, and add only
enough water to dissolve it. The process de-
fies detection, and the result is an immediate
appearance of velvety, youthful “bloom”
which every woman desires. The effect will
last all day under the most trying conditions,
indoors or out, and renders powdering quite
unnecessary. This simple substance is also
very good for the skin, and no possible harm
can come from its regular use.
Effectually Killing Superfluous Hair.
Many women know how to remove ugly
growths of superfluous hair temporarily, but
few know how to remove it permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
used. Get about an ounce from your chemist
and apply a little directly to the objection-
able hair. The purpose of the recommended
treatment is not merely to remove the super-
fluous hair instantly, but also to kill the hair
roots completely in a comparatively short
time.
How Nature Makes New Complexions.
It is well known that the human skin is
constantly undergoing a tearing down and
building up process. With advancing years or
waning vitality this tissue-change lags: the
lifeless, soiled surface skin stays on sp long
that its owner gets a “poor coihplexion.”
Commonsense tells us this dead skin cannot
be enlivened or beautified by any cosmetic,
lotion or powder. The natural thing to do is
to actually remove the offensive skin—remove
the bad complexion. It has been found that
ordinary mercolized wax completelv absorbs
the devitalised skin, in minute particles, so
gently, gradually, as to cause no inconveni-
ence. Mercolized wax, which any chemist can
supply, is put on at night like cold cream,
and washed off in the morning. If you would
have a brilliantly beautiful and youthful com-
plexion, just use this simple treatment.
How to Have Thick and Pretty Hair.
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair bril-
liant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely, and greatly stimulates the hair-
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed quarter-pound pack-
ages. which retail at about four shillings.
However, as this is sufficient for 25 or 30
shampoos, it really works out very cheaply
in the end. [4
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking- Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
BROOKES
COFFEE ESSENCE
You’ll like if fooH
Constipation
Bowel and Stomach Disorders and resulting
Nervous Affections quickly and permanently cured
by Simple Natural Home Treatment—No Medicine
How a well-known
business man
CURED
himself permanently after many years of suffering,
is told in a 40 page Booklet, sent free to all who
send this advertisement, and 3d. postage to
J. P. GALE, 327 COLLINS ST , MELBOURNE
a
Visitors to Melbourne for the Grand National
should book accommodation NOW at the
Queen’s Arms Hotel. This line hotel is
modernly equipped to assure every comfort
and convenience. Excellent Cuisine. Situ-
ated in the heart of the city—a few seconds
from stations, amusements, public buildings, etc.
TARIFF BY THE DAY, 10/6. Bed and
Breakfast, 6/-; Dinner, 3/-; Bunch
(Special), 1/6. WRITE TO-DAY.
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL
(Late
Champion’s),
Cor. Swanston St. & Flinders Lane, MELBOURNE.
CLAUDE R. KERR, Proprietor.
See that a Box goes in your Soldier's Next Parcel.
NAZETHA PASTILLES
The Best Mouth and Throat Antiseptic,
AS A PRECAUTION AGAINST THE GERMS OF
Meningitis, Influenza, Diphtheria.
For
HUSKY THROAT, COUGHS, LOSS OF VOICE, &c.,
NAZETHA PASTILLES.
OBTAINABLE 1/6 FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
[2
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to tone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
a good night’s rest. Try a lew drops of
Phosfcrino
I THE ROYAITONIC
This is a real nerve invigorator, and will tune up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
If- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton &C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
WOLSELEY
War Service
Continues to engage the whole of the energies of
the Wolseley Factories, and we are still unable to
supply private customers.
We shall, however, be pleased to receive enquiries,
and to add your name to our rapidly-growing
Waiting List.
AGENTS:
F. H. GORDON, 140 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KELLOW FALKINER MOTOR CO., Russell Street,
Melbourne.
HOWARD CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
G. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
WORSEREY MOTORS ETD
ENGLAND,
Proprietors: VICKERS LTD.
-
n
wm
“0.L.”: The other day, at a meeting oi
Vic. Health Board, Baragwanath, of South
Melbourne, made the unsavory allegation
that a meningitis carrier, a leper and a Y.D.
case had been playing a three-handed game
of quoits together 3t the Coode Island quaran-
tine station and asked if the statement were
correct. Dr. Robertson, the chairman,
demanded notice of the question, but he was
good enough to explain that some years ago
10 lepers had been allowed to roam at large
in London, “the authorities apparently not
considering it necessary to have them iso-
lated." Medical practice which was good
enough for London “some years ago” should
of course be good enough for - Melbourne, so
why not abandon, say, the serum treatment
for diphtheria? It is rather costly, and some
years ago London hadn’t even heard of it.
“Solomon Eagle” writes :
The new Australian War Loan is to be for
£80,000,000 or £180,000,000 or £800,000,000 or
something. It doesn’t very much matter what the
amount is, seeing that, apart from the moderate
reserve which must be held against the Federal note
issue, there is in the country only about £20,000,000
of the only kind of money that is of any use in
paying our outside liabilities —imports, interest on
public and private debts, wages of soldiers, etc. And
the very small amount represents only the latest
stage on a long road of steady decrease, which
decrease must apparently go on indefinitely unless
there is a tremendous shutting down on imports
and more local industry in their place. Therefore,
let us go the whole hog, and borrow from ourselves
in one fell swoop £200,000,000, or a billion, of
our own paper money, good only for dealings among
ourselves, and not much good there unless there is
sufficient gold behind it; and let us eat paper and
drink paper, for to-morrow—which only exists on
paper and never conics in reality-—we die or else
file our schedule, which is a bit of paper with print-
ing on it. As the Scripture might have had it, but
didn’t: “Are not two Government securities sold for
a farthing, and if one of them falls to the ground it
is too much dashed trouble to pick it up again!”
“O. Blin”: The School of Hand-Loom
Weaving, established for the benefit of re-
turned soldiers, is unlikely to be spoilt by
official enthusiasm. Damaged Billjims state
that they were induced to enter the school on
the promise that they should receive 2s. a
yard plain work as soon as they became
efficient. Several who had qualified have
since left the school because they can get no
satisfactory decision about the "rate of pay.
The one or two who have stayed on are being
paid as trainees, and apparently will con-
tinue to be rewarded on that scale until their
patience expires. In excuse for the neglect,
Assistant-Minister Groom declares that “the
whole question is now being reviewed.” If
he had spelt it “revued,” he would have been
nearer the truth.
“Peter” : The Federal Government’s cam-
paign against “waste” was officially inaugu-
rated the other day by granting £1 and 10s.
a week to two female relatives of the late
Commonwealth Archivist, E. A. Petherick.
The deceased bibliophile spent a lifetime and
a fortune on a remarkable library which was
presented to Australia and is now lying in a
remote wing of Federal Parliament House.
In ordinary times Petherick’s generosity
might have inspired a similar feeling in the
Government, but as Billy Hughes and Mrs.
Billy and the baby and their retinue and Joe
Cook and his retinue had to go and visit the
King, and as the Cabinet’s petrol bill
couldn’t be charged to loans, 30s. a week was
all that could be spared.
Touching the fact that a young woman
named Sheepwash died in London recently,
G. R. Sims remarked on the rapid dis-
appearance of all. the old English surnames
that originated in terms of opprobrium.
People have been so particular of late years
that an unpleasant surname has been toned
up into something more euphonious. Bards-
ley’s book of reference includes the names
Blubber, Cleanhog, Drunkard. Felon, Hate-
christ, Hogsflesh, Mad, Measle, Milksop,
Poorflesh, Pudding, Scorchbeef, Sourale and
Sweatinbed. Time was when a man’s moni-
ker was direct evidence of character, but
while that in itself was reasonable enough
it was very often a disastrous legacy to the
family. In those good old days a child grew
up in eternal remembrance of the fact that
an ancestor had sold sour ale or burned the
dinner. Sometimes the souvenir of an offence
was too indelicate to be mentioned except at
midnight in an underground tank.
“Azack”: With reference to “E.R.P.’s”
story (B. 13/6/T8) relating how two
strangers make a visit to the Weddin
Ranges (N.S.W.) and unearthed the gold
which had been hidden there by Ben Hall
and his gang, there appears to be no doubt
that the outlaws did put a little bit away for
a ropeless day. An old man used to spend
all his time between meals hanging round
my uncle’s pub in Cobar some 10 years ago,
and when properly oiled up would proudly
relate how he was associated with the Hall
gang. He claimed to have been “amongst
those present” when the gold was hid in the
vicinity of Eugowra ; but although he had
visited the place many times since he could
not, on account of the alteration of the
appearance of the landscape,owing to farm-
ing, find the exact spot where the treasure
was concealed. That was his persistent
yarn, but perhaps he was an incurable liar.
M. E. Gousset, a French viticulturist,
whose fame in Corsica and Algiers is very
great, is visiting Australia. In a recent
report, furnished at the Premier’s request,
Gousset spoke scathingly of the industry in
the Maitland district—he declares that wine-
makers there climb into vats with dirty
boots for the purpose of scooping out the
last, of the wine, and considers the practice
“unworthy of cultured people.”
“J.Q.”: I do not agree with “Dominie
Sampson” (B. 6/6/T8) that the leaving age
for children in the elementary schools should
be raised to 16. No leaving ,age, should be
specified. Proficiency shoulu not be taken
for granted by the age of * the ptipil, but
should be assured by examination. Ip N. S.
Wales a child can leave the elementary as
soon as he passes the Q.C. exam., but he
cannot sit for this test until he is 12. The
average youngster can pass it quite easily at
14, and it would be waste of time to keep
him in a primary school any longer.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn-—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. 'Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price bv
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Ritey Sts., Sydney.
N
\
X
X
COUGH
33
3?
Cooghs.Colds.
Ci 3
croup
" w SSr,% t ftlS*
SORE THROAT^'
influenza
«<'<** ffi
IhHOaI rt i« LUNGS
1
OSE a little forethought
and catching cold can
easily be avoided.
You know the best time
to cure a cold is before
you get it.
If you are caught in the
rain and get drenched to
the skin don’t wait till
you develop a chill.
As soon as you have
changed into dry clothes
take a dose of Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy and
during the day take a couple more. If you do
this you will feel no ill effects from your wetting.
If you get your feet wet there is no reason why
it should result in a cold. The modern version
of the old saying: “A stitch in time” is:
“ Before your cold develops nip it in the bud by
treating it with Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.”
Be as careful as you may a cold will some-
times catch you before you can nip it in the bud
and it is just as well to remember that Chamber-
lain’s Cough Remedy can always be depended
upon to relieve a cold at any time.
Chemists who have sold this preparation for
nearly half a century will vouch for these facts.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has gained its
wide reputation and extensive sale by the prompt
relief of coughs and colds which it effects.
Q^Ot '^ cn ‘
Chamberlain's
COUGH REMEDY
BE PREPARED
Dike many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder has developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
can be summoned.
Those who have the interests of their family at heart keep a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, dysentery and
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bowels the attack may be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy.
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage. The excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains in the stomach for which
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied Upon to do this.
\\
Hi i ooa''
feflu ft
put
y.nn
ons
0B8" /
081 /«
rl
\
SB
MOTOR LORRIES
1-2=3 and 5 Tons
Capacities.
When you examine a Denby truck one of the things that strikes you most
forcibly is the thoroughness of its construction. The smallest bolt or nut
has the same great factor of safety for its work as the massive frame or
the sturdy axle.
Denby trucks, therefore, are practically immune from the so-called minor
troubles that do so much to affect the satisfactory service of a motor-truck.
And Denby trucks will carry their maximum load in any kind of going at
a remarkably low petrol consumption.
A. HATRICK & COMPANY, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ARC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
€>
Saddle ease and! cycling pleasure
go hand in hand —the
| BROOKS
ensures perfect comfort all the while and
the pleasure follows. of all dealers.
hfd
->P&rSSs>. - x i?SX '■
:**.<'••• •* '“' ???>.•.
2f^
- -
iiSP
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
V
Barron Falls Barron Gorge. v ~
the wonderful hinterland '
.Sunshine , Palm Trees ,
Tropical Flowers. A .glorious
season of soft sunshine
\ and Scenic splendour
A Booklet telling all about it
is yours for the asking
/*i!f in this coupon:—
\
X
\
Aomo .
\,
5.8.
Address^
x
7~0 fA<* Director of 'Xj
Intelligence &Tounsf Bureau, -
Brisbane. <3«JEEWSJ-.ANI>J
r«2*«'-~55U
«
I


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Amusement*.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing; Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
I’lVOlI THEATRE. SYDNEY
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF TIME, PLEASE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 29.
ADA REEVE
in Vaudeville.
For Six Nights and Two Matinees Only.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Theatre.
•IVOIA
THEATRE.
MELBOURNE.
THIS WEEK ONLY.
REAPPEARANCE OF ADA REEVE.
ALSO LAST NIGHTS OF
SAMPLES,
LONDON’S GIDDY SUCCESS.
Prices: 4/., 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
U E U MAJESTY ’ S, SYDNEY.
■ ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE THREE TWINS.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 20.
J. C. Williamson’s MUSICAL COMEDY CO. in
the Melodious Aviary,
CANARY COTTAGE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDNEY.
f Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF WITHIN THE LAW.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 29.
MARGARET AVYCHERLY and BRINSLEY SHAW in
THE 13th CHAIR.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at AVhite Rose.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
Commencing SATURDAY NEXT.
GUY BATES POST,
the World’s greatest English-speaking Actor, in
THE MASQUERADER,
(John Chilcote, M.P.)
Plans at Nicholson’s.
► LAYHOUSE, CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee SYDNEY JAMES.
Direction JOHN HOPKINS.
LAST FOUR NIGHTS.
CAPPELLI,
The eminent Italian operatic tenor, supported by
THE SCARLET TROUBADOURS.
Plan at Paling’s and Theatre. ’Phone City 246.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-, plus Tax.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.ffi. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
ICR MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
H
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
KATINKA.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
TJI EAT RE It OYA L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 29.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR in
THE MAN WHO CAME BACK.
The Drama that Stirred All New York.
Ring’s theatre] Melbourne.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 29.
J. & N. TAIT present
EMELIE POLINI
in
DE LUXE ANNIE.
The Greatest Dramatic Success in Recent Years.
Prices as usual.
Plans at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
3VERY EVENING. MATINEES SATURDAY 2.30.
MARY PICKFORD in
A ROMANCE OF THE REDWOODS.
GEORGE BEBAN in
THE COOK OF CANYON CAMP.
Prices as usual.
i[JOC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
> Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
PAUL STANHOPE’S MUSICAL REVUE CO.
in
DILLY DALLY.
Also Bryant and Bryant, McQuoin and Taylor,
McLean and Lee, Three Carrs and Chas. Zoli.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
|y| AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE?
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
MADAME PETROVA
LIGHT WITHIN.
Plan now open at Allan’s.
Matinees Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
gUITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.ra.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
Government Notices,
pOHMON W E A L T H OF AUBTRALI A.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE.
NOTICE.
IFar Precautions Act 1914-1916.
Requisitioning of Rabbit Skins.
1. It is notified for public information that the
Commonwealth Government has decided to requisition
rabbit skins suitable for military requirements, and
has appointed authorised agents for such purpose. i
2. The authorised agents are Wm. naughton and i
Co. of:—
255 a George Street, Syduey.
545 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Currie Street, Adelaide.
c/o A. G. Webster and Sons, Ltd., Hobart.
c/o Allan Stewart Ltd., 15 St. John Street,
Launceston.
3. The maximum prices which the authorised
agents will pay for rabbit skins requisitioned for
military purposes will be, until further notice: —
First Winter Skins, “Sleeved” .. 1/8 per lb.
First Winter Skins, “Butchered”
or “Slippered” .. .. .. 1/6 ~ ~
Second Winter and First incoming
“Sleeved” 1/6 „ „
Second Winter and First incoming
Butchered” or “Slippered” .. 1/4 „ „
The sum of 3/6 per cwt. will be allowed in addi-
tion to above prices for packing, etc.
The above prices are for skins delivered at such
places in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Hobart and
Launceston as the authorised agent orders, in
thoroughly dry condition, free from ears, meat, leg
bones and tail'bones. For skins not complying
with the foregoing specification an allowance in !
price must be made to render them equal thereto.
Typical samples of the skins required will be avail-
-1 able for inspection at the offices of the authorised
agents.
4. Terms of payment—Cash on delivery.
5. Every owner or person in possession of rabbit
skins is required to deliver them up* when called
upon so to do, at such time and place as the author-
ised agents appoint, and any owner or person in
possession of rabbit skins who refuses or fails to
comply with any requirement of the authorised
agents in connection with the requisitioning of
rabbit skins shall be guilty of an offence.
6. Owners or persons in possession of rabbit skins
are called upon to classify them and notify the
authorised agents that they are ready for inspection.
It is not proposed to requisition all rabbit skins,
but only such skins as are selected by the
authorised agents or their duly accredited
representative as being vequired for military
purposes. The classes of skins required are those
mentioned in para. 3 of this notice. All skins not
requisitioned by the authorised agents after inspec-
tion will be immediately released to the owners and
will be entirely at their disposal.
7. (1) Every authorised agent or his duly ,
accredited representative is empowered to: —
(а) ask questions and require the production!
of documents in relation to the purchase,
sale, disposal or origin of any rabbit skins,
or the actual or probable supply of rabbit
skins; and
(б) enter at any reasonable hour in the day-
time upon any premises or place in which
there are, or are believed by him to be, any
rabbit skins, and inspect any rabbit skins
therein.
(2) Any person who refuses or fails to answer
questions or produce documents asked for or required
in connection with the requisitioning of rabbit skins,
or who resists, obstructs or in any way interferes
with an authorised agent or his duly accredited
representative in the exercise of his duty in the
requisitioning of rabbit skins, shall be guilty of an
offence.
PENALTIES.
Section 6 of the War Precautions Act 1914-1916
provides that any person who contravenes or fails
to comply with an Order made in pursuance of the
Act is guilty of an offence, which may be. punishable
either summarily or upon indictment.
The maximum penalties are
Upon summary conviction, a fine not exceed-
ing One hundred pounds or imprisonment
for six months, or both;
Upon conviction on indictment, a fine of any
amount or imprisonment for any term, or
both.
G. F. PEARCE,
Minister of State for Defence.
19th June, 1918.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 20th June. 191 S.
Tenders for the Supply of Seamen’s
Blankets to the R.A.N.
TENDERS will be received until noon on
Tuesday, 9tli July, 1918, for the supply
! of 2000 Seamen’s Blankets.
| Tender forms, specifications, etc., may be
! obtained on application at the Offices of the
j Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office,
i Melbourne; the Victualling Store Officer,
j Royal Edward Victualling Yard, Pyrmont,
Sydney; and at the Naval Staff Office,
Hobart.
A. POYNTON,
For Minister of State for the Navy.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Kavy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Boot
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
insist on “ Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.
XHOR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
jD BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
&
CHOOSE
YOUR
NEXT SHOES
on a basis of QUALITY. Good
Footwear will prove its
ECONOMY.
WEAR ABBEY SHOES
and obtain satisfaction, style, fit
and comfort.
We illustrate a special Golf Shoe
in choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 40/-
Light Soles, 37/6
Made in half and full sizes, and in
three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A B BE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G. P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street.
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teetk.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by-
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as "the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCIvE, TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
ENJOY YOUR MEALS
Nothing takes the joy out of life like a
weak stomach. Tone up your stomach right
away so it will do its own proper work. Take
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills and notice the im-
proved condition of your stomach. Then
enjoy the good things that others enjoy.
These pills go deeper than a remedy that
acts on the stomach alone. Thev get at the
real cause, which is impure blood. They
make it red and healthy. The whole diges-
tive system is toned up, and where once the
sight of food was nauseating you will have
a good appetite and be able to eat without
distress.
Do not put off finding relief a single day.
Get a box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to-day
and begin the treatment at once. Price
2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s 3d.
The Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. has issued
a free book, “What to Eat and How to Eat,”
that should be in every home. It gives just
the information that you want regarding
your diet; send a post-card to Box 594
G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver —healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
/
Carter:
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dots—Small Prloa,
GENUINE must bear signature
{ $
m
m
Anaemia |
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease. In
Anaemia—or bloodlessness—
the red corpuscles are more
or less deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Therefore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
—the eyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feeling of
intense weariness pervades
the whole system. To over-
come Anaemia, the blood-
supply needs recharging with
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
m
The Wine of Life
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘Wincarnis’
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks—
gives a sparkle to the eyes—
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
•wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN k CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/S and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street. Sydney. N.S.W.


Boys and Gills
n
Do not Worry
About
Pimples
Because
Cuticura
Will Quickly
Remove Them
On rising- and retiring gently smear
the face with Cuiicura Ointment on end
of the finger. Wash off the Ointment
in five minutes with Cuticura Soap and
hot water. Continue bathing for some
minutes using the Soap freely. The
easy, speedy way to clear the skin arid
keep it clear.
Sample Each Free by Mall. Address post*
card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.’!
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE’S
sfeciAuae.
Two
C//V£3
s
0
l# s
W»|TE
for
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
The STRAND
h
320 GEORG E5 T SYDNEY
%C /10/MTER NEWCASTLE
ELEY
CARTRI DCESI
Always Reliable
i
m
I
8
m
■
ELEY .410 “Fourten”
Loaded with ELEY Smokeless Powder
ELEY .22 Lons: Rifle
“E” Brand
Bley .22 Rim
Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELEY Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S. W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. LONDON
As safe as it is effective.
Even the most delicate skin will not be
affected by the application of Thermogene —
the soft fleecy wadding which has proved
of such inestimable value in thousands of
homes in alleviating every kind of pain
caused by
Sore Throats, Colds on Chest,
Neuralgia, Toothache, Bronchitis, Lumbago, Inflam-
mation, Neuritis, Sciatica, Rheumatism. The pain
of these and other ailments can all be safely and surely
arrested by the timely
application of Thermogene
Absorbent Wadding.
Thermogene relieves by warmth
—not superficial irritation —but
the inner warmth of Nature, that
penetrates to the very seat of
trouble and arrests congestion. It
is the scientific successor of the
messy poultice and hot fomenta-
tion. Thermogene never fails to
act, and is as safe as it is sure for
young or old.
Doctors throughout . the world
recommend the use of Thermogene.
Unsolicited testimonials reach us
every day from sufferers who have
been relieved from pain by Ther-
mogene. Here is an example■
“5 Connaught Road, Margate.
“I had been under the doctor for 11
weeks for acute' rheumatism and neuritis
with no apparent result. I purchased a
box of Thermogene, and used about half
on the affected parts. To my surprise
I managed to get a good night’s rest. In
one week from first trying it I was as
well as possible. I have since used it
for my children with splendid results.
“(Signed) W. J. RADLEY.
“P.S.—I might add that a doctor in-
formed me that I have saved a little
child of mine from double pneumonia
through the quick application of
Thermogene.”
THERMOGENE
1 ABSORBENT WADDING
I
Thermogene needs no preparation. Its action can be moderated by
applying it through thin gauze, or it may be intensified by sprinkling
the wadding lightly with whisky or eau-de-Cologne. A bandage will
keep it in place, or it may be pinned or tacked to the underclothing over
the affected part. It cun be worn day and night without inconvenience
or disfigurement.
At all Chemists,
Price
FREE
Write for illustrated book on the
Thermogene treatment, which
tells how to get the best results.
Send a post-card to-day to Thermogene
Bureau, 233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.,
or ask your chemist for a copy.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
FASSETT & JOHNSON,
238 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Manufactured by:
THERMOGENE CO., LTD.,
Hayward’s Heath, Sussex, England.
British Owned and British Made by British Labor.
Don’t Be A ‘Wisher’
Some men keep on wishing they had an Onoto Self-filling
Pen so hard—that if the pen grew with the wish they
couldn't see it all.
The Onoto does not leak. It FILLS ITSELF in a (bub—without any
filler. A perfectly-balanced fountain pen—
QUIT WISHING—GET AN
Onoto
Self-filUnf
Safety Fountain
Pen
Manufacturers : Thomas De I,a
Rue & Co., I,td., Bunhill Row,
Ixmdon, E.C. Manajringr Agents:
Normak Baker & i,on&hdrst,
Sydney.
Ask (or ONOTO INK- Best for all Pens
fd
hdf
and upwards
Also ONOTO
, Vilnius lor (base
wko t" not want a Sclf-Filllnc
w Salat* Pei.,>2/6 of all Statlonars,
lawellers aid Stores.
rIIHE thing that the people should have
_l_ been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going tv
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a handf
Already there are hints about a closure of
the unfinished N. S. Wales North Coast rail-
way. It is a long, thin concern like a
starved boa-constrictor. It has only one
small branch or feeder to supply the main
emaciated snake, with traffic. There is no
connection with the tableland. The enter-
prise hugs the sea so closely in a great part
of its length that there is hardly any freight
to be picked up on the east side or it save
salt-water and fish. It was built while the
borrowing boom and the tendency to darn
the expense was at its height It was built
in part at war prices. The work was done
very slowly, and an uncompleted job which
is always hanging fire is a thing that eats
up interest and doesn’t earn money. Fur-
ther, it is two ends without a middle; and
in all the circumstances it isn’t surprising
that the Railway Commissioners have horri-
ble dreams about it
“If you want to end the war quickly, bomb
the German towns! Bomb them to a stand-
still!’’ is what a Dutch “industrial mag-
nate” was cabled as saying last week. lie
had just returned from Germany, and the
Impression of panic in the Rhine area was
strong in the Dutchman’s mind. The same
thing has been said by intelligent civilian
critics and haters of militarism for months
past Yet we continue to be doped with
optimistic military reports in which aerial
fighting figures* only as a side-show when it
figures at all. The latest newspaper warrior-
authority is Maurice, and you read yards of
Maurice without finding any mention of the
soldiers of the air. They haven’t been
drilled, or instructed in staff duties, or in the
art of tactics and the mysteries of strategy;
therefore they don’t count, in the estimation
of a Maurice. Before civilisation can be
saved from German militarism ‘it looks as
though militarism which isn’t German must
be further put into its place. Lloyd George
has done something; but the end hasn’t
been reached by a long way.
Succeeding steps in public policy approved
by Sydney Trades Council:—
1914. —Stop the election and concentrate on the
war.
1915. —The last man and the last shilling.
1916. —More men and more shillings.
1917. —Stick to voluntaryism and go on strike.
1918. —Stop the war and concentrate on knocking
oft’
Heaven knows what it will be in 1919. Ger-
many may decide that.
Even amid the dust of battle two French-
men have found time and material to start a
little sky post between London and Paris.
As an experiment they have delivered nearly
half a ton of mail at a time, and have done it
in about 2| hours. For a 200-mile run the
baby service looks well. It takes a short
cut and doesn’t have its bags stolen in
tunnels, or while the guard is away shunting
a cloud on to another line. When the finish
of the Hun disturbance throws thousands
of honest, sober, hard-working aircraft out
of their old jobs and sets them advertising
for peaceful employment, it will be the be-
ginning of the end for the train and steamer
and coach mail service, and for a good deal
of the passenger service also. Then unem-
ployed “permanent and reproductive works”
will be arrested wholesale for vagrancy,
being devoid of lawful visible means of sup-
port and being found loafing on the premises
without reasonable excuse. But a person
named Cohen will still call round for the
interest regularly, and the kid will curse
the old man who didn’t provide a sinking
fund.
A N. S. Wales pedagogue who wrote to
Sydney Telegraph (12/6/’18) voiced a very
common complaint. He has been 20 years in
the service, has qualified by bard study for
the highest certificate, and the best luck that
has come liis way is the charge of a sixth-
class bush school. He has a wife and seven
children, and his pay is less than £4 a week,
which is the minimum fixed by law for any
comparative kid who holds a blood-stained
and unlettered job as slaughterman. Still
there is a brighter side to the question. For
instance, the Public Service Board whose
job it is to curtly explain to persons like the
plaintiff that it can’t offer him anything
better than the sixth-rate bush school that
was his lot 12 years ago, consists now of 37
officials (there were only 26 a dozen years
ago), and three of them get £lOOO a year,
two £7OO a year, and others in proportion.
Then Minister James/lias promised to find
another £300,000 for Sydney University—
already the most richly-endowed institution
of its kind in Australasia. The Victorian
Public Service Board—the one that dis-
appoints the long-suffering teacher in the
next State—gets along with 10 people in-
stead of 37, and there is only one £lOOO-a-
-year boss instead of three as in the Ma State.
But the Ma State makes it a rule, by reason
of its wonderful dignity, to be more lumber-
ing and complicated and expensive and top-
heavy and corpulent and circumlocutionary
and more overloaded with sinecures than any-
body else, and someone has to pay for it. It
is always dreaming that it dwells in marble
halls and megalomania has got it down.
“Eyes Right”: A pair of full-length
“pram” cases from a militai’y hospital put
up a bit of a record lately. They managed
to get a couple of pals to push them privily
off from Headquarters one fine afternoon,
dodging! all the Red Tape entanglements
between them and freedom, and a friendly
guard put them aboard the train for the city.
Other willing hands, impressed into service
along the route, rolled them off at the Central
Station and convoyed them to a favorite pub.
After a couple of drinks there, others took
charge in relays, until the hour approached
to depart for home. By that time both in-
valids were feeling very merryhiebright, and
decided to make an evening of it—which they
did. Late that night a pair of still-prostrate
but gay soldiers were discovered by Autho-
rity slowly wheeling themselves homeward up
the main street of the village where their
hospital is planted, with frequent pauses on
the long, long trail for jest and song. It
was a great time. Still, this sort of thing
isn’t really encouraged among the helpless
victims of the war, and Authority has been
looking seriously askance ever since.


HI
■
■
es
I ■
mm.
r
Hi
»
s
am
r Your Roof
as weather-proof as your walls
YOUR building is no better than its roof. If your
building is to give protection against heat, rain,
the elements it is essential that the roof be
water-tight, wear-proof, fire retardant and insulated
against the passage of heat.
Certain
teed
• Roofing
on your building insures a snug weather-proof
home. And it does not affect the taste or odor of
water. Whether your roof is flat or gabled, large
or small, if Certain-teed, it is guaranteed by the
world’s greatest manufacturers of roofing material.
Call or write today and learn more of Certain-teed Roofing
MB. C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee Building, Sydney, N.S.W.
Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation.
SVDNET AGENTS:
John Banks & Sons Pty. Ltd.
•Tames Sandy. & Co., Ltd.
James Hardie & Co.
Wunderlich, Ltd.
=» a
hi jy -
rjivs***** - *-#
Certain-tee*
tftTi
S»3gf
•jV.\*t£s Jj
S&SsSv
S^^rlsr
m&Mi
!J2J*abil w«w»2!S
£3s
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt* Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
SPENCER-MOULTON
Three-Ribbed Tyres are, above
all, recognised for their speedy
self-adaptation to the searching
atmospheric conditions of alter-
nating intense heat and heavy
rains. They give to the running
powers of your car, just that grip
on the roads that secures the
maximum speed and safety in
blazing sun, scorching wind, or
flooding downpour.
h
dh
fd
KSjF* l *
THREE R/BB.SZ> TVjUTS
are British throughout, and you will meet their
users among the biggest motorists in all parts
of the world.
Catalogue and Price List mailed free by return.
GEO. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., LTD.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Workt : Bradford-on-Avon, Wiltn, England.
STOCKISTS:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, King Street.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, Madras Street.
P;C,B.-13SJ
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
alt metal, very strong.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
Strata
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.1i. Gun, 4.10-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in, barrels, both choke; weight,
about 6ilb. Freight paid,
£5.
If troubled with Mosquitoes
USE SKEETERBANE.
lOd. & 1/5 bottle, post free.
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
S S SK
ssea
830. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, ease-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end,
for nitre powders; weight of 12-gauge 7J to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7J to 7| lb.—-
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barre 15......... Freight paid,
tested
&4
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/2, post free.
r-r
afegP-
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grif
barrels, 2Sin., full choke, take-down system, chambered for
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight,
7 Jib. Freight paid,
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
12-gauge, similar description to 839 Freight paid,
Shot-Gun,
), nickel-steel
2}in. shells.
£ll/11/-
£ll/11/.
“KOOLAH"
SHAVING STICKS.
Delightful to use.
7d. each, post free
T
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date.
825. C. G. Bon chill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2lin, cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 711 b. Freight paid,
£B/10/.
ohmu liny.i
3s
' - C
818. Winchester Automatic Repeating Rifle,
1903 Model, special 22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges in
£7.
"“SURE CATCH,
“The Tackle that Makes
Fishing Worth While.”
h
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/7/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5 /10/-
With Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, £5/15/.
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
2Qin. round barrel, weight about s|lb Freight paid,
*5/2/6
fdh
828. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892 Model, 24in.
octagon barrel, 22-calibre rim fire; magazine takes 25 short, 20
long, or 18 long rifle cartridges; weight sJib.
Freight paid,
8 5/-
df
BA.—Browning Patent Automatic Rifle,
handles eleven 22 short smokeless cartridges; walnut stock,
pistol grip, barrel; length over all, 36in.; weight, 4-Jlb.; bead front and screw rear sight,
flitted with safety bolt; barrel may be dismounted by unscrewing quarter turn.
Freight paid,
7 31-
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and
Illustrated Sportsman’s Guide ( Catalogue Bl), also 1918 “Sure Catch’* Anglers'
Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or both lists. They
are money savers.
1C
TWSnWLmS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
7im TOB73CCOJTISTS
hf
City Sports Depot
99 Kind St also at
Tie&castfe £ Brisbane


This Little Girl Banishes her Colds with
Little PHCEBE TUBE {from a photo).
Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery
Safeguard the children. Take notice of their
colds. It is only a little cold, you say: still, it
often means a lot of suffering for the little fblk,
and worry for mothers, so be wise, and get the
best that can be had. Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery is a wonderful remedy for all Coughs,
preventing Influenza, Pneumonia and Bronchitis.
It is the safeguard of many a home. See that
your children keep bright, healthy and rosy with
the help of l)r. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Dear Sirs,—At two years of age my little
girl, Phoebe, suffered with an acute attack
of croup. I tried the usual remedies, and
evidently they did not get at the root of
the ailment, because the attack left Phoebe
a severe cough, which sometimes became
chokingly croupy at night. A friend of
mine, in whose house 1 was staying with
Phoebe, was awakened one night by one of
these frightful coughing seizures, and she
brought me in a bottle of your Dr. Shel-
don’s New Discovery, and we gave the
almost choking child a dose of the mixture.
The effect was so immediately beneficial
that I have kept Dr. Sheldon’s wonderful
remedy by me ever since. I feet that if I
•had tried it at the first, instead of trying
other so-called curative medicines, Phoebe
would not have suffered so with her cough.
Hoping that my little note of apprecia-
tion of Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery may
help other mothers to rely on your good,
simple, soundly-heaithful remedy,
I remain, yours faithfully,
(Sgd.) OLIVE B. TIBB.
Shirley, Penkevil Street, Willoughby.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
—THE MOTHER’S HELPER.
Night or day, mother is on the job. She must keep, her husband, herself and the ehil'hen
well and happy. She has her little helpers, and the best of all is Dr. Sheldon s New Discovery
for Coughs and Colds. When mother appears with Dr. Sheldon’s New; Discovery m her ham ,
coughs and colds disappear from the household. In the dead of night they work togcthe ,
arresting baby’s croupy cough ; in the morning they frighten away sonny’s cold in the head betoie
he leaves for school. When sis gets measles, mother and Dr. Sheldon s New Discoveiy keep hei
safe and comfy; and dad’s asthma has left him altogether since mother introduced hini t . Di.
Sheldon’s New Discovery. As to mother herself —oh, she hasn t ; time to be ill, so Di. Sheldo ■
New Discovery takes care of her on the very first sign of a cold lor health and happiness in,
anv household Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery and mother are the best ever. New Discovery, 1/6
and 3/- -
D? Sheldon j
New Discover
sai^Vl
aNV
SHon ojT
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, UtdJ
Circular Pointed.
Pens.
dh
Seven
Rriace Medals.
Works i Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attehtion is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. ®
SCIENCE & EXPERIENCE
must precede progress to attain per-
manent success. The scientific and
experimental work undertaken by the
SUNBEAM
Company has been continuous and is reflected
in the present productions, and also in the
SUNB EAM -COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
which has earned for it the title
Supreme on land and in the air.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St., London, England
WORKS Wolverhampton, England
Frangipanni.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
'jVT'IGHT voices in the green and humid
\ gloom
After days nectarous, and the time
of bees;
The scented night whispering as in a room,
After the sun meshed, trembling, in the trees.
The river singing softly to the night;
The wooded hills that rise beyond x'oowong;
The curving reaches in the rising light,
And the deep calm that dulls all sense of
wrong.
The night’s halls pillared by the black ot
pines;
Hydrangea masses but a purple blur;
The river still behind the gum-tree lines.
►Silencing wars and any noise or stir.
Night’s voices, solemn, calm and reverent,
Sigh, reticence and silence of the strong;
Love breathing through the frangipanni
scent
The message of its rapturous undersong.
From their green fragrant house to earth
they fall—
The frangipanni blooms whose perfumes
pass,
As pass all beauties at the urgent call
That sends a star, a flower, down to the
grass.
I drink its perfume as if scent were wine,
As I have longed to drink the world from
birth;
I know again Romance that once was mine—
The scent and light and color of the earth.
The frangipanni perfume stirs my blood,
And turns the leaves of memory hack to
truth;
And down the river on the silent flood
Return the golden galleons of youth.
And, with the breathing-in of its delight,
I see that Roman who once gave his name
Of Frangipanni to this flower of night,
That tills the heart and blood with moving
flame.
The Roman Frangipanni who broke bread
For all the poor who hungered at his gate!
Bread of the Soul by which man must be fed
Is in that flower of Love, Desire and Fate.
Drinking its scent, the deep Australian night
Gives place to night upon a distant shore—•
A palace in calm seas; dim, perfumed light;
A galley moving to the muffled oar.
A woman pale, and crocus-garmented,
And frangipanni in her blue-black hair;
And, at her breast, the waxen petals shed
Breath to the night, inviting Love to dare.
Galleys and caravels, galleons and argosies,
Bearing to Love the thefts and spoils of
chance;
War-weary conquerors upon their knees
Bringing, their spoils as guerdon of romance.
Battles of sea and land, murder and theft,
Fought by each man for breasts of ivory;
New Love made rich by lovers it bereft;
Earth robbed to swell the splendor of the
sea.
And while the late moon in a silver net
Meshed the still trees, and swung its light to
pass
Again to night, until the sun should set,
A frangipanni bud fell to the grass.
So beauty dies, yet dies not; all reborn,
These splendid children of a happy chance;
While memories are to lift the life forlorn
Back to the song and perfume or itomano e .
All that was good, since first the world was
young,
Of Rome and Athens and their clarion song—-
Youth ! Beauty ! Hope ! I find them all
among
The frangipanni petals at Toowong.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
The Waterloo Celebration.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BY appointment, Lieut. Gregory Wicks,
R.N., of his Majesty’s brig Emu —
him whom they nicknamed Pansy on
account of a girl at Gosport—met Ensign
Patrick Calder, of the 46th Regiment, in
the back parlor of Timothy Naylan’s Spotted
Dog Inn in George-street. In the dim, low-
ceiled room they sat discussing rum and
water and a certain design of Mr. Calder’s
—to the droning accompaniment of an im-
prisoned blowfly that coveted the filth and
squalor of the insanitary back yard of the
premises, as viewed through the dingy
panes of an inadequate and tightly-closed
little window.
On the previous day Governor Macquarie
had conveyed to the citizens of the Aus-
tralian metropolis the glad tidings communi-
cated to him in the letter that follows, con-
cerning the tremendous event that had taken
place seven months before. It had arrived
on the day before that in the ship Fanny:
Downing Street, 7th July, 1815.
Sir, —I am directed by Lord Bathurst to transmit
you an Extraordinary Gazette of the 22nd Ultimo,
detailing a Glorious and most important Victory
obtained over Buonaparte by the Allied Armies under
the command of the Duke of Wellington and Prince
Blucher, as well as another Gazette Published this
morning announcing the Entrance of the Allies into
Paris.—l hare, etc., Henry Goulbirn.
His Excellency had impressed upon the citi-
zens how greatly the news called for both
public and private rejoicing. And thus it
came about that, at the instigation of Ensign
Calder, these two very typical specimens of
the junior commissioned ranks of his
Majesty’s sea and land forces were come
together in order to discuss the manner in
which they might best rejoice unofficially
and privately. Mr. Calder was speaking.
“X’’ know-, Pansy, my boy, I’m d—d
sick of this heaven-forsaken town. I’ve
been stationed in one or two beastly places
at home, where I’ve been like to die of bore-
dom, but this settlement gives me the
vapors. There is nothing to do one
isn’t looking after these insufferable prison-
ers or mounting guard at Government House
under the eye of Old Solemnity. Nothing!
not a d—d thing. I’m weary to death of
it—'’pon my soul I am. Especially since
the cock-fighting was stopped.”
“ ’Tis not a very cheerful spot, Patrick,
and that’s true,” assented the pleasant-faced
Mr. Wicks. “Portsmouth itself—Port
Admiral and all—is to be preferred. ’Tis
here but one degree better than being at
sea.”
“Of course,” went on Mr. Calder, “we re
all very glad about the victory, and all that,
y‘ know —an’ so far as firing a feu-de-joie
goes, the Regiment has done its public
rejoicing. By getting very drunk to-night—
’tis half-drunk now—it will rejoice privately.
In the Mess last night half of us finished up
under the table —there w-ere so many toasts,
from the King down to the drum-major and
the band —and my head is only cooling off
now. But what I’m thinking about is how
you and I may celebrate the occasion in our
own way, an’ accordin’ to our own good
taste. You’ll be sailing before long, an’ I
think I’m booked for Port Dalrymple, so we
won’t see one another for a while. We
might make a night of it; but we’ve made so
many nights of it in this God-forsaken hole,
’twould be no novelty. What I suggest is
that we make a day of it instead.”
“A day of it?”
“We -will take a boat —you can see to
that—and a couple of dozen bottles of ale
and porter. I can get them from the Mess
waiter. In addition, we will take some
brandy and some rum. and things to eat.
You will bring a man from the Emu, and I
will bring my servant Michael Muldoon, an’
we’ll sail down the harbor, and picnic on one
of the beaches” ~
“Lord save us, Patrick —a boat! ’Tis no
noveltv to me to sail a boat down the
harbor ! Good Gad ! Why d’ye not propose
that we spend the day at Dawes’ Battery,
watching the corporal marching the reliefs?
’Twould be as reasonable for me to suggest
that as ’tis for you to propose to me to
cruise about the harbor in a
boat. No, thank ye!”
Mr. Wicks took his churchwarden pipe
from his lips, and spat disgustedly in the
sawdust. Ensign Calder leaned back and
laughed, raising his open hand in protest.
“Steady now, me bold sailor-boy-—steady
now! ’Tis what we’ll take with us in the
boat, besides the ale and the spirits and the
eatables, that’ll convince ye. How about it
if we take Mrs. Devine and Kitty Levi?
How will it be if those two lovely ladies
accompany us? What about that?”
Slowly a smile developed into a broad
grin across the sun-burnt features of
Lieutenant Wicks. He leaned back also,
and stared at his friend across the dirty
table for a moment or two, before he burst
into a shout of laughter. Then he banged his
fist upon the table in delight.
“Ho, ho, lio, Pat Calder, ye’re a genius!
Why, of course! D —n my limbs —hut that’s
another song V The lovely Peggy and the
sprightly Kitty. Ye dog, ye! Can ye get
’em. can ye?”
There was a knock at the door, which
opened a little way, and the red head of
Timothy Naylan thrust itself into the room.
“Y’r anner, Mither Calder, two
colleens do he in th’ bar, an’ afther wantin’
to see ye. Be appintment, says thim. Shall
I he afther showin’ thim in to y’r anner?”
Peggy Devine, late of Drury Lane Theatre,
and late of H.M. transport St. Helens
(female convicts), and late of the domestic
establishment of Mr. Assistant-Commissary
Biggs, where she had been “housekeeper,”
was, in 1816, before she had come down to
her inevitable level of the sly-grog shops on
the Rocks, a very handsome blonde, with
i-o<i Hp« that were not painted and blue eyes
that had as yet only a little of the hardness
of the harlot’s in them.
Kitty Levi, late of Spitalfields in the City
of London, draper’s assistant—“per ship
Hercules,” as her record on the muster-roll
of the Factory at Parramatta had it—was
little, dark and dainty, and a Jewess in
her first bloom. Her eyes were harder than
Peggy’s, but they still mixed laughter with
anxiety. Many years afterwards, as a
withered woman of sixty, with eager talons
ever reaching out for the gold of the reckless
men who threw it about in her inn at the
Turon diggings, she is described as still
holding traces of a certain old-time beauty,
especially in the black eyes that sparkled in
her nut-cracker face.
Both of them were young women, hardly
out of girlhood, each in her own way physi-
cally perfect, and both members of the
ancient profession which is so pathetically,
so inexorably and so subtly graded. And
both, in the year of Waterloo, were in almost
the topmost grade of the old and eternally
unhappy sisterhood, as it existed in New
South Wales.
“La, Mr. Calder —and, I declare, Mr.
Wicks!” simpered Peggy, in her best stage
manner. “ ’Tis kind of you, I vow, to in-
vite darling Kitty and me to come to —take
a. dish of tea with ye,” she laughed demurely.
“May I sit down? Oh.” she screamed, in a
little affectation of girlish modesty, “you
mustn't!”
Mr. Calder had sat her upon his knee,
and was helping himself to her red lips. In
a corner of the room, the late signal mid-
shipman of H.M.S. Victory at Trafalgar
was scuffling with the sprightly Kitty, who
never affected demureness.
“The blarsted hussies!” murmured host
Timothy Naylan, as he discreetly withdrew
after serving the milk-punch. “The trol-
lops! ’Tis thim thet’ll bleed thim two lads
of ivry dump an’ dollar in their pockets.
’Tis shame it is—an’ me but just afther
payin’ th’ licinse fee!”
* * * ■*
The next day but one, after an early
luncheon, his Excellency Governor Mac-
quarie assisted his lady into the saddle on
the carriage drive before the broad verandah
of Government House, mounted his own
handsome bay, and, followed at an interval
of some forty yards by two spick and span
troopers of his bodyguard, set forth on an
expedition, overland, to the signal-station
at the South Head.
In her gentle fashion. Mrs. Macquarie had
insisted upon this outing. Cares of State,
(Continued on next page.)


# lt Is sad to have to record that Sir Ralph Darling
had no such scruples as to the subsequent suspension
of George Alexander "bv the neck until he was
dead."
df
DOCTOR ADVISED OPERATION.
s
m
\
I
=sS"
i
'"N
r
Mr. F. Slatter.
Zam-Buk Completely Cured
BEFORE he found Zam-Buk, Mr. F.
Slatter had suffered months of pain-
ful torture and used all sorts of remedies
in his efforts to find relief from his
dreadful piles. Telling how, when an
operation seemed unavoidable, Zam-
Buk effected a splendid cure, Mrs. F.
Slatter, who lives at Ford Street,
Allora, Q’land, said:—“My husband
suffered terrible agony from piles. He
was unable to get about, and for six
months was laid up in terrible pain.
The doctor came and attended to him
and treated him with all sorts of medi-
cines and ointments. When he found
this treatment failed, the doctor said an
operation was necessary, but my hus-
band would not consent to this.
“His mother, who had had a very bad
leg healed by Zam-Buk, persuaded him
to try this balm. He acted on her
advice and purchased a supply. Zam-
Buk proved both soothing and healing
and gave him speedy relief. He had
only been using it a short time when all
pain, irritation and misery were ended, and the piles completely cured.”
Zain-Bnk is excellent in cases of Cuts. Bruises, Poisoned Wounds, Bad Legs,
Ulcers, Piles, Eczema, Sores, Stiff Neck, Sprains, Rheumatism, Chaps, Chilblains, Cold
Sores, Aches and Pains, and injured* '(Conditions of the skin generally. Obtainable
from all Chemists and Stores at 1/0 and 3/6 per pot.
r amßu
Soothes and heals
Sold by
Stationers and
Jew <? it £e r s
Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern
with slip • on
cap from ISA-
Standard Pat-
ternwith slip-on
cap from 12/6
Illustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a “Swan” that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using .
Every person’s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
\A/A
>WA
hfd
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen —a writing
instrument peculiarly your own.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester; Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney— (Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston pS
Street S.E. Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co.,
Inc., New York and Chicago.
u
Australian Branch:
J. A. BURKE. 5 Primrose Buildings. 255 a George Street, Sydney. «
AVON
/jL TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA.
Tlie Very Rev. father Treand N.S.H., of Rand
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured* AH
Chemists, or fltom S. Fielder, Randwick,
Sydney, 5/- ttlhl 2/6.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may gfit a licking, Are you gotng
let the Raviaher of Belgium mn witho
lifting o handf
' and the hundred-and-one little vexations in-
cidental to his position and his policy, had
lately caused his Excellency some amount
of sleeplessness. Macquarie’s nature was
too scrupulous, too keenly sensible of the
calls of duty, to permit of any easy-going
bureaucratic method of administration. His
linger must be in every pie. And often the
pies were indigestible enough to have the
same effect upon his rest as late lobster and
midnight toasted cheese might have done.
So it was to be an afternoon of fresh air,
and the enjoyment of the cool nor’-easter on
the high cliffs above the Gap, and his good
lady hoped that the good man she loved so
dearly might rest the easier for it for at
least one night.
Moreover, Mrs. Macquarie had an axe to
grind. There was nothing but kindness,
and gentleness, and love of her fellow-crea-
tures and her God in that good woman’s
composition, and she hoped this afternoon to
attain the accomplishment of another of
those merciful designs which, every day, and
often ineffectually, she sought to accomplish
through the position of her unbending, stern,
devoted, and idolising husband.
It was an imposing little cavalcade that
cantered by the road-gangs—the Governor
in a peaked forage-cap and tight blue frock-
coat with flat brass buttons; Mrs. Mac-
quarie in the long, voluminous riding-liabit
of the period ; and the two troopers, in their
light-cavalry uniforms, horse-pistols in hol-
sters on the saddle-bows, and heavy, steel-
seabbarded sabres clanking and glittering in
the sunlight on the near sides of their horses.
Macquarie would stiffly acknowledge with
raised hand the presented arms df the red-
coated sentries and the salutes of the over-
seers, whilst his lady smiled pityingly upon
the rouglily-elad convicts who sulkily raised
forefingers to forelocks as they passed by.
The two troopers, wooden-faced and im-
passive veterans of the cavalry of the Penin-
sula, scowled impartially upon prisoner and
guardian and task-masters alike.
They turned aside to look at v the little
Norfolk Island pine in the new Botan-
ical Gardens —the tall giant known
years later, and to-day, as “The
Wishing Tree”—which Mrs. Macquarie had
quite lately had removed to its present posi-
tion from the grounds of Government House.
And then they headed inland from Palmer’s
Cove (Woolloomooloo Bay), passing by Mr.
.John Palmer’s house and farm of Walla-
tnoula, to gain the South Head-road —the
old one to-day, that was then scarcely five
years made by the men of Macquarie’s old
regiment, the 73rd Highland Light Infantry.
On the heights of the Surry Hills they
drew rein to breathe their horses and to
admire the view. It was a glorious after-
noon, and the blue waters of the harbor—
with the little town gleaming whitely in the
sunlight behind Sydney Cove —lying amidst
the dark green setting of wooded points and
promontories below them, were very lovely.
11 is Excellency was charmed with the pro-
spect.
“Entrancing, my dear! Entrancing!” he
murmured to his wife, as his gaze wandered
over the beautiful, peaceful scene.
To her this seemed a favorable oppor-
tunity for the grinding of the axe. Her
request was not a trivial one. It was for a
man’s life.
“Mr. Macquarie,” she said timidly—“l
have a favor to beg of you—a favor for a
poor woman.”
Macquarie smiled, as he turned his head
from the view to look at her, his grim face
relaxing into an expression of tenderness
that few besides Mrs. Macquarie could con-
jure into it.
“My dear,” he said, “the favors you ask of
me are always for someone else. Are there
none that Mrs. Macquarie might ask for her-
self, occasionally? She seldom does, you
know. What is it, dear lady?”
“That boy, Mr. Macquarie. That poor
boy* my dear Lachlan, who is«to be put to
death to-morrow. His mother came to me
this morning, and begged me to intercede
with you for him. He is very young —not
yet eighteen. That boy, George Alexander.
Oh, my dear husband, if you had seen the
poor woman! She said you had refused to
do so. I beg of you to spare his life. I beg
it of you. That poor woman, that poor
woman!”
It was strange to see the change that
came into Macquarie’s face. One of the
troopers a few yards below them, who had
been watching the conversation he could not
hear, whispered to his comrade:
“Bleed. me, Jack ! Look at his nobs. She’s
ruffled him. Look out for squalls, says I!”
His Excellency had stiffened immediately.
The stern lines came again into his strong,
ugly face, and his brows were knit in a frown
above the clear, kindly brown eyes that had
been so soft and tender a moment or two
ago. He raised his right hand to check Mrs.
Macquarie and gathered up his reins with
the other.
“No. my dear— No! My mind is made
up. The lad must suffer the penalty of his
crime. There have been too many of such a
sort lately. He has confessed that this is
not the first occasion of his breaking into
the Government Stores at Windsor. His-
record is a bad one. He is a young repro-:
bate. He deserves liis fate —and he must
suffer it. I warned the perpetrators of such
robberies, in a General Order, that the next
one apprehended should suffer the full
penalty which the law exacts —death. He
was caught red-handed —and he fired a pistol
at the sentry. I cannot go back on my
word. I have considered the case most
earnestly. I’lease do not ask me to recon-
sider it. It is impossible, my dear wife—■
absolutely impossible. I can only say no.”
They rode on in silence, crossing the
marshes at the head of Ruslicutter’s Bay, and
making the wide detour that the Old South
Head-road leads you to make to-day. Mrs.
Macquarie wept, gently and noiselessly, for
a little while, to the evident distress of the
Governor; but, after a time, made a brave
effort at cheerfulness, and chaffed and
laughed with her dignified lord—though her
heart ached for the unhappy mother who had
pleaded with her for her son’s life.
As they came up on to the crest of the
hill above Yaucluse, she suddenly checked her
horse.
“Lachlan,” she cried, “there is a lovely
little bay somewhere about here—down below
us to the right, I think. I have often
observed it from the harbor. Could we not
ride down to it? It is very narrow, and has
a flat beach behind it. It must be some-
where down here. Do let us examine it.”
‘‘l know it, my dear,” enthusiastically
replied Macquarie. “I have been to it from
the land side. Yes —-most certainly. Follow
me, my love.”
He was infinitely pleased at this diversion
of her mind from the sad thoughts that he
knew well were darkening it, and grasped
eagerly at the opportunity of making the
most of it.
The Governor turned his horse’s head inJ:o
the scrub, calling to the troopers to follow,
and Mrs. Macquarie rode close behind him.
They walked their horses down a narrow
cattle-track, and came to the head of Parsley
Bay. As they emerged from the timber on
to a little grassy space above the white
beach they became aware of shouts of laugh-
ter, of shrill feminine voices, of sounds of
combat. And this is what they saw.
Two brawny men, red-faced and sweating,
were fighting with bare knuckles on the
sands. Behind each of them knelt two
others, slimmer and younger, who seemed to
be acting as seconds to the combatants, and
were yelling profane encouragement to their
respective principals. A white boat, with
mast stepped and sail hanging loose about it.
lay on an uneven keel where the waters
lapped the sand. Empty bottles were strewn
about the beach, and a flat rock, under a
spreading wild fig-tree on the other side, was
littered with the remnants of a feast. Two
women, young, excited, flushed and fair to
look upon, danced about the group, uttering
shrill cries and alcoholic laughter. And not
one of tlw party had on a stitch of clothing.
“My God !” gasped Macquarie.
He pulled his horse across his wife’s, so
that his own body hid the scene from her.
"Back, Mrs. Macquarie,” he cried. “Back
into the forest—instantly, I say ! Stay with
the troopers—keep them there.”
White with alarm, Mrs. Macquarie did as
he bade her, and hip Excellency sat alone on
his big bay, staring down at the astonishing
spectacle below him.
Norman Lindsay might have drawn that
picture in water-color. There was the
green background of primeval forest, the
grey and yellow and red rocks at the edge
of the white expanse of flat beach, ahd below
the roots of the trees and the tangle of
undergrowth. There was brilliant sunlight
and dark, cool shade about the little bay.
There were the two splendid musculai
gladiators—Private Michael Muldoon, oi
the -Hit h, and able-seaman Hegarty of
H.M.S Emu—bloody-faced and hot, deliver-
ing what is now known as “stoush" to one
another, with great energy. There were
the two officers kneeling on either side of
a 24-foot ring, which had been traced with
a stick in tire damp sand. And there were
the two hysterically-excited women—golden
hair and black hair damp and loose about
their shapely shoulders—leaping madly
round and round the fighters. Naked they
were, and unashamed and shameless.
Above them—like an equestrian statue,
like a god, like great Jove himself—his Ex-
cellency, Major-General Lachlan Macquarie,
Captain-General and Governor-in-Chief in
and over his Majesty’s Territory of New
South Wales.
They did not see him until he called out.
“Give it to him, Mike,” veiled Ensign
Calder. “The Army for ever !”
“Kill the leatherneck!” howled Mr.
Micks. “Down ivith the landlubber,
Hegarty!”
“Stop!” bellowed Ms Excellency, in such
a voice as he had never attained even in
his most imperative parade-ground moments.
The fighters fell apart, gaped, and in-
stantly fled to the scrub. The women
remained rooted to the ground for a second
or two. and then scuttled, squealing in ter-
ror, behind the rock that had served as a
dining-table. The two officers stood erect
at attention, and grotesquely went through
the motion of the salute, as the Governor
came riding down to them.
He sat upon the big bay, and glared at
the naked youths. After what was an eter-
nity to them, he spoke.
“Ensign Calder—l know you. And you,
sir?”
“Lieutenant Wicks, of the Emu, jour Ex-
cellency,” stammered the unhappy Pansy.
“Return to Sydney instantly. Immedi-
ately. I shall see to it that your respective
commanding-officers place j t ou both under
immediate and close arrest. You are dis-
graces to your services:—both of you. You
will come to evil ends. You will die in the
gutter.”
(His Excellency was wrong in this pro-
phetic utterance. Colonel Calder died very
gallantly at Sobraon thirty years later. And
Captain Wicks's bones are in the Arctic,
with Sir John Franklin’s.)
Macquarie turned bis horse, and rode from
the beach. “And these are the kind of
people,” he muttered bitterly 7 to himself,
“who refuse to sit at my table with Andrew
Thompson and the others!”
Silently they rode back to Sydney. Mrs.
Macquarie not daring to break in upon his
black and bitter reverie. When they dis-
mounted at the door of Government House,
and she was about to retire to her room,
he laid a hand upon her arm.
“A moment, my dear,” he said gently.
“Come into my office.” Wondering, Mrs.
Macquarie obeyed. The Governor sat down
at his writing-table, took up a pen, and
scrawled a few lines upon a sheet of paper,
in his tall, womanish handwriting. He gave
her the paper.
“To the Provost-Marshal.—The prisoner
George Alexander . now under sentence of
Death . is herehyc Reprieved from the Execu-
tion of his Sentence , until further orders. —
L. Macquarie, Gov’r.”
“Oh. God bless you, Macquarie!” cried
his wife.
The Governor shook his head wearily.
“I cannot hang this child, in the face of
what I have seen this afteruoon. His is an
exemplary character compared with those—
those two officers and gentlemen.”*
He kissed her, and went to his room to
dress for dinner.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


m*
as*.
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
- Chains in stock—wheels manu=
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book=
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
h
STER
BULL-DOG
DIE-STOCKS
HEN you screw pipe, do it with the least labor, bother
and complication possible. BULL-DOG DIE-
STOCKS give you the 5 big Oster features
fd
plus the easy-pulling ratchet.
(1) Self-locking, adjust-
able dies; (2) Self-cen-
tring guides, lever-oper-
ated; (3) Dies open up
after cut (to lift off pipe
without backing up), and
reset automatically to
size; (4) no loose bush-
ings to lose or mislay;
(5) no small, breakable
parts.
For details write Australasian
Representative,
OSTER BULL-DOG
RATCHET DIE = STOCK
No. 102 R screws six sizes
of pipe— /{in- to lj^in.
Ask your dealer to show it.
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, G.P.0., Melbourne, Australia.
The Oster Mfg. Go.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A. [3
THE 6UPPENT CALL
99
A
m
r
SOS
W^OME
fcEKHAMS f\U&
THE HOME AND OVEPSEAS PEMEDY.
.Reny^wn,.
mM
v 4
.A
Remington umc cartridges
are made and tested for every
standard make of pistol and revolver*
Their uniform accuracy and absolute
reliability make them the favourites
among shooters of this class of fire-
arm, whether used by the expert marks*
man or by the casual purchaser for
self-defence and safety.
Write for special booklet
free upon request.
REVOLVER-PISTOL
CARTRIDGES
L
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
Box 686. G. P. 0., MELBOURNE
hdf
h
SE4RK PLUG
ENERGISER
Introducing to “Bulletin” Readers
A New Electrical Device
OF
WONDERFUL UTILITY & VIRTUE
BY WHICH
Your Spark Plugs give Smoother Ignition.
Your Engine gives More Power.
Your Car gives flore Speed.
Your Whole Outfit gives More Miles per Gallon.
COUNTRY MOTORISTS especially should get
THE SPARK PLUG ENERGISER
and by its continued use practically eliminate
SPARK PLUG TROUBLE.
For ourselves we haven’t yet seen an old plug that won’t spark when fitted with THE
ENERGISER. Plugs sooted and with broken porcelains, and soaked with water, whe
thus equipped, have yielded showers of snappy sparks right across the points.
_. ptttc th'TSTT'R.GTSER IS THE WONDER OF THE WIRELESS —The
BREAKING OF A CI^UUIT— APPLIED TO THE SPARKING PLUG, thereby increas-
ing the electrical pressure, and thus forcing even a defective plug to spark.
The SPARK PLUG ENERGISER IS A SPLENDID TONIC FOR A FORD.
RETAIL PRICE: 5/6 each, 5/6 each, 5/6 each.
If von have ignition troubles, or if you w ant a better-running motor, or if you are
merely eSr oXsee The SPARK PLUG ENERGISER. .
Country Garages get in touch with this, one of the best side-lines you can possibly
SOLE
AGENTS
ROBERTO. SWAN gCO
The!
304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
House for Motor Engineers* Supplies.
STEEL CASTINGS— SpeciaI Good Quality
9
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
LTD
In ■ Bb#bJ
Victoria Street,
Richmond, Victoria.


NGROVITE”
LEATHER
THERE’S NOTHING LIXE LEATHER.”
•For efficiency under the most trying on id
tions no belt tins ever given better
tiou than
“MANGROVITE” RAWHIDE BELTING.
This famous power-transmitter and power-saver
is dependable under all conditions.
Made from the best hides procurable. Tanned
and Manufactured by the Mang-rovite Process.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square, near G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
q Le on n g
CIRCULAR vSAWkS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We Have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
lSiit. x 11, 1 Sin. x 13. iuin. v ia. Slim x 10.
2Gin. \ 11, Sfti'n. x 12, ■join. xlS, 26in. x 14.
2Siu. x 11, 2Sij), x 12. 2Sin. x 13, SOirt. x 12.
30iu. v 13, 3'2)n. \ 10. 32in. x 11. 32in. x 12.
30i n. -v I I, MSIj*, ,x I I. |2in, x 0, 12i 11. x 10.
•I2in. \ 11. Dili, x 1<J, l8fn. \ I0..
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
2GI Latrobe Street, Melbourne. l'remantle. Kalgoorlie.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide. John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
mm
QioaiSreM
■ iM
rt
niAoi s? ««*. - -***
-
Are You Getting Every
Ounce of Power?
Power is the life-blood of industry,
and in the modern plant 'great care is
taken to waste none of it.
DICK’S
Balata Belting
The Original & Genuine)
on your drives is like a sentry guard-
ing against power-loss every minute of
the dav. No profits 'siin away with
this belting. Its flexibility is greater
.than any other belt. Slipping is prac-
tically impossible because its surface
is made to grip light. Many other
features make Dick’s Balata Belting
vour best invc <tment.
Send for booklet and full particular’s.
Sole Importers
JAMES HARDIE & GO. LTD.,
Cr. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
Newcastle Agents-Paul & Cray Ltd
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING—-which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving- the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
A!!
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
-
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And a.t Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
fd
Little Monitor Petrol Engines
Specially designed for driving- Separators,- small Chaffcutters, etc.
Strong-, simple and effective. Economic in working-. Has magneto
and many late advantages over others. Only one size
made, viz., Ijh.p., and the special low price is £25) packed and
delivered free on boat or rail Melbourne. Further particulars
may be had on application. Inquiries solicited.
D. 8 W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.,
Next P. 0., Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Agents for Tomlin Incubators; Syracuse Plows, Cultivators,
etc.; Planet Jun. Implements, Kangaroo Sewing Machines,
all Poultry, Farm and Carden Requisites.
BIGGEST MAIL-ORDER HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
COUNTRY OROEUS A SPECIALTY. WRITE FOR QUOTATIONS.
p
S3A
G
MAP#?
Y
Th
O
O
2
y.
vT
:k
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Hrazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys east-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; Jib., 25/-; 30z., 7/0.
11b. Flux will braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all ove»
t ommonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED,
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (rteg.)
45 Spenser Street, SU ViTiria.
£
THE BEST
MOKE
IS
.ASTER
a« TOBACCO
h
ELECTRIC LIGHT FOR ALL
DELCO-LIGH
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks o«t Hand—
SOLE AGENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
“BANE.
mm
Ml
Jisteß 2-Stand Shearing Plant
The Outfit that “ Ssept the Poll ” in the 1917 Season.
E. 1). MoMASTEK, Esq,,, Dalkeith, Cassilis, writes, under dale 2ftii January :
“I have pleasure in stating that I have given both of the 2 Stand Portable
Crutehing Plants I purchased from you an exhaustive trial, and with the
utmost satisfaction.' They are handy to move about, economical to run, and
the Fairbanks .Morse Engine is simplicity itself. Crutehing at the different
sheep-yards is, in my opinion, a far better method than doing the work at
the woolshed, as the saving for the lambing ewes in driving alone is very
considerable.”
SCORES OF SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Order Your Plant for 1918 now to ensure getting it.
SELF LUBRICATING
BEARING
LEATHER FRICTION
cone engages smoorhly
anti silently
ioNE RECCE SPINDLE (
wihh long bearings
bofh ends
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Eagle St., Brisbane
New improved’Lister' Bracket
tor Z Stand Combined Plants
(PATCNTEO)
LISTER BRACKET.
STEAM ENGINEERS,
FACTORY OWNERS, SUGAR REFINERS.
!■£»
S'
smm e mwu diw. j
■
High Boiler Efficiency cannot be obtained with Beaky Blow-offs.
If you have not yet installed the only really reliable valve it is because you have not investigated
The “EVERLASTING” Patented VALVE
“THE LEAK-PROOF VALUE.”
Its sliding, rotating Phosphor Bronze Gate gives a scientifically correct and practically efficient
regrinding action.
That is why we can—and do—guarantee, it to remain Beak-proof for 2 years
fdh
Send for Descriptive Matter:—
Brisbane—J. B. WALLIS C£L CO.
Newcastle—ENOlNEEßS (SL COLLIERY SUPPLY CO.
Melbourne -RAMSAY (EL TREGANOWAN.
Adelaide—CHAßLES ATKINS (EL CO.
Perth-DENNY BROS.
Made in Australia by N. GUTHRIDGE ILTD., 350 George Street, Sydney; and Camperdown, N.S.W.
