

3
THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. Car. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOH—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCIIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
D
€.
5
Clc/punce <^Hcme{L-
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY /J
TRADE BILES DISCOUNTED. U
EASY TERMS & LOWEST INTEREST
N. S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.&I.C? LTP
HEAD OFFICE! 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
[Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building,
IS(i Castlereagh Street, S dncy.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.YV.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel
i
The Standard Remedy which has, outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and yfavy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write for Root
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
& GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse ail substitutes.
-JU BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post ,to lied Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
8
UOCJJ
m
u
m
. ■
M'
J.S3B 3H I
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
for INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
D
for roofs, floors, verandahs.
Malthoid is a covering of proved merit and is freely
specified by architects for roofs, etc., where only the best
' wi U suffice.
It gives service over a long period of-years, out-
lasting most other and requiring very little
expense in'upkeep.
Costs less than half the price of galvanised-iron.'
Samples and illustrated booklet mailed post free on
request.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
Write to 8 Spring Street, Sydney,
for a free copy of “The Referee,” a
booklet containing much useful and
instructive information.
SYv eeis
Supplied to the Naval and
Military Authorities of
Great Britain and
J.D.K.Z. GENEVA
ORME, KEIGWIN 00, CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sol* Agents.
The
Heart
on the Black Bottle
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD. (MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.
Gould’s Efficient Power Pumps
Triplex, Pyramid and Centrifugal— IN STOCK..
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Y01.39.—N0. 1997.]
[Thursday, May 23, 1918.
Kegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a JSewspaper.


ONOTO
Business is Business
Even your pen can be a time saver. It is foolish to use an old-fashioned dipping:
steel pen when you can use the fountain pen that fills itself and cannot leak.
Own an ONOTO--and save your time and money. A perfect writing imple-
ment that never scratches nor splutters-that is guaranteed by its makers.
Price 17/" and upwards ; Also ONOTO Valveless for those
who do not want a Self-Filling Safety Pen IJi/6
of all stationers, jewellers and stores.
Manufacturers; Thos. D* I, a Rue St Co„ Ltd., 351 Bunhill Row, London, E.C,
Managing Agents • Norman Baker & Longhurst, Sydney
Ask for ONOTO INK— Boat for all Pons
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROAT
and the Prevention of Consumption.
03
o
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
C. Th c Bronchial
Tubes of Dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
LET THE BUYER BEWARE!—The large sale for
. Eumenthol JUJUBES” has led to a number of
imitations being manufactured under the name a*
menthol and other jujubes. It is important, there-
fore, when buying to be sure and get HUDSON’S
Eumenthol Jujubes. You may be asked to buy other
jujubes, and be told they are “just as good” as
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these
imitations and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be sold on the good repute
and high character of Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold by all Chemists in Tins. Price 1/(1, or seni
post free on receipt of stamps (any State) bv-
manufacturers, ■
Hudson’s Eumenthol Chemical Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY. i?
The dames ness of Henry dames
The Red Page
The next best thing to reading Henry
James is to read The Method of Henry
James , by Joseph Warren Beach, who in an
associate capacity professes English in the
Minnesota University (Yale University
Press, also Oxford University Press, per
Sydney Book Club). Beach has done the
work extraordinarily well, and has taken
infinite pains; here is the inner Jamesness
of Henry James almost shamelessly exposed;
in fact, so close does his critic get to his
subject that the reader almost feels inclined
to call him Henry-Jim.
In the first page Beach differentiates James
from English novelists in general by the
prominence in his work of studied art. Ilis
plot develops logically without any vaga-
bondage; he discards incidents and charac-
ters interesting and picturesque in them-
selves and for themselves. James’s attitude
toward his theme is essentially artistic: the
attitude <<f Meredith and George Eliot is
essentially philosophical. These conceive
their motive as moral; James" conceives his
as the subject of a picture. The novel before
James was a sloppy, easy-going, entertaining
affair of genius: the author put into it every-
thing that interested him, and he never
worried about loose ends. Indeed his loose
ends were often the finest parts of his novel.
But James was the first novelist to aim
deliberately at preserving a consistence of
tone, “that constant reference to the centre
of all parts of the canvas.” Ills sensitive
soul abhorred loose ends.
This pictorial preoccupation of James com-
pelled him almost to do away with narra-
tive. The reader follows the story of the
persons in the ordinary novel from page to
page. But in James (lie sense of story, or
progress, is almost lost. “You have rather
a sense of being present at the gradual un-
veiling of a picture. . . . The picture was all
there from the start; there is nothing new
being produced ; there is no progress in that
sense. The stages are merely those by which
the exhibitor uncovers now one, now
another, portion of the canvas, until finally
the whole appears in its intelligible com-
pleteness .... The story is not what the
characters do, nor how the situation works
out. The story is rather the process by
which the characters and the situation is
revealed to us.”
So you waste time trying to find out
“what happens” by turning to the last page.
Roughly speaking, it’s only when you arrive
at the last page that you understand what
the story is about. It’s like putting a puzzle
together—a very clever puzzle—and fitting
in the final piece. But the pieces of card-
board that James uses are human souls.
James doles out his information in bits—■
“just enough each time to keep the reader
from deserting, never enough to satisfy or
finally enlighten him until the end.” James
really writes detective stories : in his novels
and in Sherlock Holmes the reader’s sus-
pense is constantly sustained. “You are
literally always in suspense, or at least
always curious, always clamoring for more
light.” In the ordinary novel the question
is: “What is going to happen?” In the
Jamesian novel the question is: “What is it
that did happen?”
Henry James look a keen pleasure in in-
venting puzzles for himself to solve. Ilis
habit is to tell his story through the mind
of one or more characters in his plot: never
in his mature work does he intrude in per-
son. James is fastidiously objective. The
most astounding feat in this curious game is
What Maisie Knew. Here his observer was
a little girl plunged into a remarkable set
of circumstances, through which she wanders
as through a fog. And James had to tell us
what happened through the sole channel of
the child’s innocent mind. As she wouldn’t
understand much that occurred, James had
to inform us—and does inform us very fully
- —of what the puzzled kiddie sene. Thus the
reader has the intellectual satisfaction of
translating into adult terms the meaning of
what Maisie saw ; and James had the delight
of working out the puzzle. He further com-
plicates matters in most of his works by, as
it were, masking his characters. These are
so polite, so cultured, so determined never
to give themselves away, that they play their
conversational game by camouflaging their
real emotions. The emotions are there, cun-
ningly hidden; but the reader has to read
them in between the lines of the dialogue.
There are no “scenes” in Henry James. And
his characters all speak alike. “They speak
almost without exception what we may sup-
pose to be the purest of London drawing-
room slang.” Also Beach informs us that:
“Their sentences have often the double in-
volution of metaphysics and extemporaneous
colloquialism.” So there! And every char-
acter seems to have a remorseless inquisi-
tiveness about every other. They are nearly
all as clever as Henry James.
Everybody in James’s novels lives on his
income; nobody ever appears to do any
work, or to want to do any work; and every-
body spends most, of his or her time in
beautifully-furnished drawing-rooms. James
never describes natural scenery ; his gardens
are all formal gardens, without weeds; he
has never heard of the working classes, and
the butler butlers irreproachably all his life,
and the cook never gives notice. He has
simplified his stories down to a point so fine
that they almost cease to be human stories
He is the apostle of genteel fastidiousness
“Even his fondest admirers have moments 6::
irritation with him for what must seem his
excessive good breeding, his almost spin
sterly fear of any note too loud, any seen - :
too strong. .. .There are times in which the
impatient reader is ready to damn his self
possession !”
The modern reader, who is accustomed to
take James as he is. will be surprised to
learn that his road to success has been long
and difficult. For 20 years he had to experi-
ment, disastrously, before he found his
method. His early stories were incredibly
crude. The conscientious Associate Pro-
fessor of English in Minnesota analyses
these abortive experiments. For the infor-
mation of the reader who is determined to
read James —and there are such hardy indi-
viduals—-Beach provides us with a careful
list of the worth-while essential Jamesisli
novels. His first masterpiece is The Por-
trait of a Ladi/ (18S0) —“the first of his
compositions entirely free from crudity and
the last to show the unalloyed charm of in-
genuousness.” Five years later came The
Princess Gasamassima —“a work of great
and finished beauty....a miracle of pitch
and tone. The author has at last achieved
a perfect command of the mechanics of
touch.” Beach does not think much of The
Tragic Muse. He points out, too. the re-
markable unevenness of James’s work.
Novels of great power were regularly fol-
lowed or accompanied by others distinctly
inferior. Next comes The Spoils of Poyn-
ton —-“the first absolutely pure example of
the James method.... For the first time he
was breaking completely with the tradition
of the English novel” by omitting the irrele-
vant. What Maisic Knew is technically the
most remarkable of his works, humanly
appealing, too, but too horribly clever. In
The Awkward Age the author is too obvi-
ously showing his cleverness —“the story
fails to take hold of us emotionally.” The
Sacred Fount is also too much of a mere
technical exercise; and James himself has
excluded it from his collected edition.
But his best work, according to the editor,
is to be found in his final full-length novels,
The Wings of the Dove, The Ambassadors
and The Golden Bowl, though the first of
this trio is less satisfying than the others.
To this list this page ventures to add the
eeriest ghost story in English fiction, The
Turn of the Screw. Of this yarn Beach
says: “It is almost unparalleled in its effects
of supernatural terror secured without any
resort to the devices of twilight fears and
bugbear phrases.”
The only matter lacking in this consci-
entious and acute analysis is a proper appre-
ciation of Henry James’s style. His services
to the modern novel are immense. He has
killed for ever the style of dialogue which is
spattered with “He said” and “She re-
sponded.” James’s characters do not say,
they responsively muse, or partly explain, or
turn it over, or continue to piece it out, or
had meanwhile thought. . . .And James has
labored over language till he has learnt how
to make it express the finest, most subtle
shades of meaning with a precision remark-
able. And the James style is horribly catch-
ing : even his critic has caught it —badly.
You can always tell in any modern novel
at what particular chapter the author has
been reading Henry James. The infection is
inescapable. And the young Australian
author who ventures to dip into James will
find herself for weeks afterwards writing
Henryjamesisms.
Fiction
World Without End, by Walter E. Crisp
(Ouseley, per Dymock’s Library), is surely
wrongly titled: Words Without End would
better designate this extraordinary volume
of 750 closely-printed pages. Crisp holds
the long-distance record in fiction; he is
diffuse, tedious and sloppy in style; his
novel is an amazing mixture of intricate
plot and spiritualism, and its construction
is devoid of any inner unity. But he con-
trives to be interesting, and, given the
leisure, a reader will be sufficiently intrigued
to read on to the disappointing end. Yet if
Crisp were only crisp !
_ The author occupies 100 pages in setting
his scene, after which things begin to hap-
pen. The hero is a rich young man deeply
interested in the occult. He has been cur
ously, and absurdly, educated according t
the terms of his father’s will. By means o
a mysterious drug this youth is enabled t
leave his material body and adventure on
the astral plane. There, of course, he meet
his spiritual soul-mate, a most prolix anc
tedious female spirit, who carries on elab
orate discussions about the future life, ant
whose revelations of the spiritual plane ar
about as illuminating as those of the five
bob medium. But, after she has set him ai
absurd task to do on earth, she fades out o
the story. Evidently the author belatedly
discovered what a bore this spirit female was
and the novel that promised to deal interest
iogly with spiritualism becomes a mere mun
dane novel of adventure.
The task she set Ringbolt, the hero, was
to release the soul of an unfortunate materi-
alist. She takes him to a vault, passing, as
they were spirits, directly through the mass-
ive walls. “On a stone slab stood a massive
coffin. Grouching at its foot was the astral
form of a man, his attitude betokening un-
utterable despair.” lie was a materialist in
life, and owing to his body being preserved
from decay inside its leaden coffin, his dis-
embodied soul was in the power of an evi'
spirit; and he would be compelled to remain
there until his body decayed. The spirit
charged the youth to release that soul by
boring holes through the coffin, admitting the
air. Ringbolt does the job, and drops into
the middle of a German plot to secrete rifles
in England for the impending war. Though
his spirit-cobber intrudes with long-winded
arguments about religion, the plot goes
briskly on. Each situation as it occurs is
depicted from every side, and retold from
the view-point of each actor. Minute
points are elaborated to a wearisome degree,
yet the author accounts for every trivial
incident, whether it bears on his "story or
not. And the digressions! In one tremen-
dous one the author practically re-writes
the German spy’s big book, proving that the
God of the Hebrews has become the God of
the Germans. In other side-shows the pro-
blem of the existence of evil, the theory of
the birth of the human soul .and the pro-
phecy that women will rule the earth are
meticulously argued out. Our troubles!
The author is no philosopher; but he can
tell a good detective story, though at inter-
minable length. The plotting of a gang of
German spies to secrete their big store of
rifles, the counter-plotting of Ringbolt and
his friends, the two innocent girls who are
caught in the swirl of events, the revelations
—though after the event —of the German
plans prior to the outbreak of the war —-all
these are interesting.
Ultimately Ringbolt and the girl he
loves—there is no hint that his astral
sweetheart is jealous—are caught in the
onrush of the Germans at Brussels, whither
most of the German gang have migrated.
And though it is not the policy* of this page
to give away the ending of a novel, excep-
tion may be made here, since readers of this
novel may not get half-way through it. To
satisfy a legitimate curiosity it may be
said that both Ringbolt and the English girl,
who never knows that she is loved by him,
are horribly murdered by the German plot-
ters. That’s all —a quarter of a million
words about very little. Crisp should be
prosecuted for the waste of paper in wai*-
time England.
Re-naming Our Birds
In response to various contributors the list
of Australian birds that need re-christening
is reprinted. Many suggestions have already
been received, but there must be others; and
it is hoped that these will be submitted to
this page as early as possible, in order that
the suggestions may be sent to a Birdologist
and Bird-bard Committee for a standardised
list.
The list subjoined refers only to familiar birds.
The vernacular names are those at present used by
the Royal Australasian Ornithologists’ Union (Check-
list, 1913) ; and, in the interests of popular identifi-
cation, local names are bracketed instead of the
scientific titles:—
Names fob Correction.
Blue-bellied Lorikeet (Blue Mountain, Rainbow
Lory).
Crimson-bellied Parrot (Blue-Bonnet, Bull-oak).
Warbling Grass-Parrot (Love-Bird, Becherrygah).
Australian Brown Flycatcher (.Tacky Winter,
Stump-Bird) and other lengthily-named members of
tlie Flycatcher family.
White-throated Fly eater (Bush Canary) and other
members of the genus Gerygone.
Yellow-bellied Shrike-Tit (Yellow-Hammer, Crested
Tit).
Yellow-Breasted Whistler, Rufous-breasted Whistler
(Mock Whip-birds, Tliunder-bfrds, Bush CanaVies,
Joy-birds) and other members of the musical genus
Pachycephala.
Black-faced Cuckoo-shrike (Summer-bird, Blue-
Jay, Blue Pigeon).
White-shouldered Caterpillar-eater (Peewee-Lark).
Spotted Ground-Bird (Ground-Dove, Pigeon) and
other members of indefinitely-named genus Cinclo-
soma, \
Chestnut-rumped 'Ground-Wren (Ground-Warbler).
White-browed Field-Wren (Field-Warbler, Stink-
Bird). V
White-fronted Bush-Chat (Tang, Nun, Tintac) and
other members af the genus Epthianura.
Golden-headed Fantail- Warbler (Corn-Bird).
Tit-Warblers (Tomtits) carrying the adjective
“ramped.’’
Pardalotes (Chip-chips, Ground-Diamonds).
Honey-Birds generally, especially the Sanguineous—
Iloney-eatcr (Blood-Bird), and White-bearded, Honey-
eater (Yellow-wings).
Bell-Magpies (Crow-Shrikes, Scrub-Magpies).
J*
“Yabaroo,” the compiler of A Vocabulary of the
Aborigines of N. If. Australia (Barnard, Barrack-
street, Perth, 1899), forwards that publication, con-
taining a useful list of aboriginal names of birds.
“A.H.C.”: Permit me, while the Red Page cam-
paign for better names for our bush birds is yet in
progress, to pass on some observations by that great-
hearted child-lover and bird-lover, the late lamented
“Jimmie Pannikin.” I had called the attention of
Inspector Fraser to the subject, and this is what he
had to say in reply:—
“Was most interested in the note re bird names on
the Red Page, and certainly think something decent
should result. I’m afraid, however, that the bush
bairnies will be of little use in the scheme, much as
they love the birds; different localities, different dis-
tricts, etc., will show wide variation in the names
evolved by kiddies. The names given (or taken) by
the birds themselves will have to be translated (or,,
rather, reproduced) by folk with true ears. Some
Abo.-writers regard the leatherhead's guttural squawk
as me-10-dious! Nevertheless, it’s high time that
bird-lovers got to work to rechristen —and right-
christen —many Australian birds. Some of the names
are as awkward and ungainly as a Scotch compound
noun in the possessive case quoted to us often by a
teacher with twinkling eyes— i.e., ‘the man-whom-
you-met-yesterday-afternoon’s girl!' I once offered
half a crown (a big offer for a man named Donald
Fraser, and closely related to the Ogilvies, Auchter-
lonies, Methuens, etc.) in a small bush school for the
best child-given name to any bird known by the
pupils. A third-class girl, aged about 10, called the
willy-wagtail Perpetual-motion Bird, and won my
money.”
The Triumph of Futurism
It is becoming gradually apparent that
modern warfare cannot be pictured in con-
ventional art: it is too shapeless, too crude,
too mechanical, too full of angles, too full of
motion. The pretty and dramatic pictures
that used to be made of war—our galleries
are full of them —utterly fail to represent
this modern ironmongery biff. It has been left
to the only possible method, that of the post-
impressionists, the cubists, the futurists to'
give us the full meaning of this war. The
futurists builded better than they knew:
there is only one art of war, and Marinetti
is its prophet.
The first English futurist artist to grasp
this fact —there are plenty of examples
among the French—is C. R. W. Nevinson.
This artist was trained at the Slade School;
but the Post-Impressionist exhibition in
England, and the personal acquaintance of
Picasso and the other leaders of the new
movement, converted him to the expressionist
theory with its doctrine of significant form,
in opposition to the popular school with the
imitative representation of Nature as its
chief aim. lie remains to-day the most faith-
ful and consistent of the English adherents
of Futurism. His fate might have been to
develop into those monstrosities of variegated
triangles, arcs and parallelograms that mas-
queraded as the only possible art of the
future. The war saved him from that, and
made him the greatest English artist of the
war. Says a critic : “Were there ever objects
more appropriate for geometrical composi-
tion, for statement in terms of angles, curves
or cubes, than guns and gun-carriages,
lorries, planks and sleepers, aeroplanes,
searchlights, the parallel rifles of a line of
troops on the march? The very steel hel-
mets of the men in the trenches are so many
ready-made arcs.... Before 1914 Nevinson
could paint with entire appropriateness-
chimneys and cranes, the gaunt high walls of
factories in grimy industrial towns. These
were among the hard and essential facts of
early 20th century life, the environment
which was shaping the lives of millions of
20th century men and women. But war
came. . .. ”
Nevinson enlisted in 1914, but in 1916 he
was invalided out of the army owing to rheu-
matic fever. And in that year he exhibited
in London a remarkable collection of pic-
tures which by general agreement were pro-
claimed as showing with unexampled earnest-
ness and truth what modern war was like.
The War Office selected him to go back to
the Front as its official artist. Seventeen
of these wonderful paintings, reproduced in
color, form the first part of British Artists
at the Front (Cotjntby Life, London: 55.).
Many of these are the property of the Im-
perial War Museum.
There are three exquisite pictures of aero-
planes, and one of Brigade Headquarters, in
which Nevinsoirs futurist methods are hardly
in evidence. But his “Roads of France”
series could only be painted by this method.
There are three groups of soldiers that are
remarkable achievements in realism; they
arc as real as the “Bursting Shell,” the quaint
geometrical composition of the Baupaume-
Arras road, or the acres of flooded shell-holes
which make up the dreary picture of Flan-
ders.
•
“Wart’s" suggestion to block the habit of Aus-
tralian weeklies of securing cheap syndicated serials
and scissoring the English and American magazines
instead of paying Australian writers: Why should not
Australian papers be obliged to pay a minimum space
rate of, say, two pounds per thousand for all copy
not written in the office? If the copy is scissored
from imported magazines, etc., the amount could be
paid to the Government, in the form of duty. In the
case of the syndicated serial, the difference could be
paid to the Government. Something of this sort
would hit the whole arrangement of free and cheap
copy; and if editors found themselves faced with
the question of paying for the stolen matter perhaps
the Australia* writer would get a fair deal.


vce
No. YRs. —2iin. Brim, Cut edge—Black,
Brown, Fawn, Slate, Steel, Grey—
-10/6, 12/6, 16/6, 18/6, 20/-
if
m
H
lillS
Of?
No. YR22. Felt Hat, American made. 2,
2J, 21 in. Brim. Cut edge—Black, Brown,
Fawn, Slate, Steel 21/-
T "'
No. YR3. 2jin. Brim. Cut edge—Black,
Brown. Slate, Steel, Light Brown, Light and
Dark Green —
6/9, 9/6, 12/6, 16/6, 18/6
No. YR23. Stetson’s American Velour, 2jin.
Brim— Black, Brown, Natural (Light Fawn),
Pearl, Slate 39 /Q
No. YRI7. 2Jin. Brim. Cut edge—Black,
Dark Brown, Light Brown, Fawn, Slate —
16/6, 18/6, 21/-
No. YRIS. 2Jin. Brim. Cut edge. 2jin.
Band. Bow side or back—Black, Fawn,
Brown, Smoke, Steel, 10/6, 12/6, 14/6
No. YR24. English Velour. 2iri., 2iin.
Btim. Out edge—Black. Brown, Slate —
12/6, 14/6, 20/-
Black, Brown, Slate, Fawn .... 29/6
No. YR7. 2}in. Brim. Welted edge—Black,
Light Brown, Dark Brown, Slate, Steel,
Fawn 10/6, 14/6, 16/6, 25/-
WEITE for a copy of
MEN’S MATTERS,
gratis and post free.
This timely publication will
greatly interest men who want
to dress well without incurring
a heavy expenditure. The latest
styles of Men’s Wear are illus-
trated, and a perusal will prove
an object-lesson in economy.
NTHONY HORDERNS’
Men’s Hats are noted
. for their long-wearing
and shape-retaining qualities,
and can be relied on always to
look well. When ordering from
the country give number, color
and size, and to remittance add
postage: 6d. N.S.W., Bd. other
States.
Jy,.
i ■ "SM
mm
No. YRIO.- —2/in. Brim. Turnover edge.
2in. Band. Bow at b .ck or side—Black,
Brown, Light and Dark Green, Smoke, Steel,
Slate, Drab —-
12/6, 14/6, 16/6, 18/6
No. YRI9. 2Jin. Brim. Turnover edge—
Black, Brown, Green, Fawn, Slate—
-12/6, 16/6, 18/6
No. YRI4. 2|in. Brim. Cut edge. 2in.
Band. Bow at side—Dark Brown, Light
Brown, Bronze, Slate, Fawn, 12/6, 16/6
No. YRI6. 2iin. Brim. Cut edge—Dark
Brown, Bronze, Light Brown, Slate, 12/6
No. YRII. 2in. Brim. Welted edge—Black,
Brown, Fawn, Slate 10/6, 12/6
No. YRIB. — 2|in. Brim. Cut edge. 2jin.
Band—Black, Brown, Slate, Steel, Fawn —
6/9, 9/6, 12/6
, i*
m
No. YR27. English Velour, 2,2 J, 2if in.
Brim—Black, Brown, Slate, Fawn .. 25/-
E CONOMY, allied with Excellence, is the basic principle which
governs everything that comes under the influence of
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES. Men
from all parts of Australia consistently select their requirements
at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM, where the stocks are so
diversified that they meet the requirements of every section of the
community. The department at the NEW PALACE EMPORIUM
devoted to Men’s Hats is popular with those who expect the best
value for their money. Here are a few selections.
No. YRI2. 2jin. Brim. Cut edge. 2Jin.
Band, Bow at side—-Black, Dark Brown,
Fawn, Smoke, Slate, Steel, and Beaver—
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
.SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


c Che c New
Qossarm
that rivals
famous
Qbssard
-v~
m~i
■
>
if
V
Made in the
United States and
Canada
Worn with health and
comfort by women
the world over
.r \
14
The Original Front-Lacing Corsets
A perfect front —a perfect back —a perfect corset. Gossards are inimitable.
Women of every figure find Gossard Corsets graceful, youthful, perfect
in every detail. The new Gossard front gives the tapering waistline,
eliminates all appearance Of fat or thickness at the front, and assures
perfect freedom of the diaphragm, though never permitting an accumu-
lation of flesh.
Gossard Corsets are not high priced. There is the utmost in quality
in every Gossard, therefore it is practicing true economy to buy them at
any price you may pay.
Priced at 12/6 and up
Beautiful women are healthy women, and health is the first consideration
in the designing of Gossard Corsets. In a Gossard your health is safe-
guarded and you are assured a priceless, all-day corset comfort.
Every Gossard is guaranteed to give satisfactory wearing service and to
retain its original lines until it is worn out.
The name Gossard on the inside of the corset is your guarantee of the
original—insist upon it.
There are stores in every city selling genuine Gossard Corsets. Beware
of substitutes. It is unsafe to simply ask for a front-lacing corset —
ask for a Gossard and be sure that the name Gossard is on the inside.
Look for this name
(Jossard
A Gossard will
every figure
The H. W. Gossard Co., Inc.
Largest Makers of Fine Corsets
Toronto CHICAGO NEW YORK buenos aires
Look for this name
frQssard
A Gossard is so easy to put on
There are many Gossard Corsets designed for every type of figure; in
a Gossard any woman may attain the ideal proportions of her type
and that youthfulness of outline that makes possible the wearing of
model suits and frocks without the tedium and expense of alterations.
/7 Wear* 9
fjossdrd
U C O R-sSE/TS
They Lace In Front
’
You stand before your mirror, seeing and adjusting your lacings to
obtain a flat abdomen, a curve under the bust and perfect freedom
above the waistline, and so retain in your oldest Gossard the same
lines you had when the corset was new..
i
>
m
jk
■
% :
Ideal Figure
Tall Slender
Ideal Figure
Short Slender
Ideal Figure
Tall Heavy
Ideal Figure
Short Heavy
Ideal Figure
Average
Ideal Figure
Large Below Waist
Ideal Figure
Large Above Waist
Ideal Figure
Short Waisted
Ideal Figure
Curved Back


t-i
lllllllfllln-iri.Tiriimll
Hat by Mirette,
104, IVardonr Street,
JLbndon, IV.
Photo: Miss Gina Paler me,
by IVrather &• Buys.
“ It is trying to a woman’s,
patience,” writes a lady,:
“ to find that the Tulle]
one was told in the shop I
was rainproof went alii
anyhow at the first siglit|
of rain. It took me a|
long time to find the Tulle?
that really is rainproof |
—Dynamo—and it will
take a long time before I
accept any other kind
again.”
MEVICR accept an
imitation in place
of Dynamo Rainproof
Tulle—there is no need to.
And the difference in
durability is so great that
it is worth a little trouble
to be sure you get the
genuine.
Dynamo Tulle is not only rain-
proof. It is sunproof. It is colour-
fast. It is fadeless. Any lady who
has tried it will tell you that Dynamo
is by far the most durable and
economical Tulle you can get.
Dynamo
Tulle Scarves
For Scarves, Dynamo is the one Tulle
which gives you that sheer,crisp, fresh-
iookitig effect, and adds that dis-
tinctive touch of smartness which
ladies so much admire. You will
need a scarf for the seaside—be sure
it is made of “ Dynamo ” Tulle. It
is wonderfully' durable —it can be
worn over and over again.
Ask for Dynamo Rainproof Tulle—
and see that you get it. Every shop
can supply.
am*
RAINPROOF
Tulle
The best Milliners always use “ Dynamo
Rainproof Tulle. The best Stores sell it by
the yard. Ask for it by name and decline
to be put off with so-called -* just-as-good "
kinds, which only cause annoyance and extra
expense.
36 ins. wide. In black and white and all
fashionable shades.
Sold at all Prices
If any difficulty in obtaining send P.O.
stating- quantity, colour, and price per yard
to “ Dynamo” Enquiry Dept.,
t. arlton House, York Street,
V Sydney.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint bv Exzorma- —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from
Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/ & 2/6.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
a Tail tjt? Teik..
&isV<Xti,clxiQ Jess's* ?
" : - : .' ’Restore lAr
i&if
S&r
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
11
10
<>
9
8
Westc/ox
big ben
7
6 3
A Clock of His Word
M\\m\
Big Ben heads the
Westclox family of punc-
tual alarms. He measures
your busy minutes in a
business-like way—he’s
your sentinel of time by
night—he wakes you of
a morning any time you
say.
You can trust Big Ben for that
early call. He’s a clock of his
word: he obeys.
Big Ben’s pleasing face, his
cheery ring and his punctual
habits are family traits of all
Westclox alarms. The Western
Clock Co. builds them all in a
patented, better way. Needle-
fine pivots of polished steel
greatly reduce friction. Westclox
are built for successful careers.
Big Ben is seven inches tall and
every inch reliable. He rings steadily
for five minutes or intermittently for
ten. Your clock dealer will be glad to
show him. He’s yours at 15/-. And
you’ll like him better every day.
Western Clock Co —makers of Westclox
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
Big Ben 151-, Baby Ben 151-, America 716, Sleep-Meter 1016, Boyproof Watch 716.
ACCESSORIES
For Your Tool Kit
In times of emergency when repair shops
are miles away, you are not helpless, f
provided you carry a Repair Kit, V
supplied with Firestone Accessories. ?
Hook-On Outside Gaiters for i-
straight side or clincher tyres;
Lace*On Outside Gaiters for any
tyre; Blow-out Patches; Hold-
fast Cementless Tube Patches;
Pumps; ‘‘Cure-Cut” Cement;
Firestone Tyre Tape; Air
Pressure Gauges;Tyre Mica;
Valve Parts, etc.
>Small things to carry, big
things to have, when
troubles come.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd,, Adel-
aide, South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.,
Perth, West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing
Co., Brisbane, Queens-
land.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd.,
Wanganui and Wel-
lington, New, Zealand.
Obtainable at all
Garages.
Write for Illustra-
ted Literature.
«L
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Gardener.
Within this garden space are set
Sweet mignonette and violet,
Sunk deep in mould ; at dawn and night
Their leaves dew-wet.
Who set them in the kindly loam
Lies buried ’neatli the clover-foam
Of alien meadows, far. away
From his loved home.
’lf it be glory thus to pass
For Honor’s sake, and ’neatli the grass
Red-wounded lie, then he, in truth,
Great glory has.
Yet, blossoms that he loved and set! —
Sweet mignonette, sweet violet-
Not Honor’s self, nor Glory’s crown
Can stay regret.
’Twixt bud of leaf and fall of leaf.
Why should Fate in an hour so brief
Wreck flower and flower, and nurse
alone
The cypress—Grief?
He is not gone—not all of him ;
For trees havf* memories ; leaf and limb
Shall breathe his name, and grateful
flowers
At twilight dim.
Even as these blooms, he left behind
Some fragrance, subtle and refined—-
A memoried sweetness that shall haunt
Tree, flower and wind. ‘
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
Reservoir.
Out away by Reservoir the skylark’s song
is ringing
(Oh, the lifted hills of Reservoir where earth
and Sky-things meet!) ;
And we wondered was it angels’ harps in
Heaven’s golden street,
Or a brown lark singing.
Out away by Reservoir blue thistle-stars are
Mowing
(Oh, Mie laughing hills of Reservoir where
Love, came singing through!) ;
And we felt the tramp of fairy feet and the
fall of fairy dew
On the blue stars glowing!
Out and over Reservoir the wild March wind
is sighing
(Oh, the haunted hills of Reservoir we'll
never climb again !) ;
North, northward beat the swallow wings
and southward drives the rain
Like a banshee crying !
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
His Sermon.
Life bumps me here and there,
As it bumps other fellows.
But still I live and dare;
The sere and bilious yellows
I will not seek or don,
And when old Life’s most bumpy
I will not sit upon
My stool aloof and grumpy.
At times ("just in between)
I preach like any dean.
Let better be or worse,
Let fat times come or lean ones,
Though fierce the primal curse
It’s useless quite to screen one’s
Sad soul with discontent.
Worse may give way to better.
Be ’t Carnival or Lent,
The strong soul clanks his fetter
And makes a pleasing sound
What time the world groans round.
Laugh out, come good or ill!
Be glad when fortune teases.
The man who conquers will
Spread sail to all the breezes.
How poor a fool is that
Who moans and whines and whinnies
Because sleek knaves grow fat
And filch too many guineas!
For money doesn’t care
Who gets it, anywhere.
Should ladies prove untrue
(A thing that sometimes may be),
No man worth while sees blue
And snivels like a baby.
The dimpled enemy
Of man is oft capricious:
But when she smiles—ah me,
How dainty ! how delicious !
Why, when I see the elf,
I’m half in love myself!
Lad, when your chosen fair
Forms several rascal habits
And you can’t bag your hare,
The woods are full of rabbits;
And if your game should stray
Into some other’s garden.
Campaspe still is gay,
And so is Dolly Varden.
Should one girl humbug you,
The cure for one is two.
So sing, my jolly dogs.
Or you may get the rabies.
Dance,, girls .band ’ware, the-bogs
Dear to the prudes and tabbies.
Life is a genial game.
If you but play it sweetly
fling into the same
With all your hearts, completely.
Death comes at last. Till then,
Live gladly, merry men !
(At times, just in between,
I preach like any dean.)
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON


mm
a
c
o
3
Fm
W&2
&
c
a
o
Perdriau Tyres
represent quality built on experience gained under Australian conditions.
Every piece of the Perdriau flawless foundation fabric is tested for strength.
The high-grade rubber of these Tyres has that buoyant, resilient quality that makes
for good performance on such roads as the Motorist must traverse in this country.
Other experienced Motorists are proving it always, and you can prove it on
your own car.
Buy PERDRIAUS always and Keep the Home Tyres Turning.
Obtainable through all garages or from the manufacturers :—
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.
George Street, Sydney. Adelaide Street, Brisbane. Gawler Place, Adelaide. Flinders Street, Melbourne.
&
a
c
D
Si
&
A
d
o
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banka, Savings Banka, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 16 0 „ „ £lO
£43 15 0 „ „ £5O
£B7 lO 0 „ „ , £lOO
£875 0 O „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6° War Savings Stamps 2/6
obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank ok Australia. October. 1917
geTHorr
Marine Engines
For All Boats
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started.
Electric Lights
Callle 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
Callle Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- t o four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock; also
Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers
Limited,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY
71-75 Queen's Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE.
Round Australia with Rex Goods
(<
-
'-'I
SA—
*ri»S6Ee. , M
L
Q 3
i i
®5L'4
— 3ti*.
lT^>
y— t ...
c*is
->•' , 3. . ,/
■ifSSMS
«c
*/w;i
tm
mm
-J3i!
Launceston
;ton & Tamar ~ , ‘
TasMania ‘ “*’
Up the River to
the Gorge
Then a climb to one of the pictur-
esque arbors, and from there a view
of one of the most beautiful pic-
tures Nature has painted for our enjoyment. Afterwards —
to satisfy the hunger created by the fresh, keen air—dainty
appetising sandwiches of
“Rex ”
Luncheon Cheese
For no matter what the occasion or place, the mellow,
piquant flavor and the easy-to-spread consistency of “Rex’’
Cheese, makes it first among sandwich fillings. It is a
perfectly matured, fill cream cheese, which contains valu-
able digestive prooerties.
“Rex" Cheese carries well and keeps for a long time after
being opened. Try it for sandwiches or take a little after
meals. Ask for "Rex” Brand and be sure you get it.
A,s ° tr « “REX" HAM PATE & "REX”
VEAL& TONGUE PATE-22 %?.
ings made from the choicest meats. Sold by all grocers
Foggitt, Jones & Co., Ltd.,
Packers of' Rex ' Pure Food Products,
Curers of “Rex” Ham and Bacon.
J 216
\^VJNC/fc
■: .
T JQKfa
j' H E men who drink Thorne’s
Whisky for preference know
what to order when they want
the best.
The flavor is delightful.
THORNE’S
O.H.M. “Incomparable”
WHISKY.
kartell’s Brandy.
A famous old Cognac famed for over 200
years for the richness of its higher ethers.
Unrivalled as a beverage and invaluable
as a restorative to the aged and ailing.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.-No. 1997.
THURSDAY, MAY 23, 1918.
Pbice (sd.
A DEOCH-AN-DOHIS.
“The Germans are preparing for the last great effort on the Western Front.”
THE DEVIL: “Well, Bill, if you fail, don’t worry; I'll keep things warmed up for you.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Piintcd and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
00., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
I'or £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Austiialasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
?A e contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
pai tof the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
2/ie Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
aote, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
fetches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
ot exceeding two columns in length f or, s(iy, 8000
'cords, arc specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
I he Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
add'-CM is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
unll be returned, or preserved, unless these
lare1 are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed‘if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
f ' ,K Bulletin desires, further, those
•ending MS to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preserration or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
su 'i lc ‘ lcnt merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
Picture containing a good idea
out unlit ted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which * such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of Til to Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —-Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 1,1,1 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu.— Home News Agency, 703 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Hovng, Cairo,>Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua,, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Sid.:
lOoz. to 120 z., Sd. ; elsewhere, l/oz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
THURSDAY, MAY 23, 1918.
THE REALITIES OF LIFE.
The Mayor of Broken Hill, Alderman Hynes, pre-
sided over a public meeting held to consider the
high cost of commodities. He said that if the
Government did not move in the matter the workers
should do so. A motion was carried....
The above is some relation to the recent pub-
lic statement of N. S. Wales Labor-leader
Storey that no hope of reform lies in poli-
ticians—Labor or otherwise, it would seem—
and that “the workers” must attend to
matters personally. And it is akin to the
official announcement of the chief Labor body
of the Ma State—representing the trades-
unions, defined by themselves as “the work-
ers” —that, by some method known to them-
selves but not revealed, it would be auits
easy to raise all war loans, and consequently
all sorts of loans, without interest. These
and many other suggestions about the neces-
sity for taking big public concerns out of the
hands of the Legislature which is elected by
the votes of every citizen and citizeness who
is sahe and out of gaol, and superseding the
people’s Parliament by some self-appointed
and undefined power described as “the work-
ers,’’ grow wearisome as well as incompre-
hensible. They would also be alarming if
they were taken seriously, for they could only
inean insurrection and revolution and usurpa-
tion. Possiblv they are intended to mean
that, for by reason of the supineness of the
mass of trades-unionists the control of the
machine seems to have pretty well passed to
a violent and discordant minority, which dis-
guises its lack of constructive capacity by a
powerful desire to shift things. It apparently
believes that the inevitable results of years of
shortsightedness and putting-it-off and'lettings
it-slide can be repaired all at once by shift-
ing many things; that the consequences of
boundless nrodigality can be wiped out in one
act by shifting more things; that the future
can be assured quite suddenly by shifting
almost everything and putting it anywhere.
* * * *
Prices are certainly high, for a number of
reasons. For instance, apart from beer and
rabbits and a few things of that sort, Aus-
tralia depends almost entirely on imported
goods. Even what it calls its manufactures
are largely dependent on imported machinery
and imported materials; such a simple" thing
as a bag of local mixed lollies may include
half a dozen varieties of other countries’
material. The foreigner fixes the price of
the goods, and of late he has raised the
cost 100 to 1000 per cent., or more. He
also fixes the freight, for we don’t own the
ships, and what used to be 40s. a ton is now
about £l2. Labor in power persistently
sank the fiscal issue, and turned its bland
blind eye on sweating, low wages, colored
labor,. monopoly, etc., so long as the evils
were in somebody else’s country. That made
things easy for the foreigner. The local
manufacturer was called on to pay higher
wages than those of any other country bar
Canada and the U.S., and he wasn’t given
anything »ike their tariff, and he was
harried bj- a multitude of regulations
and restrictions and inspections from
which the petted importer was com-
paratively free. Now that the effect has
followed the cause the only visible remedy is
to gfo back over the old road; to struggle
uphill instead of sliding downhill; to spend
as much time and patience and energy on
making Australia self-reliant as were spent
in teaching it to rely on the outsider—that
outsider who is now fixing prices for us in
all the lines where the cost of living has
sky-rocketed most violently. “The workers”
can’t go out and knock down the cost of
living with a club except in the less im-
portant instances, any more than they can
stun the planets or put a head on the
passing comet.
* * * »
According to the loudest element in the
Labor party, Australia, especially in recent
years, hasn’t done enough real honest work
in the aggregate to pay for its board, lodging
and clothes. The other day Holman, the
biggest borrower of the lot, was found in the
act of reducing N. S. Wales’s loan expendi-
ture to about £5,000,000 a year. It was
only £1,000,000 in 1007, but the Labor
Government rushed it up to £9,000.000. and
thereby set a new precedent, and the result
was more joy, more holidays, more strikes,
more unreasoning confidence in the future,
more irresponsibility, and more employment
of highly-paid men on unprofitable public
jobs. Holman fell away from the lofty
and drunken standard, because he couldn’t,
get the money even at war rates, the Pre-
mier with a great public-works soheme being
warned off the market like a dog or an
undesirable alien. Then the official mani-
festo of organised Cornstalk toil accused him
of a horrible device for reducing “the work-
ers” to starvation. The inference was that
they had got out of the habit of doing
enough plain graft of their own to keep
themselves warm, and that they must be fed
with borrowed money, or else go hungry.
There was, as already mentioned, that
famous < addendum to the effect that “the
workers” knew but concealed the knowledge
how to get plenty of money without in-
terest. In all the long years when Labor
ran the Government it never expounded its
secret, and apparently it' would rather go
empty in the stomach than expound it now.
Then also there arose the usual vague talk
about “the workers” making some sort of
Government for themselves, and a Labor
body in Victoria simplified the case with a
proposal for repudiation of the public debt.
* * * *
The beginning of the new era really lies in
fewer strikes, fewer holidays, harder toil,
better machinery, and consequently more
production—unless, of course, more skill and
intelligence can be made to supply the place
of more work. If N. S. Wales, for example,
will, as its boss Labor Qrganisation asserts,
go with empty innards under its present
conditions unless the big loans come in regu-
larly, it must either get more profitable
conditions or a different kind of innards. If
it made everything it really wants, then it
could fix its own prices and its own wages,
provided the prices weren’t lower than the
wages. If it was in a position to tell the
extraneous Shylock who wanted 8 per cent,
for the renewal to. take back his blessed loan
money and spend it, if he felt so inclined, in
digging a drunkard’s grave for himself, it
could fix its own interest. If it-could tell
the foreign shipowner who is asking £l2 per
ton freight where he was recently glad to get
£2—if it could tell him to drown himself
and his ship because we have vessels of our
own, it could regulate freights at its own
sweet will. “The workers” are
in the matter of wheat, save that a foreign
nigger fixes the price of the bags, and
another outsider has a lot to say in the price
of the railways, which gre almost all im-
ported, and somebody who is not ourselves
decides what flourmill machinery will cost.
And we are independent on the subject of
beer, potatoes, rabbits and meat, apart from
some small matters about beer machinery,
kegs, meat-tins, railways and outward
freights. But as regards most .things the
essentials are a very big tariff, on the Cana-
dian or U.S. plan, unless “the workers”
know of a substitute and are keeping it
secret ; much more work or more production
without work; and an avoidance of the habit
of kicking the manufacturer thrice while the
importer is only kicked once. A good deal
may be done by better organisation of indus-
try, but it is important to have a lot more
industry to organise. There is a great field
for co-operation, but if it is only co-operation
to eliminate the local middlemen who spend
their profits here and to sell each other the
same old goods under new auspices, it isn’t
in the same street with co-operation to pro-
duce new goods on a big scale.
COLLECTORS BACK AND FRONT.
Foub years ago payers of income tax in
Australia contributed £3,245.000 to the pub-
lic revenues. This year they will hand over
about £10,500,000. Of that the share of the
Commonwealth will be £6,500,000 and of the
States £4.000,000. The charge on war-time
profits is a sort of income tax, and from that
source the anticipated revenue of the Com-
monwealth . this year is an additional
£1,000,000. Further, it can be taken as cer-
tain that the income tax will be materially in-
creased, though it is doubtful whether the
earnings on which it is based will remain
very long at their present level. If they
do Australia will have solid reason for giv-
ing three cheers on general principles. If
they do not, the scale of taxation
necessary to maintain even the present
revenue will make the majority of
people earning fixed incomes feel' very
uncomfortable. Anyhow, these are the
facts. The Commonwealth contemplates
increasing the tax. The States want to
maintain their revenue from income tax and
increase it if they can. Wherefore there
has lately been discussion in the Federal
Parliament and at the Premiers’ Conference
in reference to establishing uniformity in
the method of taxation, one point being that,
instead of Australia supporting seven taxa-
tion departments, the job of getting the
money out of the taxpayer might be per-
formed by one central authority. Inci-
dental to this, anguished protests have been
made by citizens against being taxed by two
Governments, and having to waste time in
preparing duplicate returns of income, and
being called on to support two separate mul-
titudes of officials to do the work a single
multitude could perform, and generally ob-
jecting to what is obviously a disarrange-
ment for doing something with the maxi-
mum amount of confusion.
* * * #
I iie Bulletin is quite prepared to believe
that the time wasted in preparing separate
returns and paying in two places and re-
sentment felt at what looks like red-tape
gone mad are not the real reasons
behind some of this protestation. Dread of
what may come from being subject to the
exactions of two taxing authorities, each
struggling to get the last shilling, is the
prime cause of the agitation among or on
behalf of income-tax payers. But that
matters very little. In any case the dread
is a. justifiable one, for the tax is reaching
proportions which, apart from any other
consideration, make it almost imperative
that the double-barrelled gun should go out
of action. This is not only so because of
the interests or alleged hardships of the
limited number of citizens who pay income
tax directly to the official receiver; but
consideration has to be given also to that
large section of the community on to which
the greater part of the tax is' shifted. No
toll.is easier to pass on than the income tax.
It js one of the quaint delusions of the
ordinary man that the tax paid by big
companies and rich traders is no affair of
his. He invariably pays it—-and that is
one of the main reasons why income tax,
always horribly unpopular among the re-
ceivers of fixed incomes, is regarded with
relative complaisance by the business man.
When the tax was limited to a few pence
in the pound it did not matter much how
the tax operated—not enough, anyhow, to
make a song about. But now, with the
double impost running as high as is. 3d.
and likely to go up 50 per cent, or more
even on the lower graduations, the question
whether two- Governments, each exercising a
sovereign power of acquisition, shall con-
tinue to operate is of importance to every
citizen. To The Bulletin the fact that
two Governments are at work in each State
seems preposterous from every possible point
of view, and is likely to soon become an
economic danger to the nation. How
rapacious and extravagant Governments
may be, and how reckless of the conse-
quences of the taxation they impose, Aus-
tralia has had experience in the past. If
with the enormous demands which are
shortly to be made upon earnings for pur-
poses of government there is to be division
of responsibility and disregard of rival
policies, the only possible result can be to
place a wearying and perhaps even intoler-
able burden on the shoulders of the com-
munity.
* * ’ * *
One of the alleged obstacles to allowing
the collection of income taxes to rest with
the Commonwealth in the same way as Cus-
toms is “the difficulty of arriving at uni-
formity of method in the system of levying
the tax.” The difficulty is absurdly exag-
gerated. It would take half an acre of paper
to explain in detail all the differences in
graduation and of policy and so on em-
bedded in the Seven Systems—how com-
panies are taxed one way here and another
way there; how the tax on income from
personal exertion varies in relation to the
tax on income from property, and so on. But
the bedrock of it all is the same everywhere
—the State is after money. The variations
are merely the remnants of old compromises
and wire-pulling. The conditions under
which the State income taxes were framed
in the past are not the conditions of to-
day ; and when the Commonwealth holds
out the cashbox for larger contributions to-
morrow they will be still further changed.
It was suggested at the Premiers’ Confer-
ence that uniformity could be reached if
the Commonwealth agreed to tax company
profits at a flat rate as in N. S. Wales, in-
stead of taxing each individual shareholder
on his income from this and other property
combined. The suggestion was absurd. Tax-
ing companies at a flat rate means making
the people having small incomes help to pay
taxes for the other sort of people and let-
ting these latter escape a graduated assess-
ment. And the higher the rate is made
the grosser the anomaly becomes. There is
no difficulty about uniformity if the States
can be persuaded to give up the financial
sprees they have so long been having and
knock off trying to bring the country to
ruin. The collection of income tax could
b a easily undertaken by the Commonwealth,
the share due to each State being handed
over each year. This would, of course, only
be the beginning of wider changes. But
these are inevitable, anyhow, for the econo-
mic ground on which Australia hitherto
stood, is breaking away. The answer to the
question whether the change should be made
is not to be found in arguments about diffi-
culties which are in the main fictional. The
crux of the thing is in the reply to a simple
question: Is there honest benefit to any
citizen in maintaining a system having
no. parallel in the world and manifestly
wasteful, confusing and productive of politi-
cal irresponsibility ?
TRUTH, BOOTS AND FLUFF.
Truth, which stands as the only firm foun-
dation of democracy, is also the only firm
foundation of trade. In any sort of settled
community trade and democracy are closely
linked together, acting and re-acting on one
another; and until these come, to a
reasonable understanding neither can have
wholesome or permanent life. Get democ-
racy for a moment down to the bedrock of
absolute truth and leave trade with all its
existing machinery of trick and camouflage,
and in a week trade will have begun to
corrupt democracy again. In Australia,
during the years before the war, the direct
effect of the foreign importing disease on
politics could be everywhere seen. Borrow-
ing abroad and the importation of fluff and
shoddy from cheap-labor countries overseas
went hand in hand. The one created an
unreal purchasing power on the part of the
public; the other fooled the public into pur-
chasing inferior goods it did not need ; both
together helped a congestion policy which
jambed and crammed the alleged, democracy
into corners where it could neither breathe
freely nor think clearly. So it came about
that the soul of the politician was modelled
upon that of the shopkeeper. No one among
us is ever quite unsophisticated enough to
take a shop at its face value. Yet the fact
stands that the shop is the model of Parlia-
ment, and that even the conduct of our share
of the great war is exactly on the plan of the
draper’s “Enormous Sacrifice Sale.” Nowhere
does truth get even a decent look in. The
falsehood runs in a wavering line from the
silk ankles of Evangeline’s stockings to
Bill’s breakfast-table and back again to the
share-market; then, with a leap and a
dazzling acrobatic turn, it whirls into a
Parliamentary report and curvettes round a
faked war-cable and the Divorce Court. But
the heart and centre of it is still the 11 ifd.
bargain-counter; for the indecencies of
trade, thinly veiled under declarations of
righteousness which no one believes, press
hard upon every individual citizen and cor-
rupt the democratic ideals which should have
plain truth as their basis.
The recent talk about faked brands in
connection with the boot trade and fictitious
sales of goods which never left the fluff
warehouse scarcely amounts to a revelation.
That such things were done was general
knowledge; we have merely acquired the
details of the way in which they were done.
The easy contempt of the seller of boots for
the public he professes to serve gives some
indication of the extent to which the mis-
chief prevails. Australia can turn out an
article which is in every way as good as the
one imported. The leather is here; the work-
manship is here; the expense of shipping
space for the long sea voyage is cut out.
Yet the public, while guessing that in some
way it is being taken down, will more readily
buv the thing which is branded English or
American. It is difficult to see how a person,
standing in fake-branded boots, purchased
under grave suspicion and worn with doubt,
can be expected to walk erect to a polling-
place and give an unsuspicious vote on a
plain political question. Environment plays
a large part in the making of a man; and
while there is doubt and suspicion in all
avenues of trade, democracy must fail to
come to its own. Yet the profiteers who go
in for trickery seem quite unconscious of the
wrong they are doing; and one has even been
found with the effrontery to ask an Inter-
State Commission to assist him in his work
of decention by hiding the facts. Similarly,
the public, which is deceived, takes the whole
thing with a quiet unconcern, and looks for
its remedy in passing on some other kind of
profitable deception to somebody else. Thus
society becomes more and more demoralised ;
and the dog-eat-dog policy, which provides
food and picture-shows, becomes an in-
grained habit that makes a clean course
and a straight course for a nation of trade
tricksters almost an impossibility. The
reason the shopkeeper does not rise up to
pull the fake-branded politician from his
place is to be found in the fake-branded
goods in his shop: the reason the worker
does not rise up and rend his fake-branding
manufacturer-employer is because of a know-
ledge that he has himself been giving fake-
labor instead of good and whole-hearted
effort to his oivn job. The vice once started
goes working round in the eternal circle
until the saving truth has so few friends to
back it that it never can get a full hearing.
* * * *
The big war, fought for truth, was ex-
pected to bring us back to reality, to break
up the shows and shams and let in the light
on all the dark plaoes of our commercial and
political life. So far, it has not done so.
The task of Australia in sending overseas
such a force as even the greatest nations had
never before attempted to place on foreign
service was so huge that for the moment it
threw all things into confusion. There is
nothing the profiteer likes so much as con-
fusion. Let the ordinary business of life be
put out of gear even for an hour and the
extent to which the public gaze is averted
gives the exploiter the best, of all chances.
The methods of the bargain sale went right
through the whole scheme of military
arrangements; Parliaments, excusing them-
selves from work on the ground that thev
had the Kaiser, looked more like
shopkeeping concerns than ever; the public
mind, half-angry, half-complacent, fixed itself
on the war and accepted it >as a patriotic
duty that it should allow things to continue
as they were until the final blow at Prus-
sianism had been delivered. But at last a
crisis is being reached. Death is a grave
business; and tens of thousands among us,
mourning the loss of sons and husbands,
begin to tingle with shame that their, sacri-
fice should be made an excuse for robbery.
Every false mark in trade, every trick
fashioned to deceive the public, hampers
indeed, the war aims of the nation. The
people who make profits out of these thines
are playing the Kaiser’s game in a most
effective way. The whole English-speaking
world, with its Allies who stand for civilisa-
tion and democracy, is fighting for truth;
and in that fight truth alone can save them.
We have to get down to the plain verities
in trade, as in other things: and. getting
there, we may yet save democracy.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Cost of Railways.
From N. S. Wales Chief Commissioner James
Fraser
The Bulletin of May 9 gave prominence to a
criticism of “the cost of railways” in this and other
Australian States; and the criticism is likely to give
an entirely wrong impression. The article says,
inter alia: “The average cost per mile grows bigger,
especially in N. S. Wales, and no matter how cheap
the new lines being constructed out in the plains
may look, they, can be made to prove very expen-
sive.” Here is a definite charge of extravagance
both against the Department responsible (till Decem-
ber, 31, 1916) for the construction of railways, and
against the railway administrations in the interval
between 1902 and 1916 in connection with capital
expenditure on open lines. On actual facts, however,
such a charge must fail.
The criticism is based on rather bare statistics
which, taken by themselves, give certain results; but
separating the various elements of railway capital,
mileage, equipment, etc., into their proper relation-
ship one with the other, quite different, and, I
think, much more convincing, results can be estab-
lished.
It is wrong in the first place td base a criticism of
the cost per mile of line on the Cost of construction
and equipment taken together, and it is wrong in the
second place to figure cost per mile on route miles
instead of track miles. The equipment of a rail-
way system has relation to the volume of business
rather than to the total route mileage constructed.
The capacity of a railway system to carry tire busi-
ness offering depends more upon ' its track mileage
than on its route mileage. No railway system can,
where its business develops beyond quite limited
boundaries, carry on without secondary track, sidings,
etc. Both the earning power and the carrying
capacity of a railway are dependent upon these
auxiliaries.
Some figures in this connection may eliminate any
basis for the charge of extravagance:—
The capital expenditure in open lines
in 1902 was in the aggregate .. £40,566,073
The gross revenue earned by that
capital was . . . . . . £3,668,686
The earning power of the capital' was
therefore . . . . . . . . 9.04 p.c.
The capital expended up to 1916 was. . £68,825,692
The gross revenue canned . . . . £8,006,078
Earning power of the capital expended 11.63 p.c.
Capital increased in the period by .. £28,260,519
or 69.8 p.c.
Gross earnings by .. .. .. £4,337,392
or 118.2 p.c.
Now take the business done in relation to capital
expended and to gross revenue earned: —
Passengers carried, 1902 . . 30,885,214
Passengers carried, 1916 . . 92,850,838
Increase 61,965,624
or 200 p.c.
Ton miles freight, 1902 . . 436,814,308
Ton miles freight, 1916 . . 1,028,760,304
Increase 591,945,996
or 135 p.c.
These figures on the business done establish two
points:—•
(1) That capital expenditure which increased by
69.8 p.c. was not unduly inflated to provide for an
increase of 200 p.c. in paissenger and 135 p.c. in
goods business.
(2) That the earning power of the capital ex-
pended up to June, 1916, was not augmented by the
imposition of excessive freights and fares, as the
gross revenue is shown above to have increased by
118.2 p.c., while goods business increased by 135 p.c.
and passenger by 200 p.c.
Did the cost of revenue-earning track increase at
all per mile?
Capital expended in track up to June,
1902, amounted to . . . . £34,480,353
Total track miles at that date. . . . 3,640
Cost per track mile . . .. .. £9,472
Capital expended on track up to June,
1916 £53,347,207
Total track miles . . . . . • 5,660
Cost per track mile .. .. .. £9,426
It may be stated here that sidings cost in many
cases more per mile than maid-line track owing to
the points and crossings, signalling and interlocking
involved.
Compare the revenue received per track mile in
1902 and 1916:
1902 .. .. £lOOB
1916 .. .. £1414
So that track which cost £46 less per mile than
that existing in 1902 earned over 40 p.c. more
revenue.
That The Bulletin writer has not proved that the
railway burden is one of over-capitalisation should
bo demonstrated by the foregoing figures; and
though the interest bill has increased, and will in-
crease rapidly, by the higher rate of interest on
money for the renewal of loans maturing, the real
burden is summed up in the one word wages. New
South Wales pays a higher average wage to its railway
employees than is paid to similar employees in any
other part of the world; and while no one questions
the propriety of such, action the results must be
felt in some way. Broadly, it has been shown above
that the charges for carrying a passenger and a ton
of goods one mile were less in 1916 than in 1902, and
examination of the Railway Commissioners’ Annual
Reports for both years will show this in some detail,
and will show also that the net earnings gave practi-
cally the same interest return on capital in both
years.
Further examination will, however, disclose that
the average earnings per employee were £l2O in
1902 against £l5B in 1916.
If the wages paid in 1916 had been ruling in 1902
the net earnings would have been reduced by
£480,000, leaving £921,000 towards interest, or
2.3 p.c. on the capital invested. If, on the other
hand, 1902 wages had applied in 1916, £1,000,000
would have been added to the net earnings, which
Would have shown a return of nearly 5 p.c. on the
capital invested.
The Bulletin replies, or corroborates, or
gets back to the point—any of these expres-
sions will do: —
It didn’t accuse the Railway Commisioners of any-
thing large or small. It didn’t even suspect them of
so obscure a trifle as having doubts as to whether
Shakspeare wasn’t Bacon. It accepts so abso-
lutely the explanation about the details of the posi-
tion that it hasn’t troubled to verify them. It
takes them as read —and no greater compliment is
possible.
But the total cost charged against loans (called
“capital”) per mile of railway keeps increasing all
the time. In other words, the policy of charging to
loans (described as “capital”) everything r that with
a shred of decency or plausibility, or often without
any shred whatever, can be left for Posterity to pay'
is "left to Posterity. Moreover, this generation—the
borrowers and spenders—are sole judges of what is
decency and plausibility. The railways are only
quoted as an instance of this tendency. It has
always been assumed that they were the last word
in means of transit; in fact, that God wouldn t
allow man to invent anything which would make
them obsolete. So it wasn’t necessary to pay off
the railway debt by instalments. It was assumed
that He would never permit war or civil commotion
to destroy the lives of His Chosen People, so no
provision was made in that direction either. It
was assumed that interest would never go up to
perhaps double the old rate, so that a million-pound
line would become, on the renewal of the loan, a
two-million-pound line so far as the interest burden
was concerned, and it is the interest burden which
concerns us. So no Government paid off half the
million loan out of revenue, that the other half
might be a contingency reserve. Even depreciation
wasn’t, so far as the accounts show, provided for
anpually; a yard of new line remained a yard of
new line. Nor were unpayable lines written down
out of revenue, no matter how poor their prospects.
Hence the loan or paper value Of each mile of line
has every possible chance to go up and mighty little
chance to go down. The increase shows, among
other things, that there is so much more popular
faith or credulity or casualness or shiftlessness per
mile, and so much more probable financial crash per
mile in the future if the lines are wrecked in war or
superseded by new devices. To dissect the crash and
show the respective percentages of oxygen, corrup-
tion, natural gas, misfortune, shortsightedness, car-
bon, hydrogen, etc., is interesting only in an
academic sense.
A Reward for Wounded Officers.
A kecent announcement of the Defence
Department was to the effect that officers
who had been wounded in action and in-
valided home would not be allowed to return
to the Front unless they re-enlisted as pri-
vates. The Department explains that this
action is taken at the desire of General
Bibdwood. The Bulletin awaits the pub-
lication of General Birdwood’s memorandum
on the subject. Until that is available it
prefers to believe that he has been misunder-
stood. That a wound received in action
should carry a punishment is so novel a pro-
position, and so utterly at variance with
what General Birdwood himself has written
regarding wounded men, that this paper
declines to believe any officer in high com-
mand would seriously put it forward. The
matter must be cleared up. It is quite possi-
ble that the Australian army, by reason
partly of the short supply of reinforcements
and partly of the lavish way in which com-
missions were formerly issued in Australia,
is over-supplied with officers. But that the
officers to be sacrificed are those who have
been wounded, probably through doing mag-
nificent things on the field of battle, is
simply repulsive. If anybody at all is to be
got rid of, prima facie, it should be those who
have never felt a wound ; and there are a good
many of them, and no doubt very good
reason why some of them have kept a whole
skin. Parliament, if it wants to preserve its
self-respect, cannot take the new rule lying
down. It shrieks its hideous unfairness
to some of the bravest men in our army. If
we maintain it, then we had better
cease decorating men for bravery and devo-
tion to duty and “crime” them instead. The
first thing to ascertain is Does General
Birdwood desire it? This paper for the
present refuses to believe that he does. If
he does, then Australia can no longer desire
to associate itself with General Birdwood.
The Slaves to Platitudes.
The Labor party, if it is judged by those
who speak on its behalf, becomes more and
more the Party of Platitudes. Certainly it
can be fairly definite when the demand is
for more loans, or “cessation of hostilities”
(nothing being said about the aggressors
leaving off hostilities first), or a guarantee
that nothing terribly violent will be done
for the protection of this country against
the Hun, but otherwise it is very platitu-
dinous save in small things that don’t mat-
ter. By way of instance, a new programme
for all Australia is to be submitted to a
conference in June, and it comes down with
a plausible thud when it strikes a proposi-
tion like this: —
No compulsion, military or economic, upon any
Australian citizen to take part in any war on
foreign soil.
So it is admitted that compulsory service
may be necessary. But it is to be postponed
till Australia is directly attacked, and if
the enemy is a European enemy, as at pre-
sent, Australia, by reason of its remoteness,
will be about the last place to be seriously
attacked. So the Labor proposal, officially
advanced as part of a policy for the nation,
is that Australia should do 1 nothing very
strenuous till the rest of the white races of
the Empire are licked ; that it should help
them to be licked by standing to a consider-
able extent aloof; and that it should wade
in only when the downfall of its Allies
makes the case hopeless. Seeing that the
Allies are all in the same boat, and that a
fight must be put up in the. common cause
which is our cause, some people fancy that
it is better to fight as far away as possible—
that it is cheaper to scrap among the ashes
and horrors of Rheims, which isn’t our city,
than among those of Melbourne and Sydney,
which are; but the Labor programmists
prefer our own ashes and our own horrors.
The proposed Labor gospel for a whole
continent is also solid on the abolition of
titles (which isn’t very urgent just now) ;
the “restoration of the Australian stamp”
(has anybody taken it away?) ; the mainte-
nance of Australia’s independence (which is
only threatened by the Hun, whom Australia
is not to oppose in real earnest till he is
actually here and the blessed independence is
gone) ; and on the Australian flag, anthem and
coat of arms, which are to be sung and
flapped persistently. But it isn’t very
strenuous otherwise. Among the matters
which are large and hazy and non-committal
Labor is to call for “the development of an
enlightened and self-reliant community”,
the “requirement of Australia in man-power
to be j ascertained and met” as regards
“defence” and “maintenance of Australian
industry,” “urgent national works” and “the
necessities of wealth production to meet our
financial obligations,” etc.; also “the estab-
lishment and encouragement of Australian
production and manufactures.” All these
things are suggestive -of the Rev„ Cbad-
banp’s lengthy discourse on “Terewth” and
lt isn’t' stated whether the
self-reliance is to be promoted in the old
way by depending as much as possible on
foreign loans; or whether the “establish'
ment of production and manufactures” is to
be just the old device of low tariffism, and
high wages, and short hours, and lots of
strikes, and the biggest importation of
foreign goods per head on this earth —cheap
labor, nigger, scab, sweated and other
kinds; or how “the necessities of wealth
production” are to “meet our financial obli-
gations.” One might imagine that this
iucessitous country had enough necessities
already without looking for more. As for
“urgent public works,” that isn’t half so
urgent as the shifting of the mortgage on
the existing works. The whole scheme is
fog and loose eloquence and verbiage and
hot air and trivialities, barring the proposal
for putting off the really solid defence of
Australia till it is too late.
About Some Superfluous Persons.
It is really time an appeal was made to the
Australian Government to be a serious, and
gentlemanly institution, and not a mere bloke
or joke. There are things which are “not
done” among considerate and kindly people.
It is regarded as bad form to tell puns to a
dying man; to “take a lunar” at a person
with an incurable disease; to laugh wildly in
the presence ,of a dead body unless it is
your own body : to set fire to n neighbor’s
cat, or to ask a lady if she has seen her other
two husbands lately. And there are •subtler
forms of bad manners which are also annoy-
ing. As a case in point, Senator Long has
come back from the Dutch and other East
Indies where he has been doing an expensive
year’s holiday on full pay, while other and
perhaps more deserving people have been
working, sometimes for half-pay. lie has
been dodging the increased cost of living,
which seems selfish. lie lja« been patronising
colored labor, which seems wrong. lie lias
been some kind of a Commissioner, which
seems incompatible with this country’s objec-
tion to titles. Also he has been practising the
erroneous doctrine of one-man-two-jobs. On
top of all he “pokes borak” at a suffering
community with the proposition that a line of
steamers should be established between Aus-
tralia and the Dutch Indies and the Straits
Settlements, aust now the price of salt has
gone up because it is difficult even to find
vessels to disseminate that humble victual
from S. Australia. Mr. Long knows very
well that we haven’t got any spare ships;
that we don’t know when we will have them ;
and that if we had plenty of ships and the
trade was worth having, vessels would be
running as of old without his interference.
This country is perfectly aware that it should
have steamers running constantly to the
places the Senator mentions; also to both
coasts of South America; to all parts of
Africa; to Calcutta, to Bombay, Rangoon,
the Persian Gulf and other spots; also that
every country is justified in having constant
communication with every other country—
only there are difficulties in the way. There-
fore Senator Long, who has been allowing
Australia to go to wrack and ruin through
his neglect of his political duties, is a super-
fluous and platitudinous person.
«
The Malaria that Threatens Us.
Dear Bulletin, — Australia will soon be
spotted with chronic malaria-carriers if the
technique of quinine medication be not better
understood. Few nractitioners proceed with
any clear plan of attack, reasoned on the life
history of the malarial parasite. The trouble
with “chronics” is that they carry about with
them the spores capable of developing into
the organism of the acute attack. These
spores are undamaged by quinine, but are
prevented from developing by it. The custom
of taking a daily dose of quinine simply pre-
serves the disease until months or years later,
when it may cause a malignant relapse, per-
haps with an enormous spleen, or a severe
dropsy or ansemia. The best plan of attack
is: (i) To kill the wrigglers, into which the
spores develop, by taking quinine for 48 hours
only; (2) stop quinine completely for six
days, to allow the spores to come out of
hiding; (3) attack them hard w T ith the
quinine again for 48 hours only; (4) accord-
ing to the chronic character of the case,
another interval, and then another attack
unon the spores. To secure absorption of a
sufficient amount of quinine the most im-
portant points to attend to are:—
(1) Diet to be exclusively hot broths;
(2) After 12 hours of this, 2oz. of castor-oil, in
the evening;
(3) At 6 a.m. next day and every two hours for
30 doses (i caking up at night is necessary), two
grains of quinine bisulphate, with Lpint of hot
water, to be taken and absorbed with the clean bowel.
(4) In the interval treat with arsenic tonic pill
of l-50th of a grain of arsenious acid five times a day
in J-pint hot water;
(5) Castor-oil again, before another attack upon
the coy spores with the quinine;
(6) Avoid taking meat or other albuminous food.
So hopeless do some of the cases look under
the old plan (or lack of it) that often salvar-
san (606) has been given, or the quinine in-
jected intravenously, while the huge spleens
have been treated by X-rays. The plan out-
lined above is that adopted by the U.S.; and
is given bv A. d. Ociisner in the Journal of
the American Medical Association of
March 17, 1917. Ociisner was Prof. Sir
William Osler’s surgical colleague at John
Honkins University (U.S.A. ) before Eng-
land batra-ed Osler for Oxford. It is a pity
for Australia that he did not publish his
knowledge sooner, for many a citizen has
suffered, and died, from the effects of a
chronic “aestivo-autumnal” acquired since
Papua was taken over. The majority of
chronics never go near a doctor, but proceed
with some treatment of their own; many
never have a chance to consult a physician,
being either back o’ beyond or sea wanderers.
Ochsner says that if the inhabitants of a
malarial district could be treated all together
and at once in the above way, the disease
would disappear for lack of breeders. —Yours,
A.A.M.C.
Income Taxes.
In a letter to the S. M. Herald the other
day James Ashton, M.L.C.. affirmed that
to apply a high rate of graduated taxation
on company profits before division among
the shareholders would be a gross injustice
upon people of small incomes. Subject to
certain qualifications he was right. A man
deriving ipcomes from investments in com-
panies should pay upon his total income, the
same as anybody else,-instead of having his
taxation paid for him by a levy on the
incomes of other people who may be much
poorer than he is. But Ashton provided
more than argument on this point: lie pro-
ceeded to show that “the biggest companies
consist in the main of large numbers of per-
sons of moderate means.” All depends upon
what is understood by “moderate means.”
The Bulletin would rather put it that the
bulk of the profits go to a limited class of
people with considerable means. Ashton
quotes as an illustration the C.S.B. Co.,
which has 1942 shareholders, of whom 1058
draw annual dividends of £5O and under,
whilst 100 draw over £3OO. This means
that after 1058 have drawn £5O and under,
784 take between £5O and £3OO, and the
r< maining 100 the balance. But almost
always you will find this: that the person
who has an income of £5O or less from one
company has either no investments at all
in any other companies or only very small
ones, whereas the men with thousands in
one is likely to have thousands in another
if he has anything at all. The result is
that, when the companies have to pay the
income tax, persons of small and very small
means are taxed at precisely the same rate
as persons of large and very large means;
and that is not a proper thing in regard to
any tax on income derived from property.
Cocky’s Plagues.
Deak B., —Allow a mere wheat cocky to
have a word on the jute muddle. 1 know I
am speaking out of my turn, because Sena-
tor Russell, the purchaser of “cheap” corn-
sacks, says we’re not interested persons.
The only interested people are the jute
speculators. They take no risk, and yet I’m
game to bet that one of these rapacious
sharks will make far greater profit out of
this deal than a paddockful of cockies will
make in the season—and our game is all
risk. According to Major PURCELL, whom
The Bulletin has already quoted, the
Argentine cocky got his bags for just about
half of the ‘'.neap” price paid by the
“National” Government of Australia; and
he further declared that we could have done
as well but for the blundering (we’ll be
polite and spell it with a b) of our politi-
cians. Senator Russell, the alleged busi-
ness head of the Government scheme, justi-
fies his purchase by casting aspersions on
the quality of the article supplied to Argen-
tine. Imagination fails to conjure up a
vision of receptacles twice as had as those
which have been unloaded on us for the past
three years. I have handled thousands of
them. Anyhow, the outlined distribution
scheme in Australia forces one to the belief
that Senator Russell does not care a tin-
ker’s curse for the Australian cocky. His
first thought is the jute robber here. Natu-
rally he would have a kindly feeling, too, for
the thieving brethren in India It is now
pretty well assured that the distribution
is going to cost Gd. per dozen, or 12s. Gd. per
bale. On 200,000 bales this works out at
£125,000! Threepence goes to comfort the
boss thieves of the trade, who absolutely do
nothing for their bit, and who further have
secured a monopoly. The other 3d. is for
the “retailer,” who has no protection against
a rush of competitors, and has to take what-
ever risk is going. Summed up, the jute
traders are being handed a bonus #of over
£GO,OO0 —a barefaced robbery of the Aus-
tralian wheat cocky. Properly handled the
distribution could have been carried out for
one penny per dozen »nd Cocky saved over
£lOO.OOO at his end alone. Cocky is slow in
turning; but a little more of this robbery
will cause him to get up in wrath and do
something very unpleasant to the plague of
billet hunters,' political adventurers and pro-
fiteers who crawl over him. —Yotirs, T. J. A.
Fitzpatrick.
What is Wrong with “Made in
Australia”?
There are some things Protection will most
certainly do—even on the admission of its
opponents. Also there are some things Protec-
tion will not do. No one has yet claimed that
it will bestow brains on people who are
without them, nor impart wide vision
to eyes with a limited range. And The
Bulletin hopes that nobody ever will claim
it. The truth is that people who are
incapable of taking advantage of the oppor-
tunities afforded by Protection are at rock-
bottom allies of the foreign-trade enemy. An
illustration of this has been forthcoming dur-
ing Inter-State Commissioner Piddington’s
investigations into the boot business. It
has been shown to be a regular practice
among certain manufacturers to brand their
output at the request of retailers with
the names of' fictitious makers, the object,
of course, being to assist the retailer in de-
luding his customer with the idea that in
acquiring a pair of these perjured foot-
coverings he was getting an imported article.
The defence offered for this sly procedure
is, first, that “a prejudice exists against
Australian boots,” and. secondly, that unless
the dodge was worked “the retailer would
be in the hands of the manufacturer.” Each
of these allegations mocks the other. Com-
bined they form a mere stall. The practice
is disreputable, and people who associate
themselves with it get on the same moral
plane as the adulterator and the short-weight
specialist. It is something close to tragedy
that during the last year or two certain manu-
facturers in the Commonwealth should have
reckoned the time favorable for showing
what inferior goods they are capable of pro-
ducing. But it is even worse that, in a
trade peculiarly liable in the past to com-
petition from outside there should be a
widespread conspiracy, shared in by manu-
facturers, to keep the door open for more of
it. The manufacturer who is not prepared
to let his own brand stand the test has no
right to be making boots or anything else
to the detriment of Australian trade gener-
ally and more reliable makers in particular.
Wherefore this paper, which has an idea
that this matter can be grappled with by
regulation, calls on Prime Minister Watt


cjhe Centre of
Life dud
The Premier Hotel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
SYDNEY.
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
B. ths.
New Furnishings.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.
Automatic Telephones in every
Room. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Full Board.
Meals —A la Carte or Table d'hote.
Apply Manager. WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPLY.
O
MOL
Mb
m
*5?
n
m
m
■■
- jm
... i«4-
%
'Srfusiralia"
Winter Carden
*=* *»
to give the subject immediate attention.
"ny the Boot Manufacturers’ Association
1 , Operatives’ Union have not stamped
the fake brands out of existence and whv
they are omitting to clamor for the enforce-
ment of standards, of quality in manufacture
is to this paper a dark mystery.
•
The Partners in Plunder-of-the-Earth,
Ltd.
Hope of detaching Austria from the German
tinOugh either defeat of the Austrian armies
01 the troublesome scarcity of meals was for
a long time strong among the statesmen
m the Allied countries. Had Russia re-
mained in the fray and continued to thrash
the Austrian, it is more than probable that
the separation might have been managed.
But the Russian collapse and the score
against Italy reduced the old hopes to ruin.
Austria is now more firmly committed to
Germany than ever, and there can be little
doubt that they are going to see it out
together. The interests of the reigning
families ate -in a measure identical, and it is
clearly futile to imagine that the mass of the
people have either the stomach or the oppor-
to set about restraining the ambitions
ot the monarchical and military castes. These
coteries see enormous prizes awaiting them
m Poland Russia, the Balkans and else-
where, and will fight a long time to make the
plunder theirs. That peace could be realised
by throwing Germany the eastern swag is
more or less certain ; but it is equally certain
that that would mean a German victory of
stupendous significance. Such a conclusion
is declared by President Wilson to be un-
thinkable ; he insists that it is the duty of
the Allies to stand by Russia. But speeches
are not going to turn the war this way or
that, and unless America puts an immense
army into Prance talk about right and wrong
' can achieve nothing. Apparently the Presi-
dent, judging by his latest observations, is
convinced that the job can be done. This is
one ol the most comforting signs of the
moment. Man-power far beyond anything
that was ever dreamed of is now needed by
the Allies on the Western Front. Without
it in full measure the chances of persuading
the German to moderate his rapacity would
be hopeless; for his strength and resolution
and organisation are in some respects more
powerful than before. Meantime there is
word of increased numbers of American
troops in the field. There will be work in
plenty for them, for the battle is due to flare
up again any day, and the enemy can be ex-
pected to use his heaviest possible punch.
It the attack fails this time the Kaiser
may be convinced that he cannot win out-
nght. If, it succeeds, there will be all sorts
ot changes in procedure. For the present,
talk about peace is mere guff. Neither side
can get the peace it wants; it cannot even
induce the opposition to start thinking about
Farms for Soldiers.
“Farepa”: Speaking before the Shires’
Gonterence in Sydney, a few days ago, W. G.
Ashford N. S. Wales Lands Minister, natu-
rally made a spirited defence of various fea-
tures of Ins returned soldiers’ settlement
policy. He even praised the system. Ash-
ford should know that most of the lands
are grossly overvalued. It is common know-
ledge throughout the country. At the incep-
tion .of the scheme a number of estates
acquired under the Closer Settlement Acts
were submitted to various experienced men in
the Department, but they approved of only
three Oban, Collaroy and Harvey Park.
Despite this the lot were handed over, and in
cold blood the returned men were invited to
settle on them. To make failure more cer-
tain any soldier physically able to work was
at the beginning accepted and sent forward.
Admittedly the selection is now more rigid ;
but even with experience a settler has very
little hope on some of the estates, and on
the best he has nothing much ahead of him
beyond a bread-and-butter existence. Hard
facts are worth more than opinions, and the
following bears out the contention that un-
suitable properties have been secured. A
property known as Reek’s estate was
acquired as an orchard and poultry-farniing
proposition. The intention was to cut it up
into a number of small farms. This was
done and men were placed on three blocks.
.Shortly afterwards one departed and the
areas by the remaining two w r ere
doubled. Yet, despite local assistance, these
two skied the towel and got out. The whole
area is now available for one settler as a
dairy farm. If that sample does not prove
the contention that unsuitable land has been
purchased others can readily be quoted.
Ashford, for a start, should overhaul the
policy of purchases generally, and then give
some attention to the administration.
Victorian Conservator of Forests Mackay,
stirred to speech by the dismal prophecy of
Professor Ewart, who foresees an approach-
ing shortage of Australian timbers, has
given the Government his opinion as to the
further alienation of Crown lands and the
settlement of timber-lands already held by
private persons. Apart from land already
cleared, only the North-West Mallee and the
upper watershed of the creeks and rivers of
Gippsland should be cultivated, Mack'ay
thinks. He cites the “settlement” of the
Otway Forest as a horrible instance of
shortsightedness. This enterprise has been
a frost all through. The land is on the
market in some cases for as little as fl an
acre—laud which, had the forest been pro-
perly conserved, would now have been worth
over £3OO an acre. Mackay suggests the
running of light tramways into areas where
the timber is matured, as well as an exten-
sion of the present thinning and fire-protec-
tion systein. The cutting-out suggested,
without affecting the supply later on from
trees now growing, would probably have
some effect on the dreadful prices ruling for
Australian building and industrial timbers.
Certainly it should do so if the Government
retailed its own sawn goods to builders and
manufacturers direct.
iiatever else he tackled Lloyd George
certainly didn’t tackle the shipping problem
—for the shocking reason perhaps that there
are close upon 200 men in the House of
Commois who are shipowners more or less.
' - course there has been some pretence of
regirtation ; but the sort of regulation it has
been can best be judged by the infamous war
freights that are raging. War profits—profits
made deliberately and directly out of the
war are supposed to be tainted; but the
deep-sea shipowners have never winced at
taking them, and sometimes in combination
with British coal-owners and sometimes
alone they have put up a record which ought
to make every«g£nuine patriot despise them.
And, incidentally, when history is written,
there will be a nasty smudge on the record
of the Government which bowed its head and
permitted the infamy.
The second formal inquiry into the land
deals of the late Vaughan Government in
r>. Aus. has dealt a blow at the judgment in
the first. That was given by Noel Webb,
tvM.. whose inquiry had repeatedly been
declared not to be a trial. So, when he
expressly blamed Styles (one of Vaughan’s
colleagues!, Pethick (Surveyor-General) and
Britten Jones (Government Valuator), they
all protested. The two officials succeeded
in getting a fresh inquiry, at which they could
be represented by counsel and regard them-
selves as on trial. Pethick’s has just ended
m complete exoneration. The finding of the
Board is that he was not guilty of either
negligence or incompetence; and he was never
accused of dishonesty. Also the Board re-
marks that it would give him his costs if it
had the power to. The Britten Jones in-
ouiry is to follow. Only Styles seems to be
out in the cold, without any power of appeal.
“Turaga Lailai”: When Hughes passed
through here (Suva) recently there were
only two people to meet him. When he
went through on the previous occasion the
local Australians rolled up en masse and
presented him with a dinner and a walking-
stick. On this occasion the Colonial Secre-
tary (for the Governor) and the Mayor pre-
sented their “lies’ respec’s”, and later I saw
William wandering alone along the dark
streets of Suva. Massey, of Maoriland, was
on the same steamer, but I am told the two
Bills spoke only once up to the time they
reached Suva, and that was at a little dinner
given by the farmer. When the travellers,
with sundry press-agents and secretaries,
arrived at Suva there was the usual inspec-
tion of passports. Hughes happened to be
on the outer edge and grew impatient.
Leaning forward and shoving his passport
as far to the front as he could, he called out
in that raucous voice of his: “W. M. Hughes
Prime Minister of Australia.” This ought
to have gained him speedy attention, but it
cadn’t. Billy had to wait his turn.
The fatal heart-failure of Graham
Stewart, Engineer-in-Chief of S. Aus., was
probably hastened by the loss of his only two
sons in the war. He was born in 1851—
son of a P.M. in Victoria—but crossed to S.
Aus. in 1807, and never went back. He had
been almost everything possible in his own
line, and succeeded A. B. Moncrieff as
Engineer-in-Chief nine years ago.
How many persons are there in the
federal Government emnloy who are suffici-
ently Hun to fall under reasonable sus-
picion? The Commissioner who was
appointed to inouire had a look at some 60
suspects in Melbourne, and postponed
another hundred because of urgent appoint-
ments to go hunting in other cities. Victoria
is a small place, and it has a smaller Hun
population per cent, than any other State
barring Tasmania. Moreover, the inquiry
took no account of State employees, who are
far more numerous than Federal ones. Is
there a Hun grazing in every paddock?
Last March Vic. Chief Sec. Bowser wrote to
the Defence Department asking that, when race-
dates were allocated for the coming year, no
metropolitan meeting should be permitted on
Show day (Sept. 26). Later a reply was
received acceding to the request. In May
advertisements appeared inviting nomina-
tions for the Ascot Thousand (ponies) to
be run on September 26. Now, who did it
and how was it done? It is no use hum-
hugging about this matter. Watt must by
this time know that half a dozen things in
connection with the Win-the-War adminis-
tration stink; and the allocation of racing
days to pony-course proprietors is one of
them.
, hlvery Little Helps”: I am a Flinders
(\ic.) elector, and was surprised when
going into the polling-booth to see it lined
with flappers and men of position acting as
clerks, etc. If this is the method of the
Win-the-War party, it is time the lot were
wiped out, along with this shameless grab-
bing pf guineas to the detriment of returned
men and therefore of recruiting. There was
not one returned soldier on the list, although
plenty were available and capable. Para-
sites who howl their patriotism and flap
flags in public view, forgetting in their
avarice how they damn the cause, badly
need the boot.
Little Guido BaracchiV release from quod
before the completion of his sentence for lan-
guage calculated to justify the War Precau-
tions Act, forms the subject of a story told
among his Socialist comrades. When his
gaolers told him that he was free, the noble
youth announced in clear, ringing tones: “I
will accept no favors from the present Gov-
ernment,” and refused to budge. The prison
authorities, on consulting the regulations,
found that they were liable to get it in the
neck unless Guido was off the premises accord-
ing to schedule. They put this to Guido, as
bloke to bloke, hnd, being always the little
gentleman, he agreed to toddle off and save
further unpleasantness.
“O.B.”: The Commonwealth shipbuilding
scheme is going to dig holes in the cashbox.
A year ago King Salter, of the Common-
wealth Dockyards, was commanded to pre-
pare plans for standardised tramps, and
amassed about £3500 worth of blue-prints.
But the jumpy Hughes changed his mind,
and since that order the Government has
acquired a new lot of plans with a new
expert and several assistants to cawy them
out. Curchin (£2OOO a year), who has sup-
planted King Salter in Hughes’s affections,
is a professor of the Isherwood system of
shipbuilding, and is, or was, an employee of
the Isherwood firm in England. Now,
Isherwood’s special longitudinal style of
framing in ship construction is a patent, it
appears, and, to begin with, it will cost the
Commonwealth 3s. 4d. per gross ton, or
about £550 for every ship constructed
according to the model.
The Defence Department has decided to
publish “from now onwards,” the names and
particulars of all deserters from the A.1.F.,
in lieu of introducing the death penalty
usual in such cases:—
The names of those guilty of this shameful act
should be known to their countrymen in Australia so
that they will not be able to share in the glories and
recognition of the magnificent services that the
A.I.F. has rendered to the Empire and to Australia.
But the name of deserters during the firs'T
3a years of the war will not be known to
their countrymen; consequently their mod-
ern comrades in cowardice and dishonesty
Mill be the victims of comparative injustice,
whilst many of the contemptible originals
will continue to flourish as impostors.
When the genuinely-Protective tariff
comes to be drawn up—which must be soon
if the Commonwealth isn’t to chance the
bailiff—a point stressed by retail clothing
manufacturers will have to be dealt with.
Try as they would and offer orders as large
as any mill could take, these firms say they
could not induce woollen mills to supply them
direct with tweeds, serges, rugs, blankets or
anything else. They must deal with the
middle-men. As the manager of one big
Melbourne firm put it. “Any twopenny-
ha’penny agent can buy direct from the
manufacturers, but the retail clothing man-
ufacturer cannot do so.” That means any-
thing up to 20 per cent, on the cost, with
no earthly advantage save the continued
easy existence of a quite unnecessary para-
site. And it practically nullifies the effect
of a tariff. Of course, the importer ap-
proves •of the system. The importer has
many and varied schemes for defeating the
object of a tariff. -
“Henry J-lorsecollar” in defence of Cook:
Two of the Government’s little fleet of tramps have
been torpedoed, and after several months’ secrecy
the Department of the Navy admitted the fact,
because people were beginning to know about it, and
the Huns had known all along. The Department said
that it wasn’t considered, by some person not men-
tioned, advisable to mention the events sooner, for
some reason not mentioned either. On the whole, 1
agree with Cook and his Department. He knew the
ships were lost; he knew the Huns knew it; but the
Huns didn’t know whether he knew it or not, and
there was nothing: to be gained by letting them know
that he knew it. As a general principle, there is
little lost by silence, while conversation has fre-
quently blown the gaff. A Minister of the Navy ha>
to be specially secretive in time of trouble. 1
believe he should go under a false name, changing it
frequently, and that he should never sleep in the
same room two nights running. He should come to
his office on foot disguised as a reporter or an im-
poverished missionary, and enter by the back door.
His letters (and salary) should be thrown to him
through the fanlight, and his replies, signed “Jen-
kins” to-day and “Robinson” to-morrow, ejected the
same way. When he dies he' should be buried
secretly under the name of P. J. Todhunter, and the
identity of his successor should not transpire. If an
unauthorised individual got up as a corporation
laborer broke in by the back door and ran the job
without arousing suspicion it would *do more than
anything else to throw the enemy off the track. Dr.
1 raneia, who ran the affairs of Paraguay single-
handed, and ran them pretty well, for a generation,
was an ideal man for a job like this, unless the
legends about him have grown tremendously. In his
later days he seldom appeared in the streets except
in dusk or dark ; and few came near enough to the
apparition to make quite sure that he was himself—
they kept away lest a worse thing might befall
them. A time came when his name was hardly ever
spoken ; people called him “the Supreme” when they
thought he was still alive and “the Defunct” when
they thought he was dead. He may have died 10
years before lie did and been personated by another
party of the same height for all the positive evidence.
One portrait of him remains, but it may be somebody
else. If this reticent mail had been in Cook’s place
the Huns might have sunk all Hughes’s ships and
nobody would have noticed that they were gone.
Australia talks too much. It also writes too much.
I hold that all our public securities should be signed
anonymously.
Bonar Law’s sentence of death on Fido
has_an Australian precedent. In November,
1805, Governor King, writing to Collins,
whose crowd was rubbing along on short
commons at the Derwent, said :
I think you will be perfectly justifiable, in the
existing state of your settlement, in causing every
useless dog to be destroyed. Every useless dog, I
consider not only a public nuisance but a destroyer
of food that should maintain the inhabitants.
‘‘Jim Carew”: During one of the cam-
paigns of Stephen, who -represented Botany
in N. S. Wales Assembly for a number of
years, he was asked to give his opinion on
the social purity question. The candidate
considered for a moment or two" before
answering. “I’ve travelled,” he said, “in
various countries, and have inquired into
many systems, and I have come to the con-
clusion that the dry-earth system is the
best.” (Loud and continued cheers.)
“Colin C.”: The Melbourne Art Gallery
has added one more horror to its collection.
This time it is another of/ pre-Raphaelite
Burne-Jones’s carpet designs. These nre-
Raphaelites were a weird lot who, ignoring
the perfection of Velasquez, Rembrandt and
Constable, tried to switch back the world to
the embryonic art of Fra Angelico and
Botticelli. Burne-Jones is most exquisite in
his own definition of Art:—
I mean by a picture, a beautiful, romantic dream
that never was, never will be, in a light better than
any light that ever shone in a land no one can
define or remember, only desire; and the forms
divinely beautiful. And then 1 wake up. with the
waking of Brynhild.
And this is the stuff, long since discredited
by the whole serious art world, that the
Melbourne trustees feed* to their dyspeptic
public—work wherein the phantasmagorical
conceptions of childish romanticism is spread
out in carpet design. Velasquez’s living
infantas and dwarfs, Corot’s realistic land-
scapes, Rodin’s breathing statues—these are
not art. Art is a “romantic dream of some-
thing that never was, never will be.” And
then Burne-Jones sells us some.
“Sikandar Khan”: Hayseed, down from
the Backblocks, and accustomed to regard a
red flag as the outward and visible sign of
an auction sale within, will look unmoved at
the blood-red banner which shortly will
stream over Melbourne Trades Hall. The
council has decided to buy a red flag and
fly it alongside that of Australia on Labor
holidays. I can see Hayseed looking at the
battered premises under the crimson emblem
and remarking with scorn: “Huh! Who’d
buy the damn place, anyhow?”
From a press table: —
There’s so much hail-fellow-well-met about Parlia-
mentarians nowadays that no wonder “fake” seems
to be written over all legislative discussion. The
other day I had to report an affair in a strange State
ai which Parliamentarians to me unknown were
thick as fleas in a picture-theatre. I worked my
way into the mob with a view to picking up mem-
bers’ identities from the remarks they passed to each
other. I found they were all, Ministry and Opposi-
tion, Bill and Jim to one another. “Harry” I
managed to fit to a surname because he seemed to
be head-serang, but “Ted” and “Alf” and “Jim” and
“Jack,” “Bob” and “Tom” and “Mick” and “Fred"
—they had me rattled. T wonder if Lloyd George
and Asquith call one another Dave and ’Erb.


r
6#
booru&so n
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
DT
Swift & Company Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Corner P'tt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE &. ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY- H. CARY. Chairman. C. HOWARD POPE. Ganaral Manaatr.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
OILCOATS FOR
WINTER.
Made of eloselv-woven, light Japara Cloth and oiled
with a special non-sticking preparation. These coals
are scarce to-day, and we .are advised of a big rise
in price for future orders. They are full-cut, easy
fitting, and button secure against all wind and rain.
Wind guards in front and at cuffs ensure ample pro-
tection. Throat tab keeps neck well fastened.
Walking shape, 35/-. Riding shape,
fan back pd pommel slicker, 37/6.
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state height and chest
measurements. Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
30? and 3 U George Street, Sydney.
s
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion* “The Bird of Paradise”
Her Majesty's “You’re in Love’’
Palace “De Luxe Annie”
Tivoli . “Time, Please”
Playhouse The Scarlet Troubadours
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Bing Boys Are Here”
Royal “Daddy Long Legs"
King’s “The Masquerader”
Bijou Fuller’s Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli -‘The Million Dollar Girl”
Hoyt’s Dk Luxe k Oly.mi ia Moving Pictures
Majestic .. .* Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
RiiITaNNIA Moving Pictures
Athen.scm Alexander Watson
At Melbourne Royal, in pla«e of the much-
promised “Peter Pan.” there is a revival of
"Daddy Long Legs.” and Ivathlene Mac-
donell is finishing her innings in that insipid
conventional story of the wealthy middle-
aged benefactor and the adopted orphan girl.
"DaddV Long Legs" is of the "Little Lord
Fauntleroy” order of prettiness, the inevit-
able conclusion being delayed by one of those
misunderstandings which are created only
for the purpose of keeping loving hearts
asunder in works of purest fiction. The play
is so_ conventionally fictitious that it never
"gets" the audience after the first act, where
some orphan children, alleged to have had ail
the joy of life crushed out of them, carry
on in a quite normal manner, especially as
regards their appetite for brand and butter
and fairy-tales. Apart from the cups and
saucers and the kiddies there is not much air
of reality about even Act 1.; yet it is a
fresh, invigorating air compared with the
atmosphere of sheer gentility which per-
vades the subsequent acts. The tempera-
ment of the story is. femininely romantic, and
its bearing is strictly young-ladylike. The
most touching of its incidents, in the
author’s intention, is the situation at the
end of the third act, when the seraphic
middle-aged philanthropist accepts the
maiden’s silence as a polite negative and
bows his head to it. Some crushed suitors
bear their disappointment vulgarlily, as Ada
Reeve might observe, but this one takes the
knock like a lady.
* * * *
Katlilene Macdonell is as good as before,
or even better, whilst Waldron seems more
than ever fitted for a halo. Lily Malyon again
over-empha.sises the acerbity of the Home
matron, and Clarice Hardwicke, who has
discovered a more attractive way of doing
her hair, is the typical sister of Jimmy,
Brampton being Jimmy. Other new-comers
are Katie Towers in the part that Maggie
Moore played formerly, and Beryl Bryant as
the pattern of Pendletonian respectability
and prim partaker of afternoon-tea. The
big bogus inkstain on the carpet resumes its
former place, and Emma Temple returns to
duty as the fairy godmother. “Daddy Long
Legs” is to last the month out. On Satur-
day, June 1, comes Graham Browne in
“General Post.”
** * *
“The Masquerader” is now in its fourth
week at Melbourne King’s. Everything con-
tinues to result from the fact that Guy B.
Post stumbles against his duplicate in the
artistic fog of the opening scene, which
accounts for the wondrous intrusion of
Opportunity on the privacy of John Loder.
Out of the fog comes the drama, and the
lamp shining dimly in the mist is the
emblem of Opportunity.
The manifold legs, costumes and other
spectacular effects of “The Bing Boys”
success are in their sixth week at Melbourne
Majesty’s, and the order of the proceedings
shows no change. Also Melbourne is still of
one mind with the managerial announcement
that "the Intellectual Pressure is Negligible.”
Thusfar nobody has been known to mistake
“The Bing Boys” for a problem play.
* * *
At a Red Cross matinee at Melbourne
Majesty’s last week Arthur Greenaway
showed that he can still cut a slim and
youthful figure as the Romeo he first, played
80 years ago, with G. C. Miln’s co. “Be-
screened in night” (stage night) and prac-
tised in the poses of the part, Greenaway
was more persuasive than Miss Thais Law-
ton, who was Juliet. She was distinctly a
young woman rather than a lovesick girleen,
and her diction didn't run smoothly on the
lines. The lady’s manner, too, lacked the
gush of impetuous girlhood. As a new
Juliet she was interesting, of course, but the
honors of the performance were firstly with
Shakspeare for writing the Balcony scene,
and secondly w*ith the adroit veteran actor
who thoroughly understood his job. The long,
long matinee bill at Her Maj.’s offered only
one other opportunity for graceful acting.
Minnie Love and Leslie Holland played the
Merry Widow waltz scene particularly well.
For the rest, there was a puerile act from
“Daddy Long Legs” ; also a large number of
vaudeville items and songs (several of which
seemed quite uncalled for), some clever imi-
tations of singers by Cannot, and an abbre-
viated edition of “The Bing Boys” by chorus
girls more or less juvenile. But an imita-
tion of a well-known show, with chorus girls
or kiddies in place of the usual principals,
has no special attractions for ordinary
charity matinee-goers. It may make a pass-
ing appeal to the curiosity of the initiated.
To the uninitiated, who are looking for first-
class entertainment, it appears neither artis-
tic nor funny.
Following on the heels of “Samples,” a
fairly-bright show in all respects, “The
Million Dollar Girl” doesn’t promise to
break any records at Melbourne Tivoli. The
new revue lacks catchy music, snappy lines,
droll ideas and frivolous spirit. Nothing
goes better than an interpolated vaudeville
turn by Ilughie Ogilvie, who didn’t figure
on 4 *the original programme and wasn’t tried
at the opening Saturday matinee. Yet the
songs of Ogilvie are merely better than some
that are not so good. The suggestion of plot
in “The Million Dollar Girl” is as stale as
the types of items that ensue, and the
knockabout efforts of Workman to bring life
into the concern are a waste of energy.
Celia Ghiloni makes the happiest display
among the principals, whereas Nellie Leach.
Eileen Boyd, Frank Greene and others who
helped to make “Samples” go, have a harder
road to travel this time. The Magleys and
little Jean Keith with the kiddies do practi-
cally the same as they did before, nor does
the chorus ever strike a note of novelty.
There are some good voices in the chorus,
however, and some valuable material in the
co.; and the production provides room for
any number of necessary alterations and
improvements.
** * *
Alexander Watson is mostly away from
Melbourne Athenaeum Hall these ' times,
owing to CQuntry engagements and previous
hirings of the hall. But he will be there
again to-night (Thursday) and on Saturday.
Also, he is pretty certain to recur later.
General Request will issue orders to that
effect.
# V *
The season of municipal concerts has set
m again at Melbourne Town Hall, and on
the first and third Thursdays of each month
the building is never too large for the crowd.
Remembering that it was a keen advocate of
them in the long ago this journal is glad to
find that Dr. Price, the city organist, has
made the concerts gee exceedingly. Two of
the best performers at last Thursday’s
gathering were Miss Violet Concanen, a
charming light soprano, and Mrs. Florence
Ellis, whose violin talked most feelingly.
Once a mouth Dr. Price gives an organ reci-
tal. The first of the new series will happen
to-night (23rd).
& S|! Sjc %
Murray Livingston, a‘ new protean artist,
“The Masquerader,”
at Melbourne King’s.
Adele Ritchie as Lady
Lilian Astrupp.
is dazzling the Ful-
ler supporters at
Melbourne Bijou.
Murray appears in
a sketch called “The
Dreamer,” and goes
through his per-
formance like a
wonderful piece of
machinery. Aubrey
and Riche, a couple
of nice girls, drain
their wardrobes to
the dregs in an
effort to decorate a
dancing act. Still,
despite its color
and _ variety, the
turn is a bit heavy
about the legs.
Dew James, the
Yiddish comedian,
continues to inspire
this paper’s antag-
onism, but his
partner, Reina Sel-
ma, does some
smart things to ex-
tenuate his con-
duct. The best of
the others is Boy
Benham, the chubby
Canadian contor-
tionist, though Ley-
wood and the Australian pair of
humorists, are well up in favor.
The regeneration of the morally unfit still
goes on at Hoyt’s tabernacles, Melbourne.
Last Saturday the gidfiy young hero of “The
Son of His Father” was turned towards a
life of hard work and simple faith amid, the
heartfelt sobs of the congregation. However,
the reformation was made bearable by the
preliminary “devil”' shown by the engaging
Charles Ray in the name part. Hoyt’s second
attraction was an effervescent strip of fiction
called “The Antics of Ann.” The feature of
this extravagance is Ann Pennington, but her
comedy is flimsy and forced.
Olga Petrova is revealing her old air of
“The Masquerader
at Melbourne King's.
Ruby Gordon as
Robbins.
languid suffering in
“The Daughter of
Destiny” at Mel-
bourne Majestic
this week. The film
shows Petrova tak-
ing a header into
European diplo-
macy and emerging
as a princess after
the most puerile
adventures that a
film-faker can de-
vise. The narra-
tive is heavily
loaded with spies,
but the most saga-
cious is easily out-
witted by the mar-
vellous intuition
which is peculiar to
Olga. It is a re-
lief to turn from
her incredible
beauty and strategy
to the more human
and natural art of
Olive Thomas in
the Triangle com-
edy-drama, “Lim-
ousine' Life.” The
piece is only de-
signed to extract
gentle laughter, but
Olive helps to make
the whole fancy be-
guiling.
> “The Bird of
Paradise,” has but
a little time to stay
at Sydney Crite-
rion; and next week we may say with
Omar: “The bird is on the wing.”
** * *
“Dick Whittington” finishes a panto, run
oi two months at Sydney Majesty’s on Fri-
day. The J.C.W. Musical Comedians come
back next evening with “You’re in Love.”
„ “P? H xe Annie,”, with de-licious Emelie
1 ohm, is attracting large audiences to Syd-
ney Palace.
* * tjc
The reception held by “The Bad Girl of
the Family, at Sydney Opera House on
Saturday, was thronged. Among the guests
the only noticeable absentee was Rasputin.
** * *
“Time, Please!” is getting along briskly
at Sydney Tivoli, and producer-dancer Espi-
nosa should be very satisfied with the
houses brought down by his first shot. Barry
Lupino has elaborated his study of the
ancient waiter (late of the Wowsers’ Club),
and hits ’em hard every night with his song,
‘What Was There Was Good.” Billy Rego,
as the miserable, dirty-faced little policeman
who bleats like a goat before lie suicides, is
another of the show’s assets. The Tivoli is
now indulging in matinges every afternoon.
(Prices Gd. to 2s. 6d.) These shows consist
of Paramount and Artcraft films with musi-
cal and other trimmings. Hichens’s “Barbary
Sheep,” with Elsie Ferguson starring, is the
first picture.
Sobs and sniffs at Sydney Royal where
.lane Cowl is spellbinding movie-gazers in
“The Spreading Dawn” (fourth Goldwyn
picture). The plots of most films irritate,
but the brilliant photography of the best
American studios always interests The
camera work in “The Spreading Dawn” is
excellent. “Sunshine Alley,” with Mae
Marsh in the lead, takes the Royal screen
ou Saturday.
# $ $
“The Scarlet Troubadours” continue at
Sydney Playhouse their policy of weekly
changes of pleasing entertainment.
* :]-•
Bessie Barriscale is a lovable little shopgirl
who early in her film flight at Sydney Crys-
tal Palace with a lawyer-senator who
is once too much married. She side-tracks
the shop and the washing of her own hosiery
for a few hundred feet of film, only to have
the layindry bill served relentlessly on her
in the final revolutions; a tearful' audience
discovers that she is left among “Those Who
Pay.” The roofs of Hoyt’s and the Hav-
market are being swept off by the cyclone of
Charles Ray in “The Son of His Father.”
This is an out-of-door whirl in which Charles
finds himself flung from a train into love,
a land-boom and the arms of fortune. ‘ The
Antics of Ann,” at the same address, pro-
vides Ann Pennington with a schoolgirl part.
Petrova tries a little gun practice at the
Globe, but finds the jury stony-hearted; and
the Tivoli stages Robert Ilicherfs’s “Barbary
Sheep,” in which the heroine is nearly
naughty, but decides to mind the step.
* * *
* The Charity that Began at Home,”
Adelaide Repertory Theatre’s opening play
tor this winter, might do quite well, on the
commercial stage. But there its abounding
bores and freaks would be introduced as
mere comic relief, whereas St. -John Hankin
made the story revolve round them. A
peeress invites them because nobody else
will; it is the practical religion imposed on
her by her daughter Margery, under the in-
fluence of Hylton, an unconventional clergy-
man. The party is horribly uncomfortable,
especially when Margery gets engaged to
V (Treker, a charming, cynical youth who has
had to leave the army for doctoring the
regimental accounts. (His explanation of
why he did it. for reasons that seemed at
the moment sufficient, is High Art in simple
form.) There is just one ordinary woman
in the play, and she blisters hostess and
guests with epigram and commonsense, till
ac the end of the third act a clean sweep is
made of disagreeable guests and incompetent
servants. There is a final scene of different
texture, in which Verreker does the Sydney
Carton act on another plane, giving up Mar-
gery to the more worthy Hylton, on a thin
pretence that it is for his own happiness.
Hylton, by the way, is not even consulted,
and the previously strong-minded girl 'is
singularly complacent as to the change; but
the scene is full of charm.
* * * *
This light stuff was well rendered by Ray
Walsh as Verreker, his dubious reputation
and personal fascination being artistically
suggested, and Kathleen Lawrence as the
too-amiable hostess. Ethelwvn Robin had
merely to sit still and talk cleverly, which
she did with her accustomed finish, and
James Anderson made the chief bore a live
character. Striking new recruits were Basil
Harford as the young preacher, and a girl.
Mavis Hunt, who needs to let her face do
some acting when she isn’t speaking. A
large audience included a vice-regal party,
and the Rep. Theatre unwisely abandoned
its old Spartan rules and took a call and
some mixed vegetables at the finish.
* * *
Bert Bailey shed 20 years at Adelaide
Royal last week, and got down from Gran-
dad Rudd to plain Dad. It was rather a
pitv to play the sequel first; also the con-
trast shows up the many patches of plain
melodrama in the original play. Bailey is a
real artist; after causing laughter each
time he opens his mouth, he can—as some
comedians can’t—hush the house to sym-
pathetic silence the moment he turns to "the
serious vein. The Tivoli also is Australian
in tone, with old “Robbery Under Arms.”
Guy Hastings is Starlight in a well-mounted
production, Ida Gresham has the feminine
interest, and Fitzherbert has the thankless
part of head of the ’police whom the drama-
tist seemed to think so little of. At the
Majestic, Fred Bluett has some really funny
English songs, and now Sliattuck and
O’Neill (candidly described as “two big
women”) have been added to the bill, in
which also is the fine singing of the Moli-
naries. At Wondergraph, “Joan the
Woman” has been such a success all the
week that the ordinary programme is pushed
over into the Town Hall, thus making an
extra picture-house. Another battle-picture
is at West’s, “The Crisis,” making a spirited
attempt to reproduce Churchill’s story of
Lincoln and the Civil War. It is further
announced that the King’s is to reopen,
after a long holiday, with a revival of “Turn
to the Right.”
“Callan Park’s” recipe,:—
After consulting the other military experts in this
neighborhood I propose that every man should be his
own army. Let every citizen be accqjitred to the
teeth and rehearse according to his own notions and
in his own time what he imagines to be the best way
of slaughtering an enemy, and there would be only
one more invasion and then warfare would come to
a full stop. That last invader would Wheel up his
tremendous ironmongery to the frontier ready to
meet the opposing army, and there wouldn’t be an
army there. Then, with the ball apparently at his
feet, he would start to take possession of his easy
conquest—and fall in. Taking possession of a country
means scattering far and wide over it; and such a
scattering must involve the outnumbering at every
point of the groups of soldiers by the armed citizens.
Thus, when 17 invaders went to capture a pub they
would have nothing to do but go in and collect the
beer; but while the invaders collected it, the local
defenders would get busy in 50 places around the bar
and there wouldn't be any live enemy to go on to the
next pub. There would be no offensives, no brag,
no glory, no battle bigger than a dog-fight, no
casualty lists and eventually no army. Nobody would
know when the war ended; and not the maddest
Kaiser in the world would ever want a repetition of
his triumphant march. And all the while, but for
a slight interruption of business, when the popula-
tion wept to look for soldier-game in its paddocks,
democracy would go on with its job with a full head
of steam and never bother about either the high
command or the censorship.


'
mr
~*y
You Can Learn Free
how to remove every blemish in a few days. Grace Duncan,
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years.
You have never used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel,
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus;
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a “fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey.” This
wonderful treatment, in just a few days, positively removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way.
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint
of puritv of a freshly-blown rose.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your
fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely prove to you before
vour own eyes in your mirror in a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most . delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No change in your mode of living necessary.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment.
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give you full
details bv return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dept. 52, 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
A heart-cry from Mesopotamia:—
Has Australia forgotten its lads in Mesopotamia?
We are not a large force, only about 300 of us,
but we hate to think that Australia deosn’t remem-
ber even its little hundreds. Yet none of us received a
vote for the Referendum. Our mite would not
have influenced the result; but you can’t think how
proud we should have been to have had this chance
of saying “I am an Australian.” However, that’s
WHERE TEE WELCOME WAITS HIM.
“ I suppose if I did go to the Front nobody
would miss me.”
"But thousands will if you don’t go.”
all past. But this is something' that can still
have attention. Most of the boys here arrived
sometime during ’l6, and since leaving Australia
none of us have received an Australian issue of any
kind. Clothes will not last a lifetime, and our
Bear Old Hats and tunics have had their day, and
we are now attired in English togs. How we hung
on to those hats ! But at last orders had to be issued
that they were to be worn no more outside of camp
areas. It seems like parting with our birthright. We
do not wish to complain, but a note might arouse
the interest of somebody who can appreciate what
love of country is. A case of hats and tunics, please
—it would be manna from Heaven, indeed; and we
will now look forward to its arrival. Please don’t
disappoint us, somebody.
“X.Y.Z.”: Re levies made on soldiers
ostensibly to pay for losses and breakages.
I have at least two such iniquitous charges
entered in my book, and am not sure that
there isn't a third; but as both pay-books
(the old and new styles) are at present in
the hands of the military, reference to them
is impossible. But it is not only with
respect to alleged losses and breakages
occurring on board ship that the pockets
of the soldiers suffer. Many of us have a
vivid recollection of being charged Is. each
at a camp at Weymouth the day after we
got there for “hut shortages.” We marched
in one day, and the day following, being pay
day, we received Is. less than we had to
sign for. All the time there ought to have
been, and there still ought to be, a com-
mittee consisting of men of the highest Aus-
tralian eminence to listen to the grievances
of men serving abroad. The mere existence
of such a body would have prevented many
a pinprick; and it is the pinpricks which
have remained in the memory of Bill after
his return.
* * * *
“Spook” from his diary dated August 4,
1915, at Sari Bair: —
On duty to-night 6 p.m. to 2 a.m. There’s a
stunt on at Lone Pine; ’phones busy. A blood-
bespattered chap came to the door of the dug-out.
“Got a drop of rum to spare, cobber?” he asked. I
had. He took a fuse-cover, measured the ration
and polished it in silence. Smacked his lips and
passed out. Through the door of the dug-out I saw
him making his way up hill away from the C.C.S.
(Central Clearing Station). Bawled him back and
told him: “That’s not the way to the dressing-station,
Digger.” “Changed my mind,” he said—“they need
me more in the line than they do at the C.C.S.
’Night 1” Sequel came just before I went off duty.
A stretcher was deposited at the doorway. A bearer
put his head in and’ said: “There’s a chap on our
stretcher says you gave him a nip as he came up
and thinks you might have another to spare.” I
went out and found my visitor of earlier in the
evening, badly knocked out of shape by a bomb.
“Stiff luck be damned!” he said in answer to my
remark, and gulped his rum! “I’m going home,,
ain’t 1?” He had his two feet off! Home! Aus-
tralia—God, how they love it!
* * * #
“Hamer”: Dogs in the firing-line, or very
close to it, show a singular indifference to
the clamor of war; but one of the numerous
tribe that have attached themselves to our
lot got the shock of his life re-
cently. Whenever Fritz strafed
us worse than usual this little
white tyke made himself a con-
spicuous feature of the land-
scape, from which most other
living things made haste to dis-
appear, by the frantic way in
which lie rushed to each new
shell-hole. The reason was that
rats were his mortal enemies,
and when their holes were
blown up it was his turn to be
happy. His escapes were won-
derful ; but one day he arrived
a little too soon. There was a
flash of white; and when the
blur passed, a trembling little
animal could be seen standing in
a dazed fashion and wondering
what had happened. He decided,
quite suddenly, that, whatever
had happened, there was a bet-
ter [ole somewhere for him, and
he lit out for the horizon as if
all the crackers in China were
tied to his tail. We have not
seen him since; but a transport
man, coming up from a village
12 miles away, told us a story
of a wild dog that had dashed
through the hamlet and startled
the traffic. There was another
small, curly-tailed dog which
used to jump to the parapet of
the front-line trenches and bark
at the Huns. Fritz was sport
enough not to shoot until, pro-
bably, some relative of the
Kaiser came on the scene. The
immediate result was a dead
dog, and a platoon sergeant that
night was amazed at a rush of volunteers
to take part in a raid. It was a very
expensive dog for Fritzy.
**. * #
“M.D.”: “Country Ped” (B. 9/5/T8) asks
why children start so young at school. As a
ped. of experience he should know. The
good old payment-by-attendance idea is
largely responsible. So is the desire oj: busy
mothers to “get ’em orf me ’ands.” Behind
it all is the vast, unfathomable ignorance of
child-physiology and child-psychology which
is still the outstanding feature of Australian
Education Departments. In a regenerated
Australia no child will be allowed inside a
school-room, as we know school-rooms to-day,
before the age of 10 at earliest. Nature makes
no provision before that age for eye-work at
near distances. Teaching a child of seven
or eight to write ordinary script is a sheer
hard struggle against Mrs. Nature, and that
relentless lady revenges herself by damaging
the youngster’s sight if she can. A child’s
BLACKMAIL.
ARTIST (painting portrait of wealthy patron): “Yes, I’m a realist. My motto is to
paint everything just as I see ’em."
THE SITTER: “Now, look here, young man, are you trying to threaten me?”
eye, up to about the age of 10, is sighted for
large objects at middle distances. The
teacher is paid to force it to work at small
objects at near distances. A child’s hand-
movements are designed to be large and free
—watch them playing—but the Education
Departments pay thousands of teachers to
force them to be small and cramped. Thus
do we come to wonder at the frequency of
spectacles and nervous diseases in after-life.
* * * *
“Bill Jack”: Recently, travelling in a
coastal steamer, northward bound, my com-
panions in the first saloon were mostly cane-
cutters and tradesmen going up to toil on
some of Ryan’s public shirks —saloon fare
provided and day wages paid till they got
to their destination. In the steerage were a
party of wounded Billjims going home from
the Front. A few paid the difference in the
fare and changed to the cabin. One soldier,
paralysed in both legs, certainly came aboard
with a first-saloon ticket, but this was at
the suggestion of the Red Cross, which
promised to part up if the Government
wouldn’t. I don’t know who eventually did
part up ; but I’ll bet that the shipping co.
collected from one of them.
From a 19-year-old veteran in France: —
You remember Smugge, ’one of my workmates at
Blankley’s? Well, I had a letter from him last
week. He had just got back from eight days
in camp with the Citizen forces. It was evidently a
cruel campaign, for he writes:" “Believe me, Bob,
this soldiering isn’t what it is cracked up to be.”
«■ * * »
Notley Moore, one of Melbourne’s newer
P.M.’s, is an open and unashamed barracker
for the ancient system under which an
accused person may be re-punished for sins
already expiated. At the City Court the
other day he urged the police to “take the
earliest opportunity in the hearing of a
case to place the accused man’s record before
the Bench.” And then he stated the painful
justification for his edict: “Not long ago I
discharged a man whom I afterwards dis-
covered was a notorious criminal!” Some
of these days Notley Moore, P.M., will
be pained, not to say horrified, to hear an
Appeal Judge say: “The other day I dis-
missed an appeal. I didn’t know at the
time that the decision had been given by
Notley Moore. I should certainly have
upheld the appeal had that fact been brought
to my notice.”
* * * *
“Children, your opportunities are great.
Although you may not become members of
Parliament or Ministers of the Crown, you
have greater opportunities—you may grow
up to be honest men.” (Bond laughter, in
which, after 'a moment of surprise, the
speaker joined.)— Ex-constable Reidy ,
M.L.A., of S.A., to the school-children of his
district.
* * * *
“Kopai” : In the bad old days before the
war, when the price-fixer hadn’t been in-
vented, the Victorian market was flooded
with the Queensland surplus of stored butter
whenever local butter became scarce. We
grocers made a star-line of it and a reputa-
tion for ourselves as public benefactors
because it was always a penny to twbpence
cheaper than the local product. This year
the arrival of the Queensland surplus on the
Victorian market is signalised by the raising
of the price, as much as 3d. a pound ! In
my 17 years’ Australian experience “stored”
butter never went beyond Is. 2d. to Is. 3ci.;
this year it is price-fixed at Is. to Is. 9d.
—under, practically, proliibit-of-export con-
ditions. As the war hasn’t forced the price
of meadow-grass up, and drought has been
unknown, someone is doing fairly well out of
“scientific” commerce and Hughes’s genius for
Winning the War.
SAVOIR FAIRE.
WAYSIDER : “Tell me, are you much hurt?”
MOTORIST: “Yes; take me to the morgue—it
is the wife's car.”
HOLIDAY THANKSGIVING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let this be my song of praise
For the dance of the seven
Fine clear nights and days
Of a week under heaven:
I that have eaten good bread
And drank of holy spring water,
And tasted fruit as red
As the mouth of a king’s daughter;
1 that have slept good sleep
And dreamt dreams of no weeping,
While kind stars in the deep
A fine watch were keeping;
I that have walked upon grass
And by sands with the seas breaking,
Render thanks for all that shall pass
Of my having and taking,
Render thanks with my body and thought,
With full years for the giving,
For the true word that the winds taught
And the great joy of living.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
211
PAIR
Post Free
on Approval
to You.
IT is not so much what you pay as what
you get for the sum expended. THESE
GUINEA BOOTS are good. Black Box
Calf, leather-lined, strong soles. Comfort
is guaranteed, yet without in any way sacri-
ficing the style.
State your size ■ —have a pair sent to
you on approval. Cash refunded on
return of goods if unsuitable. You
incur no obligation.
PIKE
BROTHERS
BPO THf:ft5
A;
LIMITED.
BRISBANE:.
All the fat people want to be lean,
All the lean people want to be fat;
It’s hard to know what we all mean
Or where we all wish to be at.
But, despite the dissension that holds.
One decision of all will endure:
That the very best treatment for colds
Is Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.— Advt
r\
xr ;
S v/(,
NOW THE COLD
WEATHER is HERE
.. . Buy a ...
“Magnet” Fire
BRITISH MADE.
British General
Electric Co. Ltd.
Sydney:
257 Clarence St.
Melbourne:
590 Bourke St.
Wellington, N.Z.
8 Willeston St.
“Six-and-Eight”: An Adelaide magistrate
has given the highly arguable ruling that a
wife was justified in biting her husband
severely when he made “certain overtures”
to her that did not at the moment meet her
approval. They had had a wretched Sun-
day, he stated, because she, being a Seventh
Day believer, did the washing and cooking
on "his only day at home. When he at last
wished to make friends, the biting occurred;
after which he admittedly got violent and
she jumped out of the window at midnight
and called in the police. It is a very com-
mon story of matrimonial unhappiness. The
only interest lies in the S.M.’s remarks:
“You fought your wife to gratify your lust.
She had a perfect right to defend herself,
and her only means of defence was by
using her teeth on you.” “Lust” is hardly
a fair word in the circumstances. The ruling
may be highly satisfactory to the New
Woman, but I don’t think it is good law. A
decent husband may not enforce his rights
at a moment when lie is clearly not wanted,
but a wife’s consent, given at marriage, is
supposed to be irrevocable, unless perhaps in
case of illness.
* * * #
“Eifeem”: “Bion” (B. 9/5/T8) resents
“Bombardier’s” inference that a fair propor-
tion of the shortages in stores xrn a transport
can be nut down to the ship’s crew. During
our trio to Australia very recently, daily
losses of boots were reported by the men. A
search revealed almost a dozen pairs
in the ship’s bunkers. When a crew has no
objections to “borrowing” the boots of a
wounded man returning home (and, by the
way, he has only one pair issued him) it
would probably not object to borrowing in
the same manner ship’s stores, etc., which
are much easier to obtain. I am waiting to
hear the word go round the shuddering crews
that somebody lias been sent to gaol for seven
years for this offence. But what steps are
ever taken to detect or arrest these most
contemptible of thieves?
* * * *
“Duglio”: Billjim, who had overstayed his
leave, toed the mat next morning. “Have
you anything to say?” “No, sir.” “Haw!
No reason or excuse, eh?” “Had a reason,
sir, but no excuse.” “What the Devil do
you mean by that, man?” “Well, as you’ve
asked, sir, I’ll give my reason. At the end of
my leave period I was still financial, was
having the time of my life, and couldn’t see
my way clear to come back with a pocket
still standing the strain.” The 0.0. looked
at the Digger hard and long, and then
exclaimed, “Well, I’m damned! March him
out.” For once the dinkum truth paid. I
can vouch for it; I happen to be the digger.
SHE MENTIONED HATS.
“Oh, George, I saw such a duck of a hat in
a shop to-day — l'm quite in love with
it.”
“Well, you remember you're a married
woman now, and have no right to be in
love with anything but me.”
“Toothpick”: Some time ago our (Tabu-
lam) Progress Association wrote the N. S.
Wales Lands Department pointing out the
suitability of parts of certain local squat-
tages for returned soldiers’ farms. An
THE RUN HOME.
“They say you drove in twenty German prisoners.”
“Well, I won’t say drove —but I jolly well kept up with them!”
answer was received in due course: “Owing
to their isolation and distance from market
these portions are not considered suitable.”
Shortly after this a tribe of surveyors
arrived and cut up all the back Crown lands,
at which ordinai’y settlers had jibbed, into 400-
and 500-acre blocks for returned soldiers'
only! No experienced farmer will settle on
the blocks; inexperienced men may try to
and waste a few years of their lives and a
lot of other people’s money, as well as their
little own.
* * * *
“Rio”: In Melbourne, V.A.D.’s, mostly
girls of good family and unquestionable
charactex 1 , have been employed for some
time in the Military Hospitals with excel-
lent results. So satisfactory were these
young ladies that the Department decided
to engage some perma-
nently, insisting, how-
ever, that they should
take 18s. per week,
that they might be
under discipline. This
hurt most of the girls,
who would rather
have continued volun-
tarily ; still they could'
put up with 18s.—
most girls can. But
they were further told
that they must wear a
different pattern of
cap and apron, so that
there could be no mis-
taking them for any-
thing else but “maids,”
notwithstanding that
they were doing pre-
cisely the same work
as before. To cap all,
they were th,en told
they must not wear the
Red Cross. This bit of
eccentric official snob-
bery is heart-breaking
to the girls, who would
not think of doing the
work if it were not
for our sick and
wounded soldiers.
Now, the man who
cleans the doctor’s
leggings wears the red
cross; so do the male
orderlies who perform
duties very similar to
these girls. The nurses
also wear it. Why not
the maids? Inciden-
tally you hardly ever
see a military doctor
wearing the red cross
except when in the
danger zone. Is he ashamed of his pro-
fession?
In Melbourne Mary Ann (who is mostly
Errayntrude now) has formed herself into a
union, with power to add to her number.
Ermyntrude aims at a weekly half-day from
2 p.m., every second Sunday, a minimum
wage and a maximum working week. Toorak
is wailing that it is hard enough to get
“help” now and will be harder if there is a
union. Which only shows how unenlightened
Toorak is. Improved conditions will attract
girls from other jobs, just as surely as other
jobs which have offered greater attractions
have stolen away the house-helps.
“Teller”; A few Commonwealth notes are
reasonably clean and hygienic; all the others
are filthy. Do the people ever reflect when they
put a bunch of these dirty strips of naper
into their pocket what a close acquaintance-
ship they are making with thriving colonies
of germs, introducing, as it were,
on to their very persons myriads
of just those horrors which modern
science is everlastingly exhorting
them to avoid? What a magic
word is Money ! Stink as it may,
if the strip of paper is a “note”
we receive it into our most inti-
mate keeping. In Broken Hill we
have the mysterious X disease; in
Africa they have the sleeping sick-
ness; in Australia I venture to
predict we shall have an equally
mysterious bank-tellers’ disease
arising from these poor devils hav-
ing to stand all day and every day
over a till-full of Australian
“money” and inhale its microbes.
We have indeed so come to regard
muck as an integral part of our
note issue that, if by a mischance
a clean and hygienic note comes into
our possession, we have our sus-
picion aroused and closelv scru-
tinise the bright-faced stranger to
ascertain whether it isn’t a stiff-
’un! While perhaps we cannot
attain to the crisp and cleanly
Bank of England system, surely
we can improve matters. Aus-
tralians as a rule are not exacting,
but' in so close and intimate a
friend as a bank-note they
look for reasonable wholesomeness and are
entitled to demand and get it—even if it be
at the cost of an insignificant bite out of the
huge reserve of their national banking in-
stitution.
Adelaide found a difficulty in getting itself
buried lately. The morgue at West Terrace
(City) Cemetery has lately been put under
the charge of bellicose Owen Smyth, Super-
intendent of Public Buildings. His methods
are very strenuous, and the grave-diggers re-
fused to do the fresh work, on which, of
course, he sacked them. The crisis lasted
only a few hours, but was considered so criti-
cal that the Cabinet was rushed together.
It decided on the reinstatement of the men,
who claim that their ordinary duties give
them all they can do. Owen Smyth is still
in charge of the morgue, but has been in-
structed to get other labor to look after it.
* * * *
“Dead Bird”: Why don’t the water-wag-
goners cut the talk and get down to busi-
ness? The Liquor Act of N. S. AVales, for
instance, provides that a publican serving a
drunken man with grog is liable to a fine
upon the first offence, and an increased fine
on the second, with forfeiture of license in
the distance. In the eases of employees serv-
ing intoxicated men the penalties are not so
severe; still, if Mr. Pub had to face the
court only once he’d be a mighty careful
caterer in future.
“D.F.”; It’s a dreadful thought, but it is
haunting me—did we inherit our awful “lack
of discipline” from the English? In 1800
John Macarthur, then still a British officer
on service in N. S. Wales, remarked in a
letter to the Governor that he hoped it might
not be improper to observe that as the follow-
ing day was pay-day most of his men would
probably be too drunk for duty.
* * * *
By the Office Deacon: —
Why should we not have a whole holiday on the
birthday of the prophet Jeremiah, who was also an
anti-Conseriptionist in his day? Isaiah, the best
of the prophets, was no pro-Hun. When Judah
seemed at the last milestone, and the feeble Hezekiah
threw in the towel, the roar of Isaiah kept up some
semblance of the popular tail. Jeremiah, who fol-
lowed, was a consistent weeper. He prophesied that
the Babylonians would stamp Tyre and Damascus;
and Egypt and his own country' flat; he said it was:
all up; he urged the bolt; he declared that
the name of everybody save Nebuchadnezzar was Mud,,
and he ‘ implored his countrymen to desert for the-
sake of their lives and make a bee-line as the crow-
flies for the enemy’s camp. Poor, kindly, wobbling:
ICing Jehoiakim had him interned at 'list, but even
then he put his melancholy tale in writing, and sent
an agent to read it aloud in public. Then even
Jehoiakim, the most easy-going of mortals, felt that
A MEAN WISH .
NELLE : “I do wish the war would end!”
BELLE: “How selfish of you! Why, Charlie
has only just been made a captain.”
he couldn’t let his army be discouraged in this
fashion, and burnt the document. When the king
perished—legend says in some obscure skirmish—the
prophet got level with his bones by saying that he
was “buried with the burial of an ass.” Two more
weak, good-natured kings, one a mere boy, allowed
the prophet to hold forth, and then the dispirited
little State gave up. It had been preached to death-
and terrified out of its boots. The pagan conquerors,
pensioned off the valuable pro-Hun prophet, and he-
was living in comfortable circumstances with gas
and water laid on, when a few peevish Jews chased!
him into Egypt. And then he announced again (ini
Egypt) that Nebuchadnezzar was coming, which, by
the way, didn’t happen; and a business-like Pharaoh-
wiped out the professional discourager lest the-
army should hear of him. But he was a good anti-.
Conscriptionist and a passive desister from useful!
work, and his birthday should be celebrated.
THE BOOTMAKER HELPS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A retailer had told him that women had ‘money
to burn’ and that ‘he was prepared to help them
burn it.’ Some women would not take a pair of
boots if offered at 355.” —Evidence of Commonwealth
expert in leather at Inter-State Commission.
Commissions still take evidence
About the cost of living;
I notice, though, our Parliaments
No evidence are giving.
Like me to “kid” and “hide” they turn —
Their wage they say they earn it!
Well, so do I. I’m making hay,
Like any M.P., any day;
And while some folks have money to burn
I’m willing to help them burn it!
VICTORIA.
THE SNOB.


“WOULD ANYBODY ELSE LIKE TO TRY SOME ‘PEACE BY NEGOTIATION’?”


1. A person called oft “The Bulletin” Enquiry
Department recently with the plans and
specifications of a great discovery. He
claimed to have created a cross between the
common house dog and the Gladstone bag,
combining the faithful instincts Of the former
with the portable usefulness of the latter.
“The Bulletin" representative consented
ta the arrangement a public try-out.
2 Some difficulty was experi-
enced between Gladstone and tram-
cars before he got used to them.
,3. Also, it cost “The Bulletin "
man most of his small change to*
square a person who swore Glad-
stone had bitten him
4. It was evident by the way
'Gladstone assimilated counter-
lunch that he had not been fed
since his invention.
6. Which grew and grew.
5. At this stage Gladstone began
to arouse suspicion and a good deal
of jealousy.
7. Culminating in a perfect
canine Armageddon.
8. When peace was de-
dared “The Bulletin " repre-
sentative decided that the
time was not yet ripe for
Gladstone’s entry into public
life, and sent him to •• The
Bulletin' handy-man for re-
pairs.
*» The B.” handy-man reported yesterday that he is now taking orders
for handbags.
LOW TAKES A HOLIDAY.


Tor Sale.
MOTOR FOR SALE.—l75h.p. three-
phase motor, 365 r.p.m., 6000 volts,
50 cycles, with two end shield bearings, regu-
lating slip ring rotor.
The motor is in first-class order, and is
being offered for sale owing'to the installa-
tion of a larger machine.
Further information will be forwarded on
application to
“MOTOR,” Box 856 G.P.0., Melbourne.
A Letter of Interest to all Pastoralists and Farmers throughout Australia.
Mr. T. I. Campbell, Gen. Sec. Farmers & Settlers’ Association, N.S.W., gives this testimony to Clements Tonic
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
Farmers & Settlers’ Association of N.S.W.
7 O’Connell Street,.Sydney,- 27/7/’l6.
“Knowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and experience, I do not hesitate to give you my
opinion of it, simply putting into words what I have so often spoken.
“I believe it tube a very fine nerve and blood tonic. I know that it has benefited me greatly. At various
periods my duties are exceptionally heavy, involving great mental and nervous strain, and I have always found
your medicine of the greatest value to me, having singularly invigorating and recuperative properties.
“I make a point of recommending Clements Tonic to many of my friends, as I feel desirous of enabling
others to benefit by my personal experience. “I am, Sirs, yours sincerely,
T. I. CAMPBELL,
“General Secretary.”
It is questionable whether there is any
man better or more widely known than the
secretary of this far-reaching Associa-
tion, whose members scattered far and
wide amongst the farming and pastoral
community number thousands. Mr.
Campbell’s testimony will be read with
interest, because of its sincerity and its
lucid explanation of the value of Clements
Tonic and its 1 -neficial effect upon his
health. There is no better medicine for
the man on the land. It is a'mistake for
you to' be without it. Keep it at home.
GET CLEMENTS TONIC TO-DAY AND GET WELL.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozellc. X.S.At.
all chemists and stores sell it everywhere.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
June birthdays: Justice Hood (Vic.), 72,
on Ist; W. O. Archibald, M.H.R. (ex-
Federal Minister), 68, on 3rd; ex-Premier
W. B. Propsting (Tas.), 57, and David
liardie, M.D., Brisbane, 62, on 4th; Mrs.
Jeannie Gunn (“We of the Never Never”),
48, on sth'; J. J. Knight (Brisbane Courier,
55, and Prof* Arnold Wood (Sydney Uni.),
53, on 7th; ex-Agent-General T. A. Cogh-
lan, 63, and Bishop Gilbert White (Wil-
lochra), 59, on 9th; Thos. Burgoyne (for-
mer S.A. Parliamentarian), 91, on 10th;
Mrs. Humphry Ward (born at Hobart),
07, and Alec Peacock (Vic.), 57, on 11th;
T. Givens (Pres. Federal Senate), 54, and
C. E. Herbert (Jifdge in Papua), 58, on
12th; G. H. Knibbs (Federal Statistician),
69 poet Hubert Church, 61, and Prof. Harry
Allen (Melbourne Uni.), 64, on 13; Henry
Lawson, 51, on 17th.
The little Apple Island has the remark-
able record of winning seven V.C.’s —nearly
as many as all the mainland States put to-
gether.
F. G. Ward, Anglican rector of Australia’s
alleged capital at Canberra, is the third par-
son in the Goulburn Anglican diocese to
win the M.C. The others are George Rich-
mond, a former Goulburn curate, and H. K.
Gordon, precentor at Goulburn Cathedral,
and now with a camel corps somewhere.
Tom 11. Johnson, the aloof person with
the large capacity for making other people
uncomfortable, signs the. last balance-sheet
of the big Bank of Australasia to hand as
Chairman of Directors. He followed Sir
Andrew Scohle, K.C.5.1., K.C., on the
Beard two years ago. The chair isn’t, how-
ever, a fixture in this bank; it goes round
the table.
HELL, AND HELL OVER AGAIN.
PRIVATE SMITH: “Of course, we suffered
’Ell an’ orl that sorter thing in the
trenches; but it was nuffin' compared
to the kindness you people 'are showered
upon us ever since we come back!”
Although for years the Richmond (Vic.)
Municipal Council has contained a majority
of Labor members, the mayoral rabbitskins
are still kept in use. The trappings are at
present being worn by Henry Palling, a lino-
typist at the State Printery and a young
man with a considerable facility in soap-
bexing.
Died last week a pioneer of the Stawell
(Vic.) district, who was a good working
Australian to the end. David McMurtrie,
the. ancient in question, had to do with the
fiist crushing-plants-at Pleasant Creek when
he arrived there 60 years ago. In the final
months of his life he couldn’t do much—he
was an invalid. So he knitted socks for
soldiers —200 pairs of them.
Gone at 8S from this world of blue aprons
and red joints, T. K. Bennet, one of the
founders of T. K. Bennet and Woolcock, of
Melbourne. There was always a regal look
about the butchering firm’s blood-red carts
with the Royal arms in gold. Through them
a long string of Governors went to the steak,
and they were proud of it.
Examining a busli school one day in
“civics and morals” in the Yass (N.S.W.)
district, the fate “Jimmie Pannikin” said to
the class; “Supposing I nieet a lady whom
I know, I raise my hat to her. Now,
who can tell me why I do so?” Up went the
hands. Appealed to, Johnny Smith answei’ed :
“Please, sir, because you were well brougnt
up.” Hand outstretched. Pannikin rushed to
the boy with : “Put it there, old chap!
You’re the first one who ever told me that!”
NOT COPYRIGHT.
THE COLOWN : “Pm going to give ’em an imi-
tation of Charlie Chaplin.”
THE GIRL: “Oh, how lovely! And when are
you going into camp?”
W. J. Rayment, who closed the book at
the 80th chapter at Willoughby (N.S.W.)
lately, came to this country from Liverpool
(Eng.), in 1881, in search of a sky pilot’s
certificate from Bishop Barker. As the pre-
late had just gone ’Ome, Rayment sold soft-
goods with the big Farmer firm in Sydney
for a quarter of a century instead, but pul-
piteered as a “lay reader” most Sundays.
His youngest son was that Edward Raymerit
who for some years ran the Ma State’s Immi-
gration Office in London, and was killed on
war service last year. Another son is sec.
of the staff committee of N.S.W. Railways;
and a grandson, who passed through Jervis
Bay Naval College, is in Australia’s navy in
the North Sea.
The first Surveyor-General of N. S.
Wales, John Oxley, appointed in 1812, was
n«t a professional surveyor. One James
Meehan did all the work. The first Attorney-
General, Saxe-Bannister, was not a lawyer.
His want of legal knowledge caused a duel
between him and barrister Wardell, blood-
less, as Australian duels usually were. And
the first Australian archdeacon was a
broken-down London wine-merchant.
There are three Gallipoli medallists
among Billjims just arrived from France.
One is Sergeant James George Allen, of
Warra (Q.), who was among the first at the
Landing with the Ninth. Then there are
Lieut. Andrew Alexander Ross (N.S.W.)
and Capt. G. F.' Mason, D.C.M., of a Wes-
tralian battalion. Mason was born in S.
Africa in 1875, and is a blacksmith’s floor-
man. Allen was a laborer; Ross a sheep
overseer, born in Scotland.
This persistence deserved a better fate.
Private Jim Peoples, of Ballarat North, was
rejected 21 times before he overcame medical
objections. Now comes the news that he
has been killed in France.
A onee-prominent figure in the money-
making life of Sydney passed out on May
11.—Charles Henry Myles, son of the early
bird who built the big terrace on the
“Rocks,” long known as Myles’s Buildings,
and but recently demolished. The Myles
recently deceased was for many years a
director of the Sydney Gas and other afflu-
ent cos.
George Lambert is now in Palestine limn-
ing Billjim and his operations in the sand.
From these sketches large compositions are
to be painted for the innumerable Aus-
tralian Governments.
The troubles of Parson Morris, who was
directed by the Methodist Conference in S.
Axis, to leave the Brompton chapel and go
to one in the counutry, but who got re-
iimtated on the refusal of his flock to have
anybody else, have taken a fresh form. He
has told file papers that he is tired of petty
persecutions and that the worm has tux-ned.
Bx-other Schafer, of the neighboring Bowden
church, charged him last September, he says,
with defalcation, and he has instructed his
lawyers to bring a slander action unless
there is a full apology. Schafer is the chief
of the Prohibitionist party in S. Aus.
Gerard Tucker, of Malvern (.Vic.),* is
back in his choker again after two years’ ser-
vice with Billjim. $. son of a hearty, bush-
whacking sky-pilot, this affable young man
went from St. George’s as a private
and got a chaplain’s job after
reaching the Front. Ilis dad, 1 for
many years incumbent at South
Warra, was the canon who started
Victoria’s first village settlement.
The late J. M. and George Bruce,
dad arid uncle respectively of Cap-
tain Stanley Bruce, M.C., the new
M.H.li. for Flinders (Vie.), had
small beginnings in the calico, busi-
ness. Once 1 started J.M. climbed
rapidly to financial eminence and
built himself a place in the sun at
Toorak, where in due course he
became quite a pillar. George was
more interesting. lie used to keep
a neat little drapery shop at the
neat little country town of Ivyneton.
When the concern began to go
ahead he married a .daughter of that
widely-known llosie who later be-
came one of Melbourne’s most pros-
perous publicans. In those early
days father-in-law’s labors were
chiefly confined to supplying the
public at Hosie’s Scotch Pie Shop,
in Bourke-street; but it was a
lucrative business and the alliance
brought plenty of money into the
Bruce family. As the calico pile
griew apace, the memory of the pie-
shop receded into the mists _of
antiquity, though the late Hosie’s
pie : pence were undoubtedly of great
assistance in Jielping the Bruces to develop
this country’s great natural importing re-
sources.
Passed out at : Zeehan (Tas.) William
Lnmerton, aged 75. Most of his life he was a
mine-manager, and for a time he was Presi-
dent of the Mine Managers’ Association.
During a brief interlude he represented
Zeehan in the Assembly.
“Seres”: The claim that the late Ah
Mouy (B. 9/5/’18) was the first Chinaman
to settle in Vic. cannot be sustained. On
November 16, 1840, one Thomas Leahy
stabbed his wife with a bayonet at Portland
and killed her. The chief witness for the
Crown was a Chinese citizen, whose name
is spelt A-horne by a newspaper of the day.
He was Leahy’s landlord. This Chink, by
the way, did not take the oath by blowing
out a match, but dropped a soup-plate and
told the Judge that if he did not tell the
truth the Devil would break him allee same
fashion.
Archgaiters Riley, of Perth, likes to saun-
ter along the Terrace in full Chaplain-
General uniform and collect salutes —
courtesies which he gets unstihtingly. There
are returned men who met him well in the
danger zone* helping with the wounded and
quite indifferent to the shells. Q.n travel
in the West he roughs it with the best. One,
cold night a few years ago, when the tired
passengers of Cobb and Co. were all abed
in the framed hessian shack that did for a
pub midway between Lawlers and Sandstone,
the Archbish. drove up. Firmly declining
friendly offers of other men’s bunks in the
overflowing dossery, the wandering ecclesias-
tic. rather than inconvenience anybody, rolled
up under the lee of the shattered fence.
“J.S.G.”: “J.S.N.” (B. 9/5/TS) refers
to one Pnddy, the Gympie (Q.) gravedigger,
as having an- extra-steadv job. He was ap-
pointed to the position 53 years ago. There
were 1* other applicants. He has buried
them all.
Joined up with Carmichael’s Thousand.
A. R. Dunbar, ex-N. S. Wales and Inter
national Rugby Union full-back, centre and
wing three-quarter, and only brother of
Captain-Chaplain W. J. Dunbar, killed in
action in circumstances of exceptional brav-
ery last November. At date of enlistment
A. R. Dunbar was teaching at Parkes, where
he leaves a wife and little girl to keep the
home-fires burning.
AND SHE’S STILL WONDERING.
“My husband has been wounded and is
coming home.”
“Poor old Bill —he must have been pretty
badly knocked.”
Melbourne’s moderately new Gaud Mayor
was wearing his millinery for the first time,
arid the lordly robe of his hisrh office was all
over him like a malignant enemy. Came to
him a sympathetic; female of his neighbor-
hood, \vhjio surveyed him with the critical eye
of one who knew. Then her feelings burst
hounds, her contempt for the fit.and hang
of the garment overflowed. “Oh, your Lord-
ship,” she shrieked, “whoever is your dress-
maker?”
“T.”: The promotion records of Nor-
man Marshall and George Arthur Read
(B. 2/5/T7) are impressive; but the
record of Noel M. Loutit for long-
sustained solid work will he hard to
beat. Loutit left Adelaide as junior sub at
the ago of 20 in October. 1914. At the Land-
ing, according to despatches,’ he “got his
men further into enemy country than any
other of the Third Brigade,” gained his
third star on Gallipoli (aged 21), and re-
turned to Egypt at the Evacuation. He
moved on with another Division to France
in May, 1916, has there been several times
mentioned in despatches, promoted to he;
Major and awarded the D.S.O. and bar, all
in his 22nd year. And he is still going
strong.
When Billjim comes home Australia will
hear of aueer places that were only names on
maps;before the war. One of the latest Bill-
jim letters to hand was written by R. 11.
Sainsbury in the bright, cqM hills of Ker-
manshah, Persia, and sent by aeroplane to
Bagdad. Ilis business is wireless, and he
speaks cheerily of Sydney papers and letters
and comforts reaching him safely in the
solitudes where writer freezes while a
man is trying to wash-up. Most of the
forces in his neighborhood at the time he
wrote were Russian —who “rather look up to
an Englishman: they address us as ‘Mister.’
officers and all.” And being a typical Bill-
• jim he adds a word about the nurses who
look after these mild Bolsheviks: —
They have three nurses attached to their unit.
They go through the same hardships as the men
and ride horses on the march. I have seen them
after a night march, and they appear just as fresh
as,- if not fresher than, any of our chaps under the
same conditions. I believe these women are to
be found at every Russian centre. They must have
great hearts*. One of our group is a princess.
THE BIRDS OP PREY.
[[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My man has gone to fight the Hun.
With children three I sit at home,
And when my long, hard day is done
I listen for the foes that roam
About my little house and plot
To take what little wealth I’ve got.
With cunning fingers they would sneak
The crust from out a baby’s hand.
And some are gowned in white: they seek
To screw a few more crumbs. A band
In butcher’s blue, with long, keen knives
Slice thinner meat, and pinch our lives.
And one is with an apron girt—■
A sanctimonious face has he—
And for my silver hands me dirt.
Why are these things allowed to be?
The father gives his blood, while drones
Still seek to pick his children’s bones.
Methought the greedy birds of prey,
Red-beaked went following the fight.
’Tis not so in our wiser day.
The brood upon my roof alight
To fatten on those near and dear
The strong men left unguarded here.
viCToniA.
B. T.


'
I
ft*
£&
&
I
!K\
Here is a Special Offering'
which must appeal to
any man’s judgment.
Extraordinary as it may seem,
the special offering of “Austral” Sac
Suits to measure we announce for
the first time to-day restores pre-war
conditions for those men whose clothing
needs are best met by a thoroughly well
tailored Sac Suit of dependable fabric at a
moderate price.
Bee tuse of continually rising costs, the common experience of
the average man has been to find a steady cheapening of quality,
which is usually hidden by the inducement of low price. In an
“Austral” Sac Suit to measure, however, a well-defined and
acceptable standard of quality is manifest whatever price is paid.
Accepting this as an assurance that the present special offering is
really worth while—then act on it, see us about it to-day.
n Austral Sac Suit of
Australian Tweed 751-
Made to Measure.
Now, with full stocks of Aus-
tralian Tweeds available, men
may come to us knowing that
Style, Tailoring and Service, as
well as fabrics, are right at the
price—to-day’s leading value in
Sac-Suits made-to-measure.
At the price here quoted this is an extraordinary
offering. It is made possible by the release of
looms and labor in Australian Mills from the
making of fabrics to meet our Military necessities
in order to concentrate on the production of
materials so much in demand for civilian wear.
Men scarcely need to be told of the qualities which
have made Tweeds of Australian manufacture
justly famous. Serviceability is perhaps their
most outstanding characteristic, as is best demon-
strated by the strain and usage of every-day wear.
But texture, pattern and coloring in wide range and
pleasing variety add attraction to these fine suiting
fabrics which are designed and produced wholly by
Australian skill and labor.
Country Customers and those who live at a distance wilt best
judge the cjuah ty and attract ion of A ustrahan 1 weeds bx send-
ing for patterns-we mail these with a simple self-measure-
ment form post free to any address on request—send io-dav.
Carriage is paid on all Country Orders.
COWING BR° 3 L™
484=490 George Street; 3to 17 Royal Arcade;
New Branch Shop 304 to 306 George Street
(near Hunter SYDNEY


BRITISH OWNEP AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman's Building.
SYDNEY: 2o O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antinionial Lead
Assay Lead (Har and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
Registered
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Bead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade*
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
Bead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
bhas:
TO BE APDRESSED TO TEIE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonnt
Geiarine Dynami
..
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
STEEL CASTINGS.
We make the FINEST STEEL CASTINGS obtainable
ranging in weight from a Pound or so up to
SIX or EIGHT TONS; also MANGANESE STEEL
CASTINGS of best quality.
It will be to your interest to let us have your enquiries.
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.,
Victoria Street, Richmond,
Victoria.
The WILD CAL
COLUMN
The Commonwealth war bill (on loan
account) up to date: —•
Borrowed, 1915 .. ~£13,889,440
„ 1916 .. .. 45,243,330
„ 1917 .. .. 42,797,800
1918 . . . . 43,510,740
War Saving Certificates . . 4,383,748
Borrowed from J. Bull . . 47,500,000
Total. . £197,325,058
Expenditure, 1914-15 ..£14,471,118
„ 1915-16 .. 37,423,568
„ 1916-17 . . 53,099,841
„ 1917-18 .. 84,051,000
Unpaid accounts due J. Bull .. 30,550,000
Total. . £219,595,527
This leaves some small change on hand. It
is moving off at the rate of £1,500,000
weekly. Loan expenditure for the year
1918-19, beginning on July 1, is estimated
at £84,051,230. Wherefore authority is
being given to raise £80,000,000 more by loan
towards the end of the year. As the
Government has unexpired powers under
previous Acts to borrow £18,674,942, its
borrowing authority now is up to
£98,674.942. Thus the bill will shortly be
something like this :
Old borrowings ..£197,325,058
Now loans . . . . 98,674,942
£296,000,000
Old accounts.. .. £219,595,627
Accounts for 1918-19 84,051,230
£303,646,757
A good deal turns on the £30,550.000 owing
the British Government for maintenance of
the army. If it is paid, Treasurer Watt will
be short. It is more likely that payment
will be held over.
#** ' *
The Bank of Australasia :
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
Apl., ’09.-. 174,111 14p.c.= 112,000 12,000 1,676,906
Oct., ’09.. 177.566 14 „ ~112.000 15,000 1,727,472
Apt., ’lO.. 193,722 16 „ ~128.000 18.000 1,775,194
Oct., ’lO.. 198.531 16 „ ~ 128.000 20,000 1.825.725
Apl., ’ll.. 198.460 16 „ ~128.000 20.000 1,876,185
Oct., ’ll.. 205 889 17 „ ,; 136.000 20.000 1.926,074
Apl., ’12.. 208,171 17 „ ~136.000 20.000 1,978.245
Oct., ’12.. 216.303 17 ~ ~130,000 20.000 2.038.548
Apl.. ’13.. 206.644 17 „ ~136.000 20,000 2,089,192
Premiums on new shares, £600.000. . 2,689,192
Oct., ’13.. 220.977 17p.c = 170.000 20,000 2.720.169
Apl., ’14.. 233,897 17 „ ~ 170,000 2,784,066
Oct., ’l4. . 210.509 17 „„ 170,000 2 824,575
Apl., ’l5. . 208.778 17 „„ 170.000 2,863.353
Oct., ’15.. 201,743 17 „„ 170.000 2,895,096
Apl., ’l6. . 206,663 17 „„ 170,000 2.931,759
Oct., ’l6. . 200 905 17 ~ ~170 000 2,962.664
Apl., ’17.. 205.205 17 „ ~170,000 2,997,869
Oct., ’l7. . 200.441 17 ~ ~170,000 3,028,310
That takes the visible reserves past the three
million mark, mak'nn- the bank’s total funds
in excess of five millions. Upon that lot the
earnings are a shade over 8 p.c., which sug-
gests that even in the case of so exceedingly
prosperous a concern as the ’Asia Aus-
tralian bank profits are not dazzling. And
there are pretty large risks in the business,
too, especially in a country like Australia,
whose politicians have discovered that the
easiest way to get favor at the ballot-box is
to buy it by borrowing furiously and blowing
bubbles with the proceeds. We had the last
furious boom from 25 to 30 years ago, and
in the reaction that followed most Aus-
tralian banks had to close their doors. The
’Asia was just' strong enough to escape that;
but for a good many years it had to be
content with 5 p.c.
What the future has in store for us
nobody knows. It depends mostly uffon the
price we can get for our wool and wheat
and meat and metals. We are without a
precedent to gu’de us. But we know this:
that sudden falls in prices have produced
mere financial crises than all other causes
put together, and at the end of the war there
will inevitably be serious falls in many com-
modities, whose prices are now artificial.
From time to time pretty well every paper
printed in English has predicted a financial
crisis in Germany after the war; and three-
fourths of the arguments were very good
reasons why we shouldn’t be too cocksure
about our own position. They are all cer-
tainly most excellent reasons why we should
practise national and personal economy as
we never practised it bdfore. And national
economy in this case means more than pre-
venting civil service waste. It means also
cutting out every unnecessary middleman
and making things as snug as possible for
the producer. The more we produce—which
to a great extent means making things
attractive for the producer—the sooner a
financial crisis will pass. For we can take
it as certain that financial strain, great or
small, there is going to be.
So far as a bank is concerned, it can,
speaking broadly, protect itself only by (1)
requiring wide margins in making advances;
(2) holding large liquid reserves, not so
much to meet sudden demands as to be able
to give help to customers when help is
needed to prevent disaster; and (3) increas-
ing the bank’s own funds in proportion to
the liabilities. There is every reason to
believe that this and most other Australian
banks are not regarding present Australian
conditions as anything but abnormal. Most
of them have not increased their advances
at all during the last four years. It is true
that the ’Asia shows about £2,700,000 more;
but the arrangements in connection with
wool and wheat sales have to be taken into
account. At the Anril. ’l7, balance the
advances were less than a million larger
than in October, T 3. As for the rest, take
this comparison:—
Liabilities.
Oct., ’l3. Oct., ’l6. Oct., ’l7.
Notes .. .. £168,818 £404,549 £950,819
Bills, etc., .. 2,768,848 3,075,117 3,021,534
Deposits.. .. 18,088,955 19,672,174 20,891,101
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 8,349,113 8,164,237 9,817,159
Advances .. 17,565,435 20,093,667 20,219,096
Premises.. .. 2,241 26,600 25,509
That makes the liabilities to the public
£24.863,464. The liquid assets total
£11,817,159; so there is £15.046 295 of debt
represented by £20,219,096 of advances (in-
cluding bills receivable) and premises which
stand in the books at £25,509, but are worth
nearer a million. What other internal re-
serves there are this paper does not, of
course, know; but it isn’t likely that a
bank which has practically written off its
premises account has neglected other provi-
sions. Certainly of late years it has had an
increasing tax bill to pay. The total (rates
and taxes) has moved this way:—
Apl., 1914 ..£31,807 Oct., 1916 ..£114,076
Apl., 1915 .. 41,982 Apl., 1917 .. 97,735
Oct., 1915 .. 76,409 Oct., 1917 .. 99,075
Apl., 1916 . . 78,544
Before the war the English and ‘‘colonial”
taxation was much the same; in the year
to April, 1914, the English was £32,311, the
“colonial” £31.089. But Britain has been
paying so much larger a proportion of its
war bill as it has gone along that in the
past two years it has called for £230.610
from this bank as against £158,848 collected
by Australia and Maoriland; and the Aus-
tralian figures would be much worse taken
separately. But against that increased tax-
ation has to be set the increased earnings
of the bank’s own funds. Suppose it is only
1 p.c. more p.a., it means £50,000. And it
has to be remembered that no part of those
funds worth mentioning is in premises.
Those assets, largely revenue-producing, are
represented by funds which don’t show in
the published accounts at all.
* * * *
The Western Australian Wank':—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., 1911.. 29,066 20 p.c.= 20,000 9.066 547,464
Premii ms on new sharps .. 71,820 619,284
Sept., 1911.. 28,110 20 p.c.= 23,939 4,171 623,455
Premiums on new shares .. 18,180 641,635
Mar., 1912.. 35,349 20 p.c.= 25,000 10,349 651,984
Sept., 1912.. 36,488 20 „ ~25.000 11.488 603 472
Mar., 1913.. 37,404 20 „ ~ 25.000 12,404 675,876
Sept., 1913. . 33,652 20 ~,,25,000 8,652 684.528
Mar., 1914.. 34.907 20 „ „ 25,000 9,907 694,435
Sept., 1914.. 29,955 20 ~ ~ 25.000 4,955 699,390
Mar., 1915.. 27,488 20 „ ~25.000 2,488 701,878
Sept., 1915.. 27,209 20 „ ~ 25,000 2,209 704.087
Mar., 1916.. 28,753 20 ~,,25,000 3,753 707,840
Sept., 1916.. 27,140 20 ~ ~25,000 2,140 709,980
Mar., 1917.. 28,390 20 „ ~25,000 3,390 713,370
Sept., 1917.. 27,716 20 ~,, 25,000 2,716 716,086
Mar., 1918.. 28,253 20 ~,,25,000 3.253 719,339
Westralia is getting all the worst of the
war. Its big industry, gold-mining, is in
the almost singular position of being unable
to pass on any of its extra costs. Conse-
quently mines that were previously working
on a bare margin have closed down ; and the
incidence of taxation is so faulty that, as in
the case of the Great Fingall, for instance,
the search for now bodies or the extension
of known bodies has been abandoned. To
add to the State’s difficulties its timber
trade has been almost held up by the short-
age of shipping; its wheiit-growing indus-
try, which had never got very firmly on its
feet, has been knocked spinning by a poor
harvest in conjunction with poor prices and
high costs ; its pearling industry, after finding
a market for a couple of years in the U.S.A.,
has had that ground partly cut from under
its feet; and just when there was hope of
Exceptional prosperity for the frozen meat
trade, the unions made what are declared to
be impossible demands, and the Wyndham
works, which were designed to serve the
Nor’-West cattle country, are to have no
killing season. The only really bright spot
in the whole Westralian sky is in connection
with wool; hut Westralia hasn’t more than
about five million sheep—say, 8 p.c. of the
Commonwealth’s total. Incidentally very
few of the millions of War Loan money are
spent in the West.
Taking all these things into account, The
Bulletin agrees with ex-chairman Loton,
who lately retired through ill-health, that
shareholders in this bank “ought to congratu-
late themselves upon receiving the same divi-
dend as formerly.” Whether it was wise to
nay it only the future can tell for certain.
The margin of profit exhibited is very small.
But this can be said in extenuation: capital
and reserves combined amount to £1 for
every £2 14s. of the deposits and all other
liabilities; so that the public’s money is
exceptionally well secured. Here is a com-
parison of the grouped balance-sheet figures
for the past four years:—
Liabilities.
Mar., ’l4. Mar., ’l7. Mar., ’lB
Notes .. .. £12,913 £11,751 £11,638
Bills, etc. .. 120.424 116,252 160,413
Free deposits . . 1,361.349 1.162,847 1,324,889
Fixed deposits. . 1,243,584 1,191,503 1,192,047
Assets.
Advances . . 2,413,230 2,516,943 2,542,326
Liquid assets ..1,216,474 874,580 1,061.950
Premises.. .. 78,000 79,200 79,050
Put it this way: the bank owes the public
£2 688,987 and £1,061,950 is liquid (this in-
cludes notes and public securities), leaving
£1,627,037 of debt represented by no less
than £2 621,376 of advances and other
assets. There is no doubt whatever about
the strength of the bank’s position from the
creditor’s point of view. But it isn’t a good
money-making position, and would be much
worse but for the exceptional amount which
the Westralian customer has got into the
habit of leaving at credit of his current
account. It seems to be something left over
from the days when it didn’t look worth
while tying up money for the sake of a
mere 3 p .<?. or 34 p.c. But it won’t always
be like that; and on present appearances
shareholders will be very lucky if they cpn-
tinue to draw the present dividend, which,
by the way, is much less gorgeous than it
seems, because the bulk of the capital has
been subscribed at a very heavy premium.
* * # *
John .Bridge and Co., Limited, wool and
pastoral produce salesmen, of Sydney and
elsewhere
t Dividends.
Prpf. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1910.. £3,602
Premium on new shares ~£29,660 33,262
1911. .£18,885 £1320 20p.c.=:£15,600 1,965 35,227
Premium on new shares .. 7,675 42.902
1912.. 13,824 1320 10p.e.= 5.576 3,928 46,830
Assess written down, £14,000 .. 32,830
1913.. 11,779 1320 10p.c.= 8,807 1,652 34,482
1914.. 21,198 1320 124 „„ 11,009 43,351
1915.. 16,762 1320 5 „ 4.404 11,038 54,389
Written off securities, £6OOO .. 48,389
1916.. 10,608 1320 10p.r.= 8,808 480 481869
Written off, £3869 . . . . 45,000
1917.. 17,231 1320 10p.c.= 8,808 7,153 52,153
1918.. 16,878 1320 10 „ „ 8,808 6,750 58.903
Bridges don’t fall into line with the' other
woolbrokers like nice, affable people should.
Hence something over 12 months ago they
and the Sydney Wool Selling Brokers’
Association parted company; and more re-
cently they declined to jo'n a body known as
the Federated Wool Selling Brokers of Aus-
tralia. Of course, they make the most of
their lone hand. So far as the break with
the Sydney body is concerned they insist
that they could see the time coming when it
would be necessary to cut out all superfluous
charges upon the primary producer, and they
wanted for a start to eliminate the wool can-
vasser. Now, in relation to the Federal
body, they insist that “the producers’ in-
terests cannot be adequately protected unless
provis'on is made for a proportionate
representation of wool-growers elected by
and from among themselves.” Naturally,
though their figures show that their attitude
is commanding a lot of support among pro-
ducers, and especially small producers, things
don’t all come their way. Listening, as it
reasonably would, to the woolbrokers speak-
ing through the mouth of their union, the
N. S. Wales Government put an embargo on
the despatch of wool by rail when sV>e assess-
ments were delayed; and that didn’t suit
Br'dges, who had looked ahead and made
large provision for storage. However, in
spite of all the opposition, wicked and other-
wise, the co. has managed during the year to
do very well. After providing for its pref.
dividend it pays 10 p.c. to its ordinaries, and
then has an amount equal to 74 p.c. of the
ordinary capital to lay by.
The balance-sheet figures show big changes
during the past few years :
Liabilities.
1911. 1914. 1917. 1918.
Capital. . . . £100.600 £llO 075 £110.075 £110,075
Mortgages, etc. 44,139 136,747 350,210 479,506
Assets.
Properties .. 111.333 156,559 164.939 164.667
Advances, etc. 42 547 133,348 315.257 453.239
Plant, etc. . . 12.517 11.424 22.851 30.831
Liquid assets. . 23,970 2,312 20,468 13,027
But most of the change s ; nce 1914 is due to
the Government acquisition of wool and its
own peculiar way of handling the clip—a
method, according to the chairman of this
co., involving a large amount of unneces-
sary expense. Into this question of the
handling of the clip nobody has yet been
very much interested in poking an inquisi-
tive nose. The woolgrowers have been
almost stunned into silence by their extra-
ordinary good fortune in getting practically
cash prices that were beyond their wildest
dreams when the war began; and anybody
who knows the methods of William M.
Hughes will not be surprised if some day it
transpires that certain intermediaries have
made very sizeable fortunes out of handling
the clip. However, that doesn’t concern the
selling brokers: they haven't been the lucky
ones. Owing partly to the appraisement
methods adopted, and partly to the scarcity
of shipping, this co. had 46,041 bales of
wool, appraised and unappraised, in store on
March 31; and £217,426 was due from the
British Government, while advances had
been made on unappraised wool and (to a
smaller extent) on other station produce.
Deduct these amounts and there is about
£154.000 left representing ordinary advances ; ‘
and on the other side liabilities are corres-
pondingly reduced to £210,000. This is
£74,000 more than in 1914, represented as to
£50,000 by advances and debtors’ accounts
and the balance by liquid assets and stores,
the latter held in connection with a new
Country Service and Supply Department.
To simplify the published acccounts the books
are to close in future on June 30, the idea
being to pay interim divs. in January. The
co., which had subscribed £20,000 to previous
War Loans, applied for £30,000 of the last;
but only £B9OB is shown as held on March 31.
* * * *
On a. subject mentioned above a man in
the business writes :
The Imperial Government has purchased the Aus-
tralian wool clip for the past two seasons, atid' the
scheme is controlled by an honorary Board in Mel-
bourne.
The selling brokers are doing practically the same
job as they did prior to the war, but with a very
considerable increase in the clerical work; and the
old-time buying houses (enemy subjects excluded)
are doing the shipping. This work was done last
year in such a manner that everyone conversant with
the trade knew that there would be a hopeless mess
on the arrival of the wools at their destination, and
that it would require an army of clerks to straighten
out the tangle. But we will let last year pass and
confine ourselves to this season, as things have
altered. The different States have appointed Boards
and committees (by no means honorary).' In this
State of N. S. Wales “Departments” exist all over
the city for one thing and another in connection with
the scheme.
The buying houses, apart from receiving remunera-
tion for the work entailed in shipping the wool, have
one, two and three officers drawing the salary of a
Prime Minister as appraisers or valuers, the lowest-
paid getting about £7OO for a season of, say, five
months. In some cases these appraisers and inspec-
tors would be well paid at about 30s. per week, and
the work could be equally well done by Technical
College students. Further,. the buying houses re-
ceive so much per bale for the work entailed in
shipping. Some houses will he paid barely enough
to cover expenses, whilst others will make thousands.
The following questions would be well worth
putting before a Commission:—•
Who fixed the appraisers’ salaries and on what
basis ?
Could not a committee of commercial men formu-
late a better scheme for doing the work ? (At present
there is useless and expensive duplication.)
Are ail the “Departments” necessary, or do they
not very much overlap one another?
How were the present controllers and chiefs
appointed to their positions, and what are their
business qualifications?
How were the .figures arrived at for the allotment
of shipping, and why?
Why should Melbourne, with ’its half-dozen brokers
and its handful of wool, control N. S. Wales with its
14 brokers and a clip of some 800,000 bales?
What was the gross income of each shipping firm
under the scheme for this season and last?
* * * *
Broken Hill Block 10:—•
Profit. Divs. Profit. Divs.
Mar., ’OB £12,256 £30,000 Mar., ’l3 £16,861 £20,000
Sept.,’oB 22.050 5.000 Sept., ’l3 37,481 20.000
Mar., ’O9 39,284 10.000 Mar., ’l4 17.467 30,000
Sept.,’o9 28.844 20,000 Loss.
Mar., ’lO 3,422 20.000 Sept., ’l4 4,692 12,500
Sept.,’lo 15.243 15.000 Mar., ’l5 16,846 Nil
Mar., ’ll 28.991 1.0.000 Sept., ’l5 9,892 Nil
Sept.,’ll 11,479 10,000 Mar., ’l6 4,107 Nil
Loss. Profit.
Mar *l2 8 851 10 000 ’ld 13,854 5,000
Mar., 12 B,Sol 10,000 Mar ( , 17 21 137 10 000
Profit. Sept., ’l7 28,613 10,000
Sept.,’l2 36,049 10,000 Mar., ’lB 27,873 10.000
Of the past half-year’s profit £344 came from
interest, etc., leaving £27.529 from produc-
tion; and as the crude ore hautiled in the
term was 27.612 tons, you can’t get much
closer than that to £1 per ton, which is
something a good deal different from the
average. Total working costs, without
allowing anything for construction, was
345. lOd. per ton of crudes. This really isn’t
out of the way taking all things into con-
sideration. The big South mine close by
spent 31s. sd. last half-year, though, cer-
tainly, that was more than usual, on account
of the strike. Apart from its higher costs
(aDd they can never be low)Block 10 suffers
from poor values except for silver; and.
unfortunately, it loses an excessive amount
of the silver. How much ore there is in the


Negligible maintenance costs are assured if you
specify British Thomson-llouston Direct and Alter-
nating Current Generators for your power and
lighting supply. There are more B.T.H. Generators
in operation in Australia than any other make. The
reason is—reliability. Write ■ for further particu-
lars and quotations to the Australian General
Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Water is a necessity for life, but water containing
impurities is the cause of much ill-health. Many
country water supplies draw their water from rivers,
and a “fresh” causes turbidity or often brings down
vegetable matter. One ton of Aluminoferric will
clear _ 0,000,000 gallons of water. Is cheap and
effective. Liscd on Transcontinental Kailway, ltal-
goorlie Mines, Sydney, Newcastle, N.S.W. Public
Works, Victorian State Rivers and Water Supply, etc.
Follow the lead of experienced people. Write for
particulars to Sole Agents: William Adams & Co. Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, Sydney; 521-3 Collins Street,
Melbourne; Corner Edward and Mary Streets, Bris-
bane; 33-35 King Street, Perth; 96 Currie Street,
Adelaide.— Advt.
% * # «
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies' for battery work. — Advt. [3
* * * *
Wood Piping is being used successfully as bore
casing. Write for particulars and prices. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (Head 1
Office), Burns Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P. 0..,
Ad.—Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
* * . * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
* * * *
The manufacture of the Australian “Slcandia” Crude'
Oil Engine continues apace, and Nelson & Robertson
report inquiries from mining, dredging and other in-
dustries. The economy in the running cost of these
engines combined with the small amount of labor
required appeals to all power users, and all interested
are invited to forward particulars of their require-
ments. “Skandia” engines are designed for both
industrial and marine work, and the stationary type
is unrivalled for pumping, hauling, compressors and
all mining ar.d general work.— Advt.
* * * *
I-lavr You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys;,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,.
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
gunners and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
ami all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head!
office: Flinders Lane* Melbourne.—Advt.
* * * » -
Machinery.—Conveying, elevating, screening-,
mechanical-handling and power-transmitting machin-
e P'- 1 . s ? nd estimates gratis upon receipt of data
Arthur Leplastrier & Co.; Head Office, Sydney
Queensland inquiries to The Australian Machinery
Company Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Parents
obtained. Coduson & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mei-
bom ne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
ua for Inventors Guide.—— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Annaraf-ns
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Sr 5 ’ r " r- hts ’ . Koran’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals
™l or write for H. b
?°’’c.P tc, T 8 0 Connell Street, Sydney and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt. *
AOCBOaNTO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital
Subscribed Capital
Paid-up Capital .
Income (Cross) 1917
Etnhlislu’d
•• £250,000
• • 194,235
96,291
-- 249,000
in io.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
" rite for particulars.
. R. CA\ I'., General Manager,
.-63 George Street. Sydney.
Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
We are instructed by the Commonwealth
Government to pay the following
Increased Prices at Producing Centres
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- per
unit MoS2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 per
unit WO3.
Enouiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY $ CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
ThePadfic Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America. to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Honda v morning.
TARIFF I’ER ' WORD “via PACIFIC.’’
Gt. Britain .
New Zealand.
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred.
-3/- 1/6 {
. 41 d.
Week-end.
fid. (minimum
15/-, 20 words)
Canada
2/4 1/2
S 7d. (minimum
‘t 11/8, 20 words)
U.S.A.
• S. A 2/4 to 2/8
/ 7(1. i minimum
I 11/8,20 words)
Week-end service with the United Kingdom
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and I’eru, West
Indies, Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Hecnlarions mnv be o''taint'd at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt street. Sydney. Tel. Cir.v 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St.. Melbourne Tel. -1586.
.1 't M W\|{|> Mapaver i,n r l ' "■> (,(»
L 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
Inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails anti Portable Tram Lines
J. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
; - Telegraphic; Walls, rinrcrcc Stmt, Svdney.
The Broken Hijl Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS — IRON § STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street Melbourne.
mine nobody knows. The directors several
years ago saw the end approaching, and have
been hunting for a new mine; ancr they have
found something that looks like one at
Misima, New Guinea. While general-mana-
ger Ward has been getting that to the pro-
ductive stage, his deputy (A. W. Wincey)
has been poking about in Block 10 catching
up pillars that were left and exploring for
odds and ends with a fair amount of success.
The last estimate of reserves was 229,600
tons, and it is probably in that neighborhood
still. But Block 10 is uast the stage at
which an estimate of reserves is worth much.
Still there was enough left to justify the
directors in building a flotation plant to
handle ziney tailings from this mate and
Block 14, wnich is in much the same posi-
tion. That plant got to work late in the
half-year. Before the war the co. sold its
tailings: it was, in fact, the first Broken
Hill co. to do so, chiefly because, owing to
the nature of the ore, the proportion of
metals left in the tailings was very high.
There is still a good deal to be done in the
way of improving extraction. So far the
lead concentrates carry only 534 p.c. of the
silver and 77.9 p.c. of the lead, while the
flotation concentrates carry only 72.6 p.c. of
the zinc.
Though the flotation plant has cost
£17,450 the directors have been able of late
to rebuild their cash reserve. As at Septem-
ber, ’l4, the surplus of liquid assets was
£81,878. It is now £75,204 exclusive of the
investment in the Misima. So in the 34 years
of war this almost worn-out mine has (1)
paid £35,000 in dividends = 2s. per share p.a.,
(2) bought a flotation plant, and (3) bought
69,066 shares out of the total of 150,000 in
the Misima ; and to do all this it has cut
about £6OOO out of the reserves. Not a bad
deathbed performance.
* * * #
Broken Hill Block' 14 Co. —These big
mines take a lot of killing. Ten years ago
this one seemed to have reached a dead end.
It had rooted out the carbonates; and the
sulphide bodies proved to be shalloyv—Block
14 is almost at the apex of the Broken Hill
saddle lode. Things had got so bad a few
years before this that, in order to carry on,
£30.000 had been raised by the issue of
100,000 pref. shares at 65.; but to get the
money the co. had to offer a 10 p.c.div.and full
participation in divs. beyond that, so that
a dividend of Is. per share p.a. means to
these prefs. over 26 p.c. With the new
money the co. went scratching for carbonate
ore that had been overlooked and probing
for sulphides. Ten years ago the sulphides
available were estimated at 220,000 tons.
Diamond drills were put down to 1760 ft., but
nothing was found below 600 ft., and the
sulphide reserves were not added to. At that
time the carbonates were estimated at 10,000
tons. The old concentrating mill had gone
to wreck and ruin; and it wasp’t worth
building a new one to treat 220,000 tons.
That’s how things stood 10 years ago. Yet
by steadily nosing around an output of car-
bonates has been maintained ever since—for
some time past the average has been 3000
tons a half-year—and in addition to the
pref, dividend a dividend averaging about
Is. per share p.a. has. been paid. When
the war started it was 2s. a year; since then
Is. Bast half-year the net profit was £5417;
but of that £2lOO came from the co-’s first
dividend in one of its pups, King Island
Scheelite; and another £2lOO has been re-
ceived since the accounts were made up.
Further, Block 10 has just started to take
this co.’s sulphide; and pending the comple-
tion of Block 10’s plant it has been sending
a bit to the Junction North : 5527 tons have
been delivered. As to this lot the directors
say
Owing to the length of time it takes to treat the
sulphides and realise the products it is difficult to
estimate their exact value. So far only pro forma
values have been brought into account, and should
metal values maintain their present level a good
surplus may be anticipated.
Nobody can say that the future looks bril-
liant for Block 14; but they are positively
dazzling compared with what they were 10
or 12 years ago. In addition to whatever
carbonates can yet be scraped out of this
widow’s cruse (though even now there is
little profit in that) and the sulphides (unless
the bottom falls right out of the market they
ought to be worth, say, 10s. a ton, to be on
the safe side), the co. has £30,000 in War
Loan, the King Island interest (42,000
shares) and say, including the last scheelite
div., £7500 in cash after paying all liabili-
ties. There are 100,000 ordinaries and
100,000 prefs.
* * * *
Mount Hope (N.S.W.) received last week
just on two inches of rain. This on top of
the water supplied by the bore has put joy
into the heart of the management, which has
fought hard to make Mount Hope a respect-
able mining camp. The stoppage on account
of water scarcity is not likely to recur, and
all the old good miners are drifting back.
The mill started two shifts this week, and it
is expected that sufficient reliable labor will
be available for a third shift shortly. Gen-
eral-manager Audley Smith when he assumed
control of Mount Hope took the breath away
from many of the bad old hands of those
remote parts. When they applied for a
miner’s job, he asked for references. Strewth !
Although the process of allowing only experi-
enced men underground as miners is at the
start a very slow one, in the end it pays. Pro-
vided the mine is good, the good men stick to
it, and in the end a process of selection is
evolved, which is as helpful to the men
themselves as to the management. Such has
been the case at Mount Hope, and the result
is that as a mining camp Mount Hope has
to-day a better industrial tone than any of
its contemporaries. Audley Smith is gradu-
ally drawing the labor brains towards him,
for they realise he knows his business. The
other sort leave the place, cursing it for all
it’s not worth.
* * * *
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) turned out 225
tons tin oxide last year valued at £34.20:5.
Two sixpennies were paid. Altogether the
co. has divided £39,225. The lead, has been
worked for miles along a course that has
twisted in all directions, and consequently it
has been diliicult to define the main channel.
No great amount of prospecting has been
done for tributary leads, though no equally
long tin creeks exist on other fields without
several tributaries on both sides. Lately the
output has been averaging only 34 tons per
week—about three-quarters of last year’s
average.
* * * #
Carpatbia, Ardlethan (N.S.W.), has been
having such a good time with new finds and
tin at boom prices that the market value of
the co.’s 10s. shares has doubled from 6s. 3d.
in four weeks. The co. would probably have
made larger profits if it had had its own
battery near the mine. A plant was re-
cently purchased and shifted there, but it
will have to be adapted to the treatment of
tin ore. At present only selected ore is
being sent to the co.’s mill at Barmedman,
and that seems to imply that the co.’s new
mill will soon be ready. At present market
prices of tin the co. will also be able to
squeeze a little profit out of its low-grade
stuff. The future depends, apart from the
market, upon what can be found in the mine.
And few things in the world are more
uncertain than tin lodes.
* * * *
At Mount Elliott treatment works the
smelting plant handled for April 9218 tons
ore for 400 tons copper, say 4.3 p.c. extrac-
tion. In the converting department two
converter vessels are lined with the Fifield
(N.S.W.) magnesite bricks. This basic
lining has been in operation a few months
and is a great success. The Elliott manage-
ment says the bricks are just as good as the
imported, though the manufacturers should
exercise a little more care in stacking the
goods after moulding and prior to burning
in the kiln. Some of the shapes and edges
are at present not true, and this quality is
absolutely necessary to obtain the thin bond
required when building-in the bricks in the
converter. The bricks (same size as the com-
mon brick) cost about 2s. lOd. each deliv-
eied at Mount Elliott works. The Elliott
management considers that with a little
more care in moulding, etc., so as to obtain
true, sham-edged cubes, the quality would
build up an export trade.
* * * •
The last six months’ work at Edna May
Battlers, Westonia (W.A.), does not remove
the impression that the show is a very small
affair. Only 290 tons were got to the bat-
tery, but with the aid of the sands the total
yield was £1289. The debit at profit and loss
was increased from £5057 to £7236. Manager
Taylor has been working in the 220 ft. level
north practically the whole of the term, and
it was not till he was 265 ft. from the shaft
that the reef widened to 20in., with values
up to the 40s. mark. A few feet farther and
the reef was smashed up by a fault. A lot
depends on whether it carries values and
size beyond this break. There is a hope that
the main shoot on which the mine has lived
may go down, as the winze is on a shoot
valued at anything up to 60dwt. This
reads well and is an inducement to sink, but
it is the smallness of the lode that kills. A
second string is said to be a new reef cut to
the north, but even specks of gold can’t shift
the market these days.
* * * #
Chaffers (W.A.) has installed a small mill
on its Leonora option, and is about to start
crushing. When worked by the prospectors
the show, known as the Auckland, produced
a little gold. According to the Chaffers
crowd it is going to yield a lot more. But
the word of the Chaffers crowd is taken
now with difficulty.
* * * *
Notwithstanding the phenomenal price of
tin, the industry in the Speck was, until
the general rain last week, in a very bad
way. The output from die big mines had
fallen off considerably and a large number
of the small shows had given it best. Mt.
Bischoff Co. had closed down half the new
mill and even then had only sufficient water
to struggle on for another couple of weeks.
The Briseis, Pioneer and other East Coast
mines were also getting anxious. That other
Waratab mine, the Bischoff Extended, has
been out of the high prices altogether owing
to alterations to the machinery. The man-
agement hopes to get going again before
prices tumble. One of the biggest surprises
has been the collapse of the Ben Lomond
Republic show' at Avoca. No tin has been
won since Christmas, and there does not
seem any prospect, of operations being re-
sumed. The holding gave every sign of
being a dividend-yielder. The hardest hit
man on paper is Managing-Director Cleve-
land. The most promising workings Renison
Bell way are the sections of the Renison Bell
Co. and Eetherington and Taylor’s. With
70 p.c. concentrates at over £l3 per cwt.
every available yard of tin-bearing ground
should be vigorously prospected.
* * • #
The only people to put in a tender for the
derelict Zeehan Smelters, which the Speck’s
Government wants.to get off its hands, was
a syndicate that has been experimenting at
Hobart with a small plant for treating com-
plex ores by a new process. The price
offered was not enough to make the Govern-
ment jump, and now it’s trying to coax the
Mt. Lyell Co. to make an offer.
* * * *
A Hallenstein-Staughton crowd has got
hold of Mount Pelion. on the Forth (Tas.).
Here 700 acres are filled to the brim w'ith
tin, wolfram, zinc, gold, lead, silver, copper
and coal. To tackle all this stuff should take
about a million, but they will be content for
the moment with wolfram. For its extrac-
tion the co. is offering 0000 shares of 20s.
each, the balance of the co.’s register being
made up of 4500 paids to the vendors and
1500 shares in reserve. Assayer Colvin’s
estimate is 32.000 tons ore in sight in a
“true fissure lode” on the side of*a hill. As
tungstic-acid contents are said to be 4.60 p.c.,
there looks to be plenty of room for profits
with the metal at £260 per ton. In this
ore there is also some tin. That may be w'hy
the Board is not offering too much of the
good thing to the market. But a tin lode is
none the more trustworthy because it carries
some wolfram. And a tin lode without
wolfram is as untrustworthy as the average
politician. “Where ’tis there ’tis,” Cousin
Jack says of it.
* * * *
Justice Powers has patched Langi’s labor
troubles. He got the union officials and
manager Mackay together and talked sense
to them. The result is a clear understand-
ing. The fight was not so much over the
employment of men in wash extraction on
contract as that the two big cos. should be
given a chance to resume development work
and try to get some return for the quarter of
a million they have sunk in the Langi gutter.
The men go back on that job at wages, shift
bosses can be unionists if they like, and fares
may be paid to men who care to return to
Ararat Tfie taking-out of wash by contract
will be determined not by the two parties, but
by the Court on affidavits from both sides. All
this could have been decided a month ago had
the striker been at all reasonable.
* # * #
Katoo Deebook, which was launched from
Teddy Miles’s workshop, has made a swap of
its dredge for the land of the Taiping Co. of
Malaya. This deal does away with Federal
Treasury intervention. Miles, junior, is the
inspector, and on the results of 308 bores on
295 acres, says that he has marked off 80
acres as either sticky or low grade. The
balance of 215 acres averages 14oz. tin oxide
in an average depth of wash of 37ft. Such
contents look good enough for anything, but
it was the same with Deebook. The co. will
have 550 acres additional on hand to play
with, and if, as young Miles claims, the
ground is all similar to the Larut block near-
by, then things may hum once again with
Katoo. That co. comes into the the Taiping
float on the following basis:—
425,000 paids to Deebook.
425,000 „ ~ vendors.
75,000 cons, taken by Deebook.
75.000 ~ ~ „ vendors.
200,000 in reserve.
1,200,000 shares of $1 (r=2s. 4d.).
Vendors will give the Deebqok 5 p.c. premium
to subscribe its 75,000 shares. That is good
biz, as it lets out any of* the Katoo crowd
who don’t feel like going into any more tin
shows. As the Taiping will have a registered
office and two directors in Melbourne, it
looks as if Teddy Miles won’t be found on the
waj'side. after all; and it is not unlikely that
the other director will be Palfreyman.
Worked out, the deal on the par price of the
shares means a valuation of £50.000 for the
Deebook plant as it lies at the Renong pro-
perty. This claim, by the way, goes back to
the Chinamen, to be worked on a 10 p.c. tri-
bute, so that even from it a bit towards pay-
ing Board fees may float over the seas.
* * * *
“Kershaw”: The property picked for the
Trong by Meagher and Palfreyman is the
Ivalumpang, Selangor. Tried by A. E. Lewis,
361 bores three chains apart in 370 acres in-
dicated these values: 100 acres worth lib. tin
oxide, 100 acres worth 0.81 b., and the balance
under 0.51 b. Bethune followed with 250
bores on 150 acres, and his figures went a
shade better than Lewis's. Water is ample,
fuel plentiful and the ground 22ft. deep—an
ideal dredging depth. In a new co. of
100.000 shares, vendors collar 20,000 paids
and £11,250 cash. For its dredge, etc., Trong
gets 50,000 paid shares; and 30,000 are to be
floated off at £1 to furnish the cash pay-
ment and working capital. Trong share-
holders will get 75 new shares for each 100
held, and will also receive £5OOO as a cash
div. The Trong dredge is.ready for trans-
port, so it will not be long before t;he co. gets
to work.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page SJf.)


Under
Royal
Warrant
champagne,
Reims
" TUt * 'A,I
CHAMPAGNE
m
mmwmm
Cd
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
tXiQ
1 rt*** at
ie SHOPS'
rmsB syd*ey
S-Oeofg^sy^f
ul Ge° rs St
K|V»'ulss*
, g
i^t&sgss*
neots* 5 .
RelW lnooV st -’sydnc
X,lverP« noayj s> .
rircxUa* u And
le,nl nooi »*•’ S sydney
!*■
ehoa
d ”f a tAgencV
And ~,.r v
Hotel Sydney
(Now Fully Licensed)
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE*
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ , (Daily) „ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ 6/6
Management—E. T. CIIEESEMAN.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <O. CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (EL CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
E>
I‘S a Hospital Brandy of incomparable purity and medicinal excellence. It is the consistert-lv high
character of CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY whicH holds it on a pinnacle of widespread
popularity unequalled by any other 4Brandy in Australia to-day.
Insist qn .having. “CHATEAU TANUNDA,” the Special Hospital Brandy. BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TucKer &. Co., Limited Sydney Agents.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, May 20, 1918.
My Dear Arini, —.
Such inter-State potentates as had not fled
homewards were bidden to the Conserva-
torium one evening last week. Verbrugghen’s
choir and orchestra did their best to “ele-
vate” such chance visitors of distinction as
may naturally prefer ragtime. The Holmans
were in the front row, with Education-Minis-
ter James’s wife to the left. Also present:
Queensland Treasurer Theodore and his
wife’; the Butler dame from S. Aus.; the
George Fuller triplet; little Tasmania’s Pre-
mier Lee and his missus; and the Beeby pair
to hear daughter Marjorie’s full-toned con-
tralto. The Bach Magnificat in I) was the
big item. Besides the contralto, Rosa Alba
(soprano), Roy Allen (bass) and a hervous
young tenor, Trevor Jones, were soloists.
Mrs. Goossens wore a suitably-harrowed ex-
pression and a charming frock for her aria.
Verbrugghen smoothed his agitated locks dur-
ing the interval, and attacked the Magnificat
with a nicely-oiled coiffure. But every hair
was again in separate action long before the
end.
Clerical women have done surprising deeds
as money-spinners for war funds. Now the
Commonwealth Bank’s lady-helps are collect-
ing their forces to speed the parting and wel-
come home the returning soldier. Meantime
the country’s Defence Department says to
this warrior: “Make haste and get better!
Then, in return for your wounds, we’ll tear
the stripes from your sleeve and the stars
from your shoulder, and if you want to go
back to your mates you’ll re-enlist as a pri-
vate. We’ll teach you to get wounds!”
Thank God, Arini, no woman would
say su.ch a thing. We arc the superior sex,
I believe, after all.
Thrilling news from New England. Sapper
W. J. Grant, a young Englishman who was
“adopted” by A. G. Cleghorn, of Urail a, is
believed to be now the Earl of Seafield, con-
sequent on the death of a relative at the war.
An uncle of young Grant was induced to
make inquiries upon reading a chance news-
paper, and the claims of the soldier were
apparently established- The earldom was
created in 1663, and the present earl (if
there is one) is the 12th in succession. For
some years past no one has taken the title.
There was the widowed Viscountess and her
uncle and heir, who took the title of Strath-
spey. He, by the way, was born at Oamaru,
in Maoriland. He had a young son (his wife
was a Christchurch 'girl) ; and I can’t tell
you why the nipper hasn’t succeeded, assum-
ing the Oamaru mgn’s death.
Before getting into his new wig as British
Judge in New Hebrides Hubert de Burgh
O’Reilly took to himself an Australian wife.
A week or two ago she signed herself Fanny
Blake. The wedding was in St. Michael’s,
Hurstville.
Hunter’s Hill, where most of the inhabi-
tants spread their roots for a generation,
was shocked to hear of the sudden death of
Louis Francis Heydon, lawyer, M.L.C., and
ardent child of his Church. At 70 he was
still a familiar figure in the State’s affairs.
His death found his brother and lifelong
chum, the Arbitration Court Judge, immersed
and obviously worried by one of the most
awkward problems yet put before him.
The Bush Book Club met in the King’s
Hall last week to look for a balance, and
found jt on the right side of the ledger. The
Davidson lady took the chair, with Mrs.
Aubrey Withers, One of the foundation-
stones of the club, at her elbow. Just behind
gentle poetess Dorothea Mackellar, hon.
treas. Hanbury Davies, with Margaret Win-
deyer’s anplause a yard or two away, toss°d
a bouquet at the Club, which feeds the mec-
tally-starved in the Land o’ Sunset, and then
made his plaint: “I need not tell a meeting
of ladies how to become hunters of men;
yet when I was asked to join, and did so, I
found, to my surprise, that I was the only
male member.” Thus marooned on Petti-
coat Isle the solitary Davies pleads for
company of his kind.
The C. of E. Hostel for Women Students,
at Stanmore, was opened the other after-
noon. The sub-regal lady, one Archbishop
(Dr. Wright), one putative Primate (Mick-
lem of St. James’s), one Chief Inspector of
Schools (J. Dawson), and a crowd of visi-
tors with no brands swarmed into the
pleasant, airy domicile. After her heart-to-
heart talks with the landladies of frowsy
“apartments to let,” the country student who
comes to town to drink at the State Fount
of Instruction counts herself lucky to find
such a haven as this—cheap, clean, full of
fresh air and homely comfort. There is .room
for 20 such hostels near the crowded city.
Chief-Inspector Dawson brought the De-
partment’s best wishes and presented them
gracefully.
Fifty years, and will Australia be the land
of Amazonian girls? Did you see Sydney’s
young Junoesque offspring in the Dmkum
Girls march the other day? They are tend-
ing that way. Fife v and kettledrum led these
hefty damsels. Clad in khaki skirts, with
smart tunics and flat helmets, they were one
of the most striking features or the'day that
set out to get 500 recruits —and didn’t. Still,
new Recruiting-Minister Orchard is do.ng
fine work.
In St. James’s Hall on May 31 the second
D.A.C. and 22nd Howitzer Comforts Fund
will do its b.t for 1000 men on service. A
musical hour opens the show, the moments
filled by Winifred Carter at the harp;
another Winifred—Burston —at a Chappell
Grand; and contralto 1 Jlinn Gibson and
Philip Wilson. Then T. J. McMahon takes
the s.age with lantern-slides and a story of
German New Guinea and the Solomons.
Governor Davidson will be there. Plan at
Paling’s. Tickets 3s. and 2s.
A grand-daughter of the late W. 11. Traill
recently had a humorous sketch in London
Punch, and she is struggling—at just 10—
with verse. Mother, who used to be Millie
Traill, is Mrs. Forster Hedd’e.
Boy Scouts had Captain Glossop to take
their salute»in the march-past of the 20U0 in
Sydney Domain. And if some of the lads
didn’t get a squint it wasn’t for lack of trying
to look straight ahead and round the corner
at the famous sailor-man. Mrs. Glossop,
with Mrs. J. 11. A. Lee and daughter Gladys
—the latter is Mrs. Bruce, of MaorJand,
over on a health trip to her native Sydney—
was just behind the saluting-post. Mrs.
Hugh Dixson’s sables were further along.
The war has shaken up the Boy Scout to las
ultimate button. On Saturday he made more
fife-and-drum noise to the square inch than
any adult battalion would make to the acre.
Patrick O’Brien, during his lifetime, lent
his waterside nest at' Woolwich as a con-
valescent home for soldiers. But he made
one condition—that Mrs. A. J. Hare, presi-
dent of the local branch of the Red Cross
and commandant of the Lane Cove V.A.D.’s,
should be lion, matron. The little village,
by the way, is organised to its last woman ;
over £2500 has come directly to patriotic
funds from less than 400 adult residents;
and the male villagers know that the end is
not in sight. For the less acute nerve and
shell-shock cases, Reinga, now the property
of Mrs. Cobcroft, the generous O’Brien’s
daughter, is an ideal spot. Its terraced
lawns go down to the water’s-edge. From
its wide glassed-in balcony-lounge, where
convalescent soldiers beguile the hours with
needlework and wood-carving, the view takes
in .the ferry track to Sydney and river
slopes whereon vineufiad cottages hang like
birdcages. There are tyro trained nurses in
the Home; for the rest the work is done bv
V.A.D.’s, who smile through seven days’ toil
a week and take no note of holidays.
Woolwich Conva-
lescent Home has
been a model in more
than one respect.
There has been no
friction. Returned
soldiers, particularly
when they are suf-
fering from nerves,
are not always in-
clined to lie down
like lambs. But the
genial personality of
the “Mother” of the
Home (here is her
photo, by 'Grace
Bros.), her breezy
temperament and
Mark Tapley habit
of seeing the silver-
lining, has conquered
every difficulty. There are no male orderlies
at Reinga. It is all petticoats and smiles.
A Sydney girl returns to London: —
I have been to and from Salonique, and through
fire and flood, with the Scottish Women’s Hospital.
There has been nothing very big in the way of
fighting there, but everybody has had uncomfortable
experiences of a villainous climate. For our own
part torrential rains flooded us out. Our tents were
6in. deep in water, and the whole camp a sea of
mud. A naval visitor was shown into our orderly
tent, which was then awash with water. He waited
patiently for some time till the floor began to float
away; then he fled, and was seen no more. Through
the crisis we were dexterously pulled by the friendly
hand of Admiral Fremantle, who happens to be a
cousin of a Sydney girl, Eunice Mort, now Graham.
He invited us in batches to bath and breakfast on
board, and we were thus able to face the world.
Since then our camp has shifted to a new site in
the hills, in view of the harbor, and beyond that snow-
capped Olympus, which is wrapped in romance. Mde,
Franklin was with our unit in Macedonia. I hap-
pened to be the only Australian in our camp, though
one girl, Moir, had spent two years in N. S. Wales,
and loved it all. Her brother (M.O. at one of the
British military hospitals near us) . called at our
camp one day, and it was good to hear some Aus-
tralian again. Others I ran across in Scotch regi-
ments included a wee laddie of 6ft. 2ii\. in a mis-
leading kilt (Argvle and Suthei landers). He came
from Beecroft. There were two others—Crawford
and Best, an engineer. I asked the former if he
knew Brian Simpson (Judge Simpson’s boy, killed
early in the war). “I went into his rooms at-
colltge, ’ said he, “and took over his furniture.”
The world is not so big.
While waiting the call to join his unit,
painter Gruner —whose name was among last
week's recruits —is a hermit at Emu Plains,
where he is making sacrifices of the canvases
which don't please him. (According to
studio gossip he fires about eight out of every
nine.) He stole back to Sydney the other
week for a little human companionship and
was captured in a tea-room. Says he doesn’t
bdieve in being too comfortable in working
camp, and arranges it so that the chill of
early dawn shall awaken him in time to
renew his studies of morning light. He
finds all his subjects at the front door of
Ins hut —which is just as well, for lie often
works until his hands are numb with the
cold. Then he puts on the kettle. But the
pot is never boiled at that address.
Here is Walter Kilroy Harris, of Mayfield
(Newcastle), the young man who has had
the remarkable ex-
perience of winning
the M.C. three times
within a year; and
to his two bats a
D.S.O. was lately
added. Before the
war he set out to
equip himself for the
Inky Way, and to
know his Australia
he got into a saddle
and madq a number
of overlariding trips.
He contributed to
The Bulletin, and
subsequently pub-
lished the story of his
journey mgs under the
title of “Outback in
Australia.” His M.C.
was gazetted on Anniversary Day, 1917, for
“conspicuous gallantry” at Beaueourt-suij-
Ancre. Seizing an enemy machine-gun, he
smashed an attack, and immediately followed
up with a bombing party which bagged 102
prisoners. The first bar was earned near
Arras for “magnificent” conduct in a maze
of enemy wire. The second bar came at the
beginning of this year at Passchendale,
where “by his daring and initiative he was
the means of establishing our line on a
commanding position.” The D.S.O. fol-
lowed in March at Cambrai.
The Women’s Reform League, which put
its bonnet together in St. James’s Hall a
few days ago, thrust a bodkin into the more
sensational movies, gave its opinion on many
matters concerning children, eugenics, etc.,
and affirmed its desire to share with men
the joys and sorrows of municipal fights.
Mrs. Bogue Huffman and Mrs. Bennett were
headwomen.
For 28 years North Sydney’s Superior
Public School has had as head-mistress a
slender wisp of energy and optimism—Miss
E. Chandler. She has just beeh appointed
Superintendent of Domestic Arts. With the
growth of the girls’ continuation schools —-
there are now about 40 —grew the necessity
of having a highly-qualified woman to in-
spect them. Their object is duak Domestic
arts —hygiene and the right way with roast
and boiled—go hand in hand with commer-
cial training. The latter, which leads to a
salary and an office desk, is likely to over-
shadow the broom and saucepan if—but
here lies part of the duty of the new super-
intendent. “Give us good cooks, O Lord,”
was the cry of an old-time District Nurse.
The State is going to see what can be done
about it.
At Cremorne the other day Donovan Cans-
dell, of a well-known N. S. Wales clan, was
quietly wed to Eileen Pain. Brother Noel
gave his sister to her new husband, and
Private Paiji, not long home: was second-best
man, with Heather Phillips as bridesmaiden.
Hawkesbury Agricultural College has a
comforts fund for its old boys; and on
Saturday the lads in session—most of them
waiting till the clock shall show they have
reached the age to wear khaki —had their
annual whip-up. There were concerts and
a’fete and a dance and any other old thing
thev thought of; and thev had set their minds
on £5OO. When they finished counting the
small change on Saturday night they weren’t
£2O short of it.
I don’t know ichat to do about this. Mrs.
J. C. VV'iiliamson is a grandma, and one
never knows whether one ought to cry con-
gratulations fiom the housetops or not. Still.
I know this —Mrs. J. C. is proud of the
daughter that was born to the Lindsay
Brownes on Saturday.
Still another convalescent home. This one
will be at Exeter,-on the Southern Line—the
place where you throw in a seed and it
sprouts forthwith. E. xJoyd Jones, Rodney
Hangar and E. G. White, who bought the
Searles’ property, have offered it to the Red
Cross.
Artist Officer —he who when the war began
gave an lOU of his art to the Red Cross and
has been steadily redeeming it—has been
paying a flying visit to Sydney. He abides
on the other side of the Murray.
Fanny Durack’s tawny locks will set the
pace for U.S.A. mermaids in the near future.
Mina Wylie goes as next-best water-sprite
in the party. Mina will represent the Syd-
ney Ladies’ Club.
The Soldiers’ Entertainment Fund will
count the. profits from the Town Hall con-
cert on May 24. Mrs. George Earp presides
over the committee. Massed bands, military
sports—and of course —Camouflage.
From our Brisbane friend :—-
A School of Arts hall has been opened at the Sol-
diers’ Settlement, Berrburrem. There are now
45 men established on the place in their own homes,
and a number of others are clearing their blocks
and receiving instruction at the training farm, under
the wing of the Land Settlement Committee of the
State War Council. The settlement lias a School of
Arts, a store ’ (State-owred), and a school at which
23 kiddies attend. Not bad progress for 18 months.
We may not be getting as- many recruits as we
should, but. we flatter ourselves we are looking after
the returned men in a decent way.
Our Vice-Regalities have returned after a lengthy
stay in the Stanthorpe district, bat a communique
has been issued that her Ex. will not be able to
•take part in any public function for some time.
Two recent engagements caused a stir among the
teacups. One concerns Kitty Ryan, popular daughter
of a well-known pastoralist and racing man, and M. W.
(VDonohoe, son of the late Dermot O’D. The
other is a matter between Elsie NOrris, daughter of
F. E. Norris, and Alfred do Topor Markowiez, a
returned soldier who saw service with the Light
Horse and whose mamma is the Lady Ludwika
Markowiez, of Poland. .
Dr. Humphery, one of our younger and
brilliant surgeons is going, after long wait-
ing, to the Front. He’s a partner of Dr.
Blackwood, up the North Shore line.
Major W. J. Scott, D. 5.0., a Waliroonga
man, was married in' Britain a few weeks
ago to a girl from Nova Scotia, Jean
Mitchell.
Chaplain H. A. Fyke, of Sydney, had a
date with a Fortescue widow at a Brighton
church on March 25. The lady’s earlier hus-
band was a major, of Dundalk.
Violet Day for the Soldiers’ Club falls on
June 14. Grace Burrows has taken over the
organisation, and offers of help pour into
her lair at the Club. One of the big stalls
on the day is to be entirely “found” by
soldiers. They’re even making the jam.
And sewing little bags for rosemary— that's
for remembrance.
Eden George, whose son, a flight-lieu-
tenant, has been killed by the fall of his
machine in ''England, sampled Germany’s
pretty war-time manners during 1914. He
was then in Europe, the arrangements hav-
ing been completed for his daughter’s wed-
ding with a Hun. What became of the
presents George doesn’t know to this day.
There was no wedding, of course. But there’s
worse news waiting for him and his wife
when they reach England this trip.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


m
i
m
j,
1
I
I
T3ELLE, FRAZER.
i
w
rz
&
'
1
All you need to do is to fit
the pieces together from the
Detail Drawings we supply.
We can send you
n
i
77/1
i
m
■
m
eea
BELL AND FKAZER.—Copyright.
r
Pieces for making any Furnishing
Article such as Artistic Chairs,
Tables, Bookracks, Lawn Swings, or
any Artistic Essential to Your Home.
■ v ■■ • ■ ■
- f - •••
WB
■/.
8S n
m
mm
mml
■■■l
V
us
r
UJjj).
/
§L
Us
% H
m
//•V
m
m
3 i
wm
9
'j'r'
.
Wi
■yj
u mi
w
massas*.
'§m
iM
Msg
m
m
m
Wfc
1
Sfisti
iSS
m
m
m
m;.
w§§
Hi
&
M
YOU
CAM
SAVE
MONEY
Because you can use your spare time in fitting the Redi=Kut Pieces together.
Because the timber, being in pieces, can be closely packed at low freight charges.
Because you save the high cost of factory expenses and high rents of shops.
You will be surprised at the economical
amount at which you can artistically
furnish your home with Redi-K.ut Timber.
AsR for Circular A. It’s yours by return post.
n
(X
YIP SX?
<L
m
o
F,
D
n
The Redi-Kut Timber Specialists,


H AT
HTHE “Premier” Hat for Motoring?
disregarding pins its soft adaptable
shape fits closely to ‘
. to head and defies
the gust and bluster of the wind. Its new
Millinery Satin Tam Crown, Velvet Under-'
ling and smart Corded Ribbon Band and,
Bow give it a decided cachet. The " Auto
may be had in. champagne, j
saxe, violet, wine, navy and
green. Keenly priced at
IVe Pay Carriage.
i //”
I / I
1 J
Attention is also directed to the very Special
Third Floor Salon Displays of economically
priced and distinctly fashionable Ready-to-
Wears, Trimmed Millinery, and smart
Juvenile Modes.
ft
Sydney.
Zip** -JPI
K '
7
\p* NoyJ '%'
vL*. 7 «*
¥>>
n
fj
/
l -s'
W
BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXIONS
WITHOUT ROUGE.
Ladies who dislike rouge and “make-up”—
and what lady of refinement does not —often
hsk what they can do to restore the natural
velvety bloom of childhood to faded, sallow,
wrinkled cheeks. All such ladies, as well as
those who now have good complexions and
wish to preserve them, can realise their
hearts’ desire by getting their chemist to
prepare a lotion composed of 2oz. rose water,
1 dram tincture of benzoine and 2oz. flowers
of oxzoin. Before using shake thoroughly,
and then apply with a soft cloth or sponge.
When dry brush lightly with a soft cloth or
piece of chamois-leather. If you will do
this whenever you go out you will be aston-
ished at the absolutely natural and refined
improvement in your appearance. This
lotion is also exceptionally beneficial in re-
lieving and preventing chapped faces and
hands as well as redness due to exposure to
weather. — Advt.
\Aeltonian
|▼ 1 high-class
iSP^piALTEES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 6 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney)
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN @ SONS LONDON 1
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD W
FRUIT LAXATIVE FOR MAMMA, DAD,
BABY, CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Better than calomel, oil or pills to
clean and regulate liver,
bowels and stomach.
Mother, daddy and the children can always
keep feeling fine by taking this delicious
fruit laxative as occasion demands. Nothing
else cleanses the stomach, liver and bowels
so thoroughly without griping.
You take a little at night, and in the
morning all the foul, constipated waste, sour
bile and fermenting food delayed in the
bowels gently moves out of the system. When
you awaken all headache, indigestion, sour-
ness, foul taste, bad breath, fever and dizzi-
cess are gone; your stomach is sweet, liver
and bowels clean, and you feel grand.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
family laxative. Everyone from grandpa to
baby can safely take it, and no one is ever
disappointed in its pleasant action. Millions
of mothers know that it is the ideal laxative
to give cross, sick, feverish children. Ask
your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”—Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs—which has directions
for babies, children of all ages, and for
grown-ups plainly on the bottle. Remember,
imitations are sometimes substituted, so look
and see that your bottle bears the name of
California Fig Syrup Company. Hand back
with contempt any other fig syrup. “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—is sold by all
chemists in bottles of two sizes, Is. l|d. and
Is. 9d. [7
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, May 20, 1918.
My Dear Yarrie, —
There was a booming Red Cross matinee
at Her Majesty’s last Thursday. Every
theatrical star had a say, and a' full com-
plement of vice-regals (who are theatricals
of a sort) arrived on the stroke of two.
The G.-G. nursed his cheek in a box all the
afternoon, whilst Lady Helen’s lorgnette
gleamed out of the gloom. Governor Stanley
and his lady were in the box next to the
d.c. Her Ex. wore* mole cloth and furs,
with a bright pink rose pinned over her heart
and a little fur-trimmed bonnet aloft. Cap-
tain Conant sat with them —a picture of con-
scious merit. Ha’s he not written a picture-
play? Mrs. Barry Thompson (a full-time
Red Cross worker) was in a lower pen.
The inevitable auctioning happened dur-
ing an interval. Solomon, the rich ex-
Westralian bookie, came up, in response to
a cajoling smile and word from Minnie Love,
to auction a button. The lady’s smile
changed to a frown when Solomon the Hur-
ried referred to “this button that Miss
Kathlene Maedonell has asked me to sell.”
He knocked the bauble down to his wife in
the stalls for 100 guineas, and the lady
handed it back for re-sale. The Miller dame
sent un a beautiful pearl necklace for Jack
Cannot to auction. There was a reserve of
100 guineas. Cannot, alas! could not. Auc-
tions have frozen stiff. Manager Westmacott
came on like the head salesman in a store to
give a junior a hand. “Not a penny below
£100,” he thundered. But the gaud had to
be withdrawn.
Thais Lawton brought her tremolo voice
from King’s and played Juliet to Greena-
way’s Romeo. She was the longest Juliet
Melbourne has ever seen. There seemed
danger of her toppling out of the small bal-
cony, and Romeo easily touched her hand
without using a step-ladder. The clever
youngsters of the J.C.W. Co. gave a con-
densed “Bing Boys.” Even “The Merry
Widow” and “The Arcadians” were revived
in single acts, and the total cash result
exceeded £l7OO.
Mrs. Merson Cooper, wife of the big-
little man on ’Change, has given her racing
pony to the Red Cross. The animal, which
has three good wins to its credit, will be
raffled at the Stock Exchange on Red Cross
Day.
Mrs. Fred Fairbairn has been busy on a
Bed Cross effort of her own. She engaged a
posse of sewing girls, secured a flat and set
them to make undies. Lady Stanley lent
some models bought in Paris and London.
((Her Ex. has a separate chest for each
color—shell-pink, baby-blue and white.)
Cushions are also being turned out by the
Fairbairn workers. All the dainties are to
be sold at Menzies’ this week to the accom-
paniment of star-theatrical singing and tea-
at-a-price.
The Ross-Soden widow gave bne of her
big bridge-dance parties at Grong Grong on
Friday night for the Red Cross. Every avail-
able inch was occupied by bridge fiends. All
the Naice girls in the neighborhood rushed
to the party because the widow is renowned
for raking in men-partners. The ballroom was
the chief attraction for them. The men
wore all either in khhki or ineligible, the
hostess having ukased : “No tickets for
slackers.”
The visiting Newdegates intend to travel
tj the Snowy River. Sir Francis has pro-
mised a visit to Mario Hotel, at the mouth
of the Snowy, to have a bit of fishing. The
proprietor, Stewart, was at one time agent
for Sir Edward Newdegate (the present
.squire’s uncle) in England.
The Charlie Fairbairns are celebrating.
Aviator son Jim is in Holland after having
ibeen a prisoner of war in Germany for a
-year. Mrs. Fairbairn got all his old school
friends together—the victorious Grammar
iSchool boys—and gave them a luncheon-
party at the Quamby.
Clive, the George Fairbairn son and heir,
lias been discharged from the British Army
as permanently unfit, and with Mrs. Clive —
who is the youngest Edmund Jowett daugh-
ter —will get back to his squattage as soon
as possible.
Padre Harold Davies, whose dad is Angli-
can-parson Edward Davies of Ballarat, has
gone a-missing in France, after seeing a lot
of service with a British regiment. Young
Davies began to fit on the armor of righteous-
ness at St. Aidan's College, Ballarat, and
then went on to Durham University for the
finishing touches. He joined up there.
Commander Warren has been drowned.
Some accident near Brindisi on a fishing
excursion during furlough. He left here
very early in the war on one of our
destroyers. Melbourne knew him as “Billy”
—a delightful Billy with blue eyes and a
real seaman’s manner.
Dr. Vera Seantlebury, who has been for
some time a resident at a London Hospital,
staffed by women, has cabled to her medical
dad: “Staying duration of war.” A restive
fianed wonders just how long that will be.
Her brother, Dr. Cliff Seantlebury, was
stationed at a hospital at Armentieres, and
an anxious family awaits news of him.
Little Mrs. Antony Gibbs, who will star in
the Conant film, is the only daughter of
Baronet William Gordon-Cumming, of
Trhnby-Croft fame. The Hon. Antony is
looking for his lost health in Australia. The
pair .have a four-year-old infant named
Daphne.
Edward Stevens, of the Henry Berry salt
firm, contracted the habit of handing out
big cheques for patriotic purposes early in
the war. He has redoubled his efforts since
the Huns robbed him of his only child, Ned,
an Apzac. Last week he sent a thousand to
the Bed Cross and another to help insure
recruits.
The Toorak home of the Buessts had all
the electrics shining on Saturday night for
Mrs. Buesst’s birthday party. There were
messages from her three sons in France, and
a very happy lady beamed all in blue and
received flowers like a prima donna. Consul
Teppema came with his bride (lately Car-
men Delprat) in a black lace gown. She
has not yet quite recovered from the illness
that postponed her wedding, and was bundled
off early in a polar fur coat and the family
motor. The party was largely in the Tep-
pemas’ honor, it being the first outing of
the bride since her illness. From the way
the music salon was arranged the guests
knew they were expected to listen to the
music. The programme deserved attention.
Rita Hope played and Mrs. Buesst accom-
panied her on another piano. Mrs. Lionel
Wilson sang. Kirby contributed two or
three exquisite songs. Claude Hall recited
romantically, there was some family glee
singing, and Weston Pett fluted sweetly.
Supper was elaborately cliampagned in a big
garden marquee off the music-room.
Tu’lvakano,; Prime Minister of Tonga, is
in the city, with the indefatigable Shepherd
buzzing in his wake. The colored potentate
has been mostly eating and listening to
speeches of welcome, but he has found time
to shake various people by the hand and
wish them a Long and Sufficient Income. On
Friday he made a tour of Federal Parlia-
ment House, and was shown the Win-the-
War party and other freaks and curiosities.
The same evening Hagelthorn, M.L.C., took
him to the King’s, where he had a close-up
view of morphia-mania from a box.
Perhaps they know better now ; but this is
the story Tu’lvakano’s brother-Tongan told
me to account for you and me. God first of
all, of course, made the Tongan, and pro-
vided him with taro and yams and fish and
coeoanuts and other good things. But the
Tongan was not satisfied. God, he com-
plained, hadn’t given him anything that he
could really make a hobby of, So God took
a taro and cut it and carved it and threw
down the finished work, and lo! it was a pig.
And God (the Tongan’s God) went on carv-
ing and making pigs until he grew tired and
careless; and the knife slipped. He was
going to throw, away the mistake, when the
Tongan told him not to be wasteful; as it
wouldn’t do for a pig, couldn’t he make some-
thing else out of it—nothing quite so useful,
of course, but still something? God said
perhaps, or words to that effect, and did a
little more carving, and lo! a white man.
This dreadful Censorship! Just think of
what it has done now. Two of our war-
ships recently crept into port for a brief
spell. Some of the boys aboard had not
seen Melbourne for two years. Yet,
because the ship’s movements were not
advertised well in advance, no parties could
be arranged for them. This is most annoy-
ing. Mrs. Leslie Stuart, who used to be
one of their most consistent hostesses, found
out first and gave the sailors a jolly Two-
Step and Kiss-Trot in her Toorak ball-
room. But that was only just before the
grey ships slipped away.
The Bates Post pair met the Austral
Salon last week —Guy in English afternoon
dress (Chilcote brand) and Mrs. Post in a
clinging cloud-grey gown, with jay-blue
feathers in her hat. The members all clus-
tered in an anxious way. They don’t know
where they are going when their term is
up at the condemned old rooms. The
owners gave them an extension of time to
pack no, but no fresh perch has been dis-
covered.
The Henry Cornish pair are on the move
again. They go to the Islands, then to
America, and pull up (with luck) in Eng-
land. Mrs. Henry has offered herself as' a
taxi-driver in London on V.A.D. work.
How she will manage I don’t know. At
present she is too nervous to take her own
car over Princes Bridge.
Consul Barros, of Chili, has spent the
last two months more or less in hospital.
The energetic young man surprised every-
body by fainting in town one day.
Some reflections of Adelaide :
Cheery little Father Le Maine, army chaplain,
who had military training in the cockade of France,
has gone on to Sydney. If war-workers there are
hard up for an eloquent pleader for patriotic causes
he's the man to be called on.
Capt. W. E. B. Lowe has added a bar to the M.C.
he won on the Western Front a few months ago.
Another S. Australian whose good soldiering has
been recognised is Lieut. I. A. Macindoe, son of Mrs.
John Black, whose husband is manager of the Com-
monwealth Bank here.
Peter Dawson’s concert, for the Returned Soldiers’
Association building fund, attracted an enthusiastic
crowd to the Exhibition on Saturday. On the same
evening the Rep. Theatre gave its first play for the
season at the Queen’s. The Governor and Lady
Galway, who are keen Rep. supporters, added to the
grace and fashion of the audience.
Lieut. R. E. Claridge, the original of George
Coates’s Academy picture, “For the Empire: A
Wounded Anzac,” has been killed after three years’
service. He received severe wounds at Gallipoli and
on the Somme, and it was while he was at Wands-
worth, recovering, that the artist met him and
induced him to be his model. Lieut. L. B. Laurie
was killed about the same time. He had been for
four years a master at Queen’s School before he
enlisted.
Mrs. C. Weaver, of Port Adelaide, has* just been
notified of the death of the fourth of her sons on
active service. The heroism of the mothers—it’s yet
to bo written !
During a tidying-up recently given the Art Gallery
a brown-paper parcel, neither addressed nor labelled,
was unearthed and found to contain a painting, by
Buxton Knight, that is supposed to have belonged
to the late Chief Justice Way. It is surmised that
it has been overlooked ‘for the last 17 yeays or so.
The executors have told the Gallery trustees to keep
the canvas, and it has now been hung. Incidentally,
a painting, by W. W. Russell, of Ypres’ ruined Cloth
Hall, has been bought in London for the Gallery, and
is stored there pending a chance of safe shipment;
and ex-Agent-General Young is presenting an engrav-
ing of the same building before the Hun laid his
trade-mark on it.
Ptomaine descended on the Children’s Hospital at
last week-end and laid out 33 of the staff, including
the matron, two resident doctors and a good many
nurses. As usual, the wards were full of patients,
but V.A.D.’s, former nurses at the institution and
other volunteers hurried to the front and re-enforced
the attendants who remained on duty.
Adelaide is interested in a Royal Humane Society’s
bionze medal which came to a sad mother at Gerald-
ton (W. \.) the other day. Her boy, Norman Wight,
of the 44th, won it “for bravery in attempting to
rescue in the dark a comrade from drowning at a
West African port.” The lad—he was only 19 when
he enlisted—followed up that performance with some
sterling service which brought from George V. “his
deep personal sympathy”—the lad was blown into
the mud in glanders—and from the Minister of De-
fence a recognition., of “his magnificent conduct on
the field of battle.!’ Father is Alec Wight, an old
Adelaide boy.
One of our submarine-defying Melbourne
maidens is Nellie Bodycomb. She is steam-
ing off to London to be made one with Medi-
Cal-Major Jolley, who has had the ring in
his pocket for over two years.
Fluffy little Ivy Wenzel, who played in
the production of “A Message from Maks”
at the King’s, has married her Essendon
swain, Arthur Mullett. Ivy was one of the
Bep. Theatre’s most promising girleens and
played Posy prettily in the initial production
of “Quinney’s.”
Dr. Kent Hughes is making ready for a
second wedding. The bride-elect is a nurse,
Miss Lelaine. His first wife was also
a nurse when the doctor met her in London
some 30 years ago.
Major Isaacson’s young daughter Estelle
quietly changed her name to Goldring on May
8, Captain Eric Goldring belongs to Syd-
ney, and is a returned wounded soldier. The
Major brought his girl some wonderful lace
from Manila for her wedding-dress. Mamma
had chosen the simple expensiveness of white
Georgette for her, and the lace had this
stunning foundation. Mrs. Isaacson is
one of the large tribe of Benjy Benjamin
daughters. Captain and Mrs. Goldring
motored off to some eyrie in the hills after
the church parade.
Thelma Gladys Lancaster, whose familv is
in the carrying business at Abbotsford, has
issued a writ calling on Captain Austin
L’Estrange Mahon, surgeon on H.M.A.S.
Brisbane, to find £lOOO damages for alleged
breach of promise. The young man is a son
of Hugh Mahon, who contributed some of the
brains to the first Hughes Ministry. He gets
the L’Estrange from his mother, who is a
sister of lewT-er Joe L’Estrange, of Malvern.
Stella Power is back. I have not heard
her new voice yet, but her .new way‘of doing
her hair is fine. Melba pictured her as
looking well in the new American style of
barbering. That, of course, settled it.
Her black locks are now smootned back
from her forehead and packed to her head
with Grecian simplicity. But even with-
out this Stella looks the absolutely suc-
cessful platform artist. She had 18 tip-
top engagements in America.
The Conant screen-scream—its title is “His
Only Chance” —has been partly filmed at the
now-ancient Williamson studio in Exhibition-
street. The old props, have been dug up,
dusted and sorted out, and some of them
have been found to come in very handy for
the new play. Perhaps the most amusing
resurrection is the bed upon which Foreign
Secretary Cass wakens, to learn through his
bedside ’phone of The Robbery. The same
bunk appeared some three years ago in the
wobbly Williamsonian filming of “Within the
Law.” In those remote days it served as
Muriel Starr’s humble, poverty-stricken couch
when that poor, hunted thing was living
among the spiders in her dingy garret—the
one with the 12-inch window and the cracked
ceiling. Still, it’s a very handsome bed and
quite worthy of its far-more opulent sur-
roundings in the present show.
Floris St. George, well known as a cham-
pion Sydney tennis player, is in Melbourne.
She’s an old Sydney ’Varsity girl, whom her
doctor father hoped to see in the rOle of
Portia, but his plans weren’t hers. A clever
amateur elocutionist and musician, she has
now made her professional ddbut with G.
B. Post’s co.
The* Rep. Club gives a big dramatic and
musical entertainment at The Playhouse on
Saturday evening. The gate-money goes to
help the Patriotic sewing circle.
We had “Quiuney’s” at The Playhouse on
Saturday, and there wasn’t a seat unoccu-
pied. The Lyceum Club worked up the
nmtinSe to help its Red Cross funds.’ Lady
Helen, in jetted black, was boxed with Lady
Stanley and Miss Newdegate. Lady Stanley
wore a fichu of lace on her plum-colored
gown and Miss Newdegate buried herself
under a mushroom hat. But there was a
better sight still —Alfred Deakin was well
enough to be in one of the gold-latticed
boxes with his wife and daughter.
The Billabong Tea Room in the Centre-
way has been sold, and will be run in the
interests of the Red Cross. Mrs. Willie
Bates, of Balwyn, a daughter of the late
rag prince Robert Reid, is prime mover.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


J3orn 1820
—still going strong
' at & I
.^sgss:
gC“j3^^
IS&fL&tta
*. •
11
m
o«
r-e-
-\
r->
V 5
re
,5*
5
/A
HJ
Ax:
1 \
/,-***'\
'
-s~
s
m
• t
i)
mm
/!
v
r/y J
5%
/I /
/
tw
* «*
E
'/
\ {tkiKy
t:*
Johnnie Walker : <£ You can’t judge a man by his clothes.”
Man (making-up) : “ But you can always judge ‘Johnnie Walker by its
* small label with a big reputation ’ —always tops the bill.”
Johnnie Walker “ Kep Label” Whisky is now put up only in new and greatly improved Patent Bottles
which are eas}' to pour. These Bottles are commercially non-refillable.
It is not claimed that they are scientifically non-refillable any more than a Burglar-proof Safe is claimed
to be absolutely burglar-proof.
But both Non-refillable Bottles and Burglar-proof Safes give ample protection to their valued contents.
guaranteed same quality throughout the world.
TOIIN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland


Martin’s Pills are old by all chemists and
stores. Ladic: recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southam; >n.—Advt.
TRY MAGNESIA FOR YOUR
STOMACH
IT NEUTRALISES ACIDITY AND
PREVENTS FERMENTATION.
Doubtless you have already tried pepsin,
bismuth, soda, charcoal, drugs, etc., and so
you know that these things will not cure
your trouble-—in sopie cases they do not even
give relief—but before giving up hope and
deciding that you are a chronic dyspeptic
just try the effect of a little magnesia-—not
the ordinary carbonate, oxides or citrates,
but bisu rated magnesia, which you can
obtain from practically any chemist in either
powder or tablet form. Take half a tea-
spoonful of the powder or two compressed
tablets with a little water after your next
meal, and see what a difference this makes.
It will instantly neutralise the harmful acid
which now causes your food to ferment,
giving rise to wind, heartburn, flatulence and
many other unpleasant symptoms, and you
will find that, provided you take a little
bisumted magnesia immediately afterward,
you can eat almost anything and enjoy it
without any danger of pain and discomfort
to follow. —Abvt.
The TOP NOTCH'ScotcK
TS~}'
V'>„ -Say WHEN Naan
MF
L'
«■
THE FAMOUS
OTMCAS SWIBARD FOUROOi OK«
HfeRMJSjg
Marine Engine.
12, 16 and 20 H.P.
4 Cylinders—4 cycle—medium speed.
SIMPLE, STRONG, DURABLE, ECONOMICAL.
Kermath Engines are built with
extreme care, perfectly balanced, and
are quiet running, perfectly controlled
and extremely smooth in operation. It
is an engine which will give years of
the most thoroughly satisfactory ser-
vice, and is an extremely high-grade
engine in every respect. Good dealers
wanted in Australia.
Catalog on request.
Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich. U.S.A.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
RISEN SINCE THEN.
DISGUSTED BILLJIM : “Soup! Call this soup? Say, Cookie, wliat were you when you
was in Aussie?”
CONTEMPTUOUS COOKIE: “I teas only a-sojer!”
“Cher” : Picked up on the beach at Bruns-
wick Heads (N.S.W.) the other day, half a dozen
Pert Jackson sharks’ eggs, objects of extraordinary
design, material and beauty; also of remarkable size
if the lady-shark responsible is no bigger than she’s
said to be, generally 3ft. or 4ft. long. They are the
size of a duck egg, but the resemblance goes no
farther, for the shark-fruit is composed of a gela-
tinous black substance with lovely concave spirals
running all round and long twisted tendrils attachec
to the end, and must be as soft and . slimy as \vel
seaweed at the time of emission. It is obvious that
once the eggs are parted from the parent the irre-
sponsible oviparian takes no further interest in her
progeny, which shift for themselves as soon as
“hatched.” The long tendrils of the floating eggs
curl and twist about in the sea till they find an
anchorage either in seaweed or on the reef. —the
former most probably. I should think the action of
the water on the egg is to gradually open the edges
of the spirals concurrently with the growth of the
embryo shark, who finishes the business of opening
the shell for himself just as any other young chick
does. At hen thrown up on the beach the shark’s egg
hardens and dries into an object of beauty. Strange
that the Port Jackson shark, a non-dangerous species,
is the only one in Australian waters that is ovip-
arous. The others deliver their young (the last
bluenose I helped to open contained nine very lively
youngsters) in the ordinary fashion.
* * * ft
“M.C.”: Talking about walking-sticks
made from local woods, I have one of turpentine
which is as springy as cane and as tough as a
German conscience; it will stand almost any pres-
sure without breaking. Other good walking-stick
woods are broad-leaved Christmas bush (called some-
times water-gum—when warmed up in your hand
the wood gives off a pleasant perfume, something like
a well-seasoned cherrywood pipe), she-oak, pittos-
perum and young stringy-baric.
* * * ,
“Billy T.”: My friend Carder is an artist
and his life‘and works>' prove that absence of mind
is no serious detraction in the case of a painter.
The other morning his wife put her head in at his
studio, and explained that there was a deaf and
dumb man at the door, who refused to allow the
door to be closed and would not go away. Carder
found a lean nomad on the mat, proffering a slate
on which was written an appeal for assistance on
the ground that the bearer was deaf and dumb.
“You get out of this,” said Carder, thrusting the
slate back at the man. The deaf man made motions
with his fingers; he spelt out what might have
been a criminal insult to the whole Carder family.
“Get a move on,” said the artist threateningly.
The mendicant made another dash at it with his
fingers, and then abandoned the deaf-and-dumb
alphabet as a slow, cumbersome and altogether un-
satisfactory medium of exchange in th§ bandying
of insults. “x\h, go take a jump et yerself fer a
mean swine!” he said. “A cow like you wot won’t
help a ’flicted feller-creature wants dealin’ with,”
he added menacingly. Carder offered to kick
the man over the gate if he wasn’t gone in seven
seconds. The man said Carder's patents were
responsible for the worst parody of a human being
that he had ever beheld. Carder stepped off the
porch, and the man backed through the gate. “For
two pins,’’ said the indignant artist, “I’d call up
the police, and give you in charge for insulting
behavior. And what’s more, you infernal scamp, I
don’t believe you are deaf and dumb at all!”
COW-COUNTRY FINANCE.
“You might ’are took me inter the front seats!”
“ ’Ow could I, Liz? Dad only gimme two bob!”
“Win Rum”: Can any Abo. reader explain
how Mrs. Scrub Turkey manages to bury her eggs
in the nest to the depth of eight to 20 inches, each
egg nearly a foot from its neighbor and standing on
end with the larger half uppermost? Has anybody
been sufficiently lucky to see this egg trick performed ?
* * * *
“Makera”: For the weirdest thing in pets,
I know a gentle little nature-lover in Port Moresby
who keeps pet scorpions! Under a glass-covered box
she showed me the horrors, and was tremulously
excited and proud because she had been able to
raise a family of 18, which her pet lady crawler
had presented to a long-suffering world. The babies
were very cheerful little beasts, and were gambolling
about like a flock of lambs. Some were playfully
chasipg each other, and others were butting i around
like the frolicsome William Goat’s offspring do when
at play. “Watch them scuttle under the old lady
when I rattle iffy fingers on the roof of their
home,” said the delighted owner. She tapped the
glass and immediately the babies fled under ma.
Scorpions! What next ? Somebody will be making
pets of taipe hypocrites next.
*** # »
“Melos”: A much more entertaining pet
than the young koala is the lesser flying opossum, a
pretty, bright-eyed little creature, about 7in. long,
with beautifully soft, grey fur on the upper parts,
paling to yellowish white on the under surface. The
flying membranes, extending from the fore to the
hind leg on each side, are brown above and yellow or
creamy white on the free edges. Without noise or
fuss the little fellow volplanes from one piece of
furniture to another, or from person to person, never
making himself a nuisance by disarranging things,
nor by digging its claws into one’s anatomy.
“W.A.C.”: Call “Jim Carew” (B.
18/4/’18) aside and breathe in his ear that eucalyp-
tus or tobacco leaves pressed in the books will save
his library from further ravages of white-ants,
moths, silver-fish, etc.
# * » .
“Glengarry”: The kookaburra sleeps as
noisily as any old gent, in a boarding-house.
Recently I spent a fortnight in a suburban hospital
surrounded by trees. In one of the gums in the
garden Mr. and Mrs. Kook had set up housekeeping.
One night I woke with the firm conviction that the
lady in the bed opposite was choking in her sleep.
I rang for the night nurse, and when she appeared
she found the other woman sleepily reaching for the
bell-push to summon help for me. Then the three
of us listened anxiously to the weirdest chuckles and
grunts until it struck us that the sounds were coming
from the garden. It was the sleeping Kook family
enjoying their indigestion in 'their rent-free nest.
“Melos”: The “fifty-legs” mentioned by
“Dugout” (B. 2S/3/’18) is probably a member of
the Peripatus family, primitive air-breathers, some-
what like the caterpillar in appearance. The crea-
ture’s body is not dearly divided into rings like that
of its relatives the centipede and the millipede. Its
legs are numerous, short and armed with sharp clavys
at the tip; and in the head region are two blunt
projections supplied with glands which secrete a
slimy fluid. This secretion can be ejected a con-
siderable distance, and greatly assists Fifty-leg-;
in securing small insects for food. The species i>
distributed throughout the hotter parts of the globe.
* * * *
“Planter”: Some time ago “Momokani”
and Beatrice Grimshaw got into holts over vegetable-
growing in Papua. This is my experience. I came
to- within 30 miles of the lady’s dugout six months
ago and took over a ruined hut surrounded by lalang
grass 4ft. high. To-day there is an acre of garden
without a blade of the pest. In the ground are hun-
dreds of cabbages, lettuces, radishes, carrots, pump-
kins (several kinds), water-melons, vegetable-mar-
rows, pawpaws, pineapples (over 700), bananas,
beans, custard-appies (grown from seed), tomatoes
(several kinds), sweet-potatoes, yarns and, not least,
peanuts. Two Papuan adherents, Sam Weller am!
Ruby, are responsible, and they let me in monthly
for salaries of 7s. 6d. and ss. respectively. The
only bull’s-eye “Momokani” scored in the argument
(and it was beside the issue) was about Australia’s
neglect of Papua and its general mishandling. If
ever a man in these degenerate clays had a chance
to make posterity hear of him, Lieut.-Gov. Murray
is the one; and he is missing the ’bus. If roads
had been driven through the country and the natives
organised to keep them in repair in their respective
districts, Papua would have blessed his Ex. Instead,
the only Government roads (there are two) follow
the old native tracks—and the Papuan goes between
two points “all same snake.”
* * * *
“John Quill”: This method of rabbit-
poisoning I can recommend. Dig up the main root
of the common “black” thistle and slice it into
blocks about twice the size of your favorite liver
pill. Place the blocks, with strychnine, in a treacle
tin or pickle jar and shake the bottle. When
laying the bait always scratch the fresh earth up
ami deposit the delicacy in the excavation. I recom-
mend this method to bird-lovers, for thistle-root isn’t
on the menu of the feathered folk. Another way is
to cut off the thistle level with the ground, tap the
root as you do a melon, poison, and replace the tap;
but this offers some danger to stock.
(Continued on page 24J
THE OTHER PROVIDENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Thej' brought black Jackie from the wild
Out past B?yond, and bore
Him to the city, reconciled,
A faithful servitor.
Jack in his travels early found
A brew’ry up the lane.
The alio, stood in wonder bound
When told its purpose plain.
A good man taught benighted Jack ,
Of Providence and sin.
The tale of Exodus the black
In simple faith took in.
There was, the teacher said, a great
Big-pfella up on high
Who made the hills, this earthly state,
The planets and the sky.
But most impressed the Binghi was
When told the marvel new
How this one big white-feller Boss
Had made the waters too.
Ho saw the sea, the falling rain;
He pondered on the bar.
And one day kneeling in the drain
Beside the brewer’s car
They found him worshipping. “Tut-tut!”
The good man said. “Oh, fie I
You must not kneel to any but
The Great One in the sky.”
“That one make plenty water be.”
Jack’s reverence was sincere;
And whispering in awe said lie :
“This one bin make it beer!’*
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


..cfojtfo/syfyrmyg'
LL
gaa
m
a
■3
mm
33 0
OCHS
STRALIAN Made
PURE FUR
SOFT FELTS.
Hats
Hen who care about their
appearance will appreciate
these smart, stylish
Australian - made Hats.
They are crowns of dis-
tinction for men who wear
them, and feature a high
standard of value.
Dressy and distinctive in every
detail; in smart shapes and
fashionable shadings New
Fawns, Browns, Slates, Steel,
with self or black bands, side,
back or elbow bows, finished
with best trimmings.
9/6,10/6,12/6.
POSTAGE U. EXTRA.
K
>-3-
1
Call in and try on your size to-day or post your
order to Desk R.
Murdoch’s
£.«£
Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
66
99
Split-Sleeve
es correct Set to Cuffs always) Mi^WWWw
(Gives
Order by
Post.
We Pay
Carriage.
7%
(3 for 21'9)
Made by and Obtainable only from The Leviathan.
“TAFFAT WILL” has the lustrous finish of beautiful
Wool Taffeta, and can be had in Blue, Grey or Black
stripes on rich cream grounds. These shirts are
fitted with “split-sleeves” (to give correct set to cuffs
always); ‘‘Sleeve Lifts” (to reirulate the “just right”
sleeve length), and Reinforced Inlay l<'ronts (to
double the life of each shirt).
Made in three styles of Cuffs—STlFF, SOFT-
DOUBLE or IVUISTBMDS, with button and link
holes. Sizes, 13in. to 18in. neckbands.
THE BEST SHIRT VALUE IN AUSTRALIA.
“Taffatwill” Baffy Collars
Soft double style, with Link fastener (see illustration).
May be bad in Blue or Black (Vertical or Hori- -fl /
zontal) Stripes on rich cream “Taffatwill” grounds. g /■*
Order by Post. Be sure to state size. (3 for 2/0)
2K&
LADIES’ “TAFFATWILL” SHIRT BLOUSES
Made in our own workrooms (by a specially-organised
staff of EXPERT SHIRT-MAKEItS) from “Taffatwill”—
the same famous shirting as used in our Men’s Shirts.
Smart Blue, Black or Grey Stripes, on lustrous Cream
Grounds. May be had with “TWO-WAY” COLLAR
(as illustrated), which can be worn two ways—Tennis
or Golf style. Also with V OPEN-NECK, Which mav
also be worn two styles: (1) V Open-neck, with lapels’;
(2) Golf style, buttoned to neck, and worn with wide-
end tie. “TAFFATWILL” Shirt Blouses are fitted
with “SPLIT-SLEEVES” (which give correct set to
cufi's always) ; Yoke shoulders ; Vents at sides
and centre pleat at batik.' Doubly sewn and
beautifully finished. ALL SIZES ' (S.W., W..
and O.S)
(3 for 24/9)
Also in hard-wearing OXFORD SHIRTINGS—White
Grounds With Blue, Black, Grev and many other
stripes. All sizes 8/6 (3 for 24/9)
WIDE-END SILK POPLIN TlES— for wear-
ing with Shirt Blouses. Colors: Blue, Black, Brown, or
Grey 3/. each.
, SLEEVE LINKS— in various shapes and
designs 1/6, 2/- pair.
ORDER BY POST. • WE PAY CARRIAGE.
The LEVIATHAN,
8/6
Corner Swanston CSb BourKe Streets'
-MELBOURNE.
Make Your Own COUGH MIXTURE and Save Money.
12/- WORTH FOR 2/-
The treatment of Asthma, Bronchitis, Colds, Influenza and Sore Throats calls for something that will destroy disease germs from the throat
and bronchial tubes, soothe and heal inflamed mucous membrane, loosen phlegm and tone up the general system. For this purpose money cannot
buy a better medicine than that a pint of which anyone may prepare in their own homes in a few minutes by adding HEENZO (registered name
for Hean’s Essence) to warm water and sweetening as per easy directions supplied with each bottle. As HEENZO costs only 2/-, and a pint of
ready-made cough mixture would cost at least 12/-, it will be seen that a
big money-saving is to be effected by making your own HEENZO cough
mixture.
Mdlle ANTONIA DOLORES
the world-famous soprano, who is now touring Australia, has, like most eminent
sipgers, long been delighted with the medicinal merits of Heenzo. Here is what she
has wiitten. Grand Hotel, Melbourne,
Mr. G. W. HE AN. 19th October, 1916.
Dear Sir, —-I am delighted to acknowledge the value of
Heenzo Cough Diamonds. I find them agreeable to take and very
efficient.
It gives me great pleasure to know that such a valuable
remedy is manufactured in Australia. Kindly let me have half
a dozen boxes. Believe me, yours sincerely.
Z
OVER 6000 OTHER USERS OF HEENZO have written to say it is the finest preparation
ever used by them for Asthma, Bronchitis, Influenza, Colds, Whooping Cough and Sore
Throats. If you desire further proof of the goodness of HEENZO, let it be your own
experience. - •
Mdlle ANTONIA DOLORES.
HEEXZO COI'GH DIAMONDS, to which Mdlle Dolores refers in her letter
are Lozenges medicated with HEEXZO, They are packed in tins which
conveniently fit into vest pocket or handbag. They are fine for voice, throat and
breath, and are largely' used by singers, public speakers and travellers.
For General Family Use, however, the HEENZO MIXTURE is recommended
because of the Great Saving it effects in cost.
A Blessing in Every Home .
J?EGP NAME FOR
HEANS ESSENCE
The Famous Money-
Sav.ng Remedy for
COUGHS w® COLDS
Each bottle of HEENZO makes a pint of finest
quality fixture for cough*, colds and *ore throats.
A pint of ordinary ready-made mixtures would
cost at least 12/- HEENZO costs only 2/-
Moral : Use HEENZO and save 10/-
HEENZO and HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS are obtainable from all leadinj Chemists 8 Stores, or by post from
.... .. .. ■■■■■■ 1
5. W. HEAN. Mintifactttriaj Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


Unchecked by life's experience,
Impulsive youth seems void of sense;
But fleeting- time with sadness brings
A clearer view of many things.
We wiser grow in winter ways,
We learn the danger of delays;
We learn the wisdom, too, be sure,
Of taking Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure,
—A DVT.
A
>.»v
$
r
n
•t.
Ui
v.
Wonderful Poultry Food.
That is how Mr. T. V. Hastings. Alice Street, Grafton, describes our Meal in letter dated 13/3/’IS.
He says:—
“I have been the means of introducing at least 3001 b. of that WONDERFUL MEAL to my Poultry
friends. My birds in a yen of 12 were done for the season (as I thought), but by the t'. te I had
finished the 201 b. bag, I was getting 7,8, 9 and 10 a day."
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal
will maintain your egg yield and the
stamina of your flock at minimum cost.
Pamphlet A, instructing how to feed, mailed free,
Full particulars from Agents: Messrs. Harrisons, Ba msay Ltd., 666 Bourke Street. Melbourne: B. S. Exton
and Co., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. YV. Adams, King Street, Perth; Messrs. Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide;
F. W. Heritage, Launceston and Hobart; Messrs. Blair Beed & Co., Ltd.. G.P.O. Box 941, Wellington,
X.Z.; or
MEGGITT LIMITED
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil
Meal Manufacturers of
26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
*?
Ml
fAOSGITT C°
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
“11.W.F ”: “D.F.” (B. IS/4/’IS). speak-
ing of a big turtle found at Fowler’s Bay (S.A.)
in 1840, asks if there is any record of others on
the south coast of Australia. Yes. Some years ago
on* was caught at Anderson’s Inlet, east of Western-
port (Vic.), and sent alive to Melbourne.
“Wandi”: I have seen many a hut- or
camp-dweller before riding away in the morning, if
no one was left in charge, carefully sweep over the
bare patches around the domicile with a bough or
grass broom. He departed backwards, obliterating
his own tracks as he went. On returning he dis-
mounted several yards away and approached his door
slowly, examining the ground for evidence of callers.
If someone had come along during his absence the
amount of tracking he would do would seem a waste
of time and energy to anybody else. He studied
cltselv the man’s tracks and the shape and size of
the horses’s hoofs, and having ascertained that the
stranger came from the direction of Black Gully,
that he dismounted near the burnt stump, stood at
the door for a while and looked around, and finally
rode away in the direction of Boggy Swamp, the
tenant of the hut worried his brain for hours trying
to solve the mystery of the person's identity an 1
what he wanted. He mostly wound up with “a good
idea who he was.”
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: My friend Malcolm
was a live Yankee business-man, Scotch-Yank at that,
going across to Chile, and we foregathered at the
Corner at cocktail time. They have a mascot
at the Corner, a big burly tom-cat, a very friendly
kind of eat, and as we talked Thomas walked around
purring happily with his tail cocked and his back
arched and a 45deg. list on to enable him to lean up
against the congregation as he circumnavigated the
table. As 'soon as lie brushed against Malcolm's leg
there was a blood-curdling outcry, and he tied around
that table about 1(3 times in Sisec. spitting and
yowling like a scalded devil. Then he careered up
one side of a terrified waiter and down the other
and out into the street and away. When the racket
had subsided, Malcolm quietly finished his drink and
said: “Boys, that Caadam cat has hoodooed me,,
sure.” We were ail astonished at this from a man
like Malcolm, but the matter dropped until we were
seeing him oft' a few hours later. Just as he was
pulling out he said very quietly: “Boys, that hoodoo
is work in’, sure. I’ve gaht my orders, an’ I’m not
cornin’ out o’ Chile any more.” He was right; he
died in Valparaiso a few hours after landing.
“Barcoo”: Here he is, the biggest frog.
I’ve just put the tape measure over him—3Jin. from
top to bottom, 3Jin. acro'ss his chest ; Weight lOJoz.
When sitting still, which he does poised at an angle
of 45 degrees, the body is shaped a true oval. The
species is either deaf or devoid of fear, being easy
of approach, and the members are dumb. My fellow
has no time, as other frogs have, for water, although
ha exudes moisture like a wet sponge. The family
is very plentiful about Jericho (Q.), especially along
the flats and banks of the Jordan River. They can be
dug up out of the sand with a yam stick by the
quart-pot full in « few minutes. Red meat-ants
seem most prominent on their menu. The color of
this citizen when he is fully developed is a dull
creamy shade, with irregular brown spots.
FAIR WARNING.
FARMER ROOTGRUBBER (to aviator): “Hey!
Dang you, look out for them ’ere ducks!”
“Murua" : The pourri-pourri man of Papua
is a simple soul when you understand him. An old
unhung sorcerer pal of mine often tells me about
his little devices for keeping his adoring brethren in
a proper state of subjection and himself in a suffiei-
PROBLE'M IN THU HIGHER MATHEMATICS.
DISGUSTED DOUGH-DOER: “'Ere 'e conies! Larst be about a mile! An’ you said ’c was
tryin’! Strike me pink , where would 'e 'n' been if 'e ’ADN’T been tryin'!”
ency of juicy pork and floury taro. Fondly caress-
ing a human legbone, tie says: “S'j>ose boy he look
dis fellow bone, he savvy too much bimeby he die
finish, becoz medicine he stop long dis fellow bone
he strong too much. Boy he sleep, dis fellow bone he
walk about longa belly belongta him, make him big
fellow sick alia same poison. S’.pose boy he golem
pig, he give him alonga me, poison he no go alonga.
belly belongta him.” The old gentleman, I believe,
helped the effects of the bone by judicious doses of
euphorbia or “New Guinea dynamite” dropped into
the cooking-pots. On another occasion he produced
a bundle of bark and leaves, and told me he would
give it to ine because “You good fellow man alia
same father belongta me!” He explained that “Dis
fellow he strong likea anyt’ing, makem altogether
girl wild for you. S’pose you wantem two, free,
four, fibu, siekis fellow girl, you give him small
fellow long cigar, he smoke, he like you too much.”
It worked. The old chap has sworn eternal friend-
ship with me and has medicined my fox-terrier until
he says it is absolutely snake-proof. He tells me,
too, that he 1 is holding off the rains until 1 finish
copra drying. He is feared by the whole of the
people for miles up and down the coast, for they are
quite convinced he was the cause of an earthquake
and tidal-wave that blotted out an enemy village
some years ago.
* *• * *
“The Swaggie": Another of Australia’s
symbols is being adopted by Maoriland. A number
of Laughing Jacks were recently carried across the
Tasman from their sunny home and liberated in the
bush on the east' coast of the North Island, under
the protection of the local Acclimatisation Society.
Seems something pathetic in the exile, though the
Lord knows M.L. can do with some of the brighten-
ing up that the kookaburra will provide if he
survives the experiment.
* * * *
“Jim Carew” : In Binghi language “wolon”
was water and “gong” a swamp or lagoon. Hence
“Wollongong” and “Wolondilly” (water trickling
over rocks). “Bidgee” was a stream of many flats;
“mill” to see; “bong” dead or blind. Hence Milla-
bong, Bongbong. “Gibber” was a stone, “gunyah”
a cave, hollow or shelter, (correctly speaking, formed
of stones). Names ending in “alia” mostly refer to
some well-known camping-ground. Generally names
now commencing with a “C” should commence with
“K,” such as Coogee (“Kugee,” a bad smell) ; the
word in the local dialect was “Koueha.” “Barranjoey”
should be “Barrengerie” ; “Woy Woy” is a corrup-
tion of Wy. Wy (look out, take care). When you
get the meaning of prefixes as “Wolon,” “Murrum,”
“Turra,” “Mitta,” “Mill” and “Terra,” and suffixes
as “gong,” “atta,” “bidgee,” “alia,” “drily” and
“walong,” the translation of many native names is
comparatively easy, in spite of the confusing dialects.
“8.A.”: The notion recently expressed by
an Abo. writer about raising lyre-birds would be ul!
right if you could find an egg or two. I lived a long
time among these fowls—gullies and ranges full of
’em—but 1 rarely found a nest in what yrtu might
call full working order. I don’t know how many eggs
Superbus's missus can produce if she wants to, but I
do know that 1 never found more than one in a. bed.
As I am interested ip the propagation of lyre-birds,
and as “Geebung” (who introduced the subject)
seems to have had experience, will he tell me just
what the bird’s natural food consists of, and why
the chook almost invariably pines away and dies when
moved from the coastal scrubs? By the way, Mar-
garet Catchpot knew how to handle lyre-birds. She
tamed one and sent it to a friend in England. Its
food for about a year seems to have been “sow-bellv,”
salt-horse and hard tack.
“Scrub”: Recently a strange bird made
its appearance about the seashore at Ballina, Rich-
mond River (N.S.W.), and was just getting used to
the interest and curiosity it awakened, when the
übiquitous ghoul with a gun happened along and
shot it. At the inquest the jury found it to be a
Jabiru, a native of South Africa, quite unknown in
Australia. It was Bft. from tip to tip ; legs, red,
3ft. ; neck, dark green; head, bright purple; body,
snow white, with black band across the back from tip
to tip of wings. It had evidently been imported by
some bird-fancier or sea-captain and escaped. 1 was
going to suggest a prohibitive tax on shotguns, but as
I want to retain my weapon until 1 pot the rotter
who murdered the visitor, I’ll wait a bit.
"H.V.E.” : Nature is a thoughtful mother.
Many of our most gorgeous birds lay plain white eggs
and incubate in total- or semi-darkness. The blue
kingfisher, bee-eater and diamond bird, which nest
in tunnels in banks and hillsides, and the cockatoo
and parrot tribe (I except the very rare ground
parrot), are examples. The screeeher fraternity, of
course, nest in hollows of trees, excepting the ground
parrot aforesaid, which deposits its two dirty-white
eggs on bare soil. If these birds, mostly rainbow-
hued in plumage, bred in open nests, they would be
a conspicuous mark for the keen eyes of hawks,
crows, gohannas and other enemies. But they go into
the dark places, and there the pallidity of the
chicken-seed renders it visible to the parents. On
the other hand, certain defenceless birds, such as
the morepork (tawny frogmouth) and bronzewing
pigeon, merely drag a few twigs together in a hori-
zontal fork and deposit their white eggs; and
though these are plainly visible from below or above
when the hatcher is not sitting, the sitting bird is
not easily spotted. With regard to other birds
marked with brilliant color, such as the male red-,
flame- and rose-breasted robin and golden-breasted
whistler, the gay patch is hidden in the deep nest
when the cock is on incubative duty, his turn being
when (he missus is out for her four-o’clock. Another
bird which harmonises wonderfully with its surround-
ings when squatting on its single egg is the white-
throated nightjar, or night-hawk, though the egg, laid
on the bare ground, is a shbwv eream-eolored thing,
boldly marked with black, and very conspicuous.
Birds which nest in hollows, by the way. remain
closely within when sitting. One sees a brooding
parrot poke its gaudy head out occasionally, but ver\
rarely. Where the coloring of the egg is itself
protective it is a different matter’, although some
birds, such as the hooded and red-capped dotterels,
while laying eggs which harmonise well with their
surroundings, leave a score of tiny tracks in the
sand radiating in every direction from the hollow
which contains their treasures. No wild-bird’s egg,
I think, harmonises more wonderfully with its sur-
roundings than the beautifully-pencilled egg of the
black-fronted dotterel, especially when laid on the
sandspit of a river, and I place that of the spurwing
plover, when laid on some bare, open space, next in
point of invisibility.
“H.P.”; How is this for a record V Charles
Shea has carried the mail 'on horseback from Upper
Blessington to the Nile (Tas.) for the past four
years, riding a distance of f>B miles a day three
days per week, starting at six o'clock in the morning
and riding continuously, with no change of horses,
till seven o’clock at night, in mountainous country.
He has never been off duty and never lost a letter.
The veteran has just retired at the ripe age of 15
years.
“B.”: To settle the barooo-.spew question
you’ve got to settle the epidemic-carrying fly ; where-
fore decorate' the ceiling of tin; dining-hall with
bunches of eucalyptus leaves.six feet above the table.
To be thoroughly effective the vegetation must be
renewed every 48 hours.
‘‘Silas Snell": Clegg is .a Melbourne man.
a city dweller of means, unaccustomed to shifts
that may be the daily fortune of the hardy dwellers
on the outskirts, lie had financed a prospecting-
party on Big Blister, and gold, had been found in
some profusion in the clusters of leaders that passed
for a reef in that district. In the enthusiasm provoked
by the receipt of a cake of gold, Clegg was riding-
out from Peg-top in unfamiliar ways and inconceiv-
able heat. When he strvick the Marlborough Hotel.
Samuel Carter, licensee of the Marlborough Hotel,
was sitting on the lounge (devised from a cement
barrel) under the verandah (not yet roofed), and
when; asked if he could provide a meal and a bed
thought; the matter over in his sleep, and eventu-
ally stated his deliberate conclusion. “Ob, ye-es, I
I s'pose so,’’ he said. But he did not offer to move,
s:i Clegg: tlnok his horse round to the storm-battered
shed that passed for a stable, and stood the weary
animal among the dry bracken with which its
earthen floor was littered. Eventually the licensee
provided a meal of bread, bacon* and tea; then
Clegg, being dog-tired, talked of sleep. “You want
a lot rtf lookin’ after, me covey,” said the licensee,
and hobbled out. He returned in a few minutes,
with a hurt expression. “Well, 1 like your cheek,”
he said. “Torkin’ abort a place to sleep in, 'n'
here’s you gone ’»* put your ’prse in the bed.”
WILLING TO EXPERIMENT.
INQUISITIVE OLD GENT: “Now. tell me, my
dear young man. how do yon feel when
you are hit ? And is it a fact that
you hare a terrible thirst?"
BILLJIM: "Oh. I danno —I s'pose , I can
manage to beep a small one down.”


—i
'
m
ms.
mmmm
.-iV:
>J»*"
Si
■ -
V
W-??;* Jr ;
"k
H?£K %
N
K
S *
(\W.’' g9»gm&' ! •.*
cf ' > '
atMw-slwafc* >4
am
'isS 'lyMpV
V
>•'> xk^/'S.m?
w
%
\
%
is®
■•'
SppiiiP
S
' -JB’4 .■.\-3
MOTORISTS!
Here’s the New Red Rubber
RAILROAD'
Cover. It looks a good tyre and is one. These Covers have been subjected to the severest
road tests, over mountainous routes -at high speeds—and under the worst of winter road
conditions and have given such satisfactory results that we have the utmost confidence in
recommending the “ Railroad" to all motorists. It's suitable for all purposes—affords a
great grip on slippery surfaces, keeps cool and radiates heat in hot weather, and gives
you satisfactory tyre service at a figure no imported tyre can approach. You will appre-
ciate its quality and workmanship, and after thousands of miles of travel you will agree
with us that it is the finest motor Cover yet seen on our roads. The “Raiload” is a
high-grade Cover, listed at a reasonable figure. It has a fine strong casing, carrying a heavy
covering of tough rubber, that withstands the hardest driving without 'chipping. It wears
smoothly and wears slowly , and gives the maximum mileage at the minimum running cost.
All “Railroad” Covers are true to measurement—having a large air capacity, ensuring comfort
and extended life of Cover. Now listed in most popular sizes, and will shortly be available
in all standard sizes. The next time you have the opportunity examine one of these covers —
then, best of all, test out a pair—and note results. If you have not received by mail a
copy of our new list issued May 13th, we shall be pleased to forward a copy on receipt of
name and address,
# * * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
108 Flinders Street, Melbourne,
27-33 Wentworth Avenue, Sydney,
95 Courtenay Place, Wellington,
268-274 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
103-105 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
53 Cameron Street, Launceston.
67 King Street, Perth.
62 Fort Street, Auckland.
116 Worcester Street, Christchurch


MISS MAUD FANE, a lovely New
Discovery Girl (from a photo, by
Monte Luke).
'wL
msm-
mM
M
w
i
Vi #
;r ; *
-
kM
. it.
H
Ismfy?
Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery
More Popular Than Ever.
DR x’ 1 ”' ll< ' , r r ad ' r erl:isornents, for it. is they who have tried
?JL?^ LDON S EW DISCOVERY— who know its worth. Noted
smgers, and prominent citizens from all over Australasia have
I;™ ~ d t( ? the Fi u ? of thl ‘ s famous remedy. “I think New Discovery a
line lemedy, and I intend never to travel again without it.” writes Miss
-Muriel Starr, the famous actress. Miss Lizette Parkes, the Sydney
tavonte writes: ‘-New Discovery is the only thing that ever does me any
when I have a cold.” Miss Marjorie Sims, the sweet soprano
11 gei in .the J, C. Williamson Co.. Ltd., writes: “If my voice shows the
slightest huskiness I use New Discovery, and the huskiness disappears as
t» u, m / lglc ; Private Jack Molloy writes: “I have aiwavs regarded
vr bheldon s New Discovery as my only friend in the medicine line.”
Mr. Marsh Little, the composer of “Boys of the Dardanelles,” says he
regards New Discovery as a great asset to singers and elocutionists, as
he has proved its value.
Delightful Miss Maud Fane writes:—
Dear Sir, —
I feel it my duty to write and tell you how good I have found
your Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. To say the least, lam
enthusiastic about it, for it has cured me in the most marvellous
fashion of one of the most troublesome colds I ever had. Its
lightning effects on a cold are little short of marvellous, for I felt
better after the first dose, and in less than three days’ time was
absolutely right again. Since then I have used it every time l
felt the slightest indication of a huskiness in my throat or cold
coming on, and I can truthfully say that it has been effective
immediately. I think New Discovery by far the best thing I have
ever come across for a cold, and I most heartily recommend it.
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) MAUD FANE.
Stops Coughs—Banishes Colds
■ Men. women and children all over the country use and know the worth
of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not. don’t
delay, but buy a bottle at once and be ready to pounce on to the first cold
that makes its appearance. Don’t forget, Dr. Sheldon’s Xew Discovery is
the ever-ready friend which should be in every household to protect von
from all coughs and colds. Price 1/6 and 3/-
DR. SHELDON S
NEW DISCOVERY
COUGHS
and
COLDS.
Business, Robbery, etc.
City property in Melbourne still fetches
big money. The corner portion of the block
at the intersection of Bourke and Elizabeth
streets was sold the other day to the present
occupiers, the Australian Mont de Piatt; Co.
The price was £37,000, which means £lOOO
a foot.
* * * *
“Hacksaw”; This cash order system, as
explained by its practitioners before the
Inter-State Commission in Melbourne, seems
to be a bonanza to the firms that run it.
One of them, who scouted lawyer Joe Woolf’s
suggestion that he was a trade parasite, and
said he was a benefit to trade, asserted that
a yearly profit of 40 per cent, on capital used
was not excessive. He never did business
with a wife without hubby’s consent, had
not issued more than 20 summonses in 10
years, and had levied distraint in only four
or five cases. The firms on his list paid him
10 to 15 per cent, discount. At least one
firm in Melbourne practised the lay-by
system. The customer paid a deposit on the
article, which was laid by until the purchase
was completed. It was more profitable than
pawnbroking, because many people failed to
complete payments or claim the goods. On a
19-weeks repayment system his own yearly
interest was 2S per cent. On a re-investment
basis, the compound interest, if everything
was paid, would bring in 130 per cent. He
had between 2000 and 3000 people on his
books, and the total amount of, business done
in Vie. under the cash order system was
£75.000 annually. It would be more, but
most people, he reckoned, “believed it was
too good to be true.” Some people will
believe anything.
“F.C.”: Here is the full strength of the
encouragement given to the primary producer
by the Federal Government.
A while back a big Mel-
bourne firm of skin and
leather buyers sent many
bales of rabbit-skins to “the
authorities,” expecting they
would be taken at the fixed
price and shipped to Blighty.
The “authorities,” knowing
something, temporised, and
finally sent the goods back,
.saying tliev were buying no
more bunny hides. A few
days later appeared an offi-
cial notice abolishing Gov-
ernment control and freeing
rabbit-skins for open trade.
Presently the firm discovered
a small space in a Blighty-bound vessel, and
the skins were shipped and duly sold. From
that; little lot the firm cleared £6OOO profit.
Now it is giving its trappers 3s. for skins
in place of the former fixed price of Is.
* * * *
“Huon”: Another Australian industry
that has pushed out beyond the Continent
is the cement-pipe business run by Hume
Bros., which began in Adelaide, and is now
going strong in Melbourne and Hobart. A
branch has been started at Germiston, in
the Transvaal, with Sir Percy Fitzpatrick
and other S. African magnates behind it.
J. C. Ross, lately city engineer at Hobnrt,
where he put £17,000 worth of the pipes into
a water-extension scheme, has gone over to
manage.
*#* ; *
“Devilfish”: S. Australia’s first ship was
built on Kangaroo Island in 1803. and the
job was done by Americans. The brig
Union, a 99-ton craft sailing out of New
York and commanded by J. Pendleton, called
in there', and the Yankees constructed a 35-
ton schooner, which they named the Inde-
pendence. She reached Sydney on July 1.
1804, manned by a crew of 22 men, and
commanded by O. F. Smith. Then she
went sealing in Bass Straits, while the
Union took down the first sealing gang ever
left on the Penantipodes, and then went out
into the South Seas to look for sandal-wood
for China. Pendleton and some of the crew
were killed by the natives of Tongatabu, in
the Friendly Islands; his mate tried again,
and lost the ship. The Independence in ISIKJ
went down to help pick up the Penantipodes
sealing gang, which had collected UO.OQO
skins. She got the cargo and sailed for Nor-
folk Island under J. Townsend, but was
never heard of again.
* * » *
“D.F.” : The Speck’s Government does not
see why it should not get a cut out of the
enormous increase in the price of timber, so
it has doubled the royalty pretty well all
round. Even now the charge on ordinary
hardwood is only Is. per 1000 ft. (worth £6
or £7) ; on red myrtle (one of the finest
ornamental timbers in Australia) it is 4s.
per 1000 on blaekwood and some other fur-
niture timbers 155., and you have to pay only
15s. on Iluon pine if you are clever enough
to fiud any that can be got away. The saw-
miller pays on the net product, so that he
can cut wastefully without a haunting feel-
ing that he will have to bleed for it. In the
TAKING HOME A SHEET OF
GALTANISED-IROK.
past the Government used to rake in £4400
or so as the revenue from a year’s cut of
sqme 60,000,000 feet of timber; under the
new schedule it ought to collect £BOOO.
* * * *
“Pat Roll’s” eulogy;—
The highlands of Papua will some. <:la> be the
richest portion of the territory. Central Papua is,
for % the greater part, an elevated . plateau, or a
series of plateaux, through which the huge peaks
of the Owen Stanley Range rise in grandeur almost
to the snow line. Albert Edward is over 13,000 ft.;
Victoria, 13,150 ft.; Scratchley, 12,500 ft.; Winter
Height, 11,982 ft.; Kelson, 11,984 ft.;, Dickson,
11,584 ft. ; Wharton Range, 11,500 ft.; Chamberlain.
11,220 ft.; Ivnutsford, 11, 157 ft.; and Morehead.
MGI wraith and Service all over 11,000 ft. Besides
these giants there are dozens of others 10,000 ft.
or more, mostly unnamed, and scores of
“hills” ranging from 3000 ft. to 9000 ft. Huge
valleys separate the mountain chains, well watered
by large rivers and streams that would give
millions of horse-power for electric schemes.-
The country is mostly grass and fern, with belts of
pine and oak along the waters. The soil, is
immensely rich, and will grow anything that flour-
ishes in temperate climates. Thousands and °"
sands of rich acres await the day when the < airc
farmer and pastoralist, the fruit-grower, the pm
raiser and wheat-farmer will have access to t M
healthy district. The climate is superb; malaria
and its kindVed maladies are unknown. Trampm-,
across the rich paspalum flats for week after weev
has made me dream of the days when the Au*
tralian capitalist will realise the untold wea t
that is awaiting his enterprise in our first oversea
territory.
The old liners did their passengers very
well in the eighteen-fifties. The new
biography of James Balfour, the old Prusb.v-
terian politician and merchant of the \ ic-
torian boom days, gives a bit of Jiis diary
of the voyage from Loudon in 1852. The
two solid meals of the day were at nine and
four. Lunch at 12 was bread and cheese,
with wine. With dinner there was ale or
porter, and after it ‘‘port, sherry, and claret,
and on Thursdays and, Sundays champagne.
At 9 p.m.. wine and spirits, hot water, nut-
meg and lemon are put on the table” —all
included in the passage money.
* * * *'''
‘‘Arthur R.”; Can any scientific reader
tell me why, in spring and autumn, the
intensity of wireless signals at night js
double what it is in the daytime, whilst in
summer the difference between the day and
night intensity is scarcely noticeable; also
why the signals var.f in intensity so much
during one night? In the space of a few
minutes I have noticed the intensity double,
then suddenly revert to- its former strength.
THE LEDGER-PUXCHERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“One of the most wonderful things of this war is
tae heroism that has been shown bv voung citv
clerks.” ...
Not for them the life untrammelled of the great
wide-open spaces,
Noi the vivifying nurture of its breezes and its sun,
"hat has bred a type of manhood not excelled among
the races.
With its long days in the wheat-field, on the stock-
route and the run.
•hit the city’s drear existence, with its headaches
and its worry,
And the soul-suppressing closeness of its narrow
spheres, and mean;
>1 ith its pallid legions streaming in an eager, ner-
vous hurry
To the morning call, insistent, of a deadly-stale
routine.
I or the breed that left the rivers and the farms and
outback stations
for the lines of tents and horses and the squads of
drilling men
There could be no special hardships in the quarters
or the rations—-
'Twas the life, in many phases, of the old bush-camps
again.
flut-the city lads they knew it, when the morning
bugle found them
Stiff and aching, when they smarted at the first
touch of the sun ;
With a well-mixed lot of tent-mates, and the
strangeness all around them—
Oh, they learnt the hard, bare meaning of the
thing they had begun !
Yet ’twas but a chance they needed, just a chance to,
prove them ready.
With set purpose and a keenness for the game they
had to play;
Like those hardened, brown bush-doers, grown
resourceful, grim and steady—
Strangely altered, wlio’d have known them by the
time they sailed away!
And we lesser men remaining, it is still our greatest
wonder
How a life like ours can furnish such a courage as
they show,
Where they stick it out unflinching in the mud and
blood and thunder,
Who with us were office-drudges but a year or two
ago!
VICTORIA.
STYLO.
THE INCONVENIENCE OF MEMORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beds of bee-brown mignonette,
Sunflower banners at the wall,
Can they pass and we forget
How; the warm hours were our thrall?
Masters we of shade and shine,
Poppy bloom and laden vine.
Books in olden bindings set,
Winds that blew the yellow page,
Can they pass and we forget
How we conquered age by age,
Marching through the printed word
With a keen thought for a sword?
Little houses marked “To Let,”
Privet hedge beiore the door,
Can they pass and we forget
How we measured floor on floor,
.Dreaming quiet days to come—
Carpet and linoleum?
Bitter days of bill and debt,
Tradesmen grown to kings of fear,
Can they pkss and we forget
Payments due in long arrear,
Statements showing the amount
Asking “something on account?”
Fairer days shall find us yet,
Better dreams for sweeter hours.
Let us sleep and so. forget
Till \ye wake among the flowers — ,
There is still some mignonette— ~
All the world is still to let.
X.S.W,
MARY McCOMMOXWEALTH.


William Adams &
Engineering;
125 George Street, R.edfern, Sydney.
ForFirst-
we claim equality with the best imported articles,
mi
lOia. Centre Lathe
A Sample of our
Our shops are equipped with modern tools and
prepared with modern methods for dealing
expeditiously with all high-class repetition work.
Oil Engines, Machine Tools, Gear Cutting, etc
William
Sydney:
175 Clarence Street.
Melbourne:
521-523 Collins Street.
• • -
Brisbane:
,< _\ ■ \ -Syy «£• '• \ • ...
Edward and Mary Streets.
Perth:
33-35 King Street
Adelaide
1 ' • .1: ' •" . , • \
98 Currie Street.
:


SUBS9*
A. SauraW Afternoon Dessert Knives and Forks,
pure Silver-plated. Xylonite or Pearl Handles,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Cake Forks, pure Silver-
plated, highly burnished, 15/6.
jem.
*
If iv Vl..*.' 1 * 1 " IV < i
'■ter'Q,
V-
a <?a„n<lprn’ Oat dutlerv Canteen, containing 1 dozen each Table and
;1,»- farm. M
Xylonite handles; i| dozen each Table and Deceit Folks, Table,
and Tea StGuiiß. A 1 Quality, £l2.
\ A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Spoons, .Butter Knife, Jam
Spoon and Suifar Tongs Combination, pure Silver-plateiJ,
hand embossed, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Jam Spoon and Butter Knife, pure Silver-plated,
hand embossed, 30/-
A. Saunders’* Soup Spoons, pure Silver-plated, All Quality,
hand burnished, Velvet-lined Morocco case, £2/2/-
LONDON ft SYONtr
A. Saunders' Nut Cracks and Picks, hand
engraved, 30 /-
A. Saunders’ Fish Servers, pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality, hand
engraved. Xylonite handles, in silk-lined case, 17/6.
JEWELLER,
805-815 George Street,
Opp. Railway Station,
SYDNEY.
m
L l
mm 3oo
a i
ini
Li
SI-SI II
m
m
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay •
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on applicatioh to
The Manager.
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
0t J.Collis Browne's
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine,
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
0) all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, 3J-, 5/-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
sti}l may get a licking. Are you
let the Ravisher' of Belgivbi win
lifting a hand? 'f . '
going to
without
1 BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OE OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOE
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYEN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Keproduetion has ever before been
given to the world.
DE BYEN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOE IT, AND TAKE NO
OTIIEE. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/0 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3,
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/0. Mechanics' Work-
shop Handybook, 1/9. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions With Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler's Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners' Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow's Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle's Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6- History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and THE Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Motor Mechanics, 2/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/-. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6 God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/6. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/9. Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions 1/6 posted. Gamblers' Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. How to Read Faces and
Heads 1/6. Soldering. Brazing, Gasfitting, &c.,
1/9 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
AH These Prices Post Paid.
. Established 30 Years .
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook. 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. Ali, About Incu-
bators, 1/9. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Btscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant. 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook. 1/3 posted.
Fruit* of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, mv price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/9. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/9.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets-of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Bongs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/--
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/9 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Wizard's Manual,
1/3. Speeches from the Dock. 2/-. Life s
Shop Window. 1/9. Three Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, $7 §69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
iwr BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the liritish Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller.
THE RT. HON. H. H. ASQUITH.
Occasional Addresses: Literary and
Academic. By the Rt. Hon. H. H.
• ASQUITH, M.P. [Shortly
A Sporting and Dramatic 'Career.
By ALFRED E. T. WATSON
(“Rapier”), Editor of The Badmin-
ton Magazine. [Shortly
SIR RABINDRANATH TAGORE..
Lover’s Gift and Crossing. By SIR
RABINDRANATH TAGORE. ss.
net. [Shortly
Mashi and Other Stories. Bv SIR
RABINDRANATH TAGORE. Trans-
lated from the original Bengali by
various writers. ss. net. [Shortly
ROUND-TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table
2s. 6d. per copy, or 10s. per annum,
post free to any address within the
Empire.
The Problem of the Commonwealth.
L. CURTIS. The after-war relations,
between Great Britain and the
Dominions. Sewed, 2s. Gd. Cloth, 4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations.
The historical basis of the foregoing.
6s.
The Case for Compulsory Military
Service. By G. G. COULTON,
Author of “The Main Illusions of
Pacificism.” 7s. 6d. net.
CHEAPER EDITION.
W. AND A. K. JOHNSTON’S
The World’s Atlas, containing 34
Political Maps in Colors, with a Com-
plete Index to over 30,000 Places.
Size, 15 by 12 inches. Full bound
cloth. 2s. Gd. net.
A MINE OF INFORMATION.
Multum in Parvo Atlas. A New Handy
Reference Atlas. 7$ by sin. Cloth,
2s. 6d. net. Containing 112 Full
Colored Maps, Political, Physical and
Geological; 106 pages of valuable in-
formation on the Maps, and an Index
to nearly 20,000 places mentioned in
the Atlas.
Manual of Milk Products. By WIL-
LIAM A. STOCKING, Professor of
Dairy Industry at Cornell University.
Illustrated. 10s. Gd. net.
[The Rural Manuals
Western Livestock Management.
Edited by ERMINE L. POTTER.
Illustrated. 10s. net.
[Rural Science Series
While Shepherds Watched. By
RICHARD A. MAHER, Author of
“The Shepherd of the North” (11th
Thousand), etc. Fully Illustrated.
6s. net.
SIXTH THOUSAND.
Gold Must he Tried by Fire. By
RICHARD A. MAHER, author of
“The Shepherd of the North” (11th
Thousand), 4s. Gd.,
Bromley Neighborhood. A Novel by
ALICE BROWN, author of “The
Prisoner” (15th Thousand), etc. 4/6.
His Family. A Novel by ERNEST
POOLE, author of “The Harbor”
(100th Thousand), etc. 4/6.
The Empty House. 4s. Gd.
This new novel tells the frank story of one
woman’s experience in marriage, and how her
refusal to have children reacted on her life
and temperament.
Orders for the above five novels to be sent
to Melbourne Dep6t, 109 Russell Street.
Macmillan’s
Empire Library.
ss. each.
HUGH WALPOLE’S NEW NOVEL.
661 The Green Mirror. Bv HUGH
WALPOLE, Author of “Fortitude,”
etc.
The Evening Standard : “The best novel we
have had for many months.”
Pall Mall Gazette: “A fine, persuasive and
well-shaped book.”
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD.
663 The Promise of Air. By
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD.
The story of a middle-class family written
round the author’s idea that we should take
life as birds take the air, and migrate as they
do at a given time.
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from All Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON.
Rare you
uptu reD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE. .
Nevei mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does awav altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which' exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
YVE G VE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Y T ic.
I
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
ijiwi Uuli SICK AND WOUNDED
JJ BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:— lion. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000. Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUES EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1.000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917 was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed.. £22,138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
THE AUSTRALIAN
SRANDIA
99
d>
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
m
ill
msm
m
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON 8
Loftus Street, Sydney.
»
Heart of Empire Series—No. 9.
The Houses of Parliament,
on the site of the old Palace of
Westminster, were opened in 1847.
Designed by Sir Charles Barry,
R.A., in the Gothic Perpendicular
Style and noted throughout the
world for their symmetry and
beauty. The Boyal or' Victoria
Tower, 340 feet high, is the royal
entra ce to the House of Lords,
a magnificently decorated chamber.
The House of Commons, 70 feet
long, is also very handsome. Big
Ben was set in place in 1860.
Westminster Hall was built by
William Rufus and has been skil-
fully incorporated in the design.
vftTtfl
ON
TYRES
i—?
O
c
-V
£#s
-rv=<
Z 1
The Lords and Commons gather in the - Houses of
Parliament to deal with Empire affairs and are regarded as the
pattern of what representative government should be.
AVON S are the representative British Tyres, manufactured in the heart
of the Old Country, and acclaimed by the popular vote as the most economical
and durable, giving full value to every ounce of engine power developed.
The Policy that Pays—Fit AVONS to Your Car •
Hammond & Co., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
H. C. Pannifex, 22 Market Street, Melbourne.
Qibbs, Bright & Co., Adelaide.
Queensland flotor Agency Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland.


HOME-MADE HAIR GROWER
THAT DOES MARVELS.
During the last few years announcements
have appeared occasionally telling how to
make a really good hair tonic that would
actually make the hair grow, and it gives us
great pleasure to learn that so many who
have tried it have obtained such remarkable
results. One lady writes that immediately
after reading the formula, she went to her
chemist and had him put up as directed, 1
ounce of Lavona de Composee, i dram Men-
thol Crystals and 3 ounces Bay Rum. She
took this home and, although her hair had
been falling out terribly and she was
threatened with baldness, she was astonished
and delighted to note that the falling out of
the hair soon stopped, and the hair itself
began to grow in an amazing manner. In
fact, she states that it has already grown
nearly 8 inches in a little over two months.
Moreover, her hair is now brighter, glossier
and more luxuriant than ever and is still
growing. She rubbed the tonic into the roots
twice a day for the first three weeks, but
now applies it only once a day. It is
especially interesting to note from this and
other reports that this home-made hair-
grower not only makes the hair grow most
marvellously, but it also destroys the dan-
druff germ and keeps the hair roots and
scalp in a perfectly healthy and normal
condition.— Advt.
m
■ht
Stimewhere—A Long Time Ago
We read a pretty little story
About two sweethearts who
planted two acorns
Close together—
And the young people were
separated—or one died
(It’s a long time since we read
the story) ;
But the acorns became oak
trees,
Large ones, with wide, spread-
ing branches,
That twined about each other —
Like sweethearts—
And -me tree could not be cut
down
Without destroying the other.
And we in the industry are like
that—•
We’re mutually interdependent.
One end of the business
Is so wrapned about the other
That its success or failure
Depends on the success or
failure of the other.
Imagine a Film industry
Without Producers and Dis-
tributors —
Or without Exhibitors!
It couldn’t l)e.
So let’s “pull” together—
And Win together—
How else can we serve you ?
PARAMOUNT PICTURES.
ALEC LORIMORE, Managing Director, 302 Pitt Street, Sydney,
'
POLITICAL
POINTS
Last, week Tudor presented W att with
another Horrible Example. It was exhibit
B in the case of the Labor Call —-this time
Tffdor’s first speech of protest in the House
of Reps, obliterated entirely. This awful
exposure of official stupidity was followed
by a revelation by Blakeley, member for
Darling, lie told how a pet oration had
freely circulated in Hansard, but had been
suppressed when he had sought to re-issue it
in a reprint. Watt, faced by those protests,
could only promise earnest inquiry, though
he must have felt that the matter called for
sulphurous argument with somebody. And
there is no doubt in the world who that
somebody is. One man and one man only
has to carry the responsibility—G. F.
Pearce, lie may not do these things off his
own bat. Probably life doesn’t. But they
couldn't be done at all unless he sanctioned
them.
“The price of many articles has gone up
out of all proportion to the rise in wages,’
wrote the usual permanent plaintiff to a
daily paper last week. Naturally enough.
We produce few things, though we produce
a great surplus for export in some lines, and
we import a, great many. Wages are fixed
to a large extent according to the prices we
can get, less the freight that the other fellow
abroad thinks proper; and prices are to a
large extent what the other fellow thinks
proper plus the freight that he thinks proper.
There is a double-headed penny in the game,
and it is the other fellow’s penny.
After all. they have only been experiments
in price-mixing.
THE MYSTERIOUS FOWL.
THE FOWL: “Will some kind person tell me
whether I am a bird, a human being, a
vegetable, a John Hop or a joke?”
BORED LISTENER: “ Dunno! All anybody
knows is that you were hatched at
Warwick and are a sort of cross between
a swelled head and a bad temper”
At a shivoo in Sydney last week N.S.TV.
Labor-leader Jack Storey, who ought to
know, spoke of Ryan as the future Prime
Minister.
Reported that “considerable amusement”
was caused among members of the Win-the-
War party by Acting-Premier Watt’s suc-
cessful bluffing of Higgs’s persistent efforts
to get some definite assurance about the
needed Protective tariff. Likely enough.
Why should we worry about supplying our
own manufactured requirements when Ger-
many is already preparing to swamp us with
goods branded “Made in Spain” and “Made
in Sweden”? Besides, haven’t we sunk the
fiscal issue? We’ve got an upper storey of
arbitration and wages boards, so what does a
tariff foundation matter?
In the Reps, one day last week bills were
rushed through at a furious rate; in the
space of about half an hour, during which
three or four measures were hurried on to
the Senate, there was nothing to be heard
but the monotonous drone of Chanter pass-
ing clauses in Committee. A House of about
12, which at one stage was reduced to six,
sleepily watched the display of government
by machinery; but considering that the bills
merely dealt with loans covering a few score
millions, it was surprising that there was
anybody at all to yawn on the matter. If
the Government really wants to keep a
House on financial matters, it should urge
Jewett to pull Maloney’s whiskers or bribe
Catts to call Poynton a joke. Either of
those dodges would pi'oduce the necessary
uproar and* keep the bar and billiard-room
empty all night.
Unity now being the watchword of Nation-
alism. the Argus is doing her humble share
to draw all parties together in a common
up.
THE VASSAL.
KART : “Entreat me not to leave thee, and
to return from following after thee; for
whither thou goest I will go; and where
thou lodgest I will lodge. Thy people
shall be my people, and thy God my
God.”—The Book of Ruth.
bond for Australia’s sake. Concerning J. J.
Hall, the Farmers’ Union candidate who
withdrew from Flinders at the last moment
when the acting Priminister announced that
a preferential voting bill would be dealt
with shortly, the dear, kind old thing said:
“lie entered the contest contemptible; he
retired from it despicable.” If this new
effort at pulling-all-together can only be
sustained. Gran’ma -thus cordially assisting,
thebe should be but little friction until the
war is won.
The, Tasmanian Labor Conference puts it
this way :
No action to be taken by Australia in future wars
without the approval of the electors expressed
through a referendum, unless Australia is directly
attacked.
So if some future Ilun is burning Auckland
Australia is only to get busy after a refer-
endum. But if he is burning Hobart and
flogging the Tasmanian Labor Conference
for disloyalty to its new rulers. Australia
can get busy without any referendum. It is
well to have these matters clearly defined.
Webster hasn’t lost many bags lately.
In spite of the war —or pi’obably because
of it—J. Bull finds time to attend to local
affairs. For instance, a scheme for the
reform of the House of Lords has been
drawn up: the main feature is the
introduction of an elective element,
the country being divided into con-
stituencies representing as far as
possible the 13 old States which
made up the United Kingdom.
This reads like an historical conun-
drum. In the middle and muss of
bistoi’y we can descry the king-
doms of Ulster, Leinster, Munster,
Connaught and Meath (Ireland) ;
Man (standing by itself and still
preserving traces of the Manx cat
language) ; Wessex, Mercia, East
Anglia, Kent, Deira, Bernicia and
Cornwall (England—Coi'nwall is
alleged, along with the Scilly Isles
and some places that were drowned,
to have formed the kingdom of
Lyonesse) ; North Gwent* South
Gwent and several other and fluc-
tuating Gwents (Wales) ; Strath-
olvde (partly England and partly
Scotland) ; South Scotland (in-
cluding part of Strathclyde when
that place ceased to be) ; North
and part of Middle Scotland, domi-
nated by the Lords of the Isles,
which places spoke Gaelic, wore
petticoats and porridge, and bade
the .monarchs at Edinburgh to go
to perdition—as they sometimes did.
Then there is the French province
of the Channel Islands. If it is
possible to sort these, together with very
temporary States, into 13 recognisable an-
cestors, much tangled history will be cleared
According to a pro-
fessional journal, it is
estimated that only 17
p.c. of Y.D. cases
contracted in the con-
ventional manner by
troops trained in Vic-
toria can be attributed
to the regular trading
centres. Fo r th e
balance of 83 p.c., in
the simple words of,
the testifier who makes
the comment, “t h e
‘tarts’ who hang
around the Domain
and other camps” are
responsible. The s e
“tarts,” of course, are
in the jurisdiction of
the State Government.
For nearly four years
troops have been sub-
jected to the danger of
infection from these
pirates, yet the Cabi-
net is still boggling
over the establishment
of a receivei’y for in-
fected women, though
male civilian patients
have for some time
been accommodated at
the Langwarrin camp,
by arrangement with
the military. More-
over, the grotesque
State ahthorities can’t
or don’t even prevent
the pests from con-
ducting their activities
in the neighborhood of
the Y.D. camp itself !
According to Minister for Repatriation
Millen, who is one of the old N. S. Wales
Parliamentary Freetrade party, the difficul-
ties in the way of extending the woollen in-
dustries in Australia are “almost insuper-
able” owing to the war. Previously, we
remember, they were absolutely insuperable
owing to peace.
From the Gallery:—
The departure of Cook and Hughes is followed
by a material decrease in the Government petrol bill.
Hughes was always dashing about in a new limousine,
whilst Cook was a constant traveller in the car that
is attached to his department. Watt is less ostenta-
tious and never emulates Hughes’s extravagances in
the matter of motors or personal suite. In fact,
almost the only person in authority who seeks to
imitate William is Mr. Speaker. Johnson has always
been punctilious about the trappings of his office, but
has lately found his dignity wilting without a per-
sonal attendant. Accordingly an elderly slave now
doubles the r6le of aidekong and baggage clerk. As
each trip to Sydney costs the country about a tenner,
one might well ask the Government if its plea for
economy is intended to apply to its supporters. The
■ gratification of vanity at public expense is one of
the minor scandals of modern Australian public life.
“Block 10”: Good old voluntary system!
Last week eight of us journeyed from Parkes
(N.S.W.i to join up with Carmichael’s
Thousand, and left eight wives and 28 chil-
dren behind us. But, thank God, they’re
safe! There are about 500 lion-hearted
single eligibles left thereabouts to read. the
casualty-lists.
“303”: The Defence Department is now
publishing the names of deserters. But who
is the real deserter —the shell-shocked,
nerye-racked, terrified wretch who fears to
“ KAMERAD!”
“If there are any Germans, men or women, in this
room they are to understand that every time we use
the word ‘Cbmrude’ they are included in it.” (Loud
applause.)
—Chairman of the May Day meeting in Brisbane.
face hell once more, or the deliberate deserter
who lias never been in the firing-line? The
former at some time or other had good im-
pulses ; the others have none. Is the Defence
Department game to publish their names?
There are politicians who by their cunning,
their greed and their cowardice have done
more to help Germany than any number of
so-called “deserters.” What punishment are
we Saving up for them?
How futile is the proceeding of the Labor
M.P. who “refuses to go until he is put out,”
and then goes without a murmur! In the
Senate last week Gardiner boldly defied an
order to withdraw himself until the Usher
of the Black Rod came along, whereupon he
withdrew like a lamb. It isn’t often that
Black Rod gets a chance to show reason for
his spectacular billet. Gardiner, the de-
nouncer of flummery, gave him one.
This is war-time economy. When the
Phewsion Government commandeered the
1915-6 and 1916-7 crops'-all wheat grown in
the northern areas of S. Aus. had to be for-
warded to the ports. Local millers were
not allowed; to hold enough for the year’s
requirements, with the result that, after the
farmers’ money had been wasted in carrying
the wheat away, the public’s money is now
being wasted in carrying it back again. ,
The Protectionist Age lately announced
with a whoop that “another war obstacle to
the electrification of the railways had been
overcome,” a quantity of copper wire which
couldn’t be got from England having been
manufactured from our own copper in Aus-
tralia. Well, not exactly—having been ob-
tained from America at an extra cost of
£7000! That’s the way to encourage indus-
try and increase national efficiency—the
other fellow’s efficiency.
UNITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The enemy lias merely revised his time-table.
One thing he cannot do now, namely, separate the
English and French, it is too late for that. They
are one army.”
Not the wild flame that scourges hill and trench,
Nor all the hosts that march with Teuton steel
Shall part henceforth the British and the French
Who stand as brothers’ in the last appeal
That strong-armed Freedom makes to earth and sky.
In this great task begun
Their close-knit hearts are one
Till, slain by Truth, the last red treason die.
The parting seas shall keep them nevermore
Sundered in spirit as in days long dead.
The voice of love calls loud from shore to shore ;
The old distrust in battle-smoke has fled ;
And this shall pass through all the after years
From father down to son,
Britain and France are one
Linked in a holy bond of blood and.tears!
There shall be scourgings yet of fire and hate,
And Death has reapings still on land and sea ;
But By our faith, come it or soon or late.
The trumpets shall be blown for victory.
No sword that man has tempered can divide
The praise of great things done,
By those whose souls are one,
And bound forever in a holy pride!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


Just Published !
OVER THE ODDS.
A SPLENDID NEW SPORTING NOVEL BY ARTHUR WRIGHT.
SOLDIERS TWO.
The story of two heroes —one in khaki and the other the brave wife who made
her sacrifices in the cause of Civilisation. By CRYSTAL STIRLING.
TWO MILLION SHILLING “BOOKSTALL”
NOVELS have already been sold.
1/- each.
Obtainable at all
Bookstalls and
Booksellers.
DOUBLE
ABDlOtt
ON
n.K
BLQXHAM
1/1 posted.
Write the Publishers
for a Complete
Catalogue.
A REBEL OF THE BUSH”—a splendid historical novel by Don Delaney.
“UV RACING SILK”—a fine turf story by Gerald R. Baldwin.
THE GOLDEN KANGAROO”—Ambrose Pratt’s great mining story.
“THE TRADER”—thrilling adventures in Papua, by Cecil RosS-Johnson.
“THE SIGN OF THE SERPENT”—a fine secret society novel by J. H. M. Abbott.
“BASE BRANDS”—a tiptop bush story by H. M. Somer.
RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE SERIES:
“SILVER STAR.”
By Randolph Bedford.
“THE SELECTOR GIRL.”
By Broda Reynolds.
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, SYDNEY.
10-INCH
double-sided
from
3/- each
N.Z. from 3/6
BRITISH-MADE
Columbia
f‘: Records •*
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5-each
X.Z. from 5/6.
Some Splendid Examples of
COLUMBIA RECORDS.
12-INCH SINGLE-SIDED, 7/6.
7153 —Larghetto, from Quintette in D Major (Mozart)
Pablo Casals, Cello, with Clarinet & String Quartette accompaniment
12-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, 6/-
LllB2—“Kiehzi” Overture, in Two Parts (Wagner) .... Sir H. .T. Wood’s Orchestra.
LI 185
Mavis (Craxton)
If I Might Come to Yon (W. H. Squire) [
Mr. F. B. Kiddle at tlie Piano.
Hubert Eisdell, tenor.
Hubert Eisdell, tenor.
LUBI
i Les Millions d’Arlequin—Serenade (Drigo) Kathleen Parlow, violin!
( Indian Lament in G Minor (Dvorak) Kathleen Parlow, violin.
673
12-INCH DOUBLE-SIDEI), 5/-
| Pierette (Air de Ballet (Charninade) William Murdoch, pianoforte
t Serenade (Chaminade) William Murdoch, pianoforte]
£>1377
10-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, 4/3
( Romance sans Paroles (Op. 17, No. 3) (Faure) W. H. Squire, ’cello.
(Old Chinese Polk Sons; (E. Ooossens, jun.) VV. H. Squire,’cello.
Mr. Hamilton Harty at the piano.
oisxa
f The Windmill (H. H. Nelson) Thorpe Bates, baritone.
I By the Old Quayside (A. P. Tate) Thorpe Bates, baritone.
I) 13 78
f Mother Machree (Young. OlCott & Ball) Gerald O’Brien, tenor.
t Within the Garden of My Heart (Alicia Scott) Gerald O’Brien, tenor.
3781
10-INCH DOUBLE-SIDED, 3/-
( Until CW. Sanderson) .... Miss Ethel Hook; contralto, with piano.
! Your Heart is a Haven (Del Biego).Miss Ethel Hook, contralto, with piano.
2783
Paul Dufault, tenor, with orchestra.
Paul Duiault, tenor, with orchestra.
) lain<l of the Long: Ago (Ilay) .
/ lloat Song (Ware)
2784
( The Crown of the Year (Easthope Martin), Edgar Coyle, baritone, & orchestra.
I Speed the Plough (Easthope Martin) Edgar Coyle, baritone, & orchestra.
f My. Life is Love. Waltz from “Maid of the Mountains” (J. W. Tjate) ■
| Down Peacock Alley, Ragtime Intermezzo (Gr. B. Hay).
By The Casino Orchestra.
3787
J Hawaiian Butterfly (Little, Buskette & Santl.v) The Unity Quartette.
( And the Great Big World Went Round and Round .. Duet, Collins <Sr Harlan.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORD8 —
SYDNEY, N.S-W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Dakin? House, Kawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim I’tv.
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —Kin? and Kin?, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nuthan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Web ley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.. 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webiey Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
WORMS—THE SYMPTOMS.
The symptoms of worms are manifold, embracing
not only facial indications and depression of the whole
system, but serious irritation and much distress.
IN VERY YOUNG CHILDREN much of the irri-
tability and fretfulness is often due to the presence
of worms. Restlessness, fitfulness, sudden starts, hard-
ness and fulpess of the belly, irregular movement of
the bowels, and excessive secretion of saliva from the
mouth are invariably indications of the irritation
caused by worms.
IN OLDER CHILDREN the same symptoms are
present, but more. distinctly defined. Grinding of the
teeth, violent movements of the legs and arms, and
an undue flow of saliva, which causes frequent efforts
to swallow. When awake there is a constant desire
to pick the nose and scratch the irritated parts.
The bowels are irregular, and frequently the move-
ment of the worms causes diarrhoea, alternating with
costiveness. The breath is usually foul, and "the
child is languid and peevish. The tongue preter-
naturally red, or alternately clean and covered with
a white slimy mucus. A short dry cough, frequently
slimy stools (excretion from the boivels) ; emaciation •
slow fever, irregular pulse; and sometimes convul-
sions. Loss of appetite frequently alternates with a
craving for food. Indeed, the latter svmptom is most
pronounced in many cases, and manv mothers have
experienced the insatiable appetites of their children
without realising the cause.
THREAD WORMS EXPELLED
BY A FEW OF COMSTOCK'S “DEAD SHOT"
WORM PELETS.
“When my little boy Percy was three vears old
lie suffered with thread worms,” writes Mrs. Rose
Bygrave, George Street, Summerstown, Te Aroha.
N.Z. ‘I rrnve him ‘TVorl Wn^
Pellets, and this medicine expelled all the worms
and I have not known him to suffer since. It was
not necessary to use one packet of vour pellets to
effect a cure; a few tablets were sufficient.”
INDIFFERENT HEALTH
OCR TO THREAD WORMS. REMEDIED BY
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM PELLETS.
“My son Cedric about two years ago was troubled
with thread worms,” writes Mrs. Ada J. Munro,
Marmor, Queensland. “His sleep was restless; he
frequently woke up screaming when these parasites
were attacking the bowels during his slumbers. His
appetite became precarious—sometimes he could not
obtain sufficient, and at others nothing seemed appe-
tising. I saw Comstock’s ‘Dead Shot’ Worm Pellets
advertised, and decided upon giving them a trial
and following the directions given with the medi-
cine. Cedric soon pns’cd the whole of these thread
worms and became thoroughly restored to health
his sleep being peaceful and appetite normal. You
may use this testimony if desired. Cedric is seven
years of age.”
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM PELLETS
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation, com
pounded on a scientific principle for the eradication
of worms which infest the intestines. They contain
specific properties which destroy the worms but cause
no injury to the stomach or bowels, and do not
weaken the system. The pellets are prepared in
the form of a confection or lolly, have no disagree-
™ e taste or smell, but, on the contrary, inspire
children to take them as they would an ordinary
lozenge.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and stores, or
direct from The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Church Hill, Sydney; and Parish Street. Wel-
lington. N.Z. Price 3s. 6d. per packet (6 packets
20s. i. nost free.
8
8
SSSia
fcs =
«*S
CharrersTi
wers
p--kjy
S'
'Vinmn
ife-
fli
Sm,
vm
Uanmne
Cun namul!a
m
m
X
Wan
Coolqardie
m*
tom
Port
f iri'
Of 1
m
V V\4^ a
UOSIBIGIIT-
GREAT AVGf.
AI'CKLAM
,b\ivy
c
83\W 2
.MELBOURNE
■
tft&r it
ymisssEi
■■■" :~:
S K
>t an
NEW
NEDIH
P
ZEALAND.
OBAR
£WART /
South


With 500,000 men in France and lesions
arriving, the Great Yank War Stunt should
soon be strongly featured in the bill, opmeth
that wise stunt-inspiring spirit King George
IV. top-notch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE an.l COOLCRRPIE.
Harvey’s Special
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS 00 ROUNJS ?
LEWIS &wrllTTy MAKERS
Missing: Friends.
BENTLEY, CIIARLIiS, formerly of 97 Chestnut
Street, Richmond, Victoria, loft that address
about the year 1900 —not heard of since —or anyone
knowing his whereabouts please communicate for hi-
advantage with BERNARD NOLAN, Solicitor, 408
Collins Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Wanted.
Medical Practitioners Wanted
A PPLICATIONS invited, with full particulars, for
■Ax the appointment of TWO MEDICAL OFFICERS
for the Warragul and District Friendly Societies'
Association, one to reside in Warragul, one in
Trafalgar, and work surrounding districts. Mini-
mum salary, £4OO, will be paid to each doctor for
attendance on up to 450 members, and £1 per
year per member extra for over this number.
Present membership 1000. Accouchement fees,
operations, etc., extra, liberal mileage rates, night
visit fee.
PRIVATE PRACTICE ALLOWED., .he remunera-
tion to each doctor with a conservative estimate of
the private practice based on previous man’s earn-
ings should be £lOOO a year to commence. District
is one of the best in Gippsland, rapidly growing.
Good roads ; all parts can be reached by car. Mem-
bers will do all possible to help the doctors
appointed. Applications to
W. McLAY, Secretary, Warragul, Victoria.
Oovernment Notices,
"COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 13th December, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of Power Plant,
H.M.A. Naval Establishments,
Garden Island, Sydney.
TENDERS will be received, until 12 noon
on Friday, 7th June, 1918, for the sup-
ply, delivery and erection of power plant at
11.M.A. Naval Establishment, Garden Island,
Sydney. /
Tender forms, specifications and any fur-
ther particulars may be obtained on applica-
tion at the office of the Director of Navy
Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne, the Gen-
eral Manager,,Garden Island, Sydney, and
at the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birken-
head (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, May 9, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of Socks.
TENDERS will be received until 1-
noon. Tuesday, 2Sth May. 1918, for the
supply of approximately 16,000 pairs of
socks to the Royal Australian Navy.
Tender-form and full particulars may be
obtained on application at the Offices of the
Director of Navy Contracts, Navy Office.
Melbourne ; and the Victualling Store Officer,
Royal Edward Victualling Yard, Pyrmont,
Sydney.
v- A. POYNTON,
for Minister of State for the Navy.
9 m
ss
SSSSS
ftW
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
As the schedule of "curtailed” race meet-
ings runs out on July 31 the question of making
arrangements for next season has io fie attended to.
According to a statement made by Minister for
Defence Pearce the Federal Government intends to
“tlx the number of meetings allowed in each State”
and leave the allocation of dates to a committee of
the principal racing cluLs acting with tne State
Commandant. So Pearce is mot going to accept
personal responsibility for deciding tow many days
a particular club ma.v race. This is good news, for
Pearce would be certain to make a mess of it. What
this paper wants to know, though, is what tne State
Commandants are being rung into this business for.
They know nothing aoout it. And, in any case,
their proper work is quite serious enough to engage
the whole of their time.
* * * *
When in a six-race meeting nothing under
s’s arrives and two are 10’s or more, it can be
taken for granted that the local punter has been
acquiring more experience than shekels. It occurred
on Saturday at TattersalPß meeting at Randwick.
The favorites went down with a regularity that was
horrible and gave the fielders a lift that several
were not sorry for. But it was a. day of wretched-
ness for the sporting papers. Of five tipsters who
each named placed horses for the six races the record
from 80 shots was 67 misses. The winner of the
Flying was not once given as even a likely place-
getter, and the winner of the Winter Stakes was
mentioned by only one as being a probable among
the first three. No wonder the crowd came home
with crCpe on its hat.
* * * *
Before running in the Winter Stakes at
Randwick on Saturday the imported gelding Early
Morn, with two Sydney wins in two starts to his
credit, was bought by’ Timms, of Melbourne. ’I he
nag seemed to like the change. Anyway, he ran
clean away from the rest coming up the straight
and won by four or five lengths, with apprentice-
rider Sleigh looking back to see how they were
getting on. The purchase price was not mentioned.
It was probably something fairly substantial —for a
gelding, at any late. The buyer’s luck has been
mixed. Cherubini was dirt-cheap at 120 guineas
before winning the Australian Cup, though there are
hundreds of good judges who would not have given
2d. for him. On the other hand. Naxberry cost
T-inims £4OOO, and De Gama £2OOO, .and he
wouldn’t do it again. Green Cap was a real, good
bargain. With ordinary luck Early Morn ought to
do some more.
Though Early Morn carried only 7st. 91b. (21b.
more than he won with at Moorefleld and Rosehill).
Vauntress was a better favorite for the Stakes, and
Duke Alwynnc was as well backed. The reason in
both cases is a mystery. Mchi King and Kara-
naud King were only inquired about with great
caution, and Celano, second in the Newcastle Cup,
attracted even les3 attention. At the finish the two
Kings and the Duke were at the tail of the proces-
sion. Vauntress, who has disappointed several
times, did well enough, after being smothered from
the turn, and beat Quarale for second money. At
least half a dozen of the 13 runners seemed tired
before the start.
Greenstead, with two recent wins on the board,
had 9st. 61b. up in the Flying, and the nuhlic rushed
him at 3’s and 2’s and s’s to 2 as if it was all
over. One big punter took 900 to 300 in one gulp.
Neither he nor the moke looked like being a winner
at any stage. The imported Irritation, trained
at Rosehill by W. Booth, who seems to have a patent
for turning out sprinters, hopped off first and came
away an easy winner in “13£.” It was the mare’s
first win in Australia. In previous efforts to get
there she was generally beaten out of si edit. The
hoodoo may have lifted for a time, for she seems
a smart sort now.
* * * *
In the summer of this season it looked as
if Dick Meagher might be the champion two-year-
old in N. S. Wales. But after three wins he began
to go off, was beaten by Palm Leaf, and was
reckoned after a later showing to have done his
dash. But there seemed to be an idea at Randwick
o’n Saturday that he had got it all back again.
Wherefore all the money left in Australia seemed to
be pouring into Israel for Richard in a handicap
for juveniles. He was handicapped at Bst. 71b.
in a field of 18, which included some that are
nearly as good as the best —and ran only moder-
ately. The run on Richard and some backing for
three or four others made a good market for
Queen’s Guard, a filly by En Garde that had won
on the previous Saturday at Newcastle. She was
backed at 20’s and 16’s bv a few wise ones, got
awav last and won by a reck from a still greater
outsider, Jennie B. Considering the winner’s bad
start, the time for the six furlongs, “14, wns
pretty slick. »
It wasn’t W. H. McLachWs turn on
Saturday at Randwick. He had three rides. Two
of the nags threw him and the other went as slow
as a harrow. The first effort was on MUs Fell eta,
a well-backed starter in Tattersall’s Stakes. Mac
couldn’t get the lady to the barrier, and, after she
had thrown him, and when he had been restored ard
she persisted in trying to do it again, the starter
sent the rest avvav without her. Later on Mac got
aboard the imported Woodwild in the Welter. As
soon as the animal got on to the course he propped
McLachlan over his withers and got three cheers.
He did it four times more in, half as many minutes
before getting tired of taking encores. Of course
a rider with irons shortened for the crouch has
about as much chance of keeping on top of a buck-
ing home as he would have of sticking to a demented
steer; but it isn’t often a jotk strikes so much
trouble all at once. Woodwild was as burly as an
alderman and ran accordingly.
* * » *
The well-known Sydney horseman P.
Maher, who had been having a lot of luck lately,
ran into a heap of trouble at Newcastle last week.
On tl\e first day of the meeting there he missed a
place on Admiral Beitty in the six-furlongs event
won by Greenstead. A week after, with Bst. 131 b.
instead of 7st. 81b., the Admiral and Maher were
solidly backed in the Ilighweight Handicap, also
six furlongs. It came off in “151.” The stewards
said Admiral Beatty could go into dock for li*
months, and Maher and J. Robinson, the trainer,
could go with him. Admiral Beatty is a four-
year-old horse by Cooltriin —Lady Oapulet. He
showed a lot of pace at Moorefleld (Sydney) early
last season, but appeared to go off when tried later.
In the Highweight Handicap last Don<aster Day, at
Randwick, he finished a long way back.
* * * *
The last day of Adelaide Cup meeting
saw Brewer’s Trillion score a win, he being at last
in a galloping mood. On the other hand, Ashview
ran no better than she did in the Cup, and the
S.A.J.O. Handicap went to Gregory’s Wee Gun. Wyn-
darra, an old Oakbank winner, came home alone in
the Steeple, and Dependence in the Fisher Stakes,
followed by the better-known and better-backed
Plenty and De Gama. Local owners did well on the
whole, though Robinson and Clark’s Cup win with
Elsdon gave them the largest cheque. In the three days
£63,500 went through the tote, being nearly half as
much again as last year, and close up to the record
before the war. S.A. Jockey Club takes 74 per
cent, of this, the Government 5 per cent, and the
remaining 17s. 6d. in the £ furnished some useful
dividends, ranging lin to £62 10s.. with £9 2s. for
the second in the same event. Of the money avail-
able the tote in S.A. pays three-fourths on the winner
and one-fourth on the second. The Adelaide Racing
Club's Birthday Cup meeting, with a practically
identical three-days programme, is to follow immedi-
ately.
* * * *
Five first favorites got home at the Epsom
(Melb.) meeting last Saturday. Any favored child
of Fortune who had £1 on each of them S.P. was a
winner of exactly £7 10». It’s licking honey off
thorns. ,
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: All over Australia, “Mur-
rum” (Murrumbidgee pool) is gaining favor, and is
in some places quite outdoing our national game of
two up. I only once saw it played off the level, and
that was recently in a small Bananaland township.
The school was flush and those that were not blith-
ered were half-way to it, and the billiard-room
marker thought that he could work a cross. After
shaking the marbles, instead of putting his hand flat
on the table with the
fingers spread, he used
to keep his hand some-
what bunched, and the
fingers together. This
fact, and the almost
uncanny number of
times that the same
player scooped the
pool made me grab his
hand. It held the
highest marble, and
his gills had not been
putting it iii' the
“shakes.” What hap-
pened is hardly worth
relating, but a much
battered and sorry
man left the town for
Brisbane the same
night. No game is
fairer than Murrum
when played properly,
and it is very profitable
to the owner of the
table. A good school
means at the very
lowest £8 per hour to
him*
SID GODFREY,
Featherweight
Champion.
Greta, a famous trotting brood mare,
finished at .T. P. McCudden’s farm, Tomingley
(N.5.W..), lately. Cause of death, an attack of lead
projected through a Winchester. Aged 23. Though
small, every foal she threw was good. Amongst her
progeny that raced were Rock Huon (2min. 'l3<jsec.),
Dexter, Maphada, Lulu Bov (2min. 17« sec.). Macule
Arch (2mip. 15isec.), Galtimore (2min. 18 4-ssec.),
and Lady Mac. All these foals were by Huon
Junior. The deceased left a yearling fillv bv the
same sire, which was sold at auetion for £230, and
a six-months-old colt by Mambrino Derby.
* * * *
If owner Lowry sticks to his intention of
sending Estland and Finmark over to Randwick in
the Spring with Desert Gold, and if Biplane also
turns up again, local horses will certainly have to
hurry up. Finmark is the best two-year-old over
yonder and looks like being equal to a Derby. He
has won five times during the season and only once
ran out of a place. Estland has won five times,
including two Derbies and a Cup, and incidentally
beat Biplane over 7 furlongs. He has never finished
out of the first three.
• * * *
“Tray.”: Ran into what was new to me
the other day at a sports meeting about half-way to
Outback. There was an “envelope race” for horses.
The point of it was that when all the nags got to the
post each rider drew a sealed envelope from a hat.
In each envelope was a card bearing the name of a
starter, and the job of the horseman who reached the
post first was to hand his document to the jud£e.
Thereupon the official opened the message and de-
clared the nag named on the card to be the winner
of the cash. It looks like a system which mignt
be tried with great success at the ponies. Unless a
joke could be worked on the draw, t.ie first home
would be just as likely to be last as any other, and
the puller and doper would find their occupation gone.
* * * *
“Jobber”: Abos. were talking some time
ago about a good day's journey for a yarraman, and
1 had a couple of nominations. Let me enter
another that a bloque told me of the other day at.
the Front while we were talidng ’orse. He rode
an eight-year-old called Gay Lad from the home-
stead at Albany Downs to Mitchell (Q.) and back
between sunrise and sunset on a long summer’s day.
That meant 104 miles, “and,” said my cobber, “the
old fellow finished with his neck arched.” The
neddy was oil' the grass.
* * * *
The stoush business, which had been torpid
since the Sydney Stadium closed, stirred again last
week. Headquarters are at the Hippodrome, a
spacious establishment, which lends itself for use
bv anything from a circus to a pantomime. On
the opening night of the biff season the place was
packed-below and aloft, and if Generalissimo Harry
Keesing hadn’t put a barrage across the entrance
there would have been no room inside for Dave
Smith, the referee, unless David sat in judgment
on a trapeze. The proceedings so far have been
varied and tasty. Sid Godfrey outpointed Wal
Scutts, but Wal made such a good battle of it
that he is booked for another. Fred Fitzsimmons
got a verdict against Harry Green on a foul, and
Harry Stone dealt with Tom O'Malley. An inci-
dent of the other evening was the exhibition given
by Jnrk Darcv, a 16-year=old brother of Les. He
looks like becoming a tradesman.
* * * *
The annual hare-slaughtering of the
N. S. Wales Metropolitan Coursing Club, known as
the Metropolitan Produce Stakes, was held at
Liverpool last week. The event is restricted to
puppies, and this year—the-third the stake has been
run—44 youngsters survived the final forfeits. It
was originally intended that the meeting should
extend over three days, but the fact that no entries
could be dug up for the Supplementary Stakes
clipped the "meeting to two days. Of course, this
raised a lot of protest from dog-owners, who con-
tended that four courses on the last dav were too
many to ask any decent dog to run. Still there was
nothing else to be done, and the meeting was con-
cluded on Thursday. The stake was won by Derby
Lad, a black dog puppy by White Hope (imp.)—
Gold Drum. He met the Derby winner, Rowdy
Micky, in the final, and beat him rather easily.
Derby Lad and Rowdy Micky had previously met
in the third ties of the Derby, and on that occasion
Mike got the flag. Two new pupnies of great class
tame to light at the meeting—Bride’s Love and Gtis.
Both were beaten, but they ran so well that they can
be looked for later on amongst the top-notchers.
* * * *
The threatened trouble between N. S.
Wales Ladies’ Amateur Swimming Assoiiation and
Fanny Durack and Mina Wvlie burst last week, when
the young ladies placed their baggage on an out-
going steamer and left for America. For months the
Association and these greatest of Australian swim-
meresses had been haggling over whether Mrs.
Chambers, hon. sec. of the Association, should
chaperone them, or Miss Durack’s sister make
the trip as friend and guide. The Association
stuck out, and Fanny and Mina left without either
the hall-mark or Mrs. Chambers. The next peal of
thunder is due when the Association endeavors to
impress on the American authorities that it is top
animal and disqualifies the young ladies for not
doing as thev were told. This sort of amateurism,
however, will simply impel them to join up with a
Yankee amateur club, and have their dip. The
tourists are not on a monev-making hunt; their mis-
sion is merelv to show President Wilson the sort
of mermaids that grow in Australia —and in the wet
they are the real snifters.
* * * *
Something in the way of a football record
for schools was put up by Christian Brothers’ College
in games at Sydney last week-end against Lewisham
Christian Brothers’ High School. The first, second,
third and fotlrth teams of each institution collided,
and all four matches were won bv the College: 30
to 11, 33 to nil, 22 to nil, and 6 to 3.
* * * *
Harold Horder (South' Sydney), the
speediest and most versatile of Sydney Rugby League
backs, is early in form. In the opening round, he
scored two tries against North Svdney; on Saturday
he galloped round and through Annandale and
scored four tries and three goals—lB points out of
36 on the board. Horder has been one of the
heaviest scorers in the Northern Union game. In
1915 he notched 73 points (nine tries and 23 goals) ;
in 1916. 29 (seven tries and four goals) ; and in
1917, 51 points (17 tries),
* * * *
Westralia lost its finest athlete when
Gunner Ernest Parker was killed in France recently.
He put a sparkle into rep. cricket, and at tennis
had a sheaf of championships. Only 34.
* * * *
One of the Speck’s best graduates with the
bat was killed lately on the Western Front. Osborne
Douglas, who abandoned a legal practice at Nhill
(Vie.) to get into khaki, had the knack of being
able to stay at the wickets all the afternoon when he
converted himself irto a stonewaller. His best per-
formance was in 1904 at Launceston, playing for
Tassy against Warner’s Eleven. On that occasion
ho and Savigny. batted for a day and a half. Each
scored a century, and Douglas finished not out. They
made a drawn game of it. Douglas was also a first-
class footballer, and played in several rep. teams.
He was a son of Adye Douglas, the Speck’s
old-time political battler. His mother, formerly a
Miss Richards, was Adye’s third wife.
* * * *
Another of the All Blacks has gone—Eric
Harper, of Christchurch. He was a great wing
three-quarters, the grandson of a bishop, and 37. He
crossed the line in Palestine fighting with the
Maoriland mounted infantry.
* * * *
Private G. S. Moore, who last week won
the 100yds. and 220yds. championships at Liverpool
(N.S.W.) camp, was King’s School champion when
he dropped into khaki. At this year’s G.P.S. meet-
ing he was unfortunate in bumping against E. W.
Carr (S.G.S.). and finished second to that fine young
athlete in the 100vds., 220vds., 440vds., 440vds.
team race, and running broad jump. Carr and R.
F. Cripps (another record-breaking schoolboy) also
adorned themselves with camp championships before
they left for somewhere not long since.
* * * #
“F.U.”: The Speck’s 12th Battnlion has
been doing great things in the Army Rifle Association
competitions in France. The tests were of efficiency
in attack and defence, and No. 2 platoon of the
12th, commanded, by Lieut. Alf Clemes, beat all-
comers in both the Brigade and Divisional contest,
winning Brigadier-General Bennett’s Cup and A.R.A.
medals. When Cleines is in anything you can gen-
erally look for him at the top or tnereabouts. las-
mania never had a better school-boy long-distance
runner, and he later did some notable cross-country
travelling. lie won the Speck’s 10-miles champion-
ship and the Australasian mile championship,
and ran second to Vic Aitken in the Victorian
10-miles championship in 1907. He went to the
Cold Country as a Rhodes scholar and thrice held
the title of Oxford anil Cambridge cross-c-ountry
champion, besides captaining the All-England team
in an International cross-country championship.
* * * *
Sydney Baseball Association pushes off
the season with 22 teams in the grades—six more
than in 1917. The National League has 16 teams.
Paddington, which has placed a nine on the diamond
for 18 years out of the Association’s 21, and has a
great record of premiership wins, is the only first-
grade club to drop out through inability to raise a
team. M. A. Noble and Victor Trv.mper were the
smiters in that club when baseball was a live game
in Sydney.
* * * *
“B.” : After watching the rowing of some
of the beaten crews in the Vic. Head of the River
races, it seemed more than ever certain that coaches,
especially of young, light crews, should insist on
one thing above everything else—a sharp nip-on of
the body at the first part of the stroke. This is
the only way to keep the boat well up on the
water and make the work comparatively easy. It
is always painful to see eight boys breaking their
hearts trying to punch along a boat that is dead
because of there being no catch. The easiest-rowing
crews ever seen down this way were the Albeit
Park eights of 15 years or so ago. No,
matter whether in choppy water or close finishes
they kept an armchair kind of motion because they
hooked on with a quick’, clean catch. This is the
only way to row a racing-boat. Such things as
swing, leg-drive, hands-away and the rest follow
automatically. They are purely mechanical; the
other thing is a science.
* * *• *
“.Tupp” Gardiner, who was ordered out of
the Senate Chamber last week, was a hefty athlete
in his youth, and got into Parliament on the strength
of it. Quarter of a century ago he was one of the
finest of Ma State Rugby forwards, and used the boot
in the XV which beat the Maorilanders in 1897. He
scales about 17 stone now.
* * * *
“Suwarrow”: If the pain caused by the
spike of the fresh-water catfish is no worse than
that caused by the projection of a flathead, this is
the remedy asked for by “Morwang” (B. 9/5/T8) —
a raw onion rubbed well into the puncture.


Why Don’t YOU Have Perfedl
Health?
Nature intended you to be strong, healthy and vigorous.
If you neglect to exercise both your seen and unseen muscles
—if you fail to strengthen your lungs, digestive organs,
etc., you must expect to pay the penalty, and have
indifferent health. It cannot be otherwise.
But, if you wish to enjoy perfect health —to become fit,
strong and well developed, as nature intended you to be,
then you must have correct and sufficient exercise.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will be the means of giving you renewed health and
strength. You will find my exercises both beneficial and
enjoyable pastime, and will look forward to the time when
you have to do them. You will find the benefits very rapid.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my Course will
build up your chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen your
lungs, and make you breathe in a natural way.
The exercises you receive will be those most suited to your
individual physique—just as the particulars you furnish
tell me you require.
My booklet, entitled “Health and Strength from Self-
Culture,” tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should
like to send you a copy. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement and post it to me. I will know
what you mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REG. L.( wy )B AKER,
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
< of Australia,’’
733 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
<!*•-
m
SfICH
INL
m
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
USE IT AND PROVE IT.
flMfUh Imperial 03 C*. LA
Uncle Sam’s Choice
in war as in peace is
(Indian
The Indian Factory
is now engaged on
the largest war
orders yet placed
for motor-cycles.
Catalogue with ‘pleasure.
RHODES MOTOR
CYCLE CO. PTY. LTD.
Russell St.,
Melbourne.
i
:V
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Chancery Division
of the High Court of Justice dated the 7th
February 1918 made in an Action in the Matter of
the Estate of ANDREW SELKIRK JACK deceased,
Jack v. Jack (1917 J. No. 771) the following Inquiry
was directed, namely:—
“(1) An Inquiry who was the heir-at-law of the
Testator at the time of his death and whether such
heir is living or dead and if dead who by devise
descent or otherwise is entitled to such real estate of
the Testator as descended to such heir-at-law.”
Notice is hereby given that all persons claiming to
be entitled under the said Inquiry are by themselves
or their Solicitors on or before the 30th day of
September 1918 to come in and enter their names
and addresses in the book kept for that purpose in
Room 317 at the Chambers of Mr. Justice Sargant
and Mr. Justice Younger the Royal Courts of Justice,
Strand, London, England, and prove their claims or
in default thereof they will be peremptorily ex-
cluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Tuesday the 15th of October 1918 at 12.30 of the
clock in the afternoon at the said Chambers Room
No. 315 is appointed for hearing and adjudicating
upon the claims.
Dated this 15th day of March 1918.
CHAS. HULBERT,
Master of the Supreme Court.
Note. —The said Andrew Selkirk Jack late of 72
Hough Street in the City of Chester and who died
on the 17th October 1915 was born in Scotland of
Scottish parents on the 9th June 1837 and is
believed to have died a bachelor. He had several
brothers the eldest of whom was Alexander Jack
born at Largo, Fife, Scotland, in 1828 and who
went to Australia between 50 and 60 years ago.
Another brother John Jack was born at Largo in
1830 and who is believed to have died before the
Testator. It is not known whether either brother
left any issue but persons descended from either of
them might claim to be interested in the real
estate of the said Alexander Selkirk Jack.
FIELD, ROSCOE & CO.,
36 Lincoln’s Inn Fields, London, England,
Agents for JolifFe and Hope, Chester, England,
Solicitors for the Plaintiffs.
THE ELECTRIC ICEMAN.
REFRIGERATORS
FOR YOUR HOME.
Fit an “ISKO” Refrigerator
in your Ice Chest.
NO ICE REQUIRED.
MAKES ITS OWN ICE.
Automatically starts and stops
itself as the temperature rises
or falls.
Efficient, Economical, Safe,
Sanitary.
Low, even temperature, po mat-
ter how hot the weather out-
side may be.
Dry, cold, pure and wholesome
air circulates through the Ice
Chest.
Cheap refrigeration; adds very
little to your Electric-light bill.
Keeps Milk, Fish. Fruits or
Meats without spoiling.
Write for particulars to the Sole
Agents,
' : ■
\
. -
■--
' y■; .
. v
Benson Brothers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
HYPOL
Means
The Approved
Remedy
for
Coughs, Colds,
Chest Complaints
and
Health
r:t.
ii
Wm
nas
m
■ *
m
■
H
iff
'
I J
\ Happy Hypol Child.
Wasting
Diseases
This is the Coat
You should Buy Now
You need it. If you already own
a waterproof and a light raincoat
the position is the same. This
coat is absolutely essential to
complete your Winter Comfort.
It is, first of all. a WARM coat.
Tucked in behind its Double-
Breasted Front—with the Deep
Collar turned well up round your
ears, the Cuff Windguards But-
toned and your hands in the
Commodious Pockets —you can
hold cheap the worst weather our
winter can provide.
In looks it answers every re-
quirement—is impressive in style
—possesses a distinction of cut
rare in this type of garment, and
—it is as good as it'looks. The
Navy Nap Cloth
in which it is made is of
Splendid Quality will
give years of wear without
losing its appearance or
protective value, and is
not unduly weighty.
75/-
(Freight Paid)
is the Price. At this
figure the coat is not
merely good value accord-
ing to present standards
—it would be cheap at
any time.
Perfect Tailoring and a Complete Size-range
make everything right as to Fit and “Feel.”
If you want to know what coat-comfort really
means just
POST YOUR ORDER TO-DAY.
Lincoln, Stuart 8 Co.
Pty. Ltd. -
Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.
m
f
r
m


Sec This Woolbale?
a&SiJ&a fe>At>
it contains the Best Possible Advice
to Sbeepowners.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
WOOLBROKERB, LTD.
Sydney ANC Brisbane.
[3
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
Book on
Dog Diseases
and Hew to Feed
Mailed Free .to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
-t to*. 7JM.
FOURNIERS
HYGENIQUE
MIXTURE.
(FOR LADIES)
Tested and Proved for Years.
WASTE NO TIME.
Immediately you notice any disorder of
the system take Fournier's Hygenique
Mixture. It quickly removes all suffering.
There is Nothing to EQUAL IT, nor
! Anything so Widely Known.
It is justly described as the
FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD.
Be sure you get FOURNIER’S
HYGENIQUE MIXTURE.
Refuse all substitutes which are injurious
and harmful
Sold by Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.,
and all Chemists and Stores.
BORROCttSES' HQRROC nSES* BCTftROCKSEV MOKROCKSES,
t'MORROCKSES- APR RQCKSfV HORROC KSES'MORROCKSES<“
[.SISIOOMMOU-SISMDOMMOft
Shjeetivujp
OUTWEAR w HEAVIER MAKES
OFFERED A 3 SUBSTITUTES,
ESrnßUVitu 1/91
SEE.
HORROCKSES'"
ON SELv'EOGE
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE , PILES, VARICOSE ULIERS,
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO an OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Hills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sola
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
Mill
the All-British
SAUCE
is made in
England—
enjoyed all
over the
world.
Get a bottle to-day.
c^iuH'y.umnHm
PUTS A SPARKLE
IN YOU
Because it is made from only the purest juice
of the World Famous Tasmanian Apple. It is
not only a delicious Drink, but has a most excel-
lent tonic effect on the system. Doctors recom-
mend it for its diuretic properties. Order a.
-dozen from your grocer.
Victorian Agents:
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
■ ’
For Racers, Pacers, Trot-
ters, Hacks, Stud Stock
and all animals, use
LESLIE
SALT LICKS
the refined salt blocks.
• Purest, cheapest and best.
Guaranteed free from all
impurities.
One block lasts one animal four months.
2/- per Bloctt, or 22/6 per Case of 1 dozen.
Wholesale from
/IiDZACOTT & CO.—7-11 Market St.
HOLDSWORTH, MACPHEKSON & C 0—252 Georjre St
HOOKER, CHAPMAN & CO.—lBB Sussex St.
i.{ HARRY SHELLY—IBS Clarenee St.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASS’N LTD.—Phillip St.
WATSON & NOBLE-257 Sussex St.
VN.S.W. PRODUCE C 0.—226 Sussex St.
-NOCK & KIRBY I,Tl>.—Oeorge St. North (Near Quay)
Country Orders—Freight to be added.
BROOKES
COFFEE ESSENCE
You'll like if foo!!
HICK-MYER
DIMMER
KEEP
“WITHIN
THE LAW”
by using
same.
15/» Post Paid Anywhere.
DARBY AUTO SUPFLIES
334 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
r.wr
X-'
A
CAPILLARINE
1
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Capillarine does all that is claimed for it as
a genuine Moustache-producer. The steady
demand for this preparation by the Military
and others proves its never-failing virtues.
SEND FOR A JAR TO-DAY.
PRICE 10/e JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Give Him a Send-Off
Show that you appreciate
his unselfishness. Give him
a good time, and remember
Stewart Dawson's
for
Soldiers’ Gifts.
We offer the Largest Variety
of Suitable Military Gifts in
the Commonwealth, and ex-
tensive 'buying for Cash
makes possible our Splendid
Values.
?-> a ,
rm
m
8- w
' 1
808
,--v
LUMINOUS WRiSxLET WATCH, 70/-,
POST FREE. High-grade Luminous Watch,
with Fifteen Jewel Three-quarter. Plate Gilt Move-
ment, Radium Hands and Figures; in Solid Silver
Hunting Case, with Screw Back and Fly-up Front.
An Accurate Timekeeper. Price .. .. 70/-
Other Gifts for Soldiers.
Soldier’s Unbreakable Mirror, in case.. • • 2/6
Cartridge Pencil Holders .. .. .. .. 1/6
9ct. Gold-Mounted Tobacco Pouches . . 12/6 to 17/6
Soldier’s Cofnbination Knife, Fork and Spoon in
Leather, Case .. .. .. . . .. 8
Auto-Strop Safety Razors .. .. .. .. 22/6
Others 12/6
CALL AND INSPECT OUR STOCKS, OR
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Stewart
Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER,
SYDNEY.
Electrolytically*
Refined Zinc,
Brand,
containing 99.95% Metallic Zinc.
Spelter,
Brand,
High-grade Zinc Dust, containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Zinc Concentrates, Various Grades.
SOLE SELLINQ ORGANISATION for above Australian Productions
ZINC PRODUCERS’ ASSOCIATION PTY. LTD.,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Niciiolsox and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
who sell instruments for making musical and
other noises, etc.: —
t Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Otf. serves, serves.
Mar., ’ll. .£6655 10p.c.= £2376 £1612 £2167 £14,705
Premiums on new shares, £2960 . . 17,665
Sept.,’ll.. 8151 10 p.c.= 396 S -- 4183 21,848
Premiums on new shares, £4016 .. 25,864
Mar., ’l2. . 7241 10 p.c.= 5675 956 610 26,474
Sept.,’l2.. 7773 N T il ’ 7773 34,247
Mar., ’13.. 7302 74p.c.= 5117 2185 36,432
Sept.,’l3.. 8653 7* ~ „ 5259 3394 39,826
Mar., ’14.. 6305 74 „ „ 5248 1117 40,943
Sept.,’l4.. 5021 ' Nil 5021 45,964
Mar., ’15.. 5008 *6p.c. = 8397 42,575
Sept.,’ls.. 3655 5 „ „ 3499 - 156 42,731
Mar., ’16.. 6014 7 „ „ 4898 1116 43,847
Sept.,’l6.. 5930 7 „ „ 4898 1038 44.855
Mar., ’17.. 8081 TO „ „ 0998 1083 45,968
Sept.,’l7.. 7908 10 „ „ 6998 970 46,938
Mar., ’lB.. 7741 10 ~ „ 7012 729 47,667
*6 p.c. paid for the full year.
Now compare the gross profits for the Xlarch
half-years:—-
1911 . .£22,500 | 1915 . ; £25,531
1912 .. 31,948 I 1916 .. 26^165
1913 .. 32,951 1917 .. 29,057
1914 .. 33,443 | 1918 .. 33,229
Note the slump in the first war term and
the gradual recovery since. If we did not
know that we are getting drunk on our own
p.n.’s it would look very wonderful that, after
over 34 years’ participation in the greatest
war in history, this co.’s turnover in goods,
which qre almost wholly luxuries, should
produce nearly a record gross profit. The
problem is, how long is this artificial pros-
perity going to last? We are still borrowing
at the rate of over £1.000.000 a week, and
spending, it is calculated, from 55 to 60 p.c.
of it in Australia. What is going to happen
when that expenditure ceases, as it will do
pretty suddenly? There would be an awful
bump even if it were only a matter of sud-
denly stopping so large an outlay. But in
addition to that there is the question of
repayment. In many cases the taxation which
that implies' is going to be very rough on the
individual at any rate.
Nicholson's, not being very optimistic
about future supplies, have during the six
months increased their stocks by over
£36 000. Also they have purchased a free-
hold for about £32,600, realising, no doubt,
that sites in their neighborhood are few,
which might make things awkward for a
business of this sort at some future time.
To make these it has had to lean
on the bank for £42,000-odd and leave a
blister of £22.500 on the newly-acquired pro-
perty. Here is a general view of these and
other movements:—
Liabilities.
Sept.,’ll. Mar.,’l7. Se-t.,’17. Mar.,’lB.
Capital. . .. £BB.BOO £140,233 £140,233 £140,233
Sundry creditors 68,323 10,914 21,549 87,158
Assets.
Freeholds .. 17,220 910 910 33,590
Stock .. .. 52,716 48,573 66,435 102,778
Sundry debtors 106,514 137,531 140,674 139,843
Plant, etc. . . 4,119 5,240 5,574 5.075
Cash and sundries 2,870 12,358 2,623 1,282
The new sthck, of course, has had to be pur-
chased at war prices, with war freights and
insurance added; and there is a rLk about
that, though on present appearances things
are going to be worse before they are better,
stock being more and more difficult to get.
The big asset item in the balance-sheet is
still the hire-agreements, which in March,
1914, totalled £170.992, and had gradually
been reduced to £129,794 at the last balance.
This branch of the business is, no douot, a
lucrative one, and brings customers to the
co. who cou’d never consider paying cash.
But though bad debts have been surprisingly
few, the system has its dangers; and those
dangers are never so real as when there is
an inevitable slump ahead, the date of the
bursting of the bubble being uncertain. The
value of the hire-agreements is entirely de-
pendent upon the capacity of the hiring-
purchasers to maintain their instalments;
and if bad times should come luxuries like
t.p. pianos will have to go. In that case the
co. will find itself with a lot of soiled goods
on its hands. However, it has done well in
recent years; though, unless it has been
socking something away for contingencies,
it is doubtful whether the 10 p.c. div. should
have been paid. The visible margin cer-
tainly looks very narrow.
* * * *
That unwise person who will insure his
life or his kitchen furniture in any concern
that isn’t Australian has been heard from
again. An obscure concern called the
National Benefit Life and Property Insur-
ance Co. of London started business in Syd-
ney in September. 1914. In August, 1915,
Gillett desired it to pay for his burnt assets.
In October. 1915, the co. left Sydney and
also left Gillett unpaid, so it fled very
promptly. In August, 1916, Speer, its agent,
notified the proper authorities that the co.
had departed and that he washed his hands
of it. Now- three expensive courts in succes-
sion have informed Gillett that he has no
hope of extracting money from Speer, and so
he had better chase the co. to London or else
give it up. Which is quite usual and ordi-
nary and common, but very few people run
hopeless and costly law-suits over the matter
and inform the public of their wrongs. The
small blit ambitious insurance co. (wild cat
by intention or wild cat by misfortune)opens
branches and agencies in any country that is
too foolish to demand a £20.000 deposit as
proof of good faith. It collects premiums—
the fascination of the business is that pre-
miums are payable in advance. It finds that
there is little doing, so it locks the door of
the humble furnished office and goes home.
It certainly doesn’t pay 25 agents to look
after its obligations in the 25 places where
it has. lived the temporary life. Even big
concerns do this disappearance trick at
times. An old. rich and desperately respect-
able English life office allowed itself to be
declared bankrupt in S. Aus. over a very
ancient policy due on the life of a very
ancient and affluent citizen. When the rich
and respectable co. went out of business in
Adelaide it arranged for the collection of
premiums all risrht, but when the policy
became a claim the heirs were told that they
could go to London- for their money or do
without.


*
99,
m
«• .•***
- •«
m
m
'
»* »•
-
k>
p
ft*
in
' '
:• _ »>
r-«
"si
• -
r.
■ ~
A Business Man in Fairyland
Tired and worn! That is the state of the average
business man when he reaches home at night.
Too weary to go out —too indifferent to seek the
relaxation which he needs and would enjoy.
For such men, the Beale Player-Piano provides an easy step into
a fairyland of real pleasure. All the favorites in light operatic
music, ragtime, folk songs or old time ballads can instantly
be played. You arrange your own programme and play it as
your mood dictates. Bedtime comes in surprisingly quick time —
bringing with it the sweet slumber of a mind refreshed.
INFORMAL CONCERTS HELD DAILY
ASK TO HEAR A FAVORITE PIECE
Head Office ic Showroom* •
333 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY
eccle
LTD
&
Factory!
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST.
ANNANDALE
■
Branches at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples, in all Melbourne suburbs.
TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Evans Ltd., Adelaide.
QUEENSLAND: 80-92 Queen St., Brisbane; Kent St., Maryborough; Flinders St.. Townsville; Rockhampton; Sydney
St., Mackay; Cairns. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: J. A. Thompson & Co. Ltd., 209 Murray St., Perth.


The Caulfield,
9d. each.
The Napier, S;
1/- each. ..
Two grades are made in this
shape, one of the 12 styles
in Pelaco Collars. Order
which you prefer by name.
Heights in Napier ; Is, 11 in.
Heights in Caulfield:
11, IJ, 11, 2 in.
Sizes 13 to IS.
Both Collars are lined-faced
and
(pronounced Pel-ak-o)
make, which is your guide
to correctness in style, per-
fect fit and sound wear.
Made in Australia.
a
WEAR
SHIRTS& PYJAMAS
ALSO
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Monrc Far Phfti\/> man - v til,ie s as efficient
wears tar rnone an(l powe rfui as the oia
model. Ninety-six decrees of sound in eight
adjustments, ■ instantly changed hv a touch of
the flr.ger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREE T,
Tel. 3910 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Go. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
as
KB
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 6/-
Prepare Your Dog's for the
Coursing Season
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,"
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
BURNS AIR
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns 90$ Air 10# Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. NoWlckl So Urease!
Ko Smoke 1 So Oder! Hang or bet
it anv where. Over KXI Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
■WRITE r OR CATALOGUE.
The'‘Bulletin”
Stock Saddle
AND
The "Bulletm"
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddles we make.
Thev both have pigskin seat, the “G.S.”
panel, with leather down sides, long flaps and
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle.
£7|7|- Complete.
£7/2/- without Stirrups.
£6/16/-
without Stirrups
and without Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
b in N. S. Wales.
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 14/3; post, 1/-
Saddle Cloth, 6/6; post, »d.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
Write Tor SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or,
if In Australia, Nearest
Railway Station.
Tk “WINTON ”
One of the Finest Saddles for
Rough Riders—One Horsebreaker
described it as the Best Saddle
ever he threw a leg over.
It has combined flap and skirt, giving
a most comfortable and narrow grip,
pads high up, sagged seat, leather points
to panel, specially strong tree, and is
fitted with bevelled stirrup leathers,
folded girth and solid nickel stirrups.
£lO/2/6 without Stirrups.
Nickel Stirrups, J 0/6 and 12/6 extra.
Freight free for cash with order to any
port or railway station in N. S. Wales.
Walther S Stevenson
SADDLERS, Ltd.
X
m
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
ASK FOR A
<*k
1
A.
A.
for
/j, Sfyle & Finish.
j> «.-rO
Hf OF ALL U p
5*
■£RS
MAKERS:-
CRESS k C° UP
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Wholesale Agente-
cox & MAILER
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
»
ms
'
wMvm ■ ,&*.» *
r Hiu<*- «57w).
£2^
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron Falls - Barron Gorge
the wonderful hinterland
>5 unshine , Palm Trees . v
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and Scenic splendour
A Booklet telling all about it
is yours for the asking
/>// in fhrs coupon:—
/Vgme .....
Address
8.8.
/o /Ac Director of /
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Brisbane. aiJEENSLAND.
m
m
m<
;:
i .
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample„posted. ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
flame and address must appear on the MSS. No
. liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. urill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
6.J.: The B. put it this way. There is
an obligation on everybody to contribute to the
insurance of soldiers with dependants; but there is
a special obligation on policy-holders to forego
bonuses, because actuaries in drawing up their
expectation-of-life tables, on which premiums are
based, did not take into account a new and very
fruitful cause of death —that is, modern war. In
other words, actuarial reserves have been too small,
which means that bonuses in the past have been
too large... .Lucifer: Thank you. We have sent it,
to the Red Cross... .Schoolmarm: An anonymous
letter written from “State School, Melbourne,” isn’t
good enough. It looks like a nice little Hun trick.
.... Dingo: Write Agriculture Department....
P.0.1t.5.: Hardly suitable; but would make a
couple of good pars., if you care to have it
used that way....Pte. S.: It is a good parody. But
we loathe parodies. Try something else... .E.O’M.:
Very doubtful.... Rio: Too late to say those things
now ; and we were not permitted to say them before.
No. 11,886 (France): (1) Thanks for the cream ;
(2) Very old gag W.J.8.: No press reference to
such matters is permitted... .T.L.: No; you’re an
orphan... .Another Plain Australian: Doesn’t help
the case.«. .C.11.L.: Thanks, but too old •now for
print N.V.G.: Not very good even when it was
young... .Emma Trope: Never heard of that. Will
show it to J. H. M. Abbott, the authority on such
matters... .C.11.F.: Can’t approve of any scheme
which includes the issue of millions more paper
currency without any gold backing... .N.H.0.: Sad,
but there’s a lot of truth in it: —
If the nations would only join
In an arbitration law
’Twould end all blood and ruin
And we wouldn’t be taxed for war.
But experience bought, they say, is best;
This one will be dear,
But not if it Christianises us
If we are taxed for a hundred year.^
Education don’t improve us,
Doesn’t make us good;
The M.A. needn’t be a bit better
Than the savage in the wood.
... .8.G.: Their chief faults are lack of anything
new to say and lack of skill in saying it....
R.E.F.H.: One may do; there is good promise in all
of them.'. .M.R.: “Anzacs,” “Smile” and “Differ-
ence” don’t carry you far; but it’s worth trying
again... .J.W.F.: Doesn’t quite convince... .O.S.C.
(probably): Nothing there we could priflt... .G.E.L.:
Tender little yarn, but the hero is not true to type.
... .L.L.: That abominable use of the word “humans”
again Myall: Why “gotten himself angel’s
wings”? This isn’t America... .J.0.N.: Doesn’t
command print; but good enough verse... .E.S.G.:
Not up... .M.R.W.: Not enough there... .G.L.T.:
Most unconvincing talk... .A.D.: “Out Back” goes
very heavily... .E.R.P.: Poor yarn... .P.A.C.: Not-
quite; but there’s many a worse been printed....
J.C.M.: Won’t d 0... .Hannibal: Wobble and bump.
But it’s interesting to know that the notes of song-
birds “float through the grooves.”... .T.H.C.: No.
... .Currajong: Nothing... .M.D.: Nice verse, but
not strong enough. The sonnet is best.... G. 8.:
Long way to come to a very small point... .E. 5.8.:
“Laetitia Mary” says nothing J.A.W.: Only re-
peats the previous remarlis... .Burmah: Och, yes;
but why would a man be worrying about it, and
you not signing your name?... .O.B.: “Germany’s
Curse” does the trick: —
“Down with the cursed Englishmen!”
The Germans made their vow;
To do for every child, to do for every women.
But praise to old England we’ll never come so low.
“With Belgium and Sgrvia also,
We must wipe them out the same.
To bleed them white to bend them to their toes,
So as we can hold them, to keep them very tame.”
“We must wipe out all these small nations,
To plunder and kill as we go;
To keep our rank and station,
So as we’ll have no more foes.”
But their dreams will have a tumble,
Their madness we will stop ;
When they hit against Old John Bull,
Down they come with a flop!
Perc. W.: An old theme not handled with sufficient
skill... .Scratch: Wild yarn to pitch to the girl, even
if she was hungering for caveman methods... .M.C.:
Nothing there.... Fanuela : Not up .5.8. G.: Metre
goes mad from the third line... .L.P.J.: No lift or
feeling... .V. 8.: The story is as thill as a mallee
cocky’s horse in the second year of drought
Watty: Fair verse of the rough sort with only 2 p.c.
interest for any reader... .J.A.W'.: Crude yarn. Most
of the bards you complain of are either too old for
the job or wear petticoats —.A.B.C. (Carlton):
Can’t you take some other letters? Those belong to
another writer. Verse no use... .Sozimus: Nothing.
. ...M.J.R.: Worse... .Seebee: Not up... .Nugget:
It couldn't be much less effective... .J.L.: Won’t do.
....Din Gor: Gosh !.... J.E.: It must go back....
J.H.: Shows much improvement. One is held for
re-consideration... .N.M.: Verse doesn’t carry it....
W.E.T.: D.R.Y... .Rufus : Doesn’t work.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
N.E.W.: You can’t draw... .Laura P.: Very rough
and early.... J.T.M.: A mossy ancient... .E.: The
woman visitor in the pot-hat is the ugliest this week.
M.F.G.: Send us your 301st attempt S.: No,
thanks C.J.8.: You’ve got a long way to go yet;
but it isn’t a hopeless journey... .J.M.: Heard it
before Dicker: Study, if you’re interested... .Jack
B.: Crude and heavy... .G.M.: Not useable... .A.J.:
sorry... .M.A.H.: One gag is old and the others are
under suspicion for keeping bad company. All
drawings hopeless.
Times change and the Births, Marriages
and Deaths notices change with them. For
instance, from a M.L. paper:—
NIXON. —February 22, to Private J. Nixon and Mrs.
Nixon —a son. (Private Nixon returned May 3
last.)
“S.T.S.”: Why doesn’t Norman Lindsay
give South Aus. a sight of his “other” work?
We are fond of Art in Adelaide, and have
worked up a reputation for holding our
own, and a hit over, in support of it. We
have in the State’s Art Gallery a well-chosen
assortment of Australia’s best, mostly bought
from a Federal exhibition held here annually
for 20 years past. Yet outside his Bulletin
work, Norman Lindsay’s powers are known
to Adelaide only by hearsay.


m
Still
ff
%
1
Wi' '' \
i
gpßwiilra^
»- H
■ '
-
m
' m* ?-
;
****
arc
£
: { ■
'
BM
mmmmm
mmm
Klingtite Belts Insure Continued Production
Scores of Klingtite Belt sales are being
made in these times of capacity pro-
duction solely on the strength of their
continuous service records.
An hour’s shut-down often costs more
in decreased output than the first cost
of the guilty belt which brought it
about.. And belt breakage and belt
stretching do cause shut-downs.
Klingtite Belt construction reduces breakages to
a minimum. Only a special-weave canvas duck
of very highly tested tensile strength as compared
with that ordinarily found in the best trans-
mission belts is used.
In consequence, Klingtite Belts are so constructed
as to give you the highest possible factor of
safety according with efficient transmission.
Stretching is harder to combat, for it is not a
question of materials alone, but also of con-
struction.
The special-weave canvas duck eliminates some
of the stretch.
But a great deal more is eliminated by the method
of impregnating the plies under heavy pressure
with high grade rubber.
As a result of this procedure the plies are united
as with thousands of strong yet flexible rivets
through every weave of the canvas.
They unite the plies as indissolubly as if they
were welded, yet allow the play between the
plies necessary for the equalised adjustment of
strains.
Since all the plies bear an equal load, none is unduly
strained ; and in consequence the exasperatingly vari-
able stretch so common in stitched and other belts of
inferior construction is eliminated.
The merits of the materials used in the construction of
Klingtite Belts have been proved in every industry.
They have demonstrated their great value to cost, their
power-saving efficiency, and their continuous service
so conclusively that The Goodyear Tyre & Rubber
Company unreservedly stakes its reputation on their
performance.
elder, smith &
CO.. LIMITED
27-31 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
84-88 William Street,
Melbourne.
12 Martin Place,
Sydney.
334-338 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Western Australian Agents:
ELDER, SHENTON & CO., LIMITED, Elder Buildings, William Street, Perth.
lC KI
SE
Y
■ 'V


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cdbines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2 ,4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alina Wharf.)
MACK AY
BOWEN
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, May 25.
Leaves Sydney, May 28.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, June 8.
Leaves Sydney, June 11.
MKLUOUIiNIS
(Transhipjlinj; foi
; S.A. nncFAy.'A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, June 4.
"Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Dunking. Public Companies. &c
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hop. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C:; THUS.
WELSBY.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Hearl (Mice: Brisbane.
Sydney Ollice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne (Mice: 4.1 Queen Street.
London Ollice: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THirQUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. 222,'000 0 -0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edvvd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Eisq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
IIEAI) OFFICE - - - BRISBANE,
liranches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital ....£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman :
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
‘General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of flew Z aalan| l.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
£529,988
750,000
1,000,000
500.000
Guaranteed Stock.. .. ..
Preference Shares..
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital ..
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, anu
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE 8 HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL £500,000.
Fire Insurances
i
Marine Risks
■ effected on all classes of
■ Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture. &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN HAIGH, General Manager.
/
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
I'HE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
PACIFI*
LAKE?
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AM
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
3oyal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONG.'
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
Next connecting Steamer for Wellington will sail from Sydney on 6th June.
EXCURSION to
HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific. ’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
if!
•.. ‘4
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Groups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP g CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve liability -
Directors
£3,904,860
£2,873,000
£3,904,860
£10.684,730
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,|
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq. _
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office-29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, 1 apua and London.
on, Foreign pi, ce,DIRECT. Foreign Bill,
negotiated and colleoted. Letter, ol Credit and Circular Hots. Sgtf, : negotiable throughout fcgl
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OB’FICE
IBank ot Huotralta
SYDNEY. I
forTn General
Banking Business inthe
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
Branches, and over 2750 Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific,
Interest at 3 0 /
per annum ' # /o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane. E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England; The
London County and Westminster Bank Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports. • j
S.S. RUPARA, May 25.
S.S. MORIALTA, June 1.
S.S. PARINGA, June 8.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Visitors are not allowed on Company’s Wharves
nor on board Company’s Steamers.
G. S. YUILL « CO.. LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. Between Melbourne and Launceston three
mailings per week.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO M
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION,
barge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
UIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
* Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
HVEEd! RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY ANO
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are m coiijunction wrHi
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND BAIL WAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BKIbDAJNJ--,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Bvron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
liere connecting with one of the Company s up-.0-iate
iate liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Co.Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports,
Melbourne and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
s!s*. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a trip and also
pniovmeiit of beautiful scenery should travel o
SrK^ble'.lth all Inttr-Stttt ’
kith the Union S.S Co.'. “'id ling Vei
particulars on application. For dates ot sain s
11RNS PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i LL AUSTRALIANS visit ng London
V should read the British ABBTral
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
mtaining mail and cable news from Aus
ilia and news of Australians m E«rop e
od at home Australians are cordially m-
“ted to visit the British Australasian
ending Room « the Offices; ,h«
orn. London, .C., where th(J
information wittotrt
harge.


The absorbing' interest
■ ' ■'■ ' :’ / : f - ■ ... ' v ‘
of KODAK
Photography.
You may indulge your love of the beauties
of nature, and make your own special
records of places you have visited, friends,
incidents of travel, etc., if you take a
Kodak with you.
-You can learn to. use one in half an hour
and begin straight away to make fine
Kodak pictures.
The 3A Folding Autographic Kodak is a splendid
camera for all-round photography —takes postcard
pictures 5| x 3J inches. Price £G/G/-
Of all Kodak dealers and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating BAKER & ROUSE PROP. LTD.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.,
Hobart; Buthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Rock-
hampton; 346 Argent St., Broken Hill; Optical & Fhoto Supplies Co., Perth; “The
Kodak Corner,” corner Fambton Quay and Willis St. Wellington, N.Z.; 3 Lome St.,
Auckland, N.Z.; 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.; and Christchurch, N.Z.
/
PH
/ :
P ijW -
\
* i
v". :,■}-.*>
I
■•" I ‘ -,v
' ' ’
'
< /' * <y 3$
His Master’s Voice” Supremacy is Exemplified
in the “Studio Grand” Instrument!
In the “Studio Grand” are embodied all the mechanical
improvements which have made “His blaster’s Voice”
reproduction supreme throughout the world—and in
addition there is an elegance of design and beauty of
finish which make the instrument an adornment to any
-’oom. It is an exquisitely-modelled instrument in
Figured Oak. It may also be obtained in Mission Finish.
Like all of the “Grands” it has the deep, rich, resonant
tone, free from metallic sound, which makes “His
Master’s Voice” music distinct from all other reproduc-
tions. Ask your nearest “His Master’s Voice” dealer to
play the “Studio.”
Its Price is
£27/10/-
Instrument catalogue, record lists and’
name of nearest accredited dealer on
request.
The Gramophone Co. VA
163 PITT STREET- —SYDNEY.
“GRAMOPHONE”
Registered Trade Mark.
&
-Nr
m
A
f
c
‘BIS MASTER’S VOICE”
Registered Trade Mark.


Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supplt—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks. Build e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the wo v ’
m.
©
©
m
Eight Good Points about the
COLO TYRE.
(1) TREAD. —Corrugated, presenting small surface to the road, thereby saving friction.
(2) TREAD. —A great thickness of rubber, which is practically cut- and chip-proof.
(3) BREAKER STRIP, which, being made of loosely-woven, heavy fabric, binds the
tread to the carcase of the tyre.
(4) PURE RUBBER.—PiLre Rubber is placed under Breaker Strip.
(5) CARCASE. —Composed of five plies of heavy, long-fibre canvas, heavily impreg-
nated with rubber. .
*6) PULL AIR SPACE.
(7) SIDE WALLS. —Realising the severe work tyres are called upon to to do in the
country, we have placed a great thickness of rubber on the side walls, preventing
water from entering, as often happens in other makes of tyres after a few months
service. have very little thickness of rubber at this point.
(8) BEADS are heavily reinforced and skin-coated with rubber, to prevent rust.
SOLE AGENTS FOR N.S.W.
TELEPHONE : CITY 2567.
. -
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.
Garage 8 Shdwroom: 162 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES
SUPEO
PEATURES
The ominous “missing” is placed opposite
Derek Hudson’s name in the aviation casu-
alty list. Hudson was about the most pleas-
ing baritone the Firm has imported from
England in recent times, and a lot of people
who only knew him to listen to hope that he
will yet turn up safely. As the fiddling hero
in “Gipsy Love” he swung his cloak gal-
lantly. MrS. Hudson is with the “You’re in
Love” co.
“E.T.” : Theatre programmes in Australia
are free—as they ought to be. In England at
most theatres they cost anything from 2d. to
Od. At the vaudeville houses the usual
before-the-war price was Id.; owing to
the increasing paper famine the minimum
charge is now 2d. In the regular playhouses
it is anything the ushers can get. As there
is, in addition, a heavy amusement tax pay-
able on all tickets, theatre-going in Britain
is an expensive habit these days.
Mclntosh has decided to make Australian
V.C. winners life-members of the Tivoli in
Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Each is
to be. presented with a gold pass. If the
prospect of unlimited vaudeville on the nod
won’t move men to deeds of valor, nothing
will, short of being placed on the door of
every pub in the Commonwealth.
During the recent season of “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin” at Adelaide Tivoli, a gent, in the
stalls, on hearing 8. Degree order the over-
seer to whip pore old Tom, scrambled on to
the stage and threatened stoush. For a
moment Victor Fitzherbert (Degree) seemed
in danger of being upper-cut on his grease-
paint, but the patron (or was he a new brand
of claqueur?) suddenly -remembered things,
apologised, and got back to his seat.
The cable now squeaks that Dorothy Brun-
ton has crossed to London under contract
and will return to X' York later to play lead
in a show. If there were any clouds they
seem to have rolled by and left the young
star shining.
“Monkbarns” : Don’t worry about Dorothy
Brunton’s set-back in the U.S.A. A degree of
failure is an almost invariable concomitant
of great success. Melba was refused a part
in Gilbert and Sullivan opera; Randegger
thought she was no good ; Carl Rosa failed
to keep an appointment to hear her. Even
her first operatic performance in London was
not very far short of failure. Mrs. Siddons,
the greatest genius that ever adorned the
stage, was rejected by Garrick. Mathews
was a dismal American failure the first time.
“Dundreary” Sothern tried to get away from
the stage back to his mercantile desk.
Charles Kean, son of Edmund, failed badly
iu two attempts to establish himself on the
London stage. Yandenhoff also failed twice
before he was recognised. Charles Kemble,
younger brother of John, was regarded as a
stick for many years. Brooke failed in Lon-
don at the Marylebone. A number of years
afterwards he returned triumphant to the
Olympic. Irving tried London in 1859, but
made no impression. Back in 1806, he still
had some difficulty in establishing himself;
and at the Lyceum, in 1871, in the trumpery
play of “Fanchon,” he did so poorly that
Manager Bateman tried to persuade George
Rignold to -replace him.
Wilfrid Neill, one of the chief pillars of
Adelaide Repertory Theatre, is back from the
war, with one eye badly damaged, and his
heart under grave suspicion.
“Masetto”: American files contain the
glad news that the ■ old Australian convict
ship Success, which for years has been toured
as a peep-show, has been sunk by floating ice.
The only saddening features of the disaster
are that some of the appliances for punish-
ing the malefactors were saved and that the
rest are in only 50ft. of water.
“0.K.” : The J.C.W. firm, which makes a
commercial virtue of giving the public what
it wants rather than what it ought to want,
can hardly justify the substitution of “Daddy
Long Legs’ for “Peter Pan” in its Mel-
bourne Royal announcements. Peter had
been billed, and Melbourne was looking for-
ward to Barry’s fanciful comedy, when the
advts. suddenly dropped it out of their calcu-
lations and talked only of Daddy. Public
interest immediately fell 15ft.
“F.N.T.”: One of Melbourne’s smaller in-
dustries is conducted on a dung-heap. The
other day, near one of the city’s central
sports-grounds, I noticed a busy group of
children, boys and girls, whirling and twist-
ing and kaleidoscoping over several small
hillocks outside the fence of the - oval. A
middle-aged gent., standing close by, barked
occasionally, at which the whirling went on
with renewed vigor. Closer investigation
showed that the hillocks consisted mostly of
manure. They served the bump-easing pur-
pose of the hair mattresses in a gymnasium,
ihe children being engaged in hand-springing,
walking on their hands, “turning out” and
Similar acrobatics—practising thus, I
learned, with an eye to future public
engagements. The middle-aged gent, was the
director of the academy, and he seemed well-
fed and quite satisfied with his lot in life.
Still, it was a dubious atmosphere for the
children.
“J.F.H.”: A' big theatrical trust has
already cornered a considerable number of
London playhouses and pushed rents up
from £7O to £2OO and £250 a week. Some-
bod v will have to’ pay—and the pros, are
shaking inside their paint. One of the
theatres acquired is the Scala, as beautiful
and up-to-date as any in London, but
severely handicapped by its slummy surround-
ings. It occupies the site of the old Prince
of Wales, commonly called the “Dusthole,’
in which the present Sir Squire and Lady
Bancroft (Marie Wilton) amassed a large
“The Bird of Para-
dise,” at Sydney Cri-
terion.
J. B. Atholwood as
the priest Hewahewa.
fortune through
the Tom Robert-
son' dramas with
monosyllabic titles
-“School,” “Cafete,”
“Plot,” etc. After
the departure of
the Bancrofts the
place was used for
a time as a Salva-
tion Army bar-
racks. Then it be-
came the property
of a rich medico.
Dr. Distin Mad-
dock, who acquired
adjoining houses
and erected the
Scala on the en-
larged site. The
Scala has had a
few brief periods
of distinction, but
for some time it
has been used as a
picture palace. The
Trust has secured
it for £OO,OO0 —about half of what the build-
ing alone cost.
Fred Niblo. who has been appearing in
the U.S.A. in “Hit-the-Trail Holiday,” is due
in Australia in July. He will probably be
accompanied by the second Mrs. Niblo, who
was Enid Bennett.
“Fax” : Talking of piffle in popular songs,
listen:—
I would say such wonderful thing-s to You.
There would be such wonderful things to do,
If 1 were the only Girl in the world —
And You were the only Boy.
Sung at a funereal pace it is one of the
triumphant features of “The Bing Boys."
This silly stuff is seemingly dirged by the
duettists' with the purpose of persuading
audiences that an Adam-and-Eve relation-
ship is devoutly to be wished by any fond
couple. The idea that an only boy and girl
in the world would be crude novices in the
art of love-making, who would weary one
another in a week, never occurs to the crowd
that encores the singers for the sake of their
ridiculous assertions. Fancy a girl wanting
a young man to be the only one of his sex
in the universe! Criticism turns from such
inane sentimentality to remember a former
“DICK WHITTINCTOX.” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY'S.
Eitzwarren Fullhrook enjoys Dame Stiyant's
adventure with bees.
ballad in which the songstress used to crush
her suitor with the pertinent remark that
he wasn’t the only pebble on the beach. She
knew what she was singing about.
“Harrison O.”: One thing for which I
admire Alexander Watson is that his “pieces”
need not make the judicious swear. Even
elocutionists who ought to know better love
allegedly “dramatic” selections of no liter-
ary merit, like “Lasca” and "Me Lady’s
Leap-ali,” which, however well done, are
no more satisfying than would be “The
Worst Woman in London” played by Ethel
Irving. Apart from Shakespearian selec-
tions, which are legitimate objects of vic-
timisation for every ranter who owns a
boiled shirt, “Gunga Din” represents about
the loftiest literary achievement of the aver-
age reciter, hundreds of other things that
have thrilled us metfely to read being dis-
missed as not “dramatic.” But Watson
has literary taste, and can make an audi-
ence appreciate the dramatic qualities of
Tennyson’s “Ode On the Death of the Duke
of Wellington,” which the average reciter
would reckon hopeless. I have a yearning
to hear Watson recite the Book of Job,
especially the sixth chapter thereof. From
an impurely commercial standpoint jhe
might do worse, for the sanctimonious would
probably feel justified in flocking to hear it,
even if they did have to listen to a few
of Ginger Mick’s blankies beforehand.
Walter Bentley found the lost autograph-
album at last and restored it to the lady
owner who had valued it at £l9 and had
made an unsuccessful attempt to collect that
amount in court. But the little book of
inanities was worth a lot more than that in
advt.
Olive Berkeley and Grade Hopkins played
the name part in “Little Lord Fauntleroy”
on alternate nights at Melbourne Princess's
in the long-ago. Grade married into vaude-
ville, and is doing sketch work; but the
world has not gone well with poor Olive,
who is now in a charitable institution.
The soprano had just shocked some
applause out of the audience by taking a
shrill topnote. “It’s strange,” commented the
front-row critic who was languidly flapping
his hands together. “If a child made that
noise we’d all want to smack it.”
Talking of Marie Tempest in comic opera
it has been the rule of late years to associate
her name with “The Geisha,” as though that
were the first musical piece she made a not-
able success in. But she was artist enough
to be specially engaged (with Ben Davies)
for the second proauction of “Dorothy" 52
years ago. The first production, by George
Edwardes, had been not much of a go. With
Marie Tempest and Ben Davies to help,
Cellier’s opera took a new lease of life.
“McNorth": The chief sensation in the
star film at Thursday Island’s picture-
show the other night were scenes alleged to
depict the eviction of defaulting Irish tax-
payers and tenants. It was a fake, of course,
and, in any case, had nothing to do with the
present trouble ; but as the crowd of Chows,
Japs, Manilamen, Polynesians, Papuans,
Malays, Binghis, and sundries flocked out
at the end of the show, I heard a three-
quarter-breed Kanaka remark to a five-
eighths Chow: “My word, I no savhe before
Engelis soljer go hammer woman and break
table. I bin thinkit that fashion belong
Shermans.” It. would be interesting to fol-
low that film back to its source.
“Glen II.”: Apropos the 1000th perform-
ance of “Romance” in London. “A Little
Bit of Fluff,” which did n’t even cause a
ripple on the theatrical surface here, passed
its 1000th some time ago, and wasn’t then
due for withdrawal. The record London
run belongs to “Charley's Aunt,” which
scored 1400; “Our Boys” was only a few
performances behind. “The Chinese Honey-
moon” (107”)) is the only other London show
that has run into four figures. Next long-
est: "Dorothy," 031; "Arcadians,” 809;
“Private Sec.,” 785; “Merry Widow” and
“San Toy,” 778 each; “Geisha,” 700:
“Country Girl,” 729; “Los Cloches,”. 705:
“Pinafore.” 700. X’Yark's best are “Trip
to Chinatown,” 000; “Adonis,” 051 ; and
“Peg o’ My Heart,” 004.
STANZAS ANENT THE DECADENCE OF ALE
AND ACTING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Two tilings there are which, however rosily one
may view the present, are never as gooff as they used
to lie. One is acting and the other is ale.”
Gone is the beer we used to know.
The actresses we loved the best;
Drunken the one, the others old,
Or wed, or dead ; the world’s grown cold,
And care’s become our constant guest.
More jaded, slowly, year by year.
Our palates grow. ’Tis safe to say.
In future winters’ discontent,
Wq'll speak in terms of praise anent
The liquors we condemn to-day.
Mummers there be of whom we talk
Derisively in club and bar;
But when the gentle hand of time
Has smudged life’s spectacles, each mime
Will rank in memory ns a “star.”
Acting and ale are fleeting things;
They were pot ever meant to last.
Yet retrospectively we’ll gain \
.Vest year our joy from this year's pain—
Most pleasures nestle in the past.
While recollection stays with us,
Its phantoms all will earn their fee
Of gratitude. While they remain,
In rose-hued raiment decked, we gain
An earthly immortality !
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.
BRED IN THE BONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
The little child Irene was born .
In some poor players* boarding-house—
Was nursed behind the scenes from morn
Till midnight; cultivated nous
In all the strange vicissitudes
Besetting companies that trot
The wilds; and hungry interludes,
Scant garb, and debts, and hotel feuds
She grew to think the common lot.
Irene fbsorbed the atmosphere
Of art and rouge; the make-believe
Was life to Irene, and the dear
■ Learned how to laugh and how to grieve
By rule before she learned to talk.
She got her alphabet in spells
From picture posters, learned to walk
On railway ties, and how to stalk
Like Mr. Irving in “The Bells.’’
She “went on’’ when six months, and played
A little speakihg-part at four.
At ten they say that she essayed
The rBle of Juliet, and, more,
As sweet Ophelia she was shown ;:
And by this time she’d come to feel
A glass of beer, all on one’s own,
A half-loaf and a mutton-bone
To be the really perfect meal.
Dry-salted in the atmosphere
Theatrical, this mummer’s daughter
When off the boards was quite as queer
As any salmon out of water.
Yet when she’d grown' to thirty-three
She met with only fierce detractors:
All sorts of folks declared that she
No actress was, and ne’er could be.
Yet all her characters were actors!
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


.V
irw
ttX 4,
V.vc
xry
fSA
S 5«»
/.V
/W
Nv*
cv
*c‘S? v -
-*l3s
’ *‘ r ’
«£
<"x=<>
S®?
v-*v-
-4.,**
"S?
Vs?- VA V . - sy. * .
vv
v* •• ♦
j vkV ''‘(i*'
l': v- *>*?> ’ •
V '■!;,: v£ *a '£r>'«X £*r<>
Sfe
<.>^’;y •■. v’.iS- V'x
> ~..< : o' ►C
>*< r-..i
#*»
•?*
its
‘a • V.vV,
■***
vuV
•Hr-<S
Vx? ».~
5^
1
y-< +
'Vi
&
$Vk
Xit
K*
7;
*mY4s
U
.- : J -
tN‘o
y-v
*. 1 y
i'«
Ki
'Vwfe *v,v. -i
;f»l5;
fey'At:'la,4|:-i.''
•* i' TS-r&j* ■ ' igtfst SSsa.
-vipSvfM ’
2T S 3s?''o : w f .V'>
ISg^
fel£l4!'
•- * ■ vr- - ••- »: » v .
•. • *{\iV., ’OV V- ;.„ ,
Ws
:-i-' >■
>?
m
v^V
*fss
vj-
>\-
p®Vl
V .*
KW
/|3M
>.?>
i\v%€lr+s?X?'sL.
#*?
&
■ • V^«i-
Vmji
.U^v.'
3^l
;
2- \S
vv <£
■ - ?Vi ~T
• .•V,,«. > !«'J
} ;-t :>./■<■;• j
"^.■o
\
.1 * >Aw^,v
r *»
-SA<.s
t^SS'V
Woov
J.
p?a
>»
SCvSVR.^
: - i'V^
.
r<i
Vi-xs:
x><;
«K.Vft4eC(3*
/-v.r - < .•
■ v..^
X;*VA
a
’%
S'
%*SSfeg*&M; - {
-' ;
* V*
SR»
■H’
saw.
vSt
ifw
£445
Drive the “85 Four”
A car of great beauty and strength—a car of absolutely
ependable performance, its great power simply controlled.
With the reserve force of the big
all the flexibility of a light one.
car, this Overland has
To these advantages, add riding comfort, Large wheels
big tyres, cantilever springs, assure smoothness of transit un-
usual for cars of its size.
It has a high tension magneto. It is completely equipped.
It is economical to maintain.
You will be proud of this Overland, proud of how it looks,
proud of what it does. Because of our great production you
can drive it with comfort that is financial as well as physical
We know of no car that compares with it in value.
Immediate
Delivery.
Australian Distributors~-
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW FALK/NER MOTOR CO.. Melbourne
AUTOCAR LTD , Adelaide
ANDERSJN & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart,
Tasmania
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc.
'lj'oledo, Ohio, U. S. A,
\
1765
. .. -*v- . :> .{


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the E glish Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amspell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Why Have Grey Hair?
Few people know that grey hair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few nights
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy and has given perfect satis-
faction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret.
Blackheads, Oily Pores, etc.
The new sparkling face-hath treatment rids
the skin of blackheads, oiliuess and enlarged
pores almost instantly. It is perfectly harm-
less, pleasant and immediately effective. All
you have to do is to drop a stymol tablet,
obtained from the chemist, in a glass of hot
water, and after the resulting effervescence
has subsided dab the affected portions of the
face freely with the liquid. When you dry
the face you will find that the blackheads
come right off on the towel, the large pores
contract and efface themselves and the greasi-
ness is all gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft
and cool. This treatment should be repeated
a few times at intervals of several days in
order to make sure that the result shall be
permanent.
The Magnetism of Beautiful Hair.
Beautiful hair adds immensely to the per-
sonal magnetism of both men and women.
Actresses and smart women are ever on the
look out for any harmless thing that will in-
crease the natural beauty of their hair. The
latest method is to use pure stallax as a sham-
poo on account of the .peculiar glossy, fluffy
and wavy effect which it leaves. As stallax
has never been used much for this purpose it
comes to the chemist, only in Jib. sealed origi-
nal packages, enough for 25 or 30 shampoos.
A teaspoonl’ul of the fragrant, stallax gran-
ules, dissolved in a cup of hot water, is. more
than sufficient for euch shampoo. It is very
beneficial and stimulating to the hair apart
from its beautifying effect.
How to Remove a Bad Complexion.
Cosmetics can never really help a poor com-
plexion; often they are positively harmful.
The sensible, rational way is to actually re-
move the thin veil of stilling, half-dead scarf-
skin from the face, and give the fresh, vigor-
ous and beautiful young skin underneath a
chance to show itself and to breathe.
This is best done in a very simple way, by
merely applying inercolised wax at night, like
cold .cream, and washing it off in the morning.
Good mercolized wax can be obtained from
any well-stocked chemist. It, absorbs the dis-
figuring cuticle gradually and harmlessly,
leaving a brilliant natural complexion. Of
course, this also takes with it all such facial
blemises as red blotches, tan, moth patches,
sallowness, liver spots, pimples, etc. As a
freckle remover and general complexion beau-
tifier this old-fashioned remedy is unequalled.
The Powder Puff Passes.
Every normal woman is always interested
in any plan by which she can quickly enhance
her beanty, provided the plan is perfectly safe
and simple. Ever since the discovery that
ordinary cleminite. such as any chemist can
supply, is an instantaneous and harmless
beautifier, there has been a growing demand
for it from smart women everywhere. They
usually get about an ounce and add just
enough water to dissolve it. A little of this
perfectly harmless lotion gives a beautiful
complexion to any face instantly. It renders
face powder quite unnecessary. Moreover, its
use cannot be detected. The skin is instantly
beautified but appears perfectly natural
under the closest scrutiny. [3
Superior to Marking Ink.
<*•/
THE
WeaMriiftoos'
,WOVEN NAMES;
Heat
jtylish.E/J^eetWe?
Made ir>
Australia
May be procured through-
ANY UP-TO-DATE MERCER OR DPAPEJt,
OUR NAME ON THE BOX
i> e. gua.re.nree of QaaMty
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
BRISBANE.
Constipation
Bowel and Stomaeh Disorders and resulting
Nervous Affections quickly and permanently cured
by Simple Natural Home Treatment—No Medicine
How a well-known
business man *
himself permanently after many years of suffering,
is told in a 40 page Booklet, sent free to all who
send this advertisement, and 3d. postage to
J. P. GALE, 327 COLLINS ST , MELBOURNE
CURED
QUEEN S ARMS
HOTEL,
Corner Swanston St. & Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE
(Late CHAMPION’S).
TARIFF: —
Bed & Breakfast . . . . «/-
Lunch (Special) . • . . V®
Dinner
CLAUDE R. KERR, Proprietor.
What we call courage is
nearly always primarily a
display of unusual nerve,
energy and enterprise. The
man who shows the great-
est courage in an emer-
gency is he who has kept
fit for any emergency.
\
7
THE man who takes half a teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot water every day feels fit every
day. His body is cleansed of impurities, his blood courses
freely in his veins; he goes to his work refreshed, alert,
keen and vigorous : he feels ready for action always. H<s
gets the best out of himself and out of life and keeps at
arm's length lassitude, headaches, an inactive liver and con-
stipation—the evils of a sedentary life.
Get the Kruschen habit and keep fit.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents
Messrs. H. &. W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.. 68 Dean*gate Arcade, Manchester England.
Australian
Price
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
The All
British
rd
READINESS—and suitability for long
or short journeys, under any conditions
give to the STANDARD LIGHT CAR
Owner a satisfaction which can oniy
come from the possession of a good
article.
Send your name to our
A tents.
i
&JC&
Agents—
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, Sydney.
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO., Ltd., Coventf/, England.
/V
t
rR rz f-ANPS >
'M
BAKIP
m. ;kci
I
Achieve the Best Cooking Results
All baking powders look alike —the only difference
lies in the cooking results that ensue. Use
IRELAND’S
BAKING POWDER.
It is the big help to crisp, flaky scones and light,
digestible cakes.
Ireland’s Baking Powder is pure and uniform, and
may therefore be relied upon.
We could not guarantee Ireland’s Baking Powder so
unreservedly if we were not certain of its reliability.
Try it and if for any reason you are dissatisfied with
it, your money will be refunded, if you return it to
your grocer.
Sold everywhere.
Insist on Ireland’s Baking Powder.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
“Strike-alight”: I bought a dozen of Eng-
lish safey-matches from a Sydney shop;
On the boxes a legend was printed—“ Ave-
rage contents 55 matches.” The first box
seemed so small that I set to work to count
the dozen. Result (crediting as good all
broken and headless matches) : 42, 46, 38,
52, 51, 40, 50, 48, 48, 45, 53, 40. So I paid
for nearly two boxes not supplied.
“Florida”: “The commin end of most of
us is tart” —but I never realised to what
extent; until a dowager bewailed to a bored
friend her domestic-service problems. “Mai
dear,” said she, “I’m in the same dreadful
difficulty again. I did manage to get a
maid. She was a girl who had fallen; but
as the boys were away from home and
Cissie and Cora are grown up, it was quaitc
all raiglit. And would you believe it, mai
dear, she found it too quiet, and left me. So
if the fallen won’t help us, what are we
coming to?” I dunno.
“Eos”: Re a correspondent’s remark (B.
25/4/TS) that a "certain lady C.P.S. in
Bananaland is probably the only one of her
gender on this continent who has tied the
matrimonial knot. There are others who are
entitled to do it, 13 of them in N. S. Wales.
Any eligible couple preferring to be linked
together by a woman may call on the Regis-
trar at Annandale, Balmain North, Charles-
town, Chatswood, Hurstville, Lambton, New
Lambton, Liverpool, Mosman, Newtown,
Petersham, Rockdale or Waverley—all
feminine, and the fee is £l, which is 13s. 4d.
more than it ought to be.
“Gleniris”: Nowadays the music pupils
at Melbourne Uni. Conservatorium help
themselves towards a successful career by
paying a fee of 7s. 6d. for “sports.” Tennis
is a cheap enough diversion, no doubt, even
at 7s. 6d. per head ; but in the long years
before the war the girls managed to do with-
out it. If all these unnecessary and afore-
time unthought-of frills were scissored off,
the resultant savings being put together in
a clean paper-bag and handed to the right
people, they would amount to a nice patri-
otic offering. But there, there! The war
will be over next month, won’t it? And
the bill —oh, pa’s paying the bill!
There is something wrong about these
unions, both of 'employees and employers.
In a small friendly matter before the Indus-
trial Court in Sydney last week one of the
parties was the Newcastle Branch No. 4 of
the Federated Soeiety of Boilermakers and
of Iron and Steel Shipbuilders and Iron and
Steel Anglesmiths, Tank, Waggon, Bridge.
Girder, Pontoon, Gasometer, Pipe, Sheet,
Plate and Constructional Iron and Steel
Workers of Australia. Another party wa3
the Coachbuilders, Wheelwrights and Buggy-
body Builders’ Association. Why not be
short and affable and off-hand and let one
be Johnny All Sorts and the other Bugs?
Thus Robert Blatchford, the Socialist who
wrote “Merrie England” :
This is not Lloyd George’s war nor Viscount
North'd iff e’s war. It is the soldiers’ and sailors’
war, and although I am shy of acting in the r6le of
prophet I make bold to say that it is the last war
in which the men who dare all and bear all will
consent to serve as catspaws for the Democrats who
stav at home and shout for the conscription of every-
thing that does not belong to themselves. The Demo-
crats who only want to conscript the lives or the
possessions of other people; the Democrats who will
threaten to down tools over a bonus on their own
wages and will not lift a finger for the men who are
fighting for them—these are not Democrats at all;
they are blatant impostors.
Yet not so much impostors as men imposed
upon—in Australia, anyway.
Two very old Australian families have just
been crowded into one obituary notice in
Sydney. The lamented was Julia, sister of
Frederick Driver, of Burwood, and grand-
daughter of Joseph Underwood, of Ashfield
Park. The Drivers came to Australia in the
1790’5. John, the first of the name, kept an
inn in Castlereagh-street, one of the first
authorised by Governor Macquarie; his
grandson was Richard Driver, good sport,
M.L.A., Minister of.the Crown and City
Solicitor. Joseph Underwood, brother of
James, of the First Fleet, came in the early
days of last century. He bought the Ashfield
estate from Robert Campbell, who had named
it after his father’s property in Scotland.
Joseph was buried in St. John’s Cemetery,
Ashfield; brother James in a Surrey church-
yard.
CAL LAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
"Cal Lai contains only 10 families, and from
these 33 men have gone to the war. In addition, the
settlement has contributed sufficient money to pur-
chase four motor ambulances.”
The settlement small of Cal I-al
(Tom Thumb)
Has given its all at the call
(“Come! Come!”)
Of its lusty Australian pal:
The call of its lusty,
And muddy, or dusty
Determined Australian pal.
(“Yes, Come!”)
The first of Cal Lai he has heard
(Rum, rum!)
The soul of this rhymster has stirred
(Plumb, plumb) ;
Billjim and his neighbor,
Two true sons of Labor,
Marched'off to the beat of the drum
(Turn, turn),
Although it means nothing to some.
The call of the blood to Cal Lai
(“Come! Come!”)
Appealing to Bill and his gal,
(Yum, yum)
Found nobody sulky and glum;
For families ten
Sent thirty-three men,
Each three and three-tenths is the sum
(Sum, sum),
A highly respectable sum.
So here let us cheer for Cal Lai
(Come, come!)
Whose sons were not stricken by fear
(Numb, numb) ;
Bill’s more of a brother
To me than another
Who stops at home dapper and dumb —
(Dumb, dumb),
And moodily biting his thumb.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


VULCAN TRADING CORPORATION
General Merchants
Importers and Exporters
Manufacturers 9 Agents
120 Broadway - New York, U. S. A.
The entire facilities of our great organization are at your
disposal for the conduct of your export
and import business.
Inquiries for raw and manufactured products of any country are solicited
Offers on all raw products of your country are desired by our import department
Liberal advances will be made on consignments .
All inquiries and offers will receive prompt attention.
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE:
FRANK B. SMITH, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
'Phone 9148 City,
JEStI
BFP-
-1 .iKH
UHr* t
» • *
■■■'mi
jK^-rrr-
i 1 Jfj
M»*faw
K
4
w
win
HUDSON/
SUPER/;
HUDSON
SUPER
SB
m
rate.
® II 0
±
I iw
zo
PLENTY OF POWER in HUDSON CLOSED CARS
The tremendous reserve power of the Hudson Super-Six motor carries the
Hudson closed cars with ease. None of the sluggishness so common to most
cars of this type is found in the Hudson.
Hudson Limousines, Town Cars and Landaus are masterpieces of design.
In beauty and luxury they are distinctive. Many cars that cost more do not
equal them.
On the boulevards of all the leading American cities and throughout the world
you see Hudsons. They are the choice of fine car owners.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalg'ety & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth. Street, Brisbane.
Kellow-Falßiner Motor Co., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
W. Johnson &, Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address : HUDSONCAR— DETROIT. V,


m
m
YOUR
FOOTWEAR
plays a most important part in your
attire, therefore it’s worth while to
exercise the utmost care in its
selection.
ABBEY SHOES
are always correct in style, perfect
in fit, and give the utmost in long
service.
They are made in half and full
sizes, and in three fittings—-narrow,
medium and wide.
We illustrate a choice patent
Oxford Bal., with dull calf legs.
Price - 47/6
In higliest-grade tan willow calf,
same price.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 Georg'e Street,
Between (1.P.0. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
THE NERVOUS AGE.
Has the reader noticed how nervous
people have become nowadays? A well-
known physician says that half the patients
who come to him in these times are nerve
starved; and the disorder is growing com-
moner every month. Restlessness, disturbed
sleep and headaches are only a part of what
the patients suffer. The worst is their
misery of mind. They cannot face the small-
est difficulty. A slammed door tortures the
raw nerves. Their minds are undecided,
their tempers irritable, their courage and
concentration is all gone.
The worst of it is,- said the doctor, that
people in this condition are tempted to fly
to drugs. Morphia, cocaine, opium and
similar things have an evil fascination.
Others over-feed themselves with fancy foods
in the hope of building up their nerves.
The right way to treat starved nerves is
to look to the blood, for a healthy well-
nourished blood-stream feeds the nerves,
quickly restoring lost vitality and bringing
the mind up to its old power. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills owe their wonderful reputation
to their power of helping to make new blood
—the only thing that will make healthy
nerves.
Further information on the tonic treat-
ment of “Diseases of the Nervous System”
is contained in a useful booklet which will
be sent free to any applicant by the Dr.
Williams’ .Medicine Co., Box 594 G.P.0.,
Sydney.— Advt.
IT’S GREAT
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth
St., Melbourne; B. B. Bussack, 377 a
Elizabeth St., Sydney; Philip Frankel
and Co., Edward St., Brisbane; Eyes
and Crowle Etd., Pirie St., Adelaide;
Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0., Perth,
W.A.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
tfcig paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Dep6t, Wynyard Street, Sydney,
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltil.
Governing Dirsctor .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
■j-IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY
Nightly, 8. Matinee Wednesday 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents ESPINOSA’S Sparkling
and Exquisitely Glorious Revue of the Times, entitled
TIME, PLEASE.
Plans at Nicholson’s and Theatre.
-J-IVOLI THEATRE, MKhUOtKNK.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents another Dazzling Revue,
THE MILLION DOLLAR GIRL,
The Rage of London and America.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- A 1/-, plus tax.
HE U M a .1 E STY’S, s Y I) N E A
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Last Two Nights of DICK WHITTINGTON.
SATURDAY NEXT, MAY 25.
.1. C. Williamson’s MUSICAL COMEDY CO. in
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
By the authors and composers of “High Jinks.”
CR 1 T E It I O N T II EA T It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. MatinGe AVednesday at 2.
MURIEL STARR
in LAST EIGHT NIGHTS of the Hawaiian play,
THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDSE Y. j
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinfies Wednesday and Saturday.
J. AND N. TAIT present
EM ELIE POT/INI
AND NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY
\ in
DE LUXE ANNIE,
A Thrilling Mystery Comedy Drama.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
PLAYHOUSE, CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee SYDNEY .TAMES.
Direction JOHN HOPKINS.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
THE SCARLET TPOUBADOURS.
THE FOLKS WHO MAKE YOU GLAD.
Progfamme Changed Thursdays.
Plan at Paling’s and Theatre. ’Phone City 246.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Saturdays 4/-, plus tax.
Amusements.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION I> ICTt It E THEATIiES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's beslt films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
Hick .majesty’s theatre, Melbourne
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
the “Last Word” in Revues,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
Til EAT R E it OY A 1., .MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
KATHLENE MACDONELL
in a revival of
DADDY LONG LEGS.
ICING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present
GUY BATES POST
(the Greatest Actor who has ever visited Australia)
in
THE MASQUERADER.
A Dramatisation of Katherine Cecil Thurston’s Novel,
“John Chilcote, M.P.”
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY-
DE LUXE. BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
8 to 11.
OLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEES SATURDAY 2.30.
CHARLES RAY in
THE SON OF HIS FATHER.
ANN PENNINGTON in
THE ANTICS OF ANN.
Prices as usual.
It is Different
It is more, it is distinctive, and so adds to distinction and
dress effect.
There is jewellery and jewellery. Some jewellery blends
with and is the finishing touch to a lady’s costume. Some
jewellery is simply a vulgar plaster on a gown.
Some jewels are art effects; some jewellery is purely
ostentatious show.
The approved designs are supplemented by our own
trained Artists, and so of our jewellery it is said “it is
different.
Price, too, we watch, and, as actual makers, are able to
keep down to a minimum.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltii
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain figures.
Cash only.
23 & 25
Street.
Choice Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum, on
Platinum front
Necklet and fine
Gold Chain,
£lO/10/-
Fine Diamonds and
Australian whole
Pearls, set in Platinum,
with Gold Chain
Necklet,
£lO/10/-
T) EMINGTON UMC cartridges
are made and tested for every
standard make of pistol and revolver.
Their uniform accuracy and absolute
reliability make them the favourites
among shooters of this class of fire-
arm, whether used by the expert marks-
man or by the casual purchaser for
self-defence and safety.
REWHJH?"PISTOL
CARTRIDGES
Write for special booklet
free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
Box 686. G. P. 0.. MELBOURNE
B-l
\42v
THE MERIT OF A “PLUM”
is best appreciated by the man who has tried all other sorts of Razors
before discovering the “Plum” masterpiece. All the science in the
world can’t make a keener blade, or one that keeps its edge so long.
SEND FOR A “PLUM” RAZOR TO-DAY.
PRICE 10/O—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor. Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG &AITKEN,
<354 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
Amusements. ,
H A L L, ” MELBOIKNE.
ENGLAND’S FOREMOST RECITER.
THE INCOMPARABLE
ALEXANDER WATSON
in
A Short Extension of Season.
Change of Programme Every Evening.
3/~, 2/-, 1/-. Box Plan at Glen’s.
CARLYLE SMYTHE.
TJ O U T II E A T K E, M ELBODK N fc.
Direction BEN k JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY, i
FULLER’S ALL STAR VAUDEVILLE.
Aubrey and Riche, Boy Bonham, Ray Traynor,
Phrozo, Ley wood and Norell, Billy Seaton, Baron
the Ventriloquist, Murray Livingston, etc.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
|y| LIEsTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE CRISIS,
A THRILLING ADAPTATION OF WINSTON
CHURCHILL’S NOVEL.
Matinfes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
gIUTANMA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, XI a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
jyjlo77lsA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
Business Notices.
r
THEOXYGEtI
TOOTH POv/DES
A Lifetime of
Good Teeth.
Good teeth are the sponsors of good
looks through advancing years.
"the oxygen
TOOTH POWDER..
keeps the teeth sound and.strong. You
should use Calox, to a]tpreciate its
purifying action. The oxygen which
is liberated penetrates everywhere—
into all crevices where fermenting
food matter lodges. Germs are
destroyed at once and the arimary
cause of decay removed.
Every part of mouth and teeth is
sterilised, refreshed, sweetened and
kept free from destructive acids by
the constant use of Calox.
Calox is obtainable from
ALIi CHEMISTS AND
LEADING STORES.
F.28/5/’lB.
(ftcKSfr)
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDER,
The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone, for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
and happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
oid, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for
old and young.
Purely
Vegetable.
CARTERS
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
1
Small Pill—Small Doee— Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
/jtCrtT&otrct'
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Moy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/-. per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under r’ain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CEAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Eitab. 1891.


Painful Eczema
For Two Years
Pimples All Over Forehead* Irri-
tation Caused Wakeful Nights*
Cuticura Healed.
“Fortwoyears I had eczema. Pimples
broke out all over my forehead and they
were red and inflamed and
the irritation caused me
wakeful nights. They be-
came very painful, itching
and burning.
‘ ‘I saw Cuticura Soap and
Ointment advertised so I
sent for samples. I bought
more and in 18 days my
forehead was rid of any eruption. ”
(Signed) J. Mayhew, Clarendon, S. A.
If you have a poor complexion im-
prove it by using Cuticura Soap daily
and Cuticura Ointment occasionally.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address :
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
-5
CHRISTIE^
SPECIAL/<s£
TWO
LINES
S
|# 5
WQIT'E
FOR
KtZ
mm
» - «
i*
IM
MN
mm
am
‘jm.tmm
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
The STRAND
520 GEORG E5 T SYDNEY
lC /iO/MTER <§' r NEWCASTLE
ELEY
fCARTRI DCESs
Always Reliable
ELEY ‘Comet’
A deep-shell, dark green
•cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 grain) Smokeless Powder
and lis oz. shot
ELEY 32
S. & W.
Revolver
ELEY
25
Automatic
i*
ELEY 310
Cadet Smokeless
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS.L" LONDON
{it
f
I/M.
3
A |» §
:
9 ig
I
I % «_:
**Before / Sit in a Chair I Like to Know Whether It Has
Been Polished with an Oily Substance or with
TV/TOST LIQUID POLISHES remain on the
iVI surface, gathering every bit of dust and
dirt and soiling the hands and clothing. Dis-
criminating housewives add to the comfort of
family and guests by polishing their furniture
with Johnson’s Prepared Wax
“The Dust-Proof Polish”
Johnson’s Prepared Wax imparts a perfectly hard,
dry, glasslike polish of great beauty and durability.
It never becomes soft or sticky in the hottest weather
or from the heat of the body. Consequently it does
not gather dust or show finger prints.
Polish All Your Furniture
—including the piano and organ with Johnson’s
Prepared Wax. You will be surprised at the won-
derful improvement. It gives Craftsman Furniture
that soft, artistic polish so appropriate to this style.
It entirely removes the cloudiness from Mahogany,
restoring its original gloss.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping dining room tables bright and tempting.
Hot dishes have no effect whatever on it.
Every family has dozens of uses for Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Keep
a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos.
Floors
Piano
Furniture
Woodwork
Motor Car
mZ
Obtainable from all good Dealers —or
- ■ Use this Coupon for Trial Tin - - - -
I enclose 6d. for trial tin of I j
Johnson’s Prepared Wax L J
sufficient for a good test. Also send book
on Home Beautifying, free and postpaid.
Name
Address
I usually buy from
Fill Out this Coupon and Post to
s. c. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
Xwo or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the mouth produce a
most soothing' and cura-
tive effed in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma (Si All Chest
Affections.
16 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
* who will forward post iree.
a
m
m
m
w r
( \
[2
The Inky Way.
“Old Sawbones”: Twenty-five years ago
a Newcastle doctor was elected alderman
oil the Hamilton Council. He was somewhat
Scotch ; and, more in fun than in hope, his
giddy confreres at the Newcastle Hospital
put it to him that to mark his elevation he
should give a dinner. As he did not respond
his young medico-friends wrote a compre-
hensive account of the banquet that never
was eaten. The complimentary speeches
were beautiful. Those in the know were
lately overjoyed to find in the “Twenty-four
Years Ago” column of the Newcastle Herald
a reproduction of their epic of the ’9o’s. The
victim of the jest is now in London and per-
haps he has not seen it; but Dr. Treloar,
who was the principal reporter for the func-
tion, probably had better luck, for Sydney is
not so far away.
* » * *
Gone into camp, H. M. Green, one of Syd-
ney Telegraph’s young men, and for two
years past writer of the paper’s War Notes.
Green, coming out of Sydney Uni., joined the
S. M. Herald, and has done 10 years’ press-
work, including acres of good, thoughtful
stuff for his papers, and, as an early and
strenuous member of the A.J.A., a good deal
also for the still miserably underpaid pro-
fession.
“Ivanpere”; Don’t you believe “Copy
Boy”—the daily-paper men never combined
to send Bent to Coventry for discourtesies,
for the very good reason that Tom was the
most good-natured and considerate politician-
in-power with whom reporters had to deal.
Good copy was often obtainable from him
while he held office as Minister, Chairman
of the Railway Committee, Speaker or Pre-
mier, and many a time he knew that he
could get no limelight out of it, because the
information, supplied as an act of friendli-
ness, was “early” or a little in advance of
the official announcement. Bent could be
drawn aside for a moment from a group that
had been sitting in secret conference, and
he would be. civil and prevent you making
blunders if he could not tell you what had
been done. He would reply to a note sent
in to him in Cabinet or conference, or when
he could not leave the table of the House;
and he .would not growl if he had to answer
a pressman’s ring at his front door at 1 a.m.
* * * *
“Wart”: There is talk of the employees
taking over the Launceston Daily Tele-
graph, and there is more talk of the Labor
party buying into it. The last crisis it had
was about 15 years ago.
**■*•*
“Casual” : When Hughes left for England
he took with him as press-agent a re-
porter named Dumas, who becomes a Gov-
ernment servant —permanent. Now, Hughes
is one of the most insistent on the call of
preference to returned soldiers, yet although
several capable returned men applied for the
position they did not get a look-in, and not
only was a returned warrior not appointed,
but the appointment went to a young man
who on appearances is an eligible. Thus
does Hughes win the war when it affects his
own private comfort and convenience.
* * •* *
Died of wounds in France, at 26, Private
W. F. Walton, part-proprietor of the Emma-
ville (N.S.W.) Argus. He had swallowed the
dust of the Inky Way in Junee, Liverpool,
Inverell, Narrabri and Bellinger before he
reached the Argus three years ago. His
father, W. J. Walton, owned the Narrabri
Age, and there the boy had a sound all-
round training. He was an expert shorthand
writer, but that didn’t prevent him being a
good pressman. When the call came he
had to battle with the recruiting officers
three times before they stood aside.
* * * *
“Gallery Hand” : The South got a bright
example of Brisbane newspaper methods on
May 10, when Orchard, Minister for Re-
cruiting. addressed a meeting, presided over
by the Governor, at the Exhibition Hall.
This is how the press message came to Mel-
bourne and Sydney: —
Mr. Orchard said he wished to pay a special tribute
to the Premier, Mr. Ryan. (A ripple of surprise
ran round the audience at this tribute, and there
was ironic laughter in some quarters.)
That sort of guff may seem smart enough
to the local party heelers, but it is painful
to people who are not concerned in petty
local squabbles, and want large, national
views and the information on which to base
them. Almost as exasperating is the Adel-
aide Register’s habit of always describing
the Labor party as the “Socialist” party; so
that after the recent election readers of the
Argus, for instance, discovered that there
were two parties in S. Aus.—described as
“N.” and “S.” Neither Brisbane nor Adel-
aide can help being “provincial.” But I do
protest against the Melbourne and Sydney
papers giving us the petty view from the
southern and northern villages.
THE LOT AUSTERE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
In liquid blue the barges dream;
A glowing palace fronts the day,
’Mid hills where cascades glance and gleam,
And gardens where the wood-doves play;
And peacocks greet the splendid dawn
From sculptured vase and marbled lawn.
The fair Hayee—her orbs profound
As woodland night, and lips as red
As fabled fruit in Ghilan found,
Where crimson blooms of Shiraz shed
Their tender hearts—in shadow lies,
With jewels lit like tigers’ eyes.
From terraced ground where broods her lord
His hundred dancing girls among
Comes faintest song in fair accord
With that tranced vale where Peace has swung
Her drowsy sap from listless wings
O’er hill, and flower, and dreaming things.
Now secretly on velvet feet
Her lover steals from rose to rose.
His dear one. .. .“Scott! Who’s frying meat?
And can I write, do you suppose,
With brats cavorting everywhere,
And rubbing treacle in my hair?”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


Edison BlueAmberol
Records for May.
A glance down the list this month will give gratification
to owners of cylinder instruments, and any choice made
will be a fine addition to their present library of vocal
or instrumental music.
The Concert Records are ably presented by that great
artist Arthur Middleton (and chorus), with “America
(My Country 'Tis of Thee),” and Guido Ciceolini, who
is responsible for a grand Italian number. “Mamma mia,
die vo’ sape?” (E. Nutile).
The popular list contains some splendid vocal selec-
tions including “Dreams,” by Carolina lazzari, contralto
(with orchestral accompaniment), “ ’Twtrs Only an
Irishman’s Dream” (George Wilton Ballard), and “In
the Garden” (Apollo Quartet).
There are two first-class marches —sure to have a
big following—Marche Lorraine (Creatore and his
band), and Sousa’s “Stars and Stripes Forever.” ren-
dered by the Imperial Marimba Band.
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28267—America (My Country ”i'is of Thee).
Baritone, orch. acc.
Arthur Middleton and Chorus.
28208—Mamma min, che vo’ supe? E. Nutile.
Tenor, in Italian, oreh. acc.
Guido Ciccolini.
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
3174—Have a Heart Waltzes, for Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
3177 —Marche Lorraine.
Creatore and his Band.
3179 — I'm so Busy—Have a Heart. Soprano
and Tenor, orch. aec.
Kachael Grant and Billy Murray.
3180— Aloha Sunset Land.
Waikiki Hawaiian Orchestra.
3182—Morning, Noon and Night in Vienna
Overture. Xylophone, orch. ucc.
George Hamilton Green.
3184—1 n the Garden. Male Voices, orch.
aec. Apollo Quartet.
3187—Ha\;e a Heart —One-Step, for Dancing.
Jaudas’ Band.
3188:—Buzzin’ the Bee. Tenor and Baritone,
orch. aec.
Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan.
3194 Como Out of the Kitchen, Mary Ann.
Comedienne, orch. acc.
Ada Jones and Chorus,
3199 -Honor Thy Father and Mother (And
Good Luck Will Follow You). Tenor,
orch. acc. Manuel Ilomain.
3200 —Valley of Love. Violin, Violoncello,
Flute and Piano.
Ansonia Instrumental Quartet.
3202 Stars and Stripes Forever, March.
Sousa. Imperial Marimba Band.
3203 — Medley of American Patriotic Airs.
New York Military Band.
3204 — Silver Bay. Mixed Voices, oreh. acc.
Metropolitan Quartet.
3205 — ’Twas Only an Irishman’s Dream.
Tenor, oreh. acc.
George Wilton Ballard.
3206 Silver Threads Among the Gold.
Xirnbaloni, Pianoforte by Olga M.
Bibor. M. Nagry.
3207"—Would You Take Back the Love Y r ou
Gave Me? Tenor, oreh. acc.
Emory B. Randolph.
3208 — Dreams. Contralto, oreh. acc.
Carolina Lazzari.
3209 Vera —Valse Lente. Lithgow.
Sodero’s Band.
3214—American War Songs No. 1.
American Brass Quartet.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale onlw>, 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney
Waterman's
( Ideal)
FoimtaJnPen
*
f Do you like a smooth, free-flowing medium }
Do you like a smooth, free-flowing medium
point ? Or a stub ? Or a fine flexible nib ?
You can obtain a Waterman’s Ideal exactly to
your liking. Once you have it, no more trouble
for many years, perhaps for a lifetime—for with care
Waterman’s Ideal will last a lifetime. Insist on a
Waterman’s Ideal and take your time in choosing the
right nib. It means a good deal of extra comfort.
Three Types:
Lever Pocket Self-Filling, Safety, Regular.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere .
L G. SLOAN, LTD., the Pen Corner,
London, England.
Australia: HAROLD D. DIXON,
10S Clarenoe Street,
Bydney.
NIBS TO SUIT ALL HANDS
4HS*
isassrriS
of 'all Chemists
Horlick's is absolutely pure
because it comes to you
pasteurised.?
Horlick’s will refresh you more than anything
else you can take, and will assist nature to
build bone, nerve and muscle.
MALTED MILK
Sample
of 2d.
and Go.,
Sydney,
be sent on receipt
in stamps.—Hutchinson
Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street,
N.S.W.I 1
try it at ,
the, Soda fountain*
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravish er erf lielniur ». win icithov
lifting a hand?
EVERY KIND OF SPORT and
RECREATION Catered For.
TENNIS
WE HAVE LONG BEEN RECOGNISED AS THE LEAD-
ING SUPPLIERS OF REQUISITES FOR THE GAME.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap 6/-
C. 8.8. Special 9/6
C. 8.8. Cork Handle .. 13/6
C. 8.8. Quadruple .... 15/6
C. 8.8. Double Strung 18/-
Haymarket 22/6
Havmarket Selected... 35/-
Haymarket Ex. Special 40/-
Avre’s Handicap 17/6
Ayre’s A 1 19/-
Ayre’s Champion ...
Ayre’s S.N.D
Slazengqr’s Demon ...
Slazenger’s lch Dien
Slazenger’s Whitehouse
Slazenger’s E.G.M. ...
Slazenger’s Doherty ..
Slazenger’s Stadium
Prosser’s Phenomenon .
Davis Riseley
27/6
50/-
26/-
30/-
36/-
46/-
50/-
55/-
55/-
55/-
(Postage on Racket —N.S.W., 9d ; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Each.
17-
Grey, Junior
Challenge, covered I/O
Reach Tournament 1/9
Doz.
8/6
17/0
18/0
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Champion 2/1 24/-
Ayie’s Champion 2/2 25/-
Slazenger’s Champ. 2/2 25/-
Spalding's Champ. 2/2 25/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/- ; other States, 1/8.)
TENNIS NETS.
Full size, well made —
7/6, 13/6, 18/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
PRESSES. MARKERS. TAPES & ALE SUNDRIES STOCKED.
RACKETS RE-STRUNG AND REPAIRED.
SPORTMC REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.-*!
iuns, Killes, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges,
i
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 8/0
C. 8.8., napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms 10/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laped palms, 6 or 8 oz 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz ». 14/6, 17/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
G or s oz 16/6, 20/-, 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, G or
So/. 24/-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced *
palms, G or 8 oz 25/-, 30/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” officially adopted and exclusively
used bv Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Personally recommended by Mr. Keg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker.. 2776
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed, 60z... 35/-
(Postage on One Set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 6/6
~ Best napa, „ „ .... 7/6
„ Tan Leather, „ g/0
very superior, „ 10/6
Laced, „ „ 12/6. 15/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
Tin. wide (Post 4d.) 7/6 each
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 3/6 & 4/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3ioz. (Post 6d.) 17/6 pair
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOLINE 9d.
TIN
(POST FREE).
7
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Ralls. A few minutes each day at Rail Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7/6, 10/6
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-18/6, 22/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable 'and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 40 /„
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 10/6, 12/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 2/9, 3/9, 4/0 P r. Mitts . . . 2/6 pr-
Punching Platforms 35/-, 50/-, 90/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 »
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/9, 4/6, 5/- ..
3/9, 4/6, 5/-
FOR SMOKERS .
ZIG-ZAG CIGARETTE TOBACCO, higliest-grade imported. Very mild. Will not
dry the throat. Famed for its quality and purity. lozr packet, with book of
cigarette papers . 9d. (post free).
SUXOL TOBACCO, highest-grade Virginian, natural aroma. Awarded 4 gold medals.
To be had in Plug and Cut: Dark, 7/9 lb. (post free) ; Bright. 8/3 lb. (post free).
Send for copies of “Can’t B Beat” Sportsman’s Guide ( B 1) and “Sure Catch” 1918
Angler’s Guide ( B 2). All Sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
IC.
immons ftf,
. -
mSTRTILm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle d Brisbane j


Ifis* MOLLIE COWBROUGII (from a photo).
Miss Mollie Cowbrough is one of
Australia’s best-known stock
actresses. She has played ingenue,
character, heavy and boy parts with
the Brandon-Cremer Dramatic Co.
or the Dix-Baker Dramatic Players.
Her many admirers will be glad to
hear what she says:—
Dear Sirs, —
I want to tell you what
I think of Re&ona and
Rexona Soap. I was first
recommended to try Rex-
ona, for I was told it
was a magnificent reviver
for strained and tired
muscles of the face after
make-up, and I found it
was excellent. I then at
once obtained some Rexona
Soap, thinking' that if the
Rexona was so good, the
Rexona Soap would be
likewise, and I was not
disappointed. I have been
using both of them for
some time, and cannot
speak too highly of them.
I now buy Rexona Soap
by the box—it is so de-
lightful and refreshing,
and is so beneficial to the
skin. For the hair it is
simply grand—makes it
soft and silky. I can
assure you I much appreci-
ate it.
TRY THE REXONA
TREATMENT.
With kindest wishes for
Rexona, I am,
Yours sincerely,
(S K d.)
MOL.LIE COWBROUGH.
Rexona Soap and Oint-
m e n t are universal
favorites with everyone
who values a pure and
healthy skin. The longer
you neglect your skin the
harder it will he to care
for it. Delay may result
in Eczema, Ringworm,
Running Sores, or some
of the many and un-
pleasant forms that skin
trouble so often assumes.
Rexona the Rapid Healer
and Rexona Soap are
sure preservatives for the
health and skin. Rexona Soap
keeps the skin soft and pure, anti
Rexona the Rapid Healer will im-
mediately eradicate any disease
which may be apparent, for it
arouses the skin to healthy activity
so that it quickly recuperates.
Buy a tablet of Rexona Soap from
your Chemist or Storekeeper. It is
beautifully put up and sold at 1/-
per tablet, or you can get it in
boxes, containing three tablets in a
box. Rexona is supplied only in
triangular pots at 1/6; or in larger
pots, holding nearly four times the quantity, at 8/-
■J/ Seo*»t,M,
7/ \
/Anhfttphi Oinfntonh
punff* <j AsJolurel>
t H*4ls J Rtl t ftb| #
— -~£zr*
6»<a i*^
ill
□
m
REXONA,
1/6 and 3/-
REXONA SOA”,
V-
UREIKEROyEHE
bjW2 WrMfelLSfM
n si
WHEN mother
tells the “tiny
tads” their
evening “ tale,” it is
“ Laurel ” that lights
and warms the room.
Mother is wise.
She knows the won-
derfully soft, yet
brilliant light that
“ Laurel ” gives will
never harm her kid-
dies’ or her own eyes.
And because “Laurel”
is a non-flickering,
non-smoking and non-
odorous kerosene,
economical to buy and
unequalled for light-
ing, heating and cook-
ing, mother never
bothers with glaring
electric light or gas.
When Mother goes
to the Grocer’s, she
doesn’t say “ Kero-
sene”—she asks for
“ Laurel.”
Vacuum Oil Co.
Pty. Ltd.
Throughout A ustralasia
L.R 5
I
The Horseman.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
night was as still as death;
By the arch of its purple spanned
•*" The broken trees stood gaunt in the
shell-torn land;
From far and far away came the mutter of
guns, ■
But here Earth seemed for a moment to hold
her breath
As she shielded her sleeping sons.
Where high on the ridge the -white
Cold crosses their vigil kept,
In serried ranks Death’s pale battalion
slept;
And like a flag outflung from some dark
tower
In spangled fold on fold o’er the edge of the
night
The proud stars guarded the hour.
Then suddenly—as at morn
On a sleeping camp a bugle breaks—
The neigh of a horse that tugged at his
picket-stakes
Across the silence echoed and died away,
A lonely cry, from the heart of a comrade
torn,
For a comrade lost in the fray.
A passionate cry: as loud and shrill,
As eerie and desolate a call,
As might.have.rung through the heroes’ steel-
hung hall
Had the Pale Horse himself, cold and unfed,
Lifted his voice beneath that haunted terrible
hill
And whinnied his need to the Dead.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILLVIE.
The Check Suit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
BIG black clouds were rolling up from
the south, with intermittent crashes
of thunder, sharp streaks of lightning
and other accompaniments, as Murty Brown
rode towards Muddle’s farm. He was en-
joying the atmospheric change, and watching
the black cockatoos flying from tree to tree
along the bank of a reedy lagoon,. when, at
the tail of the crying cohort, his eyes sud-
denly lit on a bearded person whose appear-
ance gave him a momentary shock. The
stranger carried a gun in one hand and a
brace of ducks in the other, and his dress
consisted only of hat, boots and a singlet.
He was a man of about Murty’s height, but
younger and sturdier, and had an aspect just
then of aggressive unfriendliness, which
urged Murty to push along to avoid the
coming rain. But the man in the singlet
bailed him up.
~ rWfrflb sort of a caper do you call
this? he demanded. “Just peel ’em off
again quick an’ lively.”
“Peel what off?” asked Murty.
“That check suit o’ mine you’ve got on,”
said the aggressive person. “Do you think
good suits like that are put down for you
to pick up?”
Murty’s astonishment was mingled with
anxiety. The semi-nude gentleman was
apparently subject to dangerous delusions.
“You’re makin’ a mistake, old man,” he
said in a conciliatory tone. “What would
I be doin’ with your suit?”
i “You’ve got it on, that’s what you’re
doin’ with it,” roared the man with the
unclothed legs.
“Get out! You’ve got beetles in your
socks, man,” said Murty. “You’ve got a suit
just like this, 1 suppose, an’ you’ve mislaid
it somewhere.”
“I know d —d well where I mislaid it,”
the claimant returned, with fierce gestures.
D you think I don’t know my own suit
when I see it?” ~ . - -
“You don’t, that’s evident,” said Murty.
‘How do you make out it’s yoiirs, anyway ?”
The claimant jerked his thumb in the
direction of the lagoon. “I was strippin’
off in the bushes down there to swim after
a duck I’d shot, when a mob settled behind
the reeds farther up, an’ I slipped me boots
on again to go after ’em, leavin’ th’ suit
under the bushes. An’ when I get back it’s
gone—an’ here’s you wearin’ it!” He threw
the ducks down arid leaned the gun against
a sapling, at the same time seizing a rein
with one hand to prevent Murty getting
away. “Now then, what about it?”
Murty laughed mirthlessly, as if he was
amused at the mistake. The claimant’s
cocksureness was certainly extraordinary.
“Show me w’here you left it —or think you
left it,” he temporised. “Perhaps I can find
it.”
“That’s no good to me,” said the man
whose legs were bare. “Here! Just take
’em off. an’ you’ll see th’ name sewed on
under the collar of the vest.”
; Confident of being able to convince him of
his error, Murty promptly took off the coat
and vest —and the other promptly grabbed
them. “There’s the name!” he cried tri-
umphantly. “On the coat too.”
“That’s ‘lvlinker’s Emporium’—the name
o’ the shop where I bought ’em,” gasped
Murty. “You pass ’em back here.”
“You pass me them trousis. They’re
mine, an’ you know d —d well they are.
Come oh; I’ve had enough argument.”
He grasped Murty suddenly by the arm
and dragged him out of the saddle. The
horse pulled back in affright, and in the
tussle Murty was upset. Whilst he hung
on to the reins, and protested loudly and
vigorously against the outrage, he was de-
nuded of the remaining garment by main
force.
“Well, by cripes, you’re the dead limit!”
gasped Murty, as the robber proceeded to
dress himself with an equally injured air.
“You’re the two ends an’ the middle of a
blamed ass, that’s what you are. You’ll pay
for this, you take it from me. Th’ suit isn’t
your size. Fits you too soon everywhere.
Isn’t that enough for you?”
The duckshooter looked a bit doubtful. He
stretched his arms and shook his legs and
eyed himself up and down ; finally he scowled
on the victim and departed in sulky silence. ,
“Don’t think you’ve seen the last o’ me,
you fathead!” Murty called after him. “By
cripes, I’ll make it hot for you before I’m
done with yer.”
The duck-shooter took no notice, and soon
he disappeared in the bushes. Murty sat
on a log for awhile, digesting the situation.
His appearance was more remarkable now
than the thief’s had been. His white shirt,
starched collar, scarlet necktie and polished
boots accentuated the unfinished state of his
toilet. When he had mounted he was con-
scious of an aggravated grotesqueness.
He decided at once that he couldn’t visit
his friends until he had called somewhere
and borrowed a new veneer of decency to
go on with. Further reflection showed that
he couldn’t call anywhere until he had
dressed himself. The residences about there
belonged to farmers, and he remembered
what a lot of young people they mustered
among them. He couldn’t go back to town.
The only course was to wait for night. Even
then, being of a sensitive nature, he shrank
from the thought of letting his friends know
of his humiliation. They would laugh about
it for the rest of their days. He would be
the joke of the district, if not an object of
everlasting ridicule. Still, he had to resume
the role of a respectable citizen somehow.
He had been riding slowly through the
bushes along the lagoon during these reflec-
tions. The rain was pelting down, and the
wind was whipping the tail of his wet
shirt icily about his loins. Streams of water
ran down his legs, and bubbled up again out
of his bortts. He pulled up among the bushes,
sitting with bowed head and shivering limbs,
heroically defying the elements. It looked
the most dismal spot on earth to stop at,
but the bushes acted as a wind-break, and
they were the only available substitutes for
trousers.
As a strong gust bowed the bushes in
front of him, he glimpsed a crouching form
under a leaning tree some little -distance
away. The sight electrified him. He slipped
from the saddle, and darted through the drip-
ping vegetation with the grim manner and
look of an assassin.
A closer view assured him that the
crouching form was wearing the stolen suit.
The gun stood behind the robber, in a little
hollow out of the raiu. With a scintillating
eye fixed on the barrel, Murty stepped
stealthily and smartly to the rear, the rain
and thunder drowning his A grin
relaxed the tenseness of his expression as he
planted himself on the opposite side of the
tree, where he waited till the storm had
rumbled past.
The other man straightened himself up,
and presently reached round for the gun.
Instead of finding it standing in the hollow,
hq saw it pointing at him, with a fierce eye
squinting murder along the barrel.
“Off with ’em, you cow !” Murty roared at
him, at the same time making a threatening
movement with the firearm.
The man in the suit gave an involuntary
jump, then turned sharply and ran for hn
natural life.
Murty had expected meek obedience, i Foi
a moment he stared after thb runaway in
dismay. Then he rushed bacli to his horse,
flew into the saddle and galloped in pursuit.
The rain had ceased, but there was a frolic-
some wind, which played impishly with his
riding attire as he got up pace.
He had not gone very far when he ob-
served old Mrs. Dougherty, a tall, bony
farmer’s wife, driving across his path a little
ahead of him. He pulled his hat down and
kept on his way, grimly determined to over-
take the suit.
The clatter of hoofs brought the old
woman’s head round, and immediately after
it was jerked upward as if she had sat on a
pin. She half-rose from her seat, shook and
pulled the reins with frantic impatience and
whacked the dozing quadruped hard with a
long stick. The moke gave a startled plunge ;
Mrs. Dougherty sat back suddenly, and
losing her balance turned a somersault out
of the cart. She was- on her feet again in
an instant, and with her hat and a plaster
of mud hanging to her hair dashed after the
retreating cart.
Murty clattered by, being now close on the
heels of his panting quarry. Just beyond the
ground dipped, and in the hollow he dis-
covered a charcoal-burner’s camp. This was
the fugitive’s haven, and for an instant or
two Murty hesitated; but seeing no sign of
life about the habitation, he dug his heels in
and rode on.
Charcoal was sitting in the tent, enjoying
a contemplative smoke. At the first sight of
the breathless man charging down on him,
and the armed apparition in hot pursuit, he
started up in amazement, and . the pipe
dropped from his mouth. He stared with
bulging eyes till he could hear the panting
of the pursued, and then he dived under the
back of the tent, and made off towards a
patch of scrub as fast as two bandy legs
could carry him. The pursued staggered in
and dropped helplessly on to Charcoal’s
tucker-box. Murty almost immediately
pulled up at the door, fell off in his hurry
to dismount, and charged in after him.
“Now, then, you blithering idiot,” he
snorted, making demonstrations with the gun,
“off with ’em, quick an’ lively !”
“Hold on!” the other man appealed,
breathing hard.
“Hold on, be d—d!” snapped Murty. “Get
out of ’em, or I’ll blow you out. A spifli-
cated galoot like you ought to be in the
asylum—or else in gaol. D’you hear ? Get a
hurry on.”
“Not so fast, mate,” pleaded the other. He
pointed to a new check suit which lay in a
careless bundle on Charcoal’s bunk. “Whose
is that?”
Murty picked it up. It was similar in every
way to the one in dispute, except that it was
a size bigger. In one coat-pocket were five
cartridges.
“Know anything about these?” asked
Murty, holding them out in his hand.
The, other man’s face changed. “Well,
well!” he said, jerking his head and staring
at the find. “Well, well!”
“What th’ blazes am I to make of ‘well,
well’?” Murty demanded, irascibly. “Are
these things yours?”
(Continued on next page.)


WEAR BACKS.
Backache is really kidney ache ; the
ache comes from the kidneys, which
lie just beneath the small of the back.
When the back is weak and lame—
when it “cricks” if you turn sharply,
or stoop —when it burns with a burn-
ing ache, and keeps you awake half
the night —when you cannot bend
without a stab-like pain taking you —
when it makes hard work of the least
task —when it sets the whole body,
every limb and muscle, aching—give
your kidneys help at once in Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills. Doan’s Pills
are a special kidney and bladder
medicine ; they give strength and
tone to the kidneys themselves, and
so cure the cause of backache.
Though backache is one of the
most common signs of kidney com-
plaint, there are other equally certain
symptoms, such as gravel, rheumatic
pains, watery swellings in the ankles
and beneath the eyes, urinary
troubles, dizzy spells, pains in the
limbs, spots before the eyes, sallow
complexion, etc.
Doan’s I.lls flush out the liquid
poison that causes these symptoms,
and so protect you from the fatal
Bright’s disease and dropsy.
''EveryPicture
TellsAStory
y
y
rr
rt
LA.
&
s,
1
!/
r'
«v>
Mytack is my weakest spot’
Sydney Man’s Lasting
Cure.
BACKACHE, URINARY DISORDER AND
DROPSICAL SWELLINGS.
Mr. Jas. C. Struck, Glen Ayr, 17 Clarence
Street, Sydney, says: “Seven years ago I was very
ill with a bad attack of disordered kidneys, caused,
I think, through me doing a lot of heavy work,
which in some way must have strained these deli-
cate organs. I suffered excruciating agony from
backache, and was at times so bad that I could
hardly move. Everything I had to do was a
trouble, and I was miserable and depressed. To
make matters worse my rest at night was much
disturbed, and I used to get up in the morning
feeling worn out. The kidney secretions were
thick and cloudy and contained a red sediment,
and my ankles swelled to twice their usual size,
being sore if I even touched them. I went on
suffering in this way for a long time, nothing I
took doing me any good, but at last I got the right
remedy, and that was Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. After taking two bottles of these pills I
felt much relieved, and by the time I had finished
eight bottles I was completely cured and felt a
different man. lam never troubled with back-
ache now, and my secretions are in a healthy state.
I attribute this to the good Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills did me nearly seven years ago.’’
Six years later, Mr. Struck says: “The cure
referred to above has proved permanent. I need
say no more, the speak for themselves.”
Be Sure You Get “DOAN'S”
LIKE MR. STRUCK HAD.
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by
all chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per
bottle, or post free by Foster-McClellan Co.,
76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
fIT That s my suit all right,” was the answer,
it was that Charcoal scroucher who pinched
I knew he was no chop.”
A nice sort of a feller you are, ain’t yer?”
sneered Murty. "S’elp me, a man can’t cross
a i P, addoc k without bein’ stuck up for his
clobber. Dead sure it was yours, too, wern’t
you ?”
"I’m d—d sorry, old man,” said the other,
commencing to disrobe. "But never mind.
When I round up Charcoal, I’ll give him
something for gettin’ you into this fix. That
cove ought to get six months.”
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
" You Go Back.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
WHEN Hinton took to drink he was,
as the women said, a lost man, and
he knew it; but when he married
that dark-eyed beauty, Mina Matana, the
prettiest Papuan in the Eastern Division, or,
as McMahon called it, the Garden of Papua,
he passed the rubicon. So the women said
again, and, of course, they knew.
Anyhow, giving a plantation life best, he
united into the somewhat precarious calling
ot trader. Mina had known him in better
days, m spite of the fact that she was edu-
cated at the Mission, and when he asked her
*-° *‘ ve with him at Tewa she consented.
The Magistrate, however, was the stum-
bling block: lie refused to sanction the illicit
love affair, and in n moment of pique and
recklessness Hinton married her.
He had sunk so low, why equivocate over
sinking still lower?—if to marry a superior
mind and body is to sink lower; for she was
his superior at that time.
However, being tired of the’fight, he did
not weigh the pros and cons of,the matter,
but took her to Tewa, where the mimosa
grows, and there, forgetting the world
‘‘where wise men live at'ease,” he settled
lumself down to follow the line of least
resistance.
Hut he had reckoned without Mina.
Whether it was because she loved him or not
you shall judge. She fought him at every
turn. She hid the stuif, misunderstood his
orders, and sometimes openly defied him.
Needless to say there were arguments. And
once there were blows—but only once. The
stoical acceptance of ,the hurts and the in-
difference to the blood that ran down into
her mouth, stabbed him so, that the horror
of the thing dawned even on his tortured
mind; and Mina never suffered physically
again.
A year went by, and Tewa was trans-
formed from a trader’s hut into a home,
while Hinton looked gloomily on. The only
time he took interest in things was when he
returned from Samarai, the burning desire
requited to. the full extent of his purse. On
these occasions he would lavish praise on the
efforts of his girl wife, and tell her he loved
her; which statements she believed —until he
was sober again. He was rarely visibly
drunk.
Thus for a year he lived and traded. Or
I should say he lived; the girl did the
trading-. Yet, in spite of himself, Hinton was
not slipping fast enough. Consequently he
became a taciturn, morbid man, happy only
when indulging in a saturnalia of drunken-
ness, gained by the cunning of a mind per-
verted by desire. But time and again the
girl outwitted him, employing subterfuge
more subtle than his own.
He seemed a beaten man, whose projects
had all gone awry, and he knew Mina was to
blame. He began to fiercely hate her, and
one night, his tongue and tliroat on fire, he
was contemplating the manner of the deed
which he took to be a way out, when she had
quietly told him that she had ‘'become a
woman.”
That simple statement, uttered in the pro-
saic manner of the Papuan, stayed his hand,
and he went outside and drank cup after
cup of water.
On the morrow came news of the war, and
it showed Hinton the way.
It took all the girl’s savings; but he
smothered his conscience by grimly telling
himself that he would soon square the
account, lie was sober when he left Tewa,
and the tearless sobs of the girl annoyed him.
“What have you to cry about?” he
snapped. True enough, what had she to cry
about ?
To do him justice, lie passed himself at the
recruiting office as a married man, and Mina
got her allowance. Once or twice Hinton
sent her money, too; but lie rarely answered
her letters. Sometimes, though, he burnt
them without reading their contents. He was
never going back, so why fan the flames?
* * * *
As he rose from private to lieutenant,
from lieutenant to captain, he, had no oppor-
tunity to “work for the Devil” ; but he had
time to think occasionally, and the thoughts
of his past would lash him like a whip.
The grim resolve to end things had not
materialised, but it had not been for the
want of recklessness on his part; to that
perhaps his rapid promotion was due.
Meanwhile at Tewa a son was born ; and,
of course, the girl must write to let him
know. He happened to open the letter, and
where his eye fell he read:—
Me no lonely now, little Arthur he come; and he
laugh and cry all the time. I tell you this, t don’t
know you glad or you no want him. I think you
want him bye and bye when you see him. I make
plenty money. People bring plenty copra, and some
rnoi.icy 1 buy new things for house.
Before rue ill i put plenty flowers along garden;
and now they come up altogether, and me say
“Arthur he well, he no die in fight.”
Yesterday I read the paper, and I see you Captain
now. I don’t know, me fright now. You forget
Mina and little Arthur. You big soldier now, and
Tewa is too small. I don’t know, mavbe me wrong.
1 think you write me this time, Arthur. Long time
now you no send letter.
Hinton crushed the paper in his fists and
went out to receive orders for the coming
offensive, a strange pain in his temples.
Par away at Tewa, Mina sang in her
garden and nursed her child. Often she
was alone for weeks together, for folks
rarely pass Tewa, but there was plenty to
do. and there were piles of papers to pain-
fully scan.
In her ignorance she read all the columns,
searching until her head ached for the name
of Hinton.
Thus one afternoon, sitting on the veran-
dah with a pile of papers in her lap, she
was disturbed by a man entering the gate.
He told her he was walking to Tapali and
and wanted to spell for a while. Mina did
did not believe him, but she brewed him
some tea and he sat on the verandah and
drank it—and then disclosed the reason of
his visit. For answer, she flung the con-
tents of a cup at him, and fiercely bade him
go. But he was not to be so easily repulsed.
Wiping his clothes he came towards her,
thinking that she could be bought; and the
girl, seeing his purpose, drew back to the
wall where hung a dagger—a curio—made
from the polished bone of a cassowary.
Hinton should have seen her then.
Without taking her eyes from the man,
she felt behind her and slipped the gleaming
weapon from its bracket and waited. The
man hesitated. Then the cry of a child was
heard from the room; he drew back and
went down the steps, and was soon lost to
sight in the evening shadows. Mina went
quickly to her baby.
A month later, or perhaps a little more,
Hinton, now Major, was given a rest in
England on account of “good work.”
He wrote once to his wife, after hearing
about the child, but only to tell her that he
was sending a bigger allowance —through his
agents.
She replied and told him that she did not
want the monev, and that the agents would
put it in the bank. Would he not write
more often; or did he want to forget Tewa?
1 think too much sometimes you no ‘want to come
back. I think you changed now your throat does
not burn. I think you want to go back to your
people. Please tell me, I want bad to know.
To that letter he did not reply.
He was wounded in hospital when the next
one arrived, and there is no place like the
sick-bed for retrospection. He had weakened,
too. and lost some of his grip.
Mina, being a Papuan, • could not be
divorced—an inebngruity of Papuan law.
They were bound irrevocably for all
time. What was he to do? To go back
to her meant to go back to the old level
again; to forsake her altogether would not
set him free. She had saved him, he knew,
and so might claim him ; but he shuddered
at the thought of going back. His return
to men and women of his own class had
widened the gap between him and the dark-
eyed flower; and, being weak, he groaned at
the problem before him.
At that moment a smiling, sweet-faced
nurse approached, on an apparently happy
mission.
“A letter for you, Major Hinton,” she said
and passed him the envelope, bearing his
name and battalion in the handwriting of a
child. Hinton waited until the nurse had
left the room, and then read: —
Arthur, —You no write no more. I wait and wait,
but no letter oome. First I think you die, then I
think you no want me any more. I think you want
to finish with me now you big soldier. You been
changed. Your tongue is not hot now, and you no
want to drink any more. Me understand. You no
want to come back. All right, Arthur, more better
you 110 come back. Little Arthur he die. Close up
me die too. You no wild, me understand. You been
changed.
That decided him. To know peace he must
go back.
Two months later, his wounds healed, he
was in Sydney, honorably discharged from
active service.
He eagerly sought his mail. There were
tw r o letters.
The girl’s contained three lines: —
You go back, Arthur. Little Arthur he die. To-
night me die, too. Me understand. You been
changed. Go back, Arthur!
The agent’s told him the rest. Mina had
kept her word.
RICHARD HUMPHRIES.
Earth Music.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
THE hill standing tall and stark
Stared over his shoulder,
And stolidly grinned ;
Each wrinkle a furrow mark,
Eaqh wart a grey boulder
Bared by the rough tvind.
Knuckling tight, the fierce windfists
Beat thin the last greening;
The hill felt them not.
But watched through the swaying mists
With ominous meaning
One creeping dark spot.
Painfully the man went past •
His wide-spreading acres,
Tilled all the years long.
The hill with a thunder vast
Take harsh winter breakers
Trolled this sounding song:
I have taken his heartflame for toll,
And the light of his eyes
Is a dimness; the dyes
Of my brewing disfigure his jowl.
I have twisted his sinews; his hands
Are but hooks for my soil;
With my harrow of toil
I have tattered his muscles to strands.
I have wasted his woman, and slain
Half his lubberly brood;
With my rack l have screwed
Every neioborn in marrow and vein.
Lo. lie who once walked as a god
Is my chattel—a prone
Soulless mannikin, stone
Of my outcrop and clod of my clod!
But in a far booklined room
Lay, pliantly hellish.
A smooth mortgage draft.
Rustling its parchment womb
It captured with relish
The hill’s boast —and laughed :
The hill is a braggart! My fine
Wae.k hieroglyphs lurk
Where this man-wrecking work
Is encompassed. The Glory is Mine!
MAOKILAND.
O. N. GILLESPIE.


MM*
.
H
'
nsw
SP
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Featheraton Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
$
O
£
£
$
V
*
of-
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
-5
S 3
i
* Nerves ”
Oar nerves are similar to an intri-
cate network of telegraph wires.
Controlled and nourished by a
portion of the brain —known as
the nerve centres —the delicate
threadlike nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres are
capable of continually supplying
nourishment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong and
healthy. But directly the nerve
centres become weakened by
overwork, worry or anxiety, they
are unable to transmit the
necessary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
“on edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump ”
—you get irritable—you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
The Wine oi Lite
Because, being a powerful nerve
food, 4 Wincarnis ’ gets right to
the root of the trouble, and, by
creating a supply of new nerve
force, stimulates and revitalises
the whole nervous system. Try
‘Wincarnis’ for 4 Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis' is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
MONtserraT
SAUCE
dui
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it tbe finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price foi it.
n
'm
7? A
*4-
Have You Tried
a Cycling Holiday?
In congenial company you can
take the most interesting and
delightful routes breaking
your journey just when and
where you desire. Cycling
will double the enjoyment
and benefit of your holiday
besides being much more
economical than the railway.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
“THOROUGHLY BRITISH."
and ensure cycling under perfect
conditions. B.S.A. quality material
and workmanship is known the
world over. Every genuine B.S.A.
Fitting bears die trademark of the
three piled rifles.
B.S.A. FITTINGS ARB GUARANTEES
INTERCHA NGEA BLE.
I
B.S.A. Handbook
Free
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
Beam's Pills
may be relied upon, at all times, to exercise a tonic,
cleansing, healing influence upon the digestive organs.
A sensible use of this well-known specific is generally
all that is needed to relieve and remove those disorders
of the stomach liver and bowels, which are always
associated with dyspepsia in any form. BeechanTs Pills
are unfailing as a corrective and invaluable as a safe
stimulant of that important organ, the liver, upon the
efficient action of which so much depends. As a cure
for constipation and for removing its attendant discom-
forts and dangers there is no more reliable remedy. In
fact, as an aid to health generally, the judicious use of
Beecham s Pills is strongly recommended. They are
fl Boon to HII
Sold in boxes, labelled price lO.jd (36 pills), l/ljs (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
mgs
<1
From the
first mile
to the last
comfort is
ensured to
the cyclist
whose Saddle is a
BROOKS
Ask your dealer for con-
firmation and then test it by
comparison.
SCREWING
R
TACKLE
X
1
lin.
to -iin.
Screws,
lubes,
Bolts,
FOR ECONOMY in all-round
tube-screwing use the time-
saving
OSTER
SCREWING
MACHINES
and save money over hand-
screwing. Furnished in four
sizes for belt- or motor-drive.
Dies and extra parts carried in
stock here. Ask for catalog.
Australasian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT, Box 251, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
THEOSTER MFG. CO., Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
S 5
|A/ each
J| m Post Free
Thousands in Use.
’* I
n
10/-
each
Post Frie
fut l
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Normanby Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,


NGROVSTE
LEATHER
LTI
“THERE’S NOTHING LIRE LEATHER.”
For efficiency under the most trying- condi-
tions no belt has ever given better satisfac-
tion than
“MANGROVITE" RAWHIDE BELTING.
'this famous power-transmitter and power-saver
is dependable under all conditions.
Made from the best hides procurable. Tanned
and Manufactured by the Mangrovite Process.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square, near G.P.0.,
SYDNEY. AUSTRAU*.
*°Le on n ° V
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Kalgroorlie.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide. John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
M
m
Defies Time’s Touch
YU
W
TRWfjWßii
the use of
HARDIES
Fibrolite
(Reg,) Cement
The Australian Asbestos
Cement Sheets
reduces Insurance rates
to 25% less than tho6c
cha rued for wooden
buildings.
“Fibrolite” is also Rust-, Rot-, White-ant- and
Decay-proof.
Send for prices and samples.
James Hardle & Co. Ltd..
Asbestos House,
Corner York and Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at Brisbane aad Adelaide.
S3'
\i
be Sure
Its
■
Wolfe’s
Schnapps
Look For The Name!!
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
SCHIEDAM
SCHNAPPS
ITS
THE
Original !
/There is only
one
WOLFE’S
Schnapps
Two High-class Australian-made Oil Engines.
Our stocks of the popular TANG YE Oil Engines are now low, due to Messrs
Tangyes’ Big Works at Birmingham, England, having some time ago been taken
over by the Munition Authorities for War purposes.
We have, however, negotiated Agencies for Australian-made Engines, which are
most creditable productions, and which we offer with the same decree of
confidence. w
THE “TRIUMPH.”
A vertical-type Benzine or Kerosene Engine, made
in two sizes only, viz., Zl and 5 b.h.p. (Stationary
and Portable). Has Magneto Ignition. Excellent
finish throughout.
THE “STAB,”
portable Horizontal Kerosene Oil Engine, made
three sizes, 65, 8 and JO b.h.p. Has Magneto
nition. It is a High-grade Portable Engine at
a very LOW
. f , DALGETY (Si CO. LTD., Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
Me Machines, Clayton Portable Engines, Tangye Pumps, E.K.B. Separator
etc.
UiNSi^iiiiiiiH
WKI
5» IE
am
79111
911
i
oil HH Hill
■ill
Sheep Shearing machines
are specially dependable
and run without a hitch. Their ease of handling and absolute reliability
have made them popular with both sheep-owner and shearer.
They hold the world’s record for number of sheep shorn annually.
Full details from
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED, Sole Agents ALL BRANCHES.
Laundry Machinery & Supplies.
/• : ;
■-
■ - .
o
We are now manufacturing and have in stock for
immediate delivery complete Laundry Equipment
of the latest English and American design.
Power Washing Machines, Hydro Extractors, Steam
Mangles, Power Ironing Machines, Hand Ironers, etc.
And ALL SUPPLIES for the Laundry Trade.
Call and inspect or write for full descriptive catalog.
LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street; SYDNEY, N.S W.
Constitute
DCSTBUCTOP
mm
THE MOST APPROVED METHOD OF DESTROYING GARBAGE,
Trade, Hospital, Hotel, Household and Garden Rubbish.
We cater for Every Requirement with a Specially Designed Type as follows
Kitchen and House Garbage The “Household” £ 2,2/- Stocked by all Ironmongers.
Garden Weeds and Refuse ... The “Garden.”
Hospitals and Hotels No. 1 Gas Fired.
Factories and Shops No. 1 Self Fired, Nos. 3& 4. Capacities up to 20cwt.
Our Destructors are used by Government Departments, Schools, Factories, Hospitals and Dozens of Private Homes.
Special Installations designed and quoted for.
N.Z. Agents: Messrs. PATTERSON <& ROBERTSON, AucHland.
Call or write for Illustrated Pamphlets, Prices and full data -
N. GUTHRIPGE LTD., City Office, 350 GEORGE STREET (Equitable Building), SYDNEY. Works: CAMPERDOWN,N.S.W.
