

ngWAB’S—SUPERB OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Machinery Merchants,
107
—FOR—
Kent Street,
Minins: and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery,
Specialty
*9
Sydney,
Mining Requisites.
AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
dfg
fg
on all classes of
security
Trade Bills Discounter
TELEPHONE: CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO ‘DAILY TELEGRAPH” NEW BUILDING
And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager
The Montgomerie - Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
is' a sanitary, odorless and germ-proof
System—a modern necessity that is
fast taking the place of the unsightly,
unhealthy, inconvenient outhouse in
the back yard. Over 600 are in use
in N. S. Wales alone. If letters from
satisfied users are any criterion, all
are giving complete satisfaction. You
can instal the system right next to the
house, the effluent being treated by
air so thoroughly that it passes off as
an odorless, harmless gas.
The M.N. system gives city conveni-
ence in country towns—at a very
small outlay. Sizes for homes, hospi-
tals or public institutions. Free booklet
gives particulars. Send for copy.'
MONTGOMERIE - N EIL S 0 N
Sewage Disposal System,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
City 2d76.
#^ D oritAr^ e
fg
Nothing
to Argue
About!'
ti Bsf§
%, * Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
fg
fg
*>. INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
VON
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
/V
The best roofing
for every class of structure—
If it’s a roof, Malthoid will cover it best.
For city flat roofs and low pitched roofs Malthoid is particu-
larly suitable —it gives splendid service, is economical in
cost, fixing and maintenance, and is altogether the most
satisfactory obtainable.
Samples and illustrated booklet post free.
The Paraffine Companies Irvc. (F. M. Prince. Australasian Manager); Chaliis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L D
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions . Road IVletal and Farm Waggons . Portable Steam Engines
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc .
Arthur Ym&dfoie/i, e &
■*» 3 MArHINFRY.
AMERICAN BATCH CONCRETE MIXERS FROM SYDNEY STOCK.
The Famous “AUSTIN”! It Built Panama.
SIZES STOCKED: 6 cubic ft. capacity each batch.
11 cubic ft. capacity each batch.
IT cubic ft. capacity each batch.
CATALOGUES AND FURTHER PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION.
Queensland Enquiries: The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER TUBES.
Manufactured in Canada by the Dominion Copper Products Co. Ltd.
Solid Drawn Tubes—
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles —
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
Sole Representatives—
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 39.—N0. 2014. j
[Thursday, September 19, 1918.
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia; for Transmission by Post aa a Newspaper.


m
a
§
On highway and byway—on
the hardest hill—on the level
stretch —UNDER E V E R Y
CONDITION—y o U’l 1 secure
maximum power and smooth,
untroubled “running," greatest
protection for your engine, and
unmatehable economy, if you
lubricate with National High-
grade Motor Oils.
In remarkable viscosity, high
flash-point and clean-flowing
consistency, National Motor
Oils are not surpassetl.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES
AND STOREKEEPERS.
In 1-gallon tins, 1-gallon tins and
barrels.
Ask also for National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO., LTD
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARIILE & CO.,
Adelaide. ’ A
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his own little way. He likes
and must have—the best.
You cannot be too cautious in
selecting his food. Use a proved
food—a food which has been in
the front rank for many years.
Mellin’s Food is the proved most
efficacious equivalent to Mother's
Milk, and satisfactorily fulfils all the
requirements of an artificial food.
Mellin’s
Fbod
Set out to feed baby tight. Next to breast-feed-
mgr. the Mellin's Feeding Bottle has most advan-
tages. A trial convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin's Food, with Handbook for
Mothers, "The Caro of Infants in Australia,''tree.
Messrs. Golun & Cy. Proprietary, Ltd,
mmm
„ BEST .
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN, ENGINEERS,
Afid Everybody’s Pencil Purpose.
Sold by High-class Stationers.
fg
flquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND;
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from "Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents : —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
HOR ROC USES'
FYasmeletteA
ton
SAFETY
WEAR ANS
COMFORT
SEE
iiORROCKSEG”’i
ON SELVEDGE
BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.’
These are. undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous sti-.in ■
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying infiueme is wmt n‘ i j?" d
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few—the moiv
stoical among us—can avoid worrying over past and „ 111,1
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the rJml'ts
of worry from being noticeable m our appearance T,, ;
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as 'm'
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, ma be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method‘of retain
mg or regaining that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
every woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are. at present not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usuallv he f m .r„l ,
have a small quantity in stock. ■ 1)e toliri{l to
Wrinkles., and How to Remove them.—Worry,
late hours or the passing- of old Father Time
may .cause those - ugly little lines which so
detract from the freshness and charm of a
woman's face; hut the cure is always the
same. Feed the tissues beneath the skin. and
massage them with a reliable skin food, which,
while nourishing the fatty tissues, will not
coarsen the skin nor grow hairs upon the
face, as so many inferior creams do. To
remove the wrinkles, bathe the face with hot
water, wipe it dry, then, while it is still
warm, smear a little mereolized wax over the
whole face, carrying it well down on the neck,
and. with the tips of the fingers, rub it gently
into the pores, working in an upward and
outward direction. Wipe off any superfluous
wax, leaving a little on the skill all - night.
In'■the morning wash off with warm water
and Bilenta soap. The use of the wax not
only feeds t.lie skin, but removes tbe dead
outer . cuticle, giving the fresh young skin
beneath an opportunity to breathe and show
itself.
Begin iful Hair —How to Shampoo.—Whether
the hair is luxuriant and, glossy, or thin and
lanky, depends very largely upon the care
bestowed upon it. To keep ilio hair in good
condition it should be shampooed once in
every two or three weeks. Before shampooing,
massage a little pure olive oil or almond oil
into the scalp, then mix one teaspoonful of
stallax granules in a cup of hot water, fill a
basin with warm water, into which the ends
of the hair can fall, and shampoo (he stallax
mixture into the scalp in the usual way.
liinse and dry by fanning with a palm fan. or
in the open air. if the weather permits. Should
the hair be naturally very greasy, the oil
massage should be omitted. Stallax can be
, t ; h , e “ li^’ s i||( ! l *.. quarter-pound
.cleat
ccc~ <« n.i
seaUM! packages : i, keeps indcfiuitelv. and oim
3 sutti
package contains
shampoos.
for 26
A (ircasy .skin and Blackheads Blai-khc-nl<
fatni to beaut™ for a
n?mV S . e ' lU ' look to tlie face which no cos
meties can ever hide. The way to remove
blackheads quickly and effectively lias only
recently been discovered. For many years those
who .suffered in this way were restricted in
then diet, denied sweets and had to suffer
other privations. Modern science has. how
e\er. provided a simple, effective and quick
remedy Dissolve one stymol tablet in a
, a lass id hot water, and when the effervescence
~i ls susided, (lip ci small, soft spouse into the
liquid and bathe the face. Leave for a few
minutes, then dry with a towel, and the black
beads will come off. For a greasy skin bathe-
the face fhree times a week with stvmol and
spray with Cold water every morning, using a
vulcanite throat spray.
To Improve the Eyebrows and Eyelashes—
Long, curling eyelashes make the most in
different eyes look attractive, and while no
one can alter the color, shape or size of the
eyes, all may possess luxuriant eyelashes and
well-shaped eyebrows. To increase the growth
of: the eyelashes rub a little menus line into
the roots vor.v gently every night. Menpalinc
is a perfectly harmless and delicate pomade
like substance which may b'e obtained at any
chemist’s. For the eyebrows smear a little of
the mennaline on a small soft bruslij and
brush into the eyebrows in a straight or
arched direction, according to how you, wish
them to grow. A mqntli’s treatment should
see a marked improvement.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
CAIRO.—No, I am not surprised at hearing
from a reader so far away, as I get letters
from every part of the world. I expect it is
the heat that lias caused you to put on weight
so rapidly, and can quite understand how
much it adds to your age. Get a small quan-
tity of clynol berries and eat one after each
meal. They will permanently reduce your
weight, are quite harmless, and you need
make no alteration in your diet.
QUEEN BESS.—Thirty is far too young to
have grey hairs, and you must not allow the
trouble to increase. Get two ounces of tamma-
lite, mix it with three ounces of bay rum. and
apply to the hair with a small, soft sponge.
Till# -will restore the grey and fading hair to
its original color.
EMkEUINE.—For your muddy-looking skin
get a tin of mercolised wax and rub a little
'veil into the face and neck every night. Leave
on till morning, then wash off. using Pi lento
soai> and warm water. This will remove the
dead outer skin and leave the complexion soft,
fresh and smooth.
JESS IK. —To remove the hairs from the lip
and chin get an.ounce of powdered phemindi
and use as directed. Then apply tekko paste
several times daily for some weeks. This com-
bined treatment will permanently remove aW'
trace of hair from your face.
FRECKLED LASS.—To prevent’ the freckles
from appearing use a cleminite lotion. Get an
ounce of cleminite and mix it "with four ounces
of warm water, allow to cool, then dab over
the face. This will not only protect the skin
from sunburn and freckles, but will give it a
dainty fresh look far superior to the bloom
imparted by the finest powder. 13
m
7- :/
m
&
m
At the FRONT!
Private C- V. SILEETT, 15th Reinforce
merits, 15th Battalion, 4th Infantry Brigade
writes to a friend :
“My OnotoFountain Pen is still in good
working order, all my tent mates have
gone ‘nap’ on it. I have now had it 13
months and it has been in constant use
all the time, and I may state that I have
never had it repaired in any way.”
Fills
Itself.
Cannot
Leak
Onoto
THE
From
[7/~
Manufacturers,Thomas de la Hue & Co.Ltd.,Bun hill
Road, London, E.C. Managing Agents. NORMAN
BAKER & LONGHURST, York Street. Sydney. '
t
wt
YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
fg
fg
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
fg
AFRAID OF FOOD.
Sufferers from Indigestion very often become faddists as regards their food, and find
themselves in time reduced to a very meagre and unsatisfying diet. Hudson’s Eumenthol
Jujubes correct acidity of the stomach, and their antiseptic properties prevent abnormal
fermentation of the food, thus allowing the
natural digestive ferments to act, and if
taken regularly after meals they so improve
the digestion that a strict diet becomes
unnecessary. Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes
are most useful to those who suffer from
Heartburn. Flatulence and Dyspepsia.
SOLD EVERYWHERE—TINS, I/O.
Recommended ly the Medical World, viz. :—
The Lancet, The Practitioner,, etc. [1
MO
sa
rvH
G V&
m
The Red Page
THE LITTLE SOLL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I shall be born to-night. In (lad's big' book
I saw it written when I crept to look.
I shall be sent adown a passing wind
With angel voices speeding me behind
And, as my soul is freed, I shall look back
Appealingly along the flaming track.
Heaven’s gate lias closed behind me. I am hurled
Into the outer darkness of < the world,
Into a night of blackest banishment.
I cry to Him and ask Him to relent....
He does not hear the sobs of my distress,
So thin upon the wind’s sheer barrenness.
Sudden, I saw a light sliine through the pall
0| Earth and heard a faint voice softly call.
Sub-conscious with eternal dreams, I tried
To smile and answer while it faintly cried
“A little son,” and sighed through broken tears,.
“Most precious guerdon of my coming years t”
1 was so small; and, oh, this scented goal
Of woman’s arms that held my little soul!
Her face I had not seen before, but it
With all Life’s possibilities was lit.
And promised me a love so white and wise....
I thrilled and opened new and mortal eyes.
Then His voice ceased to haunt me night and day.
Hers was so sweet I might not go away ; '
And Heaven, where once I used to play and live,
Receded like a vision fugitive.
I am her very heart, bone of her bone,
The little soul He sent her for her own.
N.S.W.
LOLA CORNALL.
Stories in Spain
All Spain is an orchard in memory, ant
Valencia is the “Orchard of Spain”; hea
of its heart, so to speak. The walls of harm
reserve and reticence round tlie fruit garde
arc Moorish by inheritance; there is no
really a silence in Spain—but those Easter
walls are thick. The Latin thinks and write
for his own people—only the great voices, a
D’Annunzio and Fogazzaro arc heard outsic
the walls. The northern writers, from
Tolstoi, Anatole France and Turgenev t
Strindberg and Tchekov speak in their grea
Or small voices to every man. Again, th
walls of Islam are thick and jealous rounc
the Latin heart; what is his to give is fo
his own—only. Translation and dissemina
tipn are profitable and welcome to the Nort
- —they are apparently not even desired b
the South. But iho South is not by coro
lary retrograde or silent.
The novels of Vicente Blasco Ibanez (wli
was born and, for all I know, still writes ii
that ' Valencia!) orchard of Spain) rang
from the passionately pastoral and bucoli
“Flor de Mayo” and “La Barraca” to
searching psychological study of despair anc
wretchedness (“La Maja Desunda”) whicl
concerns itself only with the increasing emo
tional misery of a man and woman. In “La
Catedral” Ibanez uses a fascinatingly sus
tained atmosphere of cloistral quietude, and
peace as background for a cruelty of vision
and analysis as modern and over-educated (anc
as false) as Thomas Hardy or Strindberg
But the vanishing point of his perspective is
inside the walls of Spain.
In “Pepita Jimenez” the Andalusian Juan
Valera, through the rather artificial medium
ot.letters from Luis to his uncle, shows the
Spanish household in spiritual and physica:
working order from the central figures ot
Pepita and Luis to a maid who only-appeal's
twice, I think. The characters are thrown on
the screen with such certainty of confidence
—so illuminating arc the lightness and signi-
ficance of detail that his figures become as
real as Becky Sharp and ‘Robinson Crusoe.
Luis, a potential cleric, falls gradually in love
with Pepita during a probational stay in his
father’s House before taking bis final vows.
Pepita is his father’s fiancee, but the conclu-
sion is foregone.
The same note of Church antagonism is
struck in Valera’s “Dona Luz ” Here celi-
bacy wins—after I don’t know how many
rounds.
Valera s son Luis wrote a fine dramatic
book (“El Filosofo y La Tiple”) full of
impressionist sketches of numberless charac-
ters. interspersed with flashes of descriptions
of Spring mornings and summer noons and
midnights and the like, of a wild beauty that
made me blink and gasp.
The same crowded canvas is used by Leo-
poldo Alas in “La Regenta” with more skill
but less artistic simplicity. Exact analysis
of the spirit and its motives is difficult—even
in Spain.
Perez Galdos is responsible for pounds and
pounds of historical sketches desperately
accurate in fact, but very much alive, never-
theless. His “Dona Perfeeta” is a negligible
novel; but his play, “Electra.” made a violent
success by the excellent advertising medium
of the usual violent pulpit denunciation.
Galdo’s work is clean—which is unusual in
modern Spanish fiction. But he is appal-
lingly popular and prolific, notwithstanding.
Generally, the modern Spanish novelist (a)
nates the Church; (6) regards meum and
tuum as sexually interchangeable; and (c)
writes behind his mediaeval Zenana grille for
his own household. “Nothing ever changes in
Spain” i s really only a half lie. It changes;
but it changes inside Spain.
HILARY LOFTTNG.
"The Billy Book” (Drawings by Low)
The Billy Book, consisting of 50 new
drawings by David Low. is a startling
example of what a brilliant specialist in
personal caricature can do when he concen-
trates mercilessly. The politicians, public
characters and freaks of Phil May’s day still
strut, shamble and smirk through his various
sketch-books, and “Things We See When
We Come Out Without Our Gun” will never
die, simply because Phil shot them with his
pencil. But May never concentrated all his
fire on one man as Low has done on W. M.
Rughes—the most conspicuous unboiled
Billy in-Australia. It is almost impossible
to realise it at present, with the deep-sea
cables vibrating like the strands of a small
spider’s web which has just caught an out-
(Continued on naye %6\)


vee
a
V
Fashion and Economy.
HE Fashion Showrooms at the New Palace Emporium are the centre at
which ladies who practise economy always'make a point of purchasing their
new season’s outfits. They know that the garments are not only distinctly
* fashionable, but that utility has not been sacrificed for style. Ihe weaves
are the latest and best, and they are cut and fashioned by experts with the view of
crivincr all-round satisfaction. Value commensurate with cost is an outstanding feature
of -ilWoods on offer at the New Palace Emporium, as everything comes under the
economising influence of Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low 1 rices .which pe.mi
ladies to combine Fashion and Economy. The stylish and seasonable sknts illustia c
below are indicative of the unequalled value on offei.
£6£o
£
M 3 N 3
> >
O'
VeCQg,A--'3^j m
C* sn
-4* -ft;
>T
* bb
*ot
■§a
0®
C* <T>
(P <J>
On -o
OQ
M K>
CD O
qqO
“^pcrject
No. 5424. —Stylish Skirt, in Fuji Silk, box-
pleated front, finished hem-stitchings, 49/6
Other designs in Fuji, 35/-, 39/6, 45/-, 49/6
In Assam Silk 42/-, 40/-, 47/6, 52/6
No. 142.—Dainty Skirt, in White Voile,
trimmed Filet Face and hem-stitchings,
18/6
Other designs in White Voile, 15/11, 18/11
No. 541. —Fashionable Skirt, in Cream
Wool Gabardine, pleated at sides, finished
Silk arrow heads 84/«>
Other smart designs in Cream Wool Gabar-
dines,
47/6, 57/6, 63/-, 79/6, 84/-, 92/-
In Cream Coating Serge,
39/6, 42/-, 72/6, 75/6, 87/6
No. 604. —Smart Walking Skirt, in White
Gabardine, double box-pleats in front,
finished buttons 16/11
No. 963.— Neatly-cut Skirt, in White
Gabardine, pleated front, trimmed buttons
and belt 18 / 6
Other smart styles in White Gabardine,
14/6, 16/11, 17/6, 19/6
No. 814. —Fashionable Skirt, in Cream
Gabardine, pleated at sides,, finished tabs
and buttons 23/6
No. 573. —Well-cut Three-piece Skirt, in
White Pique, trimmed self-strappings and
buttons lb/b
Other designs in White Pique,
12/6, 13/6, 14/6, 16/6, 17/6, 21/-
No. 204.—Fashionable Skirt, in Cream
Poplin, self-strappings and buttons, 19/11
No. 0395. —Divided Riding Skirt, in Grey
Tweed, trimmed tabs and buttons. . 29/6
Other styles in Riding Skirts, in Grey,
Bronze or Fawn Gabardine,
29/6, 32/6, 36/6, 39/6, 42/6
Black or Navy Serge 37/6
No. 883. —Useful Skirt, in White Linen,
panel in front, gathered across back, 14/11
Other new styles in Linen,
12/6, 16/11, 18/6, 21/-, 24/6
No. 153.—Plain Skirt, in White Pique, with
inlaid panels in front, finished belt. . 14/6
Sizes stocked —
Length, 36in to 43in.; Waist, 2om. to 29in.
Out-sizes—
Length, 38in. to 43in.; Waist, 30m. to 36m.
ANTHONY HORDERN
TD
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
. w
6.
s£/uviv's
B r'ickf’ield
Sjydn ey.
Hill,


A DA M AX
vb
u
o
■r
ROOF!
H
f. xvwvav
I®
Sy* * .• ; f v< y '
:
1
1811 l X bX
11 fJ»liiliß
I
WmmM*
TH
y. ■■■
. #8
IT*
**""1
...
: , »
-* : Hi*'' *"*’ ' * * ■* •. ‘
■ME4I ftll /t,-
ajjr : ■>',•. -. (KkX’ i ‘%si,v*. l
HI ‘ * -~tT
gM
y js
htpwiw^
t iiU .5 il
wSfllSfilf;
■
Hn
LJlfil
g3S@£&»»
v-
•Y.v
There’s a World of Proof that
“Adamax” is the Best Roofing Value.
£?^ ictio ?) 4 hat «“ H ? re is t} . le common-sense Roofing” flashes in upon you when you consider how
Adamax Roofing is securing the “Plums” of the roofing orders of Australia.
43f miles of “Adamax” Roofing are being used on the Wool=storage
Buildings erected in Wentworth Park, Sydney, by Messrs. Stuart Bros,
for the Central Wool Committee.
13 miles of “Adamax” Roofing have just been ordered by the Imperial
Authorities in Perth for the West Australian Wool Stores.
44,000 sq. yds. of “Adamax” were ordered for use on the South Australian Wheat Board
Buildings.
22,000 sq. yds. were used on the Commonwealth Buildings at Molongo, Canberra.
20,000 sq. yds. on the Leeton Canning Factories.
13,200 sq. yds. on the West Australian Freezing Works at Wyndham.
Think a bit now! We would never have secured these orders unless we had a better roofimr in nffer
--unless we c 9 uld show the men who placed those orders that they would get their money’s worth
in longer service and in greater freedom from upkeep expense. monej & woitli
If—
“ADAMAX” ROOFING
mm
M m
m
“s isr.rts 1 srs- & “
sW. T sSp« y . Seri “” terlte «* ys^n^idv^taSK
Adamax costs One-third the price
of Galvanised-iron,
ro h oraS e “Adamai” U fhe Ttae-prooTTootog*" 8 “ trUe eConomy for you
William Adams 8 C 2;
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: 521=3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cor. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33 King Street.
fg


OIX pairs of Ho’eproof hose
were made to wear six
months long before a guar-
antee was thought of. These
host suggested the guarantee.
And more than a million
people know that not a single
wanted hosiery advantage is
sacrificed in Holeproof for
wear. Yet six pairs are guar-
anteed six months, and every
pair that fails will be replaced.
But 95 per cent don't fail.
Holeproof
ffosiera
JtJfANO CHIUOREN-^
If your dealer is unable
to supply you, write,us.
Waiter Cathro Pty. Ltd.
York Street :: Sydney.
SAUCE
is British
absolutely
Is made in
England—
every drop ,
but used
all over the
world.
Of all
Stores.
§
in'
nW\\V
CONSTIPATION CURED
By Simple Home Treatment.
No medicines, trouble or expense ; just aneasy,
natural self-treatment discovered by a Mel-
bourne business man, after 25 years of suffer-
ing. Valuable explanatory booklet forwarded
FREE
to all sufferers who send 3d. postage
and this advt. to the author-
J. P. GALE, Cotham Rd., Kew, Vic.
3
mm
mi
Jell tin?
IpfhKcsfon? ij
or frAozm
m
See that a Box goes in your Soldier's Next ParoeL
NAZETHA PASTILLES
The Best Mouth and Throat Antiseptic,
AS A PRECAUTION AGAINST THE GERMS OF
Meningitis, Influenza, Diphtheria.
For
HUSKY THROAT, COUGHS, LOSS OF VOICE, &c.,
NAZETHA PASTILLES.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
[2
Vaseline
Trade Mark Registered
Borated
Petroleum Jelly
Qfg
m
rts
Reduces irritations of throat and
nose membranes and greatly
hastens recovery from colds.
Put up in handy tin tubes. For
sale at all chemists and general
stores. Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Co.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
fg
All-British
in
your
Grandfather’s
Day
Our forefathers were excellent judges ot what was good for
them—a remedy became famous because it cured the complaint it
was intended to cure . So fame came to the firm of manufacturing
chemists who, at their works in Lancashire in England, prepared
a successful remedy for Rheumatism, Gout, Lumbago and Sciatica.
People in those days did not take long journeys to foreign
watering-places when they were ill—they took the “ Kruschen
course in their own homes, and got well all the sooner in conse-
quence. Kruschen Salts is invaluable in all cases of Constipation,
and in Liver and Kidney disorders generally. To get fit there
is nothing like Kruschen Salts—it gives an abounding sense of
vigour and vitahty that is in keeping with the spirit ot the day.
fg
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITIS H FOR 160 YEARS
Of air good Chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:
MESSRS. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes (Kruschen) Ltd. , 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Butterfly.
Some architect of mind monotonous
Surely alone conceived this horrid row
Of smug suburban houses, painted pink,
Picked out with orange, all with iron roots
And little crooked stairways to the door,
Small shiny halls and hatracks arrogant,
And cramped back yards of myriad washing-
lines ....
And peevish women with their hair m pins.
Yet to this arid place of stucco fronts
And narrow entries, blaring colored glass
Across raw painted rails and tawdry gates,
There drifted in a saffron butterfly,
A thing of dewy dells, and green, hushed
Warm, dancing lights and shadows delicate
Soft as the fragile petal of a flower
Loosened by some wet wind on summer
slopes.
Perhaps it guessed a pleasance that, long
since, . .
Stretched where this street is, some bud-
tangled place
Where miracles were wrought by bird ana
The while the milkman rattled down the lane
And left pale pints at doorways, gossiping
Of Charlie Chaplin at the picture-shows.
What ghosts of roses drew that butterfly .
What whisperings of old gardens did it hear ;
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Crocuses.
“The yellow crocuses, just like those we have at
home, are in bloom behind our trench, a remnant 01
somebody’s garden.” —A letter from blunders.
Here, in this Flanders he|d,
Shell-rent and scarred,
By every fell device
Shattered and marred,
Buns, in a. sudden Hare,
Across the mould
A line of crocuses
Like trembling gold.
Frail tokens of a Spring
That comes in fear —
No other harbinger
Has ventured near ; .
Who loved and tended you
In old, glad days.
Has long fared forth to tread
Far, unknown ways.
Oft I have seen you come
In distant springs,
To lilt of gay bird-song—
Rush of soft wings:
I wonder shall I. watch
You wake again
In the far land of home,
In the Spring rain?
MAORI I. A XI).
LILLA GORMHUILLE MCKAY.
The Finest Girl in All the World.
The finest girl in all the world
Was walking by the summer sea ;
Her eyelashes were darkly curled,
Her ankle’s curve, her supple knee
Caused all the little waves to shout
And clap their waters where she came;
The fishes in a rainbow rout
Tried their wet best to lisp her name.
Her hair was like a sunset sky,
Her bosom white as milk of cows,
All violets blossomed in her eye,
All lilies clustered on her brows;
Her lips were as the coral red,
Her ears like shells just tinged with rose;
And never saint or parson said
A prayer more perfect than her toes.
The beach was quiet as a glade
In Arcady ere Pan came by.
One little cliff of sandstone made
A screen against the landward sky.
No boat was rocking on the tide,
No sportive merman hovered near.
No white god claimed her as his bride,
No lover whispered in her ear.
But fifty yards beyond the cliff
I sat on grass, unheard, unseen,
All heedless of the splendid if
That linked me with the might-have-been.
My smile was perfect in its way,
My lips for kisses nicely tuned ;
Yet nought I heard except the lay
The wind among the bushes crooned.
Wide is the world and wet the sea.
The stars have set the course of man;
And there was I and there was she—
The sweetest thing since time began.
I threw my cigarette away,
I looked to west, I looked to east,
I did not care that happy day
Which way I walked the very least.
Just fifty pace;# up the hill,
And I had seen those breakers curled—
For she was there and splashing still,
The finest girl in all the w0r1d....
Fate laughed. The little fern fronds talked
In merrv whispers in their places.
My good luck held. I turned and walked
Uphill those happy fifty paces.
And then I saw —oh, life and death !
A big wave rolling to the shore.
I looked and shuddered, caught my breath.
And stumbling that brown sandstone o’er,
I ran as fast as legs would go—
Oh, boots of mine make happy haste! —
I dragged her from the undertow
With one wet sleeve about her waist.
The finest girl in all the world
Was nearly drowned but for my aid ;
Her eyelashes were darkly curled,
She did not seem the least afraid.
Her pink arms round my neck were furled.
Her eyes were like the wells of Heaven—
The finest girl in all the world
Says that next birthday she’ll be seven.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORL.


WCd.S3/«v r -*aavH
!tM&.
5
//.
! i. I
h
hsrL*
v
ac
/
m
mu)
j
V .dlur^rMj
La
VMh
Ml
VMM
'i>m
K m
BYSTANDER: “It’s no good, young feller, them things can’t jump.”
Fight or Buy Bonds.
There will come a day when our conquering Army and
Navy will come home to us —and that will be the proudest
day in the calendar of Australian achievements.
Upon that day all Australia will be divided into two
classes.
The first class will include those who gave their sons, or
lent their money freely and unselfishly, for their country and
for the flag, to establish it as an emblem of freedom and
justice for all mankind.
Where shall we stand on that day of victory if we do not
invest to our limit?
Investment in the Seventh War Loan is a sure method of
self-preservation.
Bonds are not a burden, but a blessing.
IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE SEVENTH WAR
LOAN COMMITTEE this space is given by
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.,
Manufacturers of the Famous PERDRIAU TYRES.
0.
The Eclipse Emascula.tor
If Safety, Speed and Efficiency mean anything to you in the use of an
instrument for castration, then you will be interested in DENYKK’S
“ECLIPSE” TRIPLE CRUSH EMASCULATOR.
It is the modern instrument for the purpose, the met satisfactory—
the most perfect Emasculator known to Veterinary Science to-day.
Every one of them is forged from the best steel to our own design, and
under our direct supervision.
They are of a new pattern—a better pattern—flawless in their manu-
facture and unequalled in their efficiency. Get one to-day.
PRICE 50/-. Postage 9d. extra. Send for our Veterinary Catalogue.
DENYER BROS.
i
“ The Veterinary
House of Australia.”
281 George Street, Sydney.
m
<sy-
w-
A.' 0
°tT(>ee/?
*7uai
+1
il)/V
a?
sT.vV *>
i&m
f,i
Oiitemj
ygEONE^OAY
J'A
■e\«.
\.V> v '
Jr'O
w.
vJJNC/te
Q
%
m
JONES
ccXSi
jto
Week by Week-
Month by Month
the popularity of "Rex” Luncheon
Cheese steadily increases.
And who can wonder ? You have
only to taste this cheese to realise
its unequalled goodness.
“Rex”
Luncheon Cheese
has a piquancy of flavor which at once
distinguishes it from any other.
It is a full cream cheese, and being per-
fectly matured, possesses valuable
digestive properties.
Try a little after meals or as a sandwich
“ spread.”
Also send some in every Soldier's parcel.
REX HAM PATE and REX VEAL
and TONG UE PA TE are twin sand-
wich fillings made from the choicest
meats. Try them. Sold by all grocers.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Packers of "Rex" Pure Food Products.
Curers of "Rex" Hams and Bacon.
J 352
GOODRICH
FULL SIZE,
Black Safety Tread Tyres.
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN."
WE’LL STICK by what we’ve said about
GOODRICH TYRES.
They certainly are doing wonders on the cars
of our customers.
Without exaggeration
GOODRICH
Tested Tyres
are rolling up bigger mileage and giving our
friends lower Tyre cost than any other make.
You can put a GOODRICH TYRE on your car
and leave worry at home in the garage. 1
In tests in 1917 GOODRICH TYRES averaged ||
6*321 miles. ■;
Always: “BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
DUVAL (&X CO
145 Collins St.,
MELBOURNE.
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
300 Adelaide St,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
.Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.—N'. 2014.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1918.
WAK-TiME Pkice, Bd.
THE LOAD.
THE KID: “Have a heart, Dad; have a heart!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 10s. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles , Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding tiro columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
■will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will, be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone stipplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but, unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
■which has to be re-drawn —will be pgid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu.- —Home News Agency, 7 63 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Pcrera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord ILowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Ohly one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — othenrise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz.. 2id. :
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, Hz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1918.
THE DYING CORNSTALK TOWNS.
The N. S. Wales railways being again in a
low-spirited condition —in fact, having never
got out of that condition —it is proposed to
increase the rates by 10 per cent. This
added to the increase of last year makes 21
per cent., and there were also increases in
1913, 1914 and 1916. Several reasons exist
why all this sudden business was wanted.
The cost of materials went up owing to the
lazy, stupid, cowardly habit of importing so
many things instead of having upstanding
industries of our own, wherefore the foreign
war-profiteer—manufacturer and shipowner
—is making great loot at this country’s ex-
panse. Wages simply had to go up on
account of the increased cost of living, largely
caused by the same importing craze and the
same foreign profiteer. If they had gone
up further it would have been bare justice to
the employees, but a country which is so
much at the mercy of the foreign war-
profiteer hasn’t the price of such an expen-
sive article as justice about it. Then im-
ported railway loans fell due in England,
and as they had to be renewed at any price
the war-profiteer at the other end of things
cared to demand, there was more expense for
the railways to carry. At the present time
interest has to be paid on the cost (borrowed
in England of course) of quite a number of
works that are half or less than half finished
and earning practically nothing. This state
of things arose because the credulous finan-
cial experimenters who ran the Government
in 1915 stumbled across the moss-backed
device of making a five-years-loan-and-con-
struction contract with a private syndicate
and fell into a pit half full of the bones of
previous dolts of the same kind. And on
top of all else there is the steady depopula-
tion of many country districts, owing to
the policy of dragging everything to Sydney ;
also the loss caused by the faking of railway
fares to encourage some hundreds of thou-
sands of tons of goods for export to take the
extra 100-mile trip to Sydney, when New-
castle might do as well. This is specially
notable in the case of wool, a long-distance
article which practically all goes past New-
castle to Sydney nowadays at the public
loss. The increased charges were never big
enough to put affairs on a sound footing and
provide a surplus that would help to meet
the next loan when it fell due. If the whole
additional Marge bad been put on in 1916
instead of by instalments extending to 1918
a bit of the burden might, have been shifted,
but that would have been looking forward,
which is held to be accursed, except when
the Ministry is looking forward to a possible
majority at next election.
* * * *■
The depopulation business can’t be calcu-
lated right up to date, for the census,happens
only once in 10 years. Still there is
some information. Last census showed that
the counties which were becoming empty
numbered 53 out of a total of 141. They
represented 128.400 square miles out of a
total area of 310.300 square miles. In addi-
tion there were 11 counties, covering 26.890
square miles, which gained, all put together.
513 people in the 10 years between last cen-
sus and the one before —say one person to
52 square miles in 10 years. This sort of
thing can’t be wholly ascribed to drought,
for only 122.000 square miles of N. 8 Wales
registers 15in. or less of rain per annum .
besides the rainfall was no worse before the
people began to vanish. Then coastal and
tableland counties are largely represented
among the dying—Auckland, Dampier and
St. Vincent on the coast; Argyle, Beresford,
Bligh, Cowley (where the wonderful Federal
capital is), Drake (on the Clarence River).
Georgiana, Murray (alongside the wonderful
Federal capital), Phillip, Sandon and Wel-
lesley. These are all places with good rain
and fair soil. Nor can the trouble be
recklessly ascribed to lack of “permanent and
reproductive” railways to “open up the
country,” “promote settlement” and “develop
the wonderful natural resources.” The big
county of Sandon is dying on the main
Sydney-Brisbane line; Bathurst, Gordon.
Canbelego and Cowper on the Western line;
Argyle, Murray, Cowley, Beresford and Wel-
lesley on the Sydney-Melbourne line arid its
Goulburn-Nimmitabel offshoot; Sturt and
Waradgery on the Hay offshoot. By way of
further adorning the tale, 152 municipalities
outside Sydney were enumerated at last
census-taking, and of these 56 were on their
way to the cemetery. But the 42 municipali-
ties of Sydney flourished exceedingly. The
fading towns were by no means all humble
and obscure places. They included Bathurst,
Goulburn and Parramatta, important rail-
way towns which ranked in 1891, after the
mining towns of Newcastle and Broken Hill,
as the most important places in the State
outside Sydney. Also in the list were the
railway towns of Aberdeen, Berry, BJayney,
Bourke (the terminus of a long line and a
river port), Bowral, Campbelltown. Carcoar,
Deniliquin, Gerringong, Greta, Gundagai,
Hay (a railway terminus), Jerilderie,
Iviama (a seaport of sorts), East Maitland,
Mittagong (where some ironworks are —or
were), Moama (a railway terminus and
river port), Morpeth, Newcastle City, Lamb-
ton, Merewether, Plattsburg, Stockton.
Wallsend, Nowra, Nyngan (the junction of
two big railways). Parkes (a railway junc-
tion), Picton, St. Marys, Shellharbor
(alleged to be a port), Warialda, Warren
and Wyaloner. All these roost alongside
the permanent and reproductive loan rail-
ways which promote settlement.
* * * *
The difficulty of making the N. S. Wales
railways pay their way, to say nothing of
paying off their debts, is partly explained
by this scarcity of population. As to the
causes of the scarcity, they are various. In
England the farmer gets three times as much
wheat per acre on an average—that is to
say he produces at less than one-tliird the
expense—and the country being dotted with
manufacturing towns he is seldom more than
25 miles from a market. In N. S. Wales he
is anywhere between 100 and 10,000 miles
from a market. Italy, France, Germany and
Austria also have their markets at the
farmers’ door in the shape of manufacturing
towns. Canada, and more especially the
United States, have industrial and conse-
quently food-buying centres all over the
country, and their exports oversea have to
travel only one-third the distance of ours.
There is no great future for the farmer until
we manuufacture largely here, so that
the artisans who want to buy the food will
be on the spot, instead of at the other end of
the world. And the factories must be scat-
tered over the country—not pinned to the
coastal cities for convenience in getting
imported raw materials. 'ln other words it
is necessary to make the raw materials of
manufacture here. Perhaps, through being
dispirited, the N. S. Wales farmer is mostly
a wheat creature, and the areas devoted to
tobacco, vines, sugar-cane, market-gardens
and the miscellaneous bucolic undertakings
have lately been reported as diminishing.
Also the country industries all told amount
only to a little over one-third those of
Sydney; and the only department in which
the rest of the State beats the one big city
is in petty workshops employing four hands
or less. In big things the rest of the State
is nowhere. The country town can’t live on
selling petty sundries to the farmer and
watching the train go by. In many districts
there is a tendency to take to sheep in place
of agriculture, and that means less employ-
ment and less population. The districts on
or adjacent to the coast might get a new
lease of life if a few more ports were fitted
out for oversea trade, and cities, which mean
markets, grew up alongside them, but that
would be contrary to the Law of Congestion.
The latest record (1917) in the Statistical
Register shows these figures:—
Shipping Entered and Cleared (1917).
Sydney . . . . 8,494,026 tons
Newcastle Ccoal) .. 2,810,498 „
Port Kembla (coal) 161,747 „
All other ports .. 140,163 „
As late as 1911 “All Other Ports” had
243,193 tons of shipping; but the process of
emptying the country and shoving things
into the One Big City has advanced since
then. The one fly in the ointment is that
the coal-mines can’t be shifted to Sydney.
If that was done, all would be symmetrical
and heavenly and complete.
THE SHORT ROAD TO PERTH AND
INSOLVENCY.
A pet scheme of the Holman Government
is the direct rail from Sydney to Perth,
which means the building of another 190
miles of N. S. Wales State line between
Condobolin and Broken Hill; a short State
line from Broken Hill to the S.A. border:
and the building of 190 miles of Federal
railway between the border and Port.
Augusta. Then there will be a fairly straight
road on a uniform 4ft. 81in. gauge from
Sydney to Ivalgoorlie, but until the line
between Kalgoorlie and Perth is rebuilt, and
that is a 375-mile job, there won’t be uni-
form gauge from ocean to ocean. The idea
of pushing on with the work at this time of
war and stress and impecuniosity is very
like the Holman Government. It is a
necessary matter, barring the fact that air
navigation is coming, but it isn’t the ulti-
mate necessity which shoves it to the front
just now. The visible motives are vanity,
megalomania. State jealousy and that fatal
financial incapacity which perpetually dogs
the footsteps of the present Sydney crowd
in office. The proposal has certainly its
advantages. It will reduce by over 400 miles
the distance between east (or a bit of the
east) and west, and it is always good policy
to reduce the distance to any port that is
worth going to. The Holman Government
could cut 100 or 200 or even more miles off
ihe distance between a lot of its own country
and a port by building two mere scraps of
line, and if it was half as anxious about its
own ports which have no railway connec-
tion as it is about Perth, which has a
railway connection already, though rather a
circuitous one, it might notice these facts.
Especially it might notice them, seeing that
all the profit of these doings, would go to its
own State, and it would really be more
glorious to be a city-builder than to be
a duplicate-transcontinental-railway-builder,
which is only a second-hand emotion. The
proposed new route will cut out two breaks
of gauge between Sydney (including a great
part of N. S. Wales) and Brisbane (includ-
ing all Queensland) and the West, which is
a decided blessing. And it will strengthen
the position for strategical purposes, though
that is not a matter of extreme urgency
The only possible invader just now is the
Hun, who will suddenly become possible if
his fleet breaks out and does the wholly
unexpected by extinguishing the British
navy ; but a now line isn’t likely to be ready
in time for him, nor rolling-stock either.
And the new work won’t remedy the most
fatal weakness of the strategical position—
the fact that a handful of men could make a
raid at Port Augusta and cut Australia’s
connection in two.
■y. * * *
Ou the other hand the financial prospect
is very dreary. The unfinished line between
Sydney and Broken Hill is a grievous loss.
When it is completed it will certainly be a
greater loss for a long time to come, though
it will have the advantage of the through
traffic to Westralia. This on the other
hand will be a loss to the Sydney-Albury
line, which carries the through traffic at
present. When N. S. Wales’s share of the
new transcontinental is finished nearly two-
thirds of it will lie in a region with less
than lOin. of rainfall and about one wombat
to the cubic league/ Nobody expects the
proposed bit of work in S.A. to yield a profit
for it will be mostly in a dry part of a
dry land. In other words, the new lines
will depend entirely on through traffic —not
new traffic, but what they can steal from the
existing railway. The present transconti-
nental doesn’t pay, as a matter of course. No
reasonable person expected it would do so
in its early stages, though it has abundant
possibilities ahead of it. The deficit just
now, though the work was mostly done in
the days of cheap loans and cheap materials,
is about £222,000 a year, which is far less
than might have been expected. If the busi-
ness is burdened with a bit of duplicate line
built with ruinously dear money and high-
priced materials, and going through country
where local traffic is nil , the deficit will
almost certainly be increased. Holman’s
State will share that loss, and will have the
whole deficit of its own 360 or more miles of
desert enterprise, and as matters are just
now it doesn’t seem fit to stand any
more shocks. Mails and overland passen-
gers and good news, if any, about Australia’s
financial condition will certainly arrive in
Sydney a day earlier. Such goods as
Westralia wants by rail from the east will
presumably still go from Adelaide as being
the nearest city. There will be the satis-
faction of cutting out two reptile contem-
poraries, Melbourne and Adelaide, from the
route between the two oceans, though prob-
ably a good many passengers will go the
old way to avoid the dust, and because the
reptile" cities are pleasanter places for a
break of journey than Broken Hill and Port
Augusta. And it will be a proud day when
W. A. Holman gives the biggest lunch on
record at the public cost to celebrate the
opening and is raised to the peerage for his
shortage. On the whole the new idea should
be charged to revenue, especially as railways
may soon become obsolete. Every country
requires public works which don’t pay, such
as arsenals, warships, schools, hospitals,
lunatic asylums and fortifications. _ Also it
wants works which shouldn’t be relied upon
to pay, though there may be a hone of them
doing so, and most of the probable trans-
continental railways, in a country with sin.
per annum of drought in a great part of its
hot interior, come into this category. The
exception would be a line from a North
Queensland port to the northern part of
Westralia, which would avoid the drought.
It would be purely commercial. All the
rest must be partly commercial and partly
defensive, and therefore it is a fair thing to
pay cash for them and give Posterity the
benefit of the doubt. The only drawback is
that Posterity might _ fall down dead with
astonishment on hearing that the old man
had paid cash for once, and that would
damage the birth-rate.
FRYING HIS EXCELLENCY.
“ Solomon M.” talks about the necessity for
putting the Governor-General over a slow
fire: —•
Some recent literature of interest included a pub-
lished statement by the Syndicalist leaders—the One
Big Union people—that “we can and will own the
workshops” and “take over and run the industries
by the workers for the workers” ; also the statement
of Arthur Rae, Labor organiser (B. 5/9/’18), that
it is the duty of the Commonwealth Bank to get busy
“wiping out of existence” the joint-stock banks.
I don’t object in the least. I never owned a bank in
my life, nor do 1 possess a single share in a bank.
But I would like to mention that out of the 18 banks
operating in Australia there are six which probably
can't be “wiped out” in any forcible fashion without
gory, untidy war, because they belong outside
Australia and have other authorities to appeal to.
There are six banks which are on or over the
£4,000,000 line in the way of shareholders’ funds,
and three' of them are foreign. Also one belongs
partly to a Government—-a democratic, woman-
suffrage Government which has no small opinion of
itself. Quiet, insidious extinction by competition or
plausible legislation they would probably have to
put up with, but blank confiscation might be met
with a blank landing of troops. It would furnish a
welcome excuse for troops. It is the public-debt-
repudiation problem over again; much borrowing and
reliance of foreign capital has given the foreign
capitalist a chance to put in his oar. As regards the
other banks, if they were bought up at their value
there would be no profit in it unless the new manage-
ment could work the business more cheaply than the
old one, which is unlikely. Then unless the holders
of the £175,000,000 of deposits had confidence in
the new management they might begin to withdraw
and conceal their money, and then there would be no
business to manage. If they weren’t allowed to with-
draw, then the banks would simply be suspended or
broke. The buying up could only be done with
irredeemable paper, for there is nothing else, and
the issue of such a quantity of paper with no assured
value would reduce it to ss. in the £ or something
like that —in other words, the cost of living would
go up 400 per cent, and steak would be 6s. per lb.
* * * *
On the other hand, the banks might be stolen,
which would probably be the better way. It would
have to be done by armed, force at a moment's notice
and with only one or two men “in the know. ’
If the whole party was “in the know” there
would be premature rumors; besides the rush of
Labor men to draw out their balances would give
away the show. The Bank-Prigging Bill might be
introduced later. If it was even prepared in ad.ance
<omo clerk, typist or printer would sell a i opy of
it for gold and burst the show. Then tin .e would
be a scuttle of depositors to draw out a:,u hide away
their £90,000,000 or £100,000,000 of free deposits,
and the banks couldn’t pay half that sum at a day’s
notice, and most of that half would be paper, which
would be more of a drug in the market every
moment. In fact, they couldn’t pay even so far as
their cash resources go, for nearly 50 per cent, of the
existing paper money is in £lOOO notes which are
almost all held by tlie bank's, and the £BO or £l5O
depositors couldn’t be paid with £lOOO notes. They
wouldn’t want them either, for a man with a £lOOO
note is as helpless in the matter of buying a drink
as a man in rags who wants to buy a pie and get
change for the Koh-i-noor. In the end there would be
really nothing to steal except the disordered premises
and the documents.
Presumably the Governor-General wouldn't assent
to a Bank-Prigging Bill unless he was held over a
slow fire. I am not a legal authority, yet I think
this would make his assent null and void. For my
own part it doesn’t matter whether his Excellency is
roasted over a slow fire or not. T don’t know him
from a crow. Probably even a Bank Compulsory
Purchase Bill would be “held for the royal assent,”
but that could be got over in the way already indi-
cated. In other words, bis Excellency could be done
brown. Anyhow, there would be a wonderful hoard-
ing up and disappearance of coin, even coppers.
Already signs and porterts point in that direction.
A recent legal shindy arose because one brother
stowed away 1000 sovereigns in a Safe Deposit and
another brother had a claim on them. Also in two
recent burglaries the Bill Sikeses dropped on the
family reserve of silver —£200 in one instance. A
hurried Bill authorising search for and seizure of
coin might be passed to alleviate the hold-up; but the
Governor-General might have to be partially boiled
to overcome his scruples. And long before this he
would have shouted to Britain, Maoriland, Hongkong,
Delhi and Pretoria for troops unless the cables were
cut. Even then he might “get on” by wireless. I
am of opinion that there would be very little wages
paid in the month of Bank-Prigging, or for many
months after.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Bank, solely owned by the
people, has made so much profits for the people
during the last two years that it could quietly buy up
two of the smaller joint-stock banks —this without
“wiping out,” stealing, upsetting, confiscating, up-
heaving, rioting, or reconstructing society. It
hasn’t been buying up banks so far because it was
using the,, money to extend its own business, but it
will commence “wiping out” in its own way when it
is ready, provided a sufficient number of bumptious
lunatics leave it alone. It has been making real
profits for only three years, being a very young con-
cern and having no capital to earn money with in it;
days of preliminary expense. And already there are
four less joint-stock banks than there were before.
Apparently the pressure of the new competitor is
forcing on amalgamations.
* * * *
I don’t know whether it is proposed to “take over”
factories and workshops by buying them with
£84,590,000 of irredeemable paper money (esti-
mated value of land, plant and buildings, leaving
nothing for goodwill) or by simple stealing. The
paper would have to be irredeemable, for when a
country is flooded with all that extra currency for
which it has no use it always asks for coin in
exchange if coin is procurable, and even a 99 per
cent, gold reserve wouldn’t meet the rush. The
stuff would probably be worth about 2s. 6d. in the
£, owing to the glutted state of the paper market,
making the price of steak 12s. per lb. If plain
stealing was done—the process being legalised after-
wards by a Factory Embezzlement Bill—it would
have to be done in a simultaneous way. There are
15,010 establishments to be seized, and if notice
was given and 5000 proprietors set a light to their
places by way of protest it would be some blaze,
especially if the fire spread far and wide by reason of
insufficient fire brigades. Also it would be a poem in
fire insurance. "Whether the new Syndicalist owners
could get sufficient competent new managers for
15,000 establishments, I don’t know. Many of the
old proprietors would certainly object to stay on and
manage—some out of unreasoning fury, some through
coldness towards their new bosses, and a number
because they didn’t like being paid in depreciated
paper. Probably they would have to be flogged to
make them even pretend to take an interest in their
jobs. Anyhow foreign owners and shareholders, who
are many, would make a sbeol of a fuss and rouse
up their Governments to protest. And it would
probably be necessary to make the Governor-General
drink two buckets of water to secure his signature—
which might be,disowned afterwards —to the Factory
Embezzlement Bill. I don’t know how much water
his Excellency could contain, but the Marchioness
of Brinvilliers, a wicked, small woman, is said to
have become reasonable after two buckets. He
wouldn’t wire for troops to put down the “insurrec-
tion,” as he would probably call it, for the cable
would certainly be cut by this time, and the news-
papers—which would be among the industries taken
over—would be short of intelligence. Manufactures
pay worst among the big lines of Australian “capital-


ism,” and they might hardly be worth the shindy.
Anyhow, I don’t own any factory, so it doesn’t con-
cern me.
Fifty persons- to the square mile is considered
quite a moderate population. Even cold and thinl> -
peopled Russia has far more than that. Australia
has less than two persons to the square mile, and
four-fifths of them are dabbed down in an almost
imperceptible corner. So it is safe to say that 9G
per cent, of this country’s chances are waiting for
any constructive party to make use of them by
building up population and banks and factories, and
showing out of their large calm intelligence how
these enterprises should be run. Perhaps it would
be well if Arthur Rae and the Syndicalists in
general planned to create some new things under
popular control and instead of “wiping
out” or “taking over” amid great eclat the pitiful
little lot of old things. Not that I care much
whether they do or not. I hope to go rabbiting in
the day of stress, not for financial reasons, but
because I have no taste for noise and crowds.
“EXTENDING GOVERNMENT
INFLUENCE.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The water drips steadily through the thin
calico roof of the tent and soaks the damp
blankets on the cot on which I have been for
the last six hours battling with an attack of
malarial fever. Through the crash of the
thunder 1 hear the roar of the spate rolling
down the creek, a bank-high flood of golden-
yellow water, strewn with the wreckage of
trees brought down by a landslip at its head.
I am camped on the roof of Papua, among
the giant peaks of the Owen Stanley Range,
10,000 ft. above the sea and a hundred miles
from the pleasant coral beaches. It has been
raining steadily for over a week, and I have
been battling up steep slopes and wading
foaming watercourses for over a month, pain-
fully chopping a path through the dense
jungle, chilled to the marrow with the cold
and damp, and living out of tins of stringy,
tasteless “dog” and sleeping in clammy, damp
blankets.
The whole country is clothed with moss.
Long streamers of old man’s beard trail from
the trunks and limbs of the trees, the ground
is knee-deep in sodden green moss that spurts
miniature fountains of ice-cold water at every
step. A sapling an inch thick appears the
size of a full-grown tree. You grab it to
prevent yourself falling down the slippery
slope and get a cascade of evil-smelling water
squeezed into your face from the horrible
mass.
A fire of wet wood smoulders under a rough
shelter at the end of the tent, filling the place
with smoke that makes my eyes sting; there
is water on the wick of my lamp, which burns
a dim, spluttering flame. The carriers, naked
cannibals from the hills across the valley,
huddle around a fire under their fly and croon
a doleful, wordless song, while they try to
coax a pot of taro to boil over the smoking
sticks. The velvety darkness rises like a
wall outside the narrow circle of light from
the lamp, and is flared to show a glimpse of
rain-soaked scrub, gaunt pines and many-
legged giant pandanii as the blue tongues of
lightning sear the heavens. In the police-
tent a fuzzy-headed Iviwai constable provokes
diabolical sounds from a reed, a pan-pipe
that might hhve been used in Ancient Greece.
The coal-black Papuan, hook-nosed like one
of the Chosen People, can produce only three
notes, but he works them incessantly in a
homicidal-provoking manner, while his mates,
enraptured by the dreadful discord, sprawl
comfortably on their blankets and share a
baubau (native pipe) between them.
*. -K- -X- *
I am the only white man in the camp: I
have not seen one of my own race for weeks.
There is nothing to read but the labels on
the cans and bottles of horrors in the tucker-
box. Lord ! if I could only meet another
white man and have 10 minutes’ talk ! The
shivering native, miscalled a cook, brings
me a plate of “dog” feebly disguised with
curry, some iron-hard biscuits, and a panni-
kin of black tea. Invalid food ! I sip the
tea and swallow my evening 10 grains, of
quinine. Pull of malaria from the reeking,
anopheles-infested swamps of the lowlands,
I shiver as the keen air from the towering
crags of Albert Edward, 4000 ft. above me,
blows the white fog wreaths into the tent,
and hurriedly drop the door-flaps.
I write my diary for the day, entering the
compass bearings of the various peaks I have
been able to see through the lowering rain-
clouds, and the details of the rivers and spurs
I have crossed, for this is unknown country
and it will have to be mapped. I crawl into
the cot and drop my hobnailed boots on the
ground, the water spurting from the everlast-
ing moss that clothes the tent floor. The
blankets smell horribly from days and days
of travel in a sodden swag-bag, but I gradu-
ally become warm and forget the odor that
surround's me.
I am on patrol “extending Government
influence,” i.e., making an exploratory jour-
ney through the wilderness, fighting my way
where necessary—though only when attacked
—but always going on with my compass and
little army of 10 rifles.
To-day is Christmas Day. A merry Christ-
mas !
WALILIA.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Biggest Miss of the War.
The remark of General Maurice in London
Daily Chronicle the other day that if the
Germans had pressed on with their April
attack Amiens would certainly have fallen
is in all probability correct. Looking back
on those fearsome days when Gough’s army
crumpled up before St. Quentin and poured
like a flood along the valley of the Somme
is not a cheerful form of relaxation. Dis-
aster of appalling magnitude was partly
averted by the promptitude of the French
to the south of the calamitous scene and the
stern stand made by the army under Byng
to the northward against the much heavier
attack delivered by Von Htjtier. But the
main cause of Haig getting time to recover
seems without doubt to have been the fail-
ure of the German bosses to keep control of
their punch. They launched an enormous
force into the air, so to speak, which failed
because it succeeded too well. Tired and
hungry, without support from the artillery
they out-distanced, the enemy’s troops sat
down when the resistance stiffened, waiting
for fresh divisions to carry on. These never
arrived. They had been diverted from where
everything was going well to help the push
against Byng. When that fizzled Luden-
dorf switched off the battle to Ypres—and
got badly mauled. Had he left Byng alone
and avoided Ypres, and shoved on against
Amiens —well, Berlin would not now be
mourning over the third outstanding failure
during the war. At the beginning Von
Moltice could have had the Channel ports
for the taking. He did not see their
value —then. Neither did Britain for
that matter, nor the French. The
second mistake was the retreat of the Ger-
man right during the battle of the Marne.
The consequences of that blunder were in-
calculable. Compared with either of these
mistakes and with the failure before Amiens
Verdun was a trifle. The explanation, in all
likelihood, of these happenings, is the Ger-
man habit of working on a rigid plan.
Employing as he did for the first time at
St. Quentin tactics copied from the French
he neither foresaw what might be the result
of these tactics, giving in one place more
success than the schedule of anticipated
events provided for, and in another place
giving none, nor the consequences of stick-
ing to a pre-arranged plan when victory or
repulse turned on the speed with which it
could be changed to meet altered conditions.
The German knows nothing about grasping
the skirts of happy chance. Yet heavily
though the Allies have suffered during the
war owing to lack of the systematisation so
remarkably developed by the German it has
been through the elasticity afforded by
absence of this that on at least four impor-
tant occasions they have been able to dislo-
cate the enemy’s more perfectly moving
machine when the surrounding landscape
was looking mightly blue. All of this raises
the interesting problem of whether in the
game of war, as in most other proceedings,
an elaborate concentration upon rules and
regulations—an imprisoning of the neutral
equipment of men within the same iron
bonds as are necessarily applied to the mere
physical aspects of affairs —is not at rock-
bottom a manifestation of the weary old
Muddle Through doctrine. This paper has
a deep suspicion that it is—and that on the
final count the Hun’s scheme of muddling
through differs only from J. Bull’s original
patent in that the German, reckoned on hav-
ing everything cut and dried before it hap-
pened, and when something else transpired
had to start again to re-arrange the pro-
gramme. Meanwhile the circumstance that
the -German stuck to rule 174 A and regula-
tion 7641 after leap-frogging west to Villers-
Brettoneaux. is no valid reason for urging
him not to do it any more. Nor is the fas-
cination Paris has exercised over him one
he should be implored to forget. The fall
of Amiens would have been a frightful, dis-
aster to the Allies. Realisation of this is
what must make the occurrences of the last
couple of months far more galling to the
German than if they had evolved from differ-
ent conditions. He missed by a whisker
doing something that would have so changed
the menu as to make it unrecognisable.
The Politics of Billjim.
When the returned soldiers who are out on
the political warpath become a little more
clear in their demands it will be possible
for the rest of the public to understand
their exact meaning. To say, for instance,
that “we are going into politics as soldiers
pure and simple,” obscures the points in the
programme that matter and on which the
result of elections, so far as the soldiers
go, must turn. Whatever the oratori-
cal and tactical mistakes made by the
soldier-politicians in the meantime may
be, it can be taken as a moral cer-
tainty that in the period immediately follow-
ing a collapse of the war the man who wore
khaki is going to exercise a mighty powerful
influence in the public affairs of the Com-
monwealth. The idea of a “soldiers’ party
pure and simple” is not likely to
be the war-cry. The notion that the
soldier has interests as a citizen other
than those that are common to every other
citizen will not stand looking at. But the
idea of soldiers forming an organisation that
will shape the politicians’ conduct grows out
of something that is more or less inevitable.
And as the majority of these men return with
a wider vision than they went away with,
and a larger comprehension of social rights
and duties, their influence on the course of
events is more than likely to be in the right
direction. Meanwhile the platform they are
putting forward has some good points about
if. The denunciation of party government
is richly deserved. The wrongs done to the
Australian democracy by a system in which
the nation’s future and the most vital inter-
ests of the people are systematically juggled
with for votes and jobs are almost beyond
computation. The facts are so indisputable
that even the baser sort of partisan can
detect an ancient and fish-like smell in the
vicinity of his joss. As the game has come
to be played, party government is only an-
other term for organised trickery—for
evasion and dodge and shirk —for the shame-
less sacrifice by parties and Parliaments of
every principle except that of keeping the
wire-pull in good working order. An organ-
ised soldiers’ vote, pledged to the bludgeoning
of this unclean thing, would be a cheerful cir-
cumstance at a general election, and it would
get strong reinforcements, for Party in the
political and administrative sense, is daily
getting more infirm and contemptible—and
the more senile it grows the more hungry it
gets in pursuit of greater authority. A
party out to kill Party, to give the elector' a
better grip on the government of the coun-
try through a more scientific electoral system,
and to make the Legislature through the
initiative-referendum the servant of the
people instead of its master —to make, so to
speak, democratic government a reality in-
stead of a delusion —has a programme worth
going on with.
Land and the State P.N.
Incidental to the job of trying to find land
for soldiers —a business that alone is plung-
ing the country into an abyss of debt —
N. S. Wales Minister for Lands Ashford
explains that he is trying to convert the
State Government to a new system of re-
sumption. Ashford’s idea is that resump-
tion should be upon the basis of “used
value.” Thus if the State noticed an area
of land suitable for agriculture or viticul-
ture or butter culture or anything of that
sort, yet only used for browsing animals,
such land could be appropriated for settle-
ment purposes on the basis of its
value as a browsing area. A man
who happens to occupy a large area
of fertile land, and yet only puts it to the
minimum use while waiting for riches to
come through growth of its sale value for
other purposes, is not entitled to much sym-
pathy. But handing him a p.n. and
dividing the land up into, say, half a
dozen holdings is only trifling with this
stumblirfg-stone of values. The obvious
result would be that, though the State did
not pay the original holder more than, say,
£3 an acre for land worth £7 for agricul-
ture, the six new proprietors would immedi-
ately stand possessed of the £4 per acre
margin—and in due time half a dozen
monopolists would divide the swag, instead of
the entire proceeds being appropriated by
one. There is nothing in that to create any
great enthusiasm. Moreover, as hundreds
of thousands of acres in N. S. Wales which
were used for agricultural purposes last year
and the year before are now decorated with
jumbucks in preference to wheat, this “use”
value of assessment looks likely in practice
to lead to some strange results —particularly
at a time when wool has been bulled up to
Is. 3d. and mutton is sd. a pound whole-
sale. Moreover, the question of whether, in
the event of the State wanting land for a
school playground or a lunatic asylum or a
hospital or something, the same standard of
valuation would be applied obtrudes itself
with some persistence. There are hundreds
of acres of suburban lands around Melbourne
and Sydney which are only used as burial-
grounds for dead cats and the propagation
of weeds and the accumulation of empty
jam-tins. The “use value” of this
land is exactly Od. But its value to
anyone who does want to use it, whether
the State or John Smith is the customer,
can be relied on to make his hair stand on
end. Wherefore, as an appropriate trim-
ming to his remarks concerning the value
of land when the resumption is in one place
and the value when it happens to be in
another, Ashford might say a few words
about the distinction between rural and sub-
urban values when the State has to find
the money. And having cleared up that, a
reasonably sane explanation of the kind of
chaos he' expects to see manufactured by
the expenditure of millions on land at boom
values would be very helpful in considering
his scheme.
If All Men Had Been Horses.
A few words by the office’s tame Bolshevik:
When the syndicalists of Australia laid down the
keel of their One Big Union they started with the
proposition that “the working class produce all
value.” Consequently they ought to possess all
value. The favorite definition of the worker is that
he is the unionist, also the “wage-slave,” likewise
the “herd” who are hired by capitalists to run
machines —a dead-level class except where the heads
of whirling exhorters, seven for sixpence, and the top-
ends of salaried union officials, rise gloriously above
the ruck. There is a sort of gospel to the effect that
the organisers of industry, including the well-paid
men who manage the people’s railways and run the
people’s Commonwealth Bank, are enemies, because
one of them keeps some kind of order on the lines,
and in an overbearing fashion prevents the train
starting at any hour, and going anywhere, and bang-
ing into everything, while the other has fixed un-
sympathetic rules of his own about securities and
overdrafts. In fact all organisation, unless it is the
organisation of the “herd” to keep step to the orders
of their “class-conscious” leaders, is regarded with
great suspicion. And if One Big Unionism has ever
had time to say a kind word for the inventor there
is no record of it. The maker of machines is gener-
ally viewed as a minion of the capitalist, devising
implements with which that person may exploit and
oppress the “wage slave.” If he is found making
£2OOO a year, even if he has earned the money by
devising mechanism which creates £500,000 a year
of new wealth, of which the “worker” can get what-
ever share he is able to take, it is proposed that
£lOOO should be confiscated just as if the money
was made out of inherited property. This is rough
on the inventor, because his work involves real toil,
which the inheritance of property doesn’t; and it
yields a far larger return to the public than to the
original toiler, while the possession of property only
benefits the landlord; also a Torrens’ land title is
good on the face of it till the Day of Judgment, while
a patent, which is the inventor’s title, only lasts a
very few year’s (14 in some places) after which the
goods become public property. Machines appear
harmless and exceedingly necessary and highly-demo-
cratic devices, and why the man who makes very-
temporary money out of them should be lumped in
with publicans and big landlords and successful
political adventurers, instead of receiving a grant
in aid out of trades-union funds, it is hard to say.
The roaring gang of syndicalists who say that
labor produces all wealth has got swelled head and
distorted vision. In a Melbourne Cup race the
real labor is done by the horse, but if all men had
been horses there would be no Cup, nor any Mel-
bourne either. In the 18th and very early 19th
century, when manufacturing industry was an infant
in England, and appliances were still those of the Dark
Ages, wages were pitiably low as they look now,
hours were long according to present ideas, and
conditions, according to a later standard, were of
the worst —and cheapest. (Also the living condi-
tions of the aristocracy were dreadful, for sanitary
appliances hadn’t yet been devised.) At its begin-
nings trades unionism was dealt with as a crime,
which wasn’t so wonderful as it looks. For union-
ism then was to a great extent the struggle of a
race that was gradually learning how a human being
ought to live, to secure concessions which were
modest enough, but which many industries couldn’t
pay. The possession of a cotton handkerchief, for
instance, seems hardly even the beginning of civilisa-
tion, but until a man who wasn’t himself a “wage
slave” invented a cheap machine which did the work
of 1500 or 2000 men at cleaning the cotton the
hanky was an absurd luxury. Thirteen other
notable machines, invented between 1738 and 1845,
enabled wages in the cotton business to be multiplied
hundreds per cent, and infant labor to be abolished.
Incidentally the manufacturer began to grow rich
as well as truculent; but it is to be said in his
favor that he was the patron of the inventor (for
his own selfish reasons), and by helping him along
he helped to make the great increase in wages
possible. (There are still wretchedly-paid industries,
but they are almost exclusively of the hand-labor
variety.) In the days of very primitive machinery
the manufacturer might be truculent but he was
very poor. The land-owner, even if he was a petty
squire, was the god of these times, and when first
a manufacturer arrived in Parliament the old gang
of junkers fancied a gorilla had turned up. With
the improvement of appliances trades unionism
ceased to be a crime. Thanks to machinery there
was sufficient wealth to pay greatly-increased wages,
and the unionist ceased to look like an incendiary
who was reaching after the impossible.
Quite a number of articles of food in Australia
owe their comparative cheapness to the freezing
machine—-which is an implement in the hands of
capitalists because no single wage-slave can buy
one by himself, any more than he can buy a train,
and very few combine to buy one. In fact
practically all civilisation is machinery. The
“working-class,” as a mere toiler or thing of
muscle, might be reduced to cannibalism in
a fairly rich and very thinly inhabited country.
The Australian aboriginal of old had no capitalistic
class to eat up his earnings, and he wasn’t over-
crowded. He wasn’t quite devoid of machinery, but
nearly so. And lie hadn’t the price of a house or a
pair of boots about him. The New Australia emi-
grants were picked men and women. They left the
unfit and undesirables behind them. They started
with money earned under a capitalistic system. They
got land free, and money, aid from a foreign capi-
talistic Government. Their chief drawback, appar-
ently, was that they were short of the industrial
organiser and the inventor —a class which, if it
isn’t paid handsomely for the use of its brains,
takes its brains to some other market. With a big
endowment to start with, and with all the wealth
created by the worker reserved exclusively for the
worker, the experiment doubled up. Most of the
experimenters left or were fetched away by the
charity of a capitalistic Ministry. The rest relapsed
into the old individualistic ways.
If Labor, defined as the “wage-slave,” secures, say
in Australia, the whole output of industry and
doesn’t leave a big margin to pay the capable
organiser—the industrial one, not the talker at
meetings—and the inventor of machines —not of
eloquence and grievances—two things will happen.
Industry will degenerate into a very unproductive
affair through everybody talking at once, and become
like One Big Union without its high-salaried bosses.
And it will further degenerate because it will be
left with antiquated machinery, that will in time
become as unproductive as the hand-loom of the
Middle Ages is to-day. Of course Labor, defined as
the “wage-slave,” may import foreign inventions,
but that would burst up the principle that the whole
produce of labor belongs to the toiler. It would be
paying the foreign inventor at the rate of perhaps
£lO,OOO or £50,000 or any other sum per annum,
having driven away the local one by confiscating all
his earnings above £lOOO. In which respect the
“wage-slave” party will be only carrying on its
present policy. It is so busy laying restrictions on
the local manufacturer and harrying him in various
ways for being a heartless “profiteer” that, in the
absence of any similar restrictions on the foreign
manufacturer (per medium of his agent, the im-
porter), the Australian maker of things is a dimin-
ishing quantity. Syndicalism doesn’t start large
co-operative industries itself to fill the gap. It has got
to the point of denouncing co-operative State industry,
and it saves its face by professing that the outside
cheap labor capitalist and “profiteer,” and the highly-
paid outside inventor and industrial organiser are
not its concern, they being “tariff” matters. Unless
Labor, in its advanced form, can see its way to
include the capable business manager and the
inventor in its ranks, and pay them enough to
prevent them selling their brains abroad, and can
learn to be at least as civil to them as it is to a;
convicted I.W.W. incendiary, it is likely to be in
the exact condition of the horse that didn’t win the
Melbourne Cup because , here was neither any such
place nor any such Cup. ft is a good thing to give
everybody a fair start for he prize, but the first
thing is to make sure hat there is any prize to start
for.
The Fatuous ufc*....»«i<>n of the Hun.
Among a hundred and one side-lights
on German psychology the Gazette
Des Akdenks is not the least illuminative.
The interesting journal is published by Ger-
man propagandists for distribution among
French civilians in territory occupied by
the Huns these four years past, and is
dropped from Ilun aeroplanes along the
French trenches. As an organ of the poison-
ous penetration system this Gazette Des
Ardennes is an object-lesson in the crude
cunning which served Germany very well
in the early days of the war. A leading
article in one of the recent numbers pro-
fessed to warn its French readers that
America was preparing to serve an ultima-
tum on France and Britain, demanding the
surrender of Martinique, Guadeloupe.
Jamaica and the Bahama Islands as the
U.S. price for continuing to send troops
across the Atlantic. The article, signed “Au
American Citizen,” started to prove its bona
fides by referring to President Wilson as
an impractical person of high ideals. The
bogus citizen of America deplored the artless
simplicity of Woodrow Wilson, but de-
scribed him as a true type of his race:—
His ignorance of European affairs in particular
and human affairs in general would seem extraor-
dinary for the head of so great a nation, but from all
I know of my country he ably represents the average
American, who is infantile, very credulous and a
great lover of the melodramatic.
After which the “American Citizen” con-
tributing to the Hun propaganda journal
proceeded to warn Britain that infantile
Uncle Sam proposed to steal Canada.
Finally the crudely artful editor gave an air
of honesty to the article by stating in a foot-
note that he personally had editorial doubts
re the high ideals of President Wilson. In
the light of this publication for the purpose
of sowing mutual distrust among the Allies
one sees reason for Hindenburg’s recent
howl of indignation at the leaflets which the
Allies have been distributing behind the Ger-
man lines. The leaflets merely state a few
forcible facts for fatuous Fritzes, but this
goes far beyond the Hun conception of fait-
play. The Hun method has ever been to
measure the stupidity of the enemy by the
one-eyed stupidity of intensely organised


Wanted.
Motor Mechanics Wanted.
GOOD WAGES to capable, sober men.
Fare refunded after 6 months’ satis-
factory service.
LONGREACH MOTOR CO. LTD.,
Longreach, Central Queensland.
H e Farmers & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. ofA us M ia
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Cooperative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this cooperative
company.
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Office; 129 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Fritz. The enemy’s attempts to open Fritz’s
other eye, and convince him of his foolishness,
strike the Blood and Iron Gang as being an
unwarranted interference. To even the least
educated citizens of English-speaking coun-
tries, or of France and Italy, for that mat-
ter, it seems hardly credible that America,
the home of the Monroe doctrine, should be
seriously presented to them as a nation itch-
ing for foreign annexations. It seems a ridicu-
lously stupid German suggestion. We know
something of American ideas and ideals,
but we forget that Germany has been
educated to a profound misunderstanding of
conditions in the United States, and that
the leading professors of Kultur estimate our
stupidity by the cultivated German igno-
rance of facts. It has to be remembered, too,
that the maps of America issued to German
schools divide the United States into three
sections, labelled respectively, Sphere of
Indian Influence, Sphere of Negro Influence,
and Sphere of German Influence. To a
Power that practices such audacious decep-
tions on its own rising, generqtion no propa-
ganda can seem too audacious to put before
the enemy. As for the prediction that Presi-
dent Wilson contemplates the annexation
of Canada, it is only a variation of the
earlier German belief that Canada would
join the U.S. when Australia and S’Africa
cast off the “hated British yoke.” And
the spirit that dictates the, absurdities
of the Gazette Des Ardennes is the. spirit
that influences tuition at the German
Lutheran schools in Australia.
George Reid.
Died in England, at the age of 73, George
Houstoun Reid, barrister, knight, privy
councillor, the longest Premier N. S. Wales
ever had till Holman came along ; half-Prime
Minister of Australia (Allan McLean was
the other half) for 10 months and 19 days,
also High Commissioner and member of the
British House of Commons for a short time.
He started on his last job in January, 1916,
as representative for St. George’s, Ilanover-
square, a reliable Conservative sort of place
where there was no opposition. George Reid
belonged in a sense to the same species as
Napoleon 111., Cagliostro, Albert “the
Good,” Nostradamus and the inventor of
the Keeley motor —the species of the charla-
tans. He was lower down in the category
than John Law and a great deal higher than
the finder of the marble man who was dug
up at Cow Flat or some such place. He
was a happy, pleasant sort of person, full
of the joy of life and an adept in managing
men—some sorts of men—-and finding out
easy ways to keep in office. If he really
believed in anything it was in Freetrade, yet
it is doubtful if he troubled to believe much
in that. The policy was his one big asset,
for he appeared at a time when the
national patriotic idea of Protection
was getting a powerful hold, and the
importers and importers’ hack news-
papers put immense value on a man
who could keep the markets open to them.
Reid was the best man of his day for the
work, and he was magnified as a god and
had butter handed to him on an ungodly dish.
Yet when he professed to establish real
Freetrade in order to make the country rich
he left a solid Protection on sugar, the pro-
duct of the one big protected industry,
apparently because he suspected in his heart
that his policy was likely to make the coun-
try very poor. The State certainly was
very poor and full of “relief works” all his
days in office. Reid was a bitter enemy of
Federation, but when Parkes, who had
retired in haste and badly wanted to come
back, made Federation his war-cry, the new
Premier, hardly yet secure in the saddle,
stole his thunder by a sudden conversion.
That was in 1594, and in ’95 the latest
Federal movement got into motion. Parkes
obligingly died in ’96, and the new convert’s
enthusiasm cooled. The shameless breach
of faith by which the N. S. Wales Legisla-
ture, with Reid voting first on one side and
then on another, annulled the people’s accept-
ance of the Federal Constitution is a matter
of history. Reid was “No” up to the day
of the Federal poll, and then the “Yes”
majority, disqualified though it was, made
it clear that a “No” Premier would have a
poor show at the approaching State elec-
tions. So he became “Yes” again and saved
his face by professing that he only objected
to certain defects in the Bill, and when these
were remedied his “Yes” would be enthusi-
astic and permanent. He secured two prin-
cipal changes and some minor ones. In
the first place the capital was fixed in N. S,
Wales, with a 100-mile limit from Sydney,
wherefore indirectly Australia possesses Can-
berra, a costly metropolis in which there is
no Government, no Parliament and practi-
cally no population but some rabbits. The
other important variation provided that no
State should be cut up without the consent
of its own people, which means that no part
of N. S. Wales, Victoria or S.A. can secede
without the consent of Sydney, Melbourne
or Adelaide, these congested cities being the
people. If the same law had been in force
half a century earlier Queensland and Vic-
toria would have had to set up for them-
selves by armed rebellion. So the Free-
trade champion, at great trouble and cost,
gave Australia a joke-metropolis and the
seeds of civil war. But he was not a far-
seeing man and he was a parochialist to the
backbone, and moreover he didn’t take life
very seriously. Only he could have per-
petrated the humor of his solitary surplus
when he professed that in a certain year the
interest on the public debt had suddenly gone
down from about £2,400,000 to £1,800,000
(it was done by charging the rest of the
interest forward to next year, and it has
been charged forward ever since). With
part of the £600,000 or so thus “saved” he
made a “surplus,” and the servile importing
papers declared the wonderful piece of
humor to be genuine, honest finance. The
S. M. Herald even said, the surplus was in
the bank “in sovereigns.” Two officials,
the Auditor-General and the State Statis-
tician, made a lifelong enemy by publishing
the real figures, in the ordinary course of
their business, for George Reid was not of
a forgiving turn. Despite his latest change
of front and the support of the importing
press, a mainly “Yes” community was rather
tired of the “Yes-No” Premier, and Lyne
presently got his billet. One good thing
which could be said for Reid was that he
wasn’t a violent borrower, though a steady
one —certainly not violent according to later
standards. He was an orator, though not
in quite the same category as Alfred
Deakin ; a humorist, though hardly up to
the rank of Josh Billings ; and an agile
Parliamentarian, but that was before
Hughes showed what the lightning-change
art really amounted to. Also no one ever
accused him or suspected him of using his
public position for his private profit. With
a little more patriotism and more sincerity
and a larger outlook and a real Australian
sentiment, and more knowledge of political
economy (he mostly relied on Pumpkin
Smith for his political economy, and Pump-
kin had merely some worn-out Adam
SMiTH-isms), and a better memory for kind-
nesses and a shorter one for injuries, he
might have been an ideal Premier.
Where the Pinch Is.
Tile war news continues uniformly depress-
ing and to afford justification for the
gravest pessimism being felt —in Berlin. The
time was when news about the proceedings
filled the Berlin newspaper with large,
exuberant headlines concerning victory and
the local inhabitant with the material for the
dinner he happened not to have consumed.
Incidentally, they also filled Uncle Sam with
a suspicion that the time was ripe to arise
and awake unless he wanted to meet a spiked
helmet in Old Kentucky or somewhere. But
those times have vanished, and nowadays the
Berliner is hearing about other things and
happenings strange and foreboding. Last
week the Americans sprang at him south of
Verdun, flattened out the famous salient at
St. Mihiel, and got to where long-range
shooting exercise at Metz will vary the
monotony of winter thereabouts. The Ger-
man made a poor defence, and lost heavily in
prisoners and material while falling back.
But to Australians the best news' about the
war is only indirectly connected therewith.
It is the announcement that the long-service
Billjim is getting furlough during the
European winter, and that several thou-
sands of the old brigades will have
a summer holiday in their own homeland.
These men most richly deserve this spell, and
it is up to Australia to give them the glad
hand of welcome when the transports arrive.
They have had nearly four years of w r ar in
its most grim form, suffering hardships such
as few armies have had to endure, and have
fought with a courage that knew no' defeat.
It may be they may not have to go back. But
the likelihood of that is very remote, for
unless a miracle happens there will be big
things still to do next year. Australia’s debt
to these soldiers cannot be measured, and
their home-coming should be memorable in
the history of the Commonwealth. Again
there is talk of Peace—from Austria. There
is none from Germany—at any rate, not
directly. Wilhelm is letting Karl take the
risk of what he suspects will be the reply.
—♦
Hospital Elbow-room for Billjim.
“The Immature Male” : Re the suggestion
of “Pons” (B. 12/9/’18) anent the enlarg-
ing of the Coast Hospital (Sydney) for the
accommodation of wounded Billjims. Allow
me to limp in (I can’t hop yet) with a
further alternative. Why not shift the
wounded soldier from his present dusty, un-
suitable and entirely inadequate quarters at
Randwiek, and start a decent military hospi-
tal on the quarantine site at North Head?
I believe, at time of writing, that there are
approximately over a thousand out-patients
at Randwiek, mainly for lack of space to
spare for other than actual cot cases.
George’s Heights (Randwick’s auxiliary'
would have made an ideal base hospital, but
it also suffers from an inability to expand,
besides being inaccessible, and a bit too costly
for Billjim’s girl, and Mum and Dad, should
they desire to visit him often. But if the
Government ran up a few more wards at
North Head, commandeered a couple of fast
ferry-boats (which could do the trip from
the Quay to the hospital in a little over 30
minutes) for the use of visitors and out-
patients, then the oversea hospital ships
could unload their precious cargoes right on
(Sydney’s front doormat, so to speak, and the
wounded men would recover their health a
great deal quicker by having the additional
advantage of fresh-air, sunshine and con-
genial surroundings, to say nothing of a place
where the convalescent could roam about
without the fear (which at present obtains)
that his crutches would damage the furniture,
or the garden fixtures, or Randwick’s 6xß
lawn. Furthermore, looking at North Head
from a purely scenic point of view, I doubt
if there exists a better site in the two hemi-
spheres for a military hospital; I know, for
I’ve been an inmate of nearly a dozen during
the last two years across the world. It
Billjim were given a chance to choose a
home for himself out here, I’d back North
Head to romp home every time. P.S. —
The Government could fix up temporary
quarters at, say, Broken Bay for anyone
who hankered to be quarantined during the
occupancy of the North Head station by the
soldiers.
• ♦
Liquor and the Bare Majority.
“P. Script” : The N. S. Wales Government
has promised to provide an early opportunity
for the discussion of Watercart Brunt-
nell’s motion in the Assembly that the ques-
tion of prohibiting the liquor traffic should
be decided by a bare majority voting on a
referendum. War-time seems an unlikely
hour to start this dog-fight in the community
again, but with the anti-liquor per-
son everything takes second place when
a chance offers of catching the public
unawares on his eternal hobby. Six o’clock
closing hasn’t brought about the decreased
consumption of beer that the reformer
guaranteed. As a fact, the reduction
has been so comparatively slight that it
might be accounted for by the absence of a
lot of regular beer-consumers at the war.
One certain evil of its operation is
increased drinking in working hours. A
bare majority of Parliamentary votes can
carry any reform; but on the liquor question
Parliament long ago shirked its job and
handed it over to the public. A bare
majority of the public may be whipped up
from the ranks of those who have made no
study of the liquor question. Those who
have studied the question know well enough
that the lines adopted here by the anti-
Bung crowd would, if successful, turn a
stream of alcohol into disreputable chan-
nels. _ Already, restriction of himses of sale
in licensed bars is giving the sly-grogger
his unlovely chance; but the police reports
do not and never can show nearly the whole
extent to which he is taking advantage of
the chance.
A Fill for the Federal Government’s
Pipe.
Melbourne Aaf], talking of tobacco-grow-
ing in Victoria as a declining industry, gives
some informative remarks by T. A. J.
Smith, a former tobacco expert at the local
Department of Agriculture. Certain parts
ot the State are undoubtedly suitable to the
growth of first-class leaf under favorable
weather conditions. The industry has been
absurdly mismanaged, and shamefully dis-
couraged by the local manufacturer. Its
possibilities have never been fully recognised
by the trade; but when all this is said the
fact remains that the possibilities carry
grave risks, even on the showing of T. A. J.
Smith. .He attributes the decline of the
industry in Victoria to a succession of bad
seasons, and he confesses that many vari-
eties of leaf failed to mature last year, owing
to specially heavy rains and cold changes.
Here is sufficient reason why Victoria, any-
how, cannot be expected to rival the
Southern States of America or S’Africa in
tobacco, production. On the largest tobacco-
plantations in the world a succession of bad
seasons is unknown. Fairly equable climatic
conditions are essential to the successful
cultivation of the best varieties of leaf on
a large scale. In blaming the weather the
expert belittles the future of the unfortunate
tobacco industry, as far as Victoria is con-
cerned. It will always be the sport of the
elements in a large measure, and no group of
growers could guarantee a steady, unfailing
supply of fine leaf for the factories. After
all it seems that ere the industry is nation-
alised—and it certainly should'be nation-
alised —we want definite information as to
which parts of the Commonwealth are the
most trustworthy for tobacco raising; high-
class tobacco raising at that. The nation-
alisation of the industry is a commercial
proposition. Plantations subject to a series
of disastrous seasons are hardly worth work-
ins, probably, whereas land capable of main-
taining a good average yield is worth
more development than it has received under
private ownership. Moreover, some of the
most likely districts for tobacco, growing
have never been tested at all, thus far. With
only 1300 acres under present cultivation in
the whole of the Commonwealth, and a record
of a few hundred other acres having been
gi\ en up as a bad job. the Government has
very little evidence to go upon. The vast
surface of the continent has hardy been
scratched for tobacco-cultivation purposes.
The future of the industry lies where the
climate is least uncertain and the soil suffi-
ciently suitable, and seeing that Private
Enterprise cannot swear to its whereabouts
the Federal Government ought to experi-
ment considerably with plantations.
Perhaps the current theatrical displays
and fierce suburban conflicts may be neces-
sary in connection with the latest War Loan
issue. The Bulletin does not know. What
it is certain about is that the money is
necessary, that if it is not obtained this way
it will be in another, and that there is an
obligation upon every citizen to lend to the
utmost of his capacity. Putting the matter
upon the very lowest plane and looking at
the loan merely as a business deal, it cannot
be disputed that this loan offers an investor
the most solid security obtainable in the
Commonwealth. The indebtedness is one
guaranteed by the nation. Long before such
a security failed all other forms of security
would be no more. Of course it is useless to
expect any great investment of small savings
in a loan of this kind in the prevailing cir-
cumstances, but that does not alter the fact
that the little man with a £lO or £lOO war
bond in his swag is not going to be as sorry
about himself later on as if he had omitted
to capture one. The citizen with the money
available who puts his money into War Loan
bonds is a wise citizen. The one who does
not is the other thing—and a not very
valuable sort of Australian either.
During the recent debate in the Vic.
Assembly on what has come to be his
annual motion for the abolition of the State
Governorship, Martin Hannah, Labor
M.L.A. for Collingwood, caused great pain
to Premier Lawson by describing him as a
“champion rail-sitter.” Lawson indignantly
denied the imputation during a speech about
the inadvisability of whittling away the
rights of “sovereign States” and the “im-
portant powers” held by State Governors.
Whereupon up spoke Richard Toutcher
(Stawell arid Ararat), nastily reminding
the Premier that in 1903 he had voted for
a motion calling politely upon the King to
“consider the suggestion for an alteration in
the system of appointment” of Governors.
Still. Hannah is wrong. Lawson isn’t a
rail-sitter. He has climbed down off the
fence into fhe rich and pleasant pastures
wherein Governors and the right sort of
people generally graze together, having had
quite enough of the coarse political herbage
upon which he used to browse when a
younger Parliamentarianimal.
The vacancy on the A.M.P. Board of
Directors in Adelaide, caused by the re-
tirement of Charles Goode, has been filled
by the appointment of Walter Duncan, He
is the second son'of the late John Duncan,
and only a few months ago was elected to
the Leg. Council of S.A. for the district
which his father represented so long. His
elder brother, who is in Prance as a captain
of artillery, is Duncan-Ilughes, a lawyer
of literary tastes, who assumed the double
name in memory of W. W. Hughes, of
Moonta and Wallaroo copper fame, the
great-uncle who founded the family fortunes.
The gap in age between the former A.M.P.
director and his successor is probably a
record —close on 60 years.
“Peter” : The staff of the House of Reps,
will drop a tear for Bigjohn Forrest. He
showed a bluff friendship for everyone, are
never closed his ear to the innumerable
grievances which humble toilers discover for
important sympathisers. John’s kindliness,
however, went beyond mere words. He
freely employed his power and influence for
all who had genuine claims for help. A
few months back one of the messengers was
killed by a motor-car, and John was sw
in his solicitude for the bereaved family. In
fact, his first act on his re-appearance after
one of his illnesses was to inquire whether
the dependants had been properly provided
for.
A testimonial is to be tendered to Julian
Ashton, the veteran art teacher of Sydney.
Past and present students who are interested
are invited to send their names and addresses
to Hal Eyre, c/o the Daily Telegraph, Syd-
ney ; or Sydney Ure Smith, 24 Bond-street,
Sydney.


o'
iH.
fiwttuoti)
mm
LAGER
*' The Beer
without
a Rival.”
Made from Malt
and Hops Only,
A "WARRIGAL” HAT.
One of Peapes’ popular Australian Felts—-
a new, smart shape with 2inch adjustable
brim which can be worn flat or turned. The
“AVarrigal” Trade-mark on the head leather
guarantees Peapes’-quality and genuine Aus-
tralian manufacture.
Colors: Light Grey, Steel Grey, Fawn.
Black bands with bow at side or back.
Peapes’ pay postage. Please state size and
color required.
fg
PE.APES CO. LTD.,
Men’s
Outfitters,
309 &, 311 George Street, Sydney,
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Business Before Pleasure^
Criterion “The Man Who Came Back
Tivoli “Vanity Fair’’
Playhouse “Pierrot Pie No. 4”
C'.mon Theatres <■.. Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Oh, Oh, Delphine! ’
Royal “Oh, Boy!”
King’s “What Happened to Mary”
Tivoli “Honi Soit”
Auditorium “The Scarlet Gaieties”
Hoyt’s De Luxr & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
• ♦
“Spare the dollars and make the man”
would seem to be a more useful working
proverb for an American millionaire afflicted
with a family than the apothegm concerning
the rod and the child. And it appears to
be the moral reflected in “The Man Who
Came Back,” introduced at the Criterion
(Sydney) by Muriel Starr. The story
analyses youth with a ten-cent character and
a twenty-thousand-dollar allowance —with a
motor-car, a valet and all the rest of it—
and nothing to do except go to the Devil,
which is a very pleasant journey if you
make it only on week-ends. This youth
over-did it. The incidents are related
in five episodes. Enter Thomas Potter, mil-
lionaire, brimmed-up of a son who spends the
evenings among primroses and dubious
females, and the mornings in bed in pink-
silk pyjamas. • Dad tells sonny what
he thinks of him, hands him a hundred and
the address of a job in ’Frisco, and tells him
to get to it. “Come back with an honest
dollar in your hand and I’ll shake with you,
son ; but till then, no!” Thus episode No. 1
consists of Potter junior getting the boot
and Potter senior keeping the fatted calf
in reserve. Episode No. 2 consists of young
Potter on the jag at a ’Frisco cabaret,
becoming enamored of Marcelle, one of the
singers kept on the premises, and forging
the old man’s name to cheques. Ilis jam-
boree is intercepted by emissaries “f dad, who
tear him away by force and bump him aboard
a vessel bound for China. Next, he is seen
stumbling into an opium-joint at Shanghai,
drunken, dishevelled and broke. There he
meets the beloved Marcelle —and passes her
the gin. After much rant about himself
and his love for that beauteous maiden, and
after trying to throttle her, he “wakes up to
his better self,” is saved by remorse, and,
clasping Marcelle to his breast, announces
that the gutter is no place for either of them.
Together in the dim, sin-laden light of the
Chow’s smoke-room they plight their troth
and book their better nature the morning
stars. It is a beautifully hellowdramatic
incident. Next they are disclosed as pro-
prietors of a pineapple farm in Honolulu,
Potter having conquered his thirst apd started
to earn his bread. Thither comes his aunt
with a summons from the aged Potter at
home, and a cold eye for Marcelle. There
also comes Captain Trevelan. who had been
hovering about in episode No. with a
monocle and a mocking laugh, and now tries
to entangle Marcelle in another episode. He
is re-pulsed, and Potter junior goes back on
probation to the paternal mansion. The last
episode consists of the young mucker making
good, the veal being dished up, and Marcelle,
who had remained behind in the pineapple
paradise, suddenly being produced in the
drawing-room by Trevelan, like a rabbit
out of a conjurer’s hat. There she falls
into the embrace of Potter again—for ever.
Trevelan, it transpires, is old Potter’s pri-
vate John Hop, and had only been mas-
querading as an apple of discord among the
pineapples.
* * * *
Out of this is made a play which main-
tains its interest, mainly because the first
act is so well constructed. There is nothing
new about it —most of the material is fairly
old—but the theme is happily handled.
There is no grossness; the comedy of fife is
not forgotten. As Marcelle, the cabaret singer,
Miss Starr does well in a part that suits her
style and methods. Louis Kimball gets
through the job of being Henry Potter with
great success. In the second episode—the
spree at ’Frisco —he is at his best. He does ex-
cellently. But throughout, what he never quite
succeeds in doing is to show reasonable cause
for anyone caring anything about Henry
Potter or why he should be regarded as even
rudimentarily decent. Frank Harvey, as
Trevelan, is good, of course. His is a weird
sort of part, and his marriage with a lady
who pervaded a pub in miniature costume is
a quaint illustration of what a dramatist
has to do at times when hard pressed. But
the individual performance that stands out
at the Cri. just now is that of Arthur Styan
as old man Potter. The part could not be
played better by anyone. None of the light
or shade is missed. The fox-trotters and,
the ballet are a joyful circumstance and fall
easily into place—not, as is often the case,
as if they had been sent for in a hurry to
fill in time. “The Man Who Oame Back”
should stay in Sydney for a good while.
“Business Before Pleasure,” looking for
more elbow-room, has moved into Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) from the Criterion. From
the managerial point of view, such business
is a pleasure.
“The Invisible Foe” opens fire at the Palace
(Sydney) on Saturday with Emelie Polini
as No. i in the gun-crew. Until then “Gran’-
dad Rudd” will hustle the Bert Bailey family
around.
** * *
“Pierrot Pie No. 4” is due at the Play-
house (Sydney) on Friday night. As usual
Sydney James will carve. During the even-
ing the bright little co. will show the building
of a revue entitled “999.”
“S’nice” packs up its tights and grease-
paint on Friday, and the Tivoli (Sydney)
will house a fresh show on Saturday—Jack
Waller and co. in “Vanity Fair,” described
on the charge-sheet as “a musical extrava-
ganza.” The show will be decorated by
Fayette Perry, cheered by Harry de Robeck
and made dizzy by the whirling Camille Trio
on the horizontal bars.
“Cleopatra” is the hit of this week’s
screens in Sydney. Theda Bara, as . the
Serpent of old Nile, is regal and impressive,
and tangles High Priest, Emperor and First
Citizen of Rome in her coils with a complete-
ness and impartiality that has nothing to
learn from the Vampire of to-day. What
Cleo didn’t know about men, who are a poor,
simple lot at best, wasn’t worth a tram-fare.
Her great moment at the Alhambra is when
with splendid nonchalance she plucks death
from a basket of figs. Figs ought to come
under the Noxious Weeds Act. On the
Empress screen they are showing something
of the worries of the Jew in Russia, before
that country went berserk. The picture,
which is a dramatisation of Israel Zangwill’s
“Melting Pot,” transports some of the down-
trodden to America, where all their race
prejudices are boiled down, and they emerge
as good American citizens —at least some of
them do. Some years ago it was understood
that Tess of the Storm Country had retired
as a happy and contended little wife, but
to “sit on a cushion and sew a fine seam”
seems to have been too tiresome for her.
The Crystal Palace is now giving away
‘“The Secret of the Storm Country,” where
the poor girl is weathering the gale as a
deserced wife and mother. It’s a painful
change for Tess; but it breaks the monotony
o p being happy and contented. At the Lyceum
“The Whispering Chorus” is working at
high pressure. At the same house Vivian
Martin is giving her dad with the hod a push
up the social ladder and incidentally win-
ning “A Kiss for Susie.”
** * *
Adelaide theatres have opened up in full
force for the Agricultural Show week. Pic-
tures are frequent, and good. “Seven Days’
Leave” is at the Royal. Allan Wilkie “romps”
through the easy heroic part, and Miss
Hunter-Watts scores heavily, never more so
than when her voice gets hard as she remem-
bers she is a woman and forgets she is a
lady. At the Tivoli is the brisk revue,
“Samples.” The neat duel-with-the-Devil
idea, which might have been worked for so
much, is unaccountably dropped after Work-
man has had only two rounds with Frank
Greene. Celia Ghiloni is not given enough
“The Man Who Came
Back," at Sydney
Criterion.
Louis Kimbal as
Henry Potter.
chances, but makes
the best use of her
“Joan of Arc”
number. The
King’s has had one
week of Jack
Waller’s co. This
show has worked
up its business be-
yond all recognition
since its old open-
air days. There is
ginger in it now.
The potted plays
and the Bairns-
father scenes in the
trenches are alike
good; so is the
music, in the care
of Ivanoff, Den-
nett and Wyllie
Watson. At the
Majestic, the five
Lewins are back.
Daisy Harcourt
gives crisp songs in
smart gowns, and
Le Blanc and Jake
Mack have said
good-bye for the
present. Good con-
certs are numerous,
and out at Unley
Oval a real genuine
war-tank gives its
own private de-
menstration of grim but comic war-work,
day and night.
❖ -! ; * *
“Oh, Boy!” having a sufficiency of girl
and glitter, a foundation of plot strong
enough to bear the wild incursions of irre-
sponsible chorus and give interest to peace-
ful stretches of dialogue, an incidental
“turn” or two, and a tendency to tremble on
the verge of impropriety, is pretty sure to
repeat its Sydney success at the Royal
(Melb.). The music is dainty, as a rule,
and as many of the song-words as are dis-
tinctly audible above the mild accompani-
ment of a discreet orchestra seem to be in
harmony with the libretto. For instance, the
duet between Grade Lavers and Maguire and
the ditty of “An Old-fashioned Wife,” by
Gracie aforesaid, and “Nesting Time in
Chelsea,” a duet by the other pair of lovers.
If the company was strong in vocal talent
“Oh, Boy!” would hold one’s attention with
its tunefulness. Unfortunately the men in the
cast can’t sing for the proverbial nuts, whilst
the warbling of the ladies leaves a lot to be
desired. Maud Fane, presumably, would have
raised the average musical tone on Saturday
night had she been there; but Maud was
missing, and Cecil Bradley wore the bridal
pyjamas in her stead. Miss Bradley’s sing-
ing was very pleasing, far as it went,
her appearance handsome, and her perform-
ance quite charming. She realised the
characfpr of an audacious actress whose re-
fined style fits her to play the part of Modesty
in symbolical drama, though she is capable of
smacking a policeman in the eye. Alfred
Frith is the policeman, and his acting, as
usual, is mainly a matter of Face.
Gracie Lavers, as the runaway bride, has
an appealing youthfulness, an engaging air
of innocence and an eloquent pair of round
eyes. She puts a winsome ingenue expres-
sion into a smile and a glance, and leaves her
pretty little part to play itself. Her tinkly
singing voice is effective, too, in its small
way, but she needs to cure herself of a ten-
dency to “month” her words. As for the
singing of Fred Maguire, who is weak in a
"Oh, Boy!" at Mel-
bourne Royal.
Detective Simms
(Alfred Frith) looking
for the lady who
blackened his eye.
weak character, it
seems to consist
mainly of sucking
in atmosphere when
he ought to be puf-
fing it out. Greene
is colorless as the
other young man ;
George Willoughby
brings his weight
of manner to bear
on the slight part
of a heavy father,
whilst Maud Beatty
intones the lines of
a heavy mother;
and Field Fisher
and Connie Ediss
are seemingly called
upon to do some-
thing in order that
they may reassert
their long connec-
tion with the co.-
Fisher is a stodgier,
type of pessimistic
menial than usual,
and Connie has
nothing to do but
simulate drunken-
ness as inoffensively
as possible. The
fact that she rouses
a portion of the
audience to en-
thusiasm by roll-
ing off a couch is
not overwhelming
evidence of histri-
onic art. Madge
Elliott and Jack
Hooker recite a few
stanzas of poetry with acrobatic motion; also
Tom Preston and little Rita Nugent contribute
quaintly to the entertainment. The joyous
combination of eight agile girls who gradu-
ated in “So Long, Letty,” are foremost in the
fray. They are the Anzaciennes of the
ir usical-comedy stage and when they prance
into action the battle is won.
* * *
The amorous Colonel Pomponnet con-
tinues to prowl about in “Oh, Oh, Del-
phine!” at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), seeking
what reputations he can devour. Musical-
comedy tradition always allots a large allow-
ance of giddiness to grizzled military john-
nies who have seen their worst nights, but
the present despot excels the average in the
promiscuous complexity of his desires. He
wants to cuddle every female within range,
and makes so many dates for the one avail-
able greenhouse that the struggle for the
early door would be unseemly. But the
Colonel is not the only means to swift and
easy divorces. There is the naughty Victor
Jolibeau. who has deserted his Delphine for
six models and any other impromptu sirens
who happen to cross his promiscuous tracks.
Fortunately the authors see that the lonely
women are rapidly consoled. Otherwise
“Oh, Oh. Delphine!” might be the name of
a home for abandoned women.
❖ H* H'
The Scarlet Gaieties, who arrived at the
Auditorium (Melb.) on Saturday, are un-
doubtedly true to their color, without satis-
fying everybody about the rest of the title.
Their spasmodic frivolity is direct and force-
ful, and their knockabout methods are best
seen in the capably-sung burlesque, “Has
Anybody Here Seen Kelly?” They sound
better, however, in the concerted music of
the Cabaret scene and the fragment from
“The Tales of Hoffmann” ; and the individual
voices in the revue called “The Bell Boy”
are generally uplifted with taste and de-
“Oh, Boy!" at Mel-
bourne Royal.
Budd's valet (Field
Fisher) disapproves of
supper parties.
conim. In the first
part the cumula-
tive effect of three
male warblers suc-
ceeding one another
produces monot-
ony, which is not
relieved by the
sudden apparition
of Flockton Foster
in a spruiker’s ren-
dition of a popular
shriek by the
Canadian rliym-
ster, Robert W.
Service. Flockton
has certain quali-
ties as an enter-
tainer, but he is
earnestly requested
in the interests of
poetry and good
order to abandon
R. W. Service to
the South-street
competitions. Also,
Mona Thomas is
advised to give
“One Fine Day”
from “Butterfly”
with less emphasis
on her opinion that
Butterfly was a
toe-dancer or an
exponent of Salome.
The other ladies are
more charming
than obvious
whereas the comedian, llarry Webster, is
just the reverse, whilst the orchestra is
neither one nor the other.
At the King’s (Melb.) itfis Thursday is
the last night of “De Luxe Annie’s” restora-
tion to respectability and the simple life.
On Saturday the Bert Bailey co. returns to
its old home with “What Happened to
Mary” as its first intention.
He ❖ ❖
At the Tivoli (Melb.) the infinite variety
of “Honi Soit” continues as before, and the
doll dance, which involves the frequent
downfall of Barry Lupino, is still the glad-
dest item in a confusion of fun.
* ❖ * *
Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, with
Alberto Zelman in the rostrum, will give a
popular-priced concert at the Town Hall on
Saturday night. The M. 5.0., which de-
serves all the patronage it can get, will deal
with Schubert’s Unfinished Symphony, the
Peer Gynt Suite, and 80 performers are
promised for the occasion.
William S. Hart’s industrious biographer
has completed another chapter of the hero’s
gunpowdery career, and it is now being pub-
lished at Hoyt’s De Luxe (Melb.). “Wolves
of the Rail” is the title of the story, and
William is one of the wildest of the species
whom the local siren turns into tame mutton
in a very short time. But before he beats
his gun into church shares, so to speak, he
has a terrible bill to meet for floating his
evil nature on the market. Vivian Martin,
in “A Kiss for Susie,” follows Hart and
brings peace to the troubled screen, but she
is no more enchanting than a hundred fool-
ish Vivians who have appeared before. At
the Lyceum a couple of kiddies named Lee
are featured in some maladroit mischief
manufactured in the studio, whilst George
Walsh as “Jack Spurlock, Prodigal,” varies
the usual legend by playing the calf.
* * * *
Lucrezia Borgia has arisen from the mists
of history morally renovated by Florence
Reed. Miss Reed’s Lucrezia is now at the
Majestic (Melb.), in “The Eternal Sin,”
but several tanks of whitewash fail to make
the fair poisoner a less careless party. The
suggestion that she slays during the evening
a whole banquet in self-defence is one of the
many audacities of a very exciting film.
“Madame Sphinx,” from the Triangle factory,
presents Alma Rubens in all her varied dress-
making. The story moves among the slums
of Paris.
Another Melbourne side-show
Miss Bertha Merfield has hung 119 treasured can-
vases for a fortnight’s view at the Athenaeum. The
most ambitious subjects are decorative panels in
which the Australian eucalypt is mightily helpful in
lessening the tedium of a painter with a limited
range of backgrounds. Miss Merfield lures the eye
from her undistinguished distances with foregrounds
of gums, carefully selected for their pose and style
and the ability to stand a sort of lyric illustration
without damaging the artistic propriety of the
pattern. There is no doubt that Miss Merfield makes
the painting of these panels almost a religious
observance. The effect is solemn and picturesque,
and there is every reason to believe that if she
continues in this strain she will exalt the gum to
a high place in a stained-glass window. A pity
the artist had not revealed the same fervor in her
landscapes. A lot of these are fit only to grace a
land-agent’s catalogue.


HASTENING THE INEVITABLE.
BILL: “Vell, Fate vill settle it. Here goes for a toss. Tails ve vin, beads ve do a perish.”
KARL: “Better use your double-headed penny.”


LEAD
British Owned and Controlled.
SILVER
The Bro Ken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Smelting Works : Port Pirie, S.A. Coke Works : Bellambi, N.S.W.
Branch Offices:
LONDON : 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building:. SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Read Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead Chemical Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Linotype Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY
FAVORABLE TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade;
Slags, etc., containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Registered
fg
Brand.
LITHARGE
All Enquiries to
be addressed to
the Secretary.
ANTIFRICTION
LINOTYPE
METALS
PIONEER Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Melbourne Steamship Co.: —
Added Nomi-
Gross to U<‘- nal lte-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves,
•tune, 'lO. ,£15,48S 8 p.c. = £O,BOO £8,688 £81,232
Dee., 'lO.. 16,749 9 „ „ 7,650 9,099 90,331
June, ’ll.. 16,978 9 ~ „ 7.650 9,328 99,659
Dee., ’ll.. 12,968 9 ~ „ 7,050 5,318 104,977
June, '12.. 17,900 9 ~ „ 7,050 10,250 115,227
Premiums on new shares. . 6,800 122,027
£5OOO written off .. •• 117,027
Dec., ’12.. 8,715 7 p.c. = 6,843 1,872 118,899
June, ’13.. 20,107 8 ~ „ 8,160 11,947 130,846
Dec., ’13.. 21,104 8 „ ~ 8.160 13,004 143,850
June, '14.. 16,906 7 .. ~ 7,140 9,820 153,676
Pref. Ord. Total.
Dec., ’14.. 17,409 Op.e. Sp.c. 8,403 8,946 102,622
June, ’15.. 29,371 6 „ 15 ~ 30,079 13,292 175,914
Transferred to capital, £51,000 124,914
Dec., ’15.. 32,433 Cp.c. lOp.c. 13,530 18,903 143,817
June, ’lO.. 33,045 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 19,515 103,332
Dec., ’lO.. 27,598 6 „ 10 ~ 13,530 14,008 177,400
June, ’17.. 29.201 0 „ 10 „ 13,530 15,071 193,071
Dec., ’17.. 48,950 0 „ It) ~ 13,530 35,420 228,491
June,’lB.. 32,406 6 „ 10 „ 13,530 18,936 247,427
The co. now lumps its reserves for deprecia-
tion, special renewals, replacements, had and
doubtful debts and contingencies. Eighteen
months ago the reserve for doubtful debts stood
at £5OO, but whether any further appropria-
tion has been added to this item is not stated.
Anyhow, in the above table the £5OO is not
included in the reserves. These nominal
reserves are now made up of: premiums on
shares, £0800; general reserve fund, £5OOO ;
insurance fund, £36,070 ; reserves for depreci-
ation, renewals, contingencies, etc., £180,170;
and P. and L. balance, £19.387. Note also
that profits shown in the table are gross.
The net profit shown in the balance-sheet is
£15,267, the difference being made up by
additions to the various reserves. This shows
how additions have been made to these re-
serves during recent years:—•
Additions to
Additions Reserves for
to Depreciation,
Insurance Renewals and
Reserve. O&ntingencies.
June, 1914 .. £1122 £8,669
Dec., 1914 .. 1322 7,000
•Tune, 1915 .. 1445 11,500
June, 1916 .. 1585 7,952
Dec., 1916 .. 5928 8,100
June, 1917 .. 7189 16,943
Dec., 1917 .. 68.45 30,064
June, 1918 .. 7199 16*000
What is a fair allowance for depreciation and
a reasonable premium allowance to cover the
risks the co. is itself taking, Txie Bulletin
does not know. But comparing the totals of
the past three half-years with those of the
three at the head of the table, it will be seen
that on a smaller fleet—one new boat has
been added and three old ones sold since 1914
—the insurance allowance has been 54 times
greater and over twice as much has been set
aside for depreciation and contingencies.
Another view of the position is given by
this comparison of the balance-sheet figures:
June,’l4. June,’l7. Dec.,’l7. June,’lB.
Steamships and
other non-
liquid assets.. £347,352 £349,779 £312,328 £315,051
Liquid assets. . 62,380 201,176 267,893 302,776
Liabilities .. 26,560 62,854 56,700 75,370
Since the war began capital has increased
from £204,000 to £281,000, but £51,000 repre-
sents capitalised reserves. So the new capi-
tal actually put up by shareholders amounts
to £26.000. Meantime, while liabilities have
grown by £48,810, there has been an increase
in liquid assets of £240,396, showing
growth of surplus liquid assets of £191,586.
Deduct the £26,000 of new capital, and more
or less liquid assets amounting to £165,586
have been accumulated after paying hand-
some dividends. But as mentioned above
three of the old vessels have been sold and a
new one added, and some of the difference
between the cost of the Woolgar and the cash
received from the sales of the Kapunda, Syd-
ney and Brisbane is, of course, included in
the £165,586. However, there’s no doubt
that the Melbourne Steamship Co. has been
having a splendid time.
* * * *
The West Australian Insurance Co.
(Perth). —This co., which has had a mush-
room growth unparalleled in Australian in-
surance history, closed its fifth year on June
30, but the show has grown so rapidly and
so big that all the figures are not yet avail-
able. However, the directors produce a sort of
preliminary statement which indicates that
the eo. has had another wonderfully-success-
ful run. This illustrates the amazing growth
of business, the figures in the last line being-
approximate, of course : —•
Net
Premiums. Losses.
1913 .. £1,790 £22
1914 .. 3,519 _ 770
' 1915 .. 52,061 1v,424
1916 . 180,716 116,763
1917 . . 727,868 522,217
1918 .. 1,100,000 725,000
It is not stated, however, whether the pre-
mium figures for last year are given less
deductions for re-insurance.
The secret of these astonishing figures is
that when the war started chairman S. W.
Copley saw the wonderful opportunities
which awaited a venturesome underwriter in
England. So he established a London office
and a London Board, and the eo. is now
operating throughout Australia and the
United Kingdom, in S’Africa, India, France.
Holland. Norway, Egypt, Mauritius, and
is establishing agencies in China, Cuba.
Brazil and in “other countries where
the German cos. were previously oper-
ating.” “In addition to this,” say the direc-
tors, “we have settling agents throughout the
world.” The Westralian Insurance Co.,
which four years ago was merely a struggling
infant, has thus been rushing breathlessly
around the globe establishing itself in all
sorts of out-of-the-way places. The business
has been full of risk, of course; but every-
thing has worked out all right. A 10 p.c.
div. on the 100,000 capital is being paid to
shareholders on last year's operations, and
most of the balance of the profits will be
transferred to a reserve fund. The Bulletin
postpones further comment until the final
figures are available.
The Silverton Tramway Co. :
Dividends on
Actual Capital Written Real
Dec., Profits. ( £46,800). Oft'. Reserves.
1906. . £81,931 127 p.c. = £59,342 £lO,OOO £238.377
1907.. 108.478 158 „ „ 74.177 10,000 262,678
1908.. 93,518 169 „ „ 79.122 1.031 276,043
1909.. 95,687 169 „ „ 79,122 11,400 281,208
1910.. 110.461 169 „ „ 79,122 318,547
1911.. 143,216 214 „ „ 100,000 14,060 347,703
1912.. 144,542 214 „ „ 100,000 7,106 385,139
1913.. 148,918 267 i„ „ 125,000 8,228 400,829
1914.. 112,142 214 ~ ~ 100.000 14,343 398,628
Written off renewals account, £20,000 378,628
1915. . 94,980 187 p.c. = 87,500 3,820 382,288
June,
1916.. 25,817 214 „ „ 5(1,000 357,605
1917.. 75,540 214 „ ~ 100,000 4,098 329,047
1918.. 74,305 160 J„ ~ 75,000 3,958 324,394
Of course the directors don’t show the divi-
dend figures that way. The co.’s present
paid capital is £250,000, and a £75,000 divi-
dend on that amount is equal to a poor HO
p.c. However, the original capital put up by
shareholders amounted to only £46,800; the
remainder of the quarter of a million having
been got together in this way:
1886. —Co. registered; paid capital £46,800, plus
£lO,OOO in promoters’ shares.
1888. —First stock watering; £41,860 capitalised
(two shares for every three).
1889. —Second stock watering ; £17,433 (one in, six).
Third stock watering; £15,273 (one in
eight).
1890. Fourth stock watering; £27,473 (one in five).
1891. Fifth stock watering; £32,967 (one in five).
1910.—Sixth stock watering ; £52,194 (one in four).
So we get this: —
Capital actually subscribed.. £46,800
Promoters’ little lot . . 16,000
Profits capitalised .. .. 187,200
Total alleged capital .. £250,000
The undertaking was a doubtful proposition
when the co. first connected its rails with the
South Aus. system, and Silverton. after which
the eo. took its name and which was ex-
pected to provide most of the traffic, has long
ago more or less disappeared from the map.
But Silverton was only the beginning, and
when Broken Hill was opened up the co.
extended its line, and has ever since had a
gorgeous time.
And it has not been because of excessive
freights that the co. has done so well out of
its 36 miles of line. In fact, it used to be
pointed out that the co. was carrying at a
rate less than the State-owned railways
charged for a similar distance. But the Sil-
verton Tramway’s traffic is practically all
through traffic- —there are no half-ejnpty
trains, or stopping and picking up or set-
ting down small consignments. Last year
the strike, fever was raging on the Barrier,
and for a time there was a shortage of fuel.
Altogether over one million tons were hauled,
but revenue shrank from £161,493 in 1917
to £132.468. Nevertheless, shareholders have
received in dividends an amount equal to
over 56 p.c. of the gross revenue. Chairman
Mcßryde dropped a tear or two at the
general meeting :—•
In connection with the continuance of dividends
it was difficult to form any idea what was ahead,
owing to the number of strikes which took place from
month to month, and the foolish way men were
working. The investment of capital where it could
not be controlled was no good, and were the proposed
new union to become a fact, probably all further
investment would be stopped.
What a shocking time the co. is having is
shown by the fact that it has had to lower
its rate of dividend from a poor 40 p.c. (on a
heavily watered capital) to a miserable 30
p.c. Since December, 1915, however,
net profits have been less than the amount of
dividends distributed, and liquid assets have
been cut into. This show-s the position:—
Dee.,To. June,’l7. June,'lS.
Liabilities .. ...£38,826 £36,816 ,046.250
Fixed assets . . . . 208,766 206,840 204,346
Fuel and stores .. 46,459 37,112 39,926
Sundry debtors .. 49,541 48,410 55,399
Cash, etc 162,818 120,256 117,793
As to the future—w r ell. the N. S. Wales
railway system is to be connected with
Broken Hill, and State ownership of the con-
necting link with S. Aus. is almost a cer-
tainty later on. Further, there won’t be
much profit in the line wdien the Broken Hill
mines are worked out, but that’s looking
ahead more than a dozen years on present
visible ore reserves.
* * * *
The Hobart Gas Co. (Tasmania) :
YV’rit-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
£££ £ £ £
June, 'lO.. 4571 8/17/9p.e.= 4675 10,787
Dec., 'lO.. 6688 8/17/9 „ ~4620 500 1568 12,355
June, ’ll.. 6678 8/17/9 „ ~4620 1500 558 12,913
Dec., ’ll.. 6617 8/17/9 „ ~4620 1500 497 13,410
June, ’12.. 6662 8/17/9 „ ~4620 1250 792 14,202
Dec., ’12.. 6612 8/17/9 „ ~4620 1500 492 14.694
June, ’13.. 6027 8/17/9 ~ lOOO 407 15,101
Premiums on new shares, £4O .. 15,141
Dec., ’13.. 6915 8/17/9 p.c.=4830 1000 1085 16,226
June, ’14.. 5919 8/17/9 „ ~ 5040 500 379 16,605
Dec., '14.. 5822 8/17/9 ~ ~ 5040 500 282 16,557
June, ’15.. 6859 8/17/9 „ ~5040 750 1069 17.956
Profit on sale of Electrical Depart-
ment, £55,482 .. .. ~ 73,438
Dec., '15.. 6822 8/17/9p.c.= 5040 750 1032 74,470
Reserves capitalised, £42,000 .. 32,470
Written off, £1322 .. .. .. 31,148
Written To Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off', serves.
June, ’16.. 6,013 7 p.c. = 5,512 501 31,649
June, ’17..12,105 7 „ ~11,025 1280 31,449
June, ’18..11.907 7 „ ~ 11,130 777 32,226
It’s unlikely that there will ever be much
glitter in the Hobart Gas Co. for share-
holders. for it has as a competitor the biggest
hydro-electric scheme in the Commonwealth,
a State enterprise which is not out to make
fat dividends. Until the end of 1915 the co.
was also supplying electricity, but it had
never made much out of it. However, it
was apparently able to keep off any outside
competition with its gas. When the Govern-
ment started on its hydro-electric scheme, it
purchased this cot’s plant, with the very
satisfactory result shown in the table.
During the past 12 months the co. was hit
by heavier costs. To meet these, in April
the price to consumers was lifted sd. to
6s. Scl. per 1000 ft., and though the revenue
from gas sales increased by £3600, the whole
of jt was absorbed by the added costs —about
£l5OO more for coal and a similar amount
for wages. Nothing has apparently been
written off works and plant out of undis-
closed profit, but £4106 was spent on renewals
maintenance and repairs during the year.
The cash position has moved this way during
the past three years:—
1910. 1917. 1918.
Liquid assets ..£111,031 £111,900 £90,202
Liabilities . . 16,776 25,900 14,371
Surplus assets.. £94,255 £86,066 £81,831
Last year about £3OOO was spent on new
mains, and the directors are now considering
the question of installing a modern system
of retorts. But there is no evidence to show
the co. is doing any better than it says it is.
At June 30, of the assets £115,922 was in
works, plant, mains, etc., £25,525 in stocks,
£18,227 was due by sundry debtors, and the
co held Tas. inscribed stock to the extent
of £52,450. Thus practically a quarter of
the assets are in this inscribed stock. Capi-
tal is £150,000, and besides the reserves
shown in the first table there is a reserve for
extension of works, £7750. and a gas-fitting
reserve of £3OOO.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Co. of
Australia (Sydney), which began with a
deficit of £4039 representing flotation ex-
penses : —■
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1912.. £4039
1913.. £3425 Nil £3425 614
Further preliminary exes., £247 861
Reserves.
1914.. 1898 Nil 1898 1,037
1915.. 4188 Nil 4188 5,225
1916.. 6904 Sp.c. = £3076 3828 9.053
1917.. 3965 8 „ „ 3099 866 9,919
1918.. 3284 8 „ ~ 3099 185 10,104
The Federal Mutual celebrated its sixth
anniversary by moving into its own comfort-
able, centrally-situated freehold premises,
and by showing an increase of almost 25
p.c. on the previous year’s net premiums.
That the profits were not quite so good is
explained in subsequent remarks. However,
this young Australian mutual office is mak-
ing steady progress, and the management is
apparently not much concerned about trying
to show big figures (which often mean big
risks), the directors being content to remark
that “the loss rate indicates the high-class
business being placed on the books.” When
managing-director W. R. Dimond. who had
been local manager of a big English office,
founded the Federal Mutual, he laid it down
as a guiding piinciple that "a special fea-
ture of the co.'s operations will be the scru-
pulous and careful limitation of its risks, and
large amounts will not be retained on any one
risk.” Generally the young insurance co. sets
out to impress people who have insurance busi-
ness to place with rapidly growing figures,
secured only by means of a heavy outlay, most
of which, instead of being charged to working-
expenses, is included in the- baiancc-sbee!
under some such title as “Business extension
account.” To the credit of the Federal
Mutual management no such item has found
a place in its balance-sheet, and even the last
of the £4039 of the preliminary exes, was
written off out of profits before the co. was
five years old.
This shows how the business is growing:
Met Expense Loss
Premiums. Expenses. Losses. Rate. Kate.
19X5. . £25,520 £13,303 £9,036 52.1 p.n. 37.8 p.e.
1916.. 32,303 14,981 12,292 46.4 p.e. 38.1 p.e.
1917.. 35,356 17,942 15,508 50.7 p.e. 43.9 p.e.
1918.. 44,029 25,724 16,661 58.4 p.e. 87.8 p.e.
A young eo.’s expenses are always heavy,
for_ it has to hustle for business in com-
petition with the complete organisation of
the old-established offices, and particularly
in a case like this, where, as mentioned
above, all exes, are charged against current
revenue. Last year, however, the expense
rate jumped to 58.4 p.e. The management
has done a considerable amount of organis-
ing work during the year. Salaries, com-
mission, travelling exes., advertising, etc.,
absdrbed £7300 more than in 1917. If this
additional organising work had not been
done, the extra profit shown would not have
gone to strengthen this mutual co.’s reserves,
but a big sliee would have been seized under
the absurd War-time Profits legislation ! The
chairman put the matter this way:—
The War-time Profits taxation means that a new
business like ours, with uo pre-war standard, is com-
pelled to pay the greater part of its profits under
this iniquitous measure. Older established cos., with
a pre-war standard under the Act, are allowed to
make similar profits to those prior to the war (no
matter how much that might have been) without
being subject to taxation.
This grab is obviously quite unfair, particu-
larly in the case of an infant insurance co..
which needs every penny it: can lay hands
on to strengthen its position in policy-
holders’ interests as well as its own.
The federal Mutual has a paid-up capital
of £38;737 and reserves of £10.104. Adopt-
ing the method of reckoning 40 p.c. of the
year’s premiums as a cover for unexpired
risks, the co. thus has funds of £48.841. to
protect £17,000 of unexpired risks. Besides
that there is £116,212 of capital callable.
The assets consist of War Loan, Government
securities and cash, £18,418; mortgages and
investments, £19,861; sundry debtors and
agency balances, £9854; freehold, £3327;
office furniture, motor-cars, etc., £1917.
* * * *
Nokth Broken I-lit.l, Ltd., which till
six years ago was the N.B.H. Mining Co.,
which was in its turn a reconstruction of a
co. formed 10 years earlier: —
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., ’lO.. 73,179 40 p.c.= 35,000 26,328 106,897
.Tune, 'll.. 62,201 60 „ „ 52.500 12,662 103,936
Dec., ’ll.. 98,70 S 70 „ „ 61,250 12,168 129,226
.June, '12.. 101.663 93J „ „ 93,750 11,910 125,229
Dec., '12.. 175,993 220 „ ~220,000 17,200 64,022
Assets written up and all reserves capitalised.
Capital increased from £200,000 to £600,000.
June, ’13.. 142,018 20 p.c.= 60,000 3,265 78,753
Dec., ’13.. 152,596 40 „ ~120,000 1,925 109,424
June, T 4.. 183,845 50 ~.,150,000 143,269
Dec., T 4. . 56,216 Nil 199,485
June, ’15.. 75,724 10 p.c.= 30,000 245,209
Dec., ’l5. . 169,201 40 ~,, 120,000 294,410
June, ’l6. . 142,092 40 ~,,120,000 316,502
Dec., ’16.. 171,442 40 ~,,120,000 367,944
June, ’17.. 183,299 40 „ ~120,000 431,243
Dec., ’17.. 217,239 40 ~ ~120,000 528,482
June, ’lB.. 175,005 40 „ ~120,000 10,512 572,975
The profits shown for any particular half-
year are not the actual profits for that half-
year. The North Broken Hill sends its
concentrates to the Associated Smelters at
Port Pirie, in which it is a partner, and the
unsmelted portion of each half-year’s produc-
tion has lately been taken into the accounts
at !)0 p.c. of the gross value on the basis
of lead at £25 per ton and silver at 2s. per
oz. The average market value of lead dur-
ing the past six months was £29 3s. 4d. and
of silver 3s. 9d. per oz. So when the
Smelters make the final settlements big
balances find a place in the accounts of one
term which represent the realisation of pro-
ducts of previous half-years. The profits
for the past six months have, of course,
been affected by the smaller production for
the second half of last year, when
the mine was idle for 11 weeks on account
of the big strike. For the six months' to
June 30 109.200 tons were treated, compared
with 64.030 tons for the previous (strike)
term, and 111.290 tons for the similar term
of last year. These 109,200 tons of crudes
produced 20,605 tons concentrates, contain-
ing 13,434 tons lead, 496,580 oz. silver.
Metal recoveries have improved, 80.3 p.c. of
the lead contents being recovered, compared
with 77.8 last half and 78.5 p.c. a year ago.
Of the silver contents 61 p.c. was recovered,


Every engineer should be a subscriber to the
General Electric Review. It is a monthly maga-
zine, containing descriptions of the latest develop-
ments and practical applications of electricity in
every sphere. No library is complete without it,
as the contents are original, instructive and complete
m every detail, being contributed by the leading
engineers of the world. The subscription is only
ten shillings (10/-) per year, so subscribe now or
write to the Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney, for a sample copy.— Advt.
The approach of summer makes it imperative for
every stock-owner to give a thought to the purifica-
tion of drinking water for his stock. If he is content
to let them drink muddy, slimy water ‘he cannot
expect them to keep in good condition. All over the
State careful stock-owners are using Aluminoferric in
the proportion of one pound to every 2000 gallons of
water. It ensures pure liquid water in dams, wells,
tanks, etc., at very low cost, by precipitating all
impurities and _ leaving the water clear and pure,
free from any ingredient injurious to man or beast.
Let us go into details telling you how it will be to
your advantage to use Aluminoferric. William
Adams & Co. Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide.
—Advt.
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
Pioneer Wood Pipe provides the most economical
and efficient means of carrying water over your land.
In first cost, freight charges and labor for laying,
money is saved. Made in all sizes from two inches
upwards. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd., H.O. Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. address: Box
G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove,
N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A.
Contractors to all State Governments.— Advt.
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? Ii
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Sti eet, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.— —Advt.
Gildmg refined gold and painting the lily may be
wasteiul and ridiculous excess; painting your iron
roofs with “Pabeo” is sound economy. “Pabco” is a
specially prepared and hard-wearing metal paint. It
1S astle an <l non-corrosive; is not affected by
weather, sea air, salt water or chemical fumes; does
not blister nor peel. “Pabco” paint protects and pre-
seives roofs, tanks, drinking troughs, machinery,
windmills and all exposed metal surfaces. Sold in one-
gallon tins and five-gallon drums, 12s. per American
gallon. Send for booklet to Spriggs’ Asbestolite
Company, 338 Pitt Street, Sydney.— Advt.
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
Luge marine set, and their example has been follower
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia;
lasmama, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies!
lhe workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
P® r §S an y imported engine on the market,
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Svdney.—
American batch concrete-mixers from Svdne’
stocks. The famous “Austin” ! It built Panama
Sizes stocked : 6 cubic feet cap., each batch ; 11 cubi
teet cap., each batch ; 17 cubic feet cap., each batch
Catalogues and further particulars upon application
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quay, Sydney
Queensland inquiries, The Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patei
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, M
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice. Wr
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Ass
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertlin;
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Brau
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals,
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11.
& P O- » f4,d.’ ® O’Connell Street, Sydney; a
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The American Exporter. A guide for buvers
American merchandise and machinery. Also'assi
m finding markets for exportable products of A
tralia. Published monthly. Post free l“>/6
annum Sample copy 1/-.' From Hamilton & C
Publishers Representatives, 34 Pitt Street, Sydn
—Advt
ARE BORNTO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
The 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
YV. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney,
The British Westinghouse Electric & Mlg. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
HIGH ECONOMY
fg
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
are in the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to 20,000 Kilowatts.
ram
mt
Manchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia:
lj| Queen'land Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne, jf
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
IVlonobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
against 56.5 p.c. and 57.2 p.c. six and 12
months ago respectively.
During the past six months 106,489 tons
ore were raised, 29,288 tons coming from the
1400 ft. level, and the ore from tnis bottom
level shows even a slightly better assay value
than the average of the whole mine. No
estimate of ore reserves is given this half-
year, but six months ago the quantity avail-
able for stoping about the 1400 ft. level was
estimated at 2-J million tons. The cutting
°f_a large plat from the main shaft at
1550 ft. has been completed preparatory to
cross-cutting for the lode. The main shaft
m now down 1700 ft., and is to be continued
to 1* 70ft., and at 1700 ft. a plat is to be cut as
a preliminary to opening up a new level
later on.
This shows how liquid assets are being
accumulated:—
. June,’l4. Dec.,’l7. June,’lB.
Assets apart from mine
and plant .. ..£240,615 £862,504 £889,551
Liabilities . . . . 29,390 270,960 251,344
£211,225 £591,544 £638,207
So in four years, after distributing three-
quarters of a million in dividends, and pay-
ing for mine development and for new plant,
surplus liquid assets amounting to £426,982
have been accumulated. Paid-up capital six
years ago was £200,000, but a couple of lines
in the first table show how capital was
increased to the present £600,000.
The Mt. Dudley Co., which formed itself
out of the old Mt. David, is reaching the
stage of serious business at Trunkey
(N.S.W.), whence the 10-lid. stampers from
the old show, with two 10-ton boilers, rock-
breaker, air drills and tables are just being
put in position. The lifting of the 170 tons
of machinery from Mt. David, a distance of
-8 miles, over roads as heavy as any in the
State, is _ a job that mine-manager Martin
and the big bullock-teams are entitled to talk
about. Three shafts have been put down on
the reef, which lias been traced for a mile
or so, north and south, with payable stone
at all points. Except for what A. B. Kirk-
man took out, during the past few years
the field has not been touched. The battery
will treat about 600 tons a month, working
three shifts, and half an ounce is reckoned
to cover exes. The leases cover 37 acres.
Hard luck sticks to Bendigo Amalgamated,
as yields keep at only a shade over the sdwt.
mark. The Carlisle spurs of late have been
yielding poorer returns, but the average
grade of the battery stuff is kept up by the
stone sent in by the tributors. Better "pros-
pects are showing at the Constellation,
where the reef pitching in from the Virginia
is being tested. In that claim good stone was
blocked out between 500 ft. and (iOOft. The
cap of the saddle in the Constellation is 10ft.
wide, and on the western side the stone looks
very promising, especially as an odd
color of gold is to be seen. The reef rises
sharply to the north, so it won’t be a tough
job to test it. Dyason has had the shot-
drill poking into the Derby reef at American
Cully, and has alighted on a couple of west
backs at 432 ft.; so close boring work will
be carried on.
* * * *
“W.”: If the Institute of Victorian Indus-
tries is now to be given the cold shoulder by
the State Government, it can claim it braced
up the Lawson Cabinet to tackle the brown
coal question. Two millions will have to be
sunk at Morwell before cheap electricity can
be made available; but with both big factory
projects and tradesmen flitting out of the
State owing to cheaper N. S. Wales coal
and power, even so strong a Private Enter-
prise crew as Lawson’s has to get a move on.
More time promises to be wasted over a
hunt into the resources of the Altona seam.
Someone like George Klug or Lindesay
Clark (or both) should be called in to
measure up the mining side of the job, be-
cause on that everything hangs. To-day the
consumer has to pay 16s. 6>d. for brown coal
because it costs about 7s. per ton on the truck.
Altona could beat this. So Lawson has to
fix up whether with up-to-date mechanical
fitments and proper mine arrangements Mor-
well coal can be open-cut for 2s. 6d. a ton.
As shifting rock at Broken Hill and at the
Briseis was done for less, Morwell coal
ought to be handled equally cheaply.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta(S.A.) keeps up its old
habit of issuing interim reports, but it over-
looks including a statement of the profits
made. The most done is to show liquid
assets and liabilities. Debts are given
at £44.751; assets at £435,611, of which
£179,913 are cash lines, £141,069 stores, fuel
and forage, £56,250 surpluses due on metals
and cash in London, and £47.060 refined
copper and products. This table totals out
about the same as that of 12 months ago.
Still there happens to be a small fly in the
ointment. This is the liability of the co, for
war-time profits tax for 1916-17. As the col-
lector claimed £37,937 for 1915-16 the Board
got so nervy that it locked up funds which
otherwise it would have pumped into develop-
ment. Of course, such cos. ought to pay war-
time profits, but the average man would like
to know, if Mt. Lyell and Wallaroo and
Moonta are to be hit, why the silver-lead
shows like the B. H. Prop, or the South
should not accompany them on the list.
Underground at the Wallaroo mine slightly
better prospects are showing, but the old
Moonta is on low-grade stuff nowadays.
Campbell Shaw’s rule at Edna Deeps(W.A.)
lasted seven weeks. Now N. S. Stuckey goes
back. Why and wherefore the wondering
world isn’t told. Probably because the old
hands firmly believe no man can do justice
to the Deeps better than Stuckey. If Shaw
leaves at once he may not supply what is
so urgently needed —a second assay and mine
plan of the property. But why have seven
weeks gone by and no report on the
mine? Is the job too awkward? Some
ascribe the jump in shares to Stuckey’s
return to his old chair. There have
also been further rumors concerning a fusion
of the Deeps and Central. This was Marsh’s
suggestion when the fight was on between
Stuckey and Adelaide director Heal. It
may be good business to get the two mines
made one, but the Central crowd itf not
likely to agree to equal terms, as suggested—
an 80,000 co., with each appropriating half
of the shares. For their part the Central
has to prove a fresh, mine, because of the
pinching of the New reef; but with the
prospects in the Consolidated bottom levels
so good Central feels it has only to drive
east to grab a prize. Besides that is the chance
of the Edna shoot of ore pitching north-east
across the Deeps boundary into the Central,
to which it always has run perilously close.
Even if that should not happen Deeps has
to think of what will take place once Edna
May stops its pumps. A lot of equipment
also will have to be provided to get the
Deeps plant complete. Anyway Central
won’t be satisfied until Giblin has run the
tape over the Deeps ore reserves and sur-
veyed the course of the Edna May shoot.
* # * *
For two years some Westralians have
been investigating a new process for recover-
ing gold, silver and copper from various
classes of ore, the invention of A. Argles,
a Sydney mining-engineer. Full particulars
of the process have not been disclosed, but
the concentrates are obtained by the inven-
tor’s patent tables, and then treated with a
patent solution. It is claimed that, com-
pared with cyaniding methods, the amount of
labor required is comparatively small, while
the process is swift and gives very high
extractions. To begin with, the promoters
of the present co. constructed a plant with
a capacity of two tons per hour, but though
this plant treated four parcels of refractory
tailings, giving an extraction of 82.12 p.c.,
87.75 p.c., 83.19 p.c. and 8G.13 p.c. respect-
ively, and demonstrated that the process was
capable of dealing with large quantities, it
was found that the plant would have to be
re-designed. So a small improved testing-
plant was built, which has given better
results. All kinds of ore, “including some
of the worst in the State,” were put through,
“the extractions being very high even from
unroasted ores, reaching over 96 p.c. in some
cases.” The syndicate, having satisfied
itself as to the possibilities of the process,
has acquired the rights for Westralia, and,
with the consent of the Federal Treasury, is
floating a co. with a working capital of
£lO,OOO to erect a plant “to deal with tail-
ings, slimes or low-grade ores.” The present
object of this Metal Recovery Co., Ltd., is
to prove the process to Westralia, and erect
and operate plants and lease the process on
a royalty basis. If everything works out as
the assayers, metallurgists and other mining
men who have watched the experiments of
the past couple of years reckon it will, a
lot will be heard of the Argles process later
on.
By marking time awaiting a return of nor-
mal working conditions and letting tributors
loose, Oroya Links (W.A.) was able last
year to pay all the expenses of keeping the
mine unwatered and costs of general upkeep
and show a net profit of £1574. Ore reserves,
comprising 158,380 tons worth 245. 9d, per
ton, and 45,000 tons of probable ore of about
the same value, were kept intact; and at the
close of the year cash and liquid assets
amounted to just over £64,000, or a little
over Is. per share. As there is nothing to
keep manager Fitzgerald on the mine, he
has enlisted, and hopes to do a bit of mining
somewhere in France before long.
* * * *
A report of a new gold discovery comes
from the Kurrawang woodline, about 90
miles north-east of Ivalgoorlie and 60 miles
north-east of Southern Cross (W.A.). The
finders, two woodchoppers, have so far
obtained about 300 z., and as small quan-
tities of gold have also been specked a few
miles away there seems to be a possibility of
a new field being opened up in the locality.
Meantime a rush has set in, and, as usual,
the surrounding country has been pegged for
many miles around.
Preparations are being made to prove the
carboniferous beds of coal on the Irwin
River (W.A.). Bores imt down to depths
varying from 30ft. to 140 ft. have pierced
seams ranging from Ift. to sft. in thickness,
and there is said to be every indication of the
makings of a large coalfield in the locality.
Meantime syndicates are being formed to
acquire holdings, and the Mines Department
has been asked to provide a steam boring
plant tq test the country at greater depth.
An effort made to interest London in the
Irwin River coalfields some years ago failed
on account of the prospects not being con-
sidered good enough.
The old Briseis Extended property at
Derby (Tas.). which has been idle for 10
years, is to be worked again by a new co.,
the Briseis Central. The old co. was
floated in 1904 by Langford and Paul
Northey. But with tin at a low price, and
heavy costs of steam pumping, the co. gave
up after 44 years’ working, during which
time 428 tons of tin had been got out. But
with cheap water supply from a dam site six
miles away, capable of holding 300 million
gallons, and at an elevation of 1200 ft. above
the mine, the new co. reckons it can see
good profits with tin at anything approach-
ing present high prices. The property, which
lies between the Arba and the Briseis, consists
of 173 acres of river fiats li mile in length,
of an average width of J-mile. Only a
small portion of the southern part of the
area has been previously worked. Though
no definite leads have been proved, boring
has shown that tin exists over practically all
parts of the flats. Boring has given an aver-
age value of about 1.41 b. per yard for the
upper 35ft. of ground. There is no over-
burden, the original basalt covering having
been worn down and washed away. General-
manager Donald Fraser reckons that work-
ing costs should not. exceed £5O per ton, and
anticipates an average yield of eight tons tin
per month, which at present prices is worth
over £l7OO. Capital is £50.000 in 100.000
10s. shares; 30,400 fully-paids and £450 in
cash go to the vendors and promoters, and
50.000 shares have been offered to the public,
and 10,600 shares held in reserve.
From J. L. Strevens :—•
“Good Australian” (B. 5/9/T8) and “Hustle”
(B. 12/9/’18) miss the real issue involved in the
development of the embryonic Papuan oil-field,
namely : will such development assure in the near
future the provision of adequate supplies of suitable
oil for the Australian navy and the Australian people
at prices under which the importing oil cos. cannot
compete, or will hundreds of thousands of pounds
have to be wasted before reaching the stage of oil-
production enabling such a desideratum to be brought
about ? The lamentable oil ventures in Maoriland
should be kept in mind as an object-lesson of how
Private Enterprise, even with the financial backing
of such gigantic concerns as Shell Oil, can spend
large sums of money in oil territory without show-
ing wells capable of even paying bare expenses. To-
day the petroleum industry of M.L. is in a far
worse condition than it was in the boom time (1911-
1913), notwithstanding the erection of refineries,
etc., and the bringing in of deep wells. Yet
everyone with a knowledge of the actual conditions
must admit that the same possibilities for a pavable
oil-field still exist in M.L., ‘ though requiring far
different methods for development than have hitherto
been employed. Jf one were to weigh the merits
of Papua and Maoriland as suppliers of Austral-
asian oil requirements, the odds are in favor of
Maoriland commercially and Papua politically. Even
assuming that the drill strikes payable oil in Papua,
it will be years before the field is sufficiently de-
veloped to supply Australia’s requirements continu-
ously. Hitherto, so far as developing new oil terri-
tory is concerned, the big cos. have been content
to sit tight and watch the small man either burn
his fingers or produce sufficient evidence that would
justify the big co. securing the field for itself or
shutting it up if such a course suited. In the
case of Papua the usual procedure is reversed —the
big cos. and the Federal Government evidently
being determined on keeping the small Aus-
tralian oil investigator out. As Papua is
not yet a proven oil-field, theie should be
no objection to any bona fide crowd, adequately
capitalised for the preliminaries, spending its money
in attempts to locate oil and taking the plums, if
any, resulting from such enterprise. Time enough
to bring in the big capital—whether Federal, Bull’s
or Jonathan’s when the oil resources of this very-
much-debated country are definitely proven. The
time was never more urgent for the development of
the Empire’s oil resources, but no good is likely to
accrue unless encouragement is given to those oil
enthusiasts sfnd investigators who are prepared to
do the necessary pioneering.
Tongkah Harbor (Siam) is still a won-
derful proposition, as proved by the output
of 152 tons of concentrates from 331.000
cubic yards of wash-dirt in August. The
average recovery was thus about lib. tin
oxide per. yard. The co. usually dresses its con-
centrates to 70 p.c. tin. so its yield in August,
after allowing for loss in smelting, was 100
tons of metal, worth, say, £30,000 at Singa-
pore. The Tongkah Harbor shares boomed
to 605., which means £450.000. Still a valu-
ation based on boom prices isn’t too safe.
To date the show has produced 9000 to
10.000 tons of black tin, and has distributed
£434.500.
(Continued on page 32.)


A FEW HINTS WANTED.
AUSTRALIA: “And while you are here, General, I’d be very much obliged for a point or two about Protection, and wheat-stacking, and how ships are made,
and how to make clothes-pegs.”


TO RELIEVE INDIGESTION IN A
FEW MINUTES.
SOME COM MON SENSE ADVICE.
Pain in the stomach after eating, indi-
gestion, dyspepsia, flatulence, gas, etc., are
almost invariably due to acidity and food
fermentation. To attempt to cure the trouble
by-using digestive powders and pills or dead-
ening drugs is like trying to relieve a wound
from a splinter of glass by applving oint-
ment without first removing the glass. In
each case the cause remains and the trouble
gets worse. The common-sense thing to do
when your stomach hurts is to remove the
acid and stop the fermentation by means of
a simple antacid such as Bisurated Magnesia,
which can be obtained of any chemist in
either powder or tablet form. Half a tea-
spoonful of Bisurated Magnesia in powder
form, or two or three of the tablets taken in
a little hot water after eating, quickly
neutralises the acid, stops food fermenta-
tion. and thus enables confirmed dyspeptics
to enjoy the heartiest meals without the
slightest pain or inconvenience. —Advt.
Man—the Britisher especially
—is a clean animal. He de-
lights in his bath, his spruce
appearance, and his every
morning shave. Millions of
his race have adopted the
rZEizzzHZJ
NO STROPPING NO HONINC
for keeping up that tradition
of spruceness for which he is
famed. Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, E g.
known the
WO R 1.0 OVER.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel,
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 Rooms,
comprising Private Suites, Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts, Bathing, Roof Garden.
Illustrated Prospectus and all particu-
lars forwarded on application.
Telephones: Y2IIS and Y 1266.
m
0c
&
■
3 la
FAULDIKCiCO
0
PERTH AND 10 NO ON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
/
■S
Don’t
Stay
DEAF!
You can hear —and we
will prove it! Let us
send an “Acoustic-on”
at our own expense for
10 Days’ FREE TRIAL
in your own home. No
deposit. No obligation.
Over 329,000 deaf people now hear perfectly
with the “Acousticon,” including the Prime
Minister of Australia, Mr. AV. M. Hughes.
For the “Acousticon” user there are no years
ahead of increasing deafness, no nervousness
caused by straining to hear. Convince your-
self at our expense—and DON’T STAY DEAF.
Lamscn
Store p n
Service «v.,
102 Daking House. SYDNEY
152 Olderfleet, MELBOURNE
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNIS
LINSEED
OIL
Fifty years ago, when the thrifty Duke of
Edinburgh visited Ballarat, the proudest man
in Victoria’s famous mining city was Tom
I )avey, the mayor thereof. Two or three
years later Davey shifted to Melbourne, and
then he returned to his native England with
the idea of staying there. He came back to
Melbourne to represent the firm of John
Lysaght, Ltd., and remained an old identity
for nearly 40 years. Last week he joined the
host of bygones, and Ballarat’s most ancient
citizens talked of how the Worshipful Tom
Davey had presented the Duke of Edinburgh
with a golden nugget, which the Duke sold
in due course, along with the rest of the pre-
sents he collected in Australia and else-
where. In those days, when loyalty ran to
grovel, and no mayor mentioned Queen Vic-
toria in the street without raising his bell-
topper, it was a great thing to have the
privilege of presenting something to a prince
of the blood.
A MILITARY PROBLEM.
"He's on a route-march to try and yet thin."
“Well, old dear, he'll have to advance a bit
faster if he wants to reduce that
salidnt."
Langdon Bonython, of the Adelaide Adver-
tiser, who, for a newspaper proprietor, is
very generous in giving good copy to rival
papers, told a Mail interviewer that John
Forrest, whom he knew intimately, had two
ambitions unfulfilled—to be Prime Minister
of Australia and to be Governor of his own
State. “There is little or no satisfaction in
possession,” the old man told Bonython,
comparatively recently. “Office or honor,
once attained, loses half its value. The
coveted prize is always in the future. I must
push on, and I suppose I shall continue to do
so to the end.” He added (no harm can be
done now by mentioning it, says Bonython) :
“If I wanted to retire from the political
struggle, my wife would not let me.” Bony-
thon was much against the last voyage, but
when he made it clear that he disapproved,
Forrest “went for me properly in one letter. It
would hardly do to publish it. because he did
not confine himself to me, but included doc-
tors and others in his condemnation. He
told me that, in spite of everything, he was
going.”
“Umntu”: On August 24 Gilbert IVhite,
who wears the gaiters at Willochra. had
bished in Australia for IS years. Fifteen
of them he spent on Thursday Island, round
about the Gulf of Carpentaria and in Torres
Strait, where, by the way, the gaiters were
seldom seen, a sailor’s or horseman’s dress
being his usual outdoor costume. Like his
collateral ancestor, the natural-history White
of Selborne, he is a writer, and one or two
books are to his credit; but whether the
pearlers and blacks got anything from his
reviews on Eucken and Bergson in The
Cakpentarian of his day is doubtful.
“Goldsborough” : The old story about the
nigger thanking
God that the local
policeman had en-
listed because it
was time the war
was stopped, makes
North Bananaland-
ers think of Wil-
dred Nelligan, once
a Proserpine police-
man. Before com-
ing to Australia
Nelligan had been
a lieutenant in the
Royal Horse Artil-
lery, but the
B a n a n alanders
knew him only as
a John Hop. When
the row boiled
over in Europe he
enlisted as a pri-
vate and sailed
with the original
Ninth Battalion.
To-day he is a
brigadier - general,
with a hatful of
distinctions, which
include the
D.C.M., D.S.O. and
C.M.G.
GENERAL PAU,
leader of the
French Mission.
Corporal Philip Davey, of S.A., one of
the latest Australian V.C. winners, got the
Cross during a daylight attack by capturing
a machine-gun single handed and using it
in repelling a counter-attack. A young man
of 21 years, he was opal mining in Central
Australia when war broke out. and hurried
home to enlist, lie left in September, 1915,
and returned wounded in June, 1916. Next
month he again left for France, and a few
weeks afterwards was awarded the M.M.
The Davey family have done more than their
bit. Five soldier sons have won between
them a V.C.. three Military Medals and a
French distinction. The youngest was
under 15 when he left.
“S.”: Saw in Townsville (Q.) the other
day the original “Spud” Murphy, of Anzac
fame. When Simpson took his parcel out on
the Western trail, Spud took possession of
his donkey and made many trips out on No
Man’s Land to pick up the wounded.
Eventually, after earning a row of decora-
tions that he never got, he stopped a crack
that knocked all the ribs off his vertebrae;
but, with the resilience of youth, he pulled
through, and now makes his crust by joking
with a returned soldiers’ musical co. He’s
a merry soul.
Veteran Alec McKinley, of Punch, is
once more ready to take the top of the table
at Malvern’s mayoral sprees. He wears the
rabbit-robes again after an interval of 10
years. Nobody ever appreciated the job
more. As a public man. McKinley has had
a rather quaint and varied career. He was
in the Leg. Assembly for a brief period a
score of years ago, but soon overbalanced
and fell off his rail on the wrong side of the
fence. For a long time he occupied a pic-
turesque uniform as consul for Mexico, and
had a lot of splendid experiences in his gor-
geous toggery, shaking governors by the hand
and hobnobbing with the suburban peerage.
Of late years he tried for the Upper House
without success. His new-old job will help
him to get into touch with vice-royalty once
more.
Engineer Walter Maplesden Noakes, who
died lately at Maidstone, Kent (Eng.), aged
68, learned his business at the big works of
Aveling and Porter (Rochester, Kent). Later
he joined John Fowler and Co. (Leeds), and
was that firm’s Australian manager from
1878 until he retired. After a spell in
Maoriland he came to Sydney and had a
hand in the contract for fitting the Ma
State’s railway rolling-stock with the West-
inghouse brake. He helped to found the
Clyde Engineering Co. (Sydney), in 1898,
and was a director when he died. It was
largely through his efforts that, a few years
back, the co. got the Government contract
to build 60 locomotives —the first job of the
kind so far tackled in the great importing
State. For a long time he was a director
of the Westralia Ironworks, Ltd.
A Ivogarah (N.S.W.) tram ended one of
the old Protectionist “stalwarts” the other
day. In his young days Walter Scott Tar-
get! did a lot of good work as a journalist
in the Ma State and Victoria. When the
Foreigntrade-I’rotection shindy was at its
height in the ’Bo's Target! was generally
handy wherever the controversial ink was
dying thickest. Much of liis bgst screed in
support of a sane fiscal policy was done for
the Sydney Star, then only an infant
twinkler. He was M.L.A. for Hartley from
ISS2 to 1887. Latterly he toiled in the
N. S. Wales Government Printing Office
The big, genial man was 69 when the end
came.
E. W. Christmas, reported as dead in
Honolulu, was a Kadina (S.A.) boy half a
century ago, but since he grew up he has been
travelling almost incessantly in search of
subjects for his brush. Perhaps his Maori-
land pictures are his best work. He was
probably the most-travelled painter that ever
lived. Most of the Australian Galleries con-
tain specimens of his landscape work.
Dr. Edward Stirling, of Adelaide, native
born and Cambridge trained, saluted his 70th
milestone last week. He has been one of the
professors of medicine at the Adelaide Uni-
versity since 1900 and a lecturer almost ever
since the foundation of the institution. But
perhaps his best work has been done in con-
nection with the Museum ; he is one of the
chief Australian authorities on the diproto-
don and other fossil remains, also on native
work and ornament of all kinds. Stirling
lias large pastoral holdings in partnership
with ms brother Lancelot, President of
SA. I .eg. Council. The two men provide
one of the very rare instances of brothers
having earned titles by distinction in their
separate branches of work.
Mauglian, Director of Education in S.
A us., announces that he finds that that post
gives him all the work he can do, and has
resigned his other as secretary to the Mini-
ster. The vacancy is filled by LI. A. Curtis,
who has been in the department since 1876,
and had the advantage of close association
with Hartley, the great educationist who
was killed in a bicycle accident over 20 years
ago.
“Snell” adds a line :
Few more gullible men than the late Stanford,
Melbourne’s rich spiritualist, ever lived. His confi-
dence in his ism remained unshaken in spite of
endless failures in his efforts to secure unequivocal
manifestations. Many mediums battened on him—all
fakers and frauds —and when at length he secured
one of exceptional ability, the proud man entered
upon the conversion of no less a person than David
Syrne. Spiritualism needed a great organ behind it,
and David was interested; but the canny Scot
would have no high priest’s whiskers from
Thibet or coins from Thebes; he demanded
the production of a copy of the day’s Lon-
don Trams. That was David’s price. That at
least could not be faked, and Seine held to his
bargain through a score of manifestations. Then
one night, while the Age owner was still dallying,
the new Brighton medium did a wonderful thing.
He produced in the room a cock macaw, which five
seconds earlier had been screaming in the pristine
wilderness of Brazil. There was the macaw when
the lights W’ent up, doing a bumble-footed sprint to
and fro on the table. Suddenly he cocked a quaint
old eye at the company, opened his beak, and
croaked: “ ’Elio! ’ello! ’ello ! What the hell’s the
matter here!”
The brothers J. B. Dulhunty (76) and
Robert George Dulhunty (75) died on the
same day recently, the former at Bathurst
and. the latter at Dubbo (N.S.W.). They
were sons of It. V. Dulhunty, a magistrate
of Penrith (N.S.W.), and grandsons of Dr.
Dulhunty, an ex-military surgeon who became
a police magistrate in N. S. Wales in the
very long ago.
Soldier-parson Fraser, of the A.1.F., whose
civil job is among the Scotch elect of sheepish
Winchelsea, is back from Palestine and
Mesopotamia after a couple of years with the
Light Horse. It's fine to hear him praise
brother Billjim. The desert-whacking Light
Horseman, according to Fraser, makes a
hobby of charging enemy trenches with the
bayonet, using his weapon from the saddle,
a trick which is not generally attempted in
any field of warfare. Billjim in far parts
like Palestine isn’t yet receiving a fair share
of kudos; but no doubt men like Fraser will
see that a proper record of these dusty,
thirsty campaigns is made.
Tom Coghlan, who recently attained his
majority in France, was one of the A.I.F.
first-flighters. He went off to Egypt as a
sapper, presently seeing service in the desert.
He was mentioned in despatches a couple of
times for his work in destroying Turkish
'wells; and later he won the M.C. in France
while employed in the apparently humdrum
task of carrying road-construction material
forward. At times the gangway was blocked
and Coghlan led clearing-parties forward under
heavy shelling, thus saving many casualties.
He is a son of the late Archdeacon Francis
Coghlan, of Adelaide, and a nephew of
Edward Stone, Westralian Lieut.-Governor.
“KINDNESS IN ANOTHER'S
TROUBLE."
“All breweries throughout America will close on
December I.” —Cable news.
WILFRED: "Shall ice cable our condolences,
’ Enery ?"
“R.A.Y.”: The election of Butter Ivins
Meares as president of Sydney Chamber of
Commerce makes the primary-producers think
they are coming into their own. Years ago,
when Meares and the South Coast co-opera-
tive selling concern that he had managed fell
out, it seemed as if co-operative selling of
butter, or Meares, or both, were failures. But
Meares found a bigger field on the North
Coast. He started the Coastal Farmers’ Co-
operative Society, and despite plenty of oppo-
sition, steadily brought nearly all the North
Coast and many South Coast butter cos., in-
cluding the Byron Bay mammoth, into his
organisation. He has been the big personal
element in eliminating the middleman.
“Trot”: Englishmen often have names
suggesting a simple sanity among parents.
Take the interpreter to the French
Mission now in Sydney-—Meadows Smith.
If Smith had been born at Burrangabilla-
bong or Gibitambone it is 1000 to 1 he would
have been Bill or Joe or Tom. No one here-
abouts would think of telling the parson the
kid’s name was Paddocks or Selection or
Ranges or Irrigation, or a inching like that.
Yet why not? The word “Meadows” to the
English mind conveys a definite idea —a pic-
ture of pleasant green, of hawthorn hedges
and skipping lambs. Coupled up with Smith
it lifts a commonplace monniker up to equal
dignity with Smyth and Chelmsford and
Cohen and Field Flowers. The Australian
Smiths ought to take notice and recognise
that the christening is a solemn event —that
Paddock and Selection are good Australian
names, and that Wattle Smith and Blackbutt
Smith and Spinifex Smith are a long-felt
want.
THE CHAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have a friend who is dead,
You have a friend who is young,
And so the years are wed
In the good song sung.
For my dead friend had a friend
Who loved among friends of old ;
And so to the world’s end
Is the good tale told.
A love, a love and a love —
Back to the first of men ;
And the old sun above
Knew love was old then.
Never a break in the chain—*
Golden it glitters through.
Friend, I wonder again
When I think of y0u....
Kings in the longest line,
For each reigned in a heart —•
It’s a thought too fine
For a word to part.
A friend, a friend and a friend—
And life unto life grows sweet
Until in the world’s end
All good friends shall meet.
Give me the grip of your hand,
It is not clasped for nought;
For the years understand
Something of God’s thought.
N.SAV.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


To Those Who
“Can’t Afford It.”
When you hear a man say: “I can’t afford to buy War
Loan Bonds,” ask him these questions:
“Can you afford to see your country lose this war?”
“Can you afford to see hundreds of thousands of the flower
of Australian manhood lose their lives because of lack of
equipment and munitions?”
“Can you afford to see your home violated and devastated
by the Huns?”
“Can you afford to live under a German governor,
appointed by the Kaiser?”
“Can you afford to pay oppressive, ruinous taxes as long
as you live, to help meet a colossal German indemnity?”
You Can’t Afford to Buy War Loan Bonds?
YOB CAN’T AFFORD NOT TO.
In co-operation with the New South Wales Central War Loan Committee,
this advertisement is published by tbe proprietors of
HAVELOCK TOBACCO.
This is one of a series of advertisements
prepared by the M.S.W. Ad. Men's Institute.


Yes, we need a three-halfpenny coin,
Aluminium for metal would do;
In its welcome each tradesman would join,
Every tram-guard would welcome it, too.
Twelve lumies would always suffice
Against sore throat and cold to assure;
If we wisely act up to advice,
And take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
f wj .*£
JP ;
iT '''V M
//■ **
Si't
V
a? ,
a 'IK
X
s
LADIES, be BEAUTIFUL
IT IS THE LITTLE THINGS THAT COUNT.
THEY ARE, OFTEN ENOUGH, YOUR SECRET.
BUT BEAUTY LAUGHS AT ALL DISTINCTIONS.
THERE IS NOTHING
SO SOFT AND TAWNY
as
Toilet
Preparations.
They are so dewy, so delicate, harmless to the skin of the merest babe.
Have Won Six Gold Medals—A Sufficient Guarantee.
Obtainable all Treading Departmental Stores and Chemists.
Send 3d. stamp for a sample of Powder (name the tint), or Dental Cream, or Soap,
or New Pace Cream, or Dakshmi Cream, and Booklet, to .John Strange Winter
(Condon, Paris, Rome), 33 Dept., 36 .Jamieson Street, Sydney.
Meltorvi an
JsPEfIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
fg
E. BROWN <§ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER * THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
ONE FOR KEEPS.
MOLLY: "Did Billy briny home any souvenirs
from France."
DOLLY : “Yes, the dinky girl lie married"
Justice Iliggins has handed down a decision
about trades unions and Federal shipbuild-
ing and about wages and conditions, which
is the 10th or 17th or 500th decision or
agreement of one sort or another that has
been arrived at. Possibly it is a very good
decision—sound in wind and limb, copper-
bottomed. handy to shift in light ballast and
with the name blown on the bottle. But the
business of starting to build even a small
ship seems too much like building an empire
or a new civilisation or besieging an impreg-
nable fortress. It isn’t really a new work.
All that is required is that a lot of artisans,
who have hitherto been building other iron
and steel things, should assemble on this
particular iron and steel job. And after so
many years of arbitration and fixing of
hours, wages and conditions, one might have
thought they would simply buck in under
arrangements already fixed. Apparently the
legal and industrial machine wants greasing.
A just agreement is essential, but there is no,
reasqn why it should be arrived at witli the
pace of a bogged fly or an old Court of
Chancery, or a glacier with dead feet.
it * * *
Melbourne the other day enjoyed the
unique experience of finding a collection
of Anglican, R.C., Scotch by terian and
Methody divines in absolute agreement. This
extraordinary state of affairs was brought
about by the Lawson Government, in pur-
suance of its alleged economy policy, decid-
ing to reduce the allowance of the Anglican
parson who attends to the spiritual needs
of inmates of Peutridge from £230 to £2OO
a year, that of his R.C. brother from £l5O
to £125, and those of the Scotchbyterian and
Methody representatives from £125 to £lOO.
The holy quartette at once shouted that the
laborer in the Lord’s vineyard was worthy
of his hire, and that if the reduced rates
were insisted upon they would be able only
to supply a very inferior brand of consola-
tion to their erring brothers. The wonderful
unanimity of the gospel-agents was too
much for the weak-kneed “economy” Gov-
ernment, and a contract was entered into to
provide for the snatching, of brands fro in the
burning on the old extravagant terms.
“Hamer”: I recommend to Governments
dealing with immigration the. policy of Send-
ing away all immigrants after, say, a five
years’ residence, for a revisit to the places
they left: the expense will be amply repaid.
When Britishers first reach. Australia
they can’t stop talking about the
peerless “Old Country,” but I have
watched some of these men who have
travelled back with us; and, within
a week of their return they have been more
intensely Australian than any of our native-
born soldiers. They find they have out-
grown their previous associations. They
are the keenest of all upon getting back to
Australia, and their keenness includes a
desire to get their relatives and friends out
there. They are the best immigration
agents the Commonwealth could possibly
have.
A matter worth consideration is a mini-
mum wage for clergymen of all sorts includ-
ing members of religious orders. The pay-
ment of the-wage would have to be compul-
sory, and any evasion of it, with or without
the connivance of the employee, should be
punishable by fine levied on the
employer, with disqualification
of the employee added for a
second offence. The existence
of a large and rather threadbare
class which is below the living-
wage limit, and is sometimes
unable to bring up its offspring
with a full stomach, is bad for
the community. The offspring
is the property of the nation —
its possible future defenders,
law-makers, efficient or ineffici-
ent workers, its possible cranks,
visionaries or paupers. The
Law can’t assure them a
healthy mental atmosphere to
grow up in, but it can do some-
thing about their physical condi-
tion. Everybody who employs
an expounder should be required
to appoint trustees, who should
be personally responsible for
the wage-sheet. In the absence
of trustees all the best-dressed
people in the congregation
should be held liable for the
ski ary. and also fined for non-
appointment of his trustees.
Congregations should be in-
spected and required to make
returns to the Statistician just
like other industries. If the
system caused a lot of petty
sects to sink their petty differ-
ences and have one well-paid
cleric instead of three starvelings, well and
good. A number of men and some building
material would be released for other pur-
poses.
“Glen Huntly's” outcry :
Once again wails are going up that, Melbourne
University does not receive sufficient assistance from
the Government. Before Treasurer McPherson rushes
to the cash-box he might inquire of the authorities
at the “shop” if they consider that a University
which, after 60 years of existence, is still, seem-
ingly, incapable of turning out graduates qualified
to fill its own professorial billets really deserves
further assistance? Either there is something wrong
A PAYING GUEST.
MRS. LEVY: “Isaac! Isaac! There’s a man under der bed. lie must be a burglar."
MR. LEVY: "Hush, Rebecca; don't vake him, an' den ve rill charge him for a lodging in
der morning."
with the brand of instruction suppiieu or cne Stink-
ing Fish disease is acute, for of its staff of 18 pro-
fessors only one is a graduate of the University, and
he was appointed over 30 years ago. The Sydney
University numbers four of its graduates among its
professors, and the ' Maorila lid composite university
employs 12. Although Melbourne has the smallest
proportion of professors made on the premises of
any University in Australasia, it has supplied a
dozen, professors for other Australasian Universities.
An institution with 3000 graduates and only one
home-grown professor ought to try importing sub-
sidies from the places where it obtained the 17 wise
men who fill the remaining chairs.
“A. 8.” : As this war has demonstrated the
value of the mercantile marine, and inciden-
tally the seamen who run it, I offer a. word
of warning in regard to the possible shortage
of seamen after this European pandemonium
has subsided. There is comparatively a
small percentage of Australian-born seamen
on this coast, and unless some-
thing is done to make, life afloat
more attractive tor the rising
generation, the chances are that
the percentage will remain
small in the future.. As far as
wages go, pay on the Aus-
tralian coast is smaller than
out. of England or America,
U.S. is turning out a great fleet
of merchant ships, and there is
every likelihood of the wages
advancing. Wherefore it is
natural to assume that many
Australian seamen will make
their way over there.
From somewhere in the “stoush area" :
Not the least remarkable thing about the recent
Hamel fig-ht (organised and practically wholly carried
out by the world’s champion fighting division, the
4th Australian—l can hear a lot of howls and hoots,
but maaleesh 1) was the supply per aeroplane of
ammo-smallarm, although, unfortunately, owing to
contrary winds, some of it was carried into Fritz’s
lines. Nevertheless most of it despatched per ’plane
lobbed near to where it was intended. To one box
the following message was attached: “From a digger
to a dinkurn digger,” which shows tjie flying-men’s
admiration for the real “stoush” artist —the infan-
tryman. Hamel was the first scrap in which the
Yanks hopped the bags with our mob, and very proud
they were to do so. The Yank —he won't have
“Sammy”—likes himself and calc’lates he'll cause
some stir (which he will), and is of opinion that this
job would have finished long ago if they’d seen the
light and been around.
“Gouger’s” apology:—
I used to think the donkey tribe the most useless,
laziest and senseless animals the High Command ever
put cussedness into. Now I humbly apologise to the
donk. All through Egypt the poor little cove plods
the livelong day under whole haystacks of bersene
(lucerne). He carries two great panniers of vege-
tables, loaded to the ground, daily to market. He
carries all Abraham’s family on his back simultane-
ously, and often the family’s water-jars as well. He
is yoked to the plough side by side with the tall,
mangy camel or the ugly, big-boned Nile buffalo.
He acts, also, as the' plain riding horse. To see a
big, 6ft. Gy)io, with his toes touching the ground,
sitting astride a little donkey and belaboring it with
a thick stick, is to feel like lifting the big loafer
one under the ear. In Palestine the donk helps the
women bring in all the grain from the fields, and
between times carts his master all over the country.
But it put the finishing, touch on things when we
used the donk ourselves. From Beersheba and
onwards many of our horses were shot, and to keep
up with their hurrying comrades many of the luck-
less riders secured donkeys and followed the fast-
moving columns. To see a bunch of small donkeys
“Oh. dear, no! Anthony' couldn't possibly
go. to the war. He spent the whole of
Aannary growing a moustache, and it's
taken all the strength out of him!"
plodding up towards the firing-line through the, dust,
each with a brown, disreputable-looking Australian
on its back, armed to the teeth and carrying 36-
hours' ration's, was always enough to bring a big
laugh and a cheer from the line. But as the boys
said, after they’d painfully lifted their sore bodies
from the donks and dropped under cover: “It’s
better late than never.”
(Continued on page IS.)
LA BELLE FRANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
1 met a pretty, wee mam’selle
Scarce five years old, in France last year,
Playing at peace ’mid shards of shell
Behind the blood-red lines of Fear.
“Bonjour,” said I. She smiled at me
Across a rusting broken gun.
“M’sieur,” she stammered, “Come and see
Where God lias put His petit sun.”
I looked, and from the wreckage there,
A daisy peeped with golden eye,
A simple thing of dew and air
race upward to the sunlit sky.
I knelt beside the little maid,
As worshipper at some white shrine,
Seeing again in Death’s wide shade
That yellowyrheaded pal of mine—
That white-skinned youngster I loved well,
Who gave his all for la belle France
That this delicious, wee mam’selle
Might breathe a free land’s true romance.
The daisy’s roots were in his heart.
I turned to her my southern eyes,
Dew-wet with those dark tears that start
From out a soul grown sorrow-wise.
Her piquante face above the flower
Drank light from every petal pure;
As if she felt my pain that hour
She brushed it with a kiss demure.
I rose and left her at her play—
The sweetest maid a man might see;
But through the war’s long shadows grey
She waved a hand of memory.
March on ! March on ! From out the grass
A myriad daisies flashed their light.
Oh, bright Australian rays that pass
For France and Truth and Manhood’s right !
I heard the distant rumbling guns—-
Loud heralds of the great advance.
Lead- on, my mates! Gleam, little suns,.
That woo the soul of future France.
V. C.


"*i
/* A'
f: I* * ' i^ 0 ’ *&'lRfot7 r *
~ : '■ ' >' '■
. > , »
r-f ( .f 1 J*,
* >
' • . I * I '^•'l
■I
!•; SI 1 ' : f .
f Ms
1 ||| /■■■■’'■ f.;,;'':
j <■■ ;»-i
-■"■
1
'I : r '£«**&
,its f #£ ,V : V ; . : '
53S
V
95%& "
m
m
■
m
f I?: .flit
,'~ ®'f&: I *
,
f|
I
■' * k.K 4 -
gg ; -
* '•■»' 4 -*.
r> . Vj
:# r: -
jSm
r 1
’I J,
M*£j
•'js*
wm I
imp
■■j
fan* p
ft
i
| . T:ITTTT ..
.
hap,
SEPfep
\£ f J
* :
f •>
rgl 1
?if #
/.'. J
I
Sv ■
; :W^4
t*. an
T Ah
h
Mi
::
X; Ap' ph*' >\o f »
.
i
Pi
m ~ ® -! 4
•V /,M a
" - -
: *.,ffc*
H
Iv
?'&;a
-
i
1
. ~ ■ , '
*
Ifi * -* v f r
.
.. . ■.,. •'*».••
V!; r^ ;
il
v - 4
t'J l- I
' . , > ,■
' :,-
. ■ ■ '■ - ■
* w * ‘"" I - 1 - fpg|
’ • * ~ .* ”
•' • -.. . ' :.'• • , « -.
, -4 ■ ■ ,
' - ■ • ' ' '
mmmsmEmm
■ .;. ■ ; •:', ■ , ' a : /y ■US ***
; pS3^SI
,
...... *... »....
%i
mt-.
a
/
\sm&toosxi f• - : -A> >’ ■■ -AH ''
. ,^ v '“
f~- '•}* ■,'■ - s*'*
iMSi®
iShf*? ‘ ~ t - ■ i
a< f'A , s r l
* ■■•■*•■...::■
* / - .%^C 5
m
' ' T -V
/ H j; \ *
■ ■■■'■'■. . ' •
*? •■ .'..... .
'S ~<• . ■- ik .
Copyright. John Dewar & Sons, Ltd.
THE BANQUET.
Reproduced from the Original Painting in the possession of
JOHN DEWAR & SONS, LTP- Scotch Whisky Distillers, Perth & London.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
Wm
A Former Chamber Magistrate, Clerk of Petty Sessions and Deputy Clerk of
the Peace speaks highly of Clements Tonic to those subjected to nerve strain.
Here is a copy of Staff-Sergeant Mac Nevin’s letter, written from his home:
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
82 Surry Street, Darlinghurst,
N. S. Wales, 23/5/’lB.
I was so much a martyr to ill-health and bad nerves that I used to “jump out of my skin” at the least shock or
noise. This condition continued until I used your Clements Tonic, and now I have a different tale to tell.
Where I could not eat or sleep, I now enjoy my sleep and meals.
When I was C.P.S. and Chamber Magistrate, Registrar of District Court, and Deputy Clerk of the Peace, under two
of the leading Judges of N.S.W. in various country towns, for many years I relied a great deal on your tonic for mental
and physical energy during the exhaustive trials at the Criminal Sessions when I had to act as Deputy Clerk of the Peace.
After leaving the service in 1893, and following commercial pursuits for eight years, I still looked upon the tonic as
a fine standard medicine. lam now in my 53rd year and am Sergeant in the A.Q.M.G. Home Service Staff.
I nermit you to use this letter as a token of my thanks for the great benefit
received from it, and my recommendation of it to others. (Signed)
If you have any regard for your health keep this medicine beside you in winter or
summer. It is invaluable in cases of Brain-fag, Insomnia, Debility, Poor Appetite, Weak
Nerves and Facial Neuralgia. Get it and try it, as thousands of other s have done.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozeiie, N.s.w. All Chemists and Stores sell it.
V
Staff-Sergeant.
A settler on Victoria’s narrow-gauge line
from the Gully to Gembrook has been kick-
ing up a fuss because a carrier who was
given five bags of sugar to convey to him
casually left them outside his (the carrier’s)
office and disconnected himself from the
matter, whereupon some equally casual per-
son passing that way removed two bags. On
the owner making complaint and claiming
damages, the carrier—who happened to be
the Railway Department—pointed in a tired
way. to by-law 890, sub-section XT4B9, and
disclaimed all responsibility. Also he —or it
—opined that, everybody in the Railway De-
partment being immoderately honest." the
chances were that the two bags had not been
WAR-TIME ECONOMY.
“Ye-es, it was a frightfully dear fur, and I’m
not sure that it’s a good one.”
“Oh, you should buy more carefully, dear!
When your boy comes back he’ll want
to see that you’ve spent his money
wisely.”
stolen, but that somebody else had merely
taken delivery of them. The settler, who
hadn't looked at it that way, now considers
himself lucky that he didn’t lose all five bags.
“Gleniris”: The brief announcement has
been made in the daily press that “the
accommodation in the women’s quarters at
the Kew Asylum is overtaxed.” Somehow
Victoria can’t make up its mind to do the
civilised thing and
treat the mentally
afflicted decently. Any-
body can visualise
some of the conditions
in a too-populous asy-
lum. Unless absolutely
rabid, the patient
doesn't get a room to
herself, or even half
a room. Several dozen
patients, with all man-
ner of mental dis-
orders, are bedded
down in each dormi-
tory and locked in for
the night; and the at-
tendants don’t sleep in
the same room as the
patients. They retire
safely to their own
cribs and lock them-
selves in lest some
prowling monomaniac
go a-searehing for a
weasand to squeeze.
As long as the dormi-
tory-system prevails,
even with what is con-
sidered by health-ex-
perts as a proper al-
lowance of air per
patient, it stands to
reason that the recov-
ery of “possibles” is re-
tarded. The system
becomes a horror when
Black Hole conditions
exist, as on a hot sum-
mer’s night with “ac-
commodation over-
taxed.” No doubt the
Government feels for
these unfortunate,
voteless women; but
the claims of the un-
willing taxpayer with
a vote have to be considered first, of course.
The far-seeing Hun is still looking out for
the future. Incredible as it may seem, a
marriage has been “arranged" between Rup-
preclit of Bavaria, nicknamed “The Luxem-
burg hangman,” and a princess of the devas-
tated little principality. The lady has a
chance of the throne, and her rich little terri-
tory would be a useful addition to the king-
dom which is likely to be Rupprecht’s when
his old man dies. The people of Luxemburg
think of hanging Rupprecht. The curse of
hereditary monarchy is its marriages. Two
things only can save it; either every monarch
and monarchess must be compelled to marry
a subject, or else it must be enacted that
they shall be hereditary bachelors —or spin-
sters, as the case may be.
* * * *
“Trooper Blueguin”: Light horsemen
were holding a sec-
tor of the Palestine
line when the enemy
attacked with un-
usual L vigor under
cover of a heavy
bombardment, and
managed to effect a
lodgment in the front
line and supports.
Unfortunately th e
regimental beer had
just been sent up and
was lying, cases un-
opened, at squadron
headquarters. Most
of the attacking force
were Germans, speci-
ally selected for the
assault, and they got
the beer. When the
Light Horse, in re-
serve, heard of the
real importance of
the capture they
became absolutely in-
dignant and rushed
to the rescue with
tremendous energy
and language, and re-
captured the precious
essentials. P.'S.—
Incidentally they re-
took the position and
nipped up several
hundred prisoners.
It is a great thing to be in the limelight.
The Charge of the Light Brigade was a very
ordinary event of war. There have been a
thousand more stirring events—but at the
other 999 events Tennyson didn’t happen to
be around. The homeless army of the Czecho-
slovaks, which is putting up its greatest
fight some thousands of miles from its own
country, and taking a movable Ministry
around with it, gets a gleam of light now
and then, but it doesn’t carry a movable
poet along. Recently it came up out of a
sea of oblivion, having driven its Hun-80l-
shevik enemies some 600 miles and secured
most of the trans-Siberian railway. It is the
kind of army that gets a mention when it
manages to capture a telegraph station that
is still in working order.
SHE LUCK WAS IN.
SHE: “Hare you been called up. Air.
Brown?”
HE: “Oh, yes; but I’m one of the fortunate
ones. My two brothers have been killed
at the Front.”
“T. 0.1.” : One of the most notable corners
in Sydney, that N.W. of Pitt and King
streets, has changed hands at £70.000. The
land comprises 47ft. to Pitt-street and 37ft.
9in. to King-street. Some years ago—so,
perhaps—for 10ft. or so of the Pitt-
street frontage £lOO per foot was
paid. About the year 1529 Michael
Napthali had a pub on the site,
known as The Bunch of Grapes, He
was there until 1834. Five years later
one Henry Doran kept it as The Hope
and Anchor, wherein “the Flying Pie-
man” is said to have been barman.
Next , followed, in the first ’forties,
Alfred Toogood, who named the hotel
the Rainbow Tavern, and kept it until
the mid-’sixties, when McGrath and
Punch, well-known aquatic men. took
it over. Later James Punch had it as
Punch’s Hotel, a busy corner in his
time. It was he who took Trickett to
England to row for the championship
of the world, which he brought back.
Trickett then opened a pub on the
opposite, or N.E. corner, much to
Punch’s disgust. On James Punch’s
death, brother Frank (now dead) took
over his license. From him it passed
to the Federal Bank, and when that
institution burst the “corner” became
a shop. W. J. Proud, of Proud’s
Limited, jewellers, is the new pro-
prietor, and it is understood that he
means to demolish the old buildings
and erect up-to-date premises.
Bolshevikism is a happy-go-lucky kind of
business in Russia. About a week of Bol-
shevik management closed the big factories
of Moscow and Petrograd ; they died through
mixing politics with business. The police
have disappeared, and presumably taken to
thieving. The soldiers »-ome and go as they
please and wear what clothes they please.
Their pay is nominally .Vbout £l2 per week
and their robberies include girls. Jus-
tice is casual, for when anybody is arrested
any Bolshevik or any number of Bolsheviks
may sit on the bench, if they feel that way.
The sentence is any old thing with or with-
out evidence, and if the crowd doesn’t like
the look of the prisoner it may possibly kill
him as he comes out. Sometimes it kills him
inside. Sometimes it kills him as he goes in,
which saves trouble. Letters, when they
arrive at all, take about a month to cover the
400 miles from Moscow to Petrograd, the
railway being rather out of repair. In
fact it looks like a marine store.
People have got into am untidy habit of
coming home naked, having been Bolsheviked
of their clothes and other possessions. Some
don t come home, naked or otherwise, having
met some person with a gun or a fork.
Chinese cheap labor is said to be employed as
assistant executioners at Moscow, there being
a scarcity of earnest workers in that line, a
great number of the foreign residents are
either imprisoned or buried or awaiting
burial. The death-rate has gone up so high
that one needs a telescope to see the top of
it, and the birth-rate hasn’t been seen around
much lately. The housing problem has been
overcome by any big man who feels like it
living in the house of somebody smaller than
himself. The food difficulty struggles along
as best it can. The drink difficulty is said
to have been met in the'Ukraine by the estab-
lishment of a thousand untaxed distilleries,
so that everybody can have a Satisfying
burst. The late Czar abolished liquor, so
there are arrears of thirst to make up. New
Russia is a helter-skelter land decorated with
nightmares and entrails; and Considine,
M.P., is understood to take himself seriously
as its Consul-General in Australia.
* * * *
A French visitor tells this yarn to Tiie
Bulletin
In Paris they have given up being surprised at the
droll Australian soldier. Whatever he does —well, it
is all right. ‘I won’t tell you the name of the
restaurant, but it was a very good place. A digger
came in—l like that word “digger”—and he had
previously been digging out a few happy corks,
maybe. He picked his way among the tables with
hia eye fixed steadily on a great bowl containing
gold-fish. When he reached the stand he prepared
himself for a wash, and proceeded with his toilet
with religious fervor without any protest from the
well-groomed waiters or the patrons, who, of course,
know digger. (Ah! Good word, “digger.”) Having
finished his ablutions he called, “A towel, gar {.on,
silver plate.” (That is how digger says “S’il vous
plait.”) His request was complied with immediately,
and our refreshed friend then sat at the nearest
table and ate a first-rate meal. I left before finding
out what the bath cost digger and how long it
took the attendants to collect the indignant fish from
innumerable parts of the room.
“Croson” : The prevailing custom of plant-
ing “honor avenues” of trees for the fallen
soldiers of a district is one that has the
merits of simplicity and comparative perma-
nence, but it is to be hoped few committees
or councils will follow the example of Mul-
grave, outside Melbourne, whose council
lately put in about a score of young oaks at
Notting Hill. Either they were put in too
SURPRISING LUCK.
FLEURETTE : “All, but ice were so fortunate!
We ’ad thought ice would ’are to leave,
and ’ad just hidden all our valuables
when ze Australians arrive.”
deep or too shallow or too late, or some-
thing, for when I passed a month later
every one had met the fate of the men it
commemorated. Why imported trees? There
are stacks of red- and blue-gum saplings
growing an hour’s journey from Melbourne,
and they thrive well. I have two blue-gums,
transplanted from the roadside, growing at
my gate only a few miles away from where
the dead oaks advertise the folly of their
planters.
THE WINDS OF FLORIDA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The magic gulf of Florida is drowsy in the heat;
There’s laughter on the water-path and at the
merry prow,
For a ship is walking daintily with silver-satin feet
And the mellow wind of Florida is warm upon my
brow.
The mellow wind -of Florida that loiters o’er the
seas,
With flying-fish upon it like little skimming birds,
And all my heart is open to the message of the
breeze;
For the mellow winds of Florida are talking honeyed
words.
Syllables of mystery that broaden to the phrase,
Which the tall skies echo through the sun-drenched
hours.
Oh, the scented winds of Florida can tell of jewelled
days
And the witchery of palm-trees; the gentleness of
flowers.
Moon-mysteries that waken when her white arm slips
Beneath the scarves of gossamer that drift across
the skies;
Of maidens pacing daintily with blossoms at their
lips;
And amber globes in lemon-glades and swift fire-
flies.
’Tis good the drive of deep-sea rain ; the white screw’s
steady roar;
Bright spindle swiftly winding in the silken thread
of space;
For the winsome maids of Florida are close about the
shore,
A beckon in their fingers and a welcome on their
face.
Oh, yellow moths and fragrances that dream across
the sea
Upon the winds of Florida —the magic winds that
wait
Within a fairy-painted place to keep a tryst with me
As a maiden ’mid her garden greets her lover at
the gate.
GULP OP FLORIDA.
BOYCE BOWDEN.


THE CALF’S DILEMMA
MOTHER or MEGGITT ?
/
>
/
ft
i
m
m
m
K
1
ril
nr, I)
•1
A VM
V-CnAf
V v
a
1
%G
wTT
\
r
\
v\\
[*'
If MEGGITT LIMITED’S
Linseed Meal “is ever left out
of their ration they are not at all
satisfied says Mr. J. H. Johns,
Frewville, S.A.
“M EGG ITT LIMITED'S Lin-
seed Meal is without question one
of the very best foods for cattle”
is the opinion of the Cluny
Friesian Stud Farm, Wellington,
New Zealand.
9
Meggm ua. s
4
&
Linseed Oil Meal,
“The no trouble fodder” for all classes of stock, is “EQUALLY AS GOOD AS
MILK." So says Mr. Charles Newings, of Berry, the successful breeder of
Ayrshire Stock.
Pamphlet No. 2, instructing how to feed, mailed free.
Full particulars from Agents: Messrs. R. S. EXTON & CO.,
Brisbane; Messrs. HARRISONS, RAMSAY LTD., Melbourne;
Messrs. CLARKSON, Adelaide; Messrs. W. ADAMS & CO.,
Perth; Messrs. F. W. HERITAGE & CO., Hobart and
Launceston.
MEGGITT LTD.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers of the Southern Hemisphere),
26 KING STREET, SYDNEY. AUSTRALIA.
MEGGJTTS
UNSEEDOUMOJ
iW!
m
The Boy on the Bog
guarantees quality.


MAKE YOUR NERVES STRONG AND
STEADY.
TAKE PHOSPHATE WITH YOUR
MEALS.
Without nervous strength you cannot have
mental or physical strength, and that is why
many are urging those who are weak, nerv-
ous or run-down to obtain some ogr. bitro-
phosphate tablets from the chemist and take
one tablet immediately after every meal.
They recommend Zdtro-phosphate particu-
larly, because it is readily assimilated and
almost immediately transformed into vital
nervous tissue. And as nervous strength is
gained, so the health of the entire body
improves, until, in a short time, the poor
sufferer from neurasthenia, depression,
nervousness, insomnia, debility, etc., becomes
robust and well once more, rejoicing in the
possession of abundant energy and strength.
These excellent results are obtained in prac-
tically every case in which bitro-phosphate
is used, and readers may therefore test this
remedy with confidence that good results will
follow. Sufficient ogr. bitro-phosphate tab-
lets for two weeks’ continuous treatment can
now be obtained at small cost from high-
class chemists everywhere.— Advt.
1
1
Wrnik
WSm
IB
ismmmtwmmmmmßmßmiaamm
-ryvrm
w
RBH
sa#
■• ■ .5
| ....
*****
9 ’mjm r
m
m
m
“Leslie” Salt I.ielcs jßcensamt
Fluke a«J Black Bisaaa* ami
make for robust fesitfe swd
better ffieece.
Stock-inspectors iwsomimieimd
(item as a preventi'w of sheep
ail'tments and time best tonic
for lambing ewes.
Obtainable from all Sad-
dlers, Blacksmiths, Produce
Merchants and Stores.
In 51b. marb!e-hard blocks.
22/6 per case of 12
POLITICAL
POINTS.
The position of the Federal Government’s
labor agreement incidental to the copiously-
talked-ahout shipbuilding scheme seems to be
<me of hopeless muddle. Anyway, it was
decided by Justice Higgins the other day that
as the agreement was legally unenforceable and
objectionable in equity the Court could have
nothing to do with it. Wherefore he refused
to make the Amalgamated Society of
Engineers subject to the agreement, and
established two new Boards to deal with the
question of dilution, ruling out altogether
the tribunal contemplated under the agree-
ment. The situation seemed to go back
where it was before, for though several other
unions had signed the agreement their signa-
ture is worth nothing. But since then the
THE GAS-METER.
“No member shall speak for more than one hour
and five minutes at a time on any question in the
House.” -N.S.W. Legislative proposal.
situation generally has developed on lines
which may possibly land the Court where it
was before it came into existence. A ques-
tion has been raised before the Full Court
challenging the constitutional status of the
Arbitration Court —of whether the Court has
not all along been masquerading in a bor-
rowed wig, so to speak, exercising authority
which Parliament had no power to confer.
Wherefore Higgins and the Court now stand
adjourned, waiting to find out whether the
Court has any existence and whether Higgins
was actually holding down a job or only
an illegal fiction. It is all very bewildering
—except to Costs.
Price-fixing Minister Massy Greene and
the Melb. Argus are not wasting brotherly
love on each other. Goaded beyond his endur-
ance by what he considered to he unfair
criticism of his Department, Greene handed
out the other day a scalding indictment of
Granny for allegedly hitting below the belt
in war-time. To his surprise the newspaper
published the rebuke, but countered with an
editorial importuning the “small” men of the
Ministry to cultivate an imperturbability
necessary to carry through a controversy
with credit to themselves and adopt the self-
restraint of the "big” men who treat criti-
cism which they think to be dishonest with
silent contempt. Two days later the daily
returned to the attack, and indulged in sharp-
toothed sarcasm at the Minister’s expense.
Now the point is, where will the Akgus be if
Greene makes no reply V
George Turner was the fourth to die of
the six Premiers whose portraits figured on
the certificate issued in Victoria to voters at
the Federation referendum. Dickson, King-
ston and Braddon preceded George Turner,
and only the fat men of the historic group,
George Reid and John Forrest, were left.
By a coincidence the pair passed out in the
one week, or rather news of their passing
came to Australia within seven days. They
lived 10 years after the referendum which
Reid tried hard to render abortive.
The recognition of the wandering Czecho-
slovak army and Government is also, as a
matter of course, the recognition of their
country (or countries) as an independent
State., These lands belong to Austria at pre-
sent, so the lesser Ilun thus receives the first
direct intimation that his motley empire is to
go to pieces. Austria is an unholy combine
of the Germans and Magyars to oppress and
loot about 1G smaller nationalities. It is
the League of the Two Thieves. Previous to
1866 the German element tried to be sole
thief, but finding itself too weak it admitted
the Magyar into partnership. That was how
it came to he called the Dual Monarchy—the
pair of big tyrants joined together to dish all
the others. There was a long standing pro-
phecy that the great old empire of hash
would fall apart after Francis Joseph’s death,
and the author may have been a good prophet.
The living wage in X. S. Wales has been
fixed by the Board of Trade at £8 per week
as against 48». in 1014, and 525. Gd. and
555. Bd. at two determinations since then.
And at present rates 60s. per week is assur-
edly little enough for anybody except a
school-teacher of the lower-paid ranks, who
is notoriously able to live and pour out vast
stores of knowledge on air and rabbits. In
fact it is altogether too little, but when so
much of the population makes its wages by
producing things for export that can’t be
exported, and spends much of it on things
the prices of which are fixed by people out-
side our jurisdiction, it is hard' to make the
two ends of the argument meet any better
than they do.
This is the programme planned out
by the “no-annexations-and-no-indemnities”
crowd which is now holding a referendum in
Australia :
Britain will declare for peace without annexations
or indemnities —just as Russia did. The States
which have lost provinces to recover will demur, as
they did in Russia’s case.
Consequently Britain will make a separate peace
and withdraw, as Russia did.
Being neutral it will withdraw its army and stop
the supply of money and munitions to the Allies.
Also it will no longer protect their food supplies.
The Hun fleet, being no longer blockaded, will
come out, and, aided by the Austrians, make hash of
the fleets of the remaining Allies. The supply of
food, soldiers and munitions from the U.S. will thus
be cut off, and Uncle Sam, save for the troops he
already has in Europe, will be out of the war.
France and Italy, being gradually worn down, will
at last make peace on disastrous terms. They will
pay ruinous indemnities, and surrender their fleets
and much territory. The Huns will keep Belgium
and the Channel ports and fix themselves within
gunshot of England. The U.S. will pay heavily for
the release of the remnant of its troops.
With its three navies and its land battei-ies com-
manding the Straits of Dover the Hun will take
England easily. The British Government will
appeal to its old Allies for assistance. France and
Italy will reply that they have neither ships, sol-
diers. arms nor money left. The U.S. will tell
Britain to go to Sheol.
The terms of peace will include the surrender of
India, South Africa, Maoriland and Australia.
Canada will escape by annexing itself to the U.S.
When the Hun takes possession of Australia he
will hang the leaders of the no-annexations-and-no-
indemnities party on the ground that such pitiful
traitors are of no use to man or beast. And nobody
will regret them.
After that this country will settle down to slave
for the Hun till Judgment Day.
On second thoughts the second-last item of
the programme wasn’t planned out by the
people at this end. The Hun planned it.
“O.I\.”: The Bolsheviks have vastly im-
proved on the original Hun notion of “repri-
sals.” The Huns usually conceive their
threats on a. 10 to 1 scale, 'i.e.. 10 French or
British = 1 German. But the Bolsheviks
reckon that the murder of 159 enemy aliens
is poor compensation for the assassination of
one good Bolshevik. Also, they have decided
to count all aliens as enemy unless they are
Huns. Considine, M.H.R., gave himself a
lovely label when he assumed the character
of Bolshevik Ambassador, and a number of
other Australian politicians, if capable of
raising a blush on any account, must some-
times hot up to remember how they inter-
ested themselves in the repatriation of a
number of scowling Russian “refugees” who
were eager to get back to their brethren as
soon as they scented German bribery in the
air. We are only at the beginning of the
story of Lenin and Trotsky’s Government.
The forces of unmitigated massacre are mak-
ing a start, but they haven’t really tucked
up their pants and waded in yet.
“Vet.” : The bill before N. S. Wales Par-
liament compelling the registration of veter-
inary surgeons is raising some trouble. The
Ma State has a small army of animal doc-
tors and alleged vets, who hold no diploma
and stand small chance of passing an exam,
in veterinary science. The bill will put
many of them out of the business of earn-
ing some good money “after hours.” Men
with diplomas, such as members of the
11.C.V.5., London, the highest veterinary
centre probably in the
world, consider that
the time is about 25
years over-ripe for
N. S. Wales to get
in line with other
stock-raising States
and protect stock-
owners. The pro-
posed legislation is the
logical sequence- of
the establishment of a
vet. school at Sydney
University. Some
good, rough, practical
men that are often
handy to the small
cocky may be wiped
out, but the bill pro-
vides that any man who
has been actually prac-
tising for seven years
is entitled to registra-
tion ; in fact James,
Minister for Educa-
tion, who is handling
the measure, favors re-
ducing the period to
live years, which does
not leave much to
growl about. When
Victoria passed a simi-
lar bill, some 30 years
ago, it provided for
a period of 10 years.
An attempt to secure
recognition of the
Sydney Technical cer-
tificate for veterinary
science doesn’t seem
to have much hope of
success, and those who
know the strength of the course at the Col-
lege are praying that it has none at all.
A gigantic shipping combine is mooted in
England. It is to include the I’. and O. Com-
pany, which has already swallowed the New
Zealand Shipping Co., the Union S.S. Co. of
Maoriland, the British India Co., the Blue
Anchor Co., and I lain S.S. Co.; also the
Royal Mail Go,, which has eaten up seven
big "concerns already ; the Canard Co., which
is a great eater itself ; and some others. In
fact, the combine will have a first mortgage
and a debenture on the seven seas, including
our bits of sea. And all the high democratic
principles and all the political programmes
and pronouncements we possess won’t shift
it one inch. It is the kind of devil that can
only be exorcised by hard wdrk —the work of
building and owning and running our own
ships.
“Trot”: In the last 11 years 5,355,084
working days were lost in N. S. Wales
through strikes. At the lowest possible com-
putation £4,177,842 was also lost in wages.
Now suppose that the money had been pooled
instead of being disregarded. Organised
Labor in the State v'ould now have had an
annual revenue of £288,921, or £5556 per
week, at the very least. Just consider what
might have been done with that either in the
way of demolishing capital or otherwise. A
few banks could have.been bought. Or a
few steamship lines might have been obtained.
Or substantial pensions might have been
made available to industrial veterans. With
such a revenue it would have been possible
every year to put hundreds of thousands of
young people in the way of getting the very
best scientific or technical or literary train-
ing the world could offer, and to see them
right through with the job—to make metal-
lurgists and chemists and surgeons and bac-
teriologists and physicists and economists
and all the rest of it out of the good-material
that takes to picks and shovels or a job on
the railways, or something. Or a scheme for
handling the whole of the State food supply
could have been launched with certainty of
knocking the other P. Enterprise specialists
off the premises. It looks a fool of a record
from any angle.
James Jewell, who succeeded Frank
Anstey as M.L.A. for Brunswick (Vic.), and
who usually preserves in the House an atti-
tude of oyster-like calm, came out of his
shell the other day and made a few dis-
jointed, hesitating but striking remarks con-
cerning an alleged police-abuse. Jewell’s
allegation was that two young men had been
brought to the city from Pentridge, hand-
cuffed together and carried by tram in
custody. Premier Lawson, mildly shocked,
promised to inquire into the matter,
and the Assembly then changed the subject
It is bad enough, in the case of a convicted
Person, to be paraded in handcuffs; but there
is no guarantee that the accident of which
Jewell complained may not happen any day
to some unbailed-out person subsequently
shown in court to have been guiltless of any
offence.
THE NUISANCES.
“There is no mistaking,” says Mr. Beeby, “the
deep-seated objection to our present system of Party
Government."
AUSTRALIA : “Pm bored to death with Mr.
Labor and Mr. National, or whatever
his name is. I'll have to be really rude
to them soon.”
The Hun begins to talk plausibly about a
League or Federation of Nations as a means
of peace. It is a great idea, and there
might be room for a family of Ilun or semi-
Hun republics or strictly limited monarchies
under new dynasties inside such a league—
Prussian, Bavarian, Wurtemburger, Aus-
trian, Magyar, Czeck and the like. But the
Ilun idea of taking in Austria and Germany
as they stand, each keeping its oppressed
nationalities, is impossible. As members
of the Happy Federation they would help to
govern the Allies, so the extended paw of
brotherhood is loaded as well as dirty. No
Hapsburg or Ilohenzollern or any relation of
theirs is a brother.
TOO LONE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Where the sick limp down to the dressing-station,
And the broken groan in the Red Cross car,
There’s a dearth of rest and there’s soul-starvation
For many who serve in the far-flung war.
They are fading off, they are quietly going,
Pale ghosts of the men that were hale and strong
In days when they sent the world's blood glowing,
The men who have served in the ranks too long.
Too long, too long, and the work is galling;
But the best shall suffer it through and through
Rather than pause where their mates are falling,
Or halt where there's work that a man can do.
Oh, it hurts to think some can live for pleasure,
And statesmen smile on the selfish throng,
While the war-gods squander our living treasure—
The men who have served in the ranks too long.
No matter how great is the soldier's spirit,
'Tis the shame that shatters his manly strength.
Rut if he holds no more than a fighter's merit
lie shall bear the brunt till he falls full length.
And it must be so till the great commotion
Dies down 'neath the swell of a victor’s song.
Oh, send us the succor across the ocean
You’ve owed to the men in the ranks too long.
PALESTINE.
GERARDY.


Paling’s for Player
-
MUSIC is not a luxury, but a
NECESSITY.
By all means now more than
ever have Music in your
home. Why deprive yourself
of the solace, cheer and com=
fort of beautiful music? Buy
one of these delightful enter =
tainers, and you will never
feel lonely.
THE BEIINING PLAYER PIANO
America’s most artistic Player.
Exquisite tone quality and touch.
lie is enjoying
favorite music,
will enable you
himself immensely playing his
So could you! The Music-rolls
to play thousands of pieces of
Music, Songs, etc. •
Your present piano taken as part-payment.
Easy Terms. CATALOGUES Free.
The success of PALING’S
PIANOSand PLAYER PIANOS
is based on thoroughness of
manufacture and the extra=
ordinary value obtainable
the direct result of careful
selection by experts.
Remember, PALING’S guar=
antee satisfaction. This
guarantee is well known to
thousands and thousands of
our customers.
THE BEHNING PLAYER PIANO.
Shut —In position to be placed by
hand as any ordinary piano.
W. H. PALING ®. CO. LTD.
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, LISMORE, TOOWOOMBA and NEWCASTLE.
£>XY-ACETYLENE-
Metal-Working
the
Magician!
fg
XY-ACETYLENE is of money-saving
one, from the builder or wrecker
structures to the householder who is
simple break in a kitchen pot.
interest to every-
of colossal steel
troubled with a
MM
f
This press was placed in order in a few
hours after a bad break, which could not
be prepared by ordinary means.
It was a simple matter with Oxy-Acetylene,
and saved an enormous loss of time.
4-inch steel shaft in head of 12001 b.
Press and Frame, back of shaft-box, 14
inches wide and 2 inches and 4 inches thick,
welded where chalk marked.
Fractures in expensive machinery are now repaired
speedily and cheaply, keeping good plant off the scrap-
heap and avoiding expensive delays. Broken machinery
of any kind can be welded, including Cast and Wrought
Iron, Mild Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc , under
most difficult conditions in Engineering Workshops,
Garages and Mines. Or Oxy- Acetylene works wonders
in cutting up metals, dismantling boilers, old ships
and mining plants.
Farmers will find Oxy- Acetylene invaluable. It
obviates delays in busy seasons when parts break in
ploughs and other implements, repairing the damage m a
few hours.
The Householder will find it a* money-saver, for
Oxy-Acetylene keeps expensive utensils from the rubbish-
heap. Broken spouts and handles of pots, pans and
kettles, etc., are welded again in. a few seconds.
This Poppet Head had to be dis-
mantled in Tasmania and erected in
New South Wales. About 12,000 rivets
were cut out with an Oxy-A-cetylene
Metal Cutter without any damage to
the structure. The work was carried
out by Messrs. A. L. West and Co.,
Sydney.
Write to us about your Repair Troubles.
There may be an Oxy-Acetylene Plant near you.
The Commonwealth Oxyg'en
td.
Wo ox»”e s i.tts lo ., Fox Street, Balmain, Sydney
Agents—MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
The Influenza Epidemic
IS NOW SO PREVALENT
that it behoves everyone to deal with it in the quickest and most effective way.
That is easily and thoroughly done by using
Innl
Irin!
IM
REGISTERED\
. . NAME for . .
HE AN’S
ESSENCE
Easily and quickly prepared. Full directions with each bottle.
Obtainable from most Chemists and Stores,
or from G. W. Hean, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
fg
ABSOLUTORY 'l?
King
GcoigelV
WHESIBOT
HielDP-MOSCH’Scotch
GREENHIDE'S BRAND AND MARK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The laws that deal with squatter folk and others on
the land,
Say every sheep shall bear its owner’s last-recorded
brand.
And if an ear-mark is required ’twill be approved of,
too —-
The stock-inspector sees to this and puts the matter
through.
The greatest care they always take allotting brand
and mark,
For reasons that are obvious and call for no
remark ;
But, as the range of signs is small, the self-same
brand may be
In use at Bundaburra and at Tongabunderee.
This story that the sheepmen tell concerns old Green-
hide Day,
Who had a small selection out along the Castle-
reagh.
Its carrying capacity, if one could call it such,
A rabbit to the acre was—if it went quite as much—
Yet from this block, a year ago, when stock were
far from cheap,
Old Greenhide sold a mob of fats, five-thousand cross-
bred sheep.
Before old Day selected he’d been droving in the
West,
And knew the stations through and through—but
knew their brands the best.
And better still, perhaps, lie knew the leases forfeited
That lie between the Bogan and the Lachlan water-
shed—■
A vast extent of vacant land, all rabbits and belar,
With mallee scrub and silted tanks and clearings
few and far.
So after he’d selected, and had bought some wethers
cheap,
He wrote to have a brand and mark recorded for
his sheep.
He asked the stock-inspector for a firebrand, Circle L,
And a diamond as an earmark, which he said would
suit him well.
Now these same signs comprised the brands of
Worrongully run,
A station on the Lachlan owned by Henry Hill and
Son.
Twas in a different district, though, two hundred
miles away—•
The stock-inspector noted them for Mr. Greenhide
Day.
The summer came, as summers do, with dust and heat,
Outback.
And grass was scarce and tanks were dry along the
Western track.
But on the Lachlan watershed good picking could be
found
Throughout the vacant stretches, if one knew the
way around.
So Greenhide took an annual lease on these aban-
doned blocks—■
A million acres, more or less, of gilgas, scrub and
rocks —•
And started from the Castlereagh and pushed
towards the West
A hundred starving wethers, all the sheep that he
possessed.
He called at all the stations in the district round
about,
And told them of the sheep he had, and how the
cursed drought
Had driven him fiom off his run along the
Castlereagh
To look for grass out on the plains, two hundred
miles away.
And no one ventured through the scrub to verify the
fact,
Or see if he had sheep at all-out West they’re not
exact.
He spent a lot of time at Hill’s because the boun-
dary-fence
Of one of their out-stations joined his block of
mallee dense.
He helped them with the shearing, and no wages
would he take;
He helped them through the marking, as he said
for friendship’s sake;
And though he said he’d ask their help in settling
his affairs,
He never mentioned that his brand was just the
same as theirs.
In March old Hill decided he would go upon a trip
To see some friends up Queensland way —he’d had a
record clip.
He started off, and when he was a fortnight on the
track,
Day b'' n £ tiCed ” Wol ' ron ff ull y that, as he was going
To his fine, fertile station out along the Castle-
reagh,
He’d like to have his muster checked before he went
next day.
The man that Hill had left in charge was not just
home from school,
And he couldn’t be regarded as a newchum or a
fool,
But thinking of the work they’d had from friendly
Mr. Day,
He sent a message over by a rouseabout, to say
That he was amply satisfied, and Day could make a
start
Provided he’d a permit from the stock-inspector,
Hart.
When Worrongully sent its men out mustering that
year,
They missed five thousand wethers, and they thought
it rather queer.
They made inquiries far and wide, and mentioned
Greenhide Day ;
In fact, they stated bluntly that he'd duffed the lot
away.
The troopers rode around for weeks, and all they
ever learned
Disclosed that Day had travelled out with sheep,
and had retui lied ;
But that the sheep he drove were his ’twas clear to
understand—
They’d borne his diamond ear-mark and his own
recorded brand.
N.S.W.
GORDON BENNETT.
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
“McNorth”: Vice-royalty is likely to get
thp glassy eye from brown brother the next time it
visits the Torres Strait islands. When the last visit of
Bananaland’s Cocked Hat was threatened, the natives
got busy and erected triumphal arches and made all
manner of plain and fancy arrangements to impress
the big feller Gubment with their delight at his
august presence. Islands vied with one another as
to the horse-power of their respective welcomes, and
a thrill of expectancy ran throughout the Strait. For
weeks after all was ready, keen, eager eyes searched
the horizon for the trail of smoke that meant the
approach of the Big Boss. But for most of them the 8.8.
didn’t come. Cocked Hat contented himself with visiting
two or three of the islands and taking the rest for
granted, and black brudder sadly dismantled the
frippery and remarked “the big feller Gubbenors too
much gammon al’ogether.”
* * * *
“D.” : A man who died not long since on
the east coast of the Speck had first-hand knowledge
of the efficiency of the spears of the Tasmanian
blackfellow (B. 29/8/’18). He was at Grindstone
Bay in 1824 with William Holyoake and a man
from Hawaii named Mammoa, when the Oyster Bay
natives, led by one Mosquito, arrived. Holyoake and
Mammoa were speared to death, but the third man,
an active young fellow, ran for his life. As he ran
a blackfellow threw a spear which struck the heel of
his heavy boot. It went through the tough leather
and severely injured his foot, but the fleeing
white man snapped the shaft off and got
away. These spears had no tip of stone or
bone. They were just the wood scraped to a point
and hardened in the fire. The tough thin sticks
found in thick patches of tea-tree were reckoned the
best, but bull-oak was used on occasion.
OUT ON THE DEEP WHEN THE SON
IS LOW.
THE AILING ONE : “Get out of my sight, you
— you—you healthy-looking ’brute!”
“V.”: The somewhat rare spoonbill has
appeared this winter about swamps and lagoons in
the Bega (N.S.W.) district. The bird flies
with tail squared and long legs stretched
straight out, giving it the appearance of
the Hun “taube.” There are two breeds of this bird,
distinguished by black and yellow bills. Both serve
to keep the tadj nle, adult frog and small shellfish
population within reasonable bounds. On Monaro
highlands the spoonbill is very rare, only coming in
extra wet seasons. The family is reared in the seclu-
sion of great swamps and marshes.
FINANCIAL PHYSIOLOGY.
ROSENBLOOM : "Goot grachious, my poy, dot's plood money! Surely you vouldn't has
anything ter do mit plood money?"
MOSESTEIN : "Vell, I vouldn't do anything to hinder its circulation."
“E.S.S.”: “D.D.M.” asked recently if I
have ever watched the crow picking the eyes out of
helpless lambs and weak mothers. No ; but I have
often seen the raven enjoying himself in that fashion.
If “D.D.M.” will look a little more carefully next
time he will observe that his feathered Hun has
white eyes. The common crow, which I claim to bo
a friend to the pastoralist, has hazel eyes. (The
small-billed crow also has white eyes, but he is a
very rare species.) Crows are further distinguished
by having snow-white down, whereas the down of
the raven is dusky-grey. This destructive fowl is
more cunning than the crow, and the fact that he
can disgorge his food when he finds anything wrong
with it makes him difficult to poison.
” * * *
“Te Whare” : No need to get stuck for a
good bush pipe if any wild elderberry trees happen
to be at hand. They flourish in and about most
coastal gullies. Select a fair-sized stem for your
bowl, scoop the pith out, plug one end with a sdlid
bit of wood and bore a small hole above it. Insert
a wild elderberry twig, with the pith removed, into
this hole, and, with Adam Lindsay Gordon’s ghost,
you may “blow the cool tobacco cloud.” Pipes thus
fashioned are of the corn-cob or cherry order, and,
when the elder-wood dries, they smoke well. A
closed joint in the piece of elderberry wood used
for a bowl is better than a plug. (
* * * *
“Bootawa”: In reply to “Pick” (B.
4/'/ 18), who said that “sassafras” could not be
split, I say that if he calls on me I will show him
sassafras palings which have done years of service
in our damp North Coast climate. It is a beautiful
wood, and deserves a better fate than to be worked
by maul and wedges ; but as it is good Australian,
our timber importers give it the cold eye. The
export prohibition enforced by Maoriland on all soft
woods is helping to bring Australian coastal brush-
wood into prominence, and in the years to come
commonsense will sentence to death any cow cocky
who wilfully destroys the beautiful and useful local
timbers. Side by. side with sassafras palings can
be seen palings split from other brush-wood such
as myrtle, leather-jacket, ribbon-wood, all giving
the satisfaction required of them. What's wrong
with white hickory for aeroplane-building purposes ?
* * * *
A. T. Saunders, the veteran authority on
details of old Adelaide affairs—he has an elaborately
indexed arrangement of newspaper files—-reminds
The Register (24/8/’18) of its champion bullock-
team par. of 12/2/’52. The occasion was the
despatch from Port Adelaide to the new Burra copper-
mine of an engine-cylinder weighing 27 tons. The
team was 72 bullocks, six abreast, and they delivered
the goods in 13 days, without mishap. The dis-
tance was a trifle over 100 miles.
(Continued on page 24.)
“Bill Bowyang”: Birds in the war zone
don’t worry about aeroplanes. In Palestine I have
watched herons, redshanks, bitterns, spoonbills and
sandpipers betray no concern when ’planes flew above
them. A flock of pelicans were the only birds I saw
who heeded the aircraft. Also, amid the thunder of
guns and bursting of shells I have
noticed that birds are fearless of
the danger around them. It was at
Gaza that I saw the first one struck
by a shell. I was watching a flock
of gulls circling at a little distance
in front of our position. Suddenly I
heard the whine of a 9-mch shell, and
one of a school dissolved into a cloud
of feathers. A naval man told me
that he had occasionally seen the same
thing happen at gun practice at sea.
Gunfire seems to attract :( the gulls,
for they collect in hundreds, perhaps
to feed upon the fish killed by con-
cussion. Near Jericho the other day
I was examining the hole made by
either a 10- or 11-inch shell, and, to
my surprise, found a sparrow lying
at the bottom of the hole. Except
that it was dead, it was uninjured.
It had probably been flying over when
the shell burst and the blast had
killed it. I believe that birds suffer
from shell-shock, for yesterday, after
a burst not very far away, I saw
two starlings roaming listlessly over
the ground, every now and then stag-
gering as if weak and unsteady on
their legs. I caught one, but could
see nothing wrong with it. It lay
perfectly still in my hand looking at
me with glazed, lustreless eyes. I
placed it in a biscuit-tin, and next
morning it had recovered sufficiently to protest vigor-
ously against its imprisonment. When liberated it
flew off apparently none the worse for its experience.
“Hecagus” : Can any Abo. explain the pre-
sence of the many hundreds of Binghi skeletons on
what is known as Skull Beach, Marble Island (North-
umberland group) ? In search of specimen skulls I
have exhumed dozens, some of which were in O.K.
order, whilst others crumbled on touch. The whole
of the sand dunes on the eastern shores are littered
with bleached ribs, scapulas, etc., reminiscent of
some great Waterloo. When interrogated, the oldest
liar thereabouts shakes his* thought-meter.


The BooK of the Century.
<"1
it
■ti
By EDWIN J. BRADY
Author of “The King's Caravan“ The Ways of Many Waters;
“ River Rovers Hobbles ” etc.
Tis impossible— within the compass of an advertisement -fully to set forth the aims and scope and contents of this truly
reat work. The title will suggest something of the purpose of the author:
BT<
To show, first to Australians themselves, then to
the whole world, that Australia is really and
beyond dispute
UNLIMITED
in potential wealth, in ever-present opportunity,
and in certainty of reward to the plucKy, the
prudent and the persevering;.
There are over 1000 illustrations, nearly 200 being full page. The size of the book is 12 x 9 inches, and it is strongly
and handsomely bound in Cloth Gilt.
Obtainable from All Booksellers.
PRICE TWO GUINEAS.
MOTORING AT NIGHT
Improve Your Headlights & Carry a Searchlight
-
IPwww
LENS
(“No-Glare**).
Provides a flood of
light, which illumines
the full width of the
road, including side
ditches, WITHOUT
GLARE.
Gives complete illumi-
nation, because the
light is diffused at its
source (the light
bulb), before it
reaches the reflector.
Not only provides 100 per cent, light, hut a light that is safer to drive
by than ordinary headlights. It shows up the roadway both to right
and left, as well as directly ahead.
The Lens consists of a cup-shaped glass bowl, which surrounds the light
bulb. The outer surface is covered with a series of curved elevations;
the inner surface is ribbed. Will fit any electric headlight and can e
installed in a minute.
A LEGAL LIGHT.
Stewart Lens meets all traffic requirements. Height limitations mean
nothing to it, because it is a safe light at any height. Gives a Hood
light absolutely without glare. Price 15/" P©** Pair.
iMewaJib
V-RAY SEARCHLIGHT
iSTot an ordinary “Spotlight,” but a real Searchlight that projects an
intense, powerful, penetrating beam of light ’way down the road.
Has silver-plated reflector, full 6-inch curved lens in front, and 3d-inch
reducing mirror in the back.
Case is dust- and moisture-proof, and the back is formed so that it
provides a means for grasping the searchlight naturally, and turning it
in the desired direction.
Switch is located so that it can be found easily in the dark. Special
focussing device permits the
use of any size of light bulb.
Furnished with a remarkable
bracket, allowing the Stewart
V-Ray to be turned in any
direction —up, down, front,
back, right or left, at any
angle, and with great ease.
The bracket is universal—fits
practically all wind-shield
standards on any make of car.
The Finest Light a
Motor-Car could have
Stewart Products are obtainable from all Accessory Dealers
MANUFACTURED BY
STEWART-WARNER SPEEDOMETER CORPORATION
(COOPER ENGINEERING CO . LTD.),
129 Sussex Street, Sydney.
Price 37/6
fg


When frequent sneezes notify
That you, alas! are “catching cold,”
W aste not an hour ere you apply
The surest means to cheek its hold.
All signs of cold will soon subside,
Your drooping spirits re-assure;
Such prompt relief spreads far and wide
The fame of Wood’s Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident § Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE —
129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COFFINS ST., MEFBOURNE.
QUEENSFAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGFE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRAFIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIFDING, GREN-
FEFF STREET, ADEFAIDE.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
“Eddyson”: McMune built his bit hoose
on a crag on the unlikdiest spur of Hammer Head,
involving a desperate tooth-and-nail clamber up from
the lot he was tilling, which itself was so steep/it
looked more like the back cloth of a rural melo-
drania than a practical farm. McMurie liked the
“magneeficent view fra the stoop.” The house was
only a one-roomed slab affair with a shingle-roof to
begin with, and Mac, with growth of intake, and im-
provement of prospects, saw no necessity of enlarging!
his abode. Fortunately there were no little
MeMuries to be “tumblin’ oot of the hoose every
twa minutes,” and Mrs. Mac was a careful body who
could be relied upon not to overstep the bounds and
fall off their limited residential area ; but time was
at work, erosion was rapidly eating out the stability
of the happy home, and eventually a heavy storm left
the house in a very precarious position. It might
slip its moorings and canter into the farm far below
at any moment. McMurie was equal to the occasion.
At the sale of the effects of the Three Pigs Gold
Mining Co. he purchased a hauling rope, ran it twice
round his house and once round a granite hunk as
stable as the range itself, and rested happy in the
satisfaction of having effected a complete insurance.
Then came the mighty storm of July 11, 1914, which
shook the whole district, deluged half the country
and almost tore Hammer Head off its handle. The
storm had detained McMurie at Croft’s store in
Four-roads all night. He rushed homeward in the
morning through flood and ruin, accompanied by
two volunteers. His home hung from the spur like
a plumb-bob, its foundations blasted and washed
away. His friends watched Mae swarm down the
rope monkey-wise. The Scotchman was going home.
He reached the roof, leaned over and knocked on the
front wall. Three times he knocked, then uttered a
piercing wail. “Maggie McMurie, wammin, are ye
no at hame?’ They found Mrs. McMurie against a
tree a quarter of a mile lower down, wet and
bedraggled, but not much the worse for wear and
tear. McMurie wagged an admonitory forefinger
under her nose. “Wammin,” lie said, “let this be a
war-r-nin’ to yeh. Didna I caution yeh never ta
leave the hoose?” “Aye, that's a’ verra wool,”
replied Maggie feebly, “but what would ye ha’ ’a
body do stayin’ at hame when the whole floor droppit
oot wi’ her?”
* * * *
“H.V.E.”: For the most elegant nest of
all Australian birds I plump for that of the yellow-
breasted shrike-tit, or “falcon shrike.” It is
fashioned of fine bark, shaped like a gold or silver
cuii with the “foot” removed and covered externally
with grey spider-web. It is usually built at the
exti emity of a tall slender bough or sapling.
“Cranky fan,” the white-shafted fantail, rears its
family in an ethereal wineglass-shaped structure of
fine bark, also shrouded in spider-web, and the black
fantail’s incubator, although so common, is also a
thing of beauty. I place the white-shafted fantail
wfeconcl, and after it the brown fly eater, whose domed
nest is hung from a twig and covered with white
and bluish-grey lichen.
* * * *
“Select” : As nobody seems to have given
YV ee Bobbin a satisfactory answer to his query
for cure for swamp cancers let me have a word.
I’ve had a bit of experience in treating them. First
burn the affected part with bluestone, then dress
daily with the following: White-lead mixed to the
consistency of paint with castor oil, and, if possible,
add some iodoform. This may be applied with a
small piece of rag bound on the end of a stick. I
have known this dressing to cure mild cases without
the/burning, but generally the burning will be
necessary. The dressing keeps flies away, and has
splendid healing properties. But the treatment will
be a waste of time if the patient is allowed to get
into the water. Keep him in a dry paddock, and
water from trough or some other receptacle.
MIGHT WANT IT.
“I’d give five pounds to be out of this car.”
“Save your money, old chap. We’ll both be out when we reach the turn.”
ONE-THIRTY FITE AM.
“Watterbout bit o’ shupper, m’ dear? Lend y’ cigar—hep pard'n—should shay over-
coat and all that sort of thing. What?”
“Lachlander” : The Ken yah s of Borneo, a
tribe distinct from the Sea Dyaks, cherish some
queer notions about the common white-headed carrion
hawk (Uuliaster intermedins), and in a country
where most birds represent some particular omen,
this hawk is a powerful personage. Its move-
ments are interpreted according to a well-
established code of rules, and before a lienyah will
start on a trip or engage in any business or
pleasure he consults the winged oracle. Usually,
too, before he words the hawk he goes through a
disorderly and dirty process of being purified by
pig's blood, and then he sits patiently waiting for
the omen to be imparted. When the hawk hovers into
sight, the native addresses him as “your Excellency,’’
of something as imposing, and exhorts him to flv
to the left. If the bird does this all will be well.
If he goes to the r' ;'ht the prospects are bad. In
that case the Kenyah waits till another of
the hawks comes along and left-wheels, whereupon
he arises and goes on his way rejoicing. If, when
a man is eating his lunch, he sees a hawk in the
sky, he throws some of the tucker towards it with
kind words. When the auguries are being consulted
the womenfolk are hunted indoors, but they invari-
ably keep images of the birds hidden in the hut. If
a female falls sick she yells out the news to the bad
spirit that has attacked her that she has a feather
of his Excellency. On her recovery the hawk gets
the credit and is offered morsels of fat on sticks
stuck in the forest.
“Wart’’ : I’m organiser and first president
of the L.P.C.C. (League for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Cabbages). It seems likely that the steak and
the chop will soon be unprocurable, therefore I can
see a murderous time coming for the cabbage and the
spring onion from the hungry vegetarians. Have you
ever seen an armed vegetarian stalking a cabbage in
the back garden at dawn? Have you ever watched
your vegetarian neighbor slaughtering asparagus
shoots in the Gurkha manner? Have you ever
watched the way he tops the spring onion
or pulls up and decapitates the carrot ? It’s horrible.
The meat-eater who goes out to kill his own steak
runs a sporting risk of being tossed over the fence.
Even an infuriated sheep has been known to butt
the man who was attempting to turn him into mutton-
chops. But who ever heard of a cauliflower at bay or
an enraged lettuce turning on the skulking vegetarian
who would assassinate it? All subscriptions for-
warded to the L.P.C.C. will be used to provide me
with beef-steak and chops, so that I may have plenty
of strength for the good work.
,** * *
“Pick”: The trap-dog has become a
recognised essential in every rabbiter’s outfit, and
the proprietor of a good dog will speak of his value
in tenners only. Any breed of tyke, with a big
enough bump of intelligence, will do; but terriers—
Ir ish for choice—make the best trap-dogs. The
fiist period of training consists of letting the student
get his feet snapped in set traps, until he becomes
wary of that unpleasantness. Then he is taught to
mark the position of every trap in the set, never
to attacK a trapped rabbit and to scent out traps
that have been dragged away. Many miles of night
searching among the sets, and the necessity of carry-
ing a hurricane-lamp, which scares the rabbits, are
obviated by the intelligence of a well-trained dog,
and traps that have been dragged long distances, or
deep into the burrows, are recovered for the detective’s
fortunate owner.
* * *
“Norseman”: Hand a bunch of thistles to
“Jobber,” who contradicted (B. 22/8/’18) a par.
- or mine about Billy Doyle’s piloting of the Bourke-
Wanaaring coach. Doyle was 33 years driving, three
years of the time on the Yantabulla line. That seems to
be the time he was afflicted with “Jobber.” I ought
to know that Billy was on the Bourke-Wanaaring run
for 30 years, because he told me so himself. And
B.lh stuck to the truth—when he thought of it.
“Barcoo’ : In recent years a creeping
plant has taken root in the Townsville (N.Q.) dis-
trict which is enormously increasing tire grazing
capacity of the poor, sour and rank coastal pasturage.
The new fodder is locally known as wild lucerne. It
has the faculty of creeping rapidly over the land-
scape and has made great progress both north and
south along the coastal areas from the port of
Townsville, whence it first moved off. Seeds have
evidently been carried 300 or 400 miles further
" es f b' r sheep from the south that have spelled on
the fodder after being unshipped, usually a couple
o: days previous to being trained inland. When
well fed down the weed covers the soil like a thick
mat, but when allowed to thrive undisturbed
amongst the taller native vegetation it climbs
a height of 20 inches. Cut then, the ‘ mix-
ture is invaluable bush hay. Even when the
plant is parched and dried up by hot winds the
coastal stock eat it greedily. The visitor has been
botanically identified as one of the vetch family,
Stylosanthes procumbens, pencil-flower, a West Indian
native.
THE SOUGHT-FOR NOTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I went up in the mountains
And I heard the mountains singing;
For the mountains have a deep note
That is ever, ever ringing—
Ringing ever, ever telling
Of a solemn beauty dwelling
In their deep, mysterious places.
But I came down from the mountains,
From their waterfalls and fountains,
And their magical cliff-faces,
And their tall trees, heaven kissing,
And their summits, old and hoary;
For in all their wonder-story
There’was something—something missing.
I went into the forest
And I listened to its singing;
For the forest has a sweet note
That is ever, ever ringing—-
Ever ringing, ever telling
Of a winsome wonder-dwelling
In its beautiful recesses.
But I came from out the forest
M ith its birds and bees that chorused,
And its plumes and leafy tresses.
Back and back my steps re-tracking
Through its green and ancient glory;
For in all its cadenced story
There was something—something missing.
I went down to the ocean
And I heard the ocean singing;
For the ocean has a great note
That is ever, ever ringing—•
Ever ringing, ever telling
Of a mighty .presence dwelling
In the vastness of its waters'.
But I came up from the ocean,
From its magic and its motion,
From its sea-kings and their - daughters,
From its turmoil and its hissing
And its headlands, cold and hoary.;
For in all its chanted story
There was something—something missing.
I went down into the city
And I listened to its singing;
For the city has a strange note
That is ever, ever ringing—-
Ever ringing, ever telling
Of a folk who have their dwelling
In a world of flux and foment;
Now in glory, now in gladness,
Now in passion, now in sadness,
Living out their little moment—
Laughing, loving, sighing, kissing,
Craving pence and craving pity;
In the heart-note of the city
There is nothing, nothing missing.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


NO extravagance can pos-
sibly secure for smokers
better or purer cigarettes than
kState Express. Made from tbe
finest tobacco possible to
obtain by tbe cleverest
Tobacco Experts in tbe World
tbey are universally recog-
nised as tbe perfection of
cigarette quality.
V)
J
CIGARETTES
were first introduced to supply dis-
criminating' smokers throughout the
world with cig'arettes manufactured
from pure tobacco leaf ONLY, and
to-day state Express are recog'nised
by connoisseurs as the standard of
all that is possible of attainment in
cigarette production.
m
Per
Packet.
STANDARD WEIGHT.
\
Obtainable of all Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
So/c Manufacturers
Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd., London, England.
ref
art,
I ..lOtneif qua/mes
22%
surj
?fS3
ir


There is Nothing Better than
HEARNE'S
Bronchitis Cure
For COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
m
SUS-
-
I
§
m
<CN
a®
/
- /■■-'-
«a :
11
c tctncncy- tniWj
%
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. W. G. HE ARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years’ experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
f If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. 6. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
' GEELONG. VICTORIA.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington. N.Z.
Always ask for
V “HEARNE’S”
size fly, but some day Hughes will be as
silent as Parkes is now. When that time
comes the ghost of Hughes will be very
grateful to Low, who has made him unforget-
table so long as the paper-covered book issued
by the N.S.W. Bookstall Co., Ltd., of Syd-
ney (at 25.): holds together. A wise pub-
lisher has priced the volume as low as
possible to ensure a wide circulation; the
equally 7 wise booklover will spend another
couple of shillings on his purchase and have
it strongly hound to ensure its preservation.
A foreword by James Edmond, pasted on the
door of the artist’s operating-theatre, ex-
plains with characteristic gaiety the
extraordinary difficulties the patient’s case
presents.
The Inky Way
“Bill Bowyang”: The war seems to have
been a boon for literary agents in London,
for their numbers have increased greatly
during the past three years. When I was
discharged from hospital in April, ’l6, I
spent two weeks amongst the paper offices
in London, and in conversation with several
editors I found that the literary agent is
not popular. The employment of these middle-
men by young writers runs away with
money," and my experience is that the results
obtained are not invariably better than one
could gain himself with a little careful
“playing up" to editors. Certainly Austral-
asian writers such as Albert Dorrington,
Boyd Cable, James Francis Dwyer and G.
B. Lancaster owe much of their success to
an energetic agent; but it was their good
fortune to strike the right sort. The young
writer in Australia does not know the right
agent, and, attracted by magazine advts.,
generally sends his MSS. to the wrong agent.
When in hospital I worked up a couple of
Anzac stories, and took them around to a
man whose advt. appears in a score of
English periodicals. After climbing three
flights of dirty, evil-smelling stairs, I found
a greasy envelope on a door which stated
that the agent was out. Judging by the
filthy appearance of his premises he must
have been out for many days. Two other
agents I visited also rented dismal attics
in by-streets, and did not appear to be doing
much business. Since then I have come to
the conclusion that the recommendation of
the majority of London literary agents is
more a handicap than a help.
“B.”: Wandering around Palestine last
week I dropped across several Inky Way-
farers. Toiling at Australian Divisional
Headquarters, just out of reach of Abdul’s
guns, I met “Gerardy,” whose contributions
to The Bulletin are considered hereabouts
the real thing in Billjim verse. “Gerardy” is
on the verge of sending to an Australian pub-
lisher a collection of verse, entitled “On the
Way to Palestine.” There having been
several deaths from snakebite in the Jordan
Valley, I caught Ben Price, late artist on
Brisbane Truth, searching the reeds along
the banks of a creek for the venomous rep-
tiles, which are mostly cobra, viper and asp.
(Don’t know what he wanted them for —
they're rotten company). “Trooper Blue-
gum,” just returned from a hot corner in
the firing-line, was packing his kitbag be-
fore leaving for a course of instruction at
Zeitoun. Otho Hewitt, the South Aus.
artist, was busily engaged in working up a
concert for the civilians of Bethlehem ; and
Hodda, of Sydney Sunday Times, was
riding around the Holy Land and pushing
the sale of Billjim's official rag, The Kia
Ora Coo-ee.
"Country Bed”: Archibald T. Strong,
M.A.. is no time-waster. Besides attending
to his job of Acting-Professor of English at
Melbourne University, he writes weekly
articles for the Melbourne Herald, recently
published his fourth book of poems, and
helps to censor the wicked picture-plays.
The latest news of its activities comes from
the Victorian Education Gazette, which
avers that Strong is the author of “The
Story of the Anzacs.”
From London
June 24 was “Black Monday” in the London news-
paper world—the appointed date for the coming into
force of the drastic new order of the Paper Con-
troller, under which no newspapers or magazines
are allowed to be supplied to shops, stalls or agents
“on sale or return.” Everybody who wants a paper
or magazine must order it in advance from his agent.
A large number of the newsagents are recouping
themselves to some extent for their losses through
the abolition of casual ready-money sales over the
counter by charging a fee of a penny for delivering
to their regular customers. The railway-station
bookstalls, hitherto crowded with piles of dailies,
weeklies and monthlies, present a woebegone and
derelict aspect, with nothing to offer the traveller
and holiday tourist but small heaps of cheap, paper-
covered novels. Although the operation of the
order had been extensively announced beforehand,
thousands of people were taken by surprise, and
snorted when they could not buy their favorite
paper as usual. Newsagents were laboriously explain-
ing all day that the severe shortage in the supplies
had compelled the authorities to issue a decree
that no printer or publisher might issue, under
heavy penalties, more copies than had actually
been ordered. One immediate result of the revolu-
tion was the rushing of the newspaper rooms of the
big public libraries.
No. 1 of the Australian Farmer, a Mel-
bourne monthly publication, profusely illus-
trated with photos of sheei), pigs, men and
other subjects, gives no assurance that it has
come to stay. But its introductory speech
strikes the right note :
The fact that we are in a state of war, the end
of which is not yet. in sight, may at first appear a
reason why the issuing of this paper might wisely
and prudently have been postponed. Our answer
is that the war itself, even were there no other
reason, amply justifies a serious effort, not only to
increase and stimulate the primary productions of
to-day, but also to help blaze a track for the
scientific and progressive utilisation of the great
natural resources of this country, many of which
have not so far been so much as touched.... Our
obligations in regard to war debts can only be met
by a tremendous increase in primary production,
whether it be for the sale of our outputs abroad, or
for their increased use within the Commonwealth in
substitution for goods at present imported.
“A.”: It was when editor Lang, son of the
late Rev. John Dunmore Lang, was wielding
his facile pen on the Gulgong paper in the
days when Gulgong boasted of 69 hotels, and
every miner was on payable dirt, that the
trouble commenced. We had a staff of
half a dozen, with a couple of “devils,”
but the type cases had a mysterious habit of
having been looted about twice a week. The
boss couldn’t make it out; quads were always
missing, and the pica nvs and w’s about Mon-
day were invariably short. A watch was
set, but the thief could not be located. Then
it happened all at once. Lang had written
a stirring column, and it reposed on the
stone till about an hour before going to
press. It was almost the last thing marked
to go into the forme, but when the foreman
went to lift it in it was absent. Couldn’t
be found anywhere. Lang had no time to
re-write it; and we went to the old Albion
press without it. Lang never got over it
till he put the third degree on one of his
devils, who owned up to pinching it to make
bullets for shooting kangaroos. He said
he fired the whole leading article and two
funeral notices into five kangas on Sunday,
and if Mr. Lang would let him off this time
he would give him the skins. The kid got
a job at a sluicing plant the next day, and
things ran smoothly after that.
HER FAVORITE POET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ann read her Strephon’s poems rare,
She knew a score of them by heart.
A spinster lone was she, her hair
Was showing thin and grey in part.
The streams of love and longing he
Poured out to pay the baker’s fee
She thought deep wells of poesy.
She met him at a sat
Beside him all a splendid night.
His dreams were things to wonder at,
11 is eyes were torches giving light,
And timidly she asked him there
If he some afternoon would care
To call and drink his tea with her?
He came at night. The hour was late,
And curious were the words he said.
Upon his dexter shoulder sate
A staring lobster large and red,
And in his arms, held careless-wise,
Some fried fish, and, without disguise,
A mangled pack of mutton-pies.
Then, seated in her parlor small
He raved of Babylon and Thrace,
The Queen of Sheba, and of all
Those ladies still in dire disgrace;
Of her who shore the mighty man,
And Cleopatra. Of the clan
He swore not one was fair as Ann.
He praised her eyes in couplets neat,
And strewed with phrases fine and high
His votive fish about her feet,
And crowned her with a mutton-pie.
Then suddenly he spoke no more,
But, curled upon the parlor floor,
He shook the cottage with his snore.
She left him sleeping on the rug,
And when she sought the darkened room
Once more (supported by her pug)
The lobster burning in the gloom
Blinked dreadful phosphorescent eyes.
The poet raised pathetic cries
For lost Lenore, but would not rise.
Poor Anil, while weeping all the night,
Saw ruin coming with the day.
Her terror grew, but ere the light
She stripped the room where Strephon lay,
And ran for man and van and horse —
Her poet would not yield to force,
/ So she must take the drastic course.
An empty house in till the noon,
Amid the wreck of battered cod,
And mutton-pies in ruins strewn,
By one rank lobster smc-lling odd,
The poet lingered, sore dismayed—
Conceiving not, I’m much afraid,
To what strange shift he’d put a maid.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
A Satchel of Books
A Self-supporting Empire, by Edward Saunders, is
a good though rather condensed addition to the
story of the war. It doesn’t deal with the clang
of battle —in fact it doesn’t clang at all, but treats
of the business aspects of the case. The writer
shows how easy, optimistic cosmopolitan J. Bull
woke up one morning to find that he was in holts
with a great enemy who had almost monopolised
quite a number of essential industries or materials—
dyes, zinc, nickel, antimony, benzole (used in mak-
ing high explosives), magnetos, search-light carbons
and a long list more. In fact the Hun had every
industry that was necessary to support a nation
that was isolated by war from outside supplies,
the only trouble being lack of space to grow the
raw materials and lack of hands, after the army
services were filled up, to produce them. On the
other hand, J. Bull, having the importing habit and
being accustomed to a purely commercial outlook,
found that, despite his extensive manufactures, there
were a lot of things that he didn’t make —articles
that he was accustomed to buy from the Hun, and
without which he couldn’t shoot the Hun as he
deserved. And the large Bull dependencies, especi-
ally Australia, were even worse off. Mr. Saunders
tells of the red-hot haste with which scores of
industries were established, the encouragement of
agriculture, the State purchase of the wheat crops,
the raising of agricultural laborers’ wages, the
building of ships at a rate hitherto undreamed of,
the supply of motors to fishing boats, so that the
prawn might be hastened to market —in fact, the
eager doing of very many new things at once, not
with money borrowed outside, but with the country’s
own money, while it spared a bit of cash for its
smaller allies. And along with this the writer
deals with arrangements that are being made to
meet post-war conditions including tariffs and pre-
ferential treaty arrangements—in fact, he reckons that
England has no time for the theory that post-war
problems should be left to the thirteenth hour. The
volume contains more impressions than statistics,
but it has a distinct value. (Nisbet and Co., Lon-
don, publishers.)
Royal Auction Bridge Summarised, by “Pachabo,”
is a handv little book and very useful —or as least
it looks that way—to people who play royal auction
bridge. Anybody who has something to say about
bridge is well-advised to say it now, for the game
will have its day and then bridge literature will be
unsaleable. Nobody brings out a new edition of
Hoyle, on whist, nowadays—at least not to this
paper’s knowledge. [Published by J. L. Anderson
and Sons, Queen-street, Melbourne. Our copy from
Melville and Mullen.]
Business, Bobbery, etc
The Fisheries Commission in Melbourne
learned something interesting from Mat-
tingley, C.M.Z.S., the other day. Talking of
enormous supplies of pilchards available in
Bass Straits, the , witness mentioned that
when a co. tried canning the fish for export
the project was damned by the Australian
label. The co. averted the loss by recanning
the fish and labelling them as herrings m
tomato-sauce. What is of concern in this
story is not the fact that Europe had
no market, or no large buyers, for Aus-
tralian pilchards in the can. but that Aus-
tralia doesn’t seem to be getting the benefit
of those enormous snuolies of the fish avail-
able in Bass Straits. There’s no prejudice
against the local label as far as this country
is concerned. The trouble is that enormous
opportunities for feeding us with tinned fish
at a reasonable price are neglected. If the
co. that Mr. Mattingley spoke of could sell
all its pilchards as herrings in tomato-sauce
after vainly trying to export them as pil-
chards, why not repeat the .performance on
a larger and perpetual scale without the
expense of a second canning?
* * * *
“G.A.”: What sets me spinning is the
asininity of Australian manufacturers in
selecting brands for their goods. They label
their products with such names as Mikado,
Camel, Arab, Bulgar or any other imported
thing rather than adopt a brand which sug-
gests Australia. At the Clothing Commis-
sion recently held in Adelaide the clothing-
factory manager of one of our leading ware-
houses gave evidence to the effect that Eng-
lish woollens had advanced 200 per cent, and
Australian 80 per cent.; that Australian
tweeds were better than the English, and
that the prejudice against the former was
rapidly wearing off. In reply to the ques-
tion, “What is your brand?” he replied “Ele-
phant.” “Why is that?” asked Commissioner
Lockyer. “‘Elephant’ is not Australian?”
“Oh, it’s our old brand, so we stick to it."
Then the Commissioner spoke words of wisdom
about the many local manufacturers who are
using brands not typical of Commonwealth
products. He said that he admired the
Americans in this regard—they would not,
for instance, dream of putting a kangaroo on
their products. But then the Americans are
not cursed with the importing disease.
* * * *
Defence Minister Pearce cannot be blamed
for starting to manufacture wooden legs with
excessive rapidity. He went into the busi-
ness with solemn deliberation —and though
the frequent baulk and long delay looked
something in the way of a scandal and was
frequently spoken of as such by medical
men, it can at any rate be claimed that the
business is now being carried on in _ a
thorough sort of way. It is an expensive
business, but the end justifies the beans. Foi
a considerable time the Australian soldier who
lost, a leg was fitted with a substitute in
England before being returned. It was a
ready-to-wear implement, heavy and usually
ill-fitting. Inevitably it fitted worse than
ever by the time it reached Australia, and
then became an instrument of torture as
well as an object of ridicule to the owner.
The style of leg now being made at Mel-
bourne and Sydney appears to be much better
in quality and vastly more adaptable as a
limb. Moreover, each leg can be made to
measure, so to speak, and fitted to the pro-
prietor. The patent is of American origin
and the owner thereof is directing the work
of manufacture, carried on by men who them-
selves have lost one or more legs. Hitherto
the timber used —willow —has been imported
from the U.S.A., but the Department has an
inflexible resolution to use Tasmanian wood
later on, a circumstance that will relieve the
maimed Australian from something in the
nature of a grievance. Anyhow, losing a
leg in a foreign country and getting another
made of imported material is certainly open
to mild objection. Men who have been fitted
with the locally-made leg consider themselves
lucky—far more lucky, anyway, than the
man who has to wear a substitute arm. The
arithmetic relating to the demand for legs
is not easily available, but 40 legs a _ month
can be made in Sydney, and it is said that
the immediate demand will be satisfied m
another couple of months. But the mdustrj
is going to stay. After a couple of years a
legless man has to be fitted again. The lna
of a leg is not more than five years. And
there are many more men to come home.
THE POODLE WOOLLERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“In England the dear duchess and the othi
who can afford to keep dogs are endeavoring t
excuse Ponto’s existence by shearing him and con
verting his wool into garments for humans. The;\
is a society for commercial use of poodle wool."
B„ 29/8/GS.
The duchess’s poodle was fast losing flesh,
The pet never rose from its couch looking fresh,
For its rations were scant.
It was feeling the want
Of its pre-war menu, and its coat was a mesh
Of hair all uncombed, and uncurled and ungreased,
Since the public at large had turned dog on the
beast.
The poodle was Gallic, but even its birth
Made little appeal to the people whose girth
Had decreased since' their food
Was “controlled.” Their war mood
Made them eager to wipe all pet dogs off the earth ;
And when Ponto the duchess took out for a drive,
They looked as if they could just eat him alive.
Then the duke (once in trade) had the happiest
thought,
Said he to his spouse, “Clip the darling’s Hair short!
We’ll do biz; with his coat.
I’ll a company float,
And I think we can count on the public support:
I predict ere a week’s out the lists will be lull.
There’s a gold-mine, old Hutch, in the new poodle
wool.”
And, as the duke prophesied, ’twas even so,
The crowd rushed for shares in the Poodle Wool Co.
And the clothing, they say,
In Great Britain to-day,
Manufactured from dogs’ hair hast-quite come to stay.
And the duchess’s poodles—she fcrtp6*»ow a score
Are all fat once again and all pampered the more.
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


-
g*£j§§
?*sg
J
'>K<-§Ff3S'’
/ \
3»il
S:”fiS
■ i
MV'
ife "«»
K
HR
mcv?m ■ ■
L i-*-.
wmxmm
SilS
**«L S
Km
L
2\
..- ■■■
—v
M *
smlM*
i
»SWI
W
•V.-
#W?
....;-- : 'V : . .
£
A
■
mm
mam
wSme
|!i; a
W#*
ior Summer
INSTALL a G. E. FAN for the Summer heat. Economical, durable and inexpensive.
They constitute an ideal comfort for the trying conditions of the oppressive atmosphere
of our office, home, restaurant or club, etc., etc.
The G. E. way is the easiest way. Write us for particulars.
A
£9
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, C? OP QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS.
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH <W.A.) r Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun &„Johnstone, IQO Currie Street.
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND :.The National Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA; Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs,
Oliver* & Oliver, MacOuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders* Artistic Diamond Jewellery.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £5.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold pure double-cut
diamond-set patent Expanding Wristlet Watch, full
jewelled, lever movement, £l3/10/*. Larger dia-
monds, £l5, £l7/10/-, £2O, £25, guaranteed.
Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Brooch,
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut Dia-
mond Circle
Brooch 15ct. Gold,
£6/10/-.
fg
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut
Diamond Cluster
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£6/10/-
A. faaunaers’
Circle Brooch with
eight Pure Double-
cut Diamonds,
15ct. Gold,
£6/10/-
'<■ •
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond single stone
Bracelet 15ct. Gold, £37/10/-
A. Saunders’ Fure
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lOO.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £3O.
Smaller Diamonds,
£2O.
m
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
ISct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut
Diamond cluster
Ear-rings, 15ct.
Gold, £25.
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut
Diamond Necklet,
15ct. Gold, £5O.
A. Saunders' Pure
Double-cut
Diamond Trefoil
Crossover Ring,
18et. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure
Double-cut
Diamond Ear-rinsrs,
loct. Gold, £3O.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Cluster Brace-
let, 15ct. Gold, £35-
A. Saunders' Pure
Double-cut
Diamond Ring,
18ct. Gold, £5O.
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Pure
Double-cut
Diamond Rincr.
lSet. Gold, £CS.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Cluster
Brooch, £lO. Larger diamonds, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Links,
set Pure Double-cut Diamond,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-
cut Diamond and Opal
Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£lO/10/-. Larger dia-
monds, £l7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold pure double-cut
diamond-set Expanding Watch Wristlet full jewelled,
lever movement, £3O.
Larger diamonds, £35, £45, £5O, guaranteed.
A. SAUNDER
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Cluster
Broocn, lbcc. Goto, £2,0, £BO, £iSo, accord-
ing to size of diamonds.
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-out Dia-
mond Orescent Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£2>o.
Larger Diamonds, £3O, £4O, £5O.
A. Saunders' 15ct. Gold
Links, set Pure Double-
cut Diamond, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-, £5/10/-
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE. STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OP NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 23 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
QtJ.Collis Brounds
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in tlie Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CIIAUM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, I/S, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium icin without
lifting a hand?
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OB OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(191/7 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
post free:
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
~[c'.L Flanders (a rare hook by Defoe), 1/3,
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana. 21- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Kiddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2s. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 1/9. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/9. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 2/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/9. How to Train for
All Sports, 2/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught. 1/6. How. to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 1/9. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/9. Man from Snowy River,
i/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
Self Instructor': Every Man His Own School-
master, 2/- posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 2/-. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. -How McDougall
Topted the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron. and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
AH These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON'T BE FOOLED
INTO PAYING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
sat Gordon’s Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key t'o All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 1/-, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/9 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/9. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors. 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, If- posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses, 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/- posted. Damaged
Goods, 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, ft g ft Market Street, Sydney (onlyi.
pr* BOOKSELLER TO THE COM MON WEALTH.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME
At the War
is?
..
m
m
VS
:
II
- ■■ •■■-L. :
m
1
i* KM
aas
wsgst&s&m
Vyr--./:
m
Ba* m
////
$
m
-Jt\i't ;
SOffe-V
/r
* • .-
■■:
:< V
1
; Ks
I®
1 ■!■•'•■■■■.
; 2 i
m
m
• -
r
lUs
v ' :;
H
n.'
•. h
w
i ?;
22
ftZi
2
if?*
-'±^v ;
3k
?smm
sms
I
r
/
S3*? •
>» :
n
Setti
.
-2. -:" ' $
.r*-
WSKtJ?
m
•m
V"
l
\
*
'm§
c
c
» 2>
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Spots the U-boat
From the blue.
Straight he writes
And drops a scroll
To the motor-
Boat patrol:
“U-boat cruising
Surface now;
“Eight miles distant-
Starboard bow.
“Fleet converging;
Follow me.”
Thai's how “COBRA
Cleans the sea.


An Edison AMBEROLA
is the instrument
for YOU.
The “Amberola” makes
the home a home in-
deed—the quality of the
entertainment afforded
by the playing of Blue
Amberol Records is n.ot
to be excelled any-
where.
The “Amberola” 7'>
combines elegant appear-
ance with perfect play-
ing. In either Golden
Oak or Mahogany finish
is splendid value at the
price, £27/10/-
fg
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for demon-
stration or write for illustrated catalog, post
free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale Only),
3G4-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
BOSTOCK’S—the Sign of a Good Shine
THE SIGN OF
A GOOD SHINE
The present being times for the practise of economy, no better preservative of
leather can be recommended than
Bostock’s
This well-known Shoe Polish possesses all the qualities for enhancing the wear of
footwear, keeping the leather soft, pliable and brilliant. Shoes regularly cleaned
with Bostock’s give added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
ZINC
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
fg
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
[} h as;
BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
What is Neurasthenia?
Neurasthenia is the medical term applied
to the condition of nervous exhaustion, that
is very common in modern life. The patient
does not appear to have any definite disease,
hut becomes incapable of sustained exertion.
Sometimes the sufferer is subject to hysteria.
If the patient can get away to the country or
seaside and forget all cares and worry it
will help greatly towards a cure. It will
also be necessary to take a reliable tonic —
such a one as I)r. Williams’ Pink Tills for
instance. These pills stimulate the appe-
tite and assist in the nutrition of the nerve
cells. As the nerves get their nourishment
from the blood the treatment must be
directed towards building up the blood. Dr.
\\ illia ms' Pink Pills act directly on the
blood, and with proper regulation of the
diet have proved of the greatest benefit in
many cases of neurasthenia. A tendency to
anaemia, or bloodlessness, shown by most
neurasthenic patients, is also corrected by
these tonic pills. Your own dealer sells
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
“Diseases of the Blood” is a booklet full
of useful information. So is the pamphlet
on “Nervous Diseases.”. Thev are sent free
on request by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co.. Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
After reading, will von please send this paper to
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Depot.
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Red Cross
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are posted
vvpeklv to our soldiers abroad.
The Standard Remedy which ha 9 outlived the CenturTei
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since ISflfi. CURES Write for Bonfc
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S* GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
CAPILLARINE
fg
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
It has been before the public for years, and is
daily proving its efficacy and genuineness as
a true moustache-grower. The military
“swear” by it.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
POVERTY
POINT
CHARLIE
CHAPLIN'S
MILLION
DOLLAR
COMEDIES
SURES
FATURES
One of the best things the late Jim White
did in sculpture was his bust of Harry Rick-
ards, executed to the order of the widow from
photographs of the deceased showman. Un-
fortunately Mrs. Rickards insisted on having
the bust a third, or more, larger than life-
size, so a really convincing likeness was out
of the question. But in spite of its heroic
proportions the marble exaggeration of the
late ’Arry looks very like the original as he
always tried to look rvhen standing for his
photo. It glorifies him, to be sure; but, tlien,
no portrait of Rickards would be characteris-
tic if it didn’t present him as glorifying him-
self. And nobody thought any the less of
him for being so ardent an admirer of Rick-
ards in such a frank and open way.
“L.L.W.”: “Irala” sn.vs (B. 1/S/T8)
“The Man Who Came
Back," at Sydney
Criterion.
Arthur Sty an as
Thomas Potter.
“forty-eight hours
should be the limit
of a drama’s term.
If a playwright
cannot confine his
stories within these
hours he does not
know his business.”
Ask him, please, to
look up Tschekoff’s
“Three Sisters,”
which has been
staged successfully
in half a dozen
countries besides
Russia. In that
gloomy masterpiece
the action is
spread over at
least five years.
Nothing happens,
except in the
fourth act. where
a man is shot off-
stage. It is a
tragedy of inaction
—yet the unities
are preserved and
(what is more im-
portant) the inter-
est is gripped from
the moment the
rag rises. Procurable at the Sydney Munici-
pal Library.
The story of the Burke and Wills expedi-
tion, which ‘the Taits are filming at Mel-
bourne Auditorium this week, doesn’t include
a truly pathetic incident related in The
Bulletin some 30 years ago. Burke, among
his other weaknesses, had an infatuation for
Julia Matthews, the then famous comic-
opera artist who was booming at the old
Opera House. Having got an introduction
on the strength of his notoriety as the com-
ing explorer, poor hot-headed Burke reckoned
himself the lady’s most esteemed adorer. The
idea that he was one juggins among many
never dawned on him. He thought of his
coining departure as a tragedy in both their
lives, and the night before the expedition was
to start lie went round to the theatre, expect-
ing to bid the actress a solemn farewell in
her dressing-room. The presence of another
jolmnie or two there pained the love-sick
soul of Burke, so he gazed woefully at his
goddess and protested that he hadn’t come to
cast a gloom over her stage triumphs, and
would tear himself away after shaking her
hand. “There is nothing I can do for you
before I go?” he asked in a husky voice. In
a gay and casual manner Julia replied that
she couldn’t think of anything for him to do.
“Then good-bye, and God bless you !” mur-
mured the earnest adorer as he turned to
leave the room. Just as he was closing the
door Julia called him back. She had thought
of something. “You might tell them to send
round three dozen oysters from the little
shop round the corner,” cried the jaunty
heroine. And even that didn’t cure him.
Burke is supposed to have feasted on his
recollections of Julia Matthews when he had
no other food left.
“Yarra Ben”: Someone the other week
remarked in “Poverty Point” that the title
of a theatrical production didn’t matter a row
of pins, or words to that effect. Writers for
the stage seem to have made up their minds,
anyhow, that the name of the show isn’t
worth wasting a thought, or, at the most,
two thoughts, over. Just now the Mel-
bourne poster announcements of the pieces at
the leading theatres provide some striking
examples of the non-inventiveness of authors
in this respect. There’s “Oh, Boy!”; then
“Oh, Oh, Delphine!”; and, finally, “Honi
Soit,” which latter should, by all the rules
of the game, have been christened “Oh, Oh,
Lupino!” I suggest that all plays in future
be staged without titles, the name of each
to be selected from the explosive exclamations
heard amongst the first-night audience. Who
knows but what such ejaculations might not
provide the aptest labels for the goods.
“Hilary Lofting” muses :
John Millington Synge spent half the year in
Paris in a vain attempt to make inspired transla-
tions" and critiques of French verse. This went on
year after year until W. B. Yeats protested in Dublin
that Synge would never know or be able to express
half of what Arthur Symons had already said and
forgotten. Synge sighed ; and told them more stories
of the Arran Islands and the beating, greedy Atlantic,
the wandering tinkers —the fineness of the peasant
speech and mind, the rain and the hunger. And George
Moore says that Yeats advised Synge for the hun-
dredth hysterical time to go back to his islands and
tinkers and write it—write it—write it. “The
Tinker’s Wedding” and “The Shadow of the Glen”
were written while Synge was padding along the
lanes with a wandering tinker and his “wife” : the
great “Playboy of the Western World” while Synge
was lying ill with only a thin wooden partition
between him and the “room” of a Galway cabin ; the
inspired miraculous “Riders to the Sea” in Synge’s
own Arran Islands. He says that nearly all the lines
in the Playboy, purple patches and straight stuff, he
heard direct from the lips of some dweller or visitor
in the room beyond. I can believe it; I know his
beloved peasants. No other peasant in the world thinks
like him or dreams in such grotesque reality. No other
tiller of the soil has lived with his fine mind
through centuries in tears, or died with the same fine
mind in laughter. Yeats and Lady Gregory produced
the plays at the Molesworth Hall, and later at the
Abbey Theatre. Dublin went to the show; London
went in turn; and New York. Sinclair, their heavy
lead, told me that they were to come here, but the
war stopped them. The players are Irish peasants
and artisans under the direction of Yeats and Lady
Gregory. On my first visit to the Playboy in
London, Shawn Keogh (practically second lead) was
played by the electrician to the company. Pegeen
was played bv Sara Allgood, since fallen from grace
to “Peg o’ My Heart” level. Yeats is a great man ;
Lady Gregory has unearthed Irish folk-lore of in-
estimable value; “A.E.,” George Moore, St. John
Ervine, James Stephens—all these in their separate
literary ways fill high places—very high places. But
in Irish Renaissance they all really follow Synge, who
spoke with the tongues of his wandering tinkers and
old hungry mothers of riders to the sea. Svnge lit
the torch and died; Yeats and his people carry it on ■
for him. Canon Hannay’s “General John Regan” and
kindred wooden works are not Irish Renaissance —on
the contrary. That “farce” was stoned off the
Dublin stage long before it came gathering shekels
in Sydney, and was let dewn lightly at that.
“Private Boxer” : Said Guy Bates Post in
his last-night speech in Sydney: “And if we
come back —but then, there is no ‘if about
it.” So we may look for the return of this
interesting mummer in the near future. Post
seemingly is anxious to show us his “Omar,
the Tentmaker,” and (naturally and of
course) “Hamlet.” His “Hamlet” should be
well worth watching.
“Peter” : Brinsley Shaw, who tries to ex-
plain the corpse for the benefit of all assem-
bled in “The Thirteenth Chair,” ought to
leave the stage and start writing plays. • lie
is alleged to be a kinsman of the only G.B.S.
He is also a descendant of the famous Irish-
man and wit, Richard Sheridan, from whom
he has borrowed his name of Brinsleys. Curi-
ously enough, the American actor is akin to
G. B. Shaw in his intellectual He
IN THE TRADE.
THE COMEDIENNE : “ What makes you think
you would be a good political press-
agent? You don’t know anything about
politics.”
THE OTHER: “No, my dear; but I’ve been
renting up comedy shows long enough.”
is fond of economics, sanitation, alienism and
similar arid subjects, and when he wants
some light reading he turns to Krafft-Ebbing
and Havelock Ellis.
Alexander Watson, although stronger in
physique and voice than when he started his
present tour, had to plead guilty to “nerves”
when he tackled Francis Thompson’s “The
Hound of Heaven,” at Melbourne Athenaeum
Hall the other night. He was to recite the
poem for the first time, and before he had
delivered many lines of the unfamiliar piece
he was “stuck.” Somebody in the audience
prompted him and he got going again, but
only for half a minute. A further prompt-
ing had a like result, and eventually the
monologuist abandoned his trying task and
went on with a number of items that came
trippingly to his tongue. Watson’s explana-
tion of his break-down was interesting. He
had memorised all the lines of the long and
difficult poem, but the effort of repeating
them with the exact intonations he had in
mind was too great a strain upon his nerves.
He knew the poem well enough to recite it
to himself, but not well enough to interpret
it to an audience in the way he intended.
Even the long-practised memory of the
veteran artist is governed by his nerves, and
a new study is likely to keep on getting him
down until frequent repetition of the lines
has given him confidence. The remarkable
thing about Watson is that he has been
subject all his platform life to complete
'break-downs, necessitating the dismissal, of
the audience with an apology.
“75” : After bad luck with novelist Robert
Hitchens’s “Press the Button” (a mechani-
cal farce which had to be taken off in a
hurry, before there was another production
ready), Marie Lohr seems to have backed
a winner in “Nurse Benson.” This comedy,
concocted by R. C. Carton and Justin
McCarthy, has been put on by Marie at the
Globe (of which playhouse she has an
extended lease), and has received the glad
hand both from those who are paid to write
of plays and those who pay to see them.
Robert. Kennedy, of the one-time well-
■ n< l'y n Kenne dy family of musicians, died
in Melbourne last week. He was, presum-
ably, the eldest son of the Robert Kennedy
who founded the travelling entertainment
in the long ago. One of this Robert’s sons
was killed in the war. and another is serving
with the A.I.F.
“Stargazer”: One night during Oscar
Asche’s last season at Melbourne Royal,
when the Moor of Venice had
entered to the slaying of his
llesdemona, half kneeling by
the connubial couch, moralising,
he was disgusted to find a small,
brindled Tom kitten thrusting
its nose from under the bed,
and meowing a plaintive protest.
On the impulse he seized the
young of the cat, and hastily
stuffed it somewhere in his
clothes and went on with his
lines. The Tom kitten however,
struggling desperately in Othel-
lo’s breast, blindly seeking an
exit, put up a penetrating yowl,
and, clasping it with one hand,
the colored gentleman of Morocco
spouted with exceeding vehe-
mence. It was he and the cat for
it. Othello’s reputation was at
stake, the cat was fighting for
life. In the smothering moments
Othello had to let go the cat,
and get down to the choking of
Desdemona. It was the quick-
est choking bout on record, but
in that moment the kitten got
hopelessly astray in the wid-
ower’s loose habiliments, and
went prowling all round the
bereaved foreigner’s undershirt,
meowing in an agony of appre-
hension. Presently when the
distraught Moor cried : “I took
by the throat the circumcised
dog and smote him thus!” a
young cat fell out of the back
of his tunic, and, hanging to the
hinder parts of what passes for
trousers in the robing of the
Moor, pat up a heart-rending yowl. Tha
night Othello died refreshed for once by the
happy laughter of a full house.
“Fax : I sit corrected by “Ancient
1 rompter” re the authorship of “The Dicta-
tor.” Not Justin McCarthy, hut Richard
Harding Davis, was the author. Moreover
he wrote the screamingly funny comedy ex-
pressly for Willie Collier. Confusing one
brilliant journalist with another in my mind.
I overlooked the fact that only an American,
with an intimate knowledge of the humors
of revolutionary intrigue in the petty South
American republics, could have written “The
Dictator.” Collier, in the second act, bought
over the local troops from the new President
by promising them twopence a day increase
in wages, and when the sound of rifle-fire
was heard in the third act, the comedian
gravely looked at his watch and said, “Gee!
my revolution—to the miinutc.” Truly, a
good joke is a joy for ever.
THE HORROR OF IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pros, were strolling home again.
’they had been playing lately
A season back of Teddy’s Plain.
In twenty days with bitter pain
The frost had bitten
Bing and Brittain.
Most grateful but sedately
They faced towards the city’s roar
And its cool public bars once more.
They looked ahead with wistful eyes,
And bravely tramped the long way. down
For they were bound to Sydney town
By fifty miles of railway tyes.
One day old colleagues gathered near
In sympathetic humor.
They passed around the votive beer.
Said King': “We all began to fear
That you were faring
Past all bearing.
There was an ugly rumor
That often in your sore defeat
You didn’t get enough to eat.”
“To eatt” wailed Bing. “What do you think?
I tell you there were whole days, men,
In that wet, weary season, when
We didn’t get enough to drink 1”
VICTORIA.
S. SNELL.


*
m
: ft
>. jaw
/"I
i
■
11
''. <<.
m
.
-r?^-
/CL£
™ AOnE OP
llli mi
: , H
_
CLASS RUBBER CQ LTD
F'OUIViDKIFtS CMF THE RUBBJER lIMOUJSTH'V IN AUSTRALASf-A.
MANUFACTURERS OF EVERY D OF
CYCLE S3* VEHICLE TYRES. GARDEN HO SC ENGINE PACKING; JOgglNG
BELTING AND ALL DOMESTIC AND MECHANICAL RUBBER GOODS-
SYDNEY PERTH
MELBOURNE LAUNCESTON
ADELAIDE- HOBART-
BRISBANE ; CHRISTCHURCH,N.E.
f]
ml
m m
v- . :
r „
£n HOS^
55/NPROOFS
B£r HttVs


uP'*
ifimJicfftJU,
C&A£BH,&
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSED, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY ba SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sola
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
CHARM OF MANNER
may be enhanced by beauty of the face. A
touch of SWAN DOWN gives just that
delicacy and purity to the complexion which,'
being scarcely perceptible, is admired the more.
TETLOW’S
FACE POWDER
Imparts a delicate bloom to
tRe complexion. So 'Pare that
it-willnot Harm the most
delicate SRin.
E«ISH , TL D p! , t
PRICE # 2 box
®as
VliMI
In Five Tints:
White.Cream.Pink.
Flesh and Brunette.
OFStores. Chemists
First Class Drapery Houses'
& Perfumers everywhere.
Wholesale Distributing A^ente-
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., LTD., ■
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON 11. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Svdney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydnev.
THE AUSTRALIAN ' DRUG CO., .
Sydney.
LONDON WHOLESALE AGENTS:-
Henry C. Quelch & Co. 4 fit 5, Ludeate Sq„ London. E.C.
Sydney’s Hotel do Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
This beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, being- RIGHT ON THE HARBOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Pine New Bedrooms have just
been erected, built over the water,
every room looking- out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including- Theatre
Boat, to and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry' Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Tels.: YlO3l. MOSMAN, N.S.W.
YI9G2.
\
i m
V
7/' JP>
h
O
m
If you smoke
for pleasure
buy a
(GBD)
otherwise
any old thing
will do
N A UC H depends, when you begin pipe-
aVl smoking, upon the quality of pipe
you select. A bad pipe, and you’re
prejudiced against pipe-smoking for all
time ; a good pipe, and you 11 never favor
anything else.
Start right by choosing a
the
Many Popular Shapes. Ask for G.B.D.
1
perfect pipe!
The O.C.S. Automatic Weighing Machine
FOR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS. NO POWER REQUIRED.
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of—
Boiler Flour Mill
Machinery
Oatmeal Mill Machinery
Brewers’ and Malsters’
Machinery
Superphospha t e
Machinery
Elevators of various
designs
Apron Conveyors.
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Mixers
Flour and Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-filling Machines
for Piccalilli, etc.
Slxe F 4.
Farmer s’ Grain
Cleaners
Link Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding and
Dressing Plants tor
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Faint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Mills
Malt Boiler Mills
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd.,
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. [1
Do Yourself a Good Turn.
Do you want good security for your money? The 7th
Commonwealth War Loan offers it.
The security is the whole of Australia. Is that not
enough? j-
Do you care to have your money invested in a sound
business concern? Is not that great partnership of free
men, the Commonwealth of Australia, good enough for
you ? I
To Help Your Cotmtry i$ to Help Yourself
The War Loan gives 5 per cent., and the Banks will make
advances at 4 per cent. Small sums may be put into
War Savings Certificates.
Full information at Banks and Post Offices.
Commonwealth Treasury,
19th September, 1918.
W. A. WATT.
Treasurer.
Vale of Clwydd Coal and Brick Co.,
late the Vale of Clwydd Coal Mining Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1911.. £2775 10 p.c. = £2250 £525 £10,443
June, 1912.. 2658 10 „ ~ 2250 408 10,851
Dec., 1912.. 3511 10 „ ~ 2250 1261 12,112
June, 1913.. 6364 10 „ „ 3000 3364 15,476
Assets written up and £15,000 capitalised.
Dee., 1913.. 6429 10 p.c. = 3000 3429 18,905
June, 1914.. 6316 10 „ „ 3000 3316 22,221
Cash Bonus from special profits, £7500.
Dec., 1914.. 4414 10 p.c. = 3000 1414 23,635
June, 1915.. 3396 10 ~ ~ 3000 396 24,031
Bonus, 12| ~ ~ 7500 ( ~
Dropped out of Reserves. £1747 j
Dec., 1915.. -2858 10 p.c. = 3000 14,642
June, 1916.. 2917 10 „ „ 3000 14,559
Written off renewals reserve, £1570 12,989
Dec., 1910.. 2634 10 p.c. = 3000 12,623
June, 1917.. 2955 10 ~ „ 3000 12,578
Dee., 1917.. 2905 10 „ „ 3000 12,483
Written off renewals reserve, £303 12,180
June, 1918.. 2978 10 p.c. = 3000 -- 12,158
Profits are not so handsome as they used to
be, and from the above figures it would seem
that for the past three years the 10 p.e. divi-
dend has actually not been earned. Another
view is obtained from a comparison of the
balance-sheet figures:—
June,’l2. June,’l7. Dec.,’l7. June,’lB.
i Liquid assets. . £21,592 £21,309 £21,786 £22,287
Liabilities .. 4,667 6,434 4,307 5,199
Surplus ..£16,925 £14,875 £17,479 £17,088
During the past year, though a net profit of
only £5BBB has been shown and £6OOO has
been distributed in dividends, the cash posi-
tion has improved by £2213; and, besides,
there have been additions to plant. Mean-
time the book value of the eo.’s properties
has been reduced from £37,451 a year ago to
£35,201 at June 30. Exactly how much is
written off the book value of the mine and
other wasting assets is not shown, but the
Vale of Clwydd Board has iu the past been
more liberal than most in its writ-
ing down. Some years ago the eo. went in
for brick-making as a side-line, and put some-
thing over £12,500 into works. But lately
the profits taken into the general balance-
sheet have been very poor :
Dec., 1912.. £944 | Dec., 1915.. £217
June, 1913.. 592 I June, 1916.. 4.37
Dec., 1913.. 320 ! Dec., 1916.. 375
June, 1914.. 215 June, 1917.. 71
Dec., 1914.. 882 | Dec., 1917.. 23
June, 1915.. 995 | June, 1918.. 47
The brickworks are now given a book value
of £9754. The Vale of Clwydd’s capital is
£60,000, and the liabilities are small. No
less than £22,000-odd is in more or less
liquid assets, and there is no doubt about the
solidity of the other assets that represent
the rest of the shareholders’ funds.
“Mustard Gold” discusses a few Westralian
mining men T
McDermott, recently appointed manager of the
Ivanhoe, is one of a small group of Maorilanders,
including .1. A. Agnew and W. A. Macleod, who have
made good in Westralian mining. Formerly under-
ground boss of the show he is now running, McDermott
went to the Gwalia, mainly on the advice erf Govett,
Ivanhoe’s chairman of directors, whoer that property
was in a state of disintegration owing to bad hand-
ling. He put the show on its feet again, and a
grateful company sent his salary up to £2OOO a
year. On the demise of Boh Nicolson, Ivanhoe
manager, last year, Govett, remembering McDermott’s
work at the Gwalia, selected him to the gilded
billet, worth £3500 a year, from hundreds of appli-
cants all over the world. The Gwalia has made other
reputations. Here W. J. Loring, a newehum from
the U.S., got the chance of his life on taking over
from Atwater, an amiable spirit who had 900 men
on his pay-sheet and a mine threatening to shut
down. Promptly sacking 50 p.c. of the hands, Lor-
ing, by skilful reorganisation of a ramshackle plant
scattered all over the premises, saved the Gwalia from
the Insolvency Court and made it one of the soundest
propositions in the State. Agnew was another helped
on the upward path by the Gwalia, and so was H. C.
Hoover, now U.S. food-controller and mentioned freely
as a future President of the Republic—a pallid,
slimly-built individual who eyed you furtively and
didn’t say much. He established the system of
allocating costs of mining, treatment and develop-
ment to the separate departments, instead of the old-
time generalisation of expenditure, which made it
difficult to discover waste and incompetency and sent
good mines on to the rocks. Macleod did not owe
anything to the Gwalia, but came west from
Charter's Towers to take full charge for 8., M. and
Co. on the recommendation of geologist Dr. McLaren
(another Maorilander), and has since drifted to
London in a superior capacity for the firm.
* * * »
Australian tin shares have raced ahead
recently. Old Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) is still
in the lead with a market value of £lBO,OOO
(12,000 shares at £l5) ; Briseis, handicapped
with 600.000 shares, failed to catch the
punters’ fancy, but its market value at ss.
per share runs to £150,000, which is now
entirely supported by an output of 20 to 30
tons of black tin per month. In N. S.
Wales the Carpathia has been boomed to
265., which means a total value of over
£135,000. Dividend prospects appear to be
good when the new mill at Ardletlian and
Edwards’s roasting furnace are treating the
rich ore from the 200 ft. level. Vege-
table Creek is producing 24 tons of black
tin per month, and at 16s. per share its
market value is £lOB,OOO. Y-Water has been
off the dividend list, and is consequently
out of favor just now.
* * * *
“Rag”: It looks as though the Astrolabe
(Papua) copper country will at last get the
trial it has been waiting for. The present
option holders seem to have been satisfied
with what they saw of the higher parts
of the lode, and have recently brought miners
from Woodlark and Australia to push on
with a 580 ft. adit, which will tap the ore
body at the 140 ft. level. Rona Falls, about a
mile from the Laloki workings, could supply
20,000 li.p. The Minister is understood to
have sanctioned the construction of a light
railway over the 18 miles between Port
Moresby and the mine, estimated to cost
about £60,000 for permanent way and roll-
ing-stock. The line when completed will
also lift a load of transportation worries off
the planters of the Sogeri tablelands, and as
rubber aud coffee have done well there-
abouts, even under existing difficult circum-
stances. it is probable that more money will
be got for further planting there as soon as
the rails put in an appearance.


II
ni
f
“ORIENT”
Ready-to-wear
Suits at 501-
Si
e.ST9 1638
Mt.
***&s£!&
>
-
A V*"'
A
OSJ'U
W
. * < ’i
m
\\«
SR
a
~i ZrfaiJK
SSSi;
mmm
mmm
* * j
:
sa
fegj^.£
¥m?ZJSP
Opczdc
THH
go?
Illustration shows the
“Orient” Ready-to-Wear
Sac Suit, obtainable in
Grey or Brown Mixture
Tweed of exceptional
wearing quality. Stocked
in all men’s sizes.
501-
Behind every “Orient” Suit David Jones’ name stands as a guarantee
of dependability. Efficient workmanship and the employment of reliable
materials are assured in the fact that “Orient” Suits are made in our
workrooms, and satisfactory service in wear can therefore be relied
upon.
“Orient” Ready-to-Wear Suits are stocked in a complete range of Men’s
sizes, so that practically every type of man can be fitted exactly.
The materials for selection include durable English and Scotch Tweeds
in new designs of Mid and Dark Grey or Brown Mixtures.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
DAVID JONES Ltd.
OPP. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OEEICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.0.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.; Samuel
Hordern, Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, 138,000,000. Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1,000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paying Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ lIALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6SJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in nil parts of the world.
Rough Roads don’t trouble Palmers
Ordinary canvas-lined tyres suffer badly on Colonial
roads because of the intense internal friction set up,
which wastes energy and destroys the rubber. In Palmer
Cord Tyres every single strand of cotton that goes to make
up the cord is insulated. Palmer Tyres yield greatest
speed and gahon mileage, because of their wonderful
Palmer-Cord foundation.
And Palmers have the finest rough-road tread—the original
three-ribbed tread—ever moulded on to a tyre.
Palmer Cord Tyres are made PalmerFabricreinforces the lower-priced
for Motor Cais of all weights, Motor Cycle Tyres, all Palmer Cycle
Motor Cycles and Aeroplanes. Tyres, and the Tyres for Auto-Wheels
y
£
THE PALMER TYRE LTD,
Chief Offices .119 to 153 Shaftesbury Avenue, London, W.C.
Enquiries for Cycle,
■' Motor-cycle and
Motor Tyres to
India Rubber,
Gutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co. Etd.,
270 George Street,
Sydney;
21-23 Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne
D/s <?>
m
£9-5?
c:
HORLICK'S
MALTED,
>MILK
FOR ALL AGES
Horlick’s Malted Milk
is more beneficial than
tea, coffee or cocoa,
and is the best food
for invalids, dyspep-
tics, and those who
are below par. Ask
for Horlick’s at the
Soda Fountain.
IK
7***rs. it****
MMOU
No Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
K9l5 —Star-shape
Setting, all Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £l5/10/-
K962—Ornate
Gross-over Diamond
Ring, finest quality,
set Platinum and
18ct. Gold.
Price, £32/10/-
KBl0 —Fine quality
Diamond Circle
Brooch, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold,
Price, £25.
K 963 —Fine quality
Diamond Ring,
chaste setting,
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £l6/10/-
.' r : • 1
K 5 87—Pretty Dress
Ring, Pearl and
Diamonds, set
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £5/5/-
Diamonds
of Intrinsic Worth.
Unexampled for Beauty and Bril-
liancy, and fresh from the
Gem-setter’s hands.
all diamonds set in pure platinum.
Call and Inspect our Stocks, or Write for
CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
R 2314 —Superb
Diamond Bing, 3
large, finest-quality
Diamonds, set in
Platinum.
Price, £135.
K 257 —Five-stone
Diamond King, set
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £3O.
K 959 —Fine quality
Diamond Kin", set
Platinum and 18st.
Gold.
Price, £22/10/-
SSSE
K 964 —New Design
Diamond Cross-over
Ring, set Platinum
and 18et. Gold.
Price, £27/10/-
C 9303 —loct. Geld
Brooch, set Pearls
and Peridots,
swing centre.
Price, 35/-


The Light
... 0f ...
Australia
Safety Air Gas.
A Few Recent Large
Installations:
Balranald Hospital,
Coff’s Harbor Hospital,
David Berry Hospital,
Soldiers’ Home.Bomaderry,
Commercial Bank, Cooma
and Wee Waa,
Campbell 8 Co. Ltd., Scone,
and Numerous Private
Residences, Hotels, etc.
These clients have been satisfied with
the undoubted efficiency of our System,
and we can do the same for you.
All Installations carried out by trained
experts from our Factory.
Remember we are Specialists in the Air
Gas Business.
THE QUIRK
AIR GAS MACHINE
is recognised as the best on the market
to-day, and we have over 6000 users in
Australia to bear testimony to it.
If you have ACETYLENE installed, we
can convert it to our System, and the
SAVING in your lighting expenses will
pay for the Installation within 12
months.
WRITE OR CALL FOR PARTICULARS.
ADDRESS—
QUIRKS
Lighting § Engineering Ltd.
Sydney 243 Elizabeth Street
Brisbane 24-28 Wharf Street
Melbourne South .... 110 Sturt Street
xldelaide ......... 112 Grenfell Street
Perth, W.A. .. . Alcock & Co. Pty., Ltd.
DOMINION
Structural Supremacy.
■
N.
The superior mileage=
giving qualities of the
DOMINION lie in the
quality, quantity and
distribution of rubberand
fabric used—and used in
a manner that will not
disintegrate under the
tread before the full
mileage is obtained and
the tread worn down to
the fabric.
Made in Canada.
DISTRIBUTORS
United States Rubber Company
(Australasia) Limited,
53 York Street,
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Barkell Ltd.,
Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Dominion Tyre Agency,
Little Bourke S'raet,
MELBOURNE.
Cheney Motor Company Ltd.,
Waymouth Street,
ADELAIDE.
BATTERY
for motor ignition
For Heavy
Current Needs
COLUMBIA Batteries can be
used as the sole source
of ignition current for battery
systems or as an' auxiliary source
in connection with magnetos. They
are easily connected in the circuit.
Columbia
HOT SHOT
Batteries
are multiple-cell unit batteries partic-
ularly adapted where a number of cells
are needed. They may also be used for
ignition, for starting, for auxiliary, for
emergency and for lighting. Being
moisture-proof, they are especially
adaptable for motor boat use.
Columbia Batteries sent abroad are
packed in moisture-proof cartons and
guaranteed to give satisfactory results
whatever climatic conditions may be.
Dealers: Immediate deliveries
can be made. Secure Cata-
logues and Terms from your
dealer or from us:
National Carbon Company
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Export Department
Cable Address: "Carbon Clevaland”
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
WIRELESS Instruction
FOR
Naval, Military and Mercantile
Appointments
AT THE
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
(Sydney and Melbourne).
Actual Apparatus Installed.
CSpeeitfl License.)
MANY VACANCIES!
EXCELLENT PROSPECTS.
Apply for particulars to
SUPERINTENDENT,
97 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
422-24 Little Collins Street.
MELBOURNE.
IS
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
the red,to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease. In
Anaemia—or bloodlessness—
the red corpuscles are more
or less deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Therefore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
—the eyes become dull and
“ heavy” —and a feeling of
intense weariness pervades
the whole system. To over-
come Anaemia, the blood
supply needs recharging with
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
fg
The Wine of Life
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘Wincarnis’
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks—
gives a sparkle to the eyes—-
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
•Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street. Sydney. N.S.W.
If any. illustration appearing in' The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write'to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
The Men With Long Faces.
“Henry Horsecollar” writes:—
For long and weary months Foch, like Pharaoh,
hardened his heart and stood on the defensive. Then
a time came when Foch, like Pharaoh, let his
people go—his various peoples, in fact, British,
American, French, Italian, Belgian and sundries.
They fell on the astonished Hun and did great
damage, so that many folk whom one met in the
street wore an aspect of gladness such as hadn’t been
seen since the dark days when Russia left the
alliance to go after the two besotted traitors who
were its undoing. But there were long, sad faces
too, and many of them. These belonged to the gang
which advocates “peace by negotiation without in-
demnities or annexations.” Some of them are
doubtless plain traitors, who are paid for doing the
Iscariot act. Some are anarchists, who want to
wreck civilisation for the fun of looking at the
smash, or for the chance of finding valuable pro-
perty among the ruins, or for the pleasure of having
a day of power, even if it is only the power to
destroy something and kill somebody. And some
few are cranks with a hazy yearning for
some sort of New Jerusalem. When the news
came that the luck seemed turning at last against the
stupendous Hohemzollern capitalist, and in favor
of the little democratic nations that have been
trodden underfoot since the first day of the struggle,
the Men With Long Faces almost wept on the public
highways. They said they were glad to hear the
tale of victory, and they looked about as glad as a
man might if he had lost all his money and his
relatives and been sentenced to a lingering death.
But they said that victory is a transient thing, and
that self-confidence is the herald of destruction, and
swelled head goes before a fall. Therefore they held
that the present was an extra good time to agree
with our enemy and arrange peace without indem-
nities or annexations.’ Then they went home and
slept badly.
The attitude of the Labor leaders has changed
wonderfully since the Boer war days. Then a large
section of the community sympathised with Britain’s
enemy. The Boer States were republican. They
were pathetically few in numbers; a white popula-
tion less than that of the one city of Sj'dney was
up against the biggest empire on earth. And it was
hard to see that they had ever done anything very
remarkable except happen to have the nibst surpris-
ing goldfield and diamond field on earth, and get
mixed up with a strange crowd of cosmopolitan
adventurers in consequence. The sympathy expressed
in those days with the Little Peoples was at
least disinterested, for the Little Peoples lacked the
money to corrupt papers and politicians half the
world over. To-day, in Australia at all events, the
official voice of Labor has no sympathy to waste on
the small communities, which have been plundered
and tortured and desolated. It forgets to manifest
any interest in the case of Belgium and Serbia and
Montenegro and Britain, which are fairly liberal
monarchies, or in the case of France and the United
States, which ai;o rigidly republican, and expresses
kindly feeling for the two big rich militarist tyrannies—•
the lands of conscription and huge estates ; and its
desire to get them out of their troubles without loss,
or even with considerable profit, is pathetic in its
intensity. Certainly the two huge conscriptionist
and militant tyrannies are rich enough to pay their
Iscariots, and doubtless they do pay. Australia is
the place above all others where they might be
expected to pay lavishly. This is the only continent
lying around with stupendous' possibilities of wealth
and only about two persons per square mile to defend
them. It is the one grand opportunity left. If
Australia, as the place most interested, would throw
its weight into the. scale at the peace negotiation
for the return to the Hun of his chain of island
fortresses in the Pacific —if it would do that and
carry its point-—then the Hun’s chance of stealing
this continent wouldn’t be lost. Rather it would
be better than ever.
So there were many long, sad faces about the
streets when Focii’s legions began to turn the tide.
It looked as if the Paymaster was being licked. It
is only in securing a peace before the Paymaster is
licked —securing a peace when he is still strong
enough to have a powerful voice in the negotiation—
that it is possible to deliver the goods to the great
capitalist, said goods being the islands which are
more or less the keys of Australia.
Peace by negotiation is a term invented in Hun-
land. The proposition is that the nations now at war
should meet together ami discourse amicably. But
Russia and Roumania are not at war. They have
made peace already, and in the process Germany
has almost doubled its territory and looted the two
States of all their spare money and their spare
food. Having made peace they are to be regarded as
wholly outside the negotiation. They, of course,
won’t pay any indemnity; they have paid already.
And no annexations from them are proposed as part
of the new peace; all the essential annexing was
done at the old peace, which is now an accomplished
fact and a closed book. In short, the terms proposed
are that there are to be no annexations save what
the Hun has annexed already. And there are to be
no indemnities. Every State is to do its own repairs,
and as all the devastation has been in the territory
of the Allies, that means that the Allies, even if they
win, are to pay all the damage. Now and then some
unconvincing person explains that what the Hun
party in Australia really means is that there are
to be no penal indemnities —that the Hun is .to pay
for property destroyed, but isn’t to be fined, either
in money or land, for destroying it, while mere
butchery or enslavement of the civil population is
to be written off as an unconsidered trifle. But’ the
party leaders have an unfortunate habit .of forgetting
the word “penal.” They forget that essential word
practically all the time.
They have a hard row to hoe, these men who wore
long faces when the suspicion arose that the great
Hun capitalist and militarist and murderer was on
the down grade. The treason that they advocate,
when they demand that the little ruined, plundered,
mutilated nations should be left to make good their
own losses—that the militarist and conscriptionist
Hun should be installed again at our doors and
left fully armed as of old—is so gigantic in its
impudence that there is only one possible excuse with
which to shade it off. That is the feeble statement
that decisive victory is impossible, therefore a ruin-
ous peace should be patched up as the next best
thing. And when a turn in the tide makes it more
apparent even than before that decisive victory is
possible, and that there isn’t even a sordid pretence
that it is necessary to turn dog on our Allies and
take the bloodstained capitalist to our bosom, then
the position becomes almost beyond the resources
of treason and effrontery. So a dejected crowd
restrained itself with difficulty from weeping in
public places when Foch let his people go, and
when the Paymaster was smitten good and hard.


Shipping. .
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. CaUnes-de :
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads
private Bathrooms.
and
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd..
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Travel in Safety
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERICA-CANADA
and
GREAT BRITAIN
“VENTURA” sails OCTOBER 30.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; lion. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
Iv.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.; THOS.
WELSBY.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Oitice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
Ijondon Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH AVALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. , . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . • • 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . .. • • 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; 'w. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W, V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Branches — London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £130,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
F.verv Descriotion of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. . . . . 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
AustralasiariUnited Steam Navigation C£i di
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian- Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE,
THE “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADUN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT L v
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.),
HONOLULU.
SUVA (FIJI) AND
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
NEXT SAILINGS:
R.M.S. MAKURA, early October; R.M.S. NIAGARA, October.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
, Through Bookings to Any Pari of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY — PERFECT WEATHER —MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
oi sunoi avoiioh
fg
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Flva and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Groups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP g CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
fg
Directors:
fg
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: \V. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Jb.sq.
on. Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letter. .1 Credit and Circnl,, &*£"•
Commonweal®
HEAD OFFICE
fg
SM of 3ustraKa
SYDNEY.
General Banking Business pXS’p’k.
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
Branches, and over 2750 Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific.
Interest at o°/
per annum ' # /o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor^
HAVE YOU A SAVINGS ACCOUNT?
This Bank offers you every facility for Banking your Savings.
Deposits received
from 1/- upwards.
132 Branches and
500 Agencies
throughout the
State.
ZP
3
5
Or
4
INTEREST
C 2
ON
deposits
3fc
Ofi
S
Af
Interest paid at 394
per cent, per annum
on every £ up to
£5OO.
No Agencies at Post
Offices.
The STATE Savings Institution
Head, Office: II MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
FOR BRISBANE AND OTHER QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
Huddart Parker Llm
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney and Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA. —From Sydney to
Ilobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD- Hobart.
the North Coast Steam
■ Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
Inrlv to l"
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are ifNieii in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Munviilumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steeiage bn
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
Che breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians m Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 110-High llol-
born. London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charr


CIMRUS
N tracts
Vintage 1906 (
(mmm
NE PLUS ULTRA
mjA
T
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Sf^Cfe—
256Ge«I^ acU
*SS»* t i l BS®? d aS«y
X\\etV°^ Q tt ay > * agency
c^ larQ
fg
PAULINE et CIE
ANNOUNCE THErR
SPRING AND SUMMER SHOW.
MILLINERY on and after Wednesday, August 7.
COATS and SKIRTS, FROCKS, etc., on and after-
Tuesday, August 20. 3rd Floor,
Denison House Chambers, George Street, Bydney.
SAYS TAR IS BEST FOR COUGHS
AND COLDS.
GIVES QUICK RELIEF.
A gentleman suffering from a severe attack
of bronchial catarrh brought on by a chill
decided to try a simple home-made tar syrup
recipe that recently appeared in these
columns, and now writes: “It gave me quick
relief.” Another writes: “I have a trouble-
some cough, which comes on suddenly, and a
teaspoonful of titrate of tar cough-syrup
promptly stops it and brings away the
phlegm so easily.” A third writes: “I never
got a more speedy relief.” In view of its
proved efficacy other readers suffering from
coughs will doubtless wish to give it a trial,
and for their benefit we would state that the
syrup is easily made at home by dissolving
half a pound of sugar in half a pint of hot
water and then adding two ounces of titrate
of tar. Stir thoroughly and pour into a pint
bottle. One or two teaspoonfuls of this tar
syrup will quickly stop tickling coughs, and
taken two or three times a day will soon relieve
a stubborn cough, cold or case of catarrh. It
is also most beneficial for various forms of
throat and bronchial trouble arising from
exposure to the damp and cold. Care should
be taken to get the titrate, as other forms of
tar are generally not suitable for this pur-
pose.— Advt.
fg
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
fg
/-
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, September 16, 3038.
My Dear Arini,—
Nothing could he happier than the choice
of General Pan as leader (in place of the
late M. Metin) of the French trade Mis-
sion to Australia. The gallant old soldier,
with an empty sleeve as a memento of 3870,
has a charm of personality that needs no
interpreter. . A rather small, wonderfully
agile and virile Frenchman, so suavely polite
that he is the favorite mark for every bore,
and speaking with a passionate patriotism
that bursts through the barrier of a foreign
tongue, till every Australian who hears him
wants to oheei-, is essentially the voice of
France. Bright, dark eyes sparkle with humor
under bushy brows. A heavy white mous-
tache fails to hide the sensitive mouth
which quivers with emotion when “the
enemy” is mentioned. But it is the recon-
struction of industry in battered France,
and. his delight at the warmth of an Aus-
tralian welcome, which grip the delega-
tion’s attention from dawn till midnight, and
gives General Pan —and Meadows Smith—
so much to say to us.
Meadows Smith is a British consul <m
loap. lie speaks French almost like a
Parisian, and shadows the delegation as col-
league and handy inquiry officer.
M. Leclerq-Motte is at home in two or
three languages. Also lie holds the Croix
de Guerre for his services in the war. Wool
is his industrial speciality.
M. Siegfried, writer and scientist, a short,
alert Frenchman, who saw this city nearly
20 years ago, acts as general sec! to the
Mission. He, too, has been in the firing-line
as interpreter to the British military, and
won the M.M. for bravery. M. Si' 'fried
cultivates the moustache; but not so" much
moustache as the flowing lightish brown orna-
ment worn like a decoration by Commandant
D’Andre, soldier and attache to General
Pou. This gallant Frenchman, who wears
the Cross of the Legion of Honor for his
services in the war, is apparently the kind-
liest of humans, llis hearty laugh and beam-
ing good humor, his gay blue tunic and red
breeches (on State occasions), and the story
of his sufferings as a German prisoner of
war after the early Marne fighting, make
him hardily second in interest to liis chief.
M. Bader, for years in Australia, can
chat . confidently on wool or finance. M.
Corbiere—he, too, has a Moustache—is. a
man .who knows cattle and horse-flesh from
nostril to tails- —is another Legion of Honor
member of the Mission. If you want to dis-
cuss the. possibilities of silk frocks as silk
frocks will be after the war, you must way-
lay the clean-shaven and almost boyish-look-
ing M. Marcel Mathieu, of Lyons.
An unwonted air of gaiety (in war-time)
shook up the grey old chalet in Macquarie-
street when the Governor and Lady David-
son were at home one fine evening last week.
The French Mission were the lions. The plain
Australian soldier in khaki was temporarily
out of the glare when General Pau. iii
scarlet breeches and gaily-slashed tunic,
with Attache D’Andre, in similar plumage, at
his side, shook hands with about 500 citizens.
The Davidson lady, in a frock of silk brocade
with silvery grey diaphanous drapery and
angelic sleeves, wore her orders—Lady of
Grace of St. John of Jerusalem and 0.8. E.
—on a filmy corsage. The gathering was
like a resurrection. Sock afternoons are the
chief excitement of our daily round nowa-
days, with the frenzy of a patriotic jumble-
sale for special occasions. For this party,
however, society brought out its glad-
dest raiment, and diamond ornaments blazed
under the great chandeliers. Plis Ex.
wrestled valiantly with the ’flu’, and wel-
comed the crush under the burden of a
heavy cold. Official Secretary Budge and
Aides Stanham and Saltmarshe assisted his
handicapped endeavors.
Back from France, after about a year’s
absence, Miss Soubeiran, of the French-
Australian League. In her native land she
has been helping in the distribution of the
clothes and money sent from N. S. Wales
to war widows and orphans of our great
Ally.
The art treasures of .T. T. Hac-kett, the
Adelaide man who is pulling up his sticks
to leave for England, went under the ham-
mer in the dawn of this week. For days
before the show in Lawson's rooms a stream
of pilgrims—buyers, speculators, collectors
and well-to-do citizens, made a journey to
the shrine. To the genuine collector the
marvel is that the owner of so unique a
stock of bric-a-brac can endure the pang of
parting with it. Hut the Red Cross will
not worry. It collects 25 per cent, of the
proceeds of the sale. Old Chelsea orna-
ments, Indian bronzes, French art, Japanese
gods, Chinese carved jade, Oriental tapestry,
beads from the dusty breast of an Egyptian
mummy, ancient tear-bottles, and Phoenician
vases,, are samples of the col-
lector’s long and patient search for curios
in the corners of the globe. Bookworms put
their spectacled noses into the odds and ends
of literature, lirst editions, sketches from
Cruikshank to Phil May; and journalists
sighed to turn away from books of refer-
ence that dated almost from the day that
such publications wei ; e invented.
Homes Day, with its legend, “Give till it
hurts,” took a respectable place in the long
procession of days that the Ma State has
seen go past behind the war-god. A rake-in
of at least £27,000 —tin; final chivvy of subur-
ban cash may swell this total —will give the
Voluntary Workers’ Association fresh heart.
On Friday William Cullen, C.J. (his Ex.
being otherwise engaged battling with the ’flu’
-fiend I “opened” the day from the temporary
bungalow in Martin-place. Long before, a
well-made-up procession moved from the
National Gallery through the city streets.
A feature was a week-end cottage just large
enough to hold dad (if he were a small-size
dad) and mum (if she weren’t more than the
usual size in mums), a youngster and a
packet of pins. The Liverpool Voluntary
Workers, however, with a model home, a
fowl house (in which three agitated chickens
made a crowd), the washing (doll’s) on the
line, the faithful bulldog (guarding the front
door) and the lady of the house (size about
21in.) reclining in a chair admiring the
washing, took the confectionery. No detail
was missing, except the plumber who was
coming to repair the leaky rain-spout.
Nobody expected him. anyhow. Hugh Ward
(hon. organiser), I)r. Arthur and J. W.
Kettlewell were early on the scene to get the
big caravan on its trail.
The V.W.A.’s temporary cottage (rushed up
in Martin-place) attracted the suburban man
who thinks he has a turn for carpentering, to
see the job begun. The frame was hurriedly
flung together; a verandah floor was nailed
down at railway speed and an able-bodied
foreman with a hammer behind his ear and a
few nails in his mouth, to keep him from
reciting the Ten Commandments, crawled all
over the structure to see that it would
stand the approaching rush. A day
and a half saw the cottage finished, and 80
perspiring men mopped their brows and
modestly admitted they’d beaten the clock.
Mrs. Ilolman hit a gold nail into a plank as
a start-off on Tuesday. Mrs. John Storey
deftly knocked the last gilt-edged security
into place on the following day.
In this little photo,
by May Moore, is a
likeness of artist
Gladys Laycoek, who
is generally too busy
about other people’s
physiognomy to lend
her own countenance
to illustration. She
is one of our younger
triers in the big field
of miniature paint-
ing, and is rapidly
acquiring a confi-
dence of technique
which experience will
develop. Her first
teacher was J. S.
Watkins, who gave
her a valuable
grounding in
draughtsmanship. Later, in London, the
Sydney girl studied under a leading minia-
ture painter, Mrs. Massey, and she also had
a look-in at Paris studios. Our National
Gallery has bought several earlier speci-
mens of this young artist’s portraiture, h At
the present R.A. Society’s show she has
three charming little samples of the craft ;
but none are for sale. Gladys is a daugh-
ter of the late Captain T. M. Laycock, who
died of enteric during the S’African argu-
ment in ayol. That Australians are begin-
ning to realise the value of the home-made
article is evident, for the work of Miss Lay-
cock is in constant demand. Commissions
flow in steadily. “Some of my sitters are
very young,” she laughs, “and'this week I
have finished the portrait of an adorable
baby who slept serenely—generally they
try to lend a hand by clutching at a blob
of naint —while I got a last impression of
her dimples.”
In a billowy frock of pale pink tulle under
a cobweb of Brussels lace (the lace was
given by Mrs. T. Dalton) ; Manie Punch,
daughter of the late Frank Punch, took the
usual vows in St. Mary’s Church, North Syd-
ney. The guardian of the ring was the stal-
wart Surgeon-Colonel Victor Conrick.
D. 5.0., of the Australian A.M.C. (9th Bat-
talion). Judge Edmonds handed the bride
over to her lover. Manie's black-velvet eyes
and peach-like complexion glowed in a rich
setting of diaphanous pink drapery. The
bridesmaiden was Myra Couriek, and the
'groom was Major Byrne, D.S.O. Mrs. Coil-
rick, senior, came from Melbourne for the
happy hour.
The Australian-American League (Mrs.
Brittain, president) linked hands to say
good-bye to Commissioner 11. Y. Braddon
and his lady. As the former will represent
Australia in U.S., the League stepped out of
its depot to give a party to mark the occa-
sion.
Killed while attending to the wounded in
France, a brilliant young Sydney graduate—
Dr. Wilson, captain in the A.M.C. Two of
his chums, also old St. Paul’s students.
Dr. Metcalfe and young Tillet, a son of the
Crown Solicitor, went west before him.
Another of the group of Sydney ’Varsity
boys, Clarence Mitchell, is still busy on the
Western Front. A. L. Blythe, of So many
patriotic organisations, is an uncle of the
late Dr. J. E. Wilson.
Daffodil Day display in the entrance of
Her Majesty’s gave the A.M.C. fund a help-
tul push. The Anderson Stuart lady was in
charge, and a bevy of damsels, decked with
yellow, assisted at the sale of over 40,000
blooms from the Pitt’s garden at Wentworth
Fulls. The sight alone was worth a few
stanzas from Rod Quinn, who admits he
occasionally searches for a theme for verse.
_ Major Alan Steele, a Queenslander, gave
his arm to Kathleen Pooley, of Coogee, in St.
Patrick’s Church the other afternoon. The
second lucky best man was Captain Roy
Broadbent, also a Duntroon boy.
From an Australian girl (Gibraltar) :
l’lie U .R.N.S., with whom I am, is the Women's
Royal Navy Service, and is doing in the Navy what
the W.A.A.C. is doing in the Army, that is, bases
are employing women clerks (in varying degrees),
cooks, stewards (on shore only), laundresses, motor-
drivers, telephonists and, at last, draughtswomen.
Ihis is (he first .R.N.S. unit to go abroad at all,
and we’ll be quite glad when the natives get used to
our white drill and brass buttons, to say nothing of
our topees with their crown and anchor designs. In
England the rig is navy blue, and the offi-
cers wear black velour tricorn hats. I am
only a Chief-Section Leader, as our Book of Words
has it. The Rock is a place of wonders, covered with
gums and pepper-trees, dear hibiscus bushes and
camellias, which in the light in which I write are of
incredible beauty. I leapt for joy when I saw my
old friends, and thought I must bp dreaming; even
the confetti-like flowers of the old lantaiia bush
were waiting to be pulled and scattered on the bride.
At night the Rock is a place of twinkling lights and
moonlit water, of convent bells and bugle blasts and
gunfire.
■ Wollaston* an occasional plunger
into literature as the writer of booklets on
Wattle and other light Fantasies, is over
tiom Adelaide. Rubies are his specialty in
business hours.
The I rench-Australian League met over
the teapot m the big drawing-room at the
Australia to welcome the delegation which
has General Pau as leader. Amongst the
circle of Leaguers were Mrs. Playoust, Miss
Soubeiran and her-pal Miss Gurney, Neville
May man and lion. sec. Mrs. Jewett, the ladv
whose invaluable work for the League is
rarely mentioned. General Pau addressed
the throng, speaking French slowly, a cour-
tesy to Australian ears strained to catch the
essence of his remarks, -which turn on the
pivot of economic reconstruction after the
war. Ills Ex. offered a brief welcome, in
L rench, and Premier Holman, who was
handed an album from French war organisa-
tions on the other side, expressed fluent
thanks. The presentation volume, by the
way, bears the signatures of many distin-
guished persons. Queen Alexandra, for the
French Red Cross in London, and the Arch-
bishop of Paris are amongst the list.
The Home for Incurables (Ryde) will hold
its annual rally in the Town Hall this
Thursday (September 19) evening. A first-
rate musical programme is promised, and the
appeal for help is for those who will never
leave this ideal haven amongst the green
hills.
The casual Australian again! Word re-
cently came along to Mrs. Ballantine (hon.
sec. of the 2nd D.A.C. Comforts Fund) that
her only boy had won the Croix de Guerre
in France. As the lad didn’t mention it
himself, mother wrote to ask him for details.
The answer came by last mail. “Just
happened to be standing with the lot that
got the Croix—that’s all. Mum.’’ The
Sydney youth, who is barely 22. is a ser-
geant in the A.F.A.. with nearly three years’
active service behind him.
Among the soldiers in the A.I.F. who died
in action last month was Private Garie. an
English University man who was science
master at King’s College, Goulburn (N.S.W.).
when he enlisted.
Gone to Jerusalem after 18 months’ hard
work in the Ivantara canteen, Rainee McPhil-
The N. 8. Wales enthusiast has put
the Empire Soldiers’ Club, a meeting-place
for Aussie Crusaders from all over the
Ancient Land, on its feet; but there were
some bumpy days at the beginning. Wood,
for instance, was mighty scarce, and a store-
room was an acute necessity. But A.S.C.
was slow to move. Finally Rainee wired to
the Military Governor of the old city: “Half
a bullock and a ton of onions in my bedroom.
Please send timber for a storeroom.” “That
got it,” writes “Trooper Bluegum.”
Prof. Leslie Wil*
kinson, who occupies
the first chair of
Architecture in out*
’Varsity, is built like
a steeple, but the
local housewife is
in ore anxious to
know what will be
the direct results to
them from the les-
sons he has to im-
part regarding the
planning of homes,
The recent arrival
brings sound refer-
ences that his experi-
ence is wide. He is
in the early prime of
life —35 —a n d tails
on to liis name the letters A.R.1.8.A. —Asso-
ciate of the Royal Institute of British Archi-
tects. Since 1910 he has been Assistant
Professor at the School of Architecture, Uni-
versity of London. He won both the sold
and silver medals at the Royal Academy of
Arts, and he knows the principal cities of
Europe and all their architectural beauties
and defects. The appointment concerns the
Australian woman in a special manner, and
her prayer is that Prof. Wilkinson will steer
the . architectural mind clear of the English
dove-cot form of house-building—an affliction
in our long hot summer days. _ Gently tug-
ging at his coat-tails, since he is too tall to
be approached without a stepladder, she
pleads for a School of Architecture that will
not put the kitchen on the warm western
side of the house, or design a dining-room
which, like Heaven, is not so easy to come at
as it ought to be.
From. Brisbane: —
Killed in action on September 1, Lieut. Fred Lewis,
second son of .1. R. H. Lewis, sub-editor of the Bris-
bane Telegraph. Fred Lewis was a clever amateur
actor and a good all-round sport. Last October,
when soldier concert parties were organised to enter-
tain the army in France, he was put in charge of the
“Cooees,” who gave shows for the 3rd Division. In
June this year he was in London suffering from the
effects of gas, and paid a surprise visit to his mother
and sister Josephine, the latter having gone to Eng-
land before the war to study music. Charlie Lewis
is doing munition work in England, and sister Madge
pushes a pen on the Telegraph here.
Dr. Ward, editor of the Telegbaph and once chief
of Sydney D.T., has received cable news that
daughter Pearl, who has been war-nursing in Eng-
land, was married on September 6 to Major Malcolm
Body. R.F.A., of Bimdenar and Trangie stations,
Dubbo -(N.S.W.). The ceremony was at St George’s,
Hanover Square.
Lieut. Leslie Buchanan, formerly editor of the
Dabling Downs Gazette in Toowoomba, a pressman
known in Maoriland, New South Wales and Victoria,
has been killed in France. He was a brother of A. J.
Buchanan, who steered Brisbane Daily Mail for a
couple of years and gave it up to practise law in
Melbourne.
The Sydney scribe Isabel Ramsay (dad
is acting as an interpreter with the
French Mission) sends a coo-ee from
Canada. She was crossing the snowy
Dominion at time of writing and remarked
that everything, the scenery not excepted,
was “shockingly dear." Otherwise, she’s had
a fine trip.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
JEWELLERS. ESTABLISHED 1853.
WATCH BRACELETS.
9ct. Gold .Watch, with high-grade Swiss Lever Move-
ment, fitted on 9ct. Gold Expanding Bracelet, incase,
£lO 10 0
2 -
THE COMPANY’S “SPECIAL” WATCH.
15ct. Gold Watch, with high-grade Swiss Lever
Movement, fitted on 15ct. Gold Expanding Bracelet,
in case. This Watch is highly recommended and
guaranteed to give every satisfaction,
£l7 0 O
SELECTIONS SENT ON
- -la.
APPROVAL IF DESIRED.
FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT
ON ALL CASH PURCHASES.
SHOWROOMS:
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 116-118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
TARE AN ENSIGNETTE
on Your Spring Outings.
%
m
mm
MM
THE
SMALLEST
OF ALL
VEST POCKET
CAMERAS.
British-Make.
Spring, with its beautiful flowers, and glorious sunshine, is again with us, calling with
an insistent voice to be out of doors and revel in the realms of nature.
The pleasure you derive from those outings will be greatly enhanced, and live longer
in your memory, if you have an Knsigiiette, and take photos of the beauty-spots you visit.
It is the ideal camera for holidays and excursions—easy to use, easy to carry. It fits
in a man’s vest or hip pocket or a lady’s handbag, and it takes clear, sharp photos, which can be
enlarged any size up to 12 x 10 if desired.
It will stand any amount of knocking about, as the body is made of metal —dull
polished oxydised—with Leather Bellows and Nickel Fittings. Shutter gives Time and
Instantaneous Exposures.
No. 1 takes pictures x 11 inches 30/-
No. 2 takes pictures 3x2 inches 37/0
Films to suit —No. 1, lid.; No. 2, 1/3; per roll of six exposures.
Harringtons’ Laboratories
Give Best Returns
from Sweepings, Residues, etc.
The latest scientific appliances for the treatment of Sweeps, Residues and other Waste
Products of Jewellers, Dentists, Process Engravers and other Metal Workers are installed
in our laboratories, and every ounce of precious metal is extracted.
Every order is promptly executed, under the personal supervision of a qualified
chemist from the laboratories of Messrs. Johnson and Son, London, Assayers to his
Majesty’s Mint, the Bank of England, etc., and, in order to thoroughly protect our
clients,
We Reserve Reference Samples until Settlement is Complete.
Materials collected in city or s üburbs free' of charge. Give us a ring and our
traveller will call on you.
UP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George St, North, Sydney,
Sts
7
til .
-maz
kfJly*.
fg
Your Dip
Order can be
Fulfilled —NOW
Yon need have no doubts about getting “Dip” NOW —reliable dip, too—equal both chemically and physically to the very best dip EVER
imported.
For years scientific research has been made in our laboratories, and the highest expert chemical skill engaged in the compounding of
A RELIABLE ARSENICAL DIP, and NOW —just at the time of Australasia’s direst need —we are happily able to meet the emergency with
D
y
SB
POWDER
SHEEP DIP
in such quantities that AUSTRALASIA’S BIGGEST DEMAUD CAN BE SUPPLIED. We make an unqualified claim —here and
now—that “VALLO” Powder Sheep Dip is chemically and physically equal to the best “dip” EVER imported—which claim you can
PROVE “in actual test,” and we can prove also by chemical analysis of ingredients.
We guarantee “VALLO” Powder Sheep Dip in its destructive action against Ticks, Lice and all other sheep-infesting vermin; and
that it reduces possibility of Fly Strike to a minimum. “VALLO” Dip is also longest lasting in its disinfecting action —keeping
sheep clean and impervious to contagion from “dipping” to next shearing, provided directions for use are implicitly carried out. *
As owners of our own Arsenic Mines, and as we produce or prepare at our own works the
whole of the ingredients used, we are able to offer our unqualified guarantee that “Vallo”
Powder Sheep Dip is the most reliable and most economical dip on the market.
A. VICTOR LEGGO U CO.
Works : Yarraville and Bendigo.
Mines : Southern Cross, W.A., and Queensland.
Head Office : 524-26 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Distributing Agents for N.S.W. —DAN GAII, GEDYE & CO. LTD.,
9, 11, 13 Young Street, Sydney.
Distributing Agents for North Q’land —CUMMINS & CAMPBELL, LTD., Townsville.
Distributing Agents for Central Q’land —WALTErt REID & CO. LTD., Rockhampton.
Distributing Agents for South Q’land —BRABANT & CO., Brisbane.
Agents, New Zealand —THE FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE WHOLESALE
FEDERATION (N.Z.), LIMITED, Christchurch.
Distributors for Victoria and Tasmania —A. VICTOR LEGGO & CO.
Distributors in South Australia—JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
Distributing Agents for West Australia—MALLOCH
BROS, 52-54 William Street, Perth.
an
Ym o
gOVVD
Shee
Dip
"Uor
ii
Ccr IOM
►Of)
USE
<>x
5385
Procurable
All Stores


%
ErRIDA Y’S Theatre Dinner at Farmer’s is a weekly
1 event of social importance. Ideal surroundings
of the Oak Luncheon Hall and excellent menu make
it equally popular with theatre patrons and social
parties. Delightful music is an appreciated feature.
Hours are 6.30 to 8.30 o’clock, Friday evenings—
Table d'Hote 4/6. Seats or tables, if desired, can
be. reserved by ’phoning—Restaurant Manager—
City Eleven Thousand.
THEATRE CONFECTIONS
Farmer’s delicious Fresh-made
Confectionery can be obtained
on Friday nights at new Con-
fectionery Counter inside Pitt
Street Central Entrance.
F.R. I.—Standard Chocolates—
assorted Almond, Raisin, Mint,
Nut, and Cream centres.
Per box,* ... 2/6,4/9,10/6.
FRI
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
CASTOR OIL, SALTS 4 DRUGS REPLACED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness—
take California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.”
For the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don't think you
are drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
as a robust man. It. is the most harmless,
effective stomach, liver and bowel regulator
and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs, which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sizes. Is. lid. and Is. 9d. 12
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust proof
Corsets
Melbourne, September IG, 1918.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Governor Stanley’s children have been
gliding round our ice-rink and taking special
skating lessons. Dad and mother often in-
dulge in a quiet sprint while the youngsters
are practising. Sassiety has decided to prac-
tise hard, because all the Australians who
have gone to England on war-work write
out to say that natural ice-skating is the
thing as a winter pastime.
Miss Grice has finished up her ice-skating
season with an injured knee. She came
down heavily a week or two ago. Her father,
John Grice, is so keen on the sport that he
has instituted a Grice trophy.
Scotch College, which has a vast pile of
somewhat cramped buildings at East Mel-
bourne, and has to travel a mile if it wants
to have a game of cricket, is said to be con-
sidering the sale of its property to the Fed-
eral Government, for use as offices. The
College some time since bought “Glen’s
castle,” a turreted stack of brick and stone
on a Yarra-side eminence at Hawthorn. The
“castle” was built in a long-bygone year by
the late Glen, of the Coll ins-street music
warehouse. Sixty acres of land go with the
dwelling.
Tewksbury sought diversion after his
Kitchener flag endeavor by giving a small
dance at the Oriental last Thursday night.
Margaret Wycherly was the guest of honor,
so the floor was kept warm from 8 o’clock
until she had finished with “The Thirteenth
Chair” at 11. Margaret wore peacock blue
just to show that she was not superstitious.
Marjorie Thomas, a smart girl from Auck-
land, is on a, round of visits here with the
Yenckens and Kedinghams. Marjorie belongs
to the big a’Beckett clan and the Brett
family.
The Melbourne girl we knew as Ruby
Steele is in London war-toiling. She is
married to an army captain who is on the
job in France and she still keeps up her
reputation for exquisite dressing.
Mrs. Stuart has taken her holidaying chil-
dren _ across to Sydney for some sunshine.
(We’Ve just had a wire that you have
nothing but sunshine in Sydney !)
Miss Henderson, head of Melbourne’s
swankiest girls’ seminary, lias bought Brae-
mar House, which after Christmas will
cease, to be a mountain home for paying
guests. The new owner will transfer her
scholars there from Alma-road, East St.
Ivilda.
They get. hard up for diversion in Toorak
these days. A party last week had a guess-
ing competition. The ballroom was thrown
open, and on the raised platform a curtain
was dropped to within —-well, say an inch or
two of the floor. Beneath the curtain
appeared rows of silk-stockinged legs, and
the men in the company had the joy of
nominating the owners of the limbs! The
winner’s name has not been reported.
Victor Hood, who was G.-G. Denman’s
chamberlain, and has been private secre-
tary to numerous Excellencies in four States,
has thrown up the job of attending to Gover-
nor Stanley’s correspondence, and is going
to tour “the East.” After an Executive
Council meeting the other day the Cabinet
forced Victor into a corner and handed him
a travelling clock. Victor was understood to
remark that he hoped to be back in a year
or so. Meanwhile Neil Smith will use up the
vice-regal stationery.
The Graham sisters are leaving the old
family home, Elibank, in South Yarra, to
settle in a Toorak villa. Elibank, which
was owned by the late political woolgrower
Graham, founder of the Melbourne Club, is
to he auctioned with other properties
presently. The Grahams, Ward-Coles and
Gordon McCraes, all cousins, were in the
centre of the best Melb. social circles of the
’sixties. .
The manager of one of our haughtiest
fluff emporiums lately demolished the after-
noon-tea habit among certain employees.
Learning that some of his elegant sales ladies
were wont to lap tea behind the counter, he
started a close personal search for the neces-
sary crockery, and discovering it tucked away
in a special drawer reduced it to vulgar
fractions against the nearest wall. The spec-
tacle of a tremendous autocrat hurling china
to destruction is not seen in Melbourne every
day. Some of the Very Naice customers
who saw the performance thought it was
put on as a new attraction.
Solicitor Joe Woolf lately lectured on
“Marriage and Divorce,” in the Assembly
Hall. .Toe is sympathetic towards those of
us who cannot obtain a "decree Because the
other half of the failure is domiciled in
another State. As our numerous divorce
laws stand at present, practically every State
regards the others as foreign countries, and
all sorts of legal formalities have to be gone
through, so that it is more difficult to get
a respondent than a co-respondent.
Youthful Captain Sid Crawcour, the latest
addition to the medical staff of the Base
Hospital, passed his final examinations under
unusual circumstances. He sat for his written
exams, and passed; then appendicitis took
him inopportunely, and while convalescing
he passed his clinical exams, on his back, the
patients being brought in for his diagnosis
while he lay on his own sick-bed.
Major Langlands Jack is home on fur-
lough, and Toorak is falling over itself to
give the young officer the time of his life.
His mother (now Mrs. Thompson) leads the
rejoicings.
Journalist Freda Sternberg yearns for
better acquaintance with the U.S.A. than she
coukl gain when rushing through in the wake
of Melba; so she has booked her passage and
will leave next month.
The Vic. Foundling Hospital and Infants’
Home, which has its headquarters at East
Melbourne and a country place at Beacons-
field, is holding a novelty exhibition in the
Town Hall on Friday, proceeds to go to all
the children’s charities. The babies will be
on view in a model nursery, also the
family of “boarded outs” are to call in for
the afternoon and take tea at 3 o’clock. To
give an idea of the outlay involved in run-
ning a home for foundlings, specimens of the
many commodities required will be put in
as exhibits. Admission Is., and there will
be a stall for the sale of Foundling Baby
Charms.
The Postal Department and Railways will
carry free books and magazines handed in
at any post office or railway station in Vic-
toria. and addressed to “The Red Cross
Depot, Federal Government House, Mel-
bourne.” Gifts will also go free to “The
Naval Red Cross Depot, Williamstown'.”
Somehow the sailors are not so well supplied
as the soldiers. Perhaps it is because we
see less of them. Keep Jack in mind.
The Union Jack Rest Rooms, for sailors
and soldiers discharged from hospital, but not
yet strong enough to work all day, is in the
Block Arcade, Melbourne. The folk in
charge hold no carnival or raffle, but are
appealing quietly for help. They need £lOOO
a year for upkeep. Some well-known names
are on the committee, and some well-lined
pockets are supplying coin regularly. Also
some more well-lined pockets might bear a
hand.
Major Harrison, pictured here by Mina
Moore, is the Aus-
tralian who has been
in charge of the grow-
ing school of avia-
tion, at Point Cook,
ever since the be-
ginning of the war.
The British War
Office is drawing him
over to England
very shortly to tap
his special knowledge
of Australian avia-
tion conditions. Har-
rison at first had to
alter English and
foreign machines for
use here, but now
superintends the
making of all-Aus-
tralian machines.
The cash result of the ball that Tettie
Appleton gave in Mrs. Leslie Stuart’s house
during August was £530, so the Second Field
Artillery Brigade will have a great Christ-
mas.
Victorian W.A.A.C’.’s have been touring
Tasmania, with Mrs. Percy Russell (presi-
dent) and Mrs. F. Spencer, M.A. (secre-
tary), in the iead. They were entertained
royally in Hobart. Mrs. Tom Murdoch
took them up the river and Miss Newdegate,
daughter of the Governor, went with the
party, attended by Captain Stopp, the new
genthelp from South Aus.
The patriotic industry of hand-spinning, to
get the material for soldiers’ socks, is whirl-
ing ahead in Victoria. It takes three hours
to spin enough wool for one pair of socks,
which at first blush seems to make the busi-
ness rather expensive ; but the patriotic Red
Crossers reckon it is better to have a regu-
lar, if slow, supply of wool from their own
machines than to be dependent on the inter-
mittent, high-priced and apparently grudging
supplies of the warehouses. The Melbourne
price of spinning-wheel, capable of turning
out sound three-ply from the right sort of
fleece, is now down to £2, while the work is
soon learned, so the really-earnest Grosser
feels that the last obstacle to the making of
heaps of socks has now been removed.
Floris Levy, secretary of the Snapshots
from Home League (a most popular branch of
the Y.M.C.A. work), is resigning, and a suit-
able successor is difficult to locate. Her wed-
ding is to take place in a couple of months.
The bridegroom-elect is solicitor Abrahams,
who was returned for the Prahran Council a
week or so ago.
Bernard Hall,
Director of the
Melb. National Gal-
lery, visited Sydney
to have a look at the
J. W. Hackett col-
lection of paintings
and objets d’art
which was auctioned
by Lawson on Tues-
day. He also had a
look around the
Royal Art Society’s
exhibition, but his
opinion of the can-
vases there has not
been published. Hall
is a good painter
himself, and a rather
severe judge, his
taste for mediocri-
ties having been spoiled by an extensive
acquaintance with first-class work in
Europe. His influence on Australian art
has been valuable, not only as a teacher, but
as adviser to the Trustees of the Melbourne
Gallery, and the Felton trustees, who have
a large amount of money to spend on works
of art. Portrait by Judith Fletcher, Syd-
ney.
Adelaide notes:—
On Saturday, at the Supreme Court, the Chief
Justice unveiled a roll of honor bearing the names
of the 44 lawyers and 26 law students who have
enlisted from this State. Military honors are
freely scattered down the list, amongst them the
V.C. won by the president of the R.S.A., Captain
Blackburn. Among those who have fallen are J. L.
Gordon and A. S. Ferguson, the former one of the
most brilliant of the younger members of the Bar.
After three weeks’ strenuous work in the country,
Lieut.-Col. Butler and the organisers of his “snow-
ball march” got back to town on Tuesday, having
gathered only 22 recruits on the way. Still, the
march gave the huskies a chance to admire khaki
from a distance.
The war has pressed heavily on Railway Commis-
sioner McGuire, to whom word has just come that
his son Julian died of wounds at the end of August.
Two other sons have been killed and a fourth is
still on active service.
Mrs. Thomson Green, whose husband sacrificed a
sure Labor seat in the Assembly by sticking to his
principles over the conscription issue, died after a
brief illness at the end of the week.
E. C. Stirling’s son-in-law, Professor Robertson,
has been appointed Professor of Bio-chemistry at
Toronto University. He took his degree here.
The opening night of “Samples” had a special
attraction for Adelaide in its Eve Ballet, which was
originally designed by local amateurs for last year’s
Red Cross Cala performance. Frank Williams was
responsible for the scenery and Dorothy Jessop for
the ballet. Hugh Mclntosh was so struck with the
item that he purchased the properties,
Three thousand white-clad women, with Lady
Galway at their head, joined in the march through
the streets on the Red Cross Society's Button Day,
on Friday. Practically every women’s patriotic
organisation was represented, as well as Red Cross
organisations from almost every suburb and a good
many country towns. The Governor took the
salute at the Town Hall, and said a congratulatory
word or two to the women before they were dis-
missed at Government House gates. The treasurers
expect at least £50,000.
Miss Baker, sister of the late R. C. Baker, has
received the “Medaille de la Reine Elisabeth” from
the King of the Belgians, in “recognition of the kind
help and valuable assistance you have personally-
given to the Belgian refugees and the Belgian soldiers
during the war.”
Charles Jury, son of G. A. Jury, the Adelaide
merchant, was the only first-class in honors in
English at Oxford this year. He published a bril-
liant, though of course immature, volume of poems
before leaving St. Peter’s School at Adelaide, and
had been an undergrad, at Oxford for a year before
the war started. He enlisted at once, and was
very badly wounded—it is doubtful whether one
leg will ever be quite right again:—and after a long-
spell, in hospital got back to his studies. His
brother, who enlisted in Adelaide, was killed about
the same time. With the grim experiences Charles
Jury' has had he may prove to be the poet S.A. has
been waiting for so long.
Francie Hooker, back in Melbourne, is
wearing a diamond half-hoop given by
her devoted Anzac, Allan Carr. She has
been for 10 years in England with grand-
father Sir Joseph Hooker, who looked after
her education. Her people are in Melbourne.
Dulcie Barnett, the pretty daughter of
architect Nahum, contemplates matrimony
early in October. She is to wed Leo Cohen,
of Sydney.
On Thursday last Emilie Knight, in
becoming white-cloth tailorings, went through
the marriage service with Major O’Brien at
the South Yarra home of her aunt, Mrs.
Mcßean. Mr. Knight, who had handed out
a stunning cheque to his elder chick, stayed
at home to look after his wife, who was too
ill to attend the ceremony. Afterwards the
O’Briens, Falkiners, Carses, Wilkinsons and
others offered congratulations at lunch.
On Tuesday morning, while the early-
rising Melba was still asleep at Coombe Cot-
tage, Lilydale, the glad news was telephoned
out from a private hospital in town that a
rosy little Armstrong grand-da tighter was
waiting to meet her. The fastest motor was
led out, and within half an hour Melba was
at her daughter-in-law’s bedside congratulat-
ing her.
Mrs. Theo. Anderson, a daughter of Harvey
Patterson, is over from Westralia showing
off her baby to her mother-in-law in Toorak.
Sorrow has never been far away from
Maggie Stirling, who started her career as a
concert singer long ago under the handicap
of an invalid husband. Her tall daughter,
something of a sassiety pet after mother had
brought her out as a singer, died within a
year or so of her happy marriage. And last
week the news came that Maggie’s only 'sur-
viving child, Lieut:. “Bob” Riddell, had died
of wounds received in action in France. The
boy was a most promising soldier. He left
Australia as a corporal, was promoted to
sergeant in the • trenches, and was recom-
mended for the officers’ school at Oxford,
where he got his lieutenancy.
Leila Doubleday is settled at the Baillieu
home until she sets out on her Riverina tour.
Melba has another star singer in her class.
She is Dorothy Murdoch, a Williamstown
girl. Just now the seaside people, headed by
the Mayor, are devising a scheme to obtain
the money for further necessary study.
Melba’s singing pupils now wear a green
hatband. It’s a decorative affair, bearing
the words, “Con A more” —just to show that
the young things work for the love of art —
surrounded with bay leaves. Above the
words and vegetables is a nightingale, and in
the midst of all is a big “M.” There were
shrieks of annoyance at the Conservatorium
last week when a student arrived with the
news that the usual fatuous lady had asked
her if the “M” stood for Mannix!
A big' orchestral concert on Saturday after-
noon had Fritz Hart at the conductor’s desk.
Governor Stanley was on hand with her Ex.,
who wore a poetic frock in purple. She had
a small fair-haired daughter in tow. Mrs.
Stapley, w r lio had an accident with her
car, arrived very late. She had missed
her cue as Town Hall hostess and was
wafted hurriedly into her special balcony-
seat in a flurry of lilac. An agitated gent-
help came along later with a bouquet of
purple hyacinth. Melba was downstairs to
hear Stella Power, who sang for the first
time with a full orchestra. Stella was a
bright cher.ry-p|pk songbird against the black
background of musicians.
On Saturday evening Melbourne will have
another helping of orchestral music. Alberto
Zehman will conduct Schubert’s Unfinished
Symphony and Grieg’s Peer Gynt Suite.
The Girls Who Stayed at Home burst into
song at the Playhouse on Wednesday night.
They were rather nervous at first, as Melba
occupied a box. But Madame’s enthusiasm
soon banished that feeling. The Hawaiian
song and dance made her enthuse in her pen.
Later on she gave £5 to the Boomerang Fund,
and her example was followed by Leslie
Stuart, Eric Connelly, Leslie Benjamin and
many other patriots.
On Saturday a crowded “first-night” audi-
ence welcomed back musical comedy to the
Royal, which has been redecorated in
patches, giving it the appearance of being
dressed in an ermine stole and elastic-
sided boots. Clusters of flags and festoons
of pink silk round the d.c. merely emphasise
the prevailing incongruousness. “Oh, Boy!”
was the frivolous offering. As a frock parade
the show will take beating, over 100 of Lady
Duff Gordon’s exercises in poetic haber-
dashery being on view. The managerial pen
was empty, but the other three were occu-
pied by the De Bavay dame, who brought
with her a fluff and khaki party; the Bren-
nan sisterhood, and Mrs. Charley Wenman
and her mother. The. Monash lady and
daughter Bertha were in the stalls.
Tours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


IJTe Opportunity Snow Week
Gives You
[(>
w
Jii
mUI
k
•, (fcgrm
V v.
>'o
@ " «»>
aim lv .
m
ij£(i&£ *'
»
y
&
I.M
il
!'Atv. "’i- j
Vi tV/
iffl
p/K
M
I
H~; - i -M—*
»
.
i
■
m
11
*
•o
m
lE3
■
i
I
Hi
EH
1
i
l
:
PM
i
■>-; • •:'
<A'
•H
: v •■:
H
L j
•
m
m
m i
When You Visit
Melbourne
for the Show, time and place provide
you with an opportunity which il.
availed of will result in material
benefit to your comfort, your appear-
ance and your pocket. In short, your
presence in Melbourne next week will
give you the opportunity to
Get into Personal Touch
with the
“Lincoln-Stuart”
Outfitting Service
Never before did. "‘Lincoln-Stuart
Service mean so much to Australian
Men and Women. The widespread
shortage of reliable goods finds only a
shadowy reflection in ‘"Lincoln-Stuart ’
stocks.
Absolute Satisfaction
at Moderate Cost
still remains the leading feature of the
“Lincoln-Stuart” policy, surviving as
a result of almost unlimited buying-
resources directed to the benefit of the
customer.
Complete Range of Guaranteed Suitings
and Costume Materials.
The variety of materials provided is
more than sufficient from the practical
point of view to meet the suit or cos-
tume needs of any man or woman, and
not one yard of stuff is carried in stock
that is not of a quality worthy to carry
our Guarantee of Satisfactory Service.
Tweeds of the very highest grade—the
best that the British and Australian
nulls can produce —in an all-taste-satis-
lying profusion of designs and shades
—all wool, Indigo-dyed serges and
Twills and other scarce textures are
available at prices well within measur-
able distance of normal charges.
Everything for Horscmsin snd EciucstriGnnc.
In requirements for saddle-wesr, un-
limited stocks, reliable materials, ski lieu
workmanship again combine with
honesty of purpose to produce the neces-
sary result of satisfaction to the buyer.
Whether it’s a costume to order, a pair
of ready-made breeches, a riding hat or
a pair of boots, quality will be always
found linked with moderate cost.
CALL at our Warehouse or at our Showground Sample-rooms.
Lincoln, Stuart &. Co. Pty. Ltd.
“Tailoring Specialists s Complete Outfitters," 244-254 Flinders Street (opp. Railway Station), Melbourne.


Uncle Sam’s irresistible dash at the St.
Mihiel salient has quickened the pulses of
the Allied armies in emulation of the stimu-
lating effects of that incomparable spirit
King George IV. —the Whisky of the Wise.
—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlillTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WhITTYf
MAKERS:
.
tvM'^PXii"~
YIN©
; \
m
m
I
SS&S;
Missing Friends.
THOMAS” WILSON, of Bombay and
London, deceased.
]\f R. SANDFORD FLEMING WILSON, the eldest
- LV - L son, who is entitled to share in the estate, is
requested to communicate with the Solicitors under-
mentioned acting on behalf of the Executors and
Trustees. Anyone having any information as re-
gards the whereabouts of the said Sandford Fleming
Wilson is also invited to communicate.
MUNTON, MORRIS, KING & CO.,
Solicitors and International Law Agents, Temple
Chambers, Temple Avenue, London, England, E.C.4.
fg
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough—you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
f\r
A**
rv (=?
\<f
S
bakilv
Here is Our Guarantee
Every tin of Ireland’s Baking Powder is fully guaran-
teed, without reservation or restriction, and should
the contents for any reason not meet with the
approval of the purchaser, it may be returned to your
grocer and he will refund the purchase price. We
could not give so strong a guarantee if we were not
positive that
Ireland’s
Baking Powder
is absolutely reliable.
It contains only the choicest ingredients accurately
compounded in the right proportion which insure
purity and uniform quality.
Ireland’s Baking Powder is more economical
because a smaller quantity is required to give the
desired result. Sold everywhere—be sure it’s Ireland’s.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
MICK
SIMMONS
for
SPORTING
NEEDS
There were good horses and good racing at
Tattersall’s Club meeting at Randwick on Saturday
and one spectacular happening—the win of the
Maoriland-owned colt Gloaming in the Chelmsford
Stakes. This young animal, who inhabits the same
stable as Biplane, made the others look like hacks
and won out on his own, running the nine furlongs
in “52” —Jsec. better than the Australian record
for the distance set up by Woorak and Pekoo. On
recent form Rebus (9st. 41b.) looked something like
a moral for this race, and was backed accordingly.
But Gloaming had been chasing swallows on the
track since coming to Randwick, and was quickly
run to 7 to 2. Being a “maiden” he was in with a
101 b. allowance, making his weight Gst. 111 b. ; but
the Chelmsford Stakes is not a race that has gone
to beginners, and it was asking Gloaming a big
question to win—wherefore the books laid him will-
ingly enough. There were 21 starters. Gloaming
began sideways on and got chopped back. But going
round on the outside he went to the front at four
furlongs, and at the top of the straight drew light
away and won by eight lengths. There was nothing
to even give him a run. Rebus was next, a length
ahead of Kennaquhair, the Metrop. favorite, whose
showing, apart from that of the winner, was the
best of the lot.
Gloaming put up a remarkable performance. Horses
like Rebus, Lingle, Kennaquhair and Poitrel were
practically beaten out of sight, and the best of the
local three-year-olds—Red Fox, Sweet Lady, Dick
Meagher—were hopelessly walloped at the turn. Of
course, the queer scale of penalties and allowances
on the w.f.a. scale in the Chelmsfoid is a confusing
circumstance, but it is mighty doubtful whether
another stone on the colt’s back would have made
any difference to the result. Gloaming is in the
Derby. What he thinks of another three furlongs
and Bst. 101 b. remains to be seen ; but if he travels
as generously under those conditions as he did on
Saturday—well, good .judges are talking about
“another Biplane,” and it may be so. He is a big,
well-grown customer, and certainly looks up to Derby
weight. Other incidental circumstances about him
are that he cost only 230 guineas as a yearling, was
not raced at two-years-old, and is of The Welkin
breed. The latter item has a special interest of its
own.
There were 17 starters in the Tramway Handicap,
seven furlongs, with the imported Quaestor and Redfern
most in demand, Norbury and Sir Paddington next.
Panacre and Bimeter were at 10’s. Dame Acre had
been scratched in favor of her stable mate Quaestor.
There was, therefore, a line on the Epsom in the
making, for this half dozen have all been backed for
the big mile. Panacre (9st. 41b.) did as good an
Epsom trial as any horse could do, winning in
“26”—a time never beaten at Randwick, and only
once before registered by a horse carrying over 9st.
Norbury (Bst.) was only beaten by a whisker.
Quaestor (Bst.) was a couple of lengths away third.
The latter stuck it well, but seemed right out. Sir
Paddington had every chance, but faded away to
nothing. Redfern was the sixth to turn up after an
unobtrusive trip. Contrary to practice, Bimeter
hopped away in a tremendous hurry. He was first to
touch the straight and first to signal for help.
The imported Louvetier (9st. 71b.), like Quaestor
from Booth’s stable and a subject of discussion for
the Epsom, was made a red-hot favorite • for the
Welter Mile. Included in the 26 were Amadis (9st.
41b.) and Publican (9st. 41b.), both of ’em recently
in the Epsom betting. Publican made no race of it.
This English-bred horse showed considerable pace in
a race at Rosehill last March, and in the following
month was well backed for the Railway Handicap,
won by Dame Acre before appropriating the Don-
caster. In that event he ran with conspicuous lack
of rapidity, and was taken away for a rest. A couple
of weeks ago he ran second to Kennaquhair in a
mile and a quarter event, also at Rosehill. He is
likely to be heard of again. Louvetier this time
began smartly enough, but couldn’t reach the flying
leader at any stage of the trip. On Saturday he was
handicapped to give Publican 31b. In the Epsom
Publican gives him 21b. at a lower scale. There is
no reason to expect the Drink Traffic not to prevail
over him again. Amadis, as usual, was disappointing
—third, without any ginger.
The Spring Handicap (10 furlongs) fell to Prince
Viridis (Bst. 111 b.), Arch Marella (Bst.), Thana
(9st.). The three can be improved in condition
during the next couple of weeks, but Saturday’s
result doesn’t make Thana look like the Metrop.
winner. Arch Marella and the Prince carried their
Metrop. weights, and as the Prince stayed the better
he ought to do it again over the extra quarter-mile.
But his win scarcely looked as good as Ivennaquhair’s
third in the Chelmsford. Moreover, though unplaced
in this latter event Lingle was unwinding himself
at a tremendous pace over the last furlong, after
being well astern most of the way. Lingle may be
very dangerous in the Metrop.
* *■ * *
“Carfax”: Take the Tramway and the
Welter Mile on Saturday as trials for the Epsom, and
see what the watch says. A speed of 124 sec. a furlong
means a few inches better than 17A vards a second.
Publican beat this over 8 furlongs by } of a second, or
3-32nd of a sec. per furlong. That means that he
also beat it by 13J yards in the 1540 yards journey,
gaining about 1 5-8 yards each furlong for the fraction
he clipped off the 121 sec. Had Panacre taken 124 sec.
a furlong, he would have finished the seven in lmin.
27Asec. He beat that by llsec., which is twice what
Publican did with another furlong to do it in. His
clip off the 124 sec. was 3-14th of a sec. per furlong,
in which he picked up three yards (pins part of an
inch) and finished up 21 yards ahead, so to speak.
Thus at the seven furlongs Panacre was 9 5-8 yards
ahead of where Publican got to in his effort. Therefore
the question of where the two would be in a mile
gallop in which each went at the exact pace reached
on Saturday comes down to the simple calculation:
Let A, being 3-32nd of a second = 1 5-8 yards. Let
B, S-14ths of a second = 3 yards. Therefore B -j- 8 -
A + 8 gives the distance between the two nags that
would be detected at the end of the eight furlongs,
and the answer is 11 yards. If Panacre can run
another furlong at the pace he ran the Tramway he
can do a mile in “38 2-7”—which makes me reckon
that so far as the relative merits of Panacre and
Publican are concerned for the Epsom the watch may
be no liar.
To which this page adds that the yarn may be all
very well and yet the watch may be about as
reliable a guide as a German philosopher. The
weakness of all such calculations rests on the appli-
cation thereof—of reasoning from one set of con-
ditions to others that are vitally different, a habit
which all owners, trainers and backers seem to con-
tract at birth. Now, so far as the Epsom goes,
there are these facts—that Publican’s gallop on
Saturday was, on the time test, good enough to
win three Epsoms out of four ; that Publican covered
the Epsom distance and Panacre didn’t; that the
latter was ridden right out and the former was
not; that on Saturday there was a difference of only
31b. in the weight in favor of Publican, but in the
Epsom he will have 181 b. the better of it. The
questions that therefore arise with great insistence
in a case like this are (1) Will the nag which,
on the hypothetical mile, appears about three-
quarters of a second faster than another when the
weights are practically equal continue to be so when
the other animal has a substantial pull in the matter
of cargo; (2) Does not Ist. and 41b. more than wipe
out the fractional time advantage; and (3) What
can an animal which is beaten by another on paper
by 21 lengths do on the track when it gets an
allowance of Ist. 41b.? You can sort the difference
between 27-28ths of a second out for yourself, but
doh’t forget that what a horse may do with Bst.
is often materially different from its conduct with
9st. 41b.
Panacre’s run on Saturday was perhaps the best
of the two. He was not favored by the start, and
at half-way had three prads in front of him. He
was hard pressed by two good horses all the way up
the straight—Quaestor and Norbury—to each of
which he was giving 211 b., and lie finished with
great courage. Publican, on the other hand, was
quickly out in front with three lengths of daylight
behind him. He virtually smashed up the field in-
the first half-mile and hit the line an easy winner,
there being nothing left to trouble him. If Publican
can begin as well in the Epsom he can be relied
upon to be in the picture at the finish. He is very
well handicapped. And if Panacre gets any sort of
luck it isn’t much good expecting he will be easy
to beat. A horse that has won an Epsom with
Bst. 101 b., and three weeks before running in another
with 9st. 41b. runs seven furlongs in 26 with 9st. 71b.,
looks at least entitled to respectful contemplation.
* * * *
The Destroyer, an imported grey, who
happens to be well up in the Epsom bqtting, did
nothing in the Chelmsford to make anyone suspect
he will always finish out of place. He is a lug-
barrelled, long-striding animal, and on Saturday was
clearly in need of a gallop or two. But he was a
conspicuous apparition for seven furlongs, and up to
that stage did as well as anything in the race.
The stable had no fancy for his chances on Saturday,
but it reckons that on Epsom Day matters may
possibly be different. However, it did fancy Bursar
in the Spring Handicap. He began as slow as an
elephant, and thereafter the}' never had a hope.
* * * *
The Maoriland invasion this year is one
of the biggest on record and perhaps the swiftest
up to date. Certainly G. G. Stead sent over a
speedy lot on one historic occasion, but even with
that crowd Desert Gold and Biplane stand compari-
son in more ways than one. The strangers this year
are not going home empty handed, either. The
kick-off with Gloaming at Randwick on Saturday
was a good beginning for the rich pickings ahead.
In the A.J.C. Derby there are Finmark, Almoner and
Gloaming, and the M.L.-bred colt New Zealand, and
there are more unlikely things to happen than
one of these being in the line of the judge’s vision
at the finish. Whether there is anything on the
premises to beat Desert Gold at w.f.a. is a matter
for speculation, but there are not many owners
particularly confident on the subject, which is a
rather ominous sign. Whether Biplane will be
tried against the mare has not been definitely
announced, but the indications at time of writing
seem to be that the Caulfield Cup is more attractive.
If Biplane goes to the post in that race this page
will expect to hear of him being the winner. It
would be almost confident on the subject but for
the nag’s lately developed habit of running off to
the side in his track work, on the Coq d’Or pat-
tern. It takes a lot of trouble to keep him straight
towards the finish, and in a Caulfield Cup tricks of
that kind are liable to lead to unhappiness among
tipsters. Still he is a wonderfully fast horse, and
9st. 41b. in the Caulfield won’t stop him from being
mightv hard to catch.
* * * *
“Mujik” : The tote had a fair run at Rand-
wick on Saturday—-£34,419. But what an
absurd system' of betting. it is as worked on the
20 per cent, for second and third —and how it
cheapens the whole business! The divs. on Satur-
day on second and third were just as paltry as ever.
The biggest odds landed were 2 to I—and that only
once. The next best was 3 to 2 —and that only
once. In the remaining nine divs. on 2 and 3
the backers laid odds on. Three times they actu-
ally got back less than they staked —a proceeding
so wildly fantastic as to be almost incredible. Ike
as a place bettor never did anything of that sort
anyway. Personally, I had one bet on the machine
that day—on Panacre. The odds-on offer in the
ring for a win were 10 to 1. By taking a place
bet on the machine I got 3 to 1 and the possibility
of landing the odds of 3 to 1 on if he ran second
or third. Perhaps the Government is trying to
keep me away from the window.
Young Frank Dempsey had not been
exactly a gold-mine to his followers f6r some weeks,
but he gave them a sweetener at Moonee Valley
(Vie.) when the Associated Hunt Clubs held their
meeting. Dempsey rode three winners in four
mounts, and the starting prices were 8 to 1, 9 to 4
and 3to 1. A busy punter on the course, investing
£1 on each of Dempsey’s mounts, could win perhaps
£l6 without standing to lose more than the first
pound that he invested. But it isn’t often thus.
Sometimes a backer of Dempsey’s mounts will score
three wins against two losers without being a penny
the richer for his day’s gamble.
* * * *
Greek and Latin names for racehorses
seem to be coming into fashion again. One recent
afternoon at-Caulfield races were won by Daius (out
of Danaide), Eusebius (by Eudorus) and Icon. Dr.
Bennett, of Adelaide, who bought Cyrenaica in N.
S. Wales, has a youthful winner, her progeny, and
has named it Teucheira. He explains that this
was the name of a city in the country that used to
be Cyrenaica, and that all-comers are requested to
pronounce' it Tu-kira (which is good Greek, but
sounds like Maori).
At N. S. Wales Combined High School
championships at Sydney last week L. Bannister
(North Sydney) ran clear from the junior sprinters,
winning the 100yds. (10 2-ssec.), 220yds. (24sec.) and
40yds. (56 l-ssec.). In the heats Bannister smashed
junior records for 100yds. (10 3-10 sec.), and 220yds.
(23 3-ssee.). K. Harbison (East Maitland) made a
name in the jumping events by scaling 9ft. 104 in.
(record) in the pole vault and by dead-heating
with F. Tierney (East Maitland) with sft. 3in. in the
high jump. Among the seniors, Jim McManamey
(North Sddney) won the 100yds. and 220yds., J.
Vote (Sydney High) landed the 440yds. and 880yds. ;
and S. Webb left a big field well to rearward in the
mile. The adjustment of points brought the senior
cup to Sydney High. North Sydney took the junior
utensil.
* * * *
Frank G. Ryan made a big showing at
St. Joseph’s (Sydney) championship meeting last
week by gathering the 100yds. (10 2-ssec.), 220yds.
(23 4-s’sec.), and putting the 121 b. shot (38ft. 9in.).
Within the past year he has won the 100yds. Catholic
College championship, helped St. Joseph’s team
which won the Great Public Schools ltugby pre-
miership, and pulled No. 4 for the school in the
championship eights. Last year’s St. Joseph’s Col-
lege Cup fell to him. J. B. Ryan, a brother, is the
holder of the 121 b. shot putt record (39ft. 74in.),
made in 1915. Another lad busy during the week
was N. G. Mclntosh, who won S.O.E.G.S. (under
16) 100yds., 220yds. and 440yds. championships.
For the past couple of years he has gathered in
G.l’.S sprint titles ; and carries in his satchel honors
at cricket, tennis, swimming, and the rare novice ski
championship, captured at Kosciusko.
N. S. Wales Rugby League sprinter
Harold Horder tested his pace against Gerald Taylor,
the speediest among Australian professional peds, at
Brisbane, last week. Taylor stood Horder up on
syds. in 100, and then had two yards to spare at
the tape-end? In football array Horder certainly is
a topnotcher, but on this performance is far from
the class to which Sydney timekeepers recently lifted
him.
* * * *
R. S. Spears, the N. S. Wales bikist,
seems destined to give a lift to the decayed sport
in America by the very fury of his performances.
Up to recently he had badly defeated all the local
stars, including Kramer, Spencer—the 1917 U.S.
champion, and the two speedy Australians,
McNarhara and Grenda. He has a credit of 70
points, representing 12 firsts, 2 seconds, 1 third and
2 fourths in championship events, and as the nearest
is McNamara with 32 points he seems to have a
mortgage on the principal prize.
* * -X- *
Over the last line in France —-Corporal
.Tack Arnst, one of the family of burly athletes who
raised much dust in Maoriland and Australia in days
when the world was at peace. As a bike-pusher Jack
Arnst gathered much of the spoil attached to M.L.
distance championships, and his record whirl over
the hazardous Christchureh-Dunedin highway (247
miles in 12 hours 21min. 7sce., in 1910) is still a
record. When brother Dick climbed to the top rung
of professional sculling, Jack thought it might also
be in his line; but he was a very second-rater at
that game. Dick, Jack and Walter Arnst made one
of the greatest of cyclist families in Australia. They
were trained behind a plough to start with at Tai
Tapu, near Christchurch.
* * * *
They seem to be quite a happy family up
at Forbes (N.S.W.). An advertisement published in
a local paper the other day announced “The Dance of
the Season 1 Proceeds to be devoted to incapacitated
footballers.” The neighboring gents, were blatantly
and ungrammatically assured that “a good night’s
enjoyment” could be secured for 3s. 6d. Forbes is a
place with a, population of 5000, on Sundays any-
thing from 500 to 1000, half of them •'eligible for
military service, go to watch the toeball conflict.
When the March to Freedom column visited the place
about six weeks ago there was a rush of exactly 0
recruits, the local “snort” having an inflexible deler-
rnination to leave Billjim to his fate and to stay on
the' premises in order that he might scrag the oppos-
ing wing-forward aiid seek the bubble reputation in
the mazy waltz afterwards. Proceeds to incapacitated
footballers! And thousands of gallant young Aus-
tralians away fighting for the lives and freedom of
these village Tieroes, and thousands coming back
maimed and broken from the fray ! This page has a
suggestion to make to the inhabitants of Forbes —
that they start a great national polka carnival to
terminate Only with the exhaustion of the competitors,
the proceeds to be devoted towards the relief of
injured pugs, broken-up punters, incapacitated book-
makers and damaged pony-owners—the sex of the
latter to be immaterial, and the damaged commodity
to consist of either the reputation or pocket.
* * * *
“Fernleaf”: The 1918 Rugby season at
Dunedin (M.L.) saw the disbandment of the rem-
nants of the Kaikorai football team —in its day
the greatest club team that ever stepped on a
Maoriland football field. Kaikorai held premier
place in southern football during the ’nineties, con-
tributing in one season eleven men to the representa-
tive Otago team.' Those were the days when the
only interest attaching to inter-provincial matches
over yonder was the number of points Otago would
win by. The club’s last really great team, that of
1899, contained six men who have played in Aus-
tralia: Porteous, Cross, Duncan (1903), Booth and
McDonald (1905), and ill-fated Barney Armit, the
great wing three-quarter, who died from spinal
injuries received in the Otago-Taranaki match of
’99, while trying to hurdle Alf Bailey, who had
toured Australia with him in the ’97 team. Armit’s
death and the retirement of his lifelong friend
IVoods, the centre three-quarter, crippled the team,
and it succumbed in the following year to an old
rival, the Alhambra. Jimmy Duncan—he of the
bald head and wily mind—skippered the team to
the premiership once or twice afterwards; but the
team gradually went down hill, till Alec McDonald,
of the All Blacks, trained a young new team. This
outfit threatened to restore the glories of the past,
and succeeded in annexing the Otago premiership
four years ago. Then Bill Hohenzollern kicked off
and —well, that finished the team. The lads all fell
into khaki. Some are wounded. Some are dead.
Scott, a South Island rep. and full back to the 1914
team, has had the worst luck. He lost both eyes in
Flanders.
The targets at Randwick (Sydney) rifle-
range were battered badly on Saturday, when A. J.
McEwan and T. Dunne were concerned in an effort
to decide the final shoot of the local club’s quarter
at 500 yards. McEwan piled up 44 bull's-eyes;
Dunne 28. It is the best plugging at the distance
for the range, and ranks next to E. Rowling’s 62 as
an Australian record. P. B. Schofield has the world’s
figures—ll 6 at Wakefield (U.S.A.) in 1910.
* * * *
“E. 5.1.” : How’s this for a long shot? Bill
Baxter, of Richmond (Q.), returning home from a
shoot on Charcoal Creek, sighted a plain-turkey a
long distance off, and persuaded the' driver to stop
while he tried a shot with an old Hollis No. 4
Ballistito. He dropped the turkey stone dead, and
the distance was found to be’ 1284yds. Three
pellets were found in the bird, two being 1-16 inch
apart in the neck and the other flattened at the base
of the beak.
N. S. Wales bowlers had a torrid time up
North recently. They tackled Queensland in three
test matches, and were wiped out by 124-66, 125-
67 and 99-96. Only one Ma rink in a dozen came
out on top, by 33-15. The Northern rink with the
greatest successes (skippered by one-time singles-
champion G. M. Colledge) piled up 40-9, 37-12 and
29-23. In view of the debilitating effects of the
awful climate this was considered worth applauding
with the aid of some refreshments.
* * * *
Billjimima is swinging her left in the
ring now. One of the. attractions at a recent fete in
aid of Queen Mary’s Needlework Guild was a ten-
round scrap between a brace of hefty girls. It fol-
lowed immediately after a children’s pageant.
Princess Mary sat out both items.
* * * *
“G. 11.” : Here, behind the lines (France),
we’ve just had the most dinkum and up-to-date
race-mceting possible. Ten events, including two
steeplechases. Registered bookmakers drowned the
noise of- the guns, a tote did good business, gentle-
men of the three-cards art and all. the other appur-
tenances were on the scene. But this was new..
The boys dropped down in dozens aboard their aero-
planes to have a bit on! This is the first race-
meeting in the world attended from the air.
Between races, we saw two observation balloons
brought down .by one of Fritz’s aeroplanes.
Colonel Charlie Butler, son of the S.A..
State Treasurer, is bitterly disappointed with
the result of a ‘‘drive” he made through the
country districts of S.A. to get 500 volun-
teers to go with him when he returns to the
war. He got a great reception on return-
ing to the city, but had to admit that in
three weeks he had gathered only 24. The
one bright spot, he said, was Port Broughton,
“where no eligible man could live.” Else-
where he found from six to nine sons on a
farm, and could not get one. There are
35,000 eligibles in South Aus., he says, and
he will have to tell the boys at the Front
that he cannot raise 500 in support. “No
finer message could be sent to the Kaiser.”
It is only fair to add that business at the
ordinary recruiting-oflice in Adelaide is fairly
brisk.


YOU’D BE AN EASY MARK FOR A
SCIENTIFIC BOXER—
*
i
■ ■
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
because you’re inexperienced and _ u nt ra'Md. b^ u yom . oppo nent
cited, and consequently leave openings , , would enable him to
to “deal it out” to you. His scicntiflc knwledge wou |)lqw ]eave a
draw you on. He’d be calm and collect > d have t o suffer the
vniT’D be unable to penetrate ms aeieni-e, <mu
SS&JS’S be,..- VT X teach ,n
There’s no excuse for you not knowing how t
your own home. # 0
My Postal Course of Boxing
will enable you to become a sound, practical and
scientific boxen My course explains sm»p£ and con-
cisely every serviceable move—every efficient lead,
counter, guard, feint, etc.
T otters reach me by every mail from pupils all over
the" world, who express their great satisfaction at
the rapid progress they have made under my tuition.
Here is one: — .. r
“Before starting on your boxing instruction I
was of the opinion that a boxer had to be BORN
However, I am now satisfied that,your lessons will
make any man efficient in the art of self-defence.
(Signed) G. M. R ,
Peeramon, Queensland.
1 should like to send you a copy of my interesting
booklet, “SCIENTIFIC BOXING IN YOUR fIOME,
which tells all about my methods, fees etc Just
write ypur name and address across this advertise-
ment, and send it to me, with three penny stamps
for postage. I will know what you mean.
“The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,’’
787 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
Buy War Loan Bonds
and know the pleasure
that comes from
doing your best?
Use “Shell” Benzine
and know the pleasure
that comes from
getting the best.
British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
All States and New Zealand.
pi ARE YOU n
Ruptu reD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WE&R, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE,
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
Dog Medicines Used by
Leading Breeders.
WORM CAPSULES.
Splendid remedy for
young dogs; most suc-
cessful cure for worms.
Price, 1/6.
MANGE SPECIFIC.
Finest external remedy
for mange. Highly
recommended.
Price, 2/6.
Booklet “ B,” 11 Hints to Dog: Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
THE DOG MEDICINE SPECIALISTS,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable from JOHN BRUSH LTD.,
George Street, Sydney. [2
Healthy Liver
Healthy Life
Your liver—healthy or clogged, active or
sluggish—makes all the difference between
vigorous, cheerful life and low spirits and failure.
Banish headache, indiges-
tion, biliousness and ner-
vousness and clear up
sallow, blotchy, pimply
skin with the tried
family medicine.
Carter’s
Little
Liver
Pills.
Cmm
ITTLE
IVER
FILLS.
Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price
GENUINE must bear signature
ISN’T
SHE .
A
B£AUT^
TWENTY-Fl\f£\
IMPROVEMENTS!
,eh!
(great Stup*tl
\that new
WAIVE LIFTER^
[Some
ISTARTED! I
SEE THAT
C.R.A.OUE
JJP/2/WC
\i
A CHORUS OF PRAISE
AND ADMIRATION
HAS GREETED THE 1918
HAVE YOU SEEN IT YET ?
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Pty. Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., Ltd., 156
Castlereagh Street.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd.., 75-79
Pirie Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency Ltd., Adelaide & Creek Sts.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons
Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle & Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
mm
■A/I/
V
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bali Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
fg
Marine Engines
For All Boats
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically
Electric Lights
Callle 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
fg
Callle Five
Speed Row*
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
80 li.p. This .embodies
one- to four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor e-v e r produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole
Australasian
Agents—
• A3NQAS lood43An B£=9£
sjai|;ojg uosuag
71=75 Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE.
THE SUPER “Fx 8 R” WATCH
The original “Fx & R” Watches are known through-
out Australasia for their marvellous accuracy and
endurance.
But, as usual, we progress, and so now we are
showing the
SUPER “Fx & R” WATCH.
Its present price is 635. in steel case, but what a
watch it is! Every latest improvement known to
horological science is in it.
It is jewelled in every part where wear occurs. It
will go with profound accuracy, indeed it is so accu-
rate that a ship could be steered to England by it.
For strength and standing up against hard wear
we unhesitatingly say that no watch the world over
equals the SUPER “Fx & R” Watch.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Plain Figures. Cash only.
Gen t.'s O.F.
Oxidised Steel
“Super Fx & It”
fully-jewelled
Lever Watch,
63/-
/
t
w
3>IOW SK
lS3a 3HI
IS
YELLOW
ASTER
i* TOBACCO
«°W SHAU,
imvtsri
IONtLY a 4).
vjbob *'
1
/
Trades Hall, Sydney.
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
Eig'ht-Hour Art Union
AND SPORTS.
PRIZES value *3500
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 2, 1918.
FIRST PRIZE, value £650
SECOND PRIZE, value £3OO
THIRD PRIZE, value £2OO
And 397 other Valuable
Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1918.
TRY IT.
First Prize ir. 1917 won bv Mrs. T. A. Peterson,
Balmain, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of
One Shilling
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOB 1918.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, Nov. 7, 1918. To any
person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will he
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from—
ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.


n
2
In the Public Eye.
On the Public Neel:.
The Treasurer
Urges Economy upon the Nation.
COLLARS
enable the individual to economise by
giving best all-round service and
longer wear.
SHAPE ILLUSTRATED
THE “TALBOT" LINEN FACED. Pricel/-
lTeiglit lJin., ljin., 2in., 2-Jin., 2iin.
Size 18Jin. to 18in.
WEAR
3MIDTS& PYJAMAS
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
■old by all
Leading:
Retailers. [3
MADE
Perfection
RUBBER
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
95
m
*=a«
Tlie above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny .stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
75 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
jCO-FFnEE IESSENCB
7275&Z
m.
QUEEN! ARMS HOTEL!
In the Heart of the
City of Melbourne
If contemplating a visit to Melbourne you
can confidently book accommodation at
the Queen’s Arms Hotel. This fine hotel,
situated a few seconds from trains, trams,
theatres, public buildings and business
centres —with modern accommodation,
excellent cuisine and pleasing service—is
the ideal “home” for visitors.
Tariff by the day, 10/6.
QUEEN’S ARMS HOTEL
(Late Champion’s),
Or. Swanston Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
For liiaie Shafting,
Machine Tools,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling and
Factory Equip-
ment, etc., etc.
fg
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
vl
;_jy
I
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The SKF Self-aligning Ball-bearing Tiummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
tliis bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard casli per annum.
GARDNER, WAERN & CO.,
Chief Agents anti Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE — BRANCHES—
Office, 354 City Road, S. Melbourne
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY . .
BRISBANE
225 Clarence Street.
. . 367 Queen Street.
PHOTOGRAPHY 1
AMATEURS—for Good Results and Speed send your
Developing, Printing and Enlarging to
ToelfilßsTo&ias
278 George
Street,
Opp. Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
Criticisms Free—lndividual Attention—Postal Orders
Used the
World Over
E 3
MOTOR
...CARS
fg
War Service
Continues to engage the whole of the energies of
the Wolseley Factories, and we are still unable to
supply private customers.
We shall, however, be pleased to receive enquiries,
and to add your name to our rapidly-growing
Waiting List.
AGENTS:
F. H. GORDON & CO. LTD., 133-135-137
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KELLOW FALKINER MOTOR CO., Russell Street,
Melbourne.
HOWARD CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
G. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
WOL&ELET MOTORS LTD,.
ENGLAND.
Proprietors: VICKERS LTD.
fg
fg
fg
iA New Model
TARGET RIFLE
I2C-N. R. A. .22 Caliber Repeating Rifle
A REPEATING RIFLE for the finest target shoot-
& ing, combining graceful lines, proper weight,
perfect balance and adaptability to slow or rapid fire shooting
in any position.
This new model has peep sights adjustable for wind and elevation which
sportsmen generally will recognize as the best for fine target shooting.
It is chambered especially for the .22 Long Rifle cartridge but the
.22 Short and .22 Long may also be used.
Special descriptive circular mailed free upon request »
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
Box 686, G. P. 0., MELBOURNE
18-3
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) trill be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted ; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
The Immature Male: Do you mean to say
in sober earnestness or earnest soberness that those
awful verses (or whatever they are) about the Aus-
tralian soldiers appeared in The English Review?
. ...T.W.: They’ve got to he out of the common;
the one you sent is a maudlin thing-. ...
C.N.H.: Thanks....A Mother: Sorry, of no value to
The Bulletin. . . .Mary 11.: There’s a mort of wicked
men abroad, Mary, and you have our sympathy....
Goldsboroug'h; Thanks; but we’ve had practically
everything you have to say concerning those mining
men.... Wet Specks: Haven’t been able to locate
that correspondent up to date. S'orry... .Arthur
Bullockyoke: Far too 10ng... .Pleece: Thanks; we’ll
use it and anything else of sufficient interest. . .M.W.D.:
Not a cheerful fragment.... Val-wan: Yes, we pay;
but not for that,.. .L.G.: Not for print C.F.P.:
“White House” doesn’t get a site... .C.C.D.: Not
enough in it....J.H.: Write less and better, or
write better and more, whichever you like....
H.N.L.: In that menagerie of lions, harps, maple-
leaves and crosses you might have found something
to 5ay....J.J.: Sonnet has no warmth. Fire
it up until you ran grill a horseshoe on
it and then pass it up....T.0.: “Strangers”
breaks all the sonnet rules.... P.T.0.: Misses:
hut there’s freshness in it... .W.R.F.: Why
be a melodramatic ass to get off a few falsehoods?
. ...5.8.G.: Not up....T.A.: No use.... J.L.8.:
Misses... .E.J.G.: Make a par of the “White Lady.”
....Nell: Too slight.... Saba: That sort of lament
is for private consumption.... Bung Eye: Write
when your eye is not bunged... .J. 8.: “Camel Race”
too crude. .. .Aide-de-Camp : Sample:—-
How I did laugh, when you believed,
That Light could shine from a Well.
No No Sweetheart! do not come to,
Over-legislated Hell.
Babylonian Wage Board Siter,
Where Sectarian Bigots thrive;
You—a Methodist—could never,
Ask new Mazarin to shrive.
Truly I would like to see you,
Little Methodist rapper—
For you must be, just of nice age—
No .under Thirty—Flapper.
Khaki: Dull reading M.M.: No O.B.: The
passionate intensity. carries it in:—
\ustralia! Australia! Hang to your Colors as you
all know,
r o lose these Colors t’Will be a terrible blow’;
'or it will he still worse to lose your Furbelow,
Uid for ever you’ll regret when you hear the enemy
crow.
Vustralia! Australia this land of which we crow,
You know what we’ve got and what it will grow;
Never give the enemy a chance to row,
Nip the bud, and never give it a chance to crow.
Oh! Australia 1 Australia stick to the ones we love,
As you will see in these few lines written above;
Never say die and stick to the old move,
So the World will see that we intend to improve.
... .Lela M.: Don’t like it much... .T.G.: Too
ragged... . A.C.A.D.: Yes; there’s promise there....
Rex: Very wobbly.... F.R.W.: We don’t reply to
contributors by letter.. .A.C.G.: Have another try...
Mag: “The Hum” is dull reading. .. .T.E.S.: Nothing
inspiring or realistic in it. Mistook it for a “best
seller” novel at first.... Tyke: Doesn’t move u 5....
J.H.: “Tryst” and “Man” fail. Now write “Woman”
—but don’t send it to U5....D.8.: “Peoples” goes
heavily.... Bellerive: “The Shepherd” soars to high
tragedy:—-
He pictured a cottage in England,
Where a misfortune did shadow he’s life,
A treacherous and polished villain,
A false and dishonorable wife,
The room in the Inn where he’d tracked etn,
The struggle and fatal blow,
The appeal of he’s wife for mercy,
When the lifeblood oozed from he’s foe,
The Judge and stern face’s did haunt him.
At he’s trial for the desperate crime,
Ten years as a convict in prison,
From which he emerged in he’s prime,
Overwhelmed by the grim recollections,
He’s heart swelled in a spasm of grief.
By he’s bed stood a lad in the morning,
The veteran had died in lie’s sleep.
GIMcC.: No use. .. .C.M.L.: You haven’t the
touch. Anyhow, why imitate another man's method ?•
What harm has he done to you?. .. .G.E.K.: Rambles
into nothing—and that track’s worn out. .. .W.H.8.:
Too nigged... .Bill Aussie: Too weak ... . E.C.E.:
Right. Keep on moving; and then, when you’ve
been “valuing the ticks of the clock” for some years,
look back and see all the good, wholesome loafing
you’ve missed .A.ILS.: As slight as Massey
Greene’s chances of beating the Meat Ring....
M.K.: “Butterfly Billy,” or is it “Butterfly
Betty?” Not wanted, anyhow. .. .A.G. : Kerensky
is now rather out of date. The last time we heard
of him he was in Guatemala, and that republic is
lying 10w... .P.R.: Tut. tut, tut! Keep your temper.
....James 18: Not well enough written. ~ .M. O’M.:
“Holiday Song” is nearly a cheque-wfnner....
L.R.T.: N 0... .H.B. :jNone of them can g 0.... .0.M.:
“Boy and Tom” does not interest the office coroner,
and he’s generally eager for a job... .D.A.S.: Nothing
remarkable, except the lack ot' grammar.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.C.: You ruin a good story that we know by heart
and send a bad drawing with it. ...S.T.: Bicycle
joke only about 20 years late... .B.II.: Don’t want
the ladies. Sell ’em for Jack’s Day.... J.J.D.:
Chopped out, wasn’t if ?... .E.H.W.: Unable to use
them... .Pavement: You'll need to improve a 10t....
J.G.: Drawing is very weak and the gag- can’t travel.
. ...J.M.0.: Your sentimental drawing should be
entitled “The Night of the Murder.”.... A.W.O'H.:
No life in either of the figures... .A.T.G.: Smudgy
method, and it doesn’t look like the comedian.
London Chronicle is lost in admiration
or something of Prime Minister Hughes who,
with a libel writ hanging over his head,
goes on gaily repeating the alleged libel on
every possible occasion. But if the ease
goes against Hughes and his conduct aggra-
vates the damages, or if he is fined a few
thousands for contempt, the Commonwealth
is to pay. And if he is imprisoned for con-
tempt the British Government must needs
get its stormy guest out somehow, lest he
should become a national institution and a
candidate for the Presidency of the British
republic. With the same immunity this
writer would tell things, some of them true,
about notable people which would flabber-
gast the community.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. W t
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “ cures ” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn't got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Rilev Streets, Sydney.
Try This Com Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
\
si
K
1
i
V
ste
90
c5vQ
32?
i«3
SS
<2s
T
4>
<V
£o
-$r
O
*so
Q?
55
o
*
Nf
Cranny” Chamberlain
/CnPYF?IGHTED.I
Don't let Group
attack your children.
ALTHOUGH your child may be a croupy subject
there is absolutely no reason why you should ever
allow it to develop an attack.
You know the symptoms, and as they generally make (
their appearance hours ahead of the attack, you have ample
time to treat them. Immediately you notice any unusual
hoarseness give the child
% , eo U€>n HEMEST *
Sometimes, instead of hoarseness,
the child appears to develop a
cough, but whatever the symptoms,
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy will
nip it in the bud.
The great danger of croup is the
formation of a false membrane in
the throat, and until this is expell-
ed the spasmodic choki n g continues.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
given in frequent doses loosens this
membrane and causes the child to
expel it by vomiting.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is
an absolutely safe and certain
remedy for croup. If given as soon
as the child becomes hoarse, or even
after the croupy cough appears, it
will prevent the attack.
It has most wonderful curative
properties, is pleasant to take, and
children like it.
tyjcuhs j'j-zajyi —»
Atl retailers are authorised to
sell Chamberlain's Cough
Remedy to you under a posi-
tive guarantee: If it does not
do all that we claim we will
refund the price paid.
BE PREPARED.
Like manv other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectediy and
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder his developed Daring “VJ war
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that ife is m aug r
C “ the interests of their famil. at heart keep a bottle of Chamberlain's Colic andl Diarrhea Remedyon
hand for immediate use in cases of this Kind It is without doubt thetheTuack mav be avoided but even in
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bowels the attack may oe aio u
advanced it js a q»ick and Colic, and Diarrhoea Remedy in
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, cone an«|pan s m s“"» ac “
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied upo
A better article
at a lower price!
Rexirve
—the perfect leather substitute.
Looks like leather but is better in every way. It wears better
and never becomes shabby, as being impervious to atmos-
pheric action it never peels or cracks. It is stain and grease
proof, and can be made like new by simply washing with soap
and water. A Rexine-covered suite has all the beauty of
leather upholstering without any of its disadvantages, and its
cost is only one quarter that of leather.
Do away with unhygienic, dust-collecting fabric upholsterings
and insist upon having Rexine.
Agents:
A. BUCKHAM & SON,
95 York Street, Sydney.
Sole Makers s REXINE Ltd., Hyde, nr. Manchester, England,
i Mahers of hags, suit cases, fancy goods, slippers etc., and bookbinders who are j
i using leather should write at once for samp.es of Rexine. It will effect a big j
■ saving and give greater satisfaction.
iff ' ~ <f>
v-X
z
/
ri
7«f
i
'/ can ,C
9UO
non
\
MOTOR LORRIES
I=2=3 and 5 Tons
Capacities.
When you examine a Denby truck one of the things that strikes you most
forcibly is the thoroughness of its. construction. The smallest bolt or nut
has the same great factor of safety for its work as the massive frame or
the sturdy axle.
Denby trucks, therefore, are practically immune from the so-called minor
troubles that do so much to affect the satisfactory service of a motor-truck.
And Denby trucks will carry their maximum load in any kind of going at
a remarkably low petrol consumption.
A. HATRICIv & COMPANY, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
" THE, CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Add.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
*"J“ I VOLI THEATItk, SYDNEY.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF S’NICE.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 21.
J . JACK WALLER
and his Great Company of Comedians, in
VANITY FAIR,
A Sparkling Musical Extravaganza.
*1"lVOH THEATRE. MELItO (JUNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
the Sparkling and Spectacular London Revue,
HONI SOIT.
Featuring Beatrice Holloway, John Junior and Barry
Lupino.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
/'ll! TEK I O N TIIE A T RE, SYDNEY.
w Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First presentation in Sydney of
THE MAN WHO CAME BACK,
with MURIEL STARR, FRANK HARVEY, LOUIS
KIMBALL, together with J. C. Williamson’s
SPLENDID DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
U E It AI A .1 E S T Y ’ S, SYDXIi Y.
* * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
The Latest “Potash and Perlmutter” episode,
BUSINESS BEFORE PLEASURE.
Presented with considerable skill by the Two Famous
London Hebrew Comedians, ADAMS and WATERS,
and J. C. Williamson’s snecially-selected Comedv
Company, including MAGGIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
D LATH- OUSE.
* Castlereagh Street, between
ami Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
NIGHTLY’, with MATINEE SATURDAYS.
COMMENCING TO-MORROW NIGHT.
SYDNEY JAMES’S ENTIRELY NEW SHOW.
“PIERROT PIE NO. 4,”
A NEW PIE—THE REVUE PIE!
IF YOU PREFER SEATS—BOOK !
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION I’IC TU R K TIIISAT It E S
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
have pi
easure
in announcing
o
the opening of our
New Season’s Styles
in Gentlemen’s
Distinctive and Ex-
clusive Headwear.
/,//// XJ
|S U ll
R. Hunt 8 Co.
Gentlemen’s Outfitters,
314 George Street,
Sydney,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street.
Amusements.
HER iM.V.)ESTY’S THEATRE, MELItOUUHIi.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE MUSICAL PLAY OF SNAP AND SPARKLE,
OH! OH!! DELPHINE!!!
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
OYT’S THEATRES. MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE. BOURIvE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
WILLIAM S. HART in
WOLVES OF THE RAIL.
VIVIAN MARTIN in
A KISS FOR SUSIE.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday 2.30.
This week’s Feature:
THE LEE CHILDREN in
THE TROUBLE MAKERS.
Prices as Usual.
Amusements.
Til 10 ATIt E It OX A JL, .MEEItOUItNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the NEW
MUSICAL COMEDY CO- in the American Musical
Hit,
“OH, BOY!”
KING’S THEATRE, 51 IC T, It OCIt N E.
Direction BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, SEPTEMBER 21.
Reappearance of the BERT BAILEY CO.
in Owen Davis’s Charming Play,
WHAT HAPPENED TO MARY.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
Auditokiu m, melbourn e.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE SCARLET GAIETIES,
The Daintiest Costume Comedy Co. ever brought to
Melbourne.
TWELVE BRILLIANT ARTISTS, all new to
Melbourne.
Popular Prices. Plans at Allan’s.
frg
A. Tilbury, Principal of the Saxon
School. From original photograph.
Adopt My System
OF
Physical Culture!
IT WILL MAKE YOU AS
STRONG AS A UGN.
FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
A POSITIVE CURE FOR.
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION,
Nervous Ailments and Physical
WcaKnesses of all Kinds.
For full particulars WRITE FOR FREE BOOK!
A. TILBURY, Principal,
Saxon School for Health and Strength,
No. 4, Inns of Court, Adslaids Street, Brisbane.
THIRD HALF-YEARLY REPORT of
THE BANK OF QUEENSLAND LIMITED
To the Fourth Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on Wednesday,
21 st August, 1918.
The Directors now have pleasure in submitting to the Shareholders the Third
Half-yearly Report, Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account as on the 31st July,
1918.
The Net Profits for the Half-year, after deducting
Rebate on Bills Current, Interest on Deposits, Land and
Income Taxes, paying all Expenses and providing for Bad
and Doubtful Debts, amount to ..... .. ..£17,297 6 9
To which is to be added :—-
Balance from last Half-year. . .. .. . . 6,019 5 5
£23,316 12 2
which the Directors recommend to be appropriated as follows:
To Dividend for the Half-year at the rate of 6% per
annum .. .. .. .. .. ..£13,500 0 0
„ Queensland Dividend Tax . . .. . . .. 675 0 0
„ Balance carried forward to next Half-year .. 9,141 12 2
£23,316 12 2
For and on behalf of the Board,
Brisbane, 12th August, 1918.
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman.
BALANCE-SHEET of The Bank of Queensland Limited
for the Half-year ended 31st July, 1918.
LIABILITIES.
Deposits . . . . .. . . £2,928,451 10 1
Bills payable and other liabilities,
including provision for contin-
gencies . . . . . . . . 236,902 311
Capital . . £450,000 0 0
Profit and Loss . . 23,316 12 2
473,316 12 2
£3,638,730 6 2
Contingent Liabilities—
Outstanding credits, as per contra 61,453 0 0
£3,700,183 6 2
ASSETS.
Coin, bullion and cash balances .. £715,155 6 3
Australian notes 234,525 10 0
Government stock . . . . 175,000 0 0
Remittances in transit to branches
and agents 119,855 11 10
£1,244,536 8 1
Bills discounted, advances and all
other debts .. ... .... 2,236,693 18 1
Bank premises 157,500 0 0
£3,638,730 6 2
Liabilities of customers and others
on letters of credit as per contra 61,453 0 0
£3,700,183 6 2
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Or.
fg
By Balance from last Half-year .. £6,019 5 5
„ Gross Profit for the half-year
(after deducting interest on de-
posits, rebate on hills current
and makinp- provision for bad
and doubtful debts) .. .. 58,128 911
£64,147 15 4
Audited and found correct,
W. H. PARKER
GEO. FRED. SCOTT
Auditors.
A. S. COWLEY, Chairman of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Amusements.
(VI '-IKSTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMABGE
( .. 11l
BY RIGHT OF PURCHASE.
Plan at Allan’s.
MatinCes Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
(VI ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPII, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gKITANSIA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.tn.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
FOR SEA SICKNESS
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL S has received the
unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testi-
monials from the World’s greatest men,
women, and institutions. Among these are
Bishop Taylor-Smith (Chaplain General
of the British Forces), Doctors, Bankers,
Polytechnic Tours, Salvation Army, etO.
SB
Sold Under a Positive Guarantee to
Prevent and Cure Sea or Train
Sickness or Money Returned.
MOTHERSILL’S is guaranteed ndt to contain
Cocaine, Morphine, Opiurti, Chloral, or afly of
the cbal-tar products,
NO BAD AFTER EFFEdTS.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes .
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO.. LfD,,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney,
N
n
is.-
ABBEY
SHOES!
If you want high-quality footwear,
that is correct and smart in appear-
ance —that will give you long ser-
vice and comfort, wear Abbey
Shoes.
We illustrate a special highest-
grade Patent Derby Shoe. A
smart, “made-to-order” style.
Price - 40/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Stocked in half and full sizes, and
in narrow, medium and wide
fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.


Try Cuticura
Soap and Ointment
Samples Free by Post
A simple, easy,
speedy treat-
ment. Smear
the pimples
with Cuticura
Ointment, wash off
in five minutes with
Cuticura Soap and hot
r
water and continue bathing for some
minutes. Use night and morning.
For pimples, redness, roughness,
itching and irritation, dandruff, itch-
ing scalp and falling hair, red, rough
hands and baby rashes, these fra-
grant emollients are wonderful as
well as ideal for the toilet.
For free sample each address post-card:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
CHRISTIE 3
SPECIALISE
TWO
LINES
t#
P
WQiTE
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS’/
MATERIALS
TO
i 1
i
i *
Pi
& * :
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 7 SYDNEY
lc /iONTER § T NEWCASTLE
.CARTRIDGES'.
Always Reliable
warn
mm
ELEY Grand Prlx’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
fg
ELEY
•450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
fg
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L° LONDON
WAITING!
There is nothing so trying for a woman
these days as waiting —always waiting.
It needs a steady nerve and a strong heart to
carry on —do the day’s work with a cheerful face,
and have a smile handy.
a J
Give yourself a chance to do this by keeping
fit —a tonic that really helps is
Phosformo
I THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a nerve and cell food and strengthener
that is helping many folk over the worries, work
and waiting that the world is going through now.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan ” has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “ Swan
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence in workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan ” manufacture for a
generation.
'SWAN'
PENS
Sf old ly Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6
Safety Pattern with
Screw-on Cap, from 15/-
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
-319-329, Weston St., S.E. Associate House —Mabie,
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch : J. A. BURKE. 5 Primrose Buildings, 265 a George Street, Sydney.
fg
fg
THE
W
m
-=3sZ-
<£
- J& &
•=a*£-t£
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498.220. Deserve Fund, £700,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
mrentnr* ■ Stp TOHN GRICE Chairman; EDWARD* TRENCIIAED, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H M. STRACHAN, Esq?; J.’ NEWMAN BARKER, Eeq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
* * Manager: R. 8. GREGSON. Accountant: E. J. oSl Bo ®f®A I<!g
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Westetrn Australia, New South wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 E ishiopsgate, E.C.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let tihe Bavisher of Belgium win without
lifting a> handf
When pro-German interests in the Ameri-
can Labor Leagues were busy with their
propaganda, and the “humamtanamsm of
the German social insurance system was
being dinned in the ears of credulous woik-
ers one Gustavus Myers denounced it as a
rank counterfeit. His revelations and
criticisms were taken from a report ot the
Berlin Invalidity Insurance Institution,
which exulted over the fact that disabled
workers in 1914, when the Kingdom of the
Huns was at the height of its prosperity,
drew a princely pension of rather less than
4s. a week, whilst old-age pensioners luxuri-
ated on a pittance of 3s. 3d. Widows sick
and young orphans healthy, with no bread-
winner to provide for them, received each
18 or 19 pence from the paternal State.
Touching these legal safeguards against
“poverty” among the masses, somebody has
written a widely-circulated book which con-
gratulates the Huns on their advanced
civilisation, and claims that their system ot
pensions proves Germany to be “a democrati-
cally-minded country.” The glowing author
instances these doles ranging from 18d. to
3s. llld. per week as “a juster distribution
of wealth” and “a more generous allotment
of the gains of civilisation.” In the face ot
such figures it is not astounding to learn
from the Berlin Invalidity Insurance Insti-
tution’s report that out of 15,799 men re-
ceiving pensions for disablement 2500 were
also getting poor relief, whilst the propor-
tion of paupers among the 16,032 women,
pensioners was higher. Of the newcomers to
the pension-list, who would not all be per-
manent. nearly one-half were already get-
ting poor relief, and about 50 per cent, of
the old-age pensioners as they came along
were also in the same position. The direc-
tor of the blessed institution reported that
“abandonment of the poor-law money grants
occurred only in isolated cases.’ The
munificence of the grants can be estimated
from the amount of the pension. It seems,
then, that social insurance in Germany in
the piping days' of Peace was almost as
fraudulently pretentious as the yachting-
prize cup of base metal coated with gold
which the Kaiser presented to an American
club. Yet it sufficed to persuade Fritz that
his government was democratic.
“R. Isle”: Ever hear of the method
adopted in military signalling for calling
letters of the alphabet? Certain letters,
which are euphonious, have _ to be
especially distinguished to avoid error.
Thus A is called ack, B is called
beer, D is called don, M is emma, T
toe, etc. Was sergeant of the guard on a
transport, and my instructions were to take
the names of all n.c.o’s and men coming
aboard after 10 p.m. About midnight a
sergeant-major, about three sheets in '.e
wind, oozed up the gangway and T chal-
lenged him. “Regimental number, 1 x and
name?” His reply was a stagger- v: “24.
esses emma, toe, beerodoubledon.” Work it
out for yourself. / had to.
“Bungawalbyn” steers in :
“Cleveland’s” recent par. on the Tunisian Navy
brings to mind another comic-opera navy which has
had more luck, inasmuch as it has not yet been stolen.
It consists of one small, obsolete, auxiliary vessel, which
once belonged to the British Government; it was well
known on the Australian station, and was purchased
on the instalment plan by the Liberian Republic.
Owing to the chronically straitened state of the
Liberian finances, it is never possible to paint the
whole of “the Navy” at one operation, consequently
it is always in a more or less piebald condition. The
uniforms of the admiral of the fleet and Ins officers
are modelled on those of the British Navy, but cariy
more gold lace. The wearers and their clothes serve
a double purpose, for they are attached to the postal
service. On the arrival of passenger steamers which
occasionally call at Monrovia, the naval staff boards
them in their postal capacity and trades off unused
postage-stamps at their face value. The designs
of these stamps are frequently changed in order to
encourage business. When the Spanish-American War
was on, the world was shaken up by a solemn declara-
tion of neutrality from Liberia. A few months ago
a German submarine unexpectedly appeared off Mon-
rovia (the capital) and * shelled it to pieces at
leisure, incidentally destroying a fine wireless sta-
tion. No doubt “the fleet” put up a gallant fight,
but it was not mentioned by the cableman.
The Wheat Scheme Commission, which
brought to light almost unbelievable mis-
management on the part of those responsible
for the handling of wheat, has opened the
eyes of the man that grows the grain in
South Australia, and the Farmers and Set-
tlers’ Association is inquiring as to the Gov-
ernment’s liability for damage and other
losses in respect to wheat delivered under
the scheme. The question is whether the
Government is in a fiduciary relationship to
the owners of the wheat and whether any
loss caused to the owners should be borne by
the State. The farmers are naturally upset
at the fact that S.A. wheat certificates for
the 1916-17 pool were selling at 7d. and Vic-
torian certificates at Is. On 42,000,000
bushels (the quantity received by the pool)
the drop in value was about £875,000. It is
believed that this was evidence of abnormal
loss, and that action at law is necessary to
recover it.
“O. Blin” : For some months I lived next
door to the late spiritualist Stanford in East
Melbourne, but I never saw a sign of life
about his place. His odd shambling domicile,
with the thick, secretive garden, large aviary
and line of dim windows, had a sort of brood-
ing quiet which used to impress me consider-
ably long before I learnt who was the tenant
of the house. The residence gave me the
feeling of living close to a cemetery or a
morgue, and I have known superstitious
women cross to the other side of the road
even in daylight sooner than pass Stanford’s
shuttered gateway. Stanford was the victim
of a legend which will long outlive his repu-
tation among his neighbors. It w-as alleged
that his wife on her deathbed threatened to
haunt him if he married again. I had some
opportunities of inspecting him close up in
the city, and I often wondered if his missus
hadn’t kept her word.
“Lai Lai” : Let me end the argument. It
was my uncle who rode .from the wreck of
tile barque Jane, in Discovery Bay (Vic.), to
Portland, secured rockets, life-lines, etc., and
back to the scene of the disaster in 90
minutes. The date was June 6, 1863; he
was then a lad of 13 years, and his nag was
a weedy 13-hand pony, grass-fed. The. jour-
ney was 28 miles, and the time constitutes a
record for this district.


vrn
I
m
p
70i
r
m
i
i
I
1
f
l
L
%
A
I
?y
&
*2
a»€r/
A Challenge to the Elements
in Every Roll
A challenge to changing seasons, to the sun’s heat,
to chilly cold; to atmospheric gases,
and torrential rains—in every roll of
Certain-teed Roofing.
That’s why Certain-teed has rolled into the
far corners of the earth and served for years
on every kind of roof, flat or gabled. Every-
where, under every condition, it has proved
weather-proof and water-tight. Does not
buckle, blister or crack. Neither does it
affect the taste or odour of water.
Certain-teed is made and guaranteed by
the World’s Largest manufacturer of roll
roofing, paint and building materials.
3 ply % tauAW
I v.r' I]
Certain-teJZi
i<9Ti
■
cerVT
********
22J-ABEL niQUjPii
11
MB. C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee Building:, Sydney, N.S.W.
Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
John Banks & Sons Pty. Btd. .lames Sandy & Co., Etd.
Wunderlich, l,t«l. James Bardie & Co.
James Campbell & Sons Ud., Brisbane.
WRIGLEYS
Y;
i
i m
i
■ i
$
7
[“The Flavour Lasts”
We all need sweetmeats—
the children especially.
But they should not eat
sweets to excess, for then
the stomach is harmed.
WRIGLEY’S, the famous chewing
confection, provides a delicious sweet-
meat with long-lasting flavour.
Instead of harming, it benefits all
who use it.
Aids appetite *
and digestion.
Quenches thirst.
Keeps teeth
clean and breath
sweet,
3d. per packet.
On sale at
Chemists* Con-
fectioners and
Stores.
J. C. Gambles & Coy.
Agents. Melbourne.
s£-;s
w
«S
•'OUR
eg*
£Ecf
s*ga#
111
{jmlMM
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
£u ■
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong-.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun. 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight 1
about s Jib Freight paid,
£.5.
If troubled with Mosquitoes
USE SKEETERBANE.
1/1 & 1/8 bottle, post free.
“SURE CATCH" ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
fg
B27. “The Cert” D.B.B.L. Gun, 16-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel barrels, exten-
sion rib, rebounding: locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock;
weight about 71b Freight paid,
80 /-
SUNOL TOBACCO
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/1, post free.
fg
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2fin. shells.
Magazine holds
Weight 7£lb
834. Remington Browning Automatic
12-gauge, similar description to 833 ■ • •
cartridges, rubber butt-plate.
Freight paid,
Repeating Shot-Gun,
..... . Freight paid, £ll/11/-
£ll/11/-
“KOOLAH"
SHAVING STICKS.
Delightful to use.
7d. each, post free
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted are subject
to change without notice.
g
B2G. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross bolt, high-filed rib, 30in. steel barrels,
both choke, D. & E. fore-end, side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, beauti-
fully engraved, weight about 7fib Freight paid,
£l4
fg
818. Winchester
1903 Model, special
steel barrel, detachable
Automatic Repeating Rifle,
22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
stock; will shoot ] 0 cartridges in
3 seconds; weight, about silb.; sighted
point blank to 100 yards; will kill at 500 Freight paid.
£.7!10t
‘H3XVD anas' m
‘The Tackle that Makes
Fishing Worth While.’'
g
814. Winchester- Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
1892
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/7/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/10/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines, min if\
20in. round barrel, weight about sJib Freight paid, mt j V?
ĝ
831. Martin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model, 24m. octa-
gon or round barrel, 22-calibrc rim-fire, magazine takes 25 short,
20 long or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-hardened receivers, fitted
with sliding rear sights; weight oilb., take down.. J? rril"l
Freight paid,
g
BA. Browning Patent Automatic Rifle,
handles eleven 22 short smokeless Cartridges; walnut stock,
pistol grip, 19|-inch barrel; length over all, 36in.; weight, 4jlb.; bead front and screw rear sight,
fitted with safety bolt; barrel may be dismounted by unscrewing quarter turn. _ _ /
Freight paid, OKJj-
We Repair All Kinds of Duns and Rifles
Illustrated Sportsman’s Guide ( Catalogue Bl), also 1918 Sute Latch Anglers
Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or both lists. 1 hey
are money savers.
m
• •
mJSTRTILm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
AND TOBACCONISTS
ğ
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
Newcastle L Brisbane.


g
Miss DUDLEY
LINDSAYj a charming
Rexona Girl (from a
photo).
■
m
Dear Sirs.,—tl am send in"
you my photograph, as X want
to join your Krsona girls, for
I consider that‘s I am truly
one. I have bee u using your
Rexona and H'cxona Soap
now for over a yeur, and con-
sider them both excellent. I
have found Rexona most lieal-
ing and a wond erf ul skin
remedy.
Rexona Soap is certainly
quite unsurpassed as a Toilet
and Medicated Soap. I think
it is simply delightful, and
would never consider ever
using any other kind again.
I am also enclosing three
Rexona Wrappers, which I
have taken from the Soap,
and wish you would please
send me one of your Bubble
Pipes, which 1 notice you ad-
vertise to give with each three
Wrappers from Rexona Soap
posted to you.
I hear that Rexona Soap is
now the most used of any
Soap in Australia, and I am
sure it deserves to be.
Youirs truly,
(Sgd.) DUdWy LINDSAY,
Jamison Town, Penrith.
SOAP BUBBLE PARTY.
ta^kv," y^p no fepp». 8 f“m D CoSJ"o4 . o n;!°poVtta>, : w .«* »^°,“ P 'pS
15 O’Connell Street, Sydney, and they will send you foi every thre tP' a oar) jn
them a Rexona Bubble Pipe, which blows Bubbles m the new way. ~ ‘ „, ak^s jg'
the Pipe itself, and only water is needed. The mouthpiece is sterilised, and so coap
Bubble blowing a clean and delicate sport. an d old alike.’
K ?r si:!'. ir,c r writ ts, S“A >•-»“ •* «**■ **•
*“ 1” “y Th.S S.X Wrappers ,»,« m «.
Trv the Rexona Remedies—they arc universal favorites. . . , „
Rexona the Rapid Healer, 1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Skin and Facial Soap. -I/-.
A bubble contest j is
last7ni
0
o
o
SKIN & FACIAL
MEDICATED SOAP
o.
■' Slip the
Strop through
the Razor
Move the
Razor to
and fro
A DIFFERENCE.
The Auto Strop is different from every other kind
of safety razor. Only those who have tried it
can appreciate its vast superiority. You can
put up a new keen edge on the blade daily—
by simply slipping the strop through the razor
and passing it to and fro.
Aulo&Fap
Safety Razor
As a safety razor it eliminates risk; and its special
construction eliminates the necessity of constant
blade renewals, and the time and trouble in
cleaning which every other safety razor involves.
Obtainable Everywhere throughout Australasia.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380-2 George Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT. —The word “VALET” on RAZORS,
STROPS and BLADES indicates the genuine product of the
Auto Strop Safety Razor Co., Ltd., 61 New Oxford Street,
' London.
STANDARD SET,
as illustrated, compris-
ing heavily silver-
plated self-stropping
safetyrazor, firstquality
‘Valet” horsehide
strop and 12 finest
lancetsteel tested
“Valet” blades, the
whole in handsome
leather-covered or
nickel case, lined 90 /£
velvet and. satin
Price in N.Z., 25/
ĝ
The End of All.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ABOVE there shines a placid star.
But all about is troubled sea- —
Dark waves that break ou beach and
bar,
Wherefore, in truth, it seems to me
With too much hate and too much war
The earth is heaving restlessly.
Like some unhappy ghost, possessed
By yearnings vague and longings sore,
A wind that cannot be at rest,
And yet seems seeking evermore
A place whereon to couch its breast.
Goes feeling up and down the shore.
The dew lies softly on the grass,
But other grass is crimson-dyed;
And, stained with blood, the moments pass
And sink in Time’s devouring tide.
Hate rules the Earth, and Love, alas,
Is stoned, and scourged, and crucified!
0 .Earth, long trodden by the feet
Of teeming nations dead and gone !
Since Want and War their tales repeat,
Their shame and crime tell on and on,
Hast thou not earned, shouldst thou not
meet
Cold chaos, black oblivion!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
Doctor Hastings.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“\TOU will, my dear Hastings,” wrote
I Governor Macquarie, when the
Hilda was leaving Sydney, “have
I feel assured, every Reason to congratulate
yourself, should you decide to take the step
I so strongly advise. After the many years
of Faithful Service which you have devoted
to your country, both as a Regimental Sur-
geon and in the employment of the Board
of Transport, it is only fitting that you should
make provision'' for some easier Mode of Life,
and one that is more adapted to advancing
years, than the Strenuous Occupations in
which you have latelybeen employ’d. I am cer-
tain, within the limits of Human Fallibility.
that this country may look forward to a
bright and prosperous Future, and that to
a man of your Abilities and Attainments,
both professional and general, settlement in
it offers Great Advantages. Do therefore,
I beg you, give earnest consideration to
what I have taken the Liberty of writing
in all Friendliness, and cast in your lot
with that of this Rising Colony. I am cer-
tain that you will never have any Occasion
to regret it.”
Having a great respect and affection for
his old friend, Lachlan Macquarie—they
had served together in North America and
India —bluff and burly Dr. Hastings did
seriously consider his advice, during the
five months of the Hilda’s homeward voyage,
with the result that he resigned his position
as surgeon-in-charge of the convict brig,
commuted his pension, settled his affairs in
the old country, and came back to Sydney
to practise his profession. As a deserving
person, Macquarie granted him 1000 acres
of land at Mulgoa, and we find him, in the
year 1818, established in Sydney. His sur-
gery was situated at the Sydney Cove end
of Pitt-street, and he lived in a very com-
fortable house in that most eligible quarter
of Sydney, the Rocks. A roomy cottage
with a wide verandah, it stood not. nuthh
below Fort Phillip, and commanded $ glori-
ous i prospect of the Cove and the
long stretch of water lying ; between
Benelong’s Point anti Watson's Bay.
Not a few of the well-to-do citizens of Syd-
ney had come out under his charge, and
the universal esteem which the bluff, honest,
kindly surgeon had earned for himself, dur-
ing his years in the transport service, had
carried him almost immediately into what
would have been even in England, a Very
flourishing practice.
It was two o’clock on a winter morning
when, during the tumult of a south-easterly
gale, and the rattle on the shingles of driv-
ing sheets of rain, the Doctor woke out
of a deep sleep into a dreamy fancy that
he heard a faint knocking upon the front
door. Sleepily he turned over, muttering com-
fortably that it was only fancy—when
he was effectually awakened by the
burst ng crash of the door being violently
broken open. w r hile the wet wind shrieked
into the hall-way, and the bleak breath of
the Antarctic weather swirled about the
house.
In an instant the Doctor was out of bed,
had grasped a big horse-pistol that lay on
his bedside table, and was out into the
passage.
“Damme!” he roared. “Who is it?
Speak—or I fire!” A deep voice boomed
back out of the darkness:
“Is it Dr. Hastings?”
“Yes —confound ye ! What is it?”
“ ’Tis life or death. Doctor—ye’re wanted
at once.”
“Explain yourself, my man. What’s the
matter?”
“ ’Tis at Tom Nutting’s—a man’s been
cracked on the skull. ’Tis like to be mur-
der. Doctor, unless ye hasten.”
“Good Gad —did you force an entrance
here?” shouted Dr. Hastings angrily, realis-
ing that the locked door had been burst
open. “Here, Dick.” he called loudly over
his shoulder. “Dick —wake up, and bring a
light!”
“Cornin’, maester. cornin’,” a weak voice
replied from the back of the house, and
presently his groom—a thin young man
lately of the pocket-picking profession—
appeared in shirt and trousers, shielding a
guttering candle with his hand.
Red-faced and wrathful, the tails of his
night-shirt whipping his bare legs, and a
tasselled night-cap adorning his high, bald
head—the Doctor advanced towards his
visitor, keeping him covered with the pistol.
■ Come in, you,” lie growled. Close the
door and fasten it, Dick. Come—let me
look at ye. my man. I've no fancy foi mid-
night prowlers. Not in Sydney. Stand over
tll< He' took the candle from his servant, and
held it up to examine his visitor. The light
fell upon a huge and powerful man, with a
red fringe of whisker below a sunburnt face,
who had on a tightly buttoned pea-jacket
of frieze, and was dripping with moisture.
Drops of it sparkled in his beard in the dim
light, and he was liatless.
“Good Gad !” exclaimed the Doctor, as he
took him in. “ ’Tis Captain Delane, of the
whaler Amity. In the name of Providence,
what do ye here, captain? Bring me my
clothes, Dick,” he called to the groom.
“My ship came in at dusk, yester e’en,
Doctor, and I was having a jolification
ashore with my mate. It lias ended fiercely.
I’m feared I’ve killed a man. I’m doubtful
th’ mate ’ll live. _ Can ye come at once?
There’s little time.”
“Directly, captain—in a moment,
grunted the Doctor, as he struggled into his
breeches. He put on waistcoat, coat, and
overcoat above his night-shirt, wound a
woollen comforter about his throat, and was
assisted into his top boots by his man.
“Bring the brandy bottle, Dick,’ lie com-
manded, and when it was come poured out a
stiff nobbier for his visitor, and swallowed a
milder one himself.
“Come!” he said. “You can tell me as
we walk.”
They went out into the night.
* * * *
When the case of the King v. John Delane
was called in the Court of Criminal Jurisdic-
tion, presided over by Mr. Justice Wylde,
at Sydney, on August 10, ISIS, it was
apparent, not only to all others who \yere
present, but to the prisoner himself also, that
the King was about to score another of those
successes which had been his so often, in
matters of this kind, during his long reign.
A few days, and John Delane, master
mariner, would pay the forfeit which so
many had paid who had gambled in this
fashion with George 111. To everyone in
Sydney it appeared that the life of John
Delane would not be worth more than about
72 hours of consideration after to-day.
Thomas Nutting, licensed victualler, of
The Good Intent Inn, had made his deposi-
tion with some effect. A villainous looking
man he was —lean, evil and swarthy- with
an old cutlass cut across his right cheek,
and a black patch over the eye above it.
He had the appearance of a liar who found
the speaking of the truth almost distasteful
—yet in the present case the truth was so
simple and obvious that it would have been
difficult for him to have testified other than
truthfullv. Mr. Nutting found himself a
little embarrassed at playing such an un-
accustomed role.
He gave evidence that the. prisoner and
the deceased officer came to his house about
10 o’clock on the night of July the 12th, and
that they then appeared to be on friendly
terms, and in high spirits.
“Were they drunk?” inquired the prosecu-
tion.
“Wal —not to say drunk;’ said Mr. Nut-
ting mildly. People Avere only considered
drunk at The Good Intent, he did not inform
the Court, when they had lapsed into a
state of unconsciousness that rendered them
fit to be robbed, shanghaied, or murdered ;
with ease, during a period of .24 hours.
“Thea* was helevated, like.” he said huskily.
“ ’Ad" ’ad a drink or two at. some o’ them
low places in the town Av'ere they sells
lianytliink. Mebbe a little merry—that was
all. Not wot ye mought call drunk.”
They had joined in with the company in
a friendly way—witness did not consider it
necessary to inform the Court that the com- :
pany Avas of the usual sort to be found at
his inn after dark, and consisted mainly of
prostitutes, thieves, and their prospective
victims. It AA-ould have been unnecessary—
there was hardly any one present at the
trial aaJio did not knoAA r AA'hat sort of com-
pany was to be met Avith at The Good
Intent. The captain had insisted upon
treating the company to seA r eral rounds, of
drinks, and the deceased had done likewise.
They Avere in high spirits, in his opinion,
oAer the successful cruise on the whaling
grounds Avhich the Amity bad just concluded.
“Six whales off Twofold Bay, I heard 'em
brag about.” said Mr. Nutting.
lie described how the party had. one by
one dwindled away, until there AA'ere left in
the tap-room, at midnight, only the prisoner,
the deceased, and a Avoman. The woman’s
name he did not rightly know, except that
she was generally called Parramatta Nelly—
whom he now sure in Court. The two men
appeared to be quarrelling over her. They Avon
both, by this time, “not Avhat you might call
sober, but not proper drunk.” About one
o'clock, he went to the back of the premises
to see to closing up for the night. He had
been gone some ten minutes, or so, when he
heard a scream —a Avoman's scream. He
paid no attention to it. for the reason that
“women screams OA r er hany think.” but
returned a feAV minutes later. When he cairn
into the room, he found the deceased lying
unconscious on the floor, with a broken rum-
bottle beside him, and the prisoner kneelin?
doAvn. trying to bring him to. The latter
appeared to be sobered up. The woman
was gone. When he came into the room
Delane said to him. “I done it. I hit him
with the bottle.” Deceased was not dead
then. Delane offered to go for the doctor,
and returned with Dr. Hastings, in about
three-quarters of an hour. Season died
before they returned. That was all he knew
about it.
Under cross-examination. Mr. Nutting
did not show up as one of the worthier citi-
zens of Sydney, but beyond getting him to
admit with regard to himself what everyone
in . Sydney was Avell avAmre of. counsel for the
defence did not very materially advance the
cause of his client.
Nor did the testimony of Parramatta
Nelly—a dishevelled female Avith a watery
•eye. who finally -ended in hysterics—do Cap-
tain Delane very much good. The men had
quarrelled about going home with her. she
said, but she had cleared out before the fatal
bIoAV Avas struck, and knew nothing of the
(Continued on next page.)


ĝ
Bruises
&
Burns.
VC
\
n
i.
WEEK in, week out, there is the ever-present
risk of accident at home as well as in the
workshop. Hence it is necessary to have
Zam-Buk handy for the safe and speedy healing of
every kind of superficial injury, More accidents
occur in the home than anywhere
else. This fact drives home very
forcibly the necessity of always
having within reach a handy pot of
Zam-Buk, which can be depended
upon better than anything else, not
only to swiftly soothe away the first
pain of a cut, bruise, sprain, burn or
scald, but also to keep the broken skin
free from infection by dirt and disease
and make it heal up quickly and natu-
rally. There is a soothing, healing and
antiseptic power concentrated within
Zam-Buk, the like of which has never
been known before.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Buk is invalu-
able lor eczema,
bad legs, ringworm,
sores, ulcers, cuts,
burns, bruises,
bites, sprains, itch,
wounds, old sores,
abscesses, barcoo
rot, sunburn and
injured & diseased
conditions of the
skin. Sold by all
Chemists & Stores
at 1/6 and 3/6 per
pot. Always keep a
pot handy for the
accidents that Will
happen.
A Mother’s Praise for Zam-BuR.
“As a general household healing balm for every-day
mishaps I have found Zam-Buk unequalled,” says Mrs.
B. Larcombe, a resident of 515 Riley Street, Surry Hills,
bruises, knocks, wounds, abrasions and festering
sores are practically daily occurrences among my children,
but a few applications of Zam-Buk soon heals their skin
and makes their sores well.
“My little girl was bitten by some insect. lhe part
began to itch, and she scratched it, with the result that
the tinv bite of an insect developed into a nasty, festering-
sore. I applied Zam-Buk, and after a few dressings the
sore went completely away.” __________
m
RUB IT IN
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens
Prize Medals*
g
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works i Birmingham, England>
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
g
g
War - work suit* the super - efficient
SUNBEAM
IiIJJJJJ
to perfection. It emerge* supreme from the stress
of it. Our unsurpassed experience of standardising
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
of unprecedented power and proved reliability in
such strenuous employ constitutes a guarantee alike
of our ability and intention to supply the public with
finer motor carriages than ever on the coming of peace.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd,
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - - 54-62. Oxford Street, London. England
WORKS Wolverhampton, England
/a
ft
g
murder until the next morning when she
came to The Good Intent for a noggin of
rum.
That was the case for the prosecution, and
with a confident smile that seemed a little
out of place, Mr. Tregower, Captain Delaue’s
counsel, called Dr. Hastings.
The Doctor's ruddy countenance seemed a
little paler than usual, as he took his stand
in the witness-box. lie had not so much of
that air of rough, commanding, hearty kind-
liness that so generally distinguished him.
He was grave, quiet and very serious. He
took a swift glance at the prisoner before he
turned to face Mr. Tregower, standing ready
to examine him. That gentleman smirked
with anticipatory satisfaction. It was clear
that he felt an assurance with regard to the
safety of his client that no one else felt.
Counsel elicited the facts that Dr. Hast-
ings had qualified at St. Bartholomew's Hos-
pital, was a member of the Royal College of
Surgeons, had served twenty-eight years as a
surgeon in the army, and six-and-a-half in
the convict transport service. Counsel
paused, that the respectability, standing and
wide experience of the witness might soak
into the intelligence of the Court.
“I shall not detain you long. Dr. Hast-
ings,” lie went on. "In fact, I have only one
question of importance to ask you. When
you came to The Good Intent and examined
the body of the deceased man, Timothy
Season, did you form any opinion as to how
long the unfortunate man had been dead?”
“Yes.”
“You could be quite sure, from your ex-
perience, that the opinion you then formed
would have been a correct one?”
“Yes.”
“Pray, how long, Doctor Hastings, did
you consider that the man Season had been
dead?”
The doctor's face was grim and set, as he
replied: “About three or four hours —not
less than three hours.”
“My Gawd!” grunted Tom Nutting, below
his breath. “The — l liar!”
“Thank you, doctor —that is all.”
Mr. Tregower then addressed the court.
He described Mr. Nutting’s evidence as
wholly unreliable, and Mr. Nutting exactly
as he was well known to be. Parramatta
Nelly he dismissed with a shrug of the
shoulders. The Court had heard Nutting
say that Season had died just before the
prisoner had returned with the doctor. They
had heard the doctor—a man of very great
experience and unquestionable probity—they
had heard his opinion that the man had been
dead for at least three hours. What was to
be concluded? He would tell them. Why,
that Nutting was either suppressing the
truth, or deliberately lying to shield the real
murderers. He went on to say—but h§
spoke for forty minutes, and paper is too
valuable for any more of what he said to be
reported here. But it was etfective. Captain
Delane \feft the court a free—and bewildered
—man. Scarcely less bewildered was Mr.
Thomas Nutting, of The Good Intent Inn.
He experienced a sense of injury. He had
often been believed where he perjured him-
self. It seemed that solemn truthfulness was
an impossible attitude for him to take up.
* , * * *
“There’s a gent, on th’ ferandy as sez ’e
must see yer particular, Doctor. ‘ ’E won’t
be tole no. Sez ’e seed ye come hin, an’s
a-goin’ to wait till ye sees ’im.”
“Did you tell him I was unwell?”
“Yus, sir. ’E sez ’e must see ye, all th’
sime. ’Tis that big cully wot busted in that
there wet night—’im at th’ Good Intent.”
“Oh!”
Dr. Hastings looked wearily towards the
window, as if contemplating escape, frowned
a little as he thought, and then nodded
slowly to his groom.
“Ah, well —if I must, I must. Show him
in, Dick.”
He rose from his chair as the visitor’s
great bulk filled the doorway, and held out
his hand with a tired smile. His visitor was
the man whom his evidence —he shuddered
as he thought of it—had saved from the
gallows that afternoon.
“Well, Captain Delane —glad to see ye,
sir. Glad I may congratulate you Pray sit
down. Have a drink. Dick —grog.”
The big sailor placed himself solemnly on
the edge of a chair, and regarded the doctor
with a look of awe that might have been
compounded of a puzzled inability to grasp
the meaning of the latter’s recent perjury, a
desire to treat it with genial gratitude, a
reluctance to admit that his benefactor was
a liar—but was, more than all. an expression
of wonder and amazement that came near to
overwhelming him.
For a full half minute he goggled at the
doctor. Then, huskily, and with some
emotion:
“By God, Doctor—by God !”
“Yes, yes, captain—say no more about it.
I beg of you. ’Twas nothing. I had to say
what I did, I ”
“But, Lord help us, Doctor —I killed Tim
Season!”
“The Court held not.”
“D —n th’ Coort! I broke his skull with
th’ rum bottle —an’ I should be in th’ con-
demned cell by this time if ’twere not for
you.”
“Well, be thankful you are not, my dear
captain—’tis no cheerful place. Have a
drink. Help yourself.”
“Will ’ee tell me why, in—why, sir—why
you done it?”
Miserably the Doctor regarded him for a
little while. His mouth quivered and he
drummed on the table with his fingers.
Delane could see that he was greatly moved,
and could not trust himself to speak. He got
up and walked up and down, his big fists
thrust deep in his bi’eeches-pockets, his eyes
staring through the open window over the
sunlit harbor into some bitter memory, his
face wrinkled and drawn, so that it did not
look like his own genial countenance. Five
times he paced the length of the room, each
way, before he spoke. Then he stopped by
the window, seemed to square his broad shoul-
ders, turned his back to the light, and
addressed the man he had saved.
“Listen, Delane.” His voice was strangely
low and quiet. “I will tell you a story.
Four-and-thirty years ago I was a young
man who had just joined the army, and hau
had my commission as a regimental surgeon
for just six months. Like most young doc-
tors, I knew everything—except that it
would be many years before I knew anything
at all. I was attached to the 40th boot.
I regret to say that I was something ot ft
blood —only a medical student still, one who
had not got over the hobbledhoy stage, a
young ass. a fool. I drank too much. One
evening after mess —’twas at Chatham an
uproar broke out in barracks, which was
found to be caused by the murder of a
woman in the married quarters, the wife ot
a sergeant. I was sent for to look at the
body—and I was fuddled with wine. I went
across —-and—and I gave it as my opinion
that the woman had only been dead an hour
or two. Her husband had returned that
evening from London, with some deserters he
had been sent to bring back, after three
days’ absence. He was charged with the
murder. No one else, it seemed, could have
been in his quarters. There were many cir-
cumstances against him —quarrels, threats
and so on. He was hanged. Twenty-five
years afterwards, when I was surgeon-iu-
charge of the Hilda, a wretch who was dying
of a consumption sent for me, and confessed
it was lie who had killed the sergeant’s wife
—the da a before. There you see why to-
day
John Delane stood up, and stared, round-
eyed, at the doctor. He leaned upon the
table with one hand and it shook till the
glasses rattled. He seemed to be choking
with amazement. He gasped and gulped
twice before he could speak.
“Great God, Doctor —a sergeant in the
40th! Good God — ’twas my father!’'
“So you see?’’ said Dr. Hastings.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
A Nocturne.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE —Augusta, Frederick and Coralie
—are an orphan family. Frederick
is 33, and just what his name con-
notes. He is one of those men who look
dignified even in pyjamas. Augusta is older
than Frederick, and has been a mother to us
all. She is plump and fair, and has that
kind of ready wit which is never available in
an emergency. I am Coralie. I think you
will just have to guess me. We all live
together in a tiny house.
Well, it had been a hot, trying day, and
when I came home at night there was that
nervous look on Augusta’s face which always
prophesies Frederick’s disapproval of the
dinner. But in this case it didn’t matter —
Frederick was absent from the evening meal.
We sat up for him. He expects it of
Augusta, who is a perfect fool in these
matters. But at last I persuaded her to goto
bed—on condition that I shared her room
with her. She said that she felt something
was going to happen.
We listened for Frederick’s latchkey in
the door, but were fast asleep before we
heard it. We were not really anxious about
Frederick.
We awoke. As far as I can tell, we awoke
simultaneously. Something was happening
somewhere in the house that would simul-
taneously have awakened the Seven Sleepers.
Augusta was certain it was burglars—but I
couldn’t imagine how any burglar could make
a noise like a mail-clad elephant jumping
from step to step down an irregular flight of
stairs. Sometimes there was quite a long
interval between jumps. Sometimes the ele-
phant seemed to have decided to gallop, and
get it over. We wondered about Frederick.
It was perfectly certain that, as he had
given no intimation of his presence, he had
either failed to come home or had been mur-
dered.
Whatever the awful thing wa#, it was
coming nearer. It was coming towards our
room. And its chains were clanking. That
clank defeated the elephant theory, but was
not reassuring. It was no use putting our
heads under the covers. (Augusta was by this
time in my bed.) Then we knew that the
thing was at the corner of the passage. Here
it apparently stuck and w r ent mad. There
was then a long silence.
'“Now!” gasped Augusta.
A paroxysm of lunatic lurching, and a
noise like a pillar-box being thrashed with a
bundle of iron laths, put a period to her
declamatory garrulity.
Silence once more.
Augusta rose to the occasion—in her dress-
ing-gown and curling-pins. She decreed that
I should stay alone in the house while she
went for assistance to the man next door.
We had never met him, but he was as hand-
some as a king, and we knew that his name
was Edgar. So Augusta departed through
the window just as the paroxysm, having
turned the corner of the passage, hammered
and clanged and thundered its way towards
my room. It sounded like —I don’t know
what it sounded like. It sounded like a
Midnight Hun. And I could not understand
the shape of the thing that could make such
a blood-curdling din. I dragged the wash-
stand against the door, and put the dressing-
table against the washstand. I had no fear
that my moving the furniture would arouse
the Midnight Hun’s anger or suspicion—it
was making such a noise just then that an
earthquake would have been inaudible.
Then, once more came silence, in which I
heard Augusta’s slippered step, followed by
her high-pitched order to me: “Open the
front door and let us in!” Think of it!
But what else was there for it? In an
unaccountable lull, I dragged the furniture
away from my door, which, thank Heaven,
was only a couple of steps from the front
door, clenched my eyes and made one rush.
I flung the portal wide, and there on the
step was my sister. And at her side was
Edgar—in evening-dress.
“What the devil do you mean by bringing
in a man at this time of night?”
It was the voice of a man enraged almost
beyond utterance. It was the voice of
Frederick. He was standing in his pyjamas,
with his bedstead in his hand.
Edgar left us ail in fhe passage. He just
vanished.
Frederick had been in the house all the
time.
“So it was you!” we said, “making all
that noise!” By this time we had gathered
that he had been moving his iron double-bed
and wire-mattress on to the cool verandah.
CORALIE CUFF.


' •
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office— 99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
HUNDREDS SAY SO!
“Many's the razor 1 have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Pluiii.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big’ crowd who swear by
THE -'PLUM '* RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6. •
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above l’ost Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKIN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted
The “PLUM”
Razor.
fgKNip,
8a^ > ~‘'--li^H&k.
IV
' •;.*./#->
38/S
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
i.
Bar ron Falls - Barron Gorge
the wonderful hinterland
•Sunshine , Palm Trees ,
Tropical Flowers. A glorious,
season of soft sunshine
and Scenic- splendour
A Booklet telling all about it
is yours for the asking
/v// in this coupon:-
' ;
Ac>me
8.13-
Address*
/o fha I)trector of
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Brisbane. OUEEN SLANJB-
u
£7
>®ss^
*
gii
sees
33SS
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by 'always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt' Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
tl
THE eOMENT CALL
»»
5^
A
VA
A
S END 0. S
OM£
}ekham's pi us
THE HOME AND OVEPSEAS PEMEDY.
g
SPARK PLUG
ENERQISER
Introducing to “Bulletin” Readers
A New Electrical Device
Of-'
WONDERFUL UTILITY & VIRTUE
BY WHICH
Your Spark Plugs give Smoother Ignition.
Your Engine gives More Power.
Your Car gives flore Speed.
Your Whole Outfit gives More Miles per Gallon.
COUNTRY MOTORISTS especially should get Interested in
THE SPARK PLUG ENERGISER
and by its continued use practically eliminate
SPARK PLUG TROUBLE.
For ourselves we haven’t yet seen an old plug that won’t spark.when with THE
EXERCISER. Plugs sooted and with broken P®^ ce ¥"* s 'j acros^th* I points. '
thus equipped, have yielded showers of snappy sparks right across _
2rMKWG K TO THE SPARKIN6 PLUG, thereby increas-
The SPARK PLUG ENERGISER IS A SPLENDID TONIC lOR A CORD.
RETAIL PRICE.; 5/6 each, 5/6 each, 5<6 each.
If yon have ignition troubles, or if you w ant a better-running motor, or if you ar,
merely curious, see The SPARK* % t l»e best side-lines you can possibly
Country Garages get in touch with this, one o,
handle.
SOLE
-ACENTB-
ROBERT C. SWAN 9 CO-U 6
304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
The Housefor Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
STEEL CASTINGS— Special Good Quality
ĝ
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
• •/:
■*?.:;> £?
Victoria Street
Richmond, Vi


MA N GROYITEi
LEATHER
SITI
Power Transmission
requires belting' that will stand the strain and
keep the pulleys moving*.
“MANGROVITE” RAWHIDE BELTING
is the most efficient belt on the market. Made
trom the best hides procurable and tanned bv
rhe Mangrovite process.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
4-9 Wynyard Square, By/ , e v.
Western nustralia: Cibbs, Bright & 0., Perth
S th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adeiaitie
mil
.A
. *
m.tm
i :mm
mm
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
204 Latiobe Street, Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle WA
Charles Atkins & Co., Adelaide. Paill lV r;,.* T « ■ »
John Held & Nephews, Brisbane y Ltd ’ Newcastle.
CIRCULAR SAWS
Manufactured from BEST SHEFFIELD
CRUCIBLE CAST=STEEL PLATES.
12in. to 54i’n. usually kept In Stock.
gg
SAW SPINDLES
tin. to 31n. with Bearings and Fast and Loose Pulleys.
379 Kent Street,
Sydney.
ALAT
BELTING
New Standards of Power
Saving' Established v ith
Dick’s Balata Belting*
(The Original & Genuine
Their special gripping surface yokes slip-
ping practically impossible.
Their great strength guards you against
breaking.
SEND FOR BOOKLET.
Sole Importers—^
JAMES HARDIE & CO. LTD.,
“Asbestos House,”
Cr. .York & Wynyard Sts., SYDNEY.
’Phone 8450 (4 J.ines).
Newcastle Agents-Paul & Gray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
"\\ bile the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for-their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions tliev can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of vour
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR LTD.
, Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
ĝ
Latest Motor Jack.
Endless chain, quick and easily worked. Strong, com-
pact, 10- to 18-inch extension. Lift 1 ton. Size
over all, lOin. x Sin.
Price 2 51-
For up—Place under car, stand clear from dust and
grease, pull endless chain.
For down —Pull chain opposite way.
Useful other purposes. Highly recommended by
D. $ W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.,
Ironmongers, 276-294 BRUNSWICK ST., FITZROY, MELBOURNE
PUMPS -Good Pumps Only
g
We manufacture what is prohahly the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Pines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation ; they are supplied, in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from IJJin. to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include: —
BORE PUMPS, all sizes arid strokes, any specification.
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRACT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
#>
f.
O
T«A-Ot M Atf H
O
O
y
'v
<soh?£
Broken Casting's
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
lib.
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold m tins: lib., 50/-; Jib., 25/-; 2oz„ 7/6.
1 lux wUI braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to 1.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
Street, St. Hilda. Vicfloiia.
ELECTRIC UGHTFOR ALL
DELCO-UGHT
SUB
WSWS
■n
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Mand-
SOLE AGENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND-
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
Q
mm
m Jis Portable Shearing Plant
The Ideal Outfit for Small Shearing Contractors.
1, 2, 3, or 4 STANDS. Shears are Friction-driven off Flywheels of 3- or 6-h.p Kerosene Engine.
Mr. C. BROADBECK, Pillerene, Gunnenbene, writes; I am very highly satisfied with th«
Plant. Have shorn over 2000 shee,) and never lost a minute!’’
31r. F. I>. PHILLIPS, Merryu]la, Ooonamble, writes: “The plant went snlendidiv ..
“5” »*“ rt *° "” ish - «*«• Chines
HUNDREDS OF OTHER USERS ARE EQUAL!,r SATISFIED Write for Bulletin No. 109.
DANGAR, GEDYE & GO. LTD., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Eagle Street, Brisbane, Agents in Queensland.
MINING &
Dorr Machinery —
An indispensable part of every
Flotation Plant for Classifying and
Thickening prior to Flotation.
We will quote you for complete
plant, including Wood Vats,
DIAPHRAGM PUMPS and DORR
PATENTED MECHANISMS suited
to your requirements.
Sole Agents for the Dorr Company in Australasia—
DORR (Patent) THICKENER.
Crushing Machinery—
JIGS (Richards Pu/sator and Mays
Plunger Type)
ROCK BREAKERS
ROLLS-Geared and Belt Drive
TABLES—The “Card” and the
Buffer
ROCK DRILLS— “Hydromax”
Hammer and Hand Type
STEAM VALVES '
A CID-PROOF EJECTORS for Colliery
and other Acid Waters.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Mini rig & Electrical Engineers, 350 George Street, SYDNEY.
