

SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. Q. WATKINS & 00.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
. . —FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUC TIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
gfjhfgj
r\opey
on all classes of
security
Trade Bills Discounted
TELEPHONE: CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “DAILY TELEGRAPH” NEW BUILDING
And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTACE BENNETT,
What Becomes of the
Sewage in Your Home?
Because you live in the country ■< no
reason why this important problem should
be neglected. You can have all the com-
forts anti safeties of City Sewage systems
wherever you live. You can have them
at little expense by installing the
Oxidising (Non-septic)
Sewage Disposal System.
The Oxidising System. is the one recog-
nised by leading health authorities to-dav.
It treats the sewage so perfectly that
there is ABSOLUTELY NO ODOR in the
hottest climate. Over in use in
N.S.AV. alone.
OUR. FREE BOOKLET
gives full particulars. May we send you
a copy to-day?
Montgomerie-Neilson, Oxidising
Sewage Disposal,
50 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
Phone City 8976.
v Dorit Arg,^
i r
9
?PLE
ft
'M
&
■6
NmrHiMc
to Arcul
About!"
Are the
~M
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritions and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
fghjgh
S.N3S N VH.
fjfgh
ror INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
AL THOID
ROOFS.
Woolsheds, stores, warehouses, etc., should all be covered with
Malthoid, tlie finest roofing extant, because it amply fulfils every
requirement for the purpose.
TO-DAY MAI/rHOII) IS DESS THAN HALF THE PRICE Ol
GALVANISED IRON, costs much less freight, and possesses many
features which make it far superior.
Malthoid does not demand such heavy framework—which reduces
cost of fixing—will never leak or crack or rot, and will successfully
withstand bad weather conditions.
Go into the matter for yourself. Write for samples and illustrated
booklet, post free on request.
“Not the same as others.”
The Paraffine Paint Co. (P. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydnoy.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
locomotive; agricultural, mining and general engineers.
Railway Roiling Stock of all Descriptions, Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar IVlill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc .
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
o
MACHINERY.
“ NECESSITY—THE, MOTHER OF INVENTION **
“LEPLASTRIER” “QUICK-SET” AUSTRALIAN-MADE PIPE MOULDS for
making CONCRETE PIPES, enables SHIRES, MUNICIPALITIES and others to
manufacture easily and cheaply culvert pipes from local material thus
REPLACING EXPENSIVE OR UNOBTAINABLE CORRUGATED IRON.
Sizes
supplied
J1
12in. inside diameter x 24in. long,
loin, inside diameter x 24in. long.
18in. inside diameter
24in. inside diameter
c 24m. long,
c 2-tin. long.
QUEENSLAND ENQUIRIES:
THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER TUBES
Solid Drawn Tubes—
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles—
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
GILBERT LODGE & CO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne,
Enquiries solicited. Correspondence invited.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 39.—N0. 1994.]
[Thursday, May 2, 1918
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


IN
GARRY AN ONOTO WITH YOU
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills itself in a flash,
cleans itself in the act of filling', and contains sufficient ink to
write 20,000 words.
Never leaks-always writes smoothly—and is always
ready for writing. Can be filled from any ink supply with-
out a filler' without mess or trouble, in five seconds,
Onoto
Self-fillinq Safety Fountain Pen.
Price 17/-
and upwards; also ONOTO
Valveless tor those who do not want a Self-
Filling Safety Pen. 12/6 upwards, of all
stationers, jewellers, stores, etc.
Manufacturers;
T. D. La Rue & Co., Ltd.,
Zl9 Buuhill Row, London, E.C,
Managing Agents :
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
Ask for ONOTO INK-Bestfor ail Pens.
FOR
S
THE
i i
VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
an ideal remedy
TO^
ON
Tins
Sold by all Chemists.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Preven-
tion of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bacterici-
dally as is creosote.’’
Unlike cough medicines “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES”
do not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic pro-
perties prevent abnormal fermentation of the food
when taken after meals. [5
The Red Page
Poems by Thomas Hardy
Tiie Photograph.
The flame crept up the portrait line by line
As it lay on the coals in the silence of night’s
profound,
And over the arm’s incline,
And along the edge of the nilkwork superfine,
And gnawed at the delicate bosom’s defence-
less round.
Then 1 vented a cry of hurt, and averted
my eyes,
The spectacle was one that I could not bear,
To my deep and sad surprise;
But, compelled to heed, 1 again looked fur-
tive-wise
Till the flame had eaten her breasts, and
month, and hair.
“Thank God, she is out of it now!” 1 said at
last,
In a great relief of heart when the thing teas
done
That had set my soul aghast.
And nothing was left, of the picture un-
sheathed from the past
But the ashen ghost of tine card it had figured
on.
She teas a woman long hid amid packs of
years,
She might have been living or dead; she was
lost to my sight,
And the deed that had nigh drawn tears
Was done in a casual clearance of life’s
arrears;
But I felt as if I had put her to death that
night!
— Well; she kneiv nothing thereof did she
survive,
And suffered nothing if numbered among the
dead;
Yet — yet—if on earth alive
Did she feel a smart, and with vague, strange
anguish, strive?
If in heaven, did she smile at me sadly and
shake her head?
Transformations.
Portion of this yew
Is a man my grandsire knew,
Bosomed here at its foot:
This branch may be his wife,
A ruddy human life
Noiv turned to a green shoot.
These grasses must be made
Of her who often prayed,
Last century, for repose;
And the fair girl long ago
Whom I often tried to know
May be entering this rose.
80, they are not underground,
But as nerves and veins abound
In the growths of upper air,
And they feel the sun and rain,
And the energy again
That made them what they were!
To Shakespeare.
Bright, baffling soul, least captarable of
themes,
Thou, who display’dst a life of common-
place,
Leaving no intimate word or personal trace
Of high design outside the artistry
Of thy penned dreams,
Shalt still remain at heart unread eternally.
Through human orbits thy discourse to-day,
Despite thy formal pilgrimage, throbs on
In harmonies that cow Oblivion,
And, like the wind, with all-uncared effect
Maintain a sway
Not fore-desired, in tracks unchosen and un-
checked.
And yet, at thy last breath, with mindless
note
The borough clocks in sameness tongued the
hour,
The Avon just as always glassed the tower,
Thy age was published on thy passing bell
But in due rote
With' other dwellers’ deaths accorded a like
knell.
And pit fhe strokes some townsmen (met,
maybe,
And thereon queried by some squire’s good
dame
Driving in shopward) may have given thy
name,
With, "Yes. a worthy man, and well-to-do;
Though, as for me,
l knew him but by just a neighbor’s nod, ’tis
true.
“/’ faith, few knew him much here, save by
word,
He having elsewhere led his busier life;
Though to be sure he left with us his wife.”
— “Ah. one of the tradesmen’s sons, I now
recall. . ..
Witty, I’ve heard....
We did not know him... .Well, good day.
Death comes to all.”
So, like a strange bright bird we sometimes
find
To mingle with the barn-door brood awhile,
Then vanish from their homely domicile —
Into man’s poesy, we wot not whence,
Flew thy strange mind,
Lodged there a radiant guest, and sped for
ever thence.
From “Moments of Vision” (Macmillan).
A strange bird, Hardy, too! A novelist
all his life, yet reversing the usual order
of literary development, which starts with
verse and ends in prose, he was G 1 before
he published his first volume of poetry.
Then he burst upon the world as the author
of the most stupendous literary drama of
our age. The Dynasts, in three large vol-
umes ; and now at 78 publishes another
large volume of verse, Moments of Vision
(Macmillan, per Sydney Book Club).
Curious poetry is his, saturated with con-
templative thought, the product of an origi-
nal and philosophic mind, the wisdom of a
wise old man. touched arid stirred by the
memory of youth’s long-dead romances. The
structure of his stanzas is precise and exact,
often deliberately complicated: lla,rdy
seems to take an architectural delight in the
building of his verse.... Gothic, we might
call it, massive and straight and impressive,
grotesquely decorated with grinning gar-
goyles of pessimism and cynic devils. But
there is no music in his metre; his lines do
not flow: they bark. His words are un-
couth and harsh; they say precisely what
they mean; they do not blur into beauty;
they have no secondary import that stirs
our subconsciousness with reminiscences of
beauty and sentiment; he adds his words
together like an algebraic sum ; they do not
flow together like a lyric or a stream. (The
verses already quoted were selected be-
cause they were comparatively free from
this fault of hardness and harshness.) Yet
sometimes Hardy, in aiming at simplicity,
ends up by becoming almost Bellerivean: —
Still chew
The kine, and moo
In the meadows we used to wander through;
Haymakers
As in former years
Rake rolls into heaps that the pitchfork rears..,.
Sometimes, pre-occupied by his thought,
Hardy achieves an unpremeditated effect of
the ludicrous, as in his phrase, “that
cow Oblivion.”
These are looking-backward verses. Hardy
is obsessed with death; he sees mortality
everywhere. He asks the moon what she
thinks of Life. “Is it much or no?” The
Moon replies that she often thinks of it,
“as a show God means surely to shut up
soon.” He still wonders: “If Man’s con-
sciousness was a mistake of God’s”....
And next I meet you, and I pause,
And think that if mistake it were,
As some have said, Oh, then it was
One that I well can bear!
And even when he kisses a girl, all that he
gets out of it is the thought that that kiss
cannot have died: —
Somewhere it pursues its flight,
One of a long procession of sounds
Travelling ethereal rounds
Far from earth’s bounds
In the infinite.
Did that ever' occur to you when you were
kissing her? And who but Hardy would
ever think of making a poem out of a far-
seen flash, a reflection of the sun on the
coffin of a friend on his way to be buried?
Thus a farewell to me he signalled on his grave-way,
As with a wave of his hand.
So a landscape seen again merely reminds
him of the day -
When amid sheaves in amorous play
In curtained bonnets and light array
Moved a bevy now underground.
And when lie sees Ethleen, all pink and
white, upon a daisied field, all white and
green, he cannot help thinking that “in
some mouldering year,” all the colors would
be mixed into one: “as one they both would
lie.” And, watching a ballet,
They crush together-—a rustling heap of flesh —-
Of more than flesh, a heap of souls. ...
he is struck not by their beauty but by the
thought that though all are alike in their
tinsel livery each girl lives in a world of
her own:—
Daughters, wives, mistresses; honest or false, sold,
bought;
Hearts of all sizes ; gay, fond, gushing- or penned,
Various in thought
Of lover, rival, friend ;
Links in a one-impulsed chain, all showing one smile,
Yet severed so many a mile!
He pictures a happy scene, and then :
Ah, no; the years O!
Down their chiselled names the raindrop ploughs.
He revisits bis own school in the flesh: —
I ought to have gone as a ghost....
Yes, wrong was the way ;
But yet, let me say,
I may right it—some day.
A ghoulish bard, “Bellerive’s” only rival.
One feels how greedily he seizes upon a sub-
ject made for his hand, the skeleton of a
lady’s sunshade!
Ah—it’s the skeleton of a lady’s sunshade,
Here at my* feet in the hard rock's chink,
Merely a naked sheaf of wires !. .. .
Where is the woman who carried that sunshade
Up and down this seaside place?
Little thumb standing against its stem,
Thoughts perhaps bent on a love-strategem,
Softening yet more the already soft face!
Is not the woman who carried that sunshade
A skeleton just as her property is,
Laid in the chink that none may scan?
And does she regret—if regret dust can —
The vain things thought when she flourished this?
He seems to gloat over it, this wonderful old,
old man.
Trawlers and Drifters
This war has turned the spotlight upon
the Empire’s merchant seamen. W. Mac-
neile Dixon, in The Fleets Behind the Fleet
(Dodder, per Sydney Book Club), pays the
merchant service a just and long-due tribute;
though the history of the part the merchant
sailors have played will never be fully
written. “The ships of the merchant service
are solitary wayfarers, scattered units in a
waste of waters. The adventures of 1000
ships, the deeds of 1000 skippers, how can
these be set forth in a convenient handbook?
... .Because courage and resource and deter-
mination are everywhere, a single act or
scene is nowhere elevated above the rest.
The unit is merged in the magnificent total.”
We are apt to forget, too, that the merchant-
men were the British Navy before the Royal
Navy was founded ; that out of 200 sail that
defeated the Armada but 34 belonged to the
'Queen’s Navy.
It is a stirring story that Dixon tells.
This mine-sowing and mine-sweeping goes
on, we need to be reminded, all the time.
It is a continuous menace. “Day and night
mines are freely sown—a patch here
and a patch there—steadily, persistently. . . .
Let the sweepers work how they will, the end
is never in sight. . . . Strewn with a lavish-
ness that counts no cost too heavy, they
represent an expenditure that runs to many
millions. In one area alone more than 1000
mines have been destroyed by our sweepers.
No more necessary, no more exhausting, no
more hazardous work than theirs is done to-
day in any waters.... In certain areas
mines are laid time and again to deflect the
stream of traffic into a channel where sub-
marines may act with comparative impunity
from danger. . . . But there is a certain
region through which, since the war began,
38,000 trading vessels have voyaged, in
which not more than four have been
destroyed by mines.” Dixon asks us to
weigh these, and other, facts, and consider
the compliment that fits the achievement.
This sport must not be confused with sub-
marine hunting in armed craft, accounted the
greatest of all great games. “Lowestoft
mine-sweepers hanker after leave not to
spend by the fireside, but on this brave sport.
Volunteers jostle each other for the service.
Admirals previously on the retired list renew
in it all the zest and vigor of their youth.
Alas,” laments this Englishman, “that
after the war a pursuit which outbids in
popularity tiger-sliooting or steeple-chasing
should come to an untimely end.”
But the trawlers and the drifters!
“They’re It, absolutely It,” said the com-
mander of a destroyer. “No weather’s too
bad for ’em. They’re our eyes a-nd our ears.
They know every blessed wave in the
Channel, not merely as passing acquaintances,
but they address ’em by their Christian
names. They’ll do anything, and go any-
where and chance the luck. They’re just
simple fishermen, but they run the whole
show and they run it magnificently—guns,
semaphores, wireless, everything! They
live on kippers and tea, and I don’t believe
they ever go to sleep !”
The author tells some stories of the mer-
chant service in war-time, from the official
records, which censor the illuminating adjec-
tive—cold, bare stories of stark heroism
that will enable the reader to endorse the
encomiums of the Royal Navy.
Germany, vvitli her trident of frightfulness,
reported that the Channel had been “swept
cltar of ships.” “Why, it is more like a
maritime fair. Never was there such a
bustle of shipping since the world was
made. .. .Motor-boats, flocks of them; scores
of traders at anchor in the Downs; busy
transports on their way to Havre; up to
windward a cluster of mine-sweepers; down
to leeward a line of lean destroyers. ... Very
busy, but very much at home, are the British
vessels in that long sea-lane. Talkative,
too, for the gossip never ceases. Hoarse
megaphone conversations, rocket and sema-
phore talk, wireless chatter without end.”
The chief defect of the book is its small-
ness. But the silent Navy has its silent
merchant service. The finest things cannot
be told—yet.
Australian
Agnes Littlejohn’s Star Dust and Sea
Spray, “imaginative stories written for chil-
dren” (Edwards, Dunlop, Sydney), is artisti-
cally produced. The illustrations by Percy
Leason and Sydney Ure Smith are delicate
and artistic, beautiful specimens of decora-
tive pen-work ; and the printer, A. McQuitty,
Sydney, has given these pen-poem decora-
tions their full value. Percy Reason's pen-
and-ink work is remarkable for a beauty and
color that is quite distinct from the pen-
drawings of Norman Lindsay. It is some-
what surprising to find a pen-and-ink artist
in Australia who has developed on his own
lines uninfluenced by the overpowering ex-
ample of Norman Lindsay’s acknowledged
mastery in this medium. But Agnes
Littlejohn has erred in choosing such deli-
cate illustrations for the pictures in a book
meant for children. Kiddies prefer in their
picture-books bold colors and a clear and
simple line. The stories; too, suffer from the
same defect. They are vaguely interesting on
quite conventional lines, and written in a
grown-up diction. It is not fair to the
child to bother its small head with adult
sentences like these: “The younger son pos-
sessed the business instinct.... The young
man pondered over his strange visions of a
delicate spirit in a lonely tower; its beauty
tarnished, and its wings bruised and broken.
....At length the day came when the rest-
less little wavelets waiting for the impulse
Which should send the shallows gladly sing-
ing to the sea, and stir the depths to a low
murmurous symphony—a song of joy—gave
the sign for some of the babes to be borne
with them to the sea-deptlis... .The birds
were calling to each other with a "restless,
musical insistence. . . .Tiers and tiers of rav-
ishing pearls rose up in columns to support
the roof of it, and the rich design of it
betrayed a master-hand in the art of intri-
cate building.” The book is full of this
strange adult jargon that would bore any
healthy Australian kid. Simplicity of
thought, simplicity of images, simplicity of
diction, simplicity of illustration are fljc
prime necessities for kiddies’ books; arid
with all these there can be originality and
beauty and poetry. But it isn’t in Agnes
Littlejohn.
S • ‘
The Round Taiu.e for March (Mab-
millan ; 2s. 6d.) is a dull number, dealing
chiefly with dead topics or topics so over-
written that they scarcely survive. Excep-
tions are informative articles upon the
peoples of the Baltic Provinces, and the ques-
tion of re-establishing the Jews in Palestine
and the implications of that experiment. It
seems to this page that if the war is going to
end with freedom for full expression of the
ideals of all minorities, the Jews will not
need to go to Palestine ; and there does not
seem, in countries like Australia, where they
have full political and social freedom, any
desire on the part of the Jews to return to
the land of their fathers.
<!*
In his preface to his new edition of Lord
Jim, which, it will be remembered, is in
narrative form, Conrad refutes the criticism
that no man could have been expected to
talk all that time, and other men to listen so
long. He points out that men have been
known to sit up half the night “swapping
yarns” ; and though this was only one yarn,
the listener could endure if the postulate
was accepted that the story was interesting.
He computes that Marlow’s narrative can
be read aloud within three hours. And he
presumes that there were intervals for drinks.
(Possibly Conrad has never heard of our poli-
ticians’ long-distance stonewalling efforts.)
But he admits that his first thought was of
a short story—the episode of the pilgrim
ship. That short story was never finished.
Asked for a serial for Blackwood’s, he
perceived that the incident would' make a
good starting-point for a novel. But he
rewrote the small portion he had already
written. Though as a matter of principle
Conrad will have no favorites among his
books, he is not annoyed by the preference
some people give to Lord Jim. He won’t
exactly admit that it iS his favorite. As
for Jim, he is “not the product of coldly
perverted thinking. .. .not a figure of North-
ern Mists either. One sunny morning, in
the commonplace surroundings of an Eastern
roadstead, I saw his form pass by—appeal-
ing—significant—-under a cloud —perfectly
silent. Which is as it should be.”
“Varsity”: “Simplicity” and her friends have
apparently never been in the University or colleges.
If such had been the case they would find that the
slang of C. J. Dennis’s Sentimental Bloke is a fine
rendition of the slang of these places of learning. I
have heard students of all types use practically
every word of slang that Dennis has quoted. And it
does not seem incongruous! Personally, I can faith-
fully claim to have used every word but two that
is in Dennis’s book.
“Digger 7833”: I know what the lucky Billjims
who handle our mails read. I have to be content
with what they pass on to me. F’rinstance, a cobber
who couldn’t hop correctly when the Perth medico
had us on the mat promised as his share to send the
local weekly. It comes as regularly as the rent-
collector used to. A sweet Annezac of the Adelaide
Cheer-Ups posts the local illustrated. I get that.
Miss Melbourne’s illustrateds never go astray. But
there’s a paper that rarely gets through. What
about changing the color of the cover, to oblige?


jfgh
FASHION AND ECONOMY AT ANTHONY HORDERNS
•9
n
379
Send for a Copy of
our Autumn and
Winter Fashion
Guide. Gratis and
post free.
H I
/'
S 2.
No. 379.—Japanese Silk Blouse (as illustrated), in
Ivory, Black and Navy shades; Collar can be worn high
or low 10/11
No. 21. Ninon Blouse (as illustrated), in Black 01-
Navy over White Net, trimmed Taffeta Silk, all sizes 34/6
No. 458.—Blouse, in heavy Crepe de Chine, Silk
embroidered collar and fronts, Black, Navy, Ivory, and a
variety of Fashionable Colorings 42/-
No. 38. — Ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, neatly
trimmed hem-stitching 9/11
No. 78. — Cream Delaine Blouse, collar, pockets and
cuffs edged contrasting shades; all sizes 10/11
No. 409, — Japanese Silk Blouse, in extra quality
Silk, finished tucks and fancy buttons; Ivory, Black and
Navy shades 19/11
<3
2/69
140
No. 146. — Coat and Skirt (as illustrated), in Gabar-
dine, Coat pleated from neck, roll-back collar, finished
with narrow belts at waist, cable stitching and buckles;
Full Skirt with narrow belt £g/g/_
No. 2169. — Gabardine Coat and Skirt (as illus-
trated), Sailor collar and revers, strap at back, shaped
piece on sides, trimmed buttons; plain full Skirt; in
Fawn or Grey 07 jq
\ Pill problem confronting ladies of how to dress fashionably yet
IH economically will be solved by purchasing at the New Palace
J Emporium. The Autumn and Winter apparel offered there
l| is distinctly fashionable, and satisfaction is assured. The illustrations
here depicted are from our portfolio of Autumn and Winter Fashions.
COSY SPORTS COATS
211
546
SiinJiif
e
<#
■■"
V -■
O
l*!! 1
¥"/>j
224
350
No. 211. —Knitted Sports Coat (as illustrated), Cotton
and Wool Mixture, has turn-over collar, pockets and belt;
in Grey, Saxe, Brown or Black 11/fll
Similar style (No. 1403), in all Wool; shades: Grey, Saxe,
Rose, Brown, Red,'Navy or Black 27/6
No. 350.—Pure Wool Cashmere Sports Coat (as
illustrated), collarless effect, pockets and belt; in warm shades
of Rose, Saxe, Cream, Wine, Nigger, Navy or Black. -457-
Similar make (No. Rll), with smart collar and revers in
Rose, Dark Saxe, Cream, Navv or Black .. . 49/6 .
No. 546.—Very Useful Sports Coat (as illustrated),
of Navy or Black Diagonal Serge, pointed collar and
revers, fancy patch pockets and belt 35 /(J
No. 2241.—Dressy All-wool Sports Coat (as illus-
trated), striped collar and cuffs to tone, all round belt
at waist; Fawn, Grey, Saxe, Rose or Brown shades. 35/6
No. 4041. — Cosy Knitted Sports Coat, Raglan
sleeves, turn-down collar, double-breasted effect; in Grey,
Brown, Green or Beaver Heather mixtures 37 /Q
No. 507.—Extra Quality Knitted Wool Sports
Coat, Raglan cut, roll collar, pockets and belt; Heather
Brown, Grey, Cream or Navy 49/6
* f
Z7£
£514
jg
Izod’s Corsets pro-
perly set off a
Costume. Illustra-
ted Price list posted
free.
No. 275.—Useful Skirt (as illustrated), in Pine
Serge, eased back, fancy pockets, belt and buttons, Navy
or Black 35/6
No. 5514.—Neatly Cut Skirt (as illustrated), in Pine
Serge, eased back, pockets and belt; Navy or
Black 29/6
No. 51. —Useful Skirt, in Brown Tweed, two single
box-pleats, tabs and belt 29/6
No. 6307—Stylish Gabardine Skirt, inverted pleats
at sides, pockets and narrow belts finished with cable
stitching; Navy or Black 52/6
No. 1194.—Stylish Skirt, in Fine Serge, panel front,
hip pocket, cable stitching and buttons, Navy, or
Black 37/6
-O
1075
2244-
No. 2244.—Smart Costume (as illustrated), in Fine
Serge, eased back pockets and belt; Navy or
trimmed cable stitchings; high-waisted Skirt, finished
satchel pockets and straps; in Black or Navy .. £o/5/-
No. 1075. Useful Coat Robe (as illustrated), in
Cotton Gabardine, Sailor collar, belt and patch
pockets, smartly finished self buttons; in Pawn or
Grey 47/6
ANTHONY HORDERN &
Only Universal
Providers*
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


The Roofing that is“ Made ”for Your
Needs Not “Adapted” to Them
im
V
‘if MM Vi'
□
iV
m
jfghj
Garages
roofed with
“ADAMAX”
give every
protection
from fire,
p-tc.
xw
EM J
83?
For the
Farmer and
Man out
West
“ADAMAX”
presents
many
advantages.
The most important item of modern con-
struction is an efficient, dependable and
economical roofing material.
There’s no other roofing just like
“ADAMAX”
Asphaltum Roofing
none that can take its place for a minute,
with the wise, far-sighted buyer.
“ADAMAX ” is right in price, appear-
ance, construction and in serviceability.
For the largest homestead or smallest
outhouse, garage, woolshed or hayshed
you will find in “Adamax” a roofing
that’s as sturdy as a growing oak.
“Adamax ” is watertight, light, clean,
sanitary and fire-retardant, 12 to 14-
degrees cooler than iron, and does not
sweat.
It is supplied in rolls 72 feet long and 3
feet wide, and made in three thicknesses,
one, two and three plies. Nails and
cement for sticking down the overlap
supplied free of charge.
“Adamax” costs one-third the
price of galvanised-iron and
freight charges are one-third
less.
N.S.W. Government Railway contract
awarded “Adamax” Ist July, 1916, to
30th June, 1918. N.S.W. Contract
again awarded “Adamax” Ist July,
1918, to 30th June, 1919.
No technical skill is required to lay
“Adamax.”
Consult us before you decide on the roof-
ing for any structure ; also send for free
booklet, “The Adamax Series.”
fghj
“Ada max” is
watertight
and will
neither
bulge nor
rot.
W6K&&&
“ADAMAX”
is used
extensively
for
Roofing,
Mine and
other
buildings.
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD.
175 Clarence Street SYDNEY
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
PERTH : 33 King Street.
BRISBANE: Cor. Edward <& Mary Streets.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.


IMPORTANT NOTICE.
MeNin's
Food
Messrs. Mellin’s Food Ltd., London, desire
to inform the public that, in consequence of
Government prohibition and difficulties of
export from the United Kingdom, they have
made complete arrangements with their
American branch factory for a continuance
Of shipments of Mellin’s Food to Australia.
Mellin’s Food as manufactured in America
is of the same'standard composition and
quality, is prepared from the same formula,
and is in every way identical with the English ;■
article.
Stocks of Americari-manufactured Mellin’s
Food have reached Australia, and Dealers and
the Public can now be assured of adequate
supplies.
All enquiries and requests for samples and
literature to
GOLLIN 8 CO. PTY.LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney,Adelaide, Brisbane
fghj
fg
Economy is determined by
the value you obtain for
the price you pay. When
you buy a Venus Pencil
you’re buying something
more than a stick of lead
in a wooden jacket.
You’re buying: efficient and
all-enduring pencil service.
Of all Stationers, Stores,
&e„ throughout the World
jfg
jfg
flquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915:
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled bp CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
jfg
Your boy at
the Front !
He may not like to ask
you for them, but
Cigarettes are every-
thing to him out
there. He’s worthy
of the very best,
so buy him some
“ De Reszke " Cigar
ettes. Post the parcel
yourself. Then you
know they must
reach him safely.
Sold Everywhere.
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand-
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured. All
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Randwick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
CELEBRATED
m 3
r m
•i
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Coras Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a, household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure—it kills them. It is a painless cure —-
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
-no trouble, no preparation, no mess,
jld in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K- W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [1
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
Two or three drops on
sugar slowly dissolved
in the mouth produce a
most soothing and cura-
tive effecft in all cases of
Coughs, Bronchitis,
Asthma (Si All Chest
Affections.
1/6 of all Chemists.
If not procurable, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward post free.
w
m
[2
j
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fgj
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
ghfj
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL ®. CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine-Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
hg
This Name is the Word of
Honour in Tyre Making
ON every Firestone Tyre there is stamped
the name of its maker, H. S. Firestone,
President of the Firestone Tire and Rubber
Company of America.
This name is your pledge of personal re*
sponsibility for good service. It is your
assurance that Firestone Tyres have that
toughness with resiliency which gives you
long and easy riding on any kind of road.
We endorse their quality and recommend
them, under all conditions, for best and
longest wear.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney,
New South Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co.,
Melbourne, Victoria;
and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd.,
Adelaide, South Aus-
tralia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd.
Perth, West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing
Co., Ltd., Brisbane,
Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd.,
Wanganui and Wei
lington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages
Write for
Illustrated Literature
y\
T
K
l
w
%
X*
/
/
m
Wf \
IS
JO
$
gS
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Yesterday.
Clanging their querulous cry o'erhead
The wild geese flew in a wedge of grey.
“Where have they come from, dear?” I said ;
And Lorna answered, “F’om ’esterday.”
And the scales were lifted from eyes grown
old
And I saw, beyond where the wild birds
flew,
The Gate of Night with the Latch of Gold*
And the little islands that Lorna knew.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
Australia in England.
He called. The quiet nurse stole to his side,
Seeing how in his hands he strove to hide
Dull tears that from his mother’s breast had
sprung
And stayed in his because he was so young.
He moaned: “How long must I breathe Eng-
land’s air
When the home hills are singing me out
there ?”
She leaned to him the pity of her soul
For the Death-bells beat out a muffled toll.
April was laughing in the English lanes,
Splendidly scornful of his hitter pains.
April was chuckling of a lover-hand,
But his closed eyes were in another land.
Oh, the lark soaring up the English sky
Had sung him home to meet the cux-lew’s
cry
He smiled.... The little nurse bent over
him—■
Blue eyes unmisted with a memory dim —
And moving gently from the dead apart
She heard his green hills singing in her heart.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
The Empty Mirror.
If she were here ifportTflffa bright Spring day
Intent on fripperies, she would go forth
To buy herself hat (some ribbon ends,
A silver buckle and a flower or two),
And come home with a flush on either cheek
And small hands full of parcels, and would
say
(The wonderful confection on her head
That halo of a daring milliner!)
“You’re sure you like it?” turning from the
glass
To press a hurried kiss on my grey hair,
And back again to her own eyes-of-youth
The mirror made not half so beautiful!
She was such lover of all pretty things,
Of fragile laces, and of muslin frills.
And small enamel discs, and dancing slices
With silly heels she told me were “quite
French,”
When nothing really mattered to my love
But just herself and all her burnished hair.
A ring I gave her was her constant joy,
A tiny golden loop for happiness. A tur-
quoise set
Between four pearls. No very costly gift,
But it was worth to her a king’s reward.
Alas! A straight white gow-n is hers to-day.
They do not need gold buckles in the grave,
Nor satin ribbons; and the nodding flowers
Will grow above her sleep, and weave a veil
And cover for her little shining head ;
But she can never turn to me, and smile
“You’re sure you like it?” from her vantage
point
Before that oval of reflected joy.
Spring will return through autumn's yellow
ways
And in the city windows I shall see
The broidered silken hose she used to crave,
The filmy lace, the glory of the hats,
The high French heels. .. .while I go home
Through streets that w-aver with old mem-
ories
To find.... an empty mirror on the wall.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Grey Lady.
, Stealing from her river-bed,
Where the tall trees, green and shady.
Sweetest scents of morning shed
Comes the Grey Lady.
Where the new-lit river flows
(Mirrored rose and opal paling),
Over rock and reach she goes,
All the world veiling.
To the courtship of a king
In the dewtime she is bidden.
While the thrush and magpie sing,
’Neath her robe hidden.
Fine as finest gossamer
Is her garment, soft and airy;
It w-as spun at night for her
By a good fairy.
Much as one who walks in sleep,
Through the tall trees, green and shady,
Where the leaves sweet silence keep,
Goes the Grey Lady.
Here her veil is thrust aside
By a wind that, laughing, sallies
Down the river’s placid tide
Or from green alleys.
Ah, and here she meets her king,
As with light and warmth he leavens
Earth and air, and everything
’Neath the high heavens.
Far and wide his glories move
Through the tall trees, green and shady;
Loved too much and killed by love,
Dies the Grey Lady.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


- '•
139
tarn
i
m
m
sub
Pure Seasoned Para Rubber—
Finest Egyptian Cotton Fabric—•
Knowledge of Australian Road and Climatic Conditions—
Cong Experience in the Manufacture of Rubber Goods, and
The Earnest Endeavour to produce tbe Perfect Australian Tyre—
These have all helped to make Perdriaus to-day the best of all tyres for Australian Roads.
PERDRIAU Tyres
m- ■ s
are better now than the Perdriaus of a few years ago, and if, some time hence, there
are going to be better tyres than the Perdriaus of to-day, then it is Perdriau who
will make them.
So, keep the Home Tyres Turning, and let them always be Perdriaus.
Obtainable through all Garages or from the Manufacturers—
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
All
States.
Iff
V.
BE YOUR OWN VET. GET AN
ECLIPSE Brand Emasculator.
This is''the very latest, most humane and perfectly reliable instrument-
three different crushes and regulating screw—easv to
use, no danger of blood-poisoning, failure impossible,
every instrument tested and guaranteed.
PRICE 50/-
Postage 9cl extra.
Why not keep a Handy Kit of serviceable Instruments? Write for ou
instructive book Free.
DENYER BROS.,
The House for
Veterinary Specialties
281 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Round Australia with Rex Goods
Mamy
1
<T-*. 4 *
AL3
Sea Breezes Create
Keen Appetites
The breezy trip across the harbour , and the good “sal'y ”
smell of the sea tend to put a keen edge on one's appetite.
Then it is that Mother shows her wisdom in packing a tin
or two of
“REX"
Camp Pie
jhg
in the hamper. This delicacy is famous as a hunger-satis-
fier. The tasty, juicy flavor and the wholesomeness of
“ Rex” Camp Pie will appeal to the appetite at any time.
Serve it straight from the tin with a salad or slice thin and
make tempting sandwiches.
“REX” CAMP PIE is a concoction of the choicest morsels
of meat compounded, seasoned and cooked in the inimitable
manner of the “Rex” Chefs.
Don’t forget to order a few tins and try this economical all-
meat delicacy.
All Grocers sell “Rex” Camp Pie.
Refuse substitutes.
J 197
Foggitt, Jones & Co., Ltd.
Packers of “Rex" Pure Foods
Curers of “Rex” Hams & Bacon
! .h-
- -J ; t: '
■
GOODRICH
Full-size
“BAREFOOT” RUBBER
Black Safety TYRES.
This wonderful “BAREFOOT”
Rubber is black—-not because it
is colored —but because it came
that wav.
j
Color alone does not make a
“Goodrich” stand the test of ioo-
mile-per-hour races.
The marvellous “ BAREFOOT ”
Rubber now used in Goodrich
Tvres was evolved by our chemical
experts after years of research,
resulting 1 in the Toughest and Best-
wearing Tread ever produced.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St, 13 Castleroagh St, 300 Adelaide St,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.YV., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.—N0. 1994.
THURSDAY, MAY 2, 1918.
Pbice 6d.
NOW WHAT WOULD YOU DO?
ATHLETIC PERSON (running the wrong way): “Help, help! They are murdering my mate!"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia tor the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, o£
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum, you can have Tiie
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas dumber, to any
aijduess in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address aiiroad, J, 1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. Cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, _ those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., amy picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS. .
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg ; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City flews Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
lloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maonland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, boz., Id., and id, each
additional 2oz. ■ .
xHejfot.
THURSDAY, MAY 2, 1918.
WINNING WARS BY PRIVATE
ENTERPRISE.
Long before this war started there was an
occasional voice in the wilderness prophesy-
ing victory for the nation that was in a
position to arm and promptly use its eligible
manhood, allot a useful job to the remaining
citizens and immediately take possession of
all property for the purpose of maintaining
the fight and paying the bill. Few people
would listen to the voice after getting the
hang of the argument. Of all “agitators
this was the worst; but as there were only
a few of him and the wrath of the multitude
of other agitators was so violent against
him, his influence was about as powerful as
a rabbit’s. Socialists, strong on the property-
seizing part of the programme, denounced the
conscription of men for service under arms.
The property-owning classes were as a rule
keen on conscription for fighting purposes,
but ready to produce 175 arguments to
prove that a pooling of other resources would
be immoral, suicidal and horrible. W here-
fore the all-in person was an outcast, derided
and rejected of men. That the infrequent
individual was usually a scholar counted, of
course, for nothing. Nor did it mattei that
he was trving to convert the nation to a
new wav of thinking, which involved look-
ing at the whole truth instead of a limited
part of it. * ' .
But the trials of four years have changed
the minds of men in a way that a century ot
argument would never have done. Men who
blew the roof off with denunciation of con-
scription* for military service, being con-
fronted with the alternative of defeat, have
swung round. So, too, thousands . of
men can everywhere be found to subscribe
to the theory that all the resources of a
nation should be socialised for war, who only
the other day cursed such a notion as a
pestilent heresy. Of course the advocates
of this step were usually moved by the con-
viction that under such a dispensation there
would be no wars, and the same hope in-
spired the advocates of conscription ot life.
Both parties were looking at only one part
of their problem. One side failed to see that
war could be made upon a people as well as
by them. The other failed to notice that
their property really went into a pool on
the day the first shot was tired. The main
difference that exists between complete
socialisation of the national wealth and a
system under which the wealth-production
continues to be privately managed for the
twin purposes of private gain and furnishing
the cost of war is this—that under the latter
system the cost is enormously- increased and
that goods produced by the labor of to-day,
and services purchased b.v the capital of to-
day, become a charge upon the production of
to-morrow.
* ■* * *
Now, there could hardly be much room for
difference of opinion among neople who were
asked to choose between t\vo possible futures
—one in which they would start from
scratch with free legs and the other in which
they would set out with a heavy burden.
Wherefore eminently respectable British
citizens and newspapers, watching the dis-
appearance of the national wealth down the
gullet of Mars and the creation of a vast
debt to be wiped off in the future, are
solemnly asking themselves whether Sosh
is the devil they thought he was. And
from most unexpected places there come
regretful voices testifying to the owners’
grief at not having been enlightened before.
The huge profits made by ship-owners, muni-
tion-makers, food-dealers and others are no
longer regarded as indications of prosperity.
They are almost everywhere now contem-
plated as part of the price the nation is
compelled to pay for muddling through. And
even by the people who are making these
profits the problem of whether they are going
to be left with much more than a mouthful
of ashes at the finish is a hideous uncer-
tainty. It is the same in Germany, where,
in spite of much more complete organisation,
colossal profits have been made and a
gigantic debt achieved. There, unless the
situation can be saved by plunder from out-
side, bankruptcy is plainly waiting on the
doorstep. It is not a question now in
Britain or France or Germany whether the
war should have been the signal for con-
scription of wealth. This has been in force
all along, in a sort of way; £840,000,000 is
being raised this year by taxation in Britain,
and it is only playing with words to say that
this is not conscription of wealth. The weak-
ness in the business is that a great part of
the wealth cpnscribed is profit made out of
the war—that the nation is to a large extent
depending upon the profit-monger tor
revenues and for advances which are con-
verted into a charge upon the national earn-
ings later on. The real question is whether,
instead of conscripting wealth by calling up
annual drafts, a wiser statesmanship would
not at one swoop have made every citizen a
worker for the State in the army or in
industry and socialised the whole machinery
of production and mental and physical
equipment possessed by the community.
-X- * * *
Answer to the question why the wiser
statesmanship did not prevail and muddling
through came to be tolerated is easy. The
Avorld had not learned its lesson and had
not the vaguest notion of what was going to
happen. The fool’s paradise was as wide
as the earth. When the war started no
country had the necessary equipment. _ They
had all followed the same lines of privately
controlled and directed production for indi-
vidual profit. The machinery of government
had been adjusted to this system. The State
limited its demands to the willingness of
individuals to contribute towards the pre-
servation of the State and the assumed capa-
city of the private machine to provide for
the corporate needs. In Britain there
existed the nucleus of a defensive system.
After terrible travail life and-substance was
imparted to it. But while Britain could
improvise an army she could no more have
put the whole national industry and existing
wealth into khaki, so to speak, than she
could take a leap off the earth and fly to a
new address. She had borrowed for her pri-
vate needs. Therefore she borrowed for her
national needs. Her public service knew all
about taxing incomes derived from foreign
securities and personal effort and mortgages
and shares in companies. So taxing pro-
ceeded in the old way with a close regard
for the continuance of the activities which
yielded the income and maintained the value
of investments. Socialisation would have
turned all this upside down. The man who
had shares in a steamship company and was
living on the proceeds would have ceased to
get any proceeds because there would have
been none. The individuals who were draw-
ing big profits from coal-mines and frozen-
meat stores and mortgages on city properties
would have had to bid them farewell because
none of these institutions would have been
producing profits. The entire social and
industrial system would have gone, up in
the air and what was left would have been
no more like what had gone before than
Bogan’s Pub resembles a prima donna. Ser-
vice alone would have been demanded of the
citizen ; and the proof that society is mainly
a rabble and the State everywhere a synonym
for chaos is that the utilisation of service
for the common good is exactly what no
nation could attempt. The best that any of
them could do was to struggle to maintain
the system which rests on private gain and
run the nation into stupendous debt to itself
for protecting its own life and liberty.
BESIEGED CITIES, IMMIGRANTS,
BABIES, ETC.
It was generally felt a generation or two ago
that Europe, so long as it had the price of a
loaf about it, was insured against want by
reason of improved methods of transit and
other develooments. But the new security
vanished. It w T ent almost as soon as it
came. The birth-rate did it. Thanks to
improvements in sanitation and medical
science and civilisation generally, the popu-
lation of many countries in Europe multi-
plied four-fold in less than a century. The
increase in some American countries was
much greater —about twelve-fold in the case
of the United States. The States of Europe
were all capable of feeding themselves m
1840 In 1910 Russia was practically the
only self-supporter left. The American
republics and India went strongly for a
while, but with the growth of population
thev began to eat more and more of their
own crops and have less and less for export.
The world’s food surplus wasn t anything
stupendous in 1910. The ravages of Huns
and Bolsheviks and Unspeakables, a small
amount of sinkage done by U-boats and their
kin. a wonderfully futile Australian Govern-
ment and some other causes turned the scale
on the side of famine. Australia has really
become a place of world-wide importance by
reason of what it hasn’t done. The Allies
are in such a tight place that the wheat
which HUGHES and co. didn't ship because
they didn’t build vessels might have made
history. In this matter the Government was
a crowd of talkative ants fooling with the
fate of nations.
People are justified in wondering whether
the birth-rate gospel should be swallowed
without modification. It is a custom to talk
as if “More People” was an essential m it-
self : unless a country with five people to
feed per square mile doubled its population
in a certain number of years so as to have
10 persons per mile, then 20, then 40, then
SO, then 100, then 320, then 640, then 12S0
and so on, it was “decadent.” Now a doubt
arises. This is the first big war fought
since the great improvement in means of
communication enabled Europe to draw for
its supplies on three-quurters of the globe
previously unavailable. That was good for
Europe. ' Also it is the first big war fought
since the tremendous and unprecedented leap
in population made Europe abjectly depen-
dent on far-off supplies. That was bad. If
the war had been postponed for another half-
century and the birth-rate had kept on its
dazzling progress, it is possible that a far
worse scarcity than exists now would have
come in the first year of strife instead of
the fourth. Later on the scarcity might
have come without any war at all.
* * * *
This does not alter the fact that Aus-
tralia requires a. great increase of popula-
tion. It wants them for defence, for even
if this war hasn’t come to out doors yet in
any serious fashion it may come, or the
next one may come, and no one knows when
the next one is due. For lack of men the
defence here is miserable. Also Australia
wants more people to hump a, share of its
public debt, for the- burden is ruinous. But
these points should be considered: —
(1) Among the countries of the world which pub-
lish statistics the Commonwealth has the best effective
birth-rate (effective birth-rate represents the children
that survive, not merely those that are born), bar-
ring only Bulgaria and Roumanian Taking the
States individually, Tasmania, Westralia, Queensland
and N. S. Wales beat the world.
(2) It is impossible to increase the size of
families indefinitely for economic reasons. An
average of eight children would mean less food, less
education and more child labor. There is a limit to
what the Old Man can earn even if he attains to the
ideal of eliminating the employer and securing the
entire product of his toil.
(3) It is impossible to increase the size of
families indefinitely as a matter of health. The
ideal birth-raters were the later Merovingian princes
of old France. It became a habit or tradition among
them to marry at 13, and to die of old age at 25,
leaving 12 degenerate children to mourn tjieir pass-
ing out. The sturdy Mayors of the Palace, who had
a respectable ordinary birth-rate, ran the Govern-
ment. In the end they deposed the wonderful but
imbecile birth-raters and became kings themselves.
(4) It is impossible to adequately garrison this
immense country in time for the next probable emer-
gency by the birth-rate alone, even if it is a good
one. No big empty country ever contrived to do
that. The infant isn’t born a soldier, or a tax-
payer or an artisan. If the Commonwealth is to
move ahead —not to become overcrowded, but to be
occupied to a reasonable extent in a reasonable time
—it can’t wait for the infant to grow up.
Therefore as an adjunct to the birth-rate
Australia wants desirable white immigrants
and a lot of them.
Australia is up against several hard facts.
It must have a lot more artisans very shortly
or else go without a lot _ of things which it
regards as necessaries of life, It can’t import
them on the grand old scale because imports
and' the interest on outside debts (which
debts will probably reach £1,000,000,000 by
the time the war is over), except in so far
as we pay for them in commodities, must be
paid for in gold. The local output of gold is
going down fast, and with diminished credit
the floating of gold loans in London can’t go
on with the old joyous abandon. So this
country, unless it proposes to file its
schedule, must import a great deal less and
manufacture a great deal more. And it must
get to work on this proposition very early,
long before the new crop of babies grows up,
unless the infant is set to do a man’s work
at the age of 10 or so. Incidentally a big
immigration policy would be true patriotism
on a big scale. It is a source of weakness
to have a country at one end of the empire
which is hungry because, even (hough. it
retains command of the sea, it is possible
for its enemies to reduce its superabundant
population to the verge of famine; and at
the other end a country which can’t get rid
of its food supply and hasn’t enough popula-
tion to put up a decent defence.
* * * *
Certainly there is not much gained by
having a birth-rate if there is no place to
put the baby except Sydney or Melbourne
or some other big city, according to the ethics
of the congestion policy ; and if there is little
for him to do when he grows up except float
loans and organise strikes. And there are
few features about a big immigration policy
if there is little to offer the skilled immigrant
except a precarious job at railway construc-
tion and some vague theories about the
reorganisation of society. So the baby and
the immigrant must be considered together.
Certainly the Australian infant might be,
and ought to be, better cared for than he is.
He is the best infant and the most numerous
infant in the world, though he can’t he so
abundant as usual while the head of the
family is away at the war; and he dodges
the habit of dying during his first year more
carefully than any other infant. Still he
should have a better chance than he has.
But he needn’t be rushed. The number of
births per 1000 people is less than it was,
but the gross figure could be doubled or
trebled in one act by killing off everybody
aged less than 16 or more than 50, for when
a country gets into the habit of keeping alive
those who are too young or too old to be
parents the baby-rate per 1000 inhabitants
must suffer. Because it suffers the super-
ficial exhorter proceeds to clamor. Thirty
years ago the easiest device of this sort of
exhorter was to be anti-Chinese. Now it is
to be pro-baby. But he shouldn’t paste his
advt. all over the cradle or seek the bubble
reputation by pretending that the Australian
offspring is extinct. The offspring will be
alive and going strong long after the exhorter
is dust.
THE SWORD-MAKER.
In the happy days of old Japan, so we are
told by a writer with a name like a crinkled
chrysanthemum, the maker of swords was
allowed to try the newly-tempered blade on
anyone who chanced to pass his shop. A
head dropped lightly in the thoroughfare, and
the armorer fondled the edge of his weapon
to see how cleanly it had done its work. But
the gentle practice had a way of teaching
the traveller to walk wide of the spot where
the sword-maker was likely to make his
spring; and it is not recorded that the.green-
grocer next door did a large business. Told
of a far country in a far age, the story is full
of shuddersome suggestion, and the reader
is apt to wonder how life contrived to go on
at all with such sharp possibilities lurking at
the street corner; but as a plain fact that
armorer is living close to us all at this
moment. Nay, more—he tries a multitude
of weapons besides swords and tries a million
of them at once; wherefore the public head
is very little safer on its shoulders for all the
progress of thought and advance of civilisa-
tion. The present war, beginning with the
double slash at Belgium and Servia, lias
run on into strange places.. Children in
Britain have been murdered in their beds;
the blade has pierced hearts in Bourke and
Petrograd and Montreal; the direction of the
blows yet to come are beyond the guess of
any man. Yet there are people who still
argue that these things are necessary, and
that even after the wreckage of the present
turmoil has been cleared away wars and the
miseries of wars must still have place, in the
\i r orld. It is said that national passion is a
thing beyond control, and that peoples will
still fight with hymns of hate on their lips
for obscure causes merely because man is a
fighting animal. The answer is plainly that
war, as we know it, cannot exist without the
armorer. Nations, however great their
wrath, could not harm one another seriously
without munitions; and the invasion of
France by Germany with a dinner-knife
would not be war in the grim sense in which
the Teuton has made us understand the
term.
The king-pin of the situation, then, is the
maker of weapons. Private interest in the
means of death and destruction lias always
been dangerous because men were _ able to
look to the shambles of war for dividends.
But national interest in munitions might,
under circumstances reasonably likely to
arise, be almost as bad. A hard-up nation
with most of its wealth sunk in the machin-
ery of war might on small provocation be
expected to us ( e that machinery before it grew
obsolete in the hope of getting the only possi-
ble return for its heavy taxation and enor-
mous expenditure in material which while
peace remained unbroken was absolutely use-
less. Safety demands the closing of the
armorer’s shop altogether, or, if that be not
practicable, restricting it to a small inter-
national concern capable only of arming a
world police for the common protection. No
doubt anybody could still get a bit of steel
and hammer out a pike in his back yard, as
men did in older days; but the prospect of
murder with such weapons need not be
alarming. At Naseby, in its results one of
the most important of all British battles, 500
Parliamentarians died. The death-roll to-
day in a mere raid in Flanders far exceeds
that number; and all the armies of the
seventeenth century,- fighting with pike and
musket, could have been rounded up by a
dozen platoons of the soldiers of to-day.
Just as a single modern regiment with a few
Lewis guns would have accounted for all
the might that Ckomwell and the King could
have jointly put into the field, so an army
raised to-day on the old plan to fight with
anything it could find would be easily con-
trolled by the rifles of a handful of inter-
national police. Were the armorer put in
his place; were gun-making by the individual
made an act of high treason against the
human race, and gun-making by any State an
immediate cause for interference by all the
rest, war would fade away. Guns are made
to shoot and swords to slash; and just as
long as they are permitted, shooting and
slashing will be regarded as legitimate occu-
pations for human creatures.
* * * *
But the abolition of the sword-maker is
entirely dependent on our will to win the
present w r ar. Germany has us by the throat;
and the reason the grip is so strong is because
of her infinite faith in the right of the
armorer to try his weapons on the passer-by.
If we fail to convince the Teuton by hard
blows that our moral rightness is more than
his war preparations, we shall be forced to
subscribe to his doctrine that the art of caus-
ing death and destruction is above all other
crafts. If the war ends in his favor, we
shall be making swords or dodging sword-
makers for. a thousand years. If the result is
a draw, the world can only be saved by a
more bitter renewal of the conflict. If we
have a straight-out win and drive the horror
that lias been forced upon us clean back to
German soil, there need be no renewal of the
controversy forever. Even in the old Japan-
ese story the armorer was only dangerous
when he had the sword tempered, sharpened
and ready for his grim experiments. M itli
the mere steel on his anvil nobody had any
need to dread him. The whole murderous
business turns upon war machinery. If the
machine is not there the war cannot happen:
and it is surely in no way beyond the power
of the world’s statecraft to arrange that the
machine shall not be created. To beat. a
sword into. a ploughshare is good; to pre-
vent a possible ploughshare being made into
a sword is far better.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
An Obstacle to Recruiting.
Keith Murdoch, cabling from London to
his Australian papers, makes an appeal to
a large class of eligibles:—
Strange stories have been sent me that recruiting
has been affected by a statement that England is
keeping an army of a million in Britain. This is
a lie. England has been drained. Our own depots
and bases have been toothcombed for fighting men.
Some statements about the past are undeniable;
hut let all eligibles know that everything will be
done to see that they get a fair deal in the
future. A powerful trust of men here will consecrate
themselves to this task.
A conference of the editors of Australian
metropolitan newspapers was summoned re-
cently by the Commonwealth Government.
It would probably be impossible to get to-
gether a body of men who have done half
as much recruiting work as these. Practi-
cally every day of their lives for nearly
four years they, almost without exception,
have racked their brains for new appeals
or for new ways of making the old appeal.
Their business has been to discover, each
through his own office organisation, the
objections and the obstacles, and to answer
and overcome them. But at this point most
unfortunately the Censorship has interposed ;
and without a single dissentient this con-
ference, representing eyery section of the
loyal press of Australia, declared “that the
suppression of matter on the ground that it
was calculated to prejudice recruiting has
itself become highly prejudicial to recruit-
ing by hindering the redress of grievances.”
It may have been all very well to pretend
that everything in the garden was lovely
so long as letters from the Front were
severely censored and so long as no men
were returning. But so soon as men got
leave and could drop their uncensored letters
into any post-box, and so soon as men began
trooping back, the suppression of references
to soldiers’ grievances became an absurdity
and a danger. Had they been ventilated
most of the wrongs would have been re-
dressed ; as it vwas, the complaints were
spread just as widely as if they had been
reported in print, they were often magnified,
and those that were utterly unfounded re-
ceived no contradiction. Had they been
quite frank about it the military heads, who
were responsible for the suppression, would
have confessed that what they really objected
to was comment upon military administra-
tion. The well-worn pretext for that objec-
tion was that criticism of “superior autho-
rity is subversive of discipline.” That may
have been a good enough excuse 50 years
ago, but it is no good any longer. The Allied
armies of to-day are not the armies of any
other day. They are intelligent, educated,
enfranchised. They are w T here they are not
because they are derelicts, but because they
are citizens, and the best of citizens at that.
The ranks are as much concerned in the out-
come of the war as the field-marshals them-
selves. To say that such men are going to
become an undisciplined horde if they read
in* a newspaper a statement of things they
hold to be wrong is preposterous. They don t
require to read a newspaper to know where
the shoe pinches—they know that already.
What they do resent is that the press should
be muzzled lest incompetent leaders and
absurd methods should be disturbed. Twen-
tieth-century men, and especially mem
brought up in a democratic atmosphere, hate
this feeling of helplessness. They want to
be assured of a fair deal; and no stronger
appeal could be made to a large class who
have held back, and no more welcome thing
could be told to a still larger number who
have not held back, than this assurance
from London; —
Let all eligibles know that everything will be
done to see that they get a square deal in the
future. A powerful trust of men here will con-
secrate themselves to this task.
But something must be done at this end too.
We cannot afford to lose one possible recruit;
and the men who have done more recruiting
work than all the other recruiters put to-
gether—the men who speak for an agency
without which recruiting would be impos-
sible —who talk every day to an audience a
thousand times larger than those which
assemble at the recruiting meetings—these
have deliberately and unanimously _ told the
Government of the manner in which their
efforts are thwarted. Any Government that
declines to remove the obstacle will have
to accept a very grave responsibility.
«.
The Most Wonderful Discovery on
Earth.
The excited quarterly document issued by
the boss Labor organisation of N. S. Wales
contains, amid much general denunciation,
one statement which attracts the eye. It
is a tremendous statement —about the big-
gest ever issued in Australia —and it is
put forward with a confidence which sug-
gests that there is solid knowledge behind
it
The most frantic efforts, coupled with all kinds of
inducements and concessions, are being made to
secure investments in the War Loans from every
patriot with money to spare. Under a sane system
of finance all the money required could have been
raised on the public credit without the payment of
one penny of interest and the principal redeemed
over a long period of years.
Well, there is more money wanted for the
war, and for public works, and for the
repayment of debts that are falling due, and
if the chiefs of the Labor movement in
N. S. Wales know how it can be raised with-
out interest and won’t divulge the method,
there have been no criminals like them since
Judas Iscariot. As for the conduct of the
party in not applying its methods (assum-
ing that they are not an absolutely new dis-
covery) when it had control of affairs (there
have been six purely Labor Federal Govern-
ments and two purely Labor N. S. Wales
Governments), it can only be said that its
infamy is beyond words. The world is very
weary of the old financial problem and the
old, futile financial devices, and craves for
light and leading. It has debased the coin-
age and enacted that the new sovereign
must have the same value as the old one;
but when there was onlv 10s. worth of metal
in it nothing ever made it realise more than
10s. worth of goods. Thus the Scottish
sovereign got down to the value of a shilling,
and staved there till the wretched thing
was abolished and a fresh start made. There
have been and still are innumerable issues ot
paper currency based on the public credit
and the public assets and the producing
capacity of the community, and so on. But,
then, tiie most successful issues of Govern-
ment paper—the ones that never depreciated
—were and are based on the public credit
and the public assets and the private assets
of the community and the producing power
of the community and the stored-up labor ot
the community plus a sufficient reserve in
gold—the one kind of coin that is good all
the world over —to make that public believe
that it can get gold for its paper if so
desired. And when the community was
offered large quantities of paper with every-
thing behind it but the gold reserve, neither
patriotism nor enthusiasm nor faith nor law
nor all the prophets nor the lifting power
of innumerable elephants ever held up its
value. The Australian sovereign, when not
worn is good for 20s. (barring slight varia-
tions) in every civilised foreign country
because it will melt down for that value for
purposes of re-coinage into local currency.
Our shilling is at the moment worth eight-
pence, or thereabouts, outside Australia (it
is very much “thereabouts” owing to fluctu-
ations in silver values), because, it is
worth that when melted down. It is kept
up to a value of 12d. in Australia by a law
which provides that it is only legal tender
up to £2, and the same rule applies, in
Britain. If silver could be made unlimited
legal tender at its face value, Australia, as a
great silver-producing country, would be
on a good wicket; but no nation has man-
aged to keep it at its face value in these
conditions. The Australian paper pound is
worth 20s. in "Australia where the . gold re-
serve is ; and while there is a sufficient gold
reserve it will doubtless remain worth —os.
Outside, and away from the gold reserve, it
has no recognised value at all, for it cant
he boiled or melted down for re-coinage.. Of
course a certain forced value can be given
inside a country to a paper currency with
.no gold guarantee behind it; thus the 4s.
note of Guatemala is ivorth 3d. in com;
and there are other paper dollars of the same
nominal value which are worth 5d., 4d. and
M. If, after thousands of experiments have
failed to make the worker give full coin-
value for paper which had no coin or not,
much coin behind it, the leaders of N. b.
Wales unionism have solved the problem,
then they are marvels of statesmanship. It
they are only relying on some of the old
busted devices that have failed so often—and
a new device seems as hard to imagine as a
new continent —then they are not marvel-
lous at all. They are merely dangerous.
Why Neglect Our Own Vegetables?
The Inter-State Commission, in a report to
the Federal Parliament about trade in the
South Pacific, explains that there is scope in
the islands for raising cattle, coffee, cocoa,
copra, tapioca, vanilla and every kind of
tropical product. Furthermore, it points 9ut
that the labor problem incidental to raising
these things is very important, that the land
question is important, that shipping is im-
portant, and various other matters are also
important. In a general way ail this may be
true of the islands of the Pacific just as it
might be of various parts of Africa and
South America. This paper has no informa-
tion that the labor problem is not important
at Chicago, or that the land question is
negligible in Russia, or that shipping is a
minor detail to the Argentine. What it has
strong reason for believing is . that Aus-
tralians have on hand far too big a _ job to
leave them any time for interfering with the
local inhabitant of distant coral islands. Cer-
tainly cattle can be raised on some of the
islands. But the place for Australians to
think about in relation to cows is the North-
ern Territory. If coffee can be grown in the
Pacific, hundreds of tons more can be grown
in Bananaland. The same, thing applies to
the other commodities mentioned; and if any
more are wanted. Australia is in possession
of Papua (90,000 square miles), which is
quite enough to go on with. There seems to
be a sort of conspiracy afoot to persuade Aus-
tralians that they must rush off to the
islands and start teaching black brother how
to toil, and settle his land problem for him,
and “improve his condition,” and assume a
sort of over-lordship from Rabaul to the
Marquesas. The Bulletin’s idea is that
the Australian’s contract is here on his own
premises, doing for himself and his country
what a lot of busybodies want him to neglect
in order to go and do for other people and
obscure localities. It is one thing to object
to truculent strangers coming and establish-
ing naval bases in the neighborhood and
quite another to get tangled up in enter-
prises and responsibilities outside the boun-
daries of our own great task. The Pacific
islanders want nothing so much as to be left
alone. Australians want no more for them-
selves. Their plain moral duty is to
respect the ideas of other people; their prac-
tical duty to put their own house in order by
making the best use of their great heritage.
The Position in Ireland.
“Ruraidle O’Conor” writes: —
The popular misrepresentation of Ireland’s present
position with regard to the war and Conscription
calls for a cold statement and a warm protest.
Irishmen are not hanging back from the European
struggle and doing a national shirk to the everlasting
shame of a fighting people. Ireland is and has been
for many months on her feet, strong, militant and
proudly indignant. The beginning of the war found
a large number of her people actually in arms—the
Nationalists to assert and uphold British law as
placed on the statute Book ; the Carsonites to defy
that law. The moment the war began the law in
question was set aside with the goodwill of the Irish
leaders, who were determined to do nothing to
weaken Britain’s fighting arm in the big conflict.
The same leaders then offered to raise soldiers from
among their countrymen to assist the Allied cause;
hut the British authorities, bent, as always, on
creating the maximum of trouble in Ireland, refused
them permission to do so. This insulting slap in
the face for men who were eagerly loyal to the
cause of civilisation probably cost Britain a quarter
of a million recruits. English recruiting agents were
sent to Ireland, where they became a laughing-stock
as local fairs and other gatherings. Unable to hold
their own with the crowds they addressed either in
logic or in wit, they began, as Englishmen of their
class generally will, to threaten all sorts of pains
and penalties. Their threats were believed. Ireland
had too many memories of the carrying out of just
such atrocities as these agents suggested to refuse
them belief. The result was a tremendous impetus
for the Sinn Fein movement and other Republican
associations which had hitherto been of little account
in the country. The Dublin fight of two years ago
was the natural outcome.
Little sympathy as I have with that outbreak, the
thing was easy enough to understand. A certain
section of Irishmen declared that it was better to
die on Irish soil fighting for what they regarded as
an ideal than to die somewhere else assisting a
country that absolutely refused to play the game
in either letter or spirit. Being Irishmen, they no
sooner came to that conclusion than they proceeded
to die in a manner so startling that it won the
grudging admiration of their enemies. England
took alarm. If 1500 men put up a battle like that,
what might he expected from 500,000?
The Irish Conference was then called and brought
in a majority report in favor of Home Rule. Sud-
denly LnoYD George declared that Ireland must he
conscripted, and at the same time offered some sort
of self-government that has not yet been fully out-
lined. Ireland was more indignant than ever. Eng-
land was plainly with her back to the wall in the
great fight; but instead of inviting Ireland’s assist-
ance through her natural leaders, she chose the old
bullying method that had proved a failure in 700
years of experience. To say that Ireland at this
juncture cringes and shrinks from her duty is plain
insanity. Ireland is up and angry and strong. She
knows that for the moment the strong arm is hers
and not England’s; and she has no intention at all
of being bullied or coerced. Much as Irish sentiment
must run with the cause of France and the Allies,
it is difficult to see what the country could lose by
German victory. On the other hand, Ireland could
supply a quarter of a million men; and with the
coming exhaustion of the existing arrfiies, a quarter
of a million men might win the war.
The Irishman’s attitude is not one of hatred for
England, but one of profound distrust. The British
Government has an obligation of loyalty to Ireland as
strong as the Irish citizen has to the British Govern-
ment ; and as no practical proof of the former has
yet been shown, why expect, the latter? Let Ireland
have her free Parliament with no hampering condi-
tions ; then ask her, as Australia was asked, to take
her side in the war. No more is necessary. Free
Ireland would raise more volunteer troops for the
great cause than any British Government would ever
dare to call up under Conscription. That is the gist
of the matter. Far from shirking and showing
cowardice, Ireland stands erect to demand that the
military bullying to which she has always been sub-
jected shall now and forever cease.
The Suspension of Popular Government
in Maoriland.
Maoriland Parliament has prolonged its life
still further, this time until December, 1919
Meanwhile Massey and Ward have fled
again to London to sell more butter and
cheese and announce that their Dominion
is behind them to the last man. The cold
fact about this insolent disfranchisement of
the people is that Massey and Ward are
frightened to let the Dominion have a shot
at them. As it is now, democratic govern-
ment in Maoriland stands suspended, and a
political oligarchy with the assistance of
its numerous heelers is administering and
financing and legislating in contempt or
defiance of the people. It provides that the
Ministry may make regulations for the pur-
pose of procuring, enforcing and regulating
national service, prohibiting any employment,
occupation, business or work, and regulating
remuneration of national service subject to
the Arbitration Act. The crux of the law
is where the caterpillar carries its sting.
“National service” means “all occupations
whether under the Crown or any other
employer deemed to be essential to the pub-
lic welfare, and includes not merely personal
service but the use of any premises, machin-
ery or appliances, but does not include mili-
tary service.” As the Government refused
to add a provision that labor should not be
transferred from any trade to. another for
purpose of private gain, the -local. unionist
has a grim suspicion that the time is ripe to
keep wide awake. There is a cartload of
argument available to justify national ser-
vice being imposed upon everybody—if the
service is for the nation. But here is no
argument that would even palliate an
attempt to compel one citizen to labor for
another. That would be an enforced servi-
tude which can be best described by one very
unpleasant word. If the Maoriland Ministry
has the wit to avoid this, it is quite possible
that Labor may gain more than it is fearful
of losing through such a law. One obvious
result is that upon the State must soon be
thrown the responsibility for all employment,
and when the war ends an obligation of that
sort would be more useful to Labor than the
old freedom to wear out shoe-leather in
chasing a job.
The Fool Comes Home to Roost.
Apparently another half-million pounds'
worth of Westralia’s good loan jobs will
eat their head off in peace this year. That
is what the Wyndham meatworks cost. The
Government has offered 3s. 6d. per head for
slaying the bullock, the man who earned over
£8 a week to get as much as he earned and
the man who earned less to get £8 anyhow.
Working- hours were to be 44 per week, and
the bullock slain in overtime was to be worth
ss. 3d. Rates for inferior artisans were to
be £1 per day, £5 per week, and (boys) £3
per Aveek, Avith 50 per cent, extra for over-
time. Also there were to be free passages to
Wyndham and back, and half-pay during the
voyage. After three weeks’ negotiation the
unions declined the terms, so the bullock
Avon’t be tinned at Wyndham this year unless
the question can be re-opened, and 500 em-
ployees won’t be employees just at present.
The canned ox is mostly for export, and it
costs a lot to get him to the market, paying
war freights on some other fellow’s ship, and
when he reaches the market Ave have no
voice in fixing the price. The works cost
only the interest while they are shut. Ii
opening them Avould mean a dead loss on top
of the interest bill, then a Government Avhich
is desperately short of money has to think
twice before assassinating the beast once.
Westralia has gone in heavily for miscel-
laneous public works. Railways, tramways and
waterworks stand for little more than half
of the largest public debt per head on earth.
The rest is seAvers, immigration, lighthouses,
harbors and rivers, roads, bridges, develop-
ment of agriculture (nearly £4,000,000 apart
from the land revenues went in persuading a
little over 2,000,000 acres of soil to grow
things), development of goldfields (even the
magnificent gold deposits were buttressed
with £1,400,000 of borrowed money in the
razzle-dazzle days, which was a case of sub-
sidising the sovereign and half-sovereign
out of loans), hotels, workers’, homes
(£540,000 or so), sawmills, meatworks, agri-
cultural-implement works, brickyards, quar-
ries, etc. The easy-going habit of mind
caused by hiving almost unlimited loan-
money to spend led easy-going politicians to
pay the highest current wages—and the loan
boom had made them the highest in Aus-
tralia —with a trifle over to make its em-
ployees feel good on election day. Now the
news has to be broken to a bigger percent-
age of the community than in most other
States that the most wonderful loan bottle
in history has run dry, that it is only possi-
ble to pay wages based on the value of pro-
duction, and that State employees will have
to feel aood for nothing on election day or
else feel bad gratis. The position requires
a lot of adjustment. And considering how
Westralian politicians have run the State on
the rocks they require a great gift of ex-
planation. The best they can say about
themselves is that they were voluble fools.
The Avorst they can say is that they were
plausible knaves.
Vine Leaves and War Loans,
Melbourne Age lately groaned in anguish
that the War Loan suffered through Aus-
tralia’s consumption of liquor and tobacco.
It had discovered that the “national drink
bill” was £16,000,000 last year and that
£6,500,000 was spent on smokes. This is
one of those cases in which a well-meaning
enthusiasm gets into trouble through leav-
ing out half of the arithmetic. It is untrue
to say that the money spent on booze and
tobacco represents cash “withheld from the
cause for which our armies are fighting.”
Of the £16,000,000 spent on drink last year
the Commonwealth collected £4,044,201 in
Customs and Excise duties. From the
£6,500,000 spent on tobacco a revenue of
£2,470,969 was derived. This means that
through these two sources a section of the
community contributed £6,521,260 to the
public cashbox. In the previous year the
contribution was £7,151,482. In the year
before that it was £6,910,443, and in 1913-
14 £6,131.790. Now, from all these figures
there emerges the inescapable fact that
since the war began Australian revenues
have derived £26,714,975 from the drink
and tobacco habits. If that income-had
not been secured in this way it would cer-
tainly have had to be obtained in another.
That if a citizen instead of spending £5
on beer and tobacco had hung on to the
money and bought a war-bond he would
have saved something is beyond doubt. It
is equally indisputable that if every citizen
did this he would not have a £5 war-bond
unless he saved about £< 13s. 9d., for the
nation would fall upon fiim before he
reached the bank for £2 13s. 9d. as his share
of the revenue previously contributed for him
by the smoker and the patron of the bottle.
This might be a good thing. But it is not
what the Age and other horrified spectators
of partial statistics are asking for. Then-
particular point is that expenditure in two
special directions keeps money away from
the Treasurer. It does not. except in so far
as it destroys or damages the productive
power cf the people who drink and smoke,
and against that has to' be set the proba-
bility that in some cases these things in-
crease production. But that is not their
point either. They call the expenditure
“waste.” To the individual it may be. But
in this matter as in all others there is a
distinction between individual and national
waste. The really sinister aspect of the
aggregate expenditure on liquids and
tobacco by Australians is the waste through
importations of these commodities. Millions
sent out of the country to buy them are un-
questionably lost to the nation. In the
case of Australia, where goods of the finest
quality could be produced on the premises,
the transaction is wildly and wickedly
absurd. But no argument could possibly be
found if Australians were buying their own
eiears and drinking their own liquor ana
selling surpluses to people who could not
provide for themselves, to prove that wai
loans would be more rapidly subscribed it
the industries incidental to the pipe and
the glass were suppressed.
Winter Flowers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The morning breeze comes crisp and chill,
The last rich flowers are all in bloom,
A thin mist shivers on the hill,
A shadow creeps o’er stair and room;
Autumn with purple pomp is here,
Gliding to winter grey and drear.
The war goes on. The thundrous spray
Of charging squadrons breaks in blood.
Flame crowns with horror every day
And Death’s broad river brims in flood.
So many graves, so little done.
And Peace, that mocks us, still unwon!
Death is God's winter; yet the glades
Of Heaven are rich with bud and flower ;
And never blossom falls or fades
Where those wide airs and suns have
power.
The holy deed of sacrifice '
Is fragrant still in Paradise !
The guns have cried their Hymn of Hate;
The rifles hiss their curses shrill —
AH sins are shrived at Death’s red gate
Where purpose fires the fearless will;
And freedom’s blood upon the sod
Blooms as a splendid rose with God.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


WHAT CO-OPERATION HAS DONE-
There is evidence on every hand of the splendid results of loyal co-operative effort. Where a body of men engaged in similar businesses have created their own
organisation to handle their products, etc., there is invariably a considerably greater profit to be reaped under good management. Further, co-operative organisations
mean strength, giving co-operators a powerful voice in all matters that concern them.
In no other business can the co-operative principle be so easily and successfully applied as in insurance. And nowhere are such fine opportunities offering as in the
insurance of farming and pastoral properties.
* . ,
T h s Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“ stralia
Limited
was established by a group of enthusiastic believers in co-operation with solely one object—to cheapen the cost of farmers and pastoralists’ insurance.
The Company is undei expert and tried management, and though it has been in existence not quite three years results have been most gratifying.
Place Your Business with Your Own Insurance Company.
Absolute Protection at Current Rates, all the profits being available for distribution among co-operators.
FULL PARTICULARS SUPPLIED ON REQUEST.
Head Office: 14 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
The Moving Finger of Mars.
It may be F ~:ing in France, but Billjim
and Fritz were not throwing daffodils at
one another when they met the other even-
ing. The story as it comes along the cables
is that the German at the close of a perfect
day of hell had pushed himself into the
town of Bretonneux, an important posi-
tion overlooking Amiens. As night fell the
enemy settled down to enjoy the loot in com-
fort, for there was no bombardment and all
seemed well. But a division of Australians
had been brought up and prepared for a
surreptitious visit in gas masks, and the
next thing that happened was a savage,
hand-to-hand battle, which ended in Fritz
being captured, cleared out, or counted in
the casualty lists. It was, all hands admit,
a big achievement, and our old Bill has
been getting three cheers ever since. Inci-
dentally, it has been mentioned that
Australian losses in the current defensive
have been 10,000. That is a heavy toll.
It gives a much clearer indication of what
the fighting is like than daily reports which
vaguely announce “appalling” losses suf-
fered by the enemy. That the German is
being heavily punished cannot be doubted,
but there is no evidence yet that he is
appalled by his casualties. That both sides are
ready to face a continuance of heavy losses
is well established. The German, who had
hauled himself off for repairs in the La
Bassee-Ypres sector a week ago, started to
punch again in that locality the other day.
He was also reported to be massing men
for more assaults in other localities —most
probablv in the vicinity of Albert and the
village where the Australians called after
dark. At the moment of writing he was
not held. Early in the week he had seized
the summit of the hills south and west of
Ypres, and by doing this had certainly
weakened the Allies’ hold northwards. The
position there looks likely to become very
difficult, and it is not encouraging to notice
that the printed stories from war corres-
pondents and military critics are a mixture
of pap and piffle. That is never a good
sign. There is no justification for believing
that, even if the enemy is successfully held
up on a new line somewhere at the north-
ern extremities of Armageddon, the German
attack can therefore be said to have failed.
Many other things will have to happen be-
fore this is established. The strong pro-
babilities are that this northern scrap is
only an incident, and that Ludendoref will
before Iona: throw his weight at more vital
points along the Somme and the Oise.
“Dr. Nil” to “Harrison O.” (B. 11/4/T8) :
(1) It is not a question of whether the “sister-
hood” would' increase or decrease “if Miss llodt's
scheme were put in force.” My contention is that
promiscuous sexual relations are not “necessary” at
all.
(2) I have asked what would be the use of medical
supervision of the women if the same did not apply
to their “clients.” In other words, how could the
“ladies” be kept aseptic unless all their “clients”
were examined bacteriologically before being admitted
to a seance? Mr. “O.” has not answered that.
(3) My phrase, “neither honest nor necessary,”
was used because Mr. “O.” drew an analogy between
prostitutes and other persons whose work is “honest
and necessary.”
(4) The fact that men will continue to do what is
neither right nor necessary, ad infinitum, does not
affect the statement that it is not necessary.
(5) Mr. “O.” is kind enough not to directly con-
tradict my assertion that “sexual relations are not
necessary,” etc., but in point of fact he does so by
implication when he adds that “punters curse the
trainers” who happen to take my view and that of
most doctors. I have more confidence in the latter
view than in that of the “punter” who may be an
excellent barber’s apprentice.
This is old-fashioned militarism’s last chance
to justify the system of universal military
service, national organisation of fighting
force, huge cannons, poison gas, flame-
throwers, and all other forms of Frightful-
ness directed by a staff of swanking superior
officers from the comparative safety of their
headquarters behind the lines. Old-fashioned
militarism, which is Hun militarism, depends
upon masses of troops, supported by masses
of cannon and governed by strict discipline,
“tactics” and “strategy,” for its existence as
a reasonable proposition. Its ideas are of
the earth earthy. It digs miles of trenches in
the enemy country and remains there for
months and years, whilst nothing in particu-
lar is happening save preparations of armies
and materials for a further advance in the
gory future. And it is haunted by a dread of
the time at hand when no military force on
earth will avail against supremacy in the
air—the time when big cannons, gas shells,
flame-throwers and goose-step drilling will be
reduced to impotency in the decisive settle-
ment of national conflicts. William Archer
likened Hun militarism to a bandit holding a
pistol to the head of Civilisation and saying
“Be militarist or die!” But that was more
than three years ago. Hun militarism now
knows that itself must die unless it,can at
once dominate the races which threaten it w T ith
supremacy in the air. Already troop trains
in transit have been bombed off the line, and
men on the march have been shot down in
scores by intrepid airmen. A first raid on
Cologne, by only eight machines, is said to
have added more than 200 deaths to the Hun
account. The figures thusfar are mere sug-
gestions of what wall be accomplished by the
light brigades of individualism against the
heavy organised forces of Hun ambition if
the desperate onslaught of the enemy masses
in France fails in its immediate object.
From London Chronicle (5/3/TS) :
The Home Secretary announces that arrangements
for the collection and marketing of gulls’ eggs for
food are now being pushed forward.
As part of the work of the Press Bureau, no
doubc.
Adelaide has lost a useful citizen in A.
W. Hendry, who battled through life under
a heavy handicap. As a small boy he lost
one eye by an accident, and the other became
useless while he was a young man. lie
rose superior to the infirmity, became man-
ager of the Institution for the Blind in North
Adelaide, and showed astonishing powers of
organisation. His investigations included a
European trip, and it was always difficult
to realise that he was blind. He was only
58 at the end.
The position of Vice-President of the Execu-
tive Council, a new job in Bananaland, has
been given to Lands Minister, Hunter as a
stop-gap till he goes to England as Agent-
General. The possible loss of Ministerial
salary does not trouble Hunter, who is one of
the wealthiest men in Parliament —certainly
in the Labor party. When lie does go to the
Cold Country his loss will be felt keenly by
Premier Ryan. The last time a member of
the Queensland Cabinet was called Vice-
President was as far back as 1888, upon the
retirement through ill-health of Thomas
Mcllwraith.
The finessing for seats in the Coalition
Ministry of South .Aus., following the de-
feat of Jackson and Blundell at the elections,
has been ended by the new Nationalist party,
now much shrunk in numbers, agreeing to
accept two seats against the old Liberals’
four, instead of half and half as before.
So Barwell, the Liberal lawyer who stood
down to enable the Coalition to be carried
out, comes back to be Attorney-General.
The other Liberals, Peake, Butler and Bice,
remain. So does Harvey, the Nationalist
in the Leg. Council. The new man is
Anstey, who has held a city seat for the last
10 years. He takes the Lands Office.
Refusing dictation by the Phewsion caucus,
the Farmers’ Union has nominated its own
candidate for Flinders.' The Argus, fearful
of a Labor victory as a result of a split vote,
has been making desperate efforts to unearth
a farmer willing to point out the error of
their ways to Flinders agriculturists, but
to date has not been able to put forward any-
body more truly rural than E. F. Mitchell,
K.C. From the country back o’ beyond
Chancery-lane, Mitchell addresses the pri-
mary producer as one Hayseed to another,
explaining that he has an interest in “a pro-
perty in East Gippsland, having practically
the same climate and producing the same
kind of stock and Crops as a great part of
Flinders.” Hall, the Farmers’ candidate, has
been secretary of the Farmers’ Union for
years, and, although not a sturdy son of the
soil like Mitchell proves himself to be, is
probably as well qualified to represent agri-
cultural interests as the Phewsion nominee,
who is a Flinders-lane calico merchant.
[Edmund Fisher, Bulletin Office, Collins Street,
Melbourne.]
Of late years Labor in Victoria has
thought that trousers make the best execu-
tive wear. For several years the governing
body of the P.L.C. contained a few women,
but last year only men were chosen to con-
trol the movement outside Parliament. For
the 1918-1919 executive three women were
nominated, yet once more Trousers scooped
the pool, although the number of women’s
organisations affiliated with the P.L.C. is
now greater than ever, and the various
P.L.C. branches are largely corseted.
Nobody need be surprised that the local
Legislatures of the three most important
Russian provinces occupied by the Kaiser’s
troops have voted unanimously for annexa-
tion to Germany. Our own numerous Legis-
latures will do the same if the time comes; if
they don’t the Hun authority whose job it is
to see that the right sort of men are in these
Legislatures will have a bad time. Oliver
Cromwell used' to ryn his Parliaments on
somewhat similar principles. The elected
member who thought as Oliver and bis Mili-
tary Council thought he ought to think was
provided with a certificate and took his seat.
The member who hadn’t a certificate took
his departure. The trouble was that some of
the members who got in by thinking as the
Lord-General thought proceeded to think
differently when they were in, and in conse-
quence Parliaments were short-lived.
Poor, futile Pearce feebly told Senator
Bolton that the fact that 70 Army Medical
Corps men employed on women’s work at
the Caulfield Hospital were not allowed to
enlist, although eager to do so, was “para-
lysing news” to him, and that he would
“use his influence” to see that they were
allowed to go. Who rules the Defence
Department—-Pearce, who “uses his influ-
ence,” or subordinates who hinder recruiting,
with scarcely a word of protest?
Sydney Telegraph (25/4/T8) :
As there was no earthly prospect of carrying the
motion by which the Federal Opposition leader
yesterday attempted to block the departure of Mr.
Hughes and Mr. Cook for the Imperial Conference
it was justified by neither grace nor reason.
Some blockheads will never learn that how-
ever just the cause it is ridiculous to fight,
for it if the other fellow is bigger. That is
why the Belgians were justified by neither
grace nor reason.
Sampson, M.H.R. for the Vic. Mallee
farmers, has developed a habit of giving the
llughes-Cook Phewsion some ticklish thrusts
under the fifth rib. As printer of the
Warracknabeal Herald, with his finger on
the hairy wrist of the great, wild, whiskered
North-West, Sampson finds that the rural-
producer’s pulse fairly gallops at the men-
tion of wheat and wheat-ships. Wherefore
he is prudently seeing to it that his own
attitude is irreproachable. But it makes
him very unpopular with the Prime Minis-
ter.
The N. S. Wales Railway Commissioners
apparently feel hurt at what the P.M.G. said
regarding their large capacity for losing mail-
bags. They knotv very well that they are
comparative novices at the business. A whole
train left Melbourne for Adelaide in the
ancient days, and didn’t come back. The S.A.
authorities, being in need of a train, took it
and used it on one of their broad-gauge lines.
But they forgot to alter the “V.R.” to
“5.A.R.,” so one day, when Time was rolling
on as usual and Space was in the same old
spot, a travelling Victorian noticed it. Then
Victoria -took stock and found that there were
dozens of things missing, for which no ex-
planation is forthcoming to this day.
“Country Peel.”: The newly-formed Vic.
State School Junior Teachers’ Ass. (400 mem-
bers) is out to secure higher salaries, those paid
at present being a disgrace to any employer
of labor and a strong inducement to every
bright youngster to rush out and take some
other job, leaving only the tired, inept and
ambitionless to remain in the most important
profession in the land. Imagine anyone, at
the present cost of living, trying |o exist on
£4O a year ! Why, office-boys get 50 per
cent, more than that nowadays, and it is
not: necessary for them to put in two years
at a High School to get their job. So tli.e
junior teachers, who were never considered
by the State School Teachers’ Union—this
being mostly run by headmasters —have
signed a petition asking that the salaries,
£6O, £5O and £4O, now paid respectively in
first, second and third classes, be raised to
£B5, £65 and £5O. Justice Higgins has just
increased the salaries of juniors in the Com-
monwealth professional service from £72 to
£96. Beside this the junior teachers’ de-
mands look like a bunch of trodden-on
daisies.
“Henry Horsecollar” butts in:—
Those wharf-laborers who wanted the Court to
forbid one man running two winches so that the
same amount of work might be spread over more
men voiced a very old objection to machinery. Yet
this world wouldn’t be much of a place without it.
Time was, not much more than a century ago, when
the artisan couldn’t afford a handkerchief. He could
only earn it by the toil of a week or more. So it
was better to use grass. The cotton-planter in the
U.S. wasn’t rich then as he afterwards became; his
dignity and pedigree were his chief assets. His
employees, mostly niggers, were cheap enough. The
manufacturer in England and elsewhere was in a
small way, and was doing well enough if he made
the £S per week which the Westralian slaughtermen
have just refused. His employees kept body and
soul together—not much body and a minimum of
soul—rby the whole family working, even the six-
year-old infant. The principal trouble lay in the
appalling job of cleaning the seeds out of the cotton
bv hand. Then an interfering person, one Eli
Whitney, invented the cotton gin, a fairly cheap
machine which did the work of 2000 niggers. Later
another party who couldn’t leave well alone im-
proved the spinning apparatus so that one man could
do the work of six. An individual of the kind that
is always touching the paint made improvements
which doubled the previous fellow’s improvements,
and other prying inhabitants followed this up. The
planter grew so rich that he by-and-bye started a
civil war out of sheer pride. When slavery was
abolished the cotton-picking job proved able to pay
white men’s wages. The manufacturer became
wealthy and began to go into the House of Lords.
The artisan, though he isn’t a wildly prosperous
individual, is at least able to keep the family by
his own efforts and to do it better than when the
whole crowd toiled much longer hours. The infant
is able to go to school and actually learns to read
and write. And the household can afford to mop
its brow, and even some other features, with a
cotton wipe.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterjon “The Bird of Paradise”
Her Majesty’s “Dick Whittington”
Palace “De Luxe Annie”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Wirths’ Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Bing Boys Are Here”
Royal “The Willow Tree”
King’s “The Masquerader”
Bijou Fuller's Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli “Samples”
Hoyt’s Dr Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Melbourne’s first impression of Gny Bates
Post in “The Masquerader,” produced at
the King’s last Saturday, must have been
that the actor was a better importation than
the drama. Not that the play isn’t remark-
able in its domestic bearings, apart from its
interesting opportunities for histrionics.
But this dramatisation of “John Chilcote,
M.P.,” is unconvincing in its unnecessary
up-to-dateness. It starts the story at the
outset of the Hun invasion of Belgium, and
puts Chilcote in the obviously fictitious posi-
tion of a Parliamentary orator who was
expected to bring the Asquith Government
to the war point, and was afterwards sup-
posed to be the instigator of the' Munitions
Department. In its connection with war
politics the play is false as a fairy tale. As
an attempt to realise the impossibility of a
morphined politician being impersonated
successfully in his home and the House of
Commons by an incredibly deceptive sub-
stitute, “The Masquerader” is at least a
daring novelty. And some of its few comedy
incidents are quite convincing.
* * * *
Guy B. Post’s dual-character contract gives
him no chance to seem an impulsive, pleas-
ing sort of person. In his Chilcote capacity
he is a morphia-maniac with a repellent,
petulant manner, who presently becomes
stupefied and eventually achieves an appall-
ing decease on the other fellow’s sofa. In
his ambitious John Loder capacity he has
to be such a miraculous duplicate of cousin
Chilcote, in all respects and to all appearances,
that everybody mistakes him for that cold,
stand-offish, monocled politician. In each
character in turn he is bound to wear the
one semblance with a subtle distinction of
style. By preserving people’s sympathy for
the fraudulent Chilcote, whilst increasing
their dislike for the real Chilcote, the
performer proves himself an artist
equally adroit and powerful. His acting
might be termed stagily natural because it
is naturally stagey in its air of restraint.
He has nothing of the effusive, ingratiating
manner of the modern melodrama star, but
much of the austere mannerism of, say, Henry
Lee, who played Cyrano de Bergerac here,
THE MAGIC CIRCLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The playhouse is for me a place
Of memories the sweetest;
I muse on years that sped apace—
The happiest are fleetest—•
When women’s lures, adroitly schemed,
Made beautiful the dreams I dreamed,
And each new pair of ankles seemed
The absolutely neatest.
Sometimes a cynic dares to raise
A question none can answer:
Do I speak truth of former days,
Or am I a romancer?
Is this young damsel on the stage,
Or she who glorified an age
Recorded on the yellow page
Of yore, the better dancer?
Is acting what it used to be
When Irving, king of mummers,
Appeared unorthodox to me,
A boy of sixteen summers?
Comparing modern times with then,
Discussing stars within my ken,
As is the wont of white-haired men,
I criticise new-comers.
Ton heroine in gauzy dress
Is slim and graceful, very;
Appealing if she feigns distress,
And charming when she’s merry;
In time she ought to make a name
And well deserve a passing fame:
I like her style—but, all the same,
I think of Ellen Terry.
The circle is to me a place
For pleasantly reviewing
The years when any pretty face
Set passion's storm a-brewing.
No matter how the play is cast,
Or going slow, or going fast,
’Midst visions of the golden Past
My youth I am renewing.
VICTORIA.
O. K.


If you snilfle and sneeze and feel ill at ease,
If your sight gets blurred and you sag at the knees,
You may bet your life it’s a signal sure
You’re in need of Woods’ Peppermint Cure.
So don’t get worried and don’t grow sad,
Thousands of others have been as bad;
Your influenza won’t long endure
If you take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—A DVT
GANCIA’S
EXTRA DRY
ASTI SPARKLING SWEET
AS SUPPLIED TO THE KING OF ITALY AND ALL ROYALTIES.
craanvAvv
/GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1900.
1 GRAND PRIX, BRUSSELS, 1910.
CIVIL SERVICE STORE AND ALL LEADING HOTELS. ASK FOR IT.
Sole Agents for Australasia : LUBRANO (St FERRARI, 32 O’Connell St., Sydney
ALL OTHER ITALIAN WINES KEPT IN STOCK.
ghj
}S a Hospital Brandy of incomparable purity and medicinal excellence. It is the consistently high
character of CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY which holds it on a pinnacle of widespread
popularity unequalled by any other Brandy in Australia to-day.
Insist on having “CHATEAU TANUNDA,” the Special Hospital Brandy. BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TucKer &. Co., Sydney -Agents.
For Water-soaked Ground
—for all wet places out of doors during Winter —
a boot that will keep your feet DRY because water
cannot soak through nor can rain penetrate it.
Heavy double soles with sheet-rubber between, full-
cut, water-tight tongues, stout leather lining. A
long-wearing boot of the best quality.
In Black or Tan 37/6.
Peapes ’ Pay Postage.
Have you had the new “Warrigal” Catalogue.
Posted free on request.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
hg
Peapes ’
Pay
Postage.
or the late George Rignold when he was giv-
ing a recitation in a frock coat. Post gets
impressive effects whilst silently doping him-
self, and his death scene conveys a sense or
corpse across the footlights. He holds the
attention of the house at the time and keeps
it thinking of him afterwards, which is not
the rule even with good actors in fine parts.
Three other new-comers from America are
valuable supporters. Miss Lawton pleases
with her discreet treatment of a difficult
character. She is the still-devoted wife of
the real Chilcote, though he giyes her no
encouragement to continue her infatuation,
and the admiring lover of the unemotional
Loder, whom she mistakes for her husband.
She has to suggest a constant state of agi-
tation under a fairly calm exterior, and she
does it very well. But sh 6 will have to raise
her voice 'a little. Miss Ruby Gordon is
bright and forcible as the loyal little servant
girl at John Loder’s lodgings, who takes him
to be identical with Chilcote when that
speechless intruder comes along in a state
of dope. Lionel Belmore gives a hearty,
easy impersonation
of Brock, the old
servant of the
Chilcote family
who tries to keep
its “honor” going
by putting a re-
spectable impostor
in his master’s
shoes, and by bury-
ing Chilcote, M.P.,
in the impostor’s
name. As an in-
fant, Peggy, Cecil
Haines is a ray of
realism in the far-
fetched tragedy of
errors, whilst Miss
Adele Ritchie, as
the giddy cat of
the story, weakens
the general effect.
For the rest there
are Eardley Turner
as a feeble repre-
sentative of Brit-
ish Government,
and G r e g a n
McMahon as a
caricature of an
editor; also sev-
eral minor assist-
ants, less in evi-
dence than the
nameless individual
“The Masquerader ,”
at Melbourne King’s.
Guy Bates Post as
Chilcote, M.P., under
his usual drug influ-
ence.
who sometimes
serves as a dummy Chilcote when John
liOder is on the stage.
jJi
The long, hairy arm of coincidence has
served the dramatist well; but the clever
author of “De Luxe Annie,” or, rather,
Scammon Lockwood, the clever author of
the story, has ' amputated the long hairy
limb. “There is no such thing as a coinci-
dence,” he asserts- —and sets out to prove it.
But he merely replaces the arm by an
artificial claw that has just as long a reach.
In this play, presented at the Palace in
Sydney on Saturday, a doctor, meeting some
friends in a Pullman car, tells them the story
of a series of what look like coincidences
which, when the clue is furnished, show the
chain of cause and effect that inexorably links
the smallest apparently-haphazard incident to
the next, and so on till the climax is reached.
He purposes telling the story by showing one
disconnected picture after another; and
then, as it were, pouring the developer upon
the negative and bringing out the complete
photograph. As he begins to tell his yarn
the. curtain descends —a device that is not
new in dramatic craft. And at the end he
concludes his story by, producing the heroine.
For those who have not read the story the
first scene is full of excitement and growing
perplexity—not lessened, on the first night,
by an obvious mistake in the mechanism of
the theft of a brooch. Then the long arm
gets busy till in the penultimate scene of the
play proper its mechanical substitute works
overtime. The doctor does not attempt to
explain why Jimmie chose a suit, out of
many suits, the pocket of which contained a
letter that was (necessary for the play-
wright’s purposes. The playwright crosses
his t’s very cleverly in this scene; and he has
used with considerable dexterity the theme
pf the emergence of a secondary personality
in an individual as the result of an injury to
the brain. That much must be given away
else no real criticism is possible. If the
dramatist will hang his play upon a surprise
as a climax, keeping the 1 secret from his
audience, he cannot prevent his secret get-
ting out after the first performance. But
even with this vague clue there are surprises
in store for future audiences, and the play is
clever enough to hold the attention of the
house right through. It is, of course, a crook
play: very little happens on the American
stage nowadays that isn’t crook. It is melo-
dramatic, too, in spots; but the character-
drawing and the comedy are excellent. It
is a play, too, that will bear examination after
the curtain falls, because of the ingenuity
with which the author has fitted every tiny
part of the puzzle together. But the play is
flawed by the initial assumption. Would, a
husband who discovers his wife in the com-
pany of a notorious crook, apparently living
with him, allow her to remain with him one
moment longer, no matter for what reason?
And would a wife fall in love with her hus-
band twice over? This is an assumption of
the novel and the stage, no doubt; but the
experience of the world is that a widow’s
second husband is usually as far away from
the type of No. 1 as she can get; while a
man, in the delicate business of choosing a
co-respondent, does not become infatuated
with his mistress because of her resemblance
to his wife. Still, without these assump-
tions there would be no play, which would
be a pity.
* * * *
The factors making this production a
triumph for the Taits are, in order, Emelie
Polini, the admirable cast, and the artistic
and ingenious staging. Einelie Polini has a
voice of great charm, and her petite person-
ality is appealing; she is every half-inch a
woman. Also, she knows her work down to
the most delicate nuance of expression in
gesture, manner and voice—is a competent
actress who instantly captures her audience.
Cyril Mackay’s well-known methods suit him
well in the part of a good-natured crook.
Olive Wilton’s matter-of-fact and insouciant
manner is quite in place in the perplexing
character of Mrs. Archer. Harmon Lee is
another of those calm and sneerful Ameri-
can detectives who must be turned out in
droves by the correspondence colleges of New
York. Their first lesson is to keep their hats
on in ladies’ boudoirs. A Mrs. Wiggs
character is cleverly accentuated by Georgie
Harvey, who introduces to us the boarding-
house-keeper of American fiction. Maurice
Dudley’s old man is a brilliant bit of charac-
ter-acting. G. Kay Souper does sterling
work in a minor but important part. Finally
Clarence Blakiston is a slightly unconvincing
sort of husband.
** * *
“The Willow Tree,” at Melbourne Royal,
attracts the eye, but never touches the imag-
ination. The scene is exquisitely delicate,
but the transitions from the fanciful to the
everyday rob the legend of half its national-
ity and sometimes bring it close to farce.
The beauteous Tree-Spirit that awakens to
life is especially abrupt. She hardly finds
her feet in Charles Waldron’s residence
before she is renouncing her semi-deity in the
man’s strong arms. Also she betrays a
marked interest in the facts of human origin,
and later makes her bed beside her lofd’s
with artless' matter-of-factness. It is in
these episodes that the poetry of “The
Willow Tree” is infused with “Madame
Butterfly” melodrama, and there is a subse-
quent development on “Butterfly” lines that
continues the parallel. Instead, however, of
knifing herself like Butterfly when she learns
that her man has another female familiar,
Miss Willow-Tree returns to her wooden
state and resumes the celebrity of an idol.
But before she becomes a lump of timber she
mentions that her suicide is necessary to
release her boy for the war —which is in-
congruously introduced at this stage of the
story—though the probability is that she
died of grief at the sudden discovery of the
Other Lady.
* *. * *
Kathlene Macdonell plays both the Other
Cat and the Image on the shallow pretext that
there is a physical resemblance between the
two. She makes the most of her few minutes
as Mary Temple, and is extremely pretty as
the Image; but her distance in spirit from
the .Japanese conception lends m> further
enchantment to the view. The idea of the
Willow Goddess is too fugitive and foreign
for her somewhat direct powers of illustra-
tion. Charles Waldron, stricken with the glory
of canoodling with a divinity, is the same old
sugar-monopoly who charmed girlish inno-
cence in “Daddy Long Legs,” “The Rain-
bow” and “The Cinderella Man.” As a gro-
tesque and forceful Jap Cardinal Roy Red-
grave represents the established profes-
sional’s jealousy of the mere amateur in
miracle-working. Tomotada, the image-
maker, might be one of Lafcadio Hearn’s
wonderful old men of the pre-Meiji era of
Japanese history; but' George Barnum
nevgr gets the character into focus. The
two servants, Plumpton Wilson and Kenneth
Brampton, have every imaginable humilia-
tion of speech and gesture in dedicating their
ignoble selves to the service of “Honorable
Master.” Redge Carey plays one of the
heartless voung knuts of modern Japan with
considerable humor; Styan is a trumpet
blast of British materialism ; and Eily Mal-
yon, Fred Cambourne and Frank Hatherley,
minor features of Jap life, intrude into the
fantasy at odd moments.
** * *
Satan’s twentieth-century understudy,
Rasputin, will get his chance at Sydney
Opera House next Saturday evening. Satan
will sorrow for the last time to-morrow
night.
** * *
The English Pierrots at Sydney Play-
house will remove their admirable show and
make way for Edward Branscombe’s “Scar-
let Troubadors” at this week-end.
* * *
Muriel Starr and her pet volcano are
attracting good audiences to Sydney Cri-
terion, where the Hula hulas and the beach-
comber combs.
The ancient English panto, vessel still
doubles up obligingly at Sydney Majesty’s
so that Vera Pearce Whittington and Pau-
line Bindley may run aboard and ipose
amongst the electric-lights while Bos’un
Maggie Dickinson dances lightly on the quay
below.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli is filling-in a fortnight with
a programme of vaudeville. The best turns
are those of Truly Shattuck and Emma
O’Neill and Mason and Gwynne. Murry
Livingston, in a protean turn entitled “The
Dreamer,” recites doggedly with his head
stuck through a curtain while unseen hands
rapidly re-costume him. During these change-
ful moments he looks like a cheerful
soul in the stocks. Except for the
pawnbroker and the green-lit miser, there is
a strong family likeness among his charac-
ters ; also he has the dear old actor’s trick
of adding “ah” to the end of his sentences.
Belle Sylvia, the lady baritone, is a novelty;
but there is nothing captivating about her
voice. Aubrey and Riche are a well-dressed
girl-team wiGi a mild dancing turn sur-
rounded by artistic scenery. Graham’s
Marionettes rattle cheerfully, and Hughie
Ogilvie gets back to his right line of Lauder-
ing briefly in kilts. George Edwardes and
Rosie Parkes supply a light comedy turn,
and Hugh Laurence, a solemn small boy,
throws his robust voice all over the house.
The Wirths are holding Sydney Hippo-
drome against all odds, and when they
evacuate the position the elephants intend to
lead the way staggering under the weight of
the proceeds. Meantime new stunts are on
tap and the lions roar in a louder key. A
feature of the revised menu is the water
pantomime, in which, after a city has been
washed over Niagara from the stage into the
bottomless depths of the arena, the remainder
is a hilarious episode of mermaids afloat and
ashore. All this wetness provokes great
applause and leads to many bets being made
about how long it will be before , the entire
company las a cold in the head.
** * *
Sydney Strand has a winner in “Real
Folks,” a simple story full of pleasant humor
and pretty scenes. The picture is an adap-
tation of Mrs. Coraly’s thousand-dollar
prize story. Clara Ivimball Young, as Shir-
ley Kaye, trails her clouds of glory across
“De Luxe Annie,” at
Sydney Palace.
Harmon Lee as Cronin.
the Crystal Palace
screen, holding
Railway magnates
and woman-haters
in the hollow of
her hand. Effie
Shannon is an
American mother
who “didn’t raise
her boy to be a
soldier,” and how
she tries by means
of a forged birth-
certificate to keep
him out of Uncle
Sam’s olive-green
tailorings is told
on the Globe '
screen. Robert W.
Chambers weighs
in at the Lyric
with a sex play,
“The Woman Be-
tween Friends,”
flavored with color
tubes and sculp-
ture and models
and false friends,
an erring wife and
the south of
France. And at
the Empress Dorothy Dalton has Portia
Shakspeare beaten all to nothing in “'l'he
Weaker Sex.”
“The Bing Boys” continue to bing in the
dollars at Melbourne Majesty’s. The varie-
gated show is not merely a success; it is a
triumph—from a business point of view.
Perhaps the dancers—Clyde Cook by him-
self and Clyde Cook and Maie Baird in com-
pany-score topmost notches among the
principals, though the decorative art of
Minnie Love, the valuable voice and broad
humor of Cannot, and the smile of Nellie
Payne are remembered as matters of pri-
mary importance apart from the multitude of
girls who count as indispensables. After
all, a revue is mostly what the chorus girls
and the costumifere make it, and even the
connivance of the costumihre is not always
necessary. In one or two of the most thrill-
ing episodes the clothing carries no weight
to speak of.
$ $ $
At Melbourne Tivoli the programme is still
“Samples,” and the Devil still offers a lame
apology for the loss of his tail. Also the
black-and-white ballet scene, and the pre-
cocious kiddies and the cheerful frivolity of
it all are carried on with the old industry
and perseverance.
Alexander Watson has re-arrived in Mel-
bourne, and on Saturday will appear
again at the Athenaeum Hall with a pro-
gramme of “Patriotic Purple Patches” of
monologue, including a patch of C. J. Den-
nis. Next week he returns to Shakspeare,
Dickens and other subjects duly stated in
the advt. For those who have once heard
him in the past any recital by Alexander
Watson is an attraction. For the benighted
section of the populace which has never
heard him it is an opportunity with a capi-
tal O.
** * *
Billie Seaton, who appeared a while back
at Melbourne Tivoli, is doing a few nights’
hard at the Bijou, in a song recital that con-
tains more Billie than the circumstances
warrant. Ray Traynor, her pianist, is also
ragging furiously. Near him Belle Verne is
singing on a bicycle, and a young man
named Russell is yodelling in a costume that
is Tyrolean at the top but turns Dutch
towards the feet. Of other new-comers
Madame Lorenz, trapezist, puts a lot of
shape into the show, whilst Bertram and
Raymond contribute a wayback sketch that
was not written by Steele Rudd.
»Jc
The wicked Baron Duisanti did the
Scarpia act in “Panthea” at Melbourne Bri-
tannia on Monday. This is the film wherein
Norma Talmadge prices her honah at so high
a figure that the rich baron almost has to
get an overdraft. At the Melba, Miriam
Cooper, who began on Monday in “The
Innocent Sinner,” has been succeeded by
Kitty Gordon in “Diamonds and Pearls.”
Kitty is an insouciant apparition in an
array of frocks, each of which would be a
welcome-home to a long-lost husband.
:Js sf:
Jack Pickford and Louise Huff stand high
in the estimation of Hoyt’s advts. in Mel-
bourne this week. The young couple are
starred as the chief conspirators in “The
Ghost House,” a creepy spook-drama that
makes several spectres look almost authen-
tic. In the other section of the bill comely
little Blanche Sweet reappears, after a long
absence, in a Lasky production, “The
Sowers,” from the novel of Seton Merriman.
:f: % %
“Canary Cottage,” running a successful
week at Adelaide Royal, reveals itself as
perilously like the old Yankee “sketches”
that Irving Sayles used to play. There is
strong internal evidence that Field Fisher’s
part was originally pieant for a nigger. Still
the public has come at the knock-about
foolishness with every sign of complete enjoy-
ment. There is a personal triumph for Connie
Ediss: her rendering of a fat woman undis-
guisedly and fiercely in love is powerful act-
ing without ceasing to be funny. At the
Tivoli the Wiliiamsonian “Girls’ Cross
Roads” is chiefly notable for fine work by
Ida Gresham as tile dipsomaniac wife. The
Fuller pantomime at the Majestic has an
extraordinary amount of personal violence in
it. Whenever a funny man is at a loss, he
threatens the nearest person with “a slosh
on the gazooka,” or if words fail him he does
the sloshing without the notice, on the
gazooka or elsewhere. The assault and bat-
tery is in every case received with delight
by a lawless audience. Nellie Kolle is aston-
ishingly popular as principal boy, Victor
Prince and Zoli work hard and effectively,
and the interlude of dog and monkeys, goes
well. Pictures this week are mostly on the
“intense” side, and patrons who like inten-
sity signify the same in the usual manner.
Hughes’s talk about prohibiting the im-
portation of luxuries was like the rest of his
achievements. The other day Senator Keat-
ing was told that in the six months ending
March 31, 191 S, no less than 5229 pianos
had been imported into Australia. Of these
800 came, from England, 3921 from U.S.A.,
223 from Hong Kong, 179 from Japan, the
other 100 were possibly German: counting
in the freight, close upon a quarter of a
million sent away at a time when the job
of keeping gold in the country is almost as
important as the other job of sending fight-
ing men out of it.


To the toiler for bread, by necessity led,
Life wends its monotonous way;
While the sun cometh up and the sun goeth down
To measure each working day.
His abiding care is to harvest a share
While his powers for toil endure,
And to loosen the hold of a cough or a cold
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
-Advt.
LADIES! Your Complexion is Part of Your Attire.
A PERFECTLY STYLISH ATTIRE FALLS SHORT OF ITS EFFECT if your skin is not in harmony.
EVERY WOMAN CAN BE COMELY by attention to those little details which no one can afford to despise.
John S trange w
inter’s
TOILET PREPARATIONS—USED BY ROYALTY.
The Best the World has Produced.
New Face Cream (for oily skins) : Pink 4/-, White
3/6 per jar; Lakshmi Cream (for dry skins), 3/9 per
jar; Powder (Cream, White, Pink), 3/6; Soap, 3/6
box of 3 cakes; Dental Cream, 1/6; Perspiration
Powder, 2/-; Curative Ointment, 2/6; Hair Foods:
Oily, 3/9; Non-Oily, 4/9; Dry Shampoo, 3/9; Carmine,
1/4.
Ask for them at The Civil Service, Washington H.
Soul’s. Lassetter’s, David Jones’, Horderns’, W. T.
Waters’, Farmer & Co.’s, etc., and all leading
Chemists.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Powder (name the color),
or Soap, or Dental Cream, to John Strange Winter,
(London, Paris, Rome). Sydney Office: 32 Depot,
26-30 Jamieson Street, Melbourne Office: 3T5 Collins
Street. Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge, Ltd., Charlotte
Street.
a*
R 3 S-i
S* r
i in* r
\u*\
15?
c/if r
s^s
Melton i an
IT I HIGH-CLASS
jSPEfIALTILS
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
gk
E. DROWN @ SON 3 LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER'S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director,
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Pint Pot”: When the Australian Light
Horse came across a mosaic pavement in a
captured Turkish trench down in Southern
Palestine last year, Padre Maitland Woods,
of Ariah Park (N.S.W.), superintended fur-
ther excavations. Finding an inscription re-
lating to St. George, the padre reckoned that
the saint’s relics might be underneath,
and digging proceeded. The officers’
mess mostly scoffed at the likelihood of any
STILL HOPE.
“So your father and mother both object to
me?"
“Yes! But don't worry. They never agree
long about anything."
human remains being found, and the sceptics
gave the enthusiast a bad time. When at
length the mosaic was lifted, and fragments
of a skeleton were discovered beneath it, the
principal sceptic had moved on to a staff-billet
at headquarters. Woods triumphantly wired
him: “Saint’s body discovered.” The wire
got into the hands of a puzzled Red Tab at
11. Q., who hadn’t heard of the mosaic affair,
and a few hours later Woods received a
reply wire: “No record here of Trooper
Saint being reported missing: kindly for-
ward identification disc.”
“Catkin”: When you go on leave now
you might easily starve in London if you
didn’t take a “ticket” with you. It is the
first thing the waitress asks you for when
you sit at a table. If you haven’t a ticket
to show that you are away from camp you
get no meat and not much of anything else.
This is to prevent double-banking. You
carry your sugar-ration card with you, too,
and hand out a check for every lump. Food,
food, food —it was never so talked of since
the first bandicoot was knocked over with
a gibber. But, on the whole, in the most
good-tempered way. Thousands of women
who might have their fifteen-pen’orth of
meat a week like the rest are foregoing the
lot in some cases, and all but a cat’s? meal
in others, so that the men at hard war-toil
may have a double portion. And everybody
gets comfort, as usual, out of the greater
misfortunes of his neighbors. In Belgium,
they tell one another, and it is probably •
true, butter is regularly a shilling an ounce,
and sometimes as much as eighteenpence;
and even in Denmark, which hasn’t felt the
foot of the invader, but only the fist that
threateningly grabbed the livestock, there is
greater privation than even England knows.
“Quartermaster”: As “Bombardier” (B.
25/4/T8) says, troops, whether going to the
Front or returning, have, to pay a levy “to
make good the shortages discovered at the
end of the voyage.” These shortages pro-
bably do not exist. As a quartermaster of
three years’ experience in the present scrap,
I found the biggest grabbers to be the
shipping companies. When the ship that
took us away from Gallipoli after the Evac-
uation landed in Egypt, a gigantic bill of
shortages was presented to the C.O. for
settlement. After an exhaustive inquiry it
was found that most of the articles had been
missed about five trips previously. I sup-
pose the last five C.O.’s had each been pre-
sented with a similar bill. _ Every ship’s
quartermaster should immediately on em-
barkation handcuff himself to the chief
steward, and personally make a checked
inventory of everything issued to the troops.
On re-checking at the end of the voyage the
shortages will be found surprisingly small
and can always be sensibly accounted for.
I was Q.M. for 1400 troops returning in-
valided from England. The barrack fee at
the end of the trip was nil. But being old
at the game I had taken good care to have
the inventory checked immediately we got
aboard.
* * * *
“Success”: Thomas Barrett, thq first of
Australia’s scraggees, whose name I find in
a very recent Bulletin, may be usefully
recalled for the benefit of those people of
independent mind who are apt
to say, “Oh, but they can’t do
it!” Mr. Barrett, aged 19,
transported for stealing, reck-
oned that Governor Phillip was
not invested .with the power to
hang people, but had to obtain
the King’s permission before
taking such arbitrary action.
Accordingly he and some four
others who held similar views
broke into the store and stole
food, of which they and every-
one else in the settlement were
much in need. Being caught,
Mr. Barrett and his friends did
not conceal their contempt for
the Governor; nevertheless that
hard-worked and conscientious
naval officer did his best to
avoid scragging them. The posi-
tion was explained clearly to
the independent Barrett and his
friends, and the necessary pre-
parations made for finally con-
vincing them. The others real-
ised that, they were mistaken,
and went to work ; but the con-
tumacious Barrett, strong in
his conviction that Phillip
couldn’t do it, persisted. Hence Phillip,
faced with the necessity for maintaining
discipline in the hungry little settlement,
duly and faithfully hanged Thomas Barrett,
pioneer of a long line of sus. per coll.
“Hamer”: Uncle Sap, with the /evident
idea of drawing attention to the emancipa-
tion of his military forces from the formali-
ties of older civilisations, has abandoned the
forms of the English drill-sergeant and
adopted a new lot. The Yankee soldier does
not “stand at ease” ; he “slackens.” When
his sergeant permits him to stand easy he
gets the order “Stand slack.” He springs
to attention at “Stiffen !” I have also heard
the command: “Into fours —git!” But I
am told that that isn’t regarded as regular.
* * * *
“Iron-rations” : I enter our good old cob-
ber Sandbag for the Utility Stakes. Kero-
sene or benzine tins will blush with shame at
the list of uses to which Sandy is habitually
put. To start with, he is used as a cover
for our steel bonnets; he thus prevents
them becoming shiny with dew at night,
and in this way has saved many a map from
HER PRIZE POULTRY.
HOSTESS: "Why didn’t you bring your husband along to dinner?”
GUEST : “Oh, you see, he’s the goose that jays the golden egg, and I never take any
risks."
the attentions of Jerry Fritz. As >putties when
working in mud empty sandbags beat the
drum. As carry-alls they are indispensable.
Their use for parapets, pillows, rubbish-
boxes, camouflage, aprons, cooks’ saucepan-
lifters, sponges and towels are well known to
the army. I’ve seen strips of them used for
socks or Prince Alberts, while the string in
them is used for bootlaces and wind-gauges.
These wind-gauges are a big help in the
event of gas attacks. Last, they are used in
the field post-office as mailbags. Any Billjim
who can nominate a more useful ally is wel-
come to my ration of army stew.
* * * *
A danger signal accompanied by affidavits:
The selection of cadets for the Australian Navy
is apparently regulated by the size of the parent’s
belltopper. bf nine boys lately taken from Vic-
toria four are known to have come from prominent
Melbourne colleges; two were the offspring of
affluent country gentlemen, whilst there is strong
reason for supposing that the remaining three satis-
fied the social standard, which is an insidiously
growing factor in the choice of our sailors. To own
a parent in a lowly calling is horribly damaging,
and is quite ruinous when the distracted' elder asks
the Navy Office to explain the rejection of his
child: his polite 'inquiries will be met with diplo-
matic evasions, and personal application will only
wrench the information that the Committee’s
decision is secret and final. A vast amount of un-
deserved responsibility rests upon this Examining
Committee. Up to 1916 its choice was confined to
the top-markers in a competitive -examination, but
now its power of selection has been increased by
lowering the standard of success to 40 per cent, of
the marks, which on a paper set for the mental
level of a third-form boy is calculated to bring
everybody but the numskull into its presence. The
possibilities for favoritism by this system cannot
be sufficiently emphasised.
* + * *
New reading of old saw: There is plenty
of room at the Front.
Cairns is waking up to the fact that some
of John D. Rockefeller’s dahlers are about
to be spent in the Juicy North. An ener-
getic Amurrican doctor, filled to the chin
with the latest information on ankylosto-
miasis (he calls it hookworm for short),
and sponsored by the Health Department,
shook the slumbrous Town Council recently,
and shouted in its drowsy ear the glad tid-
ings that John D. had arrived. The Coun-
cil talked uneasily of the cost of these medi-
cal fads, but was assured that it cost nothing
—John D., with a little help from Ryan,
footed all the bills. Public interest being
aroused by the chance of getting medicine for
nothing, Cairns is blossoming into hearty
appreciation of the kerosene magnate and
his envoy, and reckons that it is about time
the drains were seen to on the same
terms. Also the malaria, which is begin-
ning to draw uncomfortable inquiries from
tourists. Waite, the medical envoy from
Wilsonland, is a keen young man who talks
like one of Jack Lait’s short stories, only
faster.
SHE WILL HAVE HER SAY.
“I consider it is quite time I had a speaking
part, and if they don't let me say some-
thing in the next show I'm going to give
up the stage and get married."
WINING THE WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“At the Sydney Millions Club luncheon to-day”
List to the rhythmic rattle of each plate,
The sharp staccato of each knife and fork!
And who can doubt our nation will be great,
Fostered in youth on tucker, booze and talk !
Come 1 pass your empty plates, for time is fleeting-.
And win the war, by constant, strenuous eating!
We have some speakers here to tell you all
About the way the Millions Club has toiled,
Winning the war with luncheons great and small,
Killing the Kaiser oft with throats well oiled.
Ho, waiter, thou most consummate of asses,
Pass round the wine, and, patriots, fill your glasses!
New Mister Cook will tell you of the ships
Built in Australia since the war began,
Making to England most successful trips,
And every man on board Australian.
Clean up your plates 1 Leave not a spot of dripping!
And drink a toast to Mister Hughes and Shipping!
And, now that we have lunched, respect the Crown
And sing “God save” with lowly heart and meek,
Praying that Germany will be put down,
Never to rise again our doom to seek.
Yes! beat her down with shot and shell and trun-
cheon,
And, if that fails, we’ll have another luncheon!
’longshore.
ALBATROSS.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE. NURSE FRANCES, V.A.D., writes of Clemeivts Tome.
The proprietors of one of the leading weekly newspapers, Wellington, N.Z., whose letter can be seen if necessary, writes.—
“Nurse Frances has just returned from the firing-line in France and used your Clements Tonic there. 1 m sure her
testimony is of very great public value.” Nurse Frances herself writes; 1 should like to tell you how very
pleased lam with your Tonic as a nerve restorer. 1 have used it with very beneficial results. Several of our
nurses in France have also proved its worth. 1 can highly recommend it to any one suffering from brain-fag.
(Signed) ( C/)f UA/i*) f. (Jj. .
Get Clements Tonic and get good health at the same time. It is invaluable for Anemia, Nerve Breakdown and Loss of Sleep.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere. It does good because it is good.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
“Dale” : Billjim isn’t hard to handle when
you know him. One troopship which arrived
here recently started out with 30 prisoners in
the clink. The cell, which was built on deck,
was a flimsy affair, and when the vessel was
leaving England the team leaned against one
of the walls and it fell out. When they had
seen all they wanted to, 29 of the “prisoners”
returned and put the wall into some sort of
order, with themselves inside. The other
formed himself into a deputation and waited
upon the C.O. asking for the release of his
mates. The Old Boy was . a sport, and, on
hearing the details, announced that if £2 was
forthcoming to pay for the damage the
prisoners would be free for the rest of the
voyage, so long as they behaved themselves.
There was no trouble about the £ s. d.—nor
with the nine-and-twenty birds thereafter.
» * * *
The East-West railway has hatched a bright
new idea in connection with long-distance
train travelling. The train that leaves Kal-
goorlie on Saturday at noon or thereabouts
doesn’t arrive at civilisation until Monday
morning. It has to drag along enough food for
all aboard for the whole journey; but experi-
ence shows that on some trips half of them
come in for one meal a day, and picnic on
hampers for the rest of the time. As a result
those who do come have to be charged high
rates, and that, again, doesn’t tend to im-
prove the attendance. So the East-West
has decided to do what any steamer co.
does as a matter of course, and include
meals in the price of the ticket. Fares are
to be raised on the basis of half a crown per
meal all through, with a one-third reduction
for children.
“F.T.” : A beautiful thing in the way of
Win-the-War economy happened the other
day in our Melbourne suburb. The name-
piece was missing from a corner post, and
the council had been asked to replace it.
So the street, two miles or more from the
municipal depot, was visited by a party of
three employees one fine sunny morning when
it was-a pleasure to be out. They drove up
conveying the new crosspiece, with a liam-,
mer and four nails. It wasn’t necessary to
bring a ladder. Tom just drove up on the
sidewalk against the post, Dick the offsider
handed over the board, hammer and nails to
Harry the carpenter, who did the tacking-up.
Then they all drove off again to lI.Q. The
vehicle was the corporation’s steam-roller!
UNNATURAL HISTORY.
MAME : “So you’re not superstitious?”
HER DEAREST FRIEND: “Why?”
MAME: “It’s unlucky for cats to see them-
selves in the mirror.”
“Tenansix” : Little can be expected from
the side-trabking commission which has been
sooled on to settle the dispute between the
doctors and friendly societies of Victoria ;
but it is possible that the conference which
sat under Judge Moule may be resurrected
shortly. Both sides are getting that tired
feeling. The societies are finding that the
supply of non-union doctors has just about
run out, while funds are being depleted in
the effort to pay sick members’ half-guineas.
In some quarters matters are right enough, if
not exactly, rosy ; but lots of lodges find the
outlook extremely blue. The doctors, too,
have forebodings of their own. The war may
not last forever. At the finish there will be
quite a flock of young, war-experienced mods,
drifting back to complicate the position and
give the lodge-member a new attack of that
argumentative feeling; and there is always
the prospect that the financially weaker
lodges may presently fall to pieces and be
taken to the free public hospitals, with con-
sequent loss of trade to the medical profesh.
A few quiet talks may fix matters, once the
parties get within earshot of one another
again.
“E..T.M.” : The first decent drink I had in
France was the issue-rum in front-line
trenches after our successful counter-attack
at on April 15. In the dismal
dawn, after we had been given the
order to “Stand to,” a lieutenant,
who has since lost an arm, strolled
across from another trench with a
stone jar under his wing. There is
a curious lull after a big fight, and
no attempt was made to snipe this
young officer as he came over and
sat down near a dead young Fritz
at the entrance to our cold,
wet and miserable home. We
enjoyed a good stiff nip all round,
and there was a peg over, which
was awarded to me as the oldest
ruffian in the trench. But a man
cnn’t counter-attack every time he wants a
drink.
“D.”: On April 25, 1915, the Anzacs
splashed ashore at Gallipoli and took coffee
with the Turk. On April 25, 1918, some of
the surviving Sydney Anzacs who took part
in the memorial march through the city
cheerfully accepted the invitation of a patri-
otic hostess to light refreshments—and found
themselves in a restaurant kept by a Turk !
If it was a joke it was a grim one.
“Ford Carr” : The news that the old inter-
state steamer Anglian has put to sea as a
windjammer recalls the metamorphosis of
the Ya tala, well known
in Sou’stralian waters.
Originally a paddle-
wheel tug, after some
years of disuse she
was gutted of her en-
gines, boilers and
paddles, and as a
three-masted schooner
showed a tidy turn of
speed while running
grain cargoes from
S.A. outports to Port
Adelaide. With the
war demand . for
freights her owners
installed an oil-engine
and auxiliary screw,
so that she is probably
unique in haviug at
different times been
propelled by paddle,
sail and screw. In-
cidentally, Mejbourn-
ites will be interested
in the fate of the
Gem, the old ferry
that used to plod be-
tween Williamstown
and Port Melbourne.
About five years ago
she was brought to
I*ortAde 1 a i d e,
equipped with a cen-
trifugal pump, and set
to work as a dredge,
but proved a failure
at that. She now
serves as a floating
bridge between two
wharves, and her deck
between the twin funnels is a track well
worn by pedestrians.
* * * *
The explanation of the last lost mailbag is
so simple that almost anybody might have
thought of it before. The bags were placed
in the van at Sydney. Then the guard “had
to leave the van and walk down the plat-
form in the exercise of his duties.” Appar-
ently he always has to do that. When he
came back from exercising his duties the bag
was missing, which had often happened
before. It went because somebody wanted it,
and nobody was there to prevent anybody
taking it. If it can’t be arranged that the
guard won’t exercise his duties out of sight
of the mailbags they will continue to go,, just
as a bank’s reserve fund might go if left
alone on the doorstep. Perhaps the guard’s
duties might be brought to him so that he
could exercise them in the van. Or Webster
might travel with the mails himself. Or a
decoy bag full of snakes might teach a
lesson.
* * * *
At last the famous Commonwealth Egg
Police have found a case. After months of
vigilant searching for hidden stores of ex-
plosive fruit, they have run a culprit down.
It was the quiet of Townsville that was dis-
turbed by one member of the C.E.P. wanting
to arrest another member for assault. After
much violent resistance and destruction of
uniforms they both succeeded in running
each other in. Next morning a very puzzled
P.M. decided that they were both complain-
ant and defendant alternately, that the ques-
tion was a political one, and they had better
refer it to the swollen-headed little man who
made the farce possible.
* * * *
When Private Smike gets to London: —
Far away to the east a silvery flash leapt across
the housetops, bringing the gables and chimneypots
into sharp relief. I had put it down to summer
lightning, when I heard a sound like the invitation
of a champagne cork. But the dainty popping
quickly swelled to a fusillade, taking a rapidly
deepening note. Now the searchlights were on, just
skimming the starlit sky with a thin vapor of light
—not much use, I thought, to pick out an object in
that maze of shimmering points. I could easily
mark the advance of the enemy ’planes, step by step,
constellation by constellation —the fingers of the
searchlights following them, feeling, feeling among
the stars. Single or double rays, some transparent
or entirely vague, crossed and recrossed, faded anil
glowed and doubled one upon the other, performing a
strange aerial death-dance high up in the heavens.
In a moment or two. a brilliant spark glowed
suddenly far overhead, and one and all the search-
lights concentrated their rays on the zenith, while
the whole sky was lit by the red sparks of bursting
shells. For a moment there was absolute silence;
then there stole down the faint drone of a circling
’plane, and from somewhere near at hand came a
shattering roar, followed at once by the same
ghastly quiet. And that was all I heard of the
raiders, for our own guns were now drowning every
oilier night-sound with the fury of their barrage.
* * * *
Misprint from Sydney Telegraph
(25/4/TS) :
A scheme will be launched by the Millions Club
whereby men of the club will be asked to show their
practical appreciation of the immortal deeds of the
Anzacs.
“Lunched” it should have been, of course.
EXPERIENCE DOES IT.
“What has changed you? You used to say I
leas the best man on earth .”
“Nothing has changed me. I’m only begin-
ning to realise how little the phrase
means.”
THE FEAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At the raid upon Zeebrugge the Germans almost
with one voice shouted: “It’s the Americans. It s
tli; Yankees !” —Daily paper.
Up through the darkness of the night they came,
Grey ships, grey men —the mists were torn with flame.
And, in the drawing of a sudden breath,
The Teuton grappled hand at throat with death.
They cried; “It is America at last!”
And, as they cried, the tumult raged and past,
The flames died down, a silence held the shore,
And Zeebrugge cowered behind a close-barred door.
Her harbor throat was choked in that swift raid
Where headlong valor valor’s price had paid.
Yet it was not America that spoke
Through the black night in flame and battle-smoke,
But Britain, ancient mistress of the deep,
She with the keys of all the waves to keep -
Britain sore-wounded, but undaunted still,
Whose arm is steadfast as her changeless will.
Soon other guns shall bring their word of fire
To call kind peace to match a world’s desire.
Tremble behind those misty flats and bleak,
For soon America shall also speak !
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SIC TRANSIT GLORIA MUNDI
THE Viking who rilled the ocean waves
Made all the pretty girls his slaves.
He stole them from near, he sneaked
them from far;
He won ’em in peace, he grabbed 'em in war.
Oh, he was a whale for pretty slaves,
The Viking who ruled the ocean waves!
N.S.W.
Hut when all the slaves desired new hats
They gave his old Nibs, the Viking, rats;
They nagged by night and they worried by
day
Till his hair went white and his wits astray;
And he knew himself the slave of slaves,
That Viking who ruled the ocean waves.
CLAIRE E. JOY.


THE BURDEN.


THEIR TROUBLES—TO-DAY!


hg
DEAF?
The ACOUSTICOf
is exercise to the eai
and has a strengthen-
ing influence on all its
organs. By simple
moving the Sound
Regulator the “Acous-
ticon” actually magni-
lies sound as high as
400 per cent.! No
wonder it enables even
very deaf people to
hear. Don’t think the
“Acousticon” will fail you because other instru-
ments have done so. Don’t think you are not
deaf enough to need an “Acousticon.” Any
physician will tell you that deafness, like any
other disease, if neglected, grows worse with
time. Call for free trial or write —
LAM SON Store Service Co.,
102 Daking House, SYDNEY.
152 The Olderfleet, MELBOURNE.
GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish
liver and bowels.
Mother! You’re child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if the tongue is coated;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy” with
cold, throat sore; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act naturally
or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, remember,
a gentle liver and bowel cleansing should
always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals California Syrup of Figs
“Califig”—for children's ills; give a tea-
spoonful, and in a few hours all the waste
matter, sour bile and fermenting food clogged
in the bowels pass out of the system, and
you have a healthy and playful child again.
All children love this harmless, delicious
fruit laxative, and it never fails to effect a
good “inside -cleansing.” Directions for
babies, children of all ages and grown-ups
are plainly on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
bottle of “Califig”—California Syrup of
Figs—then look and see that it is made by
the California Fig Syrup Company. Refuse
substitutes. All chemists sell “Califig”
California Syrup of Figs—in bottles of two
sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. f 4
ii *
M. THe Ktf*
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
■wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer’s.
LEWIS &
whirry
MAKERII
s
mm
m
>63/ Xi
W-lWi-
tj&gOHSH&li
PERSONAL
ITEMS
May birthdays: D. J. Gordon (S. Aus.
legislator and president Australian Liberal
Union), 53, and Chns. Earle (Dominion
newspaper, Wellington), 47, on 4th; G. M.
Prendergast (Vie.), 64, on 6tli; 11. C. L.
Anderson, M.A. (formerly Sydney Public
library), 65, on 10th ; Pope Cooper (Queens-
land’s Chief Justice), 70. on 12tli; F. A.
Coghlan (N.SAV. Auditor-General), 59, on
13th; J.AV. Blair (former Queensland Attor-
ney-General), 47, on 16th; Newton Moore
(ex-Agent-General for Westralia), 48, Jus-
tice Chubb (Q.), 73, and Bishop Langley
(Bendigo), 82, on 17th; Angas Parsons,
K.C., M.P. (S.A.), 46, on 23rd; Archgaiters
Riley (Perth), 64, and Chas. 11. Goode,
Adelaide’s oldest merchant in harness, 91, on
26th; Dr. Fred Bird (Melb.), 60, on 27th;
Fred T. Robertson (Adelaide Advertiser),
60, on 28tli; G. Gordon McCrae (“Father of
Victorian Poetry”), 85, on 29th; and Prof.
Berry (Melb. Uni.), 51, on 30th.
The record for quick promotion held by
Norman Marshall has been beaten. The son
of Scotchbyterian parson Alexander Marshall
rose from the ranks to lieu t.-colonel in two
years exactly, taking in Gallipoli and France,
and winning ;i D.S.O. and a Military Cross
en route, lie is just 32. But George Arthur
Read, D. 5.0.. just returned to Westralia with
THE SUPER-MAN.
“I say, father, what’s a diplomatist?”
"A man, my boy, whose wife respects him.”
the Order of Danilo, to recover from severe
wounds, rose from private to lieutenant-
colonel in just under 20 months. He joined
the 28tli Battalion at Blackboy Hill camp on
May 27, 1915, and got his crown and star on
January 6, 1917. He is 34.
John Verran, member of the S.A. Assem-
bly from 1901 till the recent elections and
a Labor Premier for two years, says that
at 62 he will have to roll up his sleeves.
“I will take anything that comes along. I
don't intend to go underground again, but
I shall seek some sort of manual job. I
can’t do anything else.”-
In helping to welcome American-actor G.
B. Post to Melbourne, Edmund .Towett,
M.H.R., gave a few particulars about Ed-
mund Jowett and that politician’s family
connections. In the long ago a Yorkshire-
man named Jewett settled with the missus in
Massachusetts. There are now, according to
Edmund Jow'ett,
11,802 descend-
ants of that
couple, and a.
Jewett Society
is in existence
which has made
Edmund a mem-
ber. Certain oil'- .
v o um s t ances— *
probably t h e
bad writing of
one of his fore-
bears changed
tiie name of
Edmu n d ’ s
branch of the
f a m i 1 y to
.Towett. If he
had known that
one of his de-
scendants would
get into the
Federal Parlia-
ment he would
hate written it
with an a.
R.B. ORCHARD,
Minister for
Recruiting.
There is many a dinkum Anzac mourning
gallant David McFie MeConaghy, who, leav-
ing as a lieutenant with the Third Battalion,
was acting as its commander before the
Evacuation, and on April 9, while still under
30, died of wounds inflicted by a bomb near
Amiens. He was twice wounded —once at
Lone Pine —and the D.S.O. in France fol-
lowed his Anzac C.M.G. For a time he held
a brigade command, and was more than once
mentioned in Haig’s despatches.
Rupert, son of J. J. Sainsbury, of Dulwich
Hill (N.S.W.). has been a busy young Aus-
tralian since 1915. He was then 19 and a
smart wireless hand. Enlisting, he was given
24 hours to get on to Melbourne and join a
party of 14 operators going they didn’t know
where. They found themselves in Mesopo-
tamia, Sainsbury being attached to the artil-
lery, and later to the cavalry. He was at
the taking of Kut-el-Amara and Bagdad and
was in other shows. At the end of 1917 he
volunteered for service further afield, and
was attached with three others to the Rus-
sian cavalry serving in Persia; but at latest
he was back in Mespot. He’s a Tech. High
School boy.
Buried at Williamstown (Vic), C. W.
Harrison, of Windsor—-one of the Sydney’s
boys who licked the Emden.
Heinrich Markwald, of Car-
lisle Mansions, was sumnjoned
in London the other week on
the charge of being an alien who
hadn’t registered as such. The
defence of Heinrich was that
“he was horn in Berlin, of Ger-
man parents, in 1859, and for
many years carried on business
in Australia. In Melbourne, in
1908, he obtained a certificate
of naturalisation, and thereby
became a British subject. Con-
sequently he had refused to
register.” The magistrate found
that the Melbourne naturalisa-
tion didn’t hold good in Britain,
and fined him £5 and costs. But
there is no sympathy coming to
Markwald from Australia. On
his own showing, he didn’t go
through the process of fraud or
whatever it is until 1908, by
which time a German law had been passed to
enable adult sons of the Fatherland to re-
tain their legal connection with Kultur
whilst professing to naturalise themselves
in a foreign country.
The Commonwealth Government lias given
Frank Gellatly, financial editor of the S. M.
Herald, a job as chairman of its new
Bureau of Science and Industry. Gellatly
hasn’t any science to speak of. but he can
contribute the industry, and as he is still in
the forties he will probably be able to do it
for many years. As a reporter on the
Herald he swatted finance; and then he
swatted law and took the rare LL.D. degree
at Sydney Uni. He will probably make a
bi tter king-pin of the new organisation than
a scientist: for the scientist rarely knows
how to make the best commercial use of
himself. It might have paid Australia better
to offer a man like G. I). Delprat, or C. F.
Courtney, of the Sulphide Corporation,
£lO.OOO a year; but even Courtney or
Delprat couldn’t take tricks without cards,
and the trump in this case is a tariff 12
storeys high.
Extract from a cobber’s letter from
France:—
Poor old Courtney loved his bullocks better than
women. He was shot last week. I was with him at
the end. Before he died he started up, cracked an
imaginary bullock-whip and cried in an emotional
voice, that touched us more than anything: “Brindle!
Captain! Spot! Steady, beauties, steady!” Then he
fell back and died like the real dinkum Australian
that he was.
Died while visiting Sydney the other day,
Frank Harney, brother of Ned, K.C., who
showed some brilliant form in the Federal
Parliament until ambition led him to Lon-
don, where lie hoped to shine among the
bigger luminaries of polities and law. He
has hardly been heardkof since. Frank was
a flourishing lawyer in Coolgardie during
the early boom, when Finnerty bossed the
local court. In later days he was among
the battlers in Perth, suffering from a
broken constitution brought about princi-
pally by quack anti-fat experiments with an
abnormal avoirdupois. His vast weight
of 22 stone once provoked Cobb and Co. into
charging the travelling lawyer for two seats
on a coach doing the Lawlers-road, but
Harney contested the matter in court and
won. A narrow gallery in the labyrinth of
Yallingup caves bears the title of “Harney’s
Pinch” because here the big man was jambed
during a visit and required some extricating
before they launched him on surface again.
Mrs. A. J. Thynne, who was a politician
when politics seldom wore petticoats, died in
Brisbane the other day. Her husband was
in tiie Mellwraith Government 30 years ago ;
and if the wife of the Minister for Justice
had had her way there wouldn’t have been
any need for a military and naval expedition
to Rabaul in 1914. But Downing-street
knew Germany better, and the Mellwraith
Government’s plans with regard to New
Guinea were turned down. Mrs. Thynne
was one of the early settlers in Brisbane :
she was born there in 1848, 11 years before
the State was given a Government of its
own.
SOMETHING TO GO ON WITH.
SHE : “How is it that you've never been to
the war?”
HE: “Well, I did intend to go with the
Pioneers, but there were too many boun-
ders among them.”
SHE ( acidly ): “That needn’t have stopped
you. There’s always room for one
more, you know.”
Denny, Labor M.L.A. for Adelaide, re-
cently re-elected during his absence on
active service, is making a good recovery
from his wounds, and has been given leave
to cross the Atlantic. He cables from N’
York that he is going to lecture on Aus-
tralia’s part in the war. It will take all
Denny’s eloquence to explain to the Ameri-
cans, now in dead earnest about the war,
why Australia twice said No.
John Small, dead at Kapunda (S.A.) at
88, had been a farmer for 60 years, but his
pet _ memories_ were of journalism in the
’fifties. He joined the Adelaide Register
the day it became a daily paper (January 1,
1850) and two years later, having failed to
strike anything on the Victorian gold-
fields, found himself on the Argus. Long
after he used to tell how he had
to do three inquests a day on an average.
“Everyone was mad and money was like
dirt. We had the scum of the world there
—and no police to speak of.”
This war has stretched the arm of coinci-
dence longer than ever. Not many weeks ago
two brothers named Maggs—Walter and
Thomas —were killed in France, and this is
how the long limb con-
trolled their lives.
They were left with-
out parents and
brought up in the
Printers’ Orphanage.
Both went to work
for the same firm, and
in time married on
Christmas Day, 1915,
two sisters. The two
couples lived in ad-
joining flats until the
following year, when
the brothers enlisted
together in London,
and went to the Front
together. Th e y
swapped compliments
with Fritz side by side
until last December,
when they went home
together on brie f
leave. On the 29th
they Returned to the
fighting zone, and on
January 19 they were
both blown out by the
same shell.
D. G. McDOUGALL.
M.A., BCL. LL.D.
Professor of Law,
Tas. University.
Irene Lowe, of Melbourne Uni., the first
Australian girl to become a bachelor of
agricultural science, is a strenuous young
thing of 22, whose father has been store-
keeping these many years at Cassilis, up on
the roof of Gippsland. Until the time is
ripe for her to take on a farm of her own
she is demonstrator at the Bacteriological
School.
Eighty-seven years on April 30 since Capt.
Collet Barker, who discovered the Adelaide
Plains and was the first white man to ascend
Mount Lofty, was murdered by blacks at
the Murray mouth. A memorial tablet is in
old St. James’s, Sydney.
“Iron Pot” introduces his friend :
C. M. Dj'er, inventor of the petrol-saving device
which has just been adopted by the British Army
after an open-world competition, is a longish, lean,
slow-speaking Tasmanian, with a speculative eye
and a faint stammer. Before leaving the Apple
Isle to become manager of Dalgety’s motor busi-
ness in Melbourne, he had a varied career. His
first public appearance was as a racing cyclist, in
which capacity he was a tough customer, but not of
the first flight. Then smallpox smote Launceston,
and after a series of fierce feuds between- the
afflicted city and the unspeakable Central Board
of Health in Hobart, a specialist in public health
was imported from the mainland to deal with the
disease so that it would not interfere witli the
local squabbles. Dyer became chief clerk, and
received considerable praise for his work when the
outbreak was quelled. Various mechanical inven-
tions occupied his spare time for the . next few
years, with interludes of commercial touring on a
motor-bike at a most un-Tasmanian rate of speed.
One of his journeys earned him the dislike of the
Railway panjandrums of the day. The far-seeing
Dyer, having sighted a business opponent leaving
Launceston for Hobart by the morning express,
wheeled out his buzz-bike, beat the train by a matter
of two hours, cleaned up all the business in sight
and Was on tiie station to meet his astonished and
disgusted competitor. There is nothing at all
slow about C. M. Dyer, and if his petrol-saver is
even half as good as the cables sav, it will put a
new complexion on the internal-combustion engine.
GOING OVER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“One minute more!” I whispered it and felt
The quick fear clutch my brain and pass. I smelt
The mingled smokes ; and in an instant all
The parapets of dead rose up to fall.
(One! Two! Three! Four!) Each counted second
died ;
And one scared mate crept nearer to my side
With superstitious dread of eyes too blue
And lips that looked as if their hour were due.
(Twelve! Thirteen! Fourteen!) Leaden was each
face,
Calm, strangely holy, in that fearful place,
So close to Death. Soft curses bit the blaze
Of inner courage. (Thirty-five!) Old days,
White thoughts of home, within our breathing blent
An instant (Forty! Forty-one!) and went.
I turned to cheer the kid who muttered “Mother,”
And all liis boyish terror still and smother.
(Fifty!) I started. (Fifty-one!) I itched
To fire —to leap the unshelled wire high-pitched
Between us (Fifty-three!) and break their line.
Feet moved mechanically. (Fifty-nine!)
Eye shot a swift farewell to eye. Heads stirred.
(Sixty!) A rifle shrieked the first red word.
N.S.W.
V. C.


TOBACCO
khg
Australia’s
National
Smoke
in Peace
and War
Cut
(Flake or
flixture)
Also in Plug
Form.
k
PATON 7741
THE
400
t
PIPE
OF PEACE AND QUALITY—
CLMR)
pipe Qaaront
LMN


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS; Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Read
Corroding Read
Antlmonial Read
Assay Read (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Rino Metal, Ritharge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS OX A SPECIAIXY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade;
Slags, etc., containing gold, silvefj or lead
w Lead Drosses, etc.
hg
J3HAS
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
Leather PIONEER Belting
I C* 60 YEARS THE LEADING POWER TRANSMITTER.
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LIJDOWICI (SL SON LTD.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck W T heels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel, Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
These Prophets of Pleasant Things who
remark blandly about how well the pros-
perity of this country is holding up despite
the war are a weariness to the flesh, and
also to the fowl and the fish. Here, for in-
stance, is a very big feature of the case
which is seldom spoken of (it is almost the
only feature, in fact) :
Commonwealth Notes
Issued, less Gold
Reserve. Increase.
December, 1912 .. £5,546,936
„ 1913 .. 5,466,969
„ 1914 .. 11,843,891 £6,376,922
„ 1915 .. 26,800,806 14,956,915
„ 1916 . . 30,059,851 3,259,045
„ 1917 .. 30,359,793 299,942
This is absolutely legitimate business. The
gold reserve against the note issue was more
per-cent, at December, 1917, than it was in
1915 or 1916. The margin of safety was
larger. But it isn’t necessary to make a
drunken boom out of the business. There
exists in the Commonwealth to-day, over
and above the gold reserve, £24,892,824 more
paper money than in the year before the
war started. This is of no use for paying
any of our vast liabilities outside Australia,
for it doesn’t circulate there; but it is a
most useful thing for dealings inside Aus-
tralia. It doesn’t, prove that we are bearing
up in any special way against the war; the
same amount of paper could have been issued
-if there had been no war, or if there had been
six wars, or if we hadn’t been bearing up.
There is nothing to make a boom over: it
is only our own lOU issued by ourselves to
ourselves as a matter of convenience, and
it isn’t wealth—it is only a matter of con-
venience. The increase has been of late at
the rate of over £6,100,000 per annum, but
the rise isn’t going on at the old rate because
the community has about as much paper as
it requires for the moment. Therefore the
“prosperity” isn’t likely to grow at the old
rate. Nobody but sanguine fools called it
“prosperity” or expected it to grow indefi-
nitely. This isn’t pessimism. It is merely
an invitation to the public to keep its head
and beware of flapdoodle. Flapdoodle is a
curse.
* * * *
The Commonwealth Bank of Aus-
tralia :
Loss. Deficit.
Dec., 1912 .. £14,606 £14,606
June, 1913 . . 32,030 46,630
Profit.
Dec., 1913 . . 1,547 45,089
June, 1914 . . 8,093 36,996
Dec., 1914 . . 13,429 23,567
Reserves.
June, 1915 . . 25,789 2,222
Dec., 1915 . . 50,949 53,171
June, 1916 . . 93,898 147,069
Dec., 1916 . . 153,072 300,141
June, 1917 .. 226,151 526,292
Dec., 1917 . . 232,659 758,951
The improvement in the foregoing figures
would be incredible without this comparison :
Liabilities.
Dec., ’l3. Dec., T 6. Dec., ’l7.
Deposits, etc.
(ordinary) .. £2,822,406 £30,190,620 £32,490,099
Deposits (savings) 3,732,819 10,809,074 13,748,274
Assets.
Coin and monev
at short call. . 3,538,510 12,336,821 22,767,109
Commonwealth
notes.. .. 38,621 11,617,454 5,264,325
Public securities 1,929,095 10,752,103 12,926;042
Advances . . 967,820 6,261,898 5,699,057
Premises . . 36,088 331,558 340,790
And they would be incredible, of course, with
normal conditions. When war broke out the
Commonwealth Government began to talk in
millions where formerly it had prattled in
hundreds ; and on top of direct war expen-
diture fell very large trade transactions
through- the commandeering of Australian
products' for Imperial purposes, Denison
Miller, who had been appointed governor
of this bank, missed no chances. Certainly
he didn’t grab everything; the private
banks were invited or required, whichever you
like, to take up some of the work, and share
the profits, in connection with exchanges and
loans. But this bank is the Government’s
bank, and has stood where it could get a
rake-off from practically all the Common-
wealth’s big financial operations.
Of course, it won’t last; but meanwhile
the institution is building up a solid reserve
which, if all goes well, will enable it to face
the changed conditions with confidence. Pre-
cisely what the nature of its business in
future will be is not yet clear; but as it is
more or less certain that in the days to come
there will be considerable intimacy between
the Government and the producing interests,
with an extension of the State’s interest in
trade and manufacture, the opportunities for
the bank to serve the public will be vastly
greater than was expected a few years ago.
Even the rich pastures on which it is at pre-
sent browsing would last a good while if the
war ended at once. Already a million of
reserves (which are the bank’s capital) are
in sight, and another two or three years of
war would bring two millions on the horizon.
But there would be nothing in that to make
Denison Miller very cheerful. From the
banking point of view, as from any other, the
sooner the disturbance is over the better, and
the more reality will there be about every-
thing, including the safety of the bank and
the profits; for, after all, the profits which
this bank and the rest of us have made are
only profits provided that things go right.
* * * *
The Life Insurance Co. of Australia:
Total Deficit,
Out- including
Nov., Income. Expenses. Claims, goings. Goodwill.
1912 ... £10,989 £18,918 £3,715 £ 22,(533 £19,644
Dec.,
1913 .. 23,851 19,809 6,350 26,159 21,952
1914 .. 33,412 23,951 7,655 31,606 20,146
1915 .. 36,892 22,986 10,277 33,263 16,517
1916 .. 40,172 21,651 8,661 30,312 6,657
Reserves.
1917 .. 49,298 27,225 11,430 38,655 3,986
This co. has three departments, which have
contributed to the past year’s figures in this
way:—
Income. Expenses. Claims.
Ordinary Life .. ..£31,708 £17,306 £4,268
Industrial and Provident .. 16,036 9,010 6,509
Accident .. .. .. 1,554 909 653
During the year the obligations were valued
by the co.’s consulting actuary, who reported
that as at December 31, 1916, the net lia-
bility to policy-holders was as follows: —
Ordinary department, £2r>,182 ; Industrial
and Provident, £11,705; total £36,887. A
year ago the co. issued a balance-sheet show-
ing that, as at December 31, 1916, the assets
(apart from £7OOO paid as goodwill for
the National Provident business) were
£37,343. Thus at that date, though the
shareholders had put up £44,000, there was
only just, enough to meet the obligations
under the policies. In other words, the
whole of the capital had gone in establish-
ing the business and in purchasing the
Provident connection. To what extent the
money thus spent is an asset The Bulletin
is not prepared to say. The actuary makes
out his case as follows: —
It is quite evident that any new life co. starting
out to build up a business must spend in its early
years more than the amounts provided in the pre-
miums for expenses. Capital is. subscribed and used
for this purpose, and the sum so spent is in evdry
sense a capital expenditure. The co. has during the
period under review written off all expenses of this
nature in connection with the establishment and
organisation of the co. against revenue. But I do
not consider this should have been done so early. I
have therefore advised that Establishment and
Organisation accounts should be set up in the books
as follows: In the Ordinary department, £16,495 ;
in the Industrial and Provident department £21,542.
This has been done.
But it won’t put a penny back in the till.
The money has gone. Whether it will be
recovered in the future not even an actuary
can say. As a matter of theory, however,
this paper quite agrees with the actuary that
the outlay—some of it, at any rate —has been
capital expenditure. As capital guarantees
the policies, the policy-holder is entitled to
observe that all the funds necessary to meet
the co.’s obligations are there, waiting for
him. The shareholder has to observe, on
the other hand, that his money is for the
present gone, and that the best he can hope
for is that as time goes on it will be recov-
ered.
It probably will be. Money isn’t going
out now like it necessarily had to go out at
the beginning. In the first 17 months, though
the claims were iiaturally small, the total
outgoings were £48,792, while the total in-
come was only £34,840: in the last two
years, while the total outgoings were
£68,967, the total income was £89,470.
Whether the income in excess of the out-
goings—over £lO,OOO last year—was equal
to the year’s increase in policy liabilities
The Bulletin doesn’t kfiow; probably it
wasn’t, because the expense rate in the
Ordinary department is still very heavy—ss
p.c. of the total income, whereas the actuary
in making his calculations finds that “the
proportion of office premiums reserved for
future expenses.... on the whole works out
at about 21.7 p.c.” Still the movement is
in the right direction, although the business
will have to be got at a much cheaper rate,
and when got will have to be managed at
a cheaper rate, if the shareholders are to get
anything out of the business in dividends.
The position of these infant offices is ex-
tremely difficult—so extremely difficult that
it is doubtful whether we shall see another
purely life office established for very many
years to come. The public when it is taking
out a policy naturally wants security above
all things. It has to be assured not merely
that its insurance office has enough funds to
pay its policies to-day, but that it will have
enough in 20 or perhaps 40 years.* With
old and proved offices in the held the task of
the canvasser for the new office must be
almost heart-breaking; and the task of the
office to keep the business after the first
premium or two have been paid must be
nearly as bad. And when a war falls on
top of the normal difficulties, this paper can
only offer everybody concerned its sympathy.
For the greater part they must rely upon
young or comparatively young men for their
probable clients. Most of the older ones are
more or less attached to older offices. Hence
the young office suffers excessively from
claims on account of a war : the directors of
this co. say that in the Ordinary department
last year over 82 p.c. of the amount paid
out to meet claims was on account of deaths
on active service.
* * * *
The Insukance Office of Australia,
Ltd. (Sydney), which was founded in 1910,
and began with a deficit of £5250 represent-
ing preliminary exes.: —
Towards
Nov_ Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
. 250
1911.. £4,115 Nil £4,115 1’135
Dee., Loss.
1912.. 436 Nil 1,571
Adjustment Ro-Insurance Co., £367 1,938
1913.. 963 Nil 2,901
1914.. 5,212 Nil 8,113
Re-Insurance Co. purchase, £3735.. 11,848
Profit.
1916.. 6,250 Nil 6,256 5,592
Re-Insurance Co. purchase, £231 .. 5,823
Reserves.
1916.. 20,953 10 p.c.= £9616 11,337 5,514
1917.. 16,892 10 „ „ 9630 7,262 12,776
But it is still not as good as it looks. The
reserves (apart from provision against doubt-
ful debts, etc.) amount to £14,747 less £1971
for the purchase of the Reinsurance Co.’s
goodwill. Now, the net premium income for
last year was £144,917; and assuming that 40
p.c. of the year’s premiums should be in hand
to cover unexpired risks, then the co. ought to
have an unearned premium reserve of no less
than £58,000. In other words, the co. has
thus far reckoned as income about £58,000
which really isn’t income at all, seeing
that it has to meet the losses on all
the co.’s risks for an average of pro-
bably six months. Last year there was an
increase of 'premium income of nearly
£30,000; which probably means that about.
£12,000 of it was unearned as at December
31, when the accounts closed. Hence pro-
bably not one farthing of the £7202 of the
amount nominally earned in excess of the
dividend last year was true profit; all of
it and more was required for the unearned
premium reserve, which the co. has not yet
created. Twelve months ago it seemed to this
paper that the directors should not have paid
alO p.c. dividend. It now seems still more
certain that the 10 p.c. was premature.
This, curiously enough, is so not because
the co. has done poorly, but because it has
made such remarkably rapid progress. Look
at these figures
Net Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1911. . £25,951 £6,748 £17,537 26.0 p.c. 67.5 li.e.
1912.. 47,241 22,4'43 27,845 47.5 ~ .58.9 ~
1913.. 54,618 22,911 35,275 41.9 >„ 04.6 „
1914.. 67,510 39,292 35,222 58.2 .. 52.1
1915.. 93,516 52,002 37,019 55.6 .. 39.5 ,
1916.. 115,885 59,731 38.742 51.5 33.5 ,
1917.. 144,917 79,419 47,161 54.8 ~ 32.5 „
In five years the co. has trebled its business.
It has, to mention another highly-respectable
office for purposes of comparison, more than
double the premium income of the Australian
Mutual, which has been in business 45 years.
Of course, it has cost money to get-these
figures. That cost has been wholly charged
against revenue; in other words,' the co.,
besides having the reserves mentioned in the
first table, has all its capital (£96,291) in-
tact. The policy-holder is therefore reason-
ably well protected notwithstanding that pre-
miums (and therefore risks) have increased
so fast. Capital and reserves combined total
£109,067 = about 75 p.c. of the year’s pre-
miums. In the case of the Australian
Mutual, quoted just now, capital and reserves
total £215,472, which is equal to no less than
336 p.c. of its year’s premiums?. That, how-
ever, is a position of very exceptional
strength. When an insurance office has funds
(capital and reserves) equal to 150 p.c. of
its annual premium income it is generally
reckoned to offer quite satisfactory security
to its policy-holders without making its own
shareholders feel uncomfortable. From all of
which it is fairly evident that by reason of
the very rapid increase of premiums (which
mean risks) this co. Ought to go slow in the
matter of dividends and build up its reserves
as fast as possible. Simultaneously it might
not be amiss if it combed out some of its
risks with a view to reducing its loss rate,
which is at present high.
Eider's Trustee and Executor Co.
(Adelaide) :
Mar., Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Reserves.
1911.. £468 Nil £468 £lO
1912.. 425 Nil 425 435
1913.. 1722 Nil 1722 2157
1914.. 2435 6 p.e. = £l2OO 1235 3392
1915.. 1883 6 „ „ 1200 683 4075
1916.. 2045 6 „ „ 1200 845 4920
1917.. 2855 8 „ „ 1600 1255 6175
1918.. 3165 8 ~ „ 1600 1565 7740
Elder-Smith’s are probably the best-known
people in S. Australia. The firm was estab-
lished in 183!) —within a couple of years of
the foundation of the “Province.” The
original, by the way, wasn’t Thomas Elder,
as most modern S. Australians seem to
think, but A. L. Elder, brother of Thomas.
A.L. returned to London 65 years ago and
established himself there; Thomas then
came to Australia, and became the head.
Robert Barr Smith, who had been for some
years in Melbourne with Hamilton, Smith
and Co., crossed over to Adelaide in the
following year and took George Elder’s place
in the firm, which became Elder, Smith and
Co. The Elders have long since gone ; but
R. Barr Smith remains, and is part of the
pride of S. Australia. Between the partners
individually and the firm, afterwards turned
into a public co., they did great things for
the development of their country: they took
a leading part in the opening up of the
Moonta copper-mines; they equipped a num-
ber of exploring expeditions; they introduced
camels to backblocks Australia. Thousands
of S. Australians, growing up with the name
on their lips, passed their stock and station
and farm business, as a matter of course, to
this co. A few years ago the co. reckoned
that it might as well provide all the machin-
ery for doing the business for these people,
after their death as well as while they lived;
and this trustee co. was the result. That it
was wanted is proved by the fact that the
value of the trust funds in hand has moved
along in this remarkable way:—
1911. . £53,562 | 1917.. £2,460,347
1915.. 1,405,146 | 1918.. 2,779,039
So for a trustee co. it has the unusual experi-
ence of having paid an 8 p.c. div. in its
seventh year; and the 8 p.c. last year con-
sumed barely half of the profits. Of course
the capital is small; but clients are further
protected by the shareholders’ liability for
£BO,OOO of calls. And they are a very solid
lot. Still it isn’t merely because this and
other similar cos. put up money guarantees
of good behavior that they ought to command
the attention of all persons with property to
leave behind them. In particular (1) the
trustee co. makes a. business of being a
trustee. It doesn’t have to go to a lawyer
before it moves. It therefore does things
expertly for less, as a rule, than the amateur
trustee does things amateurishly. (2) It
doesn’t die. Anybody who has had experi-
ence of a private trustee dying in the midst
of liquidating an estate knows what that
means.
* * * *-
Standard Mutual Building Society
(Melbourne) :
Profits on
Property Re-
Profits. Sales. Dividends. serves.
.lan., 1911 . . £2342 £1043 8 p.c. = £1912 £23,584
July. 1911 .. 2626 1710 8 .. „ 1912 26,008
Jan.. 1912 .. 2714 2956 0J „ ~ 2231 29,447
July, 1912 . . 3132 859 8 ~ ~ 2294 31,144
£9560 Reserves transferred to Capital. . 21,584
Jan., 1913 . . 3038 486 8 p.c. = 2294 22,814
July, 1913 . . 3237 122 8 „ „ 2294 23,879
Jan., 1914 . . 3295 423 8 „ ~ . 2294 25,303
July, 1914 .. 5471 778 8 „ „ 2294 27,258
Jan., 1915 .. 3612 360 8 „ „ 2294 28,936
July, 1915 .. 5400 139 10 „ „ 2868 29,607
Jan., 1916 .. 3622 10 ~ „ 2868 30,361
July, 1916 . . 3268 360 10 „ „ 2868 31,121
Jan., 1917 . . 3304 10 „ „ 2868 31,557
July, 1917 . . 3289 10 „ „ 2868 31.978
Jan., 1918 . . 3317 10 „ „ '2868 32,427
This society wrote down its capital by one-
half in order to meet the market depreci-
ation of assets not otherwise provided for.
It used the pruning-shears rather too
severely, with two results: (1) it was able
to presently show substantial surpluses on
sales; (2) the amount called for by the
dividend was comparatively small. Thus
reserves have grown nicely; and. though
five or six years ago £9560 was handed out
as a bonus, the total is still equal to nearly
two-thirds of the capital. It is this which
makes it possible for the co. to pay a 10
p.c. div., notwithstanding that it has the
use of only £31,142 of the public’s money.
The nfoxt comparison shows how the co.
has got out of the old bog:—
July,’ol. Jan.,’l7. July,’l7. Jan.,’lB.
Liabilities ..'£37,015 £33,020 £31,651 £31,142
Advances .. 19,998 118,251 116,165 114,667
Foreclosures .. 72,305 3,765 3,765 3,693
Cash, etc. . , 2,778 3,487 4,074 5,738
Very little property remains on hand ; and
what there is brings in a very satisfactory
return*—nearly 8 p.c. net on the book value.
Advances are almost exactly twice the
amount of the capital; and they bring in a
shade over 8 p.c. With Governments out
to lend Savings Bank money at cheap rates,
it isn’t, however, possible, under normal
conditions, for building societies to hope for
big loan figures at 8 p.c. Still, assuming that
this society will not make any heavy losses


Negligible maintenance costs are assured if you
specify British Thomson-Houston Direct and Alter-
nating Current Generators for your power and
lighting supply. There are more B.T.H. Generators
in operation in Australia than any other make. The
reason is—reliability. Write for further particu-
lars and quotations to the Australian General
Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Water is nature’s thirst quencher for botli man
and beast, and unless your supply is pure when you
receive it, much ill-health may result. Dwellers
in the country suffer the greatest disadvantages, as
they depend mainly on tank and river water,
which very often is turbid from clay or may obtain
vegetable matter. One ton of Alurninoferrie will
clarify 8,000,000 gallons of water. It will not
affect the taste, but will give you a supply of beauti-
fully clear and pure water. For further particulars
write to William Adams & Co.; Ltd., 175 Clarence
Street, Sydney; 521-523 Collins Street, Melbourne:
06 Currie Street. Adelaide; Corner Edward and
Mary Streets, Brisbane; and 33-35 King Street,
Perth.— Advt.
Concentrating machinery for afl classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and arc always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. I 4
The claims of wood pipe. We claim for Pioneer
Wood Pipe that it has more points to recommend it
than any other water-supply pipe on the market in
the way of durability, large capacity, ease of installa-
tion and economy. Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd. (H. 0.), Burn-
Bay lload, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. address: Box 1576
G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.:
Footscray, Vic.; and Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors
to all State Governments. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
The manufacture of the Australian “Skandia” Crude
Oil Engine continues apace, and Nelson & Robertson
report inquiries from mining, dredging and other in
dustries. The economy in the running cost of these
engines combined with the small amount of labor
required appeals to all power users, and all interested
are invited to forward particulars of their require-
ments. “Skandia” engines are designed for both
industrial and marine work, and the stationary type
is unrivalled for pumping, hauling, compressors and
all mining and general work. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 388 Flinders Lane, Melb.— Advt.
* * * *
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., head office, Sydney, have
stocks of “Robey” portable steam engines, “National''
gas and oil engines, stonebreakers, road graders,
“Quick-Set” concrete pipe moulds, malleable cast-
iron fittings, elevating anti conveying machinery of
every description, etc., etc. Queensland inquiries:
The Australian Machinery Co., Ltd., Brisbane. — Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * # *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles. Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
GF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital . 96.291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established, 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Blanches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. R, CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney,
The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
HIGH
As the
are in
Westinghouse
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
ECONOMY
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to 20.000 Kilowatts.
Wt
Manchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia;
!H Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne, jjjj
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY— 25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
of principal, shareholders may _ reasonably
expect a substantial return, since 5 p.c.
net on their own funds is equal to 8 p.c. on
their capital.
* * *■ • *
The New Zealand Loan and Mercan-
tile Agency Co., Ltd., which is in the
pastoral-finance and agency business in Aus-
tralia and Maoriland, from the last recon-
struction :
Dividends.
> 1
5 p.c. Written
Profits. Pvefs. Ordinary. Off. Reserves.
£ £ s -C C
1913. . 109,915 23,330 5 p.c.= 32,718 20,000 291,111
1911. .139,553 19,460 5 ~,,41,716 —339,48 S
further profits on liquidation of N.Z. Land )
Association . . . . . . £166,571 1 446,194
Written off premises and stores.. 59,865 J
1915. .136,387 49,460 5 p.c.= 41,716 491,405
Further profits N.Z. Land Association 1
liquidation .. .. .. £6,353 I , n -
Profit on realisation of old co.’s assets 84,180 f * ’
Written off premises and stores . . 20,533 J
1016. .137,131 49,460 6 p.c.= 50,059 10,000 589,017
1917. .184,979 49,460 7 „ ~58,401 30,000 636,135
This co. had a gruelling time in the early
’nineties, and 10 years ago the share capi-
tal was only £135,352: it had been written
down with an axe. The remarkable capacity
of Australia and Maoriland for getting out
of a tight place then came to the co.’s res-
cue; and capital which looked as though it
were lost beyond redemption was recovered
by the hundred thousand. To-day the share
capital is no less than £1,823,514. the in-
crease being due partly to transferred re-
serves, partly to the conversion of debenture
stock.
Doubtless the co.’s bitter experience in
past years is responsible for the most
remarkable feature of its history since the last
reconstruction. Rather more than half the
present share capital is 5 p.c. preference;
the balance is ordinary. But the dividend
on ordinary shares has been kept so very
modest that in five years the visible reserves
have been strengthened from £257,250 to
£636,135, and in the same time £130,000 of
profit has been written off in reduction
mainly of a premises account, which had
already been written down severely. Thus
in five years the profit, including surpluses
from the liquidation of the N.Z. Land Asso-
ciation, a co. which this one used to own,
has been £766,135 in excess of the dividends;
and meantime a very substantial sum —
apparently £30,000 —has been handed over
to an officers’ provident fund, which the
directors hope to make the basis of a pen-
sion fund presently. Meantime also tax-
ation has simply bounded forward. Ten
years ago the outgoings under this head were
£8845; last year they were £86,122. That
the co. can show such very fine profits in
these circumstances is due partly to the fact
that it lias the use of £2,000,000 of 4 p.c.
debenture money ; partly also, of course, to
the war-prices realised for wool and other
products which the co. handles. The co.
itself, though at one time a very large
station-holder, now produces little on its
own account; but its commissions and other
earnings have increased with the price of
products. In 1907 —but take this compari-
son first: —
Liabilities.
1907. 1916. 1917.
Debentures . . £3,296,344 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Other debts .. 837,799 586,786 614,149
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 797,805 1,037,237 1,287,182
Land Association . . 552,658 —•—
Co.’s debentures . . 438,969 300,000 300,000
Advances.. .. 2,157,754 3,181,119 3,074,727
Properties, stock, etc. 178,507 34,956 11,502
Premises .. .. 315,656 295,882 271,614
Other assets . . 149,707 204,054 191,046
Notwithstanding that the balance-sheet fig-
ures in 10 years have increased by less than
the amount of the undivided profit, the
gross earnings have increased from £839,417
to £617,079. That the figures of the last
few years are abnormal the directors seem
to fully realise; hepce their close rein upon
the dividend. The business of pastoral
finance is, as they know, an uncertain one;
but, given good management, it is only dis-
astrous if the co. has to realise in an adverse
market—which means if its own creditors
press it. This co.’s debts apart from deben-
tures are so small that it is exceptionally
well situated in that respect.
The co. is one of those that are hit by the
double income tax. Shareholders are mostly
in England; the properties are at this end.
and the Australian and M.L. taxes last
year called for £52,860 of the total of
£86,122 paid out. But that was not the
aggregate of the taxes payable ; for the divi-
dends are paid less income tax. In other
words, portion of the British income tax is
paid out of the dividends. And at this
point an interesting little difficulty has
arisen. The British income tax on this co.’s
dividends last year was ss. in the £; but
the Finance Act of 1916 gives the co. relief
to the extent of Is. 6d. in the £ in respect
of income tax on profits earned in Aus-
tralia or Maoriland. But the question has
arisen: Who gets the eighteenpence? The
♦ co. or the shareholders? And if the latter,
what shareholders? A pref. shareholder
in an English co. carrying on business in
England pays ss. in the £. But if the co.
carries on business in Australia, he would
pay only 3s. 6d. if he were entitled to the
rebate. Certainly the co. has paid the Is. 6d.
in Australia; but the money has come out
of the general revenue, and the pref. share-
holder has only a limited interest in the
general revenue and the profits. At present,
though there is a diversity of opinion, the
bulk of it appears td be that the co. is en-
titled to the Is. 6d., and if the shareholders
are to benefit by it it can only be by cutting
it 'up in the shape of a bonus or extra divi-
dend to the ordinaries. The question is,
however, to go to the Court of Appeal;
though it is not being taken by this co.
* * * *
“Profiteer”: Things are not looking any
more cheerful for 4 Australian insurance
offices. Following the blow they received in
Queensland, the Victorian Government In-
surance Department is causing them
trouble. Having accumulated profits that it
didn’t think it needed, it recently decided to
give its policy-holders the benefit, aud distri-
buted a cash bonus. Employers began to sit
up and take notice (the Government omce
only does business under the Compensation
Act), and the cos. counter-attacked by cir-
cularising their clients, offering a quarter of
their last year’s premium back provided they
renewed their policies. The Government
officials retaliated by publishing a compari-
son of both benefits on a policy of similar
size, which didn’t make the offer of the cos.
look dazzling. The latest development
is the issue by the cos. of a revised lot
of premium rates undercutting the Govern-
ment rates. An Autocrat of the Kitchen
formerly cost ss. per annum for insurance.
Now she costs only 45., not counting the
bonus or rebate, which was Is. 3d. for last
year. It is very interesting for the policy-
holders; but it is going to hurt somebody in
the dividends —especially if it doesn’t stop at
workmen’s compensation.
* # * *
The story told in London, and reported in
The Times, was that “the real cause of the
sharp advance in the shares of the Broken
Hill Prop, to the highest level recorded for
years past is that the Commonwealth
Government is arranging to acquire the eo.’s
steel-works in connection with its shipbuild-
ing programme.” The market is being affected
rather too often by tales of things, the Com-
monwealth Government is going to do or not
going to do.
* * * *
This paper would be very glad to discuss
the sale of Australian zinc * concentrates
which is supposed to have been made by the
Commonwealth Government to the British
Government. It is not permitted to say why
it does not discuss the sale or alleged sale.
But it will say this: that when announce-
ments are made which have the effect of
booming already over-boomed shares, and
when steps are thereupon taken by someone
to prevent the discussion of the business, the
public is entitled to ah explanation. Failing
an explanation, the public is entitled to its
suspicions.
Kingsgate (N.S.W.) has its mill at work,
and bismuth and molybdenite concentrates
are being bagged for market. During a
run of 308 hours the mill treated 101 tons
crudes for 38041 b. bismuth concentrates and
12971 b. molybdenite concentrates. A pound
of molybdenite 90 p.c. pure is worth about
4s. 3d. (at £4BO per ton). Assuming this
parcel assayed 96 p.c., the gross value would
be £275. The value of the bismuth would
probably exceed that of the molybdenite.
Kingsgate is 17 miles from Glen Innes, and
last year produced 104 tons of molybdenite
valued at £4876.
Melbourne-owned Y Water (N.S.W.),
after muddling along in ground as tough as
alabaster, is sending its plant to hunt for an
easier patch up the lead. If the co. hadn’t seen
black tin run uo to £264, the past half-year’s
1054 tons oxide from 350.000 cub. yards of
drift might have about ended things. As it
is, the co. made £2776 on working account
and netted £l6OO after settling its interest
bill and feeing its city panjandrums. To its
big creditor, the bank, it owed £15,959 on
January 31, and smaller chaps £2309. These
amounts are about covered by tin (£11,420)
and stores (£7472). The rest is in plant
and the softer ground ahead. Owing to high
costs and tough wash F. G. Wilson intends
to discard 54 acres previously marked as
payable.
* * * *
There are still some tin-mines that don’t
pay dividends: probably they are waiting
for the metal to get up to £5OO. Hart’s, at
Torrington (N.S.W.), owned by a Melbourne
co., had been in the hands of tributors_ for a
couple of years prior to the end of 1917, and
they didn’t do what the co. hadn’t been able
to do for itself —pay the vendor £5OO out of
the first profits. On January 1 the co. took
over the mine and is now crushing a bit of
ore; but there is very little developed. Net
profit last year (to February 28.1918) was
£414, which reduced the P. and L. debit to
£4002.
* * * *
\Y estraliaix State Mining-Engineer Mont-
gomery’s report on the water trouble at Wes-
tonia is out at last. Montgomery reckons (1)
that the flooded area is limited: (2) that it
will not extend very far in depth : (3) that the
immense quantity of water that is being
pumped out of the mines is not, as some
local experts allege, finding its way back
again by soakage, and (4) that the one
thing needful to keep the flow in check is
the establishment of a central pumping
station. If the four cos. immediately con-
cerned don’t settle their differences and
erect one the Government will probably step
in and compel them to do so. Mick Wil-
liams, who bosses the principal sufferer, the
Edna May, put the position at that mine
the other day. lie said the pumping capa-
city at the 385 ft. level was very limited, and
when stoppages occurred the water soon
rose in the shaft. A reserve plant for use in the
event of stoppages is to be installed at
300 ft., and the 385 ft. level is to have a
couple of centrifugal pumps, each of 00,000
gallons per hour. Pending the arrival and
erection of the first of these pumps the
water will be allowed to remain at the 300 ft,
level, and only a limited tonnage, drawn
from the upper levels, will be treated.
* * * *
Great Fingall (W.A.) has decided to give
it up. The last yield from the mine left
the tributing employees with only 7s. 6d. a
shift as a return for their labor, and to
enable the co. to pay the difference between
that amount and the rate of wages fixed by
the award, the Government has agreed to
give the co. further financial assistance.
Some time ago the directors got the Govern-
ment to guarantee them at the bank up to
£15,000 and the overdraft is now stated
to stand at about half that amount. It will
probably be wiped out altogether by the time
the co. realises on its assets. The only
way the Fingall could be further worked
is by sinking a new main underlay shaft
to a depth of at least 2000 ft.; but if the
co. had found the money to do this it would
have been heavily taxed on the outlay. There
is no taxation on money spent on driving,
crosscutting, winzing or rising done in the
course of development work ; but for main-
shaft sinking there is. This is another
sample of Hughes statesmanship. It would
be humorous if it did not have such tragic
results.
* x * * *
Two Warden Court cases of interest to
Eastern speculators were disposed of at Mt.
Magnet (W.A.) the other day. The first
was an application for 12 months’ exemption
on the Empress. The attorney stated that the
total expenditure to date had been £35,000;
the value of gold won £12,000. As there was
no opposition the co. got what it wanted.
In the second case three former owners suc-
ceeded in having the forfeiture of the
Sirdar > lease recommended. V. F. Shall-
cross, who appeared for the present holder,
the Star Syndicate, Ltd., of Melbourne and
Adelaide, did not offer any opposition, but
will probably appeal direct to the Minister.
This he has successfully done in other cases.
The latest about Langi Logan South.
Ararat (Vic.), is that the western ground
off Nos. 10, 11 and 12 rises has been very
uneven. Off No. 12 is a bonser crab-hole,
and though George Bryant talks of good
wash on the fringe of all these dugouts, the
fact that they extend for the length covered
by three rises means excluding a big block of
wash from No. 6 rise onwards. It needed a
Philadelphia lawyer to get this much out of the
weekly mine reports, but there it is at last.
Now the talk is that the co. is again into
regular country. Work done round Nos. 6
and 7 rises and in wash drives up the lead
resulted in 915 fathoms averaging over loz.
2dwt. In pre-war days that would have spelt
divs. and a big jump in the market. Now
there is no profit in such dirt, with the mine
only half-manned and wages sky-high. Thus
far Langi South has chewed up £90.000 of
good cash paid in as calls and £17,000 of
gold, and it has never paid a div.
* *• * *
Bendigo Amalgamated so far hasn’t picked
up trumps at Windmill Hill. The first 30
tons from the west leg was poor stuff, but as
most gold was to be seen in the east-leg
stone no one lost heart. When quartz thence
only panned out a 3dwt. average there was
a scatter. However, optimism over Windy
Hill brought in the call and enabled the co.
to move easily for another quarter or so.
But that won't calm down the shareholders
who got wild with the 1.0. A. Board for
underwriting 50,000 shares. However, the
last fortnight’s Amalgamated yield went an
improved 6dwt., due to things looking up at
the Carlisle, so the directors perhaps feel a
bit better about it.
* * * *
Charters Towers produced £10.852 for the
first quarter of this year: the first quarter of
1917 gave £25,249. and the first quarter of
191(5 £52,007. Except for the Papuan Co.'s-
sink on the Bramble reef hardly any pro-
speeding is being done in new ground: but
tributors are trying to pick up a payable
shoot in the old Queen Cross lease. Clark’s
mine continues to haul 100 tons of stone per
fortnight, and the stopes carry a reef Sin.
wide. It has been a good little show to pay
six dividends on 90,000 shares. The last
crushing averaged over £l3 per ton, but it
followed £23 per ton. These rapid changes
are characteristic of this rich little streak.
Kampong Kamunting, one of the tin shows
which the Austral Malay Co. introduced to
Australia, started with 10 years’ life. Now.
though it has been hard at work for a couple
of years and has already paid 13s. per share
in divs., it reckons it still has a bit over
10 years’ work in sight, acquired areas
alongside having more than counterbalanced
the 84 acres that have so far been worked
out.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 3 4.)


✓
C»idVlfrc’b»trt«o* h
HEERIHGI
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
*OO KV«Sfjett,’
? e rr P y^ Via^;et'^ ay^a^u'lcUort
43s P'S 1 faStr® 6 *’ ®°” d d»n6 loa t
re *s*%&&**
Uetn^vetyo^ 5
*»*»
k
PAULINE et CIE
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
George Street, Sydney,
Announce their AUTUMN AND WINTER SHOW
of MODEL MILLINERY on and after WEDNES-
DAY, MARCH 6. MODEL EVENING and DAY
FROCKS, COATS and SKIRTS, etc., on and
after TUESDAY, MARCH 19.
HOW THIN PEOPLE MAY PUT ON
FLESH.
GREAT DISCOVERY BY EMINENT
SPECIALIST,
Judging from the countless preparations
and treatments which are continually being
advertised for the purpose of making thin
people fleshy, developing the arms, neck and
bust, and replacing ugly hollows and angles
by the soft curved lines of health and beauty,
there are evidently thousands of men and
women who keenly feel their excessive thin-
ness, and it therefore gives us real pleasure
to publish herewith a simple prescription
which, by correcting faulty metabolism and
stimulating the activity of certain sluggish
vital organs quickly produces a marked
transformation in the appearance; the in-
crease in weight frequently averaging from
three to four pounds the first week, and
very rarely less than two. This increase
in weight also carries with it a general im-
provement in the health. Nervousness, sleep-
lessness and debility, which nearly always
accompany excessive thinness, all quickly dis-
appear, dull eyes become bright and' pale
cheeks glow with the bloom of perfect
health.
The prescription, which is absolutely *
harmless, directs you to take before each
meal a 5-grain tablet of Bitro-phospliate, such
as you may obtain from any chemist, at a
cost of about 2d. a day. Eat all you
want, but chew your food thoroughly.
CAUTlON.—Although the above prescrip-
tion is unequalled for relieving nervousness,
sleeplessness and general debility, it should
not, owing to its recognised flesh-growing
properties, be used by anyone who does not
desire to put on flesh. —Advt.
Missing: Friends.
JAMES ARMSTRONG JONES.—If
James Armstrong Jones, formerly of
Benalla, Victoria, engine-driver (last heard
of in .1.905 at Kalgoorlie, W.A.), will com-
municate with undersigned he will hear of
something to his advantage. Reward for
information as to his whereabouts. Mrs.
Jane Jones, c/o W. G. Sewell, Box 3, Colac,
Victoria.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
ctUGG
“Better
than Either”
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia—
GET A BOTTLE.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVEID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, April 29, 191 S.
.My Dear Arini, —
Anzac Day, brilliantly fine in the after-
noon, brought us a march of returned sol-
diers through the city. And there was a
laughing contingent that couldn’t march—
crippled boys who pushed their crutches into
cars and hopped in after. No whimpering
there! The khaki dots began to take shape
opposite the Gallery 7 at half-past two. The start
was timed for three; but it was later, and
when the tail of the procession, wearied with
the waiting, got into Macqjuarie-street, here
and there a war-worn soldier stumbled or
fell from exhaustion. The dismal line of
mourning coaches, filled with memorial
wreaths, was a shade too theatrical for
that spirited gathering of game Australian
soldiers who were making the best of their
damages. The Governor’s cocked hat was,
at the saluting point—a green patch oppo-
site the Australian Club. Here Consuls
and Parliamentary and civic deities had a
few blades of grass a-piece.
Over GOO soldiers passed in and out of
the Welcome Club (St. Andrew’s Cathedral
casts its shadow on the roof) on Anzac Day,
and great was the washing-up thereof. For
the Voluntary Workers, however, there’s joy
in paying even this tribute to Billjim. And
a similar rite at the Soldiers’ Club, decorated
in its party rooms with white and purple
blooms, kept Dr. Mary Booth’s girls up to
their elbows in hot water. The sensation of
the evening was the Belgian National
Anthem sung by a native of that heroic little
country, Miss Lintcrman.
If Old Australia had voluntarily provided
the Allies with as many flying-machines as
Young Australia has voluntarily provided
them with fliers, there would by now be 500
pairs of Australian wings in Europe, instead
of something well under 40. The A.I.F.
has sent 300 boys into the air service;
and a couple of hundred others, or there-
abouts, have gone into the R.F.C. In this
matter the .young men with their precious
lives to give have been far more generous
than the old men with little more than then-
purses to lose. For £2700 any citizen can
have a machine of his own laying eggs in
France 12 short weeks after he has written
the cheque; and Alma Baker continues to
mention that the Australian Air Squadrons
Fund is still taking subscriptions. There is
no limit, up or down, and any bank will
accept offerings on behalf of the lion,
treasurer, F. E. Bryant, manager of the
Union Bank in Sydney. Thus far, besides
contributing to “district” battleplanes, the
Fund has presented the War Office with 22.
The matinee at Her Majesty’s threw about
£2OOO into the Red Cross blanket. The
Davidsons, who had a strenuous day, got in
late. With Hugh Ward as guide, they felt
their way into the darkened theatre while
Marie Tempest was dabbing her nice little
nose and weeping carefully over a brand-new
marriage-license. They saw the rest of the
act from the back of the d.c.; then, with the
two A.D.C. soldier boys in the rear, they
slipped into their seats. In a programme
which explored every theatrical hole and
corner, the thrilling khaki display w r ith a
hundred of the genuine Australian article
got the heartiest cheers. The auction inter-
lude brought a £125 bid from John Hunter
for the white-satin flag with the Red Cross.
Flaxen-haired dolls changed hands several
times, and George Marlow, in a stage-box,
became the joyful owner of one at an exorbi-
tant price.
The crowd opposite a fashionable club
was thrilled when an affluent-looking indi-
vidual at a lower window began counting
an impressive roll of notes. In the street a
lorry-load of girls took a top G under the
shade of red paper hats. Here was a haul—
a fat wad of Commonwealth paper! But
Dives put the roll back into his pocket and
tossed two sixpences into the street. “Can ’e
spare it!” asked the shabby man with the
dog.
The War Chest’s “hidden treasures” drew
blood early. An unshaken desire to get a pearl
necklet for 12d. brought Woman crowding
to th,e scene. Whether it was quite worthy of
the 'Chest to put a small and pimply-green
lemon in a shilling “treasure” is not a vital
matter. The money goes to the right place,
and the prizes 'Weren't all pimply lemons.
Indeed, I know a girl who got half a packet
of pins.
The march of the Y.A.D.’s was the picture
of the day. White as milk, 2000 strong, the
voluntaries were preening their plumage near
the Art Gallery at early morning, with an
occasional yelp from a male in khaki or the
wail of an itinerant musician for diversion.
The country units were a strapping lot.
Those who expected the ladies from out West
to be lean and wilted were surprised at the
sturdy, bright-eyed girls who came from the
sunburnt plains. Killara's commandant,
Edie Fisher, got a special ’ooray for her lot
as they stepped out in approved military
style. Mrs. Chris Bennett, the Y.A.D.’s
State mother, hovered near her fluttering
flock of pigeons. After the march the Bed
Cross fed the country delegates in the Town
Hall, the Kitchen providing the baked meats.
And just there my next-door neighbor (sick
wife and three children) dropped in with
something he d signed ’‘Honorary Washer-
up” :—•
Tramp tramp—tramp ! Tramp — tramp — trav}p !
Four thousand white- Stand back and give
shod feet, them room !
A splendid line. My poor head whirls
A snow-white' line, Before these girls
Comes marching down While brass bands bang
the street. and boom.
Tramp—tramp—tramp ! Tramp—tramp— tramp !
Their strong white So pretty and so proud!
shoulders swing. But I wouldn’t trade
All of them fit, One willing “maid”
They do their bit For the whole white-
For Billjim, who is king. angel crowd !
David Jones’s corner was a seething mass
or women trying to light their wav nearer to
the bargains. Not much short of £7OO was
the glittering wash-up of this stall, with Mrs.
Siutchbury and Mrs. «T. J. Cohen in.charge.
But Wyn.vard-square, where Mrs. Bennett
counted the notes, beat even that with £BlO.
At the Quay the Pickle Depot girls, with
Mrs. Jocelyne in charge, had sold out before
noon and hurried reinforcements were sent
for. Even before the Day had dawned this
little lot had gathered in about £2OO from
badge and button sales.
The Red Cross Book Depot girls—Mrs.
Galbraith, her head in flowing white drapery
with the healer’s cross in front, was a busy
woman the day—had several young beauties
to pass round the tea. “Cracked cups! But
someone must get the chipped crockery,” said
one charmer affably, and whisked off the
derelict with a smile. Farther up, ih Moore-
street. Miss Kate Egan and helpers poured
tea and coffee and washed-up till late at
night. _ Over £2OO exchanged for the day’s
thirst in that plot. Mrs. Brittain, with other
’Murkan ladies, coined money at the U.S.A.
st:all near by. The American-Australian
Dengue, another band of raiders, swooped
down on travellers in the Imperial Arcade.
Mrs. Plogsted mothered this lot. The Edith
Cavell Memorial stall, with Miss Davey and
Eileen Teece to count the change, had as
extra bran-pie assistants Diana and Daphne
Davidson. As there’s no mayoress on the
spot, "Mrs. It. D. Meagher camped in her
usual gunyah at the Town Hall, with the
Nesbitt girls to help.
China took a hand in the robbery. One
of the most charming efforts in Martin
Place, with Mrs. Chuey and the Yinson
Lees to help, brought in over £5OO. And
raffles will swell this total.
A shop window, however big, is a breath-
less cage after half an hour or so. and the
Red Cross demonstrators were frequently
changed during their folding-down and pack-
ing-up exhibition at Farmer’s. When Lady
Davidson had snipped the ribbons' that held
the window draping, the expectant public
glued its nose to the panes. The spinsters
at their wheels had the most spectacular
job. The toy-makers also caught the eye,
and the weavers got the respect of those
present. The dull but useful task of folding
shirts behind plate-glass went on till sunset.
After a tine morning a heavy rainstorm
made pulp of a few r perishable goods on Red
Cross Day. In the Macquarie-place “vil-
lage” a leaky tent was responsible for more
water than tea. With supreme foresight a
few hardy wights had dragged umbrellas
round town all day. These were now
opened, to the chastened joy of those who
got the drips down their necks. But Mrs.
Alfred Lee’s damsels mopped up the ruins,
the sun came out again and the impromptu
bridges were soon kicked aside.
St. George is an unobtrusive saint, nearly
forgotten this year. But Lethbridge King
took his usual seat as chief carver at the
George Society’s annual dinner. The com-
pany having drunk the healths of the Brit-
ish royalties, Justice Edmund Barton, Aus-
tialian-born, got on his feet to add another
glass to the account of St. George, England
and the Allies.
Jean Ross Munro, daughter of a well-
known Queensland squatting family, was
married to Lieut. Jack Chandler, M.C., of
the R.F.A., at St. Paul’s, in Brisbane. The
bride had three soldier brothers. One is with
the R.F.C., one was killed in the early days
of the war, and one is missing. The brides-
maids were Vera Cotton, the fiancee of the
aviator brother, and little sister Margaret.
The ’moon will shine as far as Honolulu,
tor Mrs. Chandler is accompanying her hus-
band so far on his return to England. He
came from Warwick, where in later days
Hughes’s hat broke an egg and hatched a
policeman.
Walter Marks, of the Royal Naval Volun-
teers, and a lieutenant with three years’
patrol-work and mine-sweeping behind him,
gave an interesting tale of the sea in war-
time. The Naval House was crowded for
the yarn, and Governor Davidson took the
chair. The Sydney Yachtsman—he’s Com-
modore of the R.P.A. Club—was on his way
with the racing Shamrock to England when
a wireless ordered them to the nearest port.
It happened to be Bermuda. With Lipton’s
famous yacht was the Erin, a smaller
pleasure craft. From Bermuda —this was
early in August, 1914—they went to New
York. Nothing doing. So Marks and the
crew of the Erin filled up with coal and made
a dash for England. Since when Walter
Marks has mostly lived amidst the spume of
the North Sea, half-frozen in many a bliz-
zard, and has been one of the lucky seadogs
to keep a whole skin. He’s sunning himself
in Sydney on a short furlough.
The J. 11. I*. Murrays’ only daughter
Mary, the slender, dark-eyed girl who left
here with mother for brother Terence’s wed-
ding in England, has had a similar party on
her own account. The man is a Victorian—
Captain C. R. Pinney, M.C. Mrs. Murray
stays on the other side, for it’s not easy to
get a passport, and, anyhow, she admits to
being “nervous” of the submarines. Papua’s
Lieut.-Gov., who usually comes this way in
winter, has one of his small brood left on
this side—Pat the schoolboy.
Hornsby and AVaitara linked for a fete on
Saturday afternoon as a p.'s, to Hornsby’s
Red Cross effort on the previous day. when
£370 was caught in small change. In
AVaitara Park, which offers great possibili-
ties to some future landscape gardener, the
local baby, a healthy dot, insisted on sitting
down suddenly on the slippery clay, but there
were no major casualties. The usual shower
cleared up quickly and the treasurer had
£230 in custody when the tea-bell rang.
President .Tames, of the Shire Council, .T. It.
Fraser and J. B. Iloldswortli (local Bank of
N. S. AVales), M. Martin (Bank of Queens-
land) and E. A. McMahon were prominent
in the push. AA’ith her helpers Mrs. Bert
Stevens (a mighty sweet-maker for these
affairs) sold £4O worth of delights, and
never a peppermint left at closing time,
Mrs. Jack Purves and only daughter Enid
went off to India some time after the death
of the late J. M. Purves. There’s a son in
Mesopotamia, and India was nearer than
Sydney. AVord comes of the engagement of
Enid to Edward Metcalfe—Mrs. Purves was
a Miss Metcalfe in the long ago—head of
CVntral College, Mysore Uni.
This week-end a
Victorian pianist,
Jessie Masson, gives
her first Sydney re-
cital in the King's
Hall, though we
heard her play last
year with the Phil
Society, and again
lately when Howard
Hadley performed.
Born in Melbourne.
Jessie grew up in
Maoriland till she
was old enough for
the Melbourne Con-
servatorium, over
which, in those days,
waved the mane of
Marshall Hall. After
that the wander-
lust. The Australian girl has had a peep at
the chief cities of Europe, and in Berlin
studied under a Dutch master—James
Ivwast, who once showed the way to Percy
Grainger. Though due to give a recital in
Berlin at the beginning of October, 1914,
the young pianist was dawdling in Paris
when the war broke loose. So she started
for home, spending some time in Canada and
U.S.A. on the way. Since then she's had a
tour through Maoriland. Here is a photo.
The Davidsons have promised their Presence
at Saturday night’s concert.
To look at them play bowls you wouldn’t
think there was an ounce of venom in a
generation of it. But the outward honey is
all camouflage. In a moment of extreme
affability, president Spence, of the N.S.W.
Assoc., said he would give £lOO for every
£lOOO the clubs raised for the Red Cross.
Now, after professing profound regard for
the president, every club is consumed with
the one idea of stinging him. The hat passed
round the Warringah green came back with
nearly £5OO. Strathfield held up its chin,
and word went forth that its lot would be
between £7OO and £BOO. Mosman on Satur-
day heard of this, and when the congregation
met at afternoon-tea (it’s afternoon tea on
most greens now, though tell it not in Scot-
land) the plate was sent out with the presi-
dent’s hint that it wouldn’t be welcome back
until Strathfield’s figure had been beaten.
Neither knows exactly what the other’s figure
is; but by all accounts there isn’t much to
choose between them. Each will sting the
president for close-on a hundred pounds.
Captain Jack
Allport, of the
R.F.C. and Mosman,
has just got -the
M.C. for some job
in the air about
which he says noth-
ing, though, a few
months ago, he bril-
liantly described for
The Bulletin the
joys of air training.
His record in the
R.F.C. shows how
well he learnt his
lessons. He was
made acting flight
commander two
months after arrival
in France, and has
been a captain now
for about three months. His record of 11
months’ flying at the Front entitles him to
be regarded as a winged Methuselah.
Originally one of the 7th F.A.8., he was
tent-mate with nine other fine Australians.
Of the number three were wounded early
and put out of the running. Of the remain-
ing seven, two are sergeants, four lieutenants
and one a captain. Allport’s makes the
fourth M.C. won by the commissioned group
of five. Roland Allport, one of the heads
of the Sydney firm of Sayers, Allport, Ltd.,
is his proud dad.
A favorite young Sydney singer, Daisy
Sweet, a Watson Bay lass, has united her
lilt to that of Frank Meßachern. They were
married in St. James’s Church the other
evening. White silk and georgette w r ith a
dash of pink—every other wedding gown
lias a blush-rose lining these days—helped
the pilgrimage. The ’groom is almost a fac-
simile of brother Malcolm, and also sings a
bit. Allie Affording, in dove grey, was
bridesmaid. The ’moon wanes in the
Kurrajong orange-groves.
Justice Duffy and his only daughter are
in Sydney. The treasure is father’s Associ-
ate, and shadows her gonial dad in his
wanderings.
Walter Watt, the charming if no longer
youthful bridegroom of last year, is settled
down with his wife at Knellerpore, his old
home, which has been rejuvenated and deco-
rated in the latest brocades.
The war has hit the A. 11. Champion
family again. This time it’s voung Lieut.
Chris., who goes to meet his elder brother
Geoff. in Shadowland. The lad went down
in the recent offensive.
Nellie Stewart came out of her retirement
on Red Cross Day, and had a rush of
matinee customers for her sweets.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
+S LTD
JEWELLERS.
Quality in Table Plate.
Hardy Bros. Ltd. Spoons and Forks are Guaranteed to
be the Highest-grade of English Silver-plate manufactured.
Triple-plated with Pure Silver on Selected Hard White
Metal, tile same High Standard as supplied for over 60 years.
n Appearance utl Finish quite equal to Solid Silver. Every piece stamped
HARDY Al.
OAK CANTEEN OF “OLD ENGLISH” SPOONS AND
Contents.—
FORKS.
12 Table Forks.
12 Dessert Forks.
6 Table Spoons.
8 Soup Spoons.
12 Dessert Spoons.
12 Tea Spoons.
2 Sauce Ladles.
1 Gravy Spoon.
1 Soup Ladle.
1 Sugar Tongs.
1 Sugar Spoon.
68 Pieces Complete, £lB 10 0.
AN ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE ON REQUEST.
13 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY; 116-118 QUEEN ST., BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON
An Inexpensive Camera
For Postcards British Made.
The 31a Folding Ensign
Daylight Loading. For Roll Films.
ghk
The 3JA is without doubt the best value obtain-
able in Postcard Cameras, and is wonderfully
efficient.
It is made of seasoned wood covered with
Leatherette, has Leather Bellows. Nickel Fittings,
Ensign-Simplex Auto Shutter, giving Time, Bulb
and Instantaneous Exposures of l-2oth. l-50tk
and l-100th of a second.
With Achromatic Lens £2/15/-
With Rectomat, Symmetrical Lens—
£3/15/-
smaller
The same Camera can also be had
size, to take pictures 3| x 41 in..
_ , „ £2/10/- and £ 2/17/6
Ditto, ditto, 24 x 4£ in £2 and £2/10/-
Call and let us show you how easy they are to
use. If you live out of town, send for complete
catalogue and handbook of photography—it's
free to any address.
You Will Obtain Best Results if You
Have Your Residues and Assays
Treated at Harringtons’.
Onr Laboratories possess every facility for the scientific treatment of Ores,
Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products of Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers
and other Metal Workers, and all work is done under the personal supervision
of a qualified Chemist arid Metallurgist from Messrs. Johnson & Sons, London,
Assayers to ins Majesty’s Government and the Bank of England.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis. We
buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals, or tlielr alloys, in plate or wire.
We invite you if enquiries. A ’phone or letter addressed to any of our branches
will receive prompt attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney.
f^caliQix
gh
kgh
) THAT YOU can at leisure care-
fully read and learn all about the
charm of the Aeolian Vocation, a
specially illustrated, comprehensively
written Art Catalog has been pre-
pared, containing direct photographs
accurately illustrating the different
models, explaining the unique construction
off the Vocalion and why it is so much
superior to the ordinary talking machine.
Most interesting is that part devoted to explaining
the use off the Graduola —the exclusive Aeolian Vo-
calion innovation. This revolutionary device at once
dispenses with the old-time mechanical defect of the
ordinary phonograph and permits PLAYING each
record to your satisfaction.
The Catalog tells you how easy it is to purchase
this artistically designed and very pleasing musical
instrument on cash or terms, at once establishing
a sure claim to your patronage.
Just post this coupon :
Please send me Calalog and Price-Lisl of
AEOLIAN VOCALION
NAME
ADDRESS
TEbe pianola Company Xto.
“The Centre for the World 7 *
Achievements in Musical Instruments/'
384 GEORGE STREET, BYDNEY.
I


Mr. A. CARLSON (from, a photo.).
JOHN CRAVEN-BURLEIGH
*w,www
FREE SAMPLES
HAIR GROWER
and Shampoo Powders.
CJo Mrs. M. Tobin ., Boarding Uprise,
Florence Street, Port Pirie, S.A.
Mr. John Craven-Burleigh.
My Dear Sir, —I thank you for your letter and offer.
I am very pleased to state that my hair has im-
proved wonderfully since I got the last supply of
your remedy. I am quite satisfied it is a True Hair
Grower. My scalp is now full of fine, silky hair,
and I still have 2i boxes left, so I won’t need any
more. / am recommending your True Hair Grower
to all my friends. lam sending you the last photo.
I have, as I sent all the others to my friends and
people, to let them see how rrty hair has grown. You
may publish this if you please. —Yosirs truly,
A. CARLSON.
Mr. Craven-Burleigh has received thousands of
unsolicited testimonials from people who have suc-
cessfully used his preparations. They are all
genuine, and open to the fullest investigation. In
order to ensure a fair test he desires everyone suffer-
ing from Hair Troubles to obtain from him a Free
Trial of his hair-growing compound. Send full
name and address, enclosing three penny stamps for
postage and packing to
(DEPT. 7a), 321 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel Sydney
(Now Fully Licensed)
FACING RAILWAY STATION
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) „ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ ... 6/6
Management—E. T. CITEESEMAN.
Beauty, Elegance
and
Supreme Quality
are expressed in
GAGE Hats.
On Display at the Leading
Establishments of Australia
and New Zealand.
k
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
L/ETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne,
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, April 29, 1918.
My Df,ak Yakkie, —
Federal Government House gave an infor-
mal party last Wednesday. It was quite
comfy. The G.-G. and Lady Helen liad
invited some hundreds of recently-returned
wounded from the military hospitals. The
guests wandered about the lawns and garden
and listened to the band and the birds.
Then there was a tea-party and a concert
in the big drawing-room. An artistic gent-
help had arranged a stage entrance between
the big blue-and-white tapestry curtains and
a brace of enormous velvet screens. Out
from the depths came Dorothy Low in a
white serge frock and did songs-at-the-piano.
Weston Pitt brought his most amiable grin
from the background and sang humorous
songs. Leslie Gaze High Jinked and Ger-
trude Johnston supplied some grand-opera
extracts. A girl from Sydney named Mamie
Punch rolled big black eyes and sang songs
in a contralto voice. All the French win-
dows in the drawing-room were opened wide
to the terrace lawns. Sir Ronald, in khaki,
and Lady Helen, in a dainty house-gown
with lace cuffs and collar, hosted the, happy,
informal party. Majah Stewart helped hand
teacups and was heard to cry in an agitated
way: “Oh, do please be greedy; we’d love
you to be greedy!” Energetic aide Haskett-
Smith, also in khaki, shepherded the concert
party.
His Ex. took interested people round the
library to show them his Lindsay and Low
cartoons. In the concert-room shaded elec-
trics picked out the beauties of the big
family portraits, amongst them handsome
Hugh Munro in plum-colored clothes, and
the full-length portrait of a Vandyke-bearded
ancestor in a fur coat. The ancestor has
his jacket flung back and two fingers grope
in his waistcoat pocket. He is after tup-
pence for a tip.
Richard, the younger son of flourmiller
Minifie, of Brighton, has been caught by the
Huns and lodged at Karlsruhe. Fritz must
have been glad to capture the boy, since he
was a persistent thorn in the side of the
German air service, bombing their aero-
dromes, Lewis-gunning trains, staff cars and
infantry, and performing other feats of a
reckless character. The young man—he is
barely 20—-has gone into retirement with
the rank of flight-commander and a couple
of bars to his Military Gross.
Young Franklin Peterson, son of the late
Professor and bosom pal of Willy Kelly, has
found his way into khaki, which means that
Justice Higgins has lost an Associate and
the Argus its brightest “Oriel” contributor.
Peterson was also suspected of putting some
good stuff into The Bulletin when not too
busy choosing a new tie.
During this month’s Hun offensive, Ser-
geant Ernest Vicars-Foote, with three years’
service to his credit, attained to final honors.
He was a son of Major Richard Vicars-
Foote, of the Bank of Victoria.
One of barrister O’Hara Wood’s soldier-
sons had a joyous furlough just before the
big defensive. He was sent to Monte Carlo
with some of his pals, and they played tennis
and had joy-rides to Nice. Lots of Aus-
tralians have passed that way of late. It is
oil one of the routes by which troops are
sent from Egypt to England.
Nurses Johnston and Leah Rosenthal have
been decorated. The last letters from
them came from Bethune, where they were
on special duty. The two used to run a
private hospital in Melbourne; they enlisted
together and have worked together nearly all
through the war.
Our Anzacs marched and were motored
in procession through town on Friday, which
we called Remembrance Day. The heavens
wept (probably at the recruiting figures)
and Collins-street was roofed with black
clouds and swept with a fine mist as the
men reached the block for disbanding. Here
there were military shouts, a quick furl-
ing of sodden ensigns and dripping banners —
and a lively break for cover. In the procession
were shell-torn banners, two of them from
dressing-stations on the Anzac beach. A
hundred Anzacs carried a huge silk collect-
ing sheet marked with a plan of Gallipoli.
There were 100 head-holes in this banner,
which was spread out across the shoulders
of the jolly beggars. Some of the flung coins
just missed collecting an eye. or a tooth, or
even an ear-tip. It isn’t much of a trick.
Dusk found the Block a bazaar full of damp,
slow-moving crowds, through which crawled
clanging trams with profane gripmen. Auc-
tioneers shouted hoarsely outside each
swamped kiosk. Decorated cars with theatri-
cal songsters supplied the relief. The
colors of the drenched decorations had run.
and the performers’ make-up was in patches
and streaks.
Kitty Jackson, once upon a time Kitty
Boyes, has returned after a couple of years
spent in nearly every part of the world
except Germany. Her husband has charge
of a transport which has been carting troops
backward and forward across the seven seas,
and Kitty lias had a strenuous time rushing
from port to port to meet him.
Mrs. Norman Hodges, aforetime Wanda
Clarke, of Mount Schanck, is helping to
keep the flag flying in England while her
Norman fights ’cross-Channel. A recent
photograph shows the young Australian
missus in corduroys, holding up a plough-
team in the midst of a tru]y-Britisli rural
landscape. She used to be spoken of as a
double of Mrs. Vernon Castle.
Dr. Ted Fyffe, who, with his wife set out
some weeks back on a trip to Java, went
beyond that island, and has been held up in
Singapore. The Dutch boat by which they
were travelling has been taken over. The
pair will steam back to Australia by the
First Chance.
Mrs. Embling and her horse-girls have
been busy on a hunt for band instruments.
Some of the returned Anzac musicians had
no instruments and borrowed a set from the
Sportsmen’s Thousand. When the Thou-
sand asked for their brasses back again the
Anzacs were left with nothing to blow. The
horse-girls in a very little while collected
£l5O, and Allan’s fitted the bandsmen out
completely, allowing the girls two years in
which to pay. With £l5O to start with they
feel quite confident.. The new drums and
brasses were used in public for the first time
on Anzac Day. The girls rode down Collins-
street, with the new band playing ahead, and
raided the Stock Exchange for £2O or £2O.
A young mascot, Eddie Stirling, rides with
them everywhere. The youngster—he’s
about eight—has collected £l5O for various
funds.
Mrs. Harry Charsle.v, once Laura Stead-
man, is visiting from Ceylon, where her hus-
band is a planter. Ceylon also shelters Mrs.
McDonald Soutar, who, long ago, was our
local beauty, Mrs. Maesmore Morris. She lives
now the quiet life of Mrs. Flanter with two
sturdy sons to keep her company. Rose
Musgrove Garrick adorns the green hills
near Kandy, and livens up the inhabitants
with private theatricals.
Mistress Adelaide’s memoranda:
A great recruiting conference of women is billed
for Sunday in the Exhibition Building. It is being
convened by the Mayor and has the support of prac-
tically every organisation, patriotic, political or edu-
cational, that has a sound feminine membership. The
Governor is to be in the chair and Lady Galway
will move the principal resolution —a message of
admiration and devotion to the men at the Front.
Dr. Cavanagli-Mainwaring, who has been on fur-
lough after active service that dates from the Land-
ing, has departed again for the battlefields.
Mr. Mitchell, our new Insolvency Commissioner,
has had news of the death of his son in action in
France.
The libel action which was the outcome of
unpleasant comments on the land purchases of the
Vaughan Government, and was instituted by Craw-
ford Vaughan and his brother-in-law Clarence Goode
and R. P. Blundell, has been abandoned. The
Vaughan party was tendered an unconditional apology
and costs.
Lieut. Dow, who has been recruiting, has had
word that both his sisters, nurses in Adelaide before
the war, have been awarded the Mons Star. Which
reminds me that a recent London Gazette gave par-
ticulars of the winning of the D.C.M. by the sons of
two well-known South Aus. parsons. One was Sgt.
Gifford; the other Sgt. Rayner, now lieutenant.
R. V. Melrose has been elected president of the
Royal Agricultural Society following upon the resig-
nation, owing to illness, of R. H. Crawford, who has
filled the position for six years.
Illness is becoming a more expensive luxury than
ever. From May 1 nurses’ fees are to jump from
£2 2s. to £3 3s. a week, plus fares to and from
the patient’s house.
The Port Adelaide Seamen’s Mission’s annual
meeting gave the Governor a chance of paying a
fine tribute to the “magnificent courage and stead-
fastness of seamen during the war,” and of appeal-
ing for more generous support for the organisations
that are working for them. You know, I suppose,
that his Ex.’s renewed offer to serve in any capa-
city himself has again been turned down by the
British Government.
This has been “Soldiers’ Fortnight” with a ven-
geance, and the public responded in a way that
should bring the men a good deal of the £50,000
they want for their club fund.
Doris Egerton Jones managed to reach the other
side of the Pacific a while ago; then, with the help
of Uncle Sam, she landed in the Old Dart, where,
so a recent cable tells, she changed her name to
Mrs. Reg Callaghan. The girl in the case is the
authoress of “Peter Piper” and some other fiction,
and the ’groom has been doing his bit behind an
18-pounder in France for the last year and a half.
He belongs to Windsor in X. S. Wales, and gives a
hand at the Permanent Trustee office in peace times.
Another Australian soldier to marry
abroad is Captain Littlejohn, of the Army
Med., a hefty son of the principal of Scotch
College. But/fe picked an Australian Mary—
the youngest of the William Andrews girls.
Another Andrews daughter is married to
Lieut.-Col. Edmund Drake-Brockman, of
Westralia, whose sister Deb is now 7 Mrs.
Hackett-Moulden. Dad Andrews is a stout
stick among Hawthorn's tall financial timber.
Carmen Delprat, whose gorgeous wedding
party was postponed from April 10, was
made Mrs. Teppema with the least possible
fuss last week.
Marion Campbell managed to get a pass
from ’Murka to the Fog, after all, and has
been duly married to her naval fianc£, Frank
Couldrey, who in pre-war days was a P. and
O. officer. Mrs. Campbell is letting her
Toorak home, Ottawa. The place has too
many rooms and memories for the sorrowful
widow after the loss of husband, daughter
and two khakied sons, all within a few
months. The youngest chick. Helen, is a
nursing trainee, and son John is leaving
Melbourne Grammar after a final sprint in
the public-schools race. Then with his pal
Ford Guthrie he will steam away to do his
bit with the Naval air service.
Dr. Marshall, of Scots’ Church, is now
grandpa to a little Britisher. News of grand-
daughter’s arrival in London came by cable
last week from dad, who is Lieut.-Col. Nor-
man Marshall, D. 5.0., M.C.
Dr. Balls-Headly, who passed out last week
at Vancouver, had been sheltering there for
many years with his second wife, who was
one-time nurse-in-chief at his private hospital
in this city. The late medico was famed for
the correctness of his bedside manner, his
immaculate tailorings, his artistic taste and
his handsome first wife.
Having conquered Brisbane, the Calfill-
Brooke Concert Co. is driving north and
getting a welcome everywhere. The show is
“represented” by a woman —Miss Madeline
Clark. She has just returned from the
“East,” where she went ahead for Freddie
Shipman.
When members of the Melbourne Literary
Club assembled outside The Playhouse for
their meeting on Wednesday night the
building was in darkness and no key forth-
coming. After waitimr half an hour they
marched round -to a room at the Fiinders-
street station, where Enid Derham held
forth, with an anxious look in her weather
eye, on Minor Poetry. Vance Palmer, brown
as the soldiering garb he wore, was there
with his wife. t
Artists Dora Wilson, May Roxburgh and
Ruth Sutherland are at this moment putting
the finishing touches on their picture show at
the Fine Art Galleries. They have been
painting hard all summer in the hills and
valleys, and the results are all .ready for
exhibition this week.
Specially lighted, hung with flags and
with probably a larger area of boiled shirt-
front on view than at any previous time in
its history, Melbourne King’s presented a
festive appearance on Saturday night, when
Guy B. Post arrived in “The Masquerader.”
U.S.A.-citizen Burnett was with Mrs. Eve-
lyn Muret McEvoy in the stalls, and other
starred-and-striped visitors were scattered
about the house. Bert Bailey, who had in-
terrupted a leap from Sydney to Adelaide to
be present, beamed from a box, and actress
Margaret Sutcliffe was in the circle. Mrs.
Kitty Jackson, just back from foreign parts,
and tenor Walter Kirby, who took his seat
after removing numerous wrappings from
the throat where he keeps the lost chord,
were also observed. The house was enthusi-
astic, and Guy B. had to make a few re-
marks at the finish. Leading lady Thais
Lawton displayed several striking gowns
and a masterful chin. Adele Ritchie —the
blonde who takes the part of the naughty
lady who employs morphia as an aid to love-
making—is Mrs. Post.
Bates Post has been married four times and
is happy. He says he is always happy. He
can even be happy w T hen the people in the
streets stare and gape at his walk-about
make-up. Though he is an actor-manager
and the whole box of theatrical tricks, he
admits he is still stage-struck. His experi-
ence in choosing wives shows up well in
Mrs. Bates Post. She is of the dainty ash-
blonde type—as natty, warm and friendly
as a well-bred Persian kitten.
The leading “Masquerader” lady spreads
some wonderful chiffons. One is flouncy,
white and transparent —it quivers all
through her tremolo speeches. She speaks
her lines in a suppressed soprano quaver
somewhere about high C. Her voice and
her thick black coil of hair were built for
tragedy—Fedora brand. She agrees to re-
tain the pseudo John Chilcote in the last
act in black velvet. Mrs. Bates Post, who
plays a lady-of-title at dinner parties, wears
gorgeous clothes on her small plump person.
A dinner dress of cloth-of-gold, with a giddy
sideshow of gold silk-stockinged leg, has a
Cleopatra sweep of green feather fan and a
shawl of green ninon to enliven it.
Fayette Perry has taken herself and her
American accent for a trip to Japan,
humor suspects a honeymoon-trip.
Actor Guy Bates Post, who has been going
through a round of receptions, carefully
stage-managed, met his first Australian in
Canada. He was, he says, walking in the
street when two gloved hands applauded him
from a taxi. The driver was ordered to stop,
and the owner of the gloves beckoned to Post
and congratulated him on his perfoxmance,
which she had seen the night before. The
lady, whom the actor had not previously met,
was Melba.
Some people are born lucky. Theatrical-
manager Johnnie Fuller was driving his wife
and a party of friends back to Melbourne
from The Lakes in a big touring car when a
mob of horses on the road misbehaved and
John emptied his party, car and all, into a
culvert. Not a scratch or injury to anyone or
the ear l More horses and ropes got the
vehicle back on to the highway, and the
party sailed home.
“The Willow Tree” brought a sprinkling
of last season’s frocks and crush hats to the
Royal on Saturday. Grace Palotta, who
keeps the secret of perpetual infancy for her
smile and discourse, seemed a sombre note of
complaint against an iridescent blonde in
the lower box. On .the next floor were Mrs.
Wenman, ma and a damsel who would pro-
bably be identified as Maggie Oickinson
when she emerged from her coat. Kathlene
Macdonell was in a rich orange kimono with
the national obi bisecting its glare. She also
wore a creepy green thing which made one
think of lizards.
Guy Post is just glorious. One rigout in
which he has been dazing the multitude
lately can be seen and heard at Healesville.
Its apex is a tweed hat which seems to have
been sat on by an alderman. Below are coat
and pants copied from a trellis, and these
supported by an exuberant waistcoat, deli-
cate spats and a monocle make it unneces-
sarv to send out a band.
Different soldier-boys have different esti-
mates of the glory attaching to the Military
Medal. One of Hal Gye’s surviving brothers
in the war had a horse shot under him,
and pr. sumably did rather more than a
fair-sized bit. Writing to brother Hal
about his strange adventures the damaged
warrior said: “By the way. I’ve been
awarded the Military Medal, but I didn’t
tell them at home. You needn’t mention
it.” Apparently he didn’t want to alarm
anybody by suggesting that he had been
seeking the bubble reputation even at the
cannon’s mouth.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—still going strong
a
Ya
w
1
1
ISi
ffl
m
BK
«4
; ; ;v :
iS
.
?
t£o
*o©
Friend in Blue: “A faithful friend is the medicine of life.”
Johnnie Walker: “ Because ‘the medicine of life’ is sold only in
* square ’ bottles.”
Johnnie Walker “ Red Label ” Whisky is now put up only in new and greatly improved Patent Bottles
which are easy to pour. These Bottles are commercially non-refillable. v
It is not claimed that they&are scientifically non-refillable any more than a Burglar-proof Safe is claimed to
be absolutely burglar-proof.
But both Non-refillable Bottles and Burglar-proof Safes give ample protection to their valued contents.
'GUARANTEED SAME QUALITY THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland


FOR COUGHS 8 COLDS Use
The Famous Money-saving Remedy,
HEENZO
(Registered
Name for
Hean’s
Essence).
Sir Ernest Shackleton says i —
“A parcel of HEENZO (MEAN’S ESSENCE)
went south on the ship Aurora on my recent
Antarctic Expedition,, and was used by mem-
bers of the Boss Sea party. The remedy
proved of value under the exceedingly severe
conditions experienced in the Boss Sea.”
Each Bottle of HEENZO (Hean’s
Essence) makes a pint of the finest-
quality Cough Mixture. A pint of
ordinary remedies would cost at
least 12/-. HEENZO costs only
2/-, and money cannot buy a better
medicine.
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS AND
STORES.
I
SIR ERNEST SHACKLETON, K.C.M.G.
V
A Mb audita * —-
ABSOLUTELY Ur
King
GcorgelYT
WHISKY
HieTOPNOICH'Seotch
ABORIGINALITIES
Bad Australian”: The boys who did the
packing in the roaring days on the West Coast
(Tas.) were hard to beat when they hitched their
long-sleeved boots up to their waistbelts,- shed their
“blueys,” and with 801 b. or 901 b. up started on the
weary splodge through the awful quagmire misnamed
“the corduroy” to Zeehan, or the long crawl through
the “horizontal” to Dundas, Mt. Reid and the other
mountain camps. But good as they were they
wouldn't hare a look-in with the cargadores who
carry the mails and a hundred and one odds and
ends over the Andes when the passes are closed in
winter. These cargadores are generally half-breed
Auraucanian Indians, well under average height, but
built on the same lines as a wombat and just about
as hard to kill. They' take to the transport business
as soon as- they are able to work, and never do
anything else in winter, except a little robbery with
violence. They earn about three or four times as
much as ordinary peones, with a square feed and a
litre of rotten wine every three or four hours. Their
work is always at an altitude of from 9000 ft. to
13,000 ft. < above sea-level, over snow that is rarely
hard enough to carry them, and the passes are so
broken up with rock slides and moraines that ski
or snow-shoes can only be used when travelling light.
In order to make the going as easy as possible they
move in Indian file, taking it in turn to break trail,
and they leave a track like a camel pad. Their
foot-covering is peculiar to the Higher Cordillera
and consists of about three or four “Prince Alberts”
encased in a big rough moccasin of cowhide, with
the hairy side out to prevent slipping. Travelling
on these la mangos the new-chum feels as if .he
were walking on a pair of badly-inflated football's—
all right in soft snow, but a soul-harrowing piece of
gymnastics on anything solid. The usual load is
40 kilos (about 901 b.), which is carried West Coast
fashion, with the addition of a strap reeved through
the shoulder-straps and buckled up fairly tight
across the chest. The carriers average about two
miles au hour and do 14 or 15 miles a day, rising
about 3000 ft. or 4000 ft. in that distance. Although
40 kilos is their regular load they frequently carry
more, and I have seen a quarter of beef weighing
0 - l kilos (1301 b.) carried ,12 .miles in one day, the
eargadpr starting at 8500 ft. above sea-level and
quitting at 10,000 ft. But the snow was fairly hard,
and the cargador, in addition to his wine allowance,
got away with four stiff nips of pisco on the
journey. His cargo of calamity-pop alone was
enough to kill a plainsman at that altitude.
* * * *
“Leo Lear” : Let me explain to “Douglas
I. (B. 14/3/’18), who calls for sudden death to
cormorants as fish-eating pests, that the birds do far
more good than harm. For example, they feed their
young on yabbies, which consume more fish eggs in
a day than cormorants eat fish in a week-. Besides,
yabbies are pests in irrigation banks, perforating
them and starting breaks. -Some Abo. lately wanted
Nankeen herons slaughtered as fish,murderers, but
they, too, more than balance accounts as yabbie
catchers. Again, all sorts and conditions of hawks
are blazed at if they appear near a poultry-yard; yet
for every egg and chick a goshawk or falcon (the
only real stealers of the family) gets, a dozen times
the value is slain in mice. Several of the honey-
eaters are addicted to eating fruit, yet kill them off,
as some advocate, and the fruit-eating insects they
destroy would strip half the orchards in the land
before Hughes christens his first locally-built ship.
The white-eye, another fruit-eater, is the best aphis-
destroyer extant, so it will pay anyone to stop before
pulling a trigger on the next one. I admit some of
GETTING BEYOND THEMSELVES.
BILL THE BOLSHEVIK: “ Strike? Certainly! Wot else can yer do so long as yer ’ave a
Government as wants to RUN the- country?"
our birds are at times a pest to the bloke on the
land, but do away with them and we’ll be relieved
of the mortgage by an egg-sucking bug or something.
(N.B. —I exempt the crow from any mercy ; he’s a
German.)
AS OPPORTUNITY OFFERED.
“I believe Boggs had a few words with his wife this morning?”
“Yes, few and far between, as usual.”
“Sid”: Any Abo.-cove ever stand on the
edge of a patch of sugar-cane with a dog hunting
piU,ymelons inside? P “ Melon rushes forth and lays
° Ut a l 0 ° f Scent on the clear g rbund and tben
<■«<*« -to cover again by a different route. Ten
Sec ? ondB lat ? r the doghou n d ia g oi "g round’that circle
as though he was trying to catnh his tail, and
P r 9 goes back along the same track as he came
out. Brer Rabbit knows a trick worth two of this,
tbough - Bl,llno comes straight fcack towards the
dog on his own scent and just squats. Old Dog
Tray goes clean oVer the top of him and shortly
comes to a sudden stop, sniffing at nothing, and puts
in 15 seconds’ meditation, which gives the elusive
one time to make himself very scarce. I’ve never
known any dog to pick a rabbit up while it has
squatted like that.
“Silas Snell” : We reached the Ace in time
for lunch, and wasted half an hour outside Ward’s
Hotel in momentary expectation, believing' Mclntosh
and Ladd were about to kill each other. They were
disputing heatedly- over the ownership of a goat.
Their malignity was something frightful. They
called each other everything five times over, and
many times seemed right on the point of man-
slaughter. Disgusted at length, and made sick with
hope deferred, we went in to our meal.- Having spent
half an hour over lunch, we returned to the open,
where Ladd and Mclntosh were still exchanging
recriminations, and still almost bi*ing each other in
their anger. We waited another 20 minutes, hoping
against hope, and then walked out to the Horseshoe
Fall, We reached Ward’s Hotel again at half after
five in the evening. Our progress in the last half-
mile was greatly accelerated by the dust and skurry
of a great battle in front of the pub. Elbowing
through the crowd, we found Mrs. Ladd and Mrs.
Mclntosh fighting like maddened Amazons. Mclntosh
and Ladd were still talking. Ladd was saying:
‘‘What’id I tell yeh! What’id I tell yeh! I knew
you’d go too fur.”
* * * *
“Country Ped”: In a few years’ time it
will be worth travelling along the Victorian railway
lines. The Commissioners, some years since, appointed
a gardener to superintend improvements (I hope not
out of loans) to various unsightly embankments and
cuttings in the suburban area—and it has been well
done. Now the expert is making the country lines
picturesque. So far, native trees have been planted
along the Sydney and Adelaide lines (Victorian sec-
tions) . From Essendon to Seymour is the best show-
ing at present, with its rows of sugar gums, flowering
gums, various wattles, etc. What it will be like
some day in the Spring to whiz through miles of
gold and scarlet beats imagination.
* * * *
“Spragge”: Re “E.S.S/s” remarks about
the lead-boring beetle (B. 14/2/’18). Am in
the game, and have had a few of these line troubles
to contend with, and if these holes are bored by a
beetle from outside the cable would , “E.S.S.” kindly
explain how it is that in every case that has come
under my notice the paper insulation round the hole,
and in one case three inches each side of the hole,
had been blackened b,v smoke, while lead splinters
were distributed through the cable? The holes in
the sheath of the cable were the size of those made
by the wood-borer, but I would sooner say that
lightning was the cause of the trouble.
* * * *
“Gordartk”: The Salv’army roars some
strange Hallelujah choruses sometimes, and I’ve even
heard “Oh, Jesus is Square Dinkum” to a modern
tune. But the other day in Miles (W.Q.) an old
lubra jolted them all when she hopped into the happy
circle and squeaked in a tearful voice, “Thank Gawd
I’m saved, but someope’s stole my plurry pup!”
(Continued on gage 24.)
HOW HERMAN WON THE CROSS.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Once in a blue eternity they gave us dabs of rum
To close seams ’if keep the flume in liquor-
tight, condition ;
But, soft ’n’ sentimental, when the long, cold evenin's
come,
I’d dream me nibs was drinkin’ to the height of
his ambition,
With rights of suction over all the breweries there are,
Where barrels squat, like Brahma gods, in Mother
Hardy’s bar.
1 had me fit of longin’ on the night the Germans
came.
All breathin’ like a gas attack. The air was
halcoholic. ,
Me smelt ’em in the darkness, ’n’ our rage went up
i n flame.
It was envy, squealin’ Envy, put the ginger in the
frolic.
We shot ’em full of spelter, then went over it to spite
The swines what drunk the liquor that was ours by
common right.
'‘lf this ain’t stopped, ’n’ quick,” sez we, “there
won’t be left a drop
To celebrate the vict’ry when we capture their
position.”
I’m prowlin’ blind, when sharp there comes a fond,
familiar plop—
Swung round a post, a German in. a pitiful condition
Looms over me. lie’s sprung a cork, and shakes a
flask on high,
’N’ sings of beer that touchin* it would make a
butcher cry.
Sez he: “Berloffed kamarid, you haf some drinks mit
you.”
I’d meant to spike him where ho waved, but altered
me intention.
’N’ “If you puts it thus,” sez I, “I don’t care if I
do.”
We has a drink together. There’s a tempor’y sus-
pension
Of hostilities to sample contraband V other stuff
In the enemy’s possession. Which I think he’s had
enough.
That Hun had thirty pockets, ’n’ he’d stowed a flask
in each,
’N’ presently I’m thinkin’ I could love him like a
brother.
He’s talkin’ fond ’n’ friendly in outlandish parts of
speech. *
“You’re prisoner of war,” I sez; ’n’ then we has
anothW.
Ten flasks he pours into his hat, V fills it to the
brim,
’N’ weeps ’n’ sez his frau she will be waitin’ up for
him.
We drink each other’s health, ’n’ know no henmity
nor fear.
I see I’ve got to pinch him, but he’s out to do
his div. in,
’N’ don’t care if he don’t go home till daylight doth
appear.
Sez he: “I pud you home to bed upside dot ’ouse
you live in.”
He shakes his finger in me eye: “Mein friendt, you’re
preddy trunk!”
Then arm in arm through No Man’s Land we does a
social bunk.
There’s Hell afoot. Comes more than once the glug
of sudden death.
We’re rockin’ fine ’n’ careless where the rifle fire
is breakin’,
’N’ singin’ most uproar’ous, in the bomb’s disgustin’
breath,
Of girls, ’n’ drink, ’n’ cheerful sprees, ’n’ ’Erman
thinks lie’s takin’
A cobber home to somewhere in a subbub damp ’n’
dim,
Whereas I know fer certain it is me is takin’ him.
Somehow, sometime, I lands him where he’s safely
put to bed.
I wake nex’ day, ’n’ holy smoke! I’m prisoner with
the German.
Me mouth is like an ashpan, there’s hot fish-bolts in
me head,
’N’ through the barb-wire peerin’ is me foreign
cobber ’Erman.
Ve capdure each lasd nighd,” sez he, “you home haf
bring me, boss.”
For gallant conduct , selp me cat, he got the Iron
Cross !
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


Mix/]
SOLDIERS’
HOfIESPUNS
Handloomed at the Red Cross
Weaving Depot.
Australian Homespuns— hand-loomed
from all-wool yarn by our Aus-
tralian Returned Soldiers: —are ob-
tainable only at Farmer’s, either by
the yard length (58 to GO inches
wide), or tailored into
Men’s Sac Suits and Overcoats,
Boys’ Suits,
Ladies’ Coats and Skirts.
This skilfully-woven material has all
the character and wear-resisting
qualities of the true Homespun, in
many shades of Winter weights to
choose from.
Extend practical support to our
Returned Soldiers and the Red
Cross Industries, and foster an im-
portant industry—the best utilisation
Of Australian Wool.
Interesting Display on view,
in the Tailoring Department ,
First Floor , Market Street.
kgh
f
♦
Embodies Clothes of Character
and Daily Service.
BY bringing the precision of scientific tailoring
into every operation, a Farmer Suit yields
the utmost in fit, looks and wear —plus com-
fort and continued satisfaction.
If fitting-qualities, appearance and enduring shape-
liness are considerations with you, insist upon
clothes of all wool. The following range of exclu-
sive materials are unequalled as regards strength
and wearing qualities.
AUSTRALIAN HOMESPUN SUITINGS, hand-
woven by Returned Soldiers, in serviceable color-
ings and winter weights.
Sac Suit to order £7/15/-
BUUE SERGE SUITINGS.—A splendid range of
different qualities, representing the best serges of
British Manufacture. In numerous shades of
Blue (dye guaranteed), coarse or fine twills, and
also with rough surfaces.
Sac Suits to order £6/6/- to £B/8/-
WORSTED SUITINGS.—PopuIar small, neat
patterns, light and medium weights.
Sac Suits to order £5/5/- to £7/7/-
HXGH-CLASS SUlTlNGS.—Consisting of
materials made from the finest selected wools. A
large range of carefully selected fabrics, showing
ONLY ONE SUIT-LENGTH TO EACH PAT-
TERN. Colorings principally Greys, also Fawns,
Browns and Dark Mixtures, and Indigo Blue.
Materials include Worsteds, Flannels, Tropical
Suitings, Scotch and Irish Tweeds.
Sac Suits to order £7/7/- to £9/9/-
Patterns on request to
Tailoring Department,
First Floor Market Street.
farmer*
Og'T l " l ' 111 11 111
Maße Your Own Furniture
m
We send you the Pieces In
UAt
m
i m
.
V
22
BELL AND FBAZEK.-Co P yn<».
I
iEi 'icp
ll# M
is Pleasant Work Fitting them Together.
kgh
about two-tbirds of
tbe freight as well
as expensive packing,
And you Win the Satisfaction
that you made it yourself.
We supply working plans and full particulars
for the making of
Artistic Furniture in Pine, Haple or Oak.
Quote Distinguishing Letter of Article when Sending Order.
4
1 g 3
The Redi-Kut Timber Specialists,
H
R A. 2*
r%
A.
ML
L
'9
ROSELLE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladicr. recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, South am i ' m. — Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office —
14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH-
-860-'? COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
“Ibis”: “E.S.S.” mentions (B. 4/4/’18)
the new Ma State town of Griffith, with its appro-
priate street names —a town, he might have added,
without a single building on it to date! On the
other hand, Hanwood, a settled village three miles
off, has numerous well-formed streets, and nary a
name among the lot. This is in the Mirrool subdivi-
sion of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area, so named
after Mirrool Creek, the only, (natural) watercourse
within 47 cooees. But the very name of Mirrool was
long ago snared on behalf of a little railway town
near Ariah Park. Behold, then, this geographical
insanity: Mirrool and West Mirrool public schools are
60 miles apart as the crow flies, and East Mirrool is
50 miles ivest of Mirrool.
* * * .>*
“Wart”: In 1843 Philip Oakden. of Laun-
ceston (Tas.), who started the Bank of Australasia,
imported a blackberry in a pot from England, lie
gave six little cuttings to an old gardener of his
named Broadway, who had taken up ground on the
Forth River, North West Coast. Broadway halved
his share with Fenton, the Tasmanian historian and
the first man to settle in that part of Tasmania.
Two or three years afterwards the plants astonished
the natives. The birds had seen to distribution, and
they were everywhere or thereabouts. This year
Jones’s jam-factory cheques for sproutings about
£lO,OOO have gone to the district, most of the
money earned by women and children. As much as
£5O has been earned by one family.
“Ernest Osborne”: “Malaria’s” (B.
14/3/’18) pertinent question re use of quinine is one
difficult to answer even by men with more than a
nodding acquaintance with fever. In Santos, Brazil,
I* have seen scores die, nightly, of yellow fever and
malaria; and once, of a ward full of yellow fever
patients, I was the only man to walk out. My
recovery, I was informed, was due to my abstinence
from intoxicants. In other deadly countries I have
been told by experienced men that it is injudicious
not to take stimulants in moderation. At Rio de
Janiero I never suffered, nor in tropical American
river deltas, black and awful with mire, looking as
might Styx itself, and full of fever cases. In India,
up rivers, through jungle and low country, when
jungle fever was active, I passed and escaped again.
And I never took quinine. Then, under the'Equator,
in the Indian Ocean, nearly a month oUt from the
Irrawaddy, fever broke out. Some had it severely ; I
had it lightly. Since then I have had fever in
the Central Pacific and all but died-r Less than
two years ago I had malaria severely in the N.W.
Pacific, yet, making a 200-mile dash for assistance,
the fever had left me with a normal temperature
before the journey’s end. And I don’t suffer any after-
effects, i.e., the fevers have never recurred. Yet I meet
Island-men in Australia, away from the Islands for
years, quite sick with fever. I have seen swamps abso-
lutely packed with mosquito wrigglers, including the
anophele, yet remarkably few mosquitoes were seen
in the clearings. The developed insect undoubtedly
leaves the clearings for the jungle. Many more
than in the open are seen and felt in the houses and
about the labor lines, and therein lies the gravest
danger to the white. Escape malaria on even a
moderately-healthy plantation he never can —I am
speaking of countries such as most of New Guinea,
Nevv Britain, New Ireland and adjacent islands.
The laborers, recruited from widely-separated locali-
A POINT IN ITS FAVOR.
BILLJIM (from North Queensland) : “ Blimey,
it’s a good job there’s no alligators in
these parts. This caper wouldn't be too
safe back at home.”
ties, but always from the river deltas and coastal
lowlands, are full of fever, are often sick, and many
die. From these active Carriers of the anophele
parasite infection is conveyed by mosquitoes of any
kind, gnats, sandflies, and, I think, lice, fleas and
bugs, to healthy persons. The antidote, quinine, is
most effective in liquid form, in combination with
hydrochloric acid, generally in five-grain doses as a
preventive, and 10-grains for curative purposes. Sal-
varsan has been experimented with, and, while not
claimed to prevent malaria, it is said to have
ensured a rapid recover in some cases.
#
EXPERT OPINION.
BARNSTORM ( enraged ): “Madam, your bill is preposterous. Do you think I have lived
fifteen years in boarding-houses for nothing ?”
MRS. BOARDING-HOUSE: “Indeed,.sir, from what I’ve seen of you I should think it highly
probable.”
“Hellish Reef”: Tell “Suwarrow” from
me that porpoises travel any old way in a calm, and
when a wind arises they travel any old way also.
When they travel against the wind it is because they
happen to be going that way, and jf they travel
otherwise that happens also. The porpoise is a
happensome and unconcerned animal, and the idea
that he steers on fixed principles is out of date. Only
ancient mariners and deck-hands on ferry-boats hang
on to the old belief. <
“Balliang” : How’s this for luck? As M.
Domascheny was driving home at Rainbow (Vic.), in
the dim hours of the morning, a magpie, startled by
the glare of the buggy lamps, dashed into his face.
Its bill pierced the eyeball and the sight is lost.
* * * *
“Umfaan”: An extraordinary case came
under my notice in France. An Australian mare
which had been with our forces since we left Aus-
tralia —a light draught—was put to an Arab stallion
before we left Egypt. In the military it is quite
simple to keep tab on mares. Nevertheless this mare
produced a foal which had (and still has) many of
the characteristics of a mule—the lengthened ears,
flat shoulders, and, when he got older, an unmistak-
able imitation of a bray. Our veterinary experts,
including the veterinary officer, diagnosed the case as
telegony from some gentleman-donk in Australia.
The foal was undoubtedly not a mule.
* tt * *
“The Lizard”: I don’t agree with “Eloc,”
who advised turps for a dog phosphorus-poisoned.
I d rather recommend an emetic of ashes and water,
and then give Condy’s Fluid sufficient to make a
dark pink mixture, followed by egg and milk or
gruel. For strychnine bait, arsenic, cyanide of
potassium and prussic acid, give an emetic —table-
spoonful of mustard or handful of ashes in half-
pint of water, or salt and water, followed by castor-
oil or a couple of packets of Epsom salts. In cases
of prussic-acid poisoning, which is the most deadly
for Fido, after an emetic has been given and the
hound has lost consciousness, artificial respiration
will go a long way to help bringing him back to
life. In all cases keep the patient warm.
“Byjoe”: “6262” (B. 14/3/’18) suggests
that by taking advantage of the earth’s magnetic
field one can put a fine edge on a blunt razor. This
result may be obtained by an analogous but less
cumbrous method: Leave the razor in its box, then
rest the case on its narrow face and place a bar
magnet in a line with it, so that the north pole of
the magnet is about an inch from one end of the
box. The bar will rearrange the molecules in the
steel blade so that they extend all in one direction,
even more effectively than will the terrestrial field.
The blade will acquire an edge as keen as Billy
Hughes’s appetite in the tart-shop.
“FY7”: “Diomed” Hi. 4/4/;I8) is right
this far: the young kangaroo grows on the mother’s
teat; but it is not born there. The birth processes
of the kangaroo have been observed many times in
captivity, and amount to this beyond all possible
dispute: the youngster is born in the ordinary way
and is placed by the mother on the teat in the
pouch. Since, however, the baby, like all
the non-placental mammals, comes to life in a very
undeveloped condition, it has to complete its develop-
ment attached to the mother's body by the teat
instead of to a placental cord, as in the case of the
higher mammals. If Joey's capacity to hang on
was left to himself he would soon perish, so Nature
makes all safe. The entrance to the mouth at birth
is merely a circular orifice, opening into an inner
cavity. The point of the teat is inserted by the
mother, often after some trouble, and, once enclosed,
the fine point of the teat swells up, filling the new
arrival’s mouth and fastening him as firmly to
mamma as if he were riveted on. Since Joey is too
young even to suck, his mother is provided with a
special set of muscles with which to inject nourish-
ment into her offspring. When the right stage has
arrived, the young ’un’s mouth opens to its normal
shape and size and he drops from his anchorage.
Henceforward he must pick for himself.
* * * *
“Melos”: Tell “Azack” (B. 14/3/T8) that
the music of a tin-can band, the report of a gun or
any other startling noise invariably causes a colony
of absconding bees to cohie earthward and swarm
again. I have seen them stopped by these means
almost immediately after leaving the hive. I would
like to know how entomologists have determined that
the bee has no, sense of hearing. The absence of
well-defined auditory organs? This does not prove
much. Personally, I think that the insect has an
uncommonly keen apparatus for sensing vibrations.
Bushmen, when locating a sugarbag in a tree, give
a few raps on the trunk, and immediately some of
the more inquisitive honey-makers rush out to learn
the cause of the disturbance. Again, the bee working
in the field packs up and makes for home when
thunder happens.
**. * *
“Wandi”: Talking of bird names, the
bobala has probably more aliases than any other
Australian bird, being variously known as friar bird,
monk, pimlico, four o’clock, poor soldier and
leatherhead. Bobala' is Binghi’s name for him. He
is a jolly scamp, a feathered comic acrobat, with a
roguish naked black head and a prominent knob on
the top of his long bill. Now and again, between his.
clarion calls, he utters a low chuckle, as though well
pleased with himself and the world. He is also a
pugnacious character, and being rather aggravating
about the end of the year fruit-growers generally
call him a blanky something. Which is one more
name. He lives principally on insects, berries and
the pollen of the eucalypts.
“D.F.”: Victoria’s first crop was put in
on Churchill Island, Westernport. When Lieutenant
Grant visited Westernport at the end of March, 1801,
he had a patch cleared on the island. As he had
neither hoe nor spade he made shift to have the
ground turned over with a coal-shovel and sowed
wheat, iriai7.e, peas, some grains of rice and coffee-
berries, with onions and potatoes and the stones and
pips of various fruit-trees. When Murray put
into Westernport in December, 1801, on the voyage
in the . course of which he discovered Port Phillip,
he found the wheat a fathom high and ripe. He
had it reaped and got about a bushel out of it, to
be used to feed some young swans that he had on
board. He also found some potatoes arid onions, as
well as maize. He left no news about the rice and
the coffee-berries.
AT THE STADIUM.
SWIPER (to swiped): " Ooch! A great big
hefty blanker like yous -ooch! —orter
be at the tear, you ought!”
“Skeeter”: “J. Pannikin” loved a kiddy
to think. One clay he walked into a small bush
school and started off in his unconventional way:
“I’m the inspector. I know everything, don’t I?”
The kiddies bleated dutifully, “Yes, sir!” But
one youngster hesitated, and, Pannikin’s eye, catch-
ing his hesitation, lit on that one. “Well, what do
you think ?” he asked. The kiddy stammered,
“You don't know everything, sir.” Donald was
delighted. “Now, what is it I don’t know?” “You
dunno how many sheep my father’s got,” said the
kid in triumph. That was the introduction; and
soon they were all at it like a happy family.
THE SOUL OF A COW.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
I was walking in the country near the town of
Seeyersoon,
And the lady who was with me was a thin and
dreamy type;
She was yearning, she was burning, when —“Oh, lool:
at the balloon!”
Broke the thread of our sweet converse, which was
sentimental tripe.
With a single rosy finger pointing at cerulean space,
She directed my attention to a soaring globe. 1
sighed,
For it showed me that a milker, in some silent, leafy
place,
Had lain down and kicked the bucket, or, to be
exact, had died.
“Is that Captain Penfold swinging on a bar there
underneath ?
Some big fGte is being held here, and I wish you d
take me, dear!”
Yes, her white chin was delicious and" I loved her
firm white teeth
As she gazed up at that cow’s soul o’er the tree-
tops floating clear.
“It is no balloon,” I muttered; “it’s a cow's soul
full of air.
There’ll be bitter strife and grieving if it's torn
by boughs or roots,
For my old .Encyclopaedia tells me nothing can com-
pare
With a cow's soul for repairing simple country
people’s boots.”
She was kind and so poetic, she would rather read
than eat;
But she flew across the paddocks till she caught
that floating soul,
And she pricked it with a hatpin and she pressed it
with her feet
Till it lay all flat and empty. “This will make a
lovely stole!
Then I think, with beads and ninon, and two yards
of grey Georgette,
I could make a frock for dinner. Yes, I’m sure it
would look fine!”
And all happened as she planned it. She is wearing
that frock yet,
And her cow-soul costume knocks ’em when in
restaurants. we dine.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


HIGH-CLASS CIGARETTES
At>s° Vut<?T 9 oo (<}
l gualittes r w
pm
STATf
z+r>
t?2S
AT MODERATE PRICES.
STfiTE^PRESS
CIGARETTES
The Quality of State Express Cig'arettes
is exactly the same as before the war,
and none of tbe substitutes now so
.'■!. ■' > ■
frequently employed in inferior
brands are used in tbeir manufacture.
NEW RETAIL PRICES.
State Express No. 333 6d. per Packet.
Sold by all High-class Tobacconists throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers: Ardath TobaCCO
. '
Co. Ltd., London, England,


They Go Together: BEAUTY & REXONA
ARE YOU A REXONA GIRL?
|l| ||i|®
r ;
mmmmm
mn
m
■■wmmm
msm
...
Mrs. LORN A WENDEN (from a photo, by Monte Luke)
Girls, Beautify Your Hair
with Rexona Soap.
Do you know that In less than ten minutes you
can double the beauty of your hair? It becomes
light, wavy, fluffy, abundant, and appears as soft,
lustrous and charming as anyone could desire, after
a simple wash with Rexona Soap. A delightful sur-
prise awaits those whose hair has been neglected, or
is scraggy, dry, brittle or thin. Rexona Soap
cleanses the hair of all dust, dirt or excess oil, and
in a few moments you have doubled the beauty of
your hair. Rexona Soap dissolves every particle of
dandruff, cleanses, purifies and invigorates the
scalp, for ever stopping itching and falling hair. If
you care to have pretty hair and lots of it, get a
tablet of Rexona Soap to-day. 1/- tablet.
TWO
TRUE REXONA GIRLS .
Read the following let-
ter, which was written
to us in praise of Rexona
Soap by a well-known
and charming Mosman
resident: —
Dear Sir, —
After using Rexona
Soap I find no other
suits me and gives me
such wonderful results.
It is marvellous
soap, and makes the
hair so soft and silky,
and it is so refreshing.
For dandruff and
shampoo it is excel-
lent, and I want to
recommend it to all
my friends.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.)
LORNA WENDEjV,
“Swastika,”
Spencer Road,
Mosman.
No actress, has ever had
the Australian record pos-
sessed by Miss Daisy
Jerome. For the three and
a half years she was in Aus-
tralia she never received less
than £lOO a week. No other
actress can boast of having,
like Miss Jerome, appeared
in Sydney again and again
—always proving a terrific
draw, and in that way fully
justifying the huge salary
received by her.
Miss Jerome, who keeps
her glorious hair in condition
with Rexona Soap, joins our
galaxy of Rexona girls, with
these words: —
Dear Sir, —
My audiences all know
the lines, “My hair may
be funny, but it is getting
me the money,” and I
hope Rexona Soap gets
you the money, for it is
Rexona Soap for mine all
the time. It keeps my hair
silky and fluffy, as you see
it. I receive presents of
Soap in every city, but I
buy Rexona Soap. Surely
this speaks for itself.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) DAISY JEROME.
SKVN 6< FACIAL
Miss DAISY JEROME (from a photo.).
Rexona is the Rapid Healer.
Rexona Soap is the Aristocrat
of Soaps.
The Rexona Remedies consist of Rexona the
Rapid Healer and Rexona Skin and Facial Soap,
both universal favorites. The wonderful healing
powers of Rexona have made it a password in nearly
every home in Australia.
For Cuts, Burns, Scalds or Skin Diseases and
Eruptions of any kind, Rexona is unequalled, being
cooling and soothing. Try a 1/6 pot for yourself;
soon you will be glad to know that Rexona is put
up in larger-sized triangular pots, holding nearly
four times the quantity, at 3/-
Rexona Soap is the best preservative for the skin
and hair that is obtainable, and leaves the hair
soft, fluffy and luxuriant. Shampoo your hair with
Rexona Soap, and you will be delighted with the
result.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Rewolf”: The Tas. Railway Department
motor on the Strahan-Zeehan line takes
beating. It is about the size of a packing-
case, and is supposed to carry passengers
and mails to connect through to Lyell. When
not undergoing repairs it starts early in the
morning for Strahan, and sometimes (how
no one knows) it completes the trip and
there are great rejoicings. Usually it jibs,
and then all hands push it to some obscure
siding and a special train is sent to bring it
home. After three years of'this sort of thing
wise passengers wear good, strong boots, and
take a blanket and two days’ rations. But
they still have to pay full first-class fare for
pushing. The jibbing is so regular that
once the vehicle didn’t do a single trip with-
out a breakdown for six weeks. The Coast
has now asked the Railway Department to
give the well-founded accusation to the
Museum and put on a perambulator.
* * * *
“W.H.E.”: When you happen to bump
Webster’s infallible department don’t rush
the ’phone officials. In fact, it’s good policy
to pocket your troubles. Webster claims to
be helping to win the war, and this is one
of the ingenious methodL For three weeks
in January my family rusticated by the sea-
side and left the suburban mansion in charge
of an old pian who is quite incapable of
using Webster’s nerve-wrecking contraption.
But the telephone office swears that I owe
for 12 calls during my absence and insists
on charging 6d. for supplying the informa-
tion. As there is no appeal against Augustus
Post-office Caesar I agree with the bill lest a
worse thing should befall me.
“E.S.S.”: The Queensland Pine Co., which
hangs out its shingle at Yarraman, is get-
ting busy to make use of some of the good
material which this prodigal country has
been making bonfires of longer than the old-
est inhabitant can remember. Its works are
in a good timber-getting district, and its
object is to utilise the tree-tops and other
discarded stuff in the manufacture of paper.
By the way, why is it that corn husks, thou-
sands of tons of which are burnt every year
on farms, are not used for the same purpose?
Then there is the bark of the tea-tree, which
can be stripped off in sheets without injuring
the body. It is very light, resembling cork
in appearance and is known as paper bark
and cork bark.
* * * *
“Unemployed Electrician”: The Sydney
City Council can’t supply any more power
because the existing plant is working at a
gallop, and the extra plant it has ordered
isn’t available. Installations that would be
providing me with work if power were to
be had are hung up and new industries can’t
gel a start. But tons of the stuff that thun-
der is made from —tons of thunder that
might be working machinery—are squirted
through the mains every night to illuminate
the sky-sign that advertises Bagger's Blaz-
ing Trousers or Yankdrivel’s Unparalleled
Picture Hovel.
* » * *
“Plumber”: Here's an instance of
“national efficiency” that even Hughes can
hardly beat. A liingwood (Vic.) man is
building a villa, the bricks for which come
from Northcote, 22 miles away. Price, be-
fore the war, 425.; to-day 575. (Id., plus
cartage. There is a brickyard at liingwood,
another at Tunstall (three miles), another
at Blackburn (four miles), but all have
been closed ever since Bent failed to smash
the combine. There are also two live brick-
yards much nearer to liingwood than North-
cote, but they don’t “belong,” and the
builder simply didn’t dare to get his bricks
from them. He’d have had trouble about his
timber and tiles if he had.
* * * *
“C.R.N.”: May I introduce another casual
Australian? .Scene: Local Land Board sit-
ting at (lunnedah (N.S.W.). The witness
leases a T.S.R. and is giving evidence oppos-
ing its resumption and alienation before an
interested audience of cockles.
Witness: The alienation of this land (about 1800
acres) would be a very serious matter for me. The
loss of the use of it might cause me very serious
injury.
Cross-examining attorney for small holders: INow,
Mi-. Broadaeres, about how much freehold land do
you already possess?
Witness: Well, really, I couldn’t give the area
offhand.
Attorney: But just a very rough approximation;
give us an estimate of your holdings, say, within
50,000 acres of the total.
Witness: Speaking offhand, I really couldn’t even
guess within 50,000 acres of my total area.
Groan of envy from the attorney; several
cockies removed in a fainting condition;
consternation amongst members of Board.
Curtain.
“Fax”: There’s a Sericulture Association,
“founded to establish the raw silk industry
in Victoria,” and by this time it ought to
be aware of its 'own utter futility. Among
kids who keep silkworms—and every kid
keeps silkworms, or wants to —there is a
fond delusion that the product is worth a
guinea an ounce, which delusion appears to
have remained with such as grew up to be
members of the V.S.A. Recently a Lilydale
lady and her daughters came to town with
the raw silk the daughters had wound off
from 1000 cocoons after weeks or months
of gentle industry. It weighed 340 z., and
its worth, in a correctly-reeled condition,
would have been about 3s. 6d. But it wasn’t
properly reeled. A silkworm issues its deli-
cate thread without the least regard for con-
sistency, and in unwinding, say, half a dozen
cocoons at once the expert reeler makes
breaks and joinings in order to keep the
thread of uniform thickness. The silk in-
dustry starts with the slow-growing mul-
berry tree to provide food for the worm, and
an expert operator has spent 12 hours an
reeling the 15s. worth of silk from cocoons
created by the worms that ate 2501 b. of
leaves from the slow-growing vegetable.
Yet the Yic. Sericulture Association has
been exhorting people on the land to plant
mulberry trees, breed silkworms and grow
rich!
* . * * *
“Smoko”: Australians should take another
look at the tobacco industry. Latterly the
white man has almost dropped out, leaving
the field to Chinese; but the improved
prices, if accompanied by a willingness to
listen to the requirements of the manufac-
turers, will enable the baby to sit up. In
Manilla and Barraba districts (N.S.W.)
this year what crops there are are giving
good yields, and the price is right (up to
Is. 9d. a pound). But it nearly all goes to
the Chow. One of him will net a sum
running into the thousands (unless a frost
comes) and at least one Australian will
collect £llO from an acre. Australia can
produce the weed, but it has not as yet
grown anything equal,to the American pro-
duct. The tendency here has been, especially
with Ah Fat, to produce the dark leaf. But
the market requirement of dark in propor-
tion to bright is only as one is to four. The
Chow is hopelessly conservative. lie does
things for the sufficient reason that his
grandfather did them. His tendency is to
stick to the heavy river fiats, place the
plants with wide intervals, keep the leaves
meagre and so produce the rank growth. He
is learning, but the Australian could beat
him every time. It is quality that counts.
The public has been brought up on the Vir-
ginian product. We demand high-class
stuff, and to be successful the grower must
produce it. With more attention (to business
we could get very near the Virginian. Later,
fine-curing would raise the standard higher
than sun-curing can. Let Billjim listen to
the buyer, know what he wants and pro-
duce it. Prices are likely to continue good,
but the buyers must have quality. The weed
is fickle. A great deal depends on . aroma
and flavor, and these qualities are due
largely to climatic conditions. The climate
to meet all requirements for high-grade leaf
has not yet been located in Australia. But
a great deal can be done to improve the
present leaf by planting in lighter soils,
planting closer, allowing more leaves to
remain on the stalk and by the curing pro-
cess. There is a large and growing con-
sumption of the weed, and we cannot afford
to go on fattening the account of the over-
seas gardener.
* * * *
“Simon”: William Holding and Robert
Overall, two working mechanics at Drum-
moyne, Sydney, have succeeded in producing
a beautifully-turned little motor-ear, Aus-
tralian from the carburetter and the four-
cylinder engine to the number-plate at the
hack. They only completed "The Acme” in
time to exhibit during the last two or three
days of the late show. Front and back
splashes and footboard are all shaped from
the one sheet of metal, and take the eye with
the grace *bf the extended wing of a flying-
fox. It may be that this car’s durability is
not yet proven, but from the standpoint of
symmetry and finish few trimmer machines
are included amongst the 16,000 registered
in N.S.W. or the 40,000 doing more or less
intermittent service in Australia.
“Y.Z.”: Have just been put wise to
another trick of trade. This is a feature of
the poulterer’s gentle art. Never buy a
trimmed duck, for instance, without sub-
mitting the bird to weights and measures,
because appearances are deceitful and the
world is still deluded by cheap schemes. A
plump duck that looks like an eight-pounder,
if tried in the scale, may, if you’re lucky,
hold four pounds of the true goods. The
rest is just wind. Ten to one your promis-
ing bird has been blown up. I don’t know
how the process is accomplished, but the
bird-man’s assistant assures me it is a
favorite device. I have seen the disaster
often, the bird bought yesterday looking this
morning the collapsed balloon of its former
self.
* * * *
“Araminta”: The average Australian
housewife is ready to pay 4d. a pound for
French beans, which are one of pur most
valuable foods. Usually, since the grower
gets paid by weight and not by quality, the
French bean of commerce is old and stringy
because it has been left on the stem too
long; and it is often withered by the time
the householder gets it. Now, one single
bean-plant, occupying 2i square feet of
ground, can be encouraged to produce as
much as 21b. of green beans. The ripe
Ffench-bean, moreover, is nearly as good as
meat. Soak the goods overnight and simmer
them next morning, well and truly, with a
strip of bacon-fat, and you have one of the
staples of the Allied armies in the field—
“pork and beans.” Yet how many house-
wives can be “bothered” to stick in a row
of seeds and watch the plants to maturity,
not to mention extending fheir operations
to other back-garden stuff? People say that
every penny saved nowadays is a shove
towards Berlin—and they’re saving the
pennies in England’s back gardens. But
the Australian yard is mostly reserved for
one lone pepper-tree, the washin’ o’ Mon-
and four wandering fowls.
LUCY’S BOOTS.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Miss Lucy Lee has pretty feet.
As all the district knows.
She keeps them wonderfully neat,
And silken is her hose.
She’ll give a guinea for a dress,
And in a hat will put
A erow-n, then pay for shoes no less
Than one pound ten per foot.
Her face is well enough, her hair
A fairy well might choose;
Her lips are passable—but, there,
She takes a two in shoes!
My Lucy Lee is very prim,
And she demurely goes,
Her eyes cast down in sober whim
Are ever on her toes.
Her figure’s not sublime, but it
Is to my simple taste.
She cares not for her corset’s fit
If well her boots are laced.
I try in vain to win a smile;
The wooing bears no fruits,
My Lucy’s cold, for all the while
Her heart is in her boots.
VICTORIA.
S. S.


Biff
BRITISH
Thomson
HOUSTON C? C 1 *
k v RUGBY
s:
g>
v-
!7-
x.* *v<!
tt*.
-i i
i
1
SjWfTH a.
V-, H
general
ELECTRIC CO
NEW YORK
ARTIS' TVOBI7HES;
SL&SELY,
\ LINKED
y
a
A
A
&
v
<*/
THESE TURBINES
ARE
INSTALLED AT
The Caledonian Collier-
ies, Ltd., for Mining
Work.
Melbourne Electric Sup-
ply Co., Ltd., for Light-
ing and Power.
Sydney Paper Mills, Ltd.,
for Power.
Balmain Electric Light
& Power Supply Cor-
poration, for Lighting
and Power.
Electricity Works, the
City of Newcastle, for
Lighting and Power.
Etc., Etc.
Curtis Steam
Turbine-Generators
COMBINE ECGNOMV & RELIABILITY
There are more Curtis Turbiries in opera-
tion than any other make of Turbine.
Curtis Turbine-driven Generators are the
result of years of experience with all classes
of Electrical apparatus, and embody those
special features essential to Turbine re-
quirements.
For full information on this subject communicate with
A
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY CP OF QUEEN & LITTLE GOLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS
BRISBANE (Q ) : The Engineering Supply Co of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.); Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd.. Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
OTHER AGENTS
NEW ZEALAND : The National Electrical !c Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tuilock & Co., Ltd., Launceston;
Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch full jewelled Lever Movement, Compensation balance,
£B/10/-. Extra quality, £lO.
A. Saunders’
Pearl-set Necklace,
Oct. Gold, £3.
15ct, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s Oct. Gold
Ring, set Ruby or
Tourmaline, 25/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’ loot. Gold Pearl-set Brooch,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bar Brooch, set
Aquamarine, 25 / -
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold Wed-
ding Rings,
15ct. Gold, 25/-
18ct. Gold, 30/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Set. Gold Brooch, set Amethyst
or Garnet, 20/-
Jewellery Desig'ns
at Pre-War Prices.
A. Saunders’ Oxidised or Nickel Keyless
Watch, jewelled movement 20/-, 20/-.
jewelled, 30/-. £2. Solid Silver, £2, £2/10/-,
£3. Gold, £5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’. Set. Gold Curb Padlock Bracelet,
plain or chased, £3.
Others, 25/-, 30/- 40/-, 50/-,
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-
n
¥
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Soliu «,.iu patent Expanding Wristlet
full jewelled, Lever movement, Compensation balance,
£6. Others, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-, £5. £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine Bar Brooch, 15ct.
Gold, 30/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond boat-shape
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders'
Solid Gold Wed-
ding Kings, 9ct.
Gold, 20/-. lfict.,
40/-. IBct., 50/-.
i*&£LQjr-
A Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Turquoise or all Pearls, 22/6.
k
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Necklace,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring,
20/- .
15ct. Gold, 40/-
Ladv’s s’ze,
12/6.
A.. Saunders’ Solid Nickel Open-face
Keyless Lever Watch, patent adjusted
balance, reliable timekeeper, 20/-,
25/-. Higher Grades, 30/-, 35/-,
40/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 13/6,
A. Saunders’ Oct. Solid Gold Albert, £4/10/-. Lighter, £4/5/-,
£3/40/-, £3. Heavier, £5, £5/10/-, £O, £6/10/-.
15ct. Solid Gold, £7/10/-. Lighter, £7, £6/10/-, £6.
Heavier, £B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Solid Gold Albert, £3/15/-. Heavier, £4/5/-,
£4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-. Wet. Gold, £6/10/-.
Heavier, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO. £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 20 / -
15et., 35/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 George St. Sydney,
1 1 yiVnVi , iVi i i'.' ,v ' l
WHi
A. Saunders’ Nickel-silver Hunting Key-
less Watch, full jewelled, adjusted move-
meht, 35/-, 40/-. Solid Silver,
£2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-. Gold filled,
£2/15/-, £4/4/-, £5/5/-, £6/6/-
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc,
ample security assured, trust accounts always open to inspection.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNEU. STREET, SYDNEY A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
I !■ 11 ii inmninwTT 'nr
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
safeguard YOUR health
QtJ.Collis Browne’s
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A weli-proved palliative
in the pains ol GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery,
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, SJ-, 5/-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
OOKS ! BOOKS!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3,
■posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy', 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory', 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
■ Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics’ Work-
shop Handybook, 1/9. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at FTgures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5/'- posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6- History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Motor Mechanics, 2/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/-. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/6. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How _to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/9. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
gipsy fortune telling cards—love,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions. 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. How to Read Faces and
Heads, 1/6. Soldering. Brazing, Gasfitting, &c.,
1/9 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/- ; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter,. 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/6.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book. 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, pos/ed. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women's Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
Ail These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook. 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/9. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits op Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/9. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/9.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets op Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, !/-•
posted. Adventures op John Johns, 1/9 posted.'
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Wizard’s Manual,
1/3. Speeches from the Dock. 2/-. Life's
Shop Window, 1/9. Three Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, (j 7 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
pr- bookseller to the commonwealth. ■


CLo
S 3
7
a*
7
74-
V
t
a
joKS
>\> -V
‘<3
sa
11
i
11
PM
■ V ? ; '
•*
•V- ;
m
Sr) '
-
;v
a
■'Jhi
n
I
J -r.
; An men’s siges
| obtainable in
or brown
mixtures. ..
m
I E NT
e
I
y
ns
at
Combines QualiiyjDura
ui
conorny.
Je CTczj'i iacjc
DAVID JONES XTD
OPP. G.T>O. SYDNEY.


SPECIALIST EXPLAINS CAUSE OF
STOMACH TROUBLE.
VALUABLE ADVICE TO SUFFERERS.
“There are' many different forms of
stomach trouble,” said a well-known special-
ist recently, “but practically all are trace-
able to excessive acidity and food fermenta-
tion. That is why the results obtained from
the use of drugs are usually so disappointing.
Admitting fermentation and consequent acid-
ity of the food contents to be the underlying
cause of most forms of indigestion, it
naturally follows that the use of a reliable
antacid, such as bisurated magnesia, which is
so. frequently prescribed by physicians, will
produce better results than drugs or combina-
tion of drugs. Accordingly I almost invari-
ably advise those who complain of digestive
trouble to get some bisurated magnesia (note
the name carefully, as other forms are not so
suitable for this purpose) from their chemist,
and take half a teaspoonful of the powder, or
two 5-grain compressed tablets, with a little
water after meals. This, by immediately
neutralising the acid and stopping the fer-
mentation, removes the cause of the trouble
and insures normal and healthy digestion.”
—A D VT.
gh
Loved by old
and young alike
for their wholesome
entertainment.
a**
'-'s
m,
nii!»P3Pf
m
m
5T“f
M
m
WMmmFMm
mm
Wz
Wm
; m,
Sim
rf-M'- - *§*■ WPWWf^M,'". /Pfffl ’V&S&WI&?
i spl
fei ' f- ■ :■■■'■ •• ,•' :. • m \ Ism
', ■; ■ :.v ■■■',■ -■■■■’■ . '* r;;-;.."^^
mi mi
■C^fj
Uflfc iMw 7
i/ifUi/® 1 '
a
, , . '1
I'
i
ill:
-T .
PICTURES.
The pictures that
are known through-
out the world as
the best and clean-
est in every respect.
k
POLITICAL
POINTS
At the conclusion of the Governor-
General’s conference on recruiting in Mel-
bourne Hughes gave the Labor representa-
tives assurances of the total and absolute
abandonment of the idea of compulsory
service, and the Labor representatives gave
their support to a resolution urging the
community “to unite in a whole-hearted
effort to secure the necessary reinforcements
b.v the voluntary system.” In other words,
Samson won’t pull down the building on his
own head and make himself an unrecoguis-
"FANCY NOT WANTIN’ TO GO, BILL?”
able squash among the ruins. On the other
hand he won’t do anything compulsory to
prevent the building falling, but he will
urge himself to a whole-souled effort to
keep it up voluntarily. And if the temple
is steadily canting over despite all volun-
tary propping. Samson pledges himself not
to rush in compulsorily even at the eleventh
hour and shore it up. It may just fall on
him and all his female relations and the
baby and the cat and the other belongings.
There is method in the Hun’s barbarity.
The losses in killed and wounded may be
about equal on both sides. Bqs the Hun idea
is evidently to return his prisoners so ruined
that they will be of little use as soldiers or
workers or as the producers of a healthy new
generation. When the general exchange is
made he will swap as far as possible diseased
idiots who will be a loss and burden to their
people for healthy human beings. The Hun's
telescopic eye looks far.
BRIDGING THE GAP.
THE KAISER : “Hang the cost! The ques-
tion is shall I have enough material?"
Last week some of the papers said either too
much or too little. There was a vague refer-
ence to “the realities of war” being brought
right before the eyes of Australia, and then
the preacher shut up the book with a bang
and the remark that nothing more could be
told at present. All sorts of wild rumors
flew around, and the pacifist and the Ger-
man propagandist said to the slacker who
was beginning to feel uncomfortable: “See
what may happen! After all, you are
doing your duty to Australia by staying
where you can defend it.” The whole
truth, of course, is that what the Wolf and
the See Adler have done other raiders may
do —and perhaps a little more. Nothing
that the Fleet can do can prevent a raider
escaping now and then from the fogs of
the North Sea. But if there were half a
dozen raiders in the Pacific and Indian
oceans it wouldn’t provide a single elegible
with a sufficient excuse for remaining iu
Australia.
From the Gallery
Whereas - the bitterest Laborite is invariably
young, the angriest Nationalist nearly always lias
white whiskers mingling with his fury. The most
implacable opponents of Hughes are the Labor young-
sters Catts, Blakeley, Nicholls and Considine; the
old hands like Tudor, Charlton and Page seem always
willing to allow a fair margin for human error in
any member of any Government. On the other side,
however, yon must go to a promising junior like
Rogers for the large-minded tolerance that, even dis-
sembles pity in friendly laughter, while from the
ancients, like Corser and Foster, you will get those
provocative personalities that set the young bloods
opposite combing their vocabularies for suitable repri-
sals. Falsely presuming that age has made heroes of
them all, the patriarchs are constantly asking the
youthful enemy why they are not at the war. It is
an impertinent question when they are so extremely
guarded about their own efforts in lieu of active
service, but it is difficult to convince them that
"shirker” is a term that can apply to anybody but a
ycung man.
Probably no one was more surprised than
the Ministers themselves at the re-election of
the Bananaland Cabinet. A dead set had
been made against Coyne (llailways), Hux-
ham (Home) and Hardacre (Education),
but they survived the onslaught. The biggest
set-back received by the “industrialist” block
was the defeat of Speaker McCormack for a
portfolio, though he easily retained his wig
and gown. His rejection and Assistant-
Minister Fihelly’s elevation to full port-
ftlioed rank are probably explained by a
split in tbe anti-Ryan section of the party.
The Ryan section consists of the moderates.
The militants, led by Theodore and Fihelly,
have acted together up to the present, but
with the possibility of Ryan’s move into
Federal politics there are two men keenly on
the scent of the Premiership. Theodore is
cold but thorough; Fihelly is more brilliant
but rash. Ryan possesses rare qualities for
leadership in a measure which the others
don’t approach.
Hughes on the Censorship:—
A great deal of the trouble had arisen, not because
of the regulations, but because of the way they were
administered. Had he been a member of the Opposi-
tion possibly he would have said things about the
Censorship a great deal more effective than he had
heard from the other side.
As usual, the Prime Minister is prepared to
sacrifice anybody but himself. For that
part of the Censorship to which the greatest
exception is taken —the political Censorship
—Hughes is almost solely responsible:
Hughes and his Shadow Pearce. And so far
from the administration of this Censorship
being worse than the regulations, the truth
is that the position would have been utterly
intolerable had not the Censorship been
blessed with a large capacity for using its
blind eye.
Brennan of Batman (Vic.) has this propo-
sition before- the Reps.-
In order to assert and maintain the status of sister
Dominions and dependencies whose position is, or
ought to be, analogous to our own, this House records
tlje opinion that the application of Conscription to
Ireland by any authority external to the Irish nation
would be subversive to the settled principles of
democracy.
To which The Bulletin begs to add: —
And inasmuch as the Western District and River-
ina are integral portions of Victoria and N.S.W.
just as Ireland is of the United Kingdom, the
Governments which keep their ports closed by the
denial of adequate railway connections, and con-
script their trade at great loss to themselves in
order to assuage the greed of Sydney and Melbourne,
and thereby cause the population of these districts
to diminish just like that of Ireland, should not
do this sort of thing save by the direct authority
of the people concerned. And by doing it these
Governments show themselves to be base, brutal
and blanky tyrants, and ignorant of the simplest
principles of democracy.
Why should Brennan of Batman make two
bites of a cherry?
In his first year as Premier of N. S.
Wales Holman found £0,000,000 of other
people’s money for public works; in his
second year, £7,000,000; third year, over
£8,000,000; fourth year, nearly £7.000,000;
and in his fifth year he hopes to find about
£5,000,000. And as his reward his old
party publicly accuses him of stopping pub-
lic works, of throwing thousands of meu
out of employment, of a “diabolical and
fiendish conspiracy” (just as if he had
horns and a tail and blew out flames through
his nose), of planning to establish “industrial
TANK WEEK.
“Passed the Customs, Sydney and Melbourne, during
the first 10 days of April, 600 cases champagne,
1500 cases schnapps, 400 eases brandy, 500 eases
whisky, 135 quarter-casks whisky, 237 barrels
whisky.” —Market report.
“It'sh all right, conshicble! Just been win-
ning the war again.”
slavery,” and to “ravage the homes of the in-
dustrial classes” with “ruin and hunger,” and
to “cr-r-r-rush-sh-sh-h Australian democ-
racy” and establish the “unrestricted sway”
of the “owners of the earth.” With less
provocation Julius Caesar said something
like “You in this, tob, Brutus!” dragged his
hat down over his eyes and took no more
interest in public affairs.
Things haven’t exactly dawdled in Aus-
tralian politics the last, few years. There
was a carters’ strike in Adelaide half a dozen
years ago which threw two men, Blundell
and Gunn, into prominence. The former,
already in Parliament, did at least as out-
rageous a tliinsr as was ever reported of a
A PARTING INJUNCTION.
AUSTRALIA : “Well, goo'-bye, mind what
you’re doin', and for Gor's sake don’t go
talking.”
strike-leader in Australia. Within a year or
two he was Minister for Labor; a year or
two more and he had gone to the “National-
ists” ; another year and Gunn, his young
friend of the strike, had defeated him in his
constituency; and another few weeks and the
youngster was leading the State’s Parlia-
mentary Labor party. Denny, M. 0., the most
conspicuous member of the old Labor party
left, is in the trenches; and Jelley, who ran
the recent general-election campaign, is
ineligible, being in the local House of Land-
lords.
Thus the Sydney Sun, inflating its chest
till the buttons stick out into the next
parish:—■
A few years ago the person who suggested the
raising of a local loan in Australia of £40,000.000
or even of £10,000,000 would have been ridiculed.
But the exigencies created by the war have forced
a realisation by the coUununuitv of its own riches.
Or a realisation of its own wealth in paper
money. The daily papers seem to think that
war and dead bodies have raised the country
to unexampled prosperity.
During the past 3.3 months the Canadian
shipbuilding yards have taken orders from
the British Government for 4(> wooden and
43 steel ships, which means £13,222,000 of
good Bull money to spend in wages. Aus-
tralia has just made a start to build one
ship, which it thinks it may finish in a
couple of years. The difference between
Canada and Australia is that one has High
Protection and the other has Hughes.
Higgs, M.H.11.: —-
The British Government should be told that if the
German colonies were going to keep tiie war going
for an hour longer we did not want them.
Fight over the dog? Certainly not! Hand
the dog back. He is too tired to bite us
to-day. And to-morrow we shall be dead.
So why trouble about to-morrow?
DER POTSDAM GOTT.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
The Gott that we builded at Potsdam was fashioned
a marvel to see.
\Ve framed hinj of Blood and of Iron, no Gold in his
corpus had he;
The tears of the widow and orphan were blent in his
veins, as was meet,
And high was his glance and unfearing, and mighty
the spread of his feet.
We put not a heart in the creature—what use for
such lumber had he?—
But scorn was his gift in abundance and hate for the
land of the Free;
We said to him “Baal, be schrecklich ! Sweep down
on our foes as a flood,
And them who would flout thee and fleer thee, wipe
out the foul sin in their blood!”
And millions and millions adored him and bended
them down at the throne
And hailed him as Moloch and Odin, with tribute of
tear and of groan ;
And children went through the red furnace that
burned at his altar so grim,
And mothers insensate and fathers swelled high the
glad sound of his hymn.
He looked to the East and a ravage swept over the
land as a flame;
He turned to the West and the cities were ashes and
smoke and a name ;
He flashed a red glance on our dearest, they died in
the blast of his breath;
And they who had fashioned and framed him, their
meed was a portion in Death.
The Gott that was fashioned at Potsdam—bei
Himmel, was never the like!
We know, not the day of his fury, the hour when
his vengeance will strike;
One arm hath he hared for the smiting of freemen
with pride overblown,
And one hath he lifted to chasten the serfs whom he
calleth his own.
And day with the smoke of his altars is troubled and
murky and brown,
And night with a winging of horrors drops hell in
the heart of the town ;
While he who was builded at Potsdam looks down
on the mile upon mile
Of ruin and pitiless ravage—and greets his work with
a smile,
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.


Fill your home with music and brighten up
the lonely evenings with one of—
a
m
• * j
mm
He is enjoying himself immensely playing his
favorite music. So could you! Half an hour’s
practice would make you an expert pianist.
PALING’S
PLAYER PIANOS
The banisher of lonely moments. Witb
one of these delightful entertainers and
a supply of our special hand-played
Music Rolls you, personally, can obtain
a perfect and artistic rendition of music
as actually played by sKilled pianists.
We cannot speaK too highly of our
wonderful player pianos; they are the
best, in their various grades, obtainable
for the money. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Your present piano taKen as part pay-
ment and full value allowed.
CATALOGUE
AND
PARTICULARS
POST FREE.
W. H. PALING 8 CO. LTD.,
338 Georg'e St., Sydney.
And at Brisbane, Toowoomba, Lismore, Newcastle.
WE SELL
ON
EASY TIME
PAYMENT.
Engineers, Farmers and Skilled Workmen should know the
OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING and CUTTING PROCESS.
The Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest addition to the engineer’s workshop and to the skilled worker’s bench. It is simple of working and
portable, so that cutting or welding may be done at the bench, in the field or by the roadside.
CUT OUT COST OF NEW MACHINERY. ~
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remarkable variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following
are a few of the broken and worn machinery parts our process will make new again
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes. Steering Wheels, Pipes, Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, W orn
Iveyways in Shafts. Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other
process.
m
f **
\' i■—
4in. Steel Shaft, in head of 12001 b. Press and
frame, back of sbaft-box, 14in. wide and 2in.
and 4in. thick, welded where chalk-marked.
Not possible of repair by ordinary methods.
Repaired in a few hours by our process, sav-
ing the cost of a new press and big loss of
time.
■
X
an
nit
*
mm
&
Oxy-Acetylene Welding- applied to Pipe Work,
Ammonia Refrigerating Coils.
Farmers, do not scrap your broken parts, but get them
welded by our process at the nearest engineer's.
! , A
X ; " ,
V ,
/
**oppet-kead dismantled in Tasmania
to be erected in New South Wales.
Approximately 12,000 rivets were cut
out with the Oxy- Acetylene Metal-
cutter, without damage to the struc-
ture. This work was carried out by
A. L. West & Co., of Sydney.
THE COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN CO
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents—MELBOURNE: Eyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakii 1 Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH : Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


To hold our lines in France must be
counted full compensation for any tempo-
rary loss of territory to the Hun hordes,
inspireth that wise spirit King George IV.
top-notch Scotch. — Advt.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH AFRICA.
(Transvaal Provincial Division.)
Before Mr. Justice Bristowe in Chambers.
In the matter of —
HARRY HERBERT ROE Plaintiff
versus
HELEN ROE (born Aulton) Defendant.
Pretoria this 6th day of March 1918.
Upon hearing Counsel for the Plaintiff
and the. evidence adduced in this action for
the restitution by the Defendant of conjugal
rights and in default thereof for dissolution
of the marriage,
The Court orders the Defendant to return
to or receive the Plaintiff on or before the
Ist day of August 1918 failing which to
show cause, if any, to this Court on the 15th
day of August 1918 why the bonds of marri-
age now subsisting between the Defendant
and the Plaintiff shall not be dissolved and
that service of this Order be effected by one
publication in the Union Gazette" and
twice in a Sydney paper Australia.
By the Court,
(Sgd.) F. L. C. BICCARD JUTA,
_ Registrar.
Podlashtjc AND NicolsOn, Solicitors.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND,
TOWNSVILLE, No. 90 of 1917.
MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
Mr. JUSTICE SHAND.
BETWEEN LOUIS GRASSET, Plaintiff, and
FLORENCE MAUD GRASSET, Defendant, and
FREDERICK CHARLES COE, Co-defendant.
To the Co-defendant FREDERICK CHARLES COE:
TAKE NOTICE that this action was on the
Twelfth day of December 1917 commenced against
you and the abovenamed Florence Maud Grasset and
that the Plaintiff by his writ of summons claims a
dissolution of his marriage with Florence Maud
Grasset the defendant herein AND by his petition
filed in this Honorable Court on the Twelfth day
of December 1917 the plaintiff alleges that in the
month of May 1913 and from that month unto the
month of August 1914 you the said Frederick
Charles Coe frequently visited the said Florence
Maud Grasset at Cairns in the State of Queensland
and on divers of such occasions committed adultery
with the said Florence Maud Grasset AND TAKE
NOTICE that the Court has by Order dated the
Fifth day of January 1918 authorised service of the-
said writ and petition on you by insertion of this
Notice not less than twice in each of the following
newspapers; The Cairns Post and the Sydnev
Bulletin AND TAKE NOTICE ALSO that you are
required within six months after the date of the
last insertion of this advertisement to cause an:
appearance to be entered for you at the Registry
of the Supreme Court of Queensland at Townsville
and that in default of your so doing the Plaintiff
may proceed in this action and that judgment may
be given against you in your absence.
Dated the Fifth day of February, 1918.
(1.5.) D. CAMPBELL, Registrar.
EDWARD B. STEELE,
Solicitor for Plaintiff, Cairns.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, UNITED, Redfern, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which lias outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Davy men.
Used since 15U6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “ Singleton’s’’—refuse all substitutes.
Used the
World Over
a
MOTOR
...CARS
YOU NEED WINTER SHIRTS
That produce the highest degree of comfort. Special designing gives them a
distinctiveness that is uuickly recognised. The materials are made from Fine, Pure
Wool carefully selected and made under our personal supervision.
OUR FAMOUS No. 90 SHIRTS combine the above features. Heavy
or Medium weight, 17/6.
CRIMEA No. 70 SHIRTS, made from wool and cotton mixture
which is so much in vogue for the coming Winter, are of a distinc-
tive character. Special Winter weight, combined with comfort and
durability. Medium weight, 9/6. Heavy weight, 15/6.
CEYLON No. 60. T.ypical of the high standard of shirts made in
our workrooms, suitable for present wear, wool and cotton mixture,
in stripes. Splendid wearing material. Light weight, 10/6, 15/6.
Order your Shirts to-day from the actual makers. You
will then realise what service really means.
'AGE PAID THROUGHOUT THE COMMONWEALTH.
m
n:
Write for
Catalog “B”
Underwear.
ghk
ghk
jh
HENRY BUCK
AND GO.,
Swanston St., Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"NO TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
There was an announcement last week
that the N.S.W. Government (1) does not intend
to abolish the bookmaker, and (2) proposes to
remove some of the causes of dissatisfaction with
the system under which the totalisator is run, inci-
dentally “popularising” the machine. It can be
admitted that to abolish Ike and leave the tote
as it is known in N. S. Wales would be absurd—
unless the idea is to strangle racing. The whole
business has been botched from first to last, and so
long as the totalisator is viewed by Parliament as
an implement for levying taxation Ike is as safe as
if he were nailed down on his box. Meanwhile the
squeak from the country clubs at having to run a
machine from which the State extracts 7 per cent,
is loud and long, and unless the Ministry is imper-
vious to argument the figure will have to be altered.
The fundamentally wrong thing about the existing
method is in the 60, 20, 20 per cent.. system of
division on a 1-2-3 basis. To everybody concerned
except the State this is ruinous. It is no good to
the racing clubs because of their limited share in
the proceeds (some clubs actually lose money). That
it will bankrupt the punter is as certain as the
multiplication table. Premier Holman is reported to
contemplate setting matters right by having a
straight-out tote as well as a 1-2-3 instrument on
all courses. In the case of 90 per cent, of the clubs
racing in the State this would make the squeaks
louder than ever. In the case of the remaining big
clubs it would be a sound change, provided the place
dividend was on the basis of a flat div. on the three.
B\it having made the change Holman would discover
two things, among others—first, that unless he
abolished Ike the system would not be getting a
fair deal, because in competition the book will beat
the machine; and, next, that if he did give Ike the
couut, the System, assuming that the 7 per cent,
raid continued, would fall in a heap. As long as
two things are done wrong at once there will be a
mess.
♦ * * *
At Canterbury Park (Sydney) on Satur-
day the totalisator churned £11,232; at the ponies
£7762. At the horse meeting favorites arrived
twice; at the other a well-backed midget was in
front every race but one. Some of the place-betting
results were interesting samples of what the public
will risk. Of the 14 horses placed second or third
at Canterbury Park backers laid odds on 10, took
even money twice, took 9 to 2 once, and in the
remaining case lost money. At the ponies, of 24
second and thirds only two returned over 2 to 1,
four paid 6 to 2, there was about even money on
seven, and odds were laid on six. Five times the
backer got less than he put in.
* * * *
“Spreader”: The tote in the Leger at
Sydney pony courses has a way of its own of doing
things. In the Encourage Stakes at Victoria Park
the other day Nona was the best-backed horse in the
big field. Yet his number was bracketed with the
very long chance Swan Queen. As the two nags
belong to different owners (and trainers) it was hard
to see why the few punters who wished to invest on
the outsider were forced to take the dynamite odds
that backers of' the favorite were annexing. The
explanation is that there were not enough indicators
on the machine to give each horse a space, so the
contraption simply bracketed a couple here and there
haphazard. The fun they’re having makes me wake
up in the night to laugh.
* * * *
There was a boots-off rush to get on to a
good thing in the Flying at Canterbury Park (Syd-
ney) on Saturday. But no one was hurt when it
came to collecting. The ex-pony Some Boy (9st.)
and Eulaere (9st. 21b.) were backed for half a ton
or so at 2’s. Then there were heavy wads for Herbie
(Bst. 71b.), who was supposed to have found his
pace again. Someone threw in for all that was
going down to 3’s. At the end the three favorites
were in trouble. At the distance Eulaere looked
almost a certainty, but failed to hold her ground
when two minimum-weight outsiders swooped up
alongside. These two, Tressady Belle and Merv’s
Pride, had the finish to themselves, the former win-
ning by a head. Herbie just cut the fading Eulaere
down in the last stride or two. Tressady Belle,
who was steered by V. Hill, an apprentice, has been
showing good form. Three weeks ago she won over
six furlongs at Kembla with 7st. 71b. in “15.” There
was practically no money for her on Saturday,
though Ike was anxious to lay 20’s. The tote paid
32 to 1.
* * * *•
Dynasty and Mount Alf were both well
backed for the Newcastle Cup last week, but there
was nothing particularly encouraging about their
performances in the Canterbury Handicap on Satur-
day. Both were beaten out of place. Though what
the Dynasty people may have thought of this is
unknown to the writer, the Mount Alf stable cer-
tainly expected something very different, for they
backed him as if he couldn’t lose. Both were up-
sides when the run for the line began, and both
petered out to nothing when the proceedings intensi-
fied. They will have to do a lot better than this to
win at Newcastle. The cash was taken by the Pad-
dington mare Sinfielder (6st. 111 b.), who, after run-
ning into a place at a couple of country meetings,
was given a fly at Randwick last month and arrived
second to the winder of the Novice Handicap. She
is a smart sort of a lady, and; may consider the
.Newcastle Cup, in which she has 6st, 71b., worth
arguing. Bartelle (7st.), a fonr-year-olrl mare by
Bardolph, ran third at Warwick Farm the previous
week, and was just astern of Sipfielder’s withers in
the Canterbury. She ran like a stayer and ought to
be heard from on suburban courses again.
TV hat are some of the nags on Sydney
pony courses chasing? At Rosebery on Saturda}'
one event was cut up into three divisions and another
into four. In each event the prize money on offer
was £l4O. The cutting up meant that the winners
of each division in one event collected £33, the
second nags £8 and the third £5. In the other
the winners got £25, and the placed animals £6 os.
and £3 15s, apiece. Yet there is a' whole mob of
horses in training for races like this. This page
wonders why the owners of the show don’t take all
the money and put up a bag of peanuts for the
animals to dash after.
* * * ♦
Iv. Bracken tops the season’s list of N. S.
Wales jockeys with 23 wins so far, and he seems
likely to stay there. When L. A. Walker took a
holiday he gave Bracken a chance to go on alone.
Walker up till then had steered 20 winners. Bullock
is at the head of the practitioners in Vic. with 28.
Young Dempsey has not been winning anything like
so often of late as he did a while back.
* * * *
How’s this for stiff luck? McCrystal
dreamed that lie arrived at the course too late to see
the Cup run. It was just over, so he asked a by-
stander what was the result. The reply was “Number
21.” Mac kept the number steadily in view until
the meeting came round. Then he planked his shirt
on 21. His language was frightful when he realised
that the stranger of his dream must have said to him
“Number 20 won.”
* * # *
E. ,T. Watt is hauling down the dark-blue-
and-white stripes and packing away the dark-blue cap
—till the war is over. Watt, a heavily-gilded Maori-
lander with big pastoral interests in Bananaland, has
been racing at Rardwick off and on a dozen years or
so. Latterly his luck has not been anything to make
a noise about. A spell may drive the hoodoo off.
When the war peters out Red Pennant may not be
running in Cups, anyway. Meanwhile Watt has a
stud to go on with. Wolawa will be cock o’ the walk
there. All Red, -sire of Desert Gold, has been leased
to a Victorian breeder.
*.\ * * *
The result of the hurdle race at Caulfield
last Saturday was a reminder that the Nationals are
within thinking distance. The event fell to Fastolf,
who figured in the best jumping company last winter
and was reasonably expected to get nearer to the
front this year. He had recently returned to
work after a long spell, and was evidently supposed
to be short of condition. But he was quite fit enough
to win with only 9st. 41b. up. Probably his freshness
was worth more then the muscular condition of some
of the jumpers that have run too frequently of late.
* * * *
The handsome Eurobin had another of his
periodical revivals on Eight Hours Day at Moonee
Valley. With 9st. 81b. on board the gelding won a
six furlongs race in.lmin. I4sec.—a very good per-
formance. The Doncaster winner of two seasons ago
is not yet “aged,” and may be heard of again in the
best company.
* * * *
A steeplechase at Moonee Valley the other
Monday was the end of two out of seven starters.
One broke his neck at a jump, and another hurt his
spine so badly that a vet. killed him on the course.
If the oldest of the steeplechasers had something
more than horse-sense they would reckon themselves
darned lucky to be alive. In this one particular
event the odds against getting killed were only 7
to 2, as it happened. And still it appears that a
punter loses less money at backing horses over the
sticks than in trying to pick winners on the flat.
* * * *
The Baillieus are making it possible for
somebody to acquire a racehorse for a shilling, and
if you’re honest you can’t get a really good one
anywhere for less. Aleconner, whose record includes
firsts in the Standish, Epsom and Bourke Handicaps,
the Williamstown Cup and the October Stakes, has
been presented by the brothers to the Red Cross
and will be raffled under the auspices of the Commer-
cial Travellers’ Association of Victoria. Anybody
with a bob now has a chance of becoming owner of
the offspring of Malster and La France, alleged to be
sound in wind and limb, and insured for £5OO.
* * * *
The other day several hundred yearlings
were sold in Sydney at prices ranging from high to
low. Nearly all these nags have gone into training
stables, and those which take to galloping kindly will
be racing in about five months. Meantime the
results of the current season, which started off in the
same way, can be summed up. About half a dozen
of the current mob of two-year-olds are expected to
furnish into three-year-olds of top class. About
another dozen look like being smart handicappers. A
further dozen or two may be park-stakers that will
pay their way. The rest are either done with
already or soon will be. Some of these two-vear-olds
have been profitable animals. Two or three that were
Brilliant in the spring were all to pieces in the
autumn. Several that were not produced early were
doing best later. More than one in both these sec-
tions has been galloped off its legs. From the
breeders’ point of view the hanging-up of big prizes
for the best of the two-year-olds and the holding of
races every week for juveniles is, of course, a good
tldng. It excites buyers to part with their cash.
But from the point of view of the horse itself the
current practices spell blue murder.- It is true
enough that the racing track is the only place
to test the thoroughbred. But it is also true that
it is a place where the thoroughbred can be butchered.
The scandal of two-year-old racing is more than ripe
for the axe. What is going on is obviously indefen-
sible. Either the business should be stopped or the
number of times a youngster can be started severely
limited. The Australian horse is getting no sort of
chance. This page firmly believes that the continued
success of second-rate imported animals hereabouts
is due in large measure to the outrageous incitement
given by racing clubs to ruin the local product in its
infancy. » * *
Having pushed the big horse-meetings tem-
porarily out of the way, C. W T . Cropper, secretary of
the Australian .Toekey Club, packed his kit last week
and tripped to have another look at Westralia. Before
he succeeded Tom Clibborn in the A.J.C. job nearly
eight years ago, Cropper was running the business
side of the then prosperous Ivalgoorlie R.C. And
when more active than he looks nowadays, he won
the Sydney tennis club captaincy. That was 36
years ago, when the prize cost something in perspira-
tion to win.
They don’t think much in S. Aus. of
Plenty, the five-year-old lately bought in Sydney by
the Adelaide trainer Timmens. Nicely bred, by
Abundance —Style, he was dropped into the Gawle’r
Cup with 7st. 41b., and came home alone. Also he
is in the Adelaide Cup with 6st. 91b.; but the com-
pany there will be very different.
Boxing, which slid off the programme in
Sydney without a splash when the Stadium pulled
down the blinds, is going to be held up on its feet
again. But the proceedings will not have the
glory of old w T hen the Yankee specialist arrived and
seats were a guinea. The tariff is to be about a
couple of bob and the bash limited to 10 rounds.
It may go, but this page fears that the glory of the
wallop cn the point has vanished until the bottle-
holders at Armageddon are passed out. Can anyone
be really interested these times in what befel Mick
and Bill during a few minutes’ unpleasantness?
* * * *
A notable performance was put up by
young Fowler, of P.A.C., in the athletic contest
with S.P.S.C. at Adelaide. Competing in six events
he won the gold medal for each. Previously five
was the highest number of prizes which had fallen
to an individual at any of these meetings. Fowler ;
broke his own record in the 120yds. hurdles, reduc-
ing it to 16 l-ssec.; while his times in the 100yds.
flat and the 300yds. steeplechase were just outside the’
records. In the broad jump he leaped 20ft. 6jin.;
(one effort sufficed to win him this event), and* he
cleared sft. 5f in. in the high jump. His other win
was the 220yds. flat. Out of the 62 5-6 points gained -
by his school he contributed 36.
* * * •
Following are the names of the Brisbane
Grammar football team which visited Sydney in
August, 1914, with some remarks upon what has
happened since: A. S. West (lieut.) ; W. P. Simmonds
(corporal—killed in action 4/10/’l7) ; T. G. Gaydon
(corporal); C. M. Wrench (corporal) ; A. T. Ham-
mond (gunner) ; A. 11. Brown (lieut., twice
wounded) ; G. R. Sumner (private) ; E. B. Freeman
(lieut., wounded) ; A. R. Walton (trooper, wounded) ;
R. S. McNab (gunner) ; P. W. Hopkins (lieut.) ;
T. Lawson (officers’ school) ; A. D. L. Gibson
(trooper); K. B. Fraser, S. Fraser, G. F. Boyce
(completing their medical course before leaving).
Only one player who went to Sydney has not yet
enlisted; and he is reported to be doing so now.
Two members of the team went into camp at Lytton
a few days before the others went south —M. W. R,
Bowman (lieut., wounded) and L. A. A. Forbes, the
captain, who is now completing his medical course.
The full-back—H. C. Cocking—was unable to make
the trip. He is at the Front or on the way. The
only other Ist XV player, who did not make the trip,
was A. S. Patterson. After winning the Military
Medal he was killed in action on August 27, 1916.
Possibly this record can be equalled by other school
teams of 1914. It can hardly be beaten. It is
magnificent.
* * » *
Geoff Maitland, a hefty 17-year-old son of
Sydney’s sporting surgeon H. L. Maitland, is a.
versatile young athlete; but his favorite is rifle-shoot-
ing. This year his best effort was to add to dad’s
sideboard the Ralston Cup, in winning which he
scored 190 points out of 210. He wears the colors of
Sydney Grammar.
* » » *
“Sim”: Game across aboriginal Jerry
Jerome, one-time ped. and champion middleweight
boxer of Bananaland, the other day. Fight enthusi-
asts will remember his sensational battle with Dave
Smith at the Sydney Stadium, when Dave knocked
the black out in the eighteenth round. Jerry was
then at the top of his career. He still retains the
punch that made him famous, as I saw him demon-
strate recently. He was surveying the classic archi-
tecture of a northern city when a big drunk lurched
up and demanded to know what the etc., etc. A
broad grin spread across the abo.’s dial. The drunk
answered the grin with a clout. Jerry languidly
stepped back and produced a sleeping-pill. Jerome
has landed interest in Brisbane, but a paternal
Government has taken him in hand, and he is now
at Frazer Island.
“J.L.H.”: At the Tasmanian Associated
Schools’ recent sports meeting a couple of new'
records for school performances in the Speck were
put up. In the Open Championship R. M. Clark
(Church Grammar) cleared sft. 4jin., and in the
Under Fifteen High Jump J. Burbury (Hutchins)
went over sft. 1 jin.
* * * *
“Bail”: Like their brother ancients in
Sydney, representative cricketers of the long ago had
a bosker time this season in Melbourne. Warwick
Armstrong, who has made centuries against England,
South Africa, N.S.W., Bananaland and South Aus.,
put nearly 20-stone behind the bat, and came out top
with the great average of 139.66 ; Tom Warne (50.1)
was ahead for Carlton; J. Ryder (31.1) topped
Collingwood; F. Baring (40.41) and Peter McAlister
(25.30) were in the lead for East Melbourne; E. A.
Liddicutt (63.6) and L. A. Cody (44.3) led Fitzroy;
I-lartkopf (52.3) was aloft in Northcote. It was up
to them to keep cricket alive, and the old-timers.
took the bat in both hands.
* * * *
“Snicker": Of course some of the best
Maoriland batsmen are in France, but the remark-
ably good bowling average of W. S. Brice (Welling-
ton) is not explained away by that circumstance.
Many good bats are left, and, after all, it is sur-
prising how young players oome on when the chances
are wddened, not only in cricket but in all games.
Brice really can bowl well. He finished up the other
week by taking eight for eight and seven for 10
against Wellington East. East were last year’s
champions, and four of the team were in this year’s
reps., who were unbeaten. During the season Brice
took 93 for 668, Australia’s old friend Crawford 89
for 925. In two rep. matches against Auckland he
got 20 for 174. Taking a line through Crawford’s
figure?* Brice seems to have the goods.
* * * •#
Just to show the youngsters that half a
century of years is no bar to success if you run it
down on a motor-cycle, D. Y. Rennie, who for years
has kept an eye on the B.S.A. business in Australia,
got astride the firm’s machine and scored full points
in the recent Mortlake-Melbourne (Vic.) reliability
spin ; and in the 200-mile speed event finished fourth
with an average of 451 m.p.h. Before he dropped
into Australia Rennie was a first r flight road cyclist
in England.
Sydney football this season will be catered
for more lavishly than in 1917. The Rugby League
menu provides eight clubs (the same as last year) m
the first grade and a full bill in the lower grades, in
the Rugby Union, six clubs (one in excess of last
year) will line up to the whistle; and in the juniors
(under 21) and schoolboys a lio*de of about 6000
will pull on jerseys. There will also be play under
Australian and Soccer rules. The Union officially
kicked off on Saturday. The other brands begin this
week-end.
On Saturday Lily de Beaurepaire (Albert
Park) and Jean Shiminin (St. Kilda S.) battled it
out at the Melbourne City Baths for the title of
champion of the State. On New Year’s Day Lily,
who is Frank’s sister, downed youthful Jean in the
220yds. On March 16 the St. Kilda mermaid had
her revenge and beat Lilian in the 100yds. In
order to settle the argument as to who should have
the title, the Ladies’ Association decided to have a
440yds. championship. The baths were specially
warmed for the occasion. Miss D. Ruhl (St. Kilda)
also had a say—but a very small one —in the con-
test. Lilian and Jean got away well, but the latter
forged ahead and led at the first lap, covering the
first 100yds. in lmin. 22 l-ssec. Thereafterwards
Lily streaked away and left her opponent. The
watches showed 7min. 26sec. In the 100yds. breast-
stroke championship of Vic. Jean Lawson, a 13-year-
old from Albert Park, who was third to Mina Wylie
in the Australian championship, won the title in
lmin. 42sec. by a length and a half from two club-
mates. Jean, who is the Melbourne High School
champion, is a swan in the water—she glides like a
water bird.
•,* * *
“Spot”: Harriers assembled to the number
of 117 at Brighton Beach (Vic.) on Saturday after-
noon, when the 29th annual muster of the metrop.
clubs was held. There was the usual scamper
across country, the amateur peds. being taken over
seven miles in charge of veteran Geo. Blake, former
cross-country champion and Olympic Games runner,
who dug liimself out and showed the youngsters
that he could still run. St. Stephen’s (Richmond)
headed the poll with a turn-out of 25. Carlton had
19 and St. Thomas (Essendon) 15. The war has
shattered the membership of most clubs, with the
result that Essendon (for many years cross-country
champions) could not. send even one member. Mel-
burnians (one of the oldest clubs in Victoria),
Clifton and Northcote, Caulfield and Brunswick also
failed to answer the call when Sec. Harry Smith
asked “How many?” The usual 1000yds. dust-up
at the finish was a veritable scramble. B. J.
Linehan (East Melb.) just hitting the worsted by
a trifle from F. Corrigan (St. Thomas), with P. C.
Carroll (Carlton) third. By far the most of the
men competing were either returned soldiers or
youths under age and ineligibles. The other sort
were plainly shown they were wanted somewhere
else.


Are You Able to Properly
Defend Yourself?
-
S'' -
1H
Suppose, for instance, l some fellow insulted you, what would be your
position ?
Would you have to suffer such an insult to go unavenged, and so lose your
prestige—your manliness in the eyes of your fellows —or would you be
able to deliver a soujid thrashing to the man who endeavors to belittle
you in the eyes of your fellow men?
There are times in every man’s life when he has occasion to defend
himself? Are you prepared for such emergencies? Then why not let me
teach you the noble art of self-defence?
I Teach Boxing by Post.
The instruction is practical, simple and easily
understood. It thoroughly explains and illustrates
every serviceable move in Scientific Boxing.
You reap the benefit of my many years’ experi-
ence and keen observation of the moves of the
world’s best boxers.
You now have the opportunity' of cultivating your
natural ability—of making good use of the means
Nature gave you for protecting yourself. You will
surely be fair to .yourself and learn Scientific Boxing.
Write to-day for my interesting booklet, “Scien-
tific Boxing in Your Home,’’ which describes my
methods, terms, etc. Send three penny stamps for
postage. Just write your name and address across
this advt. and send it to me. 1 will know what
you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia.’’
723 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
SO£U
|lUi ■
UpH.
Armoured cars of] the
Allies are run on(—■.
SHELL
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL Ci
jgh
jfg
Crows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Capillarine does all that is claimed for it as
a genuine Moustache-producer. The steady
demand for this preparation by the Military
and others proves its never-failing virtues.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worlL
Edison
Storag'e
Batteries
are a pleasure all the
time. They are abso-
lutely reliable, and the
materials used in the
solution and also in the
construction of the con-
tainer are specially
adaptable for motor-
car 'travelling.
Absolutely waterproof
and capable of being
completely discharged
without injury; over-
charging also does not
damage or destroy.
Full details post free,
call for demonstration.
|sf
■B
©
Write or, if possible,
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
So 4-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
7*
u
!\\v
M
l,
PATON
THE PIONEER.
THE oldest of the big motor-cycle
concerns now in existence, Indian
is the trail-blazer in the motor-
cycle world.
It has pioneered the great improve-
ments in design and construction.
With “Power-plus,” “Cradle Spring
Frame,” with a host of great advance-
ments, it has led the way.
To-day, with its record for leadership
established, with ripened experience
and unrivalled facilities, it is safe to
predict that if there’s a better motor-
cycle coming it will be an “Indian.”
CATALOGUE “D” WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Pty. Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros. Ltd., 156
Castlereagh Street.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79
Pirie Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency Etd., Adelaide & Creek Sts.
: John King & Sons
Ltd.., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle and Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
fl '
gm *m*+*m£
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bali Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourk«
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
“ISKO,” “ISKO”
The Sure Way to Save Food.
Instal an “ISKO” REFRIGERATOR
IN YOUR ICE CHEST.
Can be fitted to any Electric-
light system.
No move Tee Bills.
“Isko” makes its own loe and re-
quires no attention.
Cool, Dry, Scientific Refrigeration.
Temperature automatically regulated.
“Isko” can be fitted to any Ice-chest.
Country Hotelkeepers, Squatters, etc.,
should not fail to inspect the
“Isko.”
Up-to-date Houses cannot afford to
be without it.
Write to-day for Pamphlet.
Benson Brothers L'i
SOLE AGENTS,
76=78 Liverpool Street,
Sydney, New South Wales
Telephones: City 3780-1-2.
' ■ ■
m
a mm
e sfs®
' : '*
mm
. - ■;
NORTH
BRITISH
I
3yres
rfl. r'sXffg
mo.
w
as
r.
W . r
t»i
ssty
H
':V/V.
. • *
v »
J
\
wfmwwi
JUlt
r
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
SSQffi
“The Tyres that
are Superior"
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—-
New South Wales: William Crosby & Co., 20 Loftus St., Sydney
Victoria: North British Tyre Agency Prop. Ltd.,
525-527 Collins St., Melbourne
Queensland: Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Adelaide St., Brisbane
South Australia: Phoenix Motor Co., 114-122 Pirie St., Adelaide.


'm
4o
(masoh !-
p
i '
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 2Ad.
Constipation
Bowel and Stomach Disorders and resulting
Nervous Affections quickly and permanently cured
by Simple Natural Home Treatment—No Medicine
How a well-known
business man
CURED
himseH permanently after many years of suffering,
is told in a 40 page Booklet, sent free to all who
send this advertisement, and 3d. postage to
J. P. GALE, 327 COLLINS ST . MELBOURNE
FOURNIERS
HYGENIQUE
MIXTURE.
(FOR LADIES)
Tested and Proved for Years.
WASTE NO TIME.
Immediately you notice any disorder of
the system take Fournier’s Hygenique
Mixture. It quickly removes all suffering.
There is Nothing to EQUAL IT, nor
Anything so Widely Known.
It is justly described as tne
FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD.
Be sure you get FOURNIER’S
HYGENIQUE MIXTURE
Refuse all suDStitutes which are injurious
and harmful.
Sold by Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.,
and all Chemists and Stores.
HORROCKSES*
FZasineletteA
FOR
SAFETY
WEAR and
COMFORT
~ SEE
HORROCKSES"’
ON selvedge ■
BROOKES
COFFEE ESSENCE
You’ll like it too!!
■
m
THE|N*EJW
is the pick
of them all.
Its new delicious
flavour is so different
from any other sauce.
H.P. gives a new en-
joyment to the food, be-
sides it aids indigestion.
h
An Imitation is Not a Substitute —
If it were it would Not be an Imitation
It is impossible to emphasise the mutual importance of this fact.
The Ready-roofing business has become a game of
‘ ‘ Follow Master
with more than three hundred trailers following every move made by
RU-BER-OID, mimicking everything but the quality.
These imitations resemble the parisitic vines that sap the life of the
great oak—they try to live upon what they cannot produce.
The Manufacturers of
Kp-BER-OQ
COSTS MORE - WEARS LONGER
THOUGHT FIRST—ACTED FIRST. RU-BER-OID GREW
ON ITS MERITS —IT SELLS ON ITS MERITS ENTIRELY.
“No roof roofs like RU-BER-OID roofs” is a bold claim. It
may savor of egotism, but fortunately it is just the plain,
unvarnished truth.
MAY WE SHOW YOU THE PROOF?
Send for Samples and Prices to —
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
KINGLOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
ASK FOR A
HESS
r
H AX
U N R 1 VALUE O
1
e & Finish
vvaJ
h,
>V
-fO
C 4Ps of
UP
ALL
MAKERS:-
fRESS k C° UP
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Wholesale Agents:-
COX & MAILER.
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
THE,
k
E*
’c.
<£-■3
*3#
Jt- 'i
>r.-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498.220. Reserve Fund, £675,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,4G4.
Directors: Sir JOHN GRICE. Chairman; EDWARD TR ENCIIARD. Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREEORD.
Svdnev Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: E. J. OSBORNE.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 B ishopsgate, E.C.
gf
Electrolytically*
Refined Zinc,
<£s>
Brand,
containing 99.95 % Metallic Zinc.
Spelter,
<BHAS>
Brand,
containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust, containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Zinc Concentrates, Various Grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above Australian Productions
ZINC PRODUCERS’ ASSOCIATION PTY. LTD.,
Collins House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Freehold Assets Co. (Melbourne),
which in 1907 succeeded the Freehold Assets
Realisation Co., whose job was to act as
undertaker to the Freehold Investment and
Banking Co.: — _
° Reserves.
Taken over from old to. .. £14,119
To Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves.
Jan., 1908 .. £1,484 Nil £1484 15,603
Written off reserves, £2957 .. 12,646
Dec., 1908 . . 6,540 7 p.c. = £5197 1343 13,989
Dec., 1909 . . 7,284 S „ „ 5939 1345 15,334
Dec., 1910 . . 11,327 101 „ „ 7795 3532 18,866
Dec., 1911.. 8,569 9 „ ~ 6682 1887 20,753
Dec., 1912.. 8,319 9 „ „ 6682 1637 22,390
Dee.; 1913 . . 8,302 9 „ ~ 6682 1620 24,010
Dec., 1914.. 9,040 9 ~ 6682 2358 26,368
Dec., 1915 .. 6,899 9 ~ „ 6682 217 26,585
Dee., 1916.. 6,979 9 , ~ 0682 297 26,882
Dec., 1917 . . 8.407 9 ~ ~ 6682 1725 28,607
There was never a good thing that wasn't
put to a bad use. Belief in Australia’s great
natural resources is a good thing—one of the
best. But eve/ry few years the party poli-
ticians —taken all round the most immoral
class in the community—seize hold of that
good thing an/1 exploit it bv building a boom
upon it. By pushing the country into debt
they can produce the superficial evidences of
prosperity; and then, of course, they are
, statesmen. Presently the fact that the pros-
perity is bogus strikes somebody—generally
somebody who has done some of the lending
—and the ’bubble is pricked. That happened
in Melbourne 20-odd years ago; and it meant
smash for stcores of concerns that had bought
property at inflated prices, or lent far more
money on property than it was honestly
worth. Some of them struggled on to pay
their creditors and save a little for them-
selves ; others in despair sold what was left
to concerns such as the Freehold Assets Co.,
took down ftheir own signboards and tried to
forget. Naturally such cos. as this secured
the assets ' at prices much below the
old book values; and as 'the market recov-
ered, at first because the country got to work
and then because the politicians engineered
another boom, they unloaded at a profit. This
co. has thus 'been able to make a steady 9
p.c. div., and, in addition to the reserves
shown above, It has now £31,177 of expected
profit—that is to say. profit which will be
realised if the sales it has made are com-
pleted on the terms arranged. Last year’s
realised profit was £2834; but the expected
profit was reduced by £2403, which looks as
though very little property was sold during
the 12 months.
The next comparison shows the principal
movements since the present co. was formed :
1908. 1916. 1917.
Liabilities.. .. .. £89,954 £101,826 £83,859
Realisation suspense account 7,460 33,640 31,177
Property . . . . . . 76,438 30,808 30,604
Shares in other cos. . . 6,256 114,338 114,364
Balances owing .. .. 58,440 57,312 37,460
Other assets . . . . 46,589 37,848 39,172
As the assets originally secured have been
realised the co. has bought other wrecks,
mostly represented by shares. The largest
purchase was the Land Mortgage Bank, of
which it owns nearly all the stock. These
cos. nominally carry on business independ-
ently ; and obviously, until one knows how
they are panning out, one does not know
much about the assets behind this co., since
“shares” represent an amount equal to this
co.’s entire capital and reserves. So far as
the £85,000 or thereabouts invested in the
Land Mortgage Bank is concerned, there is
property to show for that much and £25,000
besides; but the time is coming when, owing
to increased taxation, carrying charges will
be heavy, and prospects of unloading pro-
perties at satisfactory prices are not Bright.
* * * *
Charles Anderson & Co., Ltd., hat
manufacturers (Sydney)—the deficit to start
with represents the intangible item of good-
will :
Towards
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1912. . £19,621 10 p.c. = £7,500 £3121 £4151
1913.. 11,118 10 „ 7,500 3618 533
Reserves.
1914.. 9,620 8 „ „ 6,000 3620 3087
1915.. No accounts available; old co. busy form-
ing itself into a new one, writing up its
assets, and doubling its capital ( £75,000
to £150,000) to correspond.
To Re- Nominal
Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1916.. 12,257 8 p.c. = 12,000 257 257
1917.. 12,280 8 „ „ 12,000 280 537
This is one of the manufacturing cos. that
deserve well of the Commonwealth: it is
covering Australian heads with hats made
by Australian labor from local material.
For about 15 years now the co. has been
making a success of its job, and, incident-
ally, giving the lie to the importers’ libel
that robust Australian labor cannot do as
well in manufactures as the under-paid,
poorly-fed and sweated worker overseas.
Certainly the Australian must be first
trained in new industries, and Australian
labor must be prepared not to raise a mur-
mur against the importation of six, or even
26, experienced hands from overseas fac-
tories if the Commonwealth is to free itself
of the foreign-trade article. The hat-
factories are working under the protection of
a 35 p,c. import duty; but we are not cold-
shouldering the imported headgear to any-
thing like the extent we should. In 1906
we imported hats and caps invoiced at
£504,193; and in 1916. £417,470. This lat-
ter total includes 47,876 dozen felts worth
£135,752, every one of which should have
been made in our own factories.
Still, even though the average Australian
is unconcerned as to whether he has a
foreign or a “Made in Australia” label
pasted in his hat. Chas. Anderson’s Federal
Mills are prospering. Liabilities and more
or less liquid assets have moved this way
in five years
1912. 1916. 1917.
Liabilities ..£33,185 £15,636 £14,546
Assets. —
Stock.. .. 25,459 46,824 55,456
Rook debts . . 18,196 20,158 24,499
Cash, etc. . . 21,495 10,073 295
During the past 12 months £lO,OOO of War
Loan has disappeared, the cash apparently
having been required for the business. How-
ever, in five years the figures show an in-
crease of over £33.000 in the surplus of
more or less liquid assets over liabilities.
That is not bad going.


Champions Fed on Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal
“JAMIE OF KABIBINOKKA ”
Champion and Grand Champion, Sydney Royal, and South Coast Shows.
Bred and owned by Jas. Pritchard, Esq., Kabibinokka, Numba, N.S.W.
i*
. V- • ' •
• .
■ .
,
“ MILTON’S DIXIE."
Champion Guernsey Cow, 3 years and under -f in milk. Bred and owned by
A. Hordern, Esq., Bowral, N.S.W.
m
R
a»s
Steals
“FANNY KING O’ROCK.”
Champion Fresian Bull. Owned by A. Lamond, Esq., Brundle, Nowra, N.B.W.
n
mmm
r*r-
:
WINNING TEAMS OWNED BY T. G. SMITH, ESQ., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY.
These are only a Few of the Champions at 1918 R.A.S.
Fed on ©Meggitts Linseed Oil Meal
Equally Effective for All Classes of stocK.
Horses, Cows, Calves, Pigs, Poultry and Sheep will materially benefit by
addition of Meggitt’s Linseed OH Meal to all rations .
HtGGnrs
PNSEEDCBIf^J
m
nEEGITT c
Ihe Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
Mr. W. CARTER, Manager of A. Horderns Stud, Bowral, has been using Meggitfs Linseed Meal for six gears, and
sags it increases yield of milk and butter-fat production.
Mr. T. G. SMITH, of (Jamperdown, who won six prizes and four firsts, sags that Meggitfs Linseed Oil Meal contains
all the essential qualities necessary for production of Bone and Muscle, and maintenance of condition when in
active work.
PAMPHLET No. 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents:
Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Wm. Adams Ltd., Perth; Clarkson Ltd. Adelaide; Blair Reed & Co., GPO Box 941
Wellington ; R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane ; F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
or
h
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil an i Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers of Australia)
26 KING STREET, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.'


COLLARS
yk&'t?
sqm
■ %<g
vj
ojp//
»f
Q/»
«
«?«•*
V*
7mlf.
r*mj
are washed in
purer water
than you drink .
Kvery drop is put through Abbott
Filters; that is one reason why
Pelaco Collars launder so per-
fectly and are always smart and
dressy.
Military Shape, 9d. each
Cavalry Shape, 1 /- each
are illustrated above. The name
indicates the style and price.
Heights; “Military,” If in., 2in.,
2-Jin:, 2 Jin. “Cavalry,” lfin.,
2in.; 2Jin, Sizes, 14 to 18.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
tfgh
■:
WEAR
SHIRTS& PYJAMAS
ALSO J
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
gf
j
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the oVI
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness. ,
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 8916 City. ' SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
ygh
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5/-
Prepare You** Dogs for the
Coursing Season
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog: Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dos Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
j
ghjk
gh
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns Air Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. No Pick ! No Urease!
No Smoke! No Odor! Hang or Set
it anywhere. Over 100 Styles.
AGENTS WANTED.
THE BEST LIGHT CO.,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSED PILES. VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence, in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
fiSHUMR
PUTS A SPARKLE
cOf\WUH c
Oder
IN YOU
Because it is made from only the purest juice
of the World Famous Tasmanian Apple. It is
not only a delicious Drink, but has a most excel-
lent tonic effect on the system. Doctors recom-
mend it for its diuretic properties. Order a
dozen from your grocer.
Victorian Agents:
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD, Melbourne.
jhg
K l rvce
fR /r r-ANDS
s&n wnF-? 5 -
-*:••:>
BAKIP
S£. ,r»d
Housewives Everywhere Find
it Satisfactory.
For many years Ireland’s Bakin? Powder has
been used by the Australian Housekeepers.
Its fame has spread because of its reliability.
If it were not all we claim we could not
guarantee
Ireland’s Baking Powder
so unreservedly as we do. Should the con-
tents for any reason not meet with your
approval, you may return it to your grocer
and he will refund the purchase price.
IRELAND'S BAKING POWDER contains only
the choicest ingredients, scientifically com-
pounded in the proper proportions, which
insure the success of Cakes, Scones or Pastry.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Tooth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them. clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Ppst free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne
HORLICKo
MALTED MILK,
is a pure rich milk combined
with the extract of malted grams
• —very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
{sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson
Sydney, N.S.W.
©
JSfSrE
j
7\sk for Horßclcs
at the Soda Fountain
■ '
In a “Jiffy”—
Yeti! it shaves in a “jiffy”—in a quarter the
usual time. So keen is the blade, and so
finely tempered is
The “PLUM” RAZOR
that its edge remains keeii for an indefinite
period. Requires but little stropping, and one
lathering of the face is usually sufficient.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge. -
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube,
Post Free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our
Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORQE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
4?
awsons
ewar
THE LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE.
WORLD-FAMED FOR QUALITY GEMS.
The Best Qualities and Values are sold direct to the
Public by the 10 Stewart Dawson Establishments in
Australia and London.
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Brisbane,
Perth,
Auckland,
Wellington,
Dunedin,
Christchurch.
J 22- l -Fine Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
set in Platinum
and 18-ct. Gold,
£lO/10/-
K79—Fine Dia-
mond and Platinum
Cluster Ring,
£ll/10/-
73 to 81
Regent
Street,
London.
19, 20, 21
Hatton
Garden,
London.
Superb Diamond Rings
Fashionable, Unique and Exclusive Designs in Immense Varieties.
The Finest Quality Diamonds and Skilled Workmanship aie
characteristic of every Ring offered, while our Low Prices save
money to every buyer.
All our Diamonds are Platinum Set.
GALL AND INSPECT. OR WRITE FOR RING CATALOGUE.
STEWART DAWSON’S
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Phil Q.: The surest way of getting MS.
viewed with disfavor to start with is to pack the
tjped lines so close together that a nib can’t poke
in between... .John Q.: Don’t know anything about
Edward I.’s mascot. Tedone was a dubious person. It
was claimed for him that he expelled the Jews from
England, but if he did he left some wonderfully
good imitations.... Irene: “It was a dream I had
some months ago.” Forget it, girl. This is no time
for fantasies... .Barry B.: No use sending us
stuff that lias been printed elsewhere. If you know
anything about him that hasn’t already been pub-
lished send it along Settled: Rabbits Het:
Gut out pars or otherwise identify them by date and
page, and send to the Accountant. By the way, the
harpoon story has come along regularly since the
second week of Gallipoli, and most of the others have
been well chewed over... .D.0.T.1.: Sorry it didn’t
suit. As for your threat that you’ll never give us
another 6d., have pity... .lvurrajong: That one not
up... .Woolloowarr: Cockney stuff won’t do; you
never heard “Liz” go on like that in any Parlia-
ment gallery in Australia... .Bombardier: What
you fellow’s don’t seem to realise is that the Aus-
tralian -press is under much the same restrictions as
you are... .Hannibal: Not up.... H.C.: Doubt if the
scheme is possible... .F.W.W.: You can’t rhyme
“war” with “law” in this or any other paper....
A. II.: That should rouse somebody, if anything can:
All ye men of Australia,
Hear ye the Empire’s call?
Flock ye then to the banner,
Lest the Empire fall.
For the British Bulldog boasteth,
That he doth'never cease,
After he once hath bitten,
’Til lie’s bitten off his piece.
Now the. British Bulldog’s bitten
As much as he can chew —
A bite of the German Empire,
And sore he needeth you.
Will you let the eagles tear him?
Let them rend him beak and claw?
Just because you funk it,
Just becabse you funk the war?
. ...E.J.F.: There’s promise in it R.D.E.: Not
quite. >. .C.H.T.: It wanted better handling... .J.R.:
Ungrammatical in places. But that is a minor fault.
L.R.T.: No thrill in these “Warnings”....
Observant: That wrangle is finally 0ff.... Seton:
Can’t answer pars; don’t remember the one you sent
in a year ago. One just to hand is an old friend....
P. E. Forster: “Fair Girls and Grey Horses,” “Ileai/ts
of Gold” and “The Australian,” by Will H. Ogilvie
(Angus and Robertson, Sydney, 3s. 6d. each)....
B. :We don’t print books, and certainly don’t
want to read them when typed on two sides of the
paper. The verse submitted isn’t g00d.... J.F.M.:
Too rugged. You’ll have to take a lot more pains....
A.L.D.: Cheerless stuff with commonplace thought....
N.J.S.: Worth a par A. E. Aiteh: Machine-made
yarn in a dialect never spoken.... Lana: The Parable
fails. So many of them d0....R.P.: “Stiff” doesn’t
carry us off our feet.... W.N.H.: Mostly old stuff.
. ...C.C.: Couldn’t print that; but there’s an idea in
it. Try again.... Levon: Not our style... .J.E.:
“To make a song” isn't the “easiest thing,” and you
won’t get far while you think it is... .Lela M.: “The
Creek” is pretty, but very slight... .F. 5.8.: Nothing
for us. .. .L.H.P.: Not up... .N.A.E.: Don’t care for
“Kingship”. .v.N.L.: Clumsy... ;M.A.H.: Pedantic
and muddled R.S.: “Wrong Horse” doesn’t‘work
out well. Why. don’t you write as if you wanted your
stuff read?... iU.P.: Sorry, verse makes no appeal
to us.. ..J.R.: Verse lumps and bumps and waddles,
but gets nowhere C.D.0.: Nicely done, but not
enough in it. .. .P.W.0’0.: Nothing much wrong ex-
cept that they don’t say anything. .. .Good Friday:
Very slight 8.H.: “On a Painting” is a good
enough sonnet, but not of general interest. “Unrest”
doesn’t stir us B.I.: “Fantasy” no good F.P.:
Thin; and, anyhow, you 'can’t rhyme “smoke” with
“denote” W.H.G.: Not up to the mark... .D.8.C.:
It is more than a year since we were prohibited from
mentioning such matters. .. .H.H.M.: Thanks for
kindly feeling; but the verse hardly roars for print.
... .Garnet: Not quite... .R.S.: “Crack Hardy” won’t
do. There’s humor in the idea ; but, as written, it
sounds like outsized brag. .. .E.M.E.: “The Unin-
vited” is good verse, but its pulse is weak.... J.H.:
Try to get something fresh to say. What’s the use
of tramping the old circle in the old phrases?....
JT.: Commonplace thought in bumpy metre....
Ex-Owner: Same old yarn which one smart gag won’t
carry.... Jim F.: Not enough there... .E.G.: You
spoil them with bad rhymes. “Silence” —“violence”
gives us a pain... .K.N.8.: Thin little thing.... Boy
Scout: No use to us... .L.R.T.: “Morning” is bad
prose pretending to be verse... .First Attempt: We
should think so A.E.T.: “Not to be” until you’ve
learned a 10t... .M.N.: “The Hour” is nothing at all.
....Constant Reader: No delight in that “Sausage.”
1 . ...E.M.: N 0... .Woodeus: There’s meat in that
description of the bridge:—
Where the policemen watch the waters beneath
Prince’s Bridge keen the whole night long,
Lest some poor soul in fate’s cruel teeth
Give his'life agony for death’s white song.
Where girls’ faces all powdered white,
With the beauty of make-believe,
Looking grand in the lowered light,
Till its purity lays on your sleeve,
Where a big fat grub in a motor-car
Grazes your heel as he passes,
And he laughs with a scornful ha, ha,
At you of the lower classes.
.. . E.8.L,: Regret “Aunt T.” must go home
A.M.E.: “Pete’s” action turns the sympathy to the
woman Rufus: Couldn’t quite crowd through
C. : Ditto M.M.A.: Pretty lamentable
F.E.: Can’t find anything there J.M.M.: N 0....
F.T.: Verse as bad as that could only make a recruit
-angry M. J.R.: Sorrowful M.P.S.C. (or some-
thing) : As far as we can read, it is no good.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
V.R.H.: They’re horrible things and they glimmer
infernally A.C.J.: Not a living in it for you
J.S.G.: Crude drawing of a merely-local celebrity
E.T.: Your Kaiser doesn’t look like himself. Well,
he probably doesn’t feel like it either.... L.C.: Sorry
not useable J.R.: The johnny is working off an
old gag G.H.: Too weak to stand.... James S.:
Flat L.E.: Decent attempt at a big thing
E.IL: Sad beginnings end here R.C.V.: You have
invented a humorous sitting dog. We thought at first
he was scratching himself in his sleep, but he appears
to be dying of boredom with his ears disarranged.


"CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
%
WJ,
•>>r
rs
h m
m
sbs
e®
M
"/tiil'ji
Qiih
mi
JV :*'/
£
?/
WS
/
1
©
/
~**£a>h
9
/ Si
&
T7A
■rm
%
w
55
M
:' '■ '-•
*
IS
■■■■V
m
3***
as?
mt
m
-53
m
yy
Ol
A-y%4m
m
r-i
I i~ L
(4
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Camouflages
o
All his crew.
Now they look,
As you might say,
“Just like nothing
Far away!”
Fritz will never
Spot them now,
Or he’ll take them
For a cow.
That’s a “COBRA”
Trick to use,
You can bet
Your boots and shoes.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Gabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd..
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
‘ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACK AY
BOWEN
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
OOOMA (4000 Tons)..
Leaves Melbourne, May 11.
Leaves Sydney, May 14. ,
MKLUOURNE ]
(Transhipping fni |
S.A. and W.A. ports) J
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Loaves Sydney, May 21.
"Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Him Uiii |c. I’n I> lio Companies, iSc
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The lion.' Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman); WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY. M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.MVG. ; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.; THOS.
WELSBY.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Heacl Ollice: Brisbane.
Sydney Ollice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office; 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND - and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
Limited.
Incorporated under' 1 the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. * ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital •• -. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund;,. .. ... .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893' specially protected.
Edvvd. Running, Esq. (Chairman);
Hon. G. AV. Gray, M.L.Ci ; James Love, Esq.
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OIFICE - - - mas DANE.
Brunches— Loudon, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America', Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea3t.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK ,N,
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. . Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES Lj
BRISBANE (264 Queen Stfget). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.'
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street). ’
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Bankiiig Business Transacted.
|ank of Qeiii Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
hg
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
G
EORGE HOTEL
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-BED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) ANI
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific. ’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
jgh
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Groups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP g CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
Established 1817.
Reserve Fund
Reserve Inability
Directors:
£3,904,860
£2,875,000
- - £3,904,860
£i 0,684,720
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black,
Thomas Buekland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull,_Esq., M
M.L.C.
.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. , .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the o orld.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager,
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
j
JBank ot Hustralia
SYDNEY.
Open
for a. 11
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Bankin'” and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth. United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
ghk
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches) and over
ncnn Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
Deputy Governor. June, 1916 DENISON MILLER, Governor
PROVIDE A RESERVE FUND
by banking your surplus earnings where they will
accumulate with interest at the rate of 3| per cent, per
annum, and be available when required.
Government Saving's BanK of
New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards.
Interest Limit £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State.
No Agencies at Post Office.
The Bank that Pays 51% Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to al)
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. RUPARA, May 4.
S.S. MORI ALTA, May 11.
S.S. PARIN'GA, May 18.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Visitors are not allowed on Company’s Wharves
nor on board Company’s Steamers.
G. S. YIIILL * CO.. LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast. Passenger Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained, on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Uobart and vice versa every three
weeks. Between .Melbourne and Launceston three
sailings per week.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AME R 1 C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
DIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle: ELDER. SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
L' WEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE. BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets areiOued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QULENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS, —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.: second-class rail and on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING 'OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IT’S GREAT
gh
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Philip Erankel & Co., Edward St., Bris-
bane; Eyes & Crowle Etd., Pirie St.,
Adelaide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300
G.P.0., Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto Sup-
plies Co. Pty., Elizabeth St., Melbourne;
R. R. Russack, 377 a., Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
l LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
A_ should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
Containing mail and cable news from Aus-
.ralia and news of Australians in Europe
nd at home. Australians are cordially in*
ited to visit the British AustbalasiaN
Heading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hoi*
horn. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 10
£875 0
6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
6 „ „ £5
o „ „ £lO
o „ » £5O
o „ „ £lOO
0 „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and interest is free of Income Tax.
6 ? War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
CoMMOirwitALTH Bank of Australia. October , 1917
A
VON
TYRES.
Miles for Your Money.
I
U ;
FIRST
by Merit.
Here is the Motor Bicycle to
take you anywhere in comfort.
By sheer merit the B.S.A.
Motor Bicycle has proved
itself the ideal solo and sidecar
machine. For business and
pleasure, town or country, the
B.S.A. will not only give you
reliable service but will also
prove most economical.
Q
MOTOR BICYCLES
For Solo & Sidecar.
For over 40 years B.S.A. produc-
tions have maintained one hi&h
standard of quality, and the material
and workmanship embodied in
B.S.A. Motor Bicycles are of this
famous B.S.A. quality. Every part
of a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle has to
pass the most severe testing and is
guaranteed interchangeable.
A
B.S.A. Motor List
Free .
D. Y. RENNIE,
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
IS
«fe
A
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red' and white corpuscles
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease. In
Anaemia —or bloodlessness—
the red corpuscles are more
or less deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Therefore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
—the eyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feeling of
intense weariness pervades
the whole system. To over-
come Anremia, the blood
supply needs recharging wjth
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
The Wine of Life
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘Wincarnis’
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks —
gives a sparkle to the eyes—
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
'Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and* Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
HI
THE BEST
ASMOKE
ASTER
TOBACCO
Australian Mutual Provident Society*
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CHrectohs Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. 3.
Esq?; lUchard* Teece Esq BUrnS ’ K ' C ' M ' G '’ M ' L,C - : Adrian Knox, Esq., ICC.; Samuel Hordern,
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
Amrmnf j* « DISTRIBUTES a CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
• for one year .’ I 9 •• £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,560,000
Writ! y n^n eS f eVery A de f l^ b e / orm of P° licy Contract from « upwards. ’
_ Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
&
<r
THE AUSTRALIAN
SKANDIA”
k
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
h??
m
m
: (■
■
mm
Vi
■mm
m
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON, Loftus Street, Sydney.
1
m
£5
Leslie
Salt Licks
Leslie Salt Licks have won their splendid reputation on tlieir own sheer merits.
Pure sea-salt with phosphates, they contain no alum, plaster of paris or dirt.
They are pure and wholesome, and aid the digestion of your cows, horses, sheep
and other animals. This results in an increase in working capacity and milk
supplies. Order some to-day.
2/- per block, or 22/6 per case
of one dozen.
JLfcANER AND CHEAPER THAN ROCK SALT.
Wholesale from
/"BUZACOTT & CO., 7-11 Market Street.
I HOLDS WORTH MACrHEBSON & CO., 252 George Street.
HOOKER CHAPMAN & CO., 188 Sussex Street.
- HARRY SHELLY, 185 Clarence Street.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD., Phillip Street.
WATSON & NOBLE, 257 Sussex Street.
N.S.W. PRODUCE CO., 226 Sussex Street.
Retail:— NOCK & KIRBY, LTD., George Street North (Near Quay)
Country Orders: Freight to be added.
f fil
*r<S* a
A
IVork up the lather with wet
brush {don't use fingers.)
hjgkghjkh
j
gh
The New Way to Shave
Just three simple operations and your shaving is
done! No impatient calling for “hot-water’' —no
“soaping-up” in a mug—no mussy “rubbing-in" with
the fingers. The rich abundant lather of
SHAVING CREAM
simplifies these operations. No
smarting burning after - effects.
Mennen’s contains no free caustic
or other irritant to torture or dis-
figure your face.
Mennen’s saves you time and
torture. It leaves your face soft,
cool, comfortable and refreshed.
Use it and you will realize that you
have been wrongfully blaming your
razor the secret of a good shave
is the lather.
Mennen’s Shaving Cream is
put up in airtight, sanitary tubes
with handy hexagon screw tops.
Prove its value. Try it, that is
the only way to find out what it
will do for you.
Obtainable at all leading chemists and
stores
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St., Sydney, N. S. W.
Trade Mark
Send penny stamped
envelope for free sample ot
“MENNEN’S”
TALCUM FOR MEN *


Mis sin £r Friends.
KING Mrs. ALICIA LAVINIA (for-
merly Astill). late of Narromine, or
anyone knowing address of, kindly communi-
eate ,1. J. KIELY, Solicitor, 29 Elizabeth
Street, Sydney.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Navy Office, Melbourne,
24th April, 1918.
Special Entry of Naval Cadets in the
Royal Navy.
Attention is invited to the common-
A WEALTH OF AUSTRALIA GAZETTE of
iMth April. 1918, in which appears a copy of
the Regulations for the Special Entry of
A aval Cadets to the Royal Navy for train-
mg at the Royal Naval Colleges at Osborne
and Dartmouth.
Candidates for this Special Entry must
be not more than 18* nor less than 17* years
or age on the Ist of June of the year in which
the examination is held. No nomination is
required.
Applications should be made to the Secre-
lary of the Admiralty, Whitehall, London,
'V •> n ot later than the Ist of April of each
year A form of application to be filled in
by the parent or guardian of the candidate
may be obtained from the Admiralty, Lon-
don.
Copies of the Regulations may be obtained
on application to the Naval Secretary,
Navy Office, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
THE BARRETT
MULTI-TRUCK
Reduces cost of handling goods by elimin-
ating useless loading and unloading of
Trucks. Material is handled on Plat-
forms, and entire load and Platform moved
in ONE operation in OXPI instant by
ONE man, who with a Barrett Multi-
Truck replaces five men with ordinary
trucks.
Prices and full particulars on application to
the undernoted :
MELBOURNE: The Modern Printing Co.
Prop., Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE: Box 200, G.P.0., Brisbane.
ADELAIDE: Henry Savage, 1 Gawler
Place, Adelaide.
PERTH: T. F. Christie, Hay Street, Perth.
SYDNEY: THE SOLE AUSTRALASIAN
AGENTS, Box 1612 G.P.0., Sydney.
1
yr
mm
m
4
■
■
'>* ‘ W&
W&
<mm
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
“THE SORROWS OF SATAN ,” AT
SYDNEY OPERA HOUSE.
Geoffrey Tempest (Rutland Beckett) has a
vision of George Cross as the Devil.
“Melb”: Re G. B. Post and “The Mas-
querader”—the title under which “John Chil-
cote, was reprinted in America. Mrs.
Thurston, authoress of the novel, was a Miss
Madden, born in Cork. 1875. Related to Vic-
toria’s late Chief Justice Madden, whose
father began business as a solicitor in Cork,
Miss Madden married a novelist named
Thurston in 1901. She had then no thoughts
of writing, being noted rather as horsewoman
and swimmer. After her big success in 1904.
she published four ether novels, but none
caught on. In 1910 she divorced her husband
for cruelty, and next year she died. Thurs-
ton went on writing novels.
“Harrison O.” : Guy Bates Post has been
telling us how wonderfully “fortunate” Aus-
tralian theatregoers are in getting only “the
best of the hundreds of plays that are pro-
duced yearly”:—•
Americans have their pleasure in theatre-going
diluted by having to take the bad with the good.
After the sifting out has been done Australians
get the pick of the successes without being troubled
to any extent by the failures.
The chief effect of the “sifting out” is to
deprive Australians of the opportunity of
seeing plays which have been successful
artistically, but only moderately so finan-
cially ; and it is to the credit of our theatre-
goers that they occasionally show their re-
sentment by staying away in large numbers
from things like “A Little Bit of Fluff” and
“Fair and Warmer,” which were big over-
seas booms. The “sifting out” process has
given us dreadful things—failures from
every point of view, so far as Australia is
concerned —like “Baby Mine,” “Over There,”
“The Cinderella Man,” “The Woman,” “The
JLv a 1 n 1) o w, and
many more, while
depriving us of
some of the best,
not only of Sliaw.
Galsworthy and
writers of their
calibre, but even of
Pinero, Barrie,
Vachell and other
commercially - suc-
'cessful lesser lights.
If booksellers took
upon themselves a
simi 1 a r “sifting
out” we could rely
upon getting the
latest howling suc-
cesses of ’A 11
Caine, Char 1 e s
Garbage and Gene
Something Torter,
but would have no
chance of making
the acquaintance of
Galsworthy, Mase-
field, Thomas Burke
or Compton
Mackenzie. And if
would-be intelligent
readers were then
told that they ought
to give three cheers
for the high-minded
book-importers who
“De Luxe Annie," at
Sydney Palace.
Georgia Harvey as
Mrs. Gilmore, the
garrulous hoarding-
house-keeper.
only let them have what was good for them,
they would naturally consider that insult
was being added to injury.
“Hamer’: Here, at the Front, the Aus-
tralians, eager as ever for amusement, rush
the few shows available. There is any amount
of talent forthcoming amongst the soldiers to
keep them going. The “Kangaroos” and the
Kookaburras” are two lively vaudeville
parties in our sector; and there are picture
shows, besides Y.M.C.A. entertainments and
lectures. They are all crowded ; and some of
the shows find it necessary to give two per-
formances—one commencing at 5 p.m. and
another after 7. There hasn’t been a play
put on since I’ve been handy, although,
knowing of several actors who are here-
abouts, I’m at present seeing if one can be
arranged. Australian writers who have
bright, laughable, broad-humored plays on
band might do worse than send them over to
somebody who would help the cause of
amusement along. So keen are some of the
men on any entertainment that comes to dis-
tract them that I have known men fresh from
the line finish up at “the show” after a
clean-up and a feed of fried eggs.
“Fax”: “The Madras House” won’t be
stolen from the Repertory to grace the com-
mercial stage in Australia. Two perform-
ances of Granville Barker’s comedy at Mel-
bourne Playhouse left the proper relations
between the sexes in the same old doubt;
and, seeing that there is no “sleeping in”
system at Melbourne drapery stores, the dis-
cussions that gather around the indiscretion
of Miss Yates sound more absurd than they
would seem even to London shopgirls. Any-
how, the idea of a drapery boss holding 'a
court of inquiry into the charge of kissing
a shopman, brought against Miss Yates by a
grim housekeeper, is a ridiculous excuse for
dragging four types into a repertory play.
Bernard Shaw excuses any sort of false situ-
ation by the impishness of his humor; Gran-
ville Barker doesn’t. In this play he is at his
best as a satirist of the querulous, boresome
wife who had lived in hope that her gay old
husband would at last return to his allegi-
ance and give her the opportunity to “close
his eyes in death.”
“Ino”: I was at a circus in aN. S. Wales
country town a few nights ago and watched
the way the amuse-
ment tax was
worked. The
charges for admis-
sion were 2s. 2d.
and 3s. 3d., the
pence being war-
tax, they said.
There were no
stamps on the tick-
ets or with them.
The tickets were
sold at a waggon
and taken at the
door. There was
no visible reason,
why the same tick-
ets could not be
used a dozen times.
I asked the local
policeman whether
it was his job to
watch the tax. He
told me he had
nothing to do with
it. A few nights
before, at a picture
show in the same
town, no tickets
were issued. The
doorkeeper took the
money and one
passed in. I could
not discover anyone
keeping tally. I take
it the showmen
collect the tax from
“The Masquerader ,”
at Melbourne King's.
Brock (Lionel Bel-
more) discovers an-
other hiding place of
Chilcote's drugs.
fill and send in just as much as they feel
they can spare.
A note from E. C. Davidson, director of
“the Australian National Theatre” :
The prize offered by the A.ST.T. for the best play
falls to “The Moon Child,” by Jasper Wood, of
Perth. It is written in a slightly archaic form,
without much strong dramatic action, depending
rather on its rhythm of motion, color and music of
words. A most original play, and if re-written for
the commercial stage would make a pleasing addi-
tion to the Australian list. The following quote
from Poetry (America) regarding Cloyd Head’s
“Grotesques,” produced at the Little Theatre,
Chicago, is rather apt of “The Moon Child”: “If I
give this production precedence over Ibsen, Strind-
berg, Schnitzler, over Wilde, Synge and Yeats, over
Shaw and Allan Mohkhouse, over even the beautiful
productions of ‘The Trojan Women’ and ‘Medea,’
it is because the special purpose of the Little
Theatre seems to me to he to produce the modern and
native thing, to try the immediate experiment, rather
than to present old plays or foreign plays, which, in
many cases, have had other local productions.” The
second place was given to “The Gathering of Gold,”
by Chas. Carter (“Kavta” he prefers), of Mel-
bourne. This is a melodrama on safe lines; the
earlier part goes well enough, but it tapers off in
the latter part. It gains second place mainly by
reason of its acting qualities. I wish Australians
to believe we are perfectly sincere in this pioneer-
ing work. It is not a hobby—it is a religion. “Out
of pure love of the Art,” with little thought of self
or pelf, we are doing this pioneer experimental work,
which the professionals, pre-oceupied with both,
refuse to do.
Dr. Nil”: “J.F.11.” (B. 18/4/’18), writ-
ing from London of Ruhleben, “the big camp
on the Berlin Racecourse,” says that the
prisoners there, “including many Aus-
tralians,” are producing a different play
every week, and gives particulars as to the
authors, etc. He goes on to say: “Now
they are appealing to us here in London for
fresh material.” All this is bewildering to me,
who have only heard of Ruhleben through
the medical journals as a place where Eng-
lish and Australasian prisoners were deliber-
ately infected with typhus, typhoid and other
contagious diseases, and left to die thereof
without medical attendance, and were also
denied sufficient clothing and bedding to pre-
vent them from dying of sheer exposure and
cold ! Is “J.F.H.” sure that the “appeals”
are not German camouflage?
Dorothy Brunton is coming back from
America. She finds that there are worse
places than home. Her success in Australia
was immense. The ’Murkans did not take so
violently to the little lady.
From a girl in New York :
Charles Schwabe, millionaire, was “tickled to
death” when he heard about Melba’s Australian sing-
ing class. He insisted upon giving a scholarship, and
the cheque which he handed over to the Dame was big
enough to last two years. Peggy Centre, from Hono-
lulu, is to have the handsome gift. Last Sunday
Stella Power, chaperoned by Melba, sang amidst the
glories of the Schwabe home. There were three
millionaires to the square rod, and they all applauded
violently. Just when Stella was going home the host
took her aside and gently thrust a 500-dollar bill
into her hand. It was his way of saying he liked the
song.
k red Collier, having made a “go” of his
small popular concerts last winter, has
larger ideas for this year. He offers Satur-
day ‘Chappell” concerts in the Auditorium,
with local stars on the programme, and feels
certain that he will launch some future
prima-donnas.
Director Tallis, of the Firm, has slipped
away to America, taking G. PI. Smith of
the Royal as aide-de-camp and traffic-
manager.
ANY SUBURBAN WIFE AT ANY PICTURE-SHOW.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
We live a humdrum sort of life,
Devoid of worry or of strife;
I am, I hope, a faithful wife,
My husband’s love requiting;
But when each Thursday night we gaze
At our suburban picture-plays,
I oft regret that movie-ways
Are so much more exciting.
To my regret, I’ve never been
Importuned by a lover keen
To fly with him and be his queen—
Of course, I’d not be willing.
But if he chased me round with zest,
And strained me fainting to his breast
At midnight, it must be confessed
I’d find it rather thrilling.
I’ve never found a millionaire
Insisting I his rooms should share—-
And if he did, I wouldn’t dare:
I love my husband-man more.
Though to those rooms I’d like to go
At one a.nj. to tell him so,
And strike an attitude. .. .but, no!
What would they think in Stanmore?
Though if I went, be sure I’d go
In something clinging close, cut low;
For when you give your shape a show
No villain dares to hurt you.
I’ve noticed when the heroine
(Joes out “That Night” to make a scene,
It’s always in her erfipe de chine
She best protects her virtue.
I’m never asked to sacrifice
My virtue, as the villain’s price,
To save my husband. It’s not nice
To think of, but I’m nettled
That though our bills we cannot pay,
No handsome grocer calls to say
That if I’ll be a trifle gay
He’ll call the month’s bill settled.
I don’t unfaithful want to be;
And if the iceman wickedly
Declared his fiery love for me,
I’m sure I’d not return it.
I wouldn’t even sell my soul
To Don Juan who brings the coal.
Though no one wants me for that role
I’d love the chance to spurn it!
N.S.W.
A. H. A.
THE LOST DASH.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
“Tbe dashing air that goes with tights.”
—Sundry Showman.
Five years ago I saw her prance
And skip and frisk across the stage ;
Acknowledged leader of the dance,
I'o me she earned the whole crowd’s wage.
The way she spoke her one lone line
A lesson was to neophytes ;
She showed a form acclaimed divine,
And had —how could she fail to shine?
The dashing air that goes with tights.
Her rise was rapid ; in a year
A speaking part was hers. More joy
Came to the front seats: ‘‘What a dear,
That super-shapely second ‘boy’!”
And when the principal fell ill
My heroine to topmost heights
Soared easily ; she filled the bill,
And filled the clothes, retaining still
The dashing air that goes with tights.
Then she “retired.” The well-worn wheeze
In her case marriage meant. To whom ?
For such a bride whoever sees
On this earth a deserving ’groom?
We never knew the lucky beau;
Disconsolate we sat o’ nights,
Watching her tame successor’s show—
A girl all pads, who lacked the “go,”
The, dashing air that goes with tights.
There is a pub gt Dingo Flats.
In the bar-parlor, on the wall,
A photo hangs, a picture that’s
The pride of Dingo Flat-ites all:
The “Boy” ! The draw of yesterday
In drawing beer to-day delights!
She’s stout and slow, the erstwhile fay,
And we may guess has lost for aye
The dashing air that goes with tights.
VICTORIA.
E. T.


/■
In the -first place, you will
be sure of its perform-
ance, for every Stude-
baker Car carries a 12-
months’ guarantee, a flat
one-year assurance, in
addition to the convinc-
ing world-wide guarantee
of quality that is given
by the name Studebaker
itself.
In the second place, you
will have a car of proved
quality. For Studebaker
quality the result of
Studebaker policy, Stude-
baker manufacturine re-
sources and Studebaker
engineering knowledge
—-is known all over the
world.
The third reason why your
next car should be a
Studebaker is economv.
j
From the standpoint of
economy —what it costs
to own and to run a car
-—Studebaker is, in the
judgment of hundreds of
thousands of people, the
best buy on the market.
Its splendid quality insures
lasting durability. Its
perfection of design in-
sures great power at the
lowest possible consump-
tion of petrol.
There is also to consider
the actual saving of from
to on the
initial price, as compared
with any other cars of
equal quality —a saving
made possible by the
growing popularity of
Studebaker cars and the
resultantvolume of manu-
facture.
And the extreme simplicity
and accessibility of every
feature of the Studebaker
design reduce to the
minimum the necessity
for inspection, adjust-
ments and visits to the
garage.
c> O
Now a motor-car is an
investment —in other
words, you have a dis-
tinct right to expect a
definite rate of interest
for your money, payable
in service and satis-
faction.
The name Studebaker
insures Quality, Depend-
ability, Value and Ser-
vice. Studebaker gives
you the assurance of per-
man e n t service-satis-
faction.
All of which means that a
Studebaker car is a
genuine investment for a
motorist. Write, or,
better still, see the near-
est Studebaker dealer,
who will be pleased to
give all information.
Stocks of Studebaker Cars are at present held by our State distributors and by 200 Studebaker dealers throughout Australia and New Zealand.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
Head Office: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. S. A. Branch at 1 Gnrrie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Leonard Corricfc, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Adams Limited, Tuam Street, Christchurch (N.Z.).
A. Hill, 72 Collins Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
ESTABLISHED 1852


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Bea uty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Grey Hair —Home Remedy.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable, and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you should
have grey hair if you do not want it. To turn
the hair back to a natural color is really a
very simple matter. One lias only to,get from
the chemist two ounces of concentrate of tam-
malite and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply to the hair with a small sponge
for a few nights and the greyness will gradu-
ally disappear. This liquid is not sticky or
greasy, and-does not injure the hair in any
way. It has been used for generations with
most satisfactory results by those who have
known the formula.
\ Blackheads Fly Away.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into gen-
eral use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a stymol tablet
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full of
hot water. After the effervescence has sub-
sided bathe the face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large
oily pores immediately close up and efface'
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears and the sltin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at. intervals of four or five days
to ensure the permanence of the result.
Emergency Complexions.
, Even a complexion which Is hopelessly dull
or greasy can be made beautiful in a moment
by a perfectly harmless home recipe. If you
have no cleininite in the house, get about an
ounce from your chemist, and add only
enough water to dissolve it. The process de-
fies detection, and the result is an immediate
appearance of velvety, youthful “bloom”
which every woman desires. The effect will
last all day under the most trying conditions,
indoors or out, and renders powdering quite
unnecessary. This simple substance is also
very good for the skin, and no possible harm
can come from its regular use.
Effectually Killing Superfluous Hair.
Many women know how to remove ugly
growths of superfluous hair temporarily, but
few know how to remove it permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered plieminol may be
used. Get about an ounce from your chemist
and apply a little directly to the objection-
able hair. The purpose of the recommended
treatment is not merely to remove the super-
fluous hair instantly, but also to kill the hair
roots completely in a comparatively short
time.
How Nature Makes New Complexions.
It is well known that the human skin is
constantly undergoing a tearing down and
building up jjrocess. With advancing years or
waning vitality this tissue-change lags: the
lifeless, soiled surface skin stays on so long
that its owner gets a “poor complexion.”
Commonsense tells us this dead skin cannot
be enlivened or beautified by any cosmetic,
lotion or powder. The natural thing to do is
to actually remove the offensive skin—remove
the bad complexion. It has been found that
ordinary mercolized wax completely absorbs
the devitalised skin, in minute particles, so
gently, gradually, as to cause no inconveni-
ence. Mercolized wax, wdiich any chemist can
supply, is put on at night like cold cream,
and washed off in the morning. If you would
have a brilliantly beautiful and youthful com-
plexion, just use this simple treatment.
How to Have Thick anti Pretty Hair.
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
m a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair bril-
liant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely, and greatly stimulates the hair-
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed quarter-pound pack-
ages, which retail at about four shillings.
However, as this is sufficient for 25 or 30
shampoos, it really works out very cheaply
in the end. ' [4
Superior to Marking Ink.
jgh
j
cal-
tyliskE^eetWe
May be procured throucu^
ANY UP-TO-OATE MERCER OR DRAPER.
OUR NAME ON THE BOX
& guarantee of Qaalifj^
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
%
WOYEN NAMES
Made \n
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
QUEEN S ARMS
HOTEL,
Corner Swanston St. & Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
TARIFF:—
Bed & Breakfast . . . . 67-
Lunch (Special) . . . . 1/6
Dinner 3/-
CLAUDE R. KERR, Proprietor.
ghj
gh
To suffer with fortitude is
heroic, but to suffer needlessly
is idiotic. While most sufferers
regard pain as due to the
dispensation of Providence,
doctors see in it a certain
neglect—the neglect of simple
rules of health.
OF all rheumatic afflictions acute lumbago is the
most painful. It arises from a gradual accumu-
lation of excess uric acid in the system ; the muscles of
the lower back become impregnated until the muscu-
lar fibres stiffen and every movement causes agony.
The simple habit of taking Kruschen Salts every
morning cleanses the system of excess uric acid, braces
the nerves and gives to the user the daily enjoyment
of natural vigorous health. Get the Kruschen habit.
jgh
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
jgh
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS;
Of all good chemists, grocers end stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E.GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen). Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade. Manchester. England-
For Fine Shafting,
Machine Tools,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling and
Factory Equip-
ment, etc., etc.
■2“
m
JFi
WLmM
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
v[
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The SKF Self-aligning Ball-hearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
GARDNER, W4ERN & CO.,
Chief Agents and Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE— BRANCHES—
Office, 354 City R6ad, S. Melbourne. SYDNEY . . . 225 Clarence Street.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street. BRISBANE . . . 367 Queen Street.
Why Throw BROKEN
PARTS Away ?
We are specialising in repairs by the Oxy-Acetylene Welding Process, and can
repair corrosions in boilers, broken, cracked or worn motor-car parts, including
cylinders and pistons, any factory machinery or household machinery: in fact,
any castings or parts made of Steel, Iron, Cast-iron, Copper, Brass or
Aluminium. Nothing too small or too large. Carbon removed from 4-cyl.
Motor-cars, while you wait, for 10/-
NOTE ONLY ADDRESS- ESTABLISHED 1911
A. L. WEST ®. CO.,
Tel. City
4178
Top of Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Rear of 187
Liverpool Street.
TTIOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have Tin?
I ’ Bulletin sent regularlj to you every
•week for a year to any address in Australasia,
oost paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Fred Johns, the biographer, has been
digging up the history of the Buffalo, the
vessel which brought Governor Hindmarsh
to found S. Aus. -on the historic 28th of
December, 1836. She knew much more of
Sydney Cove than of Holdfast Bay, having
been on duty there in the'days of Hunter and
King. Also she brought to King George’s
Sound (W.A.) the first Government Resi-
dent, Spencer, in 1833. She was finally
wrecked in Mercury Bay (M.L.) in 1840,
and a piece of her oak has long been in the
possession of Owen Smyth, of Adelaide. He
lately gave it to Johns, who had it made
into a baton for presentation to some lodge
of which he is Grand Llama.
“Adelaide”: The Bulletin remarks
(11/4/’18) that South Aus. has been first
to “experiment with nearly all the things
that a conference of very earnest young
Sunday-school superintendents would be
likely to advocate.” Three most striking in-
stances are not mentioned. It has not been
possible to buy a drink (lawfully) in S.
Aus. at any hour on Sunday for —well, it
would puzzle most Adelaide citizens to recall
the date of that experiment. And Isaac
Shortodds and Flossie, have both long ago
been abolished by Act of Parliament. I
don’t say they are extinct; but they are
both equally and absolutely unlawful.
“Jim Carew”: I tried again to-day for
the nth time to enlist. The man who tested
my eyesight was not satisfied with .me and
took me to the M.O. He examined my eyes
again and told ine I was rejected on account
of defective vision; but he would not give
me a certificate, unless I produced a certi-
ficate from the eye specialist who had pre-
viously attended me. I growled, but it was
no use. To procure the necessary certifi-
cate would cost me one or two guineas.
Why should I be called upon to pay this?
Am I, because I refuse to pay a guinea or
two, to have nothing to show that I am not
a cold-foot?
“Sparrowhawk”: Ted Dyson founded his
fancy on fact when he wrote that recent
Bulletin verse about the battlefield
reconnoitre of the ex-pushite and the ex-
policeman. In the' Ballarat East (Vie.)
police court a ’tec. stated that the man in
the dock was one of the new edition of the
Eureka Push. “Where are the old ones?”
asked his Washup. “They’ve all gone to
the war,” was the reply; “and so have
practically all the other pushes.”
“Copabella” writes: —
The shire of Upper Yarra (Vic.), where the big
timber sprouts, is appealing to its brother shires to
help it in securing an independent railway-complaints
tribunal to inquire into losses-in-transit, short-
deliveries and the difficulty waybaekers experience in
getting a fair deal in the way of trucks for their
produce. A clause in Upper Yarra’s round-robin dis-
closes the undesirable colored person in the wood-
pile. The Upper Yarra folk say that some municipal
action is necessary to bring about reform, as indivi-
duals dare not make complaint for fear of victimisa-
tion t It is typical of the conduct of Public Enter-
prise by Barnacle and Stiltstalking that the com-
munity’s own unfortunate customer, losing money
daily over freight-delays and demurrages, dare not
enter his complaint for fear that where he gets no
trucks now he will get still less in the future.
“The Old Soldier”: Re long-range guns.
During the siege of Gibraltar (1779-1783)
General George Augustus Elliot got the
greatest recorded range out of a battery of
long 32-pr. smooth-bores, with which he
destroyed the Spanish naval dockyard at
Algeziras, six miles away, across the bay.
That range has never been beaten by smooth-
bores.
Interesting possibilities are attached to a
Melbourne case of manslaughter. An able-
bodied laborer had a row with another
fellow outside a pub, just after closing time,
and knocked him down so hard that he died
of the fall. A friend of the deceased spoke
of him as one Greaves, electrical engineer,
from Washington, U.S.A. Amongst papers
found in his possession were two seamen’s
discharges in the name of A. Rief and
Adolphus Rief. The dead man is said to
have recently been employed on Australian
coastal steamers, and it is to be hoped that
the connection, if any, between the alleged
Greaves from Washington and Adolphus
Rief, the seaman, will be traced.
“Umntu” introduces another “General”:
Hertzog, whose fiery speech at the Paarl (S’Africa)
was an attempt to regain complete leadership of the
rebel party, no longer receives the courtesy title of
“General” in that country, though English and Aus-
tralian papers continue to give it to him. The
declaration of De Wet at the outbreak of the 1914
rebellion,' that Hertzog was not a soldier—that he
was a lawyer, and would fight for them in Parlia-
ment-made the continuance of the title farcical.
Since the abortive rebellion Hertzog has been more
or less in the shade. He failed the rebels as a
lawyer, since > he could not get one Dutch judge to
take his view that an “armed protest” was a legal
way of carrying on the political party game, nor
could he get any members of Parliament, outside his
own section, to side with him ; and the rebel leaders
did not escape various terms of imprisonment. It
was the talk of the Johannesburg clubs at the time
of their trial that De Wet had said he would take
his punishment like a man, but that he would dearly
love to have five minutes with Hertzog and a gun.
“Wart”: Maybe, as “O’Phimerty” (B.
14/3/’18) says, I was wrong in credit-
ing Dogherty, the hangman, with a record
bag of nine in one day; and maybe
his best string was 13. I was partly
going on some remarks made by Chap-
lain Bedford, who, by the way, pro-
bably holds a world’s record himself. In
a speech in Hobart .in 1832, he said he had
attended between 300 and 400 executions,
and he continued to be chaplain for some
years after that. When he was asked to
examine a new gallows which had just been
built, he measured it and remarked: “If
there are nine of them they will hang in
comfort, but 10 will be a crowd.” So if
Dogherty finished off 13 in one day they
must have been uncomfortably crowded or
else the gallows must have worked two
shifts.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “ cures ” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours> hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO..
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Com Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Cot j
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
\
si
N
2
§
%
B
&
As,
£o
&@£3
*-.T
$S O/J*
//jf O /"V t"_T/ >
6f2Anny" OiamberlaiH
(COPYRIGHTED.)
Don’t let Group
attack your children.
ALTHOUGH your child may be acroupy subject
there is absolutely no reason why you should ever
allow it to develop an attack.
You know the symptoms, and as they generally make (
their appearance hours ahead of the attack, you have ample
time to treat them. Immediately you notice any unusual
hoarseness give the child
CD E B GsAQ
*4 COUGH REMEDY »
Sometimes, instead of hoarseness,
the child appears to develop a
cough, but whatever the symptoms,
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy will
nip it in the bud.
The great danger of croup is the
formation of a false membrane in
the throat, and until this is expell-
ed the spasmodic choking continues.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
given in frequent doses loosens this
membrane and causes the child to
expel it by vomiting.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is
an absolutely safe and certain
remedy for croup. If given as soon
as the child becomes hoarse, oreven
after the croupy cough appears, it
will prevent the attack.
It has most wonderful curative
properties, is pleasant to take, and
children like it.
tyjpuh,' f Jvx
All retailers are authorised to
sell Chamberlain's Cough
Remedy to you under a posi-
tive guarantee: If it does not
do all that we claim we will
refund the price paid.
BE PREPARED
Iyike many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder h-ts developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent anti often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
can be summoned. ...
Those who have the interests of their family at heart keep a bottle of Chamberlain's Colic andyDiarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, dysentery aiid
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the* bowels the attack may/ be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy.
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain's Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage, lhe excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains in the stomach for which
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Cohc and'Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied upon to do this.
£
/
\\
R
MOTOR LORRIES
I=2=3 and 5
Tons
Capacities.
The road clearance of the Denby axle is greater than that of any
other type.
Your driver will appreciate what that means when he gets off the
paved streets into sand or mud.
The wheels can be buried up to the hubs, and as long as traction is
obtainable the truck will pull through without trouble.
There are many other points of Denby dominance which will interest
you.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
|7IOR £1 6s. Od. you can have The
JD Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.;,
and aIJ business communications should bfc
addresspd to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
m
The
Saddle
which makes
comfort always
possible is the
BROOKS
&
[ ''J
Have you tested it ?
if not
ASK
YOUR DEALER ✓
Why
"Fx. ®L R.”
Ring's?
i I '■
Fine diamonds
set in platinum,
choieelv cased,
£2O.
0 choice dia-
monds, set in
platinum,
£lB/18/-
3 Australian
whole pearls ami
diamonds set in
platinum,
£l7/10/-
Because of their surprising value.
Because of their super-excellence.
Because the lower grades of gems are
not stocked.
Because superlative expresses our only
quality. : '
Because they are made. oh the premises.
Because there are no intermediate profits.
Because we are sole agents tor one of
Amsterdam’s , largest and oldest dia-
mond cutters..
Because all our rings are set in pure
platinum and 18-carat gold.
Because every newest design is at once
shown. - •
Because our prices are lower than in
London.
Because there is no duty on loose gems.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain figures. Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.


Amott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE, CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
f IVOLI THEATUK. SIDNE Y.
Nightly, S. Matinee Wednesday 2.30.
RESUMPTION OF VAUDEVILLE.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents Truby Shattuck and
Emma O'Neil], Murry Livingston, Belle Sylvia,
Aubrey and Riche, Hughie Ogilvie, George Edwardes
and Rosie Parkes, Graham’s Marionettes, The Famous
Dancing Inebriates, Hugh Lawrence, Mason and
Gwynne.
yiVOM THEATRE. HELBOtJKXE.
TWICE DAILY.
2.30 and 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSLJ presents London’s Smart
Revue Success,
SAMPLES.
A Sparkling and Dazzling Production.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/. & 1/-, plus tax.
H K R MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 1.45.
J. C. Williamson Ltd.’s Gorgeous, Spectacular
PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
Olt I T E K ro N T H E A T KE. SYDNEY.
w Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. Matinge Wednesday at 2.
MURIEL STARR
in first production in Sydney of the Hawaiian play,
THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
p' I ACE theaT It e. s y I»N EY.
• < SATURDAY NEXT AT 8.
Mu hues: WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
J. AND N. TAIT present
EMELIE POLINI
and
NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
DE LUXE ANNIE,
A Thrilling Mystery Comedy Drama.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
■J NI O N PICTII It E THKA T K E S
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 1] a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
I K T H S’ NEW C I K C U S
HIPPODROME, HAYMARKET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. Mat. Wed. and Sat. 2.30.
GREAT CHANGE OF CIRCUS PROGRAMME,
AND THE COMEDY WATER PANTOMIME,
DASH.
Prices s;'-, 4/-, 3/-, 2/-, plus tax. Children half-
price. Soldiers in uniform half-price to dress-circle.
Tel. C. 1234.
UEII MAJESTY’S THEATItE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
w
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
the “Last Word” in Revues,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
THEATItE ItOYAL, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
KATHLENE MACDONELL
in
THE WILLOW TREE.
ING’S THE.ATKE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present
GUY BATES POST
in
THE MASQUERADER.
A Dramatisation of Katherine Cecil Thurston’s Novel,
“John Chilcote, M.P.”
Prices as Usual. Plans at Allan’s.
U OYT’S THEATRES,
*■ Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE. BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
8 to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday at 2.30.
FAMOUS PLAYERS-LASICY, MAX
SENNETT, ARBUCKLE, etc.,
FEATURES.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
JACK BICKFORD and LOUISE HUFF in
THE GHOST HOUSE.
Also
BLANCHE SWEET in
THE SOWERS.
Prices as usual.
D I J O U THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction: BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
FULLER’S ALL STAR VAUDEVILLE.
Billie Seaton, Con Moreni, .Madame Lorenz, Musical
Bentleys, Ray Traynor, Belle Verne, Leeds and
Posner, Debaker’s Models, Bertram and Raymond, etc.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
|y|AJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CLARA KIMBALL YOUNG
in
SHIRLEY KAYE.
An Adaptation of a Famous Stage Play.
Plan at Allan’s.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
jy| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
Business Notices.
ROSH KELALaH,
3rd Edition. Post, 2s.
SKINNER'S, 121 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.’
mm
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells aboutt
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detai!
the Drawing Course
by HARRY .1.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist:.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
ropy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
43 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
QUEEpLAM
r T iW.w- :
romise
eian
Vi
f!S
S
S.B.
/vame.
/t&dress
QUEZrvSLAHD frvr£LL/C£/VC£
<& TOURIST aU*t£AO. BWS3Ar<£
A Book of
192 Papes
C A L. l_E O
"POCKET
QUEENSLAND”
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
Telling allabouf ft><
Mill ions of Acres
of ferhle. land for
intending settlers
will besenf_you
by filling m fbe
Coupon below.
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
aml cumbersome spring trusses ? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE vet FIRM PRES-
SURE qj> the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
j
ABBEY
SHOES
arc recognised as representative of
the highest skill in shoe-making.
They arc so comfortable that they
eliminate foot troubles, yet possess
distinguished style in keeping with
the times.
Made in half and full sizes, and
in three fittings—narrow, medium
and wide.
We illustrate a special Patent
Derby Shoe, in a very smart,
“made-to-order” style.
Price - 42/-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A B BE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
HONtserraT
SAUCE
HU
•MMMW***'
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers .
mm
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold tn Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
GET THIS DIET BOOK.
Food is as important to the sick person
as medicine, more so in most cases. A badly
chosen diet may retard recovery.
In health the natural appetite is the best
guide to follow ; in sickness the appetite is
often fickle and depraved.
Proper food and a good tonic will keep
most people in good health. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills are the most popular tonic medi-
cine in the world, harmless, non-alcoholic,
and certain in their action, which is- to help
build the blood and to restore vitality to
! the run-down system. For growing girls
who become thin and pale, for pale, tired
women, for old people who fail in strength,
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are an ideal tonic.
To enable those who give these pills a
trial to observe intelligent care in the diet,
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. will send
free on request a diet book, “What to Eat
and How to Eat.” It is full of useful in-
formation, and whether you are well or ill
it is a good book to have.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by your
own chemist or storekeeper, or will be sent
by mail, post paid, on receipt of price.
2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d., by the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Box 594 G.P.0.,
Sydney.— Advt.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, WO5
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course ol
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ebtab. 1891.
Don’t wait to
bo Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins to
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
ghj
Carters
BITTLKI
lIVER
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small PHl—Small Dost—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
%
i\ 'pi}.
Ik
/m
The Life of
u the Loveliest Teeth
is strictly limited unless the possi-
bility of decay is removed and kept
constantly at bay. In the crevices of
the mouth out of reach of the ordi-
nary dentifrice or brush—fermenting
food matter acts as a breeding-ground
for millions of decay germs.
TOOTH POWDER.!
is the most effective method of
destroying the germs. As soon as it
enters the mouth free oxygen pene-
trates into every crevice, removing
decomposed food particles and destroy-
ing all bacteria. The mouth is
thoroughly cleansed, purified and
sterilised, and the pleasing flavor of
Calox appeals to sensitive tastes.
For whitening and polishing the
teeth there is no dentifrice to equal
Calox.
A Free Sample
will be posted to any address in Aus-
tralia. Enclose this ad. with your
name and address, and forward to Geo.
Wills & Co., Ltd., 60 York Street,
Sydney; or 480 Collins Street,
Melbourne, with two
penny stamps to cover
postage.
Calox is procurable
from
ALL CHEMISTS AND
LEADING STORES.
F. 2-5-18.
'7


The Cause of Falling Hair
Rub spots of dandruff and itching with
Cuticura Ointment, next morning sham-
poo with Cuticura Soap and hot water.
Rinse with tepid water. Trial free. These
fragrant, super-creamy emollients clear
the complexion of pimples, redness and
roughness, cleanse the scalp, prevent
falling hair and soften the hands. The
Soap to cleanse and purify, the Oint-
ment to soothe and heal.
Tor Samples address post-card: “B. Towns 4 Co.
Sydney, N. 6. W.” Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIL3
-S PECIAUtt
TWO
L/NES
# TS
&
WQITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
11
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
Z<r /iONTER § T NEWCASTLE
EIIY
CARTRIDGES^
Always Reliable |
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL’
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs. T.S. Black
Powder and ij oz. of shot.
ghj
hg
ELEY
•380
Automatic
Hamcnerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 38
S&W Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS.
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Wholesale only :
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
jgh
Sold by
Stationers and
Jewellers
Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern
with slip • on
cap from ISA-
Standard Pat-
ternwith slip-on
cap from 12/6
Illustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a “Swan” that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using.
Every person’s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing. After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
WAN
j
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen —a writing
instrument peculiarly your own.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester; Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—(Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston
Street, S.E. Associate House—Mabie.Todd & Co.,
Inc., New York and Chicago.
hgj
Australian Branch:
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to tone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
a good night’s rest. Try a few drops of
Dhosformo
1 THE ROYAL TONIC
Tliis is a real nerve invigorafor, and will fane up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton &C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
A
PRICE'S
hg
jgh
price's
exp° pT
lights
for safety
and health.
j
The sensible light
fir Bedroom & flursery.
Price's patent Candle company ltd.
London, Liverpool, Manchester, Glasgow.
The Inky Way.
“Copy Boy”: It is the fervent hope of the
press gang that Hughes will return from his
next visit to the duchesses with a sweeter
temper and better manners. It is doubtful
if any man in a public position has ever
treated journalists more rudely than Hughes.
Some allowance is made for him on account
of his innards, but a good deal of his offen-
siveness springs from his diseased egotism.
By comparison the discourtesies which
caused the daily paper men on the State
departmental round to combine in sending
Tommy Bent to Coventry on several occa-
sions were the momentary lapses of a
Chesterfield. /
* * * *
“Rosna” (London) : When Lieut. “Philo”
Harris produced the first number of Aussie,
he reckoned he would be doing very well
if he sold out the 10,000 copies; but the
issue was rushed and for the next chirrup
of the little wattle-colored infant no less
than 60,000 orders were booked. Harris
was editor of one of the first troopship
papers, The Honk. One of his subs, then
was Lieut. Imlay, now a Colonel. This
war is a fast cat.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: In connection with the re-
newal of orders to artists for oil paintings
for the Commonwealth Memorial Gallery,
the ruling powers display the egregious
egotism of elected persons in their conclu-
sion that none but politicians deserve to
come in. There is David Syme, for in-
stance, and there are one or two other big-
minded Australian journalists, who did more
for Australian Federation than all the mem-
bers of the present Ministry lumped. One
is impelled to ask where does Hughes come
in as a father of Federation, and what is
the excuse for including the G.-G. in a gal-
lery that was established to commemorate
the builders of the Commonwealth?
There was something of a re-union at a
Melbourne official lunch the other day, when
three men who 25 years ago ran the three
farthest-out papers in N. S. Wales found
themselves in a bunch—Millen, Minister for
Repatriation, then editor of the Rourke
thunderer; Heney, now editor of the S. M.
Herald, then of the Wilcannia Grazier ;
and another Sydney editor who made his
crust on the Broken Hill Miner when the
world was a quarter-century more innocent.
* * * *
“Chink”: Apropos the observations of
“V.” (B. 4/4/’18) about journalists Ran-
dolph Bedford and 11. E. Sizer, the remark
that Sizer strikes “V” as a joke suggests a
lopsided sense of humor. With 10 years of
knocking about Australia to give "him an
affection for the land, the new member for
Nundah showed punch enough to fight for
it on Gallipoli and appreciation enough to
return to it when the Turk blew him out.
Moreover, a man who could substantially
reduce McDonald’s majority in Kennedy,
and follow this up by puliing off a State
seat with a big margin to spare, doesn’t
strike me as being far out of touch with
“Australian conditions and ideals.” Cer-
tainly there was a vast difference in the jobs
taken on by Sizer and Bedford. The former
was up against a political nonentity for
Nundah; but in whiskery, genial old Donald
Gunn* Randolph tackled the breeziest and
best battler for the bush folk that the
Bananaland Parliament knows.
* * * *
“ J.F.H.”: Latest issue of News of the
World, a London weekly, claiming a circu-
lation of between two and three millions,
has a page proclaiming the virtues of a hair-
wash. It says £ll5O was the price of it, and
boasts that this is the “largest amount
ever paid for the single insertion of an advt.
in any newspaper.”
LO THE POOR ROUNDSMAN!
The WILD CAT COLUMN
“A quarter,” says the Chief of Staff,
“And not another line!”
They cut it to a paragraph,
And tell me not to whine:
It might have made, in telling phrase,
A column spread, or more ;
But what’s one murder nowadays,
When all the wmrld’s at war?
I would I were the Sporting Man 1
However tight is space,
The paper’s like a pelican
To give his notes a place:
His brimming Cups the public still
Convey unto their lips,
The vacuum in their heads to fill
With scratchings and with tips.
Oh, War and Sport! Oh, Sport and War 1
Between these two there is
No room to practise as of yore
The Roundsman’s stirring biz.
The biggest fire that ever flamed
Is not a circumstance
To something in the betting named
At Randwick or in Prance.
But still I suffer not alone:
Beneath the Censor’s spell
“Commercial” is a naked bone,
And Shipping’s gone to Hell.
Though art is long, yet space is short
For fakes and facts and shams,
When half the staff attends to sport
And half to cablegrams.
A footnote on the super-gun
Does more to bring content
To those for whom the paper’s run
Than an embezzlement.
The Rounds are dead: if Doomsday came,
Its crack would leave no scar;
And in the Book they’d log my name
For “Judgment Day—(ft par.”
VICTOItU.
ROTUNDA.
“PEACE HATH HER VICTORIES.”
The WILD CAT COLUMN
I wrote some verses when a lad
And later judged them very bad.
Though they were very dear to me
I tore them into pieces three
And cast them from the window ledge
Because they set my teeth on edge.
I do not want to brag or blow
But it was worth a D.S.O.
K.s.w.
TRIPE HOUND.


arm
e
m
H
Ll
\ i
iS
\1
This build
will be roof
%
ith
**
Cer/a
wed
v-V
Ro
SS?
'
ix \ W
mm
m
wt
V-4
The roof is the last to go on your build-
ing. But —if that roof is to be efficient and
economical its selection is of first importance. Put
Certain-teed
Roll Roofing
on your building and. you will get the most efficient and
economical roof possible. Certain-teed is economical to
buy, inexpensive to lay and costs practically nothing to
maintain. It is waterproof, noiseless, fire retardant,
clean, sanitary and gives the utmost roofing service.
Does not affect the taste or odour of water.
Specify “Certain-teed” for your roof and refuse all imitations. Certain-
teed is guaranteed by the World's largest manufacturer of roofing.
MR. C. C. McCANN
Perpetual Trustee Bldg.. Sydney. N. S. W.
Representative of
CERTAIN-TEED PRODUCTS CORPORATION
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England'
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
\
\
THREE ~RTBBEZ3 TYRES
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated. Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.8.—70
gh
GUNS an<l RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
m
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight,
about 541 b Freight paid,
£5.
If troubled with Mosquitoes
USE SKEETERBANE.
lOd. & 1/5 bottle, post free.
“SURE CATCH" ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
X\\\v
830. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.R. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 7 % to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7J to 7} lb.—
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £4/5/-
£4.
Keep your Razor Keen by
Using STROPOLINE,
9d. tin, post free.
"SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
■s,
i-m
831. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip, low hamniers, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders; weight
of 12-gauge 7} to 8} lb., 16-gauge, 7$ to 8 lb.— .
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid, 1 .
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £5/10/-
£5.
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/2, post free.
jgh
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2|in. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight,
7Jlb. Freight paid,
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
12-gauge, similar description to 839 Freight paid, £lO/5/-
£lO/5/-
“KOOLAH”
SHAVING STICKS.
Delightful to use.
7d. each, post free
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date.
j
825. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2jin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7Jlb Freight paid,
£B/10 /•
g
818. Winchester Automatic Repeating Rifle,
1903 Model, special 22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges in
3 seconds; weight, about sJlb.; sighted
point blank to 100 yards; will kill at 500 Freight paid,
£.7.
Ds *kSURE CATCH,
“The Tackle that Makes
Fishing Worth While.”
jg
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/7/6
With Octagon Barrel ' Freight paid, £5/10/-
With 3-Octagon Barrel, 32-eal. only Freight paid, £5/10/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about sj£lb Freight paid,
£52/6
v ....
-
828. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892 Model, 24in.
[octagon barrel, 22-calibre rim fire; magazine takes 25 short, 20
long, or 18 long rifle cartridges ; weight 521 b. — ;
Freight paid, ©5 «■
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
Illustrated Sportsman’s Guide ( Catalogue Bl), also 1918 Sure Catch Anglers
Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or loth lists. 1 hey
are money savers.
1C
mSTRfILim GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
j
City Sports Depot
99 King Sf, <2/50 at
Newcastle dßrisbanej


Miss DOROTHY CUMMING Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Miss Dorothy Cumming
is one of Australia’s
youngest, fairest and
most notable artists.
This talented .young lady
started her career under
the direct auspices of
Mi*. J. 0. Williamson
himself, and her progress
since then has delighted
all her many admirers.
Miss Cumming ap-
peared with marked suc-
cess as Virginia Bulli-
vant in “Grumpy,” the
play which has become
famous throughout Aus-
tralasia. Miss Cumming
writes us as follows:
“I want to tell you
what I think about
your Remedy for
Coughs and Colds—
Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery. At various
times I have tried
many things when
troubled with a cold,
and I want to say that
you have the best by
far of any I have ever
come across.
“It lias always cured
me in a remarkably
short time. I am only
too glad to add my
testimony and wish
you every success with
it.
“Yours truly,
“(Sgd.)
“DOROTHY CUMMING.”
•V
W
3*
■
mss DOROTHY CUM MING
{from a photo.).
STOPS COUGHS BANISHES COLDS.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is known far and wide as an unequalled Cough
Remedy. It’s the finest remedy you ever used—bar none. When you use it you can
.be mighty sure that Coughs and Colds will soon vanish. No wonder, though, for
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery has been compiled on scientific lines, and is designed
to relieve the cold without upsetting the Digestive organs. Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery is the quickest, safest and best-known remedy for Coughs, Colds,
Influenza, Bronchitis and all Throat and Chest troubles. It is the remedy that
can be relied upon. Don’t forget to take a bottle home to-night. Price 1/6 and 3/-.
D? Sheldons.
Hew Discovery
ghj
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
E
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works: Birmingham, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
SCIENCE & EXPERIENCE
must precede progress to attain per-
manent success. The scientific and
experimental work undertaken by the
SUNBEAM
Company has been continuous and is reflected
in the present productions, and also in the
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
aircraft engines
which has earned for it the title
Supreme on land and in the car.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St., London, England
WORKS .... . Wolverhampton, England
The Sailer.
TO MISS ELEANOR MORDAUNT.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
OH, I would be in a sailing ship, no
engine ship for me ;
Oh, I would be in a sailing ship,
the sister of the sea!
With following wind and wave astern, a-
running fast and free,
And stuns’ls set and scuppers wet—that’s
where I want to be!
Oh, I would be in a bonnie barque, close-
hauled, in half a gale,
With every inch of canvas spread ; yes, every
rag of sail!
The wind a-singing up aloft, through stay
and brace and brail,
And sheets and tacks as tight as wax, and
foam along the rail!
Oh, I would be in a brigantine, hove-to, aft
Table Bay,
Where Mollie-Auks and Albatross and
Mother Careys play;
A-swinging through the live long night and
through the live long day!
If I must drown let me go down with a
sailing ship, I say !
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
C. H. SOUTER.
Wax and Clay.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
THERE had been trouble—over and
above monetary difficulty—in the
Great Australian Dramatic Company.
Aladdin Beddulfson found his forces at Uran-
quinty with another general in possession of
the field, this being the error of Marshal
Montgomery, the advance agent—the sort of
error which made Napoleon lose Waterloo by
reason of the unexpected arrival of the
Prussians. The enemy in this case was
Hamstinger’s Waxworks and Vaudeville
Company, which often performed in a tent,
but was now in possession of the Shire Hall.
Montgomery had booked the less important
hall —Abbott’s- —and had further complicated
matters by billing the town for the second
night of Hamstinger’s two-night season. Mr.
Hamstinger was a grave, melancholy man of
fair complexion and long yellow Viking mous-
taches, enjoying his own. tribulations
solemnly, punctuating the description of his
adversities with something between laughter
and snivelling.
Montgomery had left them with a night
vacant, and that was the opening night of
Hamstingef’s Waxworks and vaudeville.
Hamstinger extended to the Great Australian
Dramatic Company the courtesy of “The Pro-
fession.” Its members visited the Shire Hall,
and prior to the vaudeville turns inspected
the Waxworks. It consisted of a score of
dummy figures-—mere pegs to hang clothes on
- —thirty heads, interchangeable on the dummy
figures aforesaid, and much wardrobe.
Hamstinger’s opening night was very poor.
“Dot bore thad five pouds id,” said Trewhella
Jordan, gloomily. “A dice place to brig a
legitibate cobady, I dod’t thigk.”
“There’s a great make-up,” cried Birdie,
shrilly, pointing to the wigged, knee-breeched
figure purporting to represent Robespierre.
She had addressed Saxby Leicester, but he
was deeply interested in the figure of Lord
Beaconsfield, or rather in the dress-suit
which covered it.
“That’s Gladstone,” explained the morose
Hamstinger. “An’ that's Ned Kelly. ’Ere
we have Mary Queen o’ Scots before her
marriage with Philip o’ Spain. That’s Deem-
ing ! No! not that one—that’s the Lord
Mayor. There’s President Garfield an’ the
Anarchists that asinated him. Here we have
Florence Nightingale, Henery Parkes, Daniel
O’Connell and Lord Edward Fitzgerald. On
the other side is Captain Cook, who discov-
ered Australia just before the First Fleet.
This group, represents the Judgment of Solo-
mon. .. .’Scuse me, the orchestra’s stopped.”
He put a new needle in the gramophone
arm, wound up the clock-work and restarted
the old record —a peculiarly lugubrious re-
production from “The Bohemian Girl.”
“When other lips an’ other tarts,” he said
in explanation, “by Mick W. Balfe. There’s
a lot of Irish here to-night. An’ now, Mr.
Bluffson, if you’ll sit down an’ take your
company we’ll get to the vaudeville. Take
the front row. None o’ this hungry town
push have paid more than two bob, and the
front seats look empty,”
He showed them the front row where they
were so neighborless that, as Aladdin said,
they felt as lonely as an egg in a cathedral.
Hamstinger then walked to the left side of
the hall, while Birdie gave him sotto vocc
stage directions, reversing positions against
the auditorium.
“Straw Mo goes right—speaks to ole bloke
what’s seen better days.”
He had. They saw the old man addressed
by H&mstinger lift his head and show a face
until then hidden by an old-style Paris hat—
its silk brushed the wrong way by weather
and neglect. When he stood up to reply to
Hamstinger they saw his clothes —of a past
magnificence and present condition to suit the
hat.
“That there frock-coat was just the thing
when Victoria was crowned,” said the cruel
and irrepressible Birdie. “An’ his pants was
at Eureka Stockade.”
“Be quiet,” whispered Aladdin, for the
man himself was terribly pathetic.
“Go on yourself,” replied Birdie impu-
dently. “That ole hat belongs to the vintage
of 1878.”
“If you don’t stop buttin’ it,” threatened
Saxby, “we’ll put you in the Chamber of
Horrors and label you Ananias and Sap-
phira.”
The old man, carrying his battered hat at
his hip. moved towards the little stage, and
they saw him walking very delicately, as if
he were afraid of falling. His slight figure
was defined in all its thinness by the lightly-
buttoned frock-coat; its seams shining and
its spaces dull. The silk had been worn off
the buttons so that they shone too. Silvered
hair and a silvered beard accentuated the
venerableness of the face. The Waxworks
show had not been able to rob him, even in
age, of his inherent dignity—a dignity which
was mainly kindliness and simplicity, and so
had not suffered by adversities which would
have made mere pompousness a craven long
ago. As he walked to the stage they saw
that he was ill. A dry little cough shook his
spareness, and when he mounted the four
wooden steps from the auditorium he held his
hand to his left breast as if merely breathing
were pain.
Birdie opened her mouth for another wit-
ticism, but all her fellow-strollers turned on
her irritably and she became silent. The old
man crossed the stage before the curtain, and
entered at the little door on the prompt side
of the proscenium.
Hamstinger followed him, having adjusted
the gramophone to a very welcome silence. A
minute later the curtain rose in folds as
slowly and indecisively as if a child were
furling it. And then they knew that the
slight old man was at the curtain ropes,
and that he was very, very weak.
There were two pairs of wings of hessian,
with wall-paper pasted over it, and a back-
cloth showing an impossible gum-tree like a
grape-vine, framing a castle with Lake Como
in the foreground, and two blobs of red paint
pretending to be Neapolitan fishermen. Right
centre, a four-square painted canvas frame
like a small bathing-box, and centre and a
little up-stage a dressing-table, trying to hide
itself under a red suburban tablecloth. On
the table two wooden bars shaped like A and
bearing graduated lengths of metal; and two
little wooden mallets. Also and behind the
wooden bars, a cornet of very brilliant brass.
“Oh, my stars!” said Birdie, unchecked
now that poor old Fathos was hidden in tlje
prompt entrance. “Straw Mo has graciously
consented to do a cavatina on the sillyphone,”
Hamstinger had. lie graciously eriterecj ;
as proud and self-conscious as if he were
prime tenor at La Seal a, singing a new opera
before the crowned faces of Europe. He
walked majestically to his place behind the
table, seized a mallet in either hand, and
played most of the music which was newest
when gold was first discovered at Ballarat.
“Hold me,” said Birdie, “Here’s all the
tunes that’s got whiskers on ’em.”
With a more than becoming reverence for
his job, Mr. Hamstinger played “The Blue
Bells of Scotland,” “The Wearing of the
Green,” “Ring the Bell. Watchman,” and
“Silver Threads Among the Gold.”
Answering some misguided applause from
the boys in the back seats, he played “The
Mocking Bird,” and having imitated a peal
of bells with more or less fidelity he laid
down the mallets and bowed to his audience
so majestically that the deadheads in the
front seats felt compelled to clap their hands,
part of the etiquette of “The Profession,”
which never criticises until after the per-
formance:
“I knew it,” said Birdie again. “The
sillyphone turn’s finished, an’ now he’ll
shorten our lives with that bit of brass pipe.
Oh, mother, mother!”
Hamstinger’s air of devotion to the cornet,
his respectful handling of it, said more
plainly than words that the cornet was
sacred. He became no mere musician. He
was the Hierophant of Blare; the Arch- ,
priest of Noise.
He slowly elevated the cornet to the level
of his mouth and lipped it as if he were
about to drink it. His eyes bulged as he
blew. The pathos of love abandoned became
a blatant scream that sought the listeners’
bones:
When oth-er lips
And oth-er-r hearts
Theyar tale of love shall tell-yell-hell—•
“Oh, me!” said Birdie. “The Micks are
gettin’ old Ireland to-night, but it’s givin’
me goose flesh.”
“Ssh !” said Aladdin. “You’re a guest.”
“Is that any reason why he should turn
me blood inter sawdust?”
“Quiet!”
Hamstinger concluded with a triumphant
shriek to the effect of “You will remember
me,” which was merely stating the obvious,
and then in response to non-existent encores,
he played other old favorites—which would
be even greater favorites if they were given
Christian burial. And then he made his
announcement that his company would play
oil one more occasion in this beautiful little
town; that the show was refined and could
not offend the most fastidious: that the
Waxworks were full of highly moral teach-
ing (he was looking at that moment directly
at Deeming. Ned Kelly and the uncomfort-
able reversed infant of the Judgment of
Solomon waiting for the arbitrament of the
sword). Finally he said that the curtain
would fall for a moment, and rise on the
concluding part of the entertainment. Then
he bowed with tremendous importance and
the •curtain fell on him falteringly and un-
evenly. as if the old man’s hands were not
sure of the weight.
It rose again with a rush, for Hamstinger
was on it this time. Then they saw that
another curtain had risen also—a curtain in
the upper part of that draped frame which
looked like a small bathing-box.
The dry little cough came from within the
frame. Two marionettes danced and
threatened upon the six-inch-wide stage
above. The cracked voice of the sick man
began to play all the parts in the immortal
drama of Pontius Pilate, or Punch and
.Judy, as you will.
While the general audience laughed and
applauded, the Great Australian Dramatic
Company in the front, seats was silent. Even
Birdie found pity for the hidden comedian —
coughing between his simulated chuckles,
struggling for the elusive breath and bat-
tling bravely to the end.
Suddenly, when Punch, having killed Judy,
is evading arrest by the murder of the
policeman, the front seaters were conscious
of a change in the invisible cast.
“That’s the way to do it,”'the marionette
should have squeaked; but it uttered the
callous impudence as if it were saddest
tragedy.
“That’s the way—to do —to do it.”
Then the stricken brain felt that here had
been an unforgivable liberty with the text,
and attempted to return upon itself. “That’s
—that’s the way” The draped side of
the booth was forced outward. There was
no noise of a fall, but only as if something
(Continued on next page.)


MOTHER’S
HOME HEALER.
CUTS, BRUISES, BURNS, SCALDS
and SORES SOOTHED and HEALED
by ZAM-BUK.
ACCIDENTS are always happening
in the kitchen, in the workshop,
in the garden, at the children’s
play, and during every kind of work
or athletic pursuit.
Directly Zam-Buk is applied to a
wound or sore it alleviates the pain
or inflammation, reduces any swelling,
and prevents the place “taking bad
ways.” Not only is Zam-Buk a highly
concentrated and reliable healing
agent—it also has splendid antiseptic
properties.
CUTS, BURNS, SORES AND CHAPS HEALED.
A MOTHER’S PRAISE.
Mrs. S. M. Burgess, of 34 Cambridge Street,
Rozelie, Sydney, says:—“Eor general use in the
home 1 find Zam-Buk invaluable. This splendid
balm quickly healed a severe burn on my hand.
Tor such injuries as cuts, abrasions and fes-
tered sores, and for children who are always
falling and hurting themselves, Zam-Buk should
be kept on a handy shelf in every home. Eor
chapped hands and cracked Mps Zam-Buk is a
splendid remedy. My face and hands have been
subject to roughness and hardness, my hands
being a good deal in water. Zam-Buk healed
the sores, softened the skin, and prevented seri-
ous complication.”
THE PERFECT HEALER
Zam-IJuk is unsurpassed for
cuts, bruises, scalds, burns,, bad
legs, festering sores, blood
poison, boils, sprains, breakings-
,out, stiffness, chafings, ring-
worm, strained muscles, poisoned
wounds, and injured conditions
of the skin generally. Zam-Buk
is obtainable from all Chemists
and Stores at 1/6 and 3/6, or
direct, post free, from C. E. Ful-
ford (Australasia), Etd., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
S'
a
/
\
“It’s
getting
better 1”,
rjr- CONTAINS (11
if- 5
It*
0*
m
gh
“Vo*'
CUTS-
-BRUISES- }
„ j-SORES• BURNS-/
„ 'SpiLES-PIMPLES-ECZEMA-g
=— • SCIAf 1C A-BAD LEOS/r
Tsore meads * backs chapped hands/
UNEQUALLED ro» CRICK £ TEDS,
eye US TS.FOOTBALL PL AyE AS
.€ SPORTSMEN GENERALLY
■
4
A
0
A
Q
&
/§
Safety Razor
A safety razor at a popular price
which will fulfil the requirements
of the most fastidious user.
This is the only safety razor selling at less than 225. 6d.>
that can be stropped without removing the blade. In sim-
plicity and ingenuity of construction it surpasses even the ’*
most expensive safety razors. With a single touch it springs
open —for stropping or cleaning —and with another touch
it snaps together into accurately adjusted shaving position
as shown in the two illustrations below.
BRITISH MAKE.
Heavily silver-plated razor, complete
in handsome case, with strop in hinged
partition, and 6 finest
lancet steel blades (as
illustrated)
12/6
Price in N.Z.,
13/0
mrsi
> %
to HIE
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE THROJJGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Managing Agent:
380-2
RALPH ABERCROMBY,
Denison House,
George Street, SYDNEY,
very frail had collapsed upon itself—only
the rustling of falling clothes.
Hamstinger dropped the curtain in
haste. Aladdin, followed by the Great Aus-
tralian Dramatic Company, ran to the stage
and found there the old man with blood
upon his beard.
"Oh—the poor tiling !” cried Birdie. “An’
me chippin’ him about his pants.”
They hurried her and the other women
off the stage while Hamstinger dismissed
the audience with an invitation to come
to-morrow night and to the matinee in the
afternoon. Aladdin, seeing that here was
no passing indisposition, ran to the grocer’s
shop and borrowed the grocer’s cart, and
having laid the old man therein drove him
to the hospital.
There were preliminaries in the matter of
admission, but Aladdin was so energetic
and authoritative that precedent removed
itself and regulation found itself forgotten.
Aladdin, before leaving, saw the old gentle-
man laid in a bed of snowy linen and sink
into it as if he tried to sink out of the
world.
Yet he gave a long look to his clothes as
they were taken from the ward—the rusty-
edged frock-coat and the Paris hat brushed
the wrong way.
“He didn’t seem to care for anything but
his E flat wardrobe—what?” said Saxby
Leicester, who had noted the look.
Aladdin did not reply. He knew that
the look was not solicitude but farewell.
* * * *
It’s an unfortunate affair,” said Ham-
stinger. “But no man can arrange his life.
Sometimes, when I am travelling to bush
towns in good weather, with a nice tent
and a couple of good freaks, the sun setting
and turning the gum-trees to gold, a ten-
pound house certain and me playing the
corn -et in front of the tent to bring them in,
I feel like praying that it should go on for
ever. But I know it can’t. Change and
decay in all around I see! Now, it struck
me just now that as we cannot play the
drama of Punch and Judy to-morrow, the
vaudeville will be represented only by the
xylophone and the corn-et. Now, instead
of us playing opposition to one another to-
morrow night, why not join forces, send the
bellman out, and let your company provide
the variety part of the entertainment?”
“Yes—sharing equally.”
“You’re on. I’ll get the bellman out in
the afternoon.”
They rehearsed next morning, Birdie at
bor song and dance, Athene Pallas reciting
“Ostler Joe” and playing in a scratch farce
with Kemble and Trewhella Jordan, and
Mildred Floyd and Saxby Leicester in a
sketch of dull soliloquy and elephantine
humor, with burnt-cork marks on their
cheeks to give point to a kiss in the dark.
Trewhella was also to read a sketch from
Dickens.
It was noted later that Trewhella Jordan
and Saxby Leicester had been deeply inter-
ested that afternoon in the figures of Henry
Parkes and Beaconsfield.
In the monotony of their work and wan
dering from township to township, where-
of all seemed built to the same plans and
specifications, the change to “variety” from
the drama” excited them all as if it were
the first night of a new play, though they
pretended that they were suffering a loss of
caste.
“Bit of a come down,” said Birdie, “play-
in’ in vodvil.”
“Voderveel, my child,” corrected Athene
Pallas.
“It all depends whether your university
was Oxford or Cambridge,” replied Birdie,
pertly. “I’ll ask ’em all on the stage.”
She ■ did, and returned with many vari-
ants in pronunciation.
“Accordin’ to all you voice-producers,”
said Birdie, “it’s voydyvill, an’ voadvil, an’
you say vodyveel, an’ Hamstinger calls it
vaudville. I say vodvil an’ I think it’s
vodevil. It’s as good as any other, an’ they
can’t it against a girl anyway.”
“It’s a great house,” said Hamstinger to
Aladdin.
“Fourteen pounds six. Your people are
doing all right. They dress their sketches
well too.”
Aladdin agreed, and laughed with all the
joke to himself. Trewhella Jordan in’ a
very new evening suit had read “The Death
of Little Nell”—-a rather amusing item,
considering his inability to pronounce m’s
or n’s. And at that moment Saxby Leices-
ter came on the stage. He wore a fine new
frock-coat. His boots were highly varnished,
though his trousers were at half-mast
by reason of having been made for shorter
legs than his. He was magnificent.
Aladdin, sitting with Hamstinger. rather
liked the nonchalant character Saxby gave
to his part. Hamstinger was openly enthu-
siastic, and hinted at a permanent amalga-
mation of forces.
Saxby, persistently debonair, crossed his
left leg over his right knee, and exposed
the sole of his varnished boot.
Hamstinger looked, and looked again, and
as the horrible truth came to him, he
clutched Aladdin’s arm, and uttered a cry
of pain.
“What’s the matter?” asked Aladdin.
“Look at his boots.”
“Well, I’m looking.”
“There’s a little square hole in the middle
of the heels.’
‘‘Yes.”
‘That’s where the rod goes through to
hold the figure upright on the floor.”
“He’s taken the boots off the figure? What
a lark!”
“Lark! Lark! Taking my wardrobe! I
b leeve they’ve got more. I'll see.”
He left Aladdin, who did not see him
again until the audience had gone home.
Then he was found in the hall, ready with
£7 3s. as the share of the Great Australian
Dramatic Company, and full of cold fury
at that company’s conduct in the matter of
wardrobe. He sat among his figures, strip-
ping them and packing them for removal to
the next town —wardrobe in a trunk on the
left of him, wax heads in a great box to the
right, uprights and body frames in front
to await their crates.
“Seven pounds three. Mr. Bluffson,” he
said. “There it is. You’re a gentleman,
but I want nothing more to do with actors
like those two fellows. Yes, I’ve got the
wardrobe again, but imagine my feelings.
Thinking all was right with the show, and
after I find out about the boots I search
for Henry Parkes and Beaconsfield. Where
d° I find them, sir? Under the stage, Mr.
Bluffson—even their shirts taken off—those
two great statesmen, sir, stark naked.”
He stopped for a moment to look at the
busts nearest to his hand—the wax imita-
tions of Robespierre, Mary of Scotland,
Deeming, President Garfield and Ned Kelly
and resumed his speech and his packing.
“‘I know what ingratitude is, Mr. Bluff-
son. I know it as well as these figures here.
I have known trouble, like all of them” —he
indicated the martyrs and the murderers,
and the queen who was more murderer than
martyr, and sighed resignedly, as one for
whom all the bitterness of death is past.
“They understand me, and I understand
them —because both myself and them have
been up against it, all of us victims of
treachery and ingratitude.”
So Aladdin left him with his sympathisers,
and as his departure next day was to be
early, he quitted wax and went to the hospi-
tal to see clay. The personality of the old
gentleman—whose past or family none knew
of, not even Ilamstinger, but who had known
better days—was now represented by a mere
shell of a man fluttered by despairing breath.
He would never buffoon again ; never cover
up the slaying of Judy with the murder of
a policeman. He lay there quiet and con-
tent ; glad to be in hospital and die in clean
cool sheets.
“That’s the way to do it,” said Aladdin,
and laughed as if he were afraid he would
cry.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Cough Medicine.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ A NY sick?” 0?
/-\ The hut door bangs open, and
from two lines of blanket-shrouded
forms comes the chorus: “Shut that blanky
door!”
“Come on, now—any men for sick par-
ade?’’ repeats the orderly corporal.
“Yes, me!” in a hoarse voice from the
end of the hut.
“Number?’’
“Four-one-five Privit Brown W. Forty
’levun months C. of E.”—all in one breath
from the hoarse voice.
“Righto, Brown. Parade outside orderly
room in five minutes. Show a leg there, you
others!”
“YVotcher swingin’ it on this time,
Brownie?”
“Swingin’ it be damned!• If you cows
was as bad as me ye’d be in yer boxes!”
“’E wasn’t too bad to go into Wilton
last night, was ’e, Joe?” says Jim Harris.
“Ah, leave the cow alone,” growls Joe.
“This is Tuesday, and the route march this
after’s got ’irn bluffed!”
Brown by this time has got his trousers
on and is struggling into his half-frozen
boots. It’s a bitter cold morning, and the
hut is full of mutterings about life in gen-
eral.
“Cut out that growling and get dressed,
you men,” says the hut-commander. “You’ll
get worse than this on the other side.”
A bugle blares and he turns his attention
t 6 Brown. “Shake it up, you for sick parade
—there goes the call.”
“Will I ’ave to put me putties on, Corp.?”
“Of course you will. You should know
that by now; you go ‘sick’ often enough.
Shake it up and cut the grousing out!”
By the time he is dressed sick parade has
fallen in, and Brown is greeted with “Fall
in on the left there. Sick p’rade, s’hun!
Ri’ turn! At ease, quick march!” and in
three minutes there are 50 aspirants for
“No Duty” outside the A.M.C. hut.
Of course the doctor is late, and after
vainly trying to “hot” a fag, Brownie gives
himself up to cursing the army in general,
and “quacks” in particular. The men shuffle
up to attention as the doc. appears. 'He
passes into _ the hut, and with a cheery
“Good morning” to the sergeant, says: “Big
parade to-day; what’s doing?”
“Route march this afternoon, sir.”
“Hum Well, trot ’em along.”
One after the other the men file in and
tell of “terrible pains in both my legs, sir,”
“ ’Orrible cramp in me back,” or “Me feet’s
that bad I can’t march, sir.”
The doctor is a miracle-worker. On the
magic words “No duty” the drawn face
brightens, the dull eye gleams and the bent
back straightens. Private Smith, who has
limped up on the left leg. hobbles awav on
the right. But let the aside be “Medicine
and duty” the sick man has a relapse. The
cough becomes consumptive, the limp be-
comes acute lameness, and you can hear a
man wince with the agony of his rheu-
matism.
“Private Brown !”
“ ’Ere, sir/’ comes a husky whisper, and
a wreck shuffles in.
“Well, Brown, what’s the trouble?” A
fit of coughing prevents the reply from
being heard at first.
“Got a horful cough, sir,” he manages to
say at last. _ “An’ I knock up on a march
very easy, sir. Me feet ain’t as good as
they might be. Me boots”
“Yes, anything more?”
“No, sir.” wheezes Brown.
“Give him a number nine and a dose of
soda sal.. Sergeant. Put him on light duty
to-day. Next.”
* * * *
“’Ow d’jer get on, Bill?” his mate asks
as he enters the hut.
“’E give me Light' Duty—settles the
blanky route march, any’ow.”
“Come a bit of a mucker, haven’t you?”
remarks Jim Harris.
“Who’s come a mucker?” asks Brown,
defiantly.
tv ‘l We A, the march is off, and the Light
I'uty blokes have got to put new straw in
tae sacks on the bay’pet course an’ then
swill out the empty huts!”
2662.


rm
W
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIHGHOUSE
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
jgh
STER
f BULL-DOG
DIE-STOCKS
\ 7 HEN you screw pipe, do it with the least labor, bother
\/\/ and complication possible. BULL-DOG DIE-
v v STOCKS give you the S big Oster features
j
plus the easy-pulling ratcnet.
(1) Self-locking, adjust-
able dies; (21 Self-cen-
tring guides, lever-oper-
ated; (3) Dies open up
after cut (to lift off pipe
without backing up), and
reset automatically to
size; (4) no loose bush-
ings to lose or mislay;
(5) no small, breakable
parts.
Eor details write Australasian
Representative,
CHARLES WEIGHT,
RATCHET DIE - STOCK
No. 102 R screws six sizes
of pipe—%Tn. to
Ask your dealer to show it.
Box 251, G.P.0., Melbourne, Australia.
The Oster Mfg. Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.SiA. [3
CARTRIDGES
For Tour Pistol or Revolver, i
a
£
x
iU9i
M °d f | L Co, » 3 f
»., c Ke vo| v
s 4o»j
/ jfs
" Off,
A 3
REGARDLESS of tke make of your arm,
Remington UMC pistol and revolver car-
tridges give you maximum results. Tkey func-
tion an automatic perfectly and are clean and
accurate. Try tkem. Catalogue upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMG COMPANY
,D. D. BRYANT. Manager
Bos 686, Melbourne
ghj
rplIE thing that the people should have
1 been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a iieking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
fapt,
m
0
m
wm
rjji
nmm
“ ■ -*/
»’> "/?r > ..
wzmMm
*; . :
■
the benefits of
Beechams Pills
f MOTORISTSI
moot t.liFi advance in your running cos
Are you prepared to meet the advance in your running costs when
PETROL GOES UP
by any means other than paying the extra cash?
Why not BURN MORE AIR
and thus increase your mileage per gallon hy at least 10% ?
I’it to your carburetter manifold
A Hand-controlled Extra Air CocK.
Can be easily installed in a few minutes.
Resides being A SPLENDID GASOLINE SAVER
this devtce can used as an efficient air brake when coasting hills.
PRICES:
s in. Full Bore, Straight Nose, Extra-Air Cock,
with all Unions, Clips, &c., and 4£ft.Flexible Hose
4in. ditto, ditto, ditto
\ p u u Bore, Bent Nose, ditto, ditto, ditto
Brass finish. Nickel finish.
15/.- 15/9 comp.
18/3 19/- comp.
19/9 •50/6 comp.
v Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd., ,
Vi 304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ghj
gh
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making-large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require. STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED’!
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION
SUITA BIT;
Send
your enquiries
. <• : <'' , ..
to US.
jgh
j
ghj
•f* • v


NGROVIT
LEATHER
HuTMi
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAS GllO VITJE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advioe and Price List on application.
%
' >q Le on GV
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We Have many other sizes and gauges in stock, Hut below
are some of the most useful.
18in. x 11, 18in. x 13, 20in, x 13, 24in. x 10.
26in. x 11, 26in. x 12, 26in. x 13, 26in. x 14.
28in. x 11, 28in. x 12, 28in. x 13, 30in. x 12.
30iu. x 13, 32in. x 10, 32in. x 11, 32in. x 12.
36in. x 11, 38in. x 11, 42in. x 9,42 in. x 10.
42in. x 11, 44in. x 10, 48in. x 10.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
579 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Fatrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
& Co. Ltd., Adelaide. John Reid & Nephews,
>
■
■
mw
.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17:
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents
James Hard/e & Co. Ltd
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & OKAY LTD., Newcastle. |1
SOMETHING
BETTER!
If Engineers and Steam-plant Owners would only
realise the importance of EFFICIENTLY insulating
their Boilers, Steam Pipes, etc., more attention might
be paid to this particular matter. Great economies
can be effected in this direction, in some cases the coal
consumption being reduced as much as 50%. But the
insulating material must be of the very best.
Carbonate of Magnesia is to-day recognised as the best
non-conductor of heat. Newall's Coverings are com-
posed of 85% of this material, and 15% Asbestos—the
Asbestos being used for binding purposes only—and in
addition possess innumerable advantages over all other
forms of lagging. Newall’s Coverings are used, practi-
cally exclusively, by the British Admiralty, N.S.W.
and Victorian Governments, and have been used
throughout the Ultimo. White Bay, Melbourne, Perth
and Canberra Power Stations.
“NEWALL’S” MAGNESIA
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
SECTIONAL. FOR PIPE, BENDS, TEES & FLAN&EB.
PLASTIC FOR BOILERS, HEATERS, etc.
± WILD RIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
hg
Little Monitor Petrol Engines
Specially designed for driving- Separators, small Chaffcutters, etc.
Strong-, simple and effective. Economic in working. Has magneto
ignition and many late advantages over others. Only one size
made, viz., ljh.p., and the special low price is £2s> packed and
delivered free on boat or rail Melbourne. Further particulars
may be had on application. Inquiries solicited.
D. 8 W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.,
Next P. 0., Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Agents for Tomlin Incubators; Syracuse Plows, Cultivators,
etc.; Planet Jun. Implements, Kangaroo Sewing Machines,
all Poultry, Farm and Garden Requisites.
BIGGEST MAIL-ORDER HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
COUNTRY ORDERS A SPECIALTY. WRITE FOR QUOTATIONS.
je*
c
o
o
3*
y
&
&
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; Jib., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
lib. Flux will braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instrnctions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, .St. Kilda, Vi«sloriw.
II
B. A. Y. Z.
Embrace this golden opportunity of securing the two Beßt Oil Engines on the Market, viz.,
FIELD W” & "BIG CHIEF”
B
&
Over 350 “Big Chiefs’’ working in one
district in N.S.W.
Positively fool-proof, worry-proof —able
and willing to work whenever asked.
This is the type of Engine to suit
you.
Economical, simple and reliable at all
cimes.
Write for particulars. Catalogs Free.
Easiest terms ever offered in N.S.W.
R.L.ScnittoaSCo.L'*:
The Engineers' Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
mm
'
88g%5V
ELECTRIC LIGHT FOR ALL
DELCO-LIGHT
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE AGENTS;
M.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANK! LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND-
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
PB 'RBANE,
rifts
'isfeß 2-Stand Shearing Plant
The Outfit that “Swept the Poll” in the 1917 Season.
1?. D, McMASTER, Esq., Dalkeith, Cassilis, writes, under date :21th January:
“I have pleasure in stating that I have given both of the 2 Stand Portable
Crutching Plants I purchased from you an exhaustive trial, and with the
utmost satisfaction. They are handy to move about, economical to run, and
the Fairbanks Morse Engine is simplicity itself. Crutching at the different
sheep-yards is, in my opinion, a far better method than doing the work at
the woolshed, as the saving for the lambing ewes in driving alone is very
considerable."
SCORES OP SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Order Your Plant for 1918 now to ensure getting it.
DANGAR,GEDYE&CO. LTD., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Eagle St., Brisbane
SELF LUBRICATING
BEARING
pass,
LEATHER FRICTION
cone engages smoothly
and silently
ioNE PEICE SPINDLE (
wihh long bearings
bofh ends
New improved Lister' Bracket
for 2 Sfand Combined Planl-s
(PATCNTKO)
NOTE THE FEATURES OF THIS
LISTER BRACKET.
Second-hand Plant for Sale
GUARANTEED GOOD ORDER.
Elevator Plant by Jefferies, 18" x 14" x 10" Buckets,
complete with Shafting, Bearing and Pulleys.
Tandem Compressor by Kelly & Lewis, steam
driven, 400 cub. feet free air per minute.
Receiver, 5' dia. x 20 feet long, all mountings.
Marine Engine and Boiler, 12 h.p,
10-ton Weighbridge, for Rail or Road Traffic,
by Russell.
Rails, 401 b. and 601 b.
FULL PARTICULARS AND PRICES FROM
Garbage Destructors
For the Factory, the Home, for Schools and Hospitals.
The Cheapest and Healthiest System
for the Disposal of Refuse.
No. I —Capacity 3cwt. per 8 hours ... *lO
No. 3- „ 8 „ „ „ *l7/10/-
No. 4- „ 20 *35
The “Household” for Suburbanites —
Stocked by Nock & Kirby, Ltd., George Street, Sydney; and
Alex. Smith, Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney. 2/2/-* Delivered
ASK FOR ILLUSTRATED BOOKLET,
OR SEND TO MANUFACTURERS—
&eaT»uc«w£
m.
Nos. i and 3,
jgh
Machinery Merchants
and Mamufaotu rors,
350 George Street, Sydney. Works; Camperdown,
