

OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
nm
n
mn
m
Mach inery
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
FOB
a
Specialty : AUC
FOR MACHINERY, etc.
Engineers’ and Sawmill
Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Secon
Mining Requisites.
d-haml Plants always available.
/apce
nm
ail classes of
security
n
TELEPHONE: CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “DAILY TELEGRAPH” NEW BUILDING
And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MEI
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTAGE BENNETT,
Country Homes Can Have
a Modern Sewage System.
No need to forego the advantages of the
city because you live in the country. The
disposal of sewage is of prime considera-
tion. It can be most effectively solved
by installing the
Montgomerie - Neiison
System of
Sewage Disposal.
The most effective method yet introduced.
Sewage is treated by air, and, unlike the
Septic process, there is ABSOLUTELY
NO SMELL ON HOTTEST DAYS.
Over 600 installations have been made in
N.S.W. alone. It has been highly praised
by Doctors, Health Inspectors aild Archi-
tects. Interesting 10-page Booklet gives
full information.
Write for a copy to-day.
MONTGOMERIE-NEILSOM
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
' Phone, City 8976.
00-
PPLE
a
<r
Y)
Nothing
to Argue
About!"
6 &h c °
Are tlk Bef-d*
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
•HANSEN'S
L
mn
ro, INDIGESTION
and dyspepsia
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals,
Used the
World Over
lam
MOTOR
...CARS
m
s
Q
world’s best roofing
“Not the same as others
—best for wear—best for economy—best for appearance—best for others —
BEST FOR YOU.
MALTIIOID is superior all the way —less than half the price of galvanised-
iron, yet making a much better roofing.
Malthoid will not rot, rust, crack or leak, but will give good Service all the
time, with complete immunity from all roofing troubles.
Send for samples and illustrated booklets, post free.
rince, Australasian Manager), Challis House,
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY 1°
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron <& Malleable Castings . Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths. Sinks, etc.
Arthur
6 (s>
MACHINERY.
AINQAS
'BOWO P® a H
"NATIONAL’
World
“Renowned
ENGLISH=MADE
IZONTAL PETROL and OIL ENGINES.
3h.p.
Immediate delivery from Sydney at Prices BELOW PBE-YVAR RATES.
. PETROL ENGINE £5O Sih.p. OIL. ENGINE £75
~ „ 65 Ijjh.p. „ M £B5
NET CASH ON RAIL OR WHARF, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER TUBES.
Solid Drawn Tubes —
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles—
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
m
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
nm
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 39.—150. 2006.]
[Thursday, July 25, 1918’
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd.
Registered at t|ie General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


n
a
B*B
9
©M£>
On highway and byway—on
the hardest hill—on the level
stretch—-UXDE 11 E V E It Y
OONDIIIOX—y o u'l 1 secure
maxi mum power and smooth,
untroubled “running,” greatest
protection for your engine, and
unmatehable economy, if you
lubricate with National Iligh-
grade Motor Oils.
In remarkable viscosity, high
flash-point and clean-flowing
consistency, National Motor
Oils are not surpassed.
OBTAINABLE ALL GARAGES
AND STOREKEEPERS.
In 1-gallon tins, 4-gallon tins and
barrels.
.
Ask also for National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO., LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARBLE & CO.,
Adelaide.
If any illustration appearing- in The
Bulletin takes, your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote yon-price for it.
&
r. •»!
m
set
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease. In
Anaemia—or bloodlessness—
the red corpuscles are more
or less deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Therefore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
—the eyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feeliug of
intense weariness pervades
the whole system. To over-
come Anaemia, the blood
supply needs recharging with
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
m
The Wine of Life
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘Wincarnis’
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks—
gives a sparkle to the eyes- -
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.'
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
•Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street. Sydney. N.S.W.
Your Next Tyre——-
This rugged, enduring,
ground-gripping, anti-s Kid
Dominion T yre
w
You will get more real
service out of it—at lower
mileage cost than you
have ever had out of any
other make of woven fabric
pneumatic.
While you may hope we are
right, we know we are right.
Made in Canada.
« -
Sold by all leading Garages.
DISTRIBUTORS:
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited,
HEAD OFFICE: 53 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
BENNETT & BARKELL LTD., Castlereagh Street, Sydney
Vaseline
Trade Mark Registered
Borated
Petroleum Jelly
Reduces irritations of throat and
nose membranes and greatly
hastens recovery from colds.
Put up in handy tin tubes. For
sale at all chemists and general
stores. Refuse substitutes.
nm
n
rough Manufacturing Go.
„ (Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
Montreal Moscow
y
To Make Your Cake
a Success—
It must have the right beginning—that is half the
buttle.
Many a delicious cake lias been smoothly started
on its way by
Ireland’s
Baking Powder
In making Ireland’s- Baking Powder only the choicest ingredients obtainable are used. These are
prepared and blended according to a well-tried recipe.
With every tin oi‘ Ireland's Baking Powder we give the following guarantee:—
“Every tin of Ireland’s Baking Powder is fully guaranteed without reservation or restric-
tion and should the contents for any reason not meet with the approval of the purchaser it may
be returned to the grocer, and he will refund the purchase price.— J. Ireland Ltd., Newcastle.”
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
HUDSON'S
VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
an ideal remedy.
"tacAkiftiant
DS
ON
Sold by all Chemists. Tins 1 O,
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza, and the Preven-
tion of Consumption.
Containing no Cocaine or Other
Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bacterici*
dally as is creosote.”
Unlike cough medicines “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES”
do not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary,
they have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic pro-
perties prevent abnormal fermentation q£ the food
when taken after meals. r» :
The Red Page
Brucsela
Which is ancient Flemish for the dwelling-
oii-the-inarsli : modern form- —Brussels.
- On an autumn day in 1918 I broke my fast
in an open-air cafe in the Hois de la Gambre,
which is at the head of .the I.eopoldian,
pseudo-Parisian Avenue Louise; and which
was the German route into Brussels a year
after my breakfast there. The 10th Century
Chronicles say that the village of Brucsela
was in a marsh; so I suppose it was; but it
didn’t look like it from my early-morning
seat under the red October trees. From
the terrace of the restaurant I saw far down
the Hill of Kings to Old Brussels; to a slow
small train creeping out of the station; to
Stc. (ludule and the Market Place far below.
Good housewives went in and out of shops to
make the early bird’s good bargains; maids
opened windows and gave greeting to sleepy
gardeners on the lawns—a tinkling sound
came from a half-built house half-way down
the hill, and a sound of men singing at their
work. Which i s }l good sound, with a note of
quiet prosperity—quiet, rising prosperity of
Brussels in the red leaves live years ago.
Every greedy king who ever stole a throne
has turned a greasy eye on the rich Lowlands
marsh ; the centuries have made it the battle-
held of Europe; it is history’s shambles.
The 18th Century stained glass in Ste.
(Jitdnle throws rich .Renaissance beams
through the mediawal mist; l walked on
purple and scarlet marble—blood of pro-
phecy on the church Hour, no doubt. From
the marsh of Htc. (ludule and the lower town
(which is old and mellow and poor and sad)
!i le towers up past the Hue Roy ale and
the l lace du Musee (which are Fashion) to
the Boulevand Waterloo and the Avenue
Louise (which are Paris and wilful and
ight), Where that strong old man Leopold
bought and sold. In the old town, Richard
Middleton, an inspired artificer in English
prose—-and by consequence poor and sad —-
took his own way of passing out far too
early; half-way up the hill in the Hue
d Isabelle, Charlotte Bronte learned and
later taught in.the pensionnat of M. and
Mme lleger. And through the llois dc la
' amine into the A venue Louise the Germans
came from the North with sword and fire. '
In the d’Avcnberfj Gallery Wouverman and
\nu der Goes left pictures of Flemish peas-
ants m warm, brown inns with enormous
fires and flagons of wine, clay pipes and so
tortli. 1 lie kitchen wenches have indiscreet
and enthusiastic eyes, and a good many of
the peasants are comfortably drunk. Great
horses by Cuyp shine angrily like miracu-
lously colored photographs. Ilobbema, Mem--
line. Teniers, Rembrandt: all fine pictures of
firelight and comfort and work and babies
and things—eventide pictures of rest and
of realities. In a quiet street on the side
of the lull is the Wiirtz Museum. It is
displayed in the house where the painter
lived and died (by' his own hand report
says). From the pictures hung there I
should judge the report to have been u.nusu-
nllv truthful in this case. Some of the work
terrifyingly mad; it is enclosed in four-
sided partitions with a peep-show hole cut
at the adult height. A man in the act of
blowing his brains out; a man who was
buried, but not dead, climbing out of his
coffin in a vault; a woman mad and putting
a baby in a boiling cauldron, etc. Giants with
three heads, with one eye in the forehead ;
with two heads, and so on. Yes; I am
afraid report was right in that matter; and
I think Wiirtz was right, too, if a bit late.
I hope the Germans like his pictures—if
they do find them a little personal.
The thousand years of reclaiming the
marsh; the thousand years of battles with-
stood, _ of steady, phlegmatic cultivation of
the rich soil to its pre-war wealth —that
inheritance, slow, Dutch, silent, will drive
the Lowlands to their appointed destiny, far
past the German occupation, the scored and
ruined fields, the smashed towns.
HILARY LOFTING.
Fiction after the War
Dear Bulletin, —What will novelists
write about after the war? The old war
story of the “Three Musketeers” and “Gentle-
man of France” type will, I think, fall flat.
A huge barrier of wretchedness has arisen
between us .and those tales of gentlemanly
strife, and they already sound grotesque. The
tradition of polite hostilities has been obliter-
ated. Yet tales of recent war are too horri-
ble, too muddy, too sordid, too disembowell-
ing, and too near. It is one thing to write
about the deceased who was killed as a sort
of rare event in the time of the Valois or the
Visconti, but to write of campaigns when
there is a dead body and a war orphan in
every house is like turning a nation’s grief
into opera. The fitting title for the literary
masterpiece of this time would be “Chron-
icles of a Slaughterhouse” by the talented
author who writes under the pen-name of
"Entrails.” The mild old domestic romance—
the “Annals of a Quiet Neighborhood'’or the
“Tales of a Lonely Parish” or the “Last
Chronicle of Barset”—will he hard to revive,
for the Quiet Neighborhood has been bom-
barded, and the Lonely Parish has been
buried in Flanders or has struggled home
with one arm and a wooden leg. The rest-
ful atmosphere has. been blown away hr
blown up. The scientific novel such as Jules
Verne and Wells delighted in lias mostly been
turned into fact, and the fact has been mostly
turned into gore and bones. “Forty Thou-
sand Leagues Beneath the Sea” is reality
now, and of a very blood-smelling variety.
The “War in the Air” is almost reality.
The “Days of the Comet,” when a beneficent
heavenly body struck the earth and dissemi-
nated a blue gas which converted everybody
tt» better ways has been partly realised by a
hellish body which struck the earth and dis-
seminated a yellow gas that suffocated any-
body. Nobody wants to hear of gas. The North
Pole made good fiction once, but Amundsen
has been at both Poles and proved them
bitterly cold and otherwise ordinary. Men
of the Rider Haggard school can’t find
another lost kingdom in Africa without being
ridiculous; you can take a second-class rail-
(Coniinued on page 26.)


vce
CHALLENGE OIL ENGINES
The CHALLENGE OIL ENGINE has been DESIGNED to MEET the
REQUIREMENTS of the MAN on the LAND, who DEMANDS an EFFICIENT,
RELIABLE, EVEN-RUNNING Engine. The CHALLENGE has MAGNETO
IGNITION, is QUICKLY started, EASILY operated, and REMARKABLY
economical in FUEL CONSUMPTION.
I MPa ;
CHALLENGE
WE STOCK THE CHALLENGE
OIL ENGINE in SEVEN SIZES,
as follows:
The Challenge Oil Engine
is neat and compact, and
even the lower-powered
types are capable of per-
forming heavy work. Wc
quote (he following as
having been done by a
2-h.p. model :—Drove a
-in. Centrifugal Pump,
giving 5000 gals, per hour
on 20ft. head; Min. Centri-
fugal Pump, giving 11,000
gals, per hour on 12ft.
head ; Dynamo, 20 lights;
Bone Mill, 100 to 200 lb.
per hour; Hay’s Corn
Skeller, 25 to 50 bushels
per hour; Cream Separ-
ator, any usual size;
Chaffcutter, up to bin.
mouth, 2 blades; Meat
Chopping Machines, 351 b.
in 5 minutes; Churns,
Wheat Grader, Milking
Machines.
mn
CHALLENGE WINDMILLS
THE MAX ON THE LAND has OFTEN to
LEAVE the FARM WORK he is doing to RE-
PLENISH the HOUSEHOLD WATER supply. The
ACTUAL operation of PUMPING daily from a
\\ ELL to the HOUSE TANK does not take up a
GREAT DEAL of time, but in the AGGREGATE it
represents HUNDREDS of WASTED HOURS
YEARLY. He should install a CHALLENGE
WINDMILL to do the pumping for him. The TIME
SAVED would be REFLECTED in the MONETARY
RETURN from his farm. The UP-TO-DATE MAN
uses a CHALLENGE WINDMILL and CONTINU-
ALLY SOUNDS its PRAISES.
The CHALLENGE CONSTRUCTION is the
EMBODIMENT of SUPERIOR MECHANICAL
ELEMENTS. BROUGHT TOGETHER for the first
time in ONE UNEQUALLED COMBINATION;
and PRODUCING A WINDMILL of EXCEP-
TIONAL MERIT.
Briefly stated, these elements consist of an
INTERNAL GEAR, CENTRE ONE-PIECE
CRANK. ROCKER ARM, SPLIT BOXES, with
detachable, reversible BABBITT BEARINGS,
interchangeable with graphite, SIDE VANE and
MULTIPLYING SPRING GOVERNOR.
The internal type of gear is recognised by
mechanical engineers as superior to an external gear
in at least two respects. First, twice as many cogs
in mesh. Second, noiseless. These features secure
strength, long life and satisfaction —all that is obtain-
able in gear transmission.
m
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ STOCK THE CHALLENGE WINDMILLS IN THE FOLLOWING SIZES:
TOWERS FOR CHALLENGE WINDMILLS.
4-post, in 10ft.
20ft.
£9/5/-
Weight—•
Gross 3981 b.
Nett 3151 b.
sections —
30ft.
£lO/18/6
4851 b.
3601 b.
40ft.
£l2/15/6
Special 30ft. for 12ft. Mill.
£l2/15/6
7851 b. 7751 b.
6651 b. 6751 b.
ILLUSTRATED LEAFLET SENT ANYWHERE ON REQUEST.
RELIABLE OHIO ENSILAGE CUTTERS
The OHIO No. 11 CUTTER and BLOWER, as shown, will DEAL with ALL
KINDS of DRY FEED, as well as ENSILAGE, at the RATE of from 3 to 5
TONS per HOUR. The model shown, the plain-table type, although a POWER-
FUL machine, requires but sor 6 li.p. to drive it. The OHIO No. 11 is STRONG
and DURABLY built, and is fitted with two knives of high carbon steel which retain
their cutting qualities. OHIO BLOWERS ELEVATE MORE ensilage per
horse-power than any other blower. The reason is plain. The same shaft that
receives the power from the engine carries the cutting knives and the blower fan.
No. 11 Cutter and Blower, with two 11-inch knives, cuts
and 1 inch. £2B
Prices are for machines complete,
with Blower and Hood.
Tin. Galvanised Pipe, in 6ft.
lengths, 1/7 per ft.
...uWwMWi'W
J Wußw3j
m
ill
.-•"I
The OHIO No. 13 STANDARD FEED and ENSILAGE CUTTER is iDa
f NECESSITY on an UP-TO-DATE FARM. The good point, whijh a fL-mS
looks for in such a machine are these—STRENGTH, DURABILITY and SA'ttq
FACTORY OPERATION. The OHIO No. 13 contains all the latest IMPROVE
MENTS, and is in EVERY WAY RELIABLE. From 4to 6 tonfof ensihii S
f [°™ to 3500 Pounds of dry feed can be cut per hour. By substituting
xv-iw 1 b , acl . es cuttmg knives, perfect shredding may be’ accomplished.
With two knives it cut f, 1, If, and 2 inch, and }, f, i and 1 inch with fmn-
knives. The speed is from 450 to 600 revolutions per minute. The train of
feed-gear pinions, clearly shown in picture, vibrate as the feed roller raises and
lowers, yet their movable bearings maintain the respective distances to each other
without friction which gives a uniform motion
to the roller. The backwardly-mclined motion of the upper roller, as it raises
assists in taking' hold of the feed, and this, combined with other
good points, makes these machines strong feeders. Price ...
£l7/I#/-
N9!3
ms
mg
V
si'rfi
HORDERN & SONS.L™
Onjy Universal R*oviders,
[Slew Palace Emporium,
m
Brickfield Hill..
Sydn ejy.


H
f
S (
r
n
Pi # %t
a i
m
%
1.42
*M "» /
«&*
»
rn
fX
& -
K
&\
J
ES
*Q
«Q
<n
i
ADAM**
Adaniax
ROOf'NO
_2 roofing ,
proof WNthtipw
di
"m Adams f( o1
J>.T7
S Austral Id
2&K$2
=v T
Three Rolls of “Adamax”
Roofing equal to 6f cwt.
Galvanised-lron.
One Roll of “Adamax
Roofing equal to 2jcwt.
Galvanised-iron.
Adamax” Saves
Freight and in
7 in First Cost,
Cost of Upkeep.
If Adamax Hoofing did not live up to the claims we make for it the contract for the supply of Adamax to the N. S. Wales
Railways for 1917-1918 would not again, after careful analysis, have been secured for 1918-1919. Neither would Adamax have
proved itself, under critical examination and tests by experts, worthy of being used in the following “big jobs”: —
43} miles of “Adamax” Roof Covering is being used on wool=storage sheds erected
in Wentworth Park by Messrs. Stuart Bros, for the Central Wool Committee.
Again, last week, 13 miles of “Adamax” Roofing were ordered by the Imperial
Authorities in Perth for the West Australian Wool Stores.
22,000 sq. yds. for use on the Commonwealth Buildings at Molongo, Canberra.
20,000 sq. yds. on the Leeton Canning Factories.
13,200 sq. yds. for W.A. Govt. Freezing Works at Wyndham.
An order for 44,000 sq. yds. was placed for use on the South Australian Wheat
Board Buildings.
These are the proofs we give you of Adamax Superiority—not mere wordy talk that might be applied to any other composition
roofing.
Follow the lead of the master minds who were responsible for the placing of the above huge orders, and order Adamax for roofing
your factories, mine buildings, garages, sheds and homes.
“Adamax” costs One-third the price of Galvanised-iron.
Get that fact embedded in your mind. Take note of the saving in freight—nearly two-thirds less than on iron.
And Adamax, unlike iron, is not damaged by the elements —Rain, Wind, Heat, Cold, Sea Air, Mining Gases or Chemical Fumes.
Rot or Rust do not wreak their vengeance on it. Therefore, Adamax will not pinhole or dry out and become valueless—because it
contains no tar or fish-oil. Pure mineral hydrocarbon is thoroughly impregnated into the long-fibred felt, which is then
finished by a process which makes it impervious to the elements.
“The Adamax Series'” is a free Booklet, which explains the many merits and
uses to which Adamax can be put. Send for free copy.
William Adams 8 Co. Ltd.,
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins St.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie St.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward 8 Mary Sts.
PERTH: 33 Ring St.
J
:^Q> ?
/w,
vt^g
t £s df
M
I
I
[M
M.
vi
M
Y
>wriii»mmiuffl
it
r\
cT
£d-c~
ar
f«j
n
-Cl.
*£ ";••
se
y^r-c>


IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Mdlin’s
Food
Messrs. Mellin’s Food Ltd., London, desire
to inform the public that, in consequence of
Government prohibition and difficulties of
export from the United Kingdom, they have
made complete arrangements with their
American branch factory for a continuance
of shipments of Mellin’s Food to Australia.
Mellin’s Food as manufactured in America
is of the same standai’4 composition and
quality, is prepared from the same formula,
and is in every way identical with the English
article.
Stocks of American-manufactured Mellin’s
' Food have reached Australia, and Dealers and
the Public can now be assured of adequate
supplies.
All enquiries and requests for samples and
literature to
GOLLINS CO. PTY.LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney,Adelaide, Brisbane
Jh£ The one
and only
HP
sauce.
is different quite
different from any
other kind of sauce.
Get a bottle to-day.
All Stores sell H.P.
here.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish. crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO.. Melbourne
.ptcti
jfearw.§
Si
mi
m
or a Aimm
nm
THE
K
W 4
>-~r-5
5-^5
-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1.498,220. Reserve Fund, £700,00C.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: Sir JOHN GRICK. Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD. Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACIIAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H! WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: E. J. OSBORNE.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
TjsesS
ASK FOR A
H J\T
U N Rl VA Ll_E D
M
Wi
vn3d
<3P
%
* OF ALL VJP
-TO
.0^
/
r £RS
for
Slyle & Finish.
MAKERS:-
f RESS & C° II?
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Wholesale Agenrs:-
COX & MAILER.
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
<3
f.
>
nst* \
l^rrlsM
» n in««
-ym
m
ft
'
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by daily habit and by simple
precautions he has kept his body fit
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fail him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
'"ITHE habit of taking
* a half teaspoon-
ful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot
water every morning
before rising clears the
head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better —and rise refreshed ; you eat better —and
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
keeps you fit—good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
n
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS!
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lest.
There is a hill where beech-trees grow
To screen a house I used to know
Lest all the world should look and see
How happy simple folk can be.
And there a sun-dial is seen,
Set on a sloping lawn of green,
Lest any clock should make a chime
To spoil the silent march of time.
Green moss is growing on the thatch ;
The door is seldom on the latch
Lest any passer-by desire
A shelter by the quiet fire.
But still in dreams there come to me
Long murmurs of a parting sea
Lest I should walk, and walk that so
I find the peace of long ago.
For there is not one living face
Near those old walls of all my r:\ce
Lest by some jarring touch of things
I lost one memory that sings.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Dream-Song.
I dreamt the stars were golden notes
Upon a silver moonbeam stave,
The written song of angel throats
Singing where ether oceans lave.
’Twas I that read the heavenly bars
And gave Earth music of the stars.
Sweet, vain, fantastic little dreams.
That gild the long hours of the night!
Vain and fantastic? Yet it Seems
Some dreams live on by morning light.
Long watching where the star-lamps swing
I yet may find the way to sing.
In thunder-music move the seas;
The winds chant in a monotone;
Tlie birds make choral rhapsodies;
In lyric choir the insects drone;
And, lurking ’twixt its pain and smart,
I hear a song within my heart.
But as a dream is locked in sleep
My golden song is still heart-bound ;
A little more I laugh and weep.
Then breaks it forth in perfect sound.
For Heaven will grant me yet the key
To loose my captive melody.
N.S.W.
MARI MARINA.
The Feast.
Said .Toy to me: “I have a feast
That is for all prepared
In whom warm tires and life’s desires
By bounding youth are shared;
Come, ere the lust of life is dead!”
And so I followed as he led.
The fruits were heaped in lustrous piles;
The wine glow T ed warm and red ;
On women’s eyes and women’s smiles
The lights their brightness shed ;
In hues, in tints most manifold
Rich gleamed life’s purple and its gold.
The sensuous musie filled the air ;
And when its cadence fell
Some splash of fountains here and there,
Some silver-tinkling bell.
Mixed with the constant melody
Of voices gay and laughter free.
On dishes rare, with careless taste,
I, all unhungry, dined ;
And. prodigal, in splendid waste
High pleasures could I find.
A credo in iny heart upsprang
Formed to a song some singer sang:
All things we have
Are hut to spend;
For all are bankrupt
In the end;
And memories
May give content
In our long sleep
When life is spent!
Come, spend the hours
That else will pass,
And spend that life
That is but grass!
Spend, too, your warm
Fresh garnered gold,
For in your age
’Tis also cold!
Oh, shun all waste!
All things must end •
But tee waste not
The things ice spend,
And memories
May give content
In our long sleep
When life is spent!
Strange darkness came ; the lights went out
Like stars before the day,
When, waking from the purple rout
Of splendor, in the grey,
I found a desert and a rock ;
But Joy still stayed, it seemed, to mock.
He went with me, with cynic jests
To scoff at weary leagues;
We clambered over craggy crests
Till, sick with its fatigues.
Life at its fainting end did seem.
Still jesting at a vanished dream. -
At last we came upon a slope
Where, rock bound, grasses grew;
And, temple of a hungry hope,
A hut came into view ;
And, 10, a table rough was there—
A table set with simple fare !
With laughter filling all my veins
I dined, and railed at Joy ;
“This banquet, won with hunger pains,
No slumber shall destroy;
It beats your nightmare feast at least.”
Joy smiled and said: This is the feast!
FRANCE.
HAMER.


V-;v;
m
IP
Ml
m
m
m
00-
M
‘ :
Hl
:
m
M
m
'A
mi
£*B
>
m
///
m
1
}*\
f£Z
>■ •:
■m
<_•
la
ffl
111
IS
HI
ft:
iwUm
i'| 'V^'t
Hi
5.8
seas
y.o>?
m
m
*iito
m
nm
fOBTAINABLE FROM ALL STORES
AfA hJUFA CT(sr?£C> av'
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD
&VPNEY. MtLBOUWME . PEBTH APELAIPE-
Veterinary Instruments.
Denver’s Veterinary Instruments are built on the latest scientific
principles and embrace every modern idea, which, eounled with the
Denyer Quality, goes to make the most perfect Instruments known to
Veterinary Science to-day. One of the most modern is the
Eclipse Triple Crush Emasculate.
It operates with perfect safety and gives, the utmost satisfaction as
regards efficiency, quickness and finish.
Tho Eclipse Emasculator is of the newest type anti
costs no more than the old-fashioned patterns that
other firms still offer.*
Price 50/=
Postage 9d. EXTRA.
Write to-day for valuable, informative Booklet—Free..
DENYER BROS.
“The House for Veterinary
Specialties,”
281 George Street, Sydney.
miiiiiin
Ill'll 'll
r=a
\ l| JfMifir
iwi dii
/S
I
Sealing
Rex Cheese
n
mn
m
Sealed_ Without Solder
Nothing that can possibly add to the wholesome-
ness and flavor of “Rex” Luncheon Cheese is
omitted. Hence this special process of sealing the
tins absolutely without solder.
When you buy a tin of
“Rex”
Luncheon
Cheese
n
You know that it will open up in perfect condition. You
know that aU the valuable digestive properties of a perfect-
ly matured full cream cheese, from which it is made, have
been conserved. As a sandwich spread for all occasions
“Rex" Cheese is away “on its own.” Its flavor captivates
you right from the start and never palls.
Get a tin from your grocer to-day. Try it on sandwiches or
biscuits.
BE SURE YOU GET “REX.”
Also try “Rex' Ham Pate and “Rex” Veal and
Tongue Pate —two delicious all meat “spreads.”
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J. 282
%/• %
/
CONSIDER
THIS TREAD
DESIGN
Mr.
Motorist:
:
You will see it only on
GOODRICH
Black
Safety
Tread
Tires
“Best in the Long Run”
FULL SIZE
GOODRICH
Black SAFETY TREAD Tyres.
No mere pattern of an ornamental letter or mere
meaningless words is this design.
It is scientifically constructed to perform a definite
SKIDDING ant service ~" THE PREVENTION OF
You need only to see the clean=cut imprint of the
parallel bars and cross=tie in the slush or mud
to know that it accomplishes its purpose
effectively.
GOODRICH is the only efficient
NON-SKID TYRE.
i 9
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St, 13 Castlereagh St, 300 Adelaide St,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.—N0. 2006.
THURSDAY, JULY 25, 1918.
War-time Price, Bd.
DOOMED.
MARS: “Not yet—ah, not yet!"


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 10s. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction—A.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawh—~ivill be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, hudgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings ' Street,
Vancouver , B.C. '
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. — Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.— Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. — Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 16oz.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: 8oz., Id.; 8ioz. to 10oz., 2id.:
lOoz. to 12oz., 3d.; elsewhere, koz., Id., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
ffiTe'&zxllelj/ii.
THURSDAY, JULY 25, 1918.
“THE SPIRIT OF SECESH.”
That was the familiar name for the spirit of
the confederate secessionists of the Jeff
Davis days. The following was written to
show that it is still alive or ought to be: —
In three States of Australia there are three
bloated cities. They have been bloated; they are
bloated; they struggle with all their bloating power
to become more bloated. This is their census records :
Out op evert 10,000 inhabitants in each State
THE PROPORTIONS IN THE CAPITALS WERE
1871. 1881. 1901. 1915. 1917.
Melbourne . . 2827 3281 4113 4824 5020
Adelaide .. 2303 3711 4475 4663 5170
Sydney.. .. 2734 2993 3590 4083 4130
Sydney is really worse than it looks, for the city
areas in the other two cases include a lot of what
would rank as country ground in the Ma State. But
all the cases are awful. Country folk in the districts
which are attached to these seaside monsters, not by
geography but by force or fraud, grow tired of seeing
the population around them actually diminishing
and civilisation moving further away. They are tired
of paying freights and fares for needless distances.
They are tired of sending members to the bloated
city which absorbs them and teaches them that close
attention to city interests is the road to political
preferment. They are almost tired of one-adult-one-
vote when it mostly means permission to decide
which candidate they will select,
the machine being located at the last resort in the
bloated city. They are tired, and they would be
more tired if there were more of them.
There is no escape except by secession. It was
that which made Melbourne and Brisbane. Victoria
and Queensland got away from the bloated city of
their time —only one where there are now three—by
appeal to the British Government. But that is no
longer allowed. And there is no appeal to the
Australian Government, for the Constitution binds it
not to divide a State unless that State —which is
that State’s bloated city—consents. There are only
4980 out of every 10,000 people in Victoria and
4830 in S.A. and 5870 out of every 10,000
in N. S. Wales to enter a protest, and
they can’t be got together, for the popula-
tion in the one or two densely-peqpled counties
attached to the capital naturally vote with 'the
capital. So 95 per cent, of the area of the State
can’t get a hearing. Some ports like Port Stephens,
Jervis Bay and Twofold Bay have practically no
voting population for want of railways. Portland
has a railway which carries the exports from the
lands naturally attached to it round in a great
circle so as to make Melbourne closer in practice
than their own good harbor.
* * * *
Possibly some of these places might strike out for
themselves. Take Portland for a good example. Its
territory is defined by the S.A. border on the west
(that line might one day have to be moved further
west), bj r the N. S. Wales border on the north, by the
sea on the south. There is only the eastern border
to define and a streak drawn across the State half
way between Portland and the capital would do that.
The first step would be the formation of a self-
appointed committee of able and determined men,
with a few plausible men and a lot of ambitious
men. They might be patriots or they might simply
have an enlightened eye to the main chance. They
would proceed to form a vast union, every member
of which would pay an annual subscription to the
union Treasury. When the unionists became really
enthusiastic they would naturally deal as far as
possible only with merchants who supported the
cause morally and financially. They would concen-
trate their business on newspapers which lent all
their weight to the cause. Negotiations would be
opened with banks and fire-insurance offices, with an
offer of a solid block of business to reputable con-
cerns which would shift their headquarters to the
State-that-was-to-be. A most strenuous effort would
be made to ensure the election of sesessionist State
politicians—men who were not nominated by any
political machine in Melbourne, and whose interests
lay in Western Victoria. It is always safer to turn
down the man who comes with lip-service from out-
side. He may look well, but he is a Hun, bearing
gifts that seem to be gold and are only gilt. The
secessionist members at Melbourne would behave
much as the Parnellites once did in London.
* » * *
Every effort would be made to obtain written
pledges of adhesion from public officials of all sorts.
These, of course, would be kept secret. They would
simply be a record of the men to be trusted and
remunerated when the time came.
The railways, or bits of railway which it would
be necessary to take over, would be marked out.
The connections necessary to be built to link these
lines with Portland and make it a railway centre
would be marked out and surveyed. The same policy
would, of course, apply to Warrnambool. The land-
owners along the routes would be interviewed and
invited to sign documents re the surrender of the
required land. These would be carefully drawn
up so that the new Government could get to work
even while it was in the twilight stage between non-
recognition and full recognition. The most necessary
harbor works would also be devised in detail.
Arrangements would be made as far as possible for
the resumption of unpopulated or thinly-populated
lands around Portland, Warrnambool, Hamilton, and
a few other small places which might be expected
to grow rapidly, so that the new State might be a
ground landlord of great size and profit. The prices
would naturally be modest compared with the
values that might be expected when the secession
came off, but very large compared with those that
would certainly prevail if it didn’t come off. This
would be an appeal to the lower instincts of the com-
munity. An attempt would also be made to arrange
about lands for settlement. Settlement after seces-
sion might reasonably be looked for with a rush.
* * * •*
The leaders of the movement would appeal widely
through the press and otherwise to the people off the
south-eastern corner of S.A. These persons might
feel inclined to join, seeing that Mount Gambier
is 305 miles from Adelaide, while Portland, a better
harbor, is almost at the door, though it is cut off by
the conditions of a railway system that looks like a
snake doubled up three times. , (The distance by
rail from Mount Gambier to its best natural port is
nearly 500 miles, whereas it should be less than
100.) They would also appeal to the people of
New England and Monaro in N. S. Wales, because
these places are somewhat similarly situated. They
have nothing to do with Western Victoria’s case,
but it would be good policy to spread the gospel
far and wide. The matter ought also to be lavishly
published in England, Scotland and Ireland. There
might in the end be an appeal to Caisar, and it
would be well that the whole case should be persist-
ently shouted in Cesar’s ear in advance. The Irish
members would probably make speeches about it in
the House of Commons.
Everywhere it should be stated that no insurrection
is contemplated—only a strike. The prospective Pro-
visional Government, meeting perhaps at Hamilton,
which is a railway-junction town, would carefully
explain that though it claimed independence
within the Commonwealth and possession of all
public lands within its own borders, the new State
(a name might be chosen later on, but if Georgia
would appeal to the present monarch and arouse
his good feeling, that hackneyed term would have
advantages) was peaceful and law-abiding. 'Above
all it would be responsible for its share of the
State debt on a capitation basis.
Then the well-organised strike would commence
everywhere at once. The police (previously cor-
rupted) would be required to take their orders only
from the Provisional Government. So would all
other State officials (previously corrupted). Pas-
sengers on trains connecting with Adelaide or Mel-
bourne would be respectfully but firmly requested
to pay extra fares for the bit of their journey that
lay inside the new State, and the Governments at Adel-
aide and Melbourne would be respectfully requested
to make good the loss to them. The new authority
would collect freights as a matter of course. It
would issue its own railway tickets, good as far
as its borders. With profound regret it would
commandeer the rolling-stock it required and keep
the same inside its jurisdiction, and ask Melbourne
to agree to have the value fixed by arbitration,
when the young State’s inscribed stock would be
promptly handed over. It would also offer to remit
its share of the Victorian interest bill on a capita-
tion basis as soon as peaceful arrangements were
made. Meanwhile it would collect all State takes
in a polite but determined spirit.
* * * *
The local members would quit the State Parlia-
ment, leaving behind them a strenuous protest
against bigotry, coercion, violence, bloodshed, preju-
dice and interference with the sacred rights of man,
also woman and child. The Provisional Government
would appeal both directly and through its Federal
members to the Commonwealth for sympathy and, if
necessary, military protection. It would appeal to
the Governor-General as figurehead of the continent
and Commander-in-chief and through him to the
British Government. It would request his Chief
Excellency to appoint some eminent citizen of
Georgia (or whatever the name might be for the
time) as deputy-Governor pending arrangements for
importing the genuine article from England. (The
abolition of imported State Governors could be left
to the future; the immediate matter would be to
make a good impression and induce his Chief Excel-
lency to commit himself.) And it would invite the
co-operation of heads of churches, trades-unions,
peace societies, the High Court (if that august body
could be dragged in) and anybody else who looked
useful.
Incidentally, it being the Provisional Government’s
busy week, it would issue writs for a general elec-
tion on the bisis of the Federal franchise, and make
temporary arrangements about the administration of
justice. It would swear in plenty of special con-
stables. It would try to get an overdraft. It would
start work in haste on the scrap of line required to
link its ports with their natural hinterland. And
as regards any,hidden devices for resisting force with
force if there should be force to be resisted it would
say nothing unless driven by necessity.
PROGRESS UNDER DIFFICULTIES.
What holds Labor back at present is the too-
contented disposition of the rank and file under exist-
ing conditions, and their satisfaction with existing
trades union methods. The only hope for the work-
ing class, indeed, is for extremist principles to
become general throughout the entire ranks of Labor.
Let us all become extremists if we hold that the
world belongs to the workers. We do not pretend
that any advancement in the figure the Board of
Trade may prescribe will bring us to the gates of
Paradise. ' The institutions of capitalism buttressed
by its courts and satraps will remain... .The only
hope is that the worker may never become satisfied.
—Labor paper, the organ of a union whose secretary
bears the name of Schreiber.
The above is a fragment, taken at random
chiefly because of the secretary’s Hun-sound-
ing name, from the Australian trades-union
literature of the period. The keynote of the
whole story, like the keynote of every other
story from similar sources, is a demand for
“Justice for the Worker,” but it is impossi-
ble to secure a definition of Justice —-not
clouds and generalities, but a concrete thing,
with plans, specifications, figures (certified
as correct by reliable accountants), maps
(if convenient), diagrams and front and rear
elevations —so that it may be handed over.
It is like that Truth which mild old Pontius
Pilate asked about. He was expected to
provide the article or recognise the article,
and he naturally inquired what the article
was. Nobody could tell him, and so he died
in doubt; and nobody has told anybody else
to this day. Apparently the idea is that if
absolute authority is handed over to certain
people who are making a great noise they
will unfold Justice later on. The worker
isn’t defined, but apparently the same people
will define him from time to time. Anyhow
he is the person who supports the people who
are making a great noise, and the whole
world is to be his reward and theirs. The
great hope of the authority above quoted is
that the worker will be miserable all his days
even after he has got the world —he and his
children after him. He is to be “never satis-
fied.” It doesn’t seem much of a prospect for
a capitalist, as he will then be.
* * * *
There are some evidences that things are
tending the right way in Australia despite
“courts and satraps.” For instance, the pro-
bates of dead people’s wills only deal with
cases where the deceased left an appreciable
amount of money. In 1911 there Were 10,972
such deceased, leaving on an average £2584;
in 1915 (later figures are scarce, for returns
are slow these war days) 13,047 people left
an average of £2OBB. That is to say, more
people had money and the distribution of it
was going on fast. The movement has been
the same way ever since reliable statistics
began, and considering that married women,
infants in the eye of the law, old-age pen-
sioners and habitual criminals aren’t ex-
pected to leave much the figures—l3,o47
estates of one sort or another to 52,782
deaths—are remarkable. The great sheep-
kings are perishing. About half the wool-
bearing animals in Australia are now owned
by men with less —as a rule, very much less
—than 5000 muttons apiece. In fact, the
great bulk of them own less than 2000. The
vast majority of sheep-owners are now just
hard workers, not holding discourse in cities,
but scattered over the quiet speechless places
of the land ; never going on strike, for they
have no one save themselves to strike
against; employing very little labor apart
from their own, and consequently oppressing
few unionists. New South Wales, the
great sheep State, had in 1891 73
owners of over .100,000 jumbucks—the aver-
age was over 3.42,000. ’ So fast did they
pass away that in 1905 this class numbered
only seven, and the big flocks had diminished
90 per cent, while the very smallest ones
(under 3000 sheep) had increased 50 per
cent. As regards land, three principal
States publish details for varying dates. In
N. S. Wales the number of properties of
from one to 500 acres increased between
1901 and 1916 from 57,588 to 75.024, while
the men with 50,000 acres and over dimin-
ished from 149 to 76. In Victoria the less-
than-500-acre class grew from 40,801 in 1906
to 50,848 in 1912 ; while the 50,000-acre class
dropped from six to one. In S.A. between
1911 and 1916 the holders of less than 500
acres expanded from 13,933 to 35,021, while
the solitary individual in the biggest class
died out altogether. The one Australian
millionaire is dead, and there is no sign of
his successor. The number of small capi-
talists with savings-bank deposits doubled
between 1907 and 1916, and the amount of
the deposits quadrupled—that is to say, there
were twice as many of these small capitalists
each with twice as much capital. In 1935
the total private income of the Common-
wealth was estimated at £240,000,000, and
£184,000.000 of this was owned by people
under the £5OO-per-annum mark. Most of
the balance belonged to people with a smaller
income than the wage of a Labor (or other)
Cabinet Minister. The whole evidence points
to a rapid diffusion of wealth—to the extinc-
tion of the big capitalist to make way for
the small one and for the man who formerly
wasn’t any kind of capitalist. The pity is
that .so much of the capital isn’t our own,
but is borrowed money, arising from the
insane loan policy.
* * * *
. No one nowadays builds the great preten-
tious mansions of other times. The palaces
of last generation have mostly become flats,
hash-houses,, religious institutions and the
like. This is a time of increased and very
ingenious taxation, and none of this falls
on the really poor except a very few tariff
items, and even these are seldom on neces-
saries. The land taxes (State and Federal,
plain, absentee and graduated), super-taxes,
income taxes (State and Federal), War Pro-
fits tax, probate and succession duties (State
and Federal—all small estates are exempt),
dividend tax, stamp duties and others are
almost wholly imposts on the affluent, while
the not-affluent receive old age and invalid
pensions. The result of a multitude of
devices is a continual movement in the right
direction. And it isn’t helped, but is
materially hindered, by the doings of the
raving self-advertisers who beguile the class
that can least afford it to throw away their
wages on purposeless strikes, and in sup-
porting much bigger droves of talkative
hangers-on than the case calls for. These
are men who want poverty because they live
by denouncing it, just as the hired teetotal
advocate wants drink, and the parson
couldn’t get on without the Devil.
■*■* *•*
Things might have been much further ad-
vanced but for the brazen treachery of many
Labor leaders. The political Labor move-
ment started and the political machine was
constructed in N. S. Wales. The leaders
began by selling the soul of the move-
ment to the importer. No objection
was or is made, except in words, and
even they’ are rare, to the products of
“scab” labor, sweated labor, colored labor,
and practically slave labor provided they are
foreign products brought here by the rich
importer who has the fiscal issue sunk for
his benefit. What he gave in return for
this benefit isn’t known. The party’s soul
was sold by its leaders to the big city ground
landlords yearning for unearned increment.
It was pledged to a decentralisation policy—
to the opening up, in honesty and not in
words or pretences, of the good ports which
are closed for lack of railway communication
and the other advantages which tlie big city
possesses. These are places where new
cities might grow with the State as sole
ground landlord, but the principle of State
land-ownership and the principle of decen-
tralisation vanished in a haze of generalities
about the conspiracies of capital, whereas
the real trouble is the conspiracy of Labor
leaders with the worst kind of capitalist.
The small farmer in the North and South,
who is still plundered and 'rack-rented by
the cost of needless haulage to a needlessly
remote market, reasonably suspects that the
city Labor figureheads only helped to create
him because they hated him a little less than
his big predecessor—in fact that they have
a profound objection to everybody except
themselves and their immediate followers.
What that aggregation of interests which
forms the big-city monopoly gave for these
favors received isn’t known either. In the
general throwing overboard of alleged prin-
ciples the alleged anti-borrowing policy went
•with the rest. The reward in that case was
plain enough ; it was office—a great deal of
office. The biggest loan boom on record
created a hectic flush of prosperity and
enabled the treacherous and incompetent
leaders to point with pride to the beneficent
effects of their blundering. Now the men
who figure in the forefront of the battle and
the shouting seem to have made a bargain
for the party’s soul with the anarchist and
the Hun enemy. It is a marvel that there
should be even such good results as there
are under such bad conditions.
GET-RICH-QUICK AND EAT
VEGETABLES.
Dear Bulletin. —The conservation of
national wealth was never more important
to the Commonwealth than now. Willie
Watt says so. Frank Tudor agrees with
him. So it must be true. And it was, or
at any rate soon will be, never more neces-
sary to increase production in Australia, for
if this is omitted then will the war debt, and
the cost of pensions, and the p.n. incidental
to Canberra and Norton Griffiths and Jack
Scaddan’s steak emporiums be unto the
young Australian like the scourge of Attila.
But the problem of how to conserve wealth
and become possessed of more goods has hither-
to been solved by the local politician without
proper respect for the immutable truths inci-
dental to the multiplication, table. Mostly
he has solved it by sprinkling the continent
with broken railway gauges, pushing a few
millions a year down the sink on general
principles, keeping Bloat supplied with
nourishment, and acquiring imported foreign
property by promising to pay later on. When
he has been engaged in other pursuits the
democracy outside has been accustomed to
helping the good work along by going on
strike or having prolonged debates about
going slow or getting even with things by
passing on the latest tax. But the result of
all these varied operations has in the main
been something like making too frequent an
inspection of the races. Wherefore it hap-
pens that the gospel of Doing More Work
has come to demand a hearing, and the un-
believing are asked to explain how the bill
for the war and the razzle will be paid
unless there is more in the cash box to pay it
with, and how Australian goods are going
to supply the market if they fail to material-
ise. It looks a fairly decent sort of gospel;
it is the only one found by any other country
to be worth 2d.; but the beef and mutton
kings have knocked it clean over the
ropes. Their programme for wealth conser-
vation and production points the way to
swift recovery from the spree and the war
and gives opportunity for Australia to lead
the world in economic reform —or achieve
the most gorgeous smash on historical record.
They put it up this way:—
Since the war broke out the number of jumbucks
in Australia has multiplied by millions. Incidentally
the price of meat for local consumption has jumped
about 100 per cent, and for export 40 per cent. In
consequence of these advances in price the value of
the collective animal is several millions greater than
before. That is Wealth—the equivalent of increased
production. If the chop and the steak are sold for
less, then the value of animals will fall. That will
mean the Destruction of Wealth, which being the
same thing as decreased production means blue ruin
to the nation. Wherefore it is the clear duty of
everybody concerned to give three cheers for having
to pay high prices for meat, of the Government not
to interefere between the producer and the con-
sumer, for if prices go down a great part of the
national wealth will vanish.
There is a beautiful simplicity about all this.
It only needs a little extension in order to
put Australia in the possession of wealth
greater than that of the lands of fable. If
an increase in the price of chops from 4d.
to Is. adds £50,000,000 to the wealth of the
nation it is reasonably clear that a further
jolt to 2s. would create twice as much wealth.


And it is an equally inescapable fact that by
hauling up the quotations for poultry, lab-
bits, empty bottles, horses, wild ducks,
Murray cod and bacon, vast additions to the
value of public and private assets v ould
follow. There is simply no limit to the com-
bined powers of P. Enterprise and the
price-fixing outfit to make the national debt
look like a pennortli of peanuts in relation
to the national assets. If, for example, the
pork sausage was ticketed at 7s. 34d. per
pound it is manifest that value of the aggre-
gate volume of hog meat in the Common-
wealth would rise accordingly and the pig-
farmer become possessed of wealth amount-
ing to about £796,007,962,193. In all pro-
bability’ he could do with it. Most likely
pig-farming would then become a popular
profession. But it would be in no danger
of overcrowding, since there would be equal
attractions incidental to poultry-farming on
a basis of £4 3s. 6d. a pair for roosters and
275. id. a dozc'ii for eggs.
* # * *
The great advantage of creating wealth in
jumbucks, pigs and roosters and other live-
stock before it expires by this method, instead
of the laborious process of raising more of
them, is that it simplifies finance and ban-
ishes the problem of mere production in
relation to national economies. It is carry-
ing conservatism to *a grotesque degree of
caution to only recognise the wealth created
by the price of the local chop and steak and
to limit the creation of riches in relation to
these or any other commodities. All that it
is necessary to do, if the meat dealer and the
grazier yearn after larger wads, is to agitate
local prices upwards 50 per cent., whereupon
the owners of animals, by giving a lien over
their stock, will be able to offer security
for further advances. And if additional
subscriptions to the War Loan are required
at any time a vigorous push on prices for
every other commodity would automatically
create a vast mass of new wealth which
could be lodged as security against borrow-
ing for purposes of patriotic investment. No
possible reason can exist for neglecting the
multitudinous opportunities for placing our
great primary industries and all others upon
a sound financial basis and imparting elas-
ticity to the value of securities in the hands
of banks and other institutions. Under an
enlightened administration successive incre-
ments to privately owned wealth could be
seized upon as opportunities for circulation
of notes which would be legal tender up to
any amount. Thus if the owners of calves
decided to increase their wealth by
£416.722,906, the various Governments infest-
ing the Commonwealth could meet the situa-
tion and restore the equilibrium of supply
and demand by taking a mortgage over the
calves and issuing notes to the extent of.
say, three-fifths of the security in the first
year and the balance after the animals had
reached maturity. Even the Labor party
will be able to detect that under this scheme
there would be no exploitation of the worker,
and that the dread of the last shilling van-
ishing out of the country to carry on the
war would not begin to have any real terrors
unless the disturbance lasted for 17
centuries.
* * * *
There is a case on recoi’d of a public com-
pany resorting to the dodge of keeping pros-
perous by marking up its assets, and after
all these had been sold, issuing balance-
sheets in which they were shown to have
increased 425 per cent, in value. The conse-
quence was that when the company was pro-
ceeded against in the Small Debts Court for
the recovery of 2s. 3d., and the bailiff went
around to levy execution on behalf of the
judgment creditor, there was only a vacuum
to offer at auction. The directors were
spoken to very rudely in the Criminal Court
and most of the shareholders went mad. But
in that instance there had been Dissipa-
tion of Wealth. Had the above sys-
tem been adopted the wealth would have
been maintained, for the assets would have
been kept on the premises. The export of
food stuffs from Australia is obviously the
result of hasty thinking and a reckless disre-
gard of the public interest in maintaining
the national prosperity by blocking every
aperture through which our wealth can escape
across the sea. In the several billion bushels
of wheat on hand there is alone an asset
capable of stupendous expansion for assist-
ance towards gaining additional wealth. If
the price of wheat was placed at 375. 6d. a
bushel for local consumption Cocky would
dispose of his scrip or place them as security
for loans to a corresponding extent, and meet
demands for cheaper wheat l>.v the unanswer-
able argument that the increased price had
added vastly to the wealth of Australia, and
any shrinkage on the price list would mean
dead loss, If this were not the case _ the
meat man’s yarn would be sheer perjury
and the wealth he is talking about be' mostly
hot air and scraps of paper. Meanwhile
the habit of devouring wealth in the hour
of our crisis is incapable of even plausible
excuse. No country ever reached greatness
that deliberately swallowed its wealth, pub-
licly or surreptitiously. The time is more
than ripe for a united Australia to prohibit
this monstrous waste. By telling the
abattoir barons to amass wealth at the rate
of 4s. 2d. per lb. for mutton and ss. 34d.
for beef (including bones, horns and gristle)
Parliament would make Knibbs prove that
Australia was bursting with affluence, and
by making it an offence under the War Pre-
cautions Act not to be a vegetarian for 15
years Watt could prevent this affluence
being frittered away in the meantime, upend
Ryan’s meat-shops and give the War Profits
Tax a fair chance of proving a boon and a
blessing to the nation. —Yours, etc., Mujik.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Tea-Drinker’s Balance-Sheet.
It might be something dimly resembling an
idea if the Prohibitionists garnished their
eloquence with a balance-sheet. They are
a theoretical race with their skulls in the
clouds. Many of the leaders are parsons,
and parsons are by profession shiftless in
their fiction and inventive in their facts.
Their working hours are spent in side-step-
ping corkscrewy places—and there are so
many of them —in their own Good Book, and
in meeting awkward questions by disserta-
tions on Faith, whereby they acquire a dodgy
habit of mind and a marvellous belief in
loose assertion. The great want in the anti-
drink, anti-tobacco and anti-gambling busi-
ness is financial information. The sacrifice
of over £4.600,000 of annual drink revenue
(customs £2,500,000 and excise £2,100,000)
is a vast hole to fill up, even if tobacco (about
£2,700,000) and gambling (amount small and
variable) are left out. The hole can t be
lilled by doubling the Federal income tax
and war-profits tax ; there are difficulties m
the way. To raise the war-profits tax to
100 or 150 per cent, would stop the revenue
altogether. Though it is barely possible to
take 9d. tax from a shilling and leave 3d.,
the attempt to deduct Is. Od. leads only to the
disappearance of the shilling. Incomes also
tend to vanish when the imposts are so high
that it isn’t worth while to earn them; if a
man has to earn £lOOO in order to have £lOO
for himself he is apt to go into a monastery
or take to burglary, as burglars don’t furnish
income-tax returns. To multiply the Federal
land tax by two would hardly even begin to
make up for the lost drink money, and under
the present burden, combined as it is with
State land-tax, local rates and low prices,
the soil already shows a tendency to go out
of cultivation. No doubt the community
would be richer if it spent nothing on liquor;
the question is how to locate the riches and
arrest sufficient of them for the Treasury.
The loss (about £4,600,000 a year or
£7,200,000 if tobacco is also reformed off the
face of our bit of earth) is not only large
but it represents money easily gained. People
have become accustomed to taxation in this
particular line at a rate hitherto unheard of
in any other department. The bill would
be spread over a multitude of items. Import
duties alone (on substances other than alco-
hol and tobacco) would do little in such a big
case, for import duties encourage manufac-
tures and manufactures diminish the proceeds
of import duties. Excise duties alone are
hopeless, for they destroy industries, and that
stops excise. In the case of liquor and
tobacco the two were combined, just as if
import duties on clothes, hats and boots were
partly balanced by stamp duties on locally-
made clothes and hats and boots; and some-
thing of this sort might have to be tried.
Salt and other monopolies might be estab-
lished, also State lotteries. Postage rates
might be doubled, the exemptions on the
income taxes might be reduced or abolished;
and a poll tax imposed. There is the
property tax also ; an annual levy on every-
thing down to furniture, crockery, books and
children’s toys that isn’t otherwise included.
In fact there are abundant new ways of
raising revenue if an old, profitable way to
which the nubile has grown accustomed has
to be abolished. But it takes a financial
genius to know how to do the business with-
out creating astonishment and rage and
ruin. Any fool or preacher may raise
£300,000 and destroy £3,000,000 worth of
industry in doing it, while a wise man may
raise £3,000,000 and improve industry in the
process. It profits little to talk in large
foggy terms about “taxing wealth” or “con-
scripting wealth”; for it is so easy
by self-satisfied amateur muddling to destroy
the wealth early in the operation so that it
can neither be taxed nor conscripted. It
is also of no avail to trust in Providence;
the parson does that in theory, but in prac-
tice he has to hustle around the market-place
for funds like anybody else. The anti-drink
party is estimable enough save for its fringe
of frauds, notoriety-hunters and cranks, but
it is too much given to the idea that its
promise of Divine approval is legal currency.
It should clamber down from the heights
and hire a first-class accountant to write out
in detail a feasible public balance-sheet for
the year after the biggest single source of
revenue has been thrown overboard, so that
the country may not rush blindly with its
Bible under its arm into a disaster twice as
big as that of 1893. The document, should
show item by item the direct and indirect
taxes proposed and the amounts expected
from them. Then the community might
begin to see not: only the rainbow Paradise,
but the metalled road to the foot of the
rainbow.
V
Iron Jewellery.
This is a condensed record of the Australian
gold output—gold being the final measure of
value, the basis of credit, the one metal that
speaks in all languages, and the substance
that is wanted to pay our foreign liabilities
(interest and principal of debts and the cost
of imports except so far as the bill is
covered by the value of goods exported) :
1903 ..£16,294,684 | 1915 .. £8,270,339
1906 .. 14,631,745 | 1916 .. 7,074,673
1909 .. 12,604,509 1917 .. 6,155,837
1912 .. 9,879,928 | 1918*.. 2,725,000
*Half-year.
80, provided the slump doesn't increase dur-
ing the second half of 3938, which hope is too
good to be probable, the year’s output will be
£5,450.000. And that is the worst since 1891.
when Westralia was about to begin its brief
spell of golden glory, and the financial insti-
tutions of three States were just about to
smash under much better conditions than
prevail to-day. The situation suggests that
some gold must be saved, or that some more
gold must be found. As for finding gold it
is impossible to discover Bendigo or Ballarat
or Mount Morgan or the Palmer or Kal-
goorlie over again. There may be other
fields like them, but they can’t be dropped
on to order. It is possible, of course, to
work many gold deposits which are too poor
to pay their way by means of Government
subsidies —that is to say, where it costs 90s.
or 100 s. of our good paper money to produce
an ounce of gold worth about 80s., the State
might contribute another 15s. or 255. in
paper, so that the gold would pay its way
and leave the miner a profit in paper. The
idea is novel, but it may be inevitable, for
gold is wanted even at a loss. As for saving
gold it can’t be done so far as the foreign
debts are concerned, for all the diplomacy
that is or ever was can’t make our paper
currency worth anything outside our own
country. The saving can only be effected
by reducing foreign imports, and a reason-
able beginning would be the absolute pro-
hibition of manufactured gold in all shapes.
In other words, the importation of golden
jewellery and ornaments, w-hich means that
we pay' two sovereigns to get back one of
our own sovereigns boiled down into a
trinket, might be made an offence punish-
able by confiscation of the goods and at least
three months’ imprisonment without the
ghost or semblance of an option. And the.
natural corollary would be the taking over
by the Commonwealth of all gold jewellery
and ornaments of all sorts, the same to be
melted down and made into coin. The
foreign liabilities of the jewellers and other
dealers for the purchase of the goods actually
seized must for the sake of honesty be paid
in coin ; the rest of the value would be paid
in Commonwealth securities. Privately-
owned gold gewgaws—watch-cases, chains,
brooches, necklaces, dressing-table ornaments,
rings, etc. —would be similarly dealt with.
The local manufacture of golden goods of
all sorts except filling for teeth —assuming
that no cheaper metal would serve for
tooth filling—would be absolutely prohibited
as a necessary feature of the scheme. The
results would be fairly numerous. The
Commonwealth would come into possession of
a lot of hard cash with which to reduce its
foreign debts, and if the Ministers of the
Commonwealth were found using it for any
other purpose they should be struck with
heavy penalties. The money that now goes
out of the country to pay for a vain and
silly superfluity would be saved. The scanty
local gold supply, which is daily growing
more scant, would be reserved, except what
was required for filling teeth, to meet the
country’s urgent liabilities. And a simple,
honest, commendable habit of wearing iron
jewellery would set in. The community can’t
get down to the iron jewellery habit too
soon. War-time is a time for plain living,
especially in the case of a country whicn
never learned to pay its way even in peace
time.
The Ark of the Eight-Hour Covenant.
“An Old Philosopher’’ writes :
Apropos what State Governor Davidson said (I
don’t know exactly what he said, but he evidently
said something, and the Geelong (Vie.) Labor Coun-
cil demanded that he should be, deported for saying
it). I beg to submit that there is no inherent or
self-evident virtue in the eight-hour day. Nor is there
in the 12-hour day, or the 10-hour day or the 31-
hour day or no day at all. They depend on cir-
cumstances. Eight hours isn’t a principle devised or
allegedly devised by God, but an expedient devised
by man. It is a sort of law allegedly suited to the
times but capable of revision, like any other law, if
the times change.
At the bottom of everything is the necessity to do
enough work in the aggregate to supply the com-
munity’s needs, including cost of Government and
defence, according to what the community decides
are its needs. If by slowness, or by inefficient
methods of industry or administration or anything
else, that amount of work isn’t done in eight hours,
then the community, in the end, will have to work
longer hours, or work harder, or find better methods
or live On a smaller scale. In other words, the
blessed Ark of the Covenant will have to go over-
board. As a matter of fact, the small farming class
has never enjoyed the Eight-hours principle. The
little bucolic person who is landlord of his own
little bit of ground and employs practically no labor
is right up against the fact that Nature goes on
piece-work, not day-work. If the value of what he
drags out of the ground, not by sweating others but
by his own efforts, is insufficient, he has to get more
out of the ground regardless of hours and labor
conditions, or else go short.
Australia’s position is that for many years past it
hasn’t earned enough to keep it as it thinks it
ought to be kept, so it has made up the shortage in
its food and clothing and sundries by floating huge
foreign loans. Its ideas of how it ought to live
by reason of producing a certain amount have been
expanded by the easy affluence thus created. In its
most garish days the Ma State was able to work
eight hours and consume the products of nine hours,
the loans covering the difference. Now, when the
loans are less and seem liable to stop altogether,
there is the prospect, apart from the interest ques-
tion, of having to work eight hard hours for
eight hours products. When the stupendous annual
interest bill is provided for it becomes more like a
problem of working nine hours for the value that
can be produced in eight hours.
To put the case in another way, when the interest
bill for the old easy-going profligacy is expressed in
the value of the products required to pay the interest
for the past razzle, and that value is expressed in
working time, Australia owes about one hour’s work
per day, not to remove the old dead horse of liability,
but to prevent the horse becoming any deader. Time
is money, so Australia borrowed time. If a country
borrows an hour per day at any old rate of interest
for a long series of years a period comes when it
can't borrow and when it owes an hour per day for
interest alone. That makes a difference, of two hours
per day. Then a large section of the people grows
wild and refuses to recognise that there was any-
thing wrong with its methods, and declares that it
has been swindled by parties unknown.
There is no need to pay the bill in extra working
time; it can be paid by more efficiency and more
application and better organisation and better
machinery. In fact it may be paid twice over by
these means. But if they aren’t employed then the
Eight-hour gospel isn’t a blessed Ark of the Covenant
any longer. What is the use of an Ark if it has
been pawned to the Philistines?
People are not born free and equal. If country
No 1 has, through folly, luxury, laziness, inefficiency
or any other cause borrowed, say, £500,000,000
from country Np. 2, then the baby in country No. 2
is born a creditor and a person with an income, while
the baby in country No. 1 is born a debtor and a
payer of tribute. And if the father of baby No. 1
hands down to the infant as his chief legacy the
doctrine that because he (the father) got along
well enough on the Eight-hours policy when he (the
father) was receiving an hour per day in loans,
therefore he (the infant) should get along on the
same basis when he (the said infant) has to pay an
hour per day on the old man’s account —well, there
is a very unreasoning father and a very unfortunate
infant starting with a very poor mental equipment.
Prohibition and the Public Purse.
Over in Maoriland the long-standing rumpus
about whether compensation should be paid
to Bung in the event of prohibition being
carried seems to have reached a stage at
which the Cold Water crowd is prepared to
waive its objections to the pub and brewery
business being paid for. Whether the other
party is prepared to waive its objections to
the beer pump being put out of action pro-
vided there is a cash compensation is rather
obscure. There is no evidence that it would
refuse to accept compensation or that its
feelings would be greatly outraged if the
citizen who merely wanted his usual beer
was unable to get any. Apart from the inter-
esting circumstance that the whole contro-
versy still turns on whether the community
shall go “dry” or remain “wet” under the
auspices of P. Enterprise, the details of
the suggested basis of compensation are worth
looking at. The amount required is alleged
to be £4,500,000. This, presumably, is
arrived at by calculations resting on the
recommendations of the Efficiency Board,
which in a recent report put its ideas this
way:—
The Board believes that the compensation to be
paid for the immediate closing of the liquor trade
should be based upon the difference between the
market value of the assets as used at present, taking
into consideration the present licensing laws and all
the other circumstances and conditions associated with
the trade, and the value of such assets without a
license. The amounts to be paid by way of compen-
sation need not necessarily be found in cash, but,
the Board suggests, might be paid in Government
securities, bearing the same rate of interest and with
the same currency as the War Loan debentures.
Whether the system of arriving at com-
pensation for the expropriation of a business
here laid down is just seems open to a lot of
argument both ways. It appears to imply that
where the site of a brewery or a pub has a
high freehold value for other purposes the
owner shall be compensated on that basis;
but if it has a lower value for other pur-
poses than as the site for hotel or brewery
compensation shall be on the higher level.
This looks like someone standing to get a
helping both ways—a proceeding which an
English Committee, recently appointed to
formulate the conditions under which the
Government might purchase private interests
in the liquor trade, looked on with a cold
eye. The recommendations of this commit-
tee, which appears to have dohe its work
with much care, are worth contemplation in
conjunction with the Maoriland scheme. The
main principles laid down in that report for
purchase by the State were: —
1. To take as the basis the average net profits of
the four years preceding the war.
2. To fix the pre-war price at a certain number
of years’ purchase (in this case normally 15).
3. To scale down the cash price so arrived at in
proportion to the ascertained fall in general capital
values between August, 1914, and the date of settle-
ment.
4. To give in full discharge Government securi-
ties that would then and there sell for such a sum.
5. To leave this purchase price for each concern
to be judicially allocated among all interests,
debenture-holders, preference and ordinary share-
holders, and so on, according to the relative security
and market value of their several holdings.
The Bulletin would judge that the result
of arithmetic on these lines, applied to the
Maoriland problem, might show considerable
difference from the calculations arising ouji'
of the Efficiency Board’s ideas. The Eng-
lish committee, at any rate, avoided falling
into the trap laid for the taxpayer, that of
allowing both war depreciation and war
inflation to become factors in a scheme of
valuation. As there are other interests than
those of Bung and the Lime juicer repre-
sented in the Maoriland Parliament, the
afore-mentioned ought to be looked
at from another angle.
— ,
Unification.
Certain political personages who, by keep-
ing one ear to the ground (a position in
which the listener’s hinder parts are apt to
be trodden on by the unthinking multitude),
have heard the rumblings of approaching
trouble, rise to say that Unification is
impracticable. This is quite apart from
the fact that Unification might make certain
political personages superfluous. But no
person in his senses wa'nts bare and naked
Unification, which means the management of
this whole big country from one centre. The
essential idea is Unification with Recon-
struction. Two things certainly need to be
unified —the railways and the public debts —
especially the foreign debts. If the railways
are put under one authority then there will
be. a central power to tackle the question of
establishing a uniform gauge for the main-
land, a difficulty on which the five mainland
authorities can’t agree either as to the gauge
to be adopted or the division of the expense,
and which grows more terrible every year,
because every year more mileage is added,'
to be altered later on. A central authority
could simply charge the bill to the com-
munity. Seeing that Canada and the U.S.
have both got a uniform gauge this country
begins to have a backwashy feeling, as if it
was the tail-end of a procession. Also a
central constructive authority might save a
great deal of waste by its ability to ignore
State boundaries, just as a great waste has
already been avoided by ignoring shire bound-
aries. But it doesn’t follow that the central
authority should attend to all the details of
the railway business; there might be deputies
with large powers, just as Focii has deputies
like Haig and Pershing and Diaz, to save
him hollering out his orders personally over
a thousand miles of battle front. As for the
unification of the foreign debts of all sorts,
and the establishment of the Commonwealth
as the only institution which is allowed to
borrow outside the Federal boundaries, the
change of circumstances makes that impera-
tive. The establishment of a Government
paper currency has divided the debts into
two parts—internal debt which can be paid,
principal and interest, in paper, and external
debt, payable only in gold. The Federal
Parliament, which controls banking, trade,
customs, coinage, the Commonwealth Bank
and the Commonwealth gold reserve, should
be responsible for the gold liabilities. In
many respects, however, this continent
requires a great deal less unification than
it has. When 975,000 square miles are unified
on to Perth, and 670,000 on to Brisbane, the
business seems overdone. A beginning might
be made by subdivision into 13 States and
further subdivisions later on as required,
each State with a one-Ilouse (not one-horse)
legislature, and a local deputy-Governor.
minus frills. It might be necessary to unify
the whole business temporarily, so that there
might be a power to mark out the new States,
and to do it with a beautiful disregard for
the old lines of demarcation, or a Convention
with extensive powers might do the business.
The Inter-State Commission might save itself
from moth and rust by attending to small
financial details. But the existing Legisla-
tures should have no right either of revision
or veto, else they might “fake” the referen-


Farmers'& Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. of
Australia
Limited
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Cooperative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this cooperative
company.
Write immediately lor particulars.
Head Office: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
dum, as happened over the Commonwealth
Constitution matter. Perhaps when the
edeial authority breaks the news in 1920
hat it is unable to renew the subsidy to the
Mates, it might soften the blow bv ‘offering
to take over the railway and debt problems,
provided there is a complete re-shuffle of the
political cards on some such lines as here
proposed. If it didn’t carry its point at first
1 . >u , l°ast have the joy of getting out
of the old rut.
J och Hands One to the Kaiser.
Tuk German got it heavily on the neck this
tune, anyway. Lubendorff launched his
offensive on the loth, striking against the
eastern side of the rough triangle of which
the apex touched the Marne at Chateau
1 merry. By pinching out Reims and get-
ting across the Marne on a front extendng
to Epernay or even to Chalons (which was
probably his objective), the German would
have put the French armies to the eastward
in an uncomfortably tight place and himself
in a more favorable position than hitherto
in relation to Paris. The German left and
centre at first made some progress, crossing
the Marne at places on a 20-miles’ front
and penetrating to a depth of three or four
miles. But the army of Von Einem on the
left struck a snag eastward of Reims and
got badly mauled on the westward. It
made repeated attacks, which the French re-
pulsed with heavy losses to the attackers.
So the advance which was vital to the Ger-
man plans failed. Meanwhile, on the second
day, the Americans and French opposite Von
Boehm found their punch and began to re-
cover some lost ground. On the third, the
Germans crossing the river were under con-
tinual shell-fire from the southern hills and
meeting determined counter-attacks. Being
thus desperately involved it is likely that
the German pulled some of his troops away
from the nearest available address and threw
them into the struggle. Anyway, when
Foen suddenly struck on the other side of
the triangle formed by the Ghateau-Thierry-
Soissons line, it began to cave in. and the
attacking force made rapid advance, particu-
larly between the Ourcq and the Aisne. Called
on to meet this stab at a vital point the Ger-
man also found himself being thrown back
over the Marne and severely punished in the
vicinity of Reims. Taken altogether it was
the best news the Allies have had for quite
a long time, and the worst the German has
handed out since the days of Verdun. It
is good, not only because the German losses
in men and guns have been great, but
because of the encouragement the proceed-
ings give for hopefulness about the future,
when the American armies reach their full
strength. The struggle was raging early in
the week, and the ultimate ending thereof
was a matter of speculation, but it seemed
fairly clear that the Hun had got not only
a defeat on hand, but a collection of
trouble which will keep him quiet in this
locality for the rest of the summer. Whether
he will hit again somewhere else right off
remains to be seen. What counts most just
now is that the latest peace offensive has
been a failure. Incidental to all this the
Australian newspapers published on Tues-
day a long rigmarole received by the Com-
monwealth Government from the British
Minister for Information, who happens to be
the ex-Canadian Beaverbrook. As usual,
it is a sequence of drivel. Referring to the
attack on Reims the compiler of this instal-
ment of alleged information says:—
Though Reims is of no special military import-
ance, its capture would have satisfied the German
craving for a high-sounding name as an advertise-
ment. It would also have given them important rail-
way junctions and the possession of useful heights
known as the mountains of Reims, besides crippling
the future action of the French army and causing it
to draw heavily on reserves, thus weakening other
fronts. Otherwise this area had no great strategic
importance.
How a place can be of no special
military importance and of no great
strategic importance when its capture
would give the enemy command of
important railways and of useful heights,
and in addition cripple the future action of
the defenders, besides weakening them at
other places, The Bulletin does not under-
stand. Nor does it know what purpose the
Government has in view by having such
twaddle printed; but it has a strong sus-
picion that if Beaverbrook could be in-
duced to knock off choking the over-laden
cables with information that is mere punk,
messages from and to the wounded Billjim
would get a better chance of moving more
rapidly than a disabled snail.
The Last Camp——A Vision of the
Future.
The Victorian State Opposition has declared
for a redistribution of seats on a population
basis, which will give the metropolis rather
more than half the representation. Hitherto
the depopulated country districts have been
able to get a word in edgewise by allow-
ing them one member to comparatively few T
people, while Greater or Bloateder Melbourne
has only one to a good many people. If this
apologetic shuffle or undemocratic camouflage
or side-stepping or whatever it may be called
is done away with, then the country districts
will become mere Gibeonites to the big city
where all the railways meet and all the
trade is concentrated. This is the showing
that \ ictoria outside Melbourne has made
during recent years in the matter of popula-
tion :—-
Population Outside Melbourne.
IS6I .. 398,712 I 1901 .. 706,94 j.
1871 .. 523,418 | 1911 .. 722,314
1881 .. 578,019 | 1917 .. 702,764
1891 .. 048,944 |
Greater or More Dropsical Melbourne has
acquired 214,111 more inhabitants in the
last 10 years, while all the rest of the State
has actually lost 4177. There was a turn-
ing-point about six years ago, when stagna-
tion changed to actual retrogression. But
as regards the more remote parts of the State
the retrogression was going on as far back as
1881. The census of 1911 showed that 16
counties out of 37 were being emptied, and
some had been emptied before that date. The
trouble began with the epoch of the railways
and the big ships. In the old simple days
the bullock-dray was the great carrier and it
could go wherever there was a road. In
many cases it made its own road. If it had
goods for export it could find its way to any
port, the nearest for preference, and the little
ship came into any sort of undredged harbor
and didn t worry much about up-to-date load-
ing facilities, for they weren't invented then.
But the railway superseded the bullock-dray,
and it was possible for accidental politicians,
some knaves and most of them fools, to turn
all the traffic into one track and shut up the
rest. The individualistic dray, which went
where it listed, like the birds of the air. and
marked out new paths, gave way to the train
which belonged to the people or to the
foreign money-lender, but which went where
Smith, M.L.A., listed and nowhere else, and
its track was of course to Smith’s door, and
Smith’s door was at the city where Smith
made his living by the sweat of his jaw.
Some people began at last to think there was
something wrong, but by that time so much
of the population was gathered round
Smith’s door that the objection of anybody
unconnected with Smith’s local prejudices
and habits was over-ruled. What will hap-
pen if the process of congestion goes on at
the present rate for another 20 years is hard
to say. The usual thing is to look up histori-
cal precedents and see what happened in
similar cases before; but curiously enough
there are no similar cases outside Australia.
The town which was the white man’s first
and only outpost in a land on which he was
just entering has been fairly common, but
the city which appears likely to be his last
outpost in a land that he is leaving for no
visible reason except that he has forgotten
the art of settlement is new outside this
continent. That is the case in South Aus-
tralia as well as Victoria. Between 1911
and 1917, according to the official estimates,
the population of the Middle State increased
by 27,656 —that is to say that Adelaide
gained 35,671 new population, while all the
rest of the big State lost 8015. Leyden,
rising out of the waters, when its own
people cut the dykes and the waves of the
North Sea were washing against its walls,
was picturesque but not quite unique. Mel-
bourne or Adelaide, as a final camp of
refuge, with the waves of Didn’t Know How
washing into its suburbs, and the sea of
We Forgot the Way To Do It spreading
over the lands beyond, will also be pictur-
esque and it will really be unique.
.*•
The Politician anti the Double-barrelled
Gun.
Having heard frequent remarks about the
cost of government in Australia, and detected
use of the word “unification” in some un-
expected places. Premier Holman issued a
long rigmarole the other day to show, appar-
ently, the advantages of having Seven Cocked
Hats and 14 Houses of Parliament and the
disadvantages of an administration that
would be truly national. He seized on the
sum total of probable expenditure by the
States and the Commonwealth during the
next couple of years, and proved beyond con-
tradiction that of the huge aggregate of
£97,000,000 to be reached next year the cost
of maintaining the State Parliaments and
Governments (£560,000) would be .57 per
cent. Then he proceeded to extract merri-
ment from the idea that mere bagatelles of
this character were of any importance, and
to wonder at the dulness of people who
imagined it possible to make any material
change in the cost of government by abolish-
ing a few outward trappings in one place
and spending more cash in another. All this
is characteristically superficial. It may be
true enough that in relation to more vast
outlay the numerous Cocked Hat and Speaker
and Usher of the Black Rod and multitudi-
nous politician can be expressed by a decimal.
It is certainly true that the more gigantic
the borrowings and taxings and spendings in-
cidental to government become, the more
microscopical do the various items in the
bill look iu comparison with the result of the
addition. Holman might easily have shown
that provided Bloat can be kept going the
revenue of numerous Governments in 100
years would be £100.000,000 a month, and
that if there were 27 Parliaments the cost
thereof would be .0001. and lie might have
been right; but the crux of the question he
was dealing with was carefully dodged, and
the arithmetic he produced was fallacious.
The Cocked Hat and the Parliament are
small items. The Australian public sees
itself every year handing over increasing
revenues to Governments for the mainten-
ance of public services which either duplicate
the work of each other or do work which
could be performed under a single control.
Wherever they live they see not one Govern-
ment but two Governments. If one Govern-
ment does not tax them more another will,
so both keep hard at work looking for the
cash the other one might have overlooked.
They are legislated for in two places. Their
assets are pawned by two patrons of Coiien,
neither of whom care 2d. about anything
except arriving first at the counter. And the
end of it all is a swiftly-growing pile of
debt, eternal confusion and general irrespon-
sibility. When llolman speaks about
£97,000,000 being the combined Common-
wealth and States revenues he is lumping on
a lot of figures having nothing to do with the
calculation, such as those referring to rev-
enue from railways, tramways, fish-shops,
brickworks and so on. The test figures are
the revenues raised by taxation, and the fur-
ther figures relative to the combined borrow-
ing operations. Australia is getting to a
stage where somewhere in the vicinity of
£50,000,000 has to be raised by taxation.
The States are raising over £10,000,000.
That is the cost of government to the people
of the Commonwealth. They may be able to
afford this annual levy on the national earn-
ings. What they are not likely to be able
to afford is to allow a shilling more to be
dissipated on superfluous millinery, politi-
cians, job-hunters or public services than
is absolutely necessary. llolman does
not think that there is anything superfluous
about- 14 Houses of Parliament and seven
Cocked Hats. The Bulletin does, and it
is past time that the nation did.
On mere arithmetic this paper reckons
that the cost of Parliamentary Govern-
ment by the States, instead of being .57 of
fictitious figures, mops up over 5 per cent, of
the income which really counts. The fact
that Australians can be pawned and taxed
by seven Ministries makes, in view of the
extent of the pawn and the development of
the tax-collecting industry, an irrefutable
case for a sudden and definite change.
■ ♦
“Muscatel” pours out a drop:—
The fact that the "Prohibitionist” is out on the
warpath again has had the effect of bringing about
the federation of the wine-growers of the Common-
wealth. Hitherto they have been at a disadvantage
owing to the lack of co-operative action, but the for-
mation of the Vitieultural Council of Australia
in Melbourne the other day should go far to
overcome that difficulty. Just at present the
Prohibitionists are having a field-day before the
Senate Committee which is inquiring into the liquor
question, with special reference to its effect on sol-
diers. The unfortunate Aussie, by the way, is coming
in tor an amount of unenviable publicity, and
those who do not know better are given the im-
pression that he is generally absorbing vast quan-
tities of alcohol. As a matter of fact, the Australian
army is as sober as any in the world, if not more
so, and it is over the odds that well-meaning persons
have not hesitated to make statements conveying a
contrary conception merely to bolster up their pet
hobby. Australia is as temperate a nation as any
other. The latest reliable statistics show that the
proportion of liquor consumed per head per year in
various countries, taking the gallon as the unit, is
as follows:
Spirits. Beer. Wine.
United Kingdom . . .70 26.80 26
Austria .. .. 1.41 15,18 4.52
Germany .. .. 1.48 23.74
United States .. 1.23 16.78 .49
France . . . . 1.33 7.96 34.52
Australia .. :. .74 13.02 .36
The Australian wine trade has taken nearly 100
years and an expenditure of millions to build up to
its present modest proportions. Soil and climate
make this land the natural wine supplier to the
Empire. All that is wanted to bring this about is
reasonable legislative encouragement, such as is
provided in European countries, by which wine is not
classed as alcohol and undue restrictions are not
placed on its consumption. Here in Australia the
States have, as a matter of policy, endeavored to
develop the wine industry on scientific lines by the
appointment of vitieultural experts, the establish-
ment of State nurseries and so on. Is all this to go
for nothing? It is worthy of note that in France
and Italy wine forms a part of the daily ration for
soldiers, and that in 1916 the French War Ministry-
requisitioned 132,000,000 gallons of wine for the
army. The leading French medical men support this
policy and bear witness to the valuable effects of the
wine supplied. A prominent Victorian Prohibitionist
declared the other day that while destruction of the
industry might involve enormous losses to the
firms concerned, yet this would not effect the credit
of the Commonwealth. This queer theory is not
likely to confuse those who, with broader vision,
realise that Australia is hard up against it, and that
iii view of.the great and ever increasing war burdens
and their attendant problems, it is necessary to
organise all our resources, produce more wealth and
increase the avenues of employment.
—
“N’impobte” : If a man really wants a posi-
tion in which he is likely to please nobody,
let him take oil the job of arbitrator between
trade unions on questions of demarcation of
work. Trying to settle a difference between
husband and wife is nothing to it. After
sitting off and on since 1914, during which
time it considered the making and fixing of
everything on a ship from stem to stern and
keelplate to masthead, the State Shipwrights
and Joiners’ Board published its award the
other day. The iuk was hardly dry before
both unions had hopped in with appeals to
the Industrial Court, so there is every chance
of the fight being prolonged for a few more
years, by which time, probably, the concrete
workers will be wanting to know where they
stand. At the beginning of the war an
enthusiast accepted the position of honorary
arbitrator in one of the dockyards where
transports were being fitted out. A certain
kind of structure had to be built on some of
the ships which involved work of two sets of
craftsmen. At least two unions claimed the
work for its members. In order that there
should be no delay whale lengthy inquiry
was made, the arbitrator decided that when
built on the port side the structures should
be put ui> by men of one craft, and when
on the starboard by the other. Things went
merrily for some time, and the arbitrator
hadn’t any work to do till one day he had a
call on the ’phone from the dockyard. “It’s
about those deck-houses,” came a weary voice.
“ Well ?” replied the arbitrator. “You know
the agreement about port and starboard?”
“Yes, but this one is amidships.” “Well,
then, turn and turn about!” "I know,”
came the worried answer, “but we’ve lost
count.” Then the arbitrator had his long-
delayed fit.
:
“0.K.”: The latest demand for internment
of aliens in Britain is a mighty strong en-
dorsement of everything that A. C. Palmer
said in the Australian House of Reps, some
weeks ago :—-
A return of Germans employed in the Defence
Department shows that, there are still 31 Germans
in that Department, three of whom were born in
Germany, whilst the others are Australian-born Ger-
mans of the first, generation. ... In the correspond-
ence I have had with the Defence Department I find
that, in respect of every German mentioned, the
authorities have replied that they have proved him
to be loyal. No spy can he of any service to the
nation that employs him unless he is able to hide
his identity and purpose. Secrecy is the essence of
success in his occupation. Every German in our
service to-day is a lova] man until he is found out.
Sir Joseph -Jonas, a Rhineland Prussian and an ex-
Lord Mayor of Sheffield, has been found out, and is
to be tried. Germany boasts that she has spies in
every land.
It is certainly up to Minister Pearce to
modify his policy of toleration of enemy
aliens .in view of the growing distrust of
them in Great Britain. During the four
years of war every intelligent student of the
book of revelations has changed his
opinion of German character, and been
struck by the fact that German writers
boast of the system of espionage and con-
spiracy which works for German ends in
every country. The so-called Socialist
journals of Berlin brag of the influence of
“good German gold” in Australia, hut
when evidence of disloyalty is forthcoming,
as in the case of a certain shop in Mel-
bourne where former members of the Ger-
man Club meet together, all requests for
suppression are answered with the excuse
that no action can be taken until the dis-
loyal character of the shop is proved. In
short, the policy of the Defence Depart-
ment has been to abolish suspicion within
its doors, whilst telling outside suspicion to
go away and justify itself.
Davidson, the Ma State’s Governor who
thinks that 10 hours a day wouldn’t hurt the
worker, was 45 minutes late at a job last
week. It happened to be the opening - of
Cranbrook School, and the assembled educa-
tionalists snapped their watches impatiently.
If his Ex. worked by time-book and foreman
he might have been searching the “Situations
Vacant” column by now.
Last week James Grose, an inspector of
the Bank of X. S. Wales, was appointed by
the Federal Government to take charge of
the finance and pay offices of the Defence
Department for IS months. The rapidity
with which Pearce and Co. are proceeding to
set things right is hair-raising. In August,
4915. Justice Rich, of the High Court, after
inquiring into affairs at Liverpool Camp,
recommended that the time was ripe for the
Defence Department to get the assistance of
men trained to business. He mentioned
two places where the services of such men
were required, namely, the Ordnance and
Finance divisions. Events followed one
another with alarming rapidity. By Febru-
ary, 1918, three business men had been
secured, and by July a financial expert.
Heaven only knows how much money escaped
down the sink in the meantime.


PHOTOGRAPHY !
AMATEURS—for Good Results and Speed send your
Developing, Printing and Enlarging to
THE
nm
STObIAS
278 Ceorgre
Street,
Opp. Ma-graret Street, SYDNEY.
Criticisms Free—lndividual Attention—Postal Orders
TURNBULL & JONES’
TOTALISATORS
HAVE BEEN INSTALLED AT:-
Xapier Park Pacing Club.
Masterton Racing Club.
Gisborne Racing Club.
Taranaki Jockey Club.
Egn»ont Racing Club.
Feilding Jockey Club.
Marlon Jockey Club.
Manawatu Racing Club.
Wellington Racing Club (two).
Canterbury Jockey Club (six).
Dunedin Jockey Club (two).
Wanganui Jockey Club.
Stratford Racing Club.
Foxton Racing Club.
Rangitikei Racing Club.
Hawkes Bay Jockey Club (two).
Rosehill Racing Club.
Warwick Farm Racing Club.
Coonainble Jockey Club.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club.
West Maitland Jockey Club.
Moorefteld Race Club (two).
Heddon Jockey Club.
Hawkesbury Race Club (two).
Southern District Racing Association.
W'oodstock Jockey Club.
Clarence River Jockey etc.
REPRESENTATIVES:
W. G. WATSON & CO. LIMITED,
Electrical Engineers, Suppliers & Contractors,
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Peapes “Quikeleaa" Collar
-©*
Saves Time and Expense*
No laundering—soap and water cleans it in
a few moments.
Non-celluloid —not dangerous. Made of
White Irish Shirting, impregnated with
WHITE waterproof substance. The most
durable and most satisfactory quick-cleaning
collar. Ideal for travellers. Saves laundry
expense.
Single, with peaks, 2 inches deep,
Double, I}, 2 and 2} inches deep,
1/6
each.
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
PEAPES CO.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET
LTD.,
SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “9A 1 ’ ®.°- v .
Criterion “The 13th Chair^
Palace “Thu Masquerader
Tivoli “Bits and Pieces
Union Tiieaiui s Moving Pictures
lloyt’s Moving 1 ictuies
MEI.BOUIINE SHOWS FOI! COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Katinka
Royal “The Man Who Came Back
King’s “De Luxe Annie
Bijou Fuller’s Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli “Time, Please’
Hoyt’s De Luxe it Olymtia >. Moving-Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
“Katinka” continues at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.) with the confidence born of steady
practice and assured success. The musical
story of the Russian bride who motored away
with Phil Smith on her wedding night is now
in the seventh week. Operas that were as
good as “Katinka” have done not quite so
well, but these are not times for captious
criticism or odious comparison. Besides,
there is nothing about the handsome show at
Her' Majesty’s that isn’t satisfying. Even
its morals are beyond suspicion, if we allow
a liberal margin for harem customs and
Turkish delights. One night last week, or
oftener, Florence Young was out of the per-
formance. Addie Leonard taking her place.
The singing of Addie compared with that of
Florence was as a zephyr breeze following a
hurricane, but the understudy entered
thoroughly into the spirit of her stern, flirta-
tious character. Her own usual part of
Ivatinka’s mother-in-law was left empty in
the meantime. Strictly considered, it isn’t a
part at all, but merely an excuse for coming
on and looking anxious. In the history of
the stage there never was a mother-in-law
who mattered less.
The J.C.W. management is also happy in
its choice of “The Man Who Came Back”
at the Royal (Melb.). He came back under
most extraordinary circumstances, but lie
got there all the same. From the depths of
an opium-den he and liis wayward girl
soared on the wings of Love to the simple
life of Respectability, and the d.c. weeps
nightly over the prodigals’ repentance as
something beautiful and strangely unfamiliar.
** * *
At the King’s (Melb.), where “De Luxe
Annie” provides a steep study in psychology,
some new heat-radiators glare ruddily. Miss
Polini got married to a soldier the other
wintry day, and then came the house-warm-
ing, so to speak. Any persons who may have
complained of cold at the King’s in the past
are respectfully requested to go along again
and feel the difference in the temperature.
The other night, when Annie and Jimmy
talked of escaping from justice on skates,
across a frozen river, the present writer
stood in front of a new radiator and didn’t
envy them their job.
The revue at the Tivoli (Melb.) has not
suffered much from the visit of the Censor,
w T ho came looking for wickedness at the sug-
gestion of a local journal whose reporter
must have borrowed his standard of impro-
priety from the Wowsers’ Club. The Cen-
sor’s saddest moment was when he noticed
rifts in the sober red trousers of some ballet
ladies in the artistic last scene. Censors
don’t altogether approve of any striking effect
in which Legs appear to be made light of.
Legs, as they understand them, were made
to walk in gioom along the narrow path, not
to go dancing, flesh-tighted and unashamed,
adown the broad road that leads to R-r-uin.
But if thei’e be aught in “Time, Please,” to
bring the blush, The Bulletin hasn’t
noticed it; and if there were —well, think of
the number of bad shows the Censor keeps
away from!
Beside the weird aggregation of sounds
called a Jazz Band a man filing a saw is an
evening with Chopin. One of these com-
binations has broken out at the Bijou
(Melb.), and it is metaphorically correct to
say of the performers that their instruments
are dripping with the gore of butchered
American rags. The most rational person
in the party is the “lady. baritone,” Belle
Sylvia, but her restful warbling of balder-
dashy songs seems only to accentuate the
frenzy of the others. The Falvey Sisters
are also fresh to the eye, but their goo-goo
melodies remind one of innumerable tame
duos who have appeared before. Despite
their small place in the advts., the star
artists at the Bijou are still Kelly and
Drake, whose quaint, unassuming turn is
full of good things.
The latest attraction at the Princess’s
(Melb.) is “The World Against Her,” a
drama in which the late Lily Dampier wept
copiously long years ago. Nellie _ Bramley
sheds the drops of sorrow these times, and
George Cross is* the thick-headed husband
who doesn’t know a domestic treasure when he
gets one. Elsewhere concerts are of frequent
occurrence, owing to this being midwinter
when-music hath charms to soothe the wheezy
chest. It seems to be sought after as a cure
for coughs. Last Saturday's concert at the
Auditorium gave tenor- Lois the opportunity
to score heavily with the infallible “M’ap-
pari”; also Blascheck seized the occasion to
mention that he was leaving Australia this
week. A feature of the last municipal con-
cert at the Town Hall was the warble of
Joseph Foster, a baritone with a fine, smooth
voice, who, however, lacks “punch” in his
singing, and is still deficient in the art of
enunciation.
The Actors’ Association takes its annual
matinee at Her Majesty’s next Thursday,
when the bill is to be worth twice the money
charged to see it.
** * *
The first Orchestral Concert of the season
is due at the Town Hall on Saturday after-
noon, Verbrugghen being engaged to shake a
stick at 70 instrumentalists. At the same
time Alexander Watson will be giving a
matinfie recital at the Assembly Hall. His
programme is to include the Forum scene
from “Julius Caesar.”
“De Luxe Annie,” at
Melbourne King’s.
Clarence Blakiston as
Hal Kendal, the un-
happy husband.
of Music Mountain.”
Hoyt’s opened the
new Lyceum (late
West’s, Melb.) on
Saturday with ten
reels of “Les Miser-
ab 1 e s,” William
Farnum protruding
as Jean Valjeau.
The yarn has been
turned into tab-
leaux by the Fox
factory, and is pal-
pably richer in melo-
dramatic details
than the Path 6
version of the same
classic screened in
Melbourne a while
ago. At Hoyt’s
De Luxe, Bourke-
street, Billie Burke
is the candy
dangled before the
temp es t u o u s
Thomas Meighan
in “The Land of
Promise.” Further
down the same pro-
gramme Wallace
It ei d an d An n
Little may be
found doing some
close work in “Nan
How to be single though married is ex-
plained by Dorothy Dalton in “The Unfaith-
ful,” at the Majestic (Melb.) this week.
It is the ancient story of the neglected
wife of a famous novelist, varied a little
this time by the wife’s endeavor to provide
her lofty genius with a little “local color.”
In the comedy-drama, “The Marriage
Bubble,” our old friend William Desmond
proves that a man who tries to cure the
beer disease with a course of matrimony
might as well take arsenic for a sore finger.
“To-day,” the third thriller at the Majestic,
is stronger stuff, and has Florence Reed to
drive its moral home.
* * * 5jS
The best news from Adelaide theatres is
that the Royal is just getting back to drama
with “The Cinderella Man.” The Tivoli
responds with “Her Road to Ruin,” which
somewhat lurid melodrama the management
humorously declares to “depict everyday life
in London.” That metropolis must be a
stirring place. The Scarlet Gaieties are fading
away from the King’s, much regretted. At
the Majestic the Gilfains are entertaining,
and Ted McLean and Genevieve Lee give
clever one-act sketches. Concerts by Doris
Madden and by Edward Goll have been very
good. In pictures are the powerful “Sign
Invisible” at West’s; Jack Pickford linking
up the Civil War spirit with the Hun
menace; the old drama, “Mrs. Dane’s De-
fence,” finely filmed, at Wondergraph. At
the Pav., the grim “Knife” and the evergreen
Chaplin (w-ith dog).
** * *
The Repertory (Adelaide) revived for one
evening Githa Sowerby’s gloomy north-
country (England) domestic play, “Ruther-
ford and Son.” The acting was about
the high-water mark of the clever Reper-
tory Co. Wilfred Neill, back from the war
and in fine form, was the hard-headed manu-
facturer and father, “never contradicted,
never answered back—-as if lie was God,”
says his daughter. Yet, though the old man
was fond of his own way, he proved willing
to argue the point with everybody. Wad-
more was the down-trodden son whose valu-
able invention is annexed by father and who
goes off with the loose money in the casli-box
as an interim dividend. He was best in the
light passages; the vicious curses on father
and business near the end of the play were
not intended by the author (one suspects)
to strike an audience as funny. James
Anderson was brilliant as the faithful work-
man and perplexed lover; so was Ethelwyn
Robin as the spinster daughter starving for
affection ; and Mrs. Bastard in her one chance
as a tipsy and talkative visitor. Kitty
Sullivan hid her attractions under the guise
of the nagging old housekeeping sister, and
Mavis Hunt, the one attractive character,
took charge of the situation in the last 10
minutes after sitting listening for three acts.
It was a pleasurable evening.
“Oh, Boy!” prospers exceedingly at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) and does credit to all
concerned. Jerome Kern’s melodious music
haunts the ear, and . the famous dancing
Eight, who are more popular than any row-
ing crew that ever put a boat in the water-,
make new conquests every week. These
girls have been one of the main attractions
of several big shows and should have their
names on the bill.
** * *
The end of “The Masquerader” is fore-
shadowed. Guy Bates Post has kept the
Palace (Sydney) busy for a month, and
could have gone on doing it; but “The Nig-
ger” needs a bit of exercise and will start
his run on Monday, August 12. The play-
sampler has till then to see or re-visit one
of the finest shows of recent years.
It is still “The Thirteenth Chair” at
Sydney Cri., but after next week has passed
the murderer will begin to think about mov-
ing on. When this happens “Business
before Pleasure” will fill the vacant place.
The way they pronounce it is “bithuith,”
the play being about the two eminent Yids
Potash and Perlmutter after they went out
of the slop-clothes trade.
* * *
“The Story of the Rosary” is being retold
at the Opera House (Sydney) by the Allan
Wilkie Co., and a crowded Saturday-night
audience cheered Allan, who as Captain Paul
Romayne, of the Red Dragoons, won the
heart and hand of the Princess Venetia
(Marie Ney), led his dashing troops to vic-
tory, and confounded his cousin Philip
(Walter Hunt). Henri Dore, as Lieutenant
Peterkin, has a part that gets many laughs.
The rest of the cast are gallant gentlemen
and irreproachable ladies, nevertheless the
prices of admission have not been raised.
% 'l* *l*
Some new patches have been sewn on to
“Bits and Pieces” at the Tivoli (Sydney),
and the show is now less ragged. The danc-
ing Magleys remain the bright stars of the
bill, and everyone who has been to the show
will want to hear (and see) Rene Adoree
sing her dainty little French song again.
While the Heavenly fire-brigade hoses the
wintery dust off Sydney, the Frivolities keep
their bright little show crackling at the
Playhouse, next door to the earthly hose-
and-helmet establishment in Castlereagh-
street.
‘l*
The Crystal Palace and the Strand (Syd-
ney) are showing the much-talked-of picturi-
sation of Edgar Rice Burrougli’s story “Tar-
zan of the Apes.” This stands out among
the interesting- films shown in Sydney. No
details have been overlooked, and the jungle
scenes are convincingly realistic. Quite a
remarkable performance is given by Gordon
Griffiths as the boy Tarzan, growing up
“The
Thirteenth
Chair,” at
Sydney
Criterion.
Ian Maclaren as Ed-
ward Wales, declaring
lie will bring the mur-
derer of his friend to
account.
among his tree-
swinging ■ foster
brothers; and
Elmo Lincoln, the
strong man of
America, person-
ates Tarzan grown
to manhood. Enid
Markey supplies
the woman interest
in this unusual
story. Handsome
Geraldine Farrar
is at the Lyceum
making a strong
appeal in “The
Woman God For-
got.” The story is
woven round the
Spanish conquest
of the Aztecs, and
is depicted with
great splendor.
Viola Dana, of the
appealing eyes, is
telling the story of
a crossed love
at the Majestic.
“The Weaver of
Dreams,” adapted
from Mrytle Reed’s
novel, is of a
charm almost too
fragile for the
films. It concerns a girl who weaves
rosy dreams of being happ* ever after
with the man she is about to marry,
and has a rude awakening when she finds
that her Prince Charming has forgotten his
vows, and has fallen in love with another.
Beaumont Smith’s film having failed to
make the Censor blush, “Satan in Sydney”
will be duly presented to Lyric audiences.
An old Sydney girl, Louise Lovely, smiles
from the Alhambra screen in “Nobody's
Wife.”
“The Kaiser, the Beast of Berlin,” will
rage harmlessly on the screen at the Royal
(Sydney), starting Saturday. He will be
worked on the continuous plan—ll a.m. to
10.30 p.m. daily.
The second stage of the Scully episode
and the I.W.W. business has been reached.
Scully returns to Australia, and the N. S.
Wales Government proposes to arm a
Supreme Court Judge with full power to
inquire as a Royal Commission into the
assertions concerning Scully’s alleged con-
fession of perjury and conspiracy. It is
claimed by Brookfield, M.L.A., and Judd,
who seem to know most about the existence
of evidence which allegedly compromises the
police in connection with the I.W.W. trials,
that such an inquiry is not wide enough in
scope; that there should be a retrial of the
prisoners. This is somewhat incomprehensi-
ble. The whole of the case for retrial or
release, or whatever it may be, rests, at any
rate, so far, on the reported confession of
Scully and upon the alleged existence of a
conspiracy between that person and the
police. If before the Commission it can be
shown that Scully perjured himself or that
his relations with the police were crooked, the
case for a rehearing will be established to an
extent that would make it impossible for any
Government to refuse. If this cannot be
established —if Scully’s testimony stands
unshaken and his bona fides unchallengeable
—then the request for retrial must be based
on something else. Meanwhile The Bul-
letin has not detected any votes of thanks
to Scully for hurrying back being moved by
Brother Judd.
“D.S.”: The Hobart Marine Board got
a shock the other day when the Finance Com-
mittee announced that several short-dated
loans were about to fall due, and that Cohen
seemed to want the cash. One of the “per-
manent and reproductive works” that swal-
lowed the loan money is the Constitution
Dock. It cost £30,000 to build, and the land
scooped out to make room for it was valued
at another £30,000. The annual income
from the structure is £390, and it is now
estimated that it needs repairs estimated to
cost £lO,OOO. The situation is full of
interest.
A fine personality was lost when Dr.
Bevan, after a strenuous life, died in Adel-
aide last week. He was a Welshman, born
of a long line of Nonconformist preachers.
Half a century ago he was at Whitfield’s
famous church in London, and he was also a
University professor. He was on the Lon-
don School Board, and was friendly with
Gladstone and John Bright (whom lie rather
resembled in appearance). Lecturing in
America, he was invited by the Presby-
terians to take charge of the “Brick
Church” in New York, and in his term there
was on amicable terms with Longfellow,
Holmes and Emerson. Then a call from
Collins-street Independent Church (Melb.)
brought him to Australia, lie remained for
the rest of his life. He had nearly a quarter
of a century in the Independent. Since 1910
he had been in Adelaide as head of Parkin
College, training young ministers. Of late
years his handsome, clean-shaved face,
framed in a bush of white hair and side-
whisker, was one of the most striking in
the Commonwealth. He died at 74, surviv-
ing his old friend and rival Dr. Jefferis by
only a few months. Unlike many other
clever fathers, Dr. Bevan handed on his
brilliance to his sons. Among them are
the Northern Territory Judge and a pro-
fessor in the University of Pekin.
“Satan” : The decision of the Defence De-
partment to publish the names of men court-
martialled for desertion reminds me of a little
episode in Bazentin, near Flers (France).
A man paraded before his officer and asked
to be returned to the kit dump some six
miles back. His nerve had gone and he
frankly confessed that if he got into a tight
corner he would “throw it in.” The officer
possessed some understanding and the man
was sent to the rear. Inquiries showed
that at Gallipoli this private was one of the
most trusted in his battalion. It would
have been pretty hard for him, for instance,
to be shown in the Australian press as a
deserter after a long record of good service,
but that fate awaited him if the officer had
not understood a feeling over which no mar l
has control.


THE INTRODUCTION.
SAM: “Some folks reckon they’ve got a monopoly of this Iron Fist stuff.”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S,W r .
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade?
Slags, ete., containing silver or lead
Lead Zinc Drosses.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
FOR EVERY ENGINEERING NEED THERE IS A
PIONEER Leather Belt
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
“dJ/I NOS TS) IDIAVOam o f
PIONEERS and LEADERS SINCE 1858. 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Queensland National Rank :
Towards
Repaying
Gross Written Private Nominal
Profits. Off. Depositors. Reserves.
Dec., 1909.. £44,432 £19,432 £20,000 £84,000
June, 1910.. 45,026 20,020 20,000 89,000
Dec., 1910.. 40,174 21,174 20,000 94,000
June, 1911.. 40,275 10,275 30,000 100,000
Dec., 1911.. 47,542 11,542 30,000 100,000
June, 1912.. 48,159 30,159 118,000
Dec., 1912.. 48,179 30,179 130,000
June, 1913.. 48,214 ' 30,214 142,000
Dec., 1913.. 49,915 37,915 154,000
June, 1914.. 50,090 - 38,090 100,000
Dec., 1914.. 50,104 38,104 178.000
June, 1915.. 51,740 39,740 190,000
Dec., 1915.. 50,530 - 40,530 200,000
June. 1910.. 51,398 39,398 212,000
Dec., 1910.. 51,458 41,458 222,000
June, 1917,. 51,890 51,890 222,000
Dec., 1917.. 52,100 52,160 222,000
June, 1918.. 53,070- 51,500 223,564
The general meeting of shareholders to be
held in Brisbane on August 15 should- be a
(cheerful gathering, for three days prior to
Jhe meeting the last of the liability on the
old deposits will have been met. The Queens-
land National was badly knocked about in
the ’93 smash. Some of the losses were
written off out of capital, ss. in the f was
struck off customers’ deposits, and the re-
maining three-quarters were converted into
interminable stock. However, an agreement
Was made that this ss. in the £ written off
deposits should be made good out of future
profits and that no dividend was to be paid
to shareholders until the debt liad been
liquidated. In addition, in 1897, there were
£1,833,327 of Government deposits which
ihad to be repaid. Under an agreement with
the Government, the final re-payment of
these deposits was timed for July 1, 1921;
but the debt disappeared from the balance-
sheet three years ago. During the past
few years the clean-up of the amount due to
private depositors has also been hastened.
For the 11 years to Dec., 1908, only 3s. in
the £1 (= £155,818) had been repaid; during
the next five years a further 6s. had been
met; and in a little over 44 years to next
month the whole of the balance of 11s. will
have been re-paid. During the past year
alone, and including the Is. now provided
(for, re-payments have amounted to no less
than ss. 6d. Half of that has come out of
current profits specially appropriated for the
purpose, the remainder apparently coming
from inner reserves.
Besides working off its dead horse the
National has lost no opportunity of strength-
ening its position, and during the past eight
wears, as the table shows, no less than
£134,000 has been accumulated in visible
reserves. And, no doubt, considerable inner
■reserves have also been built up. Anyhow,
disclosed profits seem to indicate that con-
tingencies have been well provided for. Dur-
ing the re-payment period no dividend could
be paid to shareholders no matter how much
profit was disclosed, and apparently the direc-
tors have not been much concerned about
showing big profits. There is no- doubt, how-
ever, that the National has been getting its
share out of the ' prosperous seasons in
Bananaland. Six months ago the chairman
told shareholders that, despite the disturb-
ance of exchange operations with London,
the bank’s business had been “wonderfully
well maintained.”
Having buried the past, what of the
future? From the shareholders’ point of
view it is quite cheerful. Paid capital is
£480,000 in 160,000 £5 shares paid to £3.
The disclosed profit for the past year is
equal to over 22 p.c. p.a. of the paid-up capi-
tal. So when the National starts to pay divi-
dends again—and there is no visible reason
why the first distribution should not come at
the close of the current term —they will not
be lean. Sooner or later, the directors will
probably further strengthen the bank’s posi-
tion by issuing new capital. Its present
position is strong, “extremely strong,” the
chairman told shareholders at last meeting.
He further stated :
It will be wise to keep it so, as there is bound to
be a period of depression after the War Loan money
now being expended by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment ceases ; as there can be no doubt that this large
expenditure is causing a temporary and artificial
prosperity, and the cessation of this expenditure must
make itself felt.
For the rest, everything depends on how we
win the war, the seasons, the prices _we. re-
ceive for our staples and how the politicians
do their job. When conditions become
anything like normal again, the National
should be in a good position to extend its
operations.
This gives the balance-sheet movements in
10 years, the June, 3914, figures being also
included to show the changes which have
taken place since the war began: —
Liabilities.
June,’oB. June,’l4. June,’lB.
Interminable stock £8,116,621 £3,091,009 £3,091,009
Other old debt . . 1,033,172 80,098
Deposits .. .. 3,024,447 6,500,809 5,590, 196
Hills payable and
other liabilities. . 736,873 162,150 498,511
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 2,195,298 3,791,633 5,724,628
Advances . . . . 5,703,896 6,488,057 0,865,141
Old account (under
realisation) . . 231,754
Premises, etc. .. 277,474 305,126 345,676
Of the £8,590,196 of deposits £2,615,825 is
Government money. The holding of liquid
assets is very strong. Disregarding the
£3,091,669 of interminable stock, which is
really preference capital, total liabilities
amount to £9,088.707. and of that no less
than 63 p.c. is liquid. The interminable
stock, by the way, carries a fixed interest of
34 p.c., so in times of dear money share-
holders get the advantage of anything the
three millions or so earn in excess of that
rate.
Aixen Taylor and Co., Ltd., timber mer-
chants, etc. (Sydney) :
Reserves
To (including
Re- Insurance
Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserve).
Nov., TO.. £6605 10 p.c. = £4614 £1991 £15,198
May, ’ll.. 6306 10 „„ 5000 1306 16,504
Nov., ’ll.. 0522 10 „„ 5000 1522 18,026
Premiums on new shares 3125 21,151
May, ’l2. . 6561 10 p.c. = 6054 507 21,658
Nov., ’l2. . 7743 10 „„ 6250 1493 23,151
May, ’l3. . 7484 10 „ „ 6250 1234 24,385
Nov., T 3. . 8318 10 „ „ 6250 2068 26,453
Mav, T 4. . 8776 10 „ „ 6771 2005 28,458
Nov., ’l4. . 9729 10 „ „ 7500 2229 30,687
Mav, T 5. . 9239 10 „,, 7500 1739 32,426
Nov., ’15.. 8723 10 „ „ 7500 1223 33,649
May, T 6. . 8614 10 ~ „ 7500 1114 34,763
Nov., ’l6. . 7613 10 ~ „ 7500 113 34,876
May, T 7. . 536.3 8 ~ „ 6000 34,239
Nov., ’17.. 5703 8 „ „ 6000 33,942
May, TB. . 6860 8 „ „ 6000 860 34,802
Alien Taylor’s used to be chiefly interested
in big sticks; but the demand for heavy con-
struction material is not what it was when
the States were splashing millions upon
millions of loans on public works. Before
the war a nice export trade had also been
built up, but exports have practically ceased
owing to shortage of shipping. On the other
hand there are compensations, for less timber
is being imported and there has been a
growing demand for local hardwoods. How-
ever, deduct from the profits the £732 in-
terest earned by the co.’s insurance and
reserve funds of £29,379 —all of which is
invested outside the business—and there is a
very small margin after paying the 8 p.c.
dividend. During the past few years the co.
has been extending its interests in the Port
Stephens district. The following shows how
the balance-sheet figures have moved over a
period of 10 years:—
Liabilities.
May,’oB. May,’l4. May,’l7. May,’lB.
Capital . . £60,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Debts . . . . 12,141 37,386 34,818 47,183
Assets.
Country Mills . . 2,354 35,590 63,477 63,169
Pyrm o n t
wharves, mill,
etc 12,000 6,000 4,750 4,250
Vessels. . . . 19,595 31,183 22,391 27,320
Book debts, etc. 29,300 62,018 47,502 54,297
Cash, etc. .. 1,554 24,520 13,895 8,496
Stocks.. .. 12,860 41,504 44,360 50,344
Profits, of course, depend upon the valuation
of stocks. Until a few years ago they were
included at “under cost.” It is only seven
years ago, when R. McC. Anderson was on
the Board, that the directors disclosed the
principles on which they were working:—
Your Board feels that their chief duty to share-
holders is not so much to increase dividends as to
make the co.’s position so strong that less prosper-
ous seasons, should they come, may be met with
fullest confidence. Large depreciation allowances
have been made in all the assets, whether afloat
or ashore. The actual values of the assets are not
thereby lessened; but it means that no ordinary
reverse need cause the co. the least anxiety.
Whether the writing down nowadays is as
hard as it used to be The Bulletin does
not know. Probably it is not. The co. never
publishes a P. and L. account, and profits
are always shown “after making full allow-
ance for everything in the nature of bad and
doubtful debts and the necessary appropria-
tion for depreciation.-” As to stocks, the only
remark the directors now make is that they
have been “carefully valued.” Which is not
quite as satisfactory as formerly, though
they may nevertheless be fully protected
against any possible slump in value. Despite
the outlay on country mills the co.’s holding
of liquid assets is still considerable, and in
addition to the figures given above there is
also the £30,110 of reserves, 80 p.c. of which
is invested in public securities, the balance
of £4250 being “shares in carefully selected
public cos.” Looking back over the past 10
years Allen Taylor’s has made fine progress.
Ninety-thousand pounds of new capital has
been got in, and other liabilities have in-
creased by £35,042. Meantime, as written
down, fixed assets have increased by £00,790,
and £99,533 has been added to more or less
liquid assets. It is too much to expect the
future to be as prosperous as in the State
loan-boom days; but no doubt the co. will
be able to make good profits out of the busi-
ness that does come its way.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney), who sell
tobacco, haircuts, fish-hooks and sporting
goods, and began as a co. six years ago w T ith
£20,(577 of the capital represented by good-
will and other hypothetical assets :
Written Towards De-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves, ficit.
1911.. £20,677
1912. .£12,268 10 p.e. = £B,OOO £1132 £3136 17,641
1913.. 13,128 10 „„ 9,000 1381 2747 14,794
1914.. 13,295 10 „„ 9,000 1555 2740 12,054
Added to goodwill, £BBO .. .. 12,934
1915.. 15,533 10 p.e. = 9,000 1565 4968 7,966
Added to goodwill, £738 .. .. 8,704
1916.. 16,166 10 p.e. = 9,667 2080 4419 4,285
Transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 14.285
1917.. 12,955 8 p.e. = 8,800 2215 1940 12,345
Added to goodwill, £237 .. .. 12,582
1918.. 17,230 10 p.e. = 11,000 2622 3608 8,974
During the past couple of years this co.’s
business has been affected in several ways:
(1) thousands of its customers are at
the war; (2) supplies, particularly of fire-
arms and ammunition, have been curtailed ;
(3) the demand for sporting goods has
fallen off; and (4) expenses have been
increasing, chiefly owing to Wages Board
awards. During the year to April, 1917,
the co. was apparently unable to adjust
its prices to meet the increased costs.
Last year, however, prices were advanced in
haircuts, shaves and tobacco, and a record
profit is the result. This shows how gross
profits and wages have grown :
Gross Profits. Salaries and Wages.
1912 .. £39,151 £14,552
1915 . . 50,872 18,223
1916 .. 55,449 21,287
1917 . . 55,202 23,747
1918 .. 64,443 26,264
In 1917 wages absorbed 43 p.e. of the gross
profit; during the past year,, despite the
£2500 increase in the pay-slreet, the in-
creased receipts reduced the proportion to
40 p.e.
The co. has made good progress during the
six years it has been in business. The
balance-sheet figures have moved this way :
1912. 1917. 1918.
Liabilities . . £20,179 £31,893 £38,696
Stock . . . . 57.041 91,267 87,865
Sundry debtors . . 16,999 17,535 16,766
Plant, etc. .. 16,325 19,770 21,349
Cash . . . . 6,549 4,598 19,246
Capital to begin with was £90,000, and in
1915 a further £lO,OOO was got in. Then in
1916 a similar amount of reserves was trans-
ferred to capital. All other liabilities have
increased by £18,517 in the six years. Mean-
time £30,824 has been added to stocks,
£12,697 to cash and £5024 to plant. Book
debts, however, have been kept down, and
are now £233 less than they were in 1912.
So, the co. is nearly £19,800 better off than
it was at the ehd of its first year. That is,
of course, provided sufficient allowance has
been made for depreciation and that stocks
have been conservatively valued. Evidence
that assets are carefully valued is shown by
the amounts written off each year. Plant,
fixtures and vehicles stand in the books at
£21,349. and the amount written off last
year was £2622, including . “alterations to
premises,” which is always included in the
item. As to the future, everything depends
on management—for it is a scattered busi-
ness, with shops in various parts of Sydney
and suburbs and a branch in Brisbane. The
co. has built up a fine business, and its turn-
over will probably be considerably increased
when its customers in France and elsewhere
come home and when sporting livens up
again.
* * * *
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.) :
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
May, 1910.. £1,079,914 £721,722 £358,192
Nov., 1910.. 484,755 408,450 76,305
May, 1911.. 468,538 350,867 117,671
Nov., 1911.. 452,336 381,730 70,606
May, 1912.. 537,378 349.985 187,393
Nov., 1912.. 640,712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913.. 499,317 351,314 148.003
Nov., 1913.. 496,936 351,973 144,963
May, 1914.. 459,606 328,217 131,389
Nov., 1914.. 502,382 438,546 63,836
May, 1915.. 503,018 400,215 102,803
Nov., 1915.. 647.038 478,395 168,643
May, 1916.. 617,754 499,616 118,138
Nov., 1916.. 643,990 502,475 141,515
May, 1917.. 657,387 489,697 167,690
Nov., 1917.. 625,161 500,317 124,844
May, 1918.. 608,822 480,917 127,905
Those figures do not give the precise results
of the six months’ operations. To begin
with, the 874 tons refined copper on hand
at the close of last term were valued, in
accordance with the co.’s usual practice, at
£55 per ton. This copper realised £ll6
13s. 4d. per ton. and the present term's
figures are credited with the difference.
Further, the floods and cyclones of January
and February last seriously affected the
shipment of blister to the refineries, and at
the end of May there were no less than
2081 tons in process of refining. So the
directors decided “to bring the figures into
line,” as they put it, by departing from
their usual custom and including 838 tons,
which they reckoned approximately repre-
sented the delayed realisations, at £lOB, at
which price Mount Morgan has been selling
its output, less what has been taken for
local requirements, to the British Munitions
Department. This contract expired on June
30, but negotiations are proceeding for an
extension of the agreement. The balance of
1843 tons copper on hand has been valued
at the usual £55 per ton.
The floods also considerably curtailed the
output: 169,603 tons being mined during the
half-year, compared with 180,008 in the pre-
vious term. The inflow of water into the
mine was so heavy that it beat the pumps
and the 950 ft. level was submerged for a time
in 24ft. of water, reducing the output of the
level from 12,601 tons in the previous half to
3526 tons. Ore reserves during the half-
year were depleted by only 116,344 tons,
60,078 tons of the total 176,422 tons raised
being mined outside the reserves. This left
estimated ore reserves of 3,825,685 tons at
the end of May—about 16 years’ supply at
recent rates of extraction. During the
term further exploratory work was done.
But to the east of the Andesite Dyke 890 ft.
of driving and crosscutting disclosed only
6100 tons, estimated to be worth 525. with
copper at £6O per ton; also drives on the
four levels above the 950 ft. have proved the
ore to be of low grade.
Mount Morgan has been having some
trouble with its new concentrating plant.
In August last the jigging section was com-
pleted and operations for the first half-year
showed a slight improvement in recoveries,
though the more basic ore was creating diffi-
culties in the way of high extraction. Dur-
ing the six months to November last 91,135
tons were handled by this plant, and during
the past term 123,854 tons were put
through. The mechanical troubles which
have arisen are due to the handling of this
increased tonnage. However, exhaustive
tests on a working scale are at present being
conducted, and de Bavay’s managing-engineer
Faul reckons that the difficulties can be over-
come and that enhanced recoveries will be
obtained. This plant turns out three pro-
ducts, and the following table gives the assay
values and the recoveries made. From these
figures it is also possible to work out the
contents of the tailings:—
Values Recoveries
Tons , K N / A N
Concen- Copper Gold Copper Gold
trates. p.c. dwt. p.e. p.c.
Jigs . . 20.508 2.60 4.10 18.83 13.31
Tables . . 25,071 3.70 8.51 32.72 33.79
Flotation . 6,295 18.66 ,29.18 41.46 29.09
51,874 5.08 9.28 93.01 76.19
Tailings . . 71,980 .27 2.09 6.99 23.81
Total . . 123,854 2.48 5.10 100.00 100.00
Six months ago the copper recovery was
93.65 p.c.; for the past term it was 93.01 p.c.
The gold recovery has meanwhile decreased
from 78.06 p.c. to 76.19 p.c. That leaves
just over 2dwt. in the tailings compared with
lfdwt. six months ago.
The jigging section now being in full
swing, all the smelting can be done in one
furnace. But though this has made a con-
siderable saving, expenses continue to climb.
Further increases of wages have been granted,
stores are dearer, the grade of ore is slightly
lower, and the half-year’s figures have been
further affected by the wild weather of the
first couple of months. The total recovery
of copper for the term was 3505 tons, and of
gold 38,13710 z., which compares with 41131
tons and 48,0810 z. for the previous term.
Cost of production, apart from the amounts
written off for depreciation, management
exes, and income tax, has only decreased
from £462,379 to £415,451. It has been an
abnormal period, of course; but even on the
previous term’s figures production and other
exes, ran costs up to about £B6 per ton copper,
f.o.b. Sydney. Of course, everything is right
while the co. is getting £lOB .for its product.
But if a serious slump in prices should set
in, it won’t be so easy to get costs down to
correspond.
From the past year’s profits five dividends
aggregating a quarter of a million, and equal
to 25 p.c. of the capital, have been dis-
tributed. A further Is. (£50,000) is to be
handed out next week. The surplus of more
or less liquid assets over' liabilities at the
end of May was £465,179. This is excluding
£139,122 shares in other cos., chiefly in the
Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Co., but
including £147,706 of stores.


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity
for power and lighting purposes is manufactured by the British
Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd. They offer the advantage
of undivided responsibility for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include; —Steam Turbines; Turbo-Generators;
Blowers and Compressors; Condensers; Gas, Oil and Diesel Engines;
A.C. and D.C. Generators and Motors; Electric Tramway and Railway
Equipments; Transformers and Converters ; Switch and Control Gear;
Meters and Instruments; Lamps, Fans, and all Electrical Accessories.
mn
ihousf
Mancheste*
Head Office for Australia :
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works—Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
Every engineer should be a subscriber to the
General Electric Review. It is a monthly maga-
zine, containing descriptions of the latest develop-
ments and practical applications of electricity in
every sphere. No library is complete. without it,
as tlie contents are original, instructive and complete
in every detail, being contributed by the leading
engineers of the world. The subscription is only
ten shillings (10/-) per year, so subscribe now or
write to the Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney, for a sample copy.—Advt.
* * * *
Efficiency is the watchword of the undertaker.
He never has to do the same job more than once.
Likewise, the man who roofs with “Adamax”
Asphaltum Roofing furnishes his building with a pro-
tective and permanent roof needing no further
attention once it has been laid. “Adamax” is
termed the “efficient” roofing—being practically
indestructible by fire, rain or chemical action. It
is the economical roofing because of its low cost
and low freight charges. “Adamax” compared with
galvanised-iron reduces these costs by approximately
one-third. William Adams & Co. Ltd., 175 Clamice
Street, Sydney; also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Bris-
bane and Perth. —Advt.
* * * *
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe provides the most economical
and efficient means of carrying water over your land.
In first cost, freight charges and labor for laying,
money is saved. Made in all sizes from two inches
upwards. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd., 11.0. Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove. N.S.W.' P.O. address: Box
1570 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove.
N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vie. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A.
Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON-, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.— Advt.
“National” English-made petrol and oil horizontal
engines, immediate delivery from Sydney at prices
below pre-war rates: Petrol engines, If h.p., £5O.
3 h.p., £65. Oil engines: 3J h.p., £75. 4 i h.p.,
£B5. Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Head ‘Office,
Sydney.—Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Ass
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertlin
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, • Brau
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H.
f 0 ’’ 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; a
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
jareboamto
Fire, Marine, !
Accident,
Loss of Profits (
Insure in
Thc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
ncome (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney,
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS— IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne. \
Gundagai (N.S.W.) has been excited
lately over further very rich specimens got
in the Long Tunnel mine. This old show
was worked by the late George Rice for
bonanzas, but when the present co. took
over the mine George J. Hepburn, who had
had many years’ experience in Westralia.
was made g.m. His report to the directors
38 months ago was highly optimistic, but in
his latest his enthusiasm simply bubbled
over:—
Every day but tends to confirm the highly-flattering
opinion I originally formed of the property. . . .The
more the mine is developed the more the certainty
is impressed upon me that, whatever disappointment
may have been felt regarding the starting of crush-
ing, once the battery gets to work the result will be
to place the Long Tunnel in the very forefront of
Australian gold-mines.
When Hepburn took over the show he treated
40 tons from the No. 2 level south for a re-
turn of 15dwt. per ton over the plates.
He then set about sinking the main shaft to
300 ft. A winze at this level is now down
over 00ft., and as high-grade ore has been
revealed it has been decided to sink the main-
shaft a further 100 ft. With a 10-head treat-
ment plant, Hepburn reckons that he will
have no difficulty in raising and treating
from 1000 to 1200 tons per month. From
this he “confidently anticipates a minimum
profit of £2OOO a month,' without reckoning
on the remarkable bonanzas which have
played such a prominent part in the past his-
tory of the mine.” Capital was recently in-
creased to £50,000 by the issue of 20.000
contribs. to present shareholders.
Amalgamated Hill End (N.S.W.) has just
had one of its most successful erushings: 30
tons of stone from the Mica vein giving 990 z.
gold. The co. is confined to this vein and
the working of the Star of Peace shaft by
an arrangement with its neighbor, the
Reward, which takes a fair slice of the
profits under a sliding scale agreement gov-
erning the tribute. Meanwhile the Reward
is overhauling itself and losing its old iden-
tity as the Deep Levels Hawkins Hill, in
100,000 shares, 80,000 fully-paids going to
the old co. in exchange for its assets. The
Reward itself has already absorbed the 15
acres to the north of its leases, held by the
Golden Key co. This show will get 15,000
of the balance of 20,000 shares, paid up to
15s. The arrangement is designed to facili-
tate the more vigorous exploiting 7 of the field.
The stone recently taken from the ‘Reward
has been the best got out of the field for
years. Water has always been the principal
obstacle at Hill End, but now that a decent
draining scheme has been decided upon, work
at depth will be easier.
* * * *
N. S, Wales Mines Department lias come
to the aid of Butler’s Tin, the complex show
at Torrington being worked by a Melbourne
co. James B. Lewis recently reported on
the mine, and both he and ex-manager Lons-
dale. Smith strongly recommended the ex-
tension of the south-west drive in No. 2 level
and the sinking of the B. winze below No. 3
level. The Government, after inspection,
has agreed to subsidise 100 ft. of work on
both jobs, 225. 6d. per foot on the former
and 30s. per foot on the latter. Lewis
reported that he was satisfied as to the life
and value of the mine, but that to put the
show into a satisfactory position for profit-
able ore-winning a lot of dead work was
necessary, costing about £l2OO. Most of this
work, however, would be in ore, and he
reckoned that when crushing was re-started
a large proportion of the expense would be
recouped. In addition, he recommends put-
ting down a tram-line, at a cost of about
£4OO, to ensure a regular and cheaper fuel
supply, and an expenditure of a further £3OO
on the existing dams, to guarantee a perma-
nent water supply. Owing to drought condi-
tions the mill has been shut down since the
middle of June, though the recent rains should
set it at work again shortly. Since the
co. started in 1914 4827 tons ore have been
crushed for about 73 tons concentrates, or
about 1.5 p.c. per ton. At the beginning
the. management reckoned it would have no
difficulty in selecting ore containing only tin ;
but it was soon found that it was more
economical to crush all the ore and after-
wards separate the galena and wolfram.
Costs run away with £2 10s. per ton, necessi-
tating a recovery of 1.5 p.c. with concen-
trates fetching £2OO per ton, on present
methods of working. Lewis says the most
obvious method of reducing costs is to speed-
up # the output. He has not completed
sampling, so can give no definite estimate of
ore in sight, but he reckons there is a “con-
siderable tonnage which will return from
1 p.c. to 2 p.c. of concentrates per ton.” He
adds that though one-seventh of the original
estimated ore available for stoping has been
treated, “no development work has been done
to increase this, and it is obvious that from
the start of work sufficient at least to re-
place the ore taken out should have been
undertaken.” During the half-year to May
1218 tons were treated for 25 tons 17cwt.,
but there was a loss of £250 on working
account. At May 31 the co. owed £6844
and had £2220 in tin ore on hand, cash and
stores.
t Proceedings on the molybdenite held at
Yetholme (N.S.W.) are not as brisk as many
interested people would like. After getting
into its stride breaking and treating the big
body of ore at grass, the Mammoth has
steadied up for the past few weeks owing to
a breakdown in the electric-plant. Follow-
ing on the return of about 1 p.c. from the
dump that had previously been picked, the
industry has been interested to know how the
general body of stuff would go when given
a fair run ; but even the figures covering the
amount put through between the first report
and the breakdown have been kept quiet.
The accident will delay the erection of the
Mammoth's additional 10-head of stampers.
The Tennyson co. already has its boilers on
its ground, and most of the plant has arrived
at the railway. The B. 11. Prop., which has
an option over a part of the Mammoth’s
leases, hasn’t done anything yet with its
patch. Meanwhile small parties and prospec-
tive cos. are nosing round on the boundaries
of the present main-field leases waiting for
the Mammoth’s figures to go up.
Bodangora (N.S.W.) crushed 2731 tons
stone last half-year for £(1404, or an average
of over 475. per ton. This mine has pro-
duced £1,4,25(1 from 502(1 tons in 12 months,
the aggregate loss shown by the working-
accounts amounting to £1370, or 4s. 7d. per
ton, work for the past half-year showing a
loss of £055. The best prospect is in a
pilot winze sunk below No. 0 level, the stone
being worth £5 per ton and the width 20in.
* * * »
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) has been
raising wash-dirt worth 2001 b. from (Jor-
don’s dip. With the help of the output from
Allen’s and Chandler’s sections the co. is
maintaining an output of six tons tin per
week, which at present prices means that
the revenue is approximately £5OOO per
month, nearly double the average monthly
earnings last year.
* * * *
“O.B.”: The Riverina South (W.A.) may
breathe again (B. 18/7/T8), hilt its position
does not appear to be very sound. The co.’s
indebtedness to debenture-holders, sundry
creditors and the bank on March 31
amounted to nearly £9OOO, while its assets
apart from mine, plant, fittings and ore
reserves only totalled £2785, of which less
than £3OO was cash. Ore reserves were
given as 17,810 tons of a gross average
value of 545. per ton, but with working
costs and loss in residues chipped off there
is not likely to be much profit left. As
for the valuation of £44,201 placed upon
the mine, plant and fittings, the property, if
unpayable, is worth nothing, and if the
plant, etc., had to be sold it would in these
bad times hardly bring the price of old iron.
What with one trouble and another the
prospects of the co. seem to hang by a slen-
der thread.
* * * *
Another Westralian flotation, known as
the Wolfram King Proprietary, has just
been sanctioned by the Federal Treasurer.
Vendors get two-thirds of the issued shares
and the public have subscribed for the re-
maining third (1000) at £2 apiece. How
the Treasury officials came to favorably
consider a scheme in which the vendors
annexed so much scrip is, a mystery, and
how they overlooked the fact that the ven-
ture’s working capital is far short of what
it ought to be is a further mystery.
Some tributors are doing well at Kal-
goorlie. Last month those on the Associated
Northern obtained £7671 from 1846 tons,
and paid the co. £1372 in royalty. Another
party on the Lake View paid nearly £4OO,
so their cut must have been fairly substan-
tial. Others on the Boulder Perseverance
treated 243 tons for £786, and several par-
ties on the Oroya Links are declared to have
had good returns.
*■* * *
The Princess Royal co. is said to have
discovered that its recent acquisition, the
Happy Jack lease at Comet Vale (W.A .), is
a mine of no hope and no payable ore.
Shareholders are greatly upset over the mat-
ter, and have asked the directors to explain
all the circumstances in connection with
the option and purchase of the property.
* * * *
The forfeiture of Bayley’s old Reward
claim for nonfulfilment of labor conditions
has been applied for. No work has been done
on the show for over a year, and only the
most venturesome fossickers are likely to
try it again. Its discovery by Bayley and
Ford in the middle of 1892 was the outcome
of the greatest gold prospecting expedition
in Westralian history. First Ford and Bay-
ley specked 20oz. on what was afterwards
known as Fly Flat, and later picked up an-
other 200 oz. Subsequently they found a
reef, and with the aid of a tomahawk broke
stone containing 500 oz. from the cap. The
pair returned to Southern Cross, showed
their gold to the late Warden Finnerty, and,
accompanied by overloaded teams, coaches
and 150 men on horseback, returned to the
scene of their find. The great Coolgardie
rush followed.
Commodore, Meekatharra (W.A.), isn’t
turning out up to expectations, so the pun-
ters are had again, Ingliston next door got
stone to the boundary, and a winze in the
Commodore had good values almost to the
Ingliston level. Office tips of the stone went
40s. per ton. but 30ft. of driving on the shoot
shows values dwindling to l(is. Now the
move is to umvater at 400 ft., and crosscut to
see if the shoot does any better there than
at 100 ft. overhead. The battery will shortly
be handling the 300 ft. stone, so it will soon
be known if the mill tallies with the assay
sampling.
* * * *
The Western Australian Oil Syndicate
announces that, for the first time in the
search for petroleum in Australia, surface
indications have been discovered. At Bussel-
ton bituminous clay from a shaft 40ft. down
has been found to contain oil on analysis;
“heavy oil” was taken from a well near
Pingelly; and near Esperance, surface sand
“through which petroleum has evidently per-
colated” yielded a high-grade pure bitumen.
Further, the syndicate claims to have dis-
covered some high-grade oil shale and
superior brown-coal carrying a large per-
centage of petroleum. A competent oil
chemist is being engaged to look over likely
oil areas.
* * * *
Minister for External Affairs Glynn has
referred to Cabinet the question of admitting
Private Enterprise into Papua to develop the
oil supplies proved to exist there. Numerous
applications for permission to bore for oil
have been made by cos. and syndicates dur-
ing the past four years, and the dossier is
constantly growing. So far, the applications
represent British, American and Australian
capital, although the Department only men-
tions one from a British oil co. This is
taken to refer to the Anglo-Persian Oilfields
Co., which is said to be anxious to come to
Australia and compete with the two British
and the U.S.A. cos. who practically divide
the oil trade between them. Whether this be
true or not, there does not seem any just
reason why Australian mining men should
not be given an equal chance to get into the
Papuan oilfields along with outsiders.
* * * *
It was Mackay’s handling of the Langi
labor trouble that got the deep lead
cos. back on to the contract system. There
are some concessions allowed to the worker
to compensate him for the speeding-up he
will have to do in the mud and slush. First,
although shift-bosses are to be kept out of
the unions, pitmen and sluicemen must
be on their rolls. They, however, have to
give seven days' notice if they jib at condi-
tions or want to join in a strike. When
they knock off, trouble starts with the pumps,
and that is why the cos. wanted them in
their grip. Mackay’s big win, of course, is
that he secures contract work, though jobs
are to be so set that any worker can knock
out 14s. a shift or be guaranteed at least
11s. a day. The restriction on speeding-up
is that no party is to be bound under time to
extract a specified yardage. All this means
that unless slow crowds get into the Ararat
leads the men can knock up tiptop wages
under good conditions now that the mines
have been so well drained.
At Stanley Reward (Tas.) J. R. Victor,
after taking over the mine from the tribu-
tors, has won enough tin to reduce the Profit
and Loss debit to a modest £1347. As for
the future, the best said is that “some good
tin is in sight.” This all through Las been
about the measure of the Reward.
* * * *
Little St. Mungo (Q.) has declared its
-4th dividend, and the sixpenny is equal
to 20 p.c. on capital, for there are 40,000
shares of 2s. Gd. each. In the early days
ore had to be packed on camels for a long
distance, but the extension of the railway
from the Douglas mine has reduced trans-
port charges, for the show is now only
a few miles from a railway-siding. The
mine is being vigorously worked, and in
June 105 tons of crudes were hauled, giving
90 tons dressed ore for despatch to the
Hampden smelters. Generally speaking, the
lode is only a few inches wide, but deposits
of ore sometimes 4ft. thick occur laterally.
A leaching plant has recently been installed.
* * * *
Increasing costs have caused the manage-
ment of the old Waihi (M.L.) to suspend
development in the deepest level. Reserves
are reckoned at 653,716 tons, but values
are uncertain, and they are still more
uncertain with regard to 623,680 tons in
suspense. These estimates were made at
the end of last year, and since then reserves
have been reduced by 110.913 tons. In 1917
£1 18s. Bd. per ton was averaged. Divi-
dends paid (4Si per share) worked out at
10s. 4d. per ton. while taxes claimed 55..
making a total of 15s. 4d. Costs averaged
20s. 7d. per ton. The Waihi paid its 100th
dividend in June, and the total distributed
is now over £lO per share.
* * * *
“Edo”: The Federal authorities could
easily improve their methods of trying to
assist production of base metals. Over a
year ago Westralian daily papers advised
that there was a good market for asbestos.
On the strength of this, a prospector went out
and spent much time and money opening up
a deposit. Eventually he sent samples to
Melbourne, and, after seven months’ waiting,
was told that the stuff had been sent for linal
test to England. Now he is waiting for news
from England. Why the Commonwealth
cannot find a man locally who knows good
asbestos from inferior is beyond understand-
ing.
“Fossieker”: I want to suggest that the
Royal Mints should be empowered to buy
osmiridium, platinum, or any other precious
or rare metals. As it is now, the banks and
gold buyers do not like osmiridium, and
make a heavy deduction from bullion in
which it is present. Osmiridium varies in
price from £lO to £25 an ounce, according to
quality, and the seller is at the mercy of the
buyer. The Australian Metal Exchange
seems to confine its attention to zinc, tin,
silver, copper and lead. Why should it not
also offer in public to buy antimony, man-
ganese, bismuth and other similar substances,
for which at present a. free market is non-
existent?


THE DESTINATION.
CHAKON: “Yes, it's called the Marne on the map, but for Germans it is the Styx, Come!"


WHEN “OUT OF SORTS” TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coa'ted and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of California Syrup of Figs
—“Califig.” There is no need to put up
with these things until to-morrow, waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—will begin to do
yoij good the moment you take it—-at any
hour—and cause no discomfort. This plea-
sant-tasting, refreshing fruit laxative
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps away all
accumulations of undigested food, and stimu-
lates the liver to assist in relieving the
bowels. By evening the tongue will be clear
again and the overflow of bile swept away
you will be yourself again, with a good appe-
ute and digestion. This is the" medicine
which does such wonders for children of all
ages ; but it is every bit as good for grown-
up people, and there are full directions for
every age with the b "'’ r " ’
the genuine, as ther
market. Ask fo
Syrup of Figs, and
trade mark of the C
All chemists sell “Ca
of Figs-—in bottles
1/9.
care to buy
e are imitations on the
r “Califig”—California
look for the name and
alifornia Fig Syrup Co.
lifig’—California Syrup
of two sizes, 1/11' and
[2
/J
DEAF?
Make this
Test in Your
Own Home,
The “Aeousticon” has
delighted over 329,000
people wh o were
troubled with deafness.
Therefore we ask you
to write us, “I am
hard of hearing and
will try the ‘Aeousticon.’ ” We will send you,
post free, an “Aeousticon” for in (lavs’
FREE TRIAL. '
If the instrument does not give you satis-
faction in your home and amid familiar sur-
roundings, send it back. No deposit, no
expense, no obligation. You alone decide.
Lamson
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Daking House. SYDNEY
152 Olderfleet, MELBOURNE
m
m
m
NOW THE COLD
WEATHER is HERE
.. . Buy a ...
“Magnet” Fire
BRITISH MADE.
British General
Electric Co. Ltd.
Sydney:
257 Clarence St.
Melbourne:
590 Bourke St.
Wellington, N.Z.
8 Willeston St.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Another member of the N. S. Wales Bar,
Lieut. J. It. Itanson, has been killed in action.
Hi! is the eighth of the fraternity who has
gone down at the Front. The others were
McLaurm, Norris, McLaughlin, Mac-
Manamey, Manning, Coen and Ilarcus. Still
lighting are Ralston, Brissenden, Mackenzie,
Mitchell. Betts, Haigh, Jaques, Addison (2)
and Leslie Williams. A. M. Cohen, Shan-
non and Street, who have been at the Front,
are now engaged on home service.
“II.” : Lieutenant Frickleton, who got back
to Blackball (M.L.), where he was a miner,
e other day, felt a chill wind thereabouts.
At the welcome-home, an invitation to union
oflicials to say a few words of cheer to a
returned mate didn’t get a response. And
Frickleton had brought back with him the
V ictoria Cross!
SITUATIONS VACANT.
YOUNGUN : “You amuse me cornin' here day
after day to read the want ads. Surely
you. don't expect to find a job there
that’d suit old blokes like you?"
OLDUN : “No, nor young ones like you. They
don’t post the war news.”
“T. 0.1.” : The British Baronetcy contains
not another tragic story like that of the
; Tooth family. The first baronet was
Robert Lucas Tooth, a sou of Lriwin Tooth.
°f _Cranbrook. Kent (Eng.), and Sydney
(N.S.W.). lie was sent to Eton and
returned to Sydney in 1563. He contested
East Sydney against Dr. Renwick. in which
contest he had the support of the late Arch-
bishop Vaughan, which fact was used as a
“Bibles and Beer” election cry. Renwick
was elected, Lucas Tooth sat for Monaro
(N.S.W.), where the family holds large sta-
tion properties, in two Parliaments. He
married his cousin Helen, a daughter of
Frederick Tooth, of Goderich, Darlinghurst.
They had three sons, all in the army. Two
were killed in France in the father's life-
time. The death of the sons is said to have
broken up the father. The third son suc-
ceeded to the baronetcy. lie married and
had a daughter. By his death the baronetcy
becomes extinct, though the name of Tooth
does not.
Died at Brisbane, on July 9, Colin Munro,
founder, of the milk-condensing industry in
Australia. Born in England 84 years ago,
he migrated to Brisbane at 110, and after nine
years at accountancy, became one of the
early pioneers of the sugar industry on the
Albert River and, subsequently, on the Lower
His long residence in North
Queensland probably accounted for him dying
so young. Two sons are managing milk-con-
denseries established by their dad.
THE PUZZLE OF THE SHOW.
BULL: “Now, who’s pulling the wires?"
J. . F. Conigrave, who was secretary to the
Jubilee Exhibition in Adelaide in 1887, but
lias Jived in Westralia nearly ever since, has
been revisiting S.A., and was last week wel-
comecl by old acquaintances, with Herbert
I lnJlipps in the chair, and in the party the
veteran Edwin Smith, 88, looking very fit,
Many of those at the luncheon were fellow-
members of,the school of J. L. Young, the
astonishing .schoolmaster who went out of
busmess half a century ago, but is remem-
beied yet as a guiding influence in Adelaide.
T ,-mi il? ’ Ge 4.n Vu f- tral l i - a ? bllsh bo - vs who have got
tv ell in the limelight within recent vears are
the Marions, of Millicent (S.A.). “Jim” is
the tireless Gen. Sec. of the N. S. Wales
Alliance, who is in constant demand on anti-
r'barL« P lr tfo - rmS l al l p £ rts of Australia.
Charles Marion leads the Salvation Army in
Gerald ton (W.A.). “Jack,” with the rank
oi sergeant, won his M.M. in Flanders, and
has been reported missing. Marion, senior
a V? pert tlmber "S e tter, and before he
went out two years ago said, philosophicallv:
I can die happy. Jim is fighting the Drink.
fh b/i ! G !h htmg tbe Dovil > ■ and Jack is
fightnig the Germans.” They have the fight-
ing chin, the Marions.
Two more Australian, artists on the
worlds business in Europe, Darryl Lindsay
?' Creswick brotherhood, and Louis
eldest horn ■of the late Fred
MeCubbin, have just received their commis-
sions.
. “£• w M.”: Robert Hall, who is one of
Australia s leading authorities on birds is
on his way back from India. For some
years^ past Hall has been orcharding near
’ a , nd i'eceatly joined a syn-
dicate to hustle the “East” into growing
apples at biinla, there being a promising
market m India for untropical fruits. Pota-
toes for the British market were to fill the
hiatus between the orchard’s planting and
cropping. Local maharajahs received the
expedition with urbanity, but refused either
to hustle themselves or to be the means of
hustle m others, so, there being no land
available, the scheme fell through.
The fourteenth Victoria Cross won in the
present war by a soldier of Victorian birth
goes to a Collingwood lad.. Sergeant Bill
IvUthvun, of the 22nd Battalion. He is a
mechanical engineer, two inches under six
feet. llis company commander being
severely wounded, he, as acting company ser-
geant-major, took 120 Billjims over the bags
and returned with 43. On the job he bombed
a German machine-gun, captured a German
trench, and killed or took prisoner 50
Fritzes. Ilis service began in Gallipoli in
August, 1915, and he was “mentioned” at
Pozieres.
“McNorth”: Francis Birtles, with his
cameras, dog and other accessories, has
just finished a “push-bike” trek from
Cooktown to Gape York (N.Q.). lie
reckons the 500 miles along the Peninsula
the worst he has even tackled, mainly on
account of the long grass. He was mighty
glad that he did not bring a motor-car as
originally contemplated. But. like every-
one else who knows anything about it, he is
enthusiastic regarding the possibilities of this
neglected and little-known part of Australia.
Birtles’s idea is to spend a couple of months
photographing around the Uttermost North
and then to go across to Darwin and pedal
down his old familiar track to Adelaide.
“McNorth”: It takes a lot to knock some
of them out. Invalided home, after 31 years
service, G. P. Whiteley, crack shot and fine
bushman. He was at the Landing and Evac-
uation, Messines, Passebendaele, Mouquet
Farm, Pozieres and other dis-
turbances. lie collected four
broken ribs, concussion of the
brain, bullet in the leg, bullet in
the lung, two lots of gas and the
rank of company sergeant-
major. He did the return trip
from hospital to trenches six
times! Prior to enlisting
Whiteley put in 14 years at
Thursday Island and Cape
York. Now. with an Australian
wife and a heart full of joy, lie
is back at his old smmb address.
Parson Ronald, who'was once
M.H.Ii. for Melbourne Ports in
the Labor interest, has been
cabled that his eldest son,
“Snowy,” lias been decorated
with the D.S.O. after long and
continuous service. Snowy, who
is the “dead ring” of his dad, is
about 27. He went with our
first Pacific campaigners as a
raw recruit, helped to clean up
German New Guinea, and then
jogged on to France, where he
speedily made himself known.
He is now Captain Harry
.Ronald, D.S.O. Ronald senior,
himself an excellent example of
the pugnacious Presbyterian, has
sent four boys to the Front. One has been
killed. The youngest, Barton, a lad of 16,
is already a corporal abroad, which means
at least that he is holding down a man's job.
“Secnndus”: The passing of McCudden,
' recalls the heroic records of some
others. Major J, McCudden (age 28),
V.C., also wore the D.S.O-. and M.C.. with a
bar to each, the M.M., and the Croix de
Guerre. Captain A. Ball (a minor) bore Y.C.,
D.S ; O. and two bars M.C.. Chevalier of the
Begion of Honor and a Knight of the Rus-
sian Order of St. George. These were both
aviators, both wore seven distinctions, and
both have gone west. Two Australian
record-makers were Major Percy Black,
H.b.O. and bar, M.C.. D.C.M.. Croix de
Guerre and Croix Militaire; and Flight-
Commander Alex. Little (age 23), D.S.O.
and bar, D.S.C. and two bars and Croix de
r Hlack died at Itieneourt; and
Little, a Melbourne lad, was. like M'cCud-
den, accidentally killed after downing many
Hun planes. With Black, then a private,
®d; with the same machine-gun at
Gallipoli, Private H. W. Murray, who now
wears a lieutenant-colonel’s star and crown
and commands a Westralian battalion. He
‘V s U P to present rank won
the I .C., D.S.O. and bar and D.C.M.
Passed out at S 3, Charles Ilardie Buza
cort. a well-known Queensland journalist and
i ariiamentarian. He was born in Devon-
shire in 1885, and came to Sydney in 1552.
Light years Jater he went to Queensland and
iounded the Maryborough Chronicle. In
1804 he established at Clermont the Peak
Downs Telegram. In 1870 he purchased
Rockhampton Bulletin, which he con-
verted into a daily, and as a weekly founded
The Capricorniax. From 1873 to ’77 he
represented Rockhampton in the Legislative
Assembly. In 1870 he was appointed Post-
master-General with a seat in the Leg. Coun-
cil, resigned the portfolio in 1880, and left
i oA,P° in ISB2. He was reappointed in
1894. and sat until 1,901, when he resigned.
Irom 1880 to 1894 he was managing-
diiector of the Brisbane Newspaper Co., with
a third proprietary interest, and in 1903 he
established the Daily Mail, was editor-in-
inoc , ' hau ' man ‘of the co. In February,
• (:>. he resigned, as per original agreement,
ii om the editorial control, and became con-
suiting-editor and leader-writer. He married
a daughter of liev. Benjamin George White-
ford, Baptist Minister of Sydney in 1557.
Edward Hobbs is a Tasmanian pioneer
whose original capital was a big Australian
heart and an American axe. Many miles
or bush tramway on the North-West are the
work of his muscle, whilst more modern
ones are the result of his pluck. He was
one of the Speck’s biggest timber men
E. HOBBS, M.H.A. , Tasmania.
(physicallyand financially) when he retired
Ji little while ;igo. A couple of years back
ho entered the Assembly and soon brought the
kill-timers out of the smoking-room to listen
to him. His great; and commendable desire
is to obliterate official “frills and furbelows,"
his motion, last session, to demolish the posi-
tion of State Governor being outed only by
the Speaker’s vote. Neither party nor con-
vention control him, and he is perhaps the
most popular member in the Speck.
Andrew Loutit was 88 when he died the
other day m Adelaide. Scotch by birth, he
arrived in 1851, started in the law, had a good
innings in the drapery business, and finally
his genius for figures took him into the
National Bank, where he put in about half a
century, 26 years of it as branch-manager at
Mount Gam bier.
August birthdays: Dr. Joseph Verco
(Adelaide), 67, on Ist; Alfred Deakin, 62,
on brd; Prof. Ennis (Adelaide Uni.),
of- 011 sth; Justice Isaacs (High
Court), 63, on 6th; E. .T. Brady, 49, on
Tth ; Federal Minister Alec Boynton. 65, on
Bth ; Col. Wallack, 61, on 9th ; Geo. Riddoch
(S. Aus. pastoralist), 76, on 10th; Ex-
Gov -Gen. Tennyson, 66, on 11th; ex-Gov.
Chelmsford, 50, on 12th ; Major-Gen Lease
55. on 15th; Prof. Rennie (Adelaide Uni L
66. on 19th; R. W. Foster, M.H.R., 62, on
20th; Simon Fraser of Victoria. 86. Will
Ogilvie, 49, ex-Bishop Pain (Gippsland).
it. and Senator O’Keefe (Tag.). 54, on
21st: John Forrest, 71, and judge Curlewis,
49. on 22nd ; Dr. J. A. Cockburn (ex-S. Aus.
Agent-General), 68, Geo. T. Allen (formerly-
edoral Treasury), 66, and Geologist 11.
1L Brown (S. Aus.), 74. on 23rd; Fed-
Glynn, 63. on 25th. C. Gavan
Dulty (Clerk of Federal Senate), 63, on 27th-
High Commissioner Andrew Fisher, 56, on
29th ; ex-Justice a’Beckett, Victoria, S 2, on
oJ.»SU.
ARCHIE McFARLANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Archie McFarlane wrote to mo
Across a. sea of twenty years
From golden places windy free
Where mountains lift their icy spears.
I felt the sun on waving grass,
I heard the creeks go singing by ;
A lonely horseman in the pass
Wore the old laughter in his eye.
The Hakateramea Downs
Are near the broad MaclCenzie Plain ;
And close to Heaven and far from towns
The sun is shining after rain.
Oh, clean airs flying down the day,
Oh, tussocks bending to the wind,
The world is like a child at play
In those old paths I left behind.
The stations in the valley set
Have sheep to shear and lambs to sell;
About their .yards the sheepmen fret
If prices fall or markets swell.
Hut where the outer fences run
Their wires from river-flat to sky,
A horseman with a dog and gun
Wears the old laughter in his eye.
Archie McFarlane wrote to me.
The years rolled back ; I seemed to feel
All the old hurts of memory
Upon my soul begin to heal.
The world grew wider than the street;
Along the Hills of God I strode—
Old friend, I dreamt that I should meet
You laughing by the Dunstan Road!
N.B.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


TOBACCO
m
Australia*
National
Smoke
in Peace
and War
Cut
(Flake or
Mixture)
Also in Plug
Form.
<v*i
THE LAST WORD IN
PIPES
LM
400
m
every
pipe Guarantee^
mm
MM
gnSSi SSWjt
fCLMN


'mmimi
m
A ROYAL ORDER
London.
Dear Mrs. Stannarcl (John Strange Winter), —
I have been recommending your delicious preparations to
the Duchess and her daughter, and the Princess Beatrice has
ashed me to order the following preparations to be sent to
her Royal Highness at your early convenience, as they are soon
leaving for Europe. I have let them use some of my own
preparations and they are enchanted with them.
Yours sincerely,
MARY W. FITZWILLIAM
( Lady-in-Waiting to the Queen).
J.S.W. Toilet Preparations are THE BEST the WORLD has produced, and
have WON SIX GOLD MEDALS—London, Paris, Rome. Send 3d. stamp
for Sample and Booklet, to John Strange Winter, Dept. 32, Jamieson
Street, Sydney.
eltojiian
HIGH-CLASS
SPECIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
foi
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
H?
E. DROWN @ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALE • OVER • THE * WORLD
Now’s the time for influenza,
Sunless clays and sweeping gales;
When we cough in sad cadenza,
Through our winter ills and ails.
Now’s the time when sore throats blight us,
And when coughs and colds are sure;
Now’s the time for dread Bronchitis,
And for Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
“Lieut. Breechblock”: The other day I
collected a fine specimen of the cheap type of
English officer who makes Australians, Cana-
dians and !jsouth Africans rage. After a
good deal of hard work our artillery brigade
started down from the front lines on a
Saturday night, and arrived in billets on the
Sunday morning. For pay purposes we had
been attached to an English army corps, and
as soon as I had cleaned up I was sent to
get the money. I found the corps headquart-
ers installed in a sort of palace. In the.pay-
master’s office was a subaltern of perhaps 24
—a typical London city boy of the sort that
in civil life trots off to his job from Clapham
or some such suburb in a faded top-hat. He
was camouflaged with an infantry uniform,
but he remained the suburban clerk
with a passion for giving an imita-
tion of the Duke of Westminster as
his breed imagines him. His first remark on
my giving him my papers and asking for the
pay was: “We don’t know you, my dear sir.
We have nothing to do with you whatever.”
I told him to look it up, as I had been told
by my C.O. that we were to draw from his
corps. After burrowing about in his desk
fbr a while, he said : “I’ll pay you. But,
remember—it is merely an act of kindness on
my part. You have no rights in the matter
at all.” To which I replied that I wouldn’t
take the money on those terms, that if we
weren’t attached that was the end of it, and
I would ride back to my brigade and report
to my colonel. He then discovered and
admitted the fact that he had to pay me, and
did so. Half-way through the process he
said: ‘'Now, don’t come here on Sunday
morning again! We aren’t open on Sun-
days ! You shouldn’t have come on Sunday
in the first instance, and kindly don't do it
again !” Picture the position. There I was
drawing the pay for a fighting unit which
had just come out of the line on one front
and was immediately going in again on
another. This able-bodied young impostor,
with neither wound-stripe nor service chev-
rons, was sitting in a room, such as none of
us had been inside for months, with a fire
blazing near him and every imaginable com-
fort. And he was solemnly objecting to the
toil of signing half a dozen slips—the real
spadework of counting the money being done
for him by a pay-sergeant—just because it
was Sunday ! I didn’t make the obvious
reply that we hadn’t come to live in the
neighborhood, but produced a paper and read
it while the cheap fool did his scrap of work.
* # * *
“Armed Baptist” writes :
Sunday, August 4, being the end of the fourth
year of desolation, is proposed as a day of special
intercession and prayer. It will be a time for the
manifestation of that faith which can remove moun-
tains if it uses enough gelignite, and which is a
good substance though slow. Thus the mountain
went to look for Mahomet after centuries of delay,
when the army of the kingdom of the Black Moun-
tain proceeded to hunt up Mahomet V., but in addi-
tion to being behind time it didn’t come in the
Faith that the prophet established. Rather it was a
hostile communion carrying guns. Every time this
matter crops up it is worth while to refer again to
the hackneyed statement of James the Writer:
“faith without works is dead.” And it is worth
while to note even for the billionth time that the
Writer said nothing about leaving the bill for the
works to posterity. There seems something remotely
apposite or incongruous or humorous or mixed in the
fact that it was the Treasurers’ Conference —the
gathering of the pawn-broke—which decided on the
day of intercession.
* * * *
“O.lv.’s” protest:—-
One of my wildest hopes is that I may live to see
the day when the Grange estate will be added to the
South Yarra (Melb.) Domain. When Watt was
Premier and Treasurer of Victoria he paid £30,000
out of the public purse for this estate, on the under-
standing that it would shortly be thrown open\ for
the use of the public. Years have rolled on, as years
persist in doing, but the ground at the corner of
St. Itilda and Domain roads, Melb., which was
nominally added to the public reserve, is still the
same privately-enclosed tract of country as ever. It
has the same old wooden palings around it, the same
old gates to the carriage-drive, bearing the announce-
ment that trespassers will be prosecuted, the same
old air of aloofness as when the Grange was the
home of the local military commandant and sassiety
used to attend festive gatherings there. For its
£30,000 the public has not yet received a right-of-
way across the property. Once in every few years a
number of workers practise the Government stroke
on the /job of “clearing up,” and then for a while it
looks as though the Lands Department were about to
give the public a free run of the acres that Watt
chaiged to their account when he was a compara-
tively young man. But these rare occasional efforts
to get the job finished never last long. To-day the
tract of enclosed country provides neither employ-
ment for man nor pasturage for beast.
TOO BIG FOR HIM.
“What did George say to your dressmaker's
bill?"
“Nothing!"
“Nothing?"
“No. To tell the truth , dear, I don't think
he was equal to the occasion."
SECONDARY EDUCATION.
IKE, JUN.: "Teacher sags that when in a foreign'country we should study its customs.”
IKE, SEN.: “ Don't you believe it, son. All you've got to do is study its customers."
You can’t keep their sunny spirits down
in Bananaland. Here’s the good hand
stretched from the Brisbane Courier :
SOUTH BRISBANE CEMETERY.
Public Notice.
The cemetery at Mt,. Gravatt will be opened for
burials on and after July Ist. The caretaker will be
in daily attendance, and will show intending pur-
chasers of family allotments the opened portions.
A coinmittee arranging for welcome to returned
soldiers will be pleased for any information as to
soldiers who have returned, with rank, unit, number,
etc.
“Cleveland” :It runs in patches. I was
sent off at a moment’s notice to relieve the
navigator of a. destroyer who had
gone into hospital. He had been
in the ship 24 years, had been
constantly at sea, and had never-
seen a shot fired in anger. He
went on leave last year. 1 was
not on board eight hours before
we ran into an argument which
lasted only 10 minutes. It was
at night, and a thunderstorm cut
it short, but we landed a consider-
able consignment of ironmongery
at Fritz's address and he was
very sick of it. We then prowled
round for 40 hours, bumped up
against a shore battery, and had
to beat it out through a minefield,
with the shells coming through in
plenty. Had a spell for six hours,
and then, after a breathless run
of two hours, arrived in time to
get in a heavy kick on a Fritz
that was trying to deal it out to
a convoy. Was only four days
aboard, and there were very few
dull moments; but the busiest
time of the lot was when a man I
relieved heard of our doings when
we got back, and came down to
the ship in a, dressing-gown to
tell us his opinion of his luck,
His gear arrived soon after, and I
left. The last I heard of the ship
was that she was ordered to a
service that would provide about
as much excitement in six months
as a cold-tea meeting would in
half an hour.
“Palettte” : Cubism seems to be the safest
refuge for any artist who is a poor draughts-
man and has a crude color sense, and I
can imagine overtired artists who can draw
and color well turning to cubism for an
artistic holiday. The only chance the critic
has to size up the cubist and see which set
he belongs to is to inspect some of the work
he did before he threw perspective and other
encumbrances to the dogs. Alek Sass brought
back with him from America one of Horace
Brodzky’s signed “cubes.” It is entitled
“The Greasers,” and endeavors to give an
impression of' Mexicans in their immense
hats lounging before some sort of building
with a brilliant red roof. Any frank Philis-
tine, after glancing at the color splash, would
ask what kindergarten it came out of; but
it is the sort of thing that New York looked
at seriously when Brodzkv had his recent
, exhibition there. The Australian cubist
apparently dresses the part. A poster with
a clever caricature by Fruen shows Brodzky
wearing a belltopper, a long, stiff moustache
and straggling beard.
* * #■ *
“8.T.”: Witnessed a touching act of
gallantry on the part of an elderly buck and
a grateful response from the buxom dame in
our tram the other Sunday. The dame,
fashionably attired and just shaggy with the
expensive skins of exotic creatures, entered
with something baby-like in her arms,
swathed in a figured-silk shawl. She stood
a moment in the packed car, then up jumped
the suburban Sir Galahad the Chaste, «d.
fat and exquisite. “My seat, madam,” said
he. The lady (.30 years younger) did not
demur; she seated herself, murmuring few
words. “Couldn’t dream of permitting lady
to stand with child in her arms,” said Gala-
had Patriarch. No response. “Beautiful
boy, eh?” said Galahad the Grey. Silence
preserved. “Love children,” said Galahad,
swinging from his strap. “Grandfather
myself.” Discourteous reticence on the part
of the lady. Galahad continued with obser-
vations bearing on his respect for a. mother
with her child and his willingness to almost
die for such. Then a woman on the off-side
of the dame got out, and while Galahad the
Bald was preparing to reseat himself, still
breathing assurances of his love for babies
and his devotion to mothers, the copious lady
opened her shawl, took out the little fellow,
and dumped him on the seat, blocking old
Galahad. The little chap- was a newly -
barbered French poodle.
(Continued on page 18.)
PEKINIE ON THE SKUMBI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The French continue the pursuit in Albania, and
have reached the outskirts of Pekinie on the
Skumbi.’’— Cable.
At Pekinie on the Skumbi there is fighting fierce and
rude,
1* oi the Austrian is running from the places where
he stood;
And the Frenchman follows after where, amid the
hot shells’ laughter,
At Pekinie on the Skumbi he is plainly making good.
I have never seen Pekinie, and the Skumbi is a
stream
That has never even rippled through the valleys of
my dream ;
But my fancy now is winging where the shrapnel
clouds are stringing ;
And Pekinie on the Skumbi is with magic lights
agleam.
There is something in Pekinie on the Skumbi makes
me think—■
Something eastern, something western 'on the battle’s
fiery brink.
And in spite of sudden slaughter there I feel they
mix cold water
With a new and undiscovered and most fascinating
drink.
At Pekinie on the Skumbi there is wizardry, I know.
I could fancy through the mountains fine reed pipes
are taught to blow',
And perhaps old Pan, in hiding, is on summer
evening’s gliding
AVith a nymph as pink as rose-leaves and a coral-
tinted toe.
At Pekinie on the Skumbi—well, there might be
anything.
1 am sure the clocks move backwards and the little
stars can sing;
And though, void of grace or pity, there are throat-
cutting banditti,
Ihe telephone is absent, and no picture-show can
sting.
At Pekinie on the Skumbi there is fighting and
despair,
And the Austrian is finding that his line is past
repair;
But the thing that sets me fretting, and my soul is
still regretting,
Is that people in Pekinie may begin to cut their
hair.
Yes, Pekinie on the Skumbi now must take its place
and learn
How to civilise its mountains, and for motor-cars
must yearn.
When the blessed war is finished, it will stand with
head diminished,
Just an ordinary village with its pound of chops, to
earn.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


m
The Studebaker Roadster
Regardless of price the
Series 18 Studebaker
Roadster is one of the
handsomest cars im-
ported into Australia.
Th is is the standard Stude-
baker Four or Six-
cylinder chassis,equipped
with a special Roadster
body of Continental
design.
In appearance this Stude-
baker is exceptional. It
has a graceful sloping
rear-deck under which is
a compartment of ample
size for storing: acces-
sories and small luggage.
o o o
It is an ideal car for the
physician, the travelling
salesman, for ladies, or
for those who prefer a
distinctive car to drive
personally.
We have available for im-
mediate delivery a very
limited number of both
models. In ratio to
power you will find them
most economical to own
and operate.
The equipment includes
without extra charge a
spare tyre tube and
rim.
EQUIPfIENT
includes electric lights, electric
starter, high-tension magneto,
Yale lock on dash, Black-
more curtainer opener, new
gyp S y type hoods, self-ventilat-
ing, rain-vision wind screen,
straight - grained semi - glazed
genuine leather upholstery, elec-
tric signal horn, and complete set
• of tools.
Price for Series 18 Models —
4=cylinder 2=3 Seater,
£46 5
6=cylinder 2=3 Seater,
£565
Fitted with High=tension
water= proof Magneto and
spare tyre.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. South Australian Branch: 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Leonard Corrick, 80a Prisbane Street, Launceston.
C. C. & M. A- Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
General Motor Co., 51 Collins St., Hobart, Tas.
New Zealand: Adams Limited,
Christchurch,
Palmerston North,
Timaru,
Wanganui.
■ 'j* ; r
k
. I
I
%
M
JS


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pepcopies- are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. fl
The Cowra Representative of Geo. Shirley Ltd., the well-known Fertiliser Manufacturers, writes (4/5/’18)
that as the result of using Clements Tonic he can only give it his heartfelt thanks for benefit received.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“ Please accept my heartfelt thanks tor your Clements Tonic.
“It is rather soon to report regarding its good qualities. I
have only taken two bottles, yet I appear to have taken on a
new life. My appetite is now good, whereas before taking on
this “ wonder” tonic my stomach usually turned me against the
most appetising meal. Now lam ALWAYS ready for meal time ;
not only this, but I now enjoy my meals without the usual sinking
feeling that for. months past followed the taking of even the
lightest meal.
“ Friends advised me to 1 diet ’ myself. Now there is no need
for it, as, by taking regular doses, either before or after meals, of
your tonic, I find 1 can eat AND DIGEST almost anything. At
first 1 tried the Tonic BEFORE meals to induce an appetite ; now
I am always ready for a good meal, and take it AFTER meals, just
to keep the stomach right.
“ Again thanking you, I am, yours sincerely,
u ßep. George Shirley Ltd., Sydney.”
Always keep this medicine on hand—it is
ly good for the man on the land.
Clements Tonic Ltd.. Eozelle, N.S.W.
An item deserving of close inspection when
the Defence estimates come on is the cab-
fare for that breathless officer who reached
a Melbourne wharf at a gallop to forbid the
public taking photos of the war-souvenir
tank. The horse-feed might also be inquired
into and the motive of the officer who nearly
broke his neck. The tank is superannuated.
It is Australia’s own tank, and even if the
Hun learned that it was here he wouldn’t be
helped one step on the road to Paris or
Calais or Salonika. Our motley Anglo-
French-Bclgian-American-Portuguese-Serbian-
Australasian-Cuban - Arab-Senegalese-I ndian-
Afrikander-Canadian-Italian-Greek-Brazilian
land and sea forces wouldn't lose heart even
if they knew that the llun knew about the
tank. At the worst General Foch could issue
a re-assuring address. So why this wear and
tear of a good cab-horse? If the public had
been scoffing at the tank or cutting initials
on it the haste would be understandable.
“S.T.S.”: The British War Office has a
quaint sense of humor. It has given the
A r .C. to one Beesley, a private who took
charge when all his officers and non-coms,
were knocked out, and fought a kind of
battle on his own, with a machine-gun and
MUCH EASIER.
DOROTHY: “But if you had such a rotten
time in America, how did you manage
to get bach'?”
RETURNED PRODIGAL: “Oh. I scraped in a
bit of money through writing.”
D.: “Newspaper work?”
R.P.: “ Good gracious, no. I wrote to my
people.”
one comrade. The official Gazette gives him
glowing praise, and then cannily names,
among the points which make this “one of
the most brilliant actions in the recent opera-
tions,” his “good judgment in economising
ammunition” ! If Gilbert had said that or
Bernard Shaw —and either of them might
have —it would have been quoted widely as
an instance of supreme jesting.
THE OLD SCOUNDREL!
“How would you like to pvt me In khaki?”
“Fine; but you'd better join the kilted brigade. It would be a shame to put you in
putties.”
A story from the Kia-ora Coo-ee (a
diggers’ sheet) of the Light Horse dump at
Rafa. as told by “Getis.” A thirst-stricken
Billjim discovered at nightfall 12 cases of
whisky, with an alert sentry over them, close
to the door of the Railway Transport Officer.
They were awaiting removal and Billjim
thought he might as well expedite the pro-
cess. So he marched into the R.T.O.’a office,
came to a halt with a snap and a salute, and
inquired, not loudly enough for the sentry
to hear, “Excuse me, sir, but when does the
next train leave for Kantara?” “In half an
hour.” said the officer. Billjim then retired
as far as the whisky-stack, bent down,
seized a ease, and called out, “From here,
sir?” “Yes,” came the answer from within.
Next day, while the R.T.O. was heatedly
contradicting the sentry’s statement at the
inquiry that he, the sentry, heard the R.T.O.
fell an Australian to take a case of whisky,
Billjim, somewhere in the sandhills, was
putting the finishing touches to the finest
lone-hand jag that ever happened in the Holy
Land.
* * * *
Maorilanders’ share of war honors is
mounting up. To the beginning of July the
list was: Victoria Crosses. 8; D.S.O’s., 99,
Bars, 5; D.C.M’s, 211, Bars. 2; - Military
Crosses. 307, Bars, 4 ; Military Afedals, 1195,
Bars, 29; Meritorious Service, 35; men-
tioned in despatches, 925; recommended to
Secretary of State for War, 117. The
awards to women were: Royal Red Cross,
first-class, 7; second-class, 34. French
(46), Russian (7), Belgian (52), Serbian
(29), and Montenegrin (3) decorations had
also been won. Altogether 3157 “bits of
ribbon” were won by the army of 95,000. a
percentage worth splitting a bottle over.
One of the insistent reasons why Vic.
Premier Lawson should have hurried along
the Public Health Bill which he says he has
no time to introduce at present, but hopes to
next session or next century, is a Melbourne
citizen who is suffering hopelessly from
laryngeal phthisis and is in a highly-infective
condition. Until recently he was in a
hospital for incurables, but wearying of the
monotony of things he departed and now
dwells at his private home. The hospital
doors are still open to him, and attempts
have been made to persuade him to return ;
but he is not taking any. So he will con-
tinue to spread infection at the old address.
The Health Department, of course, knows
quite well that it ought to keep him isolated
somewhere, but it has never been given
the legal power to do so, so the
patient carries on promiscuously. If he
pervaded the street flourishing a loaded
revolver he would be lumbered in a hurry,
yet he wouldn't be half as deadly as he is
without the weapon.
“E.M.”: The other morning wo were
standing-to, preparatory to being dismissed,
when a “digger” lit his pipe. “What the devil
do you mean by smoking-that pipe?” snarled
the Major. Digger, though startled, didn't
lose his block. “Cigarettes make my throat
sore, sir.” Twenty-eight days’ C.B.
* * * *
Never mind which front it was on, but
Billjim’s trenches were within 30 feet of
those of the enemy, and orders had been
issued that there was to be no talking.
Despite this, the visiting officer was apprised
by a hoarse bass boom that the order was
being disobeyed. lie applied the closure
with military abruptness to the soldier con-
cerned, but was not five yards further on
his rounds when the conversational rumble
was renewed. Back he went. “Good
God, man,” he said, “haven’t I told
you that it is vitally important that
no one at this point should speak above
a whisper?” Something short of sevpn
feet of Anzac beef heaved its aggrieved
height and weight to the perpendicular.
“Strnth,” it reverberated, “do you
think I’m a silkworm?”
“Alelb”: The most celebrated spiritualist
medium ever known died a few weeks ago
in Naples—an old woman named Eusepia
I’alladino. She was unable to read, and in
early life was employed as a ldtchenmaid in
Naples. Her extraordinary gifts, however,
soon appeared, and she converted Lombroso
to her views on spiritualism. Schiaparelli,<
Flammarion, Madame Curie and other great
scientists tried in vain to baffle her. She
frustrated committees of inquiry in Naples.
Rome, Warsaw, Cambridge, Paris and New
York. In England Professors Myers. Sedg-
wick and others failed to discover whatever
riddle the lady possessed. Conan Doyle said
she had genuine and unrivalled gifts. It
was a wise statement, because nobody could
contradict it and produce the proofs.
“Gouger” : Ever hear of that little scandal
at RafaV Well, shortly after the mounted
men had taken the place, an English infantry
division came • along and camped by tin*
Bedouin village. A little apart was a mud
hut, in which resided old man Amalakite, his
buxom young wife and two line, wild-eyed
(laughters. The whole lived in harmony with
the ancestral melon-patch, the mangy camel.
tin l little dunk, water-carrier and 78 billion
fleas. But, as the weeks went on, wifey found
much favor among the amorous Tommies,
and made a fine collection of their piastres
in the same way as her sister Delilah had
done only 20 miles away with warriors of a
long-forgotten army. At last old Amalakite,
bitter wrath, hied himself to the O.C.'s tent
and demanded satisfaction for his sullied
honor. Result, a guard with fixed bayonets
placed round the Bedouin’s home, which
even the Tommy Romeos dared not face.
.Airs. A. did not take the sudden cutting off
of her nickel harvest in a penitent way at
all. In fury she stormed the O.C's tent,
demanded the interpreter, and spake thus:
“So the old dog has despoiled me. has he?
Then by the beard of my father I’ll see the
mongrel grilled on red-hot iron. Dig up the
floors of the hut and see what ye will find.”
With a final glare all round she spat twice
on the O.C’s treasured carpet, whizzed round
on bare heel and was gone. A fatigue party
was quickly formed, the flabbergasted Amala-
kite bundled out of his home, and the earthen
floor dug up. Stacked in neat rows under-
neath were 43 Anzac rifles, with a miscel-
laneous collection of ammunition. The last
I saw of him he was disappearing in a cloud
of dust in the direction of the Red Sea.
NOTHING DOING.
CADGER: “Hear yer workin', Soaker? Watcher doin'?"
SOAKER: "Nothink.”
CADGER: “Any chanct of gettin a job at the same place?"
NARROWLY AVERTED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The motor round the corner swept
On Henry Carter's wife,
Agilely Henry Carter leapt
To save his precious life ;
But on the road in seeming pain,
Her hair detached, and in the drain,
All torn,and still lay Em'ly Jane.
Then at the motorist, with fire
And fury in his eye,
Elew Henry Carter. In his ire
He asked the fellow why,
And what he meant, and how he dared.
E'en though his good right fist was bared
For him the chauffeur hardly cared.
“You careless, reckless, ravening brute,”
Exclaimed the furious male.
(Jane prostrate in the dust was mute.)
“You want a month in gaol.
For people’s lives what do you care?
You murderous scamp, are you aware
You mimed me only by a hair?”
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.
TRIOLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I told her only what was true:
1 had not loved before that day.
Though doubt brimmed in her eyes of blue,
I told her only what was true.
And then of girls she named a few ;
“What of Babette?” she cried. “And May?’’
I told her only what was true—
I had not loved before that day !
victoria.
HARRISON O.


WHERE IS MY
MEGGITT’S ?
*
6*o
■A
S
VwV
0
fry: '~% K
W9§mm
mm
*
SSN
m.
S«i
w
m
P 8&
\
t
HI
h
>
if* 0
90
M IT
m
,
t\7
y
\ *
trii
r\
M
O'"*
K
V*
V
&
\0
X
v v
4
5*
o
O
£
05
o
A
Ui<
I
Vi
a
wsr*
IOW
Food Problem Solved
—by Instinct.
Mr. F. H. JOHNS, Frcwville, South Australia, says that “if Meggitt’s
Linseed Meal is ever left out of their ration they are not at
all satisfied.”
Mr. R. V. WALLACE, Acacia Creek, says : —“ We have reared twenty-six Calves on Meggitt's Linseed . Meal.
Owing to the drought and severe winter we had no milk , and the Calves would have had to be knocked on
the head.”
PAMPHLET NO. 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, M AILED FREE.
Full particulars from all Agents: Messrs. R. S. EXTOX & CO., Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. HARRISONS, RAMSAY LTD., GOG Bourke
Street, Melbourne; Messrs. W. ADAMS & CO., Perth; Messrs. F. W. HERITAGE & CO., Launceston and Hobart; Messrs. CLARKSON
LTD., Adelaide; or
M EGG ITT LTD
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 RING STREET, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
ggitts
IJHSEEOOIIM^
ttEDGITT L
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bay
guarantees quality.


Legal Notices.
mo the brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles,
cousins, first cousins once removed and
second cousins both paternal and mater-
nal of MARY ANN CALDER, daughter
of JAMES CALDER and BEATRICE
CALDER, formerly of Tain, Scotland,
and to all persons claiming by, through
or under them.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the 4th
day of June, 1918 by the Honorable Mr.
Justice Hosking, a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby called
upon to send in to the undersigned on or
before the 31st day of March, 1919, your
claims to the estate of Mary Ann Calder, who
died at Nelson, New Zealand, on the 19th
December, 1912, failing which the estate will
be distributed among those entitled thereto
disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington, this 6th day of June,
1918.
E. P. HAY,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
Dorothy Dalton.
******
ONE OF PARAMOUNT’S BEAUTIES.
n
Dorothy Dalton, the charming and gifted Thos. H. luce star in Paramount
Pictures, is an actress of unusual versatility. Her exquisite grace and charm
is known to us all. Tier latest Paramount Picture is “Love Letters.”
Dorothy Dalton, the screen favorite, appears exclusively in Paramount Pictures.
These are the trade-marks by which you can recognise Paramount and Artcraft Productions.
Look for these signs in advertisements, theatre vestibule, and also on the screen.
mn
PARAMOUNT PICTURES
ALEC LORIMORE Managing PiAector-
THREE HUNDRED and TWO, PITT S?. ' Sydney.
mn
POLITICAL
POINTS
The distant Hughes looks green. Having
got away from the place where he had to
do things and gone to the place where his
secretary had only to talk about how he
did them, the adhesive little barrister looms
up like a sledge-hammer dictator. One paper
ANSWERING THE CHALLENGE.
THE PIRATE: “But this is so sudden.”
recently demanded that England should have
“Mr. Hughes’s clean-cut methods” and ex-
plained how he had “rid the Commonwealth
of plotting and spying in the German inter-
est.” Yet Australia mistook him for a mild-
mannered man who wouldn’t shove a rabbit
except on great provocation.
Lance-Corporal Jim Vaughan, lately
Attorney-General of S. Aus., in the Ministry
of his brother Crawford, wrote from England
to friends in Adelaide recently that he had
gone through the course at an officers’ train-
ing-sehool, and was to cross to France
shortly. (Cables since show that he did so
in May.) As to State politics he had this
to say: “I was astonished at the action of
the U.L.P., but must make the best of it for
the time being, in the hope of coming through
this job safely. When I get back I am satis-
fied I shall be in a position to win back some
of the prestige I have apparently lost through
circumstances (including the land-scandals
affair), for which I was in no w T ay responsi-
ble. Crawford’s absence in America (where,
I have learned from the best authorities, he
has been doing wonderfully good work, which
is recognised in the northern if not in the
southern hemisphere) no doubt contributed
to our defeat; but nevertheless he did right
in staying on where he was.”
The remark of the London Times, the
other day, that Australia is only contribut-
ing about one-eighth of the cost of, the war
from revenue is right and wrong. Australia
has contributed not a bean directly to the
cost of war. What has been paid for so far
is the cost of the cost of war, which is some-
thing very different. Australia’s war costs
have been defrayed wholly out of loan. It is
to meeting the charges on these loans that the
Commonwealth is contributing 2s. (id. in the
£l. In the year before the war the Com-
monwealth had a revenue of £22,0(X),000. By
June last this had grown to £30,000,000.
This year about £44,000,000 will be re-
quired. Roughly, the whole of the increase
means the cost of war debt. The war debt
(liquidated by p.n. or not provided for) is
now £236,000,000; the expenditure out of
the cashbox has been £24,500,000 —which is
a bit short of the eighth the Times is talk-
ing about.
Minister Poynton was disappointed twice
in one day recently. He said that the 14
ships which the United States is building for
Australia are not getting along so fast as
he expected, only five being ready or nearly
ready. This isn’t remarkable seeing that
Uncle Samuel is busy building ships for him-
self: (1) to make up for sinkages, (2) to
carry the goods which European vessels no
longer carry for him; (3) to take troops
and military ’stores across the sea, and (4)
to put himself in a position to grab at the
mercantile supremacy of the sea when the
war is over. So he gives us and other
humble outside customers who don’t fend for
themselves the fag-end of his money-making
brain. Minister Poynton also said that the
ships may cost a lot more than the £3l per
ton originally reckoned on. Isn’t there a
legend about a S. Australian firm which
offered, a while ago, to do this sort of work
at £29 per ton, and was told that £26 was
the limit?
Debate is already numerous as to the
destiny of Palestine when the Perishable
Turk has been removed. It would doubtless
be a graceful and politic act to mark out
afresh the old kingdom of Saul, and set it
up in business under the guardianship of
the Allies as a sort of client
State after the fashion of
Herod’s day. There are too
many mixed races and mixed
religions to qualify it for being
another Belgium as yet, but it
would only be polite to the Jew
(and it is always wise to be
polite to a Jew), who would
probably be the ruling race in
time, to restore as much of the
old semblance as possible.
Probably enough of the race
would go back before long to
make Hebrewdom live again;
and even the Jew who didn’t
go home would be proud to know
that he had a home to go to.
The Chosen Folk have a wealth
of experience in the art of gov-
ernment to guide them. In
the ancient times they tried
everything; they even ran a sort
of tumultuous Federal republic
under the Judges. And in later
times they have sampled every
kind of public control—bar, per-
haps, that of the cannibal
munities —on earth. They know
all the bad laws that have been
made during eighteen centuries,
and all the confused laws and all
the idiotic laws. The poison-
ous statutes and dried and
stuffed prejudices of all nations
are familiar to them. If new
Palestine failed in self-government it
wouldn’t be for lack of information, though
perhaps there might be too much informa-
tion for the space.
The N. S. Wales State Aviation School is
one'of Holman’s proudest excuses for spend-
ing money. Aviation is a military and
naval matter, unless it is proposed to create
a passenger air service, in which case it is
an eminently sensible adjunct to the Railway
Department. But nothing of the sort is
suggested, and Llolman, despite his facial
resemblance to Hannibal, is neither military
nor naval. The bird-man’s certificates issued
by his establishment don’t come from a
recognised Government with an army and
navy, but from a peaceful fraction with a
mission to look after local schools, star-
gazing, public lands, measles and means ot
travel, so their value for war purposes
abroad isn’t likely to be excessive. It may
make the Premier feel good to be his own
eagle, but a plain egg-laying fowl is more
suited to the State’s means.
The N. S. Wales branch of the Repatri-
ation Department is to be housed in snug
offices at Dawes Point, Sydney. It may
be unavoidable, but some people say that
one of the reasons why the splendidly pro-
mising Yanco Irrigation Settlement showed
a loss of over £190,000 last year was that it
was too much managed from comfortable
offices in Sydney. One heartless person
declared that 100 officials were employed to
keep 400 settlers on the land and that, even
then, some of them were escaping.
THE OVERDUE ’BUS.
“The Germans have been compelled to revise
their time-table.” — Cable.
“F.N.T.”: The People’s Liberal Party of
Victoria has been swallowed, more or less
alive, by the National Federation. The
P.L.P., like most of the anti-Labor bodies,
has always found it difficult to keep awake
between elections, and the N.F.’s repeated
remarks as to “presenting a united front”
have at last met with a response from the
sleepy P.L.P. branches. The amalgamation
means that the various assortments of anti-
Labor machinery will be assembled in the
one workshop. The only Lib. body standing
out of the arrangement is the Women’s
National League. That concern still has an
objection, unexpressed but emphatic, against
alliance with anything that bints of the
Labor platform, as a section of the National
Federation still feebly does. The W.N.L.
can’t readily abandon its belief that Provi-
dence approves of the variety of ancient,
blessed political beliefs which mixes nicely
with afternoon tea. Still, the National Fed-
eration and the A.W.N.L. continue to re-
main brotherly and sisterly in outward seem-
ing, at least, for the war has yet to be won,
and, of course, it can’t be won if obstacles
are put in the way.
It is gratifying to have at least one definite
assurance in the matter of Scully, the anti-
I.W.W. witness who went to America, leav-
ing behind him (or not leaving behind him)
the alleged unsigned statement of some sort
which the man who says he holds it refused
to produce. The assurance is that the Judd-
Rrookfield party, though one at least of its
official organs has persistently described the
I.W.W. prisoners as men unjustly convicted
by hostile machinations, never said or did
anything to make Scully, one of the alleged
machinators, feel that Australia wasn’t a
good place to live in. And when one con-
siders the mildness and toleration always dis-
played towards compulsory-service advo-
cates, unionists who oppose strikes, persons
suspected of being capitalists, political oppo-
nents, “scabs” of all sorts and Governments
which don’t find enough loan money, one can
understand that Scully wasn’t victimised in
any way, but was really overwhelmed with
invitations to afternoon-tea. Lie possibly left
to escape indigestion.
An allegation that W. M. Hughes had sold
the Australian wheat crops of ’l7-’IS at 4s.
6d. a bushel, and that scrip-buyers had first
information, made at the Farmers’ Confer-
ence in Sydney the other day, was answered
by a bawl of denial in a London paper.
"Speculators are a curse to any country;
they ought to be hanged,” Hughes announced.
Perhaps so. But if anybody over yonder
had asked the Prime Minister how many
hangings he had authorised or threatened in
the Commonwealth, or how many fewer
speculators in wheat, meat and metals bad
failed to get a living since he took charge, the
little man would probably have delivered 17
speeches about Sinn Fein and threatened to
make some more about the integrity of the
Empire.
The blocked argument about a recent
utterance by Governor Davidson in N. S.
Assembly, when
Speaker Cohen, rely-
ing upon “May,” said
that the Governor
couldn’t be discussed,
recalls an incident in
Vic.’s Assembly, when
Peter Lalor was
Speaker. A member
questioned the
Speaker’s r u 1 i n g,
bringing up “May” as
an authority. Lalor
was on his feet in a
moment. “I am the
Authority here,” he
said: “not ‘May.’ ”
That settled it.
Some few years ago
a well-known Queens-
land Minister (not now
in the Government) ad-
vised a deputation of
railway employees :
“You have the ball at
your feet now—kick
it!” The advice was
taken, and in the first
year after the railways
went to the bad
£612,000. Next year
the State fines were
behind to the tune of
£750,000, and in the
year just ended the
deficit ran to
£1,078,000.
“F.” : It is generally
understood that
Queensland Legislative
Council is prepared to
reject the Chillagoe
Purchase Bill and
brave the consequences. Anyhow its chance
is highly unfavorable, and numbers of Labor
representatives are wobbling badly on the
question.
“Solomon Malaprop”: Re this I.W.W.
matter, I am dashed tired of the dashed
lordly differentiation between “Mr. Judd”
and “Mr. Brookfield” and “Me. Morby” and
“MR. Boote” on one side, and “Scully” on
the other. If I happened to be the last-
named gentleman, and the Hon. David Hall,
Esq., M.L.A., wired me to come back because
of some real or imaginary document which
he hasn’t even seen, I would reply that the
Earl of Scully had never heard of Hall and
didn’t think such a person existed.
Ex-Senator Albert Blakey, who used to
be in accountancy business at Hamilton
(Vic.) before his association with the Labor
party and the A.N.A. put him into Parlia-
ment, has gone to Hobart to keep the books
of the Wokld, the new Labor daily which
has taken the place of the fallen Post.
NO THOROUGHFARE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The war must be finished as soon as possible."
—Socialist statement in the Reichstag.
Wind up the war. We have gone far enough.
The promised victory is long delayed.
We have tried great offensives, guns and bluff,
And all the time a patient people paid
In cash and sorrow for the whole affair.
Now lead Peace out and let her breathe the air.
Stop fighting. When we gave our first consent
To murder on so large and fine a scale,
We did not know exactly what it meant,
Or, knowing, never dreamt that it could fail.
Now show the foeman mercy and retire
Before our last faint hope goes up in fire.
Call for the olive sprouting on the bough.
The Austrian is broken where he stands.
Our people make a deep and dismal row;
And misery is wasting all the lands.
The dogs of war have had their bloody game,
And nothing comes of it but death and shame.
What’s that? The other fellows take their turn.
We taught them war was war, and now they know !
They still have powder and some cash to burn,
And from the west their swelling armies grow !
Offer them peace before the tide runs back,
And ruin follows hard upon our track.
No use to make them offers. Time goes fast.
We backed our despots in their raging sin.
We struck the future with the mouldy past,
And dreamed that force or freedom’s truth might
win.
Now, for that crime, we take what war may send,
And with mild protest back them to the end.
There is no other way—or only one.
That way demands a manhood great and true.
It is. a path that still we dread and shun;
But could we grapple with that despot crew,
Destroying them and daring to be free,
We yet might share in a world victory.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


□
E3^
MW!
*&#&#
?=™j
Q
CHAPPELL
Mignon Grand.
A perfect example of the
British Piano-maker’s
art. Used in the lead-
ing Conservatoria and
Musical Colleges in
Great Britain.
BEHNINQ
Sheraton Grand.
Possesses a remarkably
full and resonant tone
of liquid purity and
resonance, and a touch
which is perfection
itself. Undoubtedly an
artist’s Piano.
SAMES
Boudoir Grand.
A small and compact
Grand eminently suited
lor the home where
space is limited. The
Durability of this in=
strument is assured.
BRITISH MADE.
BEHNING
Boudoir Grand.
An ideal instrument for
those who appreciate
artistic excellence of
tone and responsive-
ness of touch. Superbly
finished, just the Grand
an artist would love.
CHAPPELL
Bijou Grand.
This highly artistic in-
strument is finished in
Sheraton style and is
noted for its chaste
design and pure sing-
ing-tone quality.
Touch is perfection.
Any of these glorious instruments may be purchased on our Easy Terms, it required. Catalogues free.
Your present piano taken as part payment and full value allowed.
H. Paling c? Co
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE. NEWCASTLE, TOOWOOMBA and LISMORE.
Engineers, Farmers and Skilled Workmen should know the
OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING and CUTTING PROCESS.
The Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest addition to the engineer’s workshop and to the skilled worker’s bench,
portable, so that cutting or welding may be done at the bench, in the field or by the roadside.
It is simple of working and
CUT OUT COST OF NEW MACHINERY.
the remarkable variety of work that can be done with Following
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing
Crac k ed 'or°brok en J Ahuminhirn^Cran k*or*Ge ar Differential Boxes. Steering Wheels, Pipes, Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn
BrJkerMachhi^o?any kind banbe welded*lauding o. Cast Don, Wrought Iron, Mild Steel. Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any othei
process.
4in. Steel Shaft, in head of 12001 b. Press and
frame, back of shaft-box, llin. wide and 2m.
and 4in. thick, welded where chalk-marked.
Not possible of repair by ordinary methods.
Repaired in a few hours by our process, sav-
ing the cost of a new press and big loss of
Oxy-Acetylene Welding applied to Pipe Work,
Ammonia Refrigerating Coils.
Farmers, do not scrap your broken parts, but get them
welded by our process at the nearest engineer’s.
Poppet-head dismantled in Ta gmania
to be erected in New South Wales.
Approximately 12,000 rivets we re cut
out with the Oxy-Acetylene ptfetal-
cutter, without damage to the ! struc-
ture. This work was carried out by
A. li. West & Co., of Sydne y.
THE COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN CO. LTD.
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents—MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADEEAIDE: Alex. Ingram tb Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists, and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
yon get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
Neuralgia and Starved Nerves
_r ' 4
Xeuralgia is the cry of hungry nerves for better
blood. Take HEAX’S TOXIC XERVE XUTS
for a while, and see if you are not delighted by
the freedom you enjoy from pain and worry.
When your nerves get the food they want they will
do what you want. HEAX’S TOXIC XERYE
XXF TS build sound nerves. Price 3s. per bottle,
or six bottles for 17s. 3d. If they are not yet
stocked by your chemist or store, send direct to the
Manufacturer, G. W. IIEAX, Chemist, 178
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
o
V
King
QeorgelV
WHisinr
pic TOPNOTCH Scotch
ABSOLUTELY 'IT'
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
Bullamacow”: The Abo. who recently
viote of his utter detestation of bullamacow is not
alone in liis ratings. We of tho Australian Navy,
who have aviso spent some time in the Bismarck
Archipelago, hold out our hands in brotherly sym-
pathy. AVe have suffered bnllarnacow in all its loath-
someness and in all its ramifications—its sisters, its
cousins and its aunts. It got to bo a religion among
us, for if we did not get bullamacow at every meal
we used to expect that some malign influence was
at work. The sun seemed to rise on a sea
of bullamacow and to set on a sea of bullama-
cow. AVe dreamed it, smelt it, lived it. AVe could
not lose it—not even in the fathomless depths of
the Pacific. One dog-watch we had a mock* burial
service on the fo’c s’le, and with the usual ceremony
.we committed a number of tins to the deep. AVe
were due to arrive on the morrow at a place where
fresh meat was procurable. On arrival in harbor
wo had the usual shark lines out, and soon landed
a beauty. It dropped tp the deck with a suspicious
metallic clang, and, curious as to tho contents of
the lawyer s pantry, we opened it. Among many
sundries were three seven-pound tins of bullamacow.
* * * *
“Concertina'’: The soldier Avlio desires to
take away oversea his pet kookaburra has a good
chance of keeping it alive. In 1900 my father took
a couple of the birds to Europe, and twelve years
later they were well. During their years of exile
they never showed any signs of sickness, and they
are probably iaughing to this day at the strange
customs of the country.
“H.V.E.” : Before the advent of the rabbit
and the fox the rock-wallaby made its home among
the cliffs bordering the Snowy River, where it
passes through Southern. Monaro (N.S.AV.), literally
in thousands. The little red-brown quadruped was
becoming a grass pest, and as his skin was then
worth only about 2d. the pelt-hunter didn’t bother
much about him. But an interested mutton-merchant
put a premium on the skins and writer and a mate
started out one winter morning, with about two
inches of frost on the ground and every tree
powdered white with hoar-frost, for the wallaby
ground. Our artillery consisted of two guns, one
a single muzzle-loader. (The breech-loader was then
a rarity on Monaro, and the “poly”—hammerless—
gun had hardly been evolved, much less perfected.)
By noon we had downed over 60 wallabies. The
beasts were so numerous in some quarters that two
wallabies occasionally fell to a single shot. Soon
after that the pelt-trader scented profit and the
work of decimation began. Now these cliffs are
silent and deserted, save for Reynard and the
eternal rabbit, which crops the wallaby pastures
close and from this rough country will never be
exterminated.
“Barcoo”: They are wrong who goatishly
wag their chins and say that the crow deserves no
mercy. There is no other pest eradicator, imported
or otherwise, doing its bit so patriotically as the
self-same crow. Here in Bananaland the ravages of
the sheep-maggot fly must make a loss of hundreds
of thousands of pounds worth of jumbuek every year,
about the only difference in one season being that the
damage is probably greater than the last. Were
it not for the bird whom no one has a good word
for, the fly pest would soon duplicate itself, with
losses to sheep-owners increased accordingly. Every
AND SERVE HIM RIGHT.
TEACHER: You re an idiot, Dobbs. I believe you'd call a horse a now."
DOBBS : “I mould, if he kicked me, Miss."
dead sheep or piece of offal in the bush is the deposi-
tory of the eggs of unimaginable numbers of pros-
pective sheep destroyers. Just about the time that
the grubs are the size of a grain of rice, and a
few days before they burrow- into the soil, where they
remain for about 15 days before coming forth as a
developed sheep-maggot fly, Brother Crow spys out
the colony. Then he sends the glad tidings by his
wireless system, and all the family within range
hurries to the banquet. When it is over a supply
of grubs for the next meal has to be found else-
where.
* * * *
“Wart” : Probably the best illustration of
an island population absolutely unaffected by out-
side influence was the Tasmanian aboriginals. They
wandered from the mainland before the sea (Bass
Straits) cut the Speck off—and that was certainly
as long ago as prehistoric yesterday. It was before
the straight-haired mainlanders showed up with the
dingo. It may be that the abos. cut off were not
disturbed by an outside influence until the arrival
of Tasman, and he did not get on speaking terms
with them. The Frenchman, Marion, had an argu-
ment with them, and a couple of natives were killed
before it concluded. Furneaux and Cook also
had some slight intercourse with these blacks. Labil-
lardigre saw a good deal of them. He reported that
in a party of 40 there were eight men and seven
women. The rest were children. In another party
48 strong there were 10 men and 14 women. Which
shows that the families had a good average number
of children. Yet when the island was colonised
the native population, on the most reliable estimates,
ranged from 4000 to 7000. There is nothing to show
that the tribes fought much against each other
until the white man pushed some of them off particu-
lar hunting-grounds on to preserves of other tribes.
Anyway, if they did -fight they couldn’t have done
much damage. The spear, their best weapon, was
only a pointed stick. They had no spear-thrower
to give it extra force, and two blackfellows might
throw spears at one another all day without scoring
a hit —not that the aim would be bad, but that the
target would not be there when the missile arrived.
Before the whites came the blacks appeared to be
healthy, so if the theory of “mathematical increase"
is true they should have been as numerous as
blades of grass. A proof that they never were
numerous is the small number of chip flints that ha vt
been discovered.
* * * *
“Tongue": The world’s record for length
of tongue, in proportion to size, is held by a North
Queensland hawk-moth, which sports a length of 61
inches. There’s a long-horn beetle a little higher up,
in New Guinea, which has horns measuring 17 inches
from tip to tip.
CAMOUFLAGE WAFTED.
JOHN: “Well, if you ask my opinion, I'd say
y’ oughter joined the navy."
“Norma”: Re native place-names, Jenolan
(N.S.W.). judging by its phonetic character, isn’t a
Binglii word. What of the old yarn about the
name being derived from the initials and surname
of the discoverer of the caves—J. E. Nolan? Perhaps
“The Oldest Inhabitant” will oblige.
~
' b OHlltllltd OH paQ 6 J 4./
BY RIGHT OF CONQUEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A score of miles from any land,
The swift torpedo hit the ship
Just as I took her little hand
And pressed a kiss upon her lip.
The boilers burst, the water roared,
The funnel broke in pieces three;
And every angry soul on board
Was drowned except the girl and me.
We found a floating packing-case
With ampje room for love and two;
And Elsie, with a. dimpled face,
Wondered what wind and tide would do. ,
They did what seemed to please them most.
We drifted on a summer wave
Until we found a rocky coast
A\ ith palm-trees and a coral cave.
The dawn grew yellow in the east,
The sun arose with flaming eye;
lie did not mind the very least
His job of making lovers dry.
I took a crooked safety-pin
And used my necktie for a line;
Three little fishes, void of sin,
-With slight persuasion soon were mine.
At e cooked them on the simple coals.
Gh, earth was fair, the sea was good;
A happy laughter filled our souls—
We had sufficiency of food.
It seemed too sweet to be quite true.
Mv Elsie murmured in my ear
“I think that kind torpedo knew
llovv much we loved each other, dear.”
A TIME DECISION.
DAD: “’Ow did that 'ere fight at Phelan’s
pub finish up?”
DUGAN : “Aw, 'twas Casey won."
DAD: “Weren’t- they both lumbered by the
cops?”
DUGAN: “Yis, but ’twas Casey who got t'ree
months for th’ damage 'e done, whoile
Doolan got off wid th' risin’ o' th’
court.”
Strange; it \Vas stranger than a tale
Of any old Arabian night;
Our secret nieeting at the rail,
The loud explosion and affright ;
Then this retreat beside the water—
The steward with the ginger hair
Marooned with her, the only daughter
Of Jones the multi-millionaire.
The cpcoanuts were ripe and fine ;
We found a goat that gave us milk.
All night the white stars kept their shine;
All day the sea was smooth as silk.
Three happy weeks went lightly by;
The weeds below the cave were green.
And then We noticed with a sigh
The humped back of the submarine.
Beyond a point of shining land
We saw it rise above the tide;
And creeping softly hand in hand
We knelt and watched it shoreward glide.
Close, close it came. Beneath the cliff
The water slumbered clear and deep—
“l wonder,” murmured Elsie, “if
This is the place it comes to sleep.”
It was the place. Three yards from shore
We saw it pause and gently sink,
ho smooth 'a face the water wore
that scarce a bubble seemed to wink.
Then with a smile I gained my feet.
II ar is declared,” I boldly cried.
“This section of the Kaiser’s fleet
No more the ocean ways shall ride.”
Below I found a dripping plank,
Twelve feet or so of solid pine,
Drifted from where our vessel sank.
I knew the vengeance that was mine.
Oh, Archimedes, lend me aid!
With such a lever I could slay
The thing that made my soul afraid
Jt yet might take my girl away.
High on the cliff a mighty stone
Had lodged above the shining pool,
By weeds and creepers overgrown
To keep its fated purpose cool.
I pulled the growing things away;
1 levered it with all my strength.
It moved, it rolled, its burden grey
llas on the giddy verge.at length.
Crash! With a splendid hop it fell.
H splashed. I saw the waters boil;
And up, as from a hidden well.
There rose a tidal wave of oil.
“Knocked out,” I cried. My Elsie cheered.
“Now we can milk the goat,” l said.
“The seas we may regard as cleared,
'•'he German naval power is dead.”
She pressed her scarlet lips to mine
A hundred happy, merry times.
The young moon, thin as ravelled twine,
Came softly up from other climes.
We milked the goat, we fried the fish.
We loudly sang “God Save the King.”
The sea was like a silver dish
Around us in a. happy ring.
Strange! It was stranger than a.tale
Of any old Arabian night.
Nor ever comes a smoke or sail
To interfere with our delight.
By right of conquest on the water
I hold that island kind and fair,
Marooned beside the only daughter
Of Jones, the multi-millionaire.
rr.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


MaKe Your Own Furniture.
m
We send you the Pieces in
m
I
ijKb i
O'
I
V
5
m,
%
i
SIM
BELL AND FRAZER.—comm*»«.
is Pleasant Work Fitting them Together.
SAVE
about two-thirds of
the freight as well
as expensive packing,
And you Win the Satisfaction
that you made it yourself.
We supply working plans and full particulars
for the making of
Artistic Furniture in Pine, riaple or Oak.
Quote Distinguishing: Letter of Article when Sending Order.
BELL &
The Redi-Kut Timber Specialists,
RAZ
5
r
L
ro.,
ROZELLE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
MODERN SHEARING EQUIPMENTS.
Contractors and Woolg'rowers throughout Australia who Have purchased
m
Improved Shearing Machines
all ag'ree that without doubt the Cooper are the best they
have ever handled.
nm
The Cooper “Big Gun” 2-stand shearing plant is
built for long years of bard, constant work. it
is fitted with a heavy-duty 3b.h.p. engine, which
will stand years of hard, rough use about the
farm or station. The whole construction
throughout is of the highest-quality material
that can be produced.
PRICE— £95 Portable.
£B5 Stationary.
The Cooper Belt-driven Plant, as illustrated below, is
so constructed that all noise and slipping is
eliminated, there being no friction wheels, springs
or any other complications to give trouble. The
simple belt drive ensures absolute quiet and smooth
running at all times. It is the most practical and
economical belt gear built. It costs less, lasts longer
and gives more satisfaction in every way.
48
n
The Cooper “Little Wonder” is the
most economical and reliable
2-stand shearing plant that has
ever been placed before the wool-
grower. It holds a reputation
that has never been equalled, and
stands as the world’s favorite.
It is fitted with a 2b.h.p. water-
cooled engine, fitted with high-
tension magneto; two complete
stands of shearing machinery,
including the Famous Air-cooled
Handpieces, combs, cutters and all
extras.
PRICE— £O7/10/- Portable.
£57/10/- Stationary.
Cooper Engineering' Co. Ltd.,
134 Sussex Street, Sydney.
456 Collins Street, Melbourne.


Hear the ringing of the bell, the dinner bell!
Very pleasant little tinkle if you’re well;
But when in your ear is ringing, biting’ whizzing,
buzzing, stinging, B
Influenza microbes singing—then, oh, well!
You cannot that bell endure—you must take Woods’
Great Peppermint Cure,
To be well! —Advt.
Aquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all chemists _
Distributing Agents-.— R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by -CAM WAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-R COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
Lantana : A shark loft, long, caught in
the West Channel, Queenselift’ (Vic.), contained the
body of a dog, two large snapper and another shark
aft. in length. The Wheat Scheme whs not in-
cluded, probably because it was too tough.
“S.S.”: McGuire was new to Australia
and new to the game, consequently I was not sur-
prised to find him one hour after he had been sent
out to capture Patricia Meagher's saddle-horse still
chasing an obstreperous quadruped round the back
paddock. He was hatless and coatless, and was
trailing the halter after him as he ran. Twice he
contrived to mix his feet up with the rope, and
spili over on his nose. The bay horse was most
contemptuous, browsing till the panting Hibernian
dre\v near, then speeding off to a distance and
placidly resuming his breakfast. As I passed from
the scene Andy was sitting on a stump, cursing all
the horses of the earth. We were seated at lunch
at Meagher’s when a great racket on the road
brought us to the verandah. Andy McGuire was
coming on the bay horse, riding bareback, and with
only a for guidance. He was not a good
rider; he was bounding aloft at every stride.
Right before the house the nag- stopped in his wild
career and threw McGuire headlong. We ran to
render first aid. Meagher gathered the man up, and
held his bleeding head, and while Andy moaned over
his hurts his boss was soothing him. “Tush, tush ;
don t fret so, said Meagher. , “He's gone; but ’tis
no great matter at all. ’Twas the wrong horse.”
* * * *
►South C. ’: Has any Abo. met the bunda-
bunda (ringed snake — Furim occipitalis) further
south than Wyalong; (N.S.W.) ? I’ve a record of one
ambler into that district, but I think that the
crawler is more at home on the Richmond, Maeloay
and others of the Northern Rivers. Its maximum
length is about 3ft., and although it is a member of
a venomous land snake family ( Elapina ), it is said
to be unique in that it is harmless to man. The
coloration, very showy, is black and white in broad
rings. One of the sea-snakes (probably the ringed
sea-snake— Flatums colubrinm), wears similar attire.
A specimen has been, captured in Middle Harbor. It
is like all the Sea-snakes ( Ht/drophinai ), highly
venomous.
* » * *
“E.S.S.”: “Scrub” (B. 23/8/18), wbo
announced a strange bird at Ballina, Richmond
River, “which was found to be a jabiru, a native of
South Africa, quite unknown in Australia, and had
evidently been imported by some sea captain and
escaped, ’ must have come down in the last shower.
Our old marsh friend the jabiru is common on the
Richmond, and very plentiful farther north. It is
also called the black-necked stork, and is the only
representative of the family in this country. The
name, jabiru, is Indian; an Australian aboriginal
name is barri-enna. At Woodlands, near Casino,
Richmond River, a pair built and roared their brood
of two in a. ti-tree a short distance from my house.
The home is the largest stick nest of any bird in
Australia, the material used being sufficient to fill a
navvy’s dray. P.S.: Tell “Scrub” that these strange
birds are supposed to have been brought to the
Richmond by a German submarine.
THE LAST SHALL BE FIRST.
MA : “ What’s the matter with you now?”
BILL: “Jonesy lashed me.”
MA: “Why didn't you lash him lack?”
BILL: “I did first.”
THE PROBLEM.
PERCY : “Yaas, I’ve often thought of gettin' married, but then 1 always think of all the
girls who would get pippy if I did.”
ETHEL: “Why, how many do you expect to marry?”
“D.F.”: It w<is supposed that the little
mountain shrimp, found in waterholes on Mount
\\ ellington and elsewhere in Tasmania, had no living
relatives except a kindred species found in the Great
Lake (Tas.) and another in Victoria. Now a foreign
scientist comes to light with what he claims to be
a long-lost cousin of the shrimp in a blind “well-
shrimp” discovered in Switzerland.
* * * *
“Ibis” : I often wish I was as wise as
Brown’s horse. When a new shoe is required he is
taken to the blacksmith and left. His new footwear
adjusted, the blacksmith fetches him a good belt on
his rear end, and off sets Dobbin at a gallop for
home, two miles off. He has never failed to arrive,
though the grass is good on both sides of the road.
Another sagacious nag -.1 remember was owned by a
Chinese gardener out of Forbes (N.S.W.). The Chow
drove in 26 miles twice weekly with his. provender,
depaiting at nightfall in the bottom of his covered
waggon full of whisky. He just lay there, leaving
all navigation to the horse. It was fine to see the
old neddy at a mad gallop, the waggon pitching and
rolling like a barque in a choppy sea.
Pick’ : “Lachlander” propounds a false
theory when he says (B. 27/6/’18) that the bush
custom of tying- red streamers under a horse's neck
to ward off bot-flies is useless. Flies attack horses,
generally when feeding. They dart between the
fore-legs and, with astounding- rapidity, deposit layers
of tiny white eggs among the long hairs that fringe
the animals' lower jaws. Whether the fly stings or
nor. is a much debated question in bushland, but
horses become violently agitated when the pinging
hum of the winged nark is heard, and though no
amount of hasty stamping or pawing will keep the
insects off, a long- experience among- horses has
definitely proven to me that when a red ribbon or
strip of turkey-twill dangles from the throat-strap
of the fly-veil, no bot-eggs are ever found under the
wearer’s jaws.
if.
“Steel Trap”: Try this for boils. One
large tea cupful treacle, one tablespoouful sulphur
heaped, one tablespoonful cream of tartar; mix
thoroughly. Dose, one teaspoonful three times daily.
A smaller dose for children is advisable I used
the mixture in IS9O, and haven’t had to repeat
the dose. Dr. Sides, one-time of Bourke (N.S.W.),
gave me the prescription.
* * * *
D.I. : Smith O’Brien, whose cottage still
stands at Darlington, Maria Island (Tas.), was not
the only “rebel” of the ’forties for whom the British
Government provided free board and lodging.
In the old cemetery at Darlington there is
stili a stone bearing the-name of a Maori chief,
Hohepa. To Umaroa, one of half a dozen natives cap-
tuied in the North Island in 1816 and sent to Maria
to keep them out of mischief.
Billy T.”: I sleep out on a deep front
verandah boarded half-way up, and my virtuous
couch is a low contraption against the wall, well
screened from the elements and the vulgar eye. That
Wednesday night had been very wet, it was still
cold and comfortless for unsheltered wayfarers, but
I was sleeping happily in the cover oi bounteous
rugs when awakened by the glare of light. A total
stranger (obviously not teetotal) was leaping over
the low wall in front, striking matches, and regard-
ing mo with crapulous interest. He was dripping
wet, he had lost his hat, there were fragments of
counter-Junch in his whiskers. “Hello!” said the
stranger.' “Tha’s a dam’ goo’ idee. Tha’s (hie!)
wha’ I call forethought. When mine locks me out
I’ve gotter sleep on the mat.”
* *| * »
“Sliprail”: I’ve introduced kultur to rab-
bits in many different ways. I’ve shot them, run
them down, trapped them, gassed them, dug them
out, and, whisper it low, ferreted them; but the
easiest way of all is as follows: Hig a pit under a
wire-netting fence about four feet cubicaliy and board
the top in, with the exception of a strip four inches
wide on each side of the netting. Fit two boards into
thbse spaces and fix them so that they act as a see-
saw. The rabbits travelling along the netting, as
rabbits do, will hop on to these, and thence drop into
the pit. Escape from there is impossible, as the
boards immediately swing back again to their normal
position.
RIBERINA TIMES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Just when the street lay still and white,
'taking me captive unawares—
Memories haunting the moonlit night,
Movement and music made me theirs—
Dancing feet in the midnight hush,
Somebody playing a concertina—-
Lord, how it all came back with a rush—
lhe old, old times in Riverina!
Wayside gossip, and song and mirth,
All the tracks o’ the night astir,
Creak of saddle and rein and girth,
Tingle of bit and gleam of spur,
Scent o’ wattle and breath o’ pine,
Leaf and twig in the darkness falling,
Dew-washed airs with the taste of wine, ’
A sighing breeze and a curlew calling!
Little they thought of cares and tears—
Kate and Alice and all the girls.
Back, far back in the queenly years,
Wreathed with roses and crowned with pearls ;
Little they reckoned of storm and strife—
Rider and digger, rover and drover,
Winning and spending and laughing at life,
Nor caring a jot if the billy boiled over.’
Galloping, galloping ever and aye,
Youth went by with a rolling song*,
Sunshine lighting his noontide way,
Golden stars in his night athrong ;
Ah, but life was a gloyv then,
Fierce and fiery with gleams and glances—
Lord, to be there with them once again
the girls of gold in their bygone dances!
Kate and Alice and all their clan,
Sweet and simple, and fond and free
How their laughter and joyance ran,.
Making life as it sure should be l”
Girls of the West, though Youth be fled,
And pale the glory of Life’s September’
Sweet is the rose, though the rose be dead,
And sweet are the dancers that I remember!
Soft as velvet and lithe as steel,
Mouths of coral and eyes aglow—-
Waltz and gallop, and jig and reel—
How they footed it to and fro!
Dancing all till the morning blush,
Keeping time to the concertina:
Lord, how it all comes back with a rush .
The old, old times in Riverina !
tf.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


\ \
A
WRed tRe Dre&3nougßf
15 to ffie H&vy, 30 e^re
Gqareffes^
fo tfie tobacco wor 1 d-pre-eminently
tfie TReirunique of
manufacture, ffie qualify of
fobacco & ffieir deli cafe aroma
& fl avour place ffiem apart from
offier cigarettes in ffie world.
any
No. 333
6d.
PER
PACKET.
STANDARD WEIGHT*
So/ch hya/hTobacconists 6 Stores throughout Austra/a,
S'CU^=>
ARDATH
TOBACCO
C9.LT?, LONDON,
ENGLAND.
mn


There is Nothing Better than
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
For COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years’ experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
§
.
§
§
SO
m
!
. -
i»b
/I
J£
M
11
i %
c mmucy- wry*J
ms
* If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington. N.Z.
Always ask for
“ HEARNE’S”
way or steamboat or' camel ticket to most
parts of Africa, and it would be almost as
feasible to find a lost kingdom in Kent (Eng-
land) or flourishing outside Gosford (Aus-
tralia). Ghostly tales are cheap when people
are being killed oft' by millions and the raw
material for ghosts is a, drug in the market.
Besides, the building trade lias slumped, and
a homeless generation lias taken to flat-
dwelling on a monthly tenancy. A nomadic
folk couldn’t be haunted unless it carried
its ghost about with it. Wilkie Collins cer-
tainly wrote about “The Haunted Hotel,”
but lie never repeated the experiment.
The detective narrative has long been over-
done, and almost everything possible has
been detected, except the man who mur-
dered his widow in cold blood. Besides, the
business lias been damaged through the ’tec’s
habit of taking about with him an unpaid
idiot without visible lawful means of support.
This Boswell or Dr. Watson acts as chorus
and asks his employer silly questions to
afford the great but deeply-imbedded-in-
thouglit person a chance to shine. The
puerility of the thing makes it especially
aggravating. I have consulted men who
have devoted their lives to the treatment of
mental disease, and have been assured that
tlrPre isn’t a single case on record of a detec-
tive coming to an asylum to buy or borrow
a. lunatic.
There still remain as not quite exhausted
subjects adventures in the interior of the
earth, travels among the planets, the dim
future and the plain girl who married the
curate now almost extinct. But taking
everything into account I don’t think the
prospect is as good as it used to be.—Yours,
etc., Solomon Malapeop..
The Inky Way
'“B.S.” : The London Times, as mentioned
in The Bulletin (11/7/T8), printed a
notice of Leon Gellert’s “Songs of a Cam-
paign.” I have read the notice, which tills
a column and a quarter, and beyond one
indefinite sentence I cannot find anything
approaching a positive statement of approval
or otherwise in the whole article. The writer
says that Gejlert “is nearer akin to the
American Alan Seeger than to the more
fastidious singers of the great war, whose
eyjes are so often reverted from the mon-
strous terrors of the half-mechanical struggle
to the quiet and gracious loveliness of the
green English countryside.” It is appar-
ently proof of indelicacy in Gellert that he
kept his eyes on his subjects, though that is
the fact which is responsible for much of his
value to Australian readers. “His verse,”
says the Times writer, “is often what the
Australian critics have a habit of calling
‘luminous’, —but phosphorescent would per-
haps be a better epithet.” Yet the quota-
tions he prints show that “phosphorescent”
is an exceedingly inappropriate word. For-
tunately. these quotations will give the
Times readers some idea of the splendid
q Ua iity of Gellert’s work, which is luminous
because he lias written directly, and tersely
0 £ flings seen and felt at the Front.
® T > , , . ,
.f. lv Jessse Bo ot - who has stmMfd England
with attractive shops for the sale ot drugs
a ? d books—a queer but money-making com-
bmatmn—has become proprietor of. the Not-
? mgham paper on which J. M. Barrie started
] ns , successful ink-shnging career. Barrie
bad just left Edinburgh University when he
sa T an , advertisement ‘ wanting a leader-
™ter J or th , ls P aper ‘ He ap I p , hed for
?“ d > as belays, “was rashly engaged.”
m p N^ tingh ?“ ur ;
”wl ed m^ r eria bls best books.
den a Man s Single,
„ J),u ' m B' the absence in England of editor
Sowden, of Adelaide Register, bis chair is
bllcd by Burns, a quiet, capable Scotchman
who lias been Sowden’s riglit-hand man all
through the 20 years or so since lie (Sow-
den) took the P en f rom Finlayson’s failing
band. Sowden, like Langdon Bonython of
the Advertiser, is on various public bodies
aad has many other interests outside the
ol .hce; but lie finds time to do far more
writing than Bonython has cared to trouble
ab . ollt since becoming the ’Tiber’s sole pro-
priPt. 01 '- (Evan Thomas, another of the
bEGiSTFK proprietary, is a business man
solely, like his father, Robert Thomas, be-
i? re / um *) Burns, like Fred Robertson, of
the Advertiser, has no interests outside the
fe. k "° WS
hy^ght.
' u 3’ Innes, appointed editor of Mel-
bourne Herald in Davidson’s place has been
f, lx s f vpn years on the paper. Before
* hat he had a bright career on the Argus.
}. Ie has a graceful literary Style and versifies
fluently in Under the Ulocks (the
Heralds topical column), The Bulletin
and elsewhere. Stanley Kingsbury, who be-
came the Herald’s chief-of-staff after serv-
dlg cm the Christian Science Monitor,
Roston, U.S. A,, sits down in the news-
emtor s.chair; and Harry Maddison, who left
the Argus only a few weeks ago to take
charge ot the evening cables, steps into
R-ingsbury s old billet.
H. J. Congreve, dead in Adelaide at 89,
was a remarkable link with the past. A
Londoner by birth, he was in S.A. in 1849,
as doctor to the British soldiers stationed
at Port Lincoln to keep the natives there in
cheek. Then he turned to station life,
tramped up to the Lachlan River and down
to Glunes (Vic.)—looo miles in six weeks,
he used to claim, but the recollections of
veterans sometimes need a bit of discount,
There he drifted into the Inky Way, became
editor of the Inglewood Advertiser, and
got a scoop over the loathsome contem-
porary by a gallop of 30 miles from Bendigo
with news of the assassination of President
Lincoln. Later, lie got back to S.A., wrote
novels of no great merit, and ran the clever
little Bunyir at Gawler. For many years
lie had lived in retirement, forgotten by the
present generation.
Business, Robbery, etc.
A linen and canvas manufacturing
industry is mooted in Melbourne, and
already "orders for the necessary machinery
have been placed abroad.” Same old abroad!
The canvas and linen are, of course, for local
supply, and the "profits -will be earned and
spent locally. The wool-top industry in-
verted the usual order of things, for it made
most of the big profits which it spent here
by selling to people in other countries, and
it started to build its expensive machinery
on the spot, so as avoid sending Australian
money abroad. All local manufactures are
commendable, but this one so capsised the
dreary old order of things that it seemed to
call for special applause. Incidentally, it
paid about 70 per cent, of its large earnings
to the community as war taxation. But the
Government demanded at least 87* per cent,
and it might have wanted 95 per cent, later
on, it being easier to levy on an established
industry than to create a new one. Any-
how the business was suspended, and recently
700 discharged employees were applying to
the Commonwealth to invent work for them.
* * * *
“Lagoon”: Amongst others severely hit
by the • war are the small copra traders and
settlers of the Solomons. They are being
steadily squeezed in the economic vyce ; one
jaw of which represents a rise in costs of
over 100 per cent., and the other represents
pre-war, and often less than pre-war prices
for their produce. Copra before the war
brought £l9 per ton; since the row started
it has ranged from £9 10s. to £2O. For the
last year it has averaged £lB. Copra is a
war article and is commanding great prices
in the far markets of the world. It is used
i)i the manufacture of explosives arid forms
the butter of the now much used margarine.
During the last 12 months copra has sold
at between £BO and £lOO in the U.S.A. Por-
tion of that lot was bought by an Aus-
tralian trading firm for £lB. A profit of £62
a ton is a pretty fair margin for contin-
gencies. Asked why only £lB was being
paid, the firm’s reply was; “The difficulty of
getting freights out of Sydney.” Later the
firm offered £l5 and there was a further
drop to £l2 three weeks later. At that price
the small trader works at a loss. Questioned
as to the reason of the £6 drop in a period of
three weeks, the purchasers stated that a
fleet of vessels that they had under charter
had been commandeered. We feel that we
are not getting a fair deal. What about the
Government fixing the price of copra in the
Solomon group? That would help us im-
mensely. Most of our output goes to the
U.S.A., and as shipping is scarce there mrist
be some extraordinary reason for dragging
copra to Sydney and then all the way back,
and on to ’Frisco—a needless haul of about
4000 miles. Surely arrangements could be
made for four or six steamers a year to load
stores at Sydney for the Solomons, pick up
copra, and proceed direct to America. If
a full load could not be secured at this
group a call at the German (once) Solo-
mons could be made en route to complete
loading.
* * * *
“Geob”: Olives have struck a climate they
approve of in S.A. The trees are the hardi-
est possible growers, require practically no
attention, and seem impervious to the dis-
eases that affect fruit-trees. They have
been rather in disfavor in the towns, owing
to their slowness in coining to maturity,
but owners of full-grown trees have found
them a great money-producer of late years.
The olive doesn’t produce berries until its
twelfth jiear, consequently land-owners are
shy of planting for commercial purposes.
There is a movement on foot to get the Gov-
ernment to subsidise growers at so much an
acre for the first ten years. The oil has
almost trebled in price since the Hun broke
loose (about 7s. 6d. a quart in Adelaide
now), and the berries are in demand at £2O
a ton. Fifty-seven years ago the then
Sheriff of the Adelaide Gaol, W. R. Boothby,
looking for a job for his charges, put them
on preparing the ground and planting olive-
trees, and the result to-day is a magnificent
and profitable plantation in the vicinity of
the gaol. Hence the term “Gone pickin’
olives” when a sport refers to a cobber who
lias been sent along for a light sentence.
* * * *
Before the man who pays can be sure
of getting a fair deal in jam it looks as if
the goods ought to be branded with a guaran-
tee of (say) “7643 pips to the spoonful.”
Anyway, the legend about the tin contain-
ing raspberry and apple seeing entitled to
great suspicion. In a case heard at Wel-
lington (M.L.) the other day, relating to the
contents of such a tin, the evidence
was instructive in a very negative way.
* A witness from the State laboratory, ex-
plaining the steps in analyses, said that
one method was to commence by counting
the pips in a measured quantity of jam and
then to compare the count with, the pip-
content of standard sample. Another pro-
ceeding was to detect the apple-fruit cells
with a microscope. There was the further en-
lightenment that the number of dinkum pips
varies from 100 to 60 per five grammes of
real jam, and that manufacturers have been
known to make the pip-count square by mix-
ing pips from cordial factories’ waste with
the pulp in the jam pan. Further gloom
was thrown on the subject by a University
Professor of Chemistry, who explained that
pip-counting and microscope examination were
of doubtful reliability, and that there was
no known chemical method of separating the
apple and the raspberry (and presumably
the pip, the turnip, the pumpkin and other
vegetables) into their constituent parts. All
this seems to strengthen the case for having
jam made under the personal supervision of
a Supreme Court judge.
’** * *
“F.N.T.”: Cow-cockying in Victoria is
suffering bitterly from various complaints,
among them being the fixation of the price
for butter, shortage of labor and lack of the
right sort of land at a desirable price.
Robert Crowe, superintendent of exports,
testified at the recent annual conference of
butter-factory managers that last year Straw-
berry in Vic. numbered 534,000, as against
an average of 655,000 for the four years
1911-1914. The serious falling-off was
mainly owing to the drought, no doubt; but
the average winter production for 1911-1914
was 2828 tons, while for 1916-1917 the
amount was only .1595 tons, a slump which
plainly indicates that Cocky has grown tired
of handfeeding Strawberry throughput the
winter for an inadequate return, preferring
to let his herd just pick around a bit in the
paddocks until spring comes again. This
country maintains several large, expensive
staffs <jf cow-experts, employed , allegedly to
assist and encourage the producer arid put
him on the right track to a good income;
and there is another collection of even more
expensive men engaged in seeing that the
public gets its cow-fat at a decent price; but,
somehow, nobody has made any provision for
keeping an eye on the various parties who
grab the sixpence or so which is the differ-
ence between the cocky’s selling price per lb.
and the householder's buying price. Catch
that bird and the other difficulties would
melt. 1
* * * *
“Australia Preferred”: Is the Australian
manufacturer deliberately shortsighted and
discourteous, or is he indifferent to trade
possibilities? Moving in and around the
Pacific islands for the last 10 years, I have
always sought the viewpoint of all I came in
contact with about Australian manufac-
tures. Where complaints occurred or com-
parisons were drawn, I would, simply by
way of being, perhaps, of some slight service
to an Australian manufacturer, send along
a note mentioning, as tactfully as possible,
where the goods in question fell short of
foreign-made goods in the opinion of the
consumer. I was not looking for any
bouquets, and' did not get many; but I
lekrnt 97 ways of being told how to mind my
own business, sq there’s that much gained.
By way of seeking a comparison, I wrote
to several -U.S.A. manufacturers, and the
replies have prompted me to write this. All
were courteous, and expressed themselves as
being very keen for any further information
I cared to send along as to their goods, the
market requirements, present and future
possibilities, and general conditions. Now,
can anyone explain the difference in atti-
tude?
* * * *
Britain last week got a painful reminder
of what she hadn’t done in the way of win-
ing- the-war in its third year. The chairman
of the U.S. Aircraft Production Board stated
that the turnout of “Liberty” motors in
American workshops during May and June
equalled the entire production of all types
of aeronautical engines in Britain for the
whole of the year 1916. Yet we dreamed of
finishing the war with our great offensive in
1916. Instead of that the British army alone
suffered a million casualties in one place and
another. Even when the military authori-
ties had been up against the awful' results of
militarism for more than two years the
destructive possibilities of the aeroplane were
still being treated as a minor consideration,
and nothing nearly so effective as the “Lib-
erty” motor had been accomplished. Never-
theless Germany didn’t win. To look back
at all the omissions of the past on our side
is to wonder how on earth the Huns who
were always doing their best, can possibly
hope to win now that the Allies are beginning
to follow suit.
* * * * ,
“Kopai”: The meat-price mountain has
brought forth the usual mouse, and the meat
of Canterbury is down a penny and the meat
of Footscray is up the same amount. I have
been getting cheap meat for years without
any trouble. It is a family fad of ours to
prefer forequarter mutton and rib and
brisket beef, and Mrs. Kopai tells me the
gratitude of the butchers when she asks for
these unfashionable joints is touching to
witness. “People won’t buy these cuts,”
they sigh, as they drop in an extra piece of
suet. “Nothing but rump and sirloin, and
loin-chops-an’-no-fat-on-’qjn!” So the price
goes on to the rump and sirloin to make up
for the loss on the unsaleable and sausage-
destined “sticking-pieces.” How it will go
now under the new model-price arrangement
I don’t know. When in the battling days I
was a goldfields butcher we only recognised
“steak,” and this we cut from the horns to
hock. The crank with a whim for steak off
the rump simply had to wait his or her turn
until the rump was reached. I offer the
method as a solution of the meat-price
problem.
* * * *
“Running Dinner” : Some economist makes
a suggestion that should have come earlier
considering the high price of meat. He
points out (1) that it is cheap and easy to
smoke rabbit; (2) that when smoked he (the
rabbit, not the economist) is delicious; and
(3) that trappers have been throwing the
skinned carcases away even since the freezing
works closed. England needs meat so much
that Buckingham Palace has- just started
the first Utility Rabbit Club in the royal
mews. It doesn’t seem loyal to strew out-
back Australia with rotting rabbits while his
Gracious is eyeing the Palace stud bucks
and does with an expectant eye.
A MUNICIPAL MERRY-GO-ROUND.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This opposition to merry-go-rounds puzzled Aider-
man Clarke. It was, he said, extraordinary that
the application should be refused. There could be
no objection to a merry-go-round. He had known
one of his colleagues to whirl round on a merry-go-
round at Manly until he became dizzy, and fell off.”
—News item.
Old Alderman Gnash is far from gay,
And Alderman Nark is blue with rage;
The drains are up in the usual way;
And things have got to a dangerous stage.
Senility .sneers at Middle Age;
The Mayor jumps up like a toy well wound
, To clinch a point re the dustman’s wage
And fight the scoundrel who called him “hound!”
When Alderman Tipcart talks of roads
Young Alderman Metal bellows “Shame!”
He asks the weights of the various loads.
And tells old Tipcart he knows his game.
Someone lets fl.v with uncertain aim ;
An inkpot shatters against the wall.
Nobody’s willing to take the blame,
And all stream out of the. dark Town Hall.
In every hall a merry-go-round
Should whirl to an organ played by steam,
While shouting aldermen bounce and bound
Till, far too dizzy to make a sound,
They fall down flat in a bilious dream.
N.S.W.
THE DUSTMAN.


SAFE!
Man and Motor
are Protected
m
Ngw
CRTonlliirtyE^rt
Switch
Open for inspection.
Construction Details.
The CR-1038 SWITCH is used for con-
necting small AC Motors directly to the
line, and is suitable for use with motors
up to and including 3h.p. 110 volts, sh.p.
220 volts, sh.p. 440 volts, and sh.p. 550
volts.
A new type of protective plug, guarding
the motor against overloads, provides a
time element, and is renewable at a
remarkably low cost. A sensitive pro-
tection is thus provided at a negligible
cost in addition to the regular line
fuses.
The new CR-1038 MOTOR STARTING
SWITCH has hinged covers which cannot
be opened unless the switch is open. In
addition, a lock can be provided to lock
the covers closed, or the switch open.
LOW MAINTENANCE COST
EASY TO INSTALL
LOW IN PRICE
Inserting Protective Plug.
Installed with Conduit Wiring.
±1
WENTWORTH SYDNEY, G? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS 5T MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) ; Unbehaun &. Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
OTHER AGENTS
NEW ZEALAND : The National Electrical &. Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA- Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs.
Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


ivf
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Necklet, 15ct. Gold,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Wedding
Rings, 9ct., 20/-;
15ct., £2; ISct.,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent’s
9ct. Gold Signet
Ring, 20/-
Lady’s size,
12/6.
*3l
A. Saunders’ Gent’s
Single Stone, pure
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£2O. Smaller dia-
monds, £lO, £l5.
A. Saunders’ Pearl-set
Circle Brooch, 9ct.
gold, 12/6.
A. Saunuers*
pure, double-
cut Diamond
Cluster Scarf
Pin, 15ct.
Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £12/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£10.
Larger diamonds,
£12/10/-,
£15, £20.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut
Diamond-set Medal, 15ct.
Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl and
Aquamarine or Garnet
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 25 / -
Select Jewellery Designs.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bracelet, set Pearls ana
Amethyst, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £O.
Others, £3/10/-, £4, £5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart secret snap and
joint Bracelet, £2; heavier, £2/10/-. 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-; heavier, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold
Patent Expanding Watch Wristlet,
full-jewelled lever movement, com-
pensation balance, £7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street
(OppositeV
Railway I
Station *
Sydney
A. Saunders’
pure, double-
cut Diamond
Scarf Pin,
15ct. Gold,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ Gent's
Single Stone, pure
double-cut Diamond
Rir.g, 18ct. Gold,
£2O. Smaller dia-
monds, £lO, £l5.
!. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Circle Brooch, set
Aquamarine or Garnet,
17/6.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond ant
r»„.. r» 1 r /-w-1 1
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond and
Pearl Cluster Bar Brooch, 15ct. Gold,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Boat-shape Ring,
18ct. Gold,
£5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
Larger diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £l5.
A. Saunders’ pure double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pearl and
Aquamarine oval-shaped
Brooch, lfict. Gold,
£2/10/-. Pearls and
Diamonds, £4/10/-
A. Saunuers’ pure
Diamonds and Aqua-
marine or Tourmaline
Necklet, 15ct. Gold,
£5.
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Wedding
Rings, loot. Gold,
15/.; 18ct. Gold,
20/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
9ct. Gold Tablet
Ring, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Presentation Re-
turned Soldier’s Medal, 9ct,
Gold, 30/-; heavier, 35/-,
40/-; 15ct. Gold, £3,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OP PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OP NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 25 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a linking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
SAFEGUARD You* HEALTH
q?J.Collis Browne's
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, i/'S, $/-, of-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries-
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
f 1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT. AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Mekrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
'if l Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3,
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana. 21- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy. 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2s. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Mill
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/9. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 2/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/-. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu. 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/6. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/9. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/9. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS —LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads. 1/6. Soldering, Brazing, &c„
1/9 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6 That Rascal Gustave, 1 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 Dosted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing. 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpf.xter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), (if-.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 21-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PAYING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook. 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/<3.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. Ai.l About Incu-
bators, 1/9. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/-, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 1/9. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of ■Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/9. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/9.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson’s Humorous Verses, 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/- posted. Damaged
Goods, 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, (j 7 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
I BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. “•8


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
-At the War.
si i
t^T'
Ks*
4,
Pi
m i
s>*
O
m
if w
,
&
n ■
m
/
M
gfite
AIMWf:
ms
/
SB
K
H
m
gS® m
ms
-:
wmz
mm
: m
S : :
@1
5 3
13
5aS
‘.y
SHtS
PS
SSB
m.
m
mm
HSU* 1
i.'Jhwo'iff"
I
P*
-: SB
° J 'V>
L V
..o
«r* *
\r
Cobra,” Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Sees the raider
In the blue.
'“COBRA* gun
Here’s some fun!
“Man the anti-
Aireraft gun!”
-crew
Bang-Boom - Crash !
The shells fly fast.
That one orot
O
The Hun at last! '
D own he comes!
Up goes the cry,
COBRA’ cleans
Earth, sea and sky


A NEW-STYLE WATCH
I
//
/o
2
9
3
8
7
5
6
CAIX AND INSPECT OCR
STOCKS.
COMPLETE WATCH
CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Carries the name of Stewart
Dawson, and can therefore
be depended on for accuracy
and reliability.
The prevailing tendency for novelty has encom-
passed Watches as well as most other things for
personal utility anti display. The Watch illustrated
meets the taste of those who desire a reliable time-
piece of unique shape at a moderate expenditure.
This Watch is a guaranteed 20-year, Gold-filled
Waltham, with 15-Jewel Nickel Lever Movement,
Broquet Spring, Compensation Balance.
Plain Case Price*•• £6
Same style with Fine Dark-blue Enamel inlaid on
Black, £(i/iO/-. Also special quality for Dress
Wear, Thin Style, and above shape in solid 14ct.
Gold, with 17-Jewel Swiss Lever Movement,
£l2/10/-
STEWART DAWSON’S
STRAND CORNER SYDNEY.
fe>«^f%lHs~
£>%*•% tot,' ' i»St '•* * "•* *'■'■ '’*• '-
.,**?-<£&*
*a3£Js| ti»/ '*£ a. ' -‘“ r *"
jg&SS*
52K
COME UP TO ’
THE SUNSHINE V
SEASON
Barron Falls - Barron Gorge.
the wonderful hmterlarut .
ounshine , Palm Trees .
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
and Sceru c vSplendour
A Booklet telling all abou.t tt
is yours for the asking
/v// in fats coupon:-
X /fomQ ,
Address
S.B.
X-
/o /Ac* Z/rrecfar o/
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau. ——
Brisbane. QUEENSLAND.
V i- JL
sp§%y*^''
KSSC
ml
m
M
Newspapers for Soldiers.
T N ,jj® w . bf ? hc + notification by the Minister of Defence that the postage of newspapers to the
tioops bj piivate individuals is no longer desirable owing - to the increasing Scarcity of' freight space
notify ?hfmrtilte^h U at «ev h d fl f ribut ’ on ’ the “ Red Closs ” Society and the “War Chest” Fund wish to
notif.i the public that they have made arrangements to send in bulk adequate quantities of weeklv news-
has ? b’Ln a “Rrd iS r Pt *£ th the K m ™ in hospital and those in the trenches. A depot
newsMfners^ind^idlMt there E ? on ? S ’ 6 Street, for the receipt and despatch of
he '-Re ’- U i! vl ' ’, ecc P t ? R l es T’ r ? vlded i' OT the purpose, under the authorisation of
tlie Keel Cross, will be divided equally between the “Red Cross” Society i
7 1 I 7i * ut.t«ccu I.IIC XiCU V.J
An appeal is now made by these Fu' - for copies of the followi
and the “War Chest*’ Fund.
Bulletin.
Sydney Mail.
Sunday Sun.
Town and Country Journal.
Beferee.
Sunday Times.
(Signed) JAMES ASHTON, Acting Chairman, for the “Red Cross” Societv
n . . “• TH ® R - f Chairman Executive Committee for the Citizens' “War Chest” Fund, N.S W.
Division “Australian Comforts Fund.” ’ "
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
SUPED
FCATURES
; A Hat remarkable old lady, Mrs. Gertrude
I can ant, has just passed out in London in
her ,),)t:h year. She toured Australia when
well advanced in her seventies, and after that
did a still more prolonged and strenuous
ufistle through America. She was seventh
in direct descent fPbm Oliver Cromwell. Her
girlhood was passed in France, where as a
child she danced at the Court of Charles
the Tenth, the last of the direct line of
the Bourbons, whose reign closed as far
back as 1830. Daughter of a British Admiral
with artistic and literary tastes, she mar-
ried a wealthy Welshman, and her splen-
did house in Whitehall, London, became a
famous salon of literature, art and liberal
politics. Gladstone and Bright were fre-
quent and honored guests, as well as many
eminent authors and artists, both British and
h rench. Her daughter Dorothy made a
reputation as a sketcher and painter of Lon-
don street life, and married 11. M. Stanley,
the African explorer. When Stanley went
lecturing in Australia and America he was
accompanied by his wife, and mother-in-law
insisted on making one of the travelling
party.
“S.”: Premier Peake the other day ex-
pressed his regret that moving pictures in
“The Masquerader,” at
Sydney Palace.
O. B. Post as Chilcote,
M.P., on a morphia jag.
Adelaide lately
run too much
to one aspect of
life, “tending to
impress on the
juvenile section
of the commu-
nity that the
whole aim of
life is just sex-
ual affection and
relations.” Cer-
tainly the local
productions have
been on the
“powerful” side
recently. The
occasion of
Peake’s remark
was to a deputa-
tion from Port
Pirie, protest-
ing against the
closing of Sunday shows there. The port, said
the deputation (the new-formed Liberty League
prominent amongst it), could not be judged
on the same lines as the city, which had no
Sunday pictures but had other resources of
entertainment. At Pirie they had as an
altefnative to pictures "places of ill-repute,”
which! Hones, the League president, defined,
on being challenged, as "sly-grog shops and
gambling dens.” To go to church, as lie
pleasantly put if, was "to listen to the
preaching of men who called one another
liars —a reference to the quarrel among the
Broinpton Methodists. After the deputation
had hit all round. Teake expressed a difficulty
between recognising the "sanctity of the Sab-
bath'’ and the position of Port Pi vie, with its
floating population of sailors and smelters.
His Cabinet will "reconsider the situation.”
"Second Violin”: The Lone Pine baud,
now playing about the streets of Sydney, is
so good that I would like to hear it give a
concert in a big hall. The usual military
bandsmen who march by, blowing and bang-
ing, are generally inspiriting, but always more
or less ragged. This, no doubt, is due to the fact
that they are scratch combinations of players
whose first business is lighting. The Lone
Piners, having done with war, can take
their music seriously, and long association
has given their playing tone and balance.
With the addition of stringed instruments
the L.P.B. might develop into a representa-
tive band-orchestra that we could brag
about.
The ingenious M. P. Adams, who manages
the Star Pictures in Melbourne, hates to see
any energy wasted. The other day, when he
spotted one of his ticket-sellers stamping her
little feet in her box to get warm, lie had
an elegant inspiration. All of his inspira-
tions have a strong commercial complexion,
and this one took the form of connecting the
young woman’s arching instep with three
dummy horses overhead illustrating a Nat
Could story. Then the damsel was urged to
stamp like mad, and the string attached to
the geegees starting them galloping furiously,
a mob of prospective customers was collected
in a very short time.
“THE STORY OF THE ROSARY,” AT
SYDNEY ADEL PHI.
Hero Allan Wilkie fights a good old stage
duel with villain Walter Hunt.
Australian composers seldom get a show in
London nowadays. At what was described
as an “all-British Concert” in the
Wigmbre Hall (formerly the Bechstein
Hall) a couple of songs by Norbert
Wentzel, billed as an “Australian com-
poser” were selected for approval by the
musical critics as “standing out above the
general level, more perhaps on account of
their promise than their actual achievement.”
One is called “Her Eyes” and impresses by
its delicacy and refinement. The other “For
Remembrance” is more elaborate and ambi-
tious, but less sincere and convincing.
“Peter”: A blob of green paint on the
big poster of “Katinka” in Melbourne is a
reminder of the strained air of neutrality
between the Taits and the Williamson firm.
The manufacturers of “Katinka” also wrote
“The Firefly,” which has been bought for
Australia by the Taits, but the Williamson
people would not allow their imported pic-
ture to mention that the authors of
“Katinka” had perpetrated the attraction
brought out by the rival showmen. Now if
the Williamson people had had their posters
made here they could have saved that lick of
green which isn’t rain-resistant and doesn’t
suppress “The Firefly” after a shower.
"J.F.IL”: Madge Titheradge, who has
scored a brilliant success as the lady doctor
in "Pigeon Post” at the London Garrick,
thinks the masculine garb in which she plays
it. and which displays her shapely figure to
the best possible advantage, is going -to be
the model feminine garb of the future. The
Wish is doubtless father to the thought. “The
skirt is doomed, I fully believe.” Madge pro-
phetically exclaims. She "loathes" this eon-
ventioual and tra-
ditional costume of
her sox. She con-
siders it uncom-
fortable and in-
sanitary, and one
of the reasons why
woman has been
so backward in the
past. “Its reign is
over, its domina-
tion ended,” she
asserts. Mad g e
should not be so
positive about that.
It is a hundred to
one that the skirt
will outlast her
time and see the
end of the 20th
cent u r y. I n
‘‘Pigeon Post” she
claims to have
solved the problem
of how to make the
breeches look
pretty. “If I may
say so without im-
modest y,” says
-Madge, “I don't
think I have ever
looked nice r.”
Quite true, but
Madge had better
"Time, Please!” at
Welb Tivoli.
“What there teas teas
good,” Barry Lupino
says.
leave that sort of complimentary re-
mark to other people. She sees in
the reform she advocated a great saving
in the cost of clothes, and a further advan-
tage she finds is that women will be able
to carry themselves better and walk more
gracefully when unhampered by the clinging
and obstructive petticoats. It is only in
hours of ease and leisurely relaxation ' that
the skirt tempts the lady. It is nicer to 101 l
in. Miss Titheradge is willing to make one
concession to the susceptibilities of the aver-
age male: “the breeches may be doffed for
evening dress.”
“Hamlet Junior”: Wilfrid Neill’s Ruther-
ford, in the Adelaide Repertory Theatre’s
performance of “Rutherford and Son,” was
the most convincing “old man” I have seen.
Cyril Maude relied on little eccentricities to
make Grumpy a success. Walter Richardson
did the same to Nicholas Van Alst.vne, in
"The New Henrietta,” and although Ruther-
ford was a totally different type from both,
lie was the most real of the three. With all
Maude’s finesse you felt he was acting,.but
Neill made his man live.
“O.K.’s” reminiscence:—
The late Paul Cinquevalli, according to the story
he gave me for The Bulletin 19 years ago, was a
Russian Pole (family name Brodzky) whose parents
moved into Germany, where he had some schooling.
Showmen’s yarns of their youth are always likely
to be imaginative, but I had chances to cross-
examine and pump the famous juggler, and I think
he gave me facts as a rule. Certainly he
seemed suddenly interested when I told him a
Brodzky was editing a little Melbourne weekly
Of the time, and when I added that our Brodzky
was a Jew his interest petered out. “Cinquey”
didn’t know of any Hebrew strain in his family,
he said. His tale of his boyhood was convincing
in details. He was star performer at the school’s
annual gymnastic display when a picturesque stranger
got hold of him on the quiet and asked what pay-
ment he got for his afternoon’s work. This was
the bait. The stranger was the original Paul Cinque-
valli, who ran a troupe of acrobats. He undertook
to smuggle the lad into Russia and introduce him to
fame if he would run away from school. So little
Brodzky went off to make his fortune. He was the
dare-devil boy of the troupe, performing in the open
in St. Petersburg, and there he had an awful fall
which sent him to the hospital for months and
ended his career as a gymnast. He showed a
maimed wrist in token of the truth of this part of
his yarn. In the hospital, lying on his back, the
youth learned to juggle with plates and sundries, and
when he escaped from his long captivity he was
re-introduced to St. Petersburg in his new character.
Hi? account of bow he lost his nerve when 10,000
Russians knelt down with one accord, because the
orchestra struck up the Hymn of Thanksgiving for
the recovery of “the little devil,” was a lovely
fiction if the thing never happened. It brought
tears to the old juggler’s eyes, anyhow. He stayed
with the troupe, he said, until old Paul Cinquevalli
died, and then he took the boss’s name and started
in business on his own. It was not until lie got
to London that the novelty of his methods received
full recognition. The star item in his big volume
of press notices was a Saturday Review article,
which spoke of the newly-arrived Cinquevalli as
being apparently a man of genius in his long-discred-
ited line of business. Juggling up to then had
been a mere handicraft, practised with gilded balls,
brass discs and heavy-handled knives by montebanks
in tawdry, fancy garb. “Cinquevalli,” said the
Review, “promised to give it. a new interest and
importance as an entertainment.” He fulfilled the
promise. He was an incomparable juggler with a
heavy wash-tub, and with the 481 b. cannon-ball, which
he flung high into the air and caught between his
shoulders or in the bend of his arm, or kept whirling
around his shoulders until it looked almost like
a necklet of cannon-balls. Cinquevalli always con-
tended that a sixth sense—the sense of balance—is
born in many men, but is rarely developed. Long
after he had advanced his theory the performing seals
came along to prove that there is at least a sense of
balance in certain animals. His costly stage cos-
tumes were a reminder of how he had graduated
in the old school of juggling, and was still an acro-
bat at heart. The picture of Paul in silk tights,
close-fitting, sleeveless tunic, witli heavy gold fringe
about it, tall silk hat on his head and a slim
umbrella under his arm, lives in my memory of
vaudeville performers. During Cinque’s last
visit to- this country he was said to celebrate
his 50th birthday, but he was probably older. With
his fine constitution and carefully preserved physique
he might have lived to l>e a very old man but for
the continual drop of the cannon-ball upon the top
of Ins back, where a thick pad of muscle had formed,
lie had on two or three occasions misjudged the fall
of the ball and been laid out. Once, when perform-
ing at Providence (U.S.A.), he purposely caught the
ball on a carbuncle which had been troubling him.
The lump was situated on the very border-line of
safety, and Cinque’s attempt to crush it out of
existence nearly proved fatal, lie remained insen-
sible for hours afterwards.
Picture audiences are disturbed at a re-
port cabled from America that one of their
most adored divinities, Mary Piekford, has
decided to retire, and incidentally to throw
up the £20,000 a year she is alleged to be
making out of the movies. But the cables
are somewhat conflicting. One said that she
was “on the verge of a nervous collapse,”
while another declared that she was “vigor-
ously assisting Charlie Chaplin in his Liberty
Loan campaign.” According to one of her
biographers, Mary “served her early appren-
ticeship to the stage in Australia.” Who
remembers her?
Although the great majority of London
theatres are given over to fun and frivolity
and go-as-you-please revues and spectacular
extravaganzas, there seems to be a paying
public also for the grim and the gruesome
play. When “The Knife” was produced at
the Comedy in April, nobody imagined that
such a serious and depressing problem-play
had the ghost of a chance of a run in these
times, yet it is going strong and has been
promoted to a newer, larger and more com-
modious theatre—the Queen’s. London
papers give the show bright notices and
award further compliments to the leading
lady, “Kyrle Bellew,” who claims Austra-
lian citizenship. She is declared in the
Big Smoke to he “developing into one of our
finest dramatic actresses.”
“Y.Z.” : “Whatcher think’s the best money-
makin’ line on the side ’ere?” he asked me.
He was an attendant at a big picture-theatre,
and we had grown confidential over a little
whisky—my whisky. I supposed that
direct tips would be the most abundant
source of income apart from salaries, assum-
ing, too, that nothing could be done with
orange peel and peanut husks, which the
swine do eat. “Ga-art!” said Neddo. “It’s
’ankerchiefs.” “Handkerchiefs?” “Why,
cert You wouldn’t believe the flocks iv
’ankies them skirts leaves be’ind ’em after
a show. Ordin’ry films fetches ’em in plenty,
but, s’elp me, when there’s somethin’ real
bitter ’n’ ’eart-broken on, with Olger Putover
bein’ brought down t’ ruin ’n’ despair, ’n'
Mary Piekford losin’ her luck, ’n’ bein’ rotten
mis’rable ’n’ ragged in a slum kitchen, we
gets water-logged ’ankerchiefs in bales. The
very first thing a ole girl does last is drop
’er wipe.” “But not with her housekeeping
silver tied up in the top left-hand corner?”
“Now ’n’ agin a sprat a two, but that ain’t
it. There’s a bloke in Fitzroy takes all the
’ankies we get at dinkum rates. The best of
’em is done up lovely ’n’ goes into circula-
tion again ez the rybuck, first-’and article.
The others is jist boiled ’n’ sold in bunches
ez damaged stock.” I now want to know if
anybody is doing anything with second-hand
kidney plasters.
LIFE’S CAMOUFLAGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dear dancing girls, whom have yon gone,
Who in your splendid beauty shone
In those good days when 1 was young
The gods among'.?
W'U o’er the scene a glory sped.
Though little else you had to shed,
With shapely limbs and eyes so bright
You shed delight.
Across the stage you marched and back.
Have modern beauties lost the knack?
They march, too, in a smiling horde,
And 1 am bored.
You sang in chorus. With your dance
The whole world leapt, and dear llomanoe
Unswathed you. On these ranks she throws
Ino glow of rose.
Dear little girls, where have you gone,
The fairest that the gods looked oil?
Or is it true, as some declare,
You never were?
Deluded youth saw beauty rise,
And glory shone in artless eyes.
The grace I saw so sweetly start
Was in’my heart.
The young man sits aside and grieves
On finding Eva still deceives.
We elders deep the fact deplore
She can no more 1
victoria.
STARGAZER.


11
•Tt W
\ *4
w
A '
r-
eg ,v
smmw
fnRWT)
r f r
U 1 I
3X*S.£ e< »M.,|
./
• J
/* ‘'7# *3
>v-
r-*^>
&
Vi
w
9t
&
////.
//,
mmA
9?
:r»
e?
S'
W
<v /s
ft
w
a
"$>
N
V'l
3?5S
is
mv \
lsL?~ x '■^rTifflharifil
SEZI%
“Dip Famine
Rumor” Unfounded
Many flock owners may have been scared
because of rumours of a “Dip Famine”—but
such a possibility is without any foundation.
A shortage of imported dips need have no
effect on dip supplies whatever, for Australia
now produces in
POWDER SHEEP DIP
AN ARSENICAL DIP OF THE HIGHEST POSSIBLE QUALITY
chemically and physically equal to the best dip hitherto imported—and which can be supplied to
meet all Australia’s needs.
“ Vallo ** dipped flocks are already speaking eloquently as to the reliability of this compound—
proving by their wool yield, wool quality and all round improved condition that “Yallo” Powder
Sheep Dip is not only effective, but longest lasting in its destructive action against Ticks, Lice, and
all other sheep-infesting vermin.
“ Yallo ” Dip is also an absolute preventive of Scab, reduces Fly Strike to a minimum, and
makes sheep impervious to contagion from “ dipping ” to next shearing.
“ Yallo ” Sheep Dip is manufactured in Australia by A. Victor Leggo and Co., who own their
own arsenic mines, and themselves produce and prepare the whole of the ingredients used, thus
guaranteeing the most reliable and economical powder dip on the market.
A. Victor Leggo & Co.
MANUFACTURERS
Work* : Yarraville and Bendigo
Mines: Southern Cross, W.A., and Queensland
Head Office: 524- s ?S Collins St.. Melbourne
ALL
STORES
Procurable
All Stores
Agents for N.S.W.:
DANGAR, GEDYE & GO. LTD.,
9, 11, 13 Young Street, Sydney.
Agents for North Queensland:
CUMMINS & CAMPBELL LTD., Townsville.
Agents for Central Queensland:
WALTER REID & CO., Rockhampton.
Agents for South Queensland:
BRABANT & CO., Brisbane.
Wholesale for Vie. and Tas: A. VICTOR LEGCO & CO.
Agents being appointed West Australia and South Australia.
The Farmers’ Co-operative Wholesale Federation (N.Z.)
Limited, Christchurch.
New HUPMOBILE. Car
YOU have only to come into contact with
owners and dealers to hear- anywhere
and everywhere -astonishing stories of the
COMFORT, and also the ECONOMY, of this
new Hupmobile.
* * *
Since THE COMFORT CAR weighs 600 pounds
less than the preceding' model, the resulting'
saving's in operation and upßeep are very marked.
* # *
In petrol, these saving's average 24 per cent.;
in tyres, 15 to 18 per cent.
Dealers—
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Melbourne.
PHOENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
nm
(*t« taejar **r«is#
Dealers
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE,
Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICK & CO. LTD.,
Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z, FARITERS’ CO=OP. LTD.,
Christchurch, N.Z.


See This Woolbale ?
Send
Your
Wool
to
Carson
It contains the Best Possible Advice
to Sheepowners.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
WOOLBROKERS, LTD.
Sydney AND Brisbane.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 2£d.
n
HORHOCKSES- HORTOCITSgS~wqRWC*SEVnORROCKStS-
HORROCKSES*
LoJiaclot/u, and CcUccceA
/ —,
WILL PAY YOU IN THE END.
ESTABLISHED 1791
OLI_
HORROCKSES'”
ON SELVEDGE I '.
mn
CEniiEnimwHii
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSES, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sola
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
Make the “Queen's Arms”
Your Home Whilst
in Melbourne ....
The cuisine is all that could be desired,
the accommodation and the service most
excellent in every respect. The Hotel
is centrally situated —being but a few
seconds from railway and all principal
car lines. Tariff by the day 10/6.
Write now.
QUEEN; ARMS HOTEL
Corner Swanston Street & Flinders Lane,
Claude R. Kerr, Proprietor. Melbourne.
BROOKES
COFFEE ESSENCE
You’ll like it too!!
CAPILLARINE
mn
Crows
Moustaches
Quickly!
It has been before the public for years, and is
daily proving its efficacy and genuineness as
a true moustache-grower. The military
“swear” by it.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
For Fine Shafting,
Machine Tools,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling and
Factory Equip-
ment, etc., etc.
m
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
fig
M
S~
..1
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The SKF Self-aligning Ball-bearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
GARDNER, WyERN & CO.,
Chief Agents anti Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE — BRANCHES—
Office, 384 City Road, S. Melbourne. SYDNEY . . . 225 Clarence Street.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street. BRISBANE . . . 367 Queen Street.
WAITING!
There is nothing so trying for a woman
these days as —waiting —always waiting.
It needs a steady nerve and a strong heart to
carry on—do the day’s work with a cheerful face,
and have a smile handy.
Give yourself a chance to do this bij keeping
fit—a tonic that really helps is
Dhosformo
1 THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a nerve and cell food and strengthener
that is helping many folk over the worries, work
and waiting that the world is going through now,
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 6C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
STAMMERING can be cured—rarely is
it due to organic defect. Restore the
speech centres in the brain to normal adjust-
ment, and deliverance from the bondage and
handicap of stammering is yours. Thousands
have been successfully cured by Professor
Foote’s methods. Send for free Prospectus
O, containing full information.
JAS. RODGER,
159 E. Manchester Street, Christchurch.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 1596. CURES Write tor Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
THE AUSTRALIAN
&
“SKANDIA”
nm
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
m
URNS PHiIP &COmgA
1
i-.
LTD
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON, Loftus Street, Sydney.
“Petifi”: The Wimmera smash suggests
that the Commonwealth and Maoriland Gov-
ernments might do worse than join forces
and severely discourage citizens from travel
in the Pacific unless compelled by necessity
until the war-clouds clear. Davy Jones
alone knows where an enemy mine may be
bumped nowadays ; and a heavily-passengered
steamer, including aged men, women and
children carries possibilities that aren’t
pleasant to think of. Irrespective of the
risk to passengers, it isn’t fair to the ships'
crews to encumber them with a lot of help-
less humanity.
Another S.A. Judge has had to order the
lash —at least, Judge Buchanan held the
other day that, as he is empowered to pre-
scribe a whipping in u particularly bad case,
it is a moral duty to order it when the case
of “exceptional atrociousness” does come
along. The case was a ferocious attack by
a returned soldier of 35 on a very
small boy, so to omit adding 20 lashes
to the 15 years, explained his Honor,
“would be to allow my judicial discre-
tion to over-ride the law.” The Judge,
however, said that he had no faith in Hog-
ging as a method of reformation; but he
accepts the yarn that garrotting in London
was stamped out by no other agency. Inci-
dentally, brutal assaults on young children
in S.A. have been a criminal feature of
recent years.
From the Gallery :
A recent Commonwealth Gazette made several of
the higher-paid ornaments of the Federal Parliament
£25 p.a. richer than before, but there was no news
anent the wages of the lesser officials who frequently
bear the onus of their senior’s deficiencies and at the
same time do a lot of their less important work.
There are messengers in the Federal Parliament,
mostly all married with families, who, after years of
service, have reached the breathless altitude of about
£l6O a year, working the average office hours and
doing additional stretches of overtime (unpaid) when
Parliament is sitting. Neither sickness nor incom-
petence is a bar to pay in the clerical branch of the
Federal service : in fact, both of those weaknesses are
flourishing among the higher-paid officers. Incom-
petence is specially marked. The lower-paid man in
the non-clerical branch, on the other hand, cannot
afford to be mentally or physically unfit. If he is a
duffer he leaves a vacancy in his office. If he is
unwell nothing less than a doctor’s certificate will
suffice to explain his absence. No wonder the grey-
ing housefathers in the lobbies envy the ennui with
which their bosses, sign for doles ranging from about
£6O to over £BO a month.
“H.”: Soon, perhaps, there will be no more
rabbits in Victoria, St. John’s wort will be
entirely stamped out and the prickly-convol-
vulus will be known no more upon the sheep
pastures. Frank Clarke, Minister for Lands,
is going to attend to these few little matters,
and he will thereby become the most popular
Minister the Backblocks has ever discussed
over the sliprails. Clarke proposes to do the
by Having a Board Appointed, the same
to consist of “three competent men” and to
be conducted on the lines of the Country
Roads Board and similar political ornaments.
Clarke suggests that the new body should
have the control of an annual expenditure of
£45,000, and Oman, Minister for Agriculture,
is to help him to convince the Cabinet that
the money ought to be coughed up. All that
the shires are to be called on to do is to pro-
vide helpful advice and one-fifth of the cash.
University professor Meredith Atkinson,
lecturing in Melbourne on educational r'eform :
Thousands of our most promising citizens are
sacrificed every year to the demands of wealth-produc-
tion, being left to the school of the gutter, the uni-
versity of the picture-show and the technical college
of the factory; yet we expect them to be good citizens
and skilful producers.
Atkinson proposes that children should be
left at school till 15 years old and that from
15 to 18 they should complete a secondary
halftime-school course. It is a school-
master’s proposition, of course; but that
there is a shortage of immediately-useful
educational facilities is shown, plainly
enough, by the fact that at least one of
Melbourne’s near-the-city “teclis.”' has been
closed entirely to all students excepting re-
turned soldiers. This may be good patriot-
ism as far as it goes; but, if the demand for
practical teaching is as great as this con-
dition indicates, the State Government
should shake off some of its cobwebs and
see what can be done to extend the system
before the Hun springs his industrial offen-
sive.
The envious airman writes home :—-
Here I am on home-service out of all the fun of
the big German offensive, and I can't tell you how
miserable I felt when I left the old flight. Such a
fine lot of chaps, who would go anywhere or do any-
thing, a comfortable bed to sleep in and lots of row
in the mess. All I can do here in England is to
practise the stunts, such as spinning dive, nose dive,
roll, Immelman turn, falling leaf, loop, vertical turns,
side-slips, etc. It is particularly rotten luck, as the
crowd are in the middle of the mix-up and having
decorations ladled out. My old observer, “Ham,”
who got his M.C. at the same time as I did, was re-
cently out gunning formations with “Mad Hat Mac,”
one of the best of our old pilots. Nine Hun tri-
planes suddenly went for them; but Mac, being up to
every stunt possible, managed to manoeuvre the ’bus
so as to crash three of them. Then he got a tracer
bullet through his petrol tank, which caught file.
He had five wounds by this, but climbed out on the
wing, and, controlling from there, side-slipped her
down so as to keep the flames blowing away, while
Ham (with six wounds) kept up his firing until they
crashed into No Man’s Land. Mac then pulled Ham
out of the blazing wreck and carried him over to our
trenches, collecting another wound from a bomb on the
way. However, he dumped into safety and then went
out to it. Result: V.C. for Mac and bar to M.C. for
Ham. I saw them to-day in hospital. Ham has lost
a leg and maybe his arm, and Mac is looking pretty
rotten with a septic wound, but I think both will
pull through.
“Fred Black”; Tasmania may be slow in
some respects but she gets a move on where
the blind are concerned that the mainland
could do worse than copy. She was the first
State in the world to carry Braille free of
charge through the post, and recently the
Jewellers’ Association (president, Arthur
Butterfield) decided to present every re-
turned blinded Tasmanian Billjim with a
Braille watch. No lost time about that!


ELDERLY MEN
WHO SHAVE.
We would like to speak to you about shaving. If the
hand trembles or is impulsive, it is a pain to shave
with, the old form of razor. It is a pleasure to
shave with our Safety Razors—so easy. You may
walk about and shave at the same time. No
cutting the skin.
It matters not if your hand shakes. Quick, too.
One shaves in half the time. Then, too, the
expense is far—very far —less than when using the
old form ot' razor.
Try one, when you will then discard the old razor.
Autostrop Safety xtazor. in Nickel Case,
22/6.
Plain figures
Cash only.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
A better article
at a lower price!
Rexirve
—the perfect leather substitute.
Looks like leather but is better in every way. It wears better
and never becomes shabby, as being impervious to atmos-
pheric action it never peels or cracks. It is stain and grease
proof, and can be made like new by simply washing with soap
and water. A Rexine-covered suite has all the beauty of
leather upholstering without any of its disadvantages, and its
cost is only one quarter that of leather.
Do away with unhygienic, dust-collecting fabric upholsterings
and insist upon having Rexine.
AgentB: A. BUCKHAM & SON,
95 York Street, Sydney.
Sole Makers : REXINE Ltd., Hyde, nr. Manchester, England.
i Makers of bags, suit cases, fancy goods, slippers etc., and bookbinders who are i
i using leather should write at once for samples of Rexine. It will effect a big j
'• saving and give greater satisfaction. j
tii '¥
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
directors :—Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon J. T Water Oepuy.Chairman; Hon J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C. ; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G. , Samuel
Hordern Richard Teece Esq H . w . APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated°Funds, A £ 38*000,000. Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY VEAR. ~ ..
A “3f Jr
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from A i •
|5 f
& \
»"' N \;;
v-'"'-' s
Uk
r V"T;
X?
7
!:: /T '
51! AvJ^' 0
5 * ~4
:7i
VP
k i ?
1
sss
$ §§y
m
M
■ 5 JS
s:
j.j
i \
\ *
sss
SSS
Si!
in
II
Hi
: i':
m
: '■ S
111
n
War Service
Continues to engage the whole of the energies of
the Wolseley Factories, and we are still unable to
supply private customers.
We shall, however, be pleased to receive enquiries,
and to add your name to our rapidly-growing
Waiting List.
AGENTS:
F. H. GORDON, 140 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
RELLOW FALKINER MOTOR CO., Russell Street,
Melbourne.
HOWARD CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
G. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
WOLSELEY MOTORS LTD.,
ENGLAND.
\ Proprietors : VICKERS LTD. j
HUDSON
SUPER
SIX
M
n
mw\
[tmgm
HUDSON
SUPER
5 X
PLENTY OF POWER in HUDSON CLOSED CARS
The tremendous reserve power of the Hudson Super-Six motoi caines the
Hudson closed cars with ease. None of the sluggishness so common to most
cars of this type is found in the Hudson.
Hudson Limousines, Town Cars and Landaus are masterpieces of design.
In beauty and luxury they are distinctive. IVlany cais that cost more do not
equal them.
On the boulevards of all the leading American cities and throughout the world
you see Hudsons. They ave the choice oJ~jifie cctv oojiieis.
Dalgety &. Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Kellow-FalKiner Motor Co., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders .Street, Adelaide.
W. Johnson & Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan,
Cable Address : HUDSONCAR-—DETROIT.


mn
m
COLLARS
No. B.—SIZE’S.
Every man can have
his neck comfortably
encircled with a Pel-
aco collar.
Completeness
marks the range of
sizes for the grow-
ing lad, little men,
medium sized men,
and he of the extensive
avoirdupois, there is a size
and shape ready waiting.
All renowned for comfort,
wear and style.
THE TANGO at 9d.
Sizes 14 to 18.
Shown in illustration is a
smart clean cut shape, suit-
able for sporting and holiday
wear.
Made in Australia.
Wear Pelaco Skirts ard
Pyjamas also.
nm
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
n
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many tiinea as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
§ 3
m
r*n
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5/-
Prepare Your Dogs for the
Coursing Season
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,"
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
n
21®
V BEST FOB
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN, ENGINEERS,
And Everybody’s Pencil Purpose.
Sold by High-class Stationers.
»«pgggga
Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins to
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
mn
Cmm
m
HTTLK
IVESc
PtU.2,
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
ZINC
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
ELEGTROLYTICALLY-
REFINED ZINC,
n
BRAND
Containing about 99.115% Metallic Zinc
, (99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER <bhas> BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
mn
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
by
APPOINTMENT
m
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
nm
See that a Box goes in your Soldier’s Next Parcel.
NAZETHA PASTILLES
The Best Mouth and Throat Antiseptic,
AS A PRECAUTION AGAINST THE GERMS OF
Meningitis, Influenza, Diphtheria.
Fop
HUSKY THROAT, COUGHS, LOSS OF VOICE, &c.,
NAZETHA PASTILLES.
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
[2
GBD
n
HEN you see this brand
on a pipe you may
buy that pipe with
absolute confidence. For more
than fifty years in Australia
the G B.D” has maintained
its reputation as
“The Perfect Pipe.”
Get the shape you fancy, the
grain you admire, the pipe
you will enjoy—
SELECT
A
GBD
j§
“C.T.R.”: The quaint Australians who
won’t go to war unless they go iu kilts make
me more than tired. I’m willing to bet that
most of them would clamor for the trousers
they are accustomed to after the European
winter had slashed at their knees. I did a
winter in France and often pitied the genu-
ine Highlanders—big rawboned Scots who
have never worn breeches in their lives. Long
exposure to the merciless wind had broken
the skin of even their knees until the raw
looked like razor-cuts. Any soft, office-bred
man who wants to beat up Flanders stilting
on his Manly Beach shinbones doesn’t know
what lie’s asking for.
Melbourne is now making a start with the
“1 to 31 mystery,” following the example of
Columbus, the American city which raised
a million dollars for soldiers’ funds by work-
on a proportional basis. The unexplained
“1 to 31” placards, now popping up in all
sorts of unusual places all over the city and
suburbs, merely mean that each Melbourne
man or woman' with an income will presently
be asked to hand in one day’s wages in every
month, tin l fund thus raised to be devoted
to the needs of soldiers and their dependants.
People with over £2OO a year, say, will be
invited to put in one day’s earnings in 28
days, and the ratio will change until the inan
with £5OOO a year will be called .on to part
up one day’s income every week. He’ll rush
it.
“Copabella” : Our pacifists and Bolsheviks
need engineer no civil war or revolution in
order to abolish the citizens’ service clauses
of the Defence Act. All they need do is
engage a common petty-sessions lawyer and
give him his bead. A young Victorian bottle-
blower (bottle-blowers are the Kockefellers
of industrialism) recently hired a Gent One
to defend him in a charge of failure to attend
a cadet drill. The magistrate was
used only to sulky youths who placidly
accept a lecture or “Quefmseliff” and never
defend themselves, let alone employ a lawyer,
The well-primed Gent One fairly wiped the
court floor with prosecuting officer, magistrate
and Act. In fact, he had' to be implored to
drop his ultra vires and other trade jargon
and as a favor get down to the mere facts of
the defence. Defendant lost on the facts, but
he secured a suspension of penalty while the
P.M. went to bed with a volume of Pearce
on Bungling. In the meantime 2656 local
lads’ mouths water at the thought of bottle-
blowing as a career.
“N.F.S.”: Re sending young children to
school. I have had 30 years’ experience of
teaching, and my advice is send them to a
good school early. Ninety per cent, of
children leave school at 14, so, should a boy
begin at 6, he has eight years to acquire ail
that will help him to earn his livelihood
and, also, enough culture to make his life
worth living. That time is not one minute
too long. At six the mind is amazingly
receptive. At the end of the first two years
the average child can read, write, count, add,
subtract, draw and recite. The most heart-
breaking task I ever had was when I opened
a new school in a remote district. Lads of
10 and 12 came to -me for their first school-
ing, and a terrible job it was. Their uncul-
tivated, unused brains refused to obey the
wills of their owners. The best I could do
was to make them able to read, though with-
out much understanding. From a physical
point of view these boys were no better than
children in other schools who had begun
their school lives at six. I consider it an
injustice to a child to keep him from school
till he is eight years of age.
There was recently introduced into the
Canadian Senate an “Act for the Identifica-
tion of Traders in German Goods.” It pro-
vides that: —
Every person who deals in goods, wares, or mer-
chandise which are, in whole or in part, the growth,
product or manufacture of Germany or Austria,
shall keep posted in letters easily legible over every
outside entrance to his premises the words, “Dealer
in German Goods,” and shall print the said words
prominently in all his advertisements and stationery.
The chief objector to this natural offspring
of the old “Made in Germany” label was a
former agent for* the •Hamburg-American
line at Halifax, but his argument that it
would “cut off a great market for Canadian
produce” is too thin to stand discussion.
After the war the Hun Government will
bar the importation of everything save
urgent necessaries from any part of the
British Empire, whereas the Canadian Act
bars nothing in the way of importation from
Germany. It merely proposes to appeal to
the common-sense of a community which is
now paying in blood for having helped to
provide aggressive militarism with the sinews
of damnable war. If a plain statement of
fact doesn’t deter the public from feeding
militarism, as before, the ITun estimate of
British commonsense can bo accepted as
correct.
The great Murrumbidgee irrigation settle-
ment (N.S.W.) which according to published
accounts showed a loss of £194,338 for the
year to June, 1917, is still in difficulties. It
is now proposed to write off £40,000 of back
rents, which will make the deficit worse on
paper, but no worse in reality. The irriga-
tion works cost, of course, a vast amount
more than was expected, so the business set
out with a big load to carry. Then it is
nearly 400 miles from the only big market
which the centralisation policy allows to
exist f and a number of the allotments were
too small to constitute a fair living area.
But for the fact that the general revenue
carried the loss, even irrigation might have
dried up under too much management and
too many managers.
“C.T.8.”: I know one tough old bos’un
that Davy Jones rejected with a thud. It
happened two years ago while our 11,000-ton
transport was rolling across Biscay through
a gale that was throwing it green to the
funnels. Three of the crew had gone over-
board to glory and there was no looking
back, for the long lines of davits held only
ropes and dangling ends of splintered boards.
While dodging along the boat deck the crafty
old bos’un was bowled overboard. For a
breathless second or so he was a handful of
clothes among the foam ; then a racing wave-
top caught him and threw him inboard on
one of the lower decks, breaking four of his
ribs. “Wasn’t meant to be drowned!” he
gasped as they dragged him in to the doctor.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information rcgardins sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.-City 4246, . 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
48io! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MAIIYBOUOUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACK ATT
BOWEN
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Aug. 3.
Loaves Sydney, Aug. 6.
BOMBA LA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Aug. 17.
Leaves Sydney, Aug. 20.
MKLBOUHNE ]
(Transhipping for r
S.A. and W.A. ports) J
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney; Aug'. G.
‘Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking. I’nblie Companies. &c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1.000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.; THOS.
WELSBY V
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Offiee: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THIJOUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to .Tune 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. . . 180,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . , .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 speciallj/. protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Running, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. H. Hart! Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD Oi l ICE - - - BRISBANE.
Brunches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager : E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager-: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedlc Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,95S
Preference Shares. . . . . . 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £i,soo,(H>o)
Paid-up . . . • ■ • 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking* business.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping Ae.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES. PRAIRIES. GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
Next Sailing—R.M.S. MAKURA, Bth AUGUST.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO. VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States.' Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU , of the Pacific. ”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
4
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Groups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD,, 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
mn
- £3,904,8G0
- £2,950,000
£3,904,800
£10,759,720
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. .London Office—‘l9 Threadneedle Street, -E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on. foreign places DIRECI. Foreign Bilis
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
° .1 RTTSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
mnmnmn
3WI s.
JBanfc ot ßuotmlia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
for pe a.. General Banking Business P ;P„*pa.
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all
Branches, and over
2750
Agencies at
Interest at
per annum
mn
1/-
Post Offices in Australia., Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific.
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
PROVIDE A RESERVE FUND
by banking your surplus earnings where they will
accumulate with interest at the rate of 3f per cent, per
annum, and be available when required.
Government Savings BanK of
New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards.
Interest Limit £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State.
No Agencies at Post Office.
The Bank that Pays 31% Interest on Savings
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
SYDNEY TO QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
INTENDED SAILINGS FROM GRAFTON WHARF.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping' at a-
Townsville fo r
Lucinda Point,
Moiirilyan aml
Innisfail.)
S.S. RUPARA, July 27.
S.S. MORIALTA, August '3.
S.S. PARIXCiA, August 10.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Visitors are not allowed on Company’s Wharves
or on board Company’s Steamers.
E. B. WAREHAM.
Manager.
15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent East Passenger Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailing's between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be -obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
Krom Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. Between _ Melbourne and Launceston three
sailings per week.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks.
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
“VENTURA” sails AUGUST 28.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON « "CO., Brisbane ; MctLWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PT\> LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH V CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s magnificent Steamem trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BEiLLINGER,
NAMBUCCA. MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are ifNied in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail saloon on
steamer, £6 Ils.; second-class rail and steerage on
Steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 G.EORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
The Edison
“Amberola”
makes home doubly attractive
by introducing the
refining influence of
good music. This per-
fect instrument, with
its Diamond Stylus-
requiring no changing
of needles —plays the
celebrated Blue Am-
berol records, and has
a clear, full tone.
The illustration is of
the “Amberola” 75, a
perfect model of ele-
gant appearance; in
either Golden Oak or
Mahogany finish is
splendid value at
price, £24,
m
The nearest Edison dealer will gladly give
a demonstration. Illustrated catalog free on
request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


CiiMES
Heidsiecks
Vintage 1906
CMPM
HE PLUS ULTRA
T
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
1 Stvops-
ate ov Y a^ cu
i *g&?sBs? ~
I %ry section
1 %&?£&% r
n sss^t^s,
■ &3SW"S.--S-
mn
PAULINE et CIE
ANNOUNCE THEIR
SPRING AND SIMMER SHOW.
MILLINERY on and after Wednesday, August 7.
COATS and SKIRTS, FROCKS, etc., on and after
Tuesday, August 20. 3rd Floor,
Denison House Chambers, George Street, Sydney.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful S minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 Rooms,
comprising Private Suites, Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts.
Illustrated Prospectus and all particu-
lars forwarded on application.
Telephones : Y2IIS and Y 1266.
m
nm
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
n
mn
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVEID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, July 22, 1918.
My Dear Arini, —
Under the blue arch of Australian skies
Billjim, with haversack on shoulder, tramped
through the city m route to the troopships,
and Sydney waved multicolored bunting, flung
the yellow velvet fluff of wattle over his
khaki and sped him on his way. When the
long brown line swerved into Martin-place
two heavy A.S.C. waggons rumbled on ahead
with Billjim a joyous spectacle under show-
ers of golden bloom rocking precariously on
top of a mountain of baggage and winking
joyfully at the crowd. Even that perpetual
procession-breaker, the flapper, couldn’t drag
him off his pinnacle. Ahead of the troops
rode the man in charge of the parade, Liver-
pool’s big Chief Artilleryman. The march
was something to be proud of. Light Horse-
men, neatly wedged in here and there to
restrain the Young Person who hursts into
action on these occasions, and a saucy help-
ing of the navy caught a proper share of the
generous good nature of the crowds. The
naval hat has an all-world claim to popu-
larity. Only Bull pups can toss on their mil-
linery with the devil-me-care air that rouses
the big cheer. The spectacular effort of the
well-disciplined procession fell away slightly
at the tail. When the horsemen had passed,
a hundred or so of straggling khaki figures
were rushed by the youngsters in the street.
Perhaps that invaluable infant, the Boy
Scout, will see what he can do about it.
The sudden death in Brisbane of the late
Patrick Jennings’s daughter Mary, carries
Sydney-siders’ memory back to long-ago
politics in N. S. Wales. Patrick Jennings
got a knighthood. To the tact and social in-
fluence of the deceased daughter the poli-
tician owed a good deal of his popularity.
The mild type of music-lover who stalks a
Saturday-night “Pop” is not so difficult to
halt in the pursuit of his fancy as the high-
brow in search of Bach at the Conserva-
torium. Therefore heavy rain hit the attend-
ance at the Collier concert, given in the Town
Hall on July 20. Youthful soprano Florence
Fawaz, of Melbourne, was the novelty on the
programme. She’s built on the sumptuous
lines of the singer who’s a stayer, and she
possesses a velvet-toned organ of unusual
promise. Queenie Fenton sang and showed
deer-like ankles. One suspects the ankles of
having been partly responsible for the golden-
liaired girl’s recall. More neat ankles (a
specialty in the Collier company) showed
under the frock of Una Black, a young violin-
ist. She drew tender tones from her fiddle.
Lilian Frost had the compliment of a deter-
mined encore for her masterful attack on the
Widor Toccata, and, returning, gave a deli-
cate gem of melody—Esther Kahn’s
“Gavotte”—in response.
Marie Tempest was farewelled at the Aus-
tralia by a little gathering summoned by the
Guy Bales Post lady. A Lane Cove girl,
Esther Mitchell, who is forging ahead
through a steady helping of small parts, had
an offer to go with Miss Tempest’s co. on
its S’Airiean tour, but she decided to stay
in her own country a while longer. Marie
travels with a mountain of Saratogas, the
largest size in dress-baskets, and,i inciden-
tally, some presentation smelling-salts
securely bottled in cut-glass.
The yoke of war presses heavily on the
Strathfiehd family of Ranson. The house-
hold has just lost the young barrister son,
Lieut. J. IR. Ranson —killed in France. One
brother is a prisoner of war ; another is
busy in khaki.
The Rotyal Yacht Squadron’s Club House
stands on the shelving shore of Ivirribilli,
with a private wharf at the foot of its
grounds. From this wharf launches will col-
lect passengers on Saturday afternoon (at a
price), rush them over to Fort Denison and
bring them back when they’ve asked care-
taker Cobb all the questions that simmer in
their minds. The fete in the yachtsmen’s
retreat will go on till late at night. The
cause is a new ward for permanently disabled
soldiers in Graythwaite Red Cross haven.
Though only friends and relatives were
present when Myfanwy Owen murmured the
right reply to Adrian Friend in All Saints’,
Hunter’s Hill, girl chums saw that the
church was gay with blooms. The bride’s
father, Rev. Edward Owen, tied the knot,
so Uncle Read, O.C. at the George’s Heights
Garrison Hospital, gave the girl away. The
cake was cut at the local rectory.
Neutral Bay, which claims that it grows
more pretty girls to the quarter-acre than
any other water-frontage, has had another of
them captured. Winnie Haslam was quietly
wed in Perth (W.A.) a few weeks ago. The
happy man is E. B. Curlewis, of Melbourne.
One of the David girls (dad is the fighting
professor who helped to round up the Tun-
nellers’ corps) married a young Tasmanian.
Dr. W. Iv. Mclntyre, a few years ago and
made her home in Edinburgh. Since then
the war has called the lancets to the Front,
and “Mac” has just been handed the Military
Cross for his gallant services to the wounded
under heavy fire.
Genial “Bob” Bell, the popular bowler
(who is managing director of the North
Coast S. N. Co. when he rolls up his sleeves
for work), is recovering health. He pulled
through a recent operation.
There may be a few left. I am talking
about Mrs. Fiaschi's little store of Roman
trinkets, on sale for Italy’s Red Cross fund.
They include exquisite samples of Italian
craftsmanship in the form of tiny medallions
—half an inch of stained-glass window and
small ivory paper-knives set with the Red
Cross. The address is 129 Phillip-street.
On July 30, in the Conservatorium, Stella
Power will sing. Melba will be godmother,
and John Lemmone is doing work that pre-
pares the way for a successful concert.
That slender wisp of music, pianist Laur-
ence Phillip, was farewelled at Farmer’s the
other day. Lawrence Campbell delivered
the benediction. A cheque was pressed upon
the departing traveller as a visible token of
regard from the musical and allied profes-
sions. California is the Promised Land in
which Phillip seeks better health.
Three “days” will serve to divert optimists
from any illusion as to the end of the war
or the Millennium being in sight. On the
first (August 2) the collection-boxes will be
rattled on behalf of a Sydney Hall of Fame
in memory of fallen soldiers. This includes
an organisation to help returned men back
to civilian life —an inquiry depot and a de-
partment for letting off steam if they feel
that they are not getting a fair deal. On
November 1 Jack’s Day is on the pro-
gramme, by permission of the Repatriation
chiefs. It is being launched by the Navy
League’s executive. About the end of
November the War Chest, with all its
inimitable resources for relieving the public
of its superfluous coppers, will have its Day.
The proceeds go in a direction about which
there is no division of opinion—to the man
in the firing-line.
The wedding of the charmer Emelie
Polini to a Sydney man, Lieut. Harold Ellis,
R.F.A., will be a blow to a swarm . of
admirers. The lead in “De Luxe Annie,
keeping quietly in the background, off-stage,
during her Sydney season inadvertently
created the interest that always surrounds
the inaccessible. Muffled inquiries as to
whether the lady were “engaged” are now
at rest.
Mrs. D. F. Isles, a
Victorian now accli-
matised to Sydney,
used to be a bowler
of renown. She was
a gold medallist of
the greens. The lady
of the photograph
has been resident
in Sydney since
the war started. Her
husband is chief en-
gineer on a transport
and looks into port
now and again. The
soft - voiced sports-
woman is one of the
best of our voluntary
workers. Italy’s Day
preparations found
her busy. For weeks
before the date Mrs, Isles worked
from nine in the morning till ten
at night. Others might tire, but stowed
away in the cellar or basement where her
special duties were was Mrs. Isles, whose
serene temperament never sagged under the
strain of a 13-hour day’s hard work.
Amongst other activities she is acting-com-
mandant of No. 14 V.A.D., with 30 V.A.
girls who, so to speak, follow her from dawn
till dusk working for soldiers. And Mrs.
Isles praises the other “fellows” all
the time. “Our V.A. division owes ever so
much gratitude to J. Maxwell, senior officer
of the Civil Ambulance, for his pains in
training us in first-aid, bandaging, etc.
Then there’s my tireless quarter-master,
Bessie Garratt.” Tesse Heggart is respon-
sible for the picture.
The late-comer at the Actors’ Association
party the other afternoon could only get a
nose round the door, till a few of the most
important persons present had wormed their
way inland. The pleasant club-room is a
long thin wedge in the building, not too high
in the ceiling, and when it contains a Gover-
nor and his lady, the usual people who go to
look at them, two-thirds of the J.C.W. crowd
(including Hugh Ward, Margaret Wycherly
and her furs), the Guy Bates Post pair and
Connie Ediss —who needs space and a piano,
even an extra teacup means congestion.
Sidney Stirling, with Walter Bentley in the
offing, welcomed the Government House
party.
Dorothy Godwin,
the lady with the
harp, is not a mem-
ber of a Heavenly
Choir, though the
Aussies for whose
benefit she has played
in English camps re-
gard her as an angel.
Some months ago a
little Bulletin pic-
ture of Winifred
Carter, the Sydney
harpist, excited con-
siderable interest in
a military camp,
chiefly Australian, on
the other side. One
of our own lads
writes: “You men-
tion the rarity of the
harp in Australia nowadays except at big
orchestral concerts. We have owed many
pleasant evenings just before being booked
up for the firing-line, to a charming Bristol
girl—Miss Godwin. We persuaded her to
send you her photo.” She is a leading mem-
ber of a first-rate professional co., and was
for some time a sub-professor of the Royal
.Academy of Music, London. The big harp
was made for her by the well-known maker
George Morley.
Captain Charlie Mills, a Queenslander
(brother to the poetic scribe, M. Forrest), is
in Portuguese East Africa, where he’s fight-
ing with British troops, or was when he
wrote. Keeping the camp-fire burning to dis-
courage the curiosity of hungry lions is only
an item in the guerilla warfare. Mills, who
has been in the,, thick of things since the
start, has discovered that he has as many
lives as the proverbial puss, but he calls his
adventures picnics compared to those of
Arnold Weinholdt, whom he met quite re-
cently. Arnold had just dodged another
effort of the engaging Hun to herd him into a
prisoners’ camp.
The Voluntary Workers get the money
from the dance in the Wentworth hostel the
other evening. Mrs. Maclurcan lent the
roomy lounge, and the electric bulbs beamed
on fair girls, some soldiers—and some
others.
Last week J. W. Kettlewell paid the toll
of overdoing war-work, with a sudden seri-
ous illness. He is ordered complete rest,
that idyllic patent medicine the busy man
regards as fiction. By way of getting the
patient out of range of the ’phone, Mrs.
Kettlewell is persuading him to try his luck
as a holiday fisherman on lakes north of
Newcastle. J.W. has been the most tireless
voluntary toiler of the French’s Forest
settlement since the first bramble was cut.
He has begged, borrowed and entreated the
whole of the transport that took the workers
and their gear over the long red road to the
soldiers’ village. Who will take on his lion,
job for some months while he recuperates is
the urgent question.
The youthful artist Mary Edwards came
home the other day with mother from
Maoriland. They meant to detour at
Rotorua, but the weather was freezing, and
there was a poor chance of getting Maoris
to pose while noses were blue. Before
striking for home and running the gauntlet
of the Customs (something fairly hard for
lone women to tackle in war-time) the.
Edwards pair had sauntered through lovely
Pacific isles.
Dorothy Gumming, who left Australia with
the. Cyril .Maude co., was in Oregon (U.S. >
not so long ago. She says she’d been drink-
ing the water of Shaasta, Valley, and found
it the real soda-water—the extra fizzy article
usually found in a patent-topped bottle.
Mrs. George Sargent lately had glad tidings
of the release of her son, who for long had
been a prisoner of war in Germany. But
that won’t cause her to relax her efforts for
others less fortunate. The Town Hall con-
cert this Thursday evening is under her wing.
The Davidsons are going. Proceeds will be
spent on food parcels to our half-starved
prisoners in the Hun’s military camps.
From Brisbane:—
The Manufacturers’ Conference is in full swing this
week. On Wednesday the visitors and their wives were
motored to the top of One Tree Hill and invited to ad-
mire the view. After the duly-impressed picnickers had
murmured something appropriate they were streng-
thened with tea and sandwiches. On the same after-
noon the ladies’ committee of the British Industries
League led the delegates and their, female relatives
round the Botanic Gardens, and then tea-ed them at
the kiosk.
A committee of women are busy in the Courier
Buildings packing and despatching Christmas boxes
to soldiers. Five shillings pays for a box and good
measure is given for the money. Don’t be afraid
of overworking the packers.
The Red Cross drive, which is due next week, seems
likely to leave the citizens of this town financially
weakened. The Advance Australia pageant at H. M.
Theatre should add several hundreds to the takings
at a guinea a seat. The promoters want all
soldiers in uniform, any Army nurses and Red Cross
workers, who so desire, to attend the full-dress
rehearsal on Monday afternoon.
Mrs. Parry Okeden, wife of the former Commis-
sioner of Police, and mother of two gallant soldier
sons, died this week. She was a gentle little lady
whose charity was constantly and quietly exercised.
Mrs. Plogsted, head of the Australian-
American War Workers, an unofficial lot
who peg away on their own, has led her
damsels into bigger premises. Their cafe in
Rowe-street, where waffles and maple-syrup
drew large and appreciative audiences, has
been departed from in favor of a new
hive in the old Daily Telegraph offices in
Iving-street. The pasties were officially
opened there by Chief Secretary Fuller, who
mentioned £5OOO as the amazing results of
theA.-A. War Workers’ 12 months’ toil for
w r ar funds.
A recent M.C. goes to Harry Burne, now
a captain in the R.F.A. on service with the
British Forces. He was that bright young
Australian whose chief concern was turning
out art posters in New York when the lid
blew off in Europe. He went to England and
enlisted in the “Blues.” Later he moved
into the Artillery, won a commission, and he
is still pounding at Fritz. The young man
is a son of Dr. and Mrs. Burne, of Sydney.
Private-view day at the new Artists’ Gal-
lery in the Royal Exchange Buildings, Pitt-
street, brought the few that aim at col-
lecting the local brushman’s wares. The
Gallery—a top-floor room—-has its walls
covered with Australian scenery. When
Hilder died the swift advance in
prices of his water-colors developed the col-
lectors’ commercial instincts. So Australian
art now has its speculative side, and if you
can’t love pictures entirely for their own
sake you may treasure them for what they
may be worth in years to come. Many of the
artists now turning out brilliant work may,
like Streeton, feel amazed later at the modest
figure they once put on their work. The
Artists’ Gallery hangs rows of chances for
the discerning collector.
Captain Tomkinson, formerly of the Uni-
versity Scouts (that was when he wore a
trencher-board as an undergraduate) and
latterly of the R.A.A., went to the wars with
the Siege guns in 1915. “Tommy,” now a
major, has pulled through the racket with
“slightly wounded” against his health hill.
Over here on a visit from Perth, Constance,
a daughter of the late Dr. Alfred Keenan,
formerly of Sydney.
The late Larry Foley’s daughter Geraldine
was wed in St. Mary’s Cathedral the other
day. Terence O’Shaughnessy was the other
contracting party.
. The G.-G. Ferguson has been, so to speak,
leaping from crag to crag with Scottish
energy. To-day at Duntroon, to-morrow at
Cockatoo Dock, yesterday at Liverpool
camp, and in between running up the Tin-
gira gangway. Our training-ship is getting
batches of young salts ready to relieve their
mates in the bleak North Sea. .
Some of the new spring hats —wide, flat-
crowned and shady—recall that fascinating
millinery known as the “Gardener’s Daugh-
ter.” with the narrow black velvet band
which tied under the chin.
Over £l4OO fell into Italy’s locker from the
Festa in the Town Hall. Mrs. Ferrari Pass-
more was one of the responsible parties.
The Wattle Day League holds its annual
chat on July 31, in the Royal Society’s rooms.
Next day, August 1, its members will dis-
tribute the lovely bloom. One of the hard-
and-fast rules is that our national flower
is not to be sold by any leaguer on their
day. The sentiment of the blossom is above
cash in their opinion. The penalty for
infringing this statute is punishment a little
less than death —exile from the League’s
councils.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORTAN.


Hardy Brothers
JEWELLERS.
DIAMOND AND GEM JEWELLERY
The Company Special-
ises in Highly-finished
Diamond a n d Gem
Ornaments.
Diamond Fancy
King, Platinum
Setting,
£B5.
Selections forwarded on
Approval it Desired.
Diamond and Black Opal
Brooch,
£l2O.
Diamond and Ruby
Cluster Ring,
£5O.
Diamond Fancy
King, Platinum
Setting,
£2OO.
The Gems Selected are
of Finest Quality and
the Workmanship of
Highest Standard.
Diamond Fancy
King, Platinum
Setting,
£125.
Five per cent. Discount
on all Cush Purchases.
Diamond and Fine Aquamarine Bar Brooch,
£33.
A Copy of the Company’s Illustrated Catalogue sent Post Free on Bequest.
15 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 116-118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON.
We Teach Photography
FREE to Camera Buyers
Apart from the pleasure you have yourself, in bein| to take of^ourtfrmn^
and the many beautiful scenes you visit, th ' h f 10me h in( j other things that you know he
SBKi SK&STSW «*.&
that will please him better.
m
Harringtons’ can show you a flue range
of in expensive Cameras, British-made, at
prices to suit all requirements, and they
will teach you how to take,_ develop and
print your photos, free of charge, eithei
personally or by mail.
Magazine Cameras, British-made, for
Plates (one plate can be exposed, taken
out, and developed, without disturbing
those in the camera) —
9/-, 12/-, 20/-, 25/- to 62/6.
Box-Form Ensign Cameras,
British-made, Daylight-loading, f o r
Films . , ~.. 9/-, 14/-, 16/6, 22/6
Folding Cameras, for Films and
Plates, from 30/-
We invite your inspection. If you
cannot call, send for illustrated price list.
Residues—Precious Metals.
The .Jeweller, Dentist, Proeess Engraver or other Metal Worker who entrusts his
Sweeps, Residues and other Waste Products to us for refinement can do so m lui
confidence that he will obtain satisfaction both in service and in results.
The latest scientific appliances are installed in our laboratories, and 'every order is
executed under the personal supervision of a qualified chemist from Messrs. Jo "s®°" JL
Sons, Ltd., Assayers to his Majesty’s Mint and the Bank of England, etc. I'ecotet
material for treatment, in city or suburbs, free of charge. Give us a rin ß , City 86. J ,
and our traveller will call on you.
NOTE THIS POINT. —In order to thoroughly protect our clients, we
reserve Reference Samples until settlement is complete.
We can supply Fine anti Sterling Silver, Electrolytic Copper,
Gold Chloride, Silver Nitrate and Silver Salts, Platinum and Platinum
Alloys at Lowest Market Kates.
IT?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches in all States and New Zealand.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George St. North, Sydney.
ss
Pianola Piano
stands pre-eminent in the music world\
bringing “mankind and music together.
It is a phenomenal achievement destined
to be inscribed high on the roll of great
human endeavor as an extraordinary
success worthy of universal appreciation.
The PI ANO I-. A makes accessible the
hitherto inaccessible , unlocking all the
entrancing beauty of the music realm.
Don t postpone your further enquiries
another day. But take care you secure
the genuine PIANOLA, for there are
naturally many who attempt imitations.
Catalog with pleasure.
Ask, too , about our convenient Payment Terms.
SEND THIS COUPON TO THE PIANOLA COMPANY.
Please send me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos,
shotting hoiv I can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and ichat allowance you can make on my present piano.
which is a
Bought about ..
Name
.4 ddress
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.
“The Centre for the World’s Greatest Achievements in Musical Instruments,”
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne;
436 Queen Street, Brisbane;
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.


Hotel Sydney
(Now Fully Licensed)
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE*
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
HOT AND COLD WATER SERVICE IN EVERY
BEDROOM DAY AND NIGHT.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
. „ (Daily) „ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast ~ .. . 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
Government Notice.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, July 12, 1018.
Tenders for the Supply tf Chocolate.
Amended Notice.
TENDERS will be received until Friday,
August 2,191 S, for the supply of a
quantity of approximately 14,0001 b. of sol-
uble Navy Chocolate.
Sample may be inspected and tender forms
obtained at the offices of the Director of
Navy Contracts. Navy Offiee, Melbourne;
the Victualling Store Officer, Royal Edward
Victualling Yard, Pyrmont. Sydney; and
at the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birken-
head (S.A.), Fremantle and Ilobart.
A. POYNTON,
for Minister of State for the Navy.
.
-
h
A “
TONIC
SALT
for
ALL
ANIMALS
Obtainable from
Stores, Produce • •
Merchants, BlacKr
smiths, etc.,-
throughout the -
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, July 22, 191 S.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The French Red Cross has been conduct-
ing its “silent appeal.” The Day (Friday)
saw numerous “posts” (not kiosks) at every
turn. Nothing was sold. Quiet women sat
and waited for contributions to their special
box. Each post was named after a French
,town that has suffered in the war. Mrs.
CrivelU made the shields which bore the
names. It is expected to bank £70,000.
Citizens showed a. grateful appreciation of
the change from the usual tumult.
At a monster French meeting in the Lown
Hall Governor Stanley presided and orated.
Defence Minister Pearce, the Gaud Mayor,
Consul Fliche, Melba, Red Cross Ilen-
nessy, Mrs. CrivelU and a dozen more
occupied the front row of the plat-
form, which was crowded to the organ
with other more or less notables. The
Gaud Mayor had a seat of honor in
the centre, with Governor Stanley and
Consul Fliche at his elbows. Melba was
in deep black, with Brunnhilde wings of
gdld and black in her close-fitting hat.
Mrs. P earce was wrapped from nose to toes
in furs. Lady Henriessy had spring blos-
soms on her fur muff, and Dr. Helen Sexton
looked like a small admiral in decorated dark
uniform and a fore-and-aft hat.
After Governor Stanley had talked at
great length, Senator Pearce inflicted another
long oration on the crowd. Irvine, C.J.,
spoke effectively. Then the Marseillaise
was thundered by the great audience, with
Melba’s soprano soaring above all. A line
of handsome V.A.IVs curved round the organ-
loft and helped the great rallying song. It
was very stirring.
Nui’se Marjorie Lock, the V.A.D. who had
the misfortune to lose her left hand through
its being crushed in a steam-mangle at No. 1
Rest Home, Wirths’ Park, has received a sil-
ver badge inscribed “For King and Country,
Services Rendered,” presented by the Im-
perial Government. Her accident was
exceptionally unfortunate, as she was a good
pianist.
Jaffa Gate in Jerusalem is the latest stand
of the Australian Red Cross. There are
kitchens at the base and an Australian
woman, who is a champion cook, has been
giving lessons in preparation of medical
foods to an army of ambulance men.
General Sellheim lately cheered up Lady
Helen’s Red Crossers by officially advising
them that 37 Australian prisoners of war,
repatriated to England, had offered up heart-
felt thanks to the Australian Red Cross for
parcels sent to them. Many of the men
said that the parcels saved their lives.
One of the first four Australian nurses to
win the Military Medal for heroism under
fire, Sister Claire Deacon, has come back as
matron on a hospital ship. She and her
mates were attached to the 2nd Australian
Casualty Clearing-station in France when
it was bombarded, and she helped to move*
the patients to safety from one of the shat-
tered ward's. There were many killed and
wounded. When the girls Were notified that
they were billed for the M.M. they didn’t
believe it. knowing that no woman had yet
received the decoration. So they kept dark
until General Birdwood handed each of them
the ribbon. The medal was passed over
later on by the King at Buckingham Palace.
Claire Deacon was trained at Hobart Hospi-
tal and was among the first to leave for ser-
vice. She has seen service in Egypt, Eng-
land and France.
Banker Morrice Williams and his wife
have been handed the Military Cross which
their Anzac captain son did not live to wear.
Another Williams son is still fighting.
Medico Charlie Lempriere is back after a
third transport trip. His account of the
present looks of some of our fashionable
matrons in the Fog is appalling. Food and
chiffonery are the twin aids to feminine
beauty, but these days circumstances compel
the rationed dames to feel well in themselves
whilst looking ill in their clothes.
The William Leonards’ youngest son,
Gunner Bertie, is back with a chunk of
shrapnel embedded in his leg. He-is getting-
out of khaki.
The John Turnbull widow is preparing to
welcome medical son Hume back from the
Front. His wife and baby are coming home
with him. Mrs. Hume was Marjorie Yule, of
Brighton, and left Australia as an Anzac
nurse. The pair met in an Australian hospi-
tal in France.
Wilfred Newbery, son of the late Cosmo,
has been gassed into hospital after three
active years as an artillery officer. He tied
up with Dodo Chenery, and has a two-year-
old at home.
Gillespie, the long, lean insurance man.
has two boys fighting with the Artillery.
They left here with different batteries, and
about a month ago the younger one found
himself suddenly face to face with liis elder
brother, who was an officer, on parade. The
surprise was mutual. Officer brother grinned
delightedly when little brother reported,
then he deliberately put on his most ferocious
manner and rounded on the s youngster for
having a crease in his bootlace.
Jolly little Chaplain-Major Frank Inga-
rnells, though a favorite with all denomina-
tions in the Western District, is an Anglican
shepherd, so it is the C.E. that is losing
most by his departure from Coleraine. Said
that he is going to a N. S. Wales parish.
Mrs. Hidgecock and daughter Mary had a
tea-party at the Oriental to welcome the
George Rolfes to town. Now that the seas
are closed to oversea trippers, the Rolfes
come up from Warrnambool and perch in
their Spring-street house for any winter
festivities that are going.
The Foundling Hospital has sent out invi-
tations for its 41st annual meeting, on July
25, but omitted to mention that afternoon
tea will be poured. The Hospital is afraid
this omission may scare some women off.
But tea-soakers may roll up in peace. Lady
Irvine will ask how many lumps.
The John Madden widow lias just erased
her name from the sick-list. Daughter Lesley
had to desert the chiffon undies shop for a
time to look after the invalid.
The Lyceum Club had its opening cere-
mony on Saturday. The Brainsturm girls
did most of the upholstering themselves and
are very proud of it. Tile dainty Club has
lots of room, and the windows have an air-
man’s view of the circling river and hills,
and Collins-street below is a mere tree-fringed
ribbon. Secretary Florence Wrigley appeared
in pastel colors and a big feather ruff. Dr.
Constance Ellis wore gold and blue. Mrs.
Ray Phillips spread her wings over a sofa
she had upholstered. Some beautiful Aus-
tralian pictures are on the walls, Streeton’s
and McCubbin’s work amongst them. Clarice
Malyon and some of Melba’s pupils sang
and Rieke Parker played.
Bigjohn Forrest has a room full of sou-
venir silver trowels, golden keys and other
lumber in his bungalow at Perth, and a
thief lately took a trowel and got 3s. fid. for
it. Then the Law fell on the thief and gave
him two months’ hard for being a small
retail rogue instead of a fat profiteer.
From Adelaide: —
Lieut. 0. W. Il.Sadlier, who annexed one of the
last two V.GVs awarded to Australians, will probably
find himself claimed by three States. He was born
and educated in Victoria, began earning his crust
and enlisted in West Australia, and his people are
living here. Two brothers fought with the A.I.F.
One of them returned to Australia as the result of
wounds, and the other, gassed and with trench feet,
is in London. The A r .C. winner is on his way back
to Australia.
On Saturday Flapperdom, its mother and its aunts,
wrapped itself in its warmest coat, smothered itself
in red or blue ribbon, and braved an Antarctic wind
and drenching rain to see Prince Alfred beat St.
Peter’s handsomely at inter-collegiate football.
The Governor splashed along to follow the match
for a time. In the evening > he and Lady Galway
were at the Repertory Theatre’s performance of
“Rutherford and Co.”
Drs. A. M. Cudmore, Smeatqn and De Crespigny
are preparing to return to France. Eacfi of them
has seen active service with the A.I.F. Dr. J. 11.
Proctor sailed for the same destination on a recent
transport.
A. W. Piper, 11.0., has had word from his son
Roderick that he is well, although in a prisoners’
camp in Germany.
The children of the State Schools have devised
another means of money-raising. They are to have
19 days of self-denial, doing without sugar on
their porridge or something equally uncalled for.
Australia is a great country for letting the burden
fall on the kid.
The Bowman-Shannon marriage has linked up two
of our biggest sheep-farming clans. The bridegoom
is Donat, eldest son of the Edmund Bowmans, who
once owned Martindale Hall, and the bride is
Adelaide, elder daughter of the late Thomas and
Mrs. Shannon.
The Army Nurses’ Fund presented an excellent
record of its year’s work at its annual meeting on
Tuesday afternoon, and gave special thanks for the
£7OOO added to its balance-sheet by the Commercial
Travellers’ effort in October last.
On Friday the Governor opened the State War
Council’s Soldiers’ Hostel, a roomy, well-planned
building at the rear of the Cheer-up Hut. Twenty-
five cubicles will provide accommodation for 50 men.
The Government and Public Library Board have
agreed to painter Wyllie’s request to hand over his
long-hidden picture, “Fishing Boats, Etaples.” The
canvas is to be sent to Melbourne, where Mrs. George
Box will dispose of it for the benefit of French
refugees.
Beryl Fanning has confessed to intended
matrimony with Commissioner Piddington’s
young Irish secretary Newell. He is known
to the ribald as "The Spring Song,” or
“Spring Chicken,” owing to his ornate tailor-
ings.
A matrimonial engagement links up two
far corners of Victoria. . Clarice Harvey,
daughter of W. 11. Harvey, of Sea Lake, is
to marry Roger Dean, of Ovens Vale, Mount
Buffalo. Roger, who put in some time over-
seas in the 40th Battalion, has been inva-
lided Borne.
Beryl Fanning has just paused in her
patriotic work to announce her engagement
to an Irishman. In the same breath she
told with joy of the homecoming of her sol-
dier brother Rupert.
Nurse Singleton, a grand-daughter of fine
old Dr. Singleton of early Melbourne days,
has promised to become Mrs. William Gul-
lan. of Stawell, in the near future. The
bridegroom-elect has been invalided home
from the 4th Light Horse.
Early in August Gwen Davies, daughter
of Captain Davies, of Goat Island, Sydney,
is to marry one of our returned sailors,
Lieutenant Norman Siepen, R.N.R., of
Auburn, Melbourne, who is on six months’
furlough. He has been on active service
since the beginning of the war, and is the son
of Siepen, late chief draughtsman for the
Victorian Railways. The marriage will
take place in St. Andrew’s Cathedral,
Sydney.
Lucy Atkins Purchas (an exceedingly
pretty young matron) has just returned to
Hobart after a Visit to Melbourne. Husband
Frank Purchas is a relation of Melba, and it
was the Dame who introduced the pair to
each other in London. Mrs. Purchas has
been singing with Stella Power.
Geelong was positively hectic for a whole
Monday last week. Melba, expected for
breakfast, arrived in time for lunch, and
by three o’clock Mayor Hitchcock and his
■Mpouse were on the Town Hall steps, wait-
ing to officially receive the dame. The
Mayor wore all his junk, while Mrs. H. was
effective in black and ermine when Melba
arrived with sister Mrs. Lempriere. The
reception hall was decorated with yellow
flowers, and an orchestra played while Nellie
shook hands with almost the entire popula-
tion. At night she presided over the con-
cert of Stella Power, which happened in the
local theatre. There wasn’t standing-room,
and Stella made Geelong feel that it hadn’t
lived in vain.
On her way back to Coonibe Cottage from
Geelong, Melba ran into the Geelong Gram-
mar School and said good morning to a
crowd of shiny-faced schoolboys. Amongst
them was Governor Stanley’s son and several
of her own nephews.
Gibson Young, violinist and vocalist,_ once
of Bendigo, but more recently of an English
munition-factory, has just come home. He
brought an artistic wife with him. She is
to help along the programme at the Assem-
bly Hall on August 7. Gibson will sing
French and Russian songs, and his wife will
give selections from Yeats and other poets.
Melba and two of her favorite girls bright-
ened the dull grey of Collins-street one
day last week with a streak of fine color.
They had just motored up from Geelong—
Melba, Peggy Centre and Stella Power—
after the Power concert. Melba’s tailored
coat was a deep burnt-earth color. Stella
Power was draped in a smart cape, which
reached her and a garment of a
rich cobalt blue. Brunette Peggy’s suit was
a neutral tint of a most dashing cut, and the
hats of the three were the last thing in
Parisian-New York modes.
Walter Kirby is again in Mount St.
Hospital, East Melbourne, This is his third
retirement within a few months, and he is
understood to have left several tea-room
proprietors quite heartbroken. However,
there is no immediate cause for dismay. The
tenor is recovering, and is expected back at
his favorite table within a few days.
Melba has collected six scholarships for
her Melbourne Conservatorium from U.S.
millionaires, and six American pupils are to
come out. One scholarship is from Schwab,
the steel and shipping man. He and Mrs,
Hugh Ward were “raised” in the same town,
Loretto, in Pennsylvania, and when she was
taking her Australian son as a baby to
be shown to Hugh’s mother, she hap-
pened to meet the steel chief on a railway
station. Mother and the boy finished
their long journey in state in the Schwab
private train. Mrs. Ward sang at the con-
secration of the famous Loretto church,
built by Schwab in memory of his mother.
Harold Ellis, a rich Sydney man who
acquired Emelie Polini in marriage, en-
listed in England with the Royal Field
Artillery three years ago, and having been
gassed and wounded, is now on six months
furlough. The two met on the boat coming
to Australia, but none of Annie’s friends
knew what was afoot until she broke the
glad news to Frank Tait a couple of days
before the wedding. The knot-tying took
plnce at a registry-office, where Emelie gave
her age as 27, and hubby, a fine, hefty Aus-
tralian, admitted to 31. The bride has left
bbf - Oriental and taken a fiat at Whitehall,
fehe is really a very domesticated little vuly,
a1 !' 1 " beu ber contract with the Taits is tin-
ish?d she nmy slam the stage-door lor ever,
A portable typewriter is included in the
travelling kit of Emelie Polini-Ellis. The
actress-bride yearns to shine as a play-
aright, and one of her manuscripts is under
consideration by a N’York manager. She
tib that has a S ood chance
0l n r cci „„“ ce ; ,
-h be ’'ill o the Wisps, a name girl ama-
teur co., brought a crowd to the Playhouse
ou Saturday night. Proceeds went to the
SS'*’ Hm !’
K s 'in ThFwtnl wffi l '
w , J f • V : • . ’ 1 ' ye . u> ' 1
• « x fri -hr hut acto '
mes sunerea trom, stage-rnglit, but they were
aP beautifully dressed—and that was worth
the money. Little Mona Monty, a niece of
;u . tist j ack Rongstaff, put most of the ginger
into the play (which was a parodied or bur-
lesqlied version of the story of “Faust”) and
Eva Meyers danced. Her father, the opulent
bookmaker, was proudly in front, and spoke
j u tens of guineas when the auctioning be-
gan. The girls were overwhelmed at the
crowd they had drawn ; but kindlv Napoleon
Roffard went on stage and helped them out
with some Drench songs.
' Marie Tempest is back in Melbourne. She
appea red in a box at “Katinka” the other
nig ht. One of the show pigeons dived out
from under the descending curtain and
circled over her head before alighting on
the cornice. Furtive heads appeared round
the curtain, cooing and whistling, but witli
no effect; the bird stayed with the star.
Poor Jimmy White, who passed out at
Brisbane, has left a host of club friends and
artistic acquaintances sorrowing. Ills head-
quarters were here, and Melbourne knew
him as a simple, good-natured, very likeable
fellow. As a sculptor Jimmy was least sue-
cessful in his most ambitious efforts, but he
certainly had talent. The bust of Harry
Rickards (in the foyer at the Tivoli) was
one of his happiest achievements,
Stella Payter, who went to America with
the Cyril Maude Co., has just arrived in
New York, and writes that she is thrilled
by the skyscrapers and other wonders. She
hopes to be billed in a new production,
Cobram> the bis , grey winner of this year’s
Grand National Steeplechase, has a mysteri-
ous owner. 11. Connolly, of the Western
District, is the nominated owner and trains
the horse. The real owner is not a regular
spo rting man, and Mrs. Rumor alleges that
ad he had on the grey on its big day was £l.
Mrs. Rumor picks up some l wonderful infor-
mation.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


i'V' J A'
innnww
K
'j -,^^r~
/^OS>JS5f5=
*5
It*
sw
liWNh.lllTl
millTTn
dfifii
v.K
se
iimmiiiiinnioi!iiii
imini
mu
n n mu i
fni/iiiiimiiiliimiiiiiiiiiiilliiiiiimimi
iimiuii
iiiiiiiimmiiniini n i iiiiiiiiiiiDmiiiDiiiiiiimiDinMiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiimHlliiMiiiiiiHiiiiiliLin
3/
£1
£
34
2 5
I
*
mi.
m
fm.
m,
m,
y m
vm
m
is
i
m.
mm.
m
WfM
li
&
m
m
w.
<///"
mt
mzm
m
m
m
s
*>Z-
iff?
wm
m
SHI
m
W?i
m
w-
s%
'm.
jm
W
m
z?,
M
wt
CiaJPH
*
\WWV
m.
n Ji>o
p
's/.
i
m
N
m
1
i
*
%
mtm
VM
m
3
u
m
%'////,
3
3
-
C¥i
1
%
m,
&
'm
M
ns*
M
m
Bn
m
1
niHinmiimm
linn
iimiiiHii i miiniiU
i limit
mi
m
tn>
m
SP>
nm
aWU/
\A.
ZZ2
<5 -
DEWi
Taste The Taste of Dewar’s is the Golden Key which unlocks all the pleasant avenues of the memory. In
Dewar’s Whisky there is'something creamy and yet not cloying: something velvety and yet not heating. Some-
thing rich and yet not obtrusive-something crisp and yet not crude Strong and yet gentle, Dewars is the
Paladin of Whiskies


That the U-boats will yet be herded inside
an impenetrable barrier of British mines is
the opinion inspired by that wise and endur-
ing spirit King George IV. topnotch Scotch.
—Advt.
Agents Wanted.
Have recently arrived from America and want
to hear from responsible firms who are in a
position to handle following lines:- —•
Olympian Motor Cars, costing £217
America.
Templar Motor Cars, costing £417
America.
Electric Automobiles.
Stewart Motor Trucks, 94" to 2-
ton capacity.
Dayton Heavy Duty Trucks, up to
7-ton capacity.
Marine Motors.
Electric Lighting Systems for
country use.
Arnold Electric Vibrators, Hair
Dryers and Washing Machines.
Atlas Crucible Tool Steel.
Address all inquiries to
H. W. J. RUSSELL,
Usher’s Hotel, Sydney, N.S.W.
Legal Notices.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT OF
KIN.
Re JOHN FLYNN late of Brisbane in the
State of Queensland, deceased.
"VT OTICE is hereby given that all persons
-Li claiming to be next of kin of the above-
named JOHN FLYNN late of Brisbane in
the State of Queensland, deceased, who died
on or about the 22nd day of April, 1917,
a.d.j in France, are hereby required to
forward proof of their relationship to
the Public Curator, Brisbane, on or before
the 25th day of September, 1918. And that
after the expiration of the last-mentioned
date the Public Curator will proceed to dis-
tribute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the parties entitled thereto, having regard
only to the claims of which he shall then
have had notice.
Dated this 15th day of July, 191,8.
R. J. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WhITTY
MAKERS
K V. J VX
•tigs*
1
■
m
Wi &&&& 1’
mm
R «■,
L
iW*.
SHUTS V PYJAMAS
for Winter
Crimean Shirts and Pyjamas are absolutely essential for
the present cold and snappy weather. Warm and
comfortable, excellent wearing.
MADE IN OUR OWN WORKROOM.
Pyjamas—Crimean soft cotton and wool mixture, warm
and serviceable 15/6
Pyjamas—Crimean Super Grade Heavy Winter weight,
supreme for comfort 25/-
“SEND CHEST MEASUREMENT AND HEIGHT.”
Crimean Shirts, Special Winter weight, unequalled for
Durability and Quality, 11/6. All pure wool, 17/6
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY POSTAGE
Illustrated
Catalog “B”
Hats and
Underwear.
Oa
D
A
f+CF
Henry BuckS Co.
SWANSTON STREET,
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
Punters rarely have to complain of incon-
sistency of “form” among the jumping nags during
the winter season in Melbourne, and this year the
top-notchers are running as true as proverbial steel.
In the Leamington Hurdle at Caulfield last Saturday
the proceedings over the last furlong were pretty
much a repetition of the Grand National finish, with
Narahquong left out. Pistolier won by a bead from
Westendale, who fairly beat Kinlark, with Fastolf
not far away. In the National the runaway winner
(Narahquong) was followed by Kinlark, Pistolier
and Fastolf. Westendale would apparently have been
second but for blundering at the last hurdle. Previ-
ously Kinlark and Westendale had run a close race
at Caulfield, and subsequently Fastolf finished second
in the Doutta Galla Hurdle at Flemington on Steeple-
chase day. Judging from these results one draws the
conclusion that Kinlark has just about turned the
top of his form, that Westendale lacks brilliancy for
a final burst, like Fastolf, and that the coming-on
Pistolier is likely to beat Narahquong in the long
Australian Hurdle Race on August 3, even though
that recent revelation be as well as when he won the
National, or a little better. And,there are others.
The big event at Caulfield should prove an interest-
ing final test of the steeds that take a risk of falling
on their own, or toppling over another blunderer,
every time they come to a hurdle. At least 10 of
the entrants have a show, good to middling, on
recent performances; also, the “feeld” contains
possibilities of a surprise, although a rank outsider
is a very improbable turn-up in the 34-mile race at
Caulfield, where the wettest weather doesn’t affect
the going as at Flemington.
Belgian Boy won the Steeple last Satur-
day from the improving Culluleraine. He jumps
better than was expected ere he got safely round the
National course a fortnight ago. But another
S’Australian, in Doiran, is an apparently better
chance than Culluleraine for the four-mile Australian
Steeplechase. A lot of poor-class horses may never
see more than the tail of Lord Cecil in the last
half-mile.
Cobrarn was the fifth grey to win the
Grand National Steeplechase, Chippenham, May Be,
Grafnell and Cardinal, which were also greys, having
previously figured as National winners. It is a re-
markable fact that the Grand National hurdle race-
winners, Narahquong and Merunqua, and the Grand
National Steeplechase winners Gunoap and Cobrarn,
and Booligal, the runner-up this year, were all foaled
in the same paddock on A. E. Tyson’s stud farm
in N. S. Wales.
“Lay-to”; In spite of the allegation by
“0.K.” (B. 18/7/T8), Narahquong was not the only
stallion in the G. N. Hurdle field. Hayston is all
there. This wayward nag annexed the Maiden
Hurdles at Williamstown the Saturday before, after
being incorrectly entered as a gelding, and carried a
gelding’s allowance of 31b. The owner of the
second prad awoke to the fact too late, the stipes
dismissing his claim to the stake on the grounds
that the protest was not lodged in time. Inciden-
tally the O’Neil family, who undertook to improve
Ilayston’s manners, have worked wonders with him.
They are remarkable in this respect, and not the
least impressive of their stock in trade is t,he whip
(a cross between a crop and a stockwhip) with
which C. O’Neil rides him.
A couple of good gallops were made at
Rosehill (Sydney) on Saturday. One was by Portrait,
a half-brother by Flavus to Wolaroi, who won the
Flying from a fair field and incidentally traversed
the six furlongs in record time for the course —
“13J.” Portrait, a good-looking 5-year-old, had run
like a rather indifferent Park-staker prior to winning
under welter weights at Warwick Farm a few weeks
previously v This time he had the argument all his
own way, and drew attention to the fact that his
weight in the Epsom is 7st. 21b. Gallipoli won the
Carlingford Mile from end to end, and if there was
any sort of reliance to be placed on him seeing out
a distance the 7st. 71b. he is allotted in the Metro-
politan and 7st. lib. in the Caulfield Cup would not
look very burdensome. But he has been a great
disappointment many times. He was hardly in the
betting on Saturday, but there was a brisk demand
for his stable-mate, the imported Louvetier, ridden
by L. H. Walker, an apprentice being up on Gal-
lipoli. Louvetier ran only moderately. His Epsom
Weight is 7st. 101 b. Ivilmaine, a Maoriland product,
was backed like a certainty in a division of the
Granville Stakes (seven furlongs), and duly carried
9st. to the front. He figures on the Epsom list at
6st. 71b.
* * * *
Whatever owner Dan Seaton may have
had in view while giving the imported Woodwild fre-
quent outings on Sydney courses the happening at
Rosehill on Saturday was certainly not on the pro-
gramme. The animal started in the principal race, a
mile and a quarter, and while running second last
came down. He never got up. One of his shoulders
was fractured and he bled to death. Woodwild
(William the Third —Wood Daisy) never struck form
in Australia, though in one race at Randwick he
showed great pace. Most of the time he was as fat as
an alderman, but in breeding and conformation he
might, have had considerable value as a sire. Seaton,
anyway, thought enough of the nag to refuse a
pretty big offer.
* * * *
Among N. S. Wales jocks Bracken finishes
the season on top of the winning list for Metropoli-
tan courses with 28. L. A. Walker comes next
with 27. Walker was in the first three 66 times.
Bracken’s tally of places is 47.
* * * * *
William Delaney, a one-time well-known
jockey passed out in Forbes (N.S.W.) Hospital
last week, aged 46. At Ironbark (now Stuart
Town) 35 years ago he won his first race, being
then of the advanced age of 11 years. He was
successful on Lady Trenton in Sydney Cup; with
Waterfall in Caulfield Cup; won the two Derbies
with Cocos; rode seconds twice and a third once in
Melbourne Cup. In the Carrington Stakes he and
his brothers Jack and Austen secured first, second
and third places. William was the first jockey
engaged by the late Sam Hordern when that mer-
chant commenced on the turf. Delaney went to
England with W. A. Long, lor whom he won Liver-
pool Cup on Schopos.
One of the most accomplished horsewomen
in Australia crossed the border last week-—Mrs.
Esther Stace, a native of Port Macquarie, and for
more than 20 years a picturesque arid popular figure
in riding competitions on N. S. Wales Show-grounds.
In hunting contests and at rail-jumping Mrs. Stace
was a fearless and expert rider. She rode the old
champion Desmond in many of his winning efforts, and
Emu Plains carried her over the top when the pair
set up the high-jump record for women of 6ft. Gin,
The deceased lady’s two boys are at the Front.
“Mark Lane”: The best manufactured
names for horses 1 know are Georgette (George
Frederick —Coquette), Alori (Sivori —Almeno), Ponella
(Ponzano —Lady Zitclla), Susamlria (Andria -
Susan). These are all 'good country performers.
About the worst names I know are Niofnias (Sain-
foin reversed), Moor Pan (Brakpan —Moorcia), Ette-
bab (Babette reversed), and Knightman (don’t
know his breeding). 1 am going to call my next
Derby and Cup winners Psyche and Exchange (re-
versed), and knock about the ring listening to the
bookies making the best of the job. Some names
go right enough when reversed, such as Tumut,
Glenclg, Noon, Dood, and so on, but I have got
thorn copyrighted.
“Spreader” : The published list of stallions
this year is, as usual, a mighty poor advertise-
ment for the horse-breeding industry of the Common-
wealth. As far as N. S. Wales is concerned the
pommy horse gets the pick of the mares anil the
local article is expected to produce Desert Golds
from the residue. What with sawdust-brained handi-
cappers and insular stud-masters, this country has
for far too long been a happy dumping ground for
foreign mokes. The result has been to put: our own
horses in a most unfair position. With the excep-
tion of Wallace and Malster hardly a single local
sire has been provided with a first-class harem in
the last dozen years. There arc all shades and
conditions of immigrants available this season at
prices ranging from 7 guineas to 500 guineas, hut
the very few Australians of the second generation,
such as Wolowa and Popinjay, are priced so low
down in the scale that sheer merit would want a
big stroke of luck with it to show general results
equal to what the more favored stallions will natu-
rally show. The prejudice against our own horses
exhibited by local stud-masters is as unreasonable
as it is costly to the country. The pony Bruce,
which would probably have beaten the smartest
sprinter that ever left the shores of England with
13st. 411). up, and has sired a couple of the fastest
nags in the A.R.C. ranks, would easily make a
name for himself if he had the mares The Welkin
will get. And it is a moral that The Welkin
would never qualify himself for a 500-guinea fee
stinted to mares of the calibre of say the dam of
Eulahess (by Bruce).
“C.W.” (from Maoriland) : “Mujik” (B.
30/5/’18) has the right idea about simplifying the
chaos incidental to racing colors, but he doesn’t go
far enough. At present in a race the looker-on, if
his luck and eyes are good enough, manages, after
the nags go a couple of furlongs, to make a fair
guess at the colors aboard one or two prominent
horses. But bis troubles are then only beginning.
Unless he has bought his race-card a week or two
earlier and learnt it off by heart, he has. to go
through his book to find out what the colors are
attached to. If he does this he won’t see much more
of the race. Why ballot for the colors? Why not
always let animal No. 1 have the same color, say
red, No. 2 always have white, and so on. The race-
goer would so get to know them, and could always
then follow a race without any trouble. This was
suggested in New Zealand some time back, but was
turned down with a loud yell by the Racing Con-
ference. The main trouble is that the clubs would
have to buy the colors. That means an expense of
anything over a hundred. But they could get this
back by hiring out the millinery to owners at a fixed
charge per race. The small owner would certainly
prefer to pay, say, 2s. 6d. each time for the use of
colors, to buying a set for anything up to £5, and
after using them a couple of times discovering that
the nag was better suited to drawing a hearse than
carrying a rainbow. Besides, most owners would
willingly pay a fiver to be spared the worry of
devising some bizarre combination of colors not
already in use.
* * * *
“M.P.A.” : A paragraph in a recent Bul-
letin, referring to racing at Java, reminds me. The
way the riders thereabouts mix the style is amazing.
At one meeting' I saw Toby Moran, one of the very
old school, sitting straight up, Eames riding in the
style now orthodox on Australian tracks, and native
Javanese gripping stirrups with their toes. These
native riders are great guns when they are well in
front, but when it comes to a battle for the line
they squib. Java is entirely dependent on Australia
for horses, trainers and iockevs, though quite a num-
ber of natives are proficient horsemen. However,
the racing isn’t taken very seriously by the public
and is mostly confined to members of the racing clubs.
One cannot pay admission at the gates; a visitor
must be introduced bv a member of the committee.
At the Batavia meeting last year the writer was
introduced as “The Bulletin” : otherwise it was a
case of staying outside. All the betting is done on the
tote on the course ; otherwise speculation is confined
to the social clubs where Calcutta sweeps are worked
and a few side bets made. Generally speaking, racing
in Java is more or less a subterfuge for gambling at
cards and roulette. At one little meeting, where
the first race started at 6 a.m. and the last finished
at 12.45 p.m., play at the roulette-wheel followed
immediately, and, except for a short spell for food,
ran well into the small hours of the morning. The
players went and bathed and then attended the second
day’s racing, which was followed by another long
bout at the wheel, where Dutchmen, half-caste
Javanese, Chinese and quite a number of bejewelled
ladies staked their guilders and invariably kept their
thirst up with champagne. The principal race meet-
ings are run at Batavia, Djocja, Samarang, Garoet,
Madoien and Bandoeng.
* * * *
“Cymro”: A long-established law in S.
Aus. is supposed to prevent persons under the age of
21 years of age investing on the tote, and the law
is administered so ruthlessly that at every race-meet-
ing there are always hundreds of boys between the
ages of 15 and 21- doing business. The first instance
I ever heard of in which a fine was recorded occurred
in connection with the Mt. Gambier meeting on
June 20. A detective saw a boy, whose age, it
transpired was not 17, purchase a ticket on Swift
King in the Cup. He accosted the boy, took him into
the machine, and asked an issuing clerk if he had
sold the lad the check. The clerk said he did not
recollect having done so, but all the same he was
fined £lO with leave to appeal. No blame was laid
upon the infant punter.
Over 25,000 citizens who parted with good
silver to see the premiership-deciding tussle between
Wests and Souths for N.S.W. Rugby League cham-
pionship on ‘Saturday, saw a hard though disappoint-
ing scramble. South scored 11 points; with a little
luck it might have increased 20 more. Wests, who
accumulated only three points, lost through wretched
kicking. There being no time for beg-pardons during
the proceedings the ambulance officials got plenty of
work. Any hope of South losing the season’s pre-
miership hangs on the possibility of Glebe defeating
them at the coming week-end. Glebe won the first
round by 12 to 8.
* * * *
Metropolitan (Sydney) Rugby Union
stopped a side-show when it jumped on the proposal
to hold a football scramble between a team of old-
time players and young ’uns. Internationals of a
qliartev-century ago, who promised to pull on the
jersey included Senator “Jupp” Gardiner, Billy Gal-
loway, H. D. Wood, H. P. Abbott, 1. O’Donnell and
Charlie Ellis ; while a score of others was alleged to
be yearning to butt in. As the match was listed for
patriotic purposes the v?terans should show
their gratitude for the performance being called off
by shelling out a fiver each, which some of them
would have spent in liniment and sticking-plaster
after the no-side whistle blew. Rugby is not a game
for the middle-aged.
* * * *
Tbe inter-eollegiate football match in Adel-
aide resulted in the usual (of late years) win for
Prince Alfred. St. Peter’s are unaccountably down
on their luck just now. The game was played at
the end of some weeks of wet weather and was a
mud-struggle. However, it was a good fight: till
three-quarter time, though the Princes were always
a bit the cleverer. They gave the impression of
always having three men on the ball to their oppo-
nents’ two. In the last quarter they did much as
they pleased. Final scores: 12 goals 16 behinds to
6 goals 7 behinds. This makes a run of six consecu-
tive wins for Prince Alfred, a thing not equalled since
they won seven straight off' in the eighteen-nineties.
“Jacko” : Sam Jennings, the dusky West-
ern pedestrian, who amuses himself by jaunting a
mile or 50 in the Bathurst ('N.S.W.) district against
the watch, is out to knock I7min. off his record of
Bhr. 57min. along the main Western-road from Lith-
gow to Bathurst. The distance is 434 miles. Sam
takes on these jobs to raise cash for local patriotic
affairs, notably the completion of a long drive of
wattle-trees, each busli being a memorial to a Bathurst
district boy who has served with the forces. Mean-
time he has a novel scheme to unwind in about a
couple of weeks. Having secured the loan of a motor-
lorrv to follow him up, Jennings intends making an
effort to boot it from Bathurst to Sydney P.O. in 30
hours, the motor collecting foodstuffs and other gifts
along the road for ultimate distribution among
soldiers’ dependants or others in need in the city. A
committee will see that everything is O.K.
* * * *
“M.P.A.”: There is a movement in Mel-
bourne amateur athletic circles to erect a memorial
to fallen and wounded athletes, A committee
expects to place a suitable idea before the A.A.A. at
its next meeting. The best suggestion to date comes
from “Storkey” Adams, the well-known ped. and
for years the A.A.’s general utility man. He pro-
poses the erection of a stone memorial gateway or
arch at the entrance to the Amateur Sports Ground
(the old Friendly Societies Ground), the inside of
the arch to be faced with stones for the purpose of
inscribing the names of the departed. The cost of
the arch it is suggested could be met by subscriptions
from relatives, friends and clubs, each stone in
the memorial to cost an amount to be fixed. It
was going on these lines that Father Robinson
built his church at Camberwell (Melb.) some years
back.
* * * *
P. J. Hurley, who died at Sydney last
week at 75 years, was one of the Australian bowlers
who toured England. He also represented N. S.
Wales in inter-State matches on the green.
* » * *
The final of the Parramatta Stakes, run
at the Metropolitan Coursing Club’s meeting at
Liverpool (Sydney) last week, was marred by an
incident which aroused no cheers from the
public. When the third ties came on for
decision there were only three dogs left in—
Hope’s Beautj', Dire Disaster and Come Back, the
latter favorite. The two first-named met and Dire
Disaster won. Come Back had to run a bye. For
some reason or other his owner decided to run Hope
Australia, the winner of this year's N.S.W. Oaks and
an exceptionally brilliant bitch with him. The result
was disastrous, as Hope Australia was so speedy that
she kept breaking the hare back from the escapes,
and Come Back was thus forced to run an exception-
ally gruelling course lasting about five minutes. He
finished nearly too tired to walk. Wherefore the
comparatively fresh Dire Disaster became favorite for
the deciding run. From the slips Dire Disaster raced
away from his opponent, and in the first 50 yards
was leading him by three lengths. Then he com-
menced to falter, turned round, trotted leisurely back
to the slips and lay down! Come Back continued
after the hare and took a couple of turns at the
tdp of the ground. The judge being unable to
account for the extraordinary proceedings, refused to
give a verdict on the course before a consultation
with the stewards. Finally the stake was handed to
Come Back. Meanwhile Dire Disaster seems about
the most aptly-named tyke in the Commonwealth.
Ammunition Column, winner of the War-
wick Stakes at the same meeting, is an exceptionally
good looking dog, and one of the biggest of his kind
coursed in N. S. Wales for many years. He weighs
801 b. in training and for so much dog is astonish-
ingly fast and clever.
A contingent of Newcastle boxers, beaded
by Fritz Holland, that put in an appearance at Syd-
ney Hippodrome on Saturday, swept the programme.
Holland is an old stager and well known, but his
team were all youngsters and had never been in
Sydney ring. The first to appear was Jack Golledge,
a white-haired red-nosed youth of fine physique. He
didn’t know too much about boxing, but he was
chock full of fight, and in the course of four rounds
belted Jack Kelly into submission. Red Brennan, a
juvenile with a smile and a fine mop of
hair, was the next of the bunch to be introduced.
He met the lanky auburn-topped Bill Collins. Both
were on their feet at the end of the bout, but
Brennan won by a street. Holland then transpired
to negotiate peace with Tom O’Malley. Tom put up
a great fight with his wily old opponent, hut as
his frantic swings failed to connect Holland got the
verdict. For the last scrap of the night Newcastle
supplied Billy James, the 16-year-old limb of a fight-
ing stock. Eddie Corrigan, his opponent, a clever,
experienced boxer, never had a chance with the kid,
and very wisely ordered the wipe to he exhibited.
A curious feature of the proceedings was that each
of the Newcastle lads fought barefooted.
J. R. Hooper, who again won N. S. Wales
amateur billiard championship at Sydney last week,
has had a grip on the title since 1914, and doesn't
look like losing it for a day or two or maybe more. (J. 11.
Shailer (challenger) was 920 behind in 3000 up; last
year he was 866 astern. Shailer won in 1913, and
was second in 12 and ’l5-’lB ; and he still holds
the record break of 286. Hooper’s five wins now
equal those of 11. A. Rumball, but the latter, besides
winning, was five times runner-up in 13 years—easily
the best performance in the life of the championship.
“Bill R.”: Some of these sports who
babble of the wonderful patterns their guns have
thrown at a distance ought to mention whether
there was any trick in the loading. When we used
to have hare drives at Jugiong (N.S.W.) the day
invariably ended with a contest for beers, to prove
the shot-throwing power of the assorted weapons. A
Redbank station boundary-rider and a rusty old
under-action breech-loader regularly won the trial.
Later on we learned how this bloke worked. He
always carried about him a few specially loaded
shells, in which lie had clogged the shot with tallow
or beeswax. Cartridges loaded that way will not
spread the shot more than three or four inches at
60 yards.
* * * *
The road between Brisbane and Toowoom-
ba (Q.) crawls over two mountain ranges, and is
a weariness to motor traffic, but H. Power, a Banana-
land flier, covered the full stretch (80 miles) in the
excellent time of 2hr. 22min. the other day. The
time, 13min. better than the previous best per motor-
car and 33min. more expeditious than had been regis-
tered per bike, is affording great joy to the Indian
Co., which supplied the vehicle, and the Dunlop
people, who made the tyres.


Are You a Real Man?
I
Can You Defend Yourself?
jrz s ««« zss^&sn&v
what a o iea J . ii .j will at once impress your opponent with
‘C ler wi9 a feS ,1 in YOUR power so
NECESSARY to ACHIEVE victory.
Vhv put off learning to defend yourself any longer.
I Teach Boxing by Post
There are 32 lessons in my course. Each tells in
clear, simple words how to deliver a serviceable hit,
and the best way to block it.
Photographs and diagrams show exactly how the
hands, arms, head, shoulders, body and feet are used
in attack and defence. Well-satisfied pupils in all
parts of Australia are constantly praising my methods.
This is an example of the letters I’m constantly
receiving:—
“I find vour mode of tuition very easy to follow,
and 1 am HIGHLY SATISFIED with it, and pro-
gressing favorably.”
I am anxious to send you full particulars of my
methods, terms, and also an interesting booklet,
‘•Scientific Boxing in Your Home.”
Hadn’t you better write for it now, while you
think of it, and send 3d. to cover the postage?
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The All-round Champion
Australia,”
762 BELMONT BUILDINGS
Athlete Of
, SYDNEY.
STRAIGHT
FROM THE
/ WELL
a __ 99
©HBfefe
is
NATURE’S
BEST,
HO ft LICK'S
MALTED MILK
is a pure rich milk ' ombined
with the extract of malted grain?
—very digestible and nutritious.
Prepared in a moment. Delicious
to the taste.
Sample will be sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps
to Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26 Jamieson Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
sk for HonTck’s
\\\
sg»W*T«A
*Ask for HorHck’s
at the Soda Fountain
No Shortage. Ample Supplies.
liegral Notices.
T N THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW ZEALAND.
1 NORTHERN DISTRICT.
No. 1046.
IN DIVORCE.
GEORGE THE FIFTH by the grace of God of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland
King Defender of the Faith.
To MABEL MARTHA JEAN JOHNSON.
WHEREAS NEIL JOHNSON of Matainata in the
Provincial District of Auckland in New Zealand car-
penter claiming to have been lawfully married to you
has filed his petition against you in our, said Court
at Auckland praying for a dissolution of his marri-
age with you wherein he alleges that you have been
guilty of desertion AND WHEREAS by an Order of
this Honorable Court dated the 28th day of June
1918 leave was granted to the Petitioner to proceed
without personal service and it was decreed that a
copy of the Petition and Citation should be served
upon your sister-in-law in Hamilton and that an
abstract of the Petition and Citation approved by the
Registrar of this Honorable Court be advertised once
in each of the following newspapers Auckland Star,
New Zealand Herald, Waikato Times, Sydney
Herald, Principal Sydney Evening Paper, and The
Bulletin such service and advertising to be effcctan
on or before the 31st day of July 1918.
NOW TAKE NOTICE that unless on or before the
28th day of October 1918 you do file in our said
Court at Auckland an answer to the said Petition
the said Court will at the Civil Sittings of the
Court held at the Supreme Court House Auckland
commencing on the 4th day of November 1918 pro-
ceed to hear the said charge proved and to pro-
nounce sentence notwithstanding your absence AND
FURTHER take notice that, before filing the said
answer you must enter an appearance in person or by
vonr Solicitor at the Registry of the said Court at
Auckland aforesaid and that if you do not enter such
appearance you will not be allowed to address the
Court either in person or by Counsel at any stage of
the proceedings.
DATED at Auckland the 9th day or July 1918.
F. W. SOHSARNIN Deputy-Registrar.
This Abstract was extracted by Hall Skelton
Solicitor for Petitioner whose address for service is
at his office situate in Wellesley Street Auckland. A
copy of the said Petition may be inspected at the
Supreme Court Office Auckland and at the offices of
Mr. Hail Skelton. Any friends of the above-named
Respondent are requested to forward this newspaper
to her.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Biutisii Austhal-
vsiaN. 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Buitisii Austealasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Ilol-
born. London. W.C.. where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use thv
telephone, and obtain information withorr:
charge.
nm
n
m
nm
opens the portals of
we Great Outdoors
and invites you into the breeze-
swept, sunlit open —into the
wonder places that lie off the
beaten trail.
It gives you speedy, trouble-free travel when and where
you will, new scenes, new pleasures, better health. Get
more out of life. Get an Indian Motocycle.
CATALOGUE “D” WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street
SYDNEY: Milledge Brothers Ltd., 156 Castlereagh Street
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle and Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide & Creek Streets
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79 Pirie Street
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons Ltd., Charles Street
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle and Motor Agency, Hay Street
a...-.: *, ■-
7
British-
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Sail Mills,
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
mm
Marine Engines
n
For All Boats
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started)
Electric Lights
Callle 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
mn
Caille Five
Speed Row
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- to four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed,
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole
Australasian
Agents—
Benson Brothers Limited
76=78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY ;
71=75 Queen's Bridge Street, MELBOURNE.
NORTH
BRITISH
Tyres
m
%
IP.
0
J
HP
1
&
JUIIUJ
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
m
"The Tyres that
are Superior”
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY,
AVHOLESALE AGENTS—
New South Wales: William Crosby & Co., 20 Loftus St., Sydney
Victoria: Nortn British Tyre Agency Prop. Ltd.,
525-527 Collins St., Melbourne
Queensland:Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Adelaide St.,Brisbane
South Australia: Phoenix Motor Co., 114-122 Pirie St., Adelaide.


The Light of
Australia.'
For the-'happiness of country folk
It is Worth Know-
ing that Night is
Practically Turned
into Day
by the subtle glow of Quirk’s
Safety Air Gas, which steals softly
through 20th Century Alabaster
Globes.
With the utmost confidence the
manufacturers (WHO ARE ALL
LOCAL MEN) invite country
folk to investigate the Quirk
System.
THERE IS NO DOUBT what-
ever that for country homes
OUR LATEST MACHINE IS
SUPERIOR to anything on the
market for the following reasons:
1. It is the cheapest light known.
2. There is absolutely nothing to
go wrong.
8. No scientific knowledge is re-
quired.
4. The machine has only to be
wound up like your clock.
5. It works automatically with-
out cost.
0. There is no question of accu-
mulating reserves by scientific
machinery Avhich no one but
an expert can put right when
it goes wrong.
7. It is a matter of turning on
the gas when you need it and
turning it off when you don't.
8. One of the Quirk machines
will last a lifetime.
9. There is no necessity for re-
newal of expensive batteries.
10. The machine is absolutely
proof against explosion, and
there is no smell.
11. It is the quality of the Quirk
machine that makes it de-
pendable, and the simple,
scientific mechanism which
ensures to users constant
satisfaction.
12. There are more Quirk Air Gas
machines in use throughout
the Commonwealth than all
other makes combined.
Why purchase importations from
foreign countries when you can
deal with reliable local manufac-
turers ?
This is the Machine
You Need in Your
Country Home .
Write or call for full particulars.
Address —
Quirk’s Lighting 8
Engineering Ltd.
SYDNEY . . 245 Elizabeth Street.
BRISBANE . 24-28 Wharf Street.
MELBOURNE . . 352 Flinders St.
ADELAIDE .. 112 Grenfell Street.
PERTH, W.A.,
ALCOCK & CO. PTY., LTD.
London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Grey Hair —Honie Remedy.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable, and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you should
have grey hair if you do not want it. To turn
the hair back to a natural color is really a
very simple matter. One has only to get from
the chemist two ounces of concentrate of tam-
malite and mix it with , three ounces l of bay
rum. Apply to the hair with a small sponge
for a few nights and the greyness will gradu-
ally disappear. This liquid is not sticky or
greasy, and does not injure the hair in any-
way. It lias been used for generations with
most satisfactory results by those who have
known the formula.
Blackheads Ply Away.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into gen-
eral use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a styinol tablet
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full of
hot water. After the effervescence has sub-
sided bathe the face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large
oily pores immediately close up and efface
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at intervals of four or five days
to ensure the permanence of the result.
Emergency Complexions.
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull
or greasy can be made beautiful in a moment
by a perfectly harmless home recipe. If you
have no cleminite in the house, get about an
ounce from your chemist, and add only
enough water to dissolve it. The process de-
fies detection, and the result is an immediate
appearance of velvety, youthful “bloom”
which every woman desires. The effect will
last all day under the most trying conditions,
iildoors or out. and renders powdering quite
unnecessary. This simple substance is also
very good for the skin, and no possible harm
can come from its regular use.
Effectually Killing Superfluous Hair.
Many women know how to remove ugly
growths of superfluous hair temporarily, but
few know how to remove it permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
used. Get about an ounce from your chemist
and apply a little directly to the objection-
able hair. The purpose of the recommended
treatment is not merely to remfove the super-
fluous hair instantly, but also to kill the hair
roots completely in a comparatively short
time.
How Nature Makes New Complexions.
It is well known that the human skin is
constantly undergoing a tearing down and
building up process. With advancing years or
waning vitality this tissue-change lags: the
lifeless, soiled surface skin stays on so long
that its owner gets a “poor complexion.”
Commonsense tells us this dead skin cannot
be enlivened or beautified by any cosmetic,
lotion or powder. The natural thing to do is
to actually remove the offensive skin—remove
the bad complexion. It has been found that
ordinary mercolized wax completely absorbs
the devitalised skin, in minute particles, so
gently, gradually, as to cause no inconveni-
ence. Mercolized wax, which any chemist can
supply, is put on at night like cold cream,
and washed off in the morning. If you would
have a brilliantly beautiful and youthful com-
plexion, just use this simple treatment.
How to Have Thick and Pretty Hair.
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair bril-
liant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely, and greatly stimulates the hair-
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed quarter-pound pack-
ages, which retail at about four shillings.
However, as this is sufficient for 25 or 30
shampoos, it really works out very cheaply
in the end. [4
CONSTIPATION CURED
By Simple Home Treatment.
No medicines, trouble or expense ; just aneasy,
natural self-treatment discovered by a Mel-
bourne business man, after 25 years of suffer-
ing. Valuable explanatory booklet forwarded
P'Dp'p' to all sufferers who send 3d. postage
AVLVLV ait d this advt. to the author-
J. P. GALE, Cotham Rd.. Kew, Vic. 3
nm
Gst This
n
TEE SAXON SCHOOL
FREE Book
It explains how to cure
Indigestion, Constipation,
Physical and Nervous Dis-
orders of all kinds, in
your own home.
WRITE TO-DAY.
A. TILBURY, Principal.
SAXON SCHOOL
for
Health and Strength
No. 4 Inns of Court,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
HICK-MYER
DIMMER
KEEP
“WITHIN
THE LAW”
by usiflg
same.
mn
15/- Post Paid Anywhere.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
m
nm
n
BUSINESS
MEN—
AND OTHERS
to whom a correctly-attired appear-
ance is an asset, fully realise the
dress value of
ABBEY SHOES
They also give the utmost satisfac-
tion in regard to long service.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow
Calf Oxford Shoe,
Price - 35/-
Also in Black Velour Calf, 32/6.
In half and full sizes, and narrow,
medium and wide fittings.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between 0.P.0. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Win Fame as an Artist.
Study Drawing at Home
under Harry J Weston —Aus-
tralia’s famous commercial
artist. Every post brings
letters showing the extraordi-
nary success achieved by
pupils of the Weston School.
Beginners in art who started
the lessons “just to amuse
themselves” are turning out
work of merit and originality
beyond their most sanguine
expectations.
There is no
reason why YOU
should not become
a successful artist
—bring II a r r v
Weston into your
home to help you.
The Weston
Course carries
students through
every phase of
'Commercial Art,
and so thorough
and explicit are
the instructions,
so helpful and
personal Mr.
Weston’s criti-
cisms, that rapid
progress under
such able tuition
is certain.
“THERE'S MONEY
IN THE PEN.*’
The above is
mn
the title of the
booklet which describes in full the Weston
Postal School of Drawing both as a profession
and as a pastime. We should like you to
have a copy. Send us your name and address,
including three penny stamps to cover postage.
The HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
62 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
684 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J.S.McI.: The Bulletin thinks that
James Allen, Minister for Defence in MX., is doing
his best. He has a hard job, and hard jobs
are not easy.... University Wit: Anybody can con-
tribute to The Bulletin. The batch you sent was
no use. . . .Fanuela: Both sets outed T.R.: Glad
to hear it.... Sydney Martin: Don’t see what can be
done with that just now. There’s a long way to go.
. . . . Editiglossie: Send an enlarging glass so that we
can see between the lines. .. .J.M.: Not quite, but
“Jean” strikes a fresh note.... S.M.: Don’t like it;
and it isn’t a sonnet. .. .J.E.0.: You. make us tired.
. ...Y.V. (probably): “Dirge” falls down. Why
don’t you use a full set of rhymes ?. .. . S.S.M.:
Makes us a bit dizzy. One stanza: —•
If you could love
Thine eyes would flood
With joy divine
And thou wer’t mine.
. ...T.N.T.: Yes, we’ve “known anguish,” lmt we
got over it... .C.W.T.: Verse doesn’t carry it.
. ...J.F.D.: Can’t be made to work... .H.J.8.: The
fact that your tea got cold can hardly be offered
as an excuse. .. .C.J.S.: Not much there. .. .C.M.L.:
Very lumpy.... 1.M.P.: Workmanship doesn’t carry
it. . . .F.W.: “Retrospect and Prophecy” plods the
old track with the average wobble and bump....
J. 11.: Nice verse, for the most part well handled, but
still leaving us in wonder as to why it was written.
. ...E.C.: Can’t get it. . . .M.R.8.: Metre drops in
those third lines. “Mirage” carries the accent on
the right-hand end of the word. .. .T.1.N.8.: Yes,
there’s hope... .F.S.M.: Misses... .C.C.: No good.
... . R.L.: Flimsy in thought and feeble in treatment.
. ...M.8.P.: “Cypress” doesn’t work. .. . D.P.M.: No
use for “Clay”. ~. EIN. : “Twilight” is cheerless.
What’s the use of torturing the ideas of the cheap-
est woman novelist into bumpy verse ?. .. . A.M.:
Nothing there... .W.E.K. : The sample shows an
overworked idea badly expressed in rottpn verse....
Y. 8.: As you ask our opinion, burn it....5.W.:
Lumpy stuff with little point.... Bellerive: The
forger does it: —•
Like a hunted beast a forger faced
His young and faithful wife,
And cried the police are on my trail,
I must exit for my life.
He clasped her fondly to he’s breast,
And begged her to be brave,
Then knelt beside a cradle bed
And kissed he’s sleeping babe,
Edward hark, the woman cried—
There’s a knocking at the door,
Fly she gasped for the love of God,
’Tis the officers of the Law,
Into the yard the forger dashed,
And wildly took to flight,
When echoed out a pistol shot
Through the cold and misty night.
Lanterns red did glareth at
The corner of a lane,
Where lifeless the forger lay—
With a bullet in he’s brain.
. ...D.W.8.: In the sonnet fbrm you must do a lot
better than that.... Hannibal: “Roseland” is an un-
grammatical country. .. .S.M.: No interest in the
spooky place.... Kia Ora: A long way off... . Gott
Mitt Huns: Very poor stuff A.C.W.: What are
“amaranthine bays,” anyhow?... .R.N.C,: Nothing
there. .. .C.J.W.: No. .. .M.M.A.: We’ve seen worse ;
but they’re not up by a long way. .. .V.V.J.: Lament-
ably commonplace.,... D.P.M.: Get something new to
say—if there is anything new to .say. . . .H. De
Facto: Not nearly.... Wahed: Not this time....
G.M.D.: We didn’t laugh ourselves hoarse over it.
....Pessimist: Jiggle-joggle of the obvious....
11. P.: Don’t like it....11.N.: Not by a good bit.'...
S.J.D.S.: Can get on without it. . . .R.S.M.: Not up.
....A.A.: N0....F.M.: Started well, but got to
nothing. .. .C.A.C.: Verse as bumpy as thought is
weak... .O.B.: They should rise with a whoop to
that appeal:—•
Now all you eligibles stand to your task,
Unless our great Umpire should fall;
Never give the Huns a chance to blast,
Give your all for your country's call.
All is lost if we don’t stand fast,
To fight for the love the Umpire’s right;
Never let it be known we are last,
To think we’re going down with blight.
Stand fast for may it be too late,
You. will never know until all is lost;
Crack every Hun on the pate,
For they intend us to pay the cost.
....J.M.: W’hat’s the matter with him ?... X. Lar-
son: You miss the point. .. .Sis: We get it by the
ton, little one; but it goes as a warning;—-
Love of the dusk 1 O starry heart that flyetli,
When will we meet again and what pursue?
Into thy soul I gaze and see thee lyeth;
Yet spheres and ages pass twixt me and you.
Unknown the dawn wakes on the tears of parting;
Our hearts have swooned on ro.ses red and white,
Wet tears from blue and radiant eves are starting,
Would that our souls were weaved some silken
night.
Let them weave, Sis; let them weave. .. .K.A.J.:
Sec Red Page this issue.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Jackeroo: Very rough.... Harry B.: Thanks, but
it’s not useable. .. .K.L.8.: You’ve got a lot to
learn... .J.D.P.: Outed. .. . H.H.: Not a gleam in
them. . . .E.T.: At least you simplified your drawing.
. ...M.F.G.: Horrible. .. .H.W.: So feeble it can
hardly stand. .. . A.8.C.: One gag is old; the other
is suspect. Drawings no g00d... .F.G.: Sad. thing.
Le B.: Obvious. .. .Sharman: Axe-marks on it.
Sydney Telegraph, pounding the importer's
drum to the hitter end, rose last week to
denounce any increase of the tariff during the
war. And if the fellow at the other end had
agreed not to increase prices and freights or
to reduce supplies during the war, there
might be something in the idea. Also, speak-
ing of the proposed removal of the embargo
on leather shipments, it demanded to know:
How would the leather be paid for by Great
Britain if the Commonwealth was prevented from
accepting British goods in exchange?
Truly this pose-of the beaming, child-like,
unsophisticated U.T. is overdone. Taking this
country’s biggest record, it would require 40
years’ export of leather to cover what we owe
Great Britain for money advanced to pay our
soldiers alone, and that is only a fraction of
the account. The question about what Bull
will send us in payment for our leather
needn’t call for consideration till the year
2317. The parent in Europe isn’t troubled
about us not accepting his goods in return
for leather or anything else. What does
worry him is that we have already accepted
hundreds of millions of pounds’ worth of
goods and given nothing in return save an
lOU, and he grows worried about the lOU.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from'the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn't got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Com Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
n
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold bv retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
a.
&
k
/
tv
✓S.
V
vJ
&
m
SsS
o
T
&>■
fV
0
5*
ss
$$
ft
u
ss
0
N>
N
$
N
W t ~/ r ~f J
'GRANNY ChAMBERLAIN
(.toPYßionrto.)
;w\\\w>
Is a weak throat
handicapping you?
SORE THROAT and huskiness are caused by
weakness of the throat and bronchial tubes.
Why not guard against them? You want some-
thing to soothe and heal the inflamed passages and <
strengthen the mucous membrane. For this take
W BEK [L^QKT^
COUCH REMEDY
Nothing handicaps a business
man more than a weak throat.
Just at his busiest season some
slight change in the weather will
setup a bronchial disorder, which
may cause loss of voice.
It is most distressing to hold
interviews, and attend to the
many details of business when
your throat is sore and inflamed
and your voice gone.
Start treating yourself to-
day-- don’t wait till your* throat
is sore and you’ve lost your voice.
Get a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy and take a couple
of doses each day.
It will tone up the mucous
membrane and in a short time
you will find that your voice is
stronger and clearer and you will
not be troubled with sore throats.
m
BE PREPARED
Dike many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder has developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
can be summoned.
Those who have the interests of their family at heart keep a bottle of Chamberlain s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, dvsenterv anc
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bowels the attack may be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy.
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage. The excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains in the stomach for w 11c 1
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied upon to do this.
Digestion Worth Having
Good digestion is not appreciated until you
lose it. Then you cannot afford to experi-
ment, for strong medicines are hard on
weak stomachs.
To he able to eat what you want and to
digest it is a priceless blessing. If you have
lost it do not be deceived by the claims of
pre-digested foods and stomach tonics, so-
called.
There is no tonic for the stomach that is
not a tonic for every part of the body. As
the. blood goes everywhere, an improvement
in its condition quickly results in strengthen-
ing weak organs. Rich, red blood is abso-
lutely necessary to digestion. If your
stomach is weak and you are troubled with
flatulence, sour risings in the throat, a feel-
ing of pressure about the heart and palpita-
tion, try the tonic treatment with Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills.
Send to-day to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co.. Sydney, for the diet book, “What to Bat
and How to Eat.” It gives information re-
garding the tonic treatment for many forms
of stomach trouble. There cannot be per-
fect digestion without a sufficient" supply of
red blood, and there is nothing better than
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to enrich the blood
and tone up the stomach. Postal address:
Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney.—Advt.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(N on-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
s
JEg
MOTORLORRIES
I=2=3 and 5
Tons
Capacities.
The road clearance of the Denby axle is greater than that of any
other type.
Your driver will appreciate what that means when he gets off the
paved streets into sand or mud.
The wheels can be buried up to the hubs, and as long as traction is
obtainable the truck will pull through without trouble.
There are many other points of Denby dominance which will interest
you.
A. HATRICK & COMPANY, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Jable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S A.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going te
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
Ru
ARE YOU
PTU R EU
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE .vet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
I
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE- CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres iLtd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
“P IV OH THEATRE, SYD N E Y
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE WEDNESDAY AT 2.30.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents, for the first time in
Australia,
, T> bits and pieces.
A Breezy and Bright Revue, interpreted by a big cast
of favorites.
"piVOEI THEATRE, .M EI.BOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
Espinosa’s Sparkling Revue,
TIME, PLEASE.
Featuring Beatrice Holloway, Espinosa and Barry
Lupino.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
M 15 It M AJIiSTY’S, S Y I) N 15 Y.
• ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY AT 2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON'S AUGMENTED MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
OH, BOY!
For Two Years the Rage of New York.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
/>HIT E It I O N T H EA T It E, SYDNEY.
w Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MARGARET WYCIIERLY in her original creation of
Rosalie la Grange, together with BRINSLEY SHAW
and a cast of exceptional artistic calibre, in
THE 13th CHAIR.
Box Plan at Paling’s, Day Sales at White Rose.
DALACE theatre, sydne y.
■ Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GUY BATES POST,
the World’s greatest English-speaking Actor, in
THE MASQUERADER,
(John Chilcote, M.P.)
Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
IJNION PICTURE TIIE A T RES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
Hie Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.ir,. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Mili.er, General Manager.
I_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
• ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
KATINKA.
_ Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TII EAT It E EOY A L, MELBOURNE.'
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR in
THE MAN WHO CAME BACK.
The Drama that Stirred All New York.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present
EMELIE POLINI
in
DE LUXE ANNIE.
The Greatest Dramatic Success in Recent Years.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
U OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
1 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOTJRKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
BILLIE BURKE in
THE LAND OF PROMISE.
WALLACE REID in
NAN OF MUSIC MOUNTAIN.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday 2.30.
This week’s Super-Feature:
LES MISERABLES.
Prices as Usual.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy.
Melbourne, June 20, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of Firehearths,
Cabin Stoves, etc.
SEPARATE tenders will be received until
12 noon on Tuesday, August 6, 1918,
for the supply of Firehearths, Cabin-stoves
and Steam Coppers to one of H.M.A. ships.
Delivery is to be made f.o.w. Cockatoo
Island, Sydney, within three months from
date of acceptance of tender.
Full particulars may be obtained at, and
specifications and plans may be inspected at
the Office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne, at the Common-
wealth Naval Dockyard, Cockatoo Island,
Sydney, and at the Naval Staff Offices,
Brisbane, Birkenhead (S.A.), Fremantle
and Hobart.
A. POYNTON,
for Minister of State for the Navy.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Amusements.
DtJOU THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
0 Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
THE NEW AMERICAN MUSICAL CRAZE.
THE JAZZ BAND.
Also P'AUL STANHOPE’S CO. in
THIS IS THE LIFE.
Kelly and Drake, Upside Down Wright, and the
Falvey Sisters.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
BRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and Gd.
Amusements.
gy| A.JESXIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
WILLIAM S. HART, in his new Triangle Play,
THE PATRIOT.
NORMA TALMADGE in
GHOSTS OF YESTERDAY.
Plan at Allan’s.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
jyi EX,BA XHEAXRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
Palmer Cord Tyres give
greater speed, mileage, and
wear - resistance, and save petrol
because of their friction-free Palmer Cord
foundation, and their wonderful tough
rubber Tread. Actual scientifically-
adjusted tests show their greater mileage
per gallon of petrol. Day-in-day-out, hard-country
tests prove that their superb tough three-ribbed
rough-road tread is ideal for Colonial conditions.
Palmer Cord Tyres, for Light and
Heavy Motor Cars, Cycle Cars,
Motor Cycles, and Aeroplanes.
Palmer Fabric Tyres,
for Motor Cycles,
Cycles, and Autowheels.
nsrm 'ssnssm
Cordtyres
THE PALMER TYRE LTD.,
Chief Offices and Showrooms:
119/123, Shaftesbury Avenue,
London, W.C, England.
Agency for Motor Tyres:
The India Rubber Gutta
Percha and Telegraph
Works Co. Ltd., 279 George
Street, Sydney.
No need
after the
war to
buy other
than . .
British
vres.
*
D 6 q>
Don’t Experiment.
The Real Thing in Razors is the “Plum.” Gets
through the job in a quarter the time, and makes
the business a pleasure. “The ‘PLUM’ is the Razor.”
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
price: 10/6— post free.
We keep it in order lor two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single 'Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present. All the above Post Free.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2, post free.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
rhe “PLUM”
Razor.
This remedy, which positively
prevents and cures SEA
SICKNESS and
TRAIN SICKNESS,
has been tested
on the English
Channel, Irish
and Baltic Seas
by the leading
London newspapers,
who endorse its un-
failing power to prevent
4
O
v 5
ASIC
K
S
E
S. C. Ry. Newhaven and
Dieppe Route, I. of Man
Steamers, ' Atlantic
Liners, Polytech-
nic Tours, &c.,
and has re-
ceived testi-
monials from
Royalty, the
Nobility, Doctors,
Chemists, Army and
Naval Officers. Abso-
mal-de-mer. Used on L.B. & lutely harmless and produces no bad after-effects.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes. Mothersill Remedy Co., Ltd., Cor. Ciarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
GUARANTEED TO CURE OR MONEY RETURNED.
5\ iaoa^
XllMol
rovuisjAMii
TItfWS «oM
Trades Hall, Sydney,
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
E-ig'ht-Hour Art Union
AND SPORTS.
PRIZES value £3500
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 2, 1918.
FIRST PRIZF, value £O5O
SECOND PRIZE, value £3OO
THIRD PRIZE, value £2OO
And 397 other Valuable
Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1918.
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1917 won by Mrs. T. A. Peterson,
Balmain, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of
A CUilliM/v
Oilllllil g
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOB 1918.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, Nov. 7, 1918. To any
person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results will be
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from—
ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
Missing; Friends.
DOGERS, ALEO.—Last heard of in July. 1915,
1 ' sometime carpenter, and formerly of Base Crib
Point and of Albion and Darling Streets, South Yarra,
Victoria, and Jervis Bay, Sydney; or anyone know-
ing his likely whereabouts, please communicate with
H. F. Hoad, Solicitor, 430 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
IF MARGARET DWYER and MARY DWYER,
* daughters of the late Patrick Dwyer and Sarah
Dwyer (maiden name Coonan), formerly of Geelong,
or their children will communicate with The Trus-
tees Executors and Agency Company Limited, No. 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, they will hear of some-
thing to their advantage. ___________________
Government Notices.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne. sth July, 1918.
Vacancies for Draftsmen —Common-
wealth Arsenal.
APPLICATIONS will be received from
persons qualified for appointment
(temporary) to the positions specified below:
(a) ONE CHIEF DRAFTSMAN. Salary
£6OO per annum, inclusive of all
allowances except travelling.
Applicants must have had a thorough
technical training and shop experience,
experience in the design of machinery and
general plant, and also in drawing, office
routine and records.
(b) FOUR DRAFTSMEN. Salaries
ranging from £350 to £450 per annum,
inclusive of all allowances except
travelling.
Applicants must be technically trained and
have had shop experience, and must be
capable of undertaking the design of
machine tools, jigs and fixtures. One should
be capable of undertaking the design of
general plant and details.
The successful applicants will be consid-
ered for future permanent appointments if
their service and ability prove satisfactory,
(c) EIGHT MECHANICAL DRAFTS-
MEN. Salaries ranging from £2OO to
£3OO per annum, inclusive of all
allowances except travelling.
Applicants should give a full statement of
their qualifications, training and experience
in machine tool, general plant and mechani-
cal engineering design.
Applications should be forwarded ad-
dressed to the Secretary, Commonwealth
Arserthl, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, to
reach him not later than the 31st July, 1918.
and should be accompanied by certified
copies of not more than three (3) recent
testimonials and two personal references.
The date and place of birth and nationality
of applicants must also be shown. First
preference will, be given to returned soldiers
all things being equal.
T. TRUMBLE,
Secretary, Department of Defence.
The Best—Most Economical
Watch is a
OTHERHAMS
ENGLISH
LEVER
Gold Medal V/atch.
Gent's or
Lady’s
Sizes.
mm
: ■
'
m
Keyless
or
Non-Keyless
IT WILL LAST A LIFETIME.
Supplied by all Shippers & Retailers.
If a less expensive Watch is
required buy a
ROTHERHAMS SELECTED
SWISS WATCH.
Examined by Rotherhams 9 Experts.
POT h E FHiA MiAA
P OT H C R H A M S.aOTHt ••
7»Q T HC«H.
s
°A
widfpi
SsaSdi
TSEB
THERTiAMSRO
NOTE ! It will have this label on
the back.
SOLD BY JEWELLERS
THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALASIA.


V
A ' ‘
<T
$
Soap
gticui 3
UOttP
nttHON* 1 -
Banish That Pimple
with Cuticura
Cuticura Soap cleanses, purifies and
beautifies, while the Ointment soothes
and heals pimples, blackheads, etc. Do
not confound these fragrant, delicate
emollients with coarsely medicated
soaps and ointments.
Sample Each Free by Mail. Address post-
card: R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W ”
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE 3
SP£C/AU5f
. INt
0 s
$
1#
W x QiTE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS?
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES 7 SYDNEY
Zc /iO/sJTER 8 T NEWCASTLE
V
m
mm
»-f * V <
:e I >1
m
>« *•*. *
* s* * i v° '
i 4fS
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
rff!
m
a
w
a
SB
■a
Ilf
ELEY ‘ Fourlong’
A .410 bore 2$ inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
ELEY 450
No. 1 Rifle
ELEY 38
Automatic
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 410
‘Universal’
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L® LONDON
The Power of
Natural Heat can
If£
w-y/
?'\S3r.
■ 1
banish pain
Thermogene
proved relief for:
Rheumatism
Bronchitis
Lumbago
Neuralgia
Sciatica
Chest Colds
Sore Throats
Sprains
Muscular Pains
Pleurisy
Pneumonia
*Also seek Medical
Advice.
JUST as Natural Heat —Nature's
inner warmth —-disperses and re-
places the congested blood beneath
a bruise with fresh, healing, soothing,
active blood, and thus banishes the
blackness and the pain, so, too, does it
banish in like manner the aches and
pains of more serious and long-standing
ailments. But in the latter cases
Natural Heat must be stimulated.
Thermogene stimulates the inner
warmth of the natural forces and draws
a new stream of pain-banishing blood
to the seat of the trouble. Thermogene
gets beneath the surface —makes its in-
fluence continuously felt, deep in the
tissues. It is easy to apply, easy to
keep applied.
Everyone can use Thermogene, from the
athlete to the delicate child, and in
practically every case the result is f ree-
dom from pain. Pain goes when
Thermogene is applied, and the erst-
while sufferer experiences ease and
tranquillity.
Get Thermogene to-day. Your Chemist
supplies it in boxes at 1/6.
Thermogene is and always
has been a product of
British and Allied ownership,
production and management.
Write for the illustrated book on the
Thermogene treatment, which tells how to
get the best results. Send a postcard to-day
to Thermogene Bureau, 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
THERMOGENE
1 ABSORBENT WADDING
Look for the familiar Orange-colored
Box in the Chemi st s’ Windows.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
FASSETT & JOHNSON, 233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Manufactured by
THERMOGENE CO. LTD., Haywards Heath, Sussex, England.
One pull, one dip, one push, and
the reservoir fills in a flash.
One fill suffices to write 20,000 words.
One turn of the screw regulates the ink flow.
One self-contained pen—needing no brittle glass
filler or inky rubber squirt.
One & unique—that’s the
nm
YOU SIMPLY
UNSCREW II
AND
PULL IT OUT
Onoto
Self.
Filling
Safety
Fountain
Pen
Price \7/~ and up-
wards. Also ONOT'O
Valveless for those who
do not want a Self-
Filling Safety Pen,
from |2/6 upwards.
From all stationers, jewellers and stores. Manufacturers : Thos. De Fa Rue & Co., Ftd.,
259 Bunhill Row, London, E.C. Managing Agents : Norman Barer & Fong hurst,
York Street. Sydney.
Prendergast, Parliamentary leader of the
Yic. Labor party, lias an extra tilt to liis
high bowler and a brighter beam in his
smile. ' It is because Sergeant George Pren-
dergast, lately leading a reserve platoon in
France against a Ilun post, captured li
prisoners, three machine-guns and the
D.C.M.
“T. 0.1.”: William Piper, who passed out
the other day at the age of 63 years, was a
grandson of Captain John Piper, of much
note in Sydney’s early days. Point Piper was
named after him. So was a pub in Lower
George-street in the early ’forties. It was lie
who got his son-in-law, a naval man named
Thrupp, a grant extending from the waters
of Port Jackson to those of Middle Harbor,
including Neutral Bay—known as the Cooper
estate.
W. L. Ford, killed lately in naval oper-
ations off the Belgian coast, was an Angli-
can parson, one time shepherd of the flock
at Stewart Island (M.L.), and afterwards
curate at NoWra (N.S.W.) and North Syd-
ney. At the latter place his rector was
Horace Crotty, now padre with Australian
troops in France. Ford went to the Cold
Country and got a naval chaplaincy when
the war began, and had been helping to
preach practical Christianity to the Hun
ever since.
Lieut.-General Monash, to Dr. Felix
Meyer, of Melbourne:. •
I suppose you can hai'dly realise how big a division
is. It is 200,000 men, with all the horses, vehicles, guns
and paraphernalia. It occupies in marching 22 miles
of road, and takes 15 or 20 French villages to house
the whole, with 32 railway trains to carry it. Some
CO such divisions will be on the move at once. 1
have promoted the great majority of the officers in
my division from the ranks. They include youpg
engineers, architects, accountants, pastoralists, public-
school boys, and so forth.
No wonder the little peoples are being
bundled out of the way to make room.
Another Australian making good in
Yankeeland. Clarry Northcott, who has
M.A. tacked to his name, was a dominie
at Sydney Grammar for nine years.
He slipped across to America and studied
Sociology and Economics at Columbia Uni-
versity, N.Y., and is now a Doctor of Phi-
losophy. He has accepted a position on the
Economic Research staff of the National In-
dustrial Conference Board, Boston.
“Derf Corumer” : One day we got permis-
sion to spend a few hours at St. Omer
(France), a fair-sized town, and before leav-
ing were given the usual warnings
about saluting and keeping out of the hands
of the military police, commonly known as
“red caps.” One of our chaps, strolling
along aimlessly, met a person resplendent
with braid, and red-and-gold band on his
cap. Billjim just looked at him, and went
to pass on, but the personage stopped him.
“Why didn’t you salute me?” he queried,
Billjim looked at him. “Why the h —l
should I salute you?” The person was
taken aback. “I’m General C ,” lie ex-
plained. “Oh !” gasped Billjim. “Dinkum,
sir, I thought you was one of them military
Johns.”
“A.T.S.”: Add this to the information
about “Bully” Hayes. It appeared in Lyt-
telton (M.L.) Times (3/4/’66)
Captain Hayes, of the schooner Shamrock, 71 tons,
reports'leaving the Fiji group 15/3/’66, passed North
Cape 22/3/’66, was off Wanganui bar Sunday,
25/3/’o(i. The first mate, Mr. Thomas Jones, in
charge of first boat, and the Second mate, in charge
of the second boat, landed passengers and luggage.
At noon the boats returned to the Shamrock, when
Captain Hayes took charge of the second boat and
landed his wife and two passengers. The boat in
charge of the first mate attempted to take the bar,
when she was swamped, drowning four of her passen-
gers. A Fijian woman and Thomas Ryan got ashore.
The drowned are Mr. Johnston, Mr. W. 11. Roberts,
Mr. Edward James and a Fijian, one of the Sham-
rock’s crew.
“Cleveland”: It doesn’t take long if you
get at the right people. On the 21st of a
certain month I went from Salisbury Plains
to London, opened negotiations with the
Registrar-General of Seamen and Shipping
at 10 next morning, and at 10.45 was explain-
ing to a brass-hat that I, a master mariner,
was wearing the uniform of a lanee-corporai
in the Australian infantry because I could not
get out of Australia any other way. The
brass-hat X-rayed my papers and snorted.
“We’ll d —d soon get you out of that rig'”
and I went back to camp feeling the salt
breeze on my face already. On the 2nd of
the following month I was called to Lon-
don, discharged from the A.I.F. on the 3rd,
and my commission as a lieut. R.N.R. is
dated the 4th. I haven’t any regrets for
having worn the A.I.F. uniform, and would
have carried it right through if necessary;
but I am up against the inefficient adminis-
tration that compelled me to waste eight
months in an arm of the service of which
I had not the slightest knowledge, when all
my training and experience had been afloat.
The urgent need for men that know the
sharp from the blunt end of a ship makes
the waste of precious time all the more
culpable.
“Ahaspe”: Vic.’s top score of Victoria
Crosses goes up one with that just won by
Lieut. Clifford William King Sadlier, who,
though with a Westralian battalion when
the bronze was won, was born in the Mel-
bourne suburb of Camberwell 25 years ago.
A commercial traveller, he left as a private
in the A.M.C., and returned in 1916. He
re-embarked as a sergeant in the 51st a little
later, and gained his commission and a gun-
shot wound last year. The V.C. was in
approval of his action during a counter-
attack, when he collected his bombing section
and captured two machine-guns after killing
their German crews. Then, armed with a
revolvei’, he took on, lone-handed, a third
machine-gun with equal success, clearing the
flank and allowing his battalion to move on.
It will be a long time before Germany
gives another statue to America. In 1902
the Kaiser loaded the U.S. with a statue of
Frederick the Great to commemorate the
visit of his sailor brother Henry. The junk
of metal has now been dismantled at Wash-
ington and some good patriots want to have
it melted down into bullets and fired back
at the givers.


in place
Wz&tm.
La
.
This build
will hereof
iih
few
ler/a
w-
Ro
PI
a
m
tr~
,-£r
The roof is the last to go on your build-
ing. But —if that roof is to be efficient and
economical, its selection is of first importance. Put
Certain-teed
Roll Roofing
on your building and you will get the most efficient and
economical roof possible. Certain-teed is economical to
buy, inexpensive to lay and costs practically nothing to
maintain. It is waterproof, noiseless, fire retardant,
clean, sanitary and gives the utmost roofing service.
Does not affect the taste or odour of water.
Specify “Certain-teed” for your roof and refuse all imitations. Certain-
teed is guaranteed by the World's largest manufacturer of roofing.
MR. C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee Ruilding, Sydney, N.S.W.
Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation.
SYDNEY AGENTS: Wunderlich, Ltd. James Hardie & Co.
John Danks & Sons Pty. Ltd. James Sandy & Co., Ltd.
■m
m
mk
fsl£
teg
&U£)
pis
**<■
Os
110
An Important Aid
To the Allies—
Wrigley’s. the famous chewing
confection, is enjoying great
popularity among the allied
armies in Europe.
Books, magazine articles and
newspaper correspondence
about the Great War tell of the
benefits our gallant fighters get
from this toothsome refresh-
ment. Use it yourself, regularly,
and send it to your friend at
the Front.
3d. Per packet
At Chemists. Confectioners and stores
where sweets are sold.
The Flavour Lasts
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
J. C. Gambles & Coy.
Sole Australasian Agents
Commerce House. Melbourne
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
COMVNED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOQN,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/- post free.
o'
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight,
about s}lb Freight paid,
troubled with Mosquitoes
USE SKEETERBANE.
1/1 & 1/8 bottle, post free.
XJN S
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
JBBO. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.Tj. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left, full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 71 to 8 lb., 10-gauge 7i to 7$ lb.—
12- or IG-gauge, with 30-inch barrels'. Freight paid,
£4.
SUNOL TOBACCO
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1 /-, post free.
n
mn
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrels, 2Sin., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2}in. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight,
7Jlb. . Freight paid,
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
-/11/lre
12-gauge, similar description to 833 Freight paid, £ll/11/-
“KOOLAH”
SHAVING STICKS.
Delightful to use.
7d. each, post free
Owing; to market fluctuations,
prices Here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date.
<Q>
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D. 8.8.8.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross bolt, high-filed rib, 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, D. & E. fore-end, side clips, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, beauti-
fully engraved, weight about 7flb Freight paid,
£l4/14/'
m
818. Winchester Automatic Repeating Rifle,
1903 Model, special 22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel, detachable stock ; will shoot 10 cartridges in
3 seconds; weight, about 511 b.; sighted _ _ __ .
point blank to 100 yards; will kill at 500 Freight paid, 3t»7/10/ - *
"“SURE CATCH,
“The Tackle that Makes
Fishing Worth While.”
nm
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/7/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/10/-
With i-Octagon Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, £5/15/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines, jc m tCh if
20in. round barrel, weight about 5 Jib Freight paid, j£r/ID
n
828. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892 Model, 24in -
octagon barrel, 22-calibre rim fire; magazine takes 15 short, 20
long, or 18 long rifle cartridges ; weight sJlb. — os/
Freight paid, 05/“
m.
BA. —Browning Patent Automatic Rifle,
handles eleven 22 short smokeless cartridges; walnut stock,
pistol grip, barrel; length over all, 36in.; weight, 441 b.; bead front and screw rear sight,
fitted with safety bolt; barrel may be dismounted by unscrewing quarter turn. •tel
Freight paid, =
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
Illustrated Sportsman's Guide ( Catalogue Bl), also 1918 “Sure Catch ” Anglers'
Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write tor one or lioth lists. They
are money savers.
1C
avsnvmtfs gkextest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
AND TOBHCCOTfISTS
mn
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Tiewcastk d Brisbane


Best for Children
and Grown Folks too
Little Miss MARJORIE LEE (from a photo.)
Dear Sirs., —
Being a very loyal user of
your wonderful remedy, Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery, I
am sending you a photograph
of my little girl, Marjorie Dee,
who has been kept free from
severe colds for three years
through my giving her Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery.
When nearly two years old
she got a severe cold, which
developed into pneumonia,
and I very nearly lost her.
She was wrapped in wadding
for weeks, and only recovered
with the closest care. As her
dear father died from pneu-
monia, when she was but five
months old, you can imagine
iiow frightened I am of it. I
feel that through Dr. Shel- i
don’s New Discovery I am
doing my utmost to prevent
the dreaded disease. When
she is now threatened with a
cold I give her Dr. Sheldon’s
at once, and this keeps off
the bad symptoms, her cold
generally passing lightly
away.
You may use this letter in
any way you like, as I would
like everyone to know how
much I think of your lovely
medicine, and how grateful I
am for its benefits.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) BLANCHE DEE,
Stowport, Burnie, Tasmania.
Dr. Shddon’sNew Discovery
Nioht or dav mother is on the job, she must keep her husband, herself and the children well
and happy She' has her little helpers, ’and the best of all is Dr Sheldon’s New tor
coughs and colds. When mother appears with Dr. Sheldons New Discoyery in hei hand, cough
and cold" disappear from the household. In the dead of night ( they work together,
hflhvWrounv couirh' in the morning they frighten away sonny’s cold in the head betoie he
leavdl for school, "when Sis gets measles niother and Dr Sheldon’s New Discovery keep hei sa c
and comfy; and dad’s asthma has left him altogether since mother introduced him to Di.
Sheldon’s New Discovery.
As to mother herself—oh, she hasn’t time to. be ill, so Dr. Sheldon’s New Discbvery_takes
care of her on the very first sign of a cold. For health and happiness in any household Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery and mother are the very best ever. New Discovery, l/t> and 6/ .
D? Sheldon;
New Discover
m
OUGHS
AND
OLDS
C.'BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven .
Prize Medals.
nm
Works t Birmingham, England.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. ®
n
ft
War - work suits the super - efficient
SUNBEAM
JiIJJJJ]
to perfection. It emerges supreme from the stress
of it. Our unsurpassed experience of standardising
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
of unprecedented power and proved reliability in
such strenuous employ constitutes a guarantee alike
of our ability and intention to supply the public with
finer motor carriages than ever on the coming of peace.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - - 54-62, Oxford Street, London, England
WORKS **••••- Wolverhampton, England
a
4
y
Witchcraft.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I AM the luring Vivien
With eyes too bright for mortal men,
With lithe, long fingers full of fire
And lips alight with love’s desire.
O man of mine, come down, come down
Across the bush and bracken brown!
I am the hiring Vivien
Who kisses sages young again.
I sing Lorelie's siren-song
O’er magic waters, deep and long—
Wide depths of green enchanted seas
And luscious caves of coral ease.
O man of mine, row out, row out
Where creek and river wind about!
I sing Lorelie’s siren song
Of love that drowns in raptures strong.
I hold the cup that Circe held
When man to brutish beast she spelled.
The wine is red. The wine is sweet
With passion’s scent and joy complete.
O man of mine, come drink, come drink,
The spell is bubbling to the brink !
I hold the cup that Circe held
With charms as soft as fears dispelled.
I am a luring, singing witch.
With spells and potions white and rich.
I gather them at early morn
Before the first, black lamb is born.
O man of mine, be true, be true;
Such sorcery was made by you !
I learned it when I was a child.
But had forgot it till you smiled.
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
Captain Blagg.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. NICHOLAS BLAGG, master of
H.M. hired transport Marcus, came
ashore in Sydney Cove on a Thurs-
day afternoon at 2.30 p.m., sober, full
of business, and intent upon seeing the
Naval Officer, Captain John Piper, who
was expecting him, and who waited for
him in his office until the pangs of hunger
drove him home at sunset. It was the 21st
of March, in the year 1819, and from that
hour and date Captain Blagg disappeared
from the face of the earth until midnight
on the 21st of March in the following year.
He landed at the King’s Wharf, his boat's
crew saw him walk into Pitt-street—and
then he was not. He vanished, melted into
thin air, became a mystery, and left no trace
behind. He went out of his world as com-
pletely as if he had never been in it.
“I regret,” wrote Governor Macquarie, in
paragraph 22 of his next despatch .to Lord
Bathurst, Secretary of State for the Colo-
nies, “to have to record the Mysterious Dis-
appearance of Mr. Nicholas Blagg, master
of the ship Marcus, which arrived in the
Colony with convicts on the 20th of Febru-
ary last. The Marcus was under charter
to Messrs. Tewkesbury, of Mincing-lane, to
proceed hence to China for a cargo of Tea,
when she should have discharg’d her Prison-
ers in this port. I have a Melancholy
Pleasure in recording that Mr. Blagg deliv-
ered the Unfortunate Persons entrusted to
his care in Excellent Qondition, there having
occurred but three deaths, and one escape at
the Cape of Good Hope, out of a Comple-
ment of 184 male convicts whom the Marcus
embarked at Deptford, and I have further
Gratification in testifying as to the High
Character borne by the Unfortunate Gentle-
man as a commander in the Transport Ser-
vice. Mr. Blagg came ashore in Sydney
during the afternoon of 21st March, to keep
an appointment with the Naval Officer with
regard to his Clearance Papers from Port
Jackson. From the instant of his landing
in Sydney Cove nothing more has been heard
of him. Upon the matter being reported to
Me, I caused the most Diligent Search to be
made in the Town, from house to house, and
sent word to the various Settlements of his
Unaccountable Absence. I regret to say
that the Unsparing Efforts made towards
his Discovery have been Entirely Fruitless,
and can only assume that he has been mur-
dered by Villainous Wretches for the sake
of whatever Valuables he may have had upon
his person. It is unhappily to be admitted
that there is in the Settlement a class of
Miscreants who would little regard the
Enormity of such a Dastardly Crime. I am
forwarding to the Board of Transport Mr.
Blagg’s personal papers and effects, for
transmission to his Widow, as there can be
little doubt that this Lamented Mariner is
no more.”
But his Excellency was fortunately wrong,
and though Captain Blagg, as has been
stated, came back to life in an exact twelve-
month, there were occasions during that
period when the “Lamented Mariner” found
it in his soul to wish heartily that he really
was “no more.”
This is what happened to him.
A comfortable and hale man of forty-odd.
with a somewhat grossly sensual face, Nicho-
las Blagg had stepped up from the waterside
and turned into Pitt-street. He had hardly
progressed fifty yards, deep in thought, when
he was startled by the sound of his name,
uttered in a tone of voice with which he
had once been intimately familiar. He
halted, and looked up.
“Mary!” he gasped —“ Mary Carlisle!'’
A woman stood smiling at him from be-
hind a wicket fence that surrounded a neat
little garden—a very handsome woman, with
a mass of black hair, and big black eyes that
mocked and pleaded.
“Oh, Nicky,” she murmured sweetly, with
a swift glance up and dowh the empty street
—there was not much traffic from the Quay
in those days. ’Tis you, indeed. Lome in
—come in. I'm all alone. ’
She opened the gate, and in some bewilder-
ment the sailor entered the garden. At once
she took him by the hand, squeezed it gently,
led him up the path, pushed the door open,
and ushered him into the cottage. He
obeyed her impulses as though he moved m
some sort of trance that was both agreeable
and the reverse. , . , . ,
Immediately someone hit him on the head,
and the master of the Marcus lost interest
in the little house, in Mary Carlisle and in
all the affairs of the world. With returning
sense he became gradually aware of a throb-
bing headache, of the sound of voices, and
the fact that he lay on a couch, bound hand
and foot. For some time he kept his eyes
closed, not being able to assure himself satis-
factorily whether he was suffering an alco-
holic recovery or was really trussed up like
a man about to be hanged. A taste ot
spirits in his mouth induced the first delu-
sion—the tightness of his bonds the reality
of the fact. , , .
At length he ventured to look about him,
and became aware of the woman, Mary Car-
lisle, and of three men. Two candles burned
upon the table, and one on the mantelshelf.
The windows were closely shuttered. He
looked from one to the other of the men in
turn, vaguely wondering which of them he
had to thank for his throbbing head. When
he rested his eyes upon the last of them, he
gasped and exclaimed. He saw himself!
“God save us!” he grunted. “Who are
you?”
The woman lifted a candle, and held it
over him. A little smile played about her
red lips.
“Ah —ye’ve come to y’self, Nicky, darling,
have ye?” she laughed softly. “That’s a
dear boy. We’ve poured all the brandy we
had down your throat. And no doubt ye’re
wondering' a little at him who’s wearing
your clothes? ’Tis natural. Well, listen,
and I’ll tell ’ee.”
He might well have been astonished. His
counterpart seemed to him to be more like
him than he was himself. The man was
what ho would have liked to look like. She
went on :
“Do ’ee mind all th’ fine love-inakin you
an’ me had when ye brought me out two
year ago, Nicky dear? Do ’ee mind th’ clever
way ye got round that drunken old Dr. Jar-
rold for to let me come to your cabin —for to
mend y’r clothes, an’ darn y’r stockings?
’Twas a famous time ye had Wi’ the best-
lookin’ wench i’ th’ ship—wasn’t it now?
Famous! An’ all ye told her about y’self?
An all she found out! Ah, ye didn’t know
all she ffcund out, Nicky dear. Not th’ half
of it. I’m a little clever myself, you know,
dearie. A little clever —oh, yes! Ye didn’l
know I had this, did ye?”
She unfolded a sheet of blue foolscap, and
held it before his blinking eyes, whilst the
candle in her thin hand lit it up so that he
could read. He glanced at it, and turned
yellow.
“Mv God!” he moaned. “You got hold
of that? I thought—l thought I had burned
it by mistake. Oh, my God!”
“Yes, mv dear —so you did. So you
thought. But you didn’t. That afternoon
when you first—you know —when you first
took advantage of your position—and my mis-
fortune. Do you remember —you called me
Honey Mary? That was when I got it.
’Twas the week before we reached the Cape-
five weeks after we had left Rio, where the
three Irish agitators got away from the ship.
Cabin passengers they was —not like' us,
locked in th’ ’tween-decks. Strange how
many important prisoners have miraculously
left your ship at Rio, dearie, isn’t it? On
more than one voyage, too. You know what
this is ?”
The despair in the man’s eyes might have
moved her to pity, but it didn’t, and she
turned to the others.
“This is the hold I have upon our good
Cap’n Blagg,” she said, waving the paper,
and then folding it up and slipping it into
her bosom. “ ’Tis a securer hold all
these lashings he is wearing now. What
is it, think ye? I’ll tell ’ee. ’Tis an
acknowledgment in the handwriting, and
bearing the signature, of Michael O’Rare —
th’ Kerry Liberator, ye’ll mind of him —set-
ting out how well Cap’n Nicholas Blagg has
assisted him, and James Casey, and Daniel
Ryan, in escaping from the Marcus at Rio
de Janeiro. It tells those it is addressed to
to pay to Cap’n Blagg the balance of the
sum agreed upon should their escape on the
voyage to New South Wales be brought
about. It tells, too, how Cap’n Blagg him-
self stabbed a sentry who interfered —
though they take the blame of this —and
recommends that something extra should be
given him for this good deed.”
The three men nodded, grinning. Cap-
tain Blagg’s double murmured gently.
“ ’Tis the rope for him, Mary, if ye show
that. Sure an’ sartain death !”
“Aye—and he knows it. . Now. Nicky,
this is the price of your life. This man
here —your image—who is, so far as we
know, no kin to ’ee, he’s my man. an’ he’s
a prisoner at the Coal River. These two
are constables who have to take him back
there. He’s been down on th’ trial o’ Lousy
Peters. We’ve bought them, an’ they’ll take
you back, instead, to-night, in the schooner.
Ye’re John Kermody now, wi’ nine o’ y’r
fourteen vears to do; an’ when his beard’s
grown he’ll be—anyone but John Kermody.
D’ye understand? One word—an’ y’r neck’s
th’ hangman’s. God ! ’Tis wonderful,” she
whispered, looking from one to the other,
“how two men can be so alike. Whoever
were th’ dams o’ both o’ ye. I’ll swear ye’d
tlfi same sire. Lord—’tis amazing!”
Captain Blagg groaned, and the woman
laughed.
“Ye’ll remember me, Nicky dear, when
ye’re up alone at th’ Coal River—won’t ’ee—
sometimes? Your Honey Mary”—she coaxed
him mockingly.
■Jfr *
The Coal Island —which is now called
Nobby’s—lay in a sheen of placid, newly-
sunli't water off the entrance to Port Hunter,
when John Kermody’s understudy walked
down to the Government boatshed from his
hut on the hillside above Newcastle. Cap-
tain Blagg—a good deal thinner than when
his Honey Mary had enticed him into
bondage 10 weary months before —had, after
many trials and much tribulation, come, into
the somewhat precarious job of coxswain of
(Continued on next page.)


Rub if in"
%
&
7i
For Cramp, Rheumatism,
Stiffness, Sciatica, etc.
Rubbing Zam-Buk in is the surest way
to rub pain, disease and irritation out. As
an embrocation for deep-seated pains, such
as rheumatism, sciatica, lumbago, neural-
gia and other affections of the fibrous
tissues Zam-Buk possesses many superior
merits. The refined juices and essences
of which Zam-Buk is composed penetrate
right through the tissues, get at the very
root of the trouble, and, once there, simply
drive the pain out. Rub well in to remove
stiffness or to get at the root of any deep-
seated rheumatic or sciatic pain.
Zam-Buk has been proved to possess
unique virtues as a remedy for cold in the
throat and head. Rubbed well into the
throat, chest and back, Zam-Buk soaks
into the tissues, soothing pain and remov-
ing that “tightness” which is such an
annoying symptom of a cold on the chest.
Great benefit is often derived by rubbing
Zam-Buk between the palms of both hands
and then inhaling the pleasant odor of the
evaporating balsams. This loosens the
stuffiness in the nose, clears the head, and
relieves that dull, heavy feeling.
Rheumatism# Sciatica Ended
“As a remedy for rheumatism in the arms and legs,
and for sciatica,” says Mr. Alex. Robertson, of 143
Maitland Street, Dunedin, N.Z., “I have found Zam-Buk
splendid, the last attack I had was a particularly
severe one. I was for ever trying liniments and lotions
from the chemists, but they were like so much water.
“At length I was persuaded to get a pot of Zam-Buk.
I first bathed my shoulders and joints, and then, by
rubbing Zam-Buk well in, got it right down into the
pores. I experienced great soothing ease - ' even after the
first application. 1 persevered with the treatment and
eventually Zam-Buk completely rid me of my troubles.”
Zam-Buk is unsurpassed
for Chapped Hands, Chil-
blains, Eczema, Stiffness,
Rheumatism and other
aches and pains. All
Chemists and Stores at
fs. 6d. and 3s. 6d. per pot.
r tiyTlßMlWlllWilßllliiltfHlil l ll l'i II Hl"ii
Buk
am
MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “Swan”
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence in workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan manufacture for a
generation.
PENS
Sold by Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with Safety Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 1 2/6 Screw-on Cap, from 15/.
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holbom, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
i! s , 3 ? 9 ; Weston St., S.E. Associate House—Mabie,
Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
m
mn
Australian Branch:.
niimiiiimnmiinimitiniiiimim
T. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 265 a George Street, Sydney!
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand-
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured. All
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Randwick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
AVON
i*. TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
the Commandant’s famous barge, and to-day
was to navigate that ominous craft up the
Hunter whilst its remarkable owner made
one of his periodic visits to the settlers along
the river between Newcastle and the Green
Hills—where Morpeth and East Maitland are
to-day. It was live o'clock of a January
morning as he made his. way to the riverside,
and the blue smoke of breakfast curled up
into the clear sky from prisoners’ huts and
officers’ cottages. The day’s work started
early at the Coal River in the reign of Major
Morissett, and did not end so soon as to
waste much daylight.
There are some remarkable people in New-
castle to-day—great racing men, great min-
ing men, great shipping men and great indus-
trialists —but it is doubtful if there has ever
since been located there such a very remark-
able person as the Commandant who ruled,
regulated and flogged the community a
hundred years ago.
It was greatly to the credit of Captain
Blagg that he had succeeded in attaining,
and retaining, the position of Major Moris-
sett’s coxswain. Especially creditable when
you consider that an incursion into a mud-
flat, or the fouling of a snag, might just as
easily bring the coxswain to the triangles as
the humblest of the galley-slaves who toiled
at the long oars. And the triangles were
carried rigged in the barge’s bows, ready for
any emergency. Some amount of nerve was
requisite in that responsible position.
No one had believed the outraged Nicholas
when he protested his identity. A pros-
perous and well-fed shipmaster, neatly
itressed, shaved and well assured in bearing,
has a very different aspect to a miserable,
hungry and dejected wretch, garbed in the
tattered raiment of a convict, and growing-
scraggy and untrimmed hair upon cheeks
and chin. And he had left off protesting
when Major Morissett, sitting in judgment
upon him, had remarked energetically :
“Idle and insolent, hey! This won’t do.
My man, no one in this settlement is per-
mitted to be idle, and insolence is vested in
myself alone. Twenty-five.” And within
half an hour the sentence had been carried
into effect.
. Captain Blagg found his crew waiting
him at the boatsheds, and immediately
launched the ba’rge, manned it and hoisted
the red ensign on the five-foot staff at the
stern. He pulled alongside the King’s
Wharf and awaited the Commandant, who,
with his suite of a corporal and three
soldiers, a convict clerk and the flagellator,
arrived promptly at a quarter to six. Nod-
ding a brief “Good-morning” to his coxswain,
the Major stepped into the cabin that was
built athwart the barge aft, and Captain
Blagg commanded his 12 oarsmen to give
way. He steered from the space at the stern
just behind the cabin. They headed up the
broad and shining river, towards the far-off
blue ranges above the mangroves.
Those long, broad reaches of the Lower
Hunter are very beautiful to-day, with their
mantle of green lucerne overlying the wide
levels of brown alluvial that stretch far away
towards the distant hills. In those old days
it was a borderland of civilisation, but
sparsely settled by the hardy pioneers who
had pushed out from the Ilawkesbury and
the older districts down in the County of
Cumberland. Every six weeks or so it was
the Commandant’s custom to make a tour by
water of the various farmsteads along the
banks of the Hunter, the Paterson and the
Williams to inquire into the progress of
their holders and to administer justice, or
injustice, to their convict servants. For this
latter reason the triangles were rigged in
the bows of the barge. Many a poor wretch
shivered, in those years, as he looked up
from his hoeing to behold this sinister figure-
head coming round a bend.
All the forenoon they rowed up with the
tide, and about midday came to a little
settlement a few miles below where the vil-
lage of Raymond Terrace is now. A newly-
arrived settler, whose name Captain Blagg
did not know, had but lately purchased it
from its founder, and this was the Com-
mandant’s first official visit. He steered for
the little jetty of logs that marked the land-
ing-place, at the foot of the slight rise on
which the slab homestead and farm build-
ings stood. As the boat glided in diagonally
from mid-stream, a man and a woman came
out of the house and walked slowly down to
meet it at the wharf.
Captain Blagg, being busy with the
making fast of the barge and the stowing of
her oars, did not at first have opportunity
to scan very closely the features of these two
persons. It was only when he had opened
the cabin door for Major Morissett, and was
saluting him as he stepped ashore, that the
sound of the woman’s voice gave him a bitter
shock. He looked up, and saw Mary Car-
lisle. all smiles and hospitality, coming for-
ward to welcome the Commandant. Just
behind her was himself, Nicholas Blagg.
wearing a red beard clipped to a point. His
own untrimmed whiskers were black.
“G—d damn my soul!” he ejaculated for-
cibly. Major Morissett turned his head.
“What’s that, Kermody? Did you address
me?”
“N—no, sir,” stuttered the unfortunate
sailor. “I was a’telling the men to make sure
of the mooring-lines. The tide’ll be ebbing
presently.”
“Glad to make y’r Honor welcome,” said
Mary Carlisle, curtseying and glancing past
the Major, momentarily, at Captain Blagg,
with a little smile of amused recognition.
“Good-morning to ’ee. Kermody.” she had the
effrontery to address her victim. “Your
coxs’n is no stranger to me, Major—we came
out in the same ship. I’m glad to see ’ee in
such good employ, John. The dinner’s ready,
y’r Honor—will you not be so good as to step
up to the house?”
“Thank you, ma’am—l thank you,” re-
plied the Major gallantly. “I’m quite ready,
too. We left Newcastle before six. Ker-
mody, you may let the men eat their dinners.
Be ready to shove off at 2 o'clock. Thank
.von, ma’am, thank you—delighted. Pray,
lead the way.”
The Commandant did not seem altogether
insensible to the charms of his handsome
hostess. There was a spring in his step as
he followed her up the path. The man who
had accompanied her remained behind, star-
ing at Captain Blagg with expression on
his face that was almost a grin, but yet had
something of entreaty in it.
Captain Blagg walked over to him with a
white, set face. The man gave ground a
little, and had a look of fear.
"By G—d !” growled Blagg. “Ye
dog ! I have ye now !”
"Steady, Cap’n—steady,” half-whispered
the other huskily. “Come with me. ’Twas a
scurvy trick, but I mean to set ye right.
Come to my hut, I beg of ye.’’
Captain Blagg hesitated. lie did not like
to leave the barge.
“ ’Twill be all right,” urged his double,
"lliat woman’s got the fascinations of Hell.
She’ll keep th’ Major’s attentions, never fear.
She wants to get something out of him—
some concession. We’ll not be long. ’Tis for
your own good I beg ye to come with me.”
He led Captain Blagg, scowling horribly,
to a little hut behind the house, carefully
closing the door when they had entered.
With shaking hands he took a rum bottle
from a shelf, poured out a stiff nobbier into
a pannikin and handed it to the Captain
who took it, raised it to his lips, and then
dashed it in Kermod.y’s face.
"God sink ye in Hell! I’ll not drink with
l i~ n ye ,’ IVe been flogged!” lie hissed.
Ivo been through ten months of misery
because ot you—and that devil. To Hell
with ye !”
The other wiped his white face on his
sleeve.
“By heavens, so have I, Cap’ll,” ho whis-
pered hoarsely. “I’m nigh dead. She’s a wicked
WWn tn LlS i teU ’ Blag S- See, I’H go
1 the .l a %s> 11 ye re willin’. I’ve some
stuff litre will dye my beard black like yours.
, °u can change clothes with me, and stav
here untd th’ Commandant shoves off again.
111 take y r place in th’ boat. ’Tis y’r only
chance of escape from being a prisoner—an’
mine from being worse. I’ve had enough'
mnVhp r , awa , y 111 a little while—and, if it
must be, I 11 make a clean breast of it all-
how ye was kidnapped and all.”
Captain Blagg stated at Kermodv in
astonishment, a slow grin spreading over his
nodded hf« e n t y i he ri hook with lighter and
nodded his head. He could see that Ker-
rnody was in deadly earnest, and it tickled
n 1 un flle as ant sense of humor so
much that he assented with a coarse laugh.
By G- d, 111 do it!” he cried “T’ll
slave ian 6 /' rif!, cau g 0 back to Morissett's
• lave »ang. 111 do it—and make her elad to
send me to Sydney. Come, get to work on
Y ° U Can have these clothes, and
So it came about that, twelve months and
p.fnK- ho t}'i S afte * he had so suddenly left it
Captain Blagg of the Marcus came back to
T j WOl roai which he had vanished. But
ign oi'ant 6 off°tUp bu * la ': and la n<Hubber
R?ver or Lila n l! Vlgatlon of tbe Hunter
xui ei oi indeed of any navigation at qii
was degraded at the Green Hms, for strand"
ing the barge in the mud, and duly flowed
on his return to Newcastle. go
Commandant ha <Y been jinking!” said the
cummanaant, lou, a sailor, to do a d—d
silly thing like that! Fifty.” 9
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
The Squall.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A MORNING of blue and gold. Our
whaleboat, well out between Vella
Lavella and Sirjo, slips along before
a steady nor'-easter. The mobile blue hills
of water are daintily capped with foam.
Within our vision, sprawling in the sun-
Solomons. gr “" isles of Western
hnn^?i enl e’ ui n i the . horizon far astern, a
: f ul T , of black mist Wars the morning
£s?• fows bigger. We affect not tS
fnhv Wnif Tt W J I pa f s away ’ we say hope-
i in 'T* an hour later it has grown to a
the hffr^ ain wvi h - has cut ollt a section of
the horizon. Within the hour Choisuel has
b w ted f° l,t and Vella is fa st disappear-
ing. We sit in the sunshine, sailing easily
ni'tv t h e h Sq a a gatbers in strength and malig-
behind us. Soon the screen has fallen
on all the land astern.
Now the sun is put out, although the sea
and islands ahead are still drenched in light.
Above us, blue-black and sinister, the oncom-
i n ?, eneD,y ar( 'bed. Down comes the main-
sail; we will run with the jib.
feeling of remoteness comes over us out
there in the unnatural half-light. The sea
seems strangely quiet, and has turned a
sickly grey. The wind flutters in faint, ten-
tative puffs from out the cloud. The faces
ot the native crew are tense and hard-set
and turned steadily to wind’ard.
f.b|' Puffs grow cold and come more
rapidly. Before the purple arch of the im-
pending, cloud a few ragged wisps of wrack
are fleeing. The feet of the squall are on
tiie sea in a white lash of rain. Colder and
colder, stronger and colder, comes the wind,
lhen, with a “Whoosh !” all the world falls
upon us. The jib holds and we fly with the
wind. A sea rises with magical speed, and
soon a tremendous swell is running. Moun-
tains roar up astern and break on either
side. We are the fleeing quarry of the
thrashing rain clouds. The wind claws, and
tugs, and clutches at our tiny sail and howls
m fury. The wall of rain is opaque. We
can see nothing but its driving slats and the
great hoary rollers that clutch at us. We
leap and stagger blindly.
Somehow we become curiously apathetic
One feels there is nothing to do but watch
in a dull, numbed way. A warm sea break-
ing over us gives a sense of warmth to our
thin blood. The whole world is in solution *
and we, embodied in water from skv and
sea, are the only solid atom left. We are
eclipsed in a blind fury of wind and water.
Suddenly a shout from one of the boys •
“Close up he finish!” We look astern and
see a hole of light in the murk. Up goes
the mainsail! We will ride the tail of the
storm. We leap from crest to frothy crest
in a mad exhilaration of speed. Tlie seas
break and foam, but we tread them under-
foot and leave them helpless astern.
The rain ceases and the sunlight spills
itself over us. God! but it is go®d. The
wind drops to a pleasant breeze, and the
fleeing squall is a blue-black dot hull-down
or>. the horizon.
LESLIE F. GILL.


'mm
■
M
1
■ 91
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN D RIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z, Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Repeating
Autoloading
r
FT
R-
m
The remington umc
Repeating Shot Gun may be
* used as a single or double
loader. When loaded to full
capacity it contains six cart-
ridges ready for use at the will of the
shooter.
The Remington UMC Autoloading Shot
Gun is manufactured under Browning pa-
tents. This gun automatically loads and
ejects, and five cartridges may be fired
with great rapidity.
These guns are favoured weapons among
sportsmen. Ask your dealer for further
particulars or send to us for descriptive
catalogue.
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
Box 6SS, G. P. 0., Melbourne
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
fefi, UxM
H
0
the benefits of
Beecham’sPius
X
SP4RK PLUG
ENERQISER
Introducing to “Bulletin” Readers
A New Electrical Device
OF
WONDERFUL UTILITY & VIRTUE
BY WHICH
Your Spark Plugs give Smoother Ignition.
Your Engine gives More Power.
Your Car gives flore Speed.
Your Whole Outfit gives More Miles per Gallon.
COUNTRY MOTORISTS especially should get interested in
THE SPARK PLUG ENERGISER
and by its continued use practically eliminate
SPARK PLUG TROUBLE.
For ourselves we haven’t yet seen an old plug: that won’t spark when fitted with THE
ENERGISER. Plugs sooted and with broken porcelains, and soaked with water, when
thus equipped, have yielded showers of snappy sparks right across the points.
The SPARK PEUG ENERGISER IS THE WONDER OF THE WIREEESS—The
BREAKING OF A CIRCUIT—APPEIED TO THE SPARKING PEUG, thereby increas-
ing the electrical pressure, and thus forcing even a defective plug to spark.
The SPARK PEUG EXERCISER IS A SPLENDID TONIC FOR A FORD.
RETAIL PRICK: 5/6 each, 5/6 each, 5/6 each.
If vou have ignition troubles, or if you w ant a better-running motor, or if you are
merely curious, see The SPARK PEUG ENERGISER.
Country Garages get in touch with this, one of the best side-lines you can possibly
handle.
SOLE
AGENTS
ROBERT C. SWAN 8 CO.
I TD., 304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
“■'“The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies.
STEEL CASTINGS—SpeciaI Good Quality
a
m
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
HZ itiCWiA
Victoria Street,
Richmond, Victoria.


NGROVIT
LEATHER
LTI
"THaRE’S NOTHING LIKE LEATHER.”
l or efficiency under the most trying condi-
tions no belt has ever given better satisfac-
tion than
“MANGROVITE” RAWHIDE BELTING.
This famous power-transmitter and power-saver
is dependable under all conditions.
Made from the best hides procurable. Tanned
and Manufactured by the Mangrovite Process.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
43 Wynyard Square, near G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
g Lb onn 6
CIRCULAR kSAWvS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
379 Kent Street. SYDNEY.
Latrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
Charles .Atkins & Co, Ltd., Adelaide. John Keid & Nephews, Brisbane.
ioloBf%i|
4 .
,
IBADi M. MWK
::r.
1
-v.r ;-/r.CV
Getting Maximum Service
from Every Drive
is simply a question of choosing
the most efficient belting.
DICK’S Batata Belting
(The Original and Genuine)
has positively proved its superi-
ority for all transmission purr
po-es. it reduces slipping to
the vanishing point. Ita dura-
bility ensures freedom from
stoppages.
Many other features are fully
illustrated in our interesting
booh. Send for a copy to-day.
Sole importers—
James Hardie C£b Co. Ltd.« '
C r. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY !
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Gray itd.
Also at Melbourne and Adelaide.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling- factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN SUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong-
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving- the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
:
And at Melbourne, Brisbano,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
■ ■' . *
ti
Latest Motor Jack,,
Endless chain, quick and easily worked. Strong, com-
pact, 10- to 18-inch extension. Lift 1 ton. Size
over all, lOin. x Sin.
Price 25/-
For up—Place under car, stand clear from dust and
grease, pull endless chain.
For down—-Pull chain opposite way.
Useful other purposes. Highly recommended by
D. 8 W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.,
Ironmongers. 276-294 BRUNSWICK ST.. FITZROY. MELBOURNE
:
<
<✓
HAt> H
&
o
V.
vf
>V
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-: 51b., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
lib. Flux will braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each (in.
Employed by Victorian State Departments, and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or applv to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRES.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St, Kilda, ViAoria,
i
THE BEST
ASMOKE
IS
TOBACCO
i
m
X
.
HI
9B
rr
■
H
n
DELCO-LIGHT
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE ACENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD,
SYONEV & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND -
SMELLIE & CO LTD.,
BRISBANE.
#£E
“ r "
The Jisfeci Portable Shearing Plant
The Ideal Outfit for Small Shearing Contractors.
1,2, 3, or 4 STANDS. Shears arc Friction-driven off Flywheels of 3- or 6-h.p Kerosene Engine.
>h\ O. BROADBECK, Pillerene, Gunnenbene, writes: l am very highly satisfh d with the
Plant. Have shorn over 2000 sheep and never lost a minute.”
Mr. F. D. PHILLIPS, Merryulla, Coonamble, writes: “The plant went splendidly—not a
hitch from start to finish. The Lister Machines are the sweetest-running on the
market.”
HUNDREDS OF OTHER USERS ARE EQUALLY SATISFIED. Write for Bulletin No. 109.
DANCAR, CEDYE & CO. LTD., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Eagle Street, Brisbane, Agents in Queensland.
3000 LOCOMOTIVES
THE LATEST NEWS FROM AMERICA
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sydney. Ne " York, May 31, 1918.
Dear Sirs, — . .
You no doubt have read of this country talcing over all the railroads. The Government has established Mechanical
Depts. at Washington, which have the sav as to all equipment. It is our privilege to inform you that last ueek t iey
adopted as a standard for their blow-off valves ours, the “Everlasting” Valve, and they are about to build 3000 locomo-
tives. EVERLASTING VALVE CO. JOHN H. ALLEN, President.
This follows previous announcement of the Everlasting Valve having been made Standard by the American (iovernment for the Great
Emergency Fleet of 5000 Steamships and the huge Munition Works.
There must be something unique about a valve which commands such influential support. Let us tell you about it.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., City Office: 550 George Street, Sydney, sole licensees and manufacturers fob Australasia.
