

DEWAR’S —THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
K. G. WATKINS & GO,,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
, , —FOR —
inmg and Contractors Plant. Engineers’ and Sawmill lVlining Requisites.
Specialty ; AUCTIONEERS FOP MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
v,v.\
Advance
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS and LOWEST INTEREST. '
NSW- MONT • DE • PIETED 6l G> 17°
MEAD OFFICE 74 GASTLERB AGH S' 1 ' SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building. And at 29 Klnff streetj Newcastle, N.S.W. Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castiereagli Street, Sydney. 215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
159 George Street West, Sydney. 40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
lIF.VM'RTT f!nnai*al lUonn» A .
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says:—
“The Company is very
well managed, and the
name is quite a house-
hold word in Sydney.
Its reputation is excel-
lent, and, although the
money-lender is gener-
ally regarded as a
vampire, the charge
cannot be laid at the
doors of the N.S.W.
Mont de I’iete IJ. & I.
Co. Limited.”
Hospitals Must Have
an Efficient Sewage
System.
No matter how large the institution may
be the most effective and satisfactory
method is
The Oxidising
(Non-septic * System.
It is absolutely hygienic—even on the
hottest days there is no odor whatever.
This system is entirely different from the
Septic process. It actually costs less, yet
is immeasurably superior. The Sewage is
entirely dissolved and given off as an
odorless gas.
We shall be glad to give vou any infor-
mation regarding it. Send for our inter-
esting Booklet. We shall gladlv* send you
a copy. Write now.
Montgomerie-Neiison
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
SO Youreg Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone, City 8976.
,iW'
Ik
9
pPLE
k
'rv
/>
i '
nothind
to Argue
About!"
\
V
& BA-^
Aretheßest"
:iiiiiiioiiiiiii;i
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
geeehzb
m
mm
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
t, Not the same
a* others.
Mo/lkbid
V the perfect roofing
Cut out all risk by ordering Malthoid for every
class of roofing. Where galvanised-iron can be
used, Malthoid will be found superior, because it
will more successfully withstand intense heat,
intense cold, rain or severe climatic changes, and
is less than half the cost. Malthoid is best for
your purpose.
Samples and illustrated booklet post free.
The Paraffine Paint Company (F. il. Prince, Australasian
Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
ENGINEERING COMPANY L
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Roiling Stock of all Descriptions. Road IVietal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
YefivCL&t/ueAs e &
- 0 MACHINFRY
POWER PLANT WANTED.
Clients of ours require about
300 to 500 HORSEPOWER-either STEAM or SUCTION GAS.
SUITABLE FOB ELECTRIC DRIVE.
Forward PRICE and full particulars, stating amount of work done, immediately.
CANADIAN
CO
COH
COUI
<UI
OCX
GQ CO
QNV
cnsiv
COPPER
TUBES.
I BRASS CONDENSER TUBES.
Solid Drawn Tubes—
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles—
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Enquiries solicited. Correspondence invited.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
m
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
VoJ. 39.—N0. 1992.]
[Thursday, April 18, 1918.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


One pull, one dip, one push, and
the reservoir fills in a flash.
One fill suffices to write 20,000 words.
One turn of the screw regulates the ink flow.
One self-contained pen —needing no brittle glass
filler or inky rubber squirt.
One & unique—'that’s the
m
YOU SIMPEY
UNSCREW IT
AND
k PULL IT OUT
Onoto
Pen
Price 17/- and up*
wards. Also ONOTO
Valveless for those who
do not want a Self-
Filling Safety Pen,
from 12/6 upwards.
SWf-
FilHng
Safatr
Fountain
From all stationers ie welters and stores. Manufacturers : Thos. De T.a Rue & Co., Ltd.,
259Bunhill Row? London E.C. Managing: Agents- »*™ * T-onghurst.
York Street, Sydney.
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Tins 1/6.
The Great Antiseptic
and Prophylactic.
4.U3
*2
mukm. wim'wi
re®
HU
SON
Unlike cough medicines, “Eumentiiol
Jujubes” do not interfere with the diges-
tion. On the contrary, they have a beneficial
effect, as their Antiseptic Properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food when
taken after meals,
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Suitable for Old and Young. C*
The Red Page
Anzallan
Maud Renner Liston reprints from South
Australian journals a number of what she
calls poems—and some of them do almost
justify that label. 8. George for England,
and U.P. (Heath, Cranton, London, 3s. (id.),
is a readable structure of neat verse. She
writes of the Empire—a couplet for each
Dominion, and the Allies—a verse for each,
not forgetting Montenegro; and her touch
in “Geography” is light but attractive :
Long years ago, as memory tells,
We learned about the Dardanelles ;
And wrote the name, like rules and dates,
With squeaking pencils on our slates.
How could we know it ever should
Be writ for us in signs of blood ?. . . .
We heard about the plains of Troy,
And to each listening girl or boy
It seemed a stirring tale to be
But wrapped in dim antiquity.
How could we see this classic place
Wet with the life-blood of our race?
And now >vc learn, in pride and rue,
Names on a map we never knew ;
And Gaba Tepe, to all years,
Tells of our glory and'our tears,
For that far hill where fell our best
Means more to us than all the rest.
There is. too, a fine marching lilt in “Sing-
ing through old Boulogne.” One or two
interesting sonnets, including an excellent
one on Blake ; a number of devout religious
verses; a few vivid glimpses of the woman’s
part in war—the whole technically skilled
but often prosaic in thought and expression,
make up a volume that calls for encourage-
ment but hardly criticism. “The Last
Night” sounds pitifully real: —
I said: “Dear lads, to-night you'll stay,
Before the dawn I’ll send you away.”
I tucked them in and kissed good night;
They nnist be gone before the light.
I piled the fire with mallee roots
To dry their raiicsoaked clothes and boots ;
And lingered over the things with care,
So glad to know that they were there.
And then to bed —but not to sleep,
Later these aching eyes may weep.
Ever inseparable these two,
What one did must the other do.
It was always so in every game,
And now, in war, it is just the same.
■One could not go without the other,
Each would be lost without his brother.
Five says the clock by the flickering lamp,
Time for reveille at the camp.
They slept as sweet as babies then
Who must go forth to fight like men.
I bent above each curb head,
And “Time to wake” I somehow said.
The taxi purred at the gate, the rain
Beat heavily on the window-pane.
“Good-bye* keep smiling to the last,
Good-bye, good-bye,” and that is past.
And what is left for me but sit
In the quiet house, and knit and knit?
d*
In After Many Days (Sydney: John
Andrew and Co.) Outhbert Fetlierstonliaugh
has written the story of his life, and part of
the story of Australia, up to 1872. If it
meets with a welcome, he promises to bring
it up to date. Well, he had better get to
work, for the book is sure of warm apprecia-
tion on the part of every good Australian
who reads it. Old boys and young boys will
revel in these racy reminiscences of a genu-
ine “sport,” a pioneer and a brave and good
man, who has ridden straight, lived straight
and written straight. He rode with Adam
Lindsay Gordon, helped in the opening up of
North Queensland and the development of
Southern Riverina, and fought blacks anc
bushrangers, drought and financial disastei
with equal courage and good humor. He is
the same Fetherstonhaugh of whom poor
Barcroft Boake wrote just before he died
by his own hand. The verses were found
on his body, with a note directing that they
should be handed to J. F. Archibald, of
The Bulletin, and they were first pub-
lished in this paper in 1892. There is a
vivid description of Mr. Fetherstonhaugh's
dealings with “Blue Cap’s” gang—the
theme of Boake’s ballad—in the present
volume.
The book is full of good things, told with
the Celtic wit which is part of the author’s
heritage from ancestors whose vitality was
extraordinary. His father was tlm 27tli
child o f be mother of 28 children,
w b“ ’.vtu married at 16 and lived to
he 75. He was 90 when he died, and his
son, the author, is in his 81st year
and still hale and well —though he has, in
his time, sustained 18 fractures and five dis-
locations, as a result of his consistent hard
riding! But apart from its qualities of
entertainment, After Many Days has real
value to the student of Australian history—
a value of the sort that is possessed by such
books as Joseph Holt’s Memoirs, the late
T. A. Browne’s (Rolfe Boldrewood) Old
Melbourne Memories, J. T. Ryan’s Reminis-
cenes, and the recent volume by R. D.
Barton. It is from such books as these
that living portraits of the pioneers and their
times may be drawn with fidelity. They
are invaluable, and the present happy chron-
icle adds worthily to their number. Should
its sequel come to publication, Mr. Fether-
stonliaugh will have added very materially
and usefully to the good__work he has accom-
plished in this pleasant volume, and it will
be sure of a wide circle of readers. After
Many Days is altogether a charming book,
characteristic of the man who has written
it, whose name is a household word in
Bushland from Portland Bay to Rockhamp-
ton.
The M.L. public having eaten up the
whole of the 500 copies of Wellington horses
within two months, Boyce Bowden hands
out a second helping, Roads and Fairies
(Whitcombe and Tombs. M.L. per Angus
and Robertson, Sydney). Like his first
plateful these verses are reprinted from
The Bulletin. They are just as filling,
but hardly so appetising. Boyce Bowden
has a fatal facility in verse-writing; and this
collection shows, alack, more facility and
less fertility of imagination arid sentiment.
And the “place” poem that gave his first
volume a niche by itself on the shelf marked
“Wellington,” is missing in the second.
These are pleasant, and agreeable verses
about roads and fairies and cities and the
sea ; but they largely lack the local touch,
and thereby lose their individuality. Yet
there are observation and freshness in this:
He best can sing the song of Love for whom Love
holds no' part ;
It is an honest song which swells from out a yearning
heart;
And he can hymn the breadth of Life to whom Life
is a name,
And panting fans a waning spark within a wasting
frame.
O baby toes and rosy heels which rest, within the
palm!
He, childless, sires his babe of dreams and shrines it
in a psalm,
And from the depth of Heart’s desire the cry rings
true and strong,
For each man tames liis darling Hope and weaves it
into song.
But this fondness for loosely-knit long
lines is soul-laziness. Boyce Bowden should
practise his scales —say, a sonnet or lyric
every morning before breakfast. His fairies
are more companionable than his rambling
roads. “The Fern Men” begins charmingly,
but is too long for complete quotation:—
An’ you set the new moon in the crotch of a tree
An’ you bide when the day’s at the turn
On the twist o’ the little grey track you will see
The little brown men in the fern;
But your eyes must be kind in the front o’ your head
And your heart must be soft for to ken ;
And ’tis hush you must keep and ’tis soft you must
tread
If you’d meet with the little brown men.
You must pluck from your ears all o’ bad they have
heard,
You must brush up your coat or your gown,
For the little brown men will take fright at a word,
And they hate the drab dust of the town.
You must spread out your sins on the lap o’ the
Night
If the brown, nimble men you would see,
For your soul must be clean and your heart must be
white
As the moon in the crotch o’ the tree.
If you do all these things and you tarry a 'mace
And you never give cause for alarm,
You will find a big blossom flung full at yr. r face
And feel a wee fist on your arm ;
While over the twigs like the steps of , the Dreeze
From the fronds of the fern and the roors,
The tiny brown men will swarm up on your knees
Or squat on the ground by your b00t5....
Yes, pretty and pleasant, but this page
misses the little brown hat. There are no
little brown hats in Roads and Fairies. A
sonnet and a lyric to be written every morn-
ing before breakfast, Boyce Bowden!
At last, a troopship magazine that bars
humor. The editors of The Billjim, pub-
lished on a returning troopship, announce
that “nothing approaching a joke can appear
in this paper.” This decision is perhaps
due to the susceptibilities of troopship skip-
pers, who believe that the old jokes dished
up voyage after voyage bring them ill-luck
and attract submarines. And the serious-
ness of this paper “for Billjims, edited by
some of them, read by all of them, damned
by a few of them, ignored by none of them,”
is plainly a relief. The editors proffer a
warning against the shirkers, “who by their
ignoble cuteness” have had no part in the
making of Billjim’s good name. “Suspect
those men with grievances. You, who have
been through the futile hell of a Pozieres, a
Bullecourt, a Passchendale —to your eternal
credit be it said you parade not your griev-
ance. Then suspect the history of those
men who agitate so glibly.” There is an
open letter to parents whose sons are return-
ing without a decoration. “This is a war
in which the individual is lost, and is found
again only by blind chance. That blind
chance has not yet found out and particu-
larised your son is no reproach to him. lor
himself, he may casually tell you that he has
been in many a tight corner where he was
content to get out ‘with a whole skin and a
darned big fright.’ But we have seen him
in such corners and know he came out per-
haps without a decoration, but with the
clear consciousness of having done his job.
An open letter to the Australian public
warns us that “some Billjims would come
back apparently less amiable in character,
certainly less ingenuous in mind. . . .All that
is immoral in civilisation... .was before
their eyes. They have come through _ nerve-
racking and unbalancing experiences. Our
duty is to nurse those Billjims back to men-
tal and moral health, to "protect the good
name of the returned soldiers from the hys-
terical and unintelligent criticism of cant-
ing wowsers,” and to protect these sick boys
from the evils of our own cities. Evidently
attempts were made by contributors to evade
the notice, “No jokes accepted” ; but luckily
the editors possessed something more drastic
than a w.p.b. Most of these efforts, we
learn in “Answers to Correspondents,
found their way to the incinerator. Worth
quoting is a typical reply :
Well, yours is no joke, but something long on
issue as an army ration. Was first heard in
Broadmcadows Camp at beginning of the war, printed
in a troopship paper published the day the Lmdeli
was sunk, afterwards much enjoyed by some 2nd Div.
reinforcements, told at a regimental dinner in the 4th
Div. (that poor, fellow lost his commission over it),
chalked on u dug-out in sth Div. lines at, Fleurbaix
(fortunately matter hushed up and never reached
Corps), finally brought over by 3rd Div. and
put on the market as a new-laid egg. Giving it
again only that you may bring it home to the Yarra
and drown it: “Kaiser: ‘Who are these Australians.
Crown Prince: ‘Dunno! But 11 of them beat Eng-
land, and there are 40,000 of them coming.’ ’
je
The Balmoral Boomerang is a reptile
contemporary of The Billjim, both being
published on the same Castle liner. One o *-
tlie poems is signed with the familiar Aus-
tralian initials W.H.0.; but even if Ogilvie
isn’t on board it is worth quotation:—
If a crowd collects at Charing Cross
And a horse is down in the Strand,
The Turned-up Hat will act as boss,
While his comrades lend a hand.
If a taxi-driver be impolite,
And a lady be left in tears,
The Turned-up Hat will set things right,
With a rousing box on the ears.
If a country child, with heart half-broke,
Is lost in the London streets,
The Turned-up Hat will find its folk
And smother its sobs with sweets.
In short, if there’s a bully to beat,
Or a wrong to be ridden at,
0/ anything fallen to put on its feet,
You may count on the Turned-up Hat.
The Cacolet, the journal of the Aus-
tralian Camel Field Ambulance, printed in
Cairo, is quite a lordly magazine, well illus-
trated with photographs and full of informa-
tion. “Cacolet,” we learn, is the “camel” for
“stretcher.” One effect of Billjim’s presence
in Egypt is to give a little local color to
ancient history: a guide at the Pyramids
remarked to an A.C.F.A. man: “The
Sphinkus was built 5000 years ago, by
Napoleon the Great, Australian Prime Mini-
ster.” The Cacolet has its bards, its humor-
ists and its answers to correspondents ; but
this small chunk of sincerity pleases most of
all: “They’re game, every one of them, the
wounded Australians —and there is never a
grumble when they come in all shot to pieces
....some of them swear, some say nothing
at all, and most of them seem to think that
they are being far too much trouble to
anyone who tries to help them. In reality,
too much cannot be done for them. They
have been fighting or lying wounded in the
sun, have probably 20 miles to travel in a
bumpy sand-cart or a murderously-swinging
camel cacolet, and 100 miles by train over a
none too even railway, before they get any
kind of decent comfort In the field make
sure that they are comfortable, but don’t
fuss over them. Let them help themselves
as much as they can.... Above all, keep
cheerful- —even if the place is crowded with
wounded and they are still coming—and you
are dead-beat, there is no transport avail-
able, and some fool says that we are losing
the war.”
Jt
11. Y. Edwards, a regular “Abo.” con-
tributor, tells, in Wild-Life Photography, the
best way to obtain snapshots of our fauna.
His booklet (Gordon and Gotch, 25.) is
illustrated by his own photographs; and his
yarns and hints are both interesting, especi-
ally his account of the exciting sport of
photographing snakes.
The Gum Tree, a quarterly devoted to
the conservation of Australian trees, the
official organ of the Forest League (Melb.,
Is.), celebrates its first anniversary. It is
making vigorous growth.
o-
The competition for the best Billjim epi-
taph for insertion in the Honor 801 l of the
morning press closes on April 27. Full
particulars iu Red Page, April 4.
Fiction
Twinkletoes, a Tale of Chinatown
(Richards, per Dymock’s Library), will be
read. For it is by Thomas Burke, the author
of Limehouse Nights, that remarkable
achievement in the three realms of horror,
sordid realism and poetry. But Burke’s
genius is at home in the short-story, where
he can fuse his melodrama into beauty by
the white heat of his style. This novel is,
however, merely a long short-story. It does
not exceed 40,000 words; and Burke's effort
to stay that distance is occasionally obvious.
But the story of this charming girl of Lou-
don's Chinatown, a delightful child dancer
at a music-hall in the dockyard slums, is
engrossing and entrancing—if only Thomas
Burke wouldn’t remind us of his earlier
masterpiece. At 13 years of age—better to
call it 13 years of happiness—Twinkletoes
was the leader of the kiddie dancers at the
Quayside music-hall. And Chuck Lightfoot,
20 and married, loved her—loved her
fiercely hut reverently. And Burke makes us
see her as worth being loved: “Wailing
towards Chinatown was a child as lovely and
as insolently happy as a lyric. Torrents of
bright ctuds foamed about her shoulders, and
the black silk frock clung to her young
beauty as though it loved her. The mirror-
like candor of her face, undimmed by any
breath of the world’s abominations, reflected
nothing hut the serene joy of the moment.
Remote seemed her glory from that mephitic
chaos. Timid as a wraith that may melt at
a touch, she seemed too fragile even for child-
hood ; and the mind shrank from the thought
that the deflowering hand of man should rest
upon this phantom of a dream.”
The cautious reader need not fear that
Burke is going to inflict upon him a slum
replica of the nauseating angel-child of
American fiction. “She had a low flash-
point of temper; was explosively good-
natured, explosively combative; and cruelty
made her sick. It seemed to her so silly that
people should disturb a beautiful world.”
Twinkletoes led the troupe of “The Quay-
side Kids,” who sang and danced at The
Quayside. “And a brave picture they made,
those groups of glorious girls, touched with
all the charms of their little years, with
Twinkletoes in the centre, her young throat
quivering like a singing bird’s....At 15 she
knew all those terrible things that philoso-
phers achieve when they come home by
Weeping Cross. . . . She taught her audience,
without teaching, to look tenderly upon
everything.. . . She made sweet and desir-
able* all things that finer people called Vul-
gar.... She taught them to live boldly and
gladly, making beauty where no beauty w T as,
and her shining creed of ‘Ain’t people
and things lovely?’ lit the monotonous
hours wherever she carried it.” The
gallery boys loved her “since the night
of the alarm of fire, when she had
averted a panic by dancing on before a
front cloth and distributing her garters and
ribbons to the stalls, while chi-iking the gal-
lery with ribald comment and richly im-
proper gesture.”
It is in London’s yellow streak—Lime-
house Causeway and Penny fields —that the
tragedy of Twinkletoes is played out. And
the story moves against the sort of back-
ground that Burke knows so well how to
suggest: “Color and movement arrive; the
adventurous uncertainty of shadow ; mists;
and unapproachable windows of many tones
gleaming inscrutable messages. The sini-
ster clashes with the silver-pensive. Always
there are -following feet: the firm feet of the
constable; the bullying boots of the tough ;
the thick steps that trickle from the bars;
and, through all, the whisper of slippers and
the rustling vocabularies of the Pacific.”
But Twinkletoes’ belief in a lovely world
filled with lovely people is founded on illu-
sion. One night at the music-hall she learns
the news that her father is a forger; and
with her fervent belief in his goodness so
sharply shattered, the kid breaks loose to
drown'her grief. She joins the crowd at the
Blue Lantern, gets drunk on cheap wine, then
smokes a nipe of opium. The sight of opium-
smokers was no novelty to this too-wise
child ; but this was her first use of the drug.
She is taken home drunk by the manager of
the music-hall, also drunk ; but it is to his
home that he takes her. ...
Her world crashes about her. A murder and
the arrests of all the persons of the drama
leave the disillusioned child desperate. A
pathetic love-scene between Chuck and the
girl leads to the tragic end. “All her beauty,
her high character, her gladly-nourished
ideals, had gone to dust; and in the going
carried disaster to those she most loved.”
The inevitable end to the brief romance is
her suicide.
A story sordid and strangely beautiful, a
piece of nauseous melodrama made poetry, a
tale of realism and pathos, Twinkletoes will
be eagerly read.
Impatient correspondents might note that the
Photo. Play Competition has not been judged yet,
and that the award will be first announced on this
page. Also that Tamworth has not yet chosen its
inscription for its honor-roll; and the result will also
be announced here.
Correspondents state that Yanpoo, the title of a
troopship paper, is aboriginal for Messenger. The
Yaxdoo was first issued en route to England, and it
is the organ of the 7th Field Artillery Brigade.


A,
**«& :
BMWWWwIIIiMWW^^
£2OOO in Cash Prizes for Buyers
of War Loan Bonds who take
advantage of Farmer’s and
Anthony Horderns’ War Loan
Cash Prize Scheme.
O you wish to gain a cash prize of and at the same time help to
win the war, carry out Australia s pledge to the boys at the Fiont, and
simultaneously secure a profitable investment for your money? The
clear.
course is
Buy a War
Farmer & Company, Limited, and Anthony Hordern & Sons, Limited, have
formulated a scheme to distribute in cash prizes among purchasers of War
Loan Bonds from these firms. The scheme is being conducted with the sanction of
the Commonwealth T reasurer and under the supervision of the Commonwealth Bank.
Up to Wednesday, April 24, War Loan Bonds and Inscribed Stock may be
purchased from either company, the buyer receiving a registered and numbeied
ticket for each 10 invested. On Friday, May 10, a Public Drawing will take
place at the Sydney Town Hall. The winners will receive prizes as follows:
Ist Prize... £lOOO Cash
2nd Prize... £2OO Cash
3rd Prize... £lo© Cash
4th Prize ... £25 Cash
30 Cash Prizes of £lO «kl
75 Cash Prizes of £5 each.
Buyers of War Bonds or Inscribed Stock under this Cash Prize Scheme may either send or lodge, the full
amount on application, or merely pay the first instalment of 10 per cent. The balance may be pai
to the Commonwealth Bank or through any Bank or Post Office on the various dates set out m the Prospectus
of the War Loan. ;
Alternative Rates of Interest are offered—
-4-i per cent. Free of Income Tax ; 5 per cent, subject to Commonwealth Taxation.
Payments may be made by instalments. The Banks will aid those who have not sufficient ready money by
making advances at 4 per cent.
The whole of the cost of this War Loan Cash Prize Scheme, including the gf2ooo Cash. Prizes,
will be jointly and'•equally defrayed by
FARMER & COMPANY LIMITED,
Pitt, George & Market Streets, Sydney.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LIMITED,
New Palace Emporium, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Send your application for a War Loan Bond through this Cash Prize Scheme —yon may secure the First Prize of


TO
m
m
m
$
Mm
A?
w
ADAMAX”
' For Any and Every "
Roofing' Requirement.
The roofs of many buildings, large and small, throughout the State stand
as monuments to the efficiency of
ADAMAX
99
Asphaltum Roofing
fTF
imp
xvw
AMAX
4*
“ADAMAX” contains all the advantages
found in other roofing materials and
eliminates many of their disadvantages.
“ADAMAX” is wear and weatherproof, is
impervious to the elements and is fire-
resistant ; is 12-14 degrees cooler than iron.
“ADAMAX” will not pinhole, and always
retains its smooth, neat appearance. Does
not affedl drinking water, is sound-proof
and does not sweat.
“Adamax” is One-third the
Cost of Galvanised-Iron,
Freight Charges are
also One-third Lower.
These savings are yours when
you roof with “Adamax.”
“ADAMAX” is the pre-
ferred roofing for Office
Buildings, Factories,
Stores, Garages and Farm
Buildings, where dura-
bility is demanded.
Awarded N.S.W. Govt.
Railways Contract for
1917- again for
1918- and used by all
Australian Governments.
Prices, Samples and Free Booklet obtainable from—
William Adams &, Co. Ltd
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cor. Edward & Mary Streets •
PERTH: 33 King Street.


THE RAVAGES OF
KIDNEY DISEASE.
Do you know that thousands of people
die every year from deadly kidney disease i
Many people are suffering from the fust
attacks of kidney disease to-day but do
not know it. Aches and pains in the back
and other parts of the body, puffiness under
the eyes, cloudy urine, nasty taste in the
mouth first thing in the morning, are all
indications of kidney disease, and back-
ache, rheumatism, gout and lumbago all
come from weak kidneys.
r
£
P
E
To cure Kidney
Trouble of any
kind you must
pos.tively get rid
of the cause —the
poisonous Uric
Acid. Remember,
to do this, a real
remedy must pass
through the
kidneys and the
bladder, and not
through the
bowels as most
kidney pills do.
When you. see the urine change to a
muddy bluish colour —a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Pills from all
others —you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and the bladder.
A wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys-
—that is the reason why De Witt’s give
such amazingly quick relief every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills—
sold for over thirty years—is the greatest
and most successful remedy for kidney
and bladder complaints the world has ever-
seen. If you experience any of the symp-
toms of kidney trouble, do not hesitate.
Go to your Chemist and get a box of De
Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills quickly
But be sure you get genuine
De Witt’s
Kidney&BladderPills
Nature’s Safest Remedy.
in large blue and gold boxes. De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills are sold by
Chemists and Storekeepers everywhere,
2/9 and 5/6 per box. Large size contains
two-and-a-half times as many as the 2/9
size—most advantageous. If you have
any difficulty in getting genuine De Witt’s
Pills —with the blue seal on the cork —send
your money to E. C. De Witt & Co., Ltd.,
42-44 Pitt Street, Sydney, who will gladly
supply by return. TRIAL BOX FREE
and plainly packed if you send 3d. stamps
for postage, eto.
m
m
Übiquity—wherever you
meet an efficient man in the
arts, professions or business
you will see in his waist-
coat pocket the marble-
green Venus —the efficient
pencil-
No Brit, no breaks, smootn,
steady swift woik.
ask your Stationer or
Stores next time for
m
m
Used the
World Over
m
m
MOTOR
...CARS
CELEBRATED
z
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a household word for the removal
of Corns old and young:—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It. is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them lt is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
‘"Ad in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart.
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES —
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
I/O ALL CHEMISTS,
Or if not easily obtained write
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO , 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward! post free.
Vv
m
m
7 m
m
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
H.M.
TO
THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 13 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
m
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL ®. CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine=Tool Shop in the Com monwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
N
RIDING like the wind on risky turns, still
. you are safe with Firestone Non-Skid
Red and Black Tyres. The tread holds and
the whole tyre wears long and well be-
cause Firestone building is right. Let us
equip your car today for safety, comfort and saving.
Grinuey, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Hair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria ; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Ilatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages. Write for Illustrated Literature.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The New Graves.
Here among the new graves none may see
Marigolds, or moss-buds modest on their
stalks;
Marjoram and lavender and rosemary
Spill no ancient flavor upon old pavfed
walks.
Here no breezes harping in high pines,
Here no bird sings *in a purple liac bower,
Here no painted butterfly in sunlight shines,
Here no bee takes homeward plunder of a
flower.
Here no rose-bush reddens, no lily blooms;
Only brown earth glistens and carved
crosses grey ;
Yet within this garden, green among the
tombs,
Flourishes eternally Fame’s immortal bay.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
Nights of Long Ago.
We may travel fast and far,
We may follow gleam and glow—•
Glow of worm and gleam of star —
But at last we’ll come to know.
When the gathering glooms appal,
That the best guide of all
Was the window-lamp that cheered us in
the nights of long ago.
We may seek some passion-fire,
Warm of heart, and veins aglow
With the flame of red desire.
But at last we’ll come to know,
When the snows of winter fall,
That the best warmth of all
Was the hearthfire that we knelt by in the
nights of long ago.
We may love a score of times,
Finding love not fashioned so
As it seems in poets’ rhymes,
But at last we’ll come to know —
Yea, to know beyond recall —
That the best, Jove of all
Was the golden' girl we danced with in the
nights of long ago.
We may make a god of wealth,
We may cherish it as though
It were life and strength and health,
But at last we’ll come to know,
While the golden fetters gall,
That the best prize of all
Was the happy, careless mood of the nights
of long ago.
Though we travel fast and far,
Though we follow glqam or glow—
Glow of worm or gleam of star —
We shall come at last to know,
Be it great or be it small,
That the best goal of all
Was the old, old home in the nights of long
ago.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Builder.
You built an edifice with steady hand.
With mind and brain perfecting all you
planned.
So sweet the World’s loud voices to your ear,
That Love’s soft whisper you may never hear.
Yet once you loved me for a little day.
So I, within myself, for comfort say:
“This be your recompense for all the smart —
The corner stone he built on was your heart.”
QUEENSLAND.
EDITH SHIRLEY.
The Gift.
’Tis little that I can give to you who have
brought so much to me.
The chant of the stars, the moon’s still
laugh and the song of the wind-blown
sea
You have brought to me and taught to me,
and what can I give at all?
A little hour of dusky quiet that you may
hear the silence call.
You take my hand and lead me away through
the gates of Night and Morn,
And I hear the panting moan of Space when
a new white star is born.
You have drawn it near and shown it clear,
and here's for your soul’s delight
A little hour of healing quiet that you may
read your word aright.
I walk by your side heart-deep in bloom
through the fragrant fields of dream
And pluck white blossoms of tranquil
thought like stars in the dusk agleam.
You have reaped for me, you have heaped
for me, the harvest of all the past;
And here’s an hour of loving quiet that you
may sing your song at last.
N.S.W.
MARGARET FANE.
In A.D. 1918.
Blue bells, blue bells.
And the green hill under them,
Blue bells, blue bells
Dancing in the wind ;
Brown bees, brown bees.
All agog to plunder them....
What’s the use o’ bluebells when the world’s
gone blind?
Lights, lights, lights, lights,
And the warm city under them,
Home-lights, hearth-lights
Singing to the sky;
Blood-greed, man-greed,
Hell aleap to sunder them....
What’s the use o’ taper lights when God’s
lamps die?
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


u
&
A
C
□
%
&
A
e
o
%
owe
e
A
O
*3
pRt
&
A
C
o
*»
PBSs
Perdriau
Tyre
are in general use among experienced motorists, having been adopted
because of their high quality and consequent dependability.
The excellence of their materials and the careful exactness of their
manufacture make Perdriau Tyres the best of all to stand up to hard
wear, rough roadways and uncertain weather conditions.
Their three wide ribs meet the road with a frictionlels hold, and
their resilience minimises vibration, thereby adding comfort for the
passeng;ers and reducing strain for the engine.
Obtainable through all garages or from the manufacturers :—
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
All
States.
Keep the Home Tyres Turning.
©
more
than a mere truss
Of Special interest to the Ruptured
Denyer s Elastic Truss
A different tiling altogether to the Steel Band Truss, which always lets yon
know it is on.
Wear this New Style Truss and he free from anxiety and discomfort.
Ton forget, the Truss and the Trouble. The support is splendid, which
means perfect safety.
Single, 20/>. Double, 27/6.
Write for Free Pamphlet, sent in closed envelope.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 George Street, Sydney,
ifr>
h.LLh
n n n
*n\ v -:
mm
Veal &
Ham Pate, and “Rex
Rex
Tonque Pate, are two fine all meat “mouldings
... for sandwich making. Trg them.
MONEY MAKES MUNITIONS
BUY WAR LOAN BONDS
Foggitt, Jones & Co., Ltd.,
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products, Curers of “Rex”
Hams and Bacon, Makers of “Rex” Small Goods.
JlB6
“Cut Out"
l . J
The Monotony
of_ Meal-getting
“Awl” the members of the family
will “beam" on you when an
appetising dish of
“REX ”
CAMP PIE
appears on the “board.”
You can “frame" a tempting lunch
in a few moments by serving “Rex”
Camp Pie straight from the tin.
Even when “plane” it is delicious,
but if served with a salad of any
kind the full flavour is brought out. Also thin“shavings” of
“Rex” Camp Pie make excellent sandwiches.
No need to cook expensive “joints” when “Rex" Camp Pie
b4i
jJ-
f><
CJM
M/l ' ■
,:i
!i yaw \\
• \f,
Mhl
m
provides a ready-cooked
meal at much less cost.
Let us “ hammer” home
this further fact. “Rex”
Camp Pie is made only
from the choicest mor-
sels of meat scientifi-
cally compounded, sea-
soned and cooked by the
famous “Rex" Chefs.
" Make a “rule” of asking for “Rex” Camp Pie. Sold by all
grocers.
GOODRICH
Full-Size
Black Safety TYRES
are madeof Barefoot Rubber
The value of this wonderful new
Goodrich Tread does not lie in
its Color but in its Composition .
It lies in the especially devised
Texture, Flexibility, Cling-quaHty,
Toughness and Resilience of that
“Barefoot” Rubber, which through
years of research WE developed.
It IS unquestionably the best tread ever evolved.
It is harder to cut —harder to puncture —and will
outwear any other. It CLINGS to the ground
(like yourbarefoot) without GRINDING over it,
easing strain on the inner tyre body —giving the
Tyre a chance to live its whole life.
DUVAL <&. CO.
145 Collins St, 13 Castlereagh St, 300 Adelaide St,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Vot. 30.—N0. 1992.
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 1918.
Pbice Gd.
TOO MISERABLE.
THE SPIRIT: “It is our own home that is on fire. Come and help to save it.”
THE DISPIRITED: “Och, sure, let it barn. ’Tis us will stay here broodin’ over our wrongs.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Mu,'grave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
C'o., 214 GeoVge Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum you van have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week jor a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, tvhere practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing n ith Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Netvspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Rlaclc and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-draum—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Cape-
toivn, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
11. C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., hhl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
V, Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lT. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
hi. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Sioz. to 10oz., Zid.;
10oz. to 120 z., 3d.; elseivhere, hoz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
7%^3&aHei[zoi.
THURSDAY, APRIL 18, 1918.
GOING SLOW.
“O Cromwell, Cromwell, I charge you to put
away ambition. By it fell the angels. They
declared no trumps on an insufficient hand, and the
flood came and carried them all away.” —From
Solomon Malaprop’s revised and corrected version
of the- Bard of Stratford.
A feature of Australian trades unionism is
that it has to a great extent put away ambi-
tion—the profitable business-like form of
ambition. If there has been, at any time in
the last 10 years, a strenuous resolution
carried at a Labor conference, or a good
hard plank put in a Labor platform, about
getting a lot more work done even if there
was a lot more money attached to it, the
fact has escaped attention. If there has been
anything violent said about making the Com-
monwealth less abjectly dependent on the
skilled foreign artisan, colored or otherwise,
unionist or otherwise, and on the foreign
capitalist, hostile or otherwise, it hasn’t been
noticed. There has been a great deal of
Going Slow, and not much of anything else
that matters, though there have been plati-
tudes, and speeches, and resolutions passed
by a greater or less majority, and meetings
at which some people sang the .National
Anthem and some refused to sing it. The
trouble arises, to a great extent, out of the
idea that there is only so much work, and
that it must be spread out thin else it won’t
go round, while at the same time there is a
constant battle for more wages (even if
there isn’t more work) by reason of the in-
creased cost of living. And at the bottom of
all this, strange as it may seem, is old Tory
tradition.
* * * *
The old Tory “knew not what he did,” but
he certainly did it. The great basic myth,
still flourishing though not in quite such
good repair as aforetime, is that i commerce”
—the shifting or dragging about of sub-
stances —is a wonderful thing and 'the best
test of prosperity. The blessedness of shift-
ing or dragging holds good even w’hen it con-
sists of buying nigger or “scab” or slave-
labor products that we can t honestly pay for,
and bringing them here in cheap-labor ships
that we can’t pay for either. Inside a period
of four years just ended £13,3/4,000 of gold
disappeared out of Australia’s bank reserves ;
ditto all the gold (about £30.231,000) dug
out of the ground in four years; ditto, appar-
ently, about £7,000,000 of the gold that
people used to carry about with them or
keep in the cash-box or on the mantelpiece
(this estimate is based on the increase.of
paper money in actual circulation, and the
increase arises because people carry notes
now in place of sovereigns). In addition, the
States borrowed over £30,000,000 in London,
principal and interest payable in gold. This
was quite apart from ,war loans and renewal
of old debts. All these matters were evi-
dence of an amazing drain on the only kind
of currency which can keep this country sol-
vent in the outside world where Federal
notes aren’t accepted. And in return for
this profligacy and much previous profligacy
on a smaller scale *
(1) We get a vast amount of lack of work, for
while we import the goods that so much borrowed
and other gold is wasted to pay for we can’t have
the job of making the same goods.
(2) We get the Go-Slow policy.
(3) We get a mass of industrial ignorance and
incapacity, for we can’t employ outsiders to do all
our finer and more intricate anil scientific work and
yet have a fair chance to learn how to do that sort
of work ourselves.
(4) AA'e get a grumpy habit of mind; a feeling
that too many cats are after one mouse; a suspicion
that the fast worker is an enemy who wants to drink
too much of the scanty job and leave his mates on
the industrial raft to die of thirst; a conviction that
piece-work, however well paid, is a device for the
creation of an industrial aristocracy; and we get an
incoherent grudge against the “capitalist.” He often
deserves it, but it is a pity that so much grudge is
directed against the local manufacturer who employs
Australian labor at Australian wages, and that so
little grudge is left over for the outside manufacturer
who doesn’t, and for his minion, the importer, who
helps him not to do it.
(5) We get a hypocritical habit of mind the result
of making it a theoretical rule to employ white non-
union labor only, while paying as much as
£76,000,000 in a year for the products of labor
which is partly nigger and partly “scab” and partly
any old thing.
(6) AVe get another hypocritical frame of mind
through shouting about “freedom” and “Australia
for the Australians” while selling the children as
slaves to any money-lender who will buy them, and
persistently praqtising the doctrine of “Australia for
any Extraneous Money-Shark who will Lend Us a
Few More Millions.” AVage-slavery, about which
there is so much bloated fuss, only directly affects
the people now living. Cut interest-slavery, when
the debt isn’t incurred because war has made it
unavoidable and the country has to be saved from
a foreign tyrant, is the wanton trading into bondage
of our own flesh and blood to the tenth generation
and beyond. AVill the slave-sellers at the Trades
Hall ponder this on next Eight Per Cent. Day—or
Eight Hours Day?
(7) AVe get a confused aspect of mind through
trying to believe, with one and the same belief, that
this is the richest country on earth and that it can’t
afford to sole its own boots without raising a loan
at s') per cent, nominally repayable in 1950.
(3) AA ? e get a high cost of living because our
multitudinous imported goods are at war prices and
subject to war freights. Even the products of our
comparatively simple local manufactures have gone
up, largely because so much of the so-called “raw
material” is imported. This state of things might
lead to the creation of new industries, only the fool
tariff provides that the foreign competitor shall have
the run of our markets in the old way when the
war is over and he becomes a cheap and low-wage
competitor again. No manufacturer cares to risk
money on industries which would almost certainly be
snuffed out after the war, and his banker would be
afraid to lend him money, anyhow. Besides, the
Government strikes new industries with a special
War Profits tax, reckoning that it serves the new
industry darned well right for employing Australians
here, at union wages, instead of Ah Sins in Canton.
(9) AVe get few desirable white immigrants be-
cause we have so little employment to offer to the
highly-skilled artisan who wants to help in carrying
our debt burden, and defending our country, and
desires to be a handy, reliable customer for our
wheat and rabbits. No Six Hatters clamor at our
door these days—or at all events they don’t clamor
much.
(10) Also we will get the curse of posterity when
it inherits the bill for the old man’s blither, luxury,
laziness and incapacity—when it inherits the bill
after “wireless” has made the telegraph lines mere
scrap-iron, and the fast-growing power of aerial
navigation has made most of the railways mere junk
and the present “permanent and reproductive works”
are deader than Antiquity’s mother. And if pos-
terity doesn’t dig up the old man’s bones and hang
them on a tree it will only be because the exertion
isn’t worth while.
* * * *
Australia has had little luck during this
war. In Britain, Canada and the U.S.A.,
which have also escaped actual invasion, the
artisans, as a set-off to their war troubles,
are at least earning the best Avages on record
by doing skilled labor at high pressure in
munition-factories, shipyards, machinery-
shops, etc. Canada and the U.S.A. are turn-
ing an honest billion dollars or so by deliver-
ing to the Allies in Europe food, machinery
and munitions at war rates, and by doing
some sea-conveyance for the Allies, with
their own ships and charging war freights.
They have even lent the Allies a good deal
of money or money’s worth at a good deal per
cent. Australia has missed the ’bus—the
largest ’bus in all history. It has to show for
its share a very great increase of State debt
(not war debt, but purely loafing debt) ; a
very great addition to the annual interest
bill; a decreasing area under cultivation;
manufacturing stagnation; shipyards which
are still empty; an arms factory (not a big
one) in a partially-suspended condition ; more
strikes than usual; more imports than
usual; a fair possibility of national insol-
vency, which will be more than a fair possi-
bility unless some kind or degree of reforma-
tion sets in. And the Go Slow policy.
MOTHERHOOD.
Thf condensed remarks of various writers:
“Quill” : I reject “C.N.R.’s” definition of moral-
ity as “the course of conduct best calculated to serve
the welfare of future generations.” All the political
obscurantists, religious bigots, military tyrants and
social brigands—the whole unclean brood of Igno-
rance and Oppression—that have infested the world
since the days of Adam have found in just such
machine-made phrases pious justification for their
grossest infamies. There is no crime so base, no
vice so abject, that it cannot be condoned if the
rule of conduct is framed first and the definition of
morals put together afterwards. What I wanted from
the lady who yearned to gratify what she considered
a “perfectly legitimate appetite” and to simultane-
ously interrupt a physiological function was a defini-
tion of a certain distinction, according to her ethical
standards —not an assurance from someone else that
the moral distinction between two deliberate acts is
to be found in the cheapness of one and the ex-
pensiveness of the other. This reduces the thing to
banality. And just as “C.N.R.” has failed to under-
stand the point of my remarks he has read Havelock
Ellis without comprehension. Certainly Ellis con-
demns a reckless and unrestrained profusion in pro-
duction. Who does not? But Ellis no less emphati-
cally condemns the attitude of such people as
“Lysistrata” and “C.N.R.” Talk about “the fall
of the birthrate following the increase of civilisation”
is nonsense. Civilisations have died before. The
one w r e are most familiar with is not in the best of
health. Those that have died have all had one
feature in common. Possibly the famous saying
“Suffer the little children to come unto Me” has
been mangled in translation. He may have meant:
“When you get more civilised and can’t feed them
don’t suffer them at all.”
* * * *
“Vectis” : “Quill” has read his Havelock Ellis
to little purpose. That authority insists, again and
again, on the plain truths that sexual relations in
themselves, for their own sake, are physiological and
beneficial; that chastity is unnatural; and, above
all, that the supreme expression of the love of man
and woman is not a shameful “something else” to
be hinted at in a whisper. The final answer to it
all is that we are civilised, or are trying to be;
and civilisation is simply the result of a long fight
between man’s brain and Nature’s cruelty. A high
birth-rate and a high death-rate are Nature’s way.
Humanity has begun to tire of that, and demands
fewer births and fewer deaths. It is suggested that
the woman who does not breed to the limit of her
capability “deserves little of the nation.” The
woman’s reply to the nation may very well be:
“Thank you for nothing. Much the nation has done
for me so far! There are two sides to a bargain.
Show me some practical recognition of my efforts on
behalf of the nation; arrange things so that each
new baby doesn’t mean so much more work and less
enjoyment of the decencies of life; and then we’ll
talk. In the meantime, don’t you dare call me a
legalised prostitute.”
* * * *
“Austra” : In answer to a perfectly reasonable
question “F.R.C.S.” asks: “Has she [‘Lysistrata’]
no heart or imagination for the perils and anxieties
faced by our men in the trenches? They’re doing
their job there; why should not women do theirs
at home?” The fact of a woman being possessed
of a “heart and imagination” at the present time
is sufficient to make her unwilling to suffer the risks
of child-bearing. How many normal (or even use-
ful) children are born of a mother so suffering?
“F.R.C.S.” accuses “Lysistrata” of selfishness be-
cause she would consider the child as much as she
does the mother. Is the child not to be considered ?
* * * *
“Lysistrata”: “Quill” (B. 2S/3/’18) asks me to
draw a moral distinction between prevention and
the abortion I “deplore.” I said nothing whatever
about “deploring” abortion: this is merely one of
the many inaccuracies in “Quill's” reading of my
letter. Moreover, I must decline to draw moral
distinctions, as “Quill” uses that term. I am trying
hard to think clearly and dispassionately about a
question which I recognise is grave indeed; but
this cannot be done if one’s mind is to be confused
by claptrap. Those actions are best called moral
which tend to the benefit and well-being of the race,
and those immoral which make for its deterioration.
Now, it has yet to be proved that prevention re-acts
injuriously on the woman who uses it to secure
a reasonable period between pregnancies. It might
well be held that it helps her to a greater degree
of physical and mental development, is advantageous
to iier children, and consequently a benefit accruing to
the race. Abortion, thus considered, certainly appears
racially immoral where it injures the health of the
mother and consequently the race through her. On
the other hand, can it be questioned that the fretus
begotten of a congenital idiot should never be allowed
to come to birth? Here, surely, abortion, con-
sidered from the view-point of the race, would be
pre-eminently moral. Something about that “indis-
putably legitimate appetite” disagrees with “Quill."
Probably its indisputableness. The maternal instinct,
he says, is one thing. This appetite is something
else. My contention precisely. “The question,” he
says, “that is really cogent and goes to the root of
the whole business, morally and physically”—it
doesn’t: it’s only the veriest beginning of the in-
quiry—“is this: ‘ls there any reason in the whole
wide world why a woman should mate with a man
unless she wants children?’ ” Emphatically, yes, there
is such reason. Surely none but a eunuch would
ask such a question expecting an answer in the nega-
tive, and only a eunuch who never guarded a harem
at that. Does he himself really hold that women
should mate with men only for the purpose of pro-
creation, that is to say, in the vast majority of
cases, for a period of not more than one month in
12? What would the men be doing during the
other 11 months? Of course such a scheme might
have worked when marriages were made in Heaven,
but it is hardly practicable with the locally-manu-
factured article. “Quill's” gibe about ability or
otherwise to write about motherhood “without think-
ing about prostitution” flies wide of the mark. Cer-
tainly one cannot imagine an investigator of
Havelock Ellis’s reputation disregarding prostitu-
tion as a factor when considering marriage and
motherhood. I have not read what he has written
later than the “Studies in the Psychology of Sex,”
but I find therein nothing to justify “Quill's” vague
innuendoes. But this need not argue that “Quill”
has not done so. If he takes the same liberties with
Havelock Ellis's text that he does with mine, he
wdll be able to find what he wants anywhere to
justify anything.
FIDDLING WHILE FREEDOM
SHRIEKS.
Nearly every day last week Australia found
herself plodding through long rigmaroles
about the intentions of numerous Govern-
ments. These included the intention of the
Federal Ministry to “keep Capital and Labor
in touch with each other” and to press on
with the scheme approved by Hughes for
establishing committees of industry and
appointing trade commissioners and so on.
There was also an intention of the N. S.
Wales Government to start saving calf-life
and rearing the animal salvaged from CockY”
until it had grown up; also the laudable in-
tention of the same Ministry to encourage the
production of wheat by guaranteeing 4s. a
bushel at country stations. According to
Premier Holman, protection for the calf and
the production of more wheat are war-win-
ning activities w'hich could only be neglected
at the expense of catastrophe. He may be
right. But this paper is regretfully com-
pelled to confess that, in spite of a most
ardent desire to be sociable, it cannot pump
up enthusiasm for these programmes. In the
days when copious argument about nothing-
in-particular was easier and more profitable
than doings things that mattered, the tragedy
of the defunct calf would have been a stirring
issue at a general election. But, unless com-
manded to do otherwise under the War Pre-
cautions Act, The Bulletin is going to re-
fuse to believe that it is the matter of first
importance now. The War Precautions Act
may be used to keep someone silent about
something. But it cannot silence the guns
in Europe nor their message to the Com-
monwealth.
Should defeat come to the Allies, what
will it avail Australia to know that in the
darkening hours a State had saved many
calves and grown wheat on spec., and that
the Commonwealth had a cut-and-dried plan
for doing something big when many other
bigger things had been finished? Less than
nothing! Yet, defeat is far from being a
remote possibility. The war is therefore the
only thing really worth bothering about.
Either the Federal Parliament can or cannot
decide upon a policy relating to enlistment.
If it cannot get the required men, then it is
guilty of something very near treason if it
prevents other people from trying. As for
the State Parliaments, their wild extrava-
gance is a scandal of the first magnitude.
Their rightful business is to cut down their
preposterously elaborate systems of govern-
ment and administration to a point reason-
ably adjacent to sanity. Australia stands
confronted by perils to which calves and
wheat and Red Tape have no more relation
than the missing hairs on Joe Cook’s head.
There are at least 90 per cent, more politi-
cians and 50 per cent, more officials than at a
pinch could grapple with the-work. The per-
centage of these that will be done without
if the war goes the wrong way is probably
even greater. Everybody knows this to be
solemn truth, and knows, too, that every citi-
zen in Australia whose activities, public or
private, are not determined in the light of the
desperate necessities of the moment is not
helping to win this war. He is helping to
lose it. This paper is not going to say that
Cocky should not grow wheat or that the
calf should die a premature death or that the
general industry of the country should go to
ruin. What it has said and says again is
that the war is the first consideration, and
that the growing of wheat and work of every
other kind, from the arrangement of public
documents in pigeonholes to the running of
railways, should be upon the basis of a war
programme. If the enemy had his feet on
Australian soil or his ships in the Pacific, it
would be. And it is only a geographical fic-
tion which prevents the public from seeing
that those feet and warships are actually on
and about us now.
Of course it is not a bit of good moaning
and groaning because Australian statesman-
ship failed in the past to see the bigger things
and do the bigger deeds. The past has been
in many ways tragic, with shrieking dema-
gogues in the market-place, sectarian bigots
masquerading as patriots, and the money-hog
fattening on the nation’s blood. But it is
even yet not too late for the political leaders
of the Australian people to formulate at least
some coherent war policy, and, instead of
keeping the community by the ears, bringing
it to realise the terrible dangers encompass-
ing the country. It is quite within the
bounds of possibility that the march of events
in Europe within the next few weeks may
settle the question of reinforcements for our
army. But in that case the war duties of
Australians would in a day change only in
detail and be more urgent than ever. It is
not impossible that an emergency may arise
demanding that the Federal Parliament
should make sweeping changes in. the States.
Is it ready for such a task? No; and the
danger of being overwhelmed in our own
chaos is almost as great as that of being
humiliated by the enemy. Continuance of
government on party lines is, in present cir-
cumstances, a scandal to the last degree.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Let Us Eat (Australian Food) and Drink
(Australian Liquor in Moderation) and
Be Merry (to a Certain Extent).
The demand for economy is not a doctrine
to be taken indiscriminately. Economy is
urgently required in many directions, and
the one where it is most required is the one
least mentioned. When we are exhorted to
follow' the example of nations which have
breadless days and meatless days and egg-
less days, a bee is talking in the exhorter s
hat. Our need is for some debtless (or
borrowless) days. The little that could be
saved if we became flat in the stomach and
shabby in the aspect would make small dif-
ference even if it reached Europe, and until
Hughes, the great dry-land Columbus, gets
his ships afloat, it can no more get there
than it can get back into the tenth century.
The racing of the Australian horse on Aus-
tralian grass is only folly, inasmuch as it
employs men on unproductive work and
beguiles the public from work that is pro-
ductive and essential. This rtile applies
to many other sports. In a general way
and w'ith some few reservations, it is reason-
able for us to go on our old path, and eat
and drink and wear very much as usual, and
forget that there is any old war —to do this
so far as concerns the things that can be
bought with paper money, w T hich means the
things that are wholly made inside the Com-
monw-ealth, for it is only there that our
paper money is good. There is no risk that
extravagance of this sort will drain the
country of its circulating medium. The
paper money never runs aw r ay, for it would
lose its value if it did. But economy is
called for, with no reservation at all, and
called for with a loud voice, in the eating
and drinking and wearing and otherwise
using of everything that has to be paid for


in gold—that is, eA'ery kind or sort or species
of imported goods. The same rule applies
to external loans (Avhich are imported
credit), for principal and interest have alike
to be liquidated in sovereigns; also it applies
to principal and interest of private bonds
and debentures held abroad, and to rents
payable' to absentee landlords and the divi-
dends of absentee shareholders. All these
call for the hard yellow coin which is becom-
ing so scarce. Already this country OAves
nearly £50,000,000 of coin to Britain for
the pay of our soldiers, and all the visible
specie in Australia wouldn't cover this lia-
bility or nearly cover it. Further, we have
renewed at nearly 6 per cent, a State loan
payable in gold in London, while the Real
market would gladly hav-e done it at 5i —
only the one kind of money which the local
market can put up in great abundance
doesn’t pass current to pay off loans in Lon-
don. A Avhole £40,000,000 of it wouldn’t
cover a Aveek’s Avages of one soldier in
France, though it would remunerate a
whole army in Australia. It is possible
for this country to be locally bloated Avith
Avealtk and yet have to call a meeting of
its creditors in England over a liability
which doesn’t equal a year’s income of the
X. 8. Wales State Government alone. Even
if a man Avere to eat six loaves and 21b. of
meat and 41b. of butter and 12 bananas at
a meal, and Avere to drink a gallon of local
wine or beer at a sitting, be wouldn’t do so
much harm —except to his stomach —as if
lie bought one imported collar. And he
might back 10 losers at the races without
doing the same damage to the nation’s re-
sources as Avould arise from his Avife’s pur-
chase of a single imported frill. Loans and
interest and dividends and all sorts of bills
which are purely local in character can be
settled for with paper, but if the supply of
gold runs short and the stuff can’t be bor-
rowed —not even at 40 or 424 per cent, or
more—the public shutters go up so far as
concerns several hundred millions of outside
liabilities. In 4916 this country took
nearly £3,000,000 from its diminished stock
of the only medium which will pass in settle-
ment of our outside bills. In other words,
the foreign interest account and the insane
and stupendous purchases of foreign fluff and
other matters absorbed £3,000,000 over and
above the value of exports and the year’s
outnut of gold and the amount of new loans
raised with difficulty in England. In 4947
foreign interest and insane foreign fluff and
sundries reduced the stock of specie by
another 5| millions. The progress towards
the day of judgment (w’ith costs) is rapid.
The situation is new to us. When hard
money was the common currency here and
in England, the local stress gave warning of
trouble ahead. But, as already pointed out,
Avhen there are two currencies, a futile, un-
seeing, thick-headed Freetrade generation
may be surprised in the midst of local
revelry to learn that we have gone bankrupt
in England for Avant of a mere million or so
of gold.
o
The Blundering Over Ireland.
The conscription of Ireland has come at
last, Avith all its dangers, at a time when the
Avar has reached its crisis, and when there is
the call for the wisest and most wary states-
manship. Irish enlistments have been
lamentably few; recruiting has failed even in
those fields Avhere, for ages, fighting armies
Avere most easily raised. In the eighteenth
century alone half a million Irishmen died
in the service of France. To-day half a
million Irishmen have failed to come volun-
tarily to the aid of France when her very
existence as a nation is threatened, and
though Irish sentiment from Donegal to Wex-
ford is in complete accord with the feeling
Avhich has caused the Frenchman to put up
his present heroic struggle. On the face of
it. there has been something radically wrong
with the manner in which the appeal to
Irishmen has been made; and the
Avisdom of forcing conscription on a
people after failing to move them in
the direction of their own natural enthusi-
asms must be very gravely doubted. Con-
scription is a proper thing if a people will-
ingly consents to it. It may be the right
thing if the majority of the thinking leaders
of a nation consent to it. It cannot
be defended if both people and thinking lead-
ers are united against it. Rightly or Avrongly,
the majority of Irishmen declare that they
will not have this thing imposed upon them
by any Parliament but their own; and, in
the face of the tremendous difficulties and
dangers of the war crisis, to force it upon
them may be fraught with shudder-
some consequences. Two years ago 4500
Dublin rebels put up a grim and
lamentable fight for several days against
more numerous and better-armed forces;
and, even on this basis, it looks as if
every conscript obtained in Ireland Avould
require the withdrawal of at least one trained
man from the fighting front. Yet Irish
soldiers might still be obtained. Let a
reasonable measure of Home Rule be immedi-
ately granted, and give the new Irish Parlia-
ment the opportunity of raising an army in
its oAvn way for the defence of the real Irish
interests Avhich Home Rule would automati-
cally create. Returned Australian fighting
men tell of the splendid service of the
Irish troops. The tragedy is that there are
so feAV of them. English blunders at the
beginning of the war repressed the recruiting
of Irish by Irishmen; but that does not
excuse non-enlistment when the crisis height-
ened. By standing aloof Ireland has lost
many friends and has made none outside
Germany; and, since that only adds to the
difficulties of the future, it is to be deplored
almost as much as that the nation was not
long ago put to the test and given an oppor-
tunity to conscript itself.
The Drought and the Boots and the
Land.
Dear Bulletin, —Right alongside certain
impassioned appeals to people to “go on the
land,” and to “grow more,” appeared a state-
ment by the principal of the Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.) Agricultural College that the next
drought is about due. It seems quite pro-
bable. Some day, perhaps, Australia Avill be
better supplied with drought-proof indus-
tries, but that is a matter for the future.
There are points about any nic,e big indus-
try which will yield steady Avages, Avhere the
worker doesn’t require a heap of capital and
get in fair seasons a bare artisan’s pay for
12 hours work per diem, where the crop isn’t
a gamble Avith hail and fire, insects and rab-
bits as Avell as dry seasons and wet floods,
and where there is a reliable demand right
at the door instead of a small local demand
and a precarious market 10,000 miles away
Avhich at times can’t be reached for Avant of
ships. Avhile there is the added chance of the
vessels, Avhen there are any, being Hunned
on the high seas. The sort of industry that
is looked for is one which remunerates the
hired man better than the land does, and
where the product isn’t commandeered by
amateurish politicians and stacked for an
indefinite period in the open air—one that
doesn’t involve exposure to all sorts of
weather, and to snake-bite and ant-bite and
horse-bite, and similar drawbacks. There are
many such industries, mostly carried on in a
small way but capable of indefinite expan-
sion if this couiitry had a tariff like that of,
say, the United States. The difference
between that country and this one is that
the U.S. buys foreign goods at the rate of
less than £4 per inhabitant per annum, while
Ave buy at the rate of about £ls 10s. So if
the consumption of all kinds of goods aver-
ages £4O per annum for everybody, including
the baby, and it looks a liberal estimate, the
U.S. person has £36 worth of employment
per head, including the baby, Avhile the Aus-
tralian has only £24 10s. worth. Conse-
quently the steady, well-paid, drought-proof
job which has a roof over it and isn’t liable
to be eaten by locusts is much more abun-
dant in the U.S. than it is hereabouts. And
the U.S. individual isn’t urged by apostles of
loose eloquence (and sometimes of loose
habits, and sometimes of tight habits) to “go
on the land.” With a big market at his door
—the market supplied by having the people
Avho make his boots and such-like at his door
—he just goes on the land. And he is hard
to drag off when he is there.—Yours, etc.,
Henry llorsecollar.
How Not to Encourage Production.
The world’s area under flax has diminished
from 19,000,000 to 13,000,000 acres, and the
British Government announces that it will
buy the goods extensively at £l7O per ton
delivered in England. Flax, which is to a
great extent the product of cheap Russian
labor, has no Protection in Australia, so the
local high-wage industry never had much
show. True, a bonus was granted of 10 per
cent, on the market value, but that didn’t
nearly counterbalance the wage difficulty.
Then (1) the bonus was only fixed for five
years, and a very inadequate measure of
Protection for five years was a poor induce-
ment; (2) not more than £BOOO could be
paid in one year on flax and hemp com-
bined, so that at recent prices it covered
about 3020 tons. The person who grew ton
No. 3021 was liable to be left out in the
cold, and nobody cared to risk being that
individual; moreover if the hemp man got
in first the flax individual might never have
a look in. Then (3) the collection of a
bonus from the Treasury is a weary and elab-
orate business. So last year the quantity
of flax and hemp (the two are lumped
together) recorded by the bonus department
was just 238 tons. The amount imported
was 8005 tons, and £372,000 of good but
scarce Australian gold went to pay Bol-
sheviks and others for it. Now all is to be
changed. Nothing is said about a stiff
import duty to insure that the industry will
have a chance to live when the Avar demand
is over and the cheapest labor in Europe
gets to work again. Nothing is said even
about a renewal of the silly little bonus after
the Avar, in order to ease the fall. Nothing
is said about lioav the flax is to be got to
England, seeing that the ship famine grow’S
worse rather than better. But a Flax In-
dustry Committee is to be at once appointed,
and everybody Avho owns or “controls” more
than 2cAVt. of Victorian flax seed (flax-
groAving is a purely Victorian industry here)
is to register and supply a “declaration”
about something or other. The Government
guarantees £45 per ton for green flax 30in.
long, and any profits wflll be dealt Avith as
the Prime Minister and the committee see
fit. It is to be hoped they AA’on't be applied
to the purchase of more Ministerial motor-
cars. As there is only enough seed in the
country, so far as is known, to plant 1500
acres the committee and the declarations
and all the rest seem to be a case of much
howl and very little sheep’s overcoat. Just
by wav of giving the two good causes of
agriculture and linen manufacture a leg up
apiece (two legs in all), what is wrong with
a 50 per cent. duty, to yield some much-
needed revenue and reduce that bill of
£372,000 for imported flax and hemp?
The Gross Dishonesty of Party Politics.
Confronted by a resolution moved in the
House of Reps, last week by James Boyd,
of Henty (Vic.), the gist of which was that
Pearce should no longer be Minister for
Defence, the Phewsion, through the mouth
of Cook', raised a clamor that if the resolu-
tion was carried the party wmuld “fall,” that
chaos and other calamities would be created
by “handing the finances over to the Opposi-
tion,” and that it was the patriotic duty of
all men to assist in winning the war. Boyd
had not asked the Phewsion to “fall.” He
did not suggest handing the finances to the
Opposition. He had not denied the expedi-
ency of winning wars. His case, and that
of Gregory and Fowler, who supported it,
was that Pearce had already created chaos,
that nothing could be more calamitous than
what had already been revealed, and that
part of the job of winning the war consisted
of removing messers from positions of respon-
sibility. Wherefore Cook’s talk about “fall-
ing” and interpreting a proposal to shift
Pearce into a scheme for throwing the whole
Ministry on the scrapheap was grossly dis-
honest. Cook' knows as well as Boyd that
Pearce’s failure has been monumental —
that it has involved the nation in huge
losses of cash and losses that are not to be
measured in money. Every member of the
party knows the same things. Yet in obedi-
ence to a dictator, who must, of course, have
one or two trusted vassals about him. all
but half a dozen of the crowd are ready to
vote like marionettes. This is the party of
“Good Government,” of “Efficiency,” of
“Freedom”! As 22 out of the 48 on the
premises are drawing pay of some sort in
addition to their Parliamentary allowance as
members, it is also a party to which “Pearce
at any Price” naturally makes a powerful
appeal.
The Art of Missing the ’Bus.
The advantage of doing things at the right
time has been proved by the Germans all
through the war; and the neglect of vital
matters in days when they were easy hits the
Allies harder than any h.e. shell. There is,
for example, the matter of the Channel
tunnel, which was bulking large in English
politics in the years before Gladstone in-
troduced his first Home Rule Bill: had that
hole in the chalk bottom of Dover Straits
been completed before the war, it would have
been worth many army corps to the defend-
ers of the Western line. Troops could have
been slipped through into France with such
ease and wounded soldiers been returned with
such speed and safety that the British task
on land would have been enormously light-
ened and the guardianship of the sea made
infinitely more effective. The old arguments
against the project look thin and weak to-
day. It was feared that the enemy might
invade through it; but with ready means of
flooding the hole, no one would regard such
a possibility seriously in the light of later
developments. Again, it was urged by the
Commander-in-Chief at the time that a
garrison of 10,000 men would be required
permanently at Dover. To keep as huge a
body as that idle in one place seemed to the
British taxpayer a suggestion of the Devil.
So the work was hung up, and the. great and
bitter day of necessity found the circling sea
a menace to England rather than a defence.
Australia has a few little projects similarly
suspended. When the safety of the Northern
Territory depends on troops and munitions
sent along a camel pad, even our politicians
may lament the absence of the North-to-
Soiith railway which might by this time have
been completed. When the military conges-
tion at the Victorian and Queensland borders
threatens the very existence of the Common-
wealth, somebody will weep tears over our
broken railway-gauges. We could put these
things right even now but that our Win-the-
War statesmen are too eager to get to the
talking front.
Billjim’s Mail.
Ted Colles says a word for the Army
Post: —
I marched down to the A.I.F. Base Post Office in
London to get a bit of my own back; but in the
end I evacuated with a suspicion that, while the
Army doesn’t have half the truths told about it that
it deserves, the postal branch has been getting it in
the neck more than it has qualified for.
I found the 8.P.0. housed in Bass’s big ex-
brewery up London, N.W. The sorting racks, re-
direction tables, etc., were spread in vanishing lines
over a couple of acres of clean, unfurnished floor-
space where even the soul of a profiteer could hardly
get mislaid or overlooked. And the work of sorting,
despatching and (very important) re-direction of
mails to men who had become mislaid from their
regular addresses by reason of sickness, wounds,
leave, special duties elsewhere, transfers to other
units, clinks, attachments and other accidents liable
to bodies like the now sadly-diminished Australians
—all was going on with a calm, automatic precision
that would have appalled anyone but a Tommy
R.S.M.
In the course of my offensive I was neatly coun-
tered by my opponent. He called my name and
number, and from along a far line of mute card-
cabinets a piece of pasteboard rapidly came our way.
It recorded startling particulars and dates of my
movements in France (my duties had placed me
with several units, including Imperial troops) up to
the time of my arrival in London; and the facts
that (a) I was but one of a few hundred thousand
Australians on this side of the world, (6) my army
movements had been much more irregular than those
of most men, (c) I’d never once been guilty of notify-
ing the 8.P.0. of any change of address, all made
me realise a respect for the system that had tracked
me down so effectively.
In the end I became almost amiable towards my
enemy; and was shown a wired-in compound occu-
pied only by the staff which dealt with registered
mail; and another isolated compartment where par-
cels for men definitely known to be killed or missing
were being opened by a small, specially-sworn-in
staff, the contents being recorded and signed for as
they were extracted and then packed in sealed crates
for despatch to the Australian Comforts Fund Com-
missioners. (I was told that this is done by autho-
rity of War Precautions Regulation No. 003-x ? .)
I also saw neatly stacked Australian mail that
had been addressed—for safety—to people in Eng-
land, to be forwarded by English post to men in
France. One typical sample had been travelling all
through the Toning' army, because the English sender
hadn’t tacked on “A.1.F.” to the army unit mentioned
in the address.
Finally my polite opponent produced a return of
the last month’s parcel delivery in France, showing
that the 8.P.0. actually held receipts for the delivery
of 97 per cent, of the consignment. Taking the
casualties and accidents of the field into considera-
tion, this was a remarkable record: no doubt mainly
due to the fact that, whereas the postal corps once
controlled mails only as far as battalion headquarters,
where they fell to the tender mercies of casual
orderlies, to-day unit-orderlies are controlled by the
postal corps, and are accordingly responsible for
the delivery of mail into the digger’s hands. So
no longer should undelivered mail be found carelessly
dumped in the mud and forgotten by casual officers
and their orderly-room staffs—as I have seen it in
France on the occasion of changing and taking over
parts of the front line by different battalions; for
which many curses were no doubt later heaped on
the heads of the p.o. people by Australians in Europe
and at home.
At the same time, the postal people can’t hope to
deal so effectively with all war risks. When I think
of these—from the mails lost at sea and the occa-
sional field post-office or mail-lorry blown up by
Fritz, to the fatalities and ills liable to overtake
postal orderlies, dug-outs, diggers and things in
general near the firing-line—l have an absurd feeling
that hereafter, whenever a letter from home arrives
safely through these perils into my hands, I will
regard the reinstated Australian postal corps in the
light of a loyal, solicitous and resourceful friend,
and will try to forget the unpublishable things I
have said about it in the past.
Canada during the last three years exported
goods to the value of £210,097,000 more than
its imports; in other words, it put on a
spurt and had £210,097,000 available with
which to reduce its foreign debts, to pay
war expenses, and to finance new industries.
It had all that surplus earned, not borrowed.
And in the same time poor Australia was
importing far more than it exported, and
was floating loans here and in England to
pay the difference (while Canada was re-
ceiving the difference), and in addition was
drawing on the cash reserves in its banks so
that they went down suddenly from
£36,000,000 to £23,000,000, though, as
against that there was a slight increase of
metal in the Treasury. Also the country
spent the loose gold which people used to
carry in their pockets—they carry paper now.
Canada has increased its exports by 400 per
cent, since the war started, while ours have
risen about 10 per cent.; and Canada’s in-
crease of exports is largely manufactured
goods, while our export of manufactured
goods is hardly worth mentioning. Canada
builds ships at a fast rate. Australia talks
about ships at a fast rate while its manu-
facturing population decreases. But then
Canada, like the U.S. and Germany, has
High Protection, and Australia hasn’t. One
day lately the Freetrade Sydney Telegraph
published an outpouring of the soul re a
Sydney firm which, after 10 years of fight-
ing, has so far overcome what the ’Graph
called “the inexplicable aversion on the part
of the public to the locally-produced article”
that it is now producing in one year a
million gallons of linseed-oil. A whole million
gallons! This fighting of the prejudice
against Australian goods is an awful waste
of time. Let the unnatriotic section of the
public keep its prejudice if it wants to, and
let it d—n Australian goods if it feels that
way, and let it use only foreign goods if it is
so disposed. But let the tariff make sure
that it pays 75 per cent, more for its im-
ported goods, or 100 per cent, more if neces-
sary. Then, even if it forms a great society
for denouncing all Australian products by
bell, book and candle, also by gas and elec-
tric light and every other illuminant—why,
let if! There is no Customs or excise dut y
on denunciation.
• «
The man who makes two ears of wheat
grow where only one grew before is usually
considered a benefactor to his country; but
that is quite wrong. Billjim who comes
back from Palestine can tell you better.
The great country is the country where agri-
culture is carried on with a crooked stick
for a plough, said stick being dragged by a
bullock and a mule. It thus takes 10 men
to produce as much wheat as one Australian
produces with his steel discs and his strap-
ping team. It is true, as Billjim may
remark, that the crooked-stick agriculturist
looks miserable, and his surroundings all
howl to heaven of poverty and wretchedness;
but maybe that is camouflage. Anyhow, the
Waterside Workers’ Federation reckons that
the less wheat each man produces the better,
because there is then more for other people
to produce. On that principle it recently
asked that certain stevedores be fined for
working “double” winches with one man.
The working of these winches by one man
obviously releases one man from each winch
for other work, but the W.W. Federation
couldn’t see that that was a national advan-
tage. Justice Higgins could, though, and
told the applicants that unless and until
they could prove that the process placed an
undue strain on the man they had better get
busy with the winches. Really what the
Waterside Federation ought to protest
against is winches —not double winches, but
winches. If they were abolished and cargo
were carried up by hand, there would be
work for thousands and thousands of men.
What the thousands and thousands would
get for it is another matter. On that point
Billjim, who has seen how the crooked-
stick agriculturist lives, might be called as
a witness.
• ♦ ;
“Of the 2,000,000 people in this State only
700,000 of them are in Sydney,” said the
Telegraph of 13/4/T8 as a reason why the
country should subscribe more largely to the
loan. To be accurate, of the nearly 1.900.000
people in N. S. Wales close on 800,000 are in
Sydney, which is a disgraceful case of con-
gestion. And the headquarters of the banks.
The Requiem of the Guns.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"The German bombardment of the Australian posi-
tions at Albert was the worst since Pozieres. At a
critical moment eight Australian machine-guns and
their crews withstood the full German assault. After
having inflicted tremendous casualties, the Aus-
tralians died where they stood.”
A blood-red jewel these have set
In battle’s diadem.
And, lest the living shall forget,
The dead now speak to them.
Silent beside their silent guns,
With hands that clench the earth,
They challenge, as Australia’s sons,
The land that gave them birth.
Outgunned, outnumbered, to the last
They strove to stem the tide —
The great grey sea that broke, but passed
The shambles Avhere they died.
Against the impossible arrayed,
They faced it, breast to breast,
Nor here in thought nor deed betrayed
The faith their death professed.
Their gunfire kindled there a light
That shall afar be shed
Where we, their kin, abjure the fight,
Secure behind their dead.
But, toiling till they died, they willed
The fixing of the gleam :
It rests Avith us to see fulfilled
That heritage supreme.
So shall our answer serve their need
In the dread days to come,
When we go forth, Avith hearts that heed
The call of lips now dumb;
Can Ave forget how, maimed and. mired,
Where blood and SAveat had run,
A dying gunner crouched and fired
The last Australian gun?
VICTORIA.
KETTLEDRUM.


T*l e Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A l ' stralia
L united
is a co-operative company owned and controlled by the Farmers and Pastoralists of the Commonwealth.
Co-operative Insurance Reduces the Cost of Insuring
Because it is the co-operator whose business helped to create the profits who is alone eligible to share in the distribution of those profits. In other words, this
means cost-price insurance for the co-operator.
It is solely to the Farmers’ and Pastoralists’ advantage to co-operate in this Com pany. and do all his insurance business with it.
Absolute Protection against Fire, Marine, Hail, Workmen’s Compensation and
other risks at Lowest Current Rates.
WRITE THE MANAGER FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
NOTE. Owing to rapid expansion, the Company will shortly occupy more commodious premises at 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Ground Floor).
Present Head Office: 14 MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOBTH AUSTRALIA.
life and fire insurance companies, shipping
companies, coal companies, trustee com-
panies, pastoral companies, importing con-
cerns, etc., etc., being in Sydney, and the
rich absentee squatters being there, their loan
contributions are mostly credited to the over-
grown metropolis, though the bulk of the
money is earned outside. “Most of the huge
sums paid for our primary products since
the war began have gone into the country,”
said the paper in pursuit of the same line
ot argument. Most of the diminished price
paid for wheat went there, for the farmer is
anchored down pretty heavily to his land,
but the wool and meat money didn't—not to
any overwhelming extent. Furthermore, the
sums paid for primary products weren’t
wonderfully huge considering that they were
spread over four years and 308,000 square
miles. When the Telegraph, a typical big-
city organ, calls on Farmer Bullstack' to
be specially lavish and grateful because the
metropolis didn’t grab the wheat proceeds
along with other things, Bullstack: may
almost begin to feel cross.
- - ♦
The Slanderers of Barabbas.
Thebe is a streak of pathos and there is
also a streak of misery about the 27th
annual report of Australian Labor (N.S.W.
branch). It complains bitterly, among other
things, that “the peace proposals have not
been discussed in Parliament.” One might
think it a small, humble idea to discuss
peace proposals when the fellow who made
the war won’t have peace, except at the
price of a complete surrender, an incredible
indemnity and a vast transfer of territory
in which Australia will probably be in-
cluded. It is as futile as offering an illumi-
nated text to a crocodile to induce him to
leave off; and it suggests those burning
patriots invented by Dickens who regu-
larly sent a copy of their paper to Queen
Victoria, care of the Tower of London, for
Berlin would hardly hear an echo of the
discussion. Still some people find balm and
solace in words. There is a bitter denuncia-
tion because the N. S. Wales Government
“stopped most of the railways under con-
struction and other public, works, thus
throwing thousands of men on the labor
market.” No allowance is made by these
gushing children of nature for the fact that
even the most strenuous Ministry can’t get
blood out of a post or loans out of a stone.
It managed to “blew” £0,862,179 of borrowed
funds during last financial year, though the
job of raising the money was like dragging
meat out of the jaws of a tiger, and it is
going along this year, so far ag nine months’
returns show, at the rate of nearly
£5,000,000, though it hardly knows itself
how it got the money. Bull has refused to
look at a public works loan, and the Federal
War Loan is using up the local market,
which is mostly paper money at best. It is
base ingratitude to abuse such a Govern-
ment for insufficient public works, especially
as the N.S.W. Laborites first attained office
on their “scrap of paper” pledge to reduce
borrowing, which then stood at a mere frac-
tion of the present figure. Railway-building
has met with no very serious stoppage up
to date; the stoppage is to come. The report
also speaks with an intensity of bitterness
about a “diabolical and fiendish conspiracy,”
by parties who are still at large, “to bring
about industrial slavery by the creation of a
huge army of unemployed,” but details are
wanting. The “wage system” is strenuously
denounced, and there is a proposal to bring
the Labor movement into line with “the
most advanced thinkers among the organised
workers of the world” possibly the Bol-
sheviks and the I.WAV. And the report
cites Barabbas as a horrible example. Yet
all we know against poor old Barabbas
suggests that he was a good fighting patriot.
He was a “notable prisoner” and a man who
had “made insurrection” against the Roman
tyrant and the Roman capitalist. Some-
body had been killed, and it is a mighty poor
insurrection that doesn't kill somebody. Then
lie was a “robber,” quite distinct from the
two “thieves” who were crucified. “Robber”
was a handy capitalistic term for the man
who rose against Roman law and had to
take refuge in waste places, like Wallace
and Garibaldi and Juarez when their luck
was out. The Robbers got back some of
their own when they fought the capitalists
to the bitter finish during the siege of Jeru-
salem, and it is a low-down trick for the
party which devised that report to throw a
clod at the bones of the man who “made
insurrection.”
The Hell in Northern France.
For a day or two last week it looked as
though Hindenburg’s thrust at the northern
sector of the Allies’ line was going to twist
the situation thereabouts into something like
the figure eight. The blow was heavy.
The place chosen for delivery was well
selected. Trampling over the remnants
of Portugal the enemy made rapid
advance westward from the old battle-
ground uenr Neuve Chapelle, Fleur-
baix and Armentieres. But the defence
stiffened after the first couple of days and
after violent efforts to continue the journey
the German hauled oft' to get his second wind.
He had driven a deep salient into the defence,
widening the wings as he went, and without
a doubt scored a material advantage. The
head of his spear when the round ended was
dangerously close to a point which, if lost
to the Allies, would seriously imperil the
position before Ypres and bring the enemy
dangerously close to Calais and Dunkirk.
Clearly enough this is what the German is aim-
ing at, and for it he is prepared to risk enor-
mous loss. And it is equally clear that to
Britain and France protection of these
Channel ports, especially Calais, is, if not
absolutely vital, at least so important as to
mean the difference between relative safety
and strategical embarrassment of great mag-
nitude. The order issued by llaig reminding
the troops that they are fighting with their
backs to the wall; the rushing up of French
reserves to the threatened locality ; the speech
made by Geodes in the House of Commons
in which he pointed to the new factors that
would arise if the enemy reached the sea —
all these are evidence of the gravity with
which the happenings of last week were re-
garded. That the German will hit again
thereabouts, and do it hard, is apparently
accepted as certain. Heaven knows what his
losses have been, but the magnitude of these
recent operations of his leave no sort of
doubt that he still has great military
resources at his command and is using them
with skill and confidence. There are not
many Frenchmen who are not carrying a gun
now. Britain is meeting the hurricane by
calling up the greyheads and starting to put
the comb over Ireland —a step of mighty
doubtful expediency. Uncle Sam is speeding
up his effort to cross the Atlantic more
numerously. On the whole it seems a fair
thing to conclude that the sooner Sam has a
million men in France instead of in the
vicinity of New York the better for all
hands. The struggle of the Hun to break
the stranglehold on the West is quite a
serious business, and it is worth remember-
ing that the usually well-informed Loval
Fraser, writing in the London Times, con-
tradicts the stories about the German having
lately suffered vastly greater casualties than
the British and French. It is war at
the axe-and-bludgeon stage now. The exact
size of the Portuguese loss is a matter of
academic interest. At least the tiny force
had one run for its money. Wellington
used to call the Portuguese his Fighting
Cocks, and if they lived up to his opinion of
them, the final report will be that they were
small but gallant potatoes and few in a hill.
Two Sydney firms/ Farmer’s and Anthony
Horderns’, have, with the approval of the
Commonwealth Government, put up £2OOO,
which will go in cash prizes to purchasers of
£lO War Loan bonds at their shops until
April 24. With each £lO bond a registered
and numbered prize ticket will be given ; these
numbers will be drawn under official super-
vision on May 10 next in the Sydney Town
Hall. Having gone thus far. the Govern-
ment will presumably now reconsider its
former decision and seek to obtain £5,000.000
or some other amount under ordinary lottery
conditions, the interest, or portion of it, being
drawn for quarterly. If only 1 p.c. of the
interest were set aside for drawing, quarterly
prizes of £12,500 could be distributed; and
every holder of a bond would have a chance
of a big win, while still retaining his bond.
Hundreds of thousands of people go to the
races for a “flutter,” and hundreds of thou-
sands have a “flutter” without going to the
races. There is no earthly reason why races
should come into the matter at all. The plan
would appeal to vast numbers to whom an
ordinary War Loan doesn’t; and to large
numbers who subscribe in the ordinary way
it would make an appeal from another angle.
For Red Cross and similar purposes money
is being publicly raised in ways that wouldn’t
be approved if the need were not so urgent;
and the Defence Department’s need of money
is just as urgent as the Red Cross’s.
The great heart of the country is sound
but the great feet of the country are rather
slow. Therefore the body that is on top
of these feet is apt to arrive late. When a
real war crisis comes the nation probably
arises, but as things are nowadays, unless
it rises to the occasion at least 12 months
before the occasion it is liable to be a year
behind the occasion. Australia did pretty
well with its export of soldiers in 1014 and
1915. Then the Hun-employed or somebody
touched a button, and the supply of recruits
dropped wonderfully. But there was a great
increase in industrial disturbances, and an
uprising of strange folk who were willing
to fight when Ireland got Home Rule, or
when the I.W.W. law-breakers were let out
of gaol, or when all the differences between
capital and labor were settled, or when the
reconstruction of society was effected—and
not till then. Probably the Hun-employed
had touched the button again. Now the
tremendous news from France has given
recruiting a boost, but things are moving
rapidly in France, and it takes a year to
export and train a good soldier, and the
great heart of the people may be 360 days
too late to have much say in the matter.
“King to Wilson” was a recent big head-
ing in a Sydney paper. It was only about a
congratulatory cablegram, and probably our
ally didn’t mind. Still it might have been
“King to President” or perhaps even “Wind-
sor to Wilson.”
The Hun shells any place he can see. He
has been dropping shells into Monrovia,
population 6000, and capital of Liberia, the
only nigger republic on earth and the most
peaceful state that ever stole a fowl. Army,
including police, 600; navy, one gunboat
(laid up) ; only ambition three square meals
a day, including water-melon.
The Edith Cavell Memorial Association is
striking out a good line for its Rod Gross
stall on April 26. It asks for something of
historic —even the early mementoes of the
great war come under that label —interest.
Anyone who has preserved every badge and
button of patriotic appeals would have a
valuable gift to offer.
One of Ilindenburg s recent reports to the
Kaiser told him to have patience and wait
for the battle to “ripen.” Whilst corpses rot
the battle ripens, the German “work,”
according to lliudenburg, being on “a great
and sound basis.” A great basis of blood and
bones! The original of Berlin’s ridiculous
wooden statue is now an anxious rooster,
perched on the weather-cock of a charnel-
house and crowing about what lie's going to
do to the other bird when he comes down
next time.
“Solomon Malaprop”: An Adelaide jury
has, by two successive verdicts, endorsed
what United States people call the
“unwritten law” —that a man who kills his
wife’s paramour when caught in the act is
“not guilty.” It may be right or it may be
wrong, and I don’t even know who unwrit
the law. But it is loaded. It is rough on
the paramour if he happened to be 10 miles
away from the lady at the time, or if ho
had never met her in his life or even Heard
of her, for, being dead, he can’t prove an
alibi. If I looked like a paramour I should
never lend money to an armed man, or to
an ill-tempered man, or to a furtive, slink-
ing, waiting-round-the-corner sort of man,
and thereby give him an interest in my
decease.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) puts in a futile pro-
test. Its wool trade has been wiped out, and
its wool storage made a white elephant eat-
ing off its oxvn head by a simple-looking
regulation that all wool for export must go
to Sydney to be appraised. The appraisers,
being lame in both feet, can’t go out of Syd-
ney for appraising purposes. And as Sydney
hasn’t room for all this extra wool new
stores are to be put up, and as building space
is scarce a bit of Wentworth Park is to be
stolen. Newcastle desires to say politely
that, in the way of grabbing everything it
can reach, Sydney is 10 Huns rolled into one.
All these recruiting conferences are wrong.
The people who really ought to be got
together are the Possible Recruits; for the
tale of why they haven’t and don’t would be
the beginning of all recruiting wisdom.
The summary treatment of two women
candidates in S. Aus. does not show for cer-
tain that ladies are barred. Neither was a
party candidate; and for the Independent
there was no hope, male or female. In
Sturt, where the winners were all well over
6000. even ex-Premier Crawford Vaughan,
standing as an Independent, got only 2000.
The one place where a breakaway really
affected results was up-country in Wooroora.
The old Liberal members, Miller, Pick and
O'Loughlin, took a fancy to stand as repre-
senting the new Farmers and Settlers’ Asso-
ciation. Thus there were throe parties in
the field. A solid vote put three Labor men
in, each with something over 2400. The
three fresh Liberal candidates were only
about 100 behind, and the three old members
all got just under 2000. Whoever was re-
turned was sure to represent a minority, and
the case will turn a lot of thoughts towards
a more scientific system of voting.
“Good Australian”: The U.S.A. Consul
advertises a list of goods which may not be
imported into his country without special
permission. The list of prohibited articles
includes most of the things the Yankees
can produce or make themselves, and
other things they know they do not want in
war time, or should not buy even if they
did want them ever so badly. This is a
course the Commonwealth Government ought
to follow promptly. If it doesn’t we shall
be drained of .so much more of our small
stock of gold that, in spite of all Willy Watt
may say, we may have to default. It is
worse than futile to say Australia will never
default and yet take no measures to abolish
the conditions which may compel us to do so.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion ‘"The Bird of Paradise’
Her Majesty’s “Dick. Whittington ’
Palace “Aladdin ■
Tivoli “The Million Dollar Girl’
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
Wirths’ Hippodrome Wirths’ Circus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Bing Boys Are Here”
Royal “The Rainbow”
King's “The New Henrietta”
Bijou Fuller’s Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli “Samples”
Hoyt’s De Luxe Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
-
Something transpired at Sydney Criterion
last Saturday in which large slabs of the
Hawaiian language, Muriel Starr, brown
brother, drink, revolutions, leprosy, a Bird of
Paradise, a beachcomber, a ballet and a vol-
cano were seriously implicated. “The Bird
of Paradise” looks like a sex-film gone wrong
and succumbing to a severe attack of Angli-
cism. It lias nine distinct morals and
some very nice girls. The programme con-
tains a long excerpt from Mark Twain’s
works, a glossary of the Hawaiian language,
and the statements that the part of Lilioki is
taken by ICaneko Liholiko Kamapua, and
that the play is produced by George Barnum.
The entertainment begins with Muriel Starr
in a costume of furniture polish and ensilage,
and ends with Muriel Starr inside the crater
of a volcano. At least, it should end there;
but a slab of English landscape descends into
the crater, and in front of it Muriel Starr
bows her acknowledgments. Doubtless the
volcano is too large, and possibly too modest,
to be led on by Muriel Starr to take the call ;
but the volcano and the lady are all that are
left of quite a large collection of leading men
and missionaries. These mysteriously dis-
appear in the midst of a revolution or some-
thing early in the evening; and nobody knows
what the rebellion was about.
* *» * »
Muriel Starr, the lady in the chocolate
smile with vegetable trimmings, has either no
chance in this uproar or fails to make the
most of her chance. That remembered mag-
netism of voice and manner is lacking; she is
charming and passionate and childish and
petulant, but she doesn’t thrill; still, it must
be rather hard to thrill in such chilly clothes
and in such unsympathetic surroundings.
Frank Harvey is a picturesque beachcomber
in the first act; in the second and subsequent
spasms he is Frank Harvey, struggling hard
to squeeze drama out of vapid dialogue.
Louis Kimball is shaven and sober in the first
act; in the second lie is unshaven and drunk ;
in the third he is shaven and drunk. Yet
people say the bars close at six. James
Hughes is a noble' though rather too well
nourished specimen of naked brown brother ;
and .1. B. Atholwood’s ancient priest is the
real thing. George Bryant and Edwin Lester
make frequent speeches—but then they all do
that! Still, these two make their speeches
more loudly. Maggie Moore is an ancient
brown crone, and a delightfully motherly
one. And Tein Hogue is a pleasant blond
relief against so much furniture polish. Some-
how this critic does not think the Criterion
crater will remain active long.
It’s time he had a show. “The Sorrows of
Satan” will be recorded at Sydney Opera
House on Saturday.
“Betsy Ross,” that spirited little Quaker-
ess, is living her love-story over again in
dumb show at Sydney Grand, and inciden-
tally making the first “Stars and Stripes”
raised in the cause of liberty by Washington.
Israel Putnam, Artemus Ward and eo. in the
days when the best people still drank tea out
of their saucers. Alice Brady plays the part
of the rebel Betsy with much chaTm and
many romantic complications. The Crystal
Palace weighs in with “The Sign Invisible.” a
heavyweight drama of human souls in the
Great North, in which Mitch Lewis and
Iledda Nova hold the trump hands of thrills.
Marguerite Clark is inimitable as the roman-
tic schoolgirl of 16 who invents a lover to
make her family sit up and take notice.
“Bab’s Diary” is adapted from Mary Roberts
Rinehart’s sub-deb. stories, and the screens of
Hoyt’s and the Haymarket chuckle with the
sub-titles. And for all this week “Little Red
Decides” at the Strand.
“Pierrotland,” situated at the Playhouse,
in Castlereagh-street. Sydney, is recom-
mended as an ideal amusement centre for all
lovers of clean and smart entertainment.
Vera Spaull and her chorus of little girls
are responsible for two of the bright moments
of “The Million Dollar Girl.” at Sydney
Tivoli. But the show hobbles where • it
should pick up its skirts and run, and the
management has not managed to speed it


GANCIA’S
extra dry
ASTI SPARKLING
SWEET
SUPPLIED TO THE KING OF ITALY AND ALL ROYALTIES.
AS
AWARDED
f GOLD MEDAL,
l GRAND PRIX,
PARIS, 1900.
BRUSSELS, 1910.
CIVIL SERVICE STORE AND ALL LEADING HOTELS. ASK FOR IT.
Sole Agents for Australasia : LUBRA.NO <St FERRARI, 32 O’Connell St., Sydney
ALL OTHER ITALIAN WINES KEPT IN STOCK.
QUEEN S ARMS
HOTEL,
Corner Swanston St. & Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
TARIFF: —
Bed & Breakfast . . . • 67-
Lunch (Special) . . . . 1/6
Dinner 3 /“
CLAUDE R. KERR, Proprietor.
m
m
On Active Service
—but no Smokes
Your friend at the Front is
defending you—are you see-
ing to it that he does not
have to go without a smoke ?
It is a little matter to you,
but a big one to him. Send him
“ De Reszke" Cigarettes — he's
worthy of the very best. Post
them yourself—then you know
he will get them safely.
Sold Everywhere
m
Peapes' “Warrigal” Rugs
Australian Wool— —— Inexpensive !
The best vug to buy at a moderate price is “The Warrigal Peapes
Registered Brand—made of Australian Wool, full size, warm and soft.
It lias fringed ends and is neatly patterned in Reversible Checks of
Dark and Light Grey, Reds and Brown mixtures. Buy the “Warrigal”
for Winter travelling, driving, etc. Orders should be sent soon, because
the supply is limited.
Price 21/-
Peapes* latest catalogue illustrates many unique values in Wanigal
Australian-made goods.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfit era,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
nn Less Scotch and more soda might help
ft The two extra turns (Shattuck and
0'\ T eill and Mason and G wynne) aie good,
and the rest of the entertainment suffers bj
comparison. ,
The last Sydney Palace nights of “Alad-
din" are signalled, and the Wonderful Lamp
will be blown out m a week. Befoie that
happens, all good parents should takeithe
kids to see the harlequinade (matinees only).
The beautiful cloths W. R. Coleman
nainted for the “Dick Whittington panto,
are soothing, inasmuch as they show sleepy
old London before Man learnt to fly and
make himself unpleasant from the air. lhe
“The Bird of Para-
dise." at Sydney
Criterion.
Frank Harvey as
Dean, the regenerated
Beachcomber.
meditative person
who has listened
to the patter be-
fore and has re-
turned to have
another look at the
legs may find a lot
of mental break-
fast food of this
sort at Her Maj-
esty's, Sydney.
** # *
“B a 1) y Mine,”
the third Goldwyn
film, wi 1 1 b e
screened at Sydney
Royal on Satur-
day. Slapoffski and
lus musicians will
saw off good music
and Mrs. Slap, is
to sing.
** * *
The latest war
regulation hoisted
by the Wirths at
Sydney Hippo-
drome announces
that the censorship
over discussion of
the weight of the
elephants and the
length of the lions’
teeth has been abolished, and that the Loop
of Death had been looped every evening
before the retreat of the public to the tram-
cars commenced.
* s': * *
The right of a hero to sneer—hitherto
strictly the perquisite of a villain —is estab-
lished bv “The Easiest Way,” in which
Muriel Starr has had great success at
Adelaide Royal. Four acts have shown the
heroine going wrong through, as she claims,
overwhelming circumstances. Then, just at
curtain-fall, the hero carefully explains to
her that she is no good, and has taken the
Easiest Way because she has not the moral
fibre to take any other. And. when she
swears to shoot herself on liis going, he
dares her to do it, and stands in the door-
way to watch her fail to do it. It is plucky
and original writing, and finely acted.
Kimball has never done anything better,
and Miss Starr, artistic as of old. is more
physically attractive than she used to be.
But there is somewhat too much just now
of this drama of the going astray of woman-
kind. It may be drawn with cynical _ can-
dor, as in this instance; or with sentimen-
tality, as in the Andersonian “Lured from
Her Home” at the Tivoli; “The Manx-
man,” beautifully (but at too great a
length) screened at West’s; and the
locally-filmed “The Woman Suffers,” still
doing immense business in S.A. towns; or
with the moral and didactic touch, as in
“Enlighten Thy Daughter,” now at West’s.
It is only fair to add that the public seems
to like it, and crowded houses are the result
all round. Fred Bluett at the Majestic
brings in some welcome comic relief, and
Le Blanc continues to be the same old Jew
in differing surroundings. As for _ the
Humouresks at Queen’s Ilall, their business
is not to make you think but to amuse, and
they do it effectively. And, in plain
romance, one has William Hart (with horse
and “gun”) at Wondergraph, and a Muni-
tion girl (with aeroplane) at the I*av.
»** •l * v '•*
“the Bing Boys Are Here” at Melbourne
Majesty’s, with the reputation of 15 weeks’
run in Sydney. If a suspicion of disap-
pointment haunted the crowded audience last
Saturday night it was due to the much-
advertised length of the Sydney run. People,
as a rule, looked for something more than a
revue or vaudeville show, even though they
didn’t expect a sustained musical comedy
with a backbone of human interest. The
Ring Roys—Leslie Holland and Jack Can-
not —are neither here nor there in the mat-
ter of human interest, nor is there any
reasonable connection between the Minnie
Love of the first panel and six various edi-
tions de luxe of Minnie that follow in undue
course. The attractions oi the entertain-
ment are its never-failing brightness,
rapidity of movement, excellence in dancing
items, and fine spectacular effects of scenery,
lighting, dresses and girls. All the parts ot
the dresses are adequately filled, and the con-
tents of innumerable stockyigs are an mvari-
able success. One prefers to forget that the
bill describes “The Bing Boys Are Here’ as
a “picture of London Life in 11 panels.
London life has changed for the gloomier
since the revue was written.
* * * *
Minnie Love is an admirable chief lady
for an affair of this sort, because her dainty
spirit of gaietv has a wide range of expres-
sion, and her personality is appealing. What
she lacks in singing ability she makes up for
in charm of manner. Any sort of glittering
costume harmonises with her dazzling smile,
and Minnie ever seems of more actual import-
ance than her clothes. She even holds her
own as central figure in the final Chinese
Lacquer Scene, where she squats on a vast
cushion whilst lines of Chin Chow girls pass
up and down ladders in the background,
keeping time with her ditty. Hilda Quiver’s
strongest item is the Doll Girl song in Panel
5, in which she does fair justice to the
melody, but distinctly misses the sentiment.
Clyde Copk and Maie Baird are associated in
a strikingly artistic acrobatic dance, and
Cook has a grotesque dance to himself. Jack
Quinlan’s Firelight Fancies are the excuse
for Panel 3, and winsome Nellie Payne is an
occasional joy. Also Florrie Allen does two
or three things, including a song on a swing,
which is a somewhat worn form of entertain-
ment. As for Holland and Cannot in the
name parts—the latter is his own usual com-
bination of bags, gags and jollity, whilst
the former revives recollections of his Peter
Doody. The most humorous item in his
bunch of tricks is his parody of a “character
impersonator,” but Holland seems hardly the
right man for that particular sort of fool-
ing. Next Monday afternoon Fighting Mac
will deliver an address at Melb. Majesty s
on his war experiences, and some of the Bing
Boys and Girls will also assist the Red Cross
cause. A shilling admits to any part of the
house.
At Melbourne King’s the villain’s extra-
ordinary endeavors to depress New Henri-
etta stock on the Exchange (where Bertie
meets his fate) will be continued until the
middle of next week. Meanwhile Lizette
Parkes will go on
“The Bird of Para-
dise,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Geo. Bryant as
Captain Hatch.
imparting an air of
sweet simplicity to
her strange infatu-
ation for Bertie,
yhe has known the
harmless waster
from childhood up-
wards, she wor-
ships him for his
fraudulent knu t-
tishness, and when
she learns that he
can’t be wicked, in
spite of his des-
perate attempts to
go astray, she still
dotes upon the ab-
surd young man.
Bertie. Agnes and
Nicholas, the stock-
broker, are people
worth knowing
before they g o
away. The whole
company goes away
next week, to make
room for Guy
Bates Post as “The
Masquerader.” In
this dramatisation
of the onee-famous novel, “John Chilcote,
several members of the New York
company that supported G.B.P. will appear
with him again. His performance of Chil-
cote and the other fellow is declared to be
a notable feat in histrionics, and the Taits
advertisement stresses the information that
his engagement is for 10 weeks only.
;[s -'fi
This is the third week of the first edition
of “Samples” at Melbourne Tivoli, where
the performance just now is twice daily.
Next Saturday, presumably, a few fresh
Samples will be substituted for some that
are now being shown.
The resumption of vaudeville at Mel-
bourne Bijou is being bruited abroad by
divers instruments of music. Tom Rees is
anchored to a trombone that blows holes in
the strongest ragtime measure; whilst the
two Bentleys smite an instrument that
seems to be the giant son of a xylophone
and sounds as if it is heartily ashamed of
its father. Also there is a Miss Veronica
who tickles the piano in a tender spot,
helped by a fugitive from the hairdresser
who scrapes a fiddle and needs only ability
to become a maestro. The people who rely
on their own sterling attributes without
artificial aids are Eddie Burns, a capital
wooden-mat dancer, Con Moreni, monologue
entertainer, and Skipper Francis, the proud
author of “Australia Will Be There.” On
the acrobatic plane Rose and Dell, trick
bikists, have the stage to themselves.
“The Rainbow,” produced at Melb. Royal
last Saturday, has no promise of durability
in its name, which is rather far-fetched, by
the way. There is a moral in “The Rain-
bow,” to the effect that when a grass-
widower of long standing would like to re-
sume calm domestic life with his wife and
young daughter he finds himself horribly
embarrassed by a circle of strictly disrespect-
able friends. A lot of dialogue on this point
would be more effective if it didn't suggest
little sermons learned by heart. Charles
Waldron, as Neil Sumner, the sadly mis-
understood husband, is a too obvious imper-
sonator of a Beautiful Nature struggling
against circumstances over which his absen-
tee wife has much control. He poses as he
preaches, and his sister (Emma Temple)
preaches also, but in a less picturesque style.
They remind one of how Aubrey Tanqueray
and his old friend Mrs. Cortelyon might have
discussed the unfitness of Paula and her
former associates to breathe the same atmo-
sphere as “saint” Ellean. But the situation
here has been created by artificial means.
Virtuous Mrs. Sumner casts off her husband
because she thinks he led her dear brother
into temptation and trouble, whereas her
dear, unpleasant brother is a notorious rotter
who has embezzled her fortune and whose
sins are being hidden from her by the hus-
band who pays his debts. Such things are
impossible outside the world of novelette fic-
tion that women writers have created for
women readers. Feminine sentimentality
delights in long-drawn-out misunderstandings
that suppose restrained tenderness on the
part of a fpolish wife, and preposterous
chivalry on the part of her suffering hus-
band. The truth is revealed, and she for-
gives him her mistake in the last chapter.
* * * *
Katlilene Macdonell contributes a convinc-
ing sketch of ingenuous gilt-edged girlhood
to this poor little comedy, and Beryl Bryant
is often suggestive of a straight-laced spouse
who might desert her husband on slight prov-
ocation. She has purity in her tones and
heaven in her eye, so to speak, but she hasn’t
the deportment of spotless middle-age. Eily
Malyon acts the character of a somewhat
raffish Jane better than she looks it, and
Kenneth Brampton (the beloved, objection-
able brother), Redgrave, Styan, Wilson and
Cambourne are among others that also run.
Cambourne’s caricature of an American con-
sul in France, who knows no French and
can’t make a speech in American, seems a
bad advt. for Australia’s belated ally in the
war. The scenic accessories, which include
two interiors with several doors in them, are
more than good enough for the piece.
The daily service continues at Melbourne
Britannia, where the current sermon is “The
Deemster,” by the Rev. Hall Caine, the
celebrated omissioner from the Isle of Man.
At the Melba, the cult of Venus was con-
tinued on Monday, the new divinity being
Sonia Markova in the Fox specialty, “The
Painted Madonna.” Sonia is a Russian
beauty and can make her face register
unfathomable feelings with the ease of a
practised movie star. To-day “A Woman
Between Friends” comes into sight, with
Alice Joyce as the lady in the case. The
week’s news from Hoyt’s, Melbourne, con-
cerns the innocent misdeeds of Marguerite
Clark in “Bab’s Diary,” the first of the
Famous Players-Lasky versions of Mary
Roberts Rhineart’s “Sub-Deb” stories. The
film is a bit of flapperature with the grip
of a bath sponge, but enriched by Mar-
guerite’s smile and manner it seems exceed-
ingly dainty and rare. “The Squaw Man’s
Son,” which follows, is a movie sequel of
the play wherein Charles Waldron started
a riot in feminine hearts. In the film the
little Hal of the
“The Rainbow,” at
Melbourne Royal.
Fred Gambourne as
the American Consul.
drama, grown to
manhood, pursues
a more placid exist-
ence than his
parent on a Red
Injun Reservation.
The Hum a n
Female is the sub-
ject of conversa-
tion in “The Mad-
ras House,” staged
by the Gregan
McMahon Reper-
tory Co., at Mel-
bourne Playhouse
on Saturday. The
argument is carried
over four acts and
is a wordy elabora-
tion of every pos-
sible view, ranging
from conventional
sex-worship to the
philosophic anti-
feminism of Shaw,
Nietzsche and P>ax.
The latter side of the case is presented
by Constantine Madras, who scorns the
enormous waste in dressmaking - , mani-
cure, perfume and accomplishments em-
ployed to enhance Woman’s fraudulent
place in society. His views drive him to
embrace the faith of Mohammed. Accord-
ingly he abandons his missus and an amour
which threatens a baby, ijmd clears out to
Arabia. Constantine is only a detail a
play containing enough discourse for 11-
characters ; but he is so god-like in the ex-
pression of his ideas that he was probably
made in the likeness of his creator. At any
rate, he attained mental ascendancy through
Gregan McMahon, who talked his audacities
with the dialectical nonchalance of a Shawian
Super-Nut training for a discussion in the
Fabian Society. McMahon gave a further
emphasis to Madras’s posturings with a
delightful make-up in which the influences
of Armenian and Baptist ancestors had pro-
duced a cross between a church elder and a
Khalif of old Bagdad. Constantine’s son,
Philip, maintained an attitude to his wife
which revealed a strain of paternal senten-
tiousness with a stronger clash of intellec-
tual brutality. Major Thomas, who is mostly
kissing in haste and repenting at leisure,
was a melancholy human document covered
with noughts and crosses by Helen Daniel!.
Thomas Skewes deprived Henry Huxtable
and the audience of considerable repose, but
all the same he didn’t miss the humor of
Henry’s vulgarity. Mrs. Edith Eccles and
six others represented the superfluous rein
nant of the Huxtable family, and Miss Allie
Robson played Philip’s wife, Jessica, with
smiles and jewellery. For the rest, there
were Mrs. Fannie Fowler discontentedly
snivelling as Mrs. Constantine; Norman
Carter impressively declaiming the raptures
of Eustace State; Mrs. J. E. Mackey as an
edition de luxe of Mrs. Grundy; and Audrey
Anderson defiantly explaining Marion Yates's
baby. Marion’s expected offspring had some
small bearing on the plot, but the frequency
of this sort of infant threatens to turn the
Playhouse into a Foundling Hospital.
* * * *
A Melbourne art show; —
The show of the Australian Arts Club is solid and
decorous, except where Norman Lindsay hangs his
sections of Girl. Norman is more gleeful than
ever in hia keyhole confidences. Also his color has
become richer and more sensitive to the charms of
flesh, and in pictorial description is like the purple
vocabulary of a Huysmans or a Wilde. His etchings,
“Don Juan in Hell” and “The Lady with a Fan,”
show that he has found another outlet for his pagan
fancy. Lionel Lindsay’s performances are mostly
in water-color, but he has employed his needle on
brother Norman’s visage and ticked off the contours
of a well-fed girl. Hans Heysen’s worship for the
Australian gum surges in rapturous mixtures of
timber and sunlight, but he is just as entertaining
when he changes the subject to a ploughman or a
hilltop covered with sheep. W. B. Mclnnes has
dyed the landscape olive-green and has covered some
of the richest country with a sort of radiant gloom.
Nevertheless the combined result is very high and
adds extra celebrity to the exhibition. Etcher Sydney
Ure Smith is the old taking Ure of wood and drawer
of water in his studies of buildings and harborside
wharves. IV. J. Macnally has found the woodscape
erecting itself into a series of triumphal arches, and
relies on lavishness of detail to secure economy of
effect. All the same, he is an improved colorist and
would be a greater success if he took more risks in
his choice of views. There is manifest quality in the
seaside impressions of Elliott Gruner, but the
ordinary bloke will consider that he is lending a new
distinction to monotony. And really it looks as if
he finds it hard to extricate his meaning from the
swirling pigment. John Shirlow is stronger in etch-
ing facades than faces, whilst Percy Leason’s art in
“The Farm” is only colored photography. Albert
Collins’s temperament, which is subdued in the
achievement of some enjoyable little landscapes, gets
out of control in a bilious vision of a lady with a
lantern. The Norman Carter panel is a moderately
gifted summary of delicate times o£ day, most
arresting in his sketches around the Kurrajong
heights. James R. Jackson sprinkles sunlight on a
couple of ladies without keeping the eye from wan-
dering elsewhere. G. V. F. Mann’s set of smaller
canvases might be memoranda for larger productions,
but they are all painted in a convincing manner.
Lloyd ltess, J. D. Banks, the two Clints and H. M.
Burton fill in the remaining wall space with some
modest efforts.
The 13th and 45th dames, after long weeks
of preparation, bring their fete to a head this
Friday. The raid begins—Sargent’s Rooms,
Market-street, is the address —in the after-
noon with Lady Davidson to open the sale.
And you can guess who —the benevolent
being at the head of the firm—has been very
kind.
For the first time the Maoriland Alliance
for Sweeping Derrink out of the Country
has agreed to talk cash to Bung. It last
week announced that the time was ripe to
take a poll for determining by bare majority
whether the islands should be wet or dry,
Bung to collect a dividend if suppressed.
This seems to suggest either a remarkable
conversion or that pourparlers have been
going on in a cool cellar. Hitherto organised
resistance to the Alliance has derived its
greatest strength from considerations relat-
ing to compensation, Bung being a long, way
more concerned about his pocket than his
customer's thirst. So the future of the pint
in M.L. is, to say the least of it, precarious.


LADIES! AFTER WAR COMES PEACE.
SHATTERED BEAUTY MUST BE REBUILT.
THE BEST and SUREST WAY is to RECONSTRUCT WITH
John
jyranae
inter s
mum
TOILET PREPARATIONS—USED BY ROYALTY.
Harmless to the most delicate skins.
New Face Cream (for oily skins) : Fink 4/-, White
3/6 per jar; Bakslimi Cream (for dry skins); 3/9 per
jar; Powder (Cream, White, Pink), 3/6; Soap, 3/6
box of 3 cakes; Dental Cream, 1/6; Perspiration
Powder, 2/-; Curative Ointment, 2/6; Hair Foods:
Oily, 3/9; Non-Oily, 4/9; Dry Shampoo, 3/9.
Ask for them at The Civil Service, Washington H.
Soul’s, Hassetter’s, David Jones’, Horderns’, W. T.
Waters', Farmer and Co.’s, etc., and all leading
Chemists.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Powder (name the
color), or Soap, or Dental Cream, to John Strange
Winter CLondon. Paris, Borne). Sydney Office: 32
Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street. Melbourne Office: 375
Collins Street. Brisbane: Taylor & Colledge, Ltd.,
Charlotte Street.
jptraajtJJsv
‘ IAKSHttI *
AAeltoman
IV \ HIGH-CLASS
iSPipLALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E BROWN (3 SONS LONDON
AGENCIES . ALL - OVER * THE • WORLD
m
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHNBURY
Ah, yes, but they’ll give Dyson’s hero 80s.
—thirty shillings, without rebate of a penny
—to refit himself with “civies.” _ He is
allowed to wear his uniform for a fortnight
after he gets his discharge: then he must
take it off and make his further appearances
HARD TIMES.
“There are two periods in a man’s life when
he doesn’t understand a woman."
“ Two —when are they?"
“Before marriage—and after.”
in one of the two or three suits and hats,
etc., that he has bought with the 30s. He
won t have any difficulty about finding a
shop. Every Billjim who is up for final
Board is shepherded by a flock of vultures
from hand-me-down and other “clothing
emporiums”; all of them with one object in
life —to peck out that thirty shillings.
“Umntu” : Our mascots —we gave Orchard,
the new Minister for Recruiting, a chameleon
the other day—are not the real thing. Either
we confuse a mascot with a pet, and desire it
because it is charming and not because it is
a charm, or we commercialise the thing and
dissolve the charm by spreading it over
millions of examples. The Red Indians knew
the rules better. A mascot is a rare thing, so
rare that there is only one of it. The Indians
supplied Napoleon with a true mascot, and
that was why he was able to stalk through
Europe and conquer his enemies. It was the
single joint of the vertebra* of a sea-serpent.
It was the hereditary fortune of an Indian
family, all the males of which had died out.
and the talisman only acted in the hands of
a man. Some Russians landed on Vancouver
with French prisoners. The Indians gave
the mascot to the Frenchmen to take to
Napoleon. It enabled the Frenchmen to over-
come their captors, and they eventually
reached France and handed the great gift to
the little man of Elba. Then he became
irresistible, and would have become Emperor
of the World but by the rottenest piece of
bad luck he lost the precious bone just before
the battle of Waterloo.
* * # »
A week or two ago two prisoners tried to
escape from Pentridge prison and failed, and
ever since the Vic. penal authorities have
been floundering in red-tape. As the outcome
of correspondence, Freeman, Inspector-
General of Prisons, held an inquiry with
closed doors and sent a report to Callaway,
the Under-Secretary. Callaway's job is to
initial the report and post it to Morrison,
Public Service Commissioner. Morrison is
then going to inquire some more; in public
this time, and “assisted” by numerous Gents
One representing the warders, the Crown
Solicitor and anybody else who feels disposed
to provide a fee. After this, somebody will
probably be told not to do it again, and yet
another inquiry will be held, before a P.M.,
to decide what shall happen to the prisoners.
Then the public will get a look in. But its
job is very simple—merely to foot the bill.
* * * *
“W.R.H.”: While camped near the Pools
of Siloam, in the vicinity of Bethlehem,
parties from our brigade were given an
opportunity to visit the Church of the
Nativity and other show places in the town.
Close to the Church is the Grotto of the
Milk. Tradition has it that this was the
place to which the Virgin Mary adjourned
when she wished to suckle the Child. The
interior of the place is composed of a soft
milky-colored stone which when pulverised is
reputed to increase the flow of milk. This
fact is impressed on all visitors and a little
of the stone is invariably handed round by
the attendant. A party of Billjims had lis-
tened attentively to this recital for some
time, when one of them exclaimed: “Cripes,
wouldn’t the cow cockies rush this if they
knew about it!”
* * * *
“Pin” : On our way to the wars last De-
cember we put in at Dakkar, the chief
French port on the western coast of Africa,
just above “the line.” Quite close to us a
liner was anchored and we could
see the stewards flying about
with liquors, while we had noth-
ing better than warm ginger-pop.
Naturally a great thirst arose,
and nagged exceedingly. Pre-
sently one of the mob, naked ex-
cept for a pair of breeks, plunged
into the sea, and in a few strokes
was at the companion-way of the
floating pub. Amidst cheers he
ran up the steps and along to the
stern of the ship, where some pas-
sengers were tickling a tray of
long, cool drinks. With water
dripping from him he looked the
picture of happiness as he lifted
a glass and, turning to us, grin-
ning all over, made a silent toast
before drinking. Next minute the
sea was alive with men in all
sorts of impromptu swimming
togs. Dozens got aboard the Good
Samaritan before the “heads”
tumbled to the performance. Then
a piequet was hastily formed,
and went over to close the scene of joy.
* * * *
Here is a curious point of law or logic.
The Musicians’ Union charges its one-time
friend, the Melbourne Eight Hours Proces-
sion, with something like “scabbing,” because
it decided that unionists, even if they don’t
belong to the Musicians’ combination, may
play in its ranks on the annual gala day.
There are arguments on both sides. It seerhs
RECOLLECTIONS.
THE ARTIST (proudly) : “Did you ever sec anything like that before?”
THE OTHER: “ Er —let me see. Yes, I saw that design on a tank in France."
hard that a union bricklayer shouldn’t be
allowed to blow his own cornet in his own
demonstration on a holiday, yet if he found
a professional cornet-player laying bricks on
a Good Friday he might object. Of course
the man in the procession isn’t blowing for
hire, but then it wouldn’t improve things
much if the cornet-player laid bricks gratis.
Assuredly there are a certain number of
bricks that must be laid, so the cornet-player
would be doing another man out of a job,
while there isn’t any fixed amount of music
that must be blown, so an amateur might
clow a sample or two without depriving any
other man of a crust. And the bricklayer
probably says that the cornet-player couldn’t
lay bricks decently if he tried, to which the
cornet-player possibly replies that the brick-
layer can’t make music and only thinks he
can. To some extent it is a struggle between
Art and Materialism. Music properly
played is capable of arousing the highest and
noblest emotions of which the soul is capa-
ble ; a brick even if properly laid isn’t. And
soul isn’t a thing to be lightly despised. But
here the tangible bumps against the intangi-
ble. Nobody has seen a soul, while almost
everybody has seen a brick.
A tale of mean streets and small things
was told recently in Sydney Divorce Court.
Here is an epitome of the assertions: —
He.
They were married at Newtown. He had a grown
family and so had she. His wife and her family
assaulted him. His wife’s sons and sons-in-law took
away the furniture. Somebody (possibly his wife’s
grandfather) held him while the furniture was being
taken. His wife used to throw herself down and
roll on the floor. She danced round the table. One
of his wife’s daughters called him a “cow.” Some
female came up behind him and hit him with some-
thing hard.
She.
She now lived at Enfield. There was insufficient
maintenance. He used to cook his food in the stable.
'He threatened to shoot her son. He knocked her
down.
He.
She fell down.
The Court refused the application whatever
it was. The moral is that when two bad-
tempered families live together at Newtown
anything of a cheap description may happen.
And it is much the same at Enfield. It is
difficult to yearn after higher things or soar
to the loftiest heights of art, culture and
imagination at Enfield.
* * * *
From far Bagdad :
We exiles in Mespot want to know if Armenian or
Kurdish wives would be,allowed into Australia. You
see, we have heard that our fellow p -AussieS in France
and England can get married whenever they feel
that way and have their wives carried to Aussie for
them. If like permission is given us we shall at once
advertise in that all-powerful organ, The Bagdad
Times (one sheet and mostly “This space to let”) :
Handsome Australian owning mangrove plantation
near Sydney would like to make acquaintance of
young lady, Armenian preferred, but Yahudie or
Arab not objected to, with view to matrimony.
Now that Conscription has been heaved out, why
not? An Armenian tincture might improve the
strain.
* * * *
As members of the Miners’ Federation are
at work they did not pass this resolution,
That the question of the remuneration for services
rendered by members and other conditions of contract
under which these services are given is not one which
the Federation can consent to submit to arbitration.
But members of the British Medical Associa-
tion are on strike in Vic., and it is they who
resolved to this effect. Next time there is
an industrial upheaval and Sawbones, dis-
covering the gas cut off, the electric light ex ■
piring and his kitchen barren of food, wildly
demands to know why the recalcitrant
workers are not forced to submit to arbitra-
tion, recollection of his own truculent atti-
tude on the subject ought to bring comfort
and joy.
WAR BONDS.
“Dear Mother, —Some of us are taking up
bonds. I think it is a good investment. —
Your loving BILLJIM.”
OUT OF KHAKI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I slung me khaki suit to-day.
Civilian now from heel to chin
I ’op round on a single shin;
At home in peace I’m bound to stay,
’N’ so they’ve took me duds away.
It ’urt like strippin’ off me skin !
1 put it on three years ago,
The ole brown rig. There wasn’t then
A prouder chicken in the pen.
Jist twenty turned, me nibs you’d know
For how I give me chest a throw,
A man among the best of men.
Me little mo the touch I give,
Me chin’s ez solid ez a rock,
’X’ level with the Town ’All clock,
A five-inch grin across me chiv.
“Lor’ love us, this is how to live,”
Sez I, ’n’ felt I owned the Block.
Glad eyes was ever on the lurk,
’N’ little ’earts was thumpin’ warm
For nippers trainin’ with the swarm
To swat ole Kaiser Bill, or work
A toe-hold on the heathen Turk.
Fair dink, I loved the uniform !
I soused mine in the brine that day
When all ’Ell spilt, ’n’ in the roar
Of shells that split the sea ’n’ tore
Our boats to chips, we broke away
Up through the pelt of leaden spray,
’N’ got our first real taste of war.
They shot me tunic all to rags;
Then in the perpendie’lar spree
Me trousers wore off to the knee.
The right-abouts of many bags
Was ground off in the dust ’n’ crags
A-sittin’ in Gallipoli.
I wore the khaki on the Somme —
Most time ’twas jist a coat of mud ;
I once come through the battle scud
Stripped mother-naked by a bomb ;
’N’ once it took its color from
Me own ’n’ one good cobber’s blood.
They cheered the khaki through the street
When we come home with pipers gay,
But now I’m jist a bloke in grey.
Harf-lost, lob-sided, incomplete,
It’s nothin’ but me spook you’ll meet,
Ghost-walkin’ in the light o’ day.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


ZANETIO entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, Or 5.8., Zanetie
Works, Leicester, England. [1
Four Sydney Professional Nurses testify to this Nerve Medicine, CLEMENTS TONIC
Because they have noted that in cases of Weakness after fever and operations and general ill-health, a rapid improvement follows its use.
NURSE L. BENNETT, who has her own private hospital, “Montone,” Ashburner
Street, Manly, N.S.W., writes the following letter:—
“From what I know of your medicine there is no need for sick people to say farewell to
g ° od ‘T e have followed the nursing profession for 10 years and I have observed the results of
various ihedicines on my patients, and I agree with others that Clements Tome is a remark-
able good remedy for people who are affected with bad nerves, melane h ° 1 v ar i in., omn l a. _
certainly has a curative power, and any delicate person could not do better than take it. hen
exhausted it always gives me renewed strength. “(Signed) Nurse Bennett.”
NURSE O’SULLIVAN, Redfern and Parramatta, of 34 years’ constant nursing service
in the above districts, writes that in her opinion Clements Tonic is a medicine
specially suited to constitutions weakened by illness. She writes:
PT TONIP LTD
“I carried on my profession at Young Street, Redfern, for 25 years, and for the last nine
years ( at number of sick peo ple under my care, and it has been a pleasure to
recommend Clements Tonic. I knew it would give good results. My niece was rather run down
in health lately, but she is getting on splendid as the result of taking your medicine.
“(Signed) Nurse O’Sullivan.”
NURSE MARY ROE, 80 William Street, Paddington, sends her opinion of Clements
Tonic after 15 years’ professional experience.
° LE «for T ma T ny N Jea^ T ciements Tonic has been a great blessing to me. I take it when feeling
the least bit exhausted after the great demand on my services. I have followed my piofession for
15 years, and have a very large professional clientele. . * xr miT .oitrJa r m iior.Q
“I have recommended this medicine to my patients and others in cases of Indiges-
tion and Bad Nerves. In my opinion there is nothing to equal Clements Tonic. I know oi
instances where it has almost wrought a miracle in the health of many of ,n)r . . frl ™ 'p J„ t
you wish. “(Signed) Nurse Mary Roe.”
NURSE E. H. HALL, 502 New South Head Road, Woollahra, N.S.W., writes oft
Clements Tonic: “I recommend it to my patients in cases of Indigestion,
Dyspepsia and Acute Nervousness.”
This medicine is certainly one of the best Nerve Restorers possible for Invalids or
those whose systems feel the strain of arduous labors, especially in commercial lire.
A few doses of this medicine works wonders.
NURSE HALL writes:—
“I cannot estimate the value of your medicine. . ,
“Where my patients show symptoms of w T ant of sleep, nervousness and dyspepsia l otten
recommend it. My house would not be thoroughly equipped without it.
“Personally, f derive much benefit from a few doses of it when fatigued.
“(Signed) Nurse E. H. Hall.”
Essentially the medicine for the invalid, or for those weak from overwork, fever or operations. It gives new life to the system, tones up the stomach, liver or nerves. Try « to-day.
Clements Tonic Ltd , Rozelle. NS W. CLEMENTS TONIC DOES GOOD BECAUSE IT IS GOOD. ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYW HERE.
The Hun isn’t wholly deaf to the voice
of freedom. For instance, the conquered
provinces of Alsace-Lorraine have enjoyed
the blessings of representative institutions for
48 years. That is to say, the Kaiser appoints
the' Statthalter. The Statthalter appoints
the Ministers. They and a number of mem-
bers directly appointed by the Kaiser com-
prise the Council of State. The Statthalter
presides over the Council of State. Alsace-
Lorraine has also four members in the Im-
perial Upper House. They are nominated
by the Kaiser’s nominee, the Statthalter, and
have no votes.
* * * *
Certain officials of the Australian Book-
binders and Paper-rulers’ Association (Corn-
stalk branch) should be sentenced to three
months’ voluntary imprisonment, with as
much hard labor as they feel inclined for
and no more. This sentence should be passed
on them inasmuch as they signed a cheque for
£lOO of the union funds in support of the
Anti-Compulsory Service idea. Thereby cer-
tain members who didn’t believe in the
“anti” movement were made contributors to
it —compulsory contributors to the voluntary
agitation. The Law is a grave institution
NOT GUILTY.
"Are you sure you weren’t teasing the cat
when it scratched you?"
"No, mummy-I teas only cutting my name
on its head with my new knife.”
except when it is funny b.v accident, but it
should strain a point and allow of criminal
prosecution in a case like this. The charges
should be shortage of logic, lack of humor,
dreariness, stodge, an inverted habit of mind
which amounts to giving an acrobatic per-
formance on unlicensed premises, dulness,
inability to see a joke, and contempt of the
dictionary. The Hun who sets his prisoners
to compulsory work for voluntary wages
probably doesn’t see the joke either, but then
a person with so many legions behind him
doesn’t require to see jokes.
COO-EE-EE.
STAY-AT-HOME : "Hallo, Bill, back agent What happened to vert”
BILLZAC (just returned): "(Jot sore throat coo-eeing to you.”
“P.X.”: Though Johanna’s idea of
attaching an orchestra, a “producer” and
other theatrical properties to the Federal
Parliament hasn’t been adopted, Ministers
have gone this far: like other theatrical stars,
they are hiring press agents to boost them.
Carmichael, who is whooping up a thousand
recruits, was the first Australian Minister
to recognise that a
trained pressman could
do as much for a politi-
cian as for any other
play-actor or circus, and
with cheek enough to hire
him to do it at the public
expense. Like the em-
ployment of motor-cars
the idea was wolved; and
now if you look you’ll
find a press agent on the
staff of most Ministers,
sometimes camouflaged,
oftener quite naked and
unashamed. Hughes has
hitherto hired claquers
only for special jobs. He
borrowed one from J. C.
Williamson, Ltd., to go
with him to England in
1916; and to him Aus-
tralia is mainly indebted
for having its leg pulled
so hard over the little
man’s visit. Subsequently
he engaged other press
agents for other seasons,
such as the first and sec-
ond Referendums. Now,
however, he has a per-
manent booster from the
Argus on the premises;
and E. Y. Robinson,
another man from the
same paper, has been
attached to the Repatria-
tion Department. It would be only a
fair thing now, since Parliament pays
the Opposition leader a salary, to hire
also professional cursers. Certainly the
public would be better served by them than
by the professional glozers.
**. * *
Four years in a fairly-comfortable gaol
was the sentence passed at Bundaberg (Q.)
by mild and very old and rather perfunctory
Justice' Real on two German aliens
who cheerfully admitted that they had
been setting cane crops on fire. They
might have got 14 years but didn’t;
and they mav win their release after a month
or so, for Hun influence is strong in Queens-
land. Perhaps it was ignorance, or perhaps
it was lack of a railway fare, that prevented
these two Fritzes coming south and setting
fire to .omething much larger and more valu-
able than standing cane. Or, again, it may
have been the horrible thought that they
might meet his Honor Pring in N. S. Wales.
It certainly was a lot wiser to stick to his
Honor Real.
* * * *
There is a snub the size of an elephant
due to fall on the Australian Council of
Churches. That well-meaning body has by
resolution asked the similar organisations
in the U.S.A. and Canada to combine with
Australia to “protest against the facilities
for obtaining alcoholic liquors by soldiers
in England and France,” and generally to
urge John Bull and Joan of Arc to a more
stringent control of their liquor traffic, “in
the interests of the soldiers and of the home
life to which they will return.” The inevit-
able reply will be a polite inquiry whether
Billjim isn’t further from alcohol in England
and France than he will be when he returns
to the “home life” that has a pub at the
corner and a few bottles of poison m a
thousand places less desirable.
* * * *
“The Gunyah”: When a soldier is hit
by a shell it is customary, in order the better
to observe and bandage the wounds, to cut
off the clothes from the victim. I was bunco
(prematurely) at Bullecourt and the usual
procedure was adopted. In the pockets my
wallet, etc., were left in the dug-out were
French coins to the value of 00
francs. When I was ready to
leave the hospital fresh clothes
were issued, iny wallet, etc.,
handed back, and orders given for
my return to Australia. 1 arrived,
and while I was hobbling along
Swanston-street (Melb.) the
other day a returned Anzac
tapped me on the shoulder with:
“Hullo, matey, wasn’t you at
Bullecourt?” On my replying
“Yes” he said : “Here’s three quid
I owe you.” “Not me, old sport,”
I replied. He said: “Don’t you
remember me? Why, I’m the
bloke that dug you out at Bulle-
court.” On mv replying “Well,
suppose you did, where does the
three quid come in ?” He said:
“There was 90 francs in your
pockets, but I lost sight of you in
the stunt.” The three quid came
in handy—we split it between
us. I didn’t know the hero before, but I
know him now! He has only one leg, too.
* * * *
“Copy Boy”: When Labor was in power
it was an Argus habit to blither of “Lygon-
street government” ; but although the Trades
Hall might have been a hatchery for party
political schemes it was never the venue of
Executive acts that the Melbourne Club has
become. It was here that the move to throw
out Peacock’s financial proposals was de-
cided on and that Irvine was offered the
Chief Justiceship. It was also the scene of
a recent meeting of the State Executive
Council. Budd, who murdered a woman at
Port Melbourne, was to have been hanged
on Foundation Day. Protests against the
inappropriateness of the date were made
and the Cabinet resolved on a postponement.
At the Executive Council meeting the mat-
ter was overlooked. Governor Stanley had
adjourned to the Club, so a couple of Minis-
ters who are also members of the exclusive
Tory junta, bustled down to the Collins-
street capitol and another Executive Coun-
cil meeting was held and the postponement
arranged. Pressmen trying to get hold of a
State Minister’s decision on a matter of
urgency are asked to “See me at the Club
after lunch,” and the impression has gained
ground that the decision arrived at depends
to some extent on advice tendered at the
luncheon table.
In Canada an order-in-Couneil has been
passed to the etfect that no Canadian shall
accept an hereditary title. So in future the
Canadian will have to arrange that his title
shall be thrust upon him against his will. A
good many are said to have happened
that way. Incidentally, the Chinese had
(perhaps still have) an idea whereby, when
a man deserved well of the State, he might
be ennobled, and his ancestors for as many
generations as his merit demanded. The sons
of Han have thoughts that soar beyond
“spling callot.” It is safer to ennoble the
tenth great-grandfather than the grandson.
And it is more dignified to be the last of a
hundred earls than a jumped-up peer without
a past and with great doubts about the next
peer’s future.
“Kopai”: My friend in the Railway
Offices, Spencer-street (Melb.), smiled when
I talked of the Wynne disclosures. “Dis-
closures, I don’t think!” he said. “We in-
side the service could make the disclosures
if we liked !” He smiled again when he men-
tioned Johnson, the imported expert. In
fact, he grew reminiscent about Johnson.
One of the legacies of the Tait speeding-up
and efficiency regime was a herd of engines
with, as he neatly put it, the “insides driven
out of ’em” during the hustle-period. They
had been laid up ever since in a shed at
North Melbourne. When Johnson’s inspec-
tion became imminent there was frequent
and stealthy movement by dawn and dusk
about that engine shed, and the derelicts
drifted away to sidings and dead-ends on
remote and weed-grown wayback stations.
There they rusticated until the inspector
passed on. Johnson was rather eulogistic
about the management of the department.
There was nothing wrong about the stage-
management, anyhow.
* * * *
“S.L.K.”: This is gospel. A Melbourne
lad had been away in France for over 12
months, but the anxious family had not had
a letter or any news of their boy, so they
started a week of prayer. On the seventh
day a cable reached dad: “Forward £5O.
Urgent. Bill.”
SURE CURE FOR DEAFNESS.
THE BOLD BOY: "I’m afraid we can’t marry.
My people won’t hear of our engage-
ment.”
THE ENGAGING GIR L: “Oh. won’t they?
Wait till the breach-of-promise comes
along, and they’ll hear about it all
riaht.”
A POET’S EOVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Base in the world’s eyes is the wretch
Who when he kisses tells ;
But poets must have bread and meat:
Verse packed with sighs and kisses sweet
Is still the sort that sells ;
So, shamelessly, I write of how
I kissed Miranda on the brow.
I’ve sung my love for Lalage
And earned a fortnight’s rent ;
Bold Bertha, with the wicked eye,
Helped me some furniture to buy.
An ev’ning that I spent
With Mabel, when reduced to verse,
Put fifteen shillings in my purse.
Of how I cuddled Dorothy,
And flirted with Chlorine,
And dallied for a while with Ruth,
I've written; but the painful truth
Makes me look still more mean.
The plain, unvarnished fact is this —■
Although 1 tell, I do not kiss I
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


PEACE ON EARTH.
(After the beautiful word-picture by Kaiser Bill.)


ARMAGEDDON.
“Three unclean spirits like frogs came out of the mouth of the beast....the spirits of devils.” — Revelation.


WHEN “OUT OF SORTS" TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
If fretful, feverish, constipated, bilious
or tongue coated, take this delicious
fruit laxative at once.
The vague, general discomfort of being
“out of sorts,” when the stomach turns
against food, the eye is dull and the tongue
coated and heavy, can be banished in a few
hours by a dose of California Syrup of Figs
—“Califig.” There is no need to put up
with these things until to-morrow, waiting
for bedtime to take medicine. California
Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—will begin to do
you good the moment you take it—-at any
hour—and cause no discomfort. This plea-
sant-tasting, refreshing fruit laxative
cleanses the stomach, gently sweeps away all
accumulations of undigested food, and stimu-
lates the liver to assist in relieving the
bowels. By evening the tongue will be clear
again and the overflow of bile swept away;
you will be yo-urself again, with a good appe-
tite and digestion. This is the medicine
which does such wonders for children of all
ages; but it is every bit as good for grown-
up people, and there are full directions for
every age with the bottle. Take care to buy
the genuine, as there are imitations on the
market. Ask for “Califig”—California
feyrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade mark of the California Fjg Svrup Co
A c n T c ,P emi ® ts sell “Califig”—California Syrup
ot lugs—in bottles of two sizes, 1/li and
1/y. r 0
w;.
m i’-i
m vi
c •
DEAF!
Then Test the
ACOUSTICON !
Let us send you one at
our own expense and
risk for 10 days’ Free
Trial. Unless you
were born deaf, or
are stone-deaf, the
ACOUSTICON will
enable you to hear.
Sounds will be clear
and distinct instead
of blurred. Regulating
lever for all degrees of articulation and sound,
for close or distant hearing.,, If your deafness
is more noticeable to-day than yesterday,
increase the power. If improved, turn back
the regulator—reduce the power. Over
310,000 deaf people now hear through the
ACOUSTICON. Send for your free home trial
to-day—you alone to decide.
Latnson
store Prt
Service «0,
Daklng House, SYDNEY.
Older Fleet Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
/
PM
K' 1 ?
The
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
oaring qualities and good appearance to .
the end by always asking for Woodrows. (
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
LEWIS&WHITTY
m
m
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“Ato”: The public will never know all
that “Jimmie Pannikin” did to make little
Australians better Australians. For instance,
1 he induced hundreds of bush children in the
Outback to put about, for the birds, numer-
ous jamtins, which they filled with water on
their way to school.
“N.F.S.”: So “Jimmie Pannikin’s” dead!
He was the ideal school-inspector. When
lie entered a bush school there blew in with
him a great breeze of alertness and vigor.
He exuded cheeriness and good humor. He
laughed and joked and talked bush-lore from
his arrival to his departure. He stimulated
with the essence of the joy o’ life lonely, dis-
pirited teachers and cow-tired children. His
visits were joyous holidays to the pupils,
doses of tonic to the instructors. He loved
to call himself a Big Australian, and a Big
Australian he always was to us bush peda-
gogues. He battled with an indifferent
Department for the introduction of Aus-
tralian literature into the public schools,
even arguing in private and public that, to
Australian children, Lawson was greater
than Milton. He was the champion of the
child against both the inhuman parent and
the type of teacher who uses his pupils as
counters to get promotion. And he was ever
a big brother to us poorly-paid, intellectu-
ally-starved pedagogues of the bush. A great
man has passed from our midst.
From the Gallery :
The prize for vociferousness in the House of Reps,
is divided between two new members—Nicholls,
representing Macquarie (N.S.W.), and Jowett, the
wool baron from the Grampians (Vie.). The crude
Luborism of Mr. Nicholls is voiced with thunder, the
softest sotto voce whereof is like the noise of a pass-
ing train. lie has not the slightest notion of tone
or melody, but pours out his griefs and aspirations
in unregulated quantities of sound made the more
appalling by a malevolent fluency. Jowett is hardly
less deafening, and when he “ventures to say, sir”—
he ventures to say, sir, once in every sentence—even
Nicholls can hardly hear himself speak.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: There is at
Haberfiekl (N.S.W.) an unquestionable cen-
tenarian or thereabouts, John Butler Wood,
born at Parramatta in February, 1819. At
16 he went to the Grenfell district, and later
became manager of Brundah Creek station,
owned by his father; eventually he became
the owner and passed it on to his sons. The
discovery of gold at Emu Creek and Weddin
Mountains played havoc for a while with the
squatters in the locality, but wheat-farming
and the development of the share system
helped the third generation of the Woods to
success.
Eighteen candidates have come forward
for Irvine’s old constituency of Flinders,
among them five lawyers and four returned
soldiers. One of the former is Tom
Brennan, once cable sub. and chief-of-staff
of the Argus, now editor of the Catholic
Advocate. He is a brother of Frank
Brennan, M.H.R. The best-known of the
soldiers is Captain Burkett, Federal Inspec-
tor of Recruiting. The political trainers
will do some sifting before the field faces the
starting gate.
Tetley Grant was
educated at St. John’s,
Oxford, early last cen-
tury. He is a typical
old English family
lawyer and Conserva-
tive politician. Elected
to the Speck’s House
of Dodery in 1001, he
has hung to the job
ever since, and been
President since 1907,
succeeding the beauti-
fully-named William
Dodery, who gave the
House its title. But
Grant has put in his
best work as Chancel-
lor of the little Uni-
versity of Tasmania.
In that office and else-
where aestheticism is
his strong point, and
he takes almost as
much interest in the
color of the wallpaper
as in what goes on in
the room.
TETLEY GRANT,
President of the Tas.
Legislative Council.
Politics run strongly in families in S. Aus.
At the recent general election the young
sons of three ex-Premiers were candidates —
Price, Verran and Butler. Price and Verran
(Labor) won; Butler (Coalition) was
defeated. Verran is the only one who didn’t
do the same as father. The old man voted
“Yes” and Labor crucified him. The son
stuck to the party that did it.
At 70 Judge Docker is a
marvel of physical energy. Recently he
was one of the regulars on the Blackheath
tennis court and played a fairly good game,
too. Five years ago, when the Little Brown
Jug was in the Western District (N.S.W.),
he struck Forbes during a hot spell. Though
the temperature was over the century, when
his court rose Docker toddled down to the
tennis courts, sentenced himself to his cus-
tomary number of sets, and finished very
pink, but fit. Then he put his head under
the tap and skipped back to his pub.
ACTIVE SERVICE.
ANNIE: "I ’m givin' yer notice, mum. I know
you engaged me as a general, mum, but
I’ve got so much to do that by the time
I’ve finished one day’s work it’s time to
start gettin’ breakfast for the next, an’
even the best of us, which is General
’Aig, ’as to retire sometimes.”
The time is approaching when Arthur
Robinson, M.L.C., Victoria’s new Solicitor-
General, will be shoved upon the Bench. A
pet of the A.W.N.L. these many years, he
belongs to the type of politician which read-
ily furnishes into a prim, voluble and plati-
tudinous bencher. Ilis dialectic manner is
as dry as sixpenn’orth of seed-peas. Also he
jests with difficulty, and has never been
known to break into mirth upon the plat-
iorm. Perhaps he may hardly be fat enough
yet for a judicial job, but a year or two on
a selected diet should ripen him. The late
C.J. Madden, by the way, held the Solici-
tor-Generalship for a time —the job which
gave Robinson the right to assist in obliging
the Phewsion by appointing Irvine as Mad-
den’s successor.
“Cherokee”: Though Frederick Bayley
Deeming was hanged and quicklimed 24 years
ago, he still lives in memory. When it became
known that, on April 12, a quantity of
bones had been found under a hearthstone
at Windsor (Vic.), where once lived that
marrier in haste and cementer at leisure, the
sleuths took up the old trail with avidity.
Two of them, accompanied by, a reporter,
whizzed out to the spot, where they met the
bones carefully laid out for inspection. With
bar and spade the Law raised every stone
in the house, but under only a few were
there any results. These comprised a sheep’s
shank, a bullock’s shin, a sheep’s jaw and
ribs, and a knuckle of ham. Whether
Deeming slew the ham and stealthily mur-
dered the shank in cold blood no one knows.
“0.K.” : W. Ernest Williams, late sergeant
in the A.I.F. and the old-established commer-
cial booster for Melbourne Pauncii, is in the
scramble for Irvine’s seat in the Federal
Parliament, and seems to have as good a
claim as any. He has been resident in the
Flinders electorate since his youth, and was
the district representative at the Boer war.
Besides, he is a local propputy holder in a
small way. When the big war broke out
Williams dropped his Paunch billet as
before, and did his bit at Gallipoli until he
was shot, knocked out of action, and num-
bered with the permanently unfit. He is a
practical patriot with the talking faculty.
In America, not long ago, he was offered a
billet as touring lecturer, which, considering
the fierce competition thereabouts, suggests
that he has some qualifications.
J. D. Connolly, Westralia’s new Agent-
General, reached the job, considered the
cream of the State’s political appointments,
by steady plodding
over a'career begun on
the goldfields in ’94
when he filing out his
shingle, “Builder and
Contractor,” in front
of a shack in a Cool-
gardie back street.
There Connolly slung
the hilly and lived
hard on tinned-dog
while he huilt the
first post office of the
boom in Bayley-street,
and after that many
structures, including a
big block of Govern-
ment offices (now in
disrepair for want of
tenants), and the im-
posing Palace Hotel,
Kalgoorlie, a £20,000
venture that showed
big profits to the
builder. But the future
Agent-General kept on
inhabiting the shack,
with tinned-dog still
prominent in the bill
of fare. Afterwards
they put Connolly into
the Kalgoorlie Munici-
pal Council, and
started hi m rolling
along the public high-'
way until he got into
Parliament and was
made Colonial Secre-
tary. Wilson, ex-Pre-
mier, declined to ap-
point himself to the
lucrative billet in
London ; but now that
Sussex has turned him
down he probably
thinks hard of the job
he passed on to Con-
nolly, and for which he was really much
better qualified himself.
“Mustard Gold”: Westralia has two
hearty old ex-Chief Justices- —Stone and
Parker. Parker’s elastic tread as ho pat-
rols the Terrace daily is not the movement of
age, despite the fine old man’s advanced
years. Two of his sons went to the Front
early. One, who was Crown Prosecutor, will
never come back. Hubert, the other, who
had been practising law at Kalgoorlie, is an
artillery officer. The retirement of Parker
left the bench dour and hard, save for occa-
sional gleams from Burnside. McMillan,
present Chief, is always the judge, weighing
the pros and cons, knowing nothing of ex-
terior matters and a stranger to the general
public. Northmore is heavy and undistin-
guished, looking like a man who would take
his food with proper solemnity, a bib tucked
carefully over the shirt-front. The third
man, Booth, is also of the English pattern,
but breaks ground interestingly at times
vvith decisions which the Appeal Court recti-
fies, and casually indulges in unconventional
opinions. It was he who lately frankly con-
fessed that he wasn’t competent to do the
work of the Arbitration Court, and hinted
that ho didn’t know a judge in the neighbor-
hood who was.
OUTSIDE A PUB IN MARKET-STREET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Outside a pub in Market-street
I saw two blithered Anzacs meet.
One, lurching from the public bar,
Wore on his face, beneath a scar,
A smile benign and beautiful;
And thickly muttering, “Take a pull!”
He stumbled, with a blissful grin,
Against a drunk just going in.
They clutched each other, and among
A world of sober men they clung.
They proudly smiled ; they’d reached all right
The only blithered port in sight.
Then one saw on the other’s sleeve
His old battalion c010r5.... “Steve ! ”
The other solemnly blinked back.
The same old colors. “Who the. .. . Jack !”
“You ain't gorn west?” his cobber said.
“Gord blimey, Jack; so you ain’t dead?”
And swift around these blithered men
All Flanders flooded in again.
And something clicked, and memory
Unlocked as with a secret key
Strange livid landscapes lit at night
By star-shell constellations bright.
JOYNTON SMITH, Mayor of Sydney, hunt-
ing War Loan subscribers.
The street became a battered trench ;
The pub’s aroma was a stench
Of mates unburied, bloodied, wet;
The wall became the parapet.
The City Council’s dust was mud ;
“Wait here for trams” was spattered blood.
The traffic louder grew at once—
The cur-rur-rump of German guns!
A motor-cycle puttered prst—
They ducked beneath the leaden blast!
And peering on the sea of mud,
They muttered, “Christ, another dud!”
In their bleared brains they dwelt again
In distant continents of pain ;
Once more explored the under-side
Of human souls where fears abide;
Once more they saw the splendid whole
Of simple man's immortal soul.
And these disgraceful, drunken men
AVere fearless heroes once again ;
They breathed a clean, more spacious air ;
And manhood, pride and faith were there.
They smiled a fatuous smile because
These mates were back where mateship was.
A spinster passed; she made a face.
Disgraceful in a public place !
It is not beer that troubles these:
They’re drunk on nobler memories;
These most immoral, shocking sights
Have stormed and stood on nobler heights
Of manhood, mateship, than you know.
Salute these drunkards ere you go!
They sobered up ; they saw the street;
They disentangled all their feet.
The unfamiliar place they scanned ;
AVhy, here they were in No Man’s Land !
Two blithered mates, by ill-luck hurled
Into a sober wowser-world ;
And round them like a nagging sin
Sober reality closed in.
Those colors told them they were men,
And mateship called to them again:
They winked a most sagacious wink
And went and had another drink.
x.s.w.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


Worth hhe risk
A
7 4
9T
01
y
v
%
W
V
W/s,
• /
'/
A
/
/
%£
kuJm
m
r S
A
&
/
/
s
\ \
\
V
! A
ir
s?
—g
SENTRIES
ON DUTYare^
STRICTLYii
FORBIDDEN
to SMOKER
o
1
W.D.& H.O.WILLS
THE LAST WORD IN
CLMN)
PIPES
400
LMN
[V ery P'P e Quar^te e( j


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pi g Dead
Corroding Dead
Antimonial Lead.
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
buyers on a specially favorable
TARIFF OF
Siliclous Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade,
Sla ss, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
BHAS
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
Leather PIONEER Belting
/C / 60 YEARS THE LEADING POWER TRANSMITTER.
SOLE .
MAKERS
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
IX7 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Bank of Tasmania: —
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Oft', serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Aug., ’lO. ,16,575 12 p.c.=11,156 2500 2,919 196,512
Feb., ’11..20,133 14 „ ~12,862 4000 3,271 199,783
Aug., ’11..17,965 14 „ ~ 12,862 5,103 204,886
Feb., ’12..17,941 14 „ ~12,862 5,079 209.965
Aug., ’12..17,221 14 „ ~12,862 4,359 214,324
Feb., ’13..17,987 14 „ ~12,862 5,125 219,449
Aug., ’13..18,071 14 ~ ~12,862 5,209 224,658
Premiums on new shares . . 25,000 249,658
Feb., ’14..19,931 14 p.e.= 14,700 5,231 254.889
Aug., ’14..18,188 14 „ ~ 14,700 3,488 258,377
Feb., ’16..19,743 14 „ ~ 14,700 5,043 263,420
Aug., ’15..17,426 14 „ ~ 14,700 2,726 266,146
Feb., ’16..20,375 14 „ ~ 14,700 4200 1,475 267,621
Aug., ’16..17,837 14 „ ~ 14,700 3,137 270,758
Feb., ’17..20,516 14 ~ ~ 14,700 4200 1,616 272,374
Aug., ’17..19,679 14 „ ~ 14,700 4,979 277,353
Feb., ’lB.-20,750 14 „ ~14,840 5,910 283,263
The Commercial, Tasmania’s one bank now
that the little National has been absorbed
by the C. B. of A., has some of the most
solid business of the island ; and very profit-
able business it has been lately. You can
guess that from these figures:—
1913. 1917. 1918.
Notes .. £7,630 £4,577 £4,427
Deposits . . 1,878,870 1,872,300 2,107,817
Liquid assets .. 607,560 770,759 1,112,701
Advances . . 1,632,212 1,538,214 1,437,556
Premises . . 54,039 59,178 60,091
Jam, timber, copper, tin, wool, stud sheep
and Australian visitors who can’t go further
afield—all have been yielding fat profits. So
deposits have been growing, and as new
industries haven’t been springing up every-
where to call for overdrafts, advances have
been actually shrinking. Nevertheless the
bank has been able to earn very good inter-
est for £250,000 of its surplus money in
British and Australian war loans; also in
these days when many, perhaps most,
traders are making whopping profits, they
haven’t haggled at an extra 1 or 2 p.c. for
temporary accommodation. Hence the direc-
tors feel justified in hinting to shareholders
at the good time they are having by disclos-
ing a larger profit than any in the table —or
that would be in the table if it were three
times as long.
Tasmania’s boom hasn’t been due to Com-
monwealth War Loan money to the same
extent as that of several mainland States.
The briskness of the Speck’s trade has been
referable mainly to production : it has been
selling things and getting cash for them. But
from the tax-gatherer’s point of view that
isn’t going to make any difference. Jones,
who has £50,000 in a bank in Tasmania as
the result of selling—well, say, jam—is no
better off than Smith, who has £50.000 in a
bank in Sydney as the result of selling im-
ported goods to people who have got the
money from War Loan. Both are going to
be bled presently to pay interest and a sink-
ing fund on the War debt. There certainly
will be this difference, though : the communi-
ties which have been fluffing it most on War
Loan money will feel the worst bump pre-
sently when War Loan money ceases to be
spent. On the whole, then, Tasmanian assets
will probably slump rather less than those of
some of the mainland States. For there is
going to be a slump: the stoppage of War
Loan expenditure, the demand for much
heavier taxation, and the more or less sudden
revision of the war-inflated prices for staple
products make that practically certain. No
doubt the banks are preparing for it by
keeping a tight rein on advances and stow-
ing something away inside. Those that are
not doing these things are liable to be hurt.
This bank’s position is very solid : much
more so than it was a few years ago. There
are now liquid assets (including of course
public securities') for no less than 53 p.c.
of all the liabilities; and for the almost
exact million of liabilities not represented
by liquid assets there were on February 28
£1,497,000 of other assets. This exceptional
strength, from the depositors’ point of view,
is due partly to the fact that so large a
proportion of the assets are liquid, and
partly to the other fact that the public’s
money in the business is equal to only £4
10s. for every £1 of the shareholders’ funds.
The visible reserves are now much in excess
of the capital: on the total funds the divi-
dend is actually under 6 p.c.
* * * *
London Stores, Ltd., which bought a
men’s outfitting business in Melbourne, and
started with various goodwill and other in-
tangible items representing £26,368 of the
capital:—
Written To Re-
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1911.. £26,368
1912.. £7,293 Bp.c.= £4200 £3,093 23,275
£1666 added to goodwill items .. 24,941
1913.. 9,702 8 p.c.= 5600 £1596 2,506 22.435
1914.. 11,003 8 „ „ 5600 704 4,699 17,736
1915.. 15,132 9 ~ ~ 6300 645 8,187 9.549
1916.. 15,134 10 „.. 7000 604 7,530 2,019
Reserves.
1917.. 18,330 10 „ „ 7000 549 10.781 8.762
1918.. 19,040 10 „ „ 7000 496 11,544 20,306
It has been very nice for London Stores,
Ltd.; but it hasn’t been healthy. The Gov-
ernment has been printing notes and other
lOU’s, and this plethora of paper has pro-
duced such an artificial prosperity that traders,
observing that in some lines it was just
as easy to get £5 as £4, have naturally asked
for the £5. Hence the profits of this co. last
year were 75 p.e. more than in the year
before the war. Gross profits then were
£47.532; last year they were £67.740, or
£20,208 more. Meantime general charges
advanced from £36.529 to £49,120. an in-
crease of only £12,591; and a good deal of
that is income tax. Later on, of course, the
lOU’s will have to be met; but it does not
by any means follow that the people who
have got the lOU’s will have to redeem them.
Hundreds of thousands of people will have
no more assets at the end of the war than
they had at the beginning; yet they will have
to do their share in wiping off the debt. The
profit that these and other people are making
has a string to it; but that string will pull
comparatively little of it back.
Last year’s profit, after writing down
plant and providing for a sinking fund to
return the small amount of capital spent on
leasehold, was equal to just a shade under 25
p.c.; and as the profit for the previous three
years wasn’t much less, the co. has got very
nearly all its capital back in the period. In
the four years the co. has paid 39 p.c. in divi-
dends ; and meantime, while the increase in
cash and book debts outweighs the increase
in liabilities, no less than £45,000 has been
added to the stocks. Put it this way: in the
four years, after paying the dividend of 10
p.c. for the past three years and 9 p.c. for
the first year of the period, the co. has main-
tained its liquid assets and paid for £45.000
of stock out of profits. It is an almost amass-
ing performance on a capital of £70.000.
Going back to 1912, the end of the co.’s first
year, we get these comparisons :
1942. 1916. 1917. 1918.
Sundry creditors ..£7,310 £4,754 £5,410 £6,773
Sundry debtors . . 3,257 3,620 4,472 4.803
Stock 31.237 52.885 66,248 78.596
Plant and fittings . . 5,624 5,432 4,910 4.474
Cash, etc 14.728 14,805 12,547 15,212
Even with the public throwing its paper
around this couldn’t have been done on a
capital of £70,000 (of which, to start with,
only £40.000 was tangible) but for two
things: the co. put nothing into bricks and
mortar; and the rule has been strict cash-
trading. That a co. with such a turnover
should have only £4803 on its books, and
some of that money advanced to employees
to buy War Loan, is an exceptional perform-
ance even for a cash store. Presumably they
don’t expect it to last. It certainly won’t.
But a co. with over £90.000 of tangible assets
will be in a very different position compared
with a co. with about £45,000, and that was
how things were only five years ago. The
extra £45 000 won’t earn money by itself,
though. That takes management. And you
can’t swear that the concern which has good
management to-day will have it 20 years
hence. If you could you wouldn’t be looking
round for a gilt-edged 5 p.c. investment.
* * * *
Wright, Heaton and Co., Ltd. (Sydney),
carriers, produce salesmen and suppliers of
station goods:—
Writ
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Bonuses. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Jan.,’ll.. 7,450 10 p.c.= 4000 3000 450 30,059
July,’ll.. 7,852 10 ~,,4000 3000 852 30,911
Jan.,’l2.. 10,445 10 ~,,4250 6195 37,106
Reserves transferred to capital, £10,000.. 27,106
Premiums on new shares .. .. 4000 31,106
July, T 2.. 10,742. 10p.c.= 4750 5992 37,098
Inner reserves disclosed, £21,000.. . . . 58,098
.Jan.,’l3.. 9,124 10 p.c.~ 5000 -- 4124 62,222
July,’l3.. 7,895 10 ~,, 5000 2895 65,117
Jan.,’l4.. 8,532 10 ~,,5000 3532 68,649
July, T 4.. 7,670 10 „,, 6000 2670 71,319
Jan.,’ls.. 8.662 10 ~ ~5000 3000 662 71,981
July, ’15.. 8.203 10 ~,,5000 1000 1203 74,184
Jan.,’l6.. 9,121 10 ~,,5000 4121 78,305
July, ’16.. 8,141 10 ~,, 5000 3141 81,446
Inner reserves disclosed, £14,195. . .. 95,641
Jan.,’l7.. 8,526 10 p.c.= 5000 - 3526 99,167
Reserves transferred to capital, £25,000. . 74,167
July,’l7.. 8,125 10 p.c.= 6250 1875 76,042
Jan., ’lS.. 10,460 10 „ ~6250 4210 80,252
So between January, ’ll, and January, ’lB,
£50,193 has been added to reserves, of which
£4OOO came from premiums on a new capital
issue, and £35.000 has been transferred to
capital. Thus in the seven years the co. has
shown a profit of £81,193 after paying the
regular 10 p.c. dividend ; and the capital to
start with was only £BO,OOO plus £30,000 of
visible reserves. But perhaps it is hardly a
fair thing to say that all of that is profit
made within the period, because in 1913
inner reserves of £21,000 were disclosed, and
they may have been accumulating for years
prior to 1911. However, assuming the
worst, and knocking out the £21,000, it has
been a remarkable performance. The next
thing is to inquire what those reserves are
represented by; for there are reserves and re-
serves—often they are represented by plant
which has been put in to hold the business
against new competitors. In this case plant,
never very large, is obviously kept written
down hard; and judging by the inner re-
serves that are shaken out now and then, all
sorts, of other contingencies are very liberally
provided for. Go back 10 years:—
Jan.,’oB. Jan.,’l7. July,’l7. Jan.,’lB.
Liabilities. . . . £58,996 £35,223 £45,591 £44,642
Premises, plant, etc. 19,911 19,461 20,944 20,242
Stock .. .. 35,505 51,713 53,167 61,481
Book debts .. 90,566 82,736 89,119 88,038
McCulloch Co. .. 19,077 38.307 39,519 41.332
Public securities. . 20,000 20.000 20,000
Cash . . . . 5,351 24,673 28,008 21,926
The capital in 1908 was £70,000; and since
then £14,000 has been got in—£lo,ooo as
capital (4000 shares of £2 10s.) and £4OOO
as premium. This capital is represented by
reduction of liabilities; the £26.000 added to
stock, the £22,000 put into the McCulloch
business (the Victorian and River Murray
concern which the co. owns) and the £37,000
added to liquid assets (cash and War I.oan)
has all been made out of the business —a
nice little £85,000 of very solid stuff. Book
debts, which haven’t varied much in the
period, are heavy ; but that is the way with
all traders who keep country accounts open,
and it works out all right in the end. The
co. is in a business in which there is no
particular reason to expect that the next 10
years will be much worse than the past 10;
for there isn’t another class of the commu-
nity which has gained less from the pouring
out of War Loan money than those for
whom this co. caters and none likely to
suffer less from the re-action. The author-
ised capital is £150,000, and £25,000 of it is
unallotted. It might almost be said that it
awaits allotment.
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart,
Tas.) :
To Re- Re-
Pi-of Us. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1909 .. £3092 6 p.c. = £3442 £lO,BBO
June, 1910.. 4871 6 „ ~ 3442 £1429 12,315
Dec., 1910.. 7135 6 .. „ -3402 3733 16,048
June, 1911 .. 3190 6 ~ „ 3402 15 836
Dec., 1911 .. 4064 6 ~ ~ 3402 602 16,498
1912 . . 3444 6 ~ ~ 3402 42 16,540
Dec., 1912.. 3602 6 .. ~ 3402 200 16,740
June, 1913.. 4180 6 ~ „ 3402 778 17.518
Dec., 1913 .. 4665 6 ~ ~ 3402 1263 18,781
June, 1914 . . 7018 6 „ „ 3402 3616 22^397
Dec., 1914.. 0362 6 ~ 3402 2960 25i.357
June, 1915.. 4778 6 „ ~ 3402 1376 26.733
Dec., 1915.. 5507 6 ~ ~ 3402 2405 29 138
June, 1910.. 4816 6 ~ ~ 3402 1414 30,552
Dec., 1916.. 4870 6 ~ .. 3402 1468 32,020
June, 1917.. 3780 6 .. „ 3402 378 32,398
Dec., 1917 . . 5498 6 „ ~ 3434 2064 34,462
“Following the action of the mainland brew-
eries we were able to slightly raise the price
of ale and beer in Tasmania towards the
end of last year,” the directors say; and
that no doubt had its effect on the profits,
though the increase wasn’t operating long
enough to do very much good. However, the
co. is gradually pushing into a much better
position than it held a few years ago. Look
at this five-year comparison:—
Liabilities.
Dec.,’l2. Dec.,’l6. June,’l7. Dec.,’l7.
Mortgages and
deposits ..£90,775 £73,270 £73,170 £72,870
Overdrafts, etc. 31,519 10,174 11,974 11,677
Assets.
Hotels, proper-
ties, etc. . . 183,587 175,408 175,098 174,187
Stock and plant 37,500 35,402 40,929 36 197
Book debts, etc. 30,153 16,554 13,321 19,484
Cash and liquid
asse ts • • 7 1,121 1,354 2,427
The co. has thus shaken itself free from
nearly £40,000 of debt, partly by restricting
its dividend, partly perhaps by small sales of
the Cascade estate, and the rest by getting in
loans—book debts and advances have been
reduced from £30,153 to £19,484. It still
owes a lot of money, £84,547; but that is
mainly because on a capital written down
to £lOB,OOO it is carrying, in addition to
three breweries—Walker’s, Grade’s and Cas-
cade—-various pubs and a large unproductive
freehold, the lot valued at £174,187. Rates
and taxes have increased 50 p.c. in five years,
and now call for very nearly £4OOO p.a. For
every £3 the shareholders get. the taxing
authorities collect £2. And, though Hobart
is waking up to the fact that it ought to have
an industrial future, with its exceptional cli-
mate, its magnificent harbor, its compara-
tively cheap living, and its cheap available
motive power, there isn’t much prospect of
this co. unloading its dead-weight at a price
that will wipe out all the accumulated carry-
ing charges. On the other hand, not only
are there fair prospects of a larger local
trade, notwithstanding the reduced pub-
trading hours that have come to stay, but the
co. ought to be able to use Hobart’s favor-
able climate and water supplv to develop a
much larger export trade. That Australia
should have been importing so much ale and
stout from foreign parts with Mt. Welling-
ton looking out on the Antarctic is one of
our national disgraces. And there are large
possibilities in a cider trade, too. Many a
boy coming back from France is bringing a
taste for this very mild tipple with him.
*****
Ivemptiiorne, Prosser and Co.’s New
Zealand Drug Co. (Dunedin, M.L.) :
Writ- To Re- Re-
Jan., Profits. Dividends. ten Off. serves, serves.
(£16,250 7 p.c. =£13,751 £2499 £25,357
° ( Premiums on shares issued .. 174 25,531
I Depreciation account trans-
-1907 1 ferred to general reserves.. 7851 33,382
(. 18,652 7 p.c.= 14,000 £3520 1132 34,514
1908.. 17,816 7 ~ „ 14,000 1600 2216 36,730
1909.. 16,962 7 „ ~14,000 1000 1962 38,692
1910.. 16,707 7 „ „ 14,000 1336 1371 40,063
1911.. 18.225 7 „ „ 14,000 1500 2725 42,788
1912 19 > 191 7 .» » 15.515 1500 2176 44,964
"1 Premiums on shares issued .. 3750 48,714
1913 ( 21,544 7 p.c. = 16,083 2500 2961 51.675
l Premiums on new shares . . 4375 p 6,050
1914.. 14,221 7 p.c.= 17,453 1275 51,543
1915.. 23,459 7 „ „ 18,541 1500 3418 54,961
1916.. 24,730 7 „ ~18,550 6180 61,141
1917.. 25,575 8 „ „ 21,200 4375 65,516
1918.. 30,329 8 „ ~22,120 5000 3209 68,725
No need of an iron-tonic for this old-estab-
lished co. —now aged 40. During the three
years prior to January, 1010, a net profit of
£53,950 was made after writing off £5275.
For the past three years the net profit has
totalled £75.634. Meantime ordinary (or
perhaps extraordinary) depreciation has been
wait ten off before disclosing profits—the
£5OOO set aside out of the past year’s surplus,
as shown in the last line, is towards modern-
ising the works. No doubt the management
is taking advantage of the beautiful weather
to put something aside for contingencies. It
is certainly protecting stocks against any
possible after-war slump, as for the past two
years that item has been shown “less re-
serves.” This co. had a bitter experience
once before in the matter of depreciation of
stocks. About 15 years ago the Maoriland
Government suddenly decided to reduce the
duty on imported drugs ; and this co. found
that practically in a night between £BOOO
and £9OOO of the book value on its shelves
had evaporated. It is taking no risks now.
A lot of the stuff has been purchased at war
prices ; and there’s no telling how the market
may behave when the big chemical factories
over the water switch their enlarged plants
on to ordinary trade lines.
This shows the balance-sheet movements:
1908. 1914. 1917. 1918.
Capital . . £200,000 £263,656 £265,000 £296,155
Liabilities . . 93,991 54,082 90,127 47,241
StQck .. 175,486 186,693 195,263 160,897
Factories, etc. 102,737 101,489 159,712 149,528
Book debts . . 57,823 69,342 68,327 85.688
Cash, etc. . . 3,274 22,120 12,377 33,854
Some of the decrease in the factories item,
compared with a year ago may possibly be
due to the sale of obsolete plant;
but there lias also been allowance
(amount unstated) for depreciation. The
management is at present modernising the
works at Burnside, where some of the machin-
ery has been earning profits for 35 years.
Obviously anything spent on this account
during last year was paid out of revenue and
written off. The considerable increase in book
debts, it is explained, is due to a rush of
business towards the end of the co.’s financial
year. But, add the cautious Dunedin direc-
tors, “these accounts were rigidly examined
and all classed Al.” The co. has made good
progress during the past 10 years. New capi-
tal amounting to £96.155 has been got in;
and liabilities have decreased by £46,750.
Meantime, £46,791 has been added (net) to
property and plant and £58,445 to book debts
and cash. Stocks, less the reserves before
mentioned, have been reduced by £14,589 in
book value. Meanwhile shareholders have
averaged a shade over 7 p.c. p.a. on their
capital.
* * * *
A. and E. Ellis, Ltd., sawmillers and
timber merchants, of Sydney and the
N.S.W. northern rivers :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Aug., 1912.. £6117 10 p.c. =£4955 £1162 £llB7
„ 1913 . . 7588 10 „ „ 5597 1991 3178
Feb., 1914 . . 4218 10 „ „ 3495 723 3901
Aug., 1914 . . 4398 7 „ „ 2625 1773 5674
Feb., 1915 . . 3771 8 „ „ 3000 771 6445
Aug., 1915 . . 3744 8 „ „ 3000 744 7189
Feb., 1916.. 3736 8 „ „ 3000 736 7925
Aug., 1916.. 3104 8 „ „ 3000 104 8029
Feb., 1917 . . 2249 6 „ „ 2250 8028
Aug., 1917 . . 2274 6 „ „ 2250 24 8052
Feb., 1918 . . 3208 74 „ „ 2812 396 8448
One of the co.’s small steamers was sold
during the half-year “at a satisfactory
figure” ; and it is possible that profit on the
transaction is included in the £3208. The
profit made this way looks nowadays very
beautiful, but it isn’t always what it looks.
If you have to buy something to replace the
old asset you have to pay the war-price,
too ; and if you decide not to buy but hire!
you find that hiring charges (including
freights) are based upon the increased
capital value. So if surpluses realised on
such transactions are used to swell present
profits, the chances are that future profits
will suffer. What the position is with re-


The British Westinghouse Electric and Mtg
T ramway Motors
A tramway motor must be of strong electrical and mechanical
construction to stand the shocks and strains of constant service.
VVestinghouse Tramway Motors possess these qualifications
and represent the best motor practice—the result of long and
wide experience.
There are types to suit varying conditions of service, track,
guage, size of car, etc., and their use will ensure the highest
efficiency, longest life and a reliable service in all kinds of
weather.
t
Manchester
Head Office tor Australia
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works: Traflord Park. Manchester, England.
Negligible maintenance costs are assured if you
specify British Thomson-Houston Direct and Alter-
nating Current Generators for your power and
lighting' supply. There are more B.T.H. Generators
in operation in Australia than any other make. The
reason is—reliability. Write for further particu-
lars and quotations to the Australian General
Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.— Advt.
Water is a necessity for life, but water containing
impurities is the cause of much ill-health. Many
country water supplies draw their water from rivers,
and a “fresh” causes turbidity or often brings down
vegetable matter. One ton of Aluminoferrie will
clear 8,000,000 gallons of water. Is cheap and
effective. Used on Transcontinental Railway, Kal
goorlie mines, Sydney, Newcastle, X.S.W. Public
Works, Victorian State Rivers and Water Supply,
etc. Follow the lead of experienced people. Write
for particulars to Sole Agents: William Adams ami
Co. Ltd.. 175 Clarence Street. Sydney; 521-3 Col-
lins Street, Melbourne; corner Edward and Mary
Streets, Brisbane; 33-35 King Street, Perth : 0(1 Currie
Street, Adelaide.—Anvr.
* * * *■
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cutbbert. Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel hins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Anvr. [2
• * * *
The claims of wood pipe. We claim for Pioneer
Wood Pipe that it has more points to recommend it
than any other water-supply pipe on the market in
the way of durability, large capacity, ease of installa-
tion and economy. Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd. (ll.O.), Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. address: Box 1570
G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.:
Footscray, Vic.; and Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors
to all State Governments. —Anvr.
* * * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
* # * *
Power Plant Offered. —Clients of ours are com-
pelled to take up town supply, and we have for
disposal on their behalf an excellent Lighting Unit,
consisting of Crossley 35-b.h.p. special electric
double-flywheel type Towns gas engine, belt-driving
Witton compound 110-volt 33-kilowatt generator,
which will be demonstrated under full load at pur-
chaser’s convenience. Also one motor-generator set,
consisting of 15-b.h.p. 415-volt, 50-cycle 3-phase
motor; belt-driving, 110-volt 6-kilowatt .Tohnson-
Lundell ball-bearing compound generator. Make
offers within next ten days to Sales Manager, Box
1609 G.P.0., Sydney.—Anvr.
» * » *
The manufacture of the Australian “Skandia” Crude
Oil Engine continues apace, and Nelson & Robertson
report inquiries from mining, dredging and other in-
dustries. The economy in the running cost of these
engines combined with the small amount of labor
required appeals to all power users, and all interested
are invited to forward particulars of their require-
ments. “Skandia” engines are designed for both
industrial and marine work, and the stationary type
is unrivalled for pumping, hauling, compressors and
all mining ar.d general work. — Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb. — Advt.
• * * *
“Necessity, the mother of invention.” “Leplas-
trier” “quick-set” Australian-made pipe moulds for
making concrete pipes enables shires, municipalities
and others to manufacture easily and cheaply culvert
pipes from local material, thus replacing- expensive
and unobtainable corrugated-iron. Sizes supplied:
12in., 15in., ISin. 24in. inside diameter x 24in.
long. Particulars from Arthur Leplastrier and Co.,
Head Office, Sydney. Queensland inquiries: The Aus-
tralian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street, Bris-
bane. — Advt.
* * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Anvr.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles. Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
are Born to
I'EtR BCNUOI
Fire, Marine.
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tl * 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291!
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Blanches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFICE —Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
card to this particular co. and its deal lue
Bulletin isn't aware, no P. and L. account
being published. It should certainly nuv
been possible for the co. to make a very fair
profit from ordinary trading, freightei
having much more important woik than t
carry timber from Norway and America to
Commonwealth ports, Australian timbers
especially hardwoods—are in better demand
•it high prices; and this co. has three smal
North Coast mills and an interest in others.
This improved trade has reduced stocks
from £40,078 to £37.954 during the half-
year- and this, the sale of the steamer and
reduction of book debts (now £15,464) have
enabled the co. to reduce its own liabilities
from £30,000 or thereabouts to £19,444.
Capital is £75.000; and apart from stock
and sundry debtors the assets consist mainly
uf mills, wharves and plant.
* * *
The Equitable Building Society
I Launceston, Tas.) :
Divi- Added to
Dec Profits, dends. Reserves. Reserves.
190 f) .. £3264 £2946 £3lB £14,365
1906 .. 2774 2445 329 14,694
1907 .. 2431 2155 276 14,970
1908 .. 2541 2257 284 15,254
1909 .. 2564 2303 261 15,515
1910 .. 2573 2779 15,309
1911 .. 3002 2826 176 15,485
1912 . . 2990 2917 73 15,558
1913 .. 3568 3287 281 15,839
1914 .. 3756 3344 412 16,251
1915 .. 3819 3355 464 16,715
1916 .. 3758 3300 458 17,173
1917 .. 3506 3088 418 17,591
The capital is not fixed; the thrifty person
who wants to save a bit and get good interest
while he is doing it can pay £39 by monthly
instalments spread over 10 years and then
draw out £5O plus accrued bonuses; for
several years past these latter have been ss.
p.a. Naturally since the Commonwealth has
been anxiously seeking loans, this little office
hasn’t been attracting the usual number of
share-purchasers; and, as the capital has
thus been diminishing, along with the
deposits, the society has had to go slow also
in the matter of advances :
1905 1914. 1915. 1910. 1917.
Capital . . £46.964 £53,575 £53,948 £48,745 £47,904
Deposits.. 61,959 55,190 53,371 51,528 50,500
Mortgages 114,162 112,345 104,029 102,225 96,681
Capital and deposits are £98,404; and
against that and the accruing bonuses
(£2886) the society holds, in addition to the
mortgages, other assets (nearly all deposits
and War Loan) amounting to £23.099 less
the current dividend. As only a small propor-
tion of the advances are new, the society
ought to be very well protected by the repay-
ments that have been made; so the position
looks thoroughly sound.
* -X- * *
Some time ago, owing to the Federal Gov-
ernment’s indignant, not to say furious,
denial that Australian tungsten-metal pro-
ducers had been made the victims of an atro-
ciously bad business deal, Tiie Bulletin,
which had taken no part in the controversy,
set out to procure the facts beyond doubt.
Shortly after the inquiries were started, Aus-
tralian producers were granted a small in-
crease —so small as to suggest that the prices
previously paid were very near highwater
mark. It is now established, however, that
the increase does not bring the prices up to
quite one-half of those received by Canadian
producers;—
Australia. Canada.
Molybdenum.—
‘Unit .. £5 0 0 £lO 0 8
Ton . . \5OO 0 0 1003 6 8
Scheelite. — \
Unit .. Y-10 0 5 8_ 4
Ton .. 250 0 0 541 13 4
Wolfram. —
Unit .. 210 0 5 0 0
Ton .. 250 0 0 500 0 0
This matter is so serious that it calls for the
immediate attention of the Federal Govern-
ment. Evidently, in his profound ignorance
of business, Prime Minister Hughes was led
into making a shockingly bad bargain with
the British authorities. Worse, however, he
compelled Australian producers to put up
with the consequences, refusing them permis-
sion to find a market for themselves. It is
incredible that the Acting-Prime Minister
will compel Australian miners to continue
under this grave injustice.
Some gold returns for the Commonwealth:
1903.. £16,294,684 1915.. £8,270,339
1909.. 12,604,509 1916.. 7,074,673
1913.. 9,376,573 1917.. 6,155,837
1914.. 8,729,949 | 1918* '5,421,000
*.Judged on the yield of first quarter.
The decline was continuous; in the years
which are omitted to save space the drop was
just as steady as in the years quoted. And it
affected every State. Even in the N. Terri-
tory the yieid fell from £61,600 in 1903 to
£2554 in 1916 (later returns not available).
This promises to be the worst year since
1891. After that time Westralia, which had
been almost virgin ground (unfortunately
there isn’t so much virgin ground left now)
came to the rescue. It reached top in 1903
(£8,770,719). Last year it was down to
£4.121,645. So even in its diminished con-
dition it stands for over two-thirds of the
total. For 1918 the Westralian return looks
like £3,810,000 or thereabouts.
“The lamb has been found, but the mint
sauce is wanting.” This sums up C.H.
Richards on Coronet Hill (N-T.)- You
have a splendid mining proposition in hand,
he says, "and if the development work be car-
ried out Coronet Hill has a brilliant future
before it.” What the lode lacks in breadth
(4ft.) Richards gives it in length (1$ miles),
with the best stuff to the south. Taking oxi-
dised ore down to No. 2 level, he reckons that
proper development will give 00,000 tons
going 10.7 p.c. copper, 12oz. silver and 14
p.c. arsenic. Disregarding the arsenic——
although it is worth over £7O per ton —he
gives the ore a recoverable value ot £l4 per
ton. With milling and transport requiring
84s. per ton, there is thus a nice margin.
Seeing that the total recoverable value of the
metals in ore reserves stands at £840,000,
there would be £735,000 to play with.
Against that Richards debits £27,000 for
mining and development, and £13,000 for a
pyritic smelting plant. This obviously pre-
supposes sulphides at depth, but what they
are worth and what is their size neither
Richards nor anyone else knows. However,
a lot more cash must be found before
Coronet Hill can light its beacon. For a start,
to connect the show with the railway 42
miles of line have to be laid. Also a dam
will have to be constructed and a pumping
plant installed. As the estimates are based
on copper at £llO per ton, a big writing-
down may have to be done in the valuation
bv the time the smelter is up and the railway
built. Shrewd heads are also a bit sceptical
about a lode li miles long working to a 10
p.c. grade. The good points of Coronet Hill
are that it has rich ore, that the lode goes
strongly underfoot, and that the Common-
wealth Government is a solid partner in the
show. So Gilruth may come to the rescue
with a railway proposal. If he contemplates
that he ought to look for proved ore reserves.
To get them a lot of development work will
have to be done, and, not least of all, the solid
prospecting of the sulphide zone. Tim paral-
lel formations should also be looked into to
see if they are likely to be a stand-by. While
that is being done the arsenic problem ought
to be tackled while every ton available is in
demand.
* * * *
Mammoth Molybdenite, Yetholme(N.S.W.),
has produced its first lot of concentrates.
The 10-head battery and separation plant have
been running a fortnight, two - shifts being
worked the second week. However, figures as
to the quantity of stone put through or as to
recovery have not been made available ; but
manager Cornell says he is “satisfied with
results.” Meanwhile an unexpected issue
has crouped up with the Lithgow Co., whose
leases adjoin the Mammoth’s, over the desti-
nation of the tailings. The gully into which
they have been shot runs through the Lith-
gow show, so Mammoth has been requested
to keep to its own back-yard. Mammoth will
now dam up its tailings, but in the mean-
while it hopes to continue running its plant.
Scarcity of suitable labor is the co.’s chief
trouble for the moment.
* * * *
Adding gold from the plates of the Car-
lisle. Ironbark, Hercules and Northern mills,
Bendigo Amalgamated last month got a total
of 25400 z. from 8683 tons. The jewel song
in Dyason’s monthly review is over the
uplift of Carlisle: spurs at 1240 ft. are taking
on a kindly hue, and it looks as if the 1040 ft.
and 1140 ft. stopes will soon be following suit.
A new shoot of gold has been cut in the rise
on the Bast leg at 1540 ft. at the Wind-
mill shaft, and a new and large reef
is anticipated. If it turns out all right
Dyason will have a little compensation for
missing the Virginia run of spurs at 600 ft.
into which the tributors butted directly they
were let loose in that mine. These spurs are
parallel to the old reef, so that it will be
easy to crosscut into them north and south
of the tributors. The third card being
played is the Hercules, where there is a will-
ing go at the reef at 840 ft. on the strength
of its showing some colors. To fill lip time
three new formations at Johnson’s No. 2
shaft have been marked up as worth a close
examination. At present some 50 faces are
eating up call money all the while, to say
nothing of the expenses of a big drilling pro-
gramme, yet no one growls.
* * * *
The rattle of the pumps is the only mine
music on the Langi gutter, Ararat (Vic.),
these days: the Union having prevented the
men going below to do development work
unless wash extraction is resumed. At
the New Langi, Bill Toole insists on the con-
tract. system and on his right to fix the
maximum rate. The Langi South crowd
don’t like calls if a bit of gold can be
scraped up; so they may dangle a bait before
the Union to get it to lift the embargo
against development, and permit extraction
to be continued. If not, the call-making era
will be extended a lot longer, to the joy of
the gentle- bear punter.
The strike at Jumbunna, Gippsland
(Vic.), reduced the colliery’s output for
the past six months to half that of normal
terms and put the co. £l6OO on the wronj
side of the ledger. The leading drives h
the mine have got past the faulted ground
better coal is showing, and the price o
fuel is bounding up. Liquid assets are £400(
ahead of liabilities. So the outlook could b<
a lot worse.
* * * *
Tributing has stopped at the Great Fingal
(W.A.), and the mine is likely to shut dovvx
shortly. This will mean putting up the shut
ters in most of the business-places in tht
township of Day Dawn, and frantic S.O.S
signals are already being sent out by tin
pub- and store-keepers there. The mine ha?
had a remarkable career. As the Day Dawn
and afterwards as the Consolidated Murchi-
son it never earned profits. Yet it had a big
reef milling lOdwt., and a strong shoot of
ore. These conditions lasted to 400 ft., at
which point there was an improvement, a
branch reef joining the main body. The
quartz widened to 15ft., of a length of about
600 ft., and for several levels values averaged
£6 per ton. Then the shoot went wrong, and
the mine became only a skeleton of its former
self. Several millions sterling have been taken
out of the property to date, and nearly two
millions have been paid in dividends.
* * # >
Golden Butterfly (W.A.) announces that
an independent report is to be obtained on its
Blue Streak option at Tudkabianna. It is
about time some outside expert was called in,
but to make the report worth anything it will
have to be by someone of standing, particu-
larly as the reef in the property is. alleged
by some experts to belong to a series that
won’t make depth. If the Butterfly’s man
is convinced that it does, then the co. should
sink and open up at depth, and not follow
the usual policy of Adelaide-managed West-
ralian gold ventures of grubbing about on
reefs near the surface and not giving the
mine a fair chance.
* * * *
To the end of 1917 about 90 Westralian
gold-producing cos. had paid dividends, but
only about a dozen now remain. Great
Boulder heads the list with £5,269,300;
Ivanhoe comes next with £3,636,750, and
Golden Horsehoe not far behind with
£3,375,000. Other million dividend-payers
are -Oroya Brown Hill. £2,146,241.; Great
Fingall, £1,746,875; Kalgurli. £1,615,500;
Boulder Perseverance, £1,461,116; Lake
View Consols, £1,448,750; and Sons of
Gwalia, £1.055,363.
* * * *
Bananaland’s Minister of Mines Alf
Jones, who has put more life into his De-
partment than any previous Minister, has
not let the Leg. Council’s rejection of the
Iron and Steel Works Bill prevent the birth
of the industry. This week the first fur-
nace will be tapped at Ipswich. The ore
comes from Biggenden, and the pig pro-
duced will be used for a start at the local
railway workshops.
The high price of arsenic sent Minister of
Mines Jones looking round Bananaland to,
see if his own State could not supply its;
own and anybody else’s wants at a much?
cheaper pilce. A find was made in the
Stanthorpe district, and tests having been
satisfactory the Department will erect a
furnace alongside the railway line close to
the mine.
* # * *
“D.” : The agitation in Westralia for the
registration or licensing of directors of min-
ing Boards to prevent the suppression of bad
news and the distribution of false reports
reminds me of an instance recoi’ded in one of
J. 11. Curie’s books. At a Board meeting a
report w T as read from the manager that the
l-eef had faulted and couldn’t be found. The
chairman was convinced that the reef had
been lost entirely and proposed that the
shareholders should be told so at once.
Another director and heavy holder opposed
the proposal. He pointed out that the reef
had been probably only displaced, and that it
would show up again by and bye. He argued
that the publication of the report would
cause a big slump in share values, that many
nervous holders wrnuld be put out at the
bottom of the market, that the reef might be
found again, and that the directors would
then be accused of rigging the market. The
Board considered this argument logical and
decided to withhold the report. However,
the dii-ector who induced the Board to sup-
press the manager’s report promptly un-
loaded his shares, and later on the other
directors quietly followed suit. Systematic
search railed to pick up the lost reef, and the
shares became valueless, which was bad for
the people wdio weren’t directoi’s.
# If If *
The tonnage and values of the Zeehan
(Tas.) output for the first quarter of this
year are not exhilarating. The total value
is £26,000, after deducting freight and smelt-
ing charges. Lead ores totalled 987 tons,
worth £16.300 net. Tin contributed 48|
tons, w r orth £2OO per ton net, or a total of
£9700. The past three months have been
the driest the distinct has experienced for 30
years.
Carpathia, Ardlethan (N.S.W.), hands out
another sixpenny this month, making a total
of £31,000 distributed. At present the mine
is looking well: a lens of ore at the 200 ft.
level from No. 4 shaft is carrying a 6ft. lode
of high-grade stuff. The half-year to Jan.
31 gave a profit of £3465.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 84.)


Est 1818.
fleeringfs
O & <k
keerihg
Co
en
en
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
m
*••**•*£* s** 8
{otto'*' 08
,re obtain’
ate ttri
$3*9—
ura- w —
® lSH e P &treet.
Sydney
yVlSS
391
Ferry ” Street’ ® ay n di •»«
niord Padding
l,9b SU and ; %dney
N «60eorV^ eet ' SV
Ion* Street. cy
UenvmS uverpoo , t A **»
' shop 4 in
PAULINE et CIE
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers.
George Street, Sydney,
Announce their AUTUMN AND WINTER SHOW
MODEL MILLINERY on and after WEDNES-
DAY, MARCH 6. MODEL EVENING and DAY
FROCKS, COATS and SKIRTS etc., on and
after TUESDAY, MARCH 19.
BUY
\dcW
&
t
WORLD-FAHED.
NEVER GETS BITTER.
Cash Coupon on Every Packet.
queenslan
cx>
.''.ill
o
CL
O
cx>
«s
01
Sir?
M<Q
sq;
Q?>
i
l<;^
liiiu:
W VI
i i': i
51 3
kiQ
OM
A Book of
192 Papes
o l_ i_e o
POCKET
QUEENSLAND"
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
Telling all about' the
Millions of Acres
of fitrhle land for
intending .settlers
will be sent'you
by filling in fhe
Coupon below. ;
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
auc
“Better
than Either”
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia
GET A BOTTLE.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVEID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, April 15, 1918.
My Dear Akini, —
The river up Abbotsford way teemed with
a mosquito fleet for the Great Public
m- r oo nll “?h tta «, F °» T eks Gram-
’i niYh lf , S^ U '?, < as represented by
defi™ e Eu f ai lf Grammar) had shouted
dtnance at each other on the stretch of shin-
ing river where they trained. Vassals had
rubbed embrocations into the muscles of their
S e T s at , and dusk ' Plough Ignatius
and Joseph Colleges were in the struggle—and
the Joeys won a fine race for second fours—
the keenest rivalry was between the two
grammars. As launches manoeuvred for a
good place, raiding parties flaunting blue-
und-white streamers leapt aboard the blue-
wnVfvi( craft aad kad a hurried bout with
wateibags. But the Grammar boys, who
won the thu-d fours and the championship
eights, cheered their beaten foe and offered
it the balm of chocolate or toffee before the
sank oa the victory. Timber-man
Svixton gave the Grammar heroes a dinner
a - tlle Australia that night. Scots College
was amongst those who also sculled.
TT 9, n FniJay afternoon, April 19, the King’s
Hall will blaze with color. Mrs. Shimizu is
m charge ot this cabaret for the Ited Cross,
at which a whole Milky Way of theatrical
stars will twinkle. The little Japanese lady
is out for results that will beat her own
records. Remember her peach-bloom bower
in the lown Hall vestibule on a ’l7 day
when a swarm of kimono girls fell upon the
public purse with frightful slaughter?
IS ice-looking Cicely Hughes—younger
daughter of the late John Hughes, M.L.C., of
this town—took the necessary oath of allegi-
ance t 0 Surgeon-Major Curtin of our
A.M.O. on a wintry day in London. The
groom also hails from Sydney, being a son
of the late David Curtin. A warrior brother,
Captain I>. I). Hughes, M.C., gave his sister
to her new husband.
Word comes that Australian manufacturer
G- a . kas keen m ade a Liveryman of
the Yv orshipful Company of Musicians,
London, an ancient rite that carries with it
the freedom of the city, so I suppose he can’t
be enslaved within the metropolitan boun-
daries. Glancing over a long list of Worship-
nils, one sees that the list is most elastic. A
mere duke is allowed to be a Liveryman of
this order, and even millionaires—Waldorf
Astor _ is one—can squeeze through the
needle s eye of inspection. But mostly such
musicians as Elgar, Prof. Bridge and
Bir Charles Parry are the backbone of the
august stables. . O. C. Beale, of course, makes
the raw material of music in the shape of
pianos. The Musicians Company is a small
but, honorable affair with £490 per annum
of income. But quite a few Liveries have
no income at all.
Archbishop Kelly’s garden party at the big
White Palace on the Manly hilltop had as
guest of honor the Catholic Women’s Associ-
ation. The picturesque purple robes of
Archbishop Cattaneo were absent from the
sunshiny gathering, as the owner of them
is at present in Tassy’s pleasant isle.
When Mrs. Prank Moulden—who was the
Avidow of the knighted Hackett (W.A.)
until a week or so ago—compiled her Aus-
tralian household guide, she was her own
keen press-agent. Writing personally to
reps, of every well-known paper, she stated
the ease in brief and “on-the-spot” remarks.
The cash from the sales was for some patri-
otic purpose, but Avhether Australia plunged
heavily in learning the right way with a
vacuum-cleaner or the proper control of a
Mary Ann is not known hereabouts.
Mrs. Hugh Ward’s gift afternoon for the
Red Cross, in the spring of this week, was a
big affair on the stage of Her Majesty’s. In
case you have any doubts as to what a gift
party is, recall the Australia Day furore.
When our Avomen tore the coats (coney seal
at that) off their backs and the rings off
their fingers to hand them as hasty tributes
to the fund, the Avestern horizon wasn’t so
dark as it is to-day. Some of those three-
guinea boots will be melted down for cash
before this struggle is over.
In these later days Canon Garland, V.D.,
the busy, buzzing Queenslander who Avas on
the old recruiting committee, is representa-
tive of the C. of E. Fund for Soldiers Over-
seas, with headquarters at Cairo. The cam-
paign in Palestine doesn’t attract much atten-
tion from outside agencies, and as the pro-
portion of Australians is large—much larger
than it is in any other field —the Canon
found that Billjim wasn’t at all sufficiently
catered for in Cairo. So five shops have
been turned into a club—the Australian
Soldiers’ Club —and 50 beds have been made
and billiards put in and all the rest of it;
and what you're wanted to do now is to send
the weeklies and magazines you’ve finished
with.
A sad old father in a lonely home at
V\ ahroonga—much too big now the fledglings
are gone—has only memories left of two
lively boys who used to make the house ring
with their uproar. Dr. Antill Pockley’s
youngest son, Jack, has just gone out in the
struggle in France. A lieutenant first in the
A.A.M.C., he was a brother of the chival-
rous Brian, also of the A.M.C., killed in New
Guinea within a few weeks of the outbreak
of war. Phyllis, the fair-haired beauty,
married a naval man in England a while
ago, and the family is scattered like thistle-
down.
Highbrows and others—everybody, in
short, with a semi-quaver to stand on—
crushed into the Conservatorium the other
night to hear Verbrugghen’s story of his
travels. The little man has a biting but not
unkind wit. He tears the tinsel off false
musical gods without scratching their thin
skin too deeply. For instance, he agrees
when Uncle Sam sits at the satin slippers of
soprano Galli-Curci—up to a certain point.
Then Itoland Foster slipped the lady’s latest
record into the musical-box. A luscious
voice pealed out, but ended in a shake that
had the dull tonal caterwaul of Juliet
Meow. As an artist Melba is still unbeaten,
according to the Conservatorium critic; and
lie has just compared her trills with those
of much younger artists in the IJ.S.A. Had
a blue pencil chopped out superfluous detail
Verbrugghen’s brisk puncture of unduly-
swollen musical balloons would have sent
the company home asking for more.
, he Burton Dibbs, who spend much time
in \ ictoria these days, have lost a second
son, Owen, lately of our Stock Exchange, in
lu-ance. On April 1, the date of his death,
Ins young wife and her sister Dora (Mrs.
Walford) were taking a leading part in the
revue for Light Horse comforts. The news
came later. Grandfather Tom Dibbs has
seen the sands run out for many brave lads
in his clan since 1014.
Marie Tempest said good-bye to Sydney in
a blue sports coat and a striped silk skirt
with the same cerulean touch. A packed
theatre, and the usual stacks of wired blooms,
followed by a sneech from Marie, finished the
last hole in the “Pair of Silk Stockings” at
the Criterion.
A daughter of the
late Dr. Gilhooley of
this city, the clever
wife of Thomas
Hughes, M.L.C., is
one of those earnest
Australians who have
put aside every
pleasure to get a
tighter grip on war
work. Her favorite
hobby in the days of
peace was wood-
carving. The Hughes’
home at Rose Bay
has many oimate
specimens of her
handicraft in solid
chairs and settees
carved after Eliza-
bethan devices. But
the knitting-needle has replaced the chisel,
and an anxious mother’s thoughts hang
on the news from the Western Front.
As a member of the N.S.W. Red
Cross executive, and with her special task
•amongst the convalescent home committees,
the capable lady has no idle moments. When
“Tom,” M.L.C., was Mayor of Sydney in
successive years, his wife’s tact kept pre-war
women’s gatherings immune from conversa-
tional acid-drops. There was a knighthood
later for him, and a sheaf of good wishes
for the lady whose little photo, is here.
“Conferences” are the autumnal joint.
Governor Stanley (Vic.) came this way for
an unofficial chop with the Davidsons. His
term is up in January next, but he is not
likely to stay beyond September. A few
side-shows are arranged for his delectation,
and the Hawkesbury College hen is con-
sidered worthy of special notice.
Dolores, after a long silence so far as this
town is concerned, will sing here on May 4.
News drops in that Melba’s friend, Lady
Susan Fitzclarence—she’s a young war widow
—has gone on the stage. Cyril Maude, a
frequent visitor to Coombe Cottage (Vic.)
during his Melbourne season, knew that was
in the air. The lady was an average ama-
teur and keen to go on the regular boards.
A title helps.
Sydney Uni. gave its blessing—per the
vice-regal hand—and the usual degrees, in its
big stone hall, the other afternoon. Vice-
Chancellor Purser (Chancellor William
Cullen is holidaying in Maoriland), in some
majesty of black and gold, named the con-
quering bookmen. Medicine handsomely beat
law and science as a popular profession.
Law was at bedrock for once, with eight or
nine degrees to its trencher-boards.
This smart-looking
young bird is Geoffrey
Forrest Hugiies,
M.C., recently deco-
rated for valor. At
22 he is Captain in
the Flying Corps
with two years’ ser-
vice to his credit.
Younger son of
Tho m a s Hughes,
M.L.C. (his hand-
some mother is ijn
the previous column),
Geoff was in his
second year Arts at
Sydney Uni. when
he made up his mind
to attack the enemy
from aloft. After
months of waiting
to get into the Australian Flying Corps he
went to England. With the impatience of
youth he was afraid the war would be over
before he got his wings. But the boy has
had his two years at the game. His only
brother Roger (there are no sisters) was
with the Medical Corps in France when a
bullet finished a promising career.
„ Dr. Bestic, a stepson of barrister Arthur
Kelynack, tucked his best girl’s hand in his
arm and led her down the aisle the other
afternoon. Hunter’s Hill noted that Super-
stition was cast to the winds. For the
wedding was on the 13th—it happened to
be the birthday of bride and ’groom—and 13
guests were present at the quiet knot-tying.
The heroine of the party was Enid, a
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Muddle, of Lane
Cove River, and she believes 13 is her lucky
number. I see nothing wrong with the
figure myself. A girl whom I knew slightly
inherited £13,000, and she is still in good
health.
Conductor Joe Bradley, of the Phil., de-
serves all the kudos he wants for putting up
a bold fight against the encore pest. Every
good, bad and indifferent performer is
brought back—or comes without much bring-
in £ to repeat his oi' her good or worst per-
formance. But there are exceptions. And
the row for a second helping of Cappelli’s
liquid notes at Saturday night’s “Pop” was
one. After his rest from the hard and almost
incessant strain of singing in the defunct
opera co., the tenor’s voice is a joy to
music-loving Sydney. Besides, the owner is
going to warble presently <behind a gun)
on the Italian Front. But the Phil, con-
ductor wasn’t quite big enough to give way
graciously. Cappelli sang his remaining item
as , an , encore an< 3 then took the next tram
to his lodgings.
About 800 white pinnies with the Red
Cross on their bibs fluttered in the Domain
on Saturday afternoon. This was the
'’ * • .f 1 ™ rehearsal for their huge display
on April 2b, when the country lass will add
hei strength and smile to the procession.
Midday brought bad news from the Front,
and hefty damsels boldly asserted their right
--in spite of pettis—to arm in their coun-
;^v^ defe , nce - Au Amazon corps of, say,
10,000 gallant bibs from each State wouid
be worth considering. Mrs. Chris Bennett,
director, mothered the Junos.
A Sydney girl, Boadicea Monk (she’s
been Mrs. Stanley Mort for quite a long
time), is still driving wounded soldiers as
required in England. A temporary break in
war work is indicated, however, by the
cabled news that Baby Mort arrived on
Easter Day. When in Sydney before the
days of the Hun uproar, the Monk sisters
Boadicea and Hypatia (the latter is now
Mrs. M. Adams, of Wahroonga), were
amongst the first local girls to drive a car.
Aow? Well, we have reason to be grateful
to the woman at the petrol wheel, for she
takes her corners carefully and doesn’t reck-
lessly dash up and down the earth on the
wrong side of the road. So far as I know
the woman motor-driver hasn’t even knocked
down a policeman or a hoarding to date.
. £ i] lu d 111l 11 t , he P resent desperate struggle to
iQii ir barba ™ns who invaded France in
1914, Morven Nolan, Lieut., A.1.F., of Svd-
P? y -, 2 , 4 years y° un S a t the time - of
his death, he leaves a widow and a toddling
daughter. He was a son of the late Dr.
Russell Nolan, and was a law student when
the enemy fell upon Belgium.
The “Vagabonds” naively stated that “all
the male members of the cast are ineligible ”
lhis was not intended to warn off any spin-
steis m their audience, but was explained bv
the statement: “The others are on active ser-
vice or—will light (alas!) no more.” Last
week the Y'ags. held revel in St. James’s
Hall. The Blue Gum Girls’ V.W.A. fund to
build a soldiers’ cottage gets some of the
profits.
The American-Australian League of Help
(president, Mrs. Brittain) is making a very
helpful effort for our Red Cross Day. In
passing it wishes you to note that “no money
made by the League is sent out of Australia.
It is all devoted to local patriotic funds as
the calls come.” Home-made sweets are a
specialty. Drop in and see the ’Murkan
ladies preparing cookies for April 2(5. Their
lair is 5 Wynyard-street.
On April 26 Mrs. Alfred Lee and her
helpers get busy in their Mint in Macquarie-
place, where they coined about £5OOO on
France’s Day.
Noel Stretch, killed in France lately 7, was
the second son of J. F. Stretch, who has
bished in the Anglican interest at Newcastle
for the past 16 years, and was before that
an assistant-gaiters at Brisbane. Young
Stretch began in the ranks with the A.1.F.,
but was selected with others in Egypt for
training for a commission with British
troops, and had worn stars for two y r ears.
He won the Military Cross twice over in
France, receiving a “bar” the second time.
A brother lately returned from the Front
disabled, and another brother is in Aus-
tralian khaki somewhere in Europe.
When our lady bushrangers were less
skilled in skinning the eyelids of the com-
munity, functions on the Day fell over each
other to the detriment of those that were
underneath. With nearly four years’ ex-
perience they know better. Long before
Red Cross Day dawns every excuse for rob-
bing the healthy to help the wounded will
have been exploited. Conspicuous among
these preliminaries is a cafe chantant on
April 18 at the Australia, with Miss Eadith
\\ allcer and Mrs. Maearthur Onslow in
command of the gang. Before the war you
would never have suspected some of these
gentle ladies of being born highwaymen.
From Brisbane:—
Major A. S. Nobbs, of the Camel Corps, was mar-
ried at Abbassia on January 5 to Miss Blocksidge, a
Brisbane girl. Captains Philpott and Cullwick
tied the knot; a Miss Ashton of Heliopolis was
bridesmaid. Convalescents from the 14th A.G.H.
threw a barrage of congratulations as the party left
the church. After a spread at Shopheard’s in Cairo,
the ’moon was spent at Luxor and Assuan.
Died last week, Callaghan Walsh, merchant, of
Cairns and Port Douglas. I-Ie had been in business
in the North for the last 40 years, and had mayored
at Cooktown and Cairns, was chairman of the Cairns
Harbor Board and chairman of directors of the Moss-
man Central Sugar Mill. Solicitor J. A. Walsh, of
Brisbane, is a son.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
JEWELLERS.
WEDDING PRESENTS
OF HIGHEST QUALITY.
An Illustrated
Catalogue sent
post free on
request.
■
• ' i
f
Selections sent
on approval if
desired.
Plain Silver-plated Salvers, with Fancy Edges.
10-inch, £2/5/-. 12-inch, £3/10/-. 14-inch, £4/18/-
!- -ii-
&
“Chippendale” Pattern Silver-plated Coffee Tray.
Length, 194 inches x 81 inches.
£5 0 0
Five per cent, discount allowed on all cash purchases.
13 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY.
118-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON
An Inexpensive Camera
For Postcards- -British Made.
The &a Folding Ensign
Daylight Loading. For Roll Films.
m.
The 31A is without doubt the best value obtain-
able in Postcard Cameras, and is wonderfully
efficient.
It is made of seasoned wood covered with
Leatherette, has Leather Bellows, Nickel Fittings,
Ensign-Simplex Auto Shutter, giving Time, Bulb
and Instantaneous Exposures of l-25tli, l-50th
and 1-100th of a second.
With Achromatic Lens £2/15/-
With Rectomat, Symmetrical Lens—
£3/15/-
Tlie same Camera can also be had in smaller
size, to take pictures 3} x 41 in.,
£2/10/- and £2/17/6
Ditto, ditto, 21 x 4] in £2 and £2/10/-
Call and let us show you how easy they are to
use. If you live out of town, send for complete
catalogue and handbook of photography —it s
free to any address.
Yota. Will Obtain Best Results if You
Have Your Residues and Assays
Treated at Harringtons*.
Our Laboratories possess every facility for tlie scientific treatment of Ores,
Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products of Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers
and other Metal Workers, and all work is done under the personal supervision
of a Qualified Chemist and Metallurgist from Messrs. Johnson Sons, London,
Assayers to his Majesty’s Government and the Bank of England.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis. We
buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those
metals, or their alloys, in plate or wire.
We invite your enquiries. A ’phone or letter addressed to any of our branches
will receive prompt attention.
l™
W
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
388 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z,
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney,
1
DISUSE
or FULL USE
I
i
8
i
I
1
$
1
1
1
ii
I:
1:
ii
i
i
i
rt
WHY let the Piano stand silent and idle for even another
day, and leave unsatisfied the desire for music? Unused
the Piano is sure to deteriorate, so remedy this by
securing without delay the highly-appreciated PIANOLA PIANO.
Every member of the household or any visitor can play intelli
gently, efficiently and artistically with the utmost pleasure and
without the need of any teaching. The home WITHOUT is far
different from the home WITH the PIANOLA PIANO, for music
makes homelife happiest.
But there are many imitations of the genuine PIANOLA PIANO,
which is only obtainable from the PIANOLA COMPANY in the following
well-known makes The Steinway, Aeolian Steck, Aeolian Stroud, Farrand,
and the English-made Aeolian Weber.
Accept this suggestion to at once furnish us with particulars of your
disused Piano, and a liberal allowance can be arranged, convenient terms ot
payment given, and you are provided with the instrument you want destine
for full and pleasurable use.
SEND THIS COUPON TO THE PIANOLA COMPANY.
Please send me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos,
showing how I can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and what allowance you can make on my present piano,
which is a
Bought about
Name
Address
She
*. c
Ul
t=
Sydney
Co.Pty. Ltd.
384 George St.. Sydney.
THE CENTRE
FOR THE WORLDS
GREATEST
ACHIEVEMENTS
. O IN o .
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS.
“Aeolian"
Reg* Trade Mark
m
1
HI
82
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne;
436 Queen Street, Brisbane; and 58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.


V'ii
mrnmmm
ZmixMmm:
Mr. A. CARLSON (from a photo.).
FREE SAMPLES
HAIR GROWER
and Shampoo Powders.
C/o Mrs. M. Tobin , Boarding House,
Florence Street, Port Pirie, S.A.
Mr. John Craven-Burleigh.
My Dear Sir, —I thank you for your- letter and offer.
1 am very pleased to state that my hair lias im-
proved wonderfully since I got the last supnly of.
your remedy. I am quite satisfied it is a True Hair
Grower. My scalp is now full of fine, silky hair,
and I still have 2} boxes left, so I ivon’t need any
more. / am recommending your True Hair Grower
to all my friends. lam sending you the last photo.
I have, as I sent all the others to my frieiids and
people, to let them see how my hair has grown. You
may publish this if vou please.—Yours truly,
A. CARLSON.
Mr. Craven-Burleigh has received thousands of
unsolicited testimonials from people who have suc-
cessfully used his preparations. They are all
genuine, and open to the fullest investigation. In
order to ensure a fair test he desires everyone suffer-
ing from Hair Troubles to obtain from him a Free
Trial of his liair-growing compound. Send full
name and address, enclosing three penny stamps for
postage and packing to
JOHN CRAVEN-BURLEIGH (DEPT. 7a), 321 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
»» (Daily) „ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast ~ 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
\ \
I ivv
GAGE Hats
FOR ALL
OCCASIONS.
Obtainable only at Leading
Shops throughout Australia
and New Zealand.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, April 15, 1918.
My Deak Yarkie, —
Collingwood snared the Governor-General
lor tlie opening* of a Military Pageant at
the Oval on Saturday, and kept him cooling
lus heels for three-quarters of an hour owing
to the late arrival of a procession in which
every second performer had elected himself
chief marshal. Frank Tudor came along
in the gubernatorial motor-car, and Martin
Hannah arrived wearing a huge bunch of
vegetables in his buttonhole. The G-G
was presented to John Wren and other dis-
tinguished citizens, and, graciously accept-
ing- a fill of 'baccy from an ordinary bloque,
ignored the notice, “Smoking strictly pro-
hibited,” and puffed his pipe until the time
arrived for the Mayor to say his piece. His
\\ orship’s elocution was seriously impaired
by a brass band which deposited itself in
front of the grandstand and proceeded to
P la .V the right tunc at the wrong moment,
pome agitated officials succeeded in silencing
it after a time, but his Caledonian Excel-
lency had only half finished his few remarks
when a Ilielan Pipe Band arrived and made
noises that sounded like a deliberate affront
to the Throne and Person. More officials
had to scamper from the grandstand to shoo
the kilted noise from the vicinity, and his
Ex. resumed, making an observation, doubt-
less intended to be tactful, about “one ass at
a time, please.” When the Collingwood
P.L.C. has had time to think the remark
over it will probably pass a motion favoring
the abolition of imported Governors.
. While in Bendigo last Friday Lady Helen
visited the Art Gallery to view the picture
with which Marion .Tones gained the
Travelling Scholarship of the National Gal-
lery. The vice-regal party was shadowed
by the Mayor and Mayoress, and her Ex.
afterwards progressed to the' young artist’s
studio. Miss Jones is working for an exhi-
bition which she intends to hold in Mel-
bourne later in the year.
Melbourne has now only one medical vet-
eran of the name of Ryan who took part in
the European wars of the nineteenth century
—Doctor Charlie, who was with the Turks
at Plevna. His namesake, Dr. .Tames Pat-
rick, who served ns a surgeon with the Army
of the Loire in the Franco-Hun War,
died suddenly last week at Cliveden Man-
sions—erstwhile the dwelling-place of his
old pal John Madden—at the age of 78. He
had just seen to the removal of his sick wife
to a private hospital. One of the best-known
Collins-street surgeons, he obtained most of
his degrees in Ireland, and in his youth roved
as far afield as Panama, Callao and Iquique.
After the 1870-71 trouble he returned to
England, and reached Australia in ’73.
founding a practice at Richmond, and
subsequently specialising in eye and
ear work in the city. For many
years _ he. was one of the Agricultural
Society’s judges, and Melbourne will miss
the _ slim figure on the dark chestnut so
familiar to those who knew their city. Ryan
was sometime president of the Kooyong Polo
Club, and the Melbourne Club regarded him
as one of its show members.
The returned soldiers, sick or otherwise,
are losing one of their most enthusiastic
girl friends for a while. Frank Allen, of
Hutton’s, is off to America on a business
trip, and is taking daughter “Pop” with
him, so “Pop” and her motor-car will bring
no more batches of khaki boys from Port
Melbourne pier for a while. It is to be
hoped that the car will be as active as ever
in the good cause under other management.
The blonde young Miss Hutton has never
missed a disembarkation since the boys came
trickling back.
Squire Andrew Chirnside of Berwick (he
specialises in the wearing of country-gentle-
man gaiters and the breeding of stock) has
given 500 acres of his Berwick estate for
settlements for returned soldiers. The land
is first-class, near the railway and within
40 miles of Melbourne. Andrew chose
the place in which to settle because the
original home of the Chirnsides in Britain
is at Berwick.
Mrs. Charlie Fairbairn has given a won-
derful string of pearls with three diamonds
in the clasp to be raffled. The gamble will
be managed at the Quamby Club Patriotic
Party on May 2. The fashion-platers will
live for nothing else on that day. The show
is to help Lady Stanley’s appeal for the
Red Cross. There are to be 28 tables at
£1 each, and the usual selling abd raffling
of produce, cakes and sweets. Mrs. Douglas
Menzies has given a picture by Ida
Rentoul, and Mrs. W. J. T. Clarke a blouse
of surpassing loveliness. Roma Clarke is
the picturesque assistant-secretary to Nora
Cunningham. Jack Baillieu is to be l’affles
man.
Marion Montgomery, the hardy horse-
woman who organised the Caulfield carnival
for the Purple Cross, had to stay away at
the last moment. She is shut up at home
with a nurse preparing for some exploratory
operation.
The widow of Chief Justice Madden is
leaving the big fiat at Cliveden, where the
surroundings are too reminiscent of the
past. She and daughter Lesley are taking a
fiat at Studley, South Yarra, one of those
built on the old Como estate. Daughter
Beatrice and her husband, Jack Baillieu,
were previous dwellers on the premises.
Among those who had the B.A. degree con-
ferred on them at Melbourne University last
Saturday was Amergin Oisin O’Dowd, fourth
son of poet Bernard. Amergin is probably
the youngest B.A. in Victoria. ll e entered
the I ni. as a student of 10, and completed his
Arts course before reaching 1!). lie is now
doing his third year Law, and if he lives up
to his record during the next two years he
will qualify for his LL.B. before lie is 21.
Bernard has yet another sou, a giant of 13.
Mildred Gillespie is back at war work in
England. This girl moved over to France
in the early stages of the war when there
was little comfort for nurses. She often had
t > sleep on straw or cold stones, and endured
so much hardship that she was invalided to
England. She has been resting and visiting
her old friend “Tryphena” Doughty, for-
merly of The Bulletin, at her London
house.
The peerage and baronetage and hereditary
landed gentry of Camberwell feted through
the last of the week with stalls, raffles, sales
of home-made cakes and home-grown ehooks
on the wing. The best adders amongst them
are now biting the ends of their pencils, tot-
ting un the final takings. Also the best
young men in their most immaculate flannels
have been springing through a patriotic
tennis tournament connected with the show.
Champion Alf Dunlop lives at Kew, and
several of his best trainees were heavily
engaged.
Colonel Churchas, well known as an archi-
tect and builder, has died in France. He
got away with the 19.16 Anzac guns, leaving
his young wife with her small step-daughter
and infant son to shelter with her parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Westbrook.
Pursy Chirnside, jun., who is a captain in
the Bth Hussars, you know, has been in-
valided to deah old London suffering from
wounds and shell-shock. Pursy, sen., has a
little job in the Army Service Corps.
Flight-lieutenant Flere, reported as missing-
in France, is a prisoner in Germany. This
famous schoolboy athlete fan old Melb.
Grammar boy) is son of T. 11. Flere, of Mel-
bourne’s Ancient Mariners. Another that
was lost and is found is the Bertie Austins’
flying son, who had his wings clipped by
the Turks and was posted missing for nearly
three weeks. He had previously aeroplane!
with the Anzacs in Palestine for over 12
months.
Architect Dick Klingender and his wife,
who have been living on war news during the
two years the only child Keith has been in
the Anzac gunpit, breathe again since hearing
that their soldier has been sent to hospital
with a wounded leg. The boy left Melbourne
Grammar to get into khaki in 1916.
Miss Adelaide’s gossip :
War has struck heavily at the Tennyscns. The
youngest boy, who was in the Navy, was killed
early in the war, and his eldest brother, Lionel
(Rifle Brigade), was wounded for the third time
towards the end of last year. New comes news
that the only other son, also with the Rifle Brigade,
has keen killed in action. Her late Ex.’s own
death was directly the result of overtaxing her
strength working for the comfort of the men of the
navy, and in recognition of this she was buried with
naval honors.
Major W. H. Gosse, of the R.F.A., was killed
in action early in the month. He fought with
one of our contingents during the Louth African
scuffle and decided to stick to the army when he
was given a commission in the R.F.A. Subse-
quently he retired and made his home in N. S.
Wales. When the present struggle began he at
once w r ent back to England and joined his old
regiment. During his three years and more of
service he won the M.C., and was major in com-
mand of a battery when the end came. His father,
W r . 0. Qosse, was at one time Deputy-Surveyor-
General in S. Aus.
His Ex. Governor Galway has offered his services
to the Imperial Government, “unconditionally, for
war work, to be utilised in the best possible man-
ner.’’ It is by no means the first time that the
offer has been made, and there is probably no man
more bitterly disappointed at being denied active
service. It’s an awful fate to be kept loafing as
an Australian Cocked Hat during this welter —
it's almost as bad as the system which endures it.
The Moulden-Hackett wedding occurred on Wednes-
day at St. Peter’s College Chapel, and the deed
was followed by a reception at North Adelaide,
where the newly-weds have bought the late Mrs. W.
Milne's house on Brougham-place.
There is at least one man in this State, Schulz by
name, who has a firm belief in the proverb concerning
clouds with silver lining. He was charged with having
changed his address without notifying the military
authorities. He was fined £lO and, as his total
assets were only about £7, things looked blue for
him till a bank manager, recognising his name as
that of a man he’d been looking for, reached him
out a draft for £3OO awaiting him at the bank.
The Ornithological Association has made Captain
White its president for the third time in succession.
He is our standard reference on all matters concerning
local bird-life, and is a son of the White who was a
valued coadjutor of Gould.
Lieut.-Colonel Butler, who has been invalided,
arrived at the end of the week. The W. B. Wilkin-
sons’ elder son, also invalided, was a passenger by
the same transport.
We are in the midst of a Red Cross fortnight, with
the school children as the chief buccaneers. Fifteen
thousand of them were let loose on Wednesday, sell-
ing buttons and canvassing from house to house for
subscriptions. As the organisation of the Public
Schools’ Patriotic Fund is something to marvel at,
the result of the two days’ effort should be con-
siderable.
There was a mild riot at the Bowman’s Arcade
recruiting stand t’other day when a civilian in the
crowd kept his hat on during the wailing of the
National Anthem. Someone knocked it off for him
and was promptly reproved by a third man. The
eternal feminine then took a hand, attacked the
unlucky reprover with fists and umbrellas, and chased
him up King William and Currie streets and back
through a side street and Bowman’s Arcade to King
William-street, where the police took the panting citi-
zen under their protection. Meanwhile the original
disturber of the peace had melted away like the Arab.
Audrey Chirnside, daughter and heiress of
the George Chirnsides, of Werribee Park, is
wearing the solitaire diamond of Major
Harold Pape, of the 13th British Tank
Corps. Audrey, now in England motor-
driving as a V.A.D., is the only child of her
sporting father. She is keen on coursing
and all outdoor sports, and when here kept
marvellous kennels. Mrs. George, a lovely,
languid, frocky lady, was hard put to it to
mould her into conventional debutante form.
Audrey, a fine-looking, breezy, blue-eyed lass,
loved her tweeds better than frills and fur-
belows. Mother was an Australian beauty,
whose frocking for any social occasion took
the form of a ceremonial. Two hours was
the minimum dressing time; but the result
always warranted the trouble taken with
her flower-like person. She has been in
London almost continuously since the war.
Audrey divided her time between helping
her and helping dad in Egypt.
May the orange-tree that shed its blossoms
over the wedding of Private Boy Vial and
Mollie Crozier bear bushels of golden fruit!
While he was putting in three years’ active
service in the Land of the Midnight Hun, she
and his mother did their bit —they worked
his farm at Cowley’s Creek for him. When
he came home the young people had their
wedding.
Another transport romance. Estelle
Venner Keogh, of St. Ivilda, joined the Im-
perial nursing service two years ago because
the Australian authorities considered her too
young for the job, although she had shown
her proficiency at the Glenroy Base
Hospital. After a spell at Abbeville
Military Hospital, France, she took ser-
vice with the big hospital barges which
carry the wounded down the Somme.
Later she was with a British surgical team
on emergency work at the casualty clearing-
stations, and last New Year the King pinned
the Royal Ited Cross of the First Class to her
tunic. She won it for her conduct during a
bombardment near Ypres, which killed a
Canadian nurse and caused the loss of another
girl’s eye. Estelle stayed to see the last
wounded man off the premises. On the
transport coming home she met Lieut. G. 11.
Wilkins, M.C., a Tasmanian of 30, and now
she has gone to his Island to marry him.
Dame Hackett has dropped her courtesy
title (gained when the late John Winthrop
Hackett of Westralia was knighted) with
her widowhood, and is now Mrs. IMoulden.
She married Alderman Mo'ulden in Adelaide,
and the two are honeymooning here at
Menzies’.
Robert Hannah and Rosie Pascoe are
preparing for a wedding. Rosie, a very
pretty Brighton girl, is a daughter of
Pascoe, of the National Mutual Life office.
Robert dabbles in Imperial Oil. The wed-
ding will be at Yeovil, Brighton, with a
cottage honeymoon somewhere in the hills.
The next-best-man at the marriage will be
solicitor Roy Mackenzie, of Bendigo, and
the chief bridesmaid Ethel Pascoe. These
two have already decided on a wedding of
their own about a year hence.
Marjorie Rouse, the bright young Sydney
girl -who used to liven up Melbourne occa-
sionally at race times, has just been married
in America to a Mr. Lucey, of Erie, Penn-
sylvania. Mother has seen the wedding
through and is bound for home and Sydney.
Beryl McAdam, daughter of Dr. McAdam,
married Dalziel Kelly last week and wore
full bridal costume for the ceremony. Her
gown was white satin and silver, roses and
lace, with the conventional train, veil and
wreath. The wedding was a quiet affair,
but the relations of both the stars are so
numerous that there was a good “house/’
They were married in the chapel of the Eng-
lish Grammar School. Beryl had the joy
of having her soldier brother home on fur-
lough to see the event. The squattocrat
Weatherleys were there, also the mining
Bowes Kellys. Jean Weatherley and Nancy
Isaacs wore sky-blue chiffon as bridesmaids,
and Cedric Battle was best man. Mrs.
Russell Grimwade wore deep blue.
Political recruiting-sergeant Donald Mac-
kinnon is now a grandfather. The stork de-
posited a baby girl at son Donald’s doorstep
in Ireland the other day.
Melbourne Shakspeare Society is having
another birthday on the 19th ; or, rather, it
is the Bard’s birthday, and the Society is
celebrating it for him. The shivoo will take
the form of a dramatic and musical enter-
tainment at the Masonic Hall, ticket-holders
being advised to book their seats at Glen’s.
Talking begins at 8. And they do talk on
Shake’s natal day.
The Lyceum Club, our great stronghold of
blue-stockingism, lately listened to a paper
by Mary E. Wilkinson, the authoress of
several repertory plays including “Whither,”
“The Lie,” etc. The document dealt with
three Australian poets, Dorothea Maekellar.
Bernard O’Dowd and Hugh McCrae. It was
read by sweet-voiced Repcrtorian actress
Mary Curtain, and urged more recognition
for our local bards. Prof. Boyce Gibson,
scholastic Miss Gillman-Jones and president
Enid Derham, commended the criticism
warmly, while Dr. and Mrs. J. Booth. Floss
Greig, the Oswald Syme lady and sister Lucy
Rowe murmured “Hear, hear,” in suitable
places.
The opening night of “The Madras
House” attracted to the Playhouse the usual
collection of Highbrows and Awful Dressers,
the women mostly looking as if their clothes
had caught on them as they ran downstairs
to the tram. (In one of Kipling’s stories,
by the way, one lady describes another as
looking as if she had stood in the middle of
the room, while her husband threw her
clothes at her with a hay-fork, which may
be relevant, and again it may not.) The
H. 11. Champions were in the stalls and
near at hand Archibald Too Strong peered
through his spectacles as though searching
for disguised Bolsheviks. Solicitor-General
Bob Garran, looking like a very thoughtful
giraffe in unblemished evening dress, had a
party in one of the balcony boxes; and Mrs.
Lionel Lindsay, on a holiday visit from
Sydney, was with friends in another. Others
in the balcony were Emily Dyason-Scott
and her _ professor husband, and the city
newsboys’ “cobber” Edith Onians. A par-
ade of mannequins in the third act might
have given the show the interest of a revue
if the ladies had had fewer clothes and more
confidence.
Rumor is flying round that Italian bari-
tone Balboni is much stirred in his mind
over a call to the colors. Balboni is a six-
footer who always appreciates to the full
his own magnificent appearance on stage or
platform. He makes a good color scheme
himself with his blue-black hair, coal-black
eyes and yellow-tan complexion shown up
against the white spread of his shirtfront
and his immaculate black concert duds.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
still going strong
uV'JQ'-W
N I
co v-
r'
' r (
Va
L
k»
- s
v> •
U O
Y&J .
/
k
K
t
>
z'
\
55e
V $
/
€
a*
K
VN
89
S)
%
£^32
Ftv
> v
/
Ltf
LV
Va
ft*
!>.
r
'M
« «/
£
W
.
U
m
a
1
orery&*
J^°<seNO^
“So many men, so many minds
But all are agreed on “Johnnie Walker.”
tohnnie Walker “Red Label” Whisky is now put up only in new and greatly improved Patent Bottles
which are easy to pour. These Bottles are commercially- non-refillable.
It is not claimed that they are scientifically non-refillable any more than a Burglar-proof Safe is claimed
to be absolutely burglar-proof.
But both Kon-refillable Bottles and Burglar-proof Safes give ample protection to their valued contents.
GUARANTEED SAME QUALITY THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland


For COUGHS and COLDS Use
HEENZO
Registered Name
for
HEAN’S ESSENCE.
)
Miss VERA PEARCE
says: “The distress of a
relaxed throat u-as be-
coming very pronounced.
Remedies known to the
theatrical profession for
years were inefficacious:
but HEENZO {Bean's
Essence ) proved
promptly beneficial, and
the speedy manner in
which it toned and
strengthened the vocal
cords induces me to
highly recommend your
excellent preparation to
all wh o s,e vocations
necessitate constant use
of the voice.”
m
Costs 21-
Saves 10/-
Each bottle of HEENZO.
when diluted with warm
water and sweetened, pro-
duces a pint of superior-
quality mixture for Coughs,
Colds and Sore Throats. A
pint of ready-made mixture
would cost at least 12/-.
HEENZO costs only 2/-.
Moral: Use HEENZO and
save 10/-, and
BUY WAR LOAN
BONDS.
A Signal Success
King George IV
TKe TOPNOTCHScotck
ABORIGINAHTIES
“Jimmie Pannikin”: In reply to “Niin’s”
query, I want to say that the Education Depart-
ments of Australia do most earnestly encourage the
idea of bird-troughs and miniature sanctuaries. The
trouble is the average Australian’s apathy; but for
this characteristic casualness and apparent want of
power to sustain energy and enthusiasm, in the
direction of saving and comforting native bird-life,
every school in the land would have its bird-
troughs for drink and for food and its ready-made
bird bungalows. The enterprising Americans are
miles ahead of us in this respect.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Every school should
have its gathering of feathered friends tamed by
the regular supply of food, drink and kindness. I
have seen bush schools that were visited daily at
12.30 sharp by birds in search of sure and certain
food, non-intoxicating drink and safe, interesting
human company. If the school were a little late
in dismissirg, some of the birds, probably the hens,
became quite irritable. Occasionally the head-
master would delay dismissal to show the pupils
how much the birds disliked unpunctuality. Even the
frli,\, sensitive satin-bird becomes tame enough to
join the bush bairnies at lunch.
* * *
'K. J. Till.vai'd" : As the “man who re-
cently wrote about dragon-flies” referred to bv
Kola (B. 21/3/’18), I liave a bone to pick with
bun. He says that I “overlooked one of their prin-
cipal failings ; they are hogs on bees,” and then pro-
ceeds to describe how “the fly gets busy, and soon
the bees’ innards are sucked out.” and “a fly will
seriously reduce a hive in a very few days.” Now,
if “Kola” had even glanced casuallv at my book,
which apparently he hasn’t, he would see that'dragon-
flies cannot suck. His description very aptly fits the
giant robber-flies, which have been this season such
a serious menace to our bees. These flies have slender
bodies, large eyes, and are very fierce—much fiercer
than dragon-flies are. Their mouth is prolonged
into a horny beak, with which they impale their
victims, sucking the blood from their bodies, and
then casting them aside. Their appetite is insatiable,
and I should say that they consume 20 times as
much food in a day as does a dragon-fly twice their
size. These flies belong to the family Asilidce (not
allied to the family Atinidce, in which we only class
people who gratuitously give the wrong names to
insects and other things), and their nearest relatives
aie the March-flies, or Tabanidne, those vicious blood-
suckers of the bush that we all know. They are the
largest and fiercest representatives of the order Dip-
tcra, which includes such pests as the mosquito and
blowfly, not to mention hosts of others. The dragon-
flies are aristocrats compared with these Huns of the
insect world, and are much more concerned, during
their short existence in the winged state, with the
gentle arts of flying and sex-dalliance. Many attempts
have been made to estimate the actual food "of dragon-
flies, chiefly by Professor Poulton (of Oxford) and
myself, and 1 can safely state that neither we nor
a 113011 c else has ever recorded that dragon-flies attack
bees, although I do not say that such an occurrence
is impossible. If “Kola” would be so good as to
catch one of these tyrants of Oippsland (by the way,
what is Mr. Wise doing to allow this sort of thing
to go on in his kingdom?), and will send it to me
with some of its victims or their “bones,” so that 1
can examine the nature of the injury inflicted, 1
shall be very pleased to give him the scientific name
of Ins enemy, and any other information that I can
furnish about it. Hornsby (N.S.W.) will get me
if the G.P.O. doesn’t put the letter in the Rootv Hill
bag.
* * *
“Pharmo”: For scrub-itch. “Mac” (B.
21/3/’IS) might try the following treatment. Bathe
the irritated parts in a solution of bicarbonate of
sooa (the ordinary baking soda), about one teaspoon-
ful to a pint of water. Dry gently and apply
boracic ointment liberally. Then make for the near-
est chemist and get him to dispense a magnesia and
sarsaparilla mixture.
* * *
“Ornis”: “Wart” (B. 21/3/’18) is in
eiior in stating that the pear-slug was introduced
into the Speck about 15 years ago. It arrived via
Melbourne o\er 30 years back. As the pest does
not affect apples, growers of that fruit do not
worry much about it, but cherry cultivators have to
fight it for all they are worth. It is capable of
killing a large tree in three years. The pest is
of the sawfly family, the female being equipped
with a beautiful and very effective weapon with
which she makes minute slits in the tissue of the
leaves and slightly lifts the edges and then lays
one egg in each tiny pocket. Nothing is visible
until the eggs have hatched, and then minute white
spots show up. Later the slugs develop and fall
to the ground, where they turn into pupze or chrysa-
lis, just below the surface. Those unpleasant-look-
ing, squirmy grubs one sees in clusters on many
gum-trees are first cousins.
THE GIFT—USEFUL AND ORNAMENTAL.
BOSS ( sourly): “What do you mean by coming to work at this hour?”
CLERK : "I’m sorry, sir. I slept in. My wife presented me with a little son last night.”
BOSS: "Did she? Pity she didn't present you with an alarm-clock.”
CLERK : “I’ve an idea she has, sir.”
CONCLUSIVE.
JIM (who has been accused by Bill of drinking his beer) : “I never seen yer blanky
beer."
BILL ( stolidly ): “Oh, aw right."
JIM (furiously) : “I never seen yer Manky beer—I never seen the smell of yer Manky
beer."
‘Mini G.”: Apart from its pre-arranged
job, the Murrumbidgee irrigation scheme is a national
benefactor, as its great stretches of unirrigable land
form a sanctuary for native bixds, animals and
insects. In the Spring millions of love-birds or
shell-parrots nest and rear their broods in the tall
gums at the foot of the ranges, while innumerable
quail sport and fatten in the long grass' on the red-
soil plains. The total absence of the poison-cart
gives the kookaburra, magpie, ibili and many other
old friends a chance to die of old age, and in the
sunny weather the air is filled with the gladsome
hum of the wild bees. As no sheep are running in
the country, young kurrajongs, wattles, all kinds of
acacias and gumtree seedlings are springing up.
The country itself, owing to the fact that it is
not overstocked, is responding with a perfect mat
of natural grasses and herbs. A ride through this
Arcadia in the cool Autumn shadows would make
anyone a lover of Australia for ever.
(Continued on page 24.)
"Jim Carew”: In Noumea in ’B7 I pur-
chased an old Bible printed in French, and bearing
the date 1823. On returning to N.S.AV. (same
1 eai) I packed the book in a wooden case with
ethers and stored the lot in a bain. Until recently
I didn’t disturb it. On opening the case 1 found
every book, except this Bible, ruined by white ants.
Are white ants religious?
* * *
T-W.”: The pilot-fish ( Ntiucrates due-
tor) turns up at times on the N.S.AV. South Coast in
close attendance on a blue-pointer or tiger shark or
other brand of sea-wolf. I caught five of these little
fishes personally conducting a blue-pointer about 7ft.
long round and round a deep hole at the mouth of
an estuary. Three pilots swam a few inches above
the shark’s nose and two right in front of it, all five
keeping in their positions with wonddrful precision.
Of course the shark doesn’t bother about such small
fry, but when he picks his teeth after a mea] the
pilots score, and this, fishologists assert, accounts
for the strange partnership. The pilots wear bluish-
grey coats barred with brown. They are edible, but
I don t think they often visit the frying-pan.
* * * *
How is this for a shearing record?
AA r . Amelia put up the following tallies this season:
At J. McCartin’s, Utiku, Main Trunk Line (M.L.),
on Dec. 19, 311; on Dee. 21, 322; on Dec. 27,
339 (a world’s record). At J. Smith’s, Utiku, on
Jan. 4, 300 ; and at A. R. Munro’s, Mura Mura,
Jan. 22, 314 ; and Jan. 24, 306. Ordinary shear-
ing hours. A'ella was for a number of years in
Queensland, and put through 277 at Wantalyna,
AATnton, in 1915.
“W.A.C.”: When toiling in the canefields
in Queensland I had trouble in keeping the luncheon
meat from getting fly-blown until an old hand
advised me to hang the menu 12ft. from the ground.
Cursing at blowfly's offspring thereafter ceased.
* .* * #
"Bouragi”: “Malaria” (B. 14/3/18)
asks how to keen clear of the dreaded fever from
which he takes his pen-name. There is only one way:
dodge the infected anopheles mosquito. That the
“malarial mists” of which he writes cause fever is
a long-exploded superstition. As they generally rise
in the marshy habitat of the anopheles, they get the
blame attaching to the insignificant insect.
“Malaria’s ’ long immunity W'as due merely to his
luck in not having been introduced to an infected
anopheles. Now that many cases of malaria among
our troops are being landed in Australia I would not
be surprised to hear that malaria, always present in
this country, though in very slight degree, becomes
increasingly common. AYe have the right breed of
mosquitoes, and only need a start with the infection.
THE LONG ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lin trampin down from Dubbo in the rain an’ in
the heat ;
I’ve wandered through Australia, far an’ near;
An’ 1 know the country backwards, for I learnt it
on my feet,
But the learnin’s grow in’ harder every year.
Tor my swag as I get older
Feels heavier to my shoulder,
An’ there’s times when life is hardlv worth the
strain ;
Sweet an’ bitter 1 have tasted,
An’ 1 feel my life’s been wasted
As I m trampin’ down from Dubbo in the rain.
I’ve humped a heavy bluey through from Charlcville
to Hay,
f lorn Tullamore to Cobar, out an* back;
l 1 roin Dalby to Deniliquin I know the weary way,
An’ I know what men may suffer on the track.
Ah! the billy-tea an’ damper
Seem so jolly to the camper
At hen he s got his week-end friends to entertain ;
But with nought else in the larder—
Well, it comes a trifle harder,
As you’re trampin’ down from Dubbo in the rain!
Now the squatters an’ the cookies always shake their
heads an’ frown,
Where years ago they’d offer me a job ;
But since my thatch has whitened they mostly turn
me down,
An’ nowadays it’s hard to earn a bob.
The folks who meet me, wonder
Why I’m down an’ out an’ under,
An’ they talk to me in sympathetic strain.
I suppose they think I’m dilly,
With my bluey an’ my billy,’
To be trampin’ down from Dubbo in the rain.
Yes, they smile to see me ploddin’ on along the
Bathurst road,
The long, long road that runs to back o’ Bourke ;
They agree “the weather’s beastly to be humpin’
such a load,”
They’re “surprised I’d rather tramp than go to
work!”
But it’s little use to grumble
When the storm begins to rumble,
lor it’s on’y fools an’ farmers who complain;
They may growl about the weather,
I take good an’ bad together,
And I’m trampin’ down from Dubbo in the rain.
Now I’m drawin’ near to Lithgow, an’ I'll cross the
mountain range,
Where the bracken hides the long forgotten graves
Of the pioneers who made the road. Lord! Ain’t
there been a change ?
There’s tourist parties, now, to see the caves!
Toffs from Mosman an’ St. Kilda,
Who will joke about Matilda,
An’ they’ll ask me ain’t it nicer in the train l
They’ve got motor-cars an’ money,
So they think it blinkin’ funny
That I’m trampin’ down from Dubbo in the rain.
But I’ll go the way appointed, an’ I’ll climb the
mountain track,
An’ I’ll find the air is cleaner on the range.
It’s too late to turn aside now, an’ linger, or look
back,
It s much too late for me to make a change.
An’ it’s little I am caring
For the bit of swag I’m bearing—
I’ve a heavier load to carry in my brain;
An’ I wouldn’t mind it, only—
Well, I’m getting tired an’ lonely
As I’m trampin’ down from Dubbo in the rain.
N.s.w.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


RJJ72. LIGHT ZEPHYR SHIRTS, white
neckbands, soft double cuffs, white grounds, with
black and blue stripes. PRICE 5/6, 3 for 16 f-
KR72a. OXFORD CLOTH LOUNGE SHIRTS,
white neckbands, soft double cuffs, white grounds,
with neat stripe effect. PRICE 8/6, 3 for 24/0
RR77 (beIow).—WHITE STIFF-FRONTED
DRESS SHIRTS, open in front or back, one
Stud hole. PRICE 7/6, 3 for 21/9
Better quality. PRICE .. 9/6. 3 for 27/9
RR7B. —white
SOF T-F R O N T E D
SHIRTS.
PRICE 7/6. :
Better qualities—-
PRICE 9/6. 3
PRICE .... 11 /6. 3
PLEATED
DRESS
for 21/9
for 27/9
for 33/-
in Mens Mercery
m
1
n
•h
Mmmmmgz-
£
\
04
Vi
RR74
RR7S
RR73
r=:
RR73. CEYLON FLANNEL PYJAMAS, special quality Ceylon medium
weight, neat designs, in stripes or colored grounds, Bradford collars and
pearl buttons.
36 to 42 inches. PRICE 12/6. 3 for 36/-
44 to 40 inches. PRICE 13/6. 3 for 39/-
RR74. HEAVY SILK AND COTTON PYJAMAS, made in our own
workrooms, best make and finish, white grounds, colored stripes, 36 to
42 inches.’ PRICE 27/6. 3 for 79/6
RR7S. WOOL AND COTTON TWILL PYJAMAS, similar weight to
Viyella, very soft finish and will not shrink, light and white grounds,
with various colored stripes, Bradford collars and pearl buttons, 36 to 42
inches. PRICE 27/6, 3 for 79/6
ffltmra
111 111 111.1^
COMMONWEALTH v WAR LOAN.
FARMER’S and ANTHONY HORDERNS’ CASH PRIZE SCHEME.
FIRST PRIZE £lOOO
■
'it
RR76
RR7O. CRIMEAN DAY SHIRTS, good weight
of material, well made, very warm for cold
weather, medium grounds, with various colored
stripes. All sizes. PRICE.. 12/6, 3 for 36/-
RR76ft. CEYLON DAY SHIRTS, Rood weight
for Winter wear, newest colorings, with neat
stripes, all sizes. PRICE .. 11/0, 3 for 33/-
RR79 (beIow).—WHITE SHORT-FRONTED
SHIRTS, opening in front or back.
PRICE 7/C, 3 for 21/9
Better quality. PRICE ... 9/0, 3 for 27/9
&
RR
RR79
KRBO.— WHITE LONQCLOTH
SOFT-FRONTED SKIRTS, stiff
cuffs and neckbands. All sizes.
PRICE 7/6, 3 for 21/9
MaKe Your Own Furniture.
We send you the Pieces in
VA t
m
&
=:
1
i
W\
BELL AND PBAZER.-U W n*»..
S\
TIMBER
It is Pleasant Work Fitting them Together.
a
YOU SAVE
about two-tbirds of
the freight as well
as expensive packing,
And you Win the Satisfaction
that you made it yourself.
We supply working plans and full particulars
for the making of
Artistic Furniture in Pine, riaple or Oak.
Quote Distinguishing: Letter of Article when Sending Order.
SI?
The Redi-Kut Timber Specialists,
ROZELLE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office —
14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH —
360-6 COEEINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH—
WIDOWS' FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
Martin s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladiec recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemift, Southami )D. — Advt.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
“Horatio”: The Government dairy expert
was lecturing an audience of cow-cockies at a small
Taranaki (M.L.) township. Said he: M I want you
people to realise that there are cows and cows, just
as there are eggs and eggs. Some cows pay, some
cows don t. ’ This was too much for the local grocer,
who spoke up from a back bench: “By cripes, mister,
you re right! An some of the cows who don't pav
are in this 'ere ’all to-night!”
“Paul Cupid”: Ever see a pitched battle
between a tarantula and a centipede? It’s fine. 1
thought at first the fellow of many legs must win
easily ; but tlie tarantula not only held its own, but
seemed to have the other very groggy. However,
when the mill had reached a most interesting stage
a wasp poised overhead for an instant, then darted
down, pulled the tarantula out of a clinch and flew
oif with it.
* * * *
•Tun : Here are two queer places where
I have found bees’ nests: (1) In a rabbit burrow,
near Bulagero Siding, Cootamundra ; (2) on a netting
fence between Harefield and Wallacetown (N.S.W.),
until heavy rains disturbed the busy insects, leaving
a nice piece of comb and honey. By the way, to
make bees alight when swarming, take a looking-
glass and reflect the rays of light on the insects in
the air.
THE NOISY OPERATION.
BROWN : “You've been ill, I believe. I heard a report about your appendix."
SMITH ( horrified) : “Good heavens, did you? And they told me it was quite a quiet little
operation.”
“Wnndi”: A team of bullocks was sold
the other day for £5OO. When I was off.siding for
Greenhide a few years ago, the talk of the country
was the sale of a working-bullock for £9 —a price
to startle the cableman then. The purchaser was
an ox-conductor who worked only bovine celebrities ;
if he heard of a great bullock anywhere he would
go after it, no matter how far he had to travel;
and any beast he bought had to prove its worth
in a scratch pull against a dinkum of his own.
“Nine quid’’ was his record price for a champion,
and he knew the bullocks' “Who's Who” from A
to Z. Times have changed, and soon the bullock
will be too important to swear at.
* * * *
“Vigilans”: I have camped ou practically
all rivers in North Australia where crocodiles
abound, but have never heard a vocal note from
them. The croc, is a sloth in action aiid as noise-
less as an angels’ concert, and, moreover, he is the
most cowardly wretch in existence for his weight and
size. I suppose in no portion of Australia are they
so prolific as in the vicinity of Derby, Wyndham and
Darwin, yet the inhabitants of
those hamlets are never disturbed
at night. From the jetty at
Derby or Wyndham at low water
huge crocs, can be seen basking in
the sun or half-hidden in the
mud, but never a sound comes
from them. In fact, for the size
of the creature a crocodile is the
most silent, uncanny mover in
creation. But you cannot outdo
him for cunning. While fishing
off the high banks of the Northern
rivers I have been watched for
hours by huge monsters, the only
portion visible being the snout and
the eyes, which protrude from the
sockets on such occasions. Under
ordinary circumstances the croc, is
a sluggish, slimy, hideous brute,
but for its size and ungainliness
nothing is quicker in movement in
the water, and no inhabitant can
travel with such rapidity and
make less stir in the water. It
can enter and emerge without
causing a - ripple. The brutes do
little hunting on land ; the tail is
used to sweep any adventurous being into the water.
Although they are so numerous in the North you
rarely hear of anyone being attacked, and no one
fears them.
* * * *
“Eddyson” : Clowe was a man who might
have escaped attention his whole life through had it
not been for his quaint delusion concerning the affec-
tion he inspired in dumb animals. When I was
in Saucer Plat it was a bull, a large, methodical
animal, apparently as capable of regard for anyone
as so much punk. The bull’s name was Ovid, and
Clowe owned him chiefly as a conversational staple,
I imagine. At any rate Clowe talked about
nothing else. The affection of Ovid for Clowe
was, it seemed, past all human comprehension.
Ovid had even in a fit of jealousy attacked “Tereser,”
to whom Clowe was paying attentions, and when
Tereser commanded Clowe to choose between her
and the brute, he had no hesitation in deciding that
no woman could ever love him as Ovid did. I re-
turned to Saucer Flat 12 months later, and Clowe
was then being adored by an exceptional litter of
pigs orphaned by lightning. I spoke about Ovid.
“He’s gorn,” said Clowe. “You see, me ’n’ Wil-
liamson’’—Tereser had married Williamson—“had a
row over 15 shillin’s, ’n’ it led to a fight up
in the paddock. While we was at it, up comes
Ovid, ’n’ that bull no sooner sees Williamson is
lickin’ me than he gets to him ’n’ gores him all
up. That bein’, I had to shoot the bull.” I ex-
pressed my sense of Clowe's ingratitude: “The poor
beast sought to serve you, and you shot him.” “Oh,
that’s all very well,” said Clowe, “but 1 had Wil-
liamson pinned at the time, ’n’ the blessed bull
had to go through me to get at him. Three holes
I had. I shot Ovid for not havin’ better sense.”
“D.F.”: When E. J. Eyre was at Fowler’s
Bay (S.A.) in 1840 getting ready for the first over-
land trip to W.A., he saw on the beach the shell of
a very big turtle, which must, he says, have weighed
between 3001 b. and 4001 b. It had been caught by the
crew of an American whaler which put in some
months at Fowler's Bay. Is there any other record
of turtle being found on the south coast of Aus-
tralia ?
“Jim Carew”: In the western parts of
N. S. Wales I have often seen men denuded of all
their hair. A man will go to, bed apparently nothi-g
wrong with him and wake up in the morning to fi id
that every hair on his body has fallen out during the
night. I have never known this disease to attack
a woman. Once the hair falls out in this fashion
nothing yet invented will make a new crop grow.
* * * «
“Breeza”; If any bushwhacker will hand
out a few hints on how to poison, trap or otherwise
lay out crows he will receive the applause of many
labbit men of the back country, where, in some dis-
tricts, a shilling each is offered for the scavenger’s
head. It’s an easy matter to catch one or two, but it
takes a smart hand to get the next 150 necessary
to give a hunter union wages for a day. A cooky
named Merry man was the last to pass me reliable in-
formation about crows. His advice was: “Find a
dead sheep, paint the carcase well with phosphorus
and collect the crows next day.” Soon-after a jum-
buek chucked it in the vicinity of Merryman’s home-
stead and I hastened to paint the carcase and await
results. They were as follows: Seven prime bacon-
ers, three suckers, 10 “slips,” three dogs, Pansy
(she was the boss’s wife’s cat), and half a dozen
magpies. No dead crows, but plenty of live ones
busy picking the eyes out of the casualties.
* * * »
‘ Taraihana” : A candidate was roaring for
votes in a small town of West Bananaland just
before the recent elections. He had been orating re
the primary producer, when a belligerent barb-wire
bushman jumped up and demanded: “Who is the pro-
doocer?” “Not you, anyhow,” the candidate fired.
Well, if I ain t I’d like to know about it,” says Barb
Wire; “there's 12 of ’em at home.”
“Te Whare”: Let me recommend kangaroo
hams. Take 31b. coarse salt, six tablespoonfuls
treacle, lOoz. brown sugar, oz. saltpetre, and loz.
carbonate of soda ; mix with enough water to make
a strong brine. This quantity will cure 10 to 12
hams. Let them soak for five or six days, then hang
up to dry, in a smoky kitchen for preference.
* * * *
“Jim Carew”: I was recently a spectator
of the fiercest fight between two Australian natives
that it has ever been my fortune to witness. It was
ago between two male white cockatoos. I was hidden
in a cornfield with a double-barrel, hoping for a shot.
The mob was perched in a dead tree about 150 yards
away. By the unusual note of the screeching I knew
that something out of the way was on, anil as they
had forgotten to post sentries in their excitement, I
managed to crawl within 40 yards of them. I was
just in time. The screeching suddenly ceased anil
two of them fluttered to the ground. With a few
preliminary caws they were at it hammer and tongs,
after the best game-rooster style. The scrap lasted
about five minutes, and then one threw in the towel
and both struggled back to the tree. During the
fight the spectators were absolutely quiet, but when
peace was signed the row was nearly deafening. My
gun put an end to the argument; I fired both barrels
and collected 11.
»* * *
“Rouragi”: 1 see that a snake has come
to an untimely end by breaking into Armidale Gaol.
I wonder if he was as interesting to the inmates as
another I knew of. This chap was a big carpet, and
the gaol he broke into was the one for native prisoners
at Tamata, one-time capital of the Northern Division,
Papua. The gaol was a long building of logs, and
tlie prisoners, when they turned in for the night,
were chained, each by the ankle, to a long trace
chain running down the middle of the floor. Thus
there were two rows of them, sleeping feet to feet.
Most of the prisoners were Orokolo carriers from the
Gulf of Papua, and, like all Western boys as opposed
to Northerners, terribly afraid of snakes. One morn-
ing about 2 o’clock the R.M., whose house was some
200yds. from the gaol, was wakened by a noise as
if all the fiends in the Pit had been plunged into
ice-water. While he was trying to make out whether
it was a general native rising or just a local mutiny,
a horror-stricken police sentry arrived with
the news that the Devil had broken into the
gaol and was eating the prisoners. To make
things as cheerful as possible, the R.M. was
rotten with fever, and the darkness was so
thick that the rain could barely fall through it.
It took a long time to get things explained, but
Vakemba, an ex-policeman who was doing two years
CONSOLATION'.
THE VICTIM: “For Gawsake give us a hand,
Digger."
DIGGER: “Aw, he patient! Theres a bloke
four feet under ’ere ain't sayin' nothin’."
without tlie option for murdering and eating a
prisoner whom he was escorting to gaol, finally
helped to unravel the mystery. While the Western
and Northern prisoners were fast asleep a snake had
entered through the log wall and begun to pro-
menade down the line of Western men. These, panic-
stricken at the horror that crawled by night, franti-
cally endeavored to take shelter among the North-
erners, who, while not fearing the serpent particu-
larly, objected to the trespass. Meanwhile the snake,
more scared than all the others put together, gal-
loped impartially over the shrieking mass, desperatelv
trying to find an exit. When the R.M. finally threw
the door open the reptile slipped between that nerve-
wracked individual’s legs like a streak of agitated
perdition, leaving behind him a reputation in that
part of the world which will last as long as one of
those gaol blackbirds .is living.
“Jack McLaren”: A five hours’ run
through a sunlit sea that sparkled and frisked
brought us to the Torres Strait island of Badu. The
course from Thursday is mainly through a labyrinth
of reefs, sandbanks and islands fringed with grey-
white beaches and straight, sinister-looking man-
gio\es. The quick darkness of the tropic night came
down while we were yet at sea, and above the
pulsing of the engine and the swish of the bow-wave
came the softly-spoken directions of the native who
called himself “cheap officer’’ as he ferreted a
passage with disaster hidden on either side and
ahead. Alleged civilisation has deprived these natives
of many of their virtues, but exact local knowledge
and wonderful vision are still theirs. From their
youth they have hunted pearlshell and bfiche-de-mer
among the valleys and mountains of the sea-floor, and
they know every reef, sandbank and irregularity of
the bottom. The felinity of their sight is almost
uncanny; on the darkest of nights they can see to
a distance quite impossible to whites. At Badu, as
on most of the inhabited islands of the Strait, an
attempt is being made to help these races, who were
happy enough in a general sort of way before civilisa-
tion interfered. The State’s efforts are mainly edu-
cational and protective. Teachers, some of them
women, school Black Brudder’s nippers, adjudicate
in petty civil questions, and keep a check on immo-
rality. To these teachers much of the work is heart-
breaking, and it is all underpaid. In addition to
these guides, native councillors are chosen from the
supposedly wisest and best-behaved of the villagers,
and their duties are to keep order, sit in adjudication
with the teachers, and, on state occasions, wear a
guernsey with “Councillor” in large letters upon it.
A certain kind of success has attended the Church’s
efforts, mainly because the nigger, steeped in super-
stition, takes rather kindly to the missioner’s
alleged ability to protect him from evil spirits and
other bad influences, and because “Church members”
consider themselves of more importance and a nearer
approach to the envied white man than the common
herd. Then there is, also, an inherent love of cere-
WOULDN’T WAIT FOR THE
EXPLOSION.
BOILER INSPECTOR: “What would you do
first, supposing the water in the boiler
was low, the safety valve was blowing
full open and the feed was suddenly cut
off?”
STOKER: " Do! Why, I’d run like blazes!”
mony and display, which is a powerful attraction.
Altogether, the policy adopted in these islands has
justified itself in one respect—the population is
rapidly increasing. What to do with them wheD
their increasing birthrate makes the islands too small
to hold them is going to be another of Australia’s
problems.


Absolutely °O/$ 0
f M wtbet t qualities ,- 9
?fss
V
TH£ absolutely unique qualities o/ State Express
Cigarettes, which make them the favorite
amongst discriminating men everywhere, are
the result of the extraordinary care that is taken in
their manufacture.
CIGARETTES
are made by experts of unrivalled
ability, and only life-long experi-
ence bas rendered it possible to
produce tbe wonderful blends of
tobacco wbicb Have made »State
Express a bousebold word
amongst smokers of culture and
taste.
No. 333
C\c\ £ er
V/Us PacKet
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Sold by all Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
So/e Manufacturers:
brdath Tobacco Co. Ltd., London, England.
r
k
v
k
'/A
y
A
f
■/,
>
£
L
(/•


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That makes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases.
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taKen at the commencement of a Cold} but the
class of case that HEARNE'S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to maKe any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE—a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
For COUGHS. CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST,
WEAK LUNGS.
&
1
m
4
2"^
1
*
am
T
«vv
Wv
W,
&
~yry
IB
13.
m
m
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Go. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney. N.S.W. Wellington, N.Z.
Business. Robbery, etc.
“Pitta” : It’s the “inter-house trade” that’s
making (paper) fortunes for the wholesaler
at the present time, and incidentally send-
ing the cost of living sky-high for the con-
sumer. Anything from tea to tin-tacks sells
now. A man I know heard Blank and Co.
had a shipment of a certain class of wrap-
ping paper just in. (Paper is right out of
his line, but it’s impossible to go wrong
these times.) He sent a broker round for
particulars and took the lot. He held it
two months. The same broker then called
s eking the same class of paper and was
quoted 75 per cent, advance on cost. When
the sale was made the contract note dis-
closed that the original seller was now the
buyer! The Lord knows how many times
this paper was sold and re-sold before it
Covered pork chops.
“F.C.”: I know one delegate who didn’t
attend the recent A.N.A. Conference at Ben-
digo (Vic.), though he took a few days off
for the purpose. He. missed helping to carry
many b°autiful propositions—those in favor
of the referendum and recall, extension of
the beet-sugar industry, unification, propor-
tional representation, preference to Austra-
lians, encouragement of the flax-growing
industry and the tote had had his support
at many annual conferences —but his wife
told him he’d be better employed at home
perfecting his nearly-finished machine for
making clothes-pegs and wooden spoons. He
grieved over the loss of so many rhetorical
displays, but was honest enough to admit
that the wife was right.
“Croson” : More absurdities of price-fixing !
A while back the Australian Glass Works,
in Melbourne, paid £4 a ton for broken glass,
and were glad to get it. Then somebody who
has a job operating the meddlesome War
Precautions Act fixed the price at 30s. It
looked nice and pretty, like the price-fixing
of bunny-skins, but it worked out wrong.
The glass collectors said 30-bob was no good
to them, and turned to something else; the
Glass Works had to go on half-time, and the
chemists and others who want bottles had to
go without or pay about five times as much
as they should. The legal price is still 30
bob, but it might as well be 30 pence for all
the glass it brings in.
* * * *
Another way of doing it: —
Josiah Bett owned 500 acres of so-called arable
land at I‘ole Hill. Certainly it had potentialities,
but when Bott took hold its virtues were hidden
under gum-trees, spear-grass and bracken. In order
to get a productive area Bott had to adopt a mort-
gage, and for years he nursed the incubus. But he
was an industrious devil, with a red ant’s pertinacity,
and lie kept moving. He had a decent house up, and
an orchard and poultry, and his vegetable patch was
the best in the district. Then he hit out in another
direction. He welcomed paying guests. The neigh-
bors grinned at the idea of Bott's home as a luxuri-
ous retreat for the enervated rich, but to everybody's
surprise Jos. secured one apparently affluent patron.
Henry Arthur Bodewell motored out from the city
every Sunday morning, and motored back to the
city every Monday afternoon. The interval he spent
at the home of Josiah Bott at Pole Hill with Miss
Ariadne Bellview, chorister and toe-dancer, with a
reputed capacity for very small parts in the musical
plays with which the Red Spot Operatic Co. was delight-
ing the metropolis. When not walking with Miss Bell-
view in the fern glades, and assisting that business-
like young lady to gather the buttercups and daisies
for which she had no use, Bodewell slung himself
loosely' over the furniture, and smoked cigars, and
Josiah Bott told him about the mortgage. Appar-
ently Henry had no real, human interest in the mort-
gage ; he was alway's fretful when the subject was
brought up. In fact, there were distinct hints that
Henry detested Bott’s place, and Bott, and Bott's
mortgage, and loathed Pole Hill, and was far from
satisfied with the treatment Miss Ariadne Bellview
was meting out to him. He condoled with himself
all the way back to town, without any appreciable
effect upon Miss Bellview’s genteel composure. “It’s
a nice change from the city,” she said. “I like it.
1 love cows-—they do me good. Besides, there is
nobody to talk and make scandal. It's there or
nowhere, Henry.” And Henry, in whose otherwise
turgid bosom hope sprang eternal, and who had a
firm, almost terrified, conviction that Miss Ariadne
Bellview was necessary to his happiness, if not to his
very existence, went there Sunday after Sunday, and
heard again and again the moving history of Bott's
mortgage, and paid father more than first-class city-
hotel rates for thirty shillings’-worth of bush
accommodation, and was a miserable, discontented
young gentleman of abundant means and small men-
tality. But one Sunday he cut loose, and said he
would bally well stand it all no longer, dash his
eyes if he would. What was he dragged to the
rotten, out-of-the-way hole for, anyhow, and what the
place of everlasting torture did he care for Bott’s
mortgage! Hang Bott's mortgage! He was going
back to town for a Manhattan cocktail, and every-
body' else could blessed well do as she jolly' well
liked. “Oh, all right, Henry,” said Miss Ariadne.
“Toddle along. I’m staying.” “Wh-a-a-t?” squealed
y'oung Mr. Bodewcll. “Stayin’— here?'’ Ariadne
nodded coolly. “Yes,” she said. “You see, I only
stuck to the theatre to help Jos. lift the mortgage.”
“You—you!” gasped Henry, feebly. "You stay with
this —this mud-turtle?” “Ye-s-s,” said Jos., “I could
do with home now. You see, we haven’t really
had any married life, Bell ’n’ me bein’ busy' liftin'
the damn mortgage. But I'm real grateful to you
for liringin’ her. out to see me every week!” Then
Bella Bott, alias Ariadne Bellview, settled comfort-
ably to her cows.
* * * #
“E.S.S.”: Contributions of walking-sticks
for wounded soldiers lire asked for in Mel-
bourne, on the ground that “suitable woods
for making sticks are unprocurable.” They’re
not. Let me direct attention to gidgee,
mulga, black myrtle and tulip. There are
several others, but I mention these particu-
larly because they are amongst the best for
the purpose that can be got anywhere in the
whole wide world. Ring gidgee is the
hardest wood on this globe. It has a beauti-
fully dark, wavy grain, marked with cross
waves, like tortoise-shell, but almost black.
It is so plentiful that it is used outback for
fence posts and fuel—a sinful waste. Queens-
land walnut, one of the many excellent Aus-
tralian woods used for rifle-stocks at the
Lithgow Small Arms Dormitory, is also
suitable for walking-sticks of the' best class.
It is a dark-fed wood, very hard, and severe
on tools.
* * * *
“Ornis”: Even the oldest inhabitant can-
not remember a season when blackberries
were as plentiful as they have been this
year in the Speck. On the north-west
coast it has been not uncommon for a
family to make between £4O and £5O. The
price paid by the jam cos. in Hobart was
only three farthings a pound delivered at
the factory, and that will give same idea
of the size of the collection. In addition,
hundreds of casks were shipped to Mel-
bourne. Many cocky farmers are seriously
considering blackberries as a side-line. Just
as well, for in many places the trailing pest
is threatening to push everything else off
the land. Once it takes hold of a bit of
ground that suits, all the cussing and burn-
ing in the world won’t make it quit.
* * * *
“Murrabit”: Despite the meagre protec-
tion given to the manufacture of Australian
porcelain ware, the small works established
at Sunshine (Vic.), mentioned in The
Bulletin some months ago, are making
headway, and a co. is now taking them over
to extend them. Excellent cups and saucers
and inkwells and such-like have been turned
out, and the next move will be to make all
requirements of this nature in connection
with electrical installations.
• * * •
“The Floorwalker”: They steal in all
shapes, and their audacity would take your
breath away. One ladylike person, captured
with a lace dress valued at seven guineas
stowed away, when taken into the office
begged that the management would overlook
it just this once. “It’s a lovely dress,” she
sobbed, “and, you see, one must make a good
appearance at this game!”
*;* « #
“Osric”: “Timberite’s” reference to the
92ft. ironbark stick (B. 17/1/T8) used as
a derrick to hoist the mill-funnel into posi-
tion at Mount Rous is dinkum. After the
funnel was induced to stand upright on its
pedestal, held in position by a dozen out-
size bolts and nuts and four strong cable-
stays, the twig was dragged into a paddock
and left there for 12 years, when my dad
bought it and cut it into blocks. Some of
those blocks form the foundation of the room
I am now sitting in. The funnel referred to
weighed every ounce of 20 tons and was 6ft.
in diameter. It was brought on to the
premises in sections. An iron ladder inside
the tube stretched from base to topmost rim,
and it was up this that the painters were
obliged to climb, crawl gingerly over the lip,
make themselves comfortable in a sling, and
then slap and daub 120 ft. earthward. This
was a performance given only once in a
decade with a view to astonishing the
natives. For two months before the act
came off the performers took a course of
Nerve Nuts. I remember the dethronement
of this stack, and of the sister brick one, that
took place when the mill went bung. The
iron chimney was an easy job. The big nuts
at the base were unscrewed, the cable-stays
cut away, and a little zephyr did the rest.
She fell with a mighty wallop. The other
succeeded in covering half an acre of ground
with bricks and mortar.
■# * * #
“Tim Burr”: “Sub” asks (B. 7/3/T8)
about butchers’ skewers. Well, they are
being made in Melbourne. And the demand
is so great the manufacturer can’t make
enough to go round. Like the axe- and
shovel-handles, they cost about half of what
the imported article does at present.
* * * *
In May will come under the auctioneer’s
hammer the south-west corner of Bourke
and Elizabeth streets, Melbourne. It forms
part of one of the half-acres obtained by
Robert Hoddle at the first land sale, in
1837. Hoddle, who was the salesman, took
the frontage between Bourke and Little Col-
lins streets as his commission.
FEEDIN' PIGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out here in the paddock callin':
“Pig, pig—pig, pig, pig!”
See ’em scamper, scramblin’, failin’,
All sorts —little, big ;
Black pig, white pig, pig that's spotted,
Lean, ’n’ fit to kill,
And I do my task allotted,
Dishin’ up the swill
In a greasy, slattern rig.
“Pig, pig—pig, pig, pig!”
Standi n’ where they hog and waller—
Not above them, much —-
I could lift me hands ’n’ holler,
For me hate is such ;
’N’ I’m human, ’n’ I’m lonely,
Where the hogwash flows.
What a pig a pig is only
Such as I am knows.
It's me grave their long snouts dig.
“Pig, pig—pig, pig, pig!”
Once when I was less than twenty
(“Pig, pig—pig, pig, pig!”)
1 had ’opes ’n’ dreams in plenty—•
Didn't give a fig
For the men here. Now I'm thirty
There’s no man o’ mine.
Drabble-tailed I am ’n’ dirty,
Handmaid to the swine
Where they waller, gulp, ’n’ swig.
“Pig, pig—pig, pig, pig!”
Circe turned men, says the teacher,
Into pigs ; but who
Cares to think what kind of creature
Pigs have turned me to ?
Pigs in dozens squeal ’n’ nuzzle
All along my way ;
What the wretches crunch ’n’ guzzle
Taints me night ’n’ day'.
In my heart they root ’n’ dig.
“Pig, pig—pig, pig, pig!”
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
The Inky Way.
The last mail brought the first number
of Aussie, “the Australian soldiers’ maga-
zine, printed in the field by the A.I.F. Print-
ing Section.” He introduced himself much
as The Bulletin introduced itself to Aus-
tralia 3S years ago :
That good trench incident, that interesting story,
that smart gag, that bright epigram—send them
along. Don’t keep a good Aussie joke to yourself.
Let's all in the laugh. Don't worry about literary
style. Just jot it down and let’s have it.
So, as you might expect, Bulletin names
abound—including John Dailey’s: he writes
the “short story” for the first number; P. L.
Harris (“Philo”), the editor, writes “Leave-
making in Paris” ; and there is a Wild Cat
prospectus on the back cover.
* * * #
“M-yola”: It may surprise Campbell
Jones, of Sydney Sun, to know that a lonely
bird in the middle of the Indian Ocean was
named after him. Early in the war, when
Jones was London correspondent for the
Sun and other evening dailies, his last press
cable each day, lodged in London at about
3 a.m., always ended “Good-night—Jones.”
The Australian newspaper men were not the
only ones to sigh relievedly when the “good-
night” message came; it was watched for
and welcomed by the operators all along the
line. At Cocos Island, where visitors are
rare, a single frigate-bird used to fly regu-
larly across the cable station just about the
time when Jones’s final cable was passing
through. The bird was known to all as
“Good-Night-Jones.” Its end was sudden.
One of the staff, under the influence of a
scarcity of fresh meat, shot and ate “Good-
Night-Jones.” But, like the albatross in
Coleridge’s Rime of the Ancient Mariner, it
was evidently a bird of omen; for shortly
after it was slaughtered the landing party
of Emden Huns hoisted the German flag
over Cocos, wrecked the cable instruments
and decamped with a schooner, provisions
and clothes.
* * * *■
“Gullabong” : Major A. E. Wearne, M.C.,
leaves Sydney this month to take up his old
post as Reuter’s correspondent at Peking,
which he relinquished 2| years ago to lead
an Australian platoon in the Big Biff.
Sixty-nine members of the clan are fighting,
or have fought, in the war, and, in addition
to the Major, a nephew has w y on the Mili-
tary Cross. A brother is on Sydney Even-
ing News.
* * * *
“First Floor” is reflective:—
The other Saturday morning two artists received
their second lesson in the Importance of Being
Dolled-up. David Low and Hal Gye arrived at a
quite-respectable Healesville (Vie.) pub in the utterly
disrespectable condition of pedestrians who had
tramped about 15 miles bearing swags and billies
and clothes of uncertain age. In this disgraceful
disguise they demanded breakfast—breakfast at an
establishment where girls in glad rairhent and best
boys in superior white flannel pants are familiar
guests. The two horrible intruders survived the sus-
picions of the staff and the open contempt of the
beautiful boarders, and got their breakfast without
being required to pay in advance. Then Low, in a
crude attempt to assert the dignity of Art, lounged
to the bar and ordered a cigar. Only a very young
man could have expected to atone for his cheap and
grimy appearance by associating it with a costly
imported smoke. The barman flung down a box of
forbidding Susannas and said, “That’s your sort!”
No doubt the smoke was good enough for the likes
of ’im, but David, it seems, refused to realise what
sort he really was. He demanded the finest cigar on
the premises and proffered a £l-note to pay for it.
Had it been a fiver he would doubtless have been
arrested on well-merited suspicion. As it was, the
two artists retired hastily, under the impression that
the barman wanted to scrutinise the note through a
magnifying-glass. This was their second lesson in the
evils of neglecting pomps and vanities. The first was
taught in a Melbourne restaurant on a Sunday when
Hector Lamond was with them. They were a travel-
stained trio, with disreputable outfits, Hector’s swag
being calculated to scandalise a flock of sheep. They
got their refreshment served at a Dago shop, but not
until the waitress had brought the manager to take
their order. The lady wouldn’t risk the responsi-
bility of executing it without permission. Speaking
of these painful occasions, the hurt that Low and
Gye mostly complain of was the indignant reception
given to their glad eye when they turned it towards
youth and beauty. It begins to strike them that the
glance of genius makes no impression without reason-
able assistance from the tailor.
NEWSPAPER GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh, isn’t it wearisome, Newspaper Girl
(I know that at heart you’re a sport),
To chronicle brassard, and slip-on, and curl,
The piffle and drivel of fashion’s gay whirl —
The sex’s sole small-talk, in short?
And what is the use of it, Newspaper Girl,
Though no reputation it wrecks?
I’ve heard you, in private, your knowledge unfurl,
And if you could print ’em, they would cause a
skirl—
The things that you know of the sex!
You flatter the dowager, flapper and knut;
You prattle most innocently ;
But, ’struth, you could make at all chatter “T :
tut!”
If a pen indiscreet ran away with you—but
You keep all such gossip for me.
Lord knows it is pleasant to hang up my hat
And join you at supper at ten
By the little gas-stove in your snug little flat,
For a yarn with the fid off—an untrammelled chat
On the subject of women and men.
The facts may be libels, the libels be facts,
But they’re piquant as mustard-and-cress;
And the veil that you lift from sassiety’s acts
Discloses a vista not published in tracts
Nor told in the pulpit, I guess!
Oh, priceless Pandora of things as they are,
I hang on your lightest remark,
For there’s many a case in un unpublished par.,
Or a saleable tip for a trial at bar,
For —I’m a solicitor’s clerk !
VICTORIA.
THE SIX-AND-EIGHTPENNY SERPENT.


4
SAFE!
Man and Motor
are Protected
1
u
wt
I
tow
f ..'
ora
4
:?!
m
a
’«a ir
ffieNew
CnTcaiTliirtyEi^it
Switch
Open for Inspection.
Construction Details.
The CR-1038 SWITCH is used for con-
necting small AC Motors directly to the
line, and is suitable for use with motors
up to and including 3h.p. 110 volts, sh.p.
220 volts, Sh.p. 440 volts, and sh.p. 550
volts.
A new type of protective plug, guarding
the motor against overloads, provides a
time element, and is renewable at a
remarkably low cost. A sensitive pro-
tection is thus provided at a negligible
cost in addition to the
fuses.
The new CR-1038 MOTOR STARTING
SWITCH has hinged covers which cannot
be opened unless the switch is open. In
addition, a lock can be provided to lock
the covers closed, or the switch open.
LOW MAINTENANCE COST
EASY TO INSTALL
LOW IN PRICE
1111®
Inserting Protective Plug.
Installed with Conduit Wiring.
uslialian
WENTWORTH A( SYDNEY, OOF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS
BRISBANE (Q.) • The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH ’ (W.A.) ; Chas. Atkins &. Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street,
OTHER AGENTS
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical St Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Auckland. Christchurch. Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co.. Ltd., Launceston; Messrs.
Oliver St Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
m
m


Si
g^l
mm 3
mtaaMMSm
A. Saunders’ Dessert Knives and Forks, pure Silver-plated, A 1
qualitv, hand-engraved blades, oearl handles, patent silk-lined case,
£3/5/-
A. Saunders’ Fish Servers, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, richly
engraved blades, embossed handles, in silk-lined case, 20/-
iteal Staghorn handles, 40/-
A. Saunders’ Nut Cracks and Picks., hand
engraved, in case, 30/-
Send for
Latest
Catalogue.
It’s Post
Free.
A. Saunders' Afternoon Teas and Tongs, pure
- Silver-plated, A 1 quality, engraved handles,
12/0.
i
A. Saunders’ Cake Forks and Server, in velvet lined case,
25/-
mmßi
A. Saunders’ Presentation Foundation Trowel, pure Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
A 1 quality, hand-engraved blade, carved handle, in silk-lined Case, £3/10/«
m
A. Saunders’ Soup Spoons, pure Silver-plated, VI quality, ham
burnished, velvet-lined Morocco Case, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Meat Carvers, Carving Knive, Fork and Steel,
finest Sheffield Steel, Xylonite handles, 12/C.
A. Saunders’
plated, glass
Salt Cellars and Spoons, pure Silver-
linings, silk- and velvet lined case,
20/-
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller,
805-815 George Street, Sydney
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £5,000,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
14
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
SB
T)
“MONTSERRAT*:
LIME FRUIT JUICE
IT COOLS TEE BLOOD
AMD KEEPS YOU FIT.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY. .
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders, a rare book by Defoe, 1/3,
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the llorse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/-. Uf-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 10d., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Jots of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics' Work-
shop Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/3. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler's Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners' Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3/6.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power .(Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
to w's Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle's Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Mysteries
of Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Not Guilty (Blatchford), 1/-. The Art of
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and My Neighbor,
9d. Britain and the British, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/6. Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, etc.,
1/6 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3; posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. The Doctor, Cures for All Diseases.
1/6 posted. Letter-Writer Up-to-Date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/-.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3;
French Self Taught, 1/3, Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/9
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
NO MATTER WHAT BOOK YOU
WANT, I’VE GOT IT.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Established over 25 years.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6: All About Incu-
bators, 1/6. Morgan's. Freemasonry Exposed,
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY
STOCK CAN BE GOT FROM
THIS ADVT.
Write for mv
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN: STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO
DUTY. ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSE-
WHERE SENT.
Key to All Degrees., New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary', 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to-a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Fruits op Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary. 1700 pages, 1600 illns.,
leather bound, niv price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/6.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age op Reason, by Paine, lOd.
posted. Adventures op John Johns, 1/6 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Night op Temptation,
1/9. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR. THE b>g book store, 67 869 Market
Street, Sydney (only).
pr- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. -»8


m \
..
**» *
/
r
■■: . ,# ■ ■
%
" s >A‘>.
* - ?>, - V ■■'X
TYRES
to be Me most
retisb/e dfitt-skict
ffiks Cheaper
and
BARNET GLASS RUBBER C° L°
founders of fhe Rubber Industry in Australasia.
SYDNEY: MELBOURNE: ADELAIDE.
BRISBANE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON. CHRISTCHURCH.AUCKLAND.


ITS GREAT
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
m
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth
St., Melbourne; R. R. Russack, 377 a
Elizabeth St., Sydney; Philip Frankel
and Co., Edward St., Brisbane; Eyes
and Crowle Etd., Pirie St., Adelaide;
Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0., Perth,
W.A.
1
xm
Wm
Wh
m
W&0
The World’s Opinion
“ Perfection.”
m
The motion-picture industry
has passed the stage wherein
the chief aim was the amuse-
ment of the Public, and now
m
sets out to not only entertain, but to educate, its patrons.
With such artists as Burton Holmes, Cecil B. De Mille,
I>. W. Griffith, and many others, Paramount can supply
Pictures on a scale wider than any other organisation in
the world. "With such film stars as Mary Pickford,
Marguerite Clark, Douglas Fairbanks, Geraldine Farrar,
M allace Reid, and dozens of others whose names are house-
hold words, it can place before the public productions, both
in setting and execution, unequalled throughout the
universe.
Paramount Pictures
POLITICAL
POINTS
“The Wanderer” : You have heard of the
Dorrigo scrub, on the N. S. Wales North
Coast, with the finest timber in Australia.
Well, North Dorrigo is to have a new school;
and the specifications provide that the ceil-
ings shall be of American Oregon. Right
alongside the school site is a timber-belt
bristling with tallow-wood; and for weather-
board and ceilings tallow-wood can’t be
beaten this side of tlie line or the other. It
is no use merely saying that Australia can’t
make progress while such things are done.
The responsible officer should be informed
that if he ever does it. again he will be
sacked.
NOT WIT AT SHE WAS LOOKING FOR.
“I say, Teddy, what do you think of my
new hat?”
“Well—em— to tell you the truth ”
“Nuff said. If you're going to talk that
way, I don't want to hear you.”
Carmichael, M.L.A., formerly N. S.
Wales minister for Education and now an
infantry captain on furlough, has been
appointed chairman of his State’s Recruit-
ing Committee and has given himself six
weeks to raise another “Carmichael Thou-
sand.” He appeals to eligibles this way:
“Come in with your mates; you will go to
England together, train together, fight to
gether.” Birdwood, it is added, has approved
of the plan. It is an excellent one; yet if
it is excellent, the recently-declared policy of
the Defence Department is the very opposite,
because it provides that men shall enlist for
general service—they are not to know till
they leave Australia whether they are to be
infantry or artillery, or they may be miners
or be passed into the Camel Corps; and if
two mates join together, one may be a
camelero in Palestine and the other an in-
fantryman in France. The fact, of course,
was that, at the time when the new order
was made, infantrymen were wanted and
practically nothing else; but in trying to get
infantrymen more or less surreptitiously
they got nobody—and by this time there
must unfortunately be room in every branch
of the service. The stupid system should be
altered instantly.
TRANSPORTS.
PATRIOTIC GENT: “Young man! Don't you
think all you young fellows ought to be
travelling somewhere else instead, of
packing into these trams to go to the
races?”
SPORT: “Well, it Is a bit crowded. But it's
worse in the race-train.”
Dismal Dick Butler, Treasurer of S.
Aus., had a horrible fright last week. The
first returns from his district of Barossa
were so unfavorable that the Premier ex-
pressed regret at the loss of a colleague, and
the daily papers printed his political obitu-
ary. But later returns put him in third,
just a trifle ahead of the nearest Labor man.
The old identities who went out were
mostly early Labor men who became
“National” or Coalition last year. John
Verran, ex-Premier, was one, after 17 years
of bull-headed political work. McGillivray
had sat 25 years for Port Adelaide; by an
odd chance lie was put out by the son of
Verran, a newcomer who now represents
the seaport with a son of Tom Price,
another Labor Premier of long ago.
Orders issued by the Hun in the parts of
Italy under his control:—
All men and women and all children over 15 are
to work in the fields from 4 a.m. to 8 p.m. Lazy
workmen may receive 20 lashes daily, and after har-
vest will serve six months’ imprisonment. Every
third day they will receive only bread and water.
Women whose work does not give satisfaction will do
six months’ imprisonment after harvest. Children
whose work is unsatisfactory will be beaten.
If the war goes the wrong way we may yet
see the Trades Hall being flogged in all the
capitals of Australia except Canberra, which
is hidden behind the grass and may escape
discovery.
The argument about Ireland is getting
boiled down. The Government now offers to
swap Home Rule for Comb Rule.
Labor in Australia hasn’t anything with
even a remote resemblance to a war policy.
For instance, at the recent conference in
Melbourne a motion was passed spurning
“the audacious lie that the Australian people
insist upon retaining the German possessions
in the Pacific.” Next day, while the presi-
dent of the conference (Chris Bennett) was
toning that down, Higgs, M.H.R., was mak-
ing a holy show of Bennett in another place.
The president carefully explained that “the
suggestion that we desire to return these
colonies to Germany is entirely unjustified
by the wording of the resolution,” the inten-
tion being that the captured German colonies
should be “placed provisionally under inter-
national control.” Higgs, however, snorting
about Hughes’s “on till victory” resolution in
the Reps., spoke thus: “We should declare
now that the moment peace was declared we
would be willing to hand back her colonies
to Germany.” Until Labor adjusts these
little differences with itself, how can it ex-
pect to present a united rear to the enemy?
Robespierre’s position towards the end
was this. He was sure to be killed if he
stayed in Paris, yet he was
safer in Paris than anywhere
else. Prime Minister Lenin
(or Ulianov) of Russia, the
German secret agent who was
once a bogus Hun, alias
Cederblum, is also in a difficult
position. Patriotic Russians
must want to tear him to pieces
for that treaty by which the
disarmed country gave Ger-
many all it asked for the sake
of peace and didn’t get peace
after all. And probably the
Hun view is that he wouldn't
be much use outside Russia,
so he had better stick to his
job there till he is torn to
pieces.
There is method in the mad-
ness of building hopeless rail-
ways with high-priced loans
through empty parishes in the
Dim Remote. It is the only
industry which is practically
free from strikes, for there is
no difficulty about granting all
sorts of wages and conditions
out of loans. When it is a
case of building boots it is easy
to prove at short notice that,
owing to mismanagement, 10s.
worth of boots (retail price)
are costing 155.; but the rail-
way. even if it costs a Roths-
child’s fortune per mile, can’t
be convicted of being an in-
curable white elephant till the
trains begin to run, and that
may be years hence, and even
then nobody except the rare
student of statistics knows
which line pays and which
doesn’t. Also, it removes from
the city the robust class of men
who, 20 years ago, used to
demonstrate outside Parliament
House and threaten hon. mem-
bers with physical violence unless work was
forthcoming, which was a cruel thing to do,
for almost all hon. members were Free-
traders, and didn’t know local industry from
a crow.
The doctrine of despair and helplessness,
as preached by the S. M, Herald (23/3/T8) :
Had the British authorities not proved both able
and willing to buy and pay for wheat and other
produce of ours, of which they were unable to take
delivery, trade in the Commonwealth to-day would
have been at an absolute standstill.
Instead of Australia being one of the countries
least affected by the war, it would have been one of
the hardest hit.
The Prime Minister labors under no illusions on
this score. Six months ago, with characteristic
emphasis, he said, “Unless the British Government
can be prevailed upon to take our produce, we are
down and out.”
Young women. . . .who are now making arrange-
ments to buy fur .coats for the winter might easily
have found themselves on the bread line.
And all that lugubriousness is based on the
assumption that this country Can’t Possibly
Build Ships. If Australia hadn’t been so
sodden with the Herald’s importing theories
it could to-day be sending its produce to
Europe in its own vessels, and getting the
prices that are making Canada so prosper-
ous that the eyes of hundreds of young Aus-
tralian soldier-farmers are turned that way.
The Repatriation Department has at last
got to work (in moderation), and while the
returned soldier is looking for a job through
a special labor bureau an allowance to keep
the wolf from the door will be made to him.
This labor bureau, so far as N. S. Wales
is concerned, is in Sydney; and the man
who is looking for a job must apply for his
allowance there every day. As a scheme for
keeping Billjim hanging around the already-
bloated city it seems all that can be desired.
Meantime the State Government has arrived
at the sensible conclusion that production of
wheat is of great importance; and it
guarantees 4s. a bushel. C.0.D., for the
next two seasons. Billjim might get work
helping the farmer grow wheat; but unless
the cocky takes up a scrub lease in Hyde
Park his chance of getting Billjim seems
remote.
ERE THE SUN GOES DOWN.
“Where are you going, my pretty maid?”
“To buy a War Loan Bond,” she said.
“May I come with you, my pretty maid?”
“Yes, if you pay for it, sir,” she said.
[Applications received till April 24.]
Tlie Huns are making the peaceful folk of
Northern Italy gather in their own harvests
for their tyrants to eat, working 1G hours a
day for bare rations, floggings, long terms
of gaol, and the joy of earning Hun divi-
dends. Meanwhile Australia learns that its
interned loafers, including the fatted crowd
at Berrima which has flags, music and
Kaiser’s-birthday banquets and processions,
has already cost nearly £BOO,OOO of good loan
money. And the end is still far off. ‘Tam-
pering Huns, £2,000,000,” will figure among
the “permanent and reproductive works” for
many a long day after all the accounts are in.
The ineffable Pearce again! It was
stated in the Reps. (10/4/T8) that the
Defence Department had let a contract for
making next-of-kin medals to a firm which
had been fined for trading with the enemy.
The impeachment was admitted, with the
qualification—or aggravation—that “the Min-
ister was not aware of the fact when the
contract was let.” A fact is the last thing
one would expect him to be aware of. It
occurred to a Melbourne newspaper to ask
him whether the Defence Department pos-
sessed a list of the firms which had been
prosecuted for trading with the enemy. “We
have not a list,” replied the portfolio-holding
fumbler, “but wg certainly should have it.”
And he added that he would get it “imme-
diately.” Immediately is Pearce’s long day.
Meanwhile it seems that the contract holds
good.
OUR NEED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“More men? More man ! It’s there we fail.”
—Biglow Papers.
I think the heavy time at last has come
To make a sorrowing song,
With no brave music of a marching drum
To hail the clay gone wrong.
More men, they cry ; more men, and yet more men ;
And all the weary while
Some pompous pedant with official pen
Breaks armies file on file.
As has been well explained by those who know,
Our force of men and steel
Outnumbers that of our terrific foe
Who makes our legions reel.
More wealth is ours, more food, a better cause—
Shall courage still be vain
Because a hard-pressed nation never draws
On its reserve of brain?
Let someone lift upon tlie winds a cry
To drown the battle din:
“Our special need is not for men to die,
But for a man to win!”
The means are ours. Get busy with the comb,
Not in the shirker crowd,
But where gold lace walks ponderously at home
And wears his honors proud.
Weed out the fools! Scrap all the shams and
shows!
The bitter time is here
When, yielding ground before our vaunting foes,
We needs must taste of fear.
These have betrayed us. They betray us still.
No peace is theirs to give.
An eager nation wastes its striving will
To conquer and to live.
Still we can conquer if the path is cleared
For soldier feet to tread.
Shall muddle as a standard still be reared
Above our gallant dead ?
For those who died we owe it to our land
To sweep with truth’s wide broom,
The dust of death that chokes us brain and hand
And smothers us in doom.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


<SI
«r,
M
We are Sole Agents for
CHAPPELL,
BEHNING,
LAFF ARGUE,
ESTEY, and
VICTOR PIANOS.
The Victor
Player Piano.
BRIGHTEN up the long winter evenings
w with beautiful music and the help of a
|J good piano—one from PALING’S.
Buy the dear little children one of Paling’s
pure=toned Pianos or Player Pianos and they will
be charmed and delighted. So will you.
%
We have a magnificent stock of exquisite Grands;
Upright Grands of brilliant tone=quality; Bijou
Grands of artistic design; and sweet=toned cottage
models, in various styles and grades to choose from.
Satisfaction Guaranteed. Illustrated Catalogue and
particulars are free. Please write for them to=night.
ss*
i ns
SAM E 3
Easy Terms
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD.,
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.
m
r
c
Two
of*
Hne
Besf
★ ★ 'A
Brandy
DON’T BUY IMMATURE BRANDY
NO doubt you are tempted to buy
a cheaper, brandy than
Chateau Tanunda Brandy,
but you must remember that your
investment in a,' bottle of brandy is
infinitesimal in (comparison with your
investment in health. No good, well-
matured brandy 1 can be sold cheaper
than CHATEAU TANUNDA, which
is the product off the juice of healthy,
fully-ripened graqpes.
CHATEAU TJANUNDA BRANDY
is held under the most scientific
conditions until at is fully matured and
in a condition to maintain the high
reputation it has deservedly won for
itself. Used in all hospitals and
recommended by, doctors and nurses all
over Australia.
/Made from Pure Fresh Grapes only Buy
Tucker <SL Co. Limited SYDNEY
Whole t Bottles.
Agents.


'Those fighting for freedom must protect
themselves against freedom of speech when
it is used to help the enemy; this is the loyal
sentiment inspired by that loyal spirit King
George IV. topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
ni'ittiiuiiiiiiiiiiiinigTmmmiiiHiiminnmniiiiiiiiiiriiiiniiiimiiiiiiinri
BROOKES
COFFEE ESSENCE |
You'll like |
A GOOD COMPLEXION.
A girl’s complexion is something more than
a matter to concern her vanity. It is an
indication of the state of her health. Pallor
in a growing girl means a thinning of the
blood. Eruptions mean impurities in the
blood. Parents should be watchful of their
daughters’ complexions, and should see to it
that these danger signs are corrected, not
covered up.
When a girl in her ’teens becomes pale
and sallow, especially if, at the same time,
she shows an inclination to tire easily, a
listlessness and inattention to her work or
studies, she needs Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills,
a tonic which directly and specifically cor-
rects the condition from which she is suffer-
ing. A chemical analysis of the hlood of
such a girl would show it to be deficient in
just the elements that Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills can supply, but the physical signs are
plain.
These pills combine with food and air to
actually increase the blood supply. An in-
creased appetite and capacity for energetic
action are noticeable in a few days after
their use is begun. There is no safer tonic
for growing girls, and they are obtainable
from any dealer who sells medicine.
Any reader of this paper may have a useful
booklet on “Building Up the Blood” by
writing to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co-
Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLGARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LiniTED, Redfern, Sydney.
SPECIAL MILITARY WIRELESS CLASS .
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN A TECHNICAL UNIT,
Our Instructors have arranged a Special Glass for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army.
The Tuition extends over four months —Instruction three evenings a week. The course will be made
quite practical, use being made of the installations in the school, also of an aircraft set now being
installed especiallv for this course. The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and Motor-car Stations, Aeroplane Apparatus, etc., etc.
A SPECIAL RATE OP £8 FOR THE FULL COURSE has been decided on.
All particulars on applioation to THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS, Dept C, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE THE EMPIRE.
m
THE WINTER IS COMING
REXFORD UNDERWEAR
Not only provides the wearer with underwear comfort,
but gives him the enjoyment of highest quality and the
satisfaction of greatest value.
VESTS OR PANTS, WINTER WEIGHT, MADE FROM
NATURAL WOOL, WITH ADMIXTURE OF COTTON TO
PREVENT SHRINKAGE.
Sizes 34, 36, 38 and 40 9/6
Extra large sizes, 42 and 44 10/6
Short or long sleeve-vests as preferred.
Send your order and measurements.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
Write for
Catalog “B”
for Hats
and Shirts.
D
A
e +CF
HENRY BUCK & CO.,
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
There were about 40,000 people at City
Tattersall’s meeting on Saturday—the last of the
“big" racing days of the Autumn in Sydney. For
the next six months the pony and suburban proprie-
tary clubs will carry on business at the old address
without a holiday, and because the public will be
rushing to a couple of obscure courses every Satur-
day and adjourning to “outer circle” fixtures during
the week instead of going to Kandwiek, the morning
papers will have nothing further to say about™ the
iniquity of the “burly eligible” (and incidentally
of the ineligible citizen and the ancient and his
wife and the returned soldier) going to a race
meeting. This will be because the frequent races
will be at remote, unspectacular places instead
of one of the finest courses in the world to which
the traffic is easily detected.
The totalisator turn-over during the day was
£37,303, which it need only be remarked was but
a fraction of the money in the game, and substan-
tially less than is handled by machinery at second-
rate meetings in Maoriland. Yet limited though
the sum be, it gives, in conjunction with details of
what happened at the tote during the A.J.C. meet-
ing the previous week, very solid proof that the
public wants the machine and more inducement to
use it. A promise was made the other day by Chief
Secretary George Fuller to revise, in the interests of
country clubs, the ridiculous system of totalisator
betting they are compelled by law and regulation
to have on the premises. This page recommends
George to find out if there is even the ghost of an
excuse for not revising the system at Randwick by
introducing there a single-dividend, straight-out-on-
the-winner machine, to the public and Ike. This is
the contraption every , advocate of the machine asked
for. It is what they are still asking for. Also it
is what the Government mulishly withholds without
explanation of the why and wherefore.
* * * *
Winner-of-the-Doncaster Dame Acre,
weighed at 9st., was reckoned a sure thing by the
great army of punters for the Denman Stakes on
Saturday—and once more that valiant band saw
their reserves swept away and the Denman Stakes
annexed by an outsider. Of course on recent run-
ning the mare looked almost unbeatable. But the
start was all against her. She turned half round,
gotj tangled up in the scramble and emerged last.
That settled her. She stayed there. Meanwhile La
Steppe was out in front alone, three lengths ahead
of The Welkin gelding Greenstead. La Steppe, who
seems to have misplaced her dash, punctured half-
way up the straight, and Greenstead, running her
down, went on and. hit the line a length and a
half ahead of Warspite, who came from a long way
back. Greenstead was a winner at Randwick and
Rosehill in December. He was a 14 to 1 chance on
Saturday.
The 1100-guinea colt Son of the Desert
did his best up-to-date on Saturday, finishing sixth
in a field of 25 youngsters at Randwick. Hitherto
the expensive animal has been addicted to watching
the others from astern. But his elder half-sister,
Dessert, kept up the family reputation during the
afternoon. After running unplaced in the Denman
she was saddled up for another spin in the Welter
Mile, and triumphantly snuffed out the favorite.
Baltic Sea, winner of last year’s rich Breeders’
Plate. It seems to be taking the Baltic Sea a long
time to get over that first effort of his. Perhaps
the name he staggers under has something to do
with it. Dessert was a very high-priced prad, too,
and so far has not earned half what was paid for
her. But she has always run well up.
Any hopes Paddy Nolan may have had of
inducing The Spire to put up another time record
over hurdles at Randwick stand adjourned. The
nag is docked for repairs. The Spire had been
having a long holiday until lately, and had probably
forgotten that there are no guard rails to the jumps
at Randwick. Anyway he had not gone far on
Saturday when he took a leap right on the edge of
a hurdle and landed on the other side with a leg
astride the top of the course fence. He slid several
feet with the rail tearing a gaping wound in the
misplaced skin and flesh. Strangely enough, he
kept his feet. lie was pulled up and sewn up later.
Mehi King, winner of this year’s City
Tattersall’s Cup at Randwick, had been a horribly
unprofitable horse to a lot of people. Since running
second in Wolaroi’s V.R.C. Derby he had been
started in many important races and let his owner
and stable down practically every time. More
recently he had been started in unimportant events,
• but continued the letting down process with unim-
paired efficiency. Latterly he was sold in disgust
into the Colugo stable and appears to have approved
the change of residence. Anyway he was running on
well at the end of the A.j.C. Tocal Handicap on
Easter Monday with 9st. 61b. aboard behind Lord
Acre and Elsdon. Tatt.’s Cup had another furlong
to go, and with Bst. 41b. Mehi King looked hard to
beat, lie was backed for a hatful, went out at 4’s
and got away with the bacon. Rebus, the Sydney
Cup winner, was doing well up to the distance with
9st., but from there the King ran clean over him.
Westcourt, the Melbourne Cup winner, who was a
favorite for Sydney Cup, ran like a tired commercial
traveller. He had been galloped off his legs the
week before.
* * * *
Mooltan, a great racehorse of 10 years
ago—lie was twice winner of the Metropolitan,
second to Apologue in the Melbourne Cup and
winner of the A.J.C. Spring Stakes and Craven
Plate —was sold in Sydney the other day for £lOO.
Which is a fair discount on the £3OOO or so paid
for him at the height of his fame and the £2OOO
given to get him back by his original owners for stud
purposes. But he wasn’t a champion at the harem.
* * * *
Ron Cameron, who rode The Parisian and
appropriated the Melbourne Cup of 1911, had ridden
five winners at the Alburv meeting last week and
went out to steer another. But on the way the
animal rushed against a post, and when they lifted
Cameron off they took him to hospital. One of his
legs was badly smashed in the collision.
» * * *
“Centurion!’: The fine horsemastership of
the Australian units in Sinai and Palestine should
give one more knock to the cherished British military
Action that the Australian is a bad horsemaster. This
fiction rose out of the S’African war, and got its
start from one or two brass-hats who were called on
to account, before a Royal Commission, for the shock-
ing losses in horseflesh which marked that campaign.
As the Australians and Maorilanders, who did most
of the mounted work, lost most of the horses, they
got the blame, the fact that the Yeomanry, after
one or two disastrous experiences, were allotted gar-
rison and routine work, being ignored. The way
Australian horses were treated there was wicked. As
an examnle, take the case of the sth Q. 1.8. This
regiment, with its horses, was entrained the day of
landing after a month on the water. It was taken
a six-days’ journey in the train to Pietersburg and
marched out a day later, coming into action at Oli-
phant’s River two days after that. The country
was rotten with “horse-sickness,” and a month later
the regiment reached Pretoria 400 neddies short.
Just after that the day of the flying columns began.
A mounted column went out for 10 days with a
couple of H.A. guns and two or three pom-poms.
When it found the enemy—usually after a long and
rapid night march —it ran him down till horses and
men were exhausted. I have known such a running
fight to last for 24 hours on end, and finish with all
hands foundered miles away from the little light
transport that had been taken, and 100 or 200 miles
away from the nearest railway-line. Under these
conditions, with half-rations and often not that for
man and beast, and with blazing heat in summer and
bitter cold in winter, it is not surprising that the
Australians lost horses enough to shock yeomanry
and cavalry regiments whose mounted work consisted
of 10-mile patrols from comfortable townships on
the railway lines. Three years’ experience in the
S’African trouble and two and a half with mounted
troops in this war leaves me more than ever con-
vinced that the Australian’s care for his neddy is not
excelled anywhere, and under unfavorable conditions
cannot be equalled.
* » * *
“Mookingah” : There is always variety in
the sports programme in the North-West (N.S.W.),
but for the Novelty Stakes I enter a wrestling match,
catch-as-catch-can, between man and foal at Mil-
parinka on Easter Monday. Fred Blore, the only
nomination, is aged 70, and he brought his own
yearling with him. When the foal wandered on to
the track, the boss ordered it off. The foal treated
him with contempt, whereupon he collared the animal
low and brought it to the ground. The foal claimed
a foul, and the judge disallowed the throw. After
another round the judge considerd the foal might
get hurt, and declared the contest a draw.
Arthur Mailey, who gathered most wickets
in Sydney premiership this season (80, averaging
19.31) did the same thing and put up a premier-
ship record (102, averaging 14.04) in ’l5-T6.
“Bosey’s” wrong ’uns were unmercifully biffed in
many matches; but he got wickets, and that was
what he was after. In nine out of 13 matches more
than 100 runs were smacked off his trundling—
seven for 188 by University being the hardest
smack. Jack Scott’s 60 wickets at 11.48 apiece
is the best average among the heavy wicket
gatherers; and if Scott could obliterate the no-ball
habit he would be the most dangerous bowler at
large in Sydney.
Petersham’s outright win by 10 wickets
and eight runs over Sydney on Saturday landed the
grade premiership, and the shutters went up for the
season. The bulk of the glory that is Petersham’s
came from the efforts of Jack Scott (11 for 87)
and E. W. Adams (nine for 56), and the batting
of O. S. Smith (41 and 36 not out). As it was
Petersham’s first win the club when last heard from
had thrown its collective hat aloft, and the garment
wasn’t expected down for a week. When the round
began Waverley looked a winner; but Gordon shat-
tered its hopes by 36 runs. Waverley won the
premiership in 1901-2,
Tommy Warne, skipper of the Carlton
team, winners of the Vic. district premiership this
year, is only 48. As he started to play 31 years
ago and has been doing it ever since he seems to be
contracting the cricket habit.
* * * *
“Ixion”: The performance of septuage-
narian J. Taylor, who
push-biked from Sydney
to Melbourne in 12 days
(B. 4/4,/’18), is stirring
others to emulation. In
two days, though the
actual travelling time
was 15 hours 50 min-
utes, A. Ileywood and
G. J. Lynch, walking,
and Luke Lees, propel-
ling himself by hand on
an invalid tricycle, jour-
neyed from Ballarat to
Melbourne. Lees, whose
left leg is withered and
whose right is ampu-
tated at the thigh, reck-
ons he could have cov-
ered the distance in 13
hours, but he did not
leave the walkers. A
trip of 100 miles in
three days, from Ben-
digo to Melbourne, is
contemplated.
CHARLIE
MACLEOD,
Veteran Cricketer.
In Brisbane cricket this season the
Goodna team has obliged all visiting teams with a
good afternoon’s leather-hunting. It began its last
match against University like this: Maddock, retired,
110; Farquhar, retired, 103; Burns, not out, 193 ;
Stanley, not out, 72 ; sundries, 6 ; total, 394. Inci-
dentally, Maddock succeeded in making his 1000 runs
for the season. Goodna is the Bananaland lunatic
asylum staff.
* * * *
Dave Gregory, who was another year older
on April 15, captained the first Australian XI which
toured England 40 years since. Of the dozen who
tripped under Jack Conway's managership, Tom
Garrett, G. H. Bailev, Alec and Charlie Bannerman,
Jaek Blackham, F. R. Spofforth and Dave Gregory
are still not out.
H. Y. Braddon, M.L.C. —in business life
man'ager of Dalgety’s—is again N. S. Wales Rugby
Union president. Braddon was a star in the Maori-
land XV which came to Australia in 1884 ; and he
was in later days in the first flight of oarsmen and
tennis players.
* * * »
Harry Murray Bayliss, who has had a
funeral after 30 years’ practice as a solicitor at
Wagga, was a prominent ’Varsity footballer in his
time. For three seasons he captained the Uni.
team, and led the N. S. Wales 15 against the Eng-
lish crowd which toured Australia and M.L. in 1899,
and against Maoriland and Bananaland. Some classed
him as the best full-back the world has seen. Ho
was son of Bayliss, P.M., of Wagga, who was wounded
in an encounter with the notorious bushranger
Morgan.
Dead in Bananaland, James Greddan,
holder of the Australian record for a standing high
jump with weights (sft. 7in.) and standing broad
jump with weights (13ft. sin.), as well as other Aus-
tralian records at leaping. James stood for Parlia-
mentary honors on the side of the Labor party for
Murilla a few years ago, but didn’t spring high
enough. Tiring of being a loco, driver, he started
pulling a beer pump on the Downs, and drove the
implement to the finish.
* * *
Bowlers seem to keep as far ahead of old
Father Time as heavyweight lifters and parsons.
Anyway, the roll-up of N. S. Wales bowlers who have
passed the 75-year mark produced a battalion 32
strong the other day, all of them eager to start roll-
ing ’em up. The eldest, decorated with snowy whisk-
ers, pleaded guilty to 90, and a couple of others
admitted 84. The skip of the rink that scored the
biggest majority was a mere youth of 76 who had
only been practising for 20 years or so.
N. S. Wales Public Schools’ sculling cham-
pionships on the Parramatta River last week differed
from preceding occurrences of the kind only in that
Young Australia, made more noise than before. Still
their frantic optimism was a fine tonic for the aged
spectators. In the “eights” the Grammar School bovs
squeezed home by half a length from St. Joseph's,
with C. of E. Grammar and St. Ignatius a few feet
away. The hard luck was with the Anglicans. They
had to re-seat their crew almost at the last moment
on account of the stroke being carried off to have his
appendix extracted. The disordered organ took up a
most unsportsmanlike attitude, and simply refused to
postpone itself till after the race.
An argument which lias been raging in
Sydney schools all summer was temporarily settled
on Saturday when Noel Hathaway (Cleveland-street)
and L. Bannister (North Sydney High) collided in
the senior cadet 100yds. championship. Hathaway
won in lOtsec., and took the 28th Battalion 100yds.
senior-cadet championship in 10 4-5 sec. When
these two fine young sprinters clashed on a pre-
vious occasion Bannister won in 10 4-ssec.
Hathaway won the 100yds. N.S.W. schools cham-
pionship this year; last year he won the 15
years’ 100yds. championship and put up a schools’
440yds. record (59sec.). Both lads represent top
form in Sydney schools’ athletics.
* # » «
Does anyone ever play all-fours now? In
Sydney in 1794 this ancient game and cribbage were
Tatt’s, the tote and the books rolled into two. All-
fours and cribbage were played for six, eight or 10
dollars a game. Those fer whom that was too slow-
used to toss for dollars —Sydney’s first two-up players.
* * * *
The feminine who deserves first mention in
any social column is the Black Orpington hen belong-
ing to C. E. Graham. The poultry-breeders of the
State were filled with deep emotion this week when
the cackling champion performed the wonderful old
conjuring trick once more and produced her 325th
egg for 365 days, thus beating the world’s record for
any breed. But she need not expect any Order of the
British Empire while Hughgs of Warwick is here to
crow about keels he is going to lay.
* * * *
The learned Mr. Sicksenate, counsel for
the defence in a ease concerning (he manipulation
of the ace of diamonds and a couple of spades,
heard in a Sydney court the other day, started
giving a demonstration of how to do it. But Judge
Backhouse was not having anything to do with
yarns about games of skill. “Oh, we know all
about that, Mr. Sicksenate,’’ he observed. “Of
course the man who risks money in this game with
a spieler has no possible chance of winning. It is
like the thimble and pea. The pea is not there—
nor is the ace. It is always abstracted.”
Backhouse thinks he knows a good deal more than
he really does. In the three-card game the ace is
never taken. It is always there. The chance to win
is, of course, mighty remote, because the odds always
look several thousand to one on the card which
happens to be the wrong one. A sucker will tumble
in every time. Most men who know the game will
fail to locate the winner more often than not,
because even to them there will always be baffling
uncertainty about whether there had been a double
or a single pass of the black over the red. But the
real expert who “gees” for the player and wins
bogus wagers will never make a bloomer—nor, in
most eases, omit to bring the proceedings to an
abrupt end with a punch on the nose if some deluded
ass tries to pick up the right card by mistake.
* * * *
“11.J.R.”: Noticed on my Easter visit
that sporting papers and tipsters are becoming as
numerous in Sydney as the liard-lleads who stand
outside the gates of the pony courses. Even a
couple of crackajacks from Melbourne have dug
themselves into the congestion. As a youth I regu-
larly followed a deluder who tipped for a well-known
weekly under a wonderful alias. Years afterwards
I became friendly with the real person, and he told
a joke against himself. “I had tipped 17 events
for Ascot, and didn't even get a placed horse,” he ex-
plained quite without shame. “Coming home in the
tram two dead-broke punters who had been follow-
ing my fancies were left alone in the car with me.
Said the first, ‘I wonder who the Mazes this So-and-
so is?’ The other: ‘Whoever he is he ought to have
his tips pushed down his mouth crossways.’ I felt
that if they had known my identity they would have
eaten me. Next day there was another meeting. I
had the tips in again. It was the easiest part of
the job.”
PLAYING THE GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“It is a dreadful reflection on the idle rich men
of Melbourne, who do nothing but play golf all day.
I know some who say they are too old to go to the
Front, and that they would like to do patriotic
work, but the matter ends there.” —Piece spoken at
the monthly meeting of the L.M.P. League, Mel-
bourne.
The air was mild and balmy, with faint incenses
afloat,
Among the tea-tree, zephyr-borne—no sad, forebod-
ing note
In Nature’s song, no sombre tones in Autumn’s golden
glow;
Oh, no!
A blaze of heavenly blue above and gracious green
below;
Over the cliff-top, cradle-croon, the lullaby of the
sea,
And down the breeze a peewit’s burst of merry
melody.
Right in the midst of all these things a large, round
patriot stood,
And there addressed his ball as such a portly patriot
should.
“Ahem!” he said, “I strike this blow for dear old
England.” [Whack!]
“A smack
For England and the Empire!” llow they thumped
him on the back
And cheered him to the ei ho as the ball sped to its
goal,
Rolling at last to rest a bare six inches from the
hole!
“Bravo!” they cried who watched him there. “By
Jov;, you are the one!”
And Full-and-plenty arched his chest, seeing the
deed he’d done —
The calm, strong act of one who would avert the
Empire's fall. .. .
That’s all.
Who? What? Why, yes, of course they do! They
heed the nation’s call,
Each of ’em doing the best he can, doing his little
bit
By—hem!—well, playin’ the game, y’ know, and —
hum, ah! —keepin’ fit.
VICTORIA.
O. L.


A Skilful Boxer Fears No Foel
A skilful Boxer is a man to be envied and admired.
He has himself under complete control. He has been taught to be
patient and tolerant. He is not easily “put out,” and usually is the last
to seek a quarrel.
When he is forced, however, to defend himself, he does it with a quiet
calm that breathes self-confidence in his every action. He is not flurried
in the least He has a set plan, and adapts himself to circumstances. He
reserves his strength until the other fellow is getting “groggy.” He is
always doing the right thing at the right time.
Would you like to be a skilful boxer —to be able to give aggressive
individuals a couple of stone and a beating? Then, why not learn
Scientific Boxing from me in your own home?
I Teach Boxing by Post.
I want to tell you all about my methods. How
simple and interesting they are. What rapid pro-
gress you’ll make, and what healthful exercise you
will secure from my instruction.
Here’s an extract from one pupil’s report:—
“I find all lessons remarkably interesting. T..ey
are so thoroughly explained that anyone can catch
on to the meaning. I am beginning to feel some
confidence in myself already.
“W.M.R., Malanda, Q.”
Write for my illustrated booklet, “Scientific Box-
ing in Your Home,” which gives fuller particulars
and cost of Tuition, etc. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement and post it to me.
I'll know what you mean. Send three penny stamps
for postage.
m
m
m
REG. L
(“Snowy”)
BAKER
Specialist in Physical Culture.
717 Belmont Buildings, Sydney.
Buy War Loan Bonds
and know the pleasure
that comes from
doing your best.
Use "Shell” Benzine
and know the pleasure
that comes from
getting the best.
BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO. LTD.,
All States and New Zealand.
CAPILLARINE
m
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Capillarine does all that is claimed for it as
a genuine Moustache-producer. The steady
demand for this preparation by the Military
and others proves its never-failing virtues.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
....II lift
i/\
CHILDREN
TAKE TO CALOX
Wise mothers have Calox in the home
and look with pride on their children
as they regularly ask for the powder
with the soothing taste.
The kiddies take to Calox readily
because it is charming, refreshing
and cleanses so easily.
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDER-
is a thoroughly effective purifier and
cleanser of the mouth and teeth. The
oxygen it generates destroys both
bacteria and decay germs, yet it is so
mild as to be non-irritant to the sen-
sitive tissues. Infectious matter, which
is inseparable from decayed teeth and
a source of serious danger both to
the throat and general system, is
eliminated.
Write for a Free
Sample of Calox
It will be sent free anywhere in
Australia on receipt of this adver-
tisement with your name and address,
together with two penny stamps.
Agents: Geo. Wills and Co. Ltd. 60
York Street, Sydney; or 480 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Calox is procurable froir
ALL CHEMISTS AND
LEADING STORES,
F. 18-4-18.
*1
WON
m
SERVICE—“The Customer is King.”
MODERN MOTOR-CYCLE
MERCHANDISING.
The old wav was. “Let the buyer beware.”
The new way is, “The customer is king.”
In some businesses there still remains a chemical trace
of the old way.
We prefer and practise the new method, because it means
PLEASANTER business, and we have a faint suspicion it
also means MORE business.
We sell on the “Money Back” policy—endeavor to back
up our goods with service, and try to give a little more
than value for money received.
Won’t you come along and see through our new Melbourne
showroom, learn something of what our service means, and,
by the way, make use of our customers' lounge, which is
equipped with 'phone, all Broadbent’s maps, hotel and tourist
resort directories, all the latest local and imported motor-
cycle journals, cloakroom, etc., just for convenience of our
CATALOG!’® “D” WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Pty. Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros. Ltd., 156
Castlereagh Street.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79
Pirie Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency Ltd., Adelaide & Creek Sts.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons
Ltd., Charles Street.
BERTH: Armstrong Cycle and Motor
Agency, Hay Street.
EDGAR ALLEH .
tmzm&i.*mezK wsmj#;' '
.-s^Errjetb'.
.
»■'■'. -
*#S K<! »>• V» ‘*- 1
Write for Particulars ami Quotations,
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bali Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD* 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
“ISKO,” “ISKO”
The Sure Way to Save Food.
Instal an "ISKO” REFRIGERATOR
IN YOUR ICE CHEST.
Can be fitted to any Electric-
light system.
No more Tre Bills.
“Isko” makes its own lee and re- •
quires no attention.
Cool, Dry, Scientific Refrigeration.
Temperature automatically regulated.
“Isko” can be fitted to any Ice-chest.
Country Hotelkeepers, Squatters, etc.,
should not fail to inspect the
“Isko.”
Up-to-date Houses cannot afford to
be without it.
Write to-day for Pamphlet.
Benson Brothers L'j,
SOLE AGENTS,
76-78 Liverpool Street,
Sydney, New South Wales
Telephones: City 3780-1-2.
m
mm
m
: H
■
i '
m
HH
NORTH
BRITISH
IXIPHT
Tyres
«Bk
%
a
SttS
tjzz
K
i
Went
WHOLESALE AGENTS— _ _ ,
New South Wales: William Crosby & Co., 20 Loftus St., Sydney
Victoria: North British Tyre Agency Prop. Ltd.,
525-527 Collins St., Melbourne
Queensland: Toward Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Adelaide St., Brisbane
South Australia: Phoenix Motor Co., 114-122 Pirie St., Adelaide.
SMHIIV
JULIUS
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
"The Tyres that
are Superior"
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY,


SS *jf
ftr*
?•»
*&&&&&
m
■txa^
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
An y Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.5.A.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
m
EVERY
MAN
there is an ABBEY Style, giving
comfort from first to last day’s
wear —correctly designed and care-
fully modelled to ensure distinction
of appearance.
ABBEY SHOES
are of the high quality which
ensures long service, end makes
them most economical to wear.
We illustrate one of our latest
models—a choice Glace Kid Bal.,
with Patent-leather Toecaps.
Price - 32/6
In half and full sizes, and three
fittings —narrow, medium and wide.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (1.P.0. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre. Sydney.
| PUTS A SPARKLE
cJ?tfWUH c
Because it is made from only the purest juice
of the World Famous Tasmanian Apple. It is
not only a delicious Drink, but has a most excel-
lent tonic effect on the system. Doctors recom-
mend it for its diuretic properties. Order a
dozen from your grocer.
Victorian Agents:
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
IN YOU
**v4
yStSSSm
m&Lm
: ;;r
m
An Imitation is Not a Substitute —
If it were it would Not be an Imitation
It is impossible to emphasise the mutual importance of this fact.
The Ready-roofing business has become a game of
... “Follow Master ’
with more than three hundred trailers following every move made by
, RU-BER-OID, mimicking everything but the quality.
These imitations resemble the parisitic vines that sap the life of the
great oak—they try to live upon what they cannot produce.
The Manufacturers of
bHHUaiO
COSTS MORE - WEARS LONGER
THOUGHT FIRST—ACTED FIRST. RU-BER-OID GREW
ON ITS MERITS—IT SELLS ON ITS MERITS ENTIRELY.
“No roof roofs like RU-BER-OID roofs” is a bold claim. It
may savor of egotism, but fortunately it is just the plain,
unvarnished truth.
MAY WE SHOW YOU THE PROOF?
Send for Samples and Prices to—
Agents: A. W. SANDFORD & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
KINGLOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
'll l MMlMfeeg
* S
\ "
1 .
&OC^AI
REPEATING AND
AUTOLOADING
SHOT GUNS
■DEMINGTON UMC
Arms are
made under tlie famous Browning
patents wkick are recognized as unex-
celled. Our Repeating Skot Guns are
fast gaining favour. Send for descriptive
(catalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO,
D. D. Bryant, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
Constipation
Bowel and Stomach Disorders and resulting
Nervous Affections quickly and permanently cured
by Simple Natural Home Treatment—No Medicine
How a well-known
business man
CURED
himself permanently after many years of suffering,
is told in a 40 page Booklet, sent free to all who
send this advertisement, and ad. postage to
J. P. GALE, 327 COLLINS ST . MELBOURNE
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15«6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S, GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
ZINC
Electrolytically-Refined Zinc, A-Z Brand,
containing 99.95% Metallic Zinc.
Spelter,
BHAS^
Brand,
containing about. 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust, containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Zinc Concentrates, Various Grades.
Sole Selling Organisation for above Australian productions:—
Zinc Producers’ Association
Proprietary Limited,
Collins House, 360 Collins St., Melbourne
The Emu Bay Railway Co. (Tas-
mania) :
Deben- Deficit
Ordinary ture Oapi- (Goodwill
and Pre- tal and Items not
ferential Accrued Divi- Reckoned
Dec., Capital. Interest. Profit, dends. Assets).
1906. . £360,000 £210,546 £9,191 Nil £166,677
Capital written off, £65,000 . . 101,677
1907.. 295,000 205.257 10,671 £8,750 99,756
1908.. 295,000 205,175 1,297 Nil 98,459
1909.. 295,000 205,109 6,090 Nil 92,369
Unexplained reserves, £lB3O . . .■ 90,539
1910.. 295,000 193,318 6,198 4,375 88,716
1911.. 295,000 190,711 6,081 4,375 87,010
1912.. 295,000 183,718 10,811 4,375 80,574
1913.. 295,000 190,714 10,195 18,687 89,066
Loss.
1914.. 295,000 191,172 7,261 Nil 96,327
1915.. 295,000 198,099 1,960 Nil 98,287
Profit.
1916.. 295,000 201,494 401 Nil 97,886
Loss.
1917.. 295,000 203,169 9,061 Nil 106,947
In Samuel Butler’s Erehwon, you may not
remember, there ivere “straighteners” who
were called in by the rich to flagellate them
for their sins. Maybe this co. serves as a
“straightener” for John Grice, Bowes Kelly
and the other very affluent and successful
men avlio continue to sit on the Board. It
is certainly the most distressful co. that these
people hang on to. It has never paid a
dividend on ordinary capital, though it is
uoav 21 years old, and it isn't getting visibly
nearer one. Some years ago it funded
£12.000 then owing to 4 p.c. cumulative pref.
capital, undertaking to pay off £OOO a year;
but instead of shifting, the dead horse has
had a foal, and now the “Funded dividend
certificates and interest” item stands at
£17,065. Also the co. doesn’t own all its
line; it leases part from the Emu Bay and
Mt. Bisclioff Co., and £11,275 is owing for
“Deferred rent and interest.” Also there is
some deferred debenture debt. These three
items amount to £40,400. There is £lOO,OOO
of pref. capital; and, though only 4 p.c. is
cumulative, the shareholders are entitled, to
another 4 p.c. before the ordinaries
(£105.000) get a bite. Last year Avas par-
ticularly disastrous: in the early months a
bridge was washed away, and not only did
that mean a renewal, but it made traffic
costly and lost some. So the figures work out
like this :
1913. 1916. 1917.
More or less liquid assets £15,572 £21,334 £1 1 ,716
Liabilities (apart from de-
bentures).. .. 21,448 36,014 44,1 ;>8
Excess liabilities .. £5,876 £14,680 £26,442
If the entire cost of the bridge is charged to
repairs, then the year’s net revenue wasn t
sufficient to pay the rent of the leased line;
and there were still left the debentures and
the pref. shares to pay. But there are some
people Avho still think that there is a hope.
They mostly rely upon what Mt. Lyell will
do with the Rosebery group of mines; and
immigration, of course, after the war. This
paper isn’t going to say anything further to
disturb their dreams.
The Union Trustee Co. (Melbourne)
Oi’di- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1906.. 5 p.c.= £3691 £1,364 £552
1907.. 4.931 5 „ „ 3691 2,604 630
1908.. 5,737 5 „ „ 3691 4,650 602
1909.. 4,SOt 5 ~ „ 3691 5,763 598
1910.. 4,275 51,, ~ 4060 5,978 628
1911; ; 6,332 6",, „ 4429 7.851 684
1912.. 5,960 6 „ „ 4429 9,412 724
1913.. 6,499 6 ~ „ 4429 11,482 698
1914.. 6,409 61 „ ~ 4798 13,093 717
1915.. 7,440 7* „ „ 5168 15,365 707
Premiums on new shares, £4014 19,379 707
1916.. 9,273 7 p.c. = 7000 21,652 711
Written off investments, £2lBB 19,652 523
1917.. 9,735 7i p.c. = 7500 21,887 523
1918.. 10,889 Si „ „ 8500 24,276 604
This co., with a big pastoral connection,
carried on business in Victoria and Queens-
land until 1916. Then it issued new shares
in N. S. Wales and established itself there
also, taking in John Mair, for many years
secretary of the Pastoralists’ Union, as local
manager. The new shareholders got into a
very profitable business and paid a very low
price for the privilege. Look at the solid
progress made in 10 years:—
1908. 1918.
Public securities .. ..£36,155 £57,637
Other debentures .. .. 2,985
Loans on mortgage . . . . 22,506 9,589
Real estate .. .. 9,059 60,709
Fixed deposits and sundries .. 10,250 8,895
Total assets.. £80,955 £136,830
Less Liabilities .. .. 36 7,449
Net assets ..£80,919 £129,381,.
Meantime the capital has been increased
from £73,822 to £lOO,OOO, and £4013 net was
received as premiums on the neiv shares;
total neiv capital introduced, £30,191. Thus
the co. has nearly £5OOO more assets apart
from office property than it had 10 years
ago; and the additional office property cost
well over £50.000, of which, say, £30,000 has
been provided by new capital. From that
the half-year’s dmdend has to be deducted,
leaving for the shares 255. of assets apiece.
In effect, therefore, the new shareholders
paid nothing for goodwill. The value of the
estates in hand isn’t disclosed; but it is
fairly obvious that the co. is now doing a
much larger business than it did 10 years
ago. Then commission earnings were £9012
and rent and interest were £3526; total
£12,538. Last year total earnings (after
providing for contingencies) were £28.592.
Allow £5750 for rent and interest earnings,
and there remains £22,842 for commission,
indicating an increase during the 10-year
period of 150 p.c. And there is no visible
reason why progress on much the same lib-
eral scale should not be continued. For,
apart from the general favor into which
trustee cos. are steadily coming, an office
Avhose organisation extends over Victoria.
N. S. Wales and Queensland must make a
special appeal to men with scattered inter-
ests ; and, though everybody is going to have
his pockets heavily assaulted presently,
squatters and stockowners will probably come
out. on the Avhole, .as well as anybody. They
have made a good start, at any rate.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME,
At the War.
2-'lilt
J
v,7
fm
•7,
" t ii Si
'• ’ .•’•''ii. ;74-it£V'f^ ■'■ v.- ~.^- J -;•$„<,;• »aS*7 ~U'! S yH^“''l-.'':,s%*■
. SSvyUAS C ySr •"•;,•<■ 7. • <- , J - ~■
...-•' :’" ■■-vt S'7 ■;:' v':.'■►■Si-'
l»
§
g^gcx
iwi
s -" 4.
&
■ ■-.■■ S. •: ~,y',. -y-w V.; 1 jsf/; \.>-y,' , y • ;*?./ v y ■••?■ ;;..•.-. v.~V*, •; OV =T
■3#
k'K
w-r A*
;.Vx v
I
w\*
S-,. i i
V.y' ", „ AX...
Kc; . •'•• t,v/ ' '■*£ ■“ •• ' “v
"'V " -
-73 P&
SKb&.J
//AS
Vr /js'. faPtJ-
,J +~*
W
>i
X.
r:in
i||
is®
%
//
Sw-si
fS'Vr
££s
r. '•&
■M!&A
m
m
SCS
•• y-
-5$
21
9E5£
at
>&■
\
gs
£%jt
5g
M-
i *
rut
sju
SIS
»
•€<
1
-£i
c.^
cXV
HSU
,I'ijr
'/ Jf,
MM
m
SBsj
sftir
E^Sk;
■3
j>- m
DSA^?
/rvi
■°t s
€€
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Holds the waves
Of field grey too.
Sitting calmly
In the mire
None can face
Their deadly fire.
Chunder, Foxie,
Little Bear,
Kach one bravely
D oes his share,
Shooting quickly
Through the murk.
o
England cries,
“It’s ‘COBRA’ work!’


TWO PRICES IN
THIS SHAPE.
Epsom 9 i. Austin 1J-
'o
A business man’s
collar, but smart and
stylish for all men.
Co
I Fabrics are pre-shnink, there-
fore fitting is permanent and
1 accurate. Above shape is pro-
curable in sizes 131 in. to ISin. i
Height 1-Jin. Order half a J
I dozen Pelaco collars from your J
mercer and prove their quality. $
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
f(W!i
WEAR
(P-&
SHIRTS& PYJAMAS
„ ALSO
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing' Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment— the Perfected New
m
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
ninny times as efficient
ami powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees 0 f sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and fo'- all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernaru’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
m
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5/-
Prepare Your Dogs for the
Coursing Season
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
BURNS AIR
m
m
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. No Wick? No (ireuse!
No Smoke! No Odor! Hants: or Set
it anywhere, over 100 Styles*
AGENTS WANTED.
THE BEST LIGHT CO.,
236 Pitt Street, Sydney.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE . PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment, Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
Sixth Commonwealth
War Loan.
Closing Date Extended
till 24th April, 1918.
Prospectus may be obtained and applications lodged at any Bank, State
Savings Bank or Post Office.
Be the Man behind the Gun —
Buy War Loan Bonds.
13th April, 191 S. Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
The Union Bank of Australia Limited.
BALANCE-SHEET, AUGUST 31, 1917.
LIABILITIES.
Capital,£6,ooo,ooo ;
Less: Reserve
Liability there-
on, £4,000,000
paid-up . . £2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. 2,000,000 0 0
Balance of un-
divided profits 213,503 16 9
£4,213,503 16 9
Circulation .. 363,555 0 0
Deposits. . . . 23,596,781 13 5
Bills payable and
other liabilities
(including re-
serves held
against contin-
gencies) . . 2,001,510 14 11
25,961,847 8 4
£30,175,351 - 5 1
ASSETS.
Specie on hand and cash balances. . £4,849,813
Bullion and advances on bullion . . 98,608
Money at call and short notice in
London .. 1,350,000
Investments:
On Account of Reserve Fund—•
British Govern-
ment securities £1,000,000 0 0
Other Investments—
-1 British Govern-
ment securities 681,910 9 0
1,681,910
Balance of remittances and drafts
in transit, arid bills receivable
at London office . . . . . . 4,272,350
5
11
0
9
10
4
5
0
0
8
12,252,688 10 5
Bills discounted, loans and other
securities at the branches and in
London 17,434,634 19 3
i Bank premises in Australia arid
i New Zealand . . . . . . 374,000 0 0
London leasehold
premises.. ..£142,304 19 4
Reserves against
same and accrued
interest.. .. 28,877 9 11
113,427 9 5
£30,175,351 5 1
STATEMENT OF PROFITS.
Balance of undivided profits on 28th February, 1917
Less: Dividend and bonus —August, 1917
Leaving a balance of
Profits of the past half-year, after making provision in respect of bad
and doubtful debts and other contingencies ..
Less:
Remuneration to the local directors and salaries and
allowances to the colonial staff . . . . .. £136,975 5 1
General expenses in the colonies, including rent,
taxes, stationery, etc. . . . . .... 69,325 2 6
Remuneration to the board of directors and auditors,
salaries of London office staff, rent, taxes,
stationery and general expenses . . . . .. 20,641 1 5
Income tax. . . . . . . . . . • ■ • • 31,656 17 4
Deduct:
Transfer to Reserve Fund.
. . £213,133 t) 6
. . 140,000 0 0
£73,133 0 6
: 418,969 2 7
258,598 6 4
160,370 16 3
£233,50.3 16 9
20,000 0 0
Balance of undivided profits at this date.. . . • • • . . . . . . . . . £213.503 16
H. P. STURGI&, FRED. G. PARBUIiY, W. B. PERCEVAL, Directors.
A. C. WILLIS, Manager. W. A. LAING, Accountant.
London, Bth January, 1918.
AUDITORS’ CERTIFICATE AND REPORT.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 113 of the Companies (Consolidation) Act 1908, we
report to the shareholders as follows: —
We have examined the above balance-sheet with the books at head office, and have had access
to the branch accounts transmitted to the head office from Australia and New Zealand. We have verified
the correctness of the cash, money at call and short notice, investments and the bills of exchange held in
London, and, having obtained all the information and explanations we have required, we are of opinion
that such balance-sheet is properly drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of
the company’s affairs, according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us, and
as shown by the books of the company and the said branch accounts.
WHINNEY, SMITH and WHINNY, Chartered Accountants, Auditors.
London, Bth January, 1918.
DESERT
GOLD,
like BIPLANE,
WESTCOURT
and many other
famous racers,
finds a material
factor for the
building of her
superb condition
in
m
m
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character') will he
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
G.X.: Now, how can anybody look as
venerable as a wet hen? Put it in two lines....
Fanuela: Cut them out and send them to the
accountant; or identify them by quoting date and
page. .. .D.Q.: Yes, several. Any bookseller will
supply you... .N.A.E.: Quite well done; but the
theme is worn to tatters... .Thomas Dc K.: Thanks.
Informative stuff always acceptable... .M.J.F.: Get
to it. The public can’t be bothered to guess at- what
a writer means. It simply passes him as a bore....
J.W.8.: Passed on to the proper quarter—where it
will most likely be pigeon-holed... .Maitre: A text-
book for 1011. Rather an old instance, isn’t it?....
Heterodox: Mention it to Premier Ryan....M. R.
Burrill: It’s a hopeless argument.... Chips: Adver-
tise for a clean mind... .Walter II.: No chance at
all; but we’ll have a high tariff one of these days—
perhaps when a foreign flag is flying over us.'...
A.E.D.: Slight yarn badly t01d... .E.8.A.: Not up.
. ...A.H.W.: It doesn’t carry itself.... Lucanus:
N0....H.C.: Such overworked subjects require very
expert handling to get past.... J.A.W.: Verse as
bad as drawing; and that's saying something dreadful
ahout both. .. .Z.M.: Not bad verse, but the theme
is exactly that of a much better thing recently pub-
lished .... F.A.P.: Won’t d0....R.D.: Verse just up
to the level of the typewriting. Can’t you do some-
thing to that machine?... .H. 11.: “Dutchy” makes
very dull reading. ... K. A.: We want the sort of
stuff wo print, and better. Read the paper....
Ecce: Both prose and verse are very crude... .E.C.:
Commonplace verse with faint hints of something
worse and better... .E.M.: “Commenced” as a
rhyme for “immense” makes the verse-taster very ill.
... .A.X.L.E.: The initial letters certainly spell “Gal-
lipoli,” but that is no merit in itself. .. .Jack
Horner: Not enough there. ... O.B.: It has the true
epic note:—
With Lewis gun and rifle fire,
Our boys smashed the Bodies into pulp;
Drove and pursued them to tiie wire,
Which was hard for them to gulp.
Our Lewis gun and rifle lire proved its efficiency,
For the Bodies were lying in twos and threes.
Nor had they time to call up any emergencies,
For the boys were down on them like a
swarm of bees.
Now the Bodies had to retreat,
They knew that they were well beat;
To see our boys, what a lovely treat,
Trudging back after a glorious defeat!
. ...J.T.C.: But the “Sonnet” isn't a sonnet, nor
anything like one... .Pat McK.: The verse is a bit
lumpy, but go ahead —you may get somewhere with
practice... .H.D.: Good enough stuff of a kind, but
not for 11s. We have no use for chopped prose... .
F. : “Dorie” not quite. .. .E.O’C.: If you’re con-
tent to rhyme “act” with “scrap,” we’re n0t....
G. : But if you bought the paper so often why
didn’t you read it and see the sort of stuff it
prints? Easy, commonplace sketches, however well
written, have a poor chance. .. .T.D.K.: A sermon is
a sermon and a sketch a sketch. This is a sermon
masquerading as a sketch and so doesn’t convince.
... .S.M.: He’s a tedious bloke. .. .Daisy 8.C.: Good
verse of its kind; but try something that sounds less
like the remarks of Jeremiah. .. .A.8.D.: It is not
good enough... .M. 8.5.: Good sentiment; rotten
verse.... Wyangarie: It wants more care and skill;
but there’s a story in it. Get to work A.C.U.:
Not up.... George Sydney: Not for us. ... J.P..1.:
Yes, a lot of promise; but don’t use print-worn
phrases... .S. A.S.: It doesn’t grip anywhere....
J.A.W.: There’s a thrill in that:—
“This Squatter Country is no good!” our valiant
hero cried,
And flung himself upon the grass and very nearly
died ;
Then up he sprang with savage yell and in the air
did leap,
When he returned to Mother Earth he roared: “ I’ll
kill a sheep.”
“You silly blinkin’, bleating thing,” said Bill, as in
the dark
He flung himself upon his prey just like a deep-sea
shark; ,
And out from his side-pocket deep a monstrous knife'
he drew!
And then without that beast’s consent the wretched
sheep he slew !
. ...T.5.8.: It was pretty poor music, on your show-
ing A.H.P.: N 0... .8.F.: Not here G.W.: No.
... .T.W.G.D.: The verse won’t d 0.... 2662: There
is not enough meat in it.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
S.E.: Hardly important enough, and the drawing
is weak... .Rod: All very early and crude... .L.J.H.:
You’re not a master of art yet. .. . Gillam: Defy
you to sell an ugly girl whose hat doesn’t fit her.
Dog: Outside !... .G.T.: Dismal art. .. .K.A.S.: Can’t
trade with you... .A.H.W.: There are points about
the arrangement, but your subject is a mark for a
bigger gun.. . .E.R.: You are original to this extent
- —the “observers” who carry on the brief dialogue
are not drawn... .J.F.H.: N0....W.8.: You’ve got
everything to learn. ... P.F.: Neither useable....
H. : No value... .F.P.H.: Don’t like your flat
people. .. .A.C.W.: They’re so bad that we’re almost
tempted to drive you out of business by publishing
them.
The few score inhabitants on Pitcairn
Island may be right on the edge of nowhere;
hut they can give Australia a lead when it
comes to shipbuilding. In 1916, seeing dan-
ger ahead, they decided that they had better
build a schooner so that they might keep in
touch with the rest of the world. But they
did not send to U.S.A. or make speeches.
They wanted a shin: they didn’t want to
show up the disloyalty and general wicked-
ness of the labor unions. So they went
ahead with the materials they had, even
forging nails out of odd bits of old iron, and
in 12 months they had the schooner away
on the 1200-mile run to Tahiti.
He who walks in narrow unlighted ways
on dark nights is bound to hump into things.
Sometimes the other party to the bump is a
criminal; sometimes a cow; generally an un-
suspected public debt. Thus Australia con-
trives to owe nearly £11,000,000 on wheat
overdraft. J. Bull paid for a lot of wheat
which he hasn’t received ; the farmer doesn’t
get much, and some of that little is in
arrear ;• and there is the overdraft in addi-
tion. So there are three ghosts sitting on
the wheat bag. If there were four ghosts the
bag would probably be fined for overcrowd-
inr*


S SILOS
2
B
m
g
Meggitt’s'Linseed Oil
is the Standard of Quality.
Insist on Meggitt’s and Keep Your Money in the Country.
CATALOGUE No. 2 MAILED FREE.
MEGGITT LIMITED,
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed
Oil iVleal iVianufaciurers of Australia),
26 KING STREET, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamer? all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabin es-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares.
Apply
ORIENT S.N. CO.. Ltd..
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4Sio! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
BItISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CATRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
STEAMER EARLY.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foj
S.A. and XV.A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4 000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, May 4.
’Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: Til OS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A.;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G.; lion. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney OHice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HIC.AD OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OE COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. : Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY' (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager : E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street),
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Thread needle Street, E.C.),
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of fleui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up ~ .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods; and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping *c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hooking* to Any I’nrt of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning l),v Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU
The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
m mm
9h
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further ‘particulars to
BURNS, PHILP g CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
or Nrw south
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve I'uiSd
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,904,860
£2,875,000
£3,904,860
£10,681,720
The lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager,
Poirol
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
I/ETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne .
Millars' Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worM.
PROVIDE A RESERVE FUND
by banking your surplus earnings where they will
accumulate with interest at the rate of 3f per cent, per
annum, and be available when required.
Government Savings BanK of
New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards.
Interest Limit £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State.
No Agencies at Post Office.
The Bank that Pays 31% Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THEADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. MORIALTA, April 20.
S.S. PARINGA, April 27.
S.S. RUPARA, May 4.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Your Boy is Fighting for Liberty. Back
him up—BUY WAR LOAN BONDS.
t*. S. YtILL & CO., I,TI)„
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice vena,
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
, Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versaj particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
b rom Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AME R I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tielcets.
SAILINGS UrON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
iUUT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH !c CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to -
uEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBL'CCA, MACLEAY .AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction wilii
ihe N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
io include first- or Becond-class rail to BRISBANE,
uience to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
i here connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
late liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Mature. For service, comfort aud good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
ELDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High llol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


Tenders.
Municipality of Kogarah.
For Sale—Sanitary Carts and Road
Roller.
TENDERS, accompanied by a deposit equal to 5%
of bulk sum of tender, are invited and will be
received up till 4 o’clock, p.m., on Monday, the 15tn
April, 1918, for the purchase of —
3 Sanitary Carts (42 pans). „ ,
1 horse-drawn Ballast Road Roller (Ritchie Bros.).
R. C. ROSE, Town Clerk.
Kogarah, 3rd April, 1918. -
icycle Handy?
There are numerous occasions
in every home and business
place when it would be a con-
venience and a saving of valu-
able time to have a bicycle
handy. Shopping, delivering
urgent messages, business calls,
are a few of the things which
can be easily and rapidly
accomplished by cycling.
SIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
"THOROUGHLY BRITISH."
and ensure years of reliable service.
The few shillings difference between
a genuine B. S.A. and a 1 ‘ pattern ' ’
machine is more than counter-balanced
by the freedom from trouble and ex-
pense which B.S.A. quality gives.
B.S.A. FITTINGS ARE GUARANTEED
INTERCHA NGEA BLE.
A
B.S.A.
B.S.A. Handbook
Free
D. V. RENNIE
<tepresenting B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings.
MELBOURNE.
tr
XI
f.
c
o>,
ft
u.
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant—-
so ‘Wincarnis’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because ‘Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
m
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new; vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why over 10,000 Doctors
recommend ‘Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
'Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd.,
Wincarnis Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
&x
nai
ms
B
DENBY
MOTOR LORRIES
I=2=3 and 5
Tons
Capacities.
The Denby internal-gear drive axle carries all load on a solid, one-
piece bar of chrome-nickel steel.
The driving is done by a separate live axle carried forward of the
dead member.
The segregation of the two functions gives maximum strength and
simplicity and a high efficiency at all speeds.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC oth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C.: Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,660,000
I he Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
sags
✓
b*%
xa
m
£ main-teed
soonNo
... CVf r*t. mm
■! a. w,i!
| K'.Nt.i’i'V'uV'fij
••‘■{ft* .’.'■■“'ii
l&I*
sill II
S COK^
sS^BtlßtOOlP^
A Flat Roof— ’
But No Seepage
EVEN after many years Certain ■
teed Reinforced Flat Roofs re- y
main water-tight and leak-proof. _
Certain-teed .
Reinforced Flat Roof a
is a superior type of built-up roof. It is
built up on the job from alternate layers of
Certain-teed Roofing and Certain-teed Asphalt Cement.
It has a smooth surface, washed clean by every shower.
Always sanitary.
Certain-teed Reinforced Flat Roofs are spark-proof and
fire-retarding. They are unaffected by fumes, vapors, gases
or acids. No painting required. And they are fully
guaranteed.
Ask our local representative to show you this roofing and
other Certain-teed products.
Mr. C. C. McCann, Perpetual Trustee'Bldg., Sydney, N. S.W.
Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation
Proprietors of: General Roofing Manufacturing Co.
Mound City Paint & Color Co. Gregg Varnish Co.
Wholesale Distributors:
NEW SOUTH WALES: John Dariks & Son Pty. Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: James Campbell & Sons Ltd., Creek St., Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Gawler Place, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: McLean Bros. & Rig? Ltd., 104 Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: W. Hart & Sons, Charles Street, Launceston; Tattersall & Co. Ltd.,
Wilson Street, Burnie; T. J. Cane & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
Sixth War Loan
Serve your Country by Subscribing
It is your duty as a Citizen,
If you have not the money on
hand the Commonwealth Bank
will make liberal advances to
enable you to subscribe.
Bonds held in safe custody free of charge
For all particulars apply to any Branch of the
Commonwealth Bank of Hustralla
February, 1918. DENISON MILLER, Governor
66
O'
THE AUSTRALIAN
SRANDIA
99
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
X
SS,
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON, Loftus Street, Sydney


Public Notices.
“COMMONWEALTH PATENT, No. 13262, Dated
' w ' 19th May, 1914, for an invention entitled
IMPROVEMENTS JN AND RELATING TO APPA-
RATUS FOR CARRYING OUT RE ACTIONS BE-
TWEEN HYDROGEN AND OTHER GASES.’’
The Public of the Commonwealth of Australia is
hereby notified that any reasonable requirements in
regard to permission upon royalty for manufacturers
to employ the said invention in Australia will be
satisfied by the undersigned on application being
made to them.
Melbourne, 10th April, 1918.
NOBELS EXPLOSIVES COMPANY LIMITED (tfie
PATENTEES) in care of Collison & Cb., Patent
Attorneys, 483 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ITumrtj
k»
t
Yd.
Trams ~ |
\\
/ !/
TT 11MHII
Sit down right away and send Finney’s
an order —keep the mailman busy bringing
you bargains from Finney’s Sale of Sales.
Finney’s Pay
the Carriage.
Working Trousers Reduced.
Men’s Hard-wearing Cotton
Tweed Trousers, good patterns,
strongly made, side or cross
pockets; sizes 3 to 7.
Usually .. 7/(5 S/ll 0-/6 11/6
Sale Priees 6/11 7/11 8 6 10/3
Men’s Trousers for best wear,
neat worsted designs, plain and
gauntlet bottoms; sizes 3 to 7.
Usually—
-14/6 15/6 16/6 21/- 22/6
Sale Prices—
-13/6 14/- 13/- 19/- 20/-
Flannel Shirts Reduced.
Flannel Undershirts, of soft Grey
Australian Flannel. Usually 6/6.
Sale Price
3 for
5/6
16/-
, Bettor quality. Usually ,8/C.
Sale Price
7 6
3 for 22/-
Ipswich Flannels, Grey. I'su-
ally 8/11.
Sale Price
7/9
Riding Trousers
Reduced.
Men’s Venetian Twist Trousers,
very suitable for saddle use;
sizes 3 to 7. In Fawns. Browns
anrl Greys. Usually .30/-
Sale Price
26/6
Men’s Cotton Garbieord Trousers,
sizes 3 to 7. In Fawn and Khaki
shades. Usually 10/6.
Sale Price
9/3
WRITE TO-DAY EVERYTHING’S REDUCED
The Big Block,
BRISBANE.
FINNEY, USES S CO. LTD.,
The Drapers of
Queensland.
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
Orchard, Minister for Recruiting, is the
amateur actor of the Federal Government.
The other 13 or so are professionals.
“S.S.” : The cable announces the intention
of Woodrow Wilson to take over all the
U.S. railways. There is, however, an impor-
tant consideration which, I am convinced,
the President has not weighed. I have seen
four long picture films within a week, each
of which depended largely for its success
upon a liberal use of at least one great
American railway system. So far as I can
understand it, the whole service was at the
beck and call of the picture producer. This
is quite a common thing, and how is
Wilson going to . provide for the pic-
ture demand if he uses the railways
of America for his paltry war? The
war has its followers, no doubt, but if a
beautiful Francis Bushman film is ever held
up for the need of a few railway smashes,
Wilson will find out where the heart of the
country really is.
“Ballina” : Some
sideshowmen are
bowelless creatures.
Recently up out-
way a boxing booth
starred a couple of
tiny children, said
to be five. The
mites wore tiny
trunks and gloves
and sparred in a
baby way, while
Australians wh o
should have known
better 1 a ughe d.
barracked and
tossed silver into
the ring at the in-
vitation of the
manager, who, of
course, explained
that all money re-
ceived was “solely
for the benefit of
the little ones, gen-
tlemen.” Between
bouts (and they
“The Million Dollar
Girl,” at Sydney
Tivoli.
George Welch spend-
ing a night out.
were many) the exhausted children lay down
listlessly.
“First Old Man” : Worthy of record that
the first complete theatrical combination to
travel to Westralia by the East-West line will
be J. and N. Tait’s “Turn to the Right” com-
pany, which plays Perth and Ivalgoorlie when
it has got through its Melbourne season. The
“bad sailors” of the crowd will rejoice,
though the low comedian w T ill have no chance
to crack a wheeze regarding “the Great Aus-
tralian Bite.”
“75”: Back in Melbourne, looking none
the worse for three years’ active service,
Lieutenant J. C. “Blandolt” Morris, who,
before more exciting work was offering,
appeared with credit in various Williamson
productions (notably “Joseph and His
Brethren”) and with Harry Corson Clarke
during his Melbourne season. He is about
to be given his discharge, and intends getting
into grease-paint again.
One of the strangest plays on record is
“Out of Hell,” just produced in London. It
is in four acts, and yet has only four char-
acters —and two players ! Twin sisters, one
married in Germany, have sons exactly
alike. The young German goes to England
in his captive cousin’s uniform, and at first
deceives his aunt, who presently detects him
and denounces him as the spy that he is.
Then the Englishman escapes and calls on
his German aunt, who is killed in helping
him to get free. Finally he is hack in
England, but his mother’s mind has given
way and she refuses to acknowledge him—
till close on curtain-fall. The general verdict
is that it is a fine, thrilling war sketch, but
unduly padded out to make a full evening’s
bill. Also the one man and one woman who
double the parts, however clever they may
be, cannot avoid a certain monotony.
“Thula”: The lady with a powerful voice,
who alarmed the audiences at a series of
concerts in Sydney Town Hall lately, put
up a performance reminiscent of the punish-
ment inflicted by Albani on an audience out
west. The veteran arrived on tin* scene a
few hours before the concert was to begin,
weary and jaded
with travel, but
keen as a razor to
get in touch with
the local piano-
tuner. He was run
down and shot
into the presence.
Placing a tuning-
fork in his hand
she ordered him
to .tune the piano
in the public hall
to the same pitch.
That meant lower-
ing the pitch of
the instrument by
about a tone and
a half. The tuner
knew the job
couldn’t be done in
the limited time,
but being a soci-
able citizen felt
there was nothing
to be gained by
worrying the Even-
ing Star with de-
tails. So he oblig-
ingly made the
pitch of both in-
struments identical
by doctoring the
fork! When the
test was applied a
few moments be-
fore the concert
began, Albani was
satisfied. She be-
gan her first solo
“The, New Henrietta, ”
at Melbourne King’s.
Stapleton Kent as the
parson.
confidently and lightly. Then- ! Not once
did she come within cooee of the right note.
But her remarks about tuning-fork jugglers
omitted nothing.
“Amoi Ivito”: Harry Ingham, who
whipped up the orchestra to chase the flying
feet of vaudevillains under Harry Rickards’s
management for many years, has gone to take
the beat of the angels. Of late years he had
been keeping count of the flickers on the
screen at Hoyt's, and at latest was in one of
the suburban picture shows. He was a genial
soul teeming with happy reminiscences.
Rickards was watching with Ingham a
thought-reading act in which one partner was
in the gallery picking out articles that would
be named by' the other who was on the stage.
Suddenly the boss growled: “Do you mean to
tell me that he can read what is in your
mind?” “Oh, yes, governor, that’s what the
game is.” “Then if he can read what is in
my mind, he knows I think I am paying a
damn sight too much for that turn !”
London papers spell the name of Marie
Lohr, the new manageress, with two dots
over the o, in the German way. Daddy Lohr
never spelt it like that. Daddy’s father was
an English clergyman.
“Invictus” : Re the popularity of children’s
plays in London (B. 21/3/’18). I recently
got a letter from an H.Q. man telling of
his difficulty in securing seats for “Peter
Pan.” “I applied on December 14 for five
seats,” he says, “and managed to get three
in front and two behind for December 31.
Five reserved seats together were not obtain-
able till January 15, a whole month ahead.”
“ J.F.H.”: At Ruhleben, the big camp on
the Berlin raceourse, there are 3000 prison-
ers, including many Australians, and getting
up theatrical performances is one of their
best methods of whiling away the hours.
They have a regu-
-lar 1 y organised
theatre working
under an enter-
tainments commit-
tee. A different play
is produced every
week and runs for
five nights. They
have done a hun-
dred dramas, among
their authors being
Shakspeare, Sheri-
dan, Goldsmith,
Ibsen. Galsworthy,
\Y ild e, Shaw,
Carton and Mase-
field. Now they are
appealing to us
here in London for
fresh material, par-
ticularly the poetic
a n d imaginative
drama, which, how-
ever disdained else-
where, is held in
high esteem at
Ruhleben. Cnlike
the average- thea-
trical manager, they
welcome “plays by
unknown and un-
tried authors,” and
“The Million Dollar
Girl,” at Sydney
Tivoli.
Carl Morris, black-
faced comedian:
“Girl, I spend more
money aceiden tally
than yon do on pur-
pose.”
“invite young authors to trust us with their
manuscripts.” Here’s a chance!
“Harrison O.”: It is dangerous for a
dramatist to allege that one of his characters
is a genius and then try to prove it by pro-
ducing samples of his work. The* audience is
invited to believe that the hero of “The
Cinderella Man” is a poet of purest ray
serene, but at an early stage some of his
mushy verses are read (they are about a
bloke building a suburban residence out of
his heart), and the judicious are unable to
accept the invitation. In the second act the
poet is shown in the throes of composition,
lie seizes his pen and for some time behaves
as if flea-bitten in 10 places. Then he
declaims the result —four lines that any
purple-pill rhymester could have invented in
his sleep. ' Subsequently the hero writes a
grand-opera libretto which makes his for-
tune, and the dramatist misguidedly sup-
plies a few extracts. The blunder is re-
peated in regard to another character sup-
posed to be a famous composer. He is made
to warble one of his own songs, and it is
the sort of ditty that many of us compose
every morning while soaping ourselves. It
should be a rule with all dramatists to allow
the allegedly great artistic masterpieces per-
petrated by their puppets to be taken as
read.
“C. Ockney”: After all, capable “legiti-
mate” mummers seem easier to procure in
London these days than f.a.q. music-hall
entertainers. Anyhow, many of the West
End Vaudeville “palaces” are giving up their
turns and putting on a full-length theatrical
show instead. Even the old-established
Leicester Square house, the Empire, has
given up variety and gone in for musical
comedy. Its latest attraction is an American
sample, “The Lilac Domiwo.”
Doris Keane, the Yankee actress who made
a London hit in “Romance” three years ago
and has been playing the role ever since, has
just committed matrimony with Basil
Sydney, who became her leading man last
July.
“J.F.11.”: Bernard Shaw’s latest war
sketch, produced at London Coliseum, is
called “Annajanska, the Wild Grand
Duchess.” It is the poorest stuff imagin-
able, a disjointed, incoherent skit upon the
revolution in Russia or Beotia, as he pre-
fers to spell it. It is a pity to see Lillah
McCarthy wasting her sweetness on such
stage-desert air. She is supposed to be an
escaped Russian Duchess, captured and
brought before one of the revolutionary
Generals by a couple of villainous-looking
Guards. The usual Shaw topsy-turvy
dialogue ensues, and finally Lillah discharges
a revolver, throws off her feminine garments
and reveals underneath them the white uni-
form of the Russian Imperial Guards. The
curtain comes down on this situation, leav-
ing the audience in a state of hopeless
bewilderment as to the aim or meaning of
the thing. It falls as flat as the beef of
yesterday.
"Stargazer” : Applause has lost its signifi-
cance, more particularly first-night applause.
There was a time when one could judge from
the plaudits at the conclusion of a “first pro-
duction here” what place the play and the
playing held in public esteem, but nowanights
rampant enthusiasm is more likely to follow
on the heels of a performance that has been
an unmitigated failure than to reward the
efforts of actors and author in a very satis-
factory entertainment. Managements discov-
ered the advertising advantages of public
enthusiasm, and, assuming that fictitious
demonstrations would serve the same purpose,
made arrangements for turning on applause
when wanted, with the result that persistent
recalls of principals follow upon a produc-
tion that has bored the audience stiff, and
has no hope of becoming a draw. The
idea that you can delude people who have
had a wearisome time into the belief that they
are, oh, so happy, and have had a delightful
night, oy making a joyous tumult all about
them, is characteristic of the managerial
mind that no longer pretends to know what
the public wants, but aims to bamboozle it
into wanting what it gets.
In the cemetery of Strahan (Tas.), situ-
ated on a plateau overlooking Macquarie
Harbor, Grattan Higgs was buried nearly
20 years ago. His grave is near the weather-
beaten pine-bench on which occasional visi-
tors rest in the shade of a tree. And then
the old actor’s last appeal catches the eye of
the audience:—
THE
FORGET POOR
DON’T SIIAEGHRAUN.
IN MEMORY OF
THOMAS GRATTAN RIGGS.
Born at Buffalo. N.Y.. U.S.A., 1835.
Died 15th June, 189!),
Aged C 4 years.
Erected by his friends.
“First Usher” : Guy Bates Post, whom the
Taits will exhibit in "The Masquerader”
shortly, owes much of his significance in
Not) Yark to Richard Walton Tully, a Cali-
fornian producer who gave him a big chance
in “Omar the Tentmaker,” adapted from the
poem of “Omar Khayyam.” Mainly owing
to Tully’s indifference to artistic propriety
in the arrangement of his effects, this reckless
perversion of Mr. Khayyam’s philosophy ran
three years, and Guy Bates Post enjoyed a
deserved share of its income and celebrity.
Later on, Tully wreaked some more of his
stage mechanics on an undiscerning world in
“The Bird of Paradise,” and again booked
the mightily useful Post for the job of the
beachcomber. Th result was an embarrass-
ing diversion of greenbacks into Tully’s
pockets and a growth of popular curiosity
that hasn’t been sated in six seasons. By
this time Post was looking like a mascot, so
the old reliable was commanded to Jek.vll-
H.vde the characters of Loder and Chilcote
in a sensational resurrection of “John Chil-
cote, M.P.” This piece, “The Masquerader,”
caused another bulge in the bank account,
and has made the Taits’ financial soul soar
with enthusiasm. If the show doesn’t prove
a success here, the Taits’ confidence in their
own judgment will be severely shaken.
By the death of husband Oscar Lewishon.
Edna May, the first Belle of New York,
comes into a million and a quarter dollars.
“C. Ockney” : Pinero has just staged his
umpty-umpth play, a light comedy entitled
“The Freaks: An Idyll of Suburbia.” Dot
Boucicault is the introducer and producer,
and sister Nina has a prominent part.
Melba’s roles; Elsa in “Lohengrin."
Elizabeth in “Tanuhauser,” Brunhilda in
“Siegfried,” Violetta in “La Traviata,” Gilda
in “Rigoletto,” Aida in “Aida,” Rosina in
“The Barber of Seville,” Desdemona in
“Otello,” Juliet in “Romeo and Juliet,”
Marguerite in “The Damnation of Faust.”
Helene in “Helene,” Elaine in “Elaine”
(written by Bemberg for her), Mimi in “La
Bohfeme,” Lucia in “Lucia de Lammermoor,”
Ophelia in “Hamlet,” Manon in “Manon
Lescaut,” Nedda in “Pagliacci,” Micaela in
“Carmen,” Margherita de Valois in “Les
Huguenots,” Lakme in “Lakme,” Luisa in
“I Rantzau,” Semiramide in “Semiramide.”
Esmeralda in “Esmeralda” and Infanta in
“Le Cid.”
From London:—
Ada Crossle.v has settled down to music-hall work.
She has lately been singing- at the Palladium, to the
great joy of the box-office. Rene Maxwell is getting
plenty of engagements and has been offered one by
Beecham to appear in London in grand opera, re-
cently she made a hit as deputy for Rosina Buck-
man at Brighton. Ivy Shilling is touring with
“Topsy Turvy” and is a favorite everywhere. Butt,
Grossmith and Laurillard want her for future pro-
ductions, and she has received good offers from the
U.S.A. Marie Lohr has struck a winner with
Somerset Maugham’s “Love in a Cottage,” her first
production under her own management. Enid Ben-
nett and Annette Kellerman are here on the films.
Both are billed as “American” actresses. America,
having “come in,” is in the boom just now.
THE ARTIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ho took his pen with brave intent
To write a story wondrous true.
The best his genius could invent,
And strove at it the whole night through.
His heart resolved that it should shine,
With wit wrought into every line.
When done he judged it “rather tine."
“It’s bright enough ; the theme is new ;
Vet not the thing I meant to do.”
lie felt again his being glow
With inspiration for a song.
The splendid rhythm seemed to flow
His vibrant, dancing pen along,
lie wrote it with his heart’s blood red,
And then he conned it o'er and said:
“ ’Twill sell—my children will be fed.
But far is it as God’s own view
From that dear thing 1 meant to do.”
So on in years of patient toil
He strove all times with honest zest
To cull from his soul’s fruitful soil
The rainbow flower, his Spirit’s best.
And still his best, elusive, sly,
Mocked at him with a laughing eye,
And lured him yet again to try.
And ever with an impulse new
He sought the thing he meant to do.
Then, pen in hand, the artist died ;
Half writ the book he meant to write.
Through starless spaces high and wide
He sought and found the Realm of Light.
There still he starts his perfect song,
The gem-like thing a half-span long.
To hear him all the angels throng.
He heeds them not, but seeks anew
The precious thing he means to do.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


k ' 1
i
One of the great advantages
of the Series 18 Stude-
baker 6-Cylinder 7-Pas-
senger Car here illustrated
is its ample roominess.
The fatigue and strain of
long-distance travel are
noticeably absent when
you travel in a Stude-
baker, for the designers
of this car kept well in
view the comfort of the
passengers.
The scats in a Studebaker
6 are form-fitting and
scientifically designed.
Front seats are indivi-
dual and adjustable, the
auxiliary seats are folding-
arm-chairs.
All are deep cushioned in
real leather of the highest
grade and are fashioned
o . ,
to make a restful position
for distance travelling —
and what applies to dis-
tance tours must apply
equally to short journeys.
The perfect chassis balance,
long and resilient springs,
the easy acceleration and
smooth flow of power all
put the Studebaker in a
class by itself among
medium-priced cars —you
can get equal advantages
but only in cars costing
anywhere from to
more.
In buying a car costing in
the vicinity of to
you —like the pro-
verbial man from Mis-
souri —naturally want to
be shown.
We for our part welcome
vour investigation and
wish that every buyer of a
car would make up his
mind to see the Stude-
baker 6. The inevitable
result of that universal
comparison would be
considerably more sales
of Studebakers.
The most practical way to
demonstrate the advan-
taeesthe Studebaker Car
offers is to have you, the
prospective buyer, ride in
a Series 18 Studebaker.
If you can drive, so
much the better for us, as
then you will personally
realise its worth in actual
performance.
The demand for Studebaker
Cars is increasing so
rapidly that present stocks
will soon be practically
sold out.
Each succeeding cablegram empha-
sises the difficulty of not only
obtaining shipping space but in
maintaining the already reduced
production of Studebaker Cars.
Owing to the magnitude and over-
whelming importance of orders for
war material, now more than ever
urgently needed by Great Britain
and her Allies, the Studebaker
factories are concentrating their
energies in this direction.
Now, while stocks or all models aie
still available, is the time to select
your Studebaker. Your State
distributor, whose name appears
below, will send you an illustrated
catalogue and furnish you with the
name of the nearest Studebaker
dealer.
Stocks of Studcbaker Cars are at present held by our State distributors and by 200 Studebaker dealers throughout Australia and New Zealand.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Head Office: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. S- A. Branch at 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street. Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Leonard Corrick, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston.
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Adams Limited, Tuam Street, Christchurch (N.Z.).
A. Hill, 72 Collins Street, Hobart, T asmania.
ESTABLISHED 1852


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair-
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair, but to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Removing, Her Skin.
The quickest and surest way to make a
good complexion out of a bad one is to
actually remove the thin veil of faded or dis-
colored outer skin from the face. This can
he done easily, safely and privately by any
woman. The process is one of gentle absorp-
tion.
Get some pure mercolised wax from your
chemist and apply it at night like cold cream,
washing it off in the morning. In a few
days tiie mercolide in the wax will have
absorbed the disfiguring cuticle, revealing
the fresh young skin underneath; you will
have a beautiful, clear, natural complexion.
The process is pleasant and harmless, making
the face look brilliantly attractive and youth-
ful. It also effectually removes such blem-
ishes as freckles, tun, moth patches, liver
spots, pimples, etc. Every woman should
keep a little mercolised wax on hand, as this
simple, old-fashioned remedy is the best com-
plexioued beautifler and preserver known.
Blackheads Instantly Go.
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess is now used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores in the
skin. You have only to drop a tablet of
stymol, obtained from the chemist, into a
glass of hot water and bathe the face with
the liquid after the effervescence has sub-
sided. The blackheads will then come right
off on the towel. The enlarged pores immedi-
ately contract to normal and the greasiness
disappears, leaving the skin smooth, soft and
cool and free from blemish. But to make sure
that this desirable result is permanent it is
advisable to repeat the treatment several
times at intervals of say about four or five
days.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily be
changed back to a natural color in a few
days’ time merely by the application of a
simple, old-fashioned and perfectly harmless
home-made lotion. Procure from your chem-
ist two ounces of tammalite concentrate and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this to the hair a few times with a small
sponge, and you will soon have the pleasure
of seeing your grey hair gradually darkening
to the desired shade. The lotion is pleasant,
not sticky or greasy, and does not injure the
hair in any way.
Naturally Wavy Hair.
Good stallax not only makes the best possi-
ble shampoo, but has the peculiar property of
leaving the hair with a pronounced natural
“wave,” an effect presumably desired by many
ladies. A teaspoonful of the stallax granules,
dissolved in a cup of hot water, is ample for
a luxurious head wash, and leaves the hair
with a peculiar lustre and flufflness obtainable
from nothing else as far as known. It is per-
fectly harmless, and can be obtained from
most chemists, although since it has been but
little used for this purpose it comes only in
jib. sealed original packages, enough to make
up 25 or 30 individual shampoos. [2
Superior to Marking Ink,
THE
.WOYE^NAMESi
■ Made in
Australia
>
May be procured throuch~
ANY UP-TO-DATE MERCER OR DRAPER.
OUR NAME ON THE BOX
to a guarantee of QfiaM^
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, s'-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
m
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & “
CAMERON LT?
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
“they COME AS A BOON & A BLESBINQ TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE VVAVERLEY PEN.
Why Throw BROKEN
PARTS Away ?
We are specialising in repairs by the Oxy-Acetylene Welding Process, and can
repair con-osions, in boilers, broken, cracked or worn motor-car parts, including
cylinders and pistons, any factory machinery or household machinery; in fact,
any castings or parts made of Steel, Iron. Cast-iron, Copper, Brass or
Aluminium. Nothing too small or too large. Carbon removed from 4-cyl.
Motor-cars, while you wait, for 10/-
NOTE ONLY ADDRESS- ESTABLISHED 19 11
A. L. WEST (Q. CO.,
Tel. City
4178
Top of Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY
Roar of 187
Liverpool Street.
For Fine Shafting,
Machine Tools,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling an<l
Factory E<iu i p-
nient. etc., etc.
E" 17
£U i%* m
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word In
_
u
H
a m
CZ3
L ...
r 0
I
D
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The SKF Self-aligning Ball-bearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 00 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal hearing, and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
GARDNER, & CO.,
Chief Agents and Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE — BRANCHES —
Office, 384 City Road, S. Melbourne. SYDNEY . . 225 Clarence Street.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street. BRISBANE , . ■ 367 Queen Street.
m
What we call courage is
nearly always primarily a
display of unusual nerve,
energy and enterprise. The
man who shows the great-
est courage in an emer-
gency is he who has kept
fit for any emergency.
*
l
V;
\
VJSS
7
'T'HE man who takes half a teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts
* in a tumbler of hot water every day feels fit every
day. His body is cleansed of impurities, his blood courses
freely in his veins; he goes to his work refreshed, alert,
keen and vigorous : he feels ready for action always. He
gets the best out of himself and out of life —'and keeps at
arm's length lassitude, headaches, an inactive liver and con-
stipation —the evils of a sedentary life.
Get the Kruschen habit and keep fit.
m
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.. 6B Deaa'gate Arcade, Manchester England.
The peril of the soaring wages-board
award : Get a log and lose a billet.
“Haka”: The Maoriland Scot dies hard.
Three years ago the cookies down Balclutha
way proposed that the worn-out nags of the
district should be boiled and exported
for sale to the Belgians. So stirred was
McSnavle by the plight of Belgium that he
offered to sacrifice Mag and Dick at cost
price. On that occasion Massey replied
that he would see the McFeersons in the
heatworks before he would sanction the
State-export brand being affixed to potted
ponies and frozen fillies. Now the local
Sandies up Wairoa way are at it again: on
this occasion they ask that the toothsome
grub be exported for sale to Britishers.- One
gentleman pointed out that they had a sur-
plus of 30.000 nags and the grass would be
available for fattening stock if these were
canned. Also (good old wheeze!) it would
“improve the breed of horses.” This philan-
thropist’s name was Vile. So is the
price we are making Britain and our Allies
pay for greasy wool —up to 24£ck, the
highest ever obtained in Maoriland.
“A Female of the Species” from Kansas: —
I agree with “Bad American” (B. 22/11/T7)
that "Good Australian” (B. 25/10/'T7) doesn’t
know what he’s talking about when he states
that “rents of houses, flats and apartments in
’Frisco are twice and thrice as high as in Mel-
bourne.” F.ven during Fair-time in San Francisco I
paid only £5 a month for an apartment on Nob
Hill in a first-class house with hotel service. It
was furnished and ready for instant habitation, and
if you can show me this for 255. a week in Mel-
bourne or Sydney I’ll eat my new Spring hat. I
can’t understand why Mftnly and our other resorts
have not a dozen or more of these compact, .clean
and serviceable buildings, instead of weatherboard
hot-houses with the dried-up gardens and dingy
hangings and obsolete kitchens.
“7833” : The military are very particular
about the rationing of troops. When Pte.
Billjim marches out from one camp to
another, or from the training-camp to have
his first smack at Fritz, he carries his rations
and a certificate to show he has had them
issued to him. If he goes to hospital rations
and certificate accompany him. Each week-
end a return is submitted to H.Q. showing
the number of men marching in or out, with
or without rations. I found this on a
return a few days ago:—
Name. Marched Out To. Were Rations taken ?
Pte. Smith. (Deceased.) Yes.
Maybe he’ll need them ; they say it’s a long
march.
“James Bildad”: O Bulletin, I pray you
to print this in a conspicuous part of
your valued paper. I would like it to
go next to advertising matter, but that is
not essential. It is a true prophecy. The
ship on which Hughes and Cook leave for
England on their great mission will dis-
appear. A German raider will get it, but
that will not be known till long afterwards,
and not even then. The message which they
throw overboard in a bottle requesting that
the whole British fleet be sent to their rescue
will miscarry, and the attempt will lead to
them being confined in the coal bunkers —not
both in one bunker lest they should dominate
one another, but each in a bunker by himself.
Gradually it will soak into the public com-
prehension that the ship is late; then that it
is later; finally that it is too late altogether.
In a remote and flat part of Prussia the
pair will be interned, and warned that all
appeals of any kind are useless and will
only lead to a further reduction of their
sau'er-kraut. Meanwhile their salaries will
run on until some indignant member asks
if this is an honorarium or a Marathon
race. Attempts to shift them by vote of
censure will be ruled out of order on the
ground that there is no precedent, and the
Governor-General will refuse to accept the
Acting Prime Minister’s resignation on the
ground that the disappearance of two mem-
bers of the Cabinet is quite irregular. The
British authorities will hunt up all known
precedents, and in despair will abolish the Aus-
tralian Constitution, thereby making an end
of the Parliament and the Ministry, and
the accumulation of Hughes’s and Cook’s
salaries. The Governor-General, after being
an autocrat for 24 hours, during which time
he will give a great ball and charge it to
revenue, will grant a new Constitution just
like the old one, and after an election, at
which unparalleled excitement and a great
issue of paper money will prevail, everything
will start again.
“T.F.M.” adds a footnote: —
Port Albert was settled, as surmised by “I Say”
(B. 28/3/T8), prior to Mallaeoota Inlet; but the
Singapore adventurers he refers to were not its true
Pilgrim Fathers. To three sailor brothers named
Martin belong that distinction. Perhaps the many
swamps around Port Albert reminded them of the fens
of their native Lincolnshire; anyhow, they squatted
there with their families in 1840, and probably
the reason why historical savants make no mention
of them is that they were not big' land sharks,
but were content ’ with just as many acres as they
could put to profitable use. They were an enter-
prising trio. While one was on a visit to Laun-
ceston he bought an elephant that some speculative
sailormen had imported from Ceylon, and in due
course the brute was landed at Port Albei't. After
making himself useful for some years as a farm
laborer Jumbo absconded, his bones being discov-
ered in the ti-tree long afterwards. Port Albert
was not named —as is the general belief —in compli-
ment to Queen Victoria’s husband, but after the first
white child born at the settlement, Albert Buntine.
This child's mother had established a claim
to be considered a sturdy old pioneer when she
died in 1896. The stories still told in Gippsland
about her would fill a book. She could ride after
stock, kill and dress a bullock, use a pick and
shovel, swing Douglas, split posts and rails, erect
fencing, strip bark, and drive a bullock-team; she
was, in fact, the first bulloeky to take a drayload
of stores through the ranges to Walhalla. Another
notability among the pioneers of South Gippsland
was the chief of the Macdonells of Glengarry, who
landed at Port Albert in 1842, with a contingent
of his clan, with intent to become a cow-cocky
on a big scale; but the enterprise turned out a
failure, and the chieftain left Australia. He was
the son and heir of the man who figures as Fergus
Mclvor in Scott’s “Waverley.”


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO..
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
r>
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you liave tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you lia.ve ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
X
la
/3
\
*8
CO
17*
cn
C3>
ix
555
£*
Cranny Chamberlain
(COPYRIGHTED)
S 3
N
NO matter how careful you are some of the
youngsters are sure to catch cold this winter.
You know what children are!
They will slip off to school in the rain without hat,
coat or goloshes and run round the school ground
without hat or coat when the cold winds are blowing.
When you know they have done these things nip the
probable cold in the bud by giving them Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
Very often the first intimation you have that
they sat all day in school with damp clothes and
wet feet is when one complains of sore throat
and another has the snuffles.
But Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has never
failed you yet, and even if it is too late to nip the
cold in the bud it will soon be a thing of the
past if you give them this wonderful medicine
in frequent doses.
Colds are the special bane of childhood and a
succession of colds, or even neglect of a common
cold, will often lay the foundation for chronic
bronchial affections of later life.
Don’t wait till your child is sick but keep
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy on hand ready
for instant use when needed.
tyJeuM Jc\ J'fecdtA -
Chamberlains
COUGH REMEDY
BE PREPARED
Like many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder his developed. During tlie ™. a . n
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the pliysicia 1
can be the interests of their family at heart fceep a bottle of Chamberlain's Colic and y a nd
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea• Renter} and
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bowels the attack may be aioided but ev
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy. . T ,
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage. The e xciteii
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains 111 ie
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied upon to do this.
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for
£4 7 6 „
£8 15 0 it
£43 15 0 n
£B7 10 0 „
£875 00 „
Payable 3 years •from
If
91
If
>9
99
date of purchase.
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6- War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
B ave and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
. Commonwealth Bank of Australia. October, 1917
OUR
FOLDING
CLOCKS
are admirably adapted for Australian
inland conditions.
WHY?
Because they have superb lever watch
movements, and are specially con-
structed to stand hard travel.
They go for 8 days, and last a lifetime.
They are absolutely accurate and reliable.
They are soon recognised as the one
dependable timepiece in a house.
They fold flat, and so occupy small space
when in a suitcase.
They have luminous dials and so show
the time in the darkest room.
mss
■
SSSSgS
HE
m
Absolutely reliable lever movement, in folding
leather case, to go 8 days, 95/-
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
Plain figures. Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
SAOOi
hd/.rZ
7
When you specifv
the Saddle
say BROOKS
t and you will ensure a comfort .
otherwise impossible
STOCKED BY MOST DEALERS
m
m
mm
m
THE MERIT OF A “PLUM”
is best appreciated by the man who has tried all other sorts of Razors
before discovering the “Plum” masterpiece. All the science in the
world can’t make a keener blade, or one that keeps its edge so long.
SEND FOR A “PLUM” RAZOR TO-DAY.
PRICE, 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-. This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AIT&EN,
654 G E E s?Su S m?o“?f«™S DNEY -


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD."
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Tlieatres JLtd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
”|" IVO L I THKATKG, SYDNEY
Nightly at 8. Matinees Monday, Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
THE BOOM CONTINUES.
Hugh D. Mclntosh’s Phenomenal REVUE SUCCESS.
THE MILLION DOLLAR GIRL.
The greatest production yet seen at the Tivoli.
I*l VO 1,1 Tll EAT ICE, MELBOURNE.
TWICE DAILY.
2.30 and 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents London’s Smart
Revue Success,
SAMPLES.
A Sparkling aiid Dazzling Production.
D nc( ’ s : 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
H 15 ,{ 'I A .) E STY’S, SYDN E Y.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 1.45.
•T. C. Williamson, Ltd., announce their Gorgeous
PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
WRITER lON THEATRE. SYDNEY.
0 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
MURIEL STARR
in the first production in Sydney of the Hawaiian
play,
THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
P ALACE THEa T K E, SYDNEY.
LAST SEVEN NIGHTS.
Last Two Matinfies (Saturday and Wednesday).
J. and N. TAIT and BAILEY and GRANT’S
GORGEOUS PANTOMIME.
ALADDIN
In 19 Scenes of Dazzling Splendor.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
lINION PICTURE TIIEAT It E S
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLI AMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
AV. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
\A/ IRTHS’ NEW CIRCUS
ww WIRTIIS’ HIPPODROME, lIAYMARIvET.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY, 2.45.
COMPLETE NEAV COMPANY & 25 NEW ACTS,
including the Latest American Sensations.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/’-, plus tax.
Children Half-price.
Soldiers in uniform Half-price to Dress Circle.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
Ulllt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
The “Last Word” in Revues,
THE BING BOAS ARK HERE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
Til 15 AT H E II OyA L, MEL BOURNE.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
KATHLENK MACDONELL
in
THE RAINBOW.
ING’S THEATRE, MEIIIO U R N E.
EVERY EVENING.
J. & N. TAIT'S
Brilliant New Comedy Co. in
THE NEW HENRIETTA.
AN IRRESISTIBLE LAUGHING SUCCESS.
Prices as Usual. Plans at Allan’s.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to G p.rn.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Mutinies Saturday at 2.30.
FAMOUS PLAYERS-LASKY, MAX
SENNETT, ARBUCKLE, etc.,
FEATURES.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
WALLACE REID and ANITA KING in
THE SQUAW MAN’S SON.
Also
MARGUERITE CLARK in
BAB’S DIARY.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
RUOl' THE A T R E. M E L B O U R N E.
M Direction: BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
FULLER’S ALL STAR VAUDEVILLE.
The Martinis, Con Horeni, Skipper Francis, Musical
Bentleys, Tom Rees, Eddie Burns, Leeds and Posner,
Veronica and Damon, etc.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
|y|A.)ESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMADGE
in a Lelynick adaptation of Monckton Hoff’s play,
PANTHEA.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at S.
1 grci'EANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
|Y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.,
R6SHKELALAH7
3rd Edition. Post, 2s. O >^d.
SKINNER’S, 121 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price foJ it.
STEWART DAWSON’S
u
10
ALWAYS RELIABLE
A HANDSOME PRESENT
Costing Much Cess
at Stewart Dawson’s
The reason being' that when we first took
up the sale of this Watch, it held such a
high place in our judgment that we re-
served a substantial stock to tarry us
over.
We are, therefore, still able to offer them at THE 01,1) PRICE, viz., £5, and it is a
fact that if these Watches had to be manufactured to-day they would cost well-nigh
double.
THIS HANDSOME 15-JEWELLED LEVER WATCH BRACELET
has strong 9ct. Gold Case, expanding Gold Bracelet, High-grade finish, Perfect Movement.
Accurate Timekeeper.
CALL AND INSPECT OUR STOCKS. OR WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson’s
STRAND SYDNEY CORNER.
Win Fame as an Artist.
Study Drawing at Home
under Harry J Weston—Aus-
tralia’s famous commercial
artist. Every post brings
letters showing the extraordi-
nary success achieved by
■npils of the Weston School.
l-< gi liners in art who started
the lessons “just to amuse
themselves’’ are turning out
work of merit and originality
beyond their most sanguine
expectations.
There is no
reason why YOU
■should not become
a successful artist
—bring H a r r y
Weston into your
liome to help you.
T li e Weston
Course carries
students through
every phase of
Commercial Ai t,
and so thorough
and explicit are
the instructions,
so helpful an d
personal Mr.
Weston’s criti-
cisms, that rapid
progress u n d e r
such able tuition
is certain.
“THERE’S MONEY
IN THE PEN.”
The above is
the title of the
m
booklet which describes in full the Weston
Postal School of Drawing both as a profession
and as a pastime. We should like you to
have a copy. Send us your name and address,
including three penny stamps to cover postage.
The HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
40 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
I
This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities, and
is an ideal standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no cooking,
and is always satisfactory.
HOPLICK'S
MALTED MILK
Wise Women Buy
M^nn^riS
Perfumed Talcum Powders
By the Half Dozen
iMil
OD □□□□□□□□[
n^nrrens
UIOL^T
TdL^VIM
\3srhobd Mtnntri
Chsmicbl K.O.
_ ritwaßK.ru.vj.s a ,
The Perfect Complexion depends on the quality of the Toilet
Powder used. Inferior and impure powders are positively harmful.
Mennen’s Perfumed Talcum Powders are recognized everywhere as
the purest. Nothing so quickly destroys a woman’s fresh and
delicate complexion as the constant daily use of toilet powders
containing injurious chemicals.
Mennen’s Scented Talcum Powders
Pure —refined—free from foreign matter —deliciously perfumed—are considered by an
increasing number of the fair sex as the safest and daintiest toilet powders. They can
be had in a variety of Tints and Perfumes.
insist on the Genuine Mennen ’s
Borated Talcum Powder . At
all Leading Chemists and Stores.
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL COMPANY
17 Victoria Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt Street
Sydney, N. S. W
Sen Yang- With a Seductive yet illusive odour of the Orient.
Fle*b Tint— Exquisitely perfumed with the odour of Roses, and
delicately tinted pink. /
Violet- With the dainty scent ol the delicate “Violet de
Parme.”
Cream Tint - A “Rachel” oowdet, cream-coloured and
scented with orange blossoms.
'tVnrl* IW^.2


FIERY RED FACES
and HANDS
Quickly Soothed
and Healed by
Cuticurai
Trial Free
Bathe freely
with Cuticura
Soap and hot
water, dry and
gently apply
Cuticura Oint-
m
m
ment. Use night and morning.
For pimples, redness, roughness,
itching and irritation, dandruff, itching
scalp and falling hair, red, rough hands
and baby rashes, itchings and chafings,
these fragrant, super-creamy emollients
are wonderfully effective.
Sample Each Free by Mail. Address
post-card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE’S
SP£CMU3£
TWO
L //V £s
f#
S
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
CHRISTIES
Tke STRAND
111
- i I
m
5- I 1 .•
I
a
■
R i
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
if /WAITER S T NEWCASTLE
ARE YOU W%
Ryptu red
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
TH E N.fc W,
iM
-tm m
from England
is a blend of the
choicest oriental
fruits and spices,with
Pure Malt Vinegar.
Buy a bottle to-day.
0/ all Grocers and Stores .
NEURALGIA!
It is so easy to catch those debilitat-
ing Colds, Influenza, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, etc. Help yourself to
avoid these by taking
Dhosformo
I THE ROYAL TONIC
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton QC Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his own little way. He likes
and must have the best.
You cannot be too cautious in
selecting his food. Use a proved
food a food which has been in
the front rank for many years.
Mellin's Food is the proved most
efficacious equivalent to Mother’s
Milk, and satisfactorily fulfils all the
requirements of an artificial food.
Meilin's
Food
Set out to feed! baby right. Next to breast-feed-
ing, the Mellin’s Feeding Bottle has advan-
tages. A trial convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook for
Mothers. "The Care of Infants in Australia." free.
Messrs. Gollin & Q_>. Proprietary, Ltd.
Jfquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
The NEW
EDISON
of supreme excellence.
SEMDfIB
The delight usually
attained only by
actually hearing the
most gifted artistes
may be yours through
this greatest of Edi-
son achievements. It
is as if the elect of
the musical world
were really present,
so marvellously is the
voice “re-created.”
Can this honestly be
contended by the
ma n u facturers of
ordinary talking
machines? And so
with instrumental
music, which is
reproduced with abso-
lute fidelity.
You ought to get
The NEW EDISON
for YOUR home.
Write to-day for interesting illustrated
catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Before Sunset Buy a War Loan Bond.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.AV., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Coui’se of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Beading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PTLES. Ehtab. 1891.
/// 1 \
\ /
\
*
For all Climbs
AND ALL TIMES.
PRICE'S PATENT CANDLE CO LT?
London, Liverpool
—Manchester^ lasgov
HBMnMI
“The following list of previous occupa-
tions of some of the staff in the pay offices
illustrates the strange incongruity of their
present work: jockey, pearl-buyer, letter-
carrier, nail-maker, theatrical artist, wTin-
dow-dresser, horse-dealer, butcher, linesman,
blacksmith.” — Extract from Defence Com-
mission's report.
“Hadji”: Curious thing that the Angels of
Mons didn’t put in an appearance last month
at the Somme. They must have known that
they were needed even worse than they were
at Mons. Possibly they were just sulking:
you can’t expect even an angel to work over-
time if you cast doubts upon his reality.
The hangman did not have to wait more
than a month after Foundation Day for a
job. Australia’s first execution took place in
February, 17S8. The subject was James
Barrell, found guilty of robbing the public
store in company with three others whom
Phillip pardoned.
Returned wounded, to resume his job in
the electrical branch of Melbourne City
Council, Sapper F. A. C. Fynmore. He is
a branch of a fine old tree. Ilis dad, a
captain, fought in the Maori War. His
grandad was a middy at Trafalgar, where
also his great-grandad fought as a captain
of marines. The middy entered the navy
in 1808, transferred to the marines five years
later, and died a lieut.-colonel in 1887, aged
94, the last Trafalgar veteran.
Proposed by a member of the British Com-
mons that everybody with a certain amount
of wealth or more than that amount should
be deemed to be dead so that the death duties
could be collected immediately. The Vene-
tian republic, at a time of dreadful stress, did
almost as well as that. It put a tax on dead
bodies, and burial wasn’t allowed till the
duty was paid. If the family couldn’t or
wouldn’t pay the neighbors did —especially in
hot weather.
“Machete’s” star of other days:—
Many an old-timer will be sorry to hear of the
demise of “Lady” Barrett in Brisbane. She was the
daughter-of a well-known couple who kept a roadside
inn on the Ipswich-Brisbane road in the gay old
coaching days. That was in the ’5O-'6O period of
last century, and her ladyship was something of a
belle with the Dundreary-whiskered squatters and
others who rode up and down the highway to the
Downs, or flocked to Ipswich races. It was in those
days that she first wore the mid-Victorian riding habit
and the immortal top-hat. She had long threatened a
volume of reminiscences; but for many a year she
had been “persuaded” not to publish it.
Captain W. J. Varley, who got the Military
Cross lately, left as a trooper in Australia’s
first contingent in 1914, and struck trouble
on his first day at Gallipoli. He got fixed
up in time to do six months on the Peninsula,
winning a mention in despatches and a
D.C.M. Invalided to England, he was
offered a commission in British field artillery,
and collected two more wound-stripes and a
second mention in despatches. A younger
brother, who left Australia as a private a
year later, is now acting-major, M.C. Father
is postal inspector at Armidale (N.S.W.).
“Eight Bells” : The late Governor Bras-
sey’s appetite for beer was not fostered only
by the push-bike (B. 7/3/’18). One of his
favorite thirst-raisers was rowing. In the
early hours of the morning he could be seen
pulling a little, fat dinghy on the Yarra
close to the vice-regal roost, with a large
demijohn planted firmly between the knees.
He probably disliked rowing as much as he
did cycling; anyway the oars were swung in
at frequent intervals and —up went the
demijohn! The old chap had infinite
capacity for the brown stuff, and the cellar-
man at Government House would back s’Lud-
ship to outdrink the best pint-lifting sun-
downer that ever had his bottom teeth
under beer.
The record of a crew that has pulled its
weight:—
In the schoolroom at Tortoise Head Island, AVest-
ernport (Vic.), hangs a photo, of a crew of lads
from the training-ship John Murray, who, on April
16, 1916, defeated a crew of trainees of H.M.A.S.
Pioneer. The lads are (or were) Percy Duffy,
enlisted and wounded; Frank Roach, who now wears
stars on his shoulder-straps; Maurice S. Purcell,
killed in France, aged 20; Lieut. Austin Ilarde,
D. 5.0., who, after going to sea, enlisted as a pri-
vate ; young Callender, who donned khaki at 16, and
lost a leg and a finger at the Front; and George
Mott, who is somewhere ~t sea.
“The Old Soldier”: Only 103 years have
passed, yet what a change since Waterloo!
When we read of a battle-line over 50 miles
long, it seems hardly credible that Welling-
ton’s army, on which the history of Europe
hung, stretched only two miles and a quarter.
Ludendorff, so one cable said, occupies a
remote building with rugs hung over the
doors to keep out the sound of distant battle.
Wellington and Napoleon had their armies
within view, if not actually within reach
of their voices. Through the whole
action the Duke remained close to the
Guards, ordering them to lie down and stand
up as seemed necessary. He went into one of
their squares when the French Cuirassiers
charged, and when the charge failed he
ordered the breaking up of the squares, and
told the men to lie down again.
The Hun is no respecter of Generals who
have outlived their Frightfulness. Von
Mackensen, who led the drive against Russia
and also directed the furious rushes into
Serbia and Roumania, is now a comparative
outcast in charge of a few divisions in the
Roumanian shambles. On the other hand, his
lieutenant, Von Gallwitz, who helped him
in Serbia, is a “head” on the Western Front,
enjoying the same status as Albrecht of
AVurtemberg, Rupprecht of Bavaria and
Clown Prince Willie. The three royalties
are the only heads who have maintained
their commands since the beginning. A-’on
Ivluck, who saved his side at the Marne;
A r on Ilausen, who nearly precipitated dis-
aster in the same extensive conflict; the
patriarchial fraud Von Haeseler and several
more generals have all retired into carpet
slippers. But the royal geniuses still, hang
on. Whatever they do they will never lose
their jobs. The legend of their infallibility
persists through the simple process of invent-
ing their victories and blaming their defeats
on to somebody else.


OVULXRITY
IN
r.l
Y
risv$ g
Ariel Ascendancy in Australasia
Firmly Established.
An Ariel Agent in New Zealand says:
“When things are normal again we anticipate a good demand
for Ariels. Without exception every rider we have is a
satisfied one.”
Ariel Works Ltd. f 36 Bournbrook, Birmingham, Eng,
Agents: TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY: 363 George Street. ADELAIDE: J 52 Rundle Street.
MELBOURNE: Elizabeth Street.
I
r*
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. 0. ENO, Ltd.,'Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
%
THREE '-RIBBEE TYRES
mm
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
ami prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & GO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.B. 70
m
m
m
m
7l.fr
\ €.y v
;]>-
'?V-v . *
Sporting
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
A
“.4 marvel at the price."
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, ISin.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2i}lb
(Postage—N.9.W., 1/3 ; other States, 2/2.)
17/6
m
“Splendid for all small game.”
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon or round barrel, 22 calibre rim fire,
magazine takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-
lmrdened receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight X? S
sJlb., take-down. Freight paid, *0
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
m
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles,
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
1802
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/2/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/5/-
With A-Octagon Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, £5/5/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines,
25/20-, S 2-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full <
20in. round barrel, weight about sjlb
1892 Model,
• half magazines,
... Freight paid,,
£4/17/6
m
m
“A good rifle at a moderate price.”
821. Savage 1904 Model Single-shot
Rifle, 22-calibre, bolt action, 18in. barrel;
weight about 31b.; bead front and adjustable rear sight.
(Postage on 1 Rifle — N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
30/-
Hi
“Shoots ivith guaranteed accuracy."
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot. 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long or long rifle cartridges; weight, about 5Jll>. ..
' Freight paid,
7 51-
m
_ “Simple and extra strong in construction.”
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim lire cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all, 374 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
38/6
mm
“A suitable weapon for the boy."
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, 11. F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
27/6
Owing to market fluctuations, the prices here quoted only hold good
for two weeks from date.
%
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
839. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16A, 22 calibre, take-dpwn action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight sJlb.
Freight paid,
*6/15/-
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 45/- 1000; 4/6 100.
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
m
A perfect rabbiter’t rifle.
B37. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12A, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or
11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open
front sights; weight. 441b.
SUNOLTOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt.
1/2 post free.
A.
83. Stevens’ Favorite Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F. round
barrel case-bardened frame, solid breech, block under
action; weight 4ilb., fitted with ladder rear sight and open
24in.
lever
front,
35/-
Fitted with Lyman Combination Rear Sight
Same rifle, but 22 W.R.F, 25 or 32 calibres, 2/6 extra.
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
47/6
mm
A low-priced, reliable rifle.
811. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 calibre, rim fire, peep or Y sights, scroll trigger
guard, rubber heel plate; weight, 2flb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
29/
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List (Catalogue Bl), also 1918 Sure Catch
Anglers' Guide ( Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or both
lists. They are money savers.
m
mJSTRTILnb GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS
niSD TOBTIGCOTfISTS
m
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle d Brisbane


They Go Together
BEAUTY AND REXONA
m
W&
w%m
*.
mmM
mm
Mrs. LORN A WEN DEN (from a photo, by Monte Luke).
Read the following let-
ter, which was written to
us in praise of Rexona
Soap by a well-known
and charming Mosman
resident: —
Dear Sir, —
After using Rexona
Soap, I find no other
suits me and gives me
such wonderful results.
It is marvellous
soap, and makes the
hair so soft and silky,
and it is so refreshing.
For dandruff and
shampoo it is excel-
lent, and I want to
recommend it to all
my friends.
Yours truly,
(Sgd.) t
LORNA WENDEN,
“Swastika,
Spencer Road,
Mosman.
Girls! Beautify Your Hair.
Po you know that in less than ten minutes you can double the beauty of your
hair?°i y t°becomes light wavy, Kefonr sU A TeUgin-
charming as anyone could desire, after a simple wasn scraircv dry, brittle
ini surprise awaits those whose hair.ha- dirt or exceToii and in a
h°ave douhTd fi? bea«V «< f o«r jKexona SoaP dissaves
a tablet of Rexona Soap to-day. 1/- tablet.
0
o
o
SKIN & FACIAL
MEDICATED SOAP
c. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
m
Works > Birmingham, Englandt
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Beyond dispute, the present war is . the
greatest engineering competition ever devised.
SUNBEAM
productions have always achieved distinction
in competitions. To-day Sunbeam cars and
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
are engaged in playing their parts well-
nigh every theatre in which the Allies’ arms
are engaged, and are winning greater laurels
in this test of unprecedented proportions and
duration than any of the many conspicuous
ones they have gained in times of peace.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St. London, England
WORKS m • • • Wolverhampton, England
Nile Water.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Who drinks Nile water must return.” —Egyptian
proverb .
MnRICIvLE of brooks in the mountain
places,
Silver laughter in lips of fern ;
Deep green pools, where the fairies faces
Glimmer up from the quiet burn ;
But through the thrumming of pixy fingers
The call of the far-off waters lingers,
Murmuring ever “You must return.”
Oh clear blue eyes that reflect the laughter,
Oh, yellow head to my breast compelled,
Do you know how the past comes crying after
Till strange brown links with the gold will
weld V
Till the restless ache for the long sand-
shimmer
Makes foregrounds fade to a background
dimmer
That other secrets held?
The plains roll down to the merry river,
The merry river will court the sea ;
And the small green leaves in the reflex
quiver;
Fecund and fair is the homeland lea,
With daisy heads in the clovers showing
But Over There comes the samiel blowing
Out of the bosom of mystery.
With the rose of your palms you seem to
hold me
To the white oasis between your breasts,
And your innocent prides of love enfold me
To make a wall round the sheltered nests.
Hyssop and date on horizons dim
And a sand-blown landscape that has no rim
To baffle a spirit’s quests.
Amber beads in the hennaed fingers,
Flash of gold in the grey bazaar,
Faint blue haze on a mosque that lingers,
The tomb of a Sheik set high and far
To watch for the rest of their widowed lives
The pranks of his young, forgetful wives
And fret at the grim death bar!
Lamplight over your smooth white pillow ;
Starlight out on the pale lagoon ;
A cedar boat by the bending willow
Still warm from the kisses of afternoon ;
I remember the long brown waters creeping
To a goat-hair tent.... where there was no
sleeping.
I remember a desert moon.
I remember a dawn in the night’s heart hid
That broke like a pearl from a velvet case;
I remember the shape of a pyramid
Rose at day, in that lonely place ;
I remember.... a tent-flap thrust apart
And a sudden knife in a leaping heart
And my breath still on her face!
Then I look at you, as you lie there dream-
ing—
God! of me, and the thing I mean....
And I hear the wind through the black hills
screaming,
And I feel the sting where its lash has
been,
And I see the Bedouin fall, and lie
With his dark face masked, till the storm
sweeps by,
And I find.... the years bettveen!
The brown Nile waters —a serpent twining
In and out of the fateful land ;
A hot red sun in a clear sky shining,
An amber bead in a woman’s hand ;
And I know, if we be a life apart,
The knife is still in her hidden heart,
Though it rust beneath the sand.
Yellow hair on the pillow lying;
Lids on the blue eyes folded down ;
A soft blue bow all the gold uptying;
A blue rosette on the snow-white gown—
Gold and blue... .and all for my loving.
But a shadow over the sands is moving
And the long Nile tides are brown.
Trickle of brooks in the mountain places;
Silver laughter from lips of fern;
Deep green pools where the fairies’ faces
Glimmer up from the quiet burn.
But through the thrumming of pixy fingers
The call of the far-off waters lingers
Murmuring ever “You will return !”
QUEENSLAND.
M. FOREST.
Point Piper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT was in the forenoon of a fine January
day in 1820 when the praiseworthy
Captain Piper, who held his Majesty’s
commission as Naval Officer at Port Jack-
son, received word from the signal-station
up in Fort Phillip that a ship had been
sighted from the South Head. Whereupon,
as was the function of his office, he ordered
out his boat and its crew and proceeded
down the harbor to meet her.
The Naval Officer, long since extinct, was
a curious bird who was not wholly a custom
house, a marine board, a water-police sys-
tem, a harbor trust nor a port admiral, but
a little of each and of all together. He
was a kind of superior “warden of the port,’’
and had a harbor-master and a pilot service
under him.
John Piper—lately of the notorious New
South Wales Corps, and one of the some-
what exceptional decent officers of that
scallywag battalion—by his occupation of
the office exemplified the fact that, to be Naval
Officer of Port Jackson, it was not necessary
to be. or even to have been, an officer of the
Royal Navy or the mercantile marine, or any
sort of a sailor whatsoever. What he had
to do when a ship came to Sydney—under
the Port Regulations drawn up by Mr.
Judge-Advocate Wyldo to the order of Gov-
ernor Macquarie—makes it quite evident
that he was expected to earn the pay that
attached to the position.
He had to board every incoming ship—■
they were not numerous in ’20 —and serve
a copv of the regulations upon the com-
mander. The latter was required to furnish
him with every particular as to the ship, her
human complement and her cargo. Then
he took over the mails and sent them ashore.
After that, if all was in order, he permitted
the Admission Flag to be hoisted, and got
himself busy with a report, “on the pre-
scribed form,” to the Governor. You may
gather some notion of his other duties from
the fact that he is expressly mentioned in
17 out of the 51 paragraphs that make up
these quaint and excellent regulations,
whilst at least another third of the total
have to do, in some manner or other, with
liis office. _ ;
So John Piper had no illusion that he
was picnicking when he shoved out from
Sydney Cove that sunny morning a century
ago.
Down between the Sow and Pigs and
South Reef, in the Eastern Channel, Cap-
tain Piper espied the pilot’s boat coming up
behind him out of Watson’s Bay, and bade
his men lie upon their oars until it caught
him up. The pilot was Daniel Fallon, who
had formerly been coxswain of the Naval
Officer’s whaler—a West Country sea-dog of
great merit, entire knowledge of the weather
past, present and future, and a teller of un-
reliable tales regarding the fish which he
caught in the many spare moments that the
not over-worked pilot-service afforded him.
“Good morning to you, Daniel,” said
Piper, with a friendly smile —“who is she !
Can you make out her number from up
above?” He pointed to the flagstaff, where
the “ship in sight” signal still stretched sou’-
west in the nor’-easter, which was already
blowing freshly.
“Not yet, sir—she’m no closer-to than off
Bot’ny Bay. Wi’ this breeze —a-growin’
every half an hour —I’ll gi’ un to nigh fower
o’clock afore she beats up t’ th’ hentrance.
I be a-goin’ t’ h’ist sail, when we’m roun’ th’
corner yarnder, an’ us’ll run down to her
in no time. But ’twill be well into after-
noon afore we’re ’twixt th’ Heads.”
“Oh, very well, Daniel. I’ll wait for
you. We’ve food and drink aboard. We
might do a little fishing. How are they
biting?”
“Oh vamous, y’r Honor. Whv, yestere en,
back yarnder,” he pointed towards \\ ool-
lahra. Point, “I caught”
“Yes. yes, Daniel —I know. The biggest
fi*h that ever was, eh? Well, get along with
you. We’ll run back to the point and await
you. You might anchor off it —’twill save
these lads’ arms —and we’ll attend to the
ship’s business there.”
The pilot boat shot out towards the end
of the curling surf on South Reef. Captain
Piper gave orders to step the mast, and
before long he and his crew had landed for
their mid-day meal upon the narrow isth-
mus where, two generations afterwards,
good Lawrence Hargrave found his traces
of the old-time Spanish ships.
* * * *
In this first month of the year Lachlan
Macquarie was a troubled _ man. Ten years
of autocratic government is alone sufficient
to try the nerves of anyone, but such a
government as Macquarie had to carry on
must have come, in time, to be a mortal
weariness of flesh and spirit.
He had many cares, many enemies —open
and secret —and harassments without end.
But of all his troubles at this time it is
safe to assume that John Thomas Bigge,
Commissioner of Enquiry into the affairs or
New South Wales and its dependencies, was
the very worst and most obnoxious to him.
Mr. Bigge does not come into this story to
any further extent than as being the chief
disturber of the peace of mind of Mrs.
Macquarie’s husband, and the unwitting
cause of that dear lady’s constant insistence,
after her fond fashion, upon taking all the
means at her disposal for counteracting the
wearing effect upon her lord’s health of the
multitudinous worries that beset him. Of
these means, the chief was her gentle insist-
ence upon tearing Macquarie away from his
desk for an occasional jaunt into the country
about Sydney.
To-day, after an early midday meal, his
Excellency and Mrs. Macquarie had ridden
out unattended, in a direction that led them
along the southern shores of the harbor,
skirting the bays, towards South Head.
About the time when Captain Piper, weary-
ing of the ill success that attended his
angling, had landed from his boat, they were
riding through the bush along the rough hill-
top of the wooded point from the extremity
of which he was scrambling up, intent upon
a little exploring expedition of his own.
Down below him his men were still peace-
fully fishing from the white boat.
It wrns a beautiful afternoon —one of those
blue days when the splendid lake looks at its
best. If you go out along Wolseley-road on
a summer afternoon and turn your gaze
northward towards Manly you will behold,
with some difference, the lovely prospect
upon which the Governor and his lady feasted
their eyes as they drew rein upon the brow
of the hill and overlooked the harbor.
The long blue carpet of sunlit waters
stretches away to the white sands of the
Harbor Beach at Manly, with its crest of
Nqrfolk Island pines. To the right runs the
grey rampart of rock that shuts out the long
surges of the Tasman Sea —broken half-way
up bv the slanting entrance and the bold
bluff of Inner North Head. The green cape
of Bradley’s, the wooded crest of George’s
Heights and the sheer extremity of. Middle
Head, crowned by its fort, lie in succession
upon the left. There may be, if the tide is
out. a splash of white foam that flecks the
middle blue, where the Sow and Pigs pierce
the surface. The houses and high pine-trees
in Watson’s Bay, the tall white flats near
Yaucluse and the red roofs of Mosman,
sprinkling the dark forest above Taylor’s
Bay, with, far away in purple haze, the
pleasant village of Manly—that is the pic-
ture to-day.
But it was all the wild emptiness that had
entranced Arthur Phillip when he sailed in
in the Supply thirty-two years before that
the man and woman on the hill looked upon
that afternoon. The sort of scenery you
may see in Broken Bay—never again in
Port Jackson. It was, perhaps, not so lovely
as it is now, but was very lovely indeed.
“My dear Lachlan,” she said, smiling at
him, as they sat upon their horses, “how ex-
quisite—how very beautiful!”
“ ’Tis so, my love—’tis so indeed. Come
—let us dismount and rest awdiile.”
He got off his horse and helped his wife
to alight, holding the skirt of her long habit
(Continued on next page.)


“Rub it
in.”
CONTAINS
NO ANIMAL OIL or FAT
m
m
-0&rr0
“Rub it
in.”
W WRIST GASHED
IN A MOCK DUEL
Inflamed, Poisoned Wound that
Only Zam-Buk Gould Heal.
W*.
Mr. W. R. Waller.
, f'¥/HIL,ST engaged professionally as a theatrical entertainer/’ says
W Mr. W. R. Waller, Railway Hotel, Invercargill, N.Z., “ I hap-
pened a nasty accident in a mock duel. My opponent’s knife
accidentally caught ine on the wrist and inflicted a severe gash. One
of the veins was severed, and it caused me to lose such a lot of blood
that I felt weak and faint.
“After the bleeding had been stopped my hand began to get inflamed
and showed every sign of blood-poison. For two months the wound was
in an awful state. Although I had every medical attention my suffering
seemed to get worse.
“At length I resolved to try Zam-Buk, though I had used so many
other remedies that I greatly doubted whether it would be of any
service. I was greatly surprised at the outcome, for Zam-Buk brought
almost instant relief. It soothed and eased the throbbing pain and was
so cooling that it almost felt as though an ice bandage had been placed
round the wound.
“Not only this, but Zam-Buk gradually lessened tlie swelling, ended
the intolerable burning sensation, and drew away all bad matter and
inflammation. When the wound had thus been thoroughly purified,
Zam-Buk healed the hand in a wonderful fashion.
“It affords real pleasure to add my testimony to the sterling healing
virtues of Zam-Buk. It is far and away the best remedy of its kind.”
The Ever-ready Healer
Zam-Buk is unsurpassed for cuts, bruises, scalds, burns, bad legs,
festering sores, blood poison, boils, sx»rains, breakings-out, stiffness,
chaflngs, ringworm, strained muscles, poisoned wounds, and injured
conditions of the skin generally. Zam-Buk is obte'uable from all
Chemists and Stores at 1/6 and 3/6, or direct, post free, from C. K.
Fulford (Australasia), Ltd., 39 Pitt-street, Sydney.
A v
.VON
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand-
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured. All
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Randtvick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
When he
writes home
m
The world is brighter,
hearts are happier.
And in h;s mind kind
smding faces are pictured <
as he writes. Oppor-
tunities for writing at the
front are fleeting. Many are lost for want
of an ever-ready pen. So a happy sug-
gestion is, send him a “Swan” Fountpen.
>WAI
10
best stands the racket of Active Service. Simple
and quick to use. No mechanism to wear or get
out of order. Can be“loaded” with “Swan” Ink
Tablets and water when fluid ink is unobtainable.
Sold by Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern - from 15/- up.
Standard Pattern from 12/6 up.
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & Co., Ltd.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c.
Sydney—(Wholesale only) 225 a, George Street.
London Factory —319 329, Woston St., S.E.
Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co., Ine., New
York and Chicago.
'Australian Branch: J. A. BUKIvE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.]
r
v
of the period clear of her feet and lifting her
from the saddle. The Governor took the
reins of both horses, and Mrs. Macquarie,
gathering her skirts, sat down upon the
ground, altogether innocent of the fact that
she had chosen for a seat the inconspicuous
nest of a colony of the fierce green and
black three-quarter-inch ants which the
small boy of Australia had already named
“soldiers.”
Macquarie’s brow cleared as he looked out
through the trees across the blue waters, and
the frown which for many months had made
harsh the aspect of his rugged face gave
place to. its more natural expression of
rugged dignity. lie drew his tall figure up
and expanded his chest. She smiled up at
him, pleased with the change, and waited
for the oration which she knew would ensue.
“A paradise, my dear Elizabeth —an
entrancing view! Some day, my love, other
eyes than ours will behold the realisation of
our labor, the fruits of our anxieties for the
advancement of this settlement. I foresee,”
he began to prophesy, “a noble city spreading
about these shores. Villas and pleasure gar-
dens, great fleets of shipping—even, may-
hap, steamships after Mr. Fulton’s design
will plough these placid waters, extending
the advantages of commerce and the bless-
ings of civilisation. I look forward to the
time”
“Oh, Lachlan,” she screamed suddenly.
‘Oh, my gracious! Oh, heavens!”
She scrambled to her feet, and danced in
agony, clutching at her dress, and frantically
rubbing at her thighs with both hands.
“Oh, oh, oh!” She emitted a series of
little shrieks. “Lachlan —something is biting
me in a hundred places. Oh, the torture!”
His Excellency, astonished and alarmed,
dropped the bridles and rushed to his wife’s
assistance. She danced in a sort of hysteri-
cal frenzy. He looked down at the ground,
and saw the angry ants swarming about the
flattened crater of their citadel.
“Quick, my love,” he cried, “run down to
those trees. Tear off your clothing. ’Tis
the only way. There is no one here to see
.vou. Quicldy! I will mind the horses, and
keep a look-out. You have been sitting on
an ants’ nest —soldier ants. Run, run—and
shake them from your garments. Quickly!”
Whimpering and in tears, the poor lady
ran down the slope, holding her habit high,
and displaying a pair of white-stockinged
legs. She disappeared in the trees, a little
way down the slope.
It was an oval opening in the white-gum
that she stumbled into, carpeted with green
grass, and shut in by a wall of scrub. Fran-
tically she tore off her clothing, in which the
ants swarmed, and in hardly a minute stood
stripped to her white skin, on which, over
bosoms, thighs and body, the marks left by
the bites of the angry soldiers showed red
and angry. Hastily she shook each separate
garment to free it from her persecutors,
and
Captain John Piper parted the bushes and
walked into the sylvan dressing-room !
Utterly astounded, he stood and stared.
Mrs. Macquarie shrieked, and snatched up a
white garment to hide her naked person.
She was dumb and he was dumb, and they
stared at one another whilst a man might
count five.
“My God!” he muttered, and leapt into
the scrub. A clatter of stones, as he ran
down the hillside blindly, was the sound of
his flight. Mrs. Macquarie sank upon the
heap of clothing.
A fortnight later, in his best uniform, Cap-
tain John Piper presented himself at the
door of Government House, whither he had
been summoned by a little letter in Mrs.
Macquarie’s delicate handwriting.
“Dear Captain Piper,” it went, “I would
be obliged to you exceedingly if you could
find it convenient to call here this after-
noon. His Excellency and I desire to mark
our Great Appreciation of your Silence and
Discretion. —Y’rs. v. sincerely— Elizabeth
Macqitakie.”
The gallant Naval Officer was a little
nervous while he awaited her coming. He
was glad to find that the drawing-room was
unusually darkened, for he felt very capable
of blushing. And so did Mrs. Macquarie,
and that was why the curtains were very
closely drawn.
Silently she entered the room, with a roll
of paper in her hand. Captain Piper stood
up and bowed, and was glad again that the
light was dim.
“Captain Piper,” she faltered. “I—that is
to say Mr. Macquarie and I —would be grati-
fied if you would accept of this paper. I
—we- —cannot thank you too much for your
—for your reserve. Captain Piper—l wish
to say,” she was whispering now, “I want
to say that I consider you—er —to be, Cap-
tain Piper—that you are a Gentleman!”
She thrust the document into his hand,
muttered something that he could not catch,
and fled from the room.
He carried the roll to the window and
drew a curtain back. It was a deed of grant
signed “L. Macquarie,” and conveyed to Cap-
tain John Piper and his heirs 190 acres of
land near Sydney, which included the point
where he and the ants had found Mrs.
Macquarie. On the map accompanying it
the projection was marked “Point Piper.”
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
Apostolic Favors.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THOUGH nobody but himself knew it,
the Apostle had a grievance; nay, a
wound that festered in his soul.
Three nights before that bitter day, while
out prospecting with the black sons of the
Crescent, he had been snared by one of our
patrols —snared like a rabbit. But it was
not that. Lugged off to headquarters, he had
been invited to answer questions that showed
a very nice regard indeed for the Turkish
health. But that was not it. He had been made
then, hateful enough, to busy himself with
the unclean affairs of Christians. But it
was not that either. It was this: Massey,
while passing the enclosure where the shabby,
drop-chin prisoners were wired up, seeing
this fellow with the prophetic beard, and
not knowing that he spoke English as well
as his own father’s son, had made a most
impolite remark. Massey had then forgotten
all about it.
All that day the Apostle had hidden his
anger, nursed it, fed it with much thinking.
While the other prisoners, else unoccupied, had
put their whole mind into getting some cover
up, he had thought of this only. Stretched
with them, later, in a dog’s doze, his thoughts
had not changed. That evening, as they
trod round the wire like sulky animals in a
pound, not one whit cooler because the sun
had dropped, he had still nursed that affront,
still meditated revenge. And though time,
they say, is the best medicine for such a
fever, it had not cured his. It was thus,
though nobody but himself knew it, that the
Apostle had a grievance.
Our men at this time were not precisely
town bucks; and somebody one day sug-
gested that a barber would not rust out wait-
ing for work. After some thought, they
tackled those Turks; and the Apostle, under-
standing perfectly, said, with a smile, that
he was the Heaven-appointed man. He was
installed at once.
He soon became one of the most popular
figures in camp. The Jacks, especially,
thought it good sport to see him working—
this Habakkuk with the great beard (kept
intact now against a certain dark oath), and
the pious jowl that seemed to be ever at the
edge of laughter. With a razor, keen-edged,
yet heavy as a brush-hook, he would go
briskly round the enemy’s gullet; and men
came from his hand as women come from
beauty specialists.
As there was a scheme on foot to help
desertions from the enemy, the' Apostle,
though not informed thereof, was next billed
for a part in it. What the scheme was, any
soldier may guess; but it included, among
other things, an escape by this now thriving
Turk. This, however, in spite of all the
ingenious arrangements to help it off, he
stubbornly refused; whether because his
fare at the cook’s quarters was too sump-
tuous, or because his tobacco cost nothing, or
because he was now pushing a stately trade
as a middleman in contraband rations—in
eggs, tinned fish and chocolate, smuggled in,
at enormous profit, from Imbros and God
knows where —whether because of any of
these things or all of them, none
c6uld tell. And well indeed might these
reasons have sufficed to hold a smaller man;
but the Apostle, you will remember, though
nobody but himself knew it, had a grievance.
One day Massey turned up. Being em-
ployed at another part of the line, he had
not been this way lately.
The Apostle, just then in the midst of a
triumphant advance through the entangle-
ments on Todd’s chin, gave no sign; but if
his client had not been so absorbed in some-
thing else—to wit, in thinkinsr of his new
boots, secured only after a brilliant piece of
strategy—he might have noticed that the
artist in hair sho<ik visibly' at the jester’s
approach. IN either did his eyes fill with the
caressing fires of affection; they went hard.
But any momentary hitch in his internal
mechanism was soon put right; and the
Apostle, bland enough, and with his heart
well up his sleeve, waited for what the gods
should appoint.
Massey pulled up at the entrance to the
saloon, a shallo v recess covered with a square
of canvas, thrown over a rough tee in front,
and pinned to the rearward cliff with a
couide of old bayonets.
“Strike me!” he said, “there’s a good
length of sewing-silk hanging from this black
ram. Why don’t some of you cows shear the
blighter? In this state he’s not fit to handle
a Christian.”
“Not so,” replied Hawkins, next in the
queue. “An Apostle without whiskers? As
soon talk of a milker without teats. He’s
all right.”
Massey grinned.
“A thought strikes me,” he said. “When
this brush combs out to another finger or two,
you mean to twist it up into a rope, and hang
the old tup in his own fibre. That’s it!
Well, I’ll help.”
All through this the knight of the razor,
applying himself to his job, still gave no
sign. Then, looking at the hard-mouthed
jester, he said slowly:
“Allah knows all; and all is in the hand of
Allah.”
“All is in the hand of Allah,” drawled a
long Queenslander, parroting the Turk. “All,
mates, is in the hand of Allah. Even the
cleaning up of your dirty lugs—Allah has a
hand in it.”
The crowd grinned; and then somebody,
turning to the newcomer, said :
“You’d stand a bit of a clean-up yourself,
matey. If you’re pushed for time, take the
chair next.”
Todd got up; and Massey sat down and
threw his head back on to the rest. The
Apostle lathered the hard brown face, took
up the razor and tried the edge. Yes, it
was keen enough. Then, holding the sol-
dier’s head firmly with his left hand, and
marking the right spot on the long neck,
open for the operation, he gave thanks to his
god, and lifted the sharp tool.
“Allah”
But the Apostle, quick as he was, was not
quick enough. Taking a heavy right from
the Queenslander, he saw numerous fine and
very sudden stars, and dropped in a heap.
Massey, with his neck leaking like a stuck
pig’s, jumped from the box.
“What the blue fire is this!” he said. And
feeling at his neck, he brought his hand away
dripping with blood.
“This,” said the Queenslander, “is two
hospital jobs—and the last of a good coat.
I watched the cow. He had a queer look;
and no man ever started a square shave with
the blade at that angle.”
Then, looking at his mate’s neck, he said:
“Yes. Bill, I think I stopped the blighter iu
time.”
“Well,” said Massey, tying his neck up in
a strip of somebody’s shirt, “that’s the last
time I’ll lend my tender neck-piece to Abdul.
But what an old sport!”
Massey got a new tunic: and the Apostle,
when the boat next called for prisoners, was
wafted, as some feeling and comprehending
poet puts it, to lands afar.
CON O' QUINN'S


m
m
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTIHCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
m
m
Oster Screwing
Tackle, Dies
and Extra Parts
are carried in
stock by
ironmongers,
Machinery and
Hardware and
Plumbing Supply
Houses.
No. 102
i in. to liin.
(0 sizes in
one tool.)
OSTER
BULLDOG
DIESTOCKS
r T' HE tools with five big features: (1) Self-
locking, adjustable dies, (2) self-centring
guides, (3) no running back over newly-cut
screws, (4) no loose bushings to lose, (5) no
breakable small parts. Eleven convenient sizes.
Write for catalog.
Australasian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT, Box 251, G.P.0., Melbourne, Victoria.
The Oster Mfg. Co.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A. fl
p
n
LOCAL
m
'I
1
PATRIOTISM
Your
Aim? e
Then have a JHOT
at smoking
Referee
Ik Australian Tobacco.
_L
1
T
SAFEGUARD you* HEALTH
ptJ.Collis Broiling
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
ami in the Cough of BKONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery ,
©/ all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/5, $/-, a/-.
Made in England.
" rr m; . »
ourelhmg
■sa
7
\
T.
\
Cyy.
m.
I
%>V
=s^
i
s>
11:1
k
'MI
l
IS
BEECHMISPMS
We have just landed a large stocK of the
well-Known American Brand of
MOSLER "SUPERIOR SPARKING PLUGS
suitable for the “Ford” Engine.
These Plugs are a distinctly High-grade line, and we are offering them at the low
price of 2/9 each. (Special Prices for Quantities.)
This replenishment of our stocks comes at a most opportune time, on account of
the great scarcity of “Ford” Plugs.
PRICES OF OTHER MAKES OF PLUGS ARE:
“LODGE” Sparking Plugs, in Metric, %in., % x 18, A.L.A.M. . . 5/- each.
for “Fords,” 5/- each.
“SPHINX” Sparking Plugs, 3 point in Metric., and 14 in. . 4/- each.
“CHAMPION” Sparking Plugs, Hy. Stone, 5/- ea.; in Metric, 14 in., % x 18.
M ~ ~ “Reliance,” Sparks in water .... 5/6 each.
Platinum Points 6/6 each.
“REFLEX” Sparking Plugs, No. 1, 3/-; “Giant,” 4/-; “Extended,” 3/3 each.
„ ~ No. 1, Mica, 3/9; Giant Mica 5/- each.
“MOSLER,” Sparking Plugs, “Vesuvius,” for Buick, 4/6; for Metz, 4/6;
and Ordinary, 4/6 each.
Robert C. Swan & Company Limited,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STEEL CASTINGS—SpeciaI Good Quality
It
'
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
■5
Victoria Street,
Richmond, Victoria.


ELTI
UMangrovitbll
LEATHER
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAN GllO VITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
if alone, as the World's Best Belting.
Manufactured onlv bv
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
g £-E on n g
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We have many other sizes and gauges in stock, tout below
are some of the most useful.
18in. x 11, 18in. x 13, 20in. x 13, 24in. x 10.
26in. x.ll, 26in. x 12, 26in. x 13, 26in. x 14.
28in. x 11, 28in. x 12, 28in. x 13, 30in. x 12.
30in. x 13, 32in. x 10, 32in. x 11, 32in. x 12.
36in. x 11, 38in. x 11, 42in. x 9,42 in. x 10.
42in. x 11, 44in. x 10, 48in. x 10.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
aM, 1
Bps# “
LC -mm?
*T
*AOt 'X MAH*.:
MARK
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide. John Keid & Nephews, Brisbane.
DICK’S BALA I A BELTING.
The DICK BELT
hns again proved its superiority-and economy
by its acceptance in the billowing important
tenders for 1916-17 :
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.AV. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness,
lias minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures econom'v in cost, power and
machinists' time.
Sole Agents:—
JAMES HARD/E & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle. [1
SOMETHING
BETTER!
If Engineers and Steam-plant Owners would only
realise the importance of EFFICIENTLY insulating
their Boilers, Steam Pipes, etc., more attention might
be paid to this particular matter. Great economies
can be effected in this direction, in some cases the coal
consumption being reduced as much as 50%. But the
insulating material must be of the very best.
Carbonate of Magnesia is to-day recognised as the best
non-conductor of lieat. Newalts Coverings are com-
posed of 55% of this material, and 15% Asbestos—the
Asbestos being used for binding purposes only—and in
addition possess innumerable advantages over all other
forms of lagging. Newall’s Coverings are used, practi-
cally exclusively, by the British Admiralty, N..S.W.
and Victorian Governments, and have been used
throughout the Ultimo. White Bay, Melbourne. Perth
and Canberra Power Stations.
“NEWALL’S” MAGNESIA
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
SECTIONAL FOR PIPE, BENDS, TEES & FLANGES.
PLASTIC FOR BOILERS, HEATERS, etc.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z>
m
Little Monitor Petrol Engines
Specially designed for driving Separators, small Chaff cutter?, etc.
Strong, simple and effective. Economic in working. Has magneto
ignition and many late advantages over others. Only one size
made, viz., and the special low price is £25. packed and
delivered free on boat or rail Melbourne. Further particulars
may be had on application. Inquiries solicited.
D. 8 W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.,
Next P. 0., Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Agents for Tomlin Incubators; Syracuse Plows, Cultivators,
etc.; Planet Jun. Implements, Kangaroo Sewing Machines,
all Poultry, Farm and Garden Requisites.
BIGGEST MAIL-ORDER HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
COUNTRY ORDERS A SPECIALTY. WRITE FOR QUOTATIONS.
B. A. Y. Z.
Embrace this golden opportunity of securing the two Best Oil Engines on the Market, viz.,
“FIELD W” & “BIG CHIEF”
m
K
B
&
Over 350 “Bis? Chiefs” working in one
district in N.S.W.
Positively fool-proof, worry-proof—able
and willing to work whenever asked.
This is the type of Engine to suit
you.
Economical, simple and reliable at all
rimes.
Write for particulars. Catalogs Free.
Easiest terms ever offered in N.S.W.
R.L.ScruttonSCo.L' 1 :
The Engineers’ Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
f
QPt
k
O
Vs
o
o
£
y
ft
v
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile anil Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys east-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; Jib., 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
lib. Flux will braze broken casting; 15 feet long; by
1 inch thick —instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YO'JS OW.I OASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRES.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St, Hilda, Victoria.
$■
fm : ! p
’■ 1 , •
1
S'll
■ssw-'
r.
> ’
■MBMNBNHI
J4T
I/'!
H
Hi
a?&'
*•*
A
'
m
DELCO-LIGHT
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE ACENTS :
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTQN, FRANKI LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
m
'isfep 2-Stand Shearing Plant
The Outfit that “Swept the Poll” in the 1917 Season.
F. D. McMASXER, Esq.., Dalkeith, Cassilis, writes, under date 24th January:
“I have pleasure in stating- that I have given both of the 2 Stand Portable
Crutching Plants I purchased from you an exhaustive trial, and with the
utmost satisfaction. They are handy to move about, economical to run, and
the Fairbanks Morse Engine is simplicity itself. Crutching at the different
sheep-yards is, in my opinion, a far better method than doing the work at
the woolshed, as the saving for the lambing ewes in driving alone is very
considerable.”
SCORES OF SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Order Your Plant for 1918 now to ensure getting it.
ONE PEICE SPINDLE,
with long bearings
LEATHER FRICTION
cone engages smoothly
and silently
New improved'Lister Bracket
for 2 Sfand Combined Planl's
( PATBNTCD)
DANGAR.GEDYE & CO. LTD., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Eagle St., Brisbane
NOTE THE FEATURES OF THIS
LISTER BRACKET.
■f . '
»• CAR6ACE «•
iA DE3TPUC.TOP
SIZES 1 and 3
DESTRUCTORS.
The Advantages of the Destructor Method of dealing with Trade Waste, Hotel, Factory and
Household Garbage and Municipal Rubbish have long been appreciated.
We cater for this class of requirement with our “GUTHRIDG” Type—
No. 1 ... Capacity 3cwt. per 8 hours ... £lO 10s.
No. 3 ... Capacity Bcwt. per 8 hours ... £l7 10s.
No. 4 ... Capacity 20cwt. per 8 hours ... £32 10s.
Hundreds of these have been sold to Schools, Hospitals, Factories and the State and Federal Governments.
They are solidly constructed of Cast Iron and lined with fire brick, and destroy even damp garbage without smoke or smell.
The System has now been extended to the Home by the introduction of the “Household” Destructor, Price £2 2s.
This is on sale at Messrs. Nock & Kirby’s, George Street, and Alex. Smith & Sons, Pitt Street, Sydney.
For Full Descriptive Pamphlets, Testimonials and Further Particulars write to
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Sole Manufacturers , 350 George St., Sydney; Works: Cam per down, N.S. W.
