

’S —SUPERB OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
R. G. WATKINS & CO.
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street}, Syaney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Heciiiis bes.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ali parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always avail!, le.
THE “AUSTRALIAN REVIEW”
says:—
The Company is very well
managed, and the name is quite
a household word in Sydney. Its
reputation is excellent,, and,
although the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a vampire, the
charge cannot be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de Piete I>.
and I. Co. Limited.
(M>
On all Classes of Security.
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
Easy Terms and Lowest Interest.
NSWMQNTDE HETED&TC?I?v
HEAD OFFICER C ASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74.
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
180 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
"• --
Manager.
c t
CHROMOL
9 9
(Trade Mark)
LEATHER BELTING.
THE SUPER DRIVING BELT.
CHROMOL BELTING is made bV us from
mineral-tanned Leather —the Hide fibres, are
impregnated with Chromium, which toughens
them as it does steel.
As a result of tests extending over 10
years, Chromol has been adopted by the
largest Mining and Smelting Companies in
Australia on all important Mill drives.
Sole Makers:
J. C. LUDOWICI g SON LTD..
Established
in 1858.
117 York Street, Sydney.
THE BEST !
u
L
1
©
29^
ft
<*
f?
(A
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
NANSEN’S
uniset,
sdg
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of tliese specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 180 First-Class Prize Medals.
1«
M
m
e
mm
—supreme for roofing
and as a floor covering.
A tot the same
as others.”
Used extensively and always satisfactorily on flat roofs throughout Australia, withstanding extremes of heat
and cold without cracking or rotting, and suitable for roofs of all kinds.
For factory floors, etc., Malthoid is practically imperishable, and is acid- and damp-proof.
Write for samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“Referee” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
LYSAGHTS LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
sdg
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
HORSE
ORME, KEIGWIN CSb CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sol* Agents
5? 3
REMINGTON U.M.C.
ARMS AND AMMUNITION.
NOYES BROS.
ihsL
(SYDNEY) LTD.
116 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.
493-501 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
OPALOID
TOOTH
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZON
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
VoJ. 39.—% 2007.]
[Thursday, August 1, 1918.
WAR-TIME PRICE, 8d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


SSSSSSB
W
* f
■rur-
K'-5%<-
r.-i
WMm
%
St*'
s
Sfr
>»»
S®
P?
C@
*9M
8! 3
m
tssszjm
mm
’mimz
IS
f-y
■Aj-i..:
wr>ii
MV-
NATIONAL
MOTOR OILS
axe • the IDEAL lubricant for EVERY
type of motor engine. They ensure
smooth, silent, powerful working effici-
ency under EVERY condition of
climate and road.
Their clean-flo,wing consistency, high
flash-point and remarkable viscosity
will prolong the life of your engine,
and reduce your running expenses to
a remarkable degree.
Obtainable all Garages
and Storekeepers
in 1-gallon tins, 4-gallou tins and
barrels.
Ask also for Jsational Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods .
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
The Killing of Superfluous Hair.
It is. easy to remove superfluous hair tem-
porarily, but to remove it permanently is
quite another matter. Not many women
know that for this purpose such a simple
substance as powdered pbeminol may be
used, applied directly to the hair. The recom-
mended treatment is designed not merely to
instantly remove the hair, but also to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Almost any
chemist could supply an ounce of pheminol,
which quantity should be sufficient.
Renewing Complexions by Absorption.
If your complexion is marred with sallow-
ness, moth patches, pimples or freckles, it is
useless to potter with powders and paints,
lotions, creams and things in an effort to get
rid of the trouble. t/nless you have some
ability as an artist, you will mar your ap-
pearance still more. The new and rational
way is to take off the complexion itself, with
all its offensive marks. Just get some pure
inercolized wax at the chemist’s and use at
night the same as cold cream. Remove next
morning with water and soap, following with
dash of cold water. The mercdlized wax
absorbs the half-dead scarf skin in flaky
particles, so gradually that no one guesses
you are treating your face—unless it be by
the result, which is truly wonderful. There
is nothing like it for bestowing a natural,
healthy and beautiful complexion.
A “Blackhead” Secret.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of stymol, obtained from the chemist, is
dropped in a tumbler of hot water, which will
then of course “fizz” briskly. When the
effervescence has subsided the face is bathed
with the stymol-charged water and then dried
with a towel. The offending blackheads, of
their own accord, come right off on the
towel, the large oily pores immediately con-
tract and efface themselves naturally. There
is no squeezing, forcing, or any drastic
action. The skin is left uninjured, smooth,
soft and cool. A few such treatments should
be taken at intervals of three or four days
thereafter in order to insure the permanence
of the pleasing result so quickly obtained.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient and
often down-right injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home.-will turn the hair back to
a natural color in a perfectly harmless man-
ner. You have only to get two ounces of
tammalite concentrate from your chemist and
mix il with three ounces of bay rum to prove
this. Apply this simple and harmless lotion
for a few nights to the hair with a small
sponge, and the greyness will gradually dis-
appear. The lotion is neither sticky nor
greasy and has been proved over and over
again for generations past by those in pos-
session of the formula.
About Shampoos.
To quote an eminent London beauty
specialist: “The slimy egg cannot dissolve
the scalp impurities, but only adds to the
trouble by completely choking the pores with
animal matter.” The substance sticks, de-
composes. thereby causing the hair to assume
a dead, “dull color.” Avoid eggs (and soap
too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful of
stallax in a cup of hot water. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in your hair,
will clear and prevent dandruff, and leave
that fine fluffy effect so much sought after.
It also removes excess oil or greasiness. [l
If an/ illustration appearing in The
Btjxeetin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Worn spots
can easily
be repaired
with Johnson's
PREPARED WAX
'■ as
m
Door- Ways Are The Bug-Bear
of finished floors. They receive the hardest
wear, and naturally need most attention.
Busy housekeepers and careless maids allow
the finish to wear entirely off, and soon the
wood gets rough and splintery. It’s a very simple
matter to have beautiful floors if the doorways are
kept well-polished with
“The Dust-Proof Polish”
It is splendid for linoleums, too—for it brings out
the pattern and preserves it. Johnson’s Prepared
Wax imparts a beautiful, durable polish—easy to
keep clean. Less than an hour is required for pol-
ishing an ordinary-sized floor, and it may be walked
upon immediately.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping dining room tables bright and tempt-
ing. Hot dishes have no effect whatever upon it.
Have Your Piano, Gramophone and Mahog-
any Furniture a Bluish, Cloudy Appearance?
This can be easily, quickly and permanently re*
moved with Johnson’s Prepared Wax, The Dust-'
Proof Polish. Splendid for Craftsman Furniture also.’
JOHNSON
'°"WlOli t 10* WCtHI «* rt
Every family has dozens of uses'
for Johnson’s Prepared Wax.-
Keep a tin always on hand for
polishing your
Linos.
Floors
Woodwork
Furniture
Motor Car
Johnson's Prepared Wax comes
in the household and larger sizes.
It may be obtained from all
good dealers, or from
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St., Sydney, N. S. W.
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH-
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, eomfoit and goi
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set. • > . y
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as ‘ «nmpwha't
Ping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful. & omew“
...... ei'iide chalks and cnait
keeping v, v — ..c. c . ...... -
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean teeth, swe*
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect* the mouth (thus pie ©
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as
where. Post free 1/15. Free sample posted
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
S 3
O
0. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of a • dis-
sected lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Hudsons
Eumenthol Jujubes
The Great Antiseptic and
for Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Hoarseness, etc.
Recommended by tlie I ,^ liC '[4i-'\IEDiCAL Review,
Lancet, The Practitione > Practical Medi-
The Medical Press and Medical
cine (Delhi, India), AUSI
HUDSON'S EU MENTHOL JUJUBE
Are sold by all Chemists in tins. Price I/O; or sent post-free on receipt of
State) by Manufacturers, ovnvr-’V
HUDSON’S EU MENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., YORK STREET, S
The Red Page
Some Lost Australianisms
Words are like trees—-a seed is dropped,
if the ground is suitable it takes root and
flourishes and continues to flourish v\ bile
conditions are favorable. If decay sets in it
dies. A member of the French Academy was
asked once how the Academy created new
words. “We do not create new words, Mad-
lime,” he “lf you want to reach the
fount of new words go and listen to the
hotel porters, the cabmen or the limn in the
street. They create, we register.” Occasion-
ally, however, the Academy does step in.,
Recently it decided that the French word for
a lift, “ascenseiir,” was too cumbersome. It
selected the English “lift” to replace it, but
met trouble when it looked for a term to
describe , the man who ran the lift. " Lift-
attendant” was hopeless, so they called lnm
"lifter.”
Australia lacks an Academy, so that a
word to gain and hold its place must do so
by the sheer merit of filling a void. Some,
like “wowser,” grow in a day to fill
an unoccupied space, while others, like
“slacker,” mature slowly in the face of active
overcrowding. Words die from a variety of
causes, but chiefly from change of habit or
custom. Fifty or sixty years ago the ground'
near Sydney in the vicinity of Centennial
Park, it and wick and Botany was covered
with five-corner and geebung bushes. Boys
went there in numbers to gather the fruit.
Some of them, probably the fathers of the
I.W.W.’s of to-day, concluded that it was a
good thing to let the other boy do the. work,
so they waited in the shade until Bill and
Jim had filled their pockets, then descended
in force and transferred the wealth to their
own hold-alls and subsequently to its rightful
resting-place. Bill and Jim did not approve,
and in turn combined with a few pals and
took their turn under a shady tree. So they
became “spicers.” To-day, five-corners have
disappeared, and with them went “spicers”
and its verb “to spice.”
Another lost Australianism is, “as long as
Boydell’s fence,” and it is curious that it has
gone because there is nothing to take its
place. “As long a 5....” —you can find no
“bromide” to fill the blank. (For the inform-
ation of the man at Cape York, a “bromide”
is a new Americanism to describe an obvious
saying.)
In the ’forties and ’fifties “Boydell’s
fence” was in the vernacular, so much so
that the Australian rendering of the well-
known riddle on the letter “E” ran: “The
beginning of every end and the end of Boy-
dell’s fence.” The expression arose from the
inordinate length of Mr. Boydell’s fence at
Raymond Terrace, which seemed to stretch
into infinity. It may be argued that its pro-
vincial origin and use killed it. but such
expressions in their birth follow no law.
For instance. “Hobson’s choice” was born in
a livery stable in Cambridge, England, where
Ilobson, the proprietor, would admit of no
choice of horse. As an Australian Academy
of one we ordain that the expression, “as
long as Boydell’s fence,” may hereafter be
used save and except the following occa-
sions when it will be inadequate:
(a) To describe the length of time in
which the Australian ships will be built.
(b) To describe the length of the tariff
wall that is not built round Australia.
While the use of “Boydell’s fence” is per-
mitted, the Academy forbids, interdicts and
prohibits the revival of “windmill magis-
trates.” During one of the Ministries of
Henry Parlces in the ’seventies, that con-
summate old general smoothed out a some-
v hat ruffled political situation bv a judicious
and generous creation of Jav Pees So
generous, anyhow, that a number of the
worthy gentlemen could not read or write
and signed their names with an X The re-
semblance of this monogram to the sails of a
windmill suggested the happy appellation of
windmill magistrates.” Of course, to-day
such things could not be. Is it possible to
imagine a Ministry creating J’s.P. for politi-
cal purposes?
.Our. forefathers had a breadth of
vision in their liquor and in their pet names
-.f mm?, b \ ew " s l >lder ” was compounded
of lemonade and brandy, while in a “stone
mingled with the brandy.
- gentle Catherine Hayes gave her name
to a mixture of claret, sugar and orange, but
it you murmured “a Lola Montez,” the bar-
man ot the ’fifties handed you over a eon-
wntor” of 1 °' (1 r ° rn - gmger, lemon and hot
reem-d /VT, familiar with the warm
<PtU' f „ r - 0 f ' S lt<> " as it did from
a kings mistress to horsewhipping an edi-
beverage had .it»°dftfe'., 1 hTS
was m vogue in the Georgian days. “Royal
6 required a three-legged pot in
which the tea, milk, sugar and water weie
placed. The lot was boiled together and
ont f ith panuikhis accord-
nij-j to inclination and capacity.
CHARLES H. BERTIE.
■‘ RJ ” A,iy,)od y interested in jade (which
was an absorbing passion of Oscar Wilde’s)
can learn as much in the Melbourne Public
Library as anywhere. The library possesses
the two monumental volumes which wen-
compiled by an army, of experts for Bishd,
a Yankee millionaire. Bishop originally in-
ttncled to produce an illustrated catalogue
, "V nV i" Wondci ' fl11 collection (which wint
de?i°ew Ttn Un J died >> the
l. •v’ r r w ’., untl “c decided to print and
distribute the work under notice. The two
volumes are 2ft. by 3ft.. and cost £20 000 to
produce. Only 100 copies were printed.
A lug slump in war books is reported
trom the London publishing centres. “Over-
done, says one of the magnates of the book-
selling trade. The market has been flooded
and although a really exceptional book about
too ™ * alw , ays t0 command a sal"
,. f volume of reminiscence discus'
mon and controversy seems to. have’ hft
(Continued on pane S(i.)


w*
0
■V.
m
Bt
r
Esrszi
msu
n
i'i
5S
r.; r
m
!sr«
Anthony Horderns’
Half-Yearly Sale
Finishes Wednesday, Aug. 14
N the eve of the fifth year of the War, mer-
chandising has become a problem, and the
difficulty of overcoming the incidence of
higher costs is even more acute.
The production of Munitions and War Equip-
ment demands first call on all raw materials, the world’s
restricted output of every-day commodities falls far short
of to-day’s requirements, and factories which last year
were engaged in peace-time products have now been
diverted to war needs, thus still further emphasising the
shortage. Experts analysing probable market condi-
tions of a year ahead see no relief from still higher costs
and a much more pronounced scarcity of goods, as well
as a substantial addition to the list of articles in every-
day demand that are now unprocurable.
The recurrence of Anthony Horderns’ Sale, there-
fore, is an occasion that should be availed of bv all who
seek to minimise war-time costs. In most cases the
goods enumerated in the Sale Catalogue could not be
purchased to-day in the country of origin at the prices
we quote. The explanation is simple: Since we bought
the goods Home values have substantially advanced.
It must be emphasised that the quantities
are limited. The supply of each line available is
clearly set out. The Sale Catalogue will be posted
free on request; write for a copy, it will prove an
invaluable buying guide.
LAST DAY —Wednesday, August 14.
Uv!
mt
*sS
_ 'C
M!
-<v ■■-*'■>
KOINE
ANTHONY HORDERN&SONS Lid
On ly Un iversal Providers,
BRICKFIELD HILL,
New Pa lace Emporium,
SYDNEY N. S .W.


m
i
i
"BELLS FRAXER
&
y
i I
u
All you need to do is to fit
the pieces together from the
Detail Drawings we supply.
We can send you
m
«ss
<s\
mm
m
%
0..
007
m
BELL AND FBAZER.-copyn*»«.
Pieces for making any furnishing
Article such as Artistic Chairs,
Tables, Bookracks, Lawn Swings, or
any Artistic Essential to your Home.
■
■ ..
Wmfllfflmm
m m
'
YOU
CAM
SAVE
MONEY
V
)>
MS
/
m
€r
P§@l|
"A
j) fj£| '^'w**. ’. •\ „ 1
•Ml {?*-'■(
1
i?,*. - 4 ’ 4^
§
sEatSwa^i
iH
5
a;
a
si
i
life
3RK
**&*«
,vV>
■
,'V. ;. '
P|
• "?' * '
ss
i&
Because you can use your spare time in fitting the Redi-Kut Pieces together.
Because the timber, being in pieces, can be closely packed at low freight charges,
Because you save the high cost of factory expenses and high rents of shops.
You will be surprised at the economical
amount at which you can artistically
furnish your home with R.edi-K.ut Timber.
for Circular A. It’s Yours by retiirn post.
BELL &
The Redi-Kut Timber Specialists,
ROZELLE, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


BURNS AIR
sdgd
sgdg
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light, no Wick! So Grease!
Ko Smoke! No Odor! Hawr or Set
it anywhere. Over 100 Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, which also
contains Hollow Wire System of Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
*
A treat
in store
sauce.
You can taste the
delicious oriental fruits
and spices, which are
blended by a secret
process with Pure
Malt Vinegar.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are boine:
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma —an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from
S. Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/ & 2/6.
»
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him*
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
II
w
.
m
mu
mm
m
m
m
am.
miLM% (0 -saj
i aw
mr
fe/ALNUT ml
QU
IkHB
mmm
§
©
m/m
mu v
i IH II
0
0
mum,
m
&
7i
Guard Against Substitution
The “ VALET ” Blade, as enclosed with each Auto Strop
Safety Razor, is the only Genuine Blade for the Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
A Warning to the Public
There are many cheap, insidious substitutes of imitation
blades being foisted on to the public for the genuine
Auto Strop Valet Blade. The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.
Ltd. asks you to refuse them and to use only Auto Strop
“VALET” Blades in the famous Auto Strop Safety Razors.
Price in the Commonwealth, 3/- packet.
Price in New Zealand, - - 3/0 packet.
Obtainable everywhere throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Managing Agent for Australasia :
RALPH ARERCROMBY, Denison House,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO BLADE SO KEEN
NO SHAVE SO
.
CLEAN.
What we call courage is
nearly always primarily a
display of unusual nerve,
energy and enterprise. The
man who shows the great-
est courage in an emer-
gency is he who has kept
fit for any emergency.
w
\
7
man who takes half a teaspoonful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot water every day feels fit every
day. His body is cleansed of impurities, his blood courses
freely in his veins; he goes to his work refreshed, alert,
keen and vigorous : he feels ready for action always. He
gets the best out of himself and out of life—and keeps at
arm s length lassitude, headaches, an inactive liver and con-
stipation the evils of a sedentary life.
Get the Kruschen habit and keep fit.
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
dg
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS*
m43^°1 c hT&wgrear s ‘ h :; ughoutAustralia - whoiesaieDistributi^A^nts =-
Sola Proprietors, l ®* C ‘ ar ' e " CO Sydney.
xi-t-l IHb HUGHES (KruschenL Dogate Arcade. Manchester, England.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Garden.
The pretty feigning the earth-folk made
Will suit us passing well,
That every flower in glen and glade
Hag a tale of its own to tell.
What’s this you’re giving? By my faith,
A rose as red as blood;
No fairer by the summer’s breath
Was ever wooed from a bud.
This rose from Spanish gardens came.
When we pull its leaves apart
Every leaf is a scented flame
That mimics a blood-red heart.
It tells of the dreamy Spanish June
And long lustrous nights of gold,
Of lovers luting beneath the moon
In Moorish gardens old ;
Of daggers, ambuscade, kissing and sighs,
Of time and the world in swoon,
Of vows which are heard by the cynic skies
When life is a-fire with June.
There is passion in each petal red,
Love breathes in its heavy scent;
Look up, look up, O wilful head.
Was this the thing you meant?
Now wherefore and why no need to say,
But ’tis better to smile than weep,
And I will match your rose so gay
With this silken flower of sleep.
For in this purple flower of mine,
Like a chalice tall and frail,
You will find drops of a drowsy wine
Which is made for lovers pale.
A word more wise in this poppy lies,
ln this mystic cup, dew-wet, '
flhan that of your flower of dreams and
sighs—-
You know it, my dear—forget.
N.S.W.
P. E. QUINN.
Sonnet—The Evening Rainbow.
A glowing sun between the shining trees,
Green grass, the lisping fall of yellow rain ;
And all birds singing with full throats to
please
The warm, moist soil that sighs and sighs
again.
The seedling beds spring in our happy sight,
The drenched pink roses droop a heavy head,
And from the window dazzling points of
light
Blind us with glory. Slow, with even tread,
The homing cattle pace the gleaming track.
One moves with tinkling bells through sun
and shower;
And one against the dark east, looking back,
Makes the soft calling of the milking hour.
Dear heart of quiet, earth is breathing low
While God in splendor bends His evening
bow.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Links.
As when a liner leaves the crowded wharf,
Knowing your ship is putting out to sea,
The ribbons part from straining hand to
hand,
One end upon the ship and .one on land,
Th 6 symbol of the grim finality,
So I, upon the parting of our ways,
Unwind Love’s colored streamers from their
fold,
Knowing your ship is putting out to sea,
Knowing there is the long grey land for me.
But, O Beloved, how the ribbons hold!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Alms Seekers.
Besrgars, we, at the feet of the gods;
The gods they give, or the gods withhold.
Grant us their blessings, or scourge with
rods
Till all the beads of our years be told.
One seeks for alms in the form of gold,
While others ask of the gods above
A charm to waken a mistress cold,
Or win the boon of a maiden’s love.
Some pass their hats for a share of fame,
While some crave only for wine and bread ;
To few is granted the gift of shame,
Or else the pow’r of the gods were fled!
Each lowly beggar would raise his head,
Forget to grovel and genuflect,
His beggarly rags of prayer he’d shed,
And face the gods with a pose erect!
Taught, as a virtue, to cringe in prayer,
Beggars we live and beggars we die.
We, who by right of our birth, are heir
To the green of fields and blue of sky.
The oceans’ depths, and the mountains
high,
Scramble for crumbs, like the meanest clods;
The gods toss alms, or the gods deny—
Beggars, we, at the feet of the gods!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON OWEN.
At Parting.
When we who now love shall come to the
hour of our parting,
Catch hands and kiss for the sake of the
dream that’s fled,
Shall we gaze our last into eyes where the
salt tears starting
Dim all the radiant joys of the glad days
sped?
Or heart to heart shall each speed the other
singing
A royal chant for the glory of that we’ve
known,
The glamor that swift from the hands of
the high gods winging
Wedded our souls with the scent of the
rose new-blown?
N.S.W.
NORA McAULIFFE.


Remarkable
Mileage Results
P«f(jnrJC
have been shown
with the Perdriau
Super Tread.
The original fine resilience and toughness of the substance of PERDRIAU TYRES are still further
emphasised in this notable recent improvement.
Be sure to Keep the Home Tyres Turning and continue to fit PERDRIAUS.
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
George Street, Sydney
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Flinders Street, Melbourne
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
£
A Complete —Safe —Economic Electric
Lighting System for Every Suburban and
Country Home or Station !
In Every Suburban Home not Served with Municipal Electric Light
the “Lalley-Light” will prove an Ideal Investment in Every Respect.
Economical to erect —also for upkeep—it is clean —
efficient and so safe that a child can operate it by simply
turning on a switch, which gives a flood of brilliant
illumination of 70 lights at one time or 40 lights con-
tinuously.
Its wonderful power enables you to instal all those
labor-saving appliances that make home-life convenient
and comfortable.
Housewives throughout, the civilised world are gradu-
ally awakening to the tact that the toil and drudgery of
domestic work is unnecessary.
Electrical appliances for cleaning, ironing, washing,
sweeping, etc., have been found practical labor-savers —
whilst in the home where electric-lighting is used comfort
is enhanced.
Every convenience and pleasure that electricity can
bring may be yours if you instal the
LALLEY-LIGHT
Write to-day for full particulars.
Agents:
NEW SOUTH WAEES—
FALKINER ELECTRIC CO., 5 Moore Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA, WEST AUSTRALIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, TASMANIA—
FALKINER ELECTRIC CO., 103 William Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND—
THE CANADA CYCLE 8 MOTOR AGENCY (QUEENSLAND) LTD.,
1000 Watt Capacity, suitable
for homes up to 70 lights,
varying in candlepower.
BALL-BEARING THROUGHOUT
Creek and Adelaide Streets,
Brisbane.
Branches at Rockhampton
and Charters Towers.
TO
The Battery gives sufficient
storage for light at any time
(luring the night.
Marine Engines
RFFfeOQ-
For All Boats
dsg
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started.
Electric Lights
dsg
Caille 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Ermine
dsg
Callle Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- t o four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock; also
Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers
Limited,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE.
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
In 1914 Dodge Brothers announced their intention of marketing a car
under their own name, and on 4th December, 1914, the First Dodge
Brothers’ Car was delivered to its purchaser.
Bv August, 1917, 14,500 men were employed in the plant, and about
400 cars a dav were being produced. Two and a half years after
operations began 170,000 cars had been built and sold.
This remarkable record stands without parallel in the Automobile
Industry.
To-day we hear that over 5000 Dodge Brothers’ cars have been supplied
to the American Army.
THESE GREAT FACTS ENDORSE YOUR WISE SELECTION
WHEN YOU PURCHASE A DODGE BROTHERS’ CAR.
THE STANDARDISED CAR.
• • • • •
PROMPT DELIVERY OF FIVE-PASSENGER CARS AND ROADSTERS.
Dalgety & Company, Limited,
136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.—N0. 2007.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 1918.
Wak-time I’kice, Sd.
THE CATASTROPHE.
LUDENDORFF (to Crown Rabbit, after the usual smash): “Ah, Highness, if you would only lead the French as you lead the Germans.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the AVliite Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Ti-ie
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,,at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.AY., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 10s. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and , where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 word;:, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letter;; cr Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
■attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
■responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a curreht event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which, such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS,
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The. Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and .Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg : and, others.
Canada .—Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., j'ri Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco ; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. — lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
lOoz., id.; Unitea Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bhoz. to lOoz., Sid.:
lOoz. to ISoz., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and id. each
additional Soz.
ffieTSßxzlleZzm,.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1, 1018,
THE GREATEST CAPITALIST AND
HIS AGENTS.
The Hun movement in Australia has so
many ramifications that it is difficult to
follow, but it may be generally described as
a movement of fools, cranks, folk who are
enslaved by party bosses, and pe'rsons Avitlx
German countenances, led by cranks, mer-
cenary scoundrels,' instinctive criminals,
people of dubious ancestry and sundries.
Nothing that is pro-Hun is too large for it
to tackle, and nothing that can be used in
the pro-Hun interest is so small as to be
beneath notice. One of its great activities
is the spreading of the doctrine of peace with
no annexations and no indemnities (lest we
should collect some indemnity money). In
particular, it demands that the old Hun
islands in the Pacific should be handed back
to the enemy, because their retention by
Australia or the British Empire or anybody
save the Hun is a device of the capitalist
who is bent on exploiting this country by
the aid of colored labor. Incidentally it is said
that these rich islands which are to bloat the
capitalist so much are so poor that they
would be a constant drain on the public
purse; and that they are too small to be
worth having, and so big that they would
encourage the sin of land-hunger. It is
worth while to reconnoitre these islands.
The Hun possessions in the Pacific, if Papua
is really in the Pacific proper, covered 96,160
square"miles, which is rather more, than the
size of Victoria, called by the old N. S.
Wales political push a cabbage garden.
Apart from the Hun bit of the Papuan main-
land they covered about 26,000 square miles,
or about the size of Tasmania, divided into
a thousand fragments. The biggest single
island covered 660 square miles, or less than
26 miles each way. Despite the fact that
the Hun had no scruples, about the conscrip-
tion of colored labor, they were all worked
at a loss. No Huns made big fortunes there
except by the aid of Government subsidies,
and it is'not likely that any Australians will
make big fortunes there if the places become
Australian property, worked under the Aus-
tralian policy of the prevention of great land
monopolies. Steady incomes eoual to those
of a Federal Senator or M.H.R. may be
acquired with reasonable luck. The general
experience is.that the Pacific islands are not
places where vast wealth is accumulated. The
colored labor from the ex-Hun possessions
won’t slop over into Australia unless Aus-
tralia, by vote of its one-adult-one-vote
Parliament, sends for it. And if Australia
wants colored labor it can get 100 samples
any day from China and India, without
annexing anything, for one which could be
obtained from poorly-inhabited Polynesia.
Queensland in the old bad days searched the
islands indiscriminately for colored laborers,
yet it didn’t secure very much. And the
imaginary Australian capitalist that is to be
in the one-time Hun islands -won't exploit
the Australian worker, for he won’t have
any chance owing to his remoteness. The
idea of a trades-unionist at Broken Hill
(N.S.W.) being plundered by a planter in
the Solomons is remote.
* * * *
But there is one overwhelming reason
why the who preach the no-annexa-
tion doctrine for hire, or through ignorance
or malevolence, should want the Hun to get
back these isles which were always worth
less than nothing to him on their own merits.
They are a stepping-stone to the conquest of
Australia and Maoriland, which are places
worth having. In fact they are the best
worth having of all places on earth to a
country which clamors for colonies and for
a location “in the sun,” for there are no
other lands where there are only about two
persons per square mile to be killed to make
the occupation complete, and where there are
several hundred millions’ worth of public
works to be secured gratis by merely repudi-
ating the public debt. The islands, though
they have always been places where naval
and military armaments could be accumu-
lated, were not much regarded as stepping-
stones in 1914. In 1918 the case is different.
In 1925 it will be more different. By reason
of the development of airships Upolo is 16
hours from Maoriland and about 28 hours
from the more thickly-peopled parts of Aus-
tralia. A fleet of 100 up-to-date air-craft
(3000 air-vessels of one sort or another are
built per month in the U.S.) could land 3000
soldiers and go back for more; yet the
machine is probably still in its infancy.
Leaving out submarines and surface vessels,
invasion is already possible. No wonder the
Hun, w r itli so much Belgian and Russian
and Roumanian plunder to spend, can spare
a trifle to influence public opinion, on this
matter. A big continent and four rich
islands, even if Fiji is left out of the count,
are a stake worth playing for. In fact,
there is no other stake like it.
* * * *
The Hun will lose this war, and if he has
to pay a big indemnity, our little share
should go some distance in covering our war
debt. But if he can escape without paying
an indemnity—which would, of course, include
repayment of something like £1,000.000,000
of indemnity which he has already collected
in cash and kind—and without loss of terri-
tory, he will be in a vastly better position
than the Allies, who will have countless
millions worth of ravage and desolation to
repair. So he will get ready for the next
war, with a better prospect than before.
Especially, if he can retain his stepping-
stones in the Pacific, he will have a better
prospect as regards Australia than ever
before. So his agents cultivate and appeal
to a sickly bogus sentimentality about the
sinfulness of removing our bloodstained
brother’s landmark, and build a stuffed image
of the local capitalist who is conspiring to
make untold wealth out of tfle scrappy spots
which serve in the hands of the Hun as gun-
emplacements against us. And though, in
our hands, they wouldn’t serve as gun-
emplacements against him, for the gun that
will shoot from Samoa to Europe isn’t
thought of yet, the agents raise the other
stuffed scarecrow of militarism and lust of
conquest—the ravening Australian’s lust, not
the polite Hun’s lust. As regards capitalists
the Kaiser is the greatest landholder in the
world now that the Czar is out of action;
and his imperial income, with the proceeds
of the Royal Treasure founded over a cen-
tury ago, and his holdings in a multitude of
industrial enterprises, which make him one
of the world’s greatest manufacturers, all
help to keep him above want. He is the
apotheosis of a class whiffi is strong in
Germany but which has almost died out in
Australia, where the last millionaire was
buried some time ago. The fact that the
Hun chief is probably the boss capitalist of
the world, and is the head of the best-
organised capitalistic system extant, is
strangely overlooked by the crowd which re-
gards an Australian with £lOOO per annum
as a menace to society. The great boss
money-owner can afford to pay for a lot of
passive or activb support. A lot of his
minions are probably bought cheaply enough,
for the llohenzollerns are a thrifty family.
* * * *
The side-issues of the campaign are many.
There is the story that somebody unknown
has. agreed with somebody unspecified not
to improve the tariff while the war lasts.
Improvement might enlarge the class of
Australian manufacturing capitalists (who
are under our control) as well as employing
Australian artisans. It w’ould be bad for
the Hun manufacturing class, including the
Kaiser, which isn’t under our control, and
which hopes to resume business per medium
of the importing press and the importing
capitalist when the world simmers down. In
this good work it will be helped by the
colored labor of the many lost colonies which
the Hun agents want to give back, and
colored labor is no sin where the Hun uses
it. Shipbuilding is blocked in imperceptible
ways. If it progressed it might make this
country more independent of Hun’s ships
after the w T ar, and when that person is sink-
ing the ships of all nations to prepare the
way for his commercial supremacy at sea
the construction of new vessels would be
an act of unwarranted interference. Besides,
if the wheat and coal and lead products
could be sent away they would supply money
which might be used in shooting the Hun.
and there might be less of that poverty and
discontent which is exploited in the Hun
interest and to the advertisement of fluent
pro-Hun orators. Every effort has beep
made to restrict voluntary recruiting (1)
because the proposals for compulsory re-
cruiting were still in the air; (2) because
certain unions weren’t re-registered; (31
because 12 convicts found guilty off very bad
offences weren't released; (4) because one
Scully had left for California under a false
narfie (the false name was a lie, but every
little helps); (5) because all men who
shoot at the soldiery of the biggest capitalist
on earth are “murderers.” And every time
the enemy sinks another hospital ship, or
destroys another hospital with all its in-
mates. the Hun party seems to grow more
silent about the horrors worked by the big-
gest capitalist, and more frenzied in the
effort to divert attention to the alleged un-
signed document aspersing some policemen
that somebody is going to prod i when he
feels like it. Strange to say, the men whose
mock heroics and mock indignation and
mock patriotism all tend towards the
enemy's profit are allowed to speak for a
party which has built six Commonwealth
Ministries and has good hopes of building
more. Truly this country has a telescopic
leg and one easily pulled.
THE DAYS AHEAD.
A sort of panic struck this country when
the news went round that Prime Minister
Hughes had sold the whole blessed wheat-
crop to the British Government at a miser-
able 4s. 9d. per bushel. Also underhanded
and serpentine speculators had got wind of
the deal two days in advance, and had done
a profitable gamble in certificates. The ex-
citement calmed down when it was learned
that Hughes hadn’t raised a cent by any
sale of wheat, and that serpentine specula-
tors hadn’t gambled for lack of opportunity.
Then it was rumored that Peru was taking
10.000,000 bags of wheat at ss. Gd. per
bushel, or something like that, but it presently
transpired that Peru wasn’t even taking
notice—much less 10,000,000 bags. One way
and another the prospects are not brilliant.
Here is a small terrace of prospects:—
(1) Prime Minister Hughes sends a report from
England, where he and his costly suite, also Joe
Cook and suite, with limelight and secretary, are
urging the Ma country to peg in with the war, as if
the strenuous old land was running stiff. He says
that “the prospects of lifting the Australian produce
on hand are certainly not cheerful.” We knew that
before.
(2) It is reckoned that there are now about
£150,000,000 or £160,000,000 worth of export
goods stranded in Australia. A very large amount
of this has been paid for by foreign buyers who don’t
want anymore because they haven’t got delivery of
the last lot. Most of the balance has beta paid for
in paper money by the Australian Government, which
doesn’t know what to do with it, and which can’t
keep on buying indefinitely lest it wrecks the value
of the paper money. The price of the goods has
mostly been spent.
(8) Ships to take the goods away grow scarcer.
They are hard to buy and difficult to hire, for ship-
building countries have their own business to attend
to. Our few ships, bought out of loans, diminish
through occasional sinkages.
(4) The Australian shipbuilding programme is
still a programme. Programmes don’t float, and the
attempt to load heavy goods on a programme is a
failure. Still, the Huns never sink them, which is
one advantage. The need for strenuous shipbuilding
was obvious nearly four years ago, but it took the
Put-It-Off Ministry two years to begin thinking about
it.
(5) The country managed to import £76,000,000
of goods last year despite the ship-famine, for we
import small expensive things like jewellery and silk
frocks, and export big cheap things like meat. It
sent away £11,741,716 of hard money to help pay
for these goods, exports and foreign loans being
insufficient. This was rough on a country where the
gold output had got down to a little over £6,000,000
and the gold-reserve is very low.
* * * *
(6) Manufactures are badly wanted to supply
employment. Also to enable the people to live
decently as white folks should, on goods which, being
local, can be paid for with paper money, instead of
borrowing gold to keep outsiders at work. But it
is dreadfully expensive to start a new factory at
the present prices of building material, machinery
and labor, not to mention strikes. And the people
who run things say that the tariff mustn’t be in-
creased so that when the war is over the new indus-
tries will be shut up by cheap outside competition in
the old way. Therefore new industries don't start.
When money can no longer be found to pay for
imports this helpless land must go shirtless and
unbuttoned. We make shirts, but the linen and
thread and buttons and needles are imported. - The
empty space inside the shirt is made here. The
necessity for creating manufactures in the only way
that a high-wage country can create them has been
obvious long enough, and when the war started the
necessity roared loudly enough to wake the dead, but
the Let-it-Slide, Government said it would think over
the matter. It didn’t think for want of the
apparatus.
(7) It has been realised at last that the peace
expenditure of the States can’t go on increasing.
Seeeing that it has already increased £4,000,600 a
year in the Ma State alone since the war opened, an ■
actual reduction seems called for. Almost everybody
except the By-and : Bye Ministry observed this long
ago.
(8) New State loans have practically stopped in
England. Even if 40 per cent, interest is offered,
not a penny can be borrowed except with the
British Government’s permission. There are
£50,000,000 of State loans falling due in the next
three years, most of the amount payable in London
in gold. If the money can’t be raised at 6 per cent.,
which is about the present rate, it may perhaps bfe
got at 8 or 10 per cent. Some people, especially
The Bulletix, have preached the non-borrowing
gospel for 20 years past to make this sort of obvious
crisis impossible. Some, less far-seeing but not
absolutely blind, thought that, when loans were still
being raised in London at 41 per cent, a year after
the war started it might be well to stack away some
of the money for renewal purposes instead of blewing
it madly on the beginnings of raihvays which might
have to be left unfinished. The Dash-the-Conse-
quences Cabinets said it wouldn’t meet trouble half-
way.
* * * *
(9) A heap of public works must either be left
unfinished and earning practically nothing but
costing a terrible lot in interest, or else they must
be finished at fully twice the cost reckoned upon, so
that it is hardly possible for them to pay for axle-
grease within this century. Some people said in a
hesitating fashion, away back in 1914, that war-time
wasn’t the best time to incur indefinite liabilities.
The Blow-the-Morrow politicians said that the great
natural, or unnatural or beastly, resources must be
developed, and went in for the biggest rush of works
on record. The inevitable Ma State did most of the
rash. •*“
(10) And now the control of affairs is steadily
drifting towards the hands of the Bolsheviks, the
Huns, the pro-Huns, the Hun agents, the anarchists,
the I.W.WVs, the repudiationists, the One Big Union
men who propose to organise a kingdom of their
own inside the Commonwealth, and the fools and
cranks and criminals. They preached voluntary ser-
vice because they intended good Australians to go to
the Front while they remained behind to grab at
power, to advocate a six-hour working day and to
work up strikes, whereas compulsory service would
have sent them to the Front along with the rest. Having
carried their point, they left off preaching compulsory
service and some of them called our soldiers “mur-
derers.” Hughes had a compulsory-service majority
in the House, but, then, it might only be temporary,
and if he stood by his principles the next election
might lose him his job. He paltered and kept his
job. He may have seen by now that it wasn’t worth
while, but as with the ships and the tariff and the
loan policy the matter was put off rather late.
* * * *
The Australian soldiers at the war have
put up a record for valor and efficiency.
Apart from that Australia has fallen down
everywhere and in every way. It stands
out as the one great English-speaking coun-
try which can’t pay its own troops; and
can’t make its own ships or shirts. It is
noted as the land that is closing up its
factories while Canada is making £40,000,000
extra in a year by selling munitions of its
own making to the Allies; and as the place
which has more strikes than it ever had
before, and which is unable even in this
day of special effort to build a yard of
railway unless somebody lends the money.
Also it figures as the great rich gold-produc-
ing country which will file its schedule next
year unless .T. Bull lends it a lot more
cash, 'and as the one which may yet decide
to burn its wheat because it lacks the ability
to provide for exporting the same, wherefore
it is reducing its wheat-fields and working
short time in its coal-mines. In addition it
enjoys the rare distinction of being the
land' where an undisguisedly pro-Hun party
is permitted to heap insults on good Aus-
tralians. and is allowed to hang up industry,
to threaten to upset the Constitution and
run affairs itself on Direct Action lines, to
wave the flag of rebellion over the head-
quarters of industry, to circulate pro-German
literature, to scoff at the industrial laws,
and to demand that its beloved Kaiser shall
have all his territories given back to him
and shall not be asked to. pay for breakages.
In fact Australia occupies a unique posi-
tion in the Empire—almost a unique posi-
tion in the world.
IF HOLMAN HAD NOT BEEN
HOLMAN.
“Henry lloksecoixar - ’ speaks words of
kindness:—
Certain matters of finance happened or transpired
or at least received a mention last week. A con-
ference of Treasurers considered the loan extrava-
gances for the coming year. This conference is a
method according to which the States (bar N.S.W.j
have been accustomed to make the best of the war
trouble by constituting the Commonwealth their
loan agent so as to prevent State and Federal mendi-
oants rushing into the field at the same moment.
It agrees, also, on the amount each State can do
with, so as to prevent any one mendicant hogging the
market. N. S. Wales, in its favorite character of
the Eternal Nark, stood out because it was beneath
its dignity to disclose its intentions as its neighbors
didr or to consult anybody’s convenience. Now, after
its disastrously expensive experience of lone-hand
cadging in London it is inclined to come into the
pooh provided its share of the money is about
£1,000,000 more than that of all the other States
put together. Then Treasurer Holman was beguiled
into joining with the other States in a pledge not
to increase expenditure this year. The news fell on
his colleagues like an anchor dropping on the head
from a great height. For the Most Wonderful
Ministry on Earth, having added about £1,000,000
to the expenditure in 1914, and £234,000 in 1915,
and about £1,000,000 in 1916, and over £BOO,OOO
in 1917, and about £850,000 in 1918, proposed to
add another £1,000,000 in 1919, and this final burst
is cut off. As another more or less financial item it
is proudly stated that N. S. Wales is doing twice as
much as any other State in the way of putting re-
turned soldiers on the land, or at least in promising
to put them on the land, and appointing officials to
arrange about putting them on the land, and spend-
ing loan and other money in the business of strug-
gling to get them on the land. Also it is mentioned
that the stupendous Yanco Irrigation Settlement, the
pride and joy of the Ma State’s heart, is looking even
more bankrupt than usual, and that people are
getting off the land.
* * * *
Yanco is quoted merely as an example. It is a
(eattire of the Holman finance alluded to above, and
it is one of the reasons for believing that no Govern-
ment with which Holman is connected or which is
influenced by the Holman outlook will ever repatri-
ate a single soldier except at heavy loss to himself
and the country (paid for, if possible, out of loans).
Yanco was started with good and cheap land, cheap
loan money (money was going at about half the
present price) and abundance of water. It has been
proved that irrigation pays. Egypt, unencumbered
by Holman, has prospered by it since the time before
history was born. Babylonia grew rich and great
by it, till invaders destroyed the local Burrinjuck
reservoir and other works. It is getting along in
India, China, California, Arizona (Arid Zone, which
is now becoming dotted with gardens), in parts of
Australia that are free from Holman, and in many
other places. Yet Yanco has been a loss all its days,
which were also mostly the Ministerial days, of
Holman. The place, at June, 1917, stood for
£3,855,000 of borrowed money. It failed, in 1916,
even to pay the cheap interest by £137,399. In
1917 it failed by £194,338. So things grew worse
with progress. These were subsidies paid to support
and dry-nurse a business which is supposed to be able
to support itself and yield great riches to boot, and
despite all this coddling at the taxpayer's cost,
Yanco threatens to die out. Apparently it needs
bigger subsidies. There are industries attached
which don’t look as if they should be ruinous, especi-
ally when there is no private capitalist to support
—factories for joinery, fruit-pulping, fruit-canning,
bacon, cheese, electric-light and power supply, domes-
tic water-supply arrangements, slaughter-houses, butter-
making plant, etc., and all save one fails even to
pay working expenses. The abattoirs don’t pay half
working expenses; reckoning interest liability the
community hands out a subsidy of about £1 15s. for
every £1 earned. It would be cheaper to buy gold
at £6 per ounce. This is one of the many reasons why
the wonderful Ministry wanted still another million
to blew in the new financial year. Also, it is one
reason among many for believing that that combina-


tion couldn’t successfully repatriate a cockroach at
the bottom of a wash-basin. Everything it touches
seems to have a curse upon it —the curse of the
apples of Sodom.
The basis of all the tragic comic-opera failure is
that the Premier—the moving spirit of the whole
disaster—is just himself. His whole training is
against him. He was something of a boy orator,
dating back to the days before the new carpet was
bought for Parliament House —the days when Labor-
ites still held -forth in Sydney Domain, and talked
of necessity the kind of guff that their audiences
wanted. They discoursed large florid generalities,
startling assertions, heated denunciations, anything
at all except plain dry facts. In those days they
lost the habit of facts, and the guff got into their
bones, and the loosely oratorical element came on
top. Holman in his beginnings was described by his
admirers as looking like a young Messiah, which
isn’t a good way for any future Treasurer to look.
He had a turn as a labor organiser, which isn’t
a job that brings out the faculties of constructive
statesmanship. Practically he was born into the
party and grew up with it. For 12 years he sat
in the Assembly as a private member of the Oppo-
sition. Nobody of the Opposition could join a
Cabinet without losing his status, so nobody got a
chance to learn the practical work of administration.
It was 12 years spent in opposing things, in promis-
ing things till the promises accumulated to a fearful
extent, and in not having a chance to find out how
to do things. AV. A. Holman had at least one inter-
val of business life. He was one of the bosses of a
paper which wasn’t supported by any compulsory
levy on trades unionists, and which perished in an
amazing fashion, full of honesty, enthusiasm, good
intentions and boundless incapacity. The failure
of New Australia, which was Yuneo in another form,
and also with a huge Government (Paraguayan Gov-
ernment) subsidy behind it, wasn’t more complete.
* * ■* *
IV. A. Holman also became a IJtwyer. He was
not a strenuous, capable, hard-working, painstaking
solicitor like Okokob Turnkk, accustomed to take
care of trust funds and to nurse the estates of em-
barrassed clients back to solvency. He was a light,
airy, barristerial creature of the kind that dances
on the surface of cases where a sort of happy bril-
liance is required and there is no need lor any
knowledge of patent law. or company law or other
hard subjects. lie became quite enough of a bar-
rister to qualify to his own satisfaction as Attorney-
General in what was practically his own Ministry.
But even on such an easy subject as Freetrade, where
the cut-and-dried arguments are lying around in
stacks, and a patient, drear creature like Pumpkin
Smith could make some semblance of a case, lie
hardly took the trouble to know his brief. It was
one of his pet subjects at a certain Stage of .his
career, and yet his blunders were lamentable. Finally
this pleasant, skimming, talkative, impractical being
became Premier, Treasurer, Attorney-General and
Chief Secretary all in one. It was a heavy load for
a sort of happy human faun, with hardly any business
training, with 15 years of cheerful assurances to live
up to, with half a working lifetime spent in declar-
ing that everybody’s pay was insufficient no matter
how insufficient everybody’s work might be, and with
a chronic inability to see the difference between loans
and revenue. Bavaria once had a King like Holman
—Ludwig 11. His relatives locked him up at last
as a madman —not that he was mad, but because an
architectural genius of noble character who tried to
build six simultaneous palaces on the Louis XIV.
scale was too glorious for a small twopenny dynasty
in a threepenny country. Ludwig couldn’t be mended
because he was just Ludwig. And the reason why it
isn’t worth while talking financial wisdom or reason
or horse-sense to Holman is that he is just Holman.
A permanent billet as manager of a large imaginary
bank would suit him to perfection.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Town-Planning and Planning to
Prevent Towns.
That very large and expensive crowd which
is to meet in Brisbane, and brood
and ponder and incubate over the City
Beautiful which ought to be, is one
more evidence of the conversational Austra-
lian habit. Town-planning is vast and
important, and everybody who takes an in-
telligent interest in the subject knows in
outline how it ought to be done. The city
ought to be in a good spot, either flat or
elevated according to the nature of the
ground, but not too much either way.
Jericho, which is 1000 feet below sea-
level, and Quito, which is 9000 feet or
10,000 feet above, have overdone things and
made hogs of themselves. The streets should
be wide, but not so wide that the paving
and maintenance rates will run out and
leave them a quagmire. It is best that
they be lined with evergreen trees, but not
the" kind whose roots are always crawling to
the surface and throwing the footpaths in
the air. Buildings should be designed with
a view to the maximum' of convenience and
artistic effect. The stately public edifices
may be on a slight eminence, with long,
wide avenues as approaches, after the man-
ner of Melbourne,'or at the centre of con-
verging avenues, as at Washington, or other-
wise. A lake is a good idea —Hamburg,
Jeypore, Kandy, Lucerne, etc., are great
on the lake business, but if the country is
dry the lake may be unavoidably postponed.
The people of Venice hold that a network of
islands is the very best place and, having
experience, they ought to know. On the other
hand, Sydney, Hobart, Stockholm, New York,
etc., hold that a good water-frontage and a
maze of picturesque inlets is sufficient to go
on with. Some very fine cities are square;
some ai*e round: some, by reason of the
conformation of the ground, are the shape of
a nightmare. Anyhow, it is agreed that there
should be abundance of pure water available
by gravitation for washing, drinking and
light and power purposes, and if there is a
surplus, so that little streams may
bubble and ripple and sing lullabies along
the gutters, so much the better. A conveni-
ent coal supply is beneficial. Inland cities
look best beside a river when there is one.
but slops should not be thrown in the river.
These and other essentials are well known,
and the congestion of a lot of enthusiasts
at a badly-planned dace like Brisbane won’t
help the case. wisest idea is to
create an ideal * city as a sample.
Seeing that there ; night be half a dozen
plans equally perfect it might be well to
create half a dozen jam pies. Then the old
towns and cities ni.ght be altered to live
up to them. After all the first point to be
considered is to place the new-planned city
where it will be willing to stay—not in
some place where it will have to be paid to
stay. That is the trouble with Australia s
one" great loony experiment at Canberra. It
lacks a river, drinking-water for a decent-
sized population except what may be pumped
up at large expense, water-power for light-
ing and manufacture, coal, specially remark-
able scenery and a good rainfall, and it isn t
even on a main road or a main railway.
Being devised by a malicious crew of paro-
chialists who wanted to bring the Federal
idea into contempt, it is simply a sink for
money, and it is necessary to invent civil
servants to live there and give it a sem-
blance of existence. But there are places
where cities are yearning to be born and
grow lon ideal principles if they can get
them), and maintain themselves. Hitherto
they have been prevented because big and
sometimes untidy and badly-planned places
arrived first by accident and secured the
voting power, but this process of abortion
can't go on for ever. At present town-
planning in Australia is a process of plan-
ning to prevent towns, and the statesman
who prevented most towns stands at the
head of the profession.
Chronicles of the “Me and Gott”
Family.
Some fragmentary records of the senior
partners in the well-known firm of “Me and
Gott”
They are new monarchs as monarchs go. The first
King of Prussia began to be such in 1700. Yet they
all talked of the “Ancient Crown of Prussia.” It
■was said of them that they were all bad and all mad,
but with different kinds of madness—the insanity of
power or the insanity of hesitation and fear. It is
also said that every father hated his eldest son save
those who had no son; and that every eldest eon
hated his father with a great hatred.
There have been nine of them in all, everyone
called Frederick or William ‘or Frederick William.
Frederick I. wasn’t in the firm, so he didn’t count.
His son, Frederick William 1., invented the divine
partnership, and it has lasted ever since. It is said
of him that he possessed every sin besides some that
lie invented himself. He flogged his wife (allegedly)
and his family (certainly), especially his eldest son
and eldest daughter. He flogged his army both per-
sonally at the daily inspection and by deputy. The
offences punishable by formal flogging ranged from
disaffection down to an insufficiently polished button.
The offences of those punished informally consisted
mainly in happening to be there when the Senior
Partner happened to be there. He flogged people
whom he met in the street. It was said that when
he met a plump woman of marriageable age the
temptation to cane or kick her was almost irresistible.
He found a girl making music with his eldest son,
and had her flogged through the streets and after-
wards gaoled for three years. He threatened to flog
a law court unless it sentenced the said eldest son
to death, and the sentence would have been carried
out had not four ambassadors threatened war. So the
sentence was commuted to three years’ imprisonment,
the criminal to see his principal friend hanged
before his cell window. Afterwards the eldest son
and the dead body were to remain together for a
day, but the son took fits, which interrupted the
proceedings.
The Senior Partner was a miser who made the
queen and princesses do housework, and fed his
family on stale bread and cabbage. He invented the
Prussian army, and tried to make it an army of
giants. All over Europe his agents were busy kid-
napping big men, regardless of cost. (In this respect
he wasn’t a miser.) He even risked a war in the
attempt to kidnap a very big member of the French
embassy. The big men were compulsorily mated
to big women, many of whom had husbands already,
so that their sons might be big soldiers. The scheme
panned out badly, and some of the big mothers are
said to have been flogged for having small sons.
Frederick William I. avoided war for fear of having
his big army spoiled. It was said that in his day
the only things the Prussian soldier died of were
hunger, terror, flogging and suicide.
It was the first Senior Partner who invented a rigid
discipline for the nation. He even fixed the hours
and the places where Berliners who had vehicles
should drive on Sundays. He wasn’t very clean. He
wore shabby clothes. He painted horrible pictures
which he sold by compulsion at high prices. He was
accused of nameless vices, and he died leaving a lot
of money behind him and no debts.
His son Frederick the Great was a marvellous
soldier, a stupendous flogger, a dreadful poet, a great
organiser and a wonderful builder. -In peace time he
was his own sole Minister, and was reputed to toil
16 hours a day. He made his secretaries do likewise.
For the slightest mistake the invariable penalty was
some years in gaol. He so far perfected the system
of discipline that every subject was alleged to have
the length and direction of his compulsory daily walk
fixed. He issued passports and quarrelled over every
detail of the household accounts, and permitted or
didn’t permit the making of new roads and the
erection of new buildings. He developed lying to
this extent that his ambassador was still at Vienna
protesting unalterable friendship when the Prussian
army rushed into Austria. He made the country rich,
and died in his old clothes, the meanest of mankind
and about the most hated. He left no public debt
behind him.
His nephew became Senior Partner, and lasted 11
years. He was fairly affable, and did a good deal
for education, and committed bigamy twice, the first
time with his /wife’s consent. He was a weary,
drunken dullard, and under his care things dry-rotted
utterly. The Prussians had grown accustomed to be
driven and to have every detail of their lives fixed
for them under an All-seeing Eye. Now the old Eye
became dead, and the new one handed over all
authority to a Cabinet of three. One was the
Senior Partner’s principal mistress, who was also
his valet’s wife. The others were her nominees,
a fallen priest and a species of spiritualist who was
also a prisoner. Under their direction Frederick
William 11. sent his decayed army and one of his
aged mediocrities to put down the French Revolu-
tion. In his time was issued the first great lying war
bulletin. It set forth off-handedly that the Junker
army, 70,000 strong, had met and defeated 250,000
Frenchmen. One-third of the prisoners were executed.
CJhalons, Rheims and Soissons were burnt to the
ground, and all the inhabitants were slain, including
140 who were broken on the wheel. Paris was taken
and pillaged for three days, also 6000 men were
hanged and 100 members of the Convention burned
alive.
In the midst of these paper glories the haggard
ruin of the Prussian army crawled home. Dcmolbier
had licked it at Valmy, and the glory of Frederick
the Great’s legions was gone. The Senior Partner,
worn out with drink, bigamy and disappointment, died
in great agony of an unspecified disease, calling on
the Junior Partner for mercy.
The next of this strange line of Scarcely Humans
was Frederick William 111. He was uneducated,
uncouth, pious, intensely moral, ill-fed (for the valet’s
wife and the decayed priest and the spiritualist who
was also a poisoner habitually stole the housekeeping
money), ill-dressed, low-spirited and undecided. He
was always too late. He abandoned his allies in the
second coalition against Napoleon and incurred the
animosity of almost everybody. Then having learned
nothing from his father’s experience, he rushed into
war single-handed. Prussia died in a day. The
decayed army ran and never came back. The decayed
old generals surrendered almost impregnable for-
tresses for the asking. The civil and military
machine, the routine, the flogging, the goose-step, the
nobility, the bureaucracy all dried up and blew
away. When Napoleon and Alexander met on the
famous raft at Tilsit to decide what should be done
with Prussia and other places the heir of Frederick
the Great waited out in the rain like a lost dog that
hoped for the.return of its collar and dog-license.
In the succeeding days of French supremacy, while
the goose-step was suspended and Prussians were
allowed to be human, great men like Jahn and)
Gneisenau and Stein and Scharnhorst arose and
helped to make a new Prussia. Thanks to them and
the allies the kingdom resumed on Napoleon’s down-
fall. Frederick William 111. cold-shouldered the
great patriots for exceeding their authority and dis-
arranging the machine. The King died in 1840 of
melancholy, indecision, old age, tea-meetings and all
the stuffy virtues. In private life he was the ideal
washerwoman.
A brilliant and versatile madman followed—
Frederick William IV. He was as fully convinced
of his divinity as his predecessors and as incurably
Tory, and he hated his father as a matter of course.
Still he was brilliant. He was never in the same
place for ten consecutive minutes. He atteVnpted
every art and slept in every possible bed, and fled to
and fro every day. He started a new era, however,
by discovering Bismarck, and when he was dethroned
for being madder than usual and that tall respectable
cipher William took up the job of helping Gott,
Bismarck was the whole show. lie remained so all
William’s ordinary days. He ran three successful
wars. He stole Irreat territories. He made the army
the greatest fighting machine in history save that of
Giienc.iz Kiian. He made the German Empire. He
made Germany, almost in one man’s lifetime, nearly
the greatest manufacturing, commercial, financial and
educational country on earth. He drove it to the
highest pitch of efficiency by grinding supervision
and organisation which eclipsed all that had gone
before. He spread its political and financial influence
into every country. He built up the Triple Alliance.
He supplied Japan with a Constitution in a spare
moment as another man might lend sixpence to a
friend. And then old Cipher William died, and
Frederick 111. died almost before he was started, and
William 11. (the Sudden) inherited the dignity, and
threw out Bismarck.
William 11. decided to be his own Minis-
ter like Frederick the Great, without that
wonder’s brains. He was and is the epit-
ome of all his forebears—a bad painter like
Frederick William 1., a bad poet and musician like
Frederick 11., a dabbler in every art and a furious
breaker of the speed limit all over his dominions like
Frederick William IV., the lunatic, a man who
supervises everything from his family’s clothes to
the building of cities like most of his predecessors—
with a streak of cracked piety like all of them save
Frederick the Great, who was an atheist. He kept
to the family tradition by hating his father and
his mother in the days of his youth, and his
eldest son is said to keep to the family policy by
hating him. His clothes are reported to be numerous.
He put up a world’s record in this respect: Germany,
under Bismarck’s hand, was acquiring the globe
by the simple process of buying it up. Not being
able to see a small thing like that, or being in too
much of a hurry, or being crazed with vanity,
William 11. broke everything. No man ever wakened
so many sleeping dogs at once.
There were eight Me’s in all—and only one
Gott. The hasty and jumped-up dynasty has
produced -one monster and one monstrous genius.
It covered 73 years -out of 217, so the family
hasn’t been ordinary. Bismarck was uncrowned king
for nearly 40 years, so there wasn’t much time for
the smaller men. It has never been decided whether
the llohenzollerns are partly gorilla or not. They
have been wicked, certainly, but not like, say, the
Valois, of whom it was remarked that they were
all damned, but almost all picturesque.
The Ten Hours’ Day.
“Rubber” : Among the advantages to be
derived by workers from a change to ten
hours’ toil N. S. Wales Governor Davidson
mentioned a larger income, which would
transpire from increased output. If in
his odd moments of leisure he would
read Professor Stanley Kent’s report
on Fatigue, submitted to a British
Departmental Committee in 1908, his Ex.
might discover that there is a close connec-
tion between long hours of labor and small
production. Also there is a close connec-
tion between long hours and accidents. The
accidents occurring in Lancashire cotton-
mills were tabulated for the information of
this Committee, so that it might notice the
relationship between fatigue and industrial
mishaps involving life and limb. The distri-
bution of a year’s accidents during working
hours was shown to be this way:—
Morning.
Hour. Number. Percentage.
6 to 7 .. 240 4.33
7 ~ 8 .. 457 8.24
8.30 „ 9 . . 316 5.69
9 „ 10 .. 372 6.71
10 „ 11 .. 665 11.99
11 „ 12 .. 623 11.24
12 „ 12.30 . . 651 11.74
Afternoon.
1.30 to 2 .. 222 4
2 „ 3 . . 335 6.04
3 ~ 4 . . 536 9.67
4 „ 5 . . 512 9.24
5 „ 5.30 . . 615 11.09
Statistics from Germany, America, France,
Belgium and Italy show similar results.
What the Committee found was that in the
first few 7 hours of the morning. w r hen the
workers were comparatively fresh, there
were few’ accidents, but that the number
increased as the day wore on. the maximum
occurring between 10 and 12. Immediately
after lunch the number of accidents fell, but
increased each hour of the afternoon, the
greatest number happening between the
hours of 4 and 6. Most accidents occurred,
both in the morning and afternoon sessions,
when the workers were getting fagged. An
analysis of the accidents presented in 1911
shows that in 90 per cent, of the cases
fatigue may have been the cause, and in only
7 per cent, is it definitely excluded. This
analysis covered 1143 accidents in cotton-
factories. Methodical inquiry shows that
the “increased happiness’’ to the worker’s
family from an extra two hours’ work a day
would be in the form of broken limbs,
ruined health and deceased husbands. It’s
worth thinking over.
■ ♦
Beer and Its Byways.
“Garnishor's” address to the Court:—
At the recent trial of a man in N. S. Wales for
the murder of his wife the unusual defence of
“drunkenness” was put forward, and the plea was
turned down. The accused was convicted * and sen-
tenced to death. On the argument being carried to
the Court of Criminal Appeal the Bench held that
the defence put forward was appropriate in the cir-
cumstances and the conviction was set aside. The
general proposition is crystallised in Hawkins’s
Pleas of the Crown, which lays it down in the bald-
est manner that “lie who is guilty of any crime
whatever through his voluntary drunkenness shall be
punished for it as much as if he had been sober.”
“Drunkenness is no excuse” was handy enough in
the pitiless old days of frequent hangings and crush-
ing sentences, but modern decisions tend increasingly
to discriminate. It is a maxim which has particular
interest for Australia, since the first substantial modi-
fication of it was effected by the present Chief
Justice of the Commonwealth, Griffith. When he
was C.J. of Queensland an appeal was lodged by a
man named Glen convicted of theft. The jury found
that Glen was under the influence of drink when he
committed the offence, and did not know what he
was doing. Griffith said: “The crime of larceny
involves a fraudulent intention.... Here the jury
found that the prisoner did not know what he was
doing. If that is so, he could not have had any
such intention. It is clear, therefore, that the con-
viction was wrong, and it must be quashed and the
prisoner be discharged.” Glf.n’s case was decided
in 1899, and the next important case on the point,
Meade’s, was decided at London in 1999. Meade
had murdered his wife in a particularly brutal
manner. Evidence was called to show that
Meade was drunk. The argument on appeal
was that he did not intend to cause the death of, or
grievous bodily harm to, the woman, and that the
jury, in deciding the question, ought to have taken
into consideration the fact that the accused was
drunk, and that it (the jury) would on the facts be just-
ified in returning a verdict of manslaughter—which
last means, roughly, “the unlawful killing of another
without malice, express or implied.” Lord Coleridok
said in summing up upon the point: “In thg first
place, everyone is presumed to know the consequences
of his acts. If he be insane, that knowledge is not
presumed. Insanity is not pleaded here, but where it
is part of the essence of a crime that a motive, a
particular motive, shall exist in the mind of the
man who does the act, the law declares this—that if
the mind at that time is so obscure by dr. f ilk, if the
reason is dethroned and the man is incapable there-
fore of forming that intent, it justifies the reduction
of the charge from murder to manslaughter.” The
matter was finalised by the Court of Criminal Appeal
in the form of a rule laid down as follows: “A man
is taken to intend the natural consequences of his
acts. But this presumption may be rebutted... .in
the case of a man who is drunk, by showing his mind
to have been so affected by the drink he had taken
that he was incapable of knowing that what he was
doing was dangerous, i.e., likely to inflict serious
injury. If this be proved, the presumption that he
intended to do grievous bodily harm is rebutted.”
In the recent case in N. S. Wales Justice Pring said
substantially: “The defence is that accused was so
drunk that he did not know what he was doing, so
drunk as to be practically insane, and incapable of
distinguishing right from wrong. If that is estab-
lished, he is entitled to be acquitted. If you find
that he was so drunk that he did not know what he
was doing just as though he were insane or walking
in his sleep you should acquit him, but unless you
so find I can’t see that you can do anything but
convict him of murder, because I can see no evidence
which would justify you in reducing the offence to
manslaughter.” What the Judge might have ex-
plained to the jury was this: “Murder is felonious
homicide with intent. Manslaughter is felonious
homicide without intent. The whole issue is intent.
If the accused was so drunk that he was incapable of
forming an intent, then his offence would amount to
manslaughter.” The Court of Criminal Appeal argu-
ing along these lines decided that the man accused
before Justice Pring was so drunk as to be incapable
of intent, and they consequently decided that he had
been guilty of manslaughter instead of murder, with
the result that the sentence of death was commuted
to a sentence of seven years’ penal But
the seven years is a reminder that you can’t murder
your wife with complete impunity even when drunk.
Wanted, a Parliament of Workers.
Dear Bulletin,— r-At one time a property
qualification for members of Parliament and
for electors was regarded in almost every
country as a matter of course. Nowadays
the public lias learned in many countries
that the possession of money or money’s-
worth doesn’t prove either honesty or capac-
ity. Any fool may inherit money, and any
ingenious person may steal it. The result
of the awakening, so far as concerns Aus-
tralia. is that every human being who is a
British subject, and is out of gaol, and suf-
ficently sane to remain at large, and has
reached years of discretion, is a qualified
law-maker. It is practically impossible to go
beyond that for lack of any beyond to go,
unless the franchise is given to admitted
lunatics or to children. The latter can
hardly be done unless the infant is also
allowed to spend his fortune as he pleases
and the age of consent is abolished; also the
present system of compulsory schooling, for
a full-blown citizen can’t be educated by
force unless with the consent of a Parlia-
ment in which the boy member might pre-
dominate. Also the whacking of an elector
or member of Parliament by his indignant
parent would be impossible. Still, though
political freedom has got as far as it well cau
go. there seems to be something lacking. Not
only has an infuriated section arisen which
declares that the nation is grievously
oppressed by itself, and will never be free
until its power is taken from it and concen-
trated in the hands of Judd and Go., but the
system seems to have gone askew by reason
of machine politics. Also by reason of the
fact that it isn’t the best kind of machine.
What I suggest is a money-earning qualifica-
tion for members. Every man who is likely
to be of use in the world has started to do
something before he is old enough to eject
lawmakers or to make laws, and I hold that
until he has proved his ability to earn by
real work, say, £2OO a year (£IOO for the
possible female candidate) lie hasn’t shown
sufficient industry and capacity to be a
promising Solon or Moses. I am not bigoted


1 ■'
j^lusira.Ha.
the premier hotel in the commokwealth
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
IN THE DINING HAEE, A LA
CARTE ROOMS or PRIVATE
ROOMS at Luncheon, Dinner or
Supper. Latest Music.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts* do the rest.
The Mahaaer.
k
m
1
gs£.
t
about the exact amount, but I am as bigoted
as the Inquisition about the principle. I
bar the young man ivho makes his income
by working in his father’s or his uncle’s
office or factory or on any relative’s estate,
for the old man may be making a job for
him. He must qualify and get his certificate
by working for somebody to whom he is in
no way related. If he has built up a busi-
ness for himself he would be judged by his
balance-sheet. If he has inherited a busi-
ness he would have to convince the proper
authority, either that his services as manager
were not only worth the money, but that
they were good enough to entitle him to the
job by free competition. Perhaps he Avould
find it easier to qualify by a year’s purely out-
side toil. The salaries paid to charity organi-
sers. moral improvement organisers, trades
union organisers, miscellaneous philanthro-
pists, teetotal, lecturers and other savers of
society ought not to count; even the most
impassioned rescuer of his fellmv-men should
earn his right to govern his fellow-men by
farming, or writing (not for his own paper
or for the paper of a relative or of an organ-
isation Avith Avhicli he is connected), or
wharf-laboring, or cane-cutting, or carpen-
tering, or acting (not in the old man’s com-
pany), or some kind of trade that had no
favor or mental reservations about it. In
fact I propose a Parliament of workers and
capable workers at that, even if loafers help
to create it. Under the proposed rule some
men might not be eligible till they reached
the age of 40, and some, including a feAv
barristers and solicitors I know of, might
not get there till their years numbered 45,
but that would be no harm. The country
can wait for them.—Yours, etc., “II.II.”
Foeh’s Clout at the Boche.
In this second battle of the Marne the Ger-
man has been more seriously mauled than
during the first disturbance. Queerly enough
there are strong points of resemblance between
the proceedings of 1914 and the last week or
so. On both occasions the enemy Avas roll-
ing heavily forward, and each time the Gallic
blade, swiftly driven into his anatomy at an
unexpected place, turned his hopes of victory
into realisation of defeat. Four years ago
when Focii broke the alignment of the in-
vading armies something in the nature of
panic shook the German line from end to end.
This time when Foch grasped the skirts of
happy chance again and launched the army
of Mangin towards Soissons, the enemy found
himself confronted by a combination of possi-
bilities in which panic Avould have meant dis-
aster of unimaginable magnitude. Had the
flank bastioned on Soissons caved in the
Avhole of the attacking army of Von Boehm
Avould have, been pocketed south of the Ourcq
and the..,Crown Prince compelled to contem-
plate Von Einem swinging in the air below
Reims. But as it happened the flanks held,
and the draw-off from the salient, an opera-
tion of tremendous difficulty, was carried on
by the German generals Avith a systematised
deliberation which, if all that has been re-
ported about the attack is even reasonably
accurate, seems rather remarkable. A
retreat planned in advance is one thing. A
retreat suddenly forced upon three big armies
is something very different. The brilliant
generalship of Focii encountered an opposi-
tion marked by very high soldierly qualities,
and it is this which gives his victory particu-
lar significance. By Monday the Germans
were on the reverse gear along the Avhole of
the disturbed frontage, and it can be taken
for granted that the Kaiser was gnashing his
teeth with great fury. Pending a halt, the
intentions of the forces under Prince Rup-
precht, opposite Amiens, appear to form an
interesting subject of speculation in that
locality. The only thing certain thereabouts
seems to be that the longer the enemy holds
off the harder will the job before him become.
With American troops arriving at the rate
of 50,000 a week the Hun’s calculations
about attrition are getting upended. He, must
either hit again before the winter begins to
interfere, or wait to hit a bigger and fresher
opponent than the one he failed to wallop
before. Wherefore the probabilities point to
him getting the battering-ram on the swing
some more. Anyway, he has far more to
gain by doing so than by sitting back. Rela-
tively to the Allies he can never be stronger
than he is now ; and the latest happenings
on the Marne discount his confidence in that
strength being ponderous enough to win him
the earth. To add to the picnic that the
Hun is weltering in, the Turk, who has lately
found that his share of such spoils as have
been gained in the “Near East” are vague
and unsatisfactory, has cut adrift from Ger-
many. It may be that this is another
instance of the rat leaving the sinking ship,
but it is more likely, that the Unspeakable
has found the Hun to be more unspeakable
even than himself, and has deserted him
accordingly.
Exit, the Romanoffs.
“8.5.” : Destiny did the right thing in not
setting the stage picturesquely for the exit
of Nicholas Romanoff. He did not deserve
anything better than an ignominious end.
Not that he was more cruel than his prede-
cessors; but he was blinder and more stupid.
Since the reign of Ivan the Terrible the
rulers of Russia have exercised a despotic
sway more complete than any in modern his-
tory. True, it was tempered by assassina-
tion ; but the remembrance of past murders
and fear of the future made Nicholas deter-
mined to play the autocratic game to the
limit. The family traditions were developed
in Nicholas by his tutor, Pobedonostzev,
afterwards Procurator of the Holy Synod
and a skilful exponent of the doctrine of
absolutism. Nicholas had little strength
of will; he was swayed by those around
him; but at times he was obstinate as a
mule. The principal influences at the Court
were Prussian ; the only able Russian Minis-
ter who saw that change was necessary,
Count Witte, could not shift the Czar from
the Romanoff rut. The bureaucratic
machinery through which Nicholas ruled
was modelled on that of Prussia, and a
great many of its higher officers were Ger-
mans or Russians of German descent —more
arrogant and cruel than the pure Fritz.
One of the Czar’s first acts after ascend-
ing the throne in 1894 was to order a
deputation of leaders of the Zemstros (equiva-
lent to shire or county councils), who asked
for a mild form of constitution to “give up
their absurd illusions.” Up to the Russo-Jap
war in 1904 there were sporadic strikes
in the cities, followed by knoutings
and Siberia for a host of “suspects.”
The assassination of Yon Plevhe in
July made Nicholas sit up and think a bit.
There was a suspension of repressive tactics
for a while; but the army’s failure in Man-
churia, the heavy taxation and the hardships
suffered by the people brought further out-
bursts in December, and the lid was put
on again. Then came Gapon and Red
Sunday—January 9, 1905—when thousands
of unarmed workmen, women and children
ivere ruthlessly shot down before the Winter
Palace. Nicholas was responsible for
that Avholesale butchery. From that day
the peasants ceased to hope for any reforms
from their “Little Father,” and the idea of
armed resistance grew. Throughout 1905
strikes and armed insurrections Avere plenti-
ful. Beginning in the universities, they
spread like a bushfire, Avithout organisation
or leadership, and in October there was vir-
tually a general strike in operation. Busi-
ness Avas paralysed ; no trains or trams were
running, the milkman failed to make his
usual call at the Palace, and no baker came
with the rolls. Something had to be done,
so Nicholas issued a manifesto. He
promised reforms, and declared that no Jaw
Avould be binding without the consent of the
Duma, Avhich had been created in August
but had not yet met. For a moment there
Avas a general feeling of satisfaction. Next
day, however, artillery fired on a public
meeting, and for months afterwards the Cos-
sacks Avere busy in putting down disorder.
In December there Avas another general
strike, and this time many of the strikers
were armed. Moscow and many other towns
were fields of battle for a \veek or more.
Nicholas replied with a “reign of terror.”
Punitive expeditions Avere sent to, the dis-
orderly towns, women Were outraged, chil-
dren bayoneted and men killed offhand or
flogged. The gaols • were overflowing, and
private houses were hired as neAv prisons.
Tens of thousands were driven along the
melancholy road to Siberia. One punitive
expedition, led by German officers, laid waste
the whole country along the Moscow-Kazan
line. There was quietness for a time. At
the instigation of the Government an anti-
revolutionary party was formed, called offici-
ally the L T nidn of the Russian People, but
known generally as “The Black Hundred.”
The Czar was a member; the chief officers
were members of the secret police or “reli-
ables,” and the rank-and-file were unscrupu-
lous criminals. This proved a useful adjunct
to the ordinary instruments of terrorism.
Amongst other odd jobs the Black
Hundred, managed the election to the
Duma, which met for the first time
in April, 1906. but in spite of precau-
tions to make the Duma harmless it proved
the means of the Czar’s downfall. The war
had proved to the Russian people, as the Jap
war had done, that the bureaucrats were in-
competent and corrupt. Nicholas appointed
one Prime Minister after another to keep
Russia quiet; but the job was now too big,
and. finally, the mean and ignorant ruler
whose idle word had permitted unspeakable,
injustice and cruelty, and whose settled
policy brought about the subsequent disorga-
nisation and disgrace of Russia, was bumped
quietly off the throne to face the last penalty
on earth.
The Little Ports and Sundries.
A rout a belated ass:—
This is an upside-down land. A deputation button-
holed Navy Minister Poynton last week to suggest,
among other things, that a lot more of our few
imported ships should be taken off the coastal trade
for foreign work. More than half the imported
ships have been taken off already, and that seems
approaching the limit. Something like 5000 miles
of Australia’s coast, also all the coast of Papua and
Papua itself, and Tasmania and some casual islands
can only be reached by sea from the part where
the big cities are, and in this isolated area are two
capitals (Darwin and Port Moresby) and a lot of
sizable towns. It is very easy for deputationists
who live on a railway and tram-line, and next to a
cabstand, to propose cutting out busy little ports
that are already struggling along with one marine
tub per week; but the little ports are the outlets
for five-sixths of the Commonwealth, and they
really amount to something. There was an igno-
rant scoff about "carrying trippers to Cairns,” but
the boat that takes Cairns in its stride humps north-
ward all the flour and manufactured goods and the
mails and machinery and medicine and most of the
coal that a huge stretch of country gets, and drags
back sugar and ores and fruit and meat and many
other things. It takes trippers, of course, likewise
doctors and nurses and policemen and judges; but
trippers are a side-line. The- real economy would
lie, in taking off all the big Sydney harbor ferry-
boats, and altering them a little to fit them for
service on the less-exposed parts of the coast.
Wonderful things can be done with ferry-boats. The
old Balmain company got an offer from Westraliu
for its whole ancient fleet, and only that the marine-
insurance people got in the way it was ready to
deliver the goods. Then a wild deputationist sug-
gested that the consumption of coal should be
reduced 40 per cent. The coal business has reduced
itself to an extent that has greatly enraged the
mining community, and Australia has so few living
industries, apart from politics and borrowing, that
it hesitates to knock another 40 per cent, off one
of its few large, honest devices for earning a crust.
Other Allied countries are toiling night and day to
get out enough coal, but perhaps our trouble is
that our coal-using industries are in England and
elsewhere, thanks to the gang of Foreign-trade
traitors who have run things here so long. Also it
was urged that shipping should be released by making-
more use of the railways. But then three-fourths of
Australia has no railways, and where there are lines
they are crippled for long-service work by having
to unload and reload at the State borders where the
gauge alters; and, besides, the imported rolling-stock
is dying out. The Foreign-traders have been at
work there also. A more impatient Minister than
Poynton might have called the deputation, which
was largely Foreign-traders, a belated ass.
Organisation by Jaw.
Hughes, explaining what he means by
organisation the other day at a London feed,
said :
Organisation is not a formula, doctrine or election-
eering cry, but just the adaptation of.plain business
methods to Britain’s and the Empire’s circumstances
and every industry in it. It is national in scope,
non-party in aspect. ... Its purpose is to equip in-
dustries with up-to-date methods.
Taking this to start with, it is to be
assumed that what the little man is talking
about has a practical side; that in addition
to word-whirling it implies doing something.
Now, there were and still are two industries
in Australia on which the Prime Minister
tried his organising hand. One was ship-
building. What he did in that direction
needs no retelling. The other is the
woollen industry. In no country on
earth have there been such openings for
the organisation of an industry as have stood
ajar in the vicinity of the Australian jum-
buek. The raw material has been available
in mountains. For generations Australia
has suffered crushing losses through failure
to take advantage of almost unlimited
opportunities for creating new wealth by
working up the nation’s wool When
the supply bi* woollen' goods from oversea
began to shrink and the truth about this
industry to stare even the most benighted
importer in the face. Australians' woke up
to find themselves with everything on hand
for getting busy on wool except technical
equipment. Machinery was short, and
Hughes began to organise. The result of it
all was nothing, except groans about “the
insuperable difficulty the Government has
encountered in obtaining machinery in Eng-
land.” These were expanded by Millen and
Hughes and others into specious rigmaroles
about British manufacturers being too busy
making munitions and other things wanted
at the Front to fill orders for wool-working
machines. It sounded dinkum enough,
though why Australia could not proceed to
make the machinery on the premises was
not explained either by Millen or the ver-
bose Hughes. But it turns out not to have
been dinkum. Anyway, according to state-
ments of alleged facts made in the Vic. Leg-
islative Assembly the other day by Deany
the “insuperable difficulties” appear to re-
quire a lot of explanation. Since 191(5
Britain has exported surplus wool-spinning
and textile machinery to the value of over
£.”.500,000. Of tlvis lot Hughes, who is now
blaring in London about organisation, man-
aged to capture £65,000 worth. All the
rest went either to foreign countries or to
India. Japan got machinery worth £447,000.
—Japan, which does not grow wool,
but exports woollen materials to Aus-
tralia, by far the largest wool-growing coun-
try in the world. China got three times more
machinery than Australia, Holland a 50 per
cent, bigger share. Had the Government
been alert or even moderately competent, it
is clear that this revelation of missed oppor-
tunities would not have been possible, and
a great impetus would have been given to
art industry- of enormous value to the Com-
monwealth.
Ba xanaland dairy cockles are consider-
ing the biggest proposition in the co-
operative line that has been put forward in
this country. The object is the combination
of all the dairy factories in the State in one
company. If it is carried out—and it is
quite feasible providing the scheme can get
past local jealousies and “dry” shareholders
—the amalgamation will result in economy
and efficiency fthere is a lot of double-bank-
ing and useless competition between neigh-
boring co-operative factories that can be cut
out), and there will be a wonderful chance
to improve the standard of the industry right
through. Such an amalgamation, with strong
men at the head, will be able to do more
practical improvement in the way of shaking
up or eliminating the dirty and troublesonw
cocky and the incapable butter-maker than
all the Government experts in the North.
Furthermore, the amalgamation will be able
to control the trade and see that the man on
the land gets a fair deal. It is to be hoped,
too, that it will have enough gumption to
realise that it pays to give the consumer an
equally fair deal. The proposition, backed
up by a strong batch of leading factories,
comes on for discussion at a conference to be
held in Brisbane next month. It is a big
chance for the cow people, but a lot of them
were born suspicious. That is the only snag
in the channel.
While wheat has been rotting in the
country dairy-farmers and poultry-keepers
who want winter feed are growling
vigorously because they cannot get enough
bran and pollard. This development de-
serves more official notice than it has
received. One trouble is that the fixed price
of pollard is £1 per ton more than that for
bran. Consequently, the mills have turned
out a greater proportion of pollard than
bran than was the case in the old days of
uncontrolled prices. Hence the quality of a
lot of the alleged pollard that has been shoved
down the beaks of the chooks for the last
year or so. There is also a suggestion that
a lot of this foodstuff has been exported out
of the State to realise more money elsewhere.
Anyhow, having produced apparently the
right conditions, the millers approached
Price-fixing Commissioner Ackerman and
asked for a rise in the prices of bran and
pollard. They didn't get it. Ackerman had
his doubts and decided to have a word with
the manager of the N. S. Wales State Wheat
Office, R. S. Drummond, who was brought
in from the Backblocks to untangle the mess
made of the said Wheat Office by city
“experts.” That bustling individual promptly
got busy and arranged for sundry millers
in Sydney—not the big mills, either—to pro-
vide 300 tons of wheat-meal per Week. This
article is an excellent substitute for bran
as far as cows are concerned, and the State
Wheat Office is selling it to the cow and
hen cocky for Is. 4d. per bushel, which is
calculated to put a sad kink in the alleged
shortage of bran and pollard. In fact it is
odds-on that within a brief period the mill-
ers will find the shortage was not as pro-
nounced as they “feared.”
The Song of the Rain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hark! Ob. hark!
What is it singing, the midnight rain,
Out there in the dark V
’Tis singing the song of the growing grain,
Tin' song of the saltbush on the plain.
And the song of the rose in the park..
Hush ! Oh. hush !
What is it doing, the willing rain,
With its roar and rush?
'Tis washing, the gutters in street and lane,
And stilling the fever and fret and pain
Of the folk of the town and the bush.
Hail! Oh. hail!
Hail to the grace of the saving rain,
As. sped by the gale,
And born of the sun and the grey south main,
Ir sings of beauty and joy and gain
And of drought lying loav in its trail.
Praise ! Oh, praise !
Praise for the gift of the generous rain.
Let us all upraise!
’Tis filling the night with its glad refrain
And soothing the hearts and hopes that wane
With its promise of bountiful days.
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


gd
g
dg
3 on
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
\ \\\ a
DT
.Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office: Comer Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE &, ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager._
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
The Peapes Oilcoat
NON-STICKING LIGHT DURABLE
Made of Black Japara Cotton—closer grained than
calico, better for oiling. Double throughout. Close-
fitting collar with throat tab; weather flap under
buttons. Water-proofed with special non-sticking
preparation. We hold good stock secured under an
old contract; unprocurable now; big advance certain
on future purchases. Send orders early.
Walking shape, vent back .. . . • • 3o /«
Pommel Slicker, fan back .. .. 37/6
Peapes' pay postage. Please state height and chest
measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 31J GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SBi
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s :....... • “Oh, hoy ! ’
{Criterion “Business Before Pleasure^
, Palace “The Masquerader”
Tivoli “Samples”
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s '“Katinka”
'Royal “The Man Who Came Back”
King’s “De Luxe Annie”
Bijou Fuller’s Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli “Time, Please”
Auditorium w Chappell Ballad Concerts
Town Hall “Lest We Forget”
Hoyt's De Luxe & Oi.yau'la Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Picture*
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Three of the Melbourne shows are now
five weeks old, and another is three weeks
older. “Katinka,” at Her Majesty’s, runs
along like an annual panto or a harmless
epidemic. It proceeds unhaltingly even in
the absence of Florence Young, indisposed.
Addie Lennard had been taking Florence’s
part for more than a week last time that
The Bulletin went to assure itself of
“Katinka’s” well-being, and the audience
was the same admiring crowd as aforetime.
Also “De Luxe Annie” still reigns at the
King’s, and the goatee of the ancient Cyrus
•continues to waggle in profile. Annie is
pursued in the advt. column by a shadow
of “The Invisible Foe,*” but the day when
it will overtake her is not yet announced.
# *
At the Royal (Melb.) the end of the sea-
son approaches in it leisurely maimer. Mean-
while “The Man Who Came Back” will find
this turning-point in Chu Chow’s opium-par-
lor until a revival of “Bought and Paid For”
shall come to pass.
A new Camille(Nellie Brantley)is perishing
miserably at the Princess’s (Melb.) this week.
Nellie in the lead isn’t the likeliest Flossie to
east a glamor over an ancient profession. Com-
ipared to the Arm and Duval of George Cross,
who does up his speeches into packets of con r
ifectionery, she might be an aloof young
duchess at one of the rag stores. Cross’s
galaxy of kiss-curls and other radiant
iippointments give an absurd advertisement
'to his position in the play, but all the same
he effectively counterfeits the agony of a
crushed and bleeding heart. De Varville
(Fred Nielson) improves the performance
by his convincing manner of flinging his
brutal opulence in the faces of all parties.
It may be said that the Count was the one
gleam of wealth in the revival of the dusty
classic. Barring a gaudy evening cloak,
Camille appears to have lost the confidence
of fashionable dressmakers; whilst her apart-
ment in Paris is evidently the dump of a
second-hand furniture dealer.
Barry Lupino, Espinosa and Co., not for-
getting the ballet, will carry on the good
work in “Time, Please,” at the Tivoli
(Melb.) until further orders. The retrue has
artistic leanings and humorous moments, and
never encourages the yawn of weariness.
Mabelle Morgan is now conspicuous in the
foreground of the Jazz Band party at the
Bijou (Melb.). Her
expressive tootle
rarely blends with
the riot of her fel-
low conspirators,
but slle has a sub-
stantial presence
which lends a cer-
tain amount of em-
pressement to a
ridiculous enter-
tain men t. The
changes elsewhere
are matters of
smal 1 moment.
O’Keefe and Liv-
ingston are filling
a minor vacancy
with singing that is
occasionally oper-
atic and invari-
ably tuneful. As
for the Stanhope
co., it has been
reinforced by
Dorothy Hastings,
who shows her
feminine colleagues
how to treat music
with proper re-
spect.
“Katinka," at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Addle Lennard under-
studying to Flo Young
as Mrs. Hopper.
The demand for orchestral concert at the
Town Hall (Melb.) last Saturday exceeded
the supply of seats. There have been
stronger lots of instrumentalists on the
same platform, but none under better control
than the orchestra that Verbrugghen so
energetically conducted. Some of his baton
work seemed superfluous, insofar as he was
rather too rapid for his faithful followers,
though the hints of repression, or let-’em-go,
that lie gave with his eloquent left hand
were scrupulously observed, as a rule. Bee-
thoven’s Fifth Symphony was the principal
item. After the first movement it got very
effective treatment. Understood to be Beet's
reminiscences of his fondest love, it is also
a reminder that his feelings were essentially
German, and that his way of concluding
the musical entertainment is now somewhat
old-fashioned. The conclusion lasts a long
time after you have mentally arrived at it.
The Prelude to “Lohengrin” was not so
charmiilgly rendered as it was by Slapoffski s
smaller orchestra at the Princess’s in the
days when Musgrove ran the opera, but the
Introduction to Act 3 was stirringly played,
likewise the march from “Damnation ot
Faust” which closed the proceedings in time
for Verbrugghen to catch the Sydney express.
A bit of Bizet delighted everybody more than
Elgar’s “Dream of Gerontius.” The soulful-
ness of the Dream was only sometimes sug-
gested, whereas it was clear at the outset
that Gerontius didn’t start dreaming imme-
diately, but made little noises like Grumpy
whilst lie was dozing off. Taken altogether,
however, the concert was a treat. Such
things elevate where they do not inebriate.
Unfortunately there is a class of person who
gets drunk on them.
The management of the Chappell Ballad
Concerts, at the Auditorium (Melb.), takes
pride in the announcement that Stella Power
is to sing there next Saturday. The fact
that prices are only 2s. 2d. and Is. Id. is
expected to appeal to bargain-hunters.
The Hoyt ver-
sion of Henry
Arthur Jones’s
“Mrs. Dane’s De-
fence” at the De
Luxe (Melb.)
leaves something
of Henry Arthur
to be desired. Yet
Pauline Frederick
is very like a
gift in the prin-
cipal role, and
realises the char-
acter as far as
photography will
allow her. Jack
Pickford is Pau-
line’s current
partner on the
Bourke - street
screen. He shines
for extended in-
tervals in a spy-
choked drama,
“The Spirit of
’17.” At the new
Lyceum Pauline
Frederick repeats
li e r “Defence”
each evening this
week, whilst
George Walsh, a-
new comedian
reminiscent of
“The Masquerader ,”
at Sydney Palace.
Brock (Lionel Bel-
more) appeals to Mr.
Loder.
Douglas Fairbanks, drops in for some extra
exertion in “This is the Life.”
Presumably as a challenge to the Hoyt
production of “Les Misbrables,” the
Britannia (Melb.) is reviving the original
Pathe idea of the same story, somewhat re-
vised and reshaped since it was screened in
Melbourne four years' ago. Henri Kraus is
the Jean Valjean of the Paths version, and
he ticks oil: the characteristics of Jean with
an art that is Frenchily forceful all through.
“To-day,” George Broadhurst’s play in cellu-
loid form, has been confined for the short
term of its unnatural life at the Melba.
Florence Reed and Frank Mills are the prin-
cipals, and have caused a rise in the cash-box
takings.
“Lest We Forget,” the film-picture which
shows the reasons why Uncle Sam went to
war and gives the world another lesson in
forcible American propaganda, is coming to
the Town Hall (Melb.) next Saturday
(August 3) for a five-nights’ season. The
big picture is said to be as good as its
title. Incidental to the musical accompani-
ment of “Lest We Forget” will be three
songs, and Irma Caron will sing them.
“Romance” is not quite new to Australia,
but Kathlene Mac-donell, in the leading part,
is. Her performance of it at the Royal
(Adelaide) marks her a great artist. She
is the spoiled, fiery-tempered. easy-moralled,
lovable opera-singer of the last century to
the life. Waldron scores alike as the old
bishop of prologue and epilogue and as the
earnest young parson of the story. (It is
the first play that Adelaide has seen which
goes back on its tracks in the modern
fashion.) The piece owes something to
“Milestones” and to “The Christian.” It
has just one grave fault —a man-of-honor
and man-of-the-world of that era would
never have allowed his best friend to con-
template marriage with the lady he himself
had just finished with. But Redgrave plays
the part finely. Business is very big. On
another plane is the Andersoniau melo-
drama, "The French Spy,” well played, at
the Tivoli; on yet
another is “Izzy in
Honolulu” at the
Majestic, giving
Gus Franks a
chance to be really
funny (in the
more obvious ways)
in picturesque set-
ting : also at this
house Ted McLean
and Miss Lee do
some good comedy
work in one-act
plays. Edward
Goll, at the Queen’s
Hall, was unusu-
ally successful. He
has all the bag of
tricks that the
public has been
taught to expect
from a musician;
added to which lie
plays the piano so
very well that Gen-
eral Desire arose
and demanded one
"The Masquerader,"
at Sydney Palace.
Gregan McMahon as
Mr. Lakely.
concert more than Goll had planned.
Adelaide pictures are well varied. Won-
dergraph announces its intention to screen
only cheerful subjects; and Douglas Fair-
banks carries his athletic stunts into a
setting of Grand Canyon precipices. At
West’s, the old tragedy “The Deemster” has
its thrills helped by fine acting and the
romantic Isle of Man scenery. At the Pay.
an O. Henry story goes as well as anything.
And the picture-palaces that screen the
Australian soldiers on American soil get
enthusiasm that is good to hear.
“Oh, Boy!” wears well at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), and Grade Lavers, the Firm’s
latest discovery, is now quite daintily at
home as the small soprano bride who aspires
in song to he an old-fashioned wife, if only
bridegroom George will get out of the habit
of having 20 ladies to supper. Field Fisher,
who plays the sour, suspicious man-servant
Briggs, really should do a “Masquerader”
burlesque of faithful old dog Brock who tries
to keep Chiicote straight. Alfred Frith in
a dressing-gown could make a howling suc-
cess of the distinguished drug-fiend who dies
in cheap lodgings.
“The Masquerader,” still at the Palace
(Sydney )j. is to become a mere pleasant
theatrical memory after the performance of
Saturday, August 10. Any playgoer who
has not yet seen it is once more warned that
it is too good to miss. “The Nigger” is due
on Monday, August 12.
At the Cri. (Sydney) : Exit “The Thir-
teenth Chair”; enter (on Saturday), “Busi-
ness and Pleasure.” As Saturday is the
Hebrew Sabbath and the new arrival a full-
blooded Yid, the week begins well.
At the Opera House Allan Wilkie is still
fighting his way through disillusioned friend-
ship, a midnight wedding, bursting shells,
imprisonment and duels which are linked
together in “The Story of the Rosary.” On
Saturday night lie starts out on “Seven
Days’ Leave.”
“Bits and Pieces” ends its run at Sydney
Tivoli on Friday. “Samples,” a far brighter
show, comes back on Saturday.
Because the Kaiser didn’t look under the
bed for a movie camera-fiend, all his private
life is being exposed in seven reels at the
Royal (Sydney) under the title, “The
Kaiser, the Beast of Berlin.” The film is
understood to make all patriots glow with
indignation! a very pleasant sensation at
this time of year. The show goes on all day.
At Hoyt’s and the Haymarket beautiful
Pauline Frederick is trying to run straight
for the matrimonial stakes, but is handi-
capped by the ghost of an indiscreet past.
“Mrs. Dane's Defence” is the play, a film-
version of Henry Arthur Jones’s indictment
of scandalmongering. The Empress feature,
“Who is to Blame?” has a .Tapanese-
American setting, and a Japanese “star” to
re-knit the tangled skeins of his benefactor’s
wedding vows till they resemble the original
true-lover’s knot design. The scenes laid in
Japan are particularly charming. At the
Crystal Palace Norma Talmadgc tries a two
years’ marriage lease, but by the end of that
time she finds that she is married to the
right man after all, and becomes his very
own through love and not just by right of
purchase. The Lyceum is showing “A
Daughter of France,” and old favorite Mabel
Normand provides the quicksilver for the
Strand in “Dodging a Million.”
Despite his name, Major-General C. Rosen-
thal, one of the six distinguished leaders of
the A.1.F., has no Jewish blood in his veins.
Both he and his parents are members of the
Anglican Church.
“Maintop”: There is much talk about
building staunch and tight ships in Aus-
tralia, but I’m not so sure. An Australian-
built craft which waddled into a Northern
port the other day had taken about two
years to build. The first time she put
her nose out of port it was found that she
was taking in water badly, so she had to
return and be docked. Then it was discov-
ered that a grave omission in her construc-
tion had been overlooked, namely, no
brackets were supporting the propelling
machinery; alsp the imported engines had
been insecurely affixed to their bedplates;
hence, when they were started, the vessel
vibrated to such an extent that she opened
up in the seams. She was ultimately re-
paired, and again put to sea: but her machin-
ery jibbed or couldn't be worked. She stum-
bled back to harbor about a week ago, and
the sea doctors are still worrying over her.
It is now believed that the propeller-shafting
is not in plumb. All the cargo (it is urgently
needed Somewhere) is to be discharged, and
the crew are enjoying shore-leave at some-
body else’s expense.
Gaud Mayor Joyful Smith, of Sydney,
spoke liis usual cheery piece about the next
£40,000,000 war loan and told the population
for the eighteenth time that the estimated
wealth of Australia is eighteen hundred mil-
lions, and there is abundance of margin to
work upon. So there is in a sense, but when
the State Governments think it neces-
sary to -float and spend about £20,000,000 of
purely peace loans per annum to prevent
that £1,800,000,000 of wealth from slumping
to a much smaller paper value, it suggests
that the giant is shaky on the feet. There
is surely some suspicion attached to great
wealth that says it can’t pay for its own
board and lodging.
“Good Australian”: According to the
American petroleum authorities Germany
ran short of oil, grease and petrol just be-
fore Rpumania was attacked. The Kaiser’s
order was, “Drive east for oil,” and the
Germans pushed through the oilfields of
Galicia and Roumania, which were chiefly
owned by American and English companies.
They found the oilfields wrecked wastes,
devastated by their owners. Upon these
ruins they swooped down and drilled and
rebuilt. The Galician oil-wells gave them
a fresh supply and enabled them to conquer
Russia and strike heavily on the Western
front. To block the advantage the Rouma-
nian and British Governments sent Sir
John Norton Griffiths. M.P., to direct the
work of destroying the oilfields. So well
was the work done with fire, dynamite and
nitro-glycerine that the wells, refineries,
workshops, tanks, machinery and stocks of
oil were completely wiped out. The Stand-
ard Oil Co. lost heavily, and the British and
Roumanian Governments are now paying-
compensation. Two oilfields last year yielded
114 million barrels of oil to the Germans,
or about half their former production. The
question the petroleum people are asking is,
“Will Germany have enough oil to see the
war through?” It’s doubtful, unless the
I Inns get complete control of the Russian
fields of Baku and Maikop. These would
give them nearly 70 million barrels of oil a
year, besides the vast stocks stored in the
Black Sea region. Driven to extremities
the Bodies have been using substitute fuels,
the favorite being a mixture of alcohol and
benzol, the latter distilled from coal-tar.
Concerning a worker in the Hunyard:
A man who dropped out too soon was Maximilian
Ilirscli, once of Victoria. He was the best-known
of all the German commercial agents in this Country.
Max ran u shop of some sort, also a rabid Freetrade
newspaper and a Jfreetrade league, and he delivered
Freetrade lectures and published a book, “The Fiscal
Superstition,” Mho subsidised all these activities,
for they certainly didn’t pay for themselves,
was never publicly mentioned. The pushing German
had a special stunt. He knew the horrors of Pro-
tection through living in Germany; he knew that
it had ruined Germany despite all garbled statistics
to the contrary; and with tears of theory running
down his countenance of hard practice, he implored
Australia to be free (and keep its ports free to the
protected goods of the land that Hirsch loved). He
was stationed in Victoria naturally, for that State
showed the strongest signs of leading a revolt
against the domination of the arrogant foreign im-
porter, and it was his business to kill the germ of
Australian self-reliance at the fountain-head, so to
speak. The statistics of this person were wonderful
samples of effrontery; he was capable of quoting
the very page of some Well-known work as authority
for his joyous imaginings, in the blessed faith that
Australians lacked the exact mind that come by
Prussian “kultur” and would never verify his
yarns. In which respect he wasn’t far wrong. Maxi-
milian was cordially patronised by the Freetrade
gang, and hut for his monumental arrogance he
might have iprogressed better.


INCREDIBLE ENERGY.
BILLY HUGHES : “And do I understand, sir, that you actually built this ship?”


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Dead
Corroding: Lead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
Registered
BUYERS ON A SPECIALITY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade?
etc v containing silver or lead
Dead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Brand.
J3HAS,
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsoniie
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Sydney and Suburban
Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting
Ropes and other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipe*. Valves, Tubing and
High-pressure Stocks generally. Best Workmanship r.nd material.
Quotations supplied.
A. MAYNE HERON, Manager.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Metropolitan Gas Co. (Melbourne) :
Works Written
Charged Off
Divi- to Re- Stocks, Re-
Profits. dends. venue. etc. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
(10p.c.)
|Dec., ’lO.. 93,701 42,860 18,809 .13,052 576,880
dune, ’ll.. 97,255 42,860 21,333 26,855 583,087
Dec., ’ll.. 105,170 42,860 28,223 27,563 589,611
(.11 p.c.)
June, ’12.. 109.437 47,147 28,923 27,627 595,351
(.12 p.c.)
Dec., ’12.. 92,231 51,433 30,289 8,066 597,794
(13 p.c.)
June, ’13.. 100,121 55,719 25,228 7,500 009,468
Dec., '13.. 111,473 55,719 29,664 8,940 026,618
June. ’14.. 94,798 55,719 34,088 5,607 620,002
Premiums on new shares, £47,210 .. 673,212
Plant, written down, £63,336 .. 609,876
Dec., ’14.. 114,703 58,969 40,897 7,872 010,841
Plant written down, £8,812. . .. 002„029
June, ’15.. 104,344 58,969 39,799 4,862 002,743
Premiums on new shares, £44,585 .. 647,328
Dec., ’15.. 110,675 02,219 28,574 7,488 659,722
June, ’16.. 97.280 02.219 23,146 10,242 661,395
Dec., ’16.. 103,535 62,219 28,908 7,371 666,432
June, ’17.. 95,256 62,219 13,806 13,838 671,765
Dec., ’17.. 86,026 62,219 19,404 7,301 668,867
June, ’lB.. 98,169 62,219 21,287 9,268 674,262
The reserves of £674,262 are made up of: —
Premiums on shares .. £558,330
General reserves.. .. 37,943
Meter renewal fund .. 5,723
Unappropriated profit . . 72,266
Besides these visible reserves there are also
extensive internal reserves, which have been
built up by paying for new works out of
revenue. During the past 10 years no less
than £527,2G9 of profits has been thus laid
out. Some of it has gone towards paying
for replacements, but most of it has been
expended.on adding to the revenue-earning
capacity of the co. The effect of this policy
has been to increase the proportion of
revenue compared with capital outlay:—
, , 1908. ‘ 1918.
Total outlay charged to capital £2,149,842 £2,472,540
Half-year’s revenue .. . . 228,037 488,734
Revenue p.c. of capital outlay.. 10.6 19.7
From these figures it will be seen that while
shareholders have put up only £322,698
towards the extension of works during 10
years the revenue per half-year has in-
creased by over £260,000. From the con-
sumer’s point of view it all boils down to
this: During 10 years they have provided
dividends for shareholders ranging between
10 p.c. and 13 p.c. p.a. (the latter rate con-
sistently during practically the whole of the
past five years) ; they have added over £20,000
to the co.’s visible reserves; and they have
provided over half a million (while share-
holders have put up only £822,698) towards
extending the works. Particularly in the
case of a co. with a monopoly of a public
utility, such figures call tenders for trouble.
The gas cos. in N. S. Wales and Queensland
have had their wings clipped and are work-
ing under Government regulation. The
affairs of the Metropolitan Gas Co. are very
much in the limelight just at present, due
to an inquiry as to whether the co. is supply-
ing gas up to the standard required by the
co.’s special Act of 1878. and only the
other day the question of State control was
again ventilated in the Vic. Assembly. The
old Act is alleged to be practically worthless
so far as the protection of the public is con-
cerned ; and in the near future it seems
likely that the Government will be called upon
to regulate the gas cos. throughout the
State. And while the Government is deal-
ing with the quality of gas it is almost
certain that the question of prices and pro-
fits will not be overlooked.
The substantial amounts written off for
repairs, maintenance and renewals are not
shown in the first table. The allowances made
in recent June half-years have been :
1914. 1915. 1916. 1917. 1918.
£57,333 £60,011 £62,063 £77,475 £87,961
Those figures, which include the cost of
materials and labor, show a considerable
increase during the past two years. Here
are the principal figures in the revenue
account,: —
Receipts.
1900. 1907. 1917. 1918.
Gas sales.. . .£129,290 £168,142 £352,997 £372,759
Coke . . . . 17,720 22,763 49,826 50,996
Tar etc 6,866 12,120 31,209 25,651
Sulphate ammonia 2,535 5,932 17,327 39,323
Expenditure.
Coal .. ■ .. 37,729 54,814 145,916 163,255
Other manufactur-
ing expenses.. 21,324 33,885 83,946 92,477
Distribution .. 11,89) 18,042 45,440 48,532
Management . . 8,150 10,203 23,162 24,632
Patriotic funds, etc. —•— 6,863 6,240
Rent and taxes. . 2,385 6,540 16,465 22,553
There have been large increases in the cost
of production. Ten years ago of every £lOO
of gross revenue about £27 10s. was paid
for cdal. A year ago coal ran away with
£32 of every £lOO of revenue, and during
the last half-year there was a further in-
crease of about £1 Bs. p.c. Since 1900, rev-
enue has more than trebled; but in the same
time expenses have increased 4& times. A
satisfactory feature nowadays is the in-
creased income received from by-products.
This shows how the various products have
contributed to revenue :
1900. 1907. 1917. 1918.
Gas.. .. .. S 3 p.c. SO p.c. 78 p.c. 76 p.c.
Coke . . .. 11 „ 11 „ 11 „ 11 „
Tar, etc. .. .. 4 „ 6 „ 7 „ 5 „
Sulphate ammonia 2 „ 3 „ 4,, 8 „
Paid up capital is £957,210 in 191.442
shares of £5 each, and the co. has issued
debentures totalling £957,000, most of it at
4 p.c. There are also share premiums
amounting to £558,330. Include this with
the paid-up capital, and the present 13 p.c.
dividend is actually at the rate of slightly
under 81 p.c. p.a.
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat,
Vic.) ,
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
Dee., 1910.. £4176 74 p.c. = £3187 £989 £78,646
June, 1911.. 4276 74 „ „ 3187 1089 79,735
Dec., 1911.. 4356 74 ~ ~ 3187 1169 50,904
June, 1912.. 4395 7) ~ „ 3187 1208 82,112
Dec., 1912.. 4481 8 ~ „ 3400 1081 83,193
June, 1913.. 4449 8 ~ ~ 3400 1049 84,242
Dec., 1913.. 4480 S „ „ 3400 1080 85,322
June, 1914.. 4514 8 ~ „ 3400 1114 86,436
Dec., 1914.. 4534 8 „ „ 3400 1134 87,570
June, 1915.. 4566 8 ~ „ 3400 1166 88,730
Dec., 1915.. 4581 9 „ „ 3825 756 89,492
June, 1916.. 4611 9 „ „ 3525 780 90,278
Dec., 1916.. 4633 9 „ „ 3825 808 91,086
June, 1917.. 4078 9 „ „ 3825 853 91.939
Dec., 1917.. 5238 10 „ „ 4250 988 92,927
June, 1918.. 5267 10 „ „ 4250 1017 93,944
While some of the big fellows are' amalga-
rnatihg their millions this little one contin-
ues to lead a quiet, uneventful life as the
only bank in the Commonwealth with its
headquarters outside a capital city. Pro-
bably some day one of the big banks will
come along and swallow it. A few of the
shareholders were agitating for its absorp-
tion a couple of years ago, but nothing came
of the movement except, perhaps, that the
dividend was raised, first to 9 p.c., and for
the past year to TO p.c. Looking back over
20 years the progress has been very slow :
1898. 1908. 1918.
Capital and reserves .. £143,548 £161,910 £183,194
Liabilities .. .. 214,113 243,425 250,262
Liquid assets .. .. 69,836 85,560 98,200
Advances .. .. 278,553 315,400 332,756
Premises .. .. 9,272 4,375 2,500
Seeing that the bank holds only £1 7s. of the
public’s money for every £1 of its own
funds, and considering the fact that almost
49 p.c. of its total liabilities is held liquid,
handsome returns are out of the question.
The increased disclosed earnings for the past
year (£10,500) are equal to only £5 14s.
on the bank’s funds; while the shareholders’
10 p.c. dividend is equivalent to just over
5 p.c. of the money they have in the business.
Of course, a little bank like this, with its
interests practically confined to one dis-
trict, cannot take anything like the same
risks as the big institution with branches
scattered over half a continent. Moreover,
when several of the big fellows are compet-
ing for business in the same field as the
little fellow, the latter is not likely to grow
unduly fat.
*v* * *
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Profi'ts. Dividends, serves, serves.
Dec., 1910.. £5659 7 p.c. = £.3150 £2509 £41,919
June, 1911.. 5416 9 „ „ 4050 1366 43,285
Dec., 1911.. 5742 7 „ „ 3150 2592 45,877
June, 1912.. 5015 7 „ „ 3150 1865 47,742
Dec., 1912.. 6366 9 „„ 4050 2316 50,058
June, 1913.. 5485 7 „ 3150 2335 52,393
Dec.. 1913.. 5959 S „ „ 3600 2359 54,752
Written off premises, £2500 .. 52,252
June, 1914.. 9738 10 p.c. = 4500 5238 57,490
Written off premises, £5OOO .. 52,490
Dec., 1914.. 6282 8 p.c. = 3600 2682 55,172
Written off premises, £2500 .. 52,672
June, 1915.. 5073 8 p.c. 3600 1473 54,145
Dec., 1915.. 6375 10 „„ 4500 1875 56,020
June, 1916.. 5015 8 ~,, 3600 1415 57,435
Dec., 1916.. 5503 8 ~ ~ 3600 1903 59,338
June, 1917.. 5759 12 ~ ~ 5400 359 59,697
Dec., 1917.. 7272 10 „ „ 4500 2772 62,469
June, 1918.. 7178 10 .... 4500 2678 65,147
Another view of the progress this trustee co.
has made is shown in this comparison :—-
Inter-
com- est on
Half-year Trusts missions, invest-
to June, administered. Rent, etc. ments. Expenses.
1900 ~ £6,329,656 £9,175 £598 £5,023
1905 , . 7,787,043 9,019 , 700 5,685
1910 .. 9,013,807 10,707 1108 6,820
1915 . . 10,936,858 12,231 1845 8,902
1916 ~ 11,674,063 13,555 1967 10,456
1917 . , 12,079,267 17,407 1935 11,791
1918 .. 12,503,845 17,247- 2129 12,074
Commissions, etc., are shown (1) after re-
serving a proportion of the earnings on
estates still under administration, and (2)
after providing for contingencies. Hence
the amount of profit disclosed for each half-
year is entirely dependent upon how the
management treats the earnings for that par-
ticular term. Expenses, however, continue
to increase, not the least contributory cause
being the heavy work thrust upon trustee
cos. in the matter of handling varied and
complex taxation problems.
A trustee co. lias to be considered from
two points of view: the clients’ and the
shareholders'. So far as the Trustees. Exe-
cutors and Agency Co. is concerned, the
client has the satisfaction of knowing that,
besides having a staff of specialists to handle
his estate, in ease of any trouble the co. has
a large paid-tip capital—£9o,ooo, and there
is a further £OO.OOO that can be called up.
Besides that, £65,147 of reserves have been
accumulated. But the chances of a solid,
long-experienced co. like this meeting with
serious trouble are very remote. Above
everything, the client knows that at his
death the co. can be trusted to go on hand-
ling his affairs as efficiently as during his
life-time, for though some of the officers
might drop out there are other men probably
quite as capable to take their places. From
' the shareholders’ point of view, their funds
are well placed. Except for £29,149 in
mortgages and £30.000 of well-written-down
premises, the remainder of the £139.047 of
assets are in public securities and cash. The
business is growing nicely, and there is a
comfortable margin between profits and the
10 p.c. dividend. The public’s faith in the
management is shown by the 121 millions
it holds. During the 40 vears the co. has
been in existence it has‘had the handling of
over £30.000,000 of trust funds.
* * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria
from the time capital was reduced to £58,308
by the return of 12s. per share:—
Profit Profit on
on Property Total Dividend. Re-
Business. Sales. Profit. (6 p.c.) serves.
Dec., 1912..'£1868 £3O £lB9B £1,749 £39,349
Loss. (8 p c.)
June, 1913.. 2347 10 2337 2,332 39,354
Profit. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1913.. 2704 187 2891 2,079 39,566
June, 1914.. 2560 137 2697 2,679 39,584
Loss. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1914.. 2668 85 2583 2,679 39,488
June, 1915.. 2473 164 2309 2,679 39,118
' (6 p.c.)
Dec., 1915.. 2507 10 2497 2,296 39.319
June, 1916.. 2282 2282 2,296 39,305
Profit. (7 p.c.)
Dec., 1916.. 2907 195 3102 2678 39,729
June, ;917.. 2714 83 2797 2678 39,848
„ (8 p.c.)
Dec., 191 (.. 2891 241 3132 3061 39,919
June, 1918.. 2983 2983 3061 39,841
In the bad old boom days the Land Mort-
gage Bank was handing out dividends rang-
ing between 8 and 124 p.c. p.a. on a paid
capital of £250,000. Its nominal capital was
a million and a quarter, and it had issued
almost a million of debentures. After the
bubble burst in ’93 the management found
a great gap between the values or the
properties thrown on its hands and the
advances it had made on them. The rest is
a sad story of how shareholders, unable to
pay calls, had to forfeit their shares (104,230
shares dropped out this way), and of a long
cheerless period of unloading properties to
repay debenture-holders. Of the £3 10s.
paid up on the live shares no less than
£2 10s. was written off. and properties were
written, down to correspond. Further, for-
feited capital was also written off and an
equal amount of assets disappeared. As
conditions improved, some of the properties
realised more than their written-down book
values. But the old Land Mortgage share-
holders are not much interested nowadays,
for some time ago the Freeholds Assets Co..
which itself was attending to the wreck of
the old _ Freehold Investment and Banking
Co. of Vic., bought most of the shares. The
last of the properties was sold in 1914, so
there is now practically nothing to be done
hut collect the balance of the purchase money.
This shows how the balance-sheet figures arc
moving:—
7, June,’l4. June,’l7. June,’lB.
Mortgages ~ .. £27,443 £30,211 £26,001
Balances owing .. 44,998 21,856 21 5H
Properties .. .. 55 . 1_
Cash, debentures, etc.. 46,542 67,384 72,321
Total assets . . £119,038 £319.451 £119,833
Liabilities .. .. 30 30 30
Net assets .. £119,008 £119,421 £119,803
Paid-up capital is £76,529 (145,770 shares
of 10s. 6d. each). If the assets are worth
every penny shown in the books, there is
thus about 16s. of assets to represent each
share.
New Britain Corporation. Ltd.—This
Sydney co., formed 10 years ago, holds an
option over 1250 acres of what used to be
portion of Wilhelm’s Pacific possessions.
The option was never exercised, although
planting was started in 1910 ; and the directors
reported last year that the -land could not be
finally acquired “until the British Adminis-
tration permit it, and may not be during
the currency of the war.” Now they
announce that the question of title is to be
dealt with by the Eabaul Land Court. To
the end of last year 726 acres had been
planted (56 during the 12 months) ; but the
labor force went to pieces: there were 106
at the beginning of the year and only 55 at
the close. Labor is a difficult problem, but
the co. hopes soon to be able to almost
double its team. The copra yield last year
was 10 tons, of which 12 tons were shipped
to Sydney and realised f26T.net. Author-
ised capital is £25,000, of “which 16,000 £1
shares have been subscribed. Calls amount-
ing to £173 are outstanding, so paid-up
capital is £15,827. In addition, £lOOO was
got in as premiums on shares. The co.
has also issued £2OOO of debentures, is lean-
ing on the bank for £2Oll, and owes sundry
creditors £669. Development so far has
run away with £19,839, and there are more
or less liquid assets totalling £1607. This
year the co. reckons to lay out a further
£2300 and earn about £lOOO, showing a
deficit of about £l3OO on the year’s opera-
tions.
* * * *
Makottant’s Ltd., soft-drink manufac-
turers (Sydney). The deficit of £5032 with
which the co. began was made up of good-
will, £5300, and preliminary exes., £332: —
Net Profits. Dividends. To Reserves. Deficit.
Mav, V 5,032
1911. . £7009 10 p.c. =£3Bol £3,818 1,814
Reserves.
1912.. 5975 10 „„ 3851 2,124 310
1913.. 0232 10 „„ 3851 2.381 2,691
1914.. 7815 10 „„ 3851 3,904 0,655
Assets revalued and written up, £11,444 18,099
1915.. 7237 10 p.c. = 3851, 3,380 21,485
Transferred to capita], £21,393. . .. 92
1910.. 5809 7 p.c. = 4193 1,070 1,768
1917.. 5979 7 „„ 4193 1,780 3,504
1918.. 4254 7 „„ 4193 01 3,015
Profits now are not so good as they used to
be, due, no doubt, to increased costs. Mar-
chant’s is not a talkative co., and profits are
always shown after providing for deprecia-
tion. Whether more than fair allowance
has been made The Bulletin has no means
of ascertaining, but profits have been suffici-
ently handsome in the past to tempt the
directors into dropping a little extra into
this stocking. In the first four years the
co. showed net profits equal to about 72
p.c. of its paid-up capital of £38,507, and a
10 p.c. dividend was handed out to share-
holders each year. In 1914 the directors
w T ere reserving out of net profits an amount
greater than the 10 p.c. dividend absorbed,
and they apparently decided that, while a
dividend in excess of that rate would not
look well, there was nothing to be gained
by bottling up so much surplus profit. So
assets were revalued and written,-up £11,444
and reserves increased to correspond. Then
this amount, together with £9949 of accumu-
lated profits, was transferred to capital, mak-
ing it £59,900. So the present 7 p.c. dividend is
actually at the rate of almost 11 p.c. p.a. on the
money originally put up by shareholders.
Five.,years' ago the co. owed £2909 and had
£11,549 in stock and £7007 of cash. At the
end of May this year £OO7 was due to sun-
dry creditors, while on the other side stocks
were valued at £19,703 and there was £8697
of'cash, etc. Other assets are: freeholds,
£27,908; plant, etc., £9177: and vehicles,
horses and odds and ends, £2711.
“Sol. M.“ : Speaking with insufficient in-
formation. for the latest complete returns I
know of are for the year 1910, 1 don’t think
the Australian manufacturer is on much of
a wicket. Consider these figures :
1913. 1910. Decrease.
Factories .. 15,530 15,010 526
Employees .. 337,101 316,917 20,184
Increase.
Material used. . £90,407,477 £105,180,445 £8,772,968
Value added .. 65,153,280 07,394,400 -2,241,114
Output .. 101,560,763 172,574,845 11,014.082
Fuel and light 3,240,901 3,383,598 142,697
Plant (value) . . 37,256,958 43,895,591 0,638,633
Wages . . . . 33,606,087; 33,828;,840 222,753
The Australian worker gets the increased
wages—such as they are. He gets most of
the fuel and light money, for gas isn’t im-
ported as yet. and the increase there isn't
much. He profits a Tittle by the stupendous
increase in the cost of material, but not
much, for the raw" material, which has gone
up out of sight in price, is not made
here but imported. The employee hasn’t
profited much b.v the immense sums
spent on new plant, for plant is mostly im-
ported. The employer, on the other hand,
benefited in theory to the extent of £2.241,114
extra "value added in process of manufac-
ture.'’ but that was less additional wages
(£222,753) ; additional cost of fuel and light
(£142,097) : additions to plant, for things
went so curiously with him that it required
£6,638,033 more plant to produce £2,241.114
more gross profit (£6,638,033 for extra plant
spread over three years means roughly
£2,212,000 per year). Then there were
amounts not specified for depreciation of old
plant (at 24 p.c. it would be about £1,000.000
a year), interest, discount, taxes (greatly in-
creased of late), bad debts, repairs to build-
ings, etc.
The inference seems to be that, so far as
these three years were concerned, the em-
ployee was better off on the wages, fuel and
light, and perhaps—only perhaps—on the
local raw material items: but not so much
better that the result was worth getting in-
toxicated about. The employer was a great
deal worse off in cash, but a little better off


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MOS 2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
05 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
THE MUTUAL LIFE and
CITIZENS’
ASSCE. CO. LTD.
HAS AN
EMPLOYERS*
INDEMNITY Policy
that meets exactly your requirements
under Workmen’s Compensation Acts.
Every engineer should be a subscriber to the
General Electric Review. It is a monthly maga-
zine, containing descriptions of the latest develop-
meifts and practical applications of electricity in
every sphere. No library is complete without it,
as the contents are original, instructive and complete
in every detail, being contributed by the leading-
engineers of the world. The subscription is only
ten shillings (10/-) per year, so subscribe now or
write-to the Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney, for a sample copy.— Advt.
* * * *
Efficiency is the watchword of the undertaker.
He never has to do the same job more than once.
Likewise, the man who roofs with “Adamax
Asphaltum Rooting furnishes his building with a pro-
tective and permanent roof needing- no further
attention once it has been laid. “Adamax is
termed the “efficient” roofing—being practically
indestructible by fire, rain or chemical action. It
is the economical roofing because of its low cost
and low freight charges. “Adamax” compared with
galvanised-iron reduces these costs by approximately
one-third. William Adams & Co. Ltd., 175 ( larence
Street, Sydney; also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Bris-
bane and Perth. — Advt.
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America. — Advt. [1
* ♦ * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe .provides the most economical
and efficient means of carrying water over your land.
In first cost, freight charges and labor for laying,
money is saved. Made in all sizes from two inches
upwards. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd., 11.0. Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. address: Box
1576 G.P.0.. Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove,
N.S.W. ; Footserav, Vic. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A.
Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON. Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
* * * #
Have You ax Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. — Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Urimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
“National” English-made petrol and oil horizontal
engines, immediate delivery from Sydney at prices
below pre-war rates: Petrol engines, If h.p., £5O.
3 h.p., £O5. Oil engines: 31 h.p., £75. 4| h.p.,
£B5. Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Head Office,
Sydney.- -Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collisok k Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty rears' practice. Write
us for Inventors' Guide.— Advt.
*’* * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth's & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles. Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces. Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby k Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tkc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,291
ncome (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. K. CAVK,
263 '
General Manager,
George Street. Sydney.
When making a Will or Settlement
appoint The
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C. ; Hon. 11. Y. Sraddox,
M.L.C.; F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd ; W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, and
Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. Watson,
Assistant Manager.
J. Mair,
Manager.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
in the tact that lie had more plane uu hand
which may yield handsome profits in the
future if nothing goes wrong. On summing
up it seems that the foreign supplier of
material and plant and the foreign shipowner
have got everything (less sinkages and war
breakages on land). Practically all our
manufactures depend to a great extent on
foreign “raw” material (the finished material
of one industry being often the raw material
of another), 'and some of them depend
entirely on foreign materials and merely em-
ploy Australian labor to put them together.
Thanks to the silly and iniquitous Foreign-
trade policy, our factories (at least factories
that we rely upon and pay to support though
we don’t get the profits) are being bombarded
at our expense in France and Belgium, when
they ought to be here out of the tire-zone.
And our ships (that is to say, the ships we
pay to support, though the profits are not
ours) loaded with our every-day necessaries,
most of which shouldn’t be wandering round
on the ocean at all, are being sunk at our
charge. Naturally we are having a great
time.
* * * *
What, is vaguely described as “wealth” is,
at the last resort, just the price that any-
thing will fetch, whether it he a house or an
incriminating document, or a racehorse, or
a dark secret, or the Bank of N. S. Wales,
or the goodwill t>f a dilapidated pub. Thus
there are 50 leading companies belonging to
N. S. Wales which have lived through the
war. At June, 1914, their value on the
Stock Exchange was £40,134,300. At June,
1918, it was £32,700,000. Small weak con-
cerns have died, but these 50 landmarks
survive only witli a vanishment of over
£7,000,000, equal to the disappearance of
seven millionaires—though we haven’t any-
thing like that number in Australia —with all
their assets.
* * * *
The White Crystal, Ardlethan (N.S.W.),
has been reconstructed, but not without a
growl or two from shareholders. And there
does not seem to he much sense in swinging
one eo. with 120.000 shares of 225. (id. each
into oblivion, only to splash out into a eo,
of 150,000 10s. shares paid up to Is., unless
something substantial is to be gained. Of
course, whereas the old co. had only Is. Gd. to
call up the new one will have 9s. available
for capital requirements. As a share-for-
share allotment is to be made, 30.000 shares
will go to reserve. Some people are count-
ing up the divs. in sight because a late
crushing went at the rate of £lO per
ton. However, all this is premature,
for work at the mine at 160 ft. tells
the old, old story of the erratic nature
of shoots of tin ore in a granite
matrix, and stresses tiie need to open up not
only the 90ft. shoot at Crosby’s Hill, but of
developing any of the other lenses of ore on
both the old claim and on Stackpoole’s
lease. In the Crosby’s Hill shoot so far as
exposed J. M. Potter sees 7000 tons of ore
with tin contents of £12,000 ; hut when costs
have been paid there can’t lie much left to
spread divs. over 120,000 shares. But a lot
more than forecasts and hopes based on
limited yields are needed. Anyway ( it’s
cheerful to know that there are no forfeited
shares in hand, and that in due course
reconstruction will see the new co. on the
stocks. Once there, the show should be
listed to let scrip stand or fall on its merits
in a free market. A proper balance-sheet
then may see the light, instead of the Bal-
larat-fashioned statement of receipts and
expenditure.
Ardlethan (N.S.W.) produced tin oxide
valued at £40,000 during the first half of
this year. This represents approximately
200 tons concentrates, carrying over 70 p.c.
metallic tin. Bygoo, which is part of the
extensive field, contributed £lO,OOO. and allu-
vial tin also helped the score. Tributors at
Stackpool’s section of the White Crystal
property have done well, one return of £2OOO
from 60 tons ore being obtained. Carpathia
is handing out a shilling div., which follows
a sixpenny distributed in April.
James B. Lewis’s report on Butler's Tin,
Torrington (N.S.W.), was issued after man-
ager Lonsdale Smith had tripped off to
Bananaland and T. Hooper from Bodangara
had donned his mantle. In the -district the
job is either to get water or to keep out
Hoods. At present the difficulty is to
get workers, though another big problem is
to discover whether the show has decent.
reserv.es. Lewis affirms that “in spite of the
incompleteness of sampling, etc.,” he is
“satisfied as to the life and value of the
mine.” And further on he states: “It
cannot be said that the tin occurs in regular
shoots, but it occurs more like the plums in
a badly-mixed pudding.” Translated; these
statements mean that a big bite has to be
made to get at the plums. No estimate of
ore in reserve can he furnished; so if Butler’s
is to do anything big it must open up the
mine, get men on the field and have things
underground •so ordered that a decent output
is forthcoming regularly for the mill. To
get Lewis’s “considerable tonnage” Hooper
will have the shoot developed under the adit
level, and crosscut to -test the eastern main
run of ore.
Copper has been discovered on J. G.
Reid’s Eurimbla station. 23 miles from Wel-
lington (N.S.W.I. Specimens forwarded
to Sydney show high mineral values, and
already over 100 acres of the property have
been applied for. Some old hands are im-
pressed with the appearance of the forma-
tion, which outcrops freely. The opinion
of the Government Geologist is being sought.
* » -V ® *
Edna May Deeps lias swallowed much
hard cash, as £103,121 has gone into the till
and only £12,500 has come out in dividends.
Casli credits at the end of May totted up
to £0743. The. current of cash has flowed
this way:—-
Rrom shares and calls .. .. £20,431
Application and allotment .. 10,000
Debentures . . . . . . 9,600
Gold (net) .. .. .. 56,014
Stuckey, in his final whoop over the mine,
sets out that he has won £50,978 from
12,537 tons; also that £12,000 of gold re-
mains in the dumps. Ahead he maps out
reserves as follows :
Tons. Value.
Above No. 3 level .. 5,000 £lO,OOO
Above No. 4 level .. 12,000 43,000
Above No. 5 level . . 20,000 98,000
Thus his top-level dirt is only worth 40s.
per ton, that left at No. 4 725. per ton, and
that above No. 5 level 98s. per ton. As
Stuckey avows that at least £BO.OOO profit
should be got from the reserves, he forecasts
costs at about 40s. That) judging by Edna
May and bis own experience, isn’t too
modest an estimate. To the criticism that
he cannot affirm that he has proved by actual
blocking out on four sides at No. 5 level
that he has the quantity or the values he
attaches to the reef at that level, Stuckey
rejoins that three horizontal cuts in the
reef at the level, with the sampling of the
exposed faces, stifles all doubt. Anyhow,
the new man who follows Stuckey will soon
let it be known if he thinks Stuckey’s opti-
mism that the admitted narrowing of the
shoot at No. 5 is only local.
44- , * *
Some rich crushings are still assured for
the knowing party of tribntors who six
months ago induced the Associated Northern
to let them into the unproved south-western
end of its Kalgoorlie lease. What the tribu-
tors are getting all their gold out of is pro-
bably a tentacle of the old and now almost ex-
hausted Brownhill shoot. The outcrop of
this remarkable chain of rich lense-shaped
ore bodies was on the Brownhill lease, where
specimen stone studded with free gold was
obtained. Pitching at a flat angle to the
southward it successively traversed the
Brownhill, Brownhill Extended, Associated
Northern and Oroya North leases, a horizon-
tal distance of about 3250 ft. into the Associ-
ated. whose border it crossed at a vertical
depth of 1000 ft. Millions and millions of
pounds sterling were won from this shoot,
and up to within a short distance of the
Associated boundary its money value for
. every foot along its course was nearly £l5OO.
In tiie Associated, however, it showed a great
falling off both in size and values, and finally
lost itself among the big low-grade deposits
in that property.
* * * *
Chairman Govett’s most interesting an-
nouncement at this year’s Ivanhoe meeting
was the probable installation of a plant to
first determine whether the sliming of the
whole product from the mill instead of the
present method of treatment is worth while,
and afterwards utilise it for the re-treat-
ment of the immense piles of residues that
are dumped on the property. The assay
value of these dumps is said to be 4s. 3d. a
ton, but as in the case of others re-treated
on the field, this figure will probably be
found when operated on to vary, consider-
ably, and the average yield may not be any-
where near the return on which Govett is
building.
* * * »
Prospectors around Coolgardie (W.A.)
are now turning their attention to minerals
other than gold: seheelite is being dug
out of the Sons of Erin at Higginsville ; an
old tin show is being worked at Bulla Bull-
ing ; rich deposits are being tested at
Gosmont, Londonderry and elsewhere; and
asbestos is being prospected near the Great
Hanover mine. A lease said to contain much
magnesite has been applied for, and some
venturesome people are also spending money
in search of coal. Meantime the few remain-
ing gold-producing claims are being aban-
doned or forfeited one h.v one. The latest
to go is Burbank’s Birthday Gift, which
flourished for a time. but. like everything
else on the field,' went to pieces at depth.
# * * *
Light of Asia, the Cue mine which the
Mararoa holds on approval, has just fur-
nished the record return of 12510 z. from
850 tons. Whether this includes gold from
the plates, however, is not stated. But the
announcement is made that the tailings assay
6|dwt. and the concentrates 3oz. 10dwt., and
that the reef ranges from 6 to 10 feet wide
in the bottom of the winze at 360 ft.
Some Victorian speculators have taken an
option on the Lloyd George mine at Gibral-
tar, on the Coolgardie goldfield. A rich
patch was struck in the locality over two
years ago, and the surrounding country was
then pegged far and wide by people on the
look-out for prospective buyers. Only one,
from Westonia, however, came along, but
after a little prospecting and assaying this
co. decided to leave the place alone. Later
on, a Perth syndicate acquired the Lloyd
George, but soon pulled out and allowed a
party of working miners to step in. Re-
cently rich specimen stone was exposed at
a depth of 40t't., and it is on this find that
the option-holders are gambling.
* » * *
The Tyrconnel North co. has drawn its
second consecutive blank. The first was at
Laverton. about the booming of which the
less said the better, and the latest is at the
north end of Ivalgoorlie. Ore showing a
little gold was struck in a trans-Australian
railway cutting, but when the Tyrconnel
North came along and did some sinking,
crosscutting and driving it found nothing
worth while and gave up.
Adelaide Enterprise Syndicate is about to
give in. For years this concern has battled in
a small, unobtrusive way with a low-grade
gold deposit at the north end of Ivalgoorlie,
and out of earnings which would be very
useful at present it has paid two or three
dividends. A poor outlook made worse by
increased costs has now induced the Board
to call shareholders together and urge
liquidation.
“Mustard Gold" concerning okl-time West-
ralian prospectors:—
Few of the old hands who opened up the Westralian
fields are now on deck, though the younger brigade
of gold discoverers are numerous enough. These are
the roamers who have hit upon what had been over-
looked by the ancient fossickers, such as the Edna
May and mgny others of lesser note. The mulgaliistorian
reckons they don't count and gives them no place
on the scroll of fame. But the “genuine” prospector,
the blazer of the track, is hard to find. Ba.vley is
dead ; likewise Reidy of Kurnalpi, whose water-cart
was used as a receptacle for the golden slugs picked
up in his rambling over that out-of-the-way spot
ere the big rush set in in ’94. Kurnalpi now is as
dead as its discoverer. "MenzieS, after a lapse of
many years following the blewing in of the big rise
he made from the Lady Shenton, put in an appear-
ance at Bullfinch with camels, but soon faded away
into obscurity. There was mention of him a couple
of years ago in the Nor’-West, dabbling in the iron
deposits of Yarnpi Sound. Hannan was comfortably
pensioned off, and Paddy Lawlers (finder of Law-
lers), also needing the helping hand, like nearly all
those who struck it rich in the pioneering of the
Westralian fields, recently passed west. There
appears to be but one flourishing remnant of the
old prospecting crowd in evidence, Jerry McAuliffe,
who pointed the way to Kanowna' and staked the
White Feather Reward, afterwards floated in England
and now a pathetic derelict by the little-frequented
roadside. Jerry runs a pub at Goomalling, and on
the slightest provocation will draw a tragic picture
of his thirst-stricken arrival in the Feather district
in the “airly days” when he paid an opportune con-
denser-owner £lB 10s., or thereabouts, for one drink
for self and horses. “Thim wor-r the days, me bies,
whin a man wint into the bush wid his wather-bag
in one hand, his pick in the other, and his loife in
the other.”
* * * *
For some time past tributots at Yelta
(S.A.) have been raising copper ore from a
lode known as the Wild Dog. which runs*
right up to the boundary .of the famous
Moonta mines. The S.A. Government
decided to test this lode with the
diamond drill. and as a result an
apparently bulky make of chalcopyrite ore
has been intersected by one of the bores.
Starting from the 194 ft. level, boring was
continued to 257 ft., and then stopped. The
bore met the footwall at 226 ft. after pene-
trating 18ft. of ore assaying from 9 p.c. to
84 p.c. copper. It is now intended to con-
tinue boring to 400 ft.
* * * *
“Wart”: Some years ago a Launceston
co. worked the Great Eastern Copper Mine
between Scamander and St. Helens, on the
Speck’s east coast. A tunnel was put into
the hill for about 1000 ft., and crosscuts
proved a lode 14ft. to 16ft. wide, principally
carbonate of iron, and lime permeated with
sulphate and carbonate of copper. As this
ore could not be concentrated some winzes
were sunk, which were said to have struck
good-grade sulphide ore. Shipments were
sent to N. S. Wales, and then the co. closed
down. W. Windred claims to have worked
out a leeching process to recover copper at a
cost of less than ss. per ton. A co. is said
to be going to give it a trial.
* * * *
“Quidam”: Re the Welcome Stranger nug-
get. found at Moliagul (Vic.), one of the
finders, Deason by name, who afterwards
lived near the scene of the discovery till his
death, always believed that the huge lump
of gold had been shed from an outcrop of
quartz on the top of the hill on the side of
which the nugget was unearthed. His theory
was that although to all appearance the
quartz was pure “buck” it might contain
gold here and there in “dabs,” one of which
had, by the weathering away of the quartz,
provided the Welcome Stranger. His idea
was that if a tunnel were driven into the
deposit, a few tons of explosive put in, and
the quartz shattered on a mammoth scale,
other equally welcome strangers might be
found. For years he tried to get together a syn-
dicate, but failed, and the outcrop is still there.
There was certainly something solid in the
idea of bursting a whole hilltop to pieces, in-
stead of putting in a few little tunnels that
might miss a rich patch by a few inches.
There are many places where hills have been
entered with rich leaders and intermittent
“dabs” where old Deason’s idea might pro-
duce profitable results.


Cabl<23 ‘&rent 'f'ollouj
\Ae go(~ v *flle Kaiser look^
<£ car-etoorr?. s, s | osl -^
fa»’ r
wil /i
*A ,e j
Ihen -
itis kaiser lOiftl remarkable*
rushes -j’rom place. To
. place ma bombast^
Speech 15%
-iroob^
Oie day uje hear someone
Took i. 000,003 prison CO
fe T~" If|e ka.sir ,*s
Semi- and is led
tan-Cjcr-nans
(% artTsT Has
never Seen a
fan - Cjet'mor?
but Was
done Hii
t>est.)
stld 'til f’.n fT "Turns
dVlcrc Wats a
mistake . Tile/ meanT*" 3 .
VC Would Seem itlaCT* cerlam
Rus>s.iair? (generals v)Vjo were
'June, to death 2\ month or
■'ttAjo b&cR
Nave been all 'tfleimie
iti some
chew i ovler.
"HIC enemy ciUtliari/
desperate with honker
and on
his broiler*
Sudden!^
a -square teed mside
him >fcr mors atrocrhe^
/ "|o meet” *Hle jricerTairffy
oj -Hie
| SuLLeJIN Has invienled a
\ ro/ersablc cartoon. THis
U)ay vj? the BolsHevitk
/ (6 "the Imperialist*
Ossicle doton
th'2? -the otfjer v\)ap.
Please. ytvrself,>
THE CONFUSION OF CABLES.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
WANTED. —Practical Motor-car Ex-
perts. No branch of industry offers
such possibilities. The inmost details of
motor-car operation and repair learnt by
mail by our Practical Course with its won-
derful working models. Recommended by
Lord Montague, England’s greatest? motor
authority. Send for free Prospectus M, con-
taining full information.
JAS. RODGER,
159 E. Manchester Street, Christchurch.
A Letter to Clements Tonic from a Well-known Clergyman
showing the
great value
of Clements
Tonic to all
Professional
People.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, X.S.W.
A Further Great Endorsement of a Really Fine Medicine.
CLEMENTS TOXIC, LTD ' " Tl " S,. Av„«.
Somehow the writer would never have anything to do with patent medicines of any description, having a decided
prejudice against any that were largely advertised.
A bottle of your remedy, however, was placed in my hands, and out of courtesy to my friend, who had an interest in
my welfare, I ventured to take it as advised.
With pleasure I write you that since taking Clements T onic my system is braced up and my general health much
improved.
In such a calling as mine the nervous tension is always high, and I
assure you that it is good to find something that really benefits.
A good thing is always worth passing on.
I am, Sirs, yours sincerely, (Signed)
Pastor,
Leichhardt Baptist Church.
A remarkable remedy when used consistently for weak nerves, brain-fag. or want of sleep. Professional persons should
never be without it.. All chemists and stores sell it.
PERSONAL
Colonel J. H. A. Lee, Embarkation Staff-
officer at Sydney for four years, has signed his
last embarkation return —retired along with
Wallach and others on July 31. Prior to
joining the permanent forces in 1886, Lee
was trained on H.M.S. Worcester (seven
years at sea), and was afterwards in com-
mand of the Naval Volunteer Artillery with
the rank of Commander. In 1888 he was
appointed Captain, commanding Permanent
Submarine Miners, having qualified with the
Royal Engineers at Chatham and Ports-
mouth. It was while holding this rank that
he designed and laid out the Submarine
Mining Defences of Sydney and Newcastle,
making the surveys and soundings and draw-
ing the plans and charts required, all of
which received the approval of the Admi-
FATAL.
HE: “ The doctors say I am suffering from a
complication of diseases.”
SHE: “ How many have you consulted?”
HE : “Seven.”
SHE: “I should say that you are suffering
from a complication of doctors.”
ralty and the War Office —a work by which
his" name will be best known for many
generations to come. He was Chief Instruc-
tor in N. S. Wales in military engineering
and army signalling up to 31/12/1906. From
January, 1907, to September, 1911, with the
rank of Lieutenant-Colonel and Honorary
Colonel, Lee was Military Commandant of
S. Aus., but on the regulations being altered
reducing the retiring age to 58 he was, in
October, 1911, placed on the retired list.
When the big drums in Europe started to
beat, Lee offered for active service with the
A.I.F. He was appointed Military Trans-
port Officer, employed in Sydney. He saw
considerable service in the Boer War as
second in command of the first Common-
wealth Horse, and it was during this cam-
paign that he received the Queen’s Medal
with three clasps, besides being promoted in
Natal in 1902 to rank of Lieutenant-Colonel.
Some notable Australians born in 1858:
Prof. David and Prof. Anderson (Sydney
University), Prof. Orme Masson (Melbourne
University), Federal Statistician G. 11.
Knibbs, N.S.W. Under-Secretary for Educa-
tion Peter Board, Vic. Chief Justice Irvine,
Westralian Chief Justice McMillan, Elliott
Lewis (Speck), Dr. Fred Bird (Melbourne),
Adelaide Editors Sowden and Fred Robert-
son.
Governor Walter Davidson is not the first
of his name to hold a prominent place in
N. S. Wales. When John McArthur in
1804 secured 5000 acres from Lord Camden
he appears to have put in a good word for his
friend Walter Davidson, a nephew to Sir
Walter Farquhar, who was physician to
George the Fourth, then Prince Regent; at
least, in a letter of introduction from Cam-
den to Governor King, the Minister said that
it was extremely desirable to encouragq
gentlemen of such connections to establish
themselves in the colony. Davidson was to
have 2000 acres in perpetuity and contigu-
ous to the grant of John McArthur, such
convict labor as was required, and not less
than six head of horned cattle from the
Government herd, to be paid for out of the
profits of the property. King was generous.
He allowed Davidsofa 3000 acres. On July
13, 1805, King appointed John McArthur to
be Captain Commandant and Walter David-
son, Esq., gentleman, to be Lieutenant of the
Parramatta Loyal Association. Davidson
and his wife came out in the same ship with
McArthur. George Caley, in his “Com-
ments on Colonial Affairs,” says :
It has been given out that this young man
[Davidson] is a nephew of Sir Walter Farquhar, and
of considerable fortune. He came into the Colony
with McArthur about three years ago, and has an
extensive grant of land. I think his friends will
have to lament that they have entrusted him to the
tutorage of such a despicable fellow as McArthur.
Though he is old enough to think for himself, yet
I think he is to be pitied.
During the term of “Usurped Government”
Davidson was a member of the Civil Court.
Bishop-elect Dwyer, of the new R.C. Diocese
of Riverina (N.S.W.), has a brother wearing
the mitre. He is the Bishop of Maitland.
They are sons of the late Inspector-of-schools
Dwyer. The Maitland bishop was the first
Australian-born to have the mitre bestowed
upon him.
“Vic.” : Apropos the coming retirement of
Judges Hodges and Hood. Hodges was tutor
in the family of Chief Justice Stawell, visit-
ing the home at Kew daily. Stawell taught
him law and had a first-rate pupil. Hodges
became Church of England Chancellor, fol-
lowing Stawell and Stephen, and preceding
E. F. Mitchell. Hood built up his tough
physical frame as an oarsman on the Yarra,
where. a redoubtable four was composed of
Hood and the three sons of Mitchell, who
carried on the Cremorne Brewery, and made
a pile while the Gardens were in vogue under
Coppin and Brooke’s management.
“Demos”: The list of V.C. winners and
their occupations (B. 11/7/Y8) omits Capt.
J. E. Newlands. He was an area-officer at
the time he enlisted, but before taking on
that job was for nearly three years a John
Hop in the Speck’s force. Sgt. J. J. Dwyer,
V.C., also put in about eight months in the
police force. That job proving too slow, he
got out of uniform, and worked with the
Queenstown smelters until the Squareheads
became disorderly.
Private “Jock” McCaffrey, who was killed
in France recently (B. 18/7/YS) carried the
sawmill trade-mark in the shape of a finger
and a half missing from one hand. The
injury drew some comment, from the examin-
ing medico when Jock went to enlist. The
doc. seemed dubious about passing the burly
recruit. “Blime,” chipped in Jock, disgust-
edly, “I want to go and shoot the cows, not
to poke their blanky eyes out with me fin-
gers.”
G’reat Boulder Hamilton, besides bossing
the biggest gold-producer in W.A., is
probably the oldest mine-manager in
the Western State. There is certainly
none senior to him among the ancients
of the Golden Mile. He also gathers
in the largest salary, bordering on £5OOO a
year, in addition to numerous subsidiary re-
tainers which pretty well double that figure.
His underground-manager, Jack Warwick,
with whom he has collaborated for full 20
years, may claim to be the highest-paid
below-surface “gaffer” in the Commonwealth.
He rakes in about £l2OO per annum. Both
are plain, modest, capable men, and no Eng-
lish co. has ever been better safeguarded in
its mining enterprise than have tfie Great
Boulder shareholders by Hamilton and his
lieutenant. Incidentally, when the Chamber
of Mines was merely a one-horse mine-
manager’s association handled by old Alex.
Porter, as secretary, in a murky Maritana-
street attic, Hamilton discovered among his
staff a short, brainy youth named Tommy
Maughan, and put him in charge. Mau-
glian's push brought the Chamber to its
present high standard of usefulness, and per-
haps helped to give to Hamilton much of the
world-wide reputation he enjoys as a mining
man.
“Chasuble”: This is the eminent record
of the late Dr. Bevan. Born in Wales, 1842.
Finished education at University,
with first-class honors. In ’65 he became
assistant to Binney, at Weigh House Chapel.
London, and sole pastor in ’69. Pastor of
Tottenham Court-road Church, 1869-76.
Succeeded Huxley on London School Board.
Two months at Central Church, Brooklyn,
New York, in ’74. Minister of Brick Presby-
terian Church, New York, 1876-82. D.D.
of Princeton University. Moderator of New
York Presbytery (although a Congregation-
alist). Paster of Highbury Quadrant
Church, London, 1882-85. Declined two
chances of entering the House of Commons,
once for Llanelly, his native town. Four
times invited to Collins-street Independent
Church, Melbourne, and accepted it at last.
His pastorate of 23 years there began in ’B6.
Ultimately he became first Principal of
Parkin Congregational College, Adelaide.
Born at Islington, London, in ’45, Joseph
Masters landed in Melbourne four years later
and picked up his education at various
schools. At 18 he started imparting some of
his learning to the students at Sandhurst
College, simultaneously imbibing theology
and gaining his M.A. He then got inside
broadcloth and ran Congregational colleges
and churches at Sta-
well, Albury and
Devonport (Tas.). In
the early ’seventies he
took command of
Camden College, Syd-
ney, for a couple of
years and then went
over to the Speck in
an admi n i s trative
capacity. As Secre-
tary for Education he
has helped many
young Tasmanians
and, although far be-
yond the allotted re-
tiring age, still re-
tains his position and
intellect. His chief
fad is to keep himself
up-to-date in “dead”
languages, and lin-
guists are continually
dipping into his foun-
tain of knowledge.
Rev. J. MASTERS,
M.A., Secretary of
Education, Tasmania.
Maryborough (Q.) has just lost a sturdy
and efficient old citizen in draper George
Stupart. Stupart landed in Queensland in
’63, got to Gympie in the early days of the
gold rush and finally drifted to the neighbor-
ing port of Maryborough. He was a staunch
Tory and opposed Andrew Fisher for Wide
Bay in 1910. He was also a good Australian
patriarch. His son George fell in the blood-
bath of Gallipoli. Dad was 78 when he
went to join the lad.
Unto few Australians has it been given to
see so much of life as did William Clark, who
passed away a few days ago in Brisbane.
Clark came out as a boy of 12 in one of Dr.
Lang’s vessels, arriving in Moreton Bay in
’49. He helped his father at timber-getting,
sheep- and cattle-rearing, and finally blos-
somed into a squatter himself, helping to
form stations on the Logan, Burnett and
Dawson. (The Fraser family massacre at
Hornet Bank took place while Clark was in
the district.') Squatting, exploration,
battling with blacks filled up a term of years,
and then came mining, city life, magistracy,
retirement and casual excursions into jour-
nalism, for Clark wielded a facile pen. He
was 81 when the Black Camel knelt.
“F.” : In the August birthday list The
Bulletin mentions Simon Fraser, 85, and
ex-Justice a’Beckett, 82. The former is a
native of Picton. Nova Scotia, who arrived
in Victoria in 1853, and started as a road-
and-railway contractor. He had three years
of squatting life in Queensland, and squatted
also in Vic. and N. S. Wales. He has had
experience in the Parliament of Victoria and
the Federal Senate. Ex-Justice a’Beckett
is a son of Thomas Turner a’Beckett, a
London solicitor who in 1851 came to Mel-
bourne on a visit to his brother, Sir William
a’Beckett, Chief Justice. He liked the place
so well that he decided to remain, and became
a gent, one in Melbourne. For many years
he sat for the Central province in the Leg.
Council. After a six-years’ practice he
became Registrar of the Diocese of Mel-
bourne. He was Commissioner for Customs
under James McCulloch and chairman of the
Hobson’s Bay Railway Co., of which he was
one of the founders. His son, the ex-Judge,
VERY LIKELY.
SHE: “And arc the Australians really better
disciplined than they were?"
HE: “Well, a lot of ’em have got married.”
was “called” to the Vie. Bar 1860, and was
a Judge of the Supreme Court from 1886
until his retirement a couple of years ago.
He married a daughter of the late Archibald
Michie, Q.C.
Passing the evening of a long and eventful
life in quiet retirement in one of the most
peaceful spots on the Blue Mountains is
Rev. R. T. Earle, an ex-Anglican minister,
now in his 85th year. He was originally in
the Navy, and served in the West Indies for
some years; but in the mid-’sixties he
entered Moore College, Liverpool, was
ordained deacon in i 866 and priest by
Thomas, Bishop of Goulburn in 1868. Since
then he has worked in Hay, Gunning, Ara-
luen, Shoalhaven, Kameruka, Hamilton
(Tas.), and Pambula. The clergyman is a
writer of thoughtful verse, much of which
has been published in various newspapers and
magazines, but has never appeared in col-
lected form. He has a great collection of
anecdotes of his experiences, as a middy, on
the coast of Spain and Portugal, and, as a
clergyman, with bushrangers, notably Blue
Cap’s gang.
“Copabella” : An old acquaintance of The
Bulletin’s lehves Canterbury this
month to take charge of Mansthorpe Church,
Adelaide. This is Rev. R. Ambrose
Roberts, whom The B. once caricatured
after his very truthful remark that as much
social evil was possible walking home from
an evening church service as from any other
walking, late or early. Roberts was one of
the pioneers of Congregationalism in the real
backblocks of Victoria —Croajingalong, the
Dargo and thereabouts. I first met him
there pounding along the mountain pack-
tracks on 60- and 80-mile horseback trips to
scattered settlers, baptising on occasion whole
families from dad to baby, and sometimes
marrying dad and mum on the same trip.
GENERAL HELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mackensen’s Chief of Staff, General von Hell, and
other of Mackensen’s officers, are directing opera-
tions between the Ourcq and the Aisne, but it is
not believed that Mackensen is present.”— Cable.
Von Hell is now in charge.
The blasted ground grows red ;
The flames of death are large;
The hills are heaped with dead ;
And through the smoke the Allies still advance
To lash us from the fields of tortured France.
“Lo, war is war,” we cried.
They learned the lesson well;
And, with the turning tide,
We learn that war is hell.
Torment on torment follows night and day.
The lid is down; we cannot get away.
Their whips of scorpions sting
Our legions front and rear ;
Their guns of ruin sing
A ceaseless song of fear.
Pain and more pain awaits our legions all
In the last vengeance that is sure to fall.
Von Hell is now in charge.
’Twas we who placed him there.
The breach grows red and large;
The line is past repair.
Von Hell! Ten hells—and all with ruin
crammed
Shriek the despair of Germany the Damned!
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


SE1 9
Do you want to look like everybody else —or do yon
prefer that others , should wish to look like you ?
We have but one standard : the expert
cutter who designs your “Austral Iland-
tailored-to-Measure Suit, and the skilled
workmen who fashion the garment through
its various stages of hand-sewing, lining and
finishing, know by practice only one method
—one system--the best.
Our-headquarters staff of cutters and tailors
is one of the best in Australia, and the
record of our 50 years’ progress proves its
acceptance as such.
The wearer of an “Austral” Hand-tailored
Made-to-Measure Suit is conscious from
the start that he looks unusually well-dressed,
and later realises that his suit wears as well
as it looks and keeps its distinction to the
last day of service.
mm
I
mm
HSnroffl
'■"'MM.
Iwit M's"
-
«s
«
m,
;V
FfSSSi
§
IliiSSfl
■wHI
K
Mill
»s
hmmmm
m
<O2 ]
, V
*SG
HB
|||gg
ssw
B ;
mm
IWlitM
.v*
-.
HHB
aes
a».i6j*SsE>!
ww
m i
mam
m
■am
:
u.y:
■ :■
■
Hi
* \tJIU- ' 'i
ae
#BB*
gg&Kamii
IMP S *"
\
.. t -
m
i&e&S
sag
Vn^
iBSHB
BH
88
H
“Austral” Hand-tailored-to-
Measure Suits are in perfect
good taste. They are right
in Fit, Fabric, Fashion and
Finish —all the time from
first to last —and more than
justify the cost of having the
best in these essentials that
Australia can produce.
We have just added to our
already large stocks a belated
shipment of High-Grade
Worsteds and Medium-
W eight Tweeds —many ol
them exclusive single-suit
lengths at .9, 10 and 12
guineas—and will be pleased
to forward patterns.
Carriage Paid on all orders
to any part of Australia.
4
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484=490 George Street,
3=17 Royal Arcade,
304=306 George Street,
(near Hunter Street), SVDNPV
w
Jj


■V -
. a ' > Me
mm
S^4^SSSSsSiaMsas
mmmmmmm
| i
\ s/\ '
///7/fV 1
% m
4*
LESUE
ft
SALT
SUPERCEDE ROCK SALT
//vex/=>e/vs/\xe • Wholesome
“HANG TM E M BV" TME L-OOF=>”
Ob to/nab/e From a// Stones, Produce Merchants, etc. throughout the Commonwea/th.
Society
PENEOLDS
WINES
MORE OR LESS SAFE.
“How is her husband at the Front?”
“Still carrying on, I believe.”
“Poor thing. How docs she manage to fill
in time?”
“Oh — er —she also is carrying on.”
One cold evening last week a small, be-
draggled man dashed through a break in the
fence out of the yard of an ironmongery ware-
house, down a lane, and into Little Bourke-
street, Melbourne, closely beset by a smaller
man, equally bedraggled. The first runner
Avas carrying a handful of straw, and short
measure at that. When the police inter-
vened the second sprinter had the enemy
down and Avas hitting his opponent smartly
against the city corporation’s macadam.
Torn off his prey, the aggressor pointed at
the pinch of hay. and exclaimed with pro-
found emotion : “AYell, don’t he deserve it- —
stealin ’ a man’s bed?”
* * * *
“Gunner” : I was in St. Omer, in Septem-
ber, 1917, Avhen all the hospitals in that
area were bombed. When, about 11 o’clock,
the Huns started dropping explosives on the
toAvn all the shell-shock patients in the
Avards were nearly frantic. Amidst the din
the night sisters calmly comforted them as
best they could. Nearer and nearer came
the air devils, but the sisters stayed at
their posts, although the Avards Avere only
marquees and afforded absolutely no pro-
tection except the Red Cross. That Avould have
been -sufficient protection against any decent
enemy, but we are' fighting dogs. Then it
came. First the midnight assassins dropped
a flare to see where the hospital lay. It
burned out just near the huge Red Cross,
and Hell fell upon us. One bomb burst
near the nurses’ quarters, but did no dam-
age ; two just missed the hospital, and then
two dropped right in amongst the Avards.
No sooner had the patter of falling shrapnel
ceased than shrieks rent the air as men,
dying and sorely Avounded, rolled on the
floor in agony. It Avas a terrible scene.
Two marquees, were blown to the ground
and dead men and women Avere lying among
the debris. Five devoted nurses lost their
lives, while another Avas terribly wounded.
When all Avas still Ave had time to look
round and collect the dead and wounded.
As Avell as the nurses, there were 22 men
killed and about 40 wounded. Here’s to
the sisters and nurses of the hospitals—fine
Avornen.
From the Secretary of the Defence Depart-
ment :
In The Bulletin of 23/5/’lB, under the heading
“A Heart-cry from Mesopotamia,” appeared a Icttei
from a member of the Australian forces .in that coun-
try particularly referring to the absence of Australiai
hats. Inquiries were set on foot, and I am directed
to inform you that a reply has now been received
from the Viceroy of India to the effect that the
Australians wear helmets during summer, but have
sufficient hats and other Australian pattern uniform
to last throughout the next winter. Tin! Australia!
unit now serving in Mesopotamia was raised for ser-
vice under the Government of India, but any Aus-
tralian pattern uniform that is required is obtained
from stocks held in Egypt.
* •* •* *
“Snaky George”: An Aussie"brigade was
attached to a Tommy division at the time,
and Fritz was expected to try a “hop-over”
any minute. The staff-captain of the Dig-
gers (a typical specimen himself) urgently
required for his brigade several thousand
bombs, and for 24 hours wired,
’phoned and Avrote to the Tommy
division, but no bombs arrived. At
last, losing patience, he jumped on
a motor-bike and popped off to stir
things up at divisional h.q. The
Englishman responsible for the
delay explained that the bombs
Avould be along in due course, when
the indent, etc., had been “through
the usual channels.” Then the
staff-captain opened his face.
“Spare my days,” he snapped,
“didn’t I tell you the matter was
urgent? Do you really think that
the damn Huns are going to wait
until you get your (magenta)
papers fixed up?” And so on for
five minutes. When the human
volcano had gone a very sad h.q.
resident looked helplessly after
him. But suddenly lie sparkled
up and remarked; “Doubtless a stout fel-
low, y’ know, but—er —socially impossible.”
* * * *
One of the missing institutions in Sydney
and Melbourne is an establishment where the
returned soldier, the wife or friend of one
who is wounded or sick, or any other person
Avith a legitimate inquiry to make might dis-
cover where to proceed to make it. As it is
now, such people often wander about, from
one place to another vainly trying to strike
the right locality for getting a hearing. Fre-
quently they have nothing much more than
an impression that there is a conspiracy to
fob them off. The system is all wrong. A
central inquiry bureau, where .the individual
in search of information could ask for
enlightenment about the address at Avhieh his
or her -business would be attended to at once,
seems a necessary addition to the multitudi-
nous establishments where matters incidental
to the war are handled. At present the
scattered avenues are exasperating.
“0.K.” ; The perverse spirit of the Divorce
laAv was up against a Geelong hawker Avho,
last week, sought freedom from his wife in
order to get another wife. The girl he ’
married in 1903 left him four years later
to live with his brother. Not being ready to
apply for a divorce at the time, he took up
with another girl, and subsequently lie
joined the A.I.F. and did the State some
service in Gallipoli and France. Then he
returned and moved for a divorce. The
marriage industry seems much in need of
encouragement these times, nevertheless
petitioner was turned down on accotmt of
his having lived in “sin” since his wife ivent
off with his brother. She isn’t in the Avay to
produce legitimate children; neither is he.
The law blocks them both, whilst the coun-
try is crying out for all the legalised infants
it can get. Public morality is the excuse
for the action of the law in this case. When
an admittedly unmoral married couple seek
•permission to become moral the Court shakes
its AA’ig. Public morality has all sorts of
Avays of promoting private sin, and this is
one of them.
THE GOD IN THE BAR.
“He looks like one of them cap’alists what got; fat on the spenders.”
“Spare me days, the spenders what lives near him don't care a continental how fat he
gets on ’em.”
“Yer don’t say so! What is lie?”
“A publican.”
“Imlay” (from France) : “Exile” (B.
8/1/TS) refers to the dissimilarity between
Billjim and Tommy, and very rightly attri-
butes the cause to jealousy. The mean spirit
is fanned by some of the cheaper English
papers. A sample :
COLONIALS’ “OVERSEAS” SERVICE.
If you see an Anzac or a Canadian wearing the
red chevro a on his arm beneath a few of the blue
variety, don’t jump to the conclusion that he neces-
sarily served in France before 1914 closed. Although
the badge of honor is supposed to be reserved for
soldiers who entered a theatre of war in that year, I
am told that a few colonials consider that if they
arrived on Salisbury Plain before 1915 opened their
service “overseas”—from the country in which they
enlisted—it entitles them to the distinction. Obvi-
ously the War Office did not anticipate this interpre-
tation of “overseas.”
It was specially mentioned in the King’s
Order that overseas troops are entitled to
wear the red chevron. Apparently the sloppy
expert who wrote the above sneer did not
know that war was on in 1914 in New
Guinea, Samoa, Cocos, and never heard
of the Emden or Egypt. Some of the
things that the sloppy experts don’t know
makes the German Secret Service carry that
grin which won't wear off.
HER ONE VIRTUE.
NELLE: “ I’m surprized that Billy painted
her portrait. She hasn’t much of a
reputation.”
BELLE: “No, hut she isn’t as had as she’s
painted.”
Concerning the late lamented: —
Melbourne Jielfl high revel lust week in the shape
of a meeting where spectres and remains were dis-
cussed and a protest entered against the proposed
removal of the skulls of our forefathers and fore-
mothers from the Old Cemetery to make room for
a vegetable market. There is a sentiment about the
last resting-places of the dead, but the trouble i#
that the dead are so numerous and they rest so long;
also they take up space by resting horizontally. If
they had all been deposited reverently and their
long homes been respected permanently, they would
fill all the available space by now. So a compro-
mise is effected. The departed are put underground
with esteem and crape and black feathers, even if
their lives were sordid and commonplace and they
didn’t pay their way, but selfishly left the Public
Debt to their descendants. When the cemetery is
full it is closed. Then it is neglected. Next it
is forgotten. When it is sufficiently forgotten there
is an unobtrusive removal of the contents to make
way for a railway station. Said contents are sup-
posed to be shifted with humility and grovel, not to
say worm-like abasement, to a new site, but nobody
seems to know much or cave much about the new
site. So there is more room for the living, and the
dead don’t object. In a sneaking sort of fashion
they have been faded off the premises. The job is
necessary, but as a concession to what is supposed
to be public opinion it is made to look like burglary,
or ah escape from gaol under cover of darkness, or
the sale of liquor after closing time, or an elopement
under the half-drawn curtain of a clouded moon. A sort
of mental or material obscurity is supposed to imply
emotion or something of the sort, which is the reason
why chapels are dim and why the stage-lights are
turned low when Little Eva is perishing in “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin.”
-* * * *
The modest John Hop has been found —all
things are possible in a democracy. No one
ever really expected him, but he bobbed up
in a Melbourne court the other day. The
lady with the black eye and the nose like a
wintry sunset was accused of unloading
language in a public place. John Hop was
called to give some samples of the cargo. He
didn’t like to mention it. Under pressure he
said that he could not bring himself to repeat
the words. Finally he stammered over a
sentence, broke down in a flood of blushes
and appealed to be allowed to write it. When
the P.M. read the paper handed to him he
nearly fell into his inkpot. This was what
the Hop wrote: “Blessed beggars like you is
a disgrace to humanity. Ah-h, go to Ilelstern-
wiek !”
(Continued on page 18.)
THE PROMISE OF SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis five o’clock, but I can see to read,
For all the nip of winter in the, air.
Young Spring rides southward on his prancing steed
AVitll scents of all old gardens in his hair.
I cannot see him ; but my pulses thrill
To know he gallops just beyond the hill.
Swift, as he passes, pink boronias bloom ;
And on the sandstone ridges at his hail
All little shrubs that grow find happy room
To deck their branches with a bridal veil
Of delicate white blossom breaking free
Like surf of dreams upon a leafy sea.
Cold are the nights and mornings; but I count
The few, small days that winter still may hold
Before Goodfellow Sun has strength to mount
And fill the laughing world with happier gold.
And we can keep the Line a short fortnight
Waiting the grand reserves of Heat and Light.
Then we shall deck our hearts with fiags and cheer,
Throw off our coats and laugh with all brave
things,
Demand that icc. bo consort of our beer;
And joining every little bird that sings,
Go forth to meet love laughing in the dawn,
Leaving our heavy overcoats in pawn. •
N.S.AV.
CURSE O' MOSES.


in
I
Km ck • ;
W- 5L ' Y i
. r\
\ JI I
&
>4
~--r
, IMs
ITI
isHI' 1 '
m
r
&
pCs
&L
V
/r 7
IT
W=3^7
1
Ad aw a*
A DAM AX
?B£s?si.i
w roofing ,
“dlerproof WmHiM"*
Win Adams A ol '
5 Austral id ,-,
S 2
g
El
Three Rolls of “Adamax
Roofing equal to 6fcwt.
Galvanised-iron.
One Roll of “Atiamax
Roofing equal to 2|cwt
Galvanised-sron.
"Adamax” Saves
Freight, and in
in First Cost,
Cost of Upkeep.
If Adamax Roofing did not live up to the claims we make for it the-contract for the supply of Adamax to the X. S. Wales
Railways for 1917-1918 would not again, after careful analysis, have been secured for 1918-1919. Neither would Adamax have
proved itself, under critical examination and tests by experts, worthy of being used in the following “big jobs’’:—
43f miles of “Adamax” Roof Covering is being used on wool=storage sheds
erected in Wentworth Park, Sydney, by Messrs. Stuart Bros, for the
Central Wool Committee.
Again, last week, 13 miles of “Adamax” Roofing were ordered by the
Imperial Authorities in Pert!h for the West Australian Wool Stores.
22,000 sq. yds. for use on the Commonwealth Buildings at Molongo, Canberra.
20,000 sq. yds. on the Leeton Canning Factories.
13,200 sq. yds. for W.A. Govt. Freezing Works at Wyndham.
An order for 44,000 sq. yds. (25 miles) was placed for use on the South Australian Wheat
Board Buildings.
These are the proofs we give you of Adamax Superiority —-not mere wordy talk that might he applied to any other composition
roofing.
Follow the lead of the master minds who were responsible for the placing of the above huge orders, and order Adamax for roofing
your factories, mine buildings, garages, sheds and homes.
“Adamax” costs One-third the price of Caivanised-iron.
Get that fact embedded in your mind. Take note of the saving in freight—nearly two-thirds, less than on iron.
And Adamax, unlike iron, is not damaged by the elements —Rain, Wind, Heat, Cold, :S'ea.'Air, Mining Gases or Chemical Fumes.
Rot or Rust do not wreak their vengeance on it. Therefore, Adamax will not pinhole or drv out and become valueless—because it
contains no tar or fish-oil. Pure mineral hydrocarbon is thoroughly impregnated into the long-fibred fblt, which is then
finished by a process which makes it impervious to the elements.
Shie Adamax Series” is a free Booklet, which explains the many merits and
es to which Adamax can be put. Send for free copy.
175 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-5 Collins St. BRISBANE : Cr. Edward 8 Mary Sts.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie St. PERTH: 33 King St.
M
J
fife
I
U
%
r«
iwwmlmmitm
HP
nsi
r\
cC’
y>*
«3>
cT
nTllllllliiiirr
S?
«
5S3p-


The “BLIGHTY MAJOR”
ALBATROSS FLANNEL SHIRT
This is a splendid Shirt for service. English
Bine-grey Flannel of medium weight, soft
enough for the most sensitive skin. Turned-
down collar and pleated breast-pocket.
12/6 each; 3 for 36/9.
Please state Collar Size.
■ ■*
■
.. I
sts
PIKE BROTHERS LTD.,
foowoonba BRISBANE Townsville.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
Oh, what an anxious time we had
When mother had bronchitis bad!
We tiptoed up and down the stairs,
Or sat in silence in our chairs.
But just imagine our delight—
Dear grandma came and put things right.
When we grow up it’s certain sure
We’ll swear by Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
“F. Born”: Re Griffen’s head (B.
20/6/T8), Cuthbert Featherstonhaugh, in
“After Many Days,” says, “The police sus-
pected a doctor (of obtaining possession of
the head after burial) and searched his pre-
mises unsuccessfully. Had they only known
it the head was in a large pot containing a
shrub. It was shipped to a scientific author-
ity in England, but the vessel was lost and
with it went the ghastly relic - of the one-
time gay and imperturbable Mr. Griffin.”
Featherstonhaugh’s version will provoke a
smile in Rockhampton, several of whose old
residents remember having seen the peeled
and dried skull in the studio of the acquisi-
tive medico. Griffin, by the way, was a
cool and consummate scoundrel. It is not
generally known that he attempted to poison
two troopers (whom he afterwards shot),
but failed. He went to the noose as cool as
a melon.
* * * *
“Gerardy”: Each year of service adds
something to the Lighthorseman’s equip-
ment. The trooper of three years ago glar-
ingly contrasts with the present-day recruit.
When moving camp the various things
attached to many a trooper’s saddle reminds
one of the exterior of a third-rate pawnshop.
A practical Billjim seldom travels without
TWINS.
“Hello! What are you?”
“ I’m a black Pierette .”
“C’m’on, we'll cruise well together, I'm a Mack sheep.”
a good supply of firewood, but very often
wood is scarcer than beer. Recently, on the
way back from a rouse-up that had taken us
far beyond the Turkish outpost line, a deter-
mined trooper, with his belly set on hot tea
after the journey, pulled out from the col-
umn and without dismounting lugged out a
pine telegraph pole that was on the verge
of falling. He clung to it for three agonis-
ing hours in heat that would have melted
ceiling-wax. Just as the camp hove in sight
a Tommy provost-marshal—one of the
gentlemen who create trouble outside the
danger zone—trotted up and ordered Bill-
jim to relax his grip on the pole. “Put
it down at once!” he commanded. “How
can you expect your poor horse to carry so
much weight?” “But I’ve hung on to it
for ten miles,” remonstrated the gasping
Aussie. “Don’t answer me back! Do as I
order!” Billjim dropped it with a groan.
That evening another troop was sipping hot
tea, while the blighter who had been robbed
of his kindler was sleeping off the effects of
his exertion.
* * * *
In the bright lexicon of the I.W.W. the
brotherhood of man consists in the Australian
being everybody’s brother save his own. He
isn’t even allowed to be his wife’s brother
unless he married a Hun woman.
* * * *
“Fax”: The wonder is that Acting Prime
Minister Watt, when requesting Melbourne
Trades Hall Council to reconsider the matter
of flying the Red Flag from above its pre-
mises, didn’t ask for an explanation of what
the flaming emblem really signifies. It
doesn’t express the sentiment of Australia
for Australians, or Protection for Native In-
dustries, or Britons Never Will be Slaves.
If it is intended as an advt. for republican-
ism, what sort of republicanism is meant—
the French republicanism, which is fighting
against Hunnish aggression, or the Mexican
republicanism, which is antipathetic to the
Allies? Its redness certainly isn’t in sym-
pathy with the good Australian blood already
shed, and still to be shed, in defence of the
Empire in general and our section of it in
particular, seeing that the Trades Hall is
against conscription and unfriendly to volun-
tary recruiting. If it doesn’t invite rebellion
against the Commonwealth’s established order
of government, what does the red rag over
the Trades Hall really signify?
* * * *
It was a Melbourne slander case, ulti-
mately settled out of court. Defendant was
a large gentleman of Hibernian blood and
Melesian characteristics, and among other
things he had accused the complaining dame
of bodily uncleanliness. Excusing this asper-
sion, defendant declared : “Well, I know this.
I stayed at the hotel she was living at for
seven weeks, and in all that time never once
did I see her in the bath.”
“Dugiio”: We were digging in at a new
“possy.” A caterpillar which had drawn
up one of our big guns lumbered aside to
make room for the next crawler. On the
way it got hopelessly ditched, and, when
going for assistance, the driver took with
him some part of the magneto. Between
the “possy” and the disabled cat. our ration
lorry was halted, and as Fritz kept shelling
the narrow road the boys in charge were
anxious to get past the obstruction. Two
THE INCREASED INCREMENT.
CHAIRMAN OF WATER-SUPPLY COMMISSION: “What is the worth of your land without, a
water supply?”
OUTBACK COOKY: “Nothing!”
C.W.S.C.: “ Well, what do you think it would he worth if the Government laid on the
water ?”
O.C.: “ It'd he worth twice as much!”
hours passed and then one exclaimed, “Strike
me crimson, if yer even belt her with yer
hat long enough she orter start! What
about seeing if we can shift her?” He and
two cobbers came back an hour and a half
later disgusted. “Gorstruth,” explained
Snowy, “we tightened every nut and
turned on all the taps, but she wouldn’t
budge. Then we loosened the nuts
an’ turned orf the taps, but I’m
blanked if she’d go then!”
“Saint”: Billjim casual? Perhaps; but
the English girl he sometimes marries runs
him hard. My mate put in some time at
Horseferry-road, on light duties, and part of
his time was taken in interviewing the war
brides who sought information of missing
’grooms. He was escorting one lady to
another department across the road, when
they sighted a lonely-looking Aussie lounging
near. The lady regarded him anxiously.
“Excuse me,” she said, “but that looks like
my husband,” and she walked across for a
closer inspection. Then she slowly returned.
“No,” she said dubiously, “I don’t think
that’s him.”
* * * *
“Rough Coal”: “Briner” (B. 11/7/’18)
says that the Loch Sloy was lost on King
Island. Wrong. She was wrecked in
June, ’99, on the south-western coast of
Kangaroo Island (S.A.), all but four of her
crew being drowned. Amongst her cargo
was a considerable number of hogsheads of
Scotch, in bulk. An enterprising islander
hid a quantity in one of the caves on the
south coast, and, although they tried hard,
the Customs officers could never find his
plant. Later it was traded to some of the
pubkeepers in the Spencer Gulf ports.
“Briner” should have added the Loch Ven-
nachar to his Loch sinkings. She also
went under off the Kangaroo Island
crags. Another vessel, the French barque
Marengo was lost in the same location
with all hands. Just opposite the Kangaroo
Island coast, 30 years ago, off Port Willunga,
the Star of Greece was wrecked and all her
crew drowned excepting three. Her hulk
can still be seen about 200 yards from the
shore.
* * * *
“Chloe”: Pierre Loti, lately returned
from the Front, where he holds rank as
colonel. During his rest the distinguished
author interviewed the old Cardinal-Arch-
bishop of Rlieims, who, despite his great
age, had refused to quit his beloved cath-
edral until the military put pressure upon
him. Loti climbed a hill which gave him a
view of what was once a city. He felt
most poignantly the destruction of the
ancient place, but he found the Archbishop,
with faith unshaken, taking the Hun mad-
ness philosophically. Loti expressed sur-
prise that the Cathedral’s delicate lacework
in stone, so fine and transparent-looking
that it seemed stretched and figured vellum,
should have resisted even the concussions
resulting from bombardment at close quar-
ters. The Archbishop replied that the so-
called “lacework” was the very highest ex-
pression of the art of the architecture of
the. thirteenth century, for in spite of the
aerial and almost transparent lightness of
the spires, arches and domes, there was not
a piece of marble which had less than 30 to
60 centimetres of thickness.
* * * *
A spring poet at Bega (N.S.W.) got this
off his chest in the local Stab the other
day:—
Among the six Australian capitals (nobody
ever thinks of Canberra) Knibbs reports
that Sydney is now the most expensive to
live in, and Brisbane the cheapest. In 1910,
1911 and 1912 Perth was the dearest, then
Adelaide, then Sydney. The Ma capital took
the _ lead after that, coincidently with the
beginning of the great loan boom, and never
lost it. At the Federal metropolis there is,
of course, no fixed rate, for ’possum is
always available.
THE TEMPTRESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Heat is a sweet, seductive maid
Who melts my morals down ;
She steals my hopes, makes fears to fade,
By her is grim ambition laid;
But well I love the subtle jade
In her soft, golden gown.
Heat sings to me from out the flame
A lullaby of rest,
Calling Endeavor but a name,
Life’s eager race a madman’s game,
And pleading that it is no shame
To snuggle to her nest.
Heat kisses me with gentle lips
From blanket and from sheet;
And when the clock, with hands like whips,
Would swift me out in air that nips
She snuggles close to me and slips
A warm arm round my feet.
Heat in good steaming water sighs
With slumberous, warm glance,
And laughs at me with shining eyes
From out the rare, warm winter skies—•
Held in firm, glancing flesh she flies
And beckons me to dance.
Heat loves good fellows for her friends—
And that’s as it should be.
My taste in men on hers depends,
And, judging by the way it tends,
A jolly company when it ends
Will burn complacently.
VICTORIA.
CUTHBERT COLLINS.
BEG A TOWNSHIP.
(Dedicated to -.)
The road to Bega township is like a woman's scarf,
It is pink within the hollow and pink upon the rise.
Girl, come away! 0 come away! I want to hear
you laugh,
And I want to see the sunlight in the wonder of your
eyes.
The air of Bega township holds a hundred little
tones,
The wind is off the ranges and there’s music in its
note,
And rinkle! rinkle! rinkle! runs the river o’er the
stones;
And I want to hear an echo from the glory of your
throat!
The hills round Bega township are dotted o’er with
cows,
And there are sheep upon them, and many a brows-
ing horse;
And I wint to see the fingers of the wind upon your
blouse,
And I want to hear the rustle of your shirt amid
the gorse!
It was the thrice-accursed comp, again who
spelt skirt with an “h”! There ought to
be an open season for shooting comps.


LI— 1— Hu
Er~
Tl
Cr:
W
£Zl=;
□ rr
aSnmiu?!'
TREAD
\VE^
v3^
\>
V
A
<5
O
O
o
:". .:::. ...
CP
co
CO
x
o
s*>
If
Priia©(s ifc4
D A©is SAUDIS
Turning Magnitude into Mileage
The great Goodyear factories by
the magnitude of their output guar-
antee to you a better tyre in the
Goodyear Tyre you buy, here or
elsewhere, throughout the world.
Every economy that can be effected by reason
of great size —savings in buying, savings in
manufacture, savings in distribution —is turned
back into the product to make it better.
The result is a tyre which is flawless, and para-
mount in quality, and yet can be sold at a
moderate price—the Goodyear Tyre.
A tyre that will outserve, outlast and out-value
tyres built under less favourable conditions.
The motoring public generally has come to
appreciate the superior worth and usefulness of
Goodyear Tyres.
And the chances are that you, too, soon will be
enjoying their advantages in mileage, comfort
and economy.
For the margin of Goodyear superiority in
service is more appreciated every day.
Compare the price of the Goodyear A.W.T.
Tyre, quality for quality, with any non-skid
tyre on this Market to-day.
Buy your Goodyear Tyres, Heavy Tourist Tubes and Tyre Saver Accessories from the Goodyear Service Station. There is one in your locality.
Branches & Agencies
all Principal Cities.
Service Stations and
Dealers Everywhere.
1/S
SC
»


MCK-MYER
DIMMER
KEEP
“WITHIN
THE LAW”
by using
same.
g
dsg
dsg
/ 15/* Post Paid Anywhere.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
“ THE SECRET 9F HEALTH ”
A priceless treatise, written by a business
man who. after suffering for 25 years from
Stomach Troubles, Constipation and Nervous
Exhaustion, entirely overcame these distres-
sing maladies by simple, natural Hbme Treat-
ment without medicine, trouble or expense.
RRFF to Sufferers who send 3d. postage
* ± and this advt. to the author—
J. P. GALE, Cotham Rd., Kew, Vie. 3
Marguerite Clark.
•SSfiSb
A POPULAR PARAMOUNT ARTIST.
sdg
Marguerite Clark, the dainty, magnetic star of the screen, possesses a
charming, sweet personality that has placed her in the foremost ranks of
present-day film notabilities. Miss Clark is appearing exclusively in Para-
mount Pictures—the supreme offerings in motion pictures.
These are the trade-marks by which you can recognise Paramount and Artcraft Produc-
tions. Look for these signs in newspaper advertisements, theatre vestibule, and also on the
screen.
ill*
PARAMOUNT PICTURES
ALEC />iredo-
r and TWO, JPITT ST. 'Sydney.
*3
POLITICAL
POINTS
THE WITCHES.
“Cholera and other diseases, consequent upon
hunger, are spreading through Russia.” — Cable.
“Round about the cauldron go;
In the poison'd entrails throw.”
Macbeth, Act IV.
N. 8. Wales has a pretty fair record as a
Nark. It departed from the early agree-
ment for a uniform tariff. It built the first
border customs houses. It broke the agree-
ment for a uniform railway gauge, going
from the agreed-upon 4ft. 84in. to sft. Sin.
and going back to 4ft. Biin. when Victoria
and S.A. were fairly started on the sft. Sin.
business. It stood out of the first two or
three attempts at Federation. It refused
to join the Federal Council. Its Govern-
ment accepted and then abandoned the
Federal Constitution of 1891. It faked the
vote over the next Federal Constitution and
declared it defeated, though there was a solid
majority in its favor. It is responsible for
the Canberra capital. Likewise it is re-
sponsible for that provision by which no part
of a State may secure separation unless the
whole State consents, so that no part of
S.A. or Victoria can get away from the
bloated capital unless the bloated capital is
willing, said bloated capital having, in each
case, more than half the population. It
invented the fiscal-sinking item in the Labor
platform and used it persistently in the
importing interest. It supplied the bulk of
the anti-Australian-industry element when
the Federal tariff was revised —Reid, McMil-
lan, Bruce Smith, Pumpkin ditto, Wilks,
Fuller, Johnson, Lonsdale, Kelly, Cook.
Edwards, Conroy, Hughes, etc. It declined
to join the agreement to pool State and
Federal borrowings during the war, and it
is against the proposal to let one authority
collect State and Federal income and land
taxes. Incidentally it thinks of joining the
loan pool, provided it gets more loan money
than all the other States put together.
It may be only the exigencies of rhyme,
but South Aus. certainly gets a nasty one
in a new poem published in London, by J.
C. Squire. It deals with Lord Globule, a
hopeless fool, who was pushed by his rela-
tives into politics, lie then became more
hopeless than ever,, wandered away, and
was found in a state of nudity, a blithering
lunatic. Magistrates who did not know him
had ordered “that he should be sterilised, and
sent to permanent detention,” when his in-
fluential family connections rescued him.
What was to be done with the poor wreck
for the futureV This was the decision: —
Fate was too strong. They had to bow
Globule at Home had been a failure ;
And they could only give him now
The Governorship of South Australia.
Which was a friendly sort of thins to do!
Considering the unusually large propor-
tion of women just now, so many men being
away at the war, the N. 8. Wales Reeha-
bites have chosen a good time to propose
Prohibition by referendum, a bare majority
to decide. If the event comes off amusing
events will fall due. The Ma community will
stop between £1,500,000 and £2.000.000 of
its contribution to the
customs an d excise
revenue, and the other
States will shout very
loudly (not a long
sleever, but language)
when this burden
comes to be divided
all round. As the
Constitution prohibits
discrimination in tax
matters, N. S. Wales
can't be called upon to
make good its separate
shortage in other
ways. The only possi-
bility will be to make
all States a present of
their own liquor re-
venue and then devise
£5,000,000 a year of
direct imposts to make
the loss good. That
will be a duty of £1
per head on teetotal-
lers. so far as the Pro-
hibition regions are
concerned, for every-
body will be a teeto-
taller. This will be a
shock to a class which
has paid very little so
far. having lived at the
expense of its wet
brethren and also en-
joyed a feeling of
superiority. There will
be no superiority when
everybody is equally
on the cold-tea wag-
gon. so the dry brother
will be dragged down
from his pedestal and
become by his own act
one of the common
herd, and have a big
new tax-paper handed him to boot.
There’s nothing like being honest about it,
anyhow:—
At a meeting of the Producers’ Committee on July
23 at Melbourne the appointment of Mr. G. F. Martiii
as Assistant Prices Commissioner was questioned, and
reference was made to the fact that at the last
Tasmanian State elections he stood as an official Labor
candidate. The Minister controlling price-fixing re-
plied that he had no personal knowledge of and was
not concerned with the political antecedents of his
officers. All he knew was that Mr. Martin had proved
himself an exceedingly capable and painstaking officer
of sound and balanced judgment.— News item,.
The presumption is that G. F. Martin, having
been a Labor candidate for Parliament, might
be expected to have at heart the interests of
that section of the community which the
profit-racker has cut out for himself.
“Mustard Gold”: Robinson, Westralian
Attorney-General, blew his chest out the
other day and forecasted the starting of
new industries in his languishing State.
What W.A. wants is not experiments with
problematic enterprises, such as the manu-
facture of paper, which the voluble politi-
cian stressed, but the energetic development
of industries already in existence. Robin-
son has a vivid imagina-
tion which cools down
quickly and is hardly
taken seriously these
days. A year or so ago,
when Minister for Mines,
he made a great show of
putting fresh heart into
the mining industry, and
called all the men of note
in the business to a con-
ference in Kalgoorlie.
Much time was taken up
with windy orations from
second-hand machine r y
vendors and persons of
similar calibre, but the
conclave evolved some
valuable scheme for the
regeneration of W.A.
mining, and dispersed in
a cheerful mood to await
the promised co-operation
of the Minister in a line
of action mutually agreed
to. Since then angered
gold-hunters have been
writing letters to the
papers asking if anything
is going to be done with
the recommendations of
the conference. The
reply is silence. Follow-
ing this spasm, "Robinson
set out to rejuvenate
forestry by planting and
thickening the forest
areas of the State, and
got a staff going on the
acquisition of data relat-
ing to the subject. He
was the saviour of
W.A.'s depleting timber
asset for a short, willing
period, raising the hopes of largo numbers
of unemployed who saw work within easy
reach from the reafforestation in view. Then
came another weary slump in Ministerial
interest. The forest scheme went into the
official pigeon-hole among hundreds of other
mouldy propositions.
There is pathos in the plea of Premier
Holman, that the N. 8. Wales people should
drop the subject of his enormous increase of
expenditure, and let him go on spending
without question, because “some measure of
unity of feeling” is required to help along re-
cruiting. There is an awful lot of unity of
feeling around, but it is to the effect that
Holman needs to become quite a different
financier. In fact almost everybody is unani-
mous except Holman. Dissension is practi-
cally extinct.
“Warrego Bill’s” recommendation :
Into his 4 2 years on earth Premier Ryan of
Bananaland has crowded much experience of men and
things. Bora at Port Fairy (Vie.) in ’76) his early
days were spent amid anything but luxuriant sur-
roundings. 1-Ie first put his foot on the ladder when
at the age of 14 he won a three-years’ scholarship
to St. Francis Xavier’s College at Kew. After a
brilliant career there he transferred to the South
Melbourne College, where he became a tutor. In
subsequent years he was a classical master at the
University High School (Melb.), Wesley College
(Melb.), Church of England Grammar School (Laun-
ceston), the Maryborough Grammar School (Q.) and
the Rockhampton Grammar School (Q.). At 21 he
took his B.A. at the Melbourne University with classi-
cal honors, and three years later while at Mary-
borough he took his LL.B., establishing a record as
the first external student of the Melbourne ’Varsity
to secure honors in law. In possession of a law
degree, Ryan fondly imagined that he could start'
practising in Bananaland, but the Bar Council soon
showed him his mistake, and although he fought the
case in the Full Court he was compelled to sit for
the barristers’ final exam. He passed with honors.
In December, 1901, he was admitted to the Bar, and
quickly built up a .successful criminal and civil prac-
tice in Rockhampton. Two unsuccessful attempts to
enter politics as a democratic candidate preceded his
endorsement as Labor candidate for the Barcoo in
1909. A speedy recognition of his ability followed
his election, and he was elected as deputy-loader of
the Labor party, then in Opposition, and was pro-
moted to the leadership on the resignation of Dave
Bowman. It was then that Ryan had his great
opportunity. The hopeless Denham Government’s
Administration offered an easy front for virile
attack, and six years after his entry into politics
Ryan- became Premier. During the first three years
of office he was not only holding together a large and
unwieldy Government, but he was also fighting some
of the biggest legal actions ever heard in Australia.
His successes in the Stock Embargo, Insurance, East-
ern and Legislative Council cases certainly prove that
he developed during that period both as a lawyer
and a politician. Throughout his career he has been
sustained and fortified by a handsome, tactful, clever
wife. What the future holds for T. J. Ryan it is
difficult to forecast, but it is tolerably certain that
his claim to the leadership of the Federal Labor
party cannot be easily overlooked.
By “Solomon Malaprop” :—-
Once there was an obliging but rather demented
king who sat on his throne every day with a feather
in his hair, giving- away borrowed paper money to
anybody who asked for it. At last lie was told that
owing to his methods the finances had become embar-
rassed. Whereupon he looked surprised and said he
never knew there were any finances. Consequently
he was put into an asylum, where he amused himself
THE DOVE MARKET.
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER: “ How vould it be
to reduce, der price of der bird, sire?"
THE TRADER: “Reduce der price! Himmel ,
deg rill vant a bonus mit it!”
by borrowing £1,000,000 dailj’ from the dog at 6
per cent, and investing it in the permanent and
reproductive cat at 3 per cent., and was quite
happy. I thought of that monarch when I read of
the look of astonishment that N. S. Wales Premier
Holman wore on what he has between his ears
because his Ministry was accused of financial casual-
ness. One day recently things were looking blue.
That is to say, the State’s peace expenditure was
going up at the rate of about £1,000,000 a year,
and it was to go up another million next year,' and
every tax the Ministry could think of had been put
on, and it promised to think out some new taxes, and
a deficit was anticipated, and the public servants
weren’t getting the increments due to them, and
N. S. Wales was borrowing about eight times as
much as it did 10. years previously, and pretty
nearly all the permanent and reproductive works
were being run at a loss. Then a deputation from
Sydney University, which is as rich in endowments
and Government grants as Melbourne, Adelaide,
Hobart and Perth Universities put together (though
it doesn’t earn much more than half as much by
teaching as Melbourne Uni. alone), asked the Govern-
ment for another grant. And Minister Jimmy of the
Education Department adjusted the feather in bis
ear and said “Hooray! Certainly 1” or words to that
effect, and said that there shouldn’t be any difficulty
about finding £300,000. Yet the Holman combine
can’t see. to this day that there is anything funny
about its way of doing things.
THE GRAND INVITATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ ‘Come to me, irrespective of rank or red-tape, if
you have trouble,’ said Mr. Hughes, addressing a
party of 70 wounded, blinded and repatriated soldiers
on his lawn at Hampstead.”-— Cable.
Come to me all who suffer. No red-tape,
Rank or official status here need count.
Stay not to lace your boots, nor heed the shape
Of your wounds’ dressings. Name the whole
amount
Of war’s red sufferings in my listening ear;
Approach me without diffidence or fear.
Blind, halt and lame, come all, come all to me;
Even if whole ye need not stay away.
I care not if you got your wounds at sea,
Or if the accident occurred at. play.
Come one, come all, weary and full of care;
I often find I have an hour to spare.
Come to me if your throat is hot with thirst,
Or if your'pay-book does not come to band.
In my large sympathy the last is first; i
Draw near, 1 shall be sure to understand.
The weak and heavy-laden need not fly;
My heart can thrill to any sob or sigh.
Yes; come to me, for I am full of talk.
I talk and talk and yet will talk some more.
The tenderest lily drooping on the stalk
Stands a rapt listener when I take the floor.
To hear me win the war for our great cause!
Moves duchesses and Doormats to applause.
What's that? You have, a grievance to redress,
A wound to heal, a sorrow to regret!
Forget it. I will give a fine address
To stir you more than aught delivered yet.
In floods of eloquence that never break
I talk and talk, and this for all thy. sake.
n.s.w.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


AUSTRALIA’S FOREMOST AUTHORS
H¥Uor£ifflrEs
B96MNSER
are represented in
The “Bookstall” Series of
Australian Novels
A uniform series of novels written by Australians, printed
in Australia, for Australians.
All One Price: One Shilling Each;
Is. Id. posted.
THE IDEAL BOOKS TO SEND TO OUR SOLDIERS ON ACTIVE SERVICE.
Thousands of “Bookstall”' novels have found their way to the Australian trenches,
and th(> N S.W BOOKSTALL 00., LTD., has received many congratulatory letters
from soldiers. “Bookstall” novels breathe the life of Australia and are just the read-
ing the Diggers like for their quiet moments. Send your soldier friends the latest
“Bookstall”' novels —they will be appreciated.
Steele Rudd’s Latest Success :
“The Memoirs of Corporal Keeley.”
Corporal Keeley is an Anssac —armed to the teeth with humor.
A Few of the Most Popular Novels :
LOUIS BECKE—
“BuIIy Hayes”
“Adventures of Louis Blake”
ARTHUR WRIGHT —
“The Hate of a Hun”
“Over the Odds”
M. FORREST—
“A Bachelor’s Wife”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD—
“BiIIy Pagan”
“Silver Star”
THOS. E. SPENCER —
“That Droll Lady”
“Bindavvalla”
AMBROSE PRATT—
“Three Years with Thunderbolt”
“Wolaroi’s Cup”
E. J. BRADY—
“Tom Pagdin, Pirate”
RALPH STOCK—
“The Recipe for Rubber”
“The Pyjama Man”
Humorous Novels :
‘A Curate in Bohemia”
By NORMAN LINDS
SAY.
“Loves of Lancelot”
B.v EDWARD DYSON,
Aboriginal ities” —gems from The Bulletin’s popular page of Outback Humor.
“The Knight of the Motor Launch”
By ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
“The Sport from Hollovvlog Flat”
By ATIIUK WRIGIIT.
. . ' '
“With the Dinkums.” price ie.
The humors of the A.I.F. in 35 drawings by Private Fred Knowles—a unique volume
of Australian humor. This collection of drawings by one of the Dinkums has had
a magnificent reception from the reviewers. Thousands of copies, have already been
sold, and a second edition has been prepared. Order your copy from the nearest book-
stall or bookseller.
“Bookstall” Novels are obtainable at all bookstalls and booksellers
throughout Australia.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
•inq ‘-03 3uijnibx*jnußW pu« 3iii3ai3 asno M 3ui;s3 M MspiJg
Electric Motors
There is a Westinghouse Motor for every power application purpose.
They are built in all types and sizes —both alternating and direct current.
They are built to withstand severe service and to give maximum
efficiency at a minimum operating post.
They are remarkable for their sturdy electrical and mechanical con-
struction, and exhibit that simplicity and reliability which can only
accrue from long experience- in designing and manufacturing. we
have manufactured more than 1,500,000 hp. of motors.
The smaller sizes are characterized by that lightness and compactness
which is so very desirable where they are to be mounted as a pait
' of machine equipment.
A good —Westinghouse —motor is the only one that will enable you
to realise to the full the advantages of electric driving.
The knowledge and experience of our experts is at your service.
m
ti
mt
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Agents:
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
13 Martin Place, Sydney
Elder, Shentou & Co;, Ltd.,
Williams Street, Perth.
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.,
27-31 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Elder. Smith & Co., Ltd.,
84-8 S William Street, Melbourne.
ds
WORMS —THE SYMPTOMS.
The symptoms of worms are manifold,
embracing not only facial indications and
depression of the whole system, but serious
irritation and much distress.
IN VERY YOUNG CHILDREN much
of the irritability and fretfulness is often
due to the presence of worms. Restless-
ness, fitfulness, sudden starts,’ hardness and
fulness of the belly, irregular movement of
the bowels, and excessive secretion of saliva
from the mouth are invariably indications
of the irritation caused by worms.
IN OLDER CHILDREN.the same symp-
toms are present, but more distinctly defined.
Grinding of the teeth, violent movements of
the legs and arms, and an undue flow of
saliva, which causes frequent efforts to swal-
low. When awake there is a constant desire
to pick the nose and scratch the irritated
parts. The bowels are irregular, and fre-
quently the movement of the worms causes
diarrhoea, alternating with costiveness. Tue
breath is usually foul, and the child is lan-
guid and peevish. The tongue preternatu-
ral 11,v red or alternately clean and covered
with a white slimy mucous. A short, dry
cough, frequently slimy stools (excretion
from the bowels), emaciation, slow fever,
irregular pulse, and sometimes convulsions.
Loss of appetite frequently alternates with
a craving for food. Indeed, the latter symp-
tom is most pronounced in many cases, and
many mothers have experienced the insatiable
appetites of their children without realising-
the cause.
NEW ZEALAND CASE.
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT - ’ WORM PELLETS
SUCCESSFUL WHEN OTHER TREATMENTS
FAILED.
“Mv son,’" writes Mrs. E. J. Peagram, of
77 Princes Street. Woolston, Christchurch,
N.Z., “was induced to take Comstock’s ‘Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets after trying several other
so-called remedies but to little use. lie was
suffering with Thread Worms, and a fter a
course of this medicine (Comstock s Worm
Pellets) he was cured from these intestinal
parasites. I can recommend this medicine,
knowing myself that it cured .my son who is
now away at the Front fighting tor the
Empire.” . ,
Comstock's “Dead Shot ’ Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by all chemists and store-
keepers, price 3s. 6d. per packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price by ike
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill, Sydney; or Farish Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
WESTERN
A U S
AUSTRALIA
E
ECUADOR
PER
<
BOLIVIA
SOUTH
T R AL-
L f A
AUSTRALIA
Übuiy
°
*?/* \


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
MAKE YOUR OWN COUGH MIXTURE
with
si
Registered Name for Hean’s Essence.
The treatment of Asthma, Bronchitis, Colds, Influenza and Sore Throats calls for something
that will destroy disease germs from the throat and bronchial tubes, soothe and heal inflamed
mucous membrane, loosen phlegm, and tone up the general system. For this purpose money cannot
buy a better medicine than that a pint of which anyone may prepare in their own homes, in a
few moments, by adding HEENZO (registered name for Hean’s Essence) to warm water, and
sweetening as per easy directions supplied with each bottle. As HEENZO costs only 2/-, and a
pint of ready-made Cough Mixture would cost at least from 12/- to £l, it will be seen that a big
saving is to be effected by making your own HEENZO Cough Mixture.
The curative value of HEENZO is testified to by OVER 7000 WELL-KNOWN
AUSTRALIAN CITIZENS.
Obtainable from Most Chemists and Stores
or G. W. Hean, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
King George IV
JAIIW A WHISKY
THE TOP NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
THE WELCOME.
VISITOR (full of beer and misgivings): “But,
I shay (hic), look ’ere. Are you quite
sure your missus knowsh I’m cornin’
’ome wiv you?”
HOST: “Does she wot? It took me orl me
time to persuade ’er to LETCHER come!”
“Pharmo”: “Hoe” (B. 11/7/’18) recom-
mends, a mixture of sulphuric acid and cyanide to
kill Indian wax-scale on trees. Quite right; it will
do the trick. But a word of advice. Get someone
skilled in the use of poisons to do the job. The
fumes given off from the mixture consist of pure
hydrocyanic acid, the quickest acting poison known
to medical science. Let one get a lungful of this
powerful poison and he will die before he reaches the
ground. Not long ago a metallurgical chemist was
conducting an experiment, in which cyanide of
potassium figured, in his laboratory. An assistant
had occasion to enter the lab., and immediately on
opening the door collapsed in .the doorway. Another
employee pulled him into the open air, dashed into
the lab. and opened the window. The life of the
assistant was saved, but the man conducting the
experiment was dead—and he had considerable
experience in chemistry. Of course the risk is
lessened in the open air, but it is advisable not
to monkey round with such an exceedingly toxic
article.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: I disagree with “Merrigal” (B.
4/7/’18) that “tomingley” means death-adder, in
Binghi s language. If “Merrigal” is referring to
the place near Peak Hill (N.S.W.), it was ealled
(according, to the oldest inhabitant) after Tom
Ingley, one of the early settlers. The formation of
the word has no aboriginal characteristics. It is,
as said by; a recent Abo. writer, fairly easy to find
the meanings of native place-names if one under-
stands the terminals, or the root syllable. Even so,
this holds good only in the case of words belonging
to their peculiar districts, for it is well known that
the blacks in one lowri were not conversant, or only
slightly sex, with the dialect of those in the next';
though “btmda,” a kangaroo, and words very much
akin to it have a great range. A lowri is the district
hunted and fished over by a tribe, and has certain
well-definedi boundaries. In the North-West the
terminal “bri” has usually something to do with
water, though “colly” is the word for water, as
water. Hence we have Narrabri, place where the
river forks (not joins, be it noted) ; Collarendabri,
place of the water-flower; Boggabri is the native
spinach which grows on the river banks. Then we
get Colly-mongle, water spiders. It is said the
blacks never made a mistake in the appropriateness
of their names: could anything be more apt than
“Eugeela-geela” (why do you weep?), or “Minya-
intha-eigilona” (what are you crying for?) for
waterfalls? Or “Cootapatamba” (where eagles
drink), for the lake on Kosciusko? Following are
some of Binghi’s names for our birds (N.W. Lowri) :
did-jeenboah, soldier-bird; booragoh-booragoh, mag-
pie ; billy-jool-bullagolandi, the little sgnd-snipe;
barl-durradurra, plover ; guinblegubbin, plain turkey;
wirralah, scrub turkey; wargin, crow; dini-win,
emu; bunda-gwoi-narrojee, a little bird that drank
the kangaroo’s blood (a legend) ; thurulgoona (Q.), a
turkey camping-place. “Muneen,” a boy, and
“munarn,” a girl, sound almost Irish in their
caressing softness. Birri is a “little” boy, and
ltyangle a “little” girl. Uri, the sun; gilli, moon;
and mirri, star ; are pretty enough. In other parts
of N. S. Wales you find, on Monaro, “Bombala”
(two streams meet), “Coolamatong” (water 1 by a
big hill) and farther out, Dandalup (a watering
place). Parramatta should be Barramatta—where
eels sit down (i.e. live and thrive). Kogarah is a
corruption of Coggara, or Caggara (porcupine).
Mandamah, towards the south, and Bundarra, to the
north of the State, both mean plenty kangaroo, and
currawudgeon is plenty ’possum.
* * * *
“87” : It’s wonderful how a horse knows
danger in the firing-line. During a recent push in
Palestine my horse, for instance, understood exactly
the difference between a shell coming over and one
likely to land anywhere "near our lines. When the
buzzing of a Taube’s engines lias been heard in the
distance I’ve known prads to stampede and race for
miles before they halted. But when the machine
disappeared they turned back. I’ve patrolled close
to Turkish positions on dark nights, and although
there has been no sign of a hidden enemy my horse
has suddenly reared, and the next second a shot from
a nearby bush or cactus-grove has rang out. Many a
Light Horseman owes his life to this strange instinct
amongst the hoofed Australians.
* * * *
“Silas Snell”; My excellent progenitor
tells me of the most improbable happening in his
wild career. He had a mate named Hind on Forest
Creek in the Roaring, Days. Hind- was a Devonshire
aristocrat who had been a terrific fox-hunter and a
fierce destroyer of partridges. He had brought a
gorgeous kit to the diggings, and when not employed
gouging the bowels of Mother Earth' for hunks of
raw gold he was out with a gun. One night he
went from the tent alone to hunt ’possums. He
returned an hour later, white as death, with a
moving tale of the shooting of a man. The immi-
grant was half wild with terror. He saw himself
hanging. It appeared that he had fired at a native-
cat in a gum, had heard a terrific thud, and running
to inspect his prey had found a man lying dead
in the moonlight. My dad went with Hind and
they found the body—but it had been 30 hours
stiff. All Hind had done to lay the stranger low
was to shoot through the rope on which the native-
cat was crawling—the rope with which deceased had
hanged himself.
* * * *
“Melos”: “Terry Ily Hie” (B. 27/6/’18),
in referring to the high death-rate among bees in
the Inverell (N.S.W.) district, says that the trouble
is attributed to tree-poisoning by the State on a
settlement area. Judging by my observations on the
North Coast, I am of opinion that starvation is the
cause of the mortality. Last year we had a very
large rainfall and more than the average during
the early part of this, with the result that the nectar
in our flowers was largely depleted, thus creating
a serious shortage of bee food. On such occasions
the stronger honeymakers Vob the hives of their
weaker brothers, thereby starving them. It’s a
case of the survival of the fittest thief.
THE DAYLIGHTHAVING CRAZE.
COCKY (to new hand, at J f a.m.): “Hout y' get, y' lazy 'ound! ’Ere, it's four o’clock; in
'nother ’our it’ll be five, 'nother six, an’ the day after ter-morrer’s Wen’s die —
’arf the week gorn an’ you in bed.”
“H.V.E.” : '*l shifted warts simply by rub-
bing them diligently with the inside of broad-bean
pods after acetic acid, a somewhat painful remedy,
had failed. This cure ought to remove corns. The
next best remedy for warts is the nitrate-of-silver
pencil. In this case the caustic substance will travel
some distance from the wart and appear elsewhere
beneath the skin, but the blue-black stain soon dis-
appears. While I’m at it here’s an effective cold
cure. One tablespoonful honey (the “garden” variety
is best), one ditto good brandy or whisky, one
ditto strong vinegar. Emulsionise, take a couple of
teaspoonsfuls, and thenceforward have another 'little
drink every three or four hours.
“D.F.” : The Tasmanian “tiger” ( thy lac-
inus) seems in a fair way to become as extinct as
the Tassy emu or the “boomer” or “forester” kan-
garoo, whose former existence in the island is re-
called only by a few stray place-names. In the
back districts of eastern Tasmania, where the “tiger”
was common enough 25 years ago, owing to its taste
for mutton, it is now utterly unknown. It still survives
in some of the western regions, such as the country
back of Tyenna or beyond the Arthur River, which
are still outside the limits of settlement. A good
healthy “tiger” is, or was before the war upset the
market, worth anything up to £2O as a Zoo speci-
men.
* * * *
“Caerleon”: The Abo. who relates that he
had a male paw-paw which he induced to bear
female flowers by driving a nail into the stem
ought to set up in business with the device and then
go bankrupt. I have been growing these plants for
over 30 years, and I claim to have put in the first
in the North Coast district. Thirty years ago
I grew a few near Brisbane. I had no male plant
and people told me the others would not bear. Yet
two trees were loaded, and I found that the
flowers were hermaphrodite (a perfect flower), having
the necessary organs for reproduction. Of late years,
due to intense cultivation, perhaps, the long
panicles have borne a much larger number of odd
female flowers. In my case, and I have a dozen*
trees near where I write, the long sprays have in
some cases one to three fruit hanging on like a
small cucumber. These interesting plants belong to
the passion-fruit family. The trees can be male,
female, hermaphrodite and (some) bi-sexual. I am
told that in the islands the natives sometimes use
the tomahawk on the stems a little when they do
not bear, as happens in very rich land.
“L.S.”: Two bu lloekies went into the
township to get well shickered. They succeeded.
Each man was fuller than the other. In going and
coming they had to cross a creek over which was
a narrow bridge. Returning home the moon was
well up. No. 1 bullocky crossed all right and
then turned to look for his mate. As he could not
see him, he thought that George must have fallen
into the creek. He called out, ‘‘George, where the
HE NEVER THOUGHT OF THAT.
MOTORIST: “Pardon me, sir, but this is not a
taxi."
h—l are you?” George gurgled, “I don’t know
where the h—-1 I am, but I’m somewhere above the
moon.” That orb’s reflection in the creek had him
beaten. He was lying on his stomach and holding
on like grim death.
(Continued on page 24. )
THE DROVER OF THE STARS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Tis little I care for earth's kings,
Its emperors, sultans and czars,
As I lie in the darkness and dream
All alone with- my sheep and the stars.
For as dust of the moment are they,
Now agleam and now still on earth’s' hreast;
But the stars, spreading wide in the night,
Travel on, ever on -to the west.
My sheep, snugly camped in the dark,
Misty-white with the pale grasses blend;
But where is the camp of the stai’s?
And whither 0 Night, do they wend ?
Through leagues of dry distance we Came,
Where dust-wreaths, wind-woven, upcurled,
Since Dawn lowered the rails of the east
And let the Day into our world.
Slow moving we travelled the plains,
Trudging on through the sun and the wind,
Till Day galloped out of the west,
And Night set the sliprails behind.
And now, by my camp-fire alone,
A tryst with pale Wonder I keep—
That mystical Lady of Dreams,
Whose hour is the sleep-of-the-sheep.
Foot-tired in the grasses they lie,
Mist-pale in the darkness and dumb;
Yet who was it mustered the stars,
And whence and what leagues have they come?
Who keeps them from straying apart?
Who urges them straight on their route?
No answer—none tell me; and lo !
The Night, though it listens, is mute!
I know but the stars of the Cross,
Orion, and Venus and Mars ;
I am hut a drover of sheep—
But who is the Drover of Stars?
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


MURDOCH’S
NEW SEASON’S SUITINGS
at
Suit to
Measure
offer you economy with
distinction.
Economy, because our experience, our know-
ledge, our organisation, enable us to assuie
the highest standard of value at moderate
prices. Distinction, because our tailoring
begins with merit and adds that attractiveness
to the appearance which every man desires.
Our policy of “Satisfaction or money re-
funded” prevents the possibility of disappoint-
ment.
Let us have your
Order To=day.
Our splendid range of New Season’s Tweeds,
Australian, English and Scotch Suitings, in
latest patterns and shadings, gives you a wide
choice.
Call and make your selection, or write for
bunch of patterns. Fill in the coupon.
Desk R.
Messrs. MURDOCH'S IN PARK STREET,
LTD., SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of New Season's
Suitings at 70/- Suit-to-Mensure, with tape
and self-measurement form.
Name
Address
MURDOCH’S
in Park St. Ltd., Sydney
“Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.”
*T7
m
i- - : ••****».;
t i mm
ACTION
WATCH THE
%
y im
LYDE-STROKE
JATS THE
GOES
U».
ma
EVERMORE
e
STROPPEK
TlieEvermore
is not an ordin-
ary stropper.
Its unique Sbyde
Stroke action
enables you to
sharpen any
cr safety
with
the skill of an ex-
perienced barber
® ce 7sA
If UNPROCURABLE WRITE TO PARTRIDGE AGENCIES LTD
Box 1003 G. P.O. Sydney, or Box W G.P.O. Auckland N.Z.
Inclusive of adapters
lort/ies/iajpemngj cf
anysd&y-rayorVade
swpje ordouUetdfed
uLA ncwi dhjaH&i fc (fofflpnAftiatZ ifc
BOYS’
«■
SUIT
Al
IN FOX’S ROUGH
SERGES (Fast-Dye)
Cut and Tailored throughout in
The Leviathan Workrooms.
Al. —“Military” Suit —Smart 2-garment style (as illustrated), in Fox’s Rough
Indigo Serge—color guaranteed fast by Fox Bros, and ourselves. Coat has
half-belt and vent at back. Sizes sto 8, for boys 7to 10 years 40/-^
Sizes 0 to 14, for boys 11 to 16 years 42/6
A 2 Suit —Style as shown. Collar of coat may be buttoned to neck
if desired (see inset). ' Splendidly tailored in Fox’s guaranteed Navy Serge.
Sizes 5 to 8, for boys 7 to 10
Sizes 9 to 14, for boys 11 to 16 years 47/6
A3.—“Rugby” Suit —ln Fox’s fast-dye Indigo Serge. The Coat, Vest and
Trousers'of this style are splendidly cut and correctly finished. Sizes 9to
14, for boys 11 to 16 years , 47/6
All the above Suits may also be had with Knickers buttoning at knees.
Price 2/6 extra.
A 4 3-garment Sac Suit (as illustrated), in Fox’s Rough Navy Serge
(Fast Indigo Dye). Sizes 1 to 24 07/b
rx
ORDER BY POST.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
■ T**
Leviathan
Cor. Swanston & Bourke Streets, Melbourne.
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(H.Z. 3/•)
o
10-inch
double-
sided
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/.)
SOME SPLENDID REGAL RECORDS
All AT 2/6 EACH.
G 6869
S Australia Will Be There
| When the War Is Over, Maggie
Harrison * Latimer, baritone.
Harrison Latimer, baritone.
G 6931
J Goodbye. Virginia
( Come Over to Dover .....
S. Ash & Quartette.
Campbell & Gillette.
C-6817
f Are We Downhearted? No Harrison Latimer, baritone.
(Bravo! Territorials Harrison Latimer, bant n .
G 6874
| Jerry Jinks —Scallywag-
\ Jerry Jinks —Scallywag, Part 2
Descriptive.
Descriptive.
06899
(Australasian March * Wingate’s Prize Band.
I Egyptian March > Wingate’s Prize Band.
07248
Pack Up Your
All the Boys in
Troubles; - F. W. Ramsey,
Khaki Get the Nice 'Girls F. W. Ramsey,
baritone
baritone
G 7214
F.W. Ramsey, baritone.
F. W. Ramsey, baritone.
-
j Somewhere in France
| When I Reave the World Behind ..
G 7318
fin an Old Fashioned Town Eric Randolph, tenor.
[ When You Come Hozne - Er ic Randolph, tenoi.
G 7407
Down Where the Sv/anee River Mows
Hoiv She Could Yaeki, Hacki ........
T revor & Thompson.
T revor & Thompson.
G 7175
f Till the Santis of the Desert Grow Cold
l When the Joy Bells Ring: ~...
Stanley - Kirkby, baritone.
Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
G 7167
( Mother Machree Win. Tliiomas Quartette.
1 Sweetest Story Ever Told 'William Thomas.
G 7333
(Island of Dreams • ’ Eric Randolph, tenoi.
}I Know a Lovely Garden .... Eric Randolph, tenor.
G 7353
J Love’s Garden of Roses
i My Sweetheart When a Boy
Eric Randolph, tenor
Eric Randolph, tenor
C 7:594)
Songs the Boys are Singing, Part 1
Songs the Boys are Singing, Part**2
Silver Stars Band.
Silver Stars Band.
G 7414
J Hold the Fort
\ In the Sweet Bye-and-Bye
t
Temple Quartette.
Temple Quartette.
G 1894
S Down Home in Tennessee ..!.
) Just a Few Fusiliers
Geo. H. Elliott.
Geo. \H. Elliott.
G 7270
S Boys of the Dardanelles March
1 High School Cadets March ...
Band of H.M. Scots Guards.
Band of H.M. Scots Guards.
d-
G 7415
S Poor Butterfly i ..
I For Me and My Gal ...... ; -• • •
~.. F. W. Ramsey,
F. W. Ramsey,
baritone.
baritone.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS—
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd,., Daking Ho use, Rawson Place.
MELBOtRNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Qjieen (Street.
ADEI-AIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd.. 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Areal le.
AUCKLAND. N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, J,td„ Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunger, Lt( 1., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Wefoley Sons & ‘Gofton,,,Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


I' :\"4a
r
•v
s
I
r
v)
’Tis foolish to neglect a cold
And give it time to take firm hold:
The first mild symptoms, if they spread,
May mean a weary week in bed.
The folk who suffer least are they
Who seek relief without delay ;
And such, relief is always sure.
When sought in Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure,
—Advt.
Wonderful Poultry Food.
That is how Mr. T. V. Hastings, Alice Street, Grafton, describes our Meal in letter dated 13/3/TS.
He says:—
h rrH 3 e , mmm of illf /oducint, at least 3001 b. of that WONDERFUL MEAL to my Poultry.
tin she,l thr 90lt In a T Pen ° L- Wer S (l o n n for the season («* 1 thought), but by the time I had
finished the 301 b. bag 1 teas getting ?, 8, 9 and 10 a day
Ira
Meggitt’s Unseed Oil Meal
will maintain your egg yield and the
stamina of your flock at minimum cost.
Pamphlet No. 2, instructing how to feed, mailed free.
and Co Ct Quien S Street Ramsay Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne; R. S. Exton
“ h'E; 'or ‘ S '" e *' r "*"- »**“*• «•**“» «<'- Adelaide;
MEGGITT LIMITED
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil
Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
PNSEED«IME<!
I
The Boy oji the Bag
guarantees quality.
“Horizontal Joe”: “Eme” (B. 20/6/’18).
mentions living dined on eagle-hawk. lias he
e-ver sampled cormorant? Our camp tucker petered
out on one occasion at Lake St. Clair (Tas.), where
we were marooned by bad weather. Whilst looking
for more dainty game near the Derwent River several
cormorants were bagged, and we lived on the flesh for
some days. Contrary to expectations, when boiled
the fare was tender and toothsome, though slightly
fishj'. But the camp dog wasn’t having any—he
preferred starvation. Hedgehog is another fill-billy
that I have often enjoyed. Recipe: First pink your
prielde-back, skin and gut, roll into ball, enclose
in clay jacket, cook in hot ashes, remove jacket and
serve, it almost beats sucking-pig for delicacy of
flavor.
* * » #
“Shepherd”: For his size the male blue-
wren is one of Australia’s most remarkable birds
iu many ways. The blue bead, blue and black back
and the long black tail make* him very conspicuous.
Is early every boy and girl of Eastern Australia know
the chirp of the “cocktail.” He is a voracious
eater; beetles, moths, caterpillars and almost every
insect all look alike to the little gourmand, and he
would just as soon fight for his tucker as not. For
the first year of his life the male is exactly like
the female in plumage, but the black and blue
come after the first moult. The nest is built
at the end of July. It is a dome-shaped
structure, with the upper end overhanging a narrow
entrance at the side, and built of bark. and grass,
lined with feathers. it is usually composed in
shrubs near the ground, prickly hedges or briars.
Three or four white eggs spotted with pale red are
usually laid, and the birds are such persistent
breeders that the lady will lay again till a brood is
hatched even if the nest is robbed several times.
FUTILE EFFORT.
“Your wife goes around saying she made a man of you. You never hear my wife saying
that about me.”
“No; but Eve heard her say she had tried to.”
“Kell B. : Whether “Aneb” can. “break”
a colt or no, he certainly writes like a liorsebreaker
in that he shows all that wild man’s jealous antipathy
for a horseman with “ideas.” I have tested and
1 ejected many ideas until I discovered one which
enables me to give a colt his primary education with-
out breaking ’ it at all. “Aneb’s” contention in
Ihe Bulletin that a colt’s education doesn’t begin
until he has been (1) handled for three days, and
(2) broken for a fortnight, is quite true so far as
the old routine is concerned, but let me assert that
1 begin to educate a colt from the first hour. I
don't confuse him with the old atrocities for a fort-
night before I begin. The fact that men like
“Aneb” have to spend a fortnight “breaking” before
they are able to even start a horse’s education only
shows what a clumsy, unscientific business they are
engaged on. My system enables me to educate a
colt under fair conditions, without causing him to
lose any flesh. The average colt is left under the
old system poor, dejected and dull-eyed. As for
“showmen’s gear,” let “Aneb” name the gear he
uses without a crush, and if mine is not less by
one-lialf I’ll eat it. But, anyhow, what is there
against “Aneb” and I giving the Red Cross a lift
by a competition? The R.A.S. would lend its
grounds. Let practical horsebreeders judge, and
say by which system they would elect to have their
own youngsters handled.
* * * *
“Te Whare” : Don’t think either the Cali-
fornian quail, or the common English pheasant have
ever multiplied much when turned loose in N. S.
Wales. A few of the former beautiful birds were
turned out on Kaineruka estate, Bega district, about
three decades ago, but the smellful native cat, 1
think, eventually exterminated the lot. I have flushed
these quail occasionally in damp well-grassed
gullies. Some pheasants which were also liberated,
and which rocketed occasionally from among the
corn-crops, soon disappeared. The native cat is now
practically extinct in this quarter, but the im-
ported fox has taken its place, and is even a worse
enemy to birds which breed on the ground than the
highly-perfumed dasyure. Late Robert Tooth was, il
think, responsible for the experiment with Californian
quail and pheasants.
* * * *
"Jay Pay” : Seems to me that “Batley” is
in error when he contributed the information that
possibly the disease affecting the prads in the
Solomons is a dermatitis produced by roundworms.
Horsemen here in the North and in Central Queens-
land give a unanimous vote for leeches as the
caiise of swamp cancer. As to curative measures,
removal from swampy ground and putting on hard
feed for a time will tend to lessen the size of the
lesions considerably. Cauterising the lesions with
a firing-iron after powdering on arsenic will go a
long way to removing the ulcers and leave nothing
but a scar.
THE PACE AGAIN.
FIRST PUNTER: “Broken Doll walks home.”
SECOND DITTO: “So do I. So do I!"
“J.G.”: A cheap recipe for healing all in-
juries and festering? sores: Equal, quantities ot'
vaseline, resin ami eucalyptus oil, slowly melted
together. I back this against any other ointment in
existence.
*'■**'*
L.L.”; So many of our wild birds
become thoroughly tame when accustomed to man
that it surprises me to see the number of cages
prisoning canaries, finches, etc., and perches for
chaining cockatoos. In my wandering I’ve tamed
or seen tamed birds that at first wouldn’t come with-
in coo-ee, yet later none of them were robbed of their
liberty. In a mallee survey camp (N.W. Vic.) two
young eagles were kept tame and at liberty. They
would fly off for hours and return for tucker. In
the Bui nett (Q.) I had many quiet “wild” mates.
Chief of these was a large black-throated butcher-bird
—our unrivalled songster. He robbed the house of
pins and other bright objects, skivied the poultry and
became a nuisance. A family qf grey jumpers would
eat from my hand ; but they are rowdy, cackling
birds for pets. One strange wild-bird pet I saw
in West Victoria was a straw-necked ibis. He fed
with the domestic fowls daily, and even after being
away for one nesting season' returned to tucker
with the hens. In my present abode in S.W. Vic-
toria my tamest friends are the harmonious thripdi,
a family of blue wrens, and some brown fly-eaters.
These wee wrens hop in and out the house after
crumbs and pursue ’skeeters on the window-panes. We
used to feed some ’burras daily, but a wild winter
storm killed them or blew them clear away. If
anyone wishes to sell me a caged canary I sav
—well never ‘mind what I say.
* * * *
“Eddyson”: Parker told the story. He
thought it an excellent joke. “Afore the lode was
developed here at Pigweed,” said he, “there was a
fam’ly name iv Titmarch livin’ on that land what’s
now the Euchre Pack lease. Titmarch was a
little bull-ant iv a man, no higher-n yer elber,
’n he had a scrap iv a wife six stone six, ’n’
four sons, all big, hefty devils. Ole Ned Titmarch
was one iv them sorter fellers what’s alwuz breathin’
’ard. Energetic he was, ’n’ all fer wheat. There was
nothin’ round abouts fer lads t’ do apart from farm-
in , so ole Ned had it all pretty well his own way
with the boys, till Seabrook found the Pigweed reef.
In two shakes there was mines dotted down all over
the place, ’n’ the Titmarch boys finds themselves in
demand at eight bob a eight-hour shift, which was
next door to Heaven aftsr 14 hours a day fer nothin’
much paid irregular. Well, the boys went on at the
Grecian Bend. Ole Ned took it bad. He used to get
a nip ’n’ a half iv whisky in, ’n’ come ragin’ down
to the mine. He’d hang over the mouth iv the
shaft ’n’ howl down fer his sons to come up ’n’ have
their backs broke, ’n’ get back to honest Christian
work. He’d even jump on the rope ’n’ slide down
’n’ have fightin’ interviews with his boys in a drive.
Of course this was a nuisance to the Titmarch boys,
but the other men enjoyed it, ’n’ would kid ole Ned,
’n’ egg him on, till he went squealin’ for that rope
monkeywise ’n’ skidded down into the darkness,
shootin’ off howls ’n’ cui’ses, ’n’ clamorin’ about his
farm goin’ t’ i'uin. He come along- one evenin’ when
the boys was on four-o’clock shift, with a nip more
whisky than usual, ’n’ he was bellowin’ about gettin’
them boys back if he had to pull the mine inside
out to do it. He hopped, ’n’ he howled, V the lads
put it to him he was a ill-used man ’n’ a blighted
father ; ’n’ skippin’ ’n’ jumpin’ Teddy went fer the
shaft again, sprang at the rope like a wild spider, ’n’
went to the bottom. It was the fun of the world.
You see, they’d drawed the bucket up to the pulleys,
and there wasn’t any rope there l”
“Hawkesbnry” : Within 30 miles of George-
st.reet, Sydney, in the virgin bush, if you
know where to look, are marsupial mice, platypus,
bandicoots, wallaroos, wallabies, ’possums, native
cats, flying squirrels and foxes, lyre-birds, eagles,
black and white cockatoos, an owl the size of a
sparrow and another the size of a rooster arid -H score
of varieties of the beautiful honey-suckers with their
long curved bills, some no larger than a thimble.
Nine pairs of birds build on the vine on my verandah;'
a blue thrush flies on to my breakfast-table for
crumbs. The less familiar robin comes only to the
doorstep. But for hide, Jacky Winter takes the
worm flies right under my hand while lam chipping
trees, and selects something I cannot see from the
sod just turned up. He won’t look at the grubs I
throw him. For swank go nap on Willie Wagtail, in
his dress-suit of, glossy- black and a freshly-troned-
white shirt. The way he flirts his tail beats a Block
flapper. The curse in this rural menagerie is the
ant—red, blue, black, green, white, sugar, meat and
plain blanky. Millions, billions; the country
swarms with them. They are more numerous than
the sins of our fathers.
* * * *
From Henry Fletcher, Riverstone (N.S.W.) :
Does anyone want a lemon vine? One specimen of
mine has acquired the mistletoe form of growth,
a bunch of streaming vines hanging downwards.
The tree preserves its citrus character in every
other respect, and bears good fruit on the'-streamers.
The Government Fruit inspector could not believe
Ins eyes when he saw it. Stocks budded from these
streamers should produce citrus lemon-vines. In
the season I will supply free wood to any qualified
experimenter.
THE PRODIGAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Back to the sugar again, boys,
I'm back to the sugar again.
I swore just last crushing I'd never come back
As I swung up my bluey and took to the track ;
But I’ve wandered my fill and I’ve done in my
whack,
And I’m weary of mountain and plain.
So I m back to the sugar again,
Back where the laden punts lazily ride,
Swaying along on the breast of the tide,
Back to the damp and the rain,
The treacle, megass and the cane.
I haven’t a stiver, my pockets are bare ;
But I haven’t a worry, 1 haven’t a care,
For I'm back to the sugar again!
QUEENSLAND.
D. 11.35.


0W
#1
m
€>
m
m
A
»
V
a**
im
»:£
m
mm
ynsfiv
mm
Si
!ig
S&s
&
gP&
IS3
$
/7,
s':**
:(/ ?=? --£ -;^v.
When You Buy Tyres
for your car there is one certain way of
obtaining Tyre satisfaction—plus economical
running—and that is to specify ..
DUNLOP
TYRES
You thus get highest quality-both in materials
and workmanship—maximum strength, owing
to extra thick high grade casing, and most
important of all, that satisfactory service which
has won for “Dunlops” the continuous support
of the majority of motorists in this country.
There’s not the slightest doubt that “ Dunlops ”
represent the highest average of Tyre Quality
and Tyre Mileage yet attained, and Motorists
know and appreciate the fact. Our increasing
sales, despite practical cessation of importation
of new cars, substantiates this. It’s not the
achievement of a few tyres but the average
behaviour of the tens of thousands of “Dunlops”
sold in this country annually (equal to all the
other makes of tyres put together) that counts
and influences our sales. Our aim has always
been to produce the best average tyre on the
market, and our success in doing so is beyond
dispute. They are made in Australia by
Australian workmen, and cost you less to buy
and less per running mile than any imported
tyre. Follow the majority—they know. Use
“Dunlops”—it’s profitable and patriotic.
{JxLdj
A
t
Trade Mark
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
Pioneers of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry
ALL STATES AND N.Z.


School Children
are very liable to catcb
cold. They have to
go in all weathers
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the riat from infection-especially when 'P ldem '“
Whooping Cough, Measles, Diphtheria, Inflnenaa, etc., are aboot.
Mothers of School Boys and Girl, however can he always fREE
of ANXIETY if they havo a bottle of
Heames
Bronchitis
Cure =
in the house, as one dose of this Medicine at the
first indication of a “cold will at once nip in the
bud” what might otherwise proje to be a serious
illness. Cork the bottle up—the rest will keep.
For Coughs, Croup,
Golds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG, VICTORIA,
Sydney. N.S.W.. Wellington, N.Z.
4/6
Double
Size
2/6
m
m
M
U
w
JL
B
—»
* '■CT
rx
■as
\
Vi
J
27
3%
12.
CUl«tjtCV-)H1Tl» ~
The Inky Way
“Taffv”: Before lie got his new name with
a handle to it, the late Lord Rhondda was
iust David Alfred Thomas, and real Welsh.
He was on the Lusitania when she was
torpedoed, and when the news came through
a newspaper hurried out with a contents
bill emblazoned: —
THE LOST LUSITANIA.
TERRIBLE DISASTER.
D. A. THOMAS SAVED.
“Wheat Belt” : Charlie Ross, the Missouri
CD.S.) youth who spent a year’s University
vacation as a sub-editor of Melb. Herald,
has now pulled down one of the plums of the
profession in the land of the wooden ham.
When he returned home last year he was
asked to contribute articles to the St. Louis
Post-Despatch, which liked his work so
well that it has now appointed him its Wash-
ington correspondent at a salary which even
the editor of a Great Australian Daily would
THE BOTTLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He sat red-eyed. There stood his life-long foe.
The bottle, black, derisive, glared
With sparkling eyes upon the poet’s woe.
It recked not, and had never spared.
His face was pale, and hollow was his cheek;
The clothes he wore were thin and old.
He ope’d his lips his bitterness to speak:
“Thy dreadful work, oh, imp, behold!
“For I was strong and young when first this hand
Embraced that bulk grotesque of thine;
I could before the congregation stand
In dignity, and love was mine.
“My heart was strong, my hope was high as God s
Red stars, but with thy poison’s aid
Malignant fates have beaten me with rods,
And I am eld and sore afraid.
“My wife has known of life the hard and rough,
The dulness and the darkness cold;
Has. had the little less than quite enough
Which makes us sour and old.
“My children scamper in the lanes, and play
In gutters, brats unkempt, uncouth.
The dustman is a king to me. Away,
Destroyer of my darling youth!”
He hurled the bottle. Crashed to fragments then
It leaked its fluid in the sink.
’Fore Heaven pledged to be a man with men,
A hapless bard swore off —the ink!
VICTORIA.
SILAS.
A Satchel of Books
The Bulwarks of Peace, by Heber Hart, K.C., is
an honest kind of book and well printed. It con-
tains many truisms, many platitudes, and almost
everything that almost everybody knew before, tor
instance, Mr. Hart states of a hypothetical savage
that “however fierce in disposition and prone to
violence he might be, he would be slow to indulge
in wanton and open aggression upon a party obvi-
ously superior to himself in fighting strength.” In
other words, the small man doesn’t generally hit
the big one unless he can rush at him unawares and
butt him in the stomach. He mentions that “States
are great corporations of which the members are
human beings”—human beings, let it be observed,
not alligators. The growth of law is illustrated
something after this fashion, but in more dignified
language: A nudfe person with large feet leaves
his tracks on the grass. Other people with feet of
various sizes follow, either because the first tracks
are a sort of landmark or because they hope to
overtake and eat the first person. Gradually a path
is formed and recognised by custom. It grows wider
through more feet and becomes a road, and
when someone wants to take it for his own sole use
accumulated custom prevents him. Then the original
footprints are recognised by law. If they extend
far enough they may be recognised by international
law. The writer also points out firmly that State
boundaries can’t be permanently fixed because if the
people on one side of the line increase much faster
than those of the other they complain of overcrowding
and slop across the line. That when various small
races are in the same State with a big one, the big
one often becomes bumptious and the small ones
peeved. That differences of religion, language,
habits and tradition frequently lead to grumpiness.
That the big race may remain bumptious, after its
size has departed, and then the growing small ones
have a craving to hit it in the eye. That arbitra-
tion is a grand idea, but that the arbitrators often
have no means of enforcing their decisions and
wouldn’t spend their substance on the job in any
case. That the eight Great Powers (six in Europe,
one in Asia and one in America) run the show and
tread on the Small Powers, by giving them the
glassy eye, consequently Bolivia, even if it had
a legitimate grievance against, say, Japan,
wouldn’t be allowed to wallop and annex that State
without interference. Also that wars shouldn’t be
but are. There are other honest and humane propo-
sitions too numerous to be mentioned. (Methuen
and Co., London, publishers.)
A profoundly fascinating book is Pencil Speakings
from Peking, by A. E. Grantham. The title fits,
for A.E.G. is an artist in words. There are'splashes
of history in the book, but it doesn’t profess to
be a solid consecutive history; the splashes come
in by accident, and they are intensely picturesque.
In the main the 295 pages constitute a series of visions
of China—old China, mediaeval China, newer China,
newest and rather shoddy China, free China, con-
quered China, broken China. And the writer s conten-
tion is that there once was a China worth living in,
before it was degraded by subjection to coarse un-
lettered, big-footed communities, just as there were
once a Persia and a Macedonia and an Egypt the
citizen whereof put the name of his country on his
carpet-bag when travelling to show that he belonged
to the proud race on top of things. He makes so
good a case that one is half inclined to say, like
Agrippa, “Almost thou persuadest me to be a Chow
—a Chow, that is, of Agrippa’s day, which wasnt
yesterday by any means. The meritorious work is
disfigured by one curious anomaly; over and over
again the names of Jenghis Khan and Napoleon are
coupled together as types. Certainly they were
both inflated conquerors. But between the illiterate
and gorilla-minded Tartar destructiomst and the
great Italian builder, organiser and lawgiver—it
might almost be said liberator—there is a gulf
that no cantilever or other bridge could span.
Possibly Napoleon was rude to A. E, Grantham in a
previous incarnation. Some justly severe remarks
about Marco Polo, the looting Venetian globe-
trotter and author, help to make amends. (George
Allen and Unwin Ltd., London, publishers.)
The Heart of Alsace, by Benjamin Vallotton (pub-
lished by William Heinemann, London), is a book
which ought to be more interesting than it is. The
writer gives the impression that he knows Alsace by
heart —the province which the Hun stole • from
France 47 years ago, and which is still as French in
its inmost soul as it was when the incompetent
Second Empire fooled it away. Perhaps it is even
more French, for 47 years of Hun kultur is a
wonderful education in the value of things that are
not Hun. Mr. V allotton has a great feeling
for the scenery and the traditions and. the soul of
the Lost Province. His book is a chronicle of small
daily beer in the sense that the Hun s rule is. small
beer, when it is peace-time and he is governing an
alien people for whom he is really sorry because
they are incapable of understanding his god-like
qualities. So by 19,227 by-laws and 22,315 regu-
lations he seeks to guide them in the true path.
His all-seeing but fish-like eye is everywhere for
things that are un-German; his large solid boots
tramp everywhere; his official chest is the size of a
Saratoga trunk. Firmly but not very. unkindly, for
the place is a backwash town, and it is peace time,
the inspector overhauls the private study where two
boys are educated by a private tutor, to see that
their accent doesn’t evince too much 1 rench and
too little Hun training, disapproves of the map of
France on the wall, of the bust of Joan of Arc, of
the inability to recite the names of all the German
emperors, and the lack of information about the
products of German Africa. His report prescribes a
more complete course of Hun instruction. The Hun
flags hung out on the Kaiser’s birthday are counted,
and there is a general feeling that municipal regula-
tions will be tightened up unless the display im-
proves. Everybody has an official eye upon him
except while asleep, and* even then he may be
wakened up for inspection. There is a lot of interest-
ing atmosphere in the book but not much story, and
man does not live by atmosphere alone.
Memoirs of Corporal Keeley, by “Steele Rudd’’
(N.S.W. Bookstall Company, Ltd., Sydney). The
“Steele Rudd” humor was always boisterous and thin-
and it grows thinner with every book. “Corporal
Keeley” changes the scene of operations to suit the
times; but there is no fresh note there nor anything
that could suggest a revival of the author’s reputa-
tion. There are readers, however, for this class of
writing; and memories of Dad and Joe in former
books will secure - for the Corporal at least a moder-
ate reception.
The Promise of Air is a tale casually blown about
by Algernon Blackwood. It begins with the simple
romance of a short-legged young man who has a
streak of bird-like poetry in his soul. He marries
a slim girl with ditto. She becomes the mother
of another slim girl with ditto, also of a loutish boy
who smokes cigarettes. The mother’s poetry dies
out, leaving her waddlesome, circumferential and
ordinary. She remains ordinary, with faint, rare
gleams of better things. The lout remains a lout.
Daughter Joan, who is a very nice girl but elusive,
and her father, who develops into a stout unwritten
Shelley and a bagman, exchange thoughts which
have a certain picturesqueness in them and are
mostly about birds. There is no crime in the book,
no mystery, no prospective husband for daughter
Joan (for the young man who shakes hands with
her on the top of a ’bus and says “good egg” never
comes to anything), no great wealth, no disaster,
no sorrow worth mentioning. Nobody dies except
a corn-chandler who has almost dropped out of the
picture, and the reader isn’t even present at his
death-bed or his funeral. Simply a telegram comes
saying he is no more. At page 275 the tale ceases,
and the heroine is left still busy being a nice girl.
(Macmillan and Co., London.)
The Miracle of Saint Anthony, by Maurice Maeter-
linck (Methuen, London). The publishers claim that
this is the only work of sheer humor from the
author’s pen; but the humor, if sheer, is not start-
ling. Possibly it is the kind of writing that loses a
lot in translation. The satire seems a trifle thin. A
real saint, ragged and filthy, but flashing a genuine
halo when the time seems ripe, arrives at a wealthy
household to i>ise from the dead a rich woman who
has left behind her a big estate. The simplicity of
the saint and an old servant, who alone recognises
the saint in his holy capacity, is in striking contrast
with the purse-proud vulgarity of the deceased’s* rela-
tives. Fortunately or otherwise the feeling for saints
is too foreign to most Australian readers to allow
them to appreciate at its proper value the humor
that lies in the contrast.
High Altars, by John Oxenham (Methuen, London).
A mixed booklet of prose and verse descriptive of the
battlefields of France as the author saw them. The
verse is not striking, but the prose is up to the aver-
age of the war writings printed in the newspapers. The
evidence that there is a public in Britain eager for
impressions of the kind is found in the fact that
40,000 copies of High Altars have already been sold.
Lyrics, English and Australian, by A. R. Osborn,
M.A., and A. E. Gwillim, M.A. (Melbourne, Whit-
combe and Toombs, Ltd.). This is an anthology
intended for use in schools. The selection follows
a well-worn track as far as the English classics are
concerned, but in its selection of Australian work is
a trifle unusual. Henry Lawson is represented by
one of his poorest efforts, while Victor Daley is
excluded altogether. On the other hand, Will Law-
son, of Maoriland, gets in twice; and the questions
asked about his work would probably puzzle the author
more than the classes of school children to whom
they are addressed. Thus: “Show how by varying
the metre, and by his use of consonants and vowels,
the poet makes his measure represent the struggle of
the horses up the hills?” There are many ways
of killing a good set of verses.
Twenty Poems from Rudyard Kipling (Methuen,
London). A booklet of selected verses for the man
in uniform who can’t carry a bulky volume in the
breast of his battle-stained tunic. The selection is
good.
The Mud Larks, by Crosbie Garstin (Methuen, Lon-
don). There is a lot of genuine humor in these
pictures of the lighter side of the great war. Most
of them were published in Punch over the signature
“Patlander” ; and it is a long time since the alleged
humorist of London had anything in its columns so
laughter provoking. Here’s a sample, though the
yarns are of the kind that don’t take easily to
pieces:—
“It would puzzle a guinea-pig to render itself
inconspicuous in our village, yet I have watched
battalion after battalion march into it and be halted
and dismissed. Ha/lf an hour later there is not a
soul to be seen. They have all gone to ground. My
groom and countryman went in search of where-
withal to build a shelter for the horses. He saw
a respectable plank sticking out of. a heap of debris,
laid hold on it and pulled. Then —to quote him
verbatim —‘there came a great roarin’ from underneath
of it, sor, an’ a black divil of an infantryman shoved
his head up through the bricks an’ drew down sivin
curses on me for pullin’ the roof off his house.
Then he’s after throwin’ a bomb at me, sor, so I
came away. You wouldn’t be knowin’ where to put
your fut down in this place, sor, for the dhread of
treadin’ in the belly of an officer an’ him aslape.
It’s a good little book; and probably gives a better
notion of the fighting lines than a dozen more preten-
tious volumes.
The Bridle Path, by Louise Sophia Crowley (Mel-
bourne, Australian Authors’ Agency). “‘The Bridle
Path’ admits of one at a time only. Always in
single file they march till the end is gained, and the
Gate opens.” The author sets this piece of more than
doubtful philosophy as a foreword to her book; and
sets out to prove it in a story which keeps a jogtrot
of commonplace over 258 pages. Neither the story
nor the writing has any special distinction.
Dead Yesterday, by Beatrice Gordon (Melbourne,
Australian Authors’ Agency). An Australian book
with the scene laid in and about Melbourne, though
you wouldn’t know it from the local color. Hear the
“Me illegitimate! Me! And I so proud, so
proud of all the great ones from whom I had
sprung. 0 God in Heaven! How can I bear it
and live? Why didn’t I die when I was born?
Aunt Kate, why did you let me live?” ...
However, she continued to live until the wedding
bells rang the proper tune for the proper man. the
book is as well written as the average novel, and
no reader of the average novel can desire more
without taking a lot of risks.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Paper-pulp ipanufacture is a much
tougher proposition for N. S. Wales, or,
indeed for any of the Southern States, than
it is for Bananaland. The Queensland
Softwoods Co.—really a pup of the jarrah
combine of the West —has a contract to
make pulp from pine-log offcuts at the
mill or to pay double royalties. As the
latter would cost an extra £20,W0 per
annum, while the whole cost of a pulpery is
not more than half that, it obviously pays
to make pulp out of the scantlings, even it
the lot were “bad cooks.” But apparently
they’re not. Sydney paper mills are glad
to get hold of the output, because local sup-
plies of rags and old rope are giving out. No
two softwood mills in N. S. Wales cut even
half the amount necessary to keep a pulp-
ing plant going. A Sydney committee, with
Govt. Printer Gullick at its head, is trying
to scratch together a local plant to digest
gum-trees into pulp. Whether they will
succeed is still uncertain.
*** * ,
“K. Gay”: Every little while somebody
introduces a new system of shorthand to the
Australian public, advertising phenomenal
results and offering to get pupils up to a
remarkable speed in a few weeks— usually
for a fee which enables the enterprising in-
structor to draw a better and easier income
than he could ever get by employing any
system of shorthand himself. These systems
may be wonders. The money taken for teach-
ing them may be fairly earned; yet it seems
a strange and contrary thing that, at the
stiff exam, held at the law courts, Melb., for
qualification as licensed shorthand-writer,
those who pass are almost always practition-
ers of the ancient, tedious, comprehensive
Pitman. This was the case at the last two
half-yearly exams, conducted by those un-
prejudiced speed-fiends, George Cockenll, or
the Age, ex-chief of Hansard E. B. Lough-
ran and Amos Burr, who filled Loughran s
shoes at Parliament Plouse. The exponents
of these new, remarkable, potted systems
should either back up their guinea-lifting
activities with an over-the-counter perform-
ance, or else be pushed out of business.
* * *
The far-seeing Hun, before the TJ.S. joined
in the war, sent over £20,000,000 of Him
public securities. They were sold to U.S. in-
vestors whose money is now lost, and The
proceeds helped to buy a New York paper
and paid for a lot of other Hun propaganda.
It is consoling to think that any papers which
the Kaiser bought or subsidised here weren t
paid for in that easy fashion. There is no
big market for German securities in this
country.
* * * *
The price of breach according to Joseph
Carruthers, one-time Premier of N. S. Wales,
gives 42 per cent, to the farmer, 10 per cent,
to the miller, and no less than 48 per cent,
to the baker and distributor. Yet bakers
don’t own all the corner blocks in the big
cities. And the railway departments, which
are the great distributors of the wheat,
haven’t money enough to gild the locomotive
with. And the corporation which supplies
the roads to distribute on in the towns says
it hasn’t the price of a new rabbit-skin robe
for the mayor about it. Is the system rotten,
or is the community ruined by the glutton-
ous habits of the baker’s horse?
* * * »
When the Commonwealth Government
hears the clamorous population objecting
to pay step-ladder prices for meat it com-
promises, temporises and tries to discover
some way of dodging the issue while saving
its face. But when the Defence Depart-
ment wants rabbit-skins it simply com-
mandeers the whole Commonwealth supply,
pays the trappers (who don’t count) about
half the current market prices, and stands
forth as the bold, determined enemy of
profiteering! The trouble is that rabbiters
don’t go about their business in top-hats.
• * *
“Wonga” : With the increase in the price
o’ smokes the S. M. Herald has suddenly
discovered that the prospects for growing
tobacco in Australia were never better.
Owing to scarcity of freight, it was explained,
manufacturers are said to be keen to get the
locally-grown w T eed, and the State expert was
called upon to point out how profitable the
business is and how well leaf could be grown.
There is no doubt about that part of the
game: .there is a very big area of suitable
tobacco land in the Commonwealth, but it is
only a few years ago that growers were up
against the heartbreaking fact that they
simply couldn’t sell their leaf. No doubt, as
the Herald says, there is a keen demand
by Australian manufacturers for Australian-
grown leaf, seeing that they find it difficult
to get any other; but what will the demand
be when conditions become normal again. It
the present opportunity ?is to mean the estab-
lishment of permanent production of tobacco
on a large scale in this country, it is neces-
sary for the Federal Government to ensure
that growers won’t be absolutely at the
mercy of any combine after the world scrap
ends, which can only be done by monopolis-
ing the tobacco-manufacturing business or W
a heavy import duty.
THE BARRICADERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I see the cunning ones around,
Who strive all day with wondrous skill
To squeeze a penny or a pound
From every purse their own to fill.
They’re slicing at the people’s meat,
They daily pick the children’s bread,
And aye their hands are quick and neat,
And soft and nimble are their feet.
Their stealthiness is full of dread.
They steal the blanket from your bed.
With subtle craft they take a toll
From bacon, butter, eggs and cheese,
From all good green things pinch a dole.
They steal the fruit from off the trees.
And seeing how the food of their
Dear countrymen they ever raid,
I ask the Mother Land, whose care
It is to keep the German bare,
To straight employ this sly brigade
And its successful barricade.
VICTORIA.
D.


11l
I 111' 1
1
IIH
SUSS
Imt. 1
f .si
mun
mm
as
r
f
f.'iii
in
i- *
A
iiiiii
* “ii'V
*■-
m
,=w
h f
-n,
« W
-
"> i
£
m
' ,: V*.
m
Do -you live inthe lone
A SILENT PIANO?
THERE it stands, in lonely'gloom close by the wall,
an expensive tombstone ton? the grave of vanished
joy. You personally! never,'could play very much,
and lack of" practice has still further stiffened your
fingers. The children,are*only'in«the five-finger exercise
stage and other interests haye impaired your wife’s
never-to-be-much-talked-about technique.
And so your “silent” Piano stands
deteriorating through lack of
use. Why all ? Why
not take advantage!of the liberal
allowance we on “silent”
Pianos and enjoy)all'the pleasure
which a Beale Player - Piano
affords. It is an (.instrument which
supplies faultiest technique with a
rich, resonant tone. Eight ex-
pression devices give absolute
tone control, enabling one to get
the fullest wealth of colour and
feeling out of every selection
played. A knowledge of music is
quite unnecessary. All that is
required is an intelligent appre-
ciation of rhythm, accent and
expression. Informal concerts are
held daily.
Call and let (us demonstrate how easy it is for you to
play all your favourite music the “Beale" Player-way.
Head Office and Showrooms t
333 GEORGE STREET.
SYDNEY
T'Seccle
& c? L.TP
Factory*
41-47 TRAFALGAR ST..
ANNANDALE.
Branches at Bathurst, Orange, Lismore, Newcastle, Goulburn, Wagga. VICTORIA: Maples in all Melbourne
Suburbs. TASMANIA: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples, Launceston. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: John Evans
Limited, Adelaide. QUEENSLAND: 90-92 Queen- Street, Brisbane; Kent Street, Maryborough; Flinders
Street, Townsville; Rockhampton; Sydney Street, Mackay; Cairns. WESTERN AUSTRALIA: J. A.
Thomson Co., Ltd., 209 Murray Street, Perth.


A. Saunders’ Toast and Blitter • Cornin'na-
tion, pure Silver-plated,. Satin Glass lin-
ing, 15/6. v
Saunders’ Honey .Tar and
Spoon, pure Silver-plated,
“Thistle” Design, Crystal Glass
Jar, 12/6.
w¥mM
A. Saunders’ Cako Dish, pure Silver-plated.
Hand-decorated China Dish, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ 5-branch" Flower Stand, pure Silver
plated, Kubv-, Green- or Opal-tinted Glasses, 15/6
A. Saunders’ Hot-
Water Jug, pure Sil-
ver-plated, A 1 Quality,
Hand Engraved,
“Empire” Design,
45/-
Presevve Dish, pure Silver
Hand Burjiishfed. English
Crystal Glass Dishes, 40/-
A. Saunders’ Coffee Service "mil Tray, pure Silver-plated,
\ i Quality, Gilt-lined. Hand Burnished and Engraved.
Satin-finish Tray, £7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Jam Dish and .Spoon,
pure Silver-plated, A 1 Quality,' Ruby-
tinted Glass, 17/6.
A. Saunders’ Water Pitcher,
Silver-plated, Kngraved and
Burnished, 35/-
pure
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805- 815 George Street (opposite Railway Station), Sydney,
A. Saunders' Cake Basket, pure Silver-
plated, A 1 Quality, Hand Burnished,
, 42/-
A. Situ utters’ Art. Vase,
pure Silver-plated,
Hand Burnished;
height 12 inches,
20/-
d>
M fa
S> 1
A. Saunders’ Dinner Cruet, pure
Silver-plated, 'Hand Burnished,
Crystal Glass Bottles, 30 /•
A. Saunders’ 4-cup Eggstand and
Spoons, pure Silver-plated, beautifully
Hand-burnished, Gilt-lined Cups, '
27/fi.
m
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the clay from 4/-
tind upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium 'win without
lifting a hand?
SAFEGUARD YOUR health
prj.CoHis Bro®ne's
CWorodywe
The Original anti Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, l/'S, 3/-, SJ-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS!
EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
11917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS «& SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, 10d. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Du. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
3/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
-r ( i, Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3,
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana, 2/- each posted.
Educating tne Horse. 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2s. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 2/-. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Divf.rsions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dora’s Book f of Strength, posted 3/9. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, of- posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (source), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/Q.
Motor Mechanics. 2/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/-. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Reap Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/6. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/9. Photog-
raphy Self-taught. 1/6. . How to Make
Sweets. Jams'and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/9. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How-
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads. 1/6. Soldering, Brazing, Ac.,
1/9 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing. 1/6. Modern Etiquette., 1/3. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise. 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic}
1/3, ' Every Man His Own Carpenter. 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning,. Calculator,
l/'l. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/'-.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 ported. Cabinetmakers' Handy- v
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score., and Other Verses,- 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron. and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
AH These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON'T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappiio, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
'illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
isthy, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. Ale About Incu-
bators, 1/9. Morgan/s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingeusoll’s Works, 1/-, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse's Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/9. The Wife's Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and _ Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 172 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/9. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/9.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Claiiivoy'ance, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses, 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/- posted. Damaged
Goods. 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posteij. The
Wizard's Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2,/ : . Life’s Shop Window, 1/9. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
THE BIG BOOK STORE,
67 8 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-mg


DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
The Prompt and Effective Cough Remedy.
MORE POPULAR THAN EVER.
Miss kuvvy
theatre-goers, i
This photo
HARVEY, a favorite with all
is another New DiscoverV Girl,
is from Lafayette Studios.
Do you dread ’the winter ? Many people do, for it means coughs and
colds; but you need not fear if you have a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery in the house. A dose taken at the beginning of a
cold will relieve, and prevent Influenza, Bronchitis and all Throat
Troubles.
In thousands of homes Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery is a household
name, known and liked by all from father down to baby. It is an
unequalled remedy for relieving Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis and
all Throat and Chest Troubles. Don’t forget to take a bottle home
to-night.
Two Favorites Praise Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Dear Sir, —I wish to tell you
how much benefit I have received
from the use of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery. In my work my throat
often becomes irritated from
strain and theatre dust, and often
it would be impossible for me to
go through my part if it were not
for the benefit 1 get from a dose
or two of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery. l Also, on two occasions 1
have been so unfortunate as to
contract a heavy cold, and on each
of these occasions Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery helped me at once,
and soon rid me entirely of the
trouble.
i think there is nothing like it,
and always have a bottle at home,
for during the winter l look to it as
my safeguard against the throat
chills contracted so easily when
leaving the heated dressing-room
and going out into the chill night
air.—Yours sincerely,
(Siid.) ELWYN HARVEY.
Dear Sirs, —I have been using
your Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
for the past week, and, although I
have never given a testimonial for
anything before in jny life, I feel
that it is my duty now to write and
tell you what a splendid remedy I
think Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
is.
I had such a nasty little cold,
and it bothered me so much and
affected my voice when speaking.
I never was so annoyed before,
and I could not seem to get rid of
it —sometimes it was a little bet-
ter and then much worse. At
last I was told to try Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery, and I did, and 1
think it fine. The very first dose
eased my throat and helped my
voice, and now every trace of the
cold is gone. There was no get-
ting better and then worse again
with that cold after starting with
New Discovery. I simply im-
proved right along, and I want to
tell you that I think your remedy
a fine one, and l intend never to
travel again without a bottle in my
grip. Wishing New Discovery
every success,
I am, sincerely yours,
(Sgd.) MURIEL STARR.
Miss MURIEL STAftR, the clever and popular
actress, a true Neu’ Discover!/ Girl (from a
May and M. Moore photo).
DON’T NEGLECT A COLD-It’s Dangerous
There’s danger in a cold. The cold yon get ma3 r be a timely warning of something more dangerous to follow. Some people catch cold
easily: no sooner is one cold banished, than they have got another one. That’s dangerous. A cold lowers the vitality and weakens the whole body.
It starts with watery eyes, sore-all-over feeling, and perhaps runs into Influenza, Bronchitis or Pneumonia. So prepare for trouble before it
troubles you. A bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a safeguard against such ills. In the home where it is always found coughs and colds
do not obtrude. Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is a preventive as well as a remedy. A dose taken before exposure to inclement weather fortifies
the system. A dose after exposure prevents the danger of a chill.
mm
m
Miss MAISIE CARTE, a charming Neiv Discovery
Girl voir appearing in “The 13th Chair'’ at the
Criterion Theatre (from a photo).
Dear Sir, —This being the season for coughs
and colds, I, unfortunately, was in the fashion,
but am thankful to say I am out of it now.
Why? Because I have taken Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. After trying several mixtures
1 was recommended New Discovery, aud the
result was marvellous. My cold has now
completely vanished. I take great pleasure
in recommending it to all sufferers.
I am not going to say 1 shall always take
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, because I am
sure I shall never need to take it again, as my
cure is permanent; so why take mixtures
which only patch one up for a time when Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery completely banishes
all coughs and colds?
Yours sincerely, (Sgd.) MAISIE CARTE.
Gordon and Kileen Hewitt are two little Australian
children (aged 7 and 5 years) who have actually subscribed
oitt of their savings .Cl5O to the Commonwealth War Fund.
Their father is a well-known Sydney business man, and their
mother, among her many other charities, is on the Execu-
tive of the Cremorne Red Cross. Mrs. Hewitt writes that she
cures their winter colds every year with Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery. Follow her example, and protect your children
with this famous remedy.
Moolree, Cremorne Road,
Cremorne Point.
Deal- Sirs, —My children, Gordon and
Eileen, are very fond of srour5 r our Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery, and I cure their winter colds
every year with it. The other day I said to
Eileen, “Your cold is not well yet, Eileen.”
She answered, “I hope it won’t get well,
because you give me Dr. Sheldon’s every night
and morning, and I love it.” She was disap-
pointed, for her cold quickly disappeared, and
the children’s favorite medicine (and I may
say Australia’s best cough and lung mixture)
was hidden away from them in the cupboard.
I am sending you their photographs, as it
will interest you to see such lovers of jour
famous New Discovery.—l remain, yours
faithfully, (Sgd.) F. M. HEWITT.
%
m
’MM
. 1
flEf 1
GORDON and EILEEN HEWITT (from a photo).
Men, women and children all over the country use and knoAv the worth of DR. SHELDON'S NEW DISCOVERY. Are you one of them?
If not, don’t delay, but buy a bottle at once and be ready to pounce on to the first cold that makes its appearance. Don’t forget—Dß.
SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY is the ever-ready friend which should be in every household, to protect you from all coughs and colds.
Price 1/6 and 3/- ‘ ’
D«SheldonsV OUGHS
AND
NEWDISCOVERY\l LDS


Legal Notices.
TO JAMES BURKE, son of Julia Burke
and nephew of Catherine Mulligan
and who left New Zealand for Australia in
1894, and to all persons claiming by through
or under him.
PURSUANT to an Order made on the
14th day of June 1918 by the Honorable
Mr. Justice Ilosking, a Judge of the Supreme
Court of New Zealand, you are hereby
called upon to send in to the undersigned on
or before the 31st day of October 1918 your
claim to share in the estate of Catherine
Mulligan late of Wellington, New Zealand,
who died on the Bth day of November 1894
failing which the estate will be distributed
among those entitled thereto disregarding
your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 17th day of
June, 1918.
E. P. HAY,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
rpo AMELIA SHAW, sister of James
JL Shaw and daughter of James Shaw
and Amelia Shaw formerly of Cunningham
Lakes Entrance, Gippsland, Victoria, and
to any other brothers and sisters of the_ first-
mentioned James Shaw and to their children
and to all persons claiming by through or
under her or them.
PURSUANT to an Order made by the
Honorable Mr. Justice Ilosking, a Judge of
the Supreme Court of New Zealand, under
the provisions of Section 25 of the Public
Trust Office Amendment Act 1913, you are
hereby called upon'to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 31st day of Decem-
ber 1918 your claims to the estate of James
Shaw who died at Westport, New Zealand,
on the 3rd day of July 1911 intestate, fail-
ing which the estate will be distributed
among those entitled thereto disregarding
your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 14th day of
June, 1918.
E. P. HAY,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, New Zealand.
W\
©
Specimen Section of a
“COLO" Tyre.
Eight Points of the “COLO” Tyre
(1) TREAD. —Corrugated, presenting small sur-
face to the road, thereby saving friction.
(2) TREAD. —A great thickness of rubber, which
„ is practically cut- and chip-proof.
(3) BREAKER STRIP, which, being made of
loosely-woven, heavy fabric, binds the tread
to the carcase of the tyre.
(4) PITRE RUBBER,.—Pure Rubber is placed
under Breaker Strip.
(5) CARCASE. —Composed of five plies of heavy,
long-fibre canvas, heavily impregnated with
rubber.
(6) FULL AIR SPACE.
(7) SIDE WALLS. —Realising the severe work
tyres are called upon to do in the count ly,
we have placed a great thickness of rubber on
the side walls, preventing water from entering,
as often happens in other makes of tyres after
a feAv months’ service. Other makes have
very little thickness of rubber at this point.
(8) BEADS are heavily reinforced and skin-
coated with rubber, to prevent rust.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
162 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. City 2567.
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
SUPED
FCATURES
According to Governor Davidson of N. S.
Wales, Haddon Chambers, dramatist, is
about to visit N. S. Wales, and will be a
guest at Government House. Chambers was
born at Stanmore (Sydney) in 1860, and
was in the State Civil Service from 1875
to ’77. He left for England in the early
’eighties. He is 58 years old.
“Ancient Prompter”: __ Australia’s old
familiar friend Julius Knight, by latest
advices, had at length got a part to his
liking in England. This was the lead in a
new Napoleonic piece, by the author of
“The Scarlet Pimpernel,” called “The
Legion of Honor.” J.K. swaggers through
the various scenes as one Ronnay de Maurel,
Bonapartist and patriot. His stage step-
mother in the same production is played by
Frances Wetherall, a fine actress out here
with Oscar Asche.
“M.P.A.” : Jumbo, one of Wirth Bros.’ ele-
phants, caused the circus train to come to a
sudden stop up Gympie (Queensland) way
t’other day by putting his trunk outside the
truck and trifling with the Westinghouse-
brake end incidentally supplying the train-
staff with something of a puzzle. Last time I
heard of Wirths’ Jumbo he had been dropped
from the show because he was a very naughty
boy with a habit of tickling folks with the
formidable points of his long tusks. When
he was young and innocent I poked him with
my umbrella for trying to burst a bale of
costly oaten hay, and he resented my action
by charging me. I put up the record leap of
my life to cover behind a large telescope
animal-den, my agility alone saying me from
annihilation (I’ve beaten 9ft. in a standing
broad jump). The Jumbo of those days was
a very cunning and clever beast and an adept
at unscrewing the pin of the shackle which
held the anchor chain to his forelegs. One
night Jumbo did this clever stunt and
escaped from the menagerie. He went prowl-
ing about till he located the shed where the
horse-feed was stored, and there peacefully
sleeping were several grooms. He just folded
one of these fellows up in his trunk and
fired him out into the night. The poor chap
was clad only in a short shirt. The other
grooms, awakened by the performance, were
mostly ejected in a similar manner. Jumbo
then burst the chaff and bran bags and had a
glorious blow-out before the elephant-men
lined up and took him back to the menagerie.
Next morning a deputation came to explain
that if Jumbo were not well secured the
grooms intended to quit the show. Old Jim
Burrows the elephant trainer (Jim .claimed
he was an old pal of Kitchener’s, and always
referred to the war chief as “Kitch”) sug-
gested a strong padlock, which I secured, and
by this means Jumbo was brought to heel.
How’ever, as elephants come and go, the one
that stopped the train may be the Jumbo of
a later generation.
“Goody Two Shoes” is the title appointed
for the next J.C.W. panto, but a panto by
any old name amounts to much the same thing.
There’s the red-nosed Dame who talks of
her late husband, the principal boy w T ho is
a girl, the acrobatic attache to the Dame’s
family, and the Baron, or other damaged
autocrat w’hose daughter loves the she-boy.
Also there is the Fairy Queen with a com-
mission to conjure the ballet to appear, and
a Demon w’hose imps are either black or
brown. And the plots are so wonderfully
mixed. One faint suggestion of nursery
story brings up another. If Boy Blue and
Little Red Riding Hood don’t come will-
ingly they are just dragged in by 80-Peep.
Alfred Dumpier and old Bill Holloway
were stainless hero and unmitigated villain
respectively in a stirring melodrama playing
in Adelaide. In Act 4 hero and villain had
to come together in an almost-death struggle.
Dampier was getting on in life and greatly
weakened by an old complaint; Holloway was
an ancient, and very tottery, even when not
agitated. The struggle was a terrific ordeal
to both, and on one night the hero had more
than once to hold the villain up to keep him
from falling inopportunely, and finally, ex-
hausted by his efforts, it was Alfred Dampier
who went down flat, when Holloway should
have fallen. Here the supposedly triumphant
hero had to say: “Lie there, serpent! So
will I dash you to earth every time you
cross my path,” and Alfred, square on his
back, waving a feeble arm, breathlessly
spouted the line as the curtain swooped
down.
Is any Australian actor on the lookout
for a job? Advt. in a London theatrical
weekly:—
Wanted a character comedian for oily, hypocritical,
sly, but. refined r6le.
Sounds like Deacon Atkinson in “Struck
Oil,” Which used to be regarded as the most
unlucky part that an actor could take in
the old days when Williamson and Maggie
Moore were running that melodramatic
mixture. About half a dozen Deacon Atkin-
sons went off the books in rapid succession.
“Irala”: “Melb” (B. 18/7/TS) complains
that Corneille, Racine and Voltaire were
“hampered” by the classic ideas of unity
in dramatic writing, and states that Sliaks-
peare threw them to the winds. Quite so ;
but that doesn’t prove that Corneille was
an ass, any more than it proves Shakspeare
to have been a genius because he didn’t
know how to construct a decent play. It’s
“BITS AND PIECES," AT SYDNEY
TIVOLI.
Two ungraceful troubadours , Frank Greene
and Chas. H. Workman.
the genius of Skakspeare’s characterisation
and verbiage that makes his plays live ; not
their form. “Richard III.” is kept together
by unity of character: “Lear” by unity of
horror; but any play that lacks these special
unities becomes a mere succession of scenes,
often, like “Henry VIII.,” a formless
pageant picked out of old chronicles, strung
together into a medley of fine words and
glittering uniforms, like a modern revue.
Forty-eight hours should be the limit of a
drama’s term. If a playwright cannot con-
fine his story within these hours he does not
know 7 his business.
“E.T.” : “Dot” Boucicault is retiring from
management of the New Theatre, London,
fagged out. It is said that he has never had
more than a fortnight’s holiday at a time
for the last 35 years. “Dot,” free from box-
office worries, is taking it easy earning a
good salary once again as a mummer at
Oswald Stoll’s variety palace, The Coliseum,
appearing in a new one-act play by Captain
Provost Battersby, “The Voice of Duty."
“Bill Bowyang”: Once upon a time I wms
told that the final destination of films was
the South Sea Islands. Don't believe it.
They all find their way to Egypt. The other
night in a Cairo picture-house I saw the
Corbett-F i t z s i m-
mons fight. Sev-
eral of the rounds
were missing. How-
ever, it was a pass-
able film. The first
Chaplin pictures
still please crowded
houses in Cairo.
When the films are
beyond screening
the Gippos clip off
the damaged por-
tions and. piece
them with portions
of other films, with
the result that a
new picture is pro-
duced. One of these
screened last week
showed Chaplin in
a Zepp raid. It
was cleverly faked,
an d perhaps the
Gippo is not to be
blamed, for it is not
easy to get films
from abroad these
days. Furthermore
Bi 11 ji m doesn’t
growl, for occasion-
ally he sees an
“Australian Gaz-
ette” thrown on
“Katinha,” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Reg Roberts as
Katinka's sweetheart.
local sheets, and even if it is two years old
it takes his memory back to the old home-
land.
“Stargazer”: The eminent actor told me
of one of the things that may happen to a
singularly gifted gentleman in Australia. It
was in humbler, earlier days, when he did
not disdain to black his face and wag a set
of bones. “We formed the Merry Seven,’
said he. “to carry delight into the dark
places, and went utterly on the rocks at All
Fours, then a fading, mining Western Dis-
trict township, Vic. The keeper of the
Travellers’ Arms suddenly went back on us,
sequestered our estate, including the horse
and trap, and, presenting a seemingly in-
domitable bill of costs, informed us that we
would have to work our way out. He stuck
a notice in front of his pub: ‘Theatrical Co.
for Hire.’ It was an utterly hopeless quest.
Nobody at All Fours wanted to hire a
theatrical company, but one farmer did offer
four of us three bob a day and keep to weed
onions. We weeded the onions, but the job
paid only current expenses, and it struck us
we must run from all we possessed or lan-
guish in All Fours till Doomsday. Then one
day at noon a tall, dark, excited man, look-
ing a cross between a brigand of Bulgaria
and a cotton planter of New Orleans, rushed
into the hotel and demanded a view of the
theatrical co. offering for hire. He looked
us over, sampled a few, then precipitated
himself into the open again, hired the hall,
streaked all over the district, distributing
bills, and had an audience at eight that filled
the place. The long, dark man did a turn —
he sold oil that abolished all aches and pains
from the bones of man, and was a boon and
a blessing to cows, the salvation of old
horses and infallible in inducing hens to lay.
We went through the country with our new
owner, and everywhere we made hay. The
new r man landed us in town, opened in a
hall up Bourke-street, where the Salvation
Barracks now stands. More hay. Since
then I have never looked back, and I swear
to you that that man's oil has never in one
instance failed to shift my troubles. The
man was Harry Weston, owner of the
famous Wizard Oil, the celebrity of which
died with the most energetic and invincible
man that ever lived.”
“Peter”: Lance and Laurie Kennedy,
flautist and ’cellist and good Australians,
lately appeared in the Melbourne Bijou
stage under an alias that couldn’t conceal
their musicianly ability. Lance showed sur-
prising accomplishment in a piece represent-
ing the sound of a gale through trees, whilst
Laurie sawed divinely at lt was
a recital of more than average concert merit,
but the performance didn’t touch the audi-
ence until the finish, when Laurie grabbed a
cornet and combined with Lance and a piano
in an excited production of a popular tune
with full limelight effects. As the rainbow
raced over the perspiring musicians, the audi-
ence went dippy with enthusiasm, and the
players had to bow again and again. The
young artists probably felt with me that the
limelight man should "have taken the call.
“S,”: “It’s a never failing rule,” the
veteran said. “Among actors the good ones
look like artists and the bad ones like book-
makers.”
From London: —
Shakspeare’s birthday was celebrated at the old
Victoria Theatre by putting on a lot of good players
to give their own favorite bit from the Bard’s
plays. Henry Ainley, in uniform, spoke the epi-
logue, and Lewis Casson, who now holds the rank
of captain, gave a new flavor to the Harfleur speech
from “Henry V.” A really, young Borneo and
Juliet, Mark Stanley and Mary Sumner, are likely
to be heard more of. Lady Tree was called “Mis-
tress of the Ceremonies.’’ She had the same part
in a great Louis Parker “Pageant of Freedom,”
given several times. On this occasion Clara Butt
was Britannia, Marie Hall was allowed a violin
solo as Ireland, and Elsa Stralia sang. Irene
Browne was in the picture as Serbia, Marion
Terry was Faith, and another veteran, Mary Ander-
son, represented America.
“Fan” : The news of Jack Pickford’s enlist-
ment in the U.S. Navy comes as a surprise.
The boy (for he is little more) had intended
to enlist in the Flying Service, and why he
changed his mind is, as yet, rather a mystery.
Little Olive Thomas (or Pickford) and
sisters Mary and Lottie will be sad little
women these days, and it will take big Tom
Meighan all his time keeping up the drooping
spirits of the family. Tom, by the way, is
intensely proud of Ills young friend and co-
star. Indeed, according to the latest advices
from the land of skyscrapers and chewing-
gum, to see Tom you would think that it was
he who had enlisted and not Pickford.
HER EVENTFUL LIFE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have this morning read again
A generous appreciation
Of that great actress, Daisy Chain,
An acquisition to the nation.
The printed escapades of Daisy
Leave readers’ minds extremely hazy.
They try to gauge the strength and worth
Of what the paragraphs are stating.
“Is this her only time on earth ?”
The problem thousands are debating.
She’s toyed with all great peaks and geysers,
Vnd pal'd with kings, and czars, and kaisers.
The life that Daisy Chain has known
In distant seas and lands romantic
When timed makes plain that not alone
Is Daisy’s energy gigantic,
But incontestably discloses
The fact that she dates back to Moses.
Borne off by day and robbed by night,
She’s served a hundred college sessions,
And been a shining light in quite
A number of the learned professions.
Ye critics, be not too exacting—
Poor thing, she’s had no time for acting!
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


3
F*V>iCVS
esfti
|*«3*l?' !
w
23?-
Iffiß
<"»*
»Ss
J'-'J-S'S
-V v
533#
wsssj*
vfis
Kg?
r»r*\
s«8
frf?
x*>
iesK*
#•
*<r>
&?3C
Wj/
ttP
>1
Bi*
Srfsfc
vrr^
V?
aw's
JG*
33
SX
*vl
«s**s
»j*vVs>>;
*
ft 3
eg
3*?K
2??35
s
fiSTN
/’W
3»SS
*@2
<SrJV
SSP?
a>
&«*
>v
ac -
35
•i.v;
?Soe
JTi
MSX
rgv.
S&#
r&22SK
K«S
•-&;
**•s«
-?v
A'
«»)V
ga
an
Em
*S
v,<
3r*s£
s£
ns
IS"*
>b
/•o<i
£4 65
Drive the “85 Four”
A car of great beauty and strength—a car of absolutely
dependable performance, its great power simply controlled.
With the reserve force of the big car, this Overland has
all the flexibility of a light one.
To these advantages, add riding comfort. Large wheels,
big tyres, cantilever springs, assure smoothness of transit, un-
usual for cars of its size.
It has a high tension magneto. It is completely equipped.
It is economical to maintain.
You will be proud of this Overland, proud of how it looks,
proud of what it does. Because of our great production you
can drive it with comfort that is financial as well as physical.
We know of no car that compares with it in value.
Australian
Distributors
fGARRATTS LTD.. Sydney 1
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
■ ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LIS'., Hobart.
A. HA TRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
l Christchurch, N. Z.
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY.
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc.
Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A#
1761
<v>? J-$ &••*'• : .;**.•>X'. >?. >»
-»
v'Sk^WSSs.- *4 : .»' 3*V?>V *\v
i"*''’W
r .->.V ..,«• ■ J \
D .V : :A, t '
3?
. * ■* •*. • •»”>y*«*
Si
Jf J.
vTf .
i:\
m
■ ZF. S .>
ssss.,-
r ' '’>
|l| % '
r fe,
tv
:T§M\
/? <$ -a" ' i
A\
- «. . a
.i.;.
:<c
J* |{V
f. .**/*>
\
'4.V>^
Y
V J ifcfsjjv#
>i «/ v.
T* r-*
»*Vx
?&'s*<**
• #1 "Vv £
' W-t •*•
Sv
S 3
*SS
*s*
•ss?«
'fc.
•3s?«
r*?
YxiY
SK2
a® A >
Sry
C&Sf
A**
MS
y.y?
/•*v
* *--»<. */y, •/ ?'
\
**•?
'vr?
V
kh>"
S*
I'Xyj
/M 'r^
i#
SK5a
MS
.S"V*W
«S!&gg
(5,^
*S%T*
i -" '£V-
m%*
%*v
fj&l
-SS2T#VV:
■,
-.;v ■»-.-««• j
5/w.V^\ S.
»>■*»•* •#■-4 ;*


V
RABBIT
SKINS.
R.eg'\ilar
WeeKly
Audions
Wincheombe, (.'arson's Skin Prices are at
the bottom of this.
Consign Rabbit Skins, Fox and all other
skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SYDNEY. LTD.
Salesmen only. Not buyers or dealers.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Availed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 2Jd.
mammassmssm
2M
HORROCKSES'
Sh^etisnaA
WILL *
OUTWEAR the. HEAVIER MAKES
OFFEREO AS SUBSTITUTES,
'TSt«BLianEO
ssazmal
SEE.
HORROCKSES"
•> ON SELVEDGE
g
Let the Queen’s Arms be
Your Melbourne “Home.’’
When business or pleasure takes you to Mel-
bourne arrange accommodation at the Queen’s
Arms Hotel for the period of your stay.
You’ll find your convenience and comfort
studied “from first to last.” Equipment is
modern, cuisine excellent, position a few
seconds from places of interest, chief business
centres, trains, trams.
Tariff by the day, 10/C. Write NOW.
QUEEN'S ARMS HOTEL
(Late Champion’s),
Cr. Swanston St..& Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Claude- 11, Kerr, Proprietor.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSED , PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, ffIOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ail/nents have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it tc be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they knot?
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
PHOTOGRAPHY !
AMATEURS—for Good Results and Speed send your
Developing, Printing and Enlarging to
278 Ceorge
Street,
Toef&ygsTo&ias
Opp. Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
Criticisms Free—lndividual Attention—Postal Orders
Vaseline
TRADE MARK
PETROLEUMJELLY
TOth a gentle
[relieves nervous
headaches^
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES
Illustrated booklet
flee on request
CHBEHUHT6B MFG.CO.
j^CONaOUIOATCO)
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
BOX 221 G. P. 0. SYDNEY.
m
m
The “Bulletin”
Stock Saddle
AND
The “Bulletin’
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddles we make.
They both have pig-skin seat, the “G.S."
panel, with leather down sides, long flaps and
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle.
£7(7/
Complete.
£7|2|-
without Stirrups.
£6116/-
without Stirrups
and without Surcingle.
[Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
in N. S. Wales.
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 14/3; post, 1/-
Saddle Cloth, G/G; post, 9d.
WftlTE FOR CATALOGUE.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
Write for SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or,
if in Australia, Nearest
Railway Station.
The “WINTON”
One of the Finest Saddles for
Rough Riders.—One Horsebreaker
described it as the Best Saddle
ever he threw a leg over.
It has combined flap and skirt, giving
a most comfortable and narrow grip,
pads; high up, sagged seat, leather points
to panel, specially strong tree, and is
fitted with bevelled stirrup leathers,
folded girth and solid nickel stirrups.
£lO/2/6 without Stirrups.
Nickel Stirrups, 10/6 and 12/6 extra.
Freight free for cash with order to any
port or railway station in N. S. Wales.
Walther 8 Stevenson
SADDLERS, Ltd.
m
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET
SYDN
Jfine searl J9etfdace£
g
,
Ml
lit
«g§ 4fe ■ ; .v€v- *
c;
w
%
m
pp®i
it
■
tm'sS
k“M t ■ .
iln * Ml
I
II
■ :
V.
.:
iff'*
■*¥
matched t
■
s* a $&Jg ♦ ■
;
J Brat 1
F tip. ? i
1
. V:' '
I
'■ ■; :
AND;
. “ uggu*.
’ i s a«
Mp
*«? s
• s w
s§s
,r»
H
♦'KSaSBK
%
bis
: ®IS% t
♦:
gpji L •'
■
m£s& v saps -; '
sttfsl
SSllfci
PI #«?2
t
r
fit®*
liggi
» f £*.<;&
: ’ -t A .
’. m
m
♦
t
JpHfe
.’•--v, &«?*?
»
iii
sgj£3
f
i«a
i *
*
t
st
|®r f
*f
I
>
..• • :
H
I
»
s
S 3?
m
i 9
9
*
.V ;V ‘
%wm&*
sdg
dsg
®SJm. ©rummonb & Co.
344-346 COLLINS STREET/
MELBOURNE,
WISER THAN THE SERPENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I took me to a country place
To botanise, and smoke, and read in
A land of green arid flowery grace,
A small antipodean Eden,
There met we, Eve, and I, and bliss.
The night was still as when reposes
All nature in sweet listlessness.
We had a garden mad with roses.
We sat there, and I whispered love,
Of ruth her dimpled smile had left me.
I kissed a little scented glove;
She screamed, and hurriedly she left me.
Then Eva, taller, darker, came.
Sat by me in the garden, sighing.
I kissed her very much the same:
She straight arose, and ran off crying.
Came Evelyn, I liked her well,
And kissed her lips beneath the lilac.
She shrieked aloud, and fled pell-mell.
Is't taste that they, or grace that I lack ?
I’m wondering ’mid the lilies fair,
When Emmet thrusts his dagger hard in.
Much better for mankind it were
Had bullants served in Adam’s garden.
VICTORIA,
D.
“Bed” : Delayed cables, is it? Well, when
our transport arrived somewhere off England
last January about 50 of us cabled home
reporting our safe arrival. As far as can be
traced not one of the messages got through
to Australia. Either the Censor had a mad
half-hour or the English cable cos. can give
Webster’s show a long start and a beating at
losing things.
John McLaren’s outlook: —
It is a winter’s night in Thursday Island, and
I am writing this on a hotel balcony that allows
a clear view of a wealth of beauteous scenery.
Though there is no moon the night is not dark,
and Prince of Wales and Horn islands, their feet
beribboned with white beaches, are irregularly out-
lined against the starlit sky. The sun disappeared
behind Goode Island hours ago, but the smooth
water of flie harbor still retains some of its sapphire
hue. Numerous twinkling lights indicate the
whereabouts of anchored pearling luggers swinging
to the tide, arid close in-sliore is the single, big-
white wing of a cutter belatedly entering port.
Europeans, looking cool in white suits, drift along
the island’s main street, shop-lined but unlighted.
Occasionally a Jap diver or tender shuffles along on
Ills way to “Yokohama,” or the Japanese quarter.
From across the water, the notes softened by dis-
tance, come the sounds of chants and songs in
Malayan, Japanese and Binghi language, or the
rhythmic beat of a tom-tom as some New Guinea boy
calls up memories of his Fly River home. In the
shadow of a eocoanut palm opposite, a half-caste
girl is holding earnest converse with her dark-
skinned lover. Somewhere adjacent, a Chinaman is
secretly sucking at the forbidden pipe, for an
occasional, elusive whiff of opium mingles, with the
faint scent from the sandalwood stacked on the jetty
awaiting shipment to the Orient. To-morrow night
will be the same as to-night, and so will all the
to-morrow nights for many moons. Nature is always
benevolent up here. Midwinter! This afternoon I
read of hoar frosts in Victoria and N. S. Wales, and
I was glad I had escaped in time.
“Cleveland”: Am seeing quite a lot of
Bizerta,Tunis and other North African towns,
and none of them is any advertisement for
the followers of Islam. Bizerta was founded
by the Phoenicians b.c., and its importance
as a strategic base later attracted the atten-
tion of Agathocles, who invaded N. Africa
309 B.c. It rose to importance under Car-
thage, but shared the fate of other splendid
Homan colonial towns*when Islamism was
established throughout North Africa in a.d.
750. The trail of the Vandals and Arabs are
everywhere apparent. Where Abdul hasn’t
smashed and ruined he has torn down price-
less monuments of ancient Graeco-Roman
architecture and incorporated them in the
building of the pestilential hovels in which
he houses his donkey, liis. wives, his brood
and himself. He has done more than put
back the hands of civilisation in N. Africa :
he has practically torn them off. He changed
a country clothed in timber, stretching over
1000 miles east and west, into a desolate,
treeless region, where the climate has
changed from a regular, generous one to a
spasmodic distribution of moisture that plays
havoc with agriculture, and where you buy
firewood by the pound. Bizerta. with Tunis,
was the stronghold of marauding Mediter-
ranean pirates until within the last century,
and the old slave-market still stands. Many
of the roads round about were made by
Christian labor, and judging from the way
Abdul treats his donkey the Christians had
a bad time. Saw an Arab carrying a load of
firewood the other day, from which I judged
that he was a man of little circumstance and
had neither wife nor donkey, as if he had
had the former she would have been lumping
the timber, and if the latter it would have
been packing the, wood and Abdul also.
“N. or M.”: The 30s. a w-eek granted by
the Federal Government to two female rela-
tives of the late E. A. Petherick (B.
27/6/T8) looks particularly paltry in the
light of the sacrifices made by the bibliophile
and his household in gathering and keeping
together the remarkable library which he pre-
sented to Australia. For Petherick the sun
rose and set round his books. Some years .
ago he told me of his struggles in the great
slump that followed the Boom years, speak-
ing with enthusiasm of the loyal support
given him by his wife. At one time it seemed
impossible that the library could be saved.
Either it or the furniture had to go. “I
explained this to my rvife,” said he, and she
said: ‘We will sell the furniture.’ ” No
wonder the old man fejt bitterly the public’s
indifference to his great gift.
One of the resolutions passed at a confer-
ence of Speck school-teachers and sent on to
the local Minister for Education got promptly
hit to leg. It was:—
That the Minister be requested to amend the
Electoral Act in order to extend the Legislative
Council franchise to certificated teachers over the
age of 21. Reply: Declined.
Some people are always batting in at the
wrong place. What reason is there to sup-
pose that the possession of intelligence should
justify a right to vote for or against candi-
dates for the House of Propputy? Propputy
can manage a matter of detail like that itself.


The hours
spent with
a KODAK
are hours full of interest and appreci-
ation of the beauties of nature. The
Kodak should accompany you every-
where, so that you can make fine
pictorial records of your travels which
will always be a source of pleasure to
-you. You can learn to use a Kodak
in half an hour.
The No. 3a Folding Autographic Kodak, the
most popular camera in the world —takes pic-
tures postcard size—s| x inches. Price £6/6/=
Of all dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne;
250-252 Queen St.. Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45
Elizabeth St.. Hobart; Kutliven St., Toowoomba; T’linders St., Townsville;
Denham St., Rockhampton; Opp. Tram Terminus, Argent St., Broken
Hill; Optical ami Photo Supplies Co., I’erth; “The Kodak Corner.” corner
JLambton Quay and Willis St.. Wellington, N.Z.; 3 Borne St., Auckland,
N.Z.; 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, jV.Z.; and Christchurch, N.Z.
m
•••
L
r
•v~
4.JT.
r.
"Ft
Ta
m
n
I
, M
- a®
I*
sw
;SJssfi
'■
OWB
Es?“u<zzzzzzx
S=if?r
=2
To get the most
realistic effect
from your Records
—we assume that they will he
“'His Master’s Voice ” Records ,
since these introduce the VERY
BEST of music —you should
play them on an “His Master’s
Voice” instrument.
Because these records and
instruments are scientifically
co-ordinated and synchronised
in the making, their use, one
with the other, is absolutely
essential to ensure that true-
to-life effect which has created
the unassailable superiority of
“His Master’s Voice.”
The Essentials to PERFECT REPRODUCTION:
“His Masters Voice
Instruments and records in combination /
‘His .1 faster’s Voice”
Reg. Trade Mari’.
Ask your nearest dealer to play “ His
Master’s Voice” Records on an “His Master’s
Voice” Instrument —!
Complete Record Lists and Catalogues on request.
THE GRAITOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 Pitt Street- SYDNEY.
“ Gramophone ”
Reg. Trade Mari'.


THAN
ACETYLENE
“The Light of
Australia”
Air Gas
FOR
LIGHTING HEATING
COOKING IRONING
(COPY)
Commercial Hotel, Moora,
February 4th, 1918.
Gentlemen,
Enclosed herewith please find
cheque in settlement of cost of
Quirk’s Air Gas Plant for lighting
my hotel. I would like to state
how highly satisfied I am with
the working. It has given satis«
faction in every respect. It is
simple to work, in fact a boy can
control it. I may say that I have
carefully checked the cost of lighting
the hotel ; the result is simply un-
believable. In November with the
acetylene plant the cost of Carbide
was £l5/2/6 for the month. With
the Quirk’s Gas Plant the cost was
one case of Petrol for the same time.
I will in the course of a few weeks
instal the light in two other hotels
l control.
You may use this letter in any
manner you please, as 1 think the
public should know what a saving
it is to them, and I am pleased to
show any one who should like to
see the working of same in this
district.
I remain,
yours respectfully,
(Signed) CHARLES BREWER.
WRITE FOR
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Quirk’s Lighting and
Engineering Ltd.
SYDNEY - 245 ELIZABETH STREET.
BRISBANE - 24-28 WHARF STREET.
MELBOURNE 352 FLINDERS STREET.
ADELAIDE - 112 GRENFELL STREET.
PERTH, W.A. ALCOCK & CO. PTY., LTD.
Quality Pays You
—and Us.
Dominion
m
Tyres are built with one
supreme thought behind
them quality; and
quality pays you and us.
The standards of con=
struction for these Tyres
are higher than ever be=
fore known in the Tyre
industry.
Made in Canada.
If not stocked by your Dealer,
ask him to procure them for you.
DISTRIBUTORS:
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited,
HEAD OFFICE: 53 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
BENNETT & BARKELL LTD., Castlereagh Street, Sydney
■
T&
m
At the FRONT!
Private C- V. SIELETT, 15th Reinforce-
ments, 15th Battalion, 4th Infantry Brigade,
writes to a friend :
“My Onoto Fountain Pen is still in good
working order, all my tent mates have
gone ‘nap’ on it. I have now had it 13
months and it has been in constant use
all the time, and I may state that I have
never had it repaired in any way."
Fills
Itself.
Cannot
Leak
Onoto
™I Pen'
From
\y/~
Manufacturers.THOMASDELA Rue & Co.Ltd..Bunhill
Road. London. E.C. Managing Agents. NORMAN
BAKER & LONGHURST. York Street. Sydney.
!< f /vCC?
M
BAKp
ll\Vt§!
Avoid Cooking Failures
Which so often result from using an incorrectly-
mixed baking-powder.
Ireland’s
Baking Powder
gives the best results always. It contains only the
choicest ingredients, scientifically compounded in
their proper proportions.
We are so sure of the reliability of Ireland’s
Baking Powder that we guarantee it without reserva-
tion or restriction —and promise to refund the pur-
chase price if you try it and are dissatisfied.
Sold everywhere. Ask for Ireland’s Baking Powder
•nd see that you get it.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
The Greatest Cold Cure
in
the
Commonwealth.
NAZETHA
For Cold in the Head, Bronchitis, Asthma,
and all Chest and Throat Troubles.
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
If difficult to procure sent post free for 16 from
A. P. Miller & Son, chemists, Hobart.
Maoriland Minister for Agriculture Mac-
donald burst into a mild eruption the other
day about a happening which, according to
him, revealed great ingratitude for the
British Government’s “splendid treatment of
the Dominion.” Thus Macdonald :
A delegation from Maoriland, which included the
president of the National Dairy Association, met the
Federal Butter Advisory Committee in Sydney re-
cently. The committee decided that it would take
no action with respect to the disposal of Australian
butter to the Imperial Government without consult-
ing the M.L. Butter Committee, and agreed further
with the M.L. delegates that the price of Australian
butter to the Imperial Government would be a mini-
mum of 1755. per cwt. f.o.b. Australian ports, instead
of 151 s. per cwt. The M.L. delegates, on their
return, resolved that, instead of offering- their butter
to the Imperial Government at 1575. per cwt., as
last season, they should ask 1965., with alterations in
their favor as to insurance and storage.
As soon as the war broke out the M.L.
butter and cheese manipulators sharpened
their claws. Ever since, they have been out
after the last shilling with the persistence of
a cannibal in pursuit of the fleeing mission-
ary. And the war profits wrung out of the
local populace and the British Government,
have in the main been converted into war
debt, and interest thereon will be drawn
hereafter with the smug reflection that the
investors are getting it as recompense for
saving the Empire or something. What
Macdonald has done or is going to
do about this butter business is not
clear. In all the circumstances, with
Massey and Ward claiming the gratitude of
Cocky with documentary evidence of the
good deals they make in London as produce
brokers, perhaps it matters nothing anyway.
But it occurs to this paper that the time-
ought to be ripe for Acting Prime Minister
Watt to interview his butter advisers, and
explain what he thinks of price-fixing on this
basis, and make a few remarks about the
Law of Supply and Demand. There are
two aspects of the matter in which Watt
has a direct interest. One is that the export
price has a very intimate connection with
the price paid on the premises for butter by
returned soldiers and other citizens, includ-
ing invalids and out-of-works. The other is
that butter exported to the order of the
British Government goes, among other
places, into Australian military camps in
England and Prance, and is charged up
against the Commonwealth. One of the
cheerful endings to an increase in the selling
price to Britain is that the Commonwealth
has to borrow more heavily to pay a bill
swollen against it by charges originating at
this end. It is certainly up to Watt to
consider the position. Sometimes this paper
wonders whether the war is only a rumor
and whether the struggle to get Australia
strangled is not really between the German
and the local profitmonger, for, if one fails,
the other seems a sure winner.
There are three notable diseases. The
first is public debt —especially the foreign
variety—for it costs a staggering amount,
and it destroys industry and self-reliance,
and its evil results go on indefinitely and
increase at compound interest. The second
is syphilis, for it costs money and diminishes
the happiness and working power of a large
section of the community almost as much as
public debt does, and its evil results last for
three or four generations. The third is
drink, for, though it supplies revenue which
the other two don’t, it reduces the joy and
the working power of a section of the people,
and its bad consequences cover part of two
generations —that of the drinker after he
takes to liquor, possibly at the age of 25,
and that of his children till they are old
enough to leave the beery home.
A rumor floated round that this country’s
wheat crop for 1917-1978 had been sold to
the British Government for 4s. 9d. per
bushel. Many people were indignant and
said the price was absurdly low, but then a
country which can’t guarantee delivery for
want of ships hasn’t much voice in fixing
prices. It can only expect the ruling quota-
tion for fowls that are to be hatched when
the eggs are laid. However Grahame, Minister
for Beans and Fertilisers in N. S. Wales,
leaped into the breach with the reassuring
news that, so far as he knew, the crop
hadn’t been sold at all.
“Bungawalbyn” : “A.A.M.C.” (B. 23/5/T8)
and various writers of recent date quote
their personal theories on malaria and quin-
ine, unsupported by any trained observation.
I am an Australian who went to West
Africa, and I implicitly obeyed the
instructions of medical men who were
trained either by the Liverpool or London
Tropical Schools of Medicine. Whilst there
and since leaving I have not suffered from
malaria except in a very light form, and this
good fortune I consider I owe _to rigidly
adhering to expert medical advice, which,
briefly, was as follows: Five grains quinine
hydrochlor. daily (1) a fortnight before
arriving on the Coast; (2) while there; and
(3) for a fortnight after leaving (the dosing
during the two fortnightly periods was con-
sidered of vital importance) ; daily warm
baths (cold baths absolutely tabooed) and
the wearing of a well-padded helmet with a
long flap to cover the neck ; temperance in all
things ; plenty of rest.
Another historic Australian house has
passed under the hammer. Rhodes on the
Parramatta River was the property of
Thomas Walker, an early Deputy-Assistant
Commissary-General, who had been through
the Peninsular War and at Waterloo. With
$ brother officer, Thomas Cordeaux, he was
chosen to come to New South Wales to in-
spect the Commissariat late in Macquarie’s
reign'. He got the river grant just sold, but
on retiring settled on the South Esk, Tas-
mania. He married a daughter of John
Blaxland, of Newington, and died in 1861,
aged 70 years.
“G.C.”: “Young man,” said the elderly
gent, to the apparently-eligible who occupied
the same carriage, “in not being a member
of our gallant army, which is making a
name second to none in the world, you are
missing an opportunity which comes perhaps
but once in a lifetime, I only wish I was
20 or 30 years younger; I’d” “Mister,
you and me both wish the same,” wearily
chipped in the young man. “What do you
mean?” queried the old chap. “Just what I
said,” retorted the other. “We both wish
that we were 20 or 30 years younger.”


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Ca&tnes-de-
-ILuxe. Staterooms with bedsteads a
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4sio! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alina Wharf.)
MACKAY
BOWEN
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Aug. 3.
Leaves Sydney, Aug. 6.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Aug. 17,
Leaves Sydney, Aug. 20.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping for
S.A. and \V.A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Aug. 20.
‘Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Itnnking. Public Companies. &c.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
Iv.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.; THOS.
WELSBY.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. ..£BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . .. . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 6
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE BRISBANE.
Brandies —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up . . £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD.; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,001^
Uncalled Capital . . . . .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL.
'St. Hilda. Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping Sc.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
Next Sailing—R.M.S. MAKIRA, Bth AUGUST.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,“o T f h t e h e Pa e r actc
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENEUY— PERFECT WEATHER —MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
ox sanoi AvanoH
i
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Groups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP S CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
£3,904,860
- £2,950,000
- - £3,904,860
Paid-up Capital -
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability -
£10,759,720
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Janies T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, L-.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. „ • D .„,
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT.
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the W orld.
“ J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
CommomvealtbiilJßaiik ot Hustralia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
Branches, and over 2750 Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific.
Interest at o<y
per annum '*/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER. Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
- £2,000,000
- £2,010,000
- £2,000,000
£6,010,000
Established 1834,
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Office: IS Birchin Lane. E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England; The
London County Westminster and Parr’s Bank, Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
SYDNEY TO QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
INTENDED SAILINGS FROM GRAFTON WHARF.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
(Transhipping at >
Townsville for
Lucinda Point,
Mourilyan and
Innisfail.)
S.S. MORIALTA, August 3.
S.S. ARAWATTA, August 10.
S.S. RUPARA, August 17.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Visitors are not allowed on Company’s Wharves
or on board Company’s Steamers.
E. B. WAREHAM,
Manager.
15 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. Between Melbourne and Launceston three
sailings per week.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Every Three Weeks.
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
“VENTURA” sails AUGUST 28.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO M
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airv Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACIIARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD.. Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
-THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
lot'lv to * 1 *
TWEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are iPUied in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE. 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports,
Melbourne and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjovment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company’s steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first’ port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Inter-State Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED.
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Ilol-
born. London. W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
1 charge.


■ Under
Royal
.Warrant
ds
To H.M.
King
GeorgeV
champagne
'^arlesHeidsie(>
Heims
m
E IS
Wdhcs^
CHAMPAGNE
Charles lleidsiedi
mains
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
L **#&£.*>*•
- s iust v °^’ ; sy a»f y
r„fttg e f ivdnel
9t> r, Tk e f *t a sy dncS
G d \°peac> use \
M-JXS
ScGK
Hotel Sydney
(Now Fully Licensed)
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE*
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
HOT AND COLD WATER SERVICE IN EVERY
BEDROOM DAY AND NIGHT.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/0
„ (Daily) „ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ 6/0'
Management—E. T. CHEESE-MAN-
BROOKES
COFFEE ESSENCE
You'll like it too!!
Missing Friends.
IF MARGARET DWYER and MARY DWYER,
* daughters of the late Patrick Dwyer and Sarah
Dwver (maiden name Coonan), formerly of Geelong,
or their children will communicate with The Trus-
tees Executors and Agency Company Limited, No. 412
Collins Street, Melbourne, thpy will hear of some-
thing to their advantage.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE —
MOET (Sl chandon.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (8b CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
BOSTODK’S—THE ECONOMY SHOE POLISH
We wish to stress the fact that ECONOMY is one of the chief attiibutes of
Bostock Shoe Dressings. It is economical by virtue of the fact that it is more
than a mere polish.
Containing, as it docs, ingredients which nourish and preserve the leather, it
gives longer life to -footwear.
With the cost of shoes mounting
higher and higher, the daily use
of Rostock’s, with its leather-
preserving qualities, is particu-
larly desirable.
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
Colors: Black, Brown, Bark
Brown, Ox Blood and White.
In Bottles and Tubes.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
. . SYDNEY. . .
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, July 29, 1918.
My Dear Arini, —
Tempestuous weather cleared slightly when
the first instalment of an eager crowd
stamped over the water-logged track across
Cockatoo Dock to witness the christening
of the Adelaide, and her launching on
the waters. The newly-built Australian is as
handsome and taut as our own shipbuilders
could make her. Overseeing the work,
apparently done all shipshape and Bristol
fashion, were naval experts such as J. W.
Clark, assistant manager; J. Payne, elec-
trical engineer; and other departmental
heads. General-manager King Salter had, by
“absence of industrial trouble,” less worry
over the building of the Adelaide than on
any previous experiment with war craft on
local slips.
Twelve thousand pairs of wet boots hav-
ing clambered into such sky-line platforms
as their striped or plain tickets intimated,
the choir came with shining countenances,
ambled over a little bridgeway, led by the
naval chaplain, Allan Pain, and disappeared
into some secret deep. It was a very young
choir, in white surplices and navy-blue cas-
socks, but its sweet treble pipe, faint and
far-off: like the exultant cry of bush birds,
led the congregation in the hymn beloved of
sailor men, “Eternal Father, Strong to Save!”
The State platform bristled with Excellen-
cies. Lady Helen Ferguson’s high-pitched
voice pierced the misty air: “I name this
ship the Adelaide. May she be victorious,
and may the blessing of God rest on those
who sail in her!” The band played “Three
Cheers for the Red, 'White and Blue,” a
bottle of Australian wine smashed on the
ship’s sharp bow, reared high in mid-air,
keen as the blade of a sword, and drenched
the bouquet (always featured by the navy
in the historic red, white and blue) of ex-
quisite blooms. The G.-G.’s grey hair, the
medal-hung uniforms of Allied officers,
Governor Stanley and his lady from Mel-
bourne. Governor Davidson's top-hat, the
dark eyes of Lady Davidson, a swarm of
aides in divers “frocking” from khaki to the
morning garb of Piccadilly* Archbishop
Wright (his was the prayer), Acting-
Minister Poyntou (for the Navy)—-all were
prominent in the official group. The rope
was smartly cut by Lady Helen. The great
grey hull hesitated. Then the dockyard
mechanism gave the necessary tap, and the
Adelaide took the water like the immortal
duck. May she be victorious !
Married the other day to the girl of his
heart, Lieut. W. R. Yates, M.G., to a lass
named M. Patterson, of West Melbourne.
Yates enlisted in August, 1914, at the age
of 17, fought on Gallipoli, and for his skill
as a draftsman was temporarily passed into
the Intelligence Branch. Next he was pro-
moted lieutenant and handed the M.C. for
his services in France. The youthful Aus-
tralian was so badly wounded in the head at
Bullecourt that certain death would have
been his lot but for the wizards of the
modern operation-table. His case was one
of the surgical wonders of an English mili-
tary hospital. He looks hale and fit, but the
Medical Board blocks his desire to get back
to the racket, for he had the final repairs to
his head completed at Randwick only a few
months ago.
Mrs. Brittain, president of the American-
Australian League of Help, was hostess at
a tea-party in The Australia the other after-
noon, when Mrs. Guy Bates Post was con-
gratulated. The U.S. visitor raised over
£6OO on July 4 by her smart auctibning of a
Star Spangled banner and an eagle. A
cheque for £lOOO from the American League’s
Cafe Chantant - and from Mrs. Post’s
auction “stunt,” as her compatriots would
say, was handed to J. .T. Cohen for the Red
Cross Prisoners of War Fund.
A damp audience drifted into Her
Majesty’s 'on the tide of a southerly gale, the
occasion being the gift matinee to help the
Returned Soldiers’ Day on August 2. The
most interesting item in the programme was
“The Hour Glass,” Yeats’s play, set “a long
time ago in Ireland.” Margaret Wyelierly
was the Fool who, when it came to discuss-
ing heavenly topics, knew more than the
Wise Man. Maclaren was the very marrow
of the play by his powerful representation of
the Wise Man who scoffed at angels until one
strayed into his mediaeval class-room with
sombre warning of his approaching death.
The angel (Miss Morrison) was impressive
till she turned the hollow back of her halo to
the house. It looked like a rakish sailor-hat
without a crown. She chanted her part in
the deep tones of a precentor leading the
choir-boys’ responses; very solemnly, like the
falling of the sands in the hour-glass of
Destiny. After this came a hearty snack of
“Blood and Iron,” compressed melodrama in
which the Kaiser came to his death (in
inky darkness) at the hands of “241,” a Ger-
man super-soldier who suddenly ceased to be
a machine, found his soiil and a suitable
weapon, and slew Wilhelm on behalf of the
People. Maud Fane, assisted by beautiful
young men like William Greene, took charge
of the last half of the programme. They
appeared in “A Soldier’s Dream.”
Amongst the passengers on the recently-
departed Dutch boat was Herbert Welham,
editor of the Straits’ Echo, an evening-
paper which appears with the planters’ late-
afternoon tea. Welham is now a compara-
tive fixture in Penang. He hasn't seen
Sydney since 1904, but he has had holiday
trips to India and England. Welham met
the “copy-boy” first in Fleet-street (Lon-
don) and was afterwards on the Daily
Mail’s Paris staff. With him was "Norman
Angell” (Ralph Norman Angell Lane), the
man whose war theories weren’t all they
were cracked up to be.
The Australian Prisoners’ of War Com-
forts Fund gets a lift: from the recent Town
Hall concert. Mrs. George Sargent organised
the show, and Louis Grist looked after the*
details. Vern Barnett was organist and
pianist alternately at the concert. Lilian
Gibson sent her contralto tones across the
big hall; George Whitehead and Elsie Peer-
less were heard in song ; Lawrence Campbell
recited, and Mowat Carter with his fiddle
and Winifred Carter with her harp
helped through a long programme. Youth-
ful Ursula Mason, in Arditi’s L’Estasi,
showed a promising temperament. The girl’s
voice, if not marred by the forcing-house of
premature public appearance, is likely lo
soar. Governor Davidson and his lady,
with Aide Stanham, who took the corner
of the carpet when “God Save” poured from
the organ, faced the audience instead of
giving it their backs. Attorney-General
Hall and his missus (swathed in a snowdrift
of ermine of the rare tailless species) were
in the party.
Sister Mary Aloysiiis Ryan, one of the
Ryans of Ryanvillc, near Goulburn, cel-
ebrated her golden jubilee at the Convent of
Mercy, Goulburn, recently. She was the
first Sister of Mercy professed in N. S.
Wales, and is the only surviving member
of the community as it was when she entered
it in 1865.
War nurses have at last earned the right
to go on furlough. To private generosity
the Nightingales who come ashore in Sydney
owe one of the
most delightful re-
treats they’ll meet
with in a long year’s
wanderings. When
Mr. and Mrs. W. E.
Shaw gave their
gabled, vine-clad
home at Summer
Hill in perpetuity to
Bi 11 j i m’s best
friends, they dedi-
cated it as a memo-
rial to the martyred
Englishwoman wdiose
name is a deathless
witness to German
“kultur.” The Edith
Cavell House is the
ideal Rest Home that
every grey-clad- Aus-
tralian nurse will weave into her dreams
of Sydney. When Sister’s transport takes
another dive into a deep, green sea,
or as she hurriedly helps to remove
the wounded after the lurking sub-
marine has torpedoed a hospital boat, how-
ever heroic she be, she feels a tired woman
after all. And it is to the woman in her that
the Edith Cavell House appeals. Set in a
spacious garden, full of rooms that open
like luxurious nests on to an unexpected
balcony or thickly carpeted hall, furnished
with cosy easy-chairs and such beds as the
nurse on active, service can only think about,
if, is the Place of Peace. Sweetly in tune
with the surroundings is the gentle Matron
Willow (a trainee of Prince Alfred Hospi-
tal), whose dainty lace cap and soft
eyes are featured in this photo by May
Moore. The upkeep of the home-—and Miss
Willow’s housekeeping is a prodigy of pati-
ent wrestling with soaring prices—depends
largely on private subscriptions, with the
Bed Cross as a sympathetic friend. No
doubt it only has to be mentioned to some
of our wealthy citizens whose sons are
nursed back to health by the devoted Aus-
tralian Nightingales, that they might add
their names to the list of cash helpers to the
Edith . Cavell House.
Signaller To m
Skeyhill, blinded in
the early days of
Gallipoli, sent this
photo from New
York by the last
mail. Instead of the
dark glasses that he
wore to shade his
once-siglitless orbs,
you see the Austra-
lian’s large brown
eyes looking half-
amazed at the world
again. In Sydney
Skeyhill is still re-
membered as one of
the most eloquent of
war - lecturers. A
dramatic intuition of
the right words to
describe tense moments in the Dardanelles
tragedy and a marked gift for telling
every detail of that epic story,' made this
young soldier in his blindness a very warm
favorite with Australian audiences. lie
raised thousands of pounds for patriotic
funds, notably for the Red Cross. Going to
U.S.A. his lectures made up, added to the
money gleaned in his native land, the sur-
prising total of £so,ooo. Then the miracle
befell. In Washington Dr. Moore performed
an operation which completely restored
Skeyhill’s sight. Now he wants to return to
the Front. Two years of blindness and an
astonishing record as patriotic lecturer
haven't cured him of a desire for the tiring-
line.
R. 11. Modlin, who holds the world’s high-
est diploma as an accountant (he’s a Fellow
of the English and Welsh Chartered Account-
ants’ Association), has enlisted in the
A.I.F. Modlin is an Englishman by birth,
hailing from the North, where Wordsworth
twittered gentle pastorals, but an Australian
by adoption. He kisses bis wife and young-
sters good-bye, to hoard an outgoing troop-
ship, very shortly.
The brilliant Archibald Strong, M.A.,
lecturer in English at Melbourne University,
is in Sydney on a brief visit. In an endless
chain of mental activity lie finds time to
compose verse. Under the modest title,
“Poems,” a volume is fresh from the printers.
“Australia and the War” comes from the
same capable hand.
Helen Cecilia Bridge was quietly married
to Thomas Adrian Ruys, of Batavia, at St.
Patrick’s the other day. The bride is a
daughter of the Clarence Bridge household,
of Ivirribilli. The newly-married pair left
by the Dutch boat for their tropic home.
You can have a game of euchre or a dance
in the Oxford Halt on Friday evening, Aug-
ust 9. The takings go to that deserving
Hospital for Women, St. Margaret’s, Bourke-
street.
Justice Harvey raises a pen to defend
Governor Davidson from the apparent
negligence of reaching the opening prayers
at Cranbrook School nearly an hour late.
His Ex., says liis Honor, was asked about
three months ago to attend and make the
usual declaration at 4 o’clock. The Coun-
cil afterwards changed the time to 3 o’clock,
but by some oversight Government House
was not notified. Elis Ex., with a luncheon
party on his hands and 4 p.m. dotted down
in his diary, was taking things easily, when
an anguished message on the ’phone gave
him the shock of his life. With an aide in
tow he fled to the Hose Bay tryst, and
didn't order the summary execution of the
Council nor the burning by the public hang-
man of the newspapers who scolded him.
Lieut. F. Blair Tainton, A.1.F., tucked the
hand of Mary Gwendoline Tait under his
arm and led her down the aisle of St.
Stephen’s kirk, after big John Ferguson had
tied the knot. Mary is the grand-daughter
of “Honest John Tait,” whose horses were
famous winners of bygone races, and carried
off amongst them four Melbourne Cups. The
soklier-’groom was in the Landing, and has
remained on active service until a few months
ago. He was badly gassed in France, but lie
has recovered, and his short furlough is
nearly over. He reports for duty again in a
few weeks. But we’ve got to keep patching
them up and sending them back to till the
gaps in Australia’s hard-beset ranks that so
many eligibles turn their backs on. Blair is
a son of Major Tainton, of Herefordshire
(Eng.).
The financial result of the Graytli wade
fete in the R.S.Y. Squadron’s grounds on
Saturday afternoon was almost incredible in
the circumstances. Over £lOOO was netted.
A heavy southerly swept the water-la.ppe<l
slope where heroic women, in showers of
torrential rain, sold candy or cakes. As the
afternoon wore on, getting more storm-beaten,
the mushroom growth of umbrellas increased
to a heavy crop. The fete was towards a
fully-equipped ward for permanently-disabled
soldiers in the Red Cross haven. Graythwaite,
North Sydney, and all the winds that blow
couldn't keep the real Australian away from
helping such a cause as that. Governor
Davidson addressed compliments to the
crowd after Dugald Thomson had unloaded
the committee’s welcome to him. Governor-
General Ferguson looked in later, and got
his vice-regal boots very damp. Though few
yachting men crept out of ambush to brave
the storm, one of them, E. Gard Trouton,
made up for less hardy seamen. He took
charge of the Harbor trips from a sopping-
stand on the Club's private wharf and col-
lected the coin from over .'><)(> passengers —
mostly women—-who made the voyage to
Port Denison. He appeared to be the wet-
test man on earth. Hon. treas. Russell Sin-
clair and Chas. Bartholomew worked like
navvies for success against the elements.
The lion. see. and one of the organisers was
Mrs. Cecil Hordern.
The death of Rivers Allpress, Sydney’s
wonderfully gifted fiddler and conductor of
years ago, recalls the shadowy figure and
huge' bumpy forehead of this once-familiar
vision in local music haunts. Allpress wore
his hair combed severely hack off his moun-
tainous brow—long, in a drake-like tail that
fell over liis collar. It was a musical cult
of the time, and possibly an innocent form
of advt. Sydney has never seen a male coif-
fure. quite like that of G. Rivers Allpress,
nor has it produced any finer all-round
musician. The delicate violinist died in
Johannesburg in April.
An attractive programme lured a big
audience to the King’s Hall during the week
in spite of the rain-storm. Airs. G. L. Good-
man was organiser of the entertainment, and
daughter Ella, with a very sweet young
voice,- warbled frequently. Despite the pain
of tonsilitis. the girl met the right notes very
happily. Ellis Price helped with recitations,
and Harold Price, in khaki, sang popular
ballads. Violinist Cyril Monk played his
best —-to insistent applause. Dorothea
Flower and Philip Wilson also buttressed
the programme. Proceeds go to the Army
Service Corps Christmas,Comforts Fund.
From a grateful Billjim in France:—
Just a special word of appreciation for the clothes,
handkerchiefs, etc,, that we hade received at
perhaps the most suitable moment. Wc have just
corhe back to a “position” after a very uncomfortable
10 days—difty With a month’s dirt. We have man-
aged to get a hot bath and clothes from the War
Chest—the latter easily being the greater boon. All
this while still under shell-five. There is no
adequate way of expressing the general feeling of
appreciation of the troops, and it brings to one and
all of us a feeling that we are not forgotten. 1 am
writing this letter of thanks, to The Buoletix, and
not to the War Chest itself, so that wide publicity
may be given to our feelings.
A now- French -Consul-General is on the
sea hither bound. Ills name is Campana.
Meanwhile M. Paul Marcus is acting in the
Consulate.
Yours affectionately.
VANDOBIAN.


LET JOE TAYLOR CREATE
YOUR SPRINC SUIT OR COSTUME.
*£?’ s' '
Y-<
■f:
m
<■ •■
I /
H 1
8 M
111
1
• .;>
ri
II
mBI I
I ■ i
>V
M
iSi
1
91Hi
m
S~* :
: K
v-y:- ■ ;
S&g
Wm
Wm
H
#
■ v'
y; 4
• V'
d
11 ■ ■
-
..J
■
***?
m
. yt •:.,?>
, sv
Bfl
:d
H
.V i
. 1
1 m
/v s
w
» • -•••-.
SUITS
From £4 4s.
Costumes
From £5 ss.
| WANT just one opportunity to serve you —
* the pleasure of tailoring just ONE Suit or
Costume for you. Give me that and your repeat
orders will take care of themselves.
My whole business is built upon giving such
complete satisfaction with every order that the next
follows as a matter of course.
Note my guarantee: “Your money back If your
Suit or Costume is not right.’' It’s the condition
on which Ido all my business. Such a guarantee
is only possible because every Suit or Costume I
create is tailored by my own specially trained staff
in my own workrooms.
Send for patterns of the newest Suitings and
Costume Cloths if you cannot call at one of my
nine busy tailoring stores. Use the coupon at foot.
#
lor
Ta
“Nine Bnsy Tailoring; Stores.”
95 King St. and George St., Sydney.
109 Bourke St.; 69 Swanston St., Melbourne.
Brunswick, Richmond, Footscray and North Melbourne.
Fill up and Post this Coupon TO-DAY.
Suit or Costume
Price about Shade
Name .
Address
Bulletin. l/S/'IS.


\Aeltoma:n
IT | HIGH-CLASS
jSPBflALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
V
E. DROWN @ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL ’• OVER • THE • WORLD
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
Wb Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68$ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the worM.
6
1
RIDING
HHT . 4
RHl—"Tress" Black All Fur
Hat, bowler crown finished .fend find
bow, new bevelled edge about quarter
inch wide, na rrpwtttiKdlW.Mflrke M*
Other Smart Styles
-Old Jllustmted.
Rfl2—Black All Fur Felt “Tress" Riding
Hat, bowler crown, flat mcfUbrim, wide
narrow Imnd and bowr*"32/6
RH3 - BlaclrAll FurFdSvTress" Riding
Hat, bowler crftvfn finished wide band
and bow, new brtßWlled"up«oll round,'
bound at edge. Best,quality. Prpe 47/6
\XFHEN you purchase a “Tfessl’ Riding
’"•Hat at Farmer’s iyou have'secured _
the correct stylo__WQYn In,-, that.*'great '
r mmm f We pay Carnage-
C/ SYDNEY..
CASTOR OIL, SALTS«DRUGS REFUGED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness —
take California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.”
For the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don't think of California Syrup of Figs —
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you
are drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
as a robust man. It is the most harmless,
effective stomach, liver and bowel regulator
and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig’’
—California Syrup of Figs, which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. [3
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourns, July 29, 191 S.
My Dear Yarrie, —
On Saturday afternoon, when Verbrug-
ghen conducted an orchestral concert in the
Town Hall, the preliminary was a
seething mass of musical zealots scrambling
for seats. Around the ticket-boxes it was
like a football scrum. Verbrugghen was
leaving for Sydney on the afternoon express,
so the concert was timed with a stop-watch.
The doors were shut relentlessly on the
tick of advertised time. The manage-
ment had lowered the lights to an
artistic gloom, but the little conductor would
have none of it. He stood with arms and
baton upraised until the switches were
snapped on. Even then some blazers were
-withheld, but the musician wanted the lot
and got ’em. At first he looked as neat as
if he had hopped out of a bandbox —an im-
maculate figure in black —but after the
Beethoven Symphony he looked more like a
figure hung Oc.t in the seed paddock. When
the Wagner item was finished he was a mere
bundle of clothes. The house got up on its
chairs and yelled. If he had burst his collar
they’d have given him a gold “laurel” wreath.
On Wednesday night the Verbrugghen
Quartette, which has been making beautiful
stringed music at the Melba Hall during the
week, drew an audience that oozed on to
the platform on Wednesday night. Governor
Stanley and his wife, University Chancellor
Dr. McFarland, Chief Justice Irvine and
Professor Laver and his wife all perched in
the front row. Mrs. Bob Power brought
along pretty Mrs. Johnston from’ Tasmania.
Mrs. Fritz Hart brought her best hat.
Other listeners yvere the Beauchamps, Mrs.
Professor Ewart, the Woinarski Kennys, the
Ernest Scotts, Grices and Grey-Smiths.
Verbrugghen has his audiences scared, and
not a cough was heard during the numbers.
Violiniste Leila Doubleday, daughter of
the lady who boomed Amy Castles, is coming
home with foreign musical honors thick upon
her after years of absence. She expects to
appear on Melbourne concert platforms in
August.
Doris Madden, a niece of the late Chief
Justice, has been trotting round Adelaide
and Perth with Violet £oncannen (one of
Melba’s special pupils) and the pair have
given several successful concerts. Violet is
a Westralian, and three recitals in Perth
were packed.
The Stanleys are giving Melba bed and
board at State Government House this week.
The Everard Browne girl, Joan of the
Andrew Chirnsides and one of the Byron
Moore daughters have gone off in a well-
chaperoned party to Bananaland to dodge
the rest of the Victorian winter.
Dentist Harper Bell has left his patients
until September. He’s off to the far-north of
Bananaland to rest. Doctor’s orders.
Mrs. Ambrose Pratt has gone off to Amer-
ica in the hope of getting through to Eng-
land, where her sister is seriously ill.
Daughter is housekeeping for dad.
According to a provincial matron: “There
is no doubt that the war has done good. You
know there used to a frightful lot of snob-
bery in Geelong, but all that has disappeared
now.” Perhaps this was Wilhelm’s object
all sublime in starting Armageddon.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart is quite ready to do
war-nursing if they’ll take her. She discov-
ered lately that her nerve and training held
good after 12 years of disuse. When West-
ralian Doolette’s wife died suddenly in
Perth he was in Melbourne, and left his
young son with Mrs. Stuart while he raced
for home. The youngster was iff and sud-
denly had need of a serious operation. Mrs.
Stuart stripped a room in her house in true
hospital fashion and acted as nurse at the
operating-table. She did the work without
a falter.
Mrs. Charlie Fairbairn’s brother, Jim
Osborne, passed out last week. Jim was a
popular dancing man in his youth and a
good all-round sport with polo as a specialty.
His widow was a Sumner sister.
Mrs. Robert Barton, one of the most
charming personalities in Melbourne, died
last week. The deceased, like her husband,
the ex-Mintmaster, came here from England
many years back. Her last years were sad-
dened by the loss of a soldier son, Captain
Fred Barton, killed in the early Mesopo-
tamia fighting.
A great battle has been fought at the
Women’s Hospital for a vacancy on the
committee. Two very popular dames were
in the running—Mrs. Brenan and Mrs.
Fitzpatrick. Mrs. Brenan won.
Alexander Bell, M.L.C., Mayor of Bal-
larat and member for the district, had a
great party in Ballarat during the week.
Melbourne’s Gaud Mayor and a train of
aldermen were entertained for three days to
assist at tree-planting. The city has an
Avenue of Honor which is already four miles
long, each tree representing a soldier of the
district. Mayor Bell had his wife and four
daughters to help him entertain the multi-
tude, and also a just-returned warrior son.
The trees are planted in the order of enlist-
ment, and particulars of each man’s rank
and date of signing on are recorded on a
guard. News of any promotions or decora-
tions is invited by the Ballarat Council
from relations, so that the record may be
complete. A text-book has been published
giving known details.
Banker Champion de Crespigny is mourn-
ing his eldest son, Philip, a Light Horse
officer, killed in action in Palestine. The
fallen soldier leaves a widow and four chil-
dren. *
Brigadier - General
Stanley, retired the
other day, has since
been given a new job
and the higher rank
of Major - General.
This is the second
time he has retired
in his long life (he is
in the 70’s) and
then been brought
back into active ser-
vice. He first pulled
out at the usual age-
limit in his 60’s.
Then war broke out,
and he was made
State Commandant
and Quartermaster-
General. “I’m a
Jack-in-the-box,” says
the old officer. “They put on the lid, but. I
bob up again.” A soldier for 40 years, he
entered the army as a private, and eventually
commanded his regiment, the Royal Aus-
tralian Artillery, and, later, his military dis-
trict. “A good physique, a sense of humor
and a love of work,” he says has carried him
through. He rides 12 miles every day in his
methodical life and practises physical-culture.
He was one of the Australians who were
selected to go to Woolwich for special
training, and went through his paces
there for two and a half years. In 1913 he
went to India for Australia, and brought
back 80 or 90 officers for instruction and
“exchange” work. As Quartermaster-General
he had the big job of equipping our men early
in the war. His new job will be O.C. aboard
a transport.
Mrs. Christina Greig, widow of the mer-
chant Greig of olden days, died during the
week, aged 80. She was a sister of the late
W. B. Dailey, Q.C. and N. S. Wales states-
man. Mrs. Greig had a big circle of
friends, and as a youth possessed a beautiful
singing voice. Her daughter Tottie married
an Englishman named Ashton Jonson, whilst
two sons are connected with the stage. Bob
Greig, who married actress Beatrice Hollo-
way, is associate-director of the Tivoli
Theatres, whilst his brother (“Lawrence
Harding” on the bills) has deserted the lime-
light for the star-shell at the Front.
Miss Adelaide’s notes:—
This week some French soldiers, hound for New
Caledonia on furlough, have decorated our streets
with splashes of blue uniform. The Mayor and Cor-
poration of Port Adelaide welcomed them when
they arrived, while the local V.A.D.’s fed them
with cake and tea. That was the beginning of a
bombardment of Australian hospitality. At the
Cheer-Up Hut the visitors were made more at
home by being- spoken to, severally and collectively,
in their own language by Lady Galway.
The Australia Day committee has stirred up
tiouble by its “Home for a Bob” raffle scheme,
whereby the patriotic are induced to subscribe their
shillings for the benefit of war widows and orphans.
Other patriotic funds object to the Soldiers’ Fund
being allowed a license which was denied them, and
the High-Principled object because raffling is the
first step to whole-hog gambling. Country towns
are passing resolutions against the scheme; suburban
reformers are denouncing it in letters to the press;
but the shillings keep tumbling in at express speed.
Walkerville has added to the number of its war
efforts by a Paddy’s Market —proceeds to the Red
Cross and Trench Comforts Funds. Lady Galway
opened it on Saturday. On the same day an exhi-
bition golf match between professionals and amateurs
at the Seaton links drew a big crowd and shoved up
the Australia Day Fund’s financial barometer.
Another successful Australia Day effort was the
concert in the Town Hall arranged by the city
organist, T. H. Jones.
Miss Millicent Lapidge has been granted a license
under the Real Property Act. She is the first woman
to get the privilege in this State.
Killed in action, Lieut. Leonard Gurner, elder
son of the Walter Gurners of Knightsbridge; and
, Corporal William Everard, youngest son of the W.
: F. Everards, of Malvern.
, If Friday’s Button Day is any criterion, the South
Australian Soldiers’ Fund should easily collect the
£120,000 it is aiming at for its Widows and
Orphans’ Insurance Fund scheme. The procession,
which was miles long and included everything from
a model of the Buffalo and its first batch of immi-
grants to the newest reinforcements for the A.1.F.,
brought crowds to town, and once they got there
they found every imaginable device for taking their
money from them.
The presidency of the Wattle Day League, which
William Sowden resigned when he left for England,
has been handed on to Herbert Solomon, one of the
League’s first members in this State.
All musical Adelaide turned up to say good-bye
to pianist Edward Goll on Friday. He had bumper
houses from the first, and hig admirers are now
busily scheming for a return visit of the musician.
The Naval Commandant, Captain Burford, has had
news that his eldest son has been gassed' in France.
Heather Keep (what a pretty name!),
just back from a Sydney trip, has agreed to
marry Lieut. Edmund Cooke, M.C. The
lucky soldier, who is the sou of a late N. S.
AVales squatter and a nephew of woolgrower
Winter-Irving, is due back at the Front, so
the two may be married before his return to
war.
Another Australian won an English girl
—Lieutenant Penhall, a Ballarat boy who
has been flying in France for three years.
He married Faith Dilley, whose dad is a
postal chief in Birmingham. Penhall, a
clever engineer, is also an amateur violinist.
Faith is clever at the piano, and music was
the first bond of sympathy during leave
spells in Blighty.
Motorist H. B. James has married Miss
Hood, who managed Arcadia for years. The
two made a very quiet match of it and sur-
prised all their friends.
The Charlton Dawsons (she was Vera
Burgess) have settled luxuriously in Maori -
land. Dawson has bought a fine place near
Auckland, one of the old homes that early
settlers planted with English trees. It’s a
forest paradise now.
Phyllis Reynolds is off to India to marry
young Wilfrid Hunter, Mrs. Charlie Rome’s
nephew. He is in business in Calcutta, ancf
wears a reject badge.
Two lots of French 'soldiers on furlough
have just marched down Collins-street, one
squad in grey-blue and the other in khaki.
They were preceded by a very gay band and
some troopers on dancing grey horses. Gen-
eral Williams took the salute at the French
Consulate with the exquisite Consul Fliche.
Captain Andrew Luke, son of newspaper
proprietor Luke, of Gippsland, has arrived
safely overseas. Before he left the military
medico married the only daughter of grazier
J. M. Gillespie, who has lost one son in
action and has another still fighting. The
bride-of-a-month has gone back to her lonely
people.
A couple of months
ago a very sick man
looked in at The
Bulletin office in
Sydney on his way
north to Bananaland
in search of health.
The visitor was
James White, sculp-
tor and good fellow,
and he was fated
pever to come south
again. During his
last call he showed
a fine bust he had
completed of the late
Alf Vincent, for
years The Bulle-
tin’s Melbourne car-
toonist. This pic-
ture of White
arrived some time befcire he died in
Brisbane in mid-July. White executed sev-
eral important commissions in Australia, and
was a winner of the Wynne Art Prize. His
works include the Queen’s Memorial, Mel-
bourne, statue of the late E. G. Fitzgibbon,
Soldiers’ Memorial at Ballarat, George Lan-
sell statue at Bendigo, War Memorial at
Perth, McDouall Stuart statue at Adelaide,
the Dailey and Robertson statues at Sydney,
and statue of Commerce at Royal Exchange,
Sydney.
John Cherry, Major Thomas Cherry’s
eldest boy, has been killed in France. Major
Cherry himself is still in Egypt doing bac-
teriological war-work.
Bendigonian violinist Gibson’s Irish wife
is a wispy, dark-eyed, thistledowny lady with
a fund of dreamy old Irish stories. She is
expected to make Melbourne have a new
interest in music after attending her recitals.
A party of mummers pushed off for South
Africa the other day. Marie Tempest, who
is to tour with Graham Browne, took Doris
Gilham with her. Doris was formerly the
haughty Mrs. Chichester in “Peg.” Young
Roger Barry, of Sydney, was another of the
Tempest group. Ada Reeve was starting
off at the same time to teach the Africanders
how to sing “Tennessee.” Joe Blascheck,
Harry Jacobs, Lucy Linda and Tommy Holt
were in her train. Marie Tempest may
come back at Cup-time to play Becky Sharpe.
Melbourne’s Shakspeare Society has
changed its place of meeting. The disciples
of Divine William are to gather at fhe
Chapter House, in Cathedral Buildings, on
their next monthly Friday. August 2 is the
night for discussing “Cymbeline,” and five
learned students in succession will let them-
selves go on the platform of the Chapter
Hall. The singing turn falls to Alice White.
The Fund for Sick Actors is to have a
big matinee to-day (Thursday) at Her
Majesty’s. All the Governors in town are
paying their 10s. a seat like other hard-ups.
Pretty little Mrs. Austyn Eagan has been
doing the sights and theatres with big
brother Cecil Hartt. Cecil uses a stick these
days, but is the same elongated, cheerful
artist of pre-war days. His black-and-white
work appeals to the English public, and he
is likely to bring out another book of war
drawings.
Webb, the South Australian artist, is
just completing the official portrait of ex-
Gaud Mayor Hennessy. He had a tough
job finding an unoccupied studio right in
town to where he could lure the busy Hen-
nessy for sittings. His own studio is at
Kew.
Louis McCubbin has been made a lieuten-
ant and set to work camouflaging boats tor
the Navy. He got some experience in broad
effects when he helped with the scenic back-
grounds for the Victorian Artists’ dances
years ago.
This illustrates the snobbishness of civil-
ians in India to the private soldier, and, inci-
dentally, shows how stories of the Aus-
tralian nursing sisters circulate to their
disadvantage. A certain officer’s wife in
Poona, having talked largely and loudly ot
the Australian nurses’ “disgraceful con-
duct,” was pressed for an instance. The vapid
scandalmonger then expounded: “The other
day,” said she, “I saw two sisters sitting
in a tonga talking to a 'private!' _ She
seemed quite surprised when her questioners
didn’t fall down dead.
Ruby Lindsay (Mrs. Will Dyson), writing
from London, pathetically bewails the lot
austere of the housekeeper in the land ot
much vapor. The saddest duty mischance
has inflicted upon London’s missus is the
daily adventure in the dinner-line, waiting
in mournful rows, with basins, tubs or any
utensils of suitable dimensions, at cooksliop
doors to secure prepared meals for the hap-
less home, this being found much preferable
to ranging in similar queues at half a dozen
establishments in quest of raw material. My
comfort to-jlay,” says the artist, is that the
lady in front of me with the jardiniere was
a major’s widow, and the one behind with
the hand basin a lady journalist of some
distinction.”
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—still going strong
x
v
%
7
U\
'tr-c
53
*5
JS
*
\
fco
Grtr'
K?^.o
o*o*
T< .#*
Sise
vr:
r
2F
i«/r,
K
fff7
\ ' x
» »j
Johnnie Walker: “Age for counsel, youth for action.’
Diplomat: “ But you, Monsieur, combine both ze age and ze youth.
‘ Born 1820 —still going strong/ Voila! ”
If you pav a good price you should get a guarantee.
Johnnie Walker “Red Label” is guaranteed by the name on
the label and the Non-refillable Bottles in which it is put up.
IT IS QUALITY PROTECTED
JOHN WALKER Sc SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland


The impetus to the great Franco-American
victory on the Fontenoy-Chateau-Thierry
sector last week was an invincible spirit
akin to that famous invigorator, King George
IV. topnotch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
Weat Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMEB & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Ooap
LEWIS &WMITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
CAPILLARINE
0
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
It has been before the public for years, and is
daily proving its efficacy and genuineness as
a true moustache-grower. The military
“swear” by it.
PRICE 10 /& JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
664 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Get This
THE SAXON SCHOOL
FREE Book
It explains how to cure
Indigestion; Constipation,
Physical and Nervous Dis-
orders of all kinds, in
your own home.
WRITE TO-DAY.
A. TILBURY, Principal.
SAXON SCHOOL
for
Health and Strength
No. 4 Inns of Court,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
pAof*
28£.js2*g
v«:-*
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
ZINC
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
ELECTROLYTICALLY -
REFINED ZINC,
~. . i
g
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER <bha£> BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
80LE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“ Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
Touching the Australian Hurdle Race,
which comes due at Caulfield this Saturday, the
book shows it to be a somewhat different proposition
to the G. N. Hurdle at Flemington, for although the
course is nearly half a mile longer the winner carries
a heavier weight, as a rule. The jumps are easier
obstacles, and there is only one more of them to be
taken in the longer journey. Something carrying
over 10 stone wins the A.H.R. more often than not.
Within the last 16 years four heavily-penalised win-
ners of the G.N. have scored again at Caulfield, anil
the same double event was nearly being brought off
last year when Merunqua fell at the final hurdle.
Three' of the G.N. heroes have run second, and one
has come third, at Caulfield. So if Narahquong
repeats his Flemington victory, next Saturday, with
an extra 2 lib. on his back, there will be nothing to
marvel at. It is even money that he gets a “shop,”
judging from the facts of the past. Some of the
light-weights look dangerous, of course. Cuffs, who
captured the Jumpers’ Flat at Moonee Valley last
Saturday, must run well if the hurdles don’t take
it out of him, which same remark applies to Bilga,
Worribie and Algous. The only thing to be said
against Rosyth (9st. 41b.) is that he looked light
and tucked up at Flemington the other week, and. is
presumably not at his best. A horse must be very
fit to take a 31-miles’ hurdle race, so if Jack Rice
and Van Homreigh have been coming along whilst
some of the others were staling off they will carry
their burdens prominently. Hayston, a likely winner
until recently, has a doubtful log. Obi seems a bit
too old for the heavy job, even with a reduced weight
on his honorable back. Calais, perhaps, is not old
enough. As Narahquong looked capable of improve-
ment when he romped home for the National the
writer expects the big son of Amberite to beat
Pistolier, Westendale, Calais and Rathfarnham.
The question of whether Desert Gold will
he a starter in the Melbourne Cup with 9st. 61b. is
soon going to stir Australia to the boots. The
history of the race can, of course, give owner
Lowry very little encouragement to give the mare
a fly. Only four times since ’6l has this much
weight or more been carried to the front. Since
Carbine’s year the race has only been twice won
with over 9st., and some top-class horses have been
beaten into second or third place with substantially
less than Desert Gold is allotted. Moreover there
is the circumstance that Desert Gold has been
beaten on both occasions she started on a two-
miles’ trip-—by lCilboy and by Wallace Isinglass.
Yet though no reasonably-sane person would give
either of these two a chance in the Cup with 9st.
61b., Desert Gold has certainly been given a chance,
and this writer would say a good one, too. To
argue that she will not stay is senseless. The
race she ran in the King’s Plate last autumn
answers that right away. She would only need
to do it again in a different wav to be in the
picture at the right end. But it is more than
probable that w.f.a. proceedings will have more
attractions for the owner. They ought to have,
anyway.
*. * * *
“Wart”: Raheny, the game little chestnut
jumper from the Speck, which followed up a third
in the Kensington Steeple with third in the Grand
National Steeple, was in the latter race starting for
his 181st time. He has won 32 races, been second
in 28, and registered a host of thirds. Winnings
to date, £2BBB. Hahenv has a good chance of
breaking Avalon’s Australian record of 184 starts.
•jfc ♦ ■X’
“Glen Ii.”: Although nominated in the
name of “H. Connolly.” there is not, as “Johanna”
suggests (B. 25/7/MS), a mystery connected with
the ownership of Cobram. The steed belonged to
D’arcy Eccles, who, after trying it over hurdles
and brush with discouraging results, presented it
to a young R.C. priest for use as a hack. His
Rivirince found the nag such an excellent hunter
that he had it trained as a steeplechaser. The
name of Cobram’s owner is well known to racing
men, but for obvious reasons he prefers to see
another monniker on the card.
* * * *
If The Day had not been beateu by a
whisker in the Glen Orla Handicap at Moonee
Valley on Saturday, Dempsey would have dead-heated
Bullock for most winners in Vie. during the season.
The scoring finished: Bullock, 38; Dempsey, 37.
The younger rider had none the best of the luck.
He was second in 32 races; Bullock in 21.
Victorian bookies want an amendment of
the Act which prohibits an authorised substitute
from betting in the name, and with the hag, of a
dulv licensed man who happens to be too sick to go
fielding at the time. The State Treasurer was
unsympathetic to the request, on the ground that
the'probity of a licensed Ikey is guaranteed, whereas
the temporary substitute might be a very doubtful
person. The objection hasn’t much force in it. The
sick bookie is willing to be held responsible for
the bets contracted by his substitute, .who issues
his tickets. His 1 license is presumably cancelled if
the substitute defaults. As long as bookmakers are
permitted in the place where a totalisator ought to
be they should have the right to commission a
locum tenens to hold the business together in the
absence of the licensee.
• * * *
“0.K.”: The late cheery Dr. Bevan is
gratefully remembered by Melbourne bookmakers as
the parson who once said some astonishingly foolish
things against the tote. The parson, in his sweet
innocence of the Turf and its victims, remarked
that the tote must he more ruinous to punters
than the human layer of odds, because it never lost
money over a race, but steadily ate up 10 per cent,
of the investments. The good old doc. hail never
scored a nice little win through backing the nag
that was beaten by a neck by an odds-on favorite.
The joy of sharing equally, in 90 per cent, of the
machine’s receipts, with a few other backers of a
■rank outsider, had never been Dr. Bevan’s luck.
He lacked experience of the essential fairness of the
democratic betting' instrument, never having rushed
to take two to one about a horse that had been
hacked at 10’s by the enlightened early birds. What
the reverend gentleman needed to put him wise to
the advantages of the tote, from the occasional
punter’s point of view, was a strenuous hunt for
the best odds obtainable in a “ring” where Abra-
hams, Isaacs and Jacobs are offering the very worst
that anybody will take, and no two of them are
offering alike.
* * * *
A bit of hot stuff was worked at an Out-
back meeting not very long ago. The owners of
the favorite backed the nag they thought had the
next best chance, and then slipped a lead bag off
their own prad. “Make every post a winner,” they
told their jockey, so that a fair number of people
close by would hear. The favorite won easily, and
the owners who had backed the second arrival
stood shilling outside the weighing-room door wait-
ing for the clerk of the scales, to give his decision.
Their joy, however, was short-lived. “Weight,”
declared that official. He had his bit on the favorite.
* * * *
“Spreader” : The accommodation for race-
horses on ocean-liners is so good these times that
the sea journey can be left out of the reckoning as
far as ill effects on their physical condition are
concerned, but the same can hardly be said about
climatic changes. The risk of a horse failing- to repro-
duce his form when transported to an unused-to
climate is always 100 to 1. Take for instance Noc-
tuiform, the M.L. Cup winner a few years ago. Sold
by the late G. G. Stead to an English buyer for
£5OOO, he couldn’t head a goat when he
got to Blighty. Many of the English papers
roasted Stead for selling him at such a high
figure, which was doing the old sport a grave
injustice, as the colt was an absolute champion at
home. Loss of form in England could only be
accounted for by the change of climate. On the
other hand, Parthian, winner of A.J.C. Derby and
subsequently sire of a few first-raters in Ireland,
was sent across the water in charge of trainer H.
Chippendall about 17 years ago in the old Nineveh.
They struck a gale or two on the trip, the history
of which could be fitted into a “penny dreadful.”
Everything was battened down most of the time and
Parthian anil a mare named Sweetheart got down
in their boxes. But there was fine weather during
the last couple of weeks of the voyage, and the
pair was landed in England as fit as fiddles. Why
one horse should deteriorate through climatic changes
and another not be affected is a pretty big conun-
drum. Still, you see the same thing in reference
to men.
* * * »
Over in Maoriland they now reckon on
having a ’chaser on the premises better than any-
thing previously known thereabouts —and they don’t
exclude Moifaa, either. This is the Stead cast-off
Master StrOwan, winner of six steeples out of eight
starts. Of course comparisons on this sweeping
scale are always questionable, anywhere and every-
where, for the quality of opposition a horse meets in
any particular year is mighty hard to weigh against
what another animal has to encounter. If Master
Strowan is a better-class nag than Moifaa, a winner
of the. Liverpool Grand National, he must be extra-
ordinarily good, for Moifaa was a champion without
a doubt. Apart from that exceptional animal
Maoriland has seen a few cross-country. horses that
would have been counted among the best in any
company. Ahua, which won at Riceartqn for
Duncan Rutherford, and old Bill Douglas’s Mutiny
come into the list. These nags were ridden by W.
Clark and George Hope respectively, and a coinci-
dence in the records of these two horsemen is that
for six years they won the Grand National three
times each. Master Strowan must be a wonderfully
good-winded horse, anyhow. He is said to he never
worked over a greater distance than a mile, and to
be never jumped in company.
* * * *
“Musketoon” : Billy Delaney, who passed out
at Forbes (N.S.W.) recently, was the first lad in this
State to receive a retaining fee. This was £BOO a
year, which he received while attached to the late
Sam Hordern’s stable.
Press Me, winner of Vic. Waterloo Cup,
at Werribee, had a hard tussle in the final with
Australian Laddie and only just got there. Press
Me, ownqd by the Peters brothers, of Lake Bolac, is
a 741 b. animal, having great pace, but not too much
originality as a worker. A feature of the meeting
was the showing of Shy Mary, formerly of N. S.
Wales. This bitch was one of the last four left in
and was narrowly beaten in the semi-final. After
winning a stake at Rooty Hill she was sold to, go
to S. Aus. Up to that stage she was regarded as
only moderate, so either she must have improved
right out of sight on getting a change of air, or the
Waterloo tykes in Vie. are nothing to hold a thanks-
giving service over.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: Concerning early intercolonial
cricket matches. The first, played in March, ’56,
was brought about by a challenge from Victoria to
play for a wager of £5OO. At a meeting of the
Sydney players held at the Currency Lass Hotel,
south-east corner of Pitt and Hunter streets, it was
decided to decline the wager, but to play for the
honors of the game. The N. S. Wales men went to
Melbourne in the old paddle steamer Telegraph. The
scoring was not sensational, N. S. Wales making 76
and 16 for 7 wickets against Victoria’s 63 and 28,
thus winning with three wickets to spare.
* * * *•
Tom Garrett, who left the 60th milestone
behind last week, had a long turn at big cricket. He
tripped with three Australian Xl’s—Dave Gregory’s
first team (which got a frigid send-off when the City
of Sydney left on March 29, 1878), Murdoch’s (’B2)
and ' Scott’s (’B6). From the ’7B tour Garrett
brought back the best bowling average (3.8 wickets
at 10.36). In international cricket he took 354
wickets, averaging 16.95, which places him sixth on
the long list of Australian bowlers —Charlie Turner
(879 at 12.62), F. R. Spoffortli (719 at 13.46),
G. E. Palmer (648 at 13.55), Harry Boyle (353 at
14.26), J. J. Ferris (506 at 14.42). alone having
better performances. In 1894-5 Garrett amassed
most runs in Sydney premiership cricket (524, aver-
aging 52.40) ; and at various times he successfully
captained Ma’s XI in inter-State matches. The
tail, straight old sport divides his hours between golf
and being N. S. Wales Public Trustee, and he looks
good for many .years to come.
* * *
Posted missing, Lieut. M. Blair, formerly
of Petersham Public School (Sydney) and
Woodburn (Richmond Rivet). A smart all-round
athlete —single tennis champion of Newcastle district
and cricket rep.; wing three-quarter, Newtown,
1903; captained Sydney (Australian Rules premiers),
1907 ; ditto Richmond River tennis team in a
“country week” tournament. A wife and three
children are awaiting further news.
* * * *
“W.J.H.”: Swimmer Albert Barry, of
Sydney, will not face the starter in any future cham-
pionships, having left a leg in France. Another
Manly swimmer, Jim Wilkins, who gained his com-
mission, has also lost a leg in France.
American ’ball players have been given
until September to either enlist or get a job in an
essential industry. This gives them a solid griev-
ance—against the Hun, anyhow. The professional
’ball players are very highly-paid- individuals.
Scores of them have incomes of thousands (pounds,
not dollars) a year. When all the pugs and pitchers
and their multitudinous managers, trainers and
publicity agents get to France there will be a void
in Yankeeland as vast as would transpire in Aus-
tralia if MacShortodds and Co. fled to make a hole
in the bully beef.
This must be nearly a record: Out of
about 75 full members of the Derwent Rowing Club
of Hobart —which club claims to be the oldest of
its kind in Australia, having been established in
’71 —60 have enlisted for active service. In the
famous Tasmanian crew which won the inter-State
race in ’l4, seven ’seats were occupied by members
of this club. All these men and the coxswain (who
also belongs to the D.R.C.) enlisted, and one has
fallen. The other member of the' crew also joined
the colors.
Featherweight champion Sid Godfrey
emerged from a conflict with Fred Fitzsimmons at
Sydney Hippodrome on Saturday carrying a verdict
on points. The finding of his Honor Justice Dave
Smith in this case is one which a High Court of
Bash would in all probability have uppercut on
sight. Next time the pair come together it might
be as well for Mr. Godfrey to remember that this
Newcastle youth is improving quickly enough to
be taken very - seriously. To most onlookers on
Saturday Godfrey seemed to be well trimmed.
The professional exponent of biff is find-
ing the VJ.S.A. a rather cold place these times,
mainly because of competition from the Kaiser
and the oopular sense of humor. But a seance is
arranged occasionally, and one in which the elon-
gated Fred Fulton, who had been having a long-
range jaw combat with the eminent ringsider Jess
Willard, took part last week, ought to provide
Uncle Sam with another nuisance less on the
premises. Anyhow the lately-arrived Jack Dempsey
is reported to have outed him in one. Willard is
stated to be clamoring for a go with the winner,
but Willard isn’t taken seriously, and the gathering
is not likely to be scheduled.
* * * *
If the vitality of football can be measured,
as has been suggested, by the ill-blood caused among
barrackers, then the game in Adelaide is not under
the eclipse that was supposed since war began. There
was a “patriotic” match lately between the old
club, West Adelaide, and a new one, the Police. It
became too strenuous. The crowd saw an unequalled
chance of using insulting language to a cop and tear-
ing his uniform, without the usual consequences, and
sailed in. Descriptions of the proceedings range
from “the most willing” to “the most disgraceful”
scrap seen on an Adelaide football-field within living
memory.
•* * * *
N. S. Wales Rugby League premiership is
offer, bar the cheers. One round remains to_ be
played, and South Sydney has only to defeat New-
town (they over-ran them in the first round by 23 —8)
to acquire the decoration. In the South Sydney-
Glebe scramble on Saturday South outed the Glebe-
ites by 15 points to 11. The flying Harold Horder
was in rare buckle, scoring three tries and a goal
(11 points) for the winners. For Glebe A. B. Burge
booted four goals. The other 24 players were mostly
cooeeing for somebody to identify them in their
mantle of liquid earth.
* * * *
“Nimrod”: When “Q.” (B. 18/7/’18)
says that when a man pays £5O for a gun he pays
£lO for implement value and £4O for ornamentation,
he proves that it is possible not to know a gun from
a gaspipe. Many of the best-quality guns, costing
50 and even 80 guineas, have hardly any ornamenta-
tion. The cost is in the high standard workmanship
and materials. Such guns will outlast half a dozen
cheap guns under heavy shooting', and be as good as
new after a lifetime of use. Also they feel about a
pound lighter than a cheap gun of equal weight.
What is the good of talking about £lO guns when
a pair of ejecting locks, if any good, cost that much ?
I am writing, of course, about first-class hand-made
guns. Machine-made articles are practically all one
quality—cheap, serviceable, rough jobs. As to
shooting—the commonest gun is sometimes as good
as the best —while it lasts; but that isn’t long.
* # * *
“W.A.C.”: Members of the Ananias Club
are just now giving much attention to “gun patterns.”
In a Sydney shop the other day one of the fraternity
exhibited the centre of a pattern “taken by himself in a
30in. circle at 40yds., with 2Jin. shell 42grs. smoke-
less powder, ljoz. No. 6 shot.” The shooter guaran-
teed the pattern as a fair sample of the average
devastation perpetrated by his own gun. On exami-
nation the said pattern was found to vary slightly
from the copy of a.pattern found in Greener’s work
“The Gun,” but the owner had forgotten that the
copy was a .yin. reduction of the original 30in.
pattern. An Outback flv could not have escaped in
that bombardment. Why worry about patterns?
Greener, in the work referred to, says: “. .. .from the
same batch of powder one may get a falling off of
from 80 to 100 pellets in the pattern.”
“Centurion”; There was a fuss in Eng-
land some years ago about the range of a shotgun.
The riot was settled by Lord Walsingham, one of the
most famous gunshots in Europe before everyone
took to the rifle. lie quoted a right and left of
his own with a 12-bore weapon and a pair of mal-
lards killed at 100 and 98 yards. There was an
inch of snow on the ground at the time and measure-
ments were taken by several reliable people from
his footmarks to the mark of the bird’s impact.
The ducks were hit rising from a small pond and
travelled no distance after being hit. The prescrip-
tion used was 3 drams black powder and 1 J No. 4
shot.
* * * *
“C.C.”: Scores of times, with extra-long
ballistite shot, I have tried to stop ducks at
100yds. The poultry always escaped. Once with
8.8. shot I fluked one out of a mob of a hundred.
Still I’ve seen a record made. My mute was a good
way off when 1 brought a snipe down and without
knowing of my bombardment ho had a go too. “Lord,
what a shot!” he yelled, running up. “Let’s pace
it.” We made it 105vds. and since then he lias
been boasting about what his artillery can do. But
why doesn’t "Q.” (B. 18/7/’18) explain that when
his dad put all those No. G shot inside a Gin. circle
at 100yds. he used a cut cartridge? Just cut the
cartridge nearly through all round before depositing
it in the gun. It goes like a bullet. (N. 8.: Don’t
try this recipe on choke barrels.)
* * * *
“Surat”: Was it a cannon that “Pick's”
cheese expert friend (B. 18/77’lS) killed a pair of
whistlers with at 110yds. ? My experience says that
irrespective of the size of the shot or cartridge
there is not enough penetration from a shotgun to
kill at 100yds.; also that each claimant to such
performance has climbed down on being made toe
the mark. “Q.” (B. 18/7/’18) will find this out
later on, provided he doesn’t come to a sudden end
through using 52grs. of powder in a second-hand
gaspipe. His blither that a 50-guinea gun contains
40 guineas of ornamentation is only equalled by
his explanation about his father having loaded cart-
ridges in an unorthodox manner. Has he ever
compared the barrels of a 50-guinea gun with those
of one costing £l5? Perhaps he thinks pigeon-
shooters buy expensive guns in the belief that the
ornamentation thereon attracts the birds.
“J.R.K.”: In reply to “G.L.11.” (B.
20/6/’ 18). Using a full-choke gun and No. G shot
I’ve bagged hares and kangaroo-rats by shooting
18 inches ahead (cross shots at 35 to 40 yards) both
at their top speed, and a foot over when running
straight ahead. Up to 200vds. there is little differ-
ence in pace with either, though I might be induced
to have a ticket on the rat.


Why Don’t YOU Have Perfe<st
Health?
Nature intended you to be strong, healthy and vigorous.
If you neglect to exercise both your seen and unseen
muscles —if you fail to strengthen your lungs, digestive
organs, etc., you must expect to *pay the penalty, and have
indifferent health. It cannot be otherwise.
But, if you wish to enjoy perfect health —to become fit,
strong and well developed, as mature intended you to be,
then you must have correct and sufficient exercise.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture—
will be the means of giving yon renew-ed health and
strength. You will find my exercises both beneficial and
enjoyable pastime, and will look forward to the time when
you have to do them. You will find the benefits very rapid.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my Course will
build up vour chest, broaden your shoulders, strengthen your
lungs, anil make you breathe in a natural way.
The exercises vou receive will be those most suited to your
individual physique—just as the particulars you furnish
tell me you require.
M.v booklet, entitled “Health'-'.and Strength from Self-Culture,”
tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should like to send
you a copy, .lust write your name and address across this
advertisement and post it to me. I will know what you
mean. Send three penny stamps for postage.
REGL.
(‘Snowy’)
•BAKER,
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
765 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
m
HAVANA
V, u^
<v <' . %
*■ '
ACTUAL SIZE.
CIGARS
“J have been ■ Priest nj Par-
tagas
A matter of sewn -yearsA’
—Kiplixg.
Petit due Extra
50’s and 100’s.
6d..each.
25/- per box of 50
49/- per box of fOO
Postage in N. S. Wales,.
Oil. per box extra.
The Leaf of this Cigar has been
specially selected in Havana for
S. SPARLING,
HIGH-CLASS TOBACCONIST,
47 Hunter Street
(Corner Castlereagrh Street),
SYDNEY.
aG2X
W/5
js
V V'
r MoTOKQ’iRvir
<£? Gzsec/
f/\ C2us*tr&jC)ia..
BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL COY. LTD., All JJATCJ V H Z.
Uncle Sam’s Choice
in war as in peace is
Indian
The Indian Factory
is now engaged on
the largest war
orders yet placed
for motor-cycles.
Catalogue with pleasure.
RHODES MOTOR
CYCLE CO. PTY. LTD.
Russell St.,
Melbourne.
:/-V
THE ELECTRIC ICEMAN.
refrigerators
FOR YOUR HOME.
Fit an “ISKO” Refrigerator
in your Ice Chest.
NO ICE REQUIRED.
MAKES ITS OWN ICE.
Automatically starts and stops
itself as the temperature rises
or falls.
Efficient, Economical, Safe,
Sanitary.
Low, even temperature, no mat-
ter how hot the weather out-
side may be.
Dry, cold, pure and wholesome
air circulates through the Ice
Chest.
Cheap refrigeration; adds very
little to your Electric-light bill.
Keeps Milk, Fish. Fruits or
Meats without spoiling.
Write for particulars to the Sole
Agents,
, .. Ki
:
■ i
’ ,-v
:
-
Benson BrotHers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
HYPOL
Means
Health
The Approved
Remedy/
for '
Coughs, Colds,
Chest Complaints
and
Wasting
Diseases
1 k .
IK
hi.->
A Happy Hypol Child,
A Coat that Every Motorist
Should Have—the "Keep Dri”
97|6 (FREIGHT PAID).
Here is a Coat that no Motorist should
be without. It is made in a Gabardine
of particularly stout quality, and has a
lining of Woollen Check Cloth. It is
quite Wind- and Rain-proof, and, in
spite of its comparative lightness, is
undeniably a “Warm” Coat.
In Texture and
Design the “Keep
Dri” follows on
the lines of the
French Coat
now favored by
Officers of the
Allied Forces.
The Style is
“different,” t o
just the degree
desired by the
Average Well-
dressed Man.
The Collar turns well up
around the ears and fastens
cosily across the throat. The
Fronts are held in position by
a Waistbelt fastening with
Military “Pull Through”
Buckle.
No Buttons are needed, the belt
acting as a most effective sub-
stitute. Sleeves are fitted with
Windguards.
There is- no question of the
value at 97/6 (freight paid).
Post Your Order
sdg
Lincoln, Stuart & Co. Pty. Ltd.
“ Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,**
244*254 Flinders Street, Melbourne.


»
%
T
■! 11l
COLLARS
No. 9 —PRICES
Although Quality has ever
been the great ideal in pro-
ducing Pelaco goods, com-
parisons will readily show
that the Pelaco stands for
real value. The two prices
9d and 1/-, at which Pelaco
collars are sold, meet the
purse limit of men, just as
thoroughly as style and fit
meet their ideals of smart-
ness and comfort.
The POLO Collar at 9d.
Best grade, linen faced I/-
As per illustration, is made in
following sizes :
13 y 2 to 18, at 9d. 13 V 2 to 19, at 1/-
ASK YOUR MERCER
Made in Australia
Wear Pelaco Shirts and
Pyjamas also.
THE DEAF
HEAR!)
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Auri9ts of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
dsg
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustmsnts, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3910- City. SYDNEY,
MearsEar Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
' r *
ia^Bf
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5/-
Prepare Your Dogs for the
Coursing Season-
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog: Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
by HARRY .J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to Draw.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
bookIet-
“TIIERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
i
■
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing.
65 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
ds
**L'i
m
S 3
/
m
fjfter the smoke
of battle
Back behind the riven front-
line; in “cook-house,” camp,
or clearance-station—where-
ever splendid manhood con-
gregates after duty nobly
done—there you will see the
match-flares flashing their
signals of rest and real con-
tent.
The smoke is the Soldiers’
Solace; and it is certain that
in those blessed moments of
respite
the
pipe
GBD
w
proves a boon to many men.
For fifty years pre-eminent in Australia as “The Pipe
of Peace” —-to-day fittingly eminent as the solace of so
•many splendid warriors.
Pipe ±he order: Smoke at ease
PPI you men uiho have GBD.S
The All
FLIGHT S
British
gmjlm
A PROVED LIGHT CAR with a Colonial
Reputation for Reliability under any Conditions.
Make sure of getting early
delivery of a Post War Model.
mm
m
Qm
Agents —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
MOT
r v
ll
aW%
u\
E
2
JS>£,aul\y
16 a nr\«a. fter*
(sorr\ple?cior\^
1
f]
r~3
IJ
insane skin loveliness & add a zest to the toi/et:
PRICE’S. London. Liverpool. Manchesrer. Glasgow. Etc.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Wireless Billjim: Yes; India’s the place
for that sort of thing, but it’s no use breaking- your
teeth on the Censor’s bit.... Sapper: Have some
sense. If you think that everything in the garden is
up for boosting just now, you’re about as well
informed as the moon-struck citizen who lived in a
discarded tank. For the rest, have you ever heard of
such a thing as the Censorship?....Gerardy: Don’t
see how your “Case for the Private” would improve
things. . . .Yak : All right: thanks. . . .O..T.H.: That
won’t help recruiting. ... Traveller: Your first shot
missed, but don’t stop firing if you think you have
any ammunition. .. .Stapleton: Too late to use now.
. ...Maxie: Thanks, but both had already been used.
. ...M.lt.W.: And still it doesn’t say enough....
Curdnatta: Get some ink. The verse, as far as we
can read it, is as bad as the handwriting T.H.:
If anything is published tor which payment is not
made, cut out and send to accountant... .R.D.L.:
Not for us B.L.C.: Not up to requirement....
J.A.T.: Most suitable for a guide-book; but this
paper isn’t a guide-book in that sense... .O.B.:
Never knew loyal sentiments clothed in more whirl-
ing verbiage:—•
To show the great love for our Queen and King,
How we appreciated their Silver Wedding;
May our Royalties ever have our blessing,
And live to see their Golden Wedding.
What more can we do to show our gratitude for the
King and Queen:
In these severest trials that has ever been
To celebrate their Silver Wedding anniversary ;
Of those so great an Autocracy.
May they see their Golden Wedding through with
ease,
And their health never continue to cease ;
So as their enemies across the seas;
Will wield the link and for ever be in peace. Amen.
. .. .E.M.L.: Doesn’t work... .E.C.: Wanted more
delicate handliiig... .Aspiration: Too wild for us.
V . .W.J.C.: Not'up by miles. .. .Wing Foo: “Vastly
superior in intellect than the passers-by 1 met.” That
did us good.... Busby: Keep on trying and test the
results when you’re 20.... I). D.: Doesn’t quite con-
vince. .. .R.M.B.: Too crude... .J.M.P.; Pencil
scrawl on both sides of dirty paper makes uo appeal.
. ...E.H.: Can’t get an idea of what it means....
Endeva: Horrible attempt, .. .B.B.: Try and make
the verse less irritating.... Galloping George: You
seem to have some idea of verse. Get something
(fresh to say, and say it as if you meant it....
A.J.S.: Verse doesn’t carry it....G.P.: Ask us
again when you’re 20....R.M.: “Dream Children”
dance as heavily as infant elephants. .. .B.B.: Sonnet
not up....C.D.: Have to go back. Yes, the pencil
mark touches the diseased spot... .R.E.: That is not
“verse” nor anything resembling it....M.M.:
Couldn't you do more than that with a subject like
“Books” ?.., .AVoodicus: Not quite... .T.E.S.: No
use... .S.M.S.: Slight thing with many bumps....
H.K.: Misses... .E.G.: Lumpy in places... .Etulta:
All that about that. .. .G.V.A.: Nothing at all
there.. . . A.D.C.: NO....J.M.: No room for a yarn
of 10,000 words, nor half of it... .E.M.E.: They
don’t do it... .Hannibal: Try to say something that
hasn’t been said seven million times before....
M.S.W.: Nothing there.... R.S.: “Jim” doesn’t con-
vince. .. .Rufus: No... .Anathema: Ponderous fool-
ing. ... M.M.J.: Learn to write English before you
try again. .. .E.W.: Not for us... .D.M.R.: Too
flimsy. . . .M.O.: Won’t do... .L.F.M.: Not over the
top....W.C., Hardly enough interest.... Tere:
“Fame” won’t do... .R.D.F.G.: Nearly... . A.S.C.:
You haven’t hit it....Aorai: Not enough in it....
F.G. J.: Haven’t you discovered yet that Australian
is not “colonial”?. . . .McJay : Not quite. ...
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T. Le B.: Nothing in them. .. .F.K.: It doesn’t
belong to Australia... .M.F.G;: Waste of time send-
ing such stuff... .G.W.B,: All fail... .Etefg: Begin-
ner’s work only. ... II.C.: Crude both ways... .D.P.:
Some humor in it, but it’s out of date. Study if
you’re interested... .H.C.McIv.: Drawings lack
animation... . A.J.S. r A poor product... .J.M.C.:
You wouldn’t borrow the cartoonist’s boots, would
you? Then why borrow his figures?. ...F.C.H. :
Merely depressing... .E.A.G.: Don’t want it....
E.H.J.: There’s moss on that gag now....O.S.: Only
fault about your sketch is that it doesn’t resemble
him.... V.G.K.: This is a sad world made sadder
with bad art.
"Henry Horsecollar” on a favorite sub-
ject :
There are patches of sense in the proposed Local
' Government Act of N. S. Wales. One idea deals with
the widening- of streets. If the buildings are so costly
that the municipal council hates to buy them and
pull them down it may compulsorily purchase the
front part of the lower storey. Then it can cut this
out, supporting the rest of the front on pillars, and
it has anew footway, probably wider than the old
one, and covered in against sun and rain, also
against the falling of slops and suicides from above.
The old pavement can then be added to the road-
way. It isn’t the ideal, but it is mighty good patch-
work. The Bill also embodies an idea for the freez-
ing out of proprietors in crooked streets. Supposing
anew wide highway is wanted in place of an old
serpentine narrow one, the soulless corporation will
mark out the new. road or street. This may run along-
side the old affair, or it may cross and recross it.
The oftener it does this the more fun there will be-
Then the proprietor who is in the way of the march
of reform and the coming of better things will be
notified that there is no immediate compulsion and no
hurry, but his building, or that part of it which is
over the line, must not be repaired or altered or
reconstructed —that, in fact, nothing must be done to
it save remove it. Of course the ordinary landlord
will at once discuss terms in a reasonable spirit. But
what about the extraordinary one? Suppose some
healthy and affluent young nark states that his terms
are the granting of Home Rule to Ireland, and unless
that is supplied he is willing to pay rates and taxes
on his unproductive eyesore for 50 years without
shifting? Suppose there are 10 such narks scat-
tered along a lengthy street including one who is
waiting for the reconstruction of society on Karl
Marx lines, and one who professes that liis aged
grandmother bequeathed Kim a curse if he ever
removed her old armchair from the ingle-nook?
Probably arbitration would shift them iu the end.
Arbitration can shift most things. But in the
interval it seems to me that the nice fresh long
boulevard, with a colonnade on one side and 10 narks
on the other would be a place worth seeing.


gd
sg
dg
ds
gds
gds
g
ABBEY
SHOES
■ will give you the greatest satis-
faction in COMFORT, LONG
SERVICE and SMART APPEAR-
ANCE.
You are assured perfection of fit,
because our shoes are made in half
and full sizes, and in three fittings
-—narrow, medium and wide.
We illustrate a Special Golf Shoe
in Choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 40/-
Light Soles, 37/0
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
TTsed'since 1506. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
& GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, EnglaoA
Insist on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
/ft
v^\\j
Run-down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or over-work
—when your vitality is lower-
ed—when you feel “any-how”
—when your nerves are "on
edge”—when the least exer-
tion tires you—you are in a
Run-down condition. Your
system is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water.
And just as water revives a
drooping plant—so ‘Wincar-
nis’ gives new life and new
vitality to a “run-down”
constitution. Because ‘Win-
carnis ’ possesses a four-fold
power. It is a Tonic, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker,
and a Nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it doing
you good. You can feel your
whole system being sur-
charged with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Don’t continue to suffer
needlessly. Get well the
‘Wincarnis’ way—the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get well
* Y.
•Wincarnis’ is made In England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Win-
carnis Works, Norwich. You can
buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists
and Stores selling wines, prices
4/3 and 7/-,. but if you experi-
ence any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distributing
Agents, Fassett & Johnson, 233
Clarence Street, Sydney. N.S.W-
AUSTRALIA:
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Perth,
Brisbane.
K9lB. —Hand-
some new de-
sign, finest-
quality Dia-
monds, set
Platinum and
18ct. Gold.
Price, £3O.
Klo4.—Three
fine-quality
Diamonds, set
in Platinum
and 18ct. Gold.
Price,
£l3/10/-
LONDON:
73-81
Begent-st.j
W.
Ten Jewellery
Establishments
COMPRISE THE HOUSE OF
Stewart Dawson & Co,
(Aust.), Ltd.
VALUE is the foundation of its success. A word
to the wise is sufficient—buy direct from the
LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE.
NEW ZEALAND:
Auckland,,
Wellington,
Christchurch,
Dunedin.
C9737.—Finest Quality Pearl Set lo'ct. Gold Bangle,
with Case, £5 /5 /-
Same design, Set with Fine White Diamonds and
Platinum. Price, £l7/10/-
Call and Inspect, or Write for Catalogue.
Stewart Dawson’s
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
K73s.—Hand-
somely-designed
Ring, Diamond
and Emeralds,
all Platinum
setting, £3O.
R 2360. —Three
finest-quality
Diamonds, all
Platinum set-
ting.
Price, £23.
LONDON:
19-21
Hatton Garden,
E.C.
Don’t Experiment.
The Real Thing in Razors is the “Plum.” Gets
through the job in a quarter the time, and makes
the business a pleasure. “The ‘PLUM’ is the Razor.”
THE, “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present. All the above Post Free.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2, post free.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIC & ftITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tiled and Trustee—
The “PLUM
. Razor.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.; Samuel
Hordern, Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,500,000.
Although nearly
year 1917,
The Society iss
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
£1.000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
;ues every desirable form of policy Contract frpm £5 upwards.
( |£\ -S '^T)
/■:
:-ir
u
I
Clydesdale Lorries arc Built from the User’s Standpoint
The terrible gruelling: given motor
lorries in the War Zone demonstrated
weaknesses in the construction of all
motor-vehicles which were never brought
out before from the user’s Standpoint.
The Clydesdale was especially con-
structed to remedy these weaknesses.
Such inbuilt Stamina, combined with
exclusive features for accessibility, result
in the finished Clydesdale product.
These benefits are cumulative to Clydes-
dale users.
Clydesdale Motor Lorries are made in
capacities of 1| to 6 tons.
Special Clydesdale Features.
Krebs Automatic Controller maintains
constant engine speeds.
Separate unit four-speed gear-box.
Worm-drive axle.
Straight Copper Tube Radiator.
Massive frame with deep centre section.
Chj&esfcale
MOTOR |jjj|LORRIES
H. D. VAN BRUNT, Factory Representative,
P.O. Box 2093, Sydney, AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributor:
E. HARDY-JOHNSTON, ,
350 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors:
INGLIS BROS. & CO. LTD.,
Harris Street, WELLINGTON
T. E. SHIEL A CO.,
Stafford Street, DUNEDIN,
THE CLYDE CARS CO. t Clyde, Ohio, U.S.A.
TOFT
HSM
M
if
Actual tests prove
The NEW EDISON
pre-eminent
amongst all musical instruments—and, because of its marvellous
“re-creation” power, it embodies in itself all forms of musical
expression, both vocal and instrumental.
The sweetest music of the human voice with all its wondrous
overtones and tine lights and shades of sound are reproduced with
such amazing fidelity that Miss Julia Heinrich, prima donna of
the Metropolitan Opera Company, recently stated : “When I first
heard the Edison ‘Ee-creation 5 ' of my voice tears came into my
eyes, I was so thrilled. I knew I was listening for the first time
in my life to the real Julia Heinrich... .Mr. Edison has certainly
done something that nobody else seems able to do.”
You really ought to get a HEW EDISON for YOUE home.
Write for illustrated catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD., 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
I* 1 VOLI THEATKU, STONE Y
LAST TWO NIGHTS of BITS AND PIECES.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 3.
GRAND REVIVAL OF
SAMPLES.
The Revue which set a new standard in musical
productions in Australia.
T IVOW THEATRE, ME 1.1 to U ltN E.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
Espinosa’s Sparkling Revue,
TIME, PLEASE.
I' maturing Beatrice Holloway, Espinosa and
Lupino.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
Barry
H
ER MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEE WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY AT 2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S AUGMENTED MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
OH, HOY!
For Two Years Hie Rage of New York.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
C ,£ 1T E KION THEA T It 15. SYDNEY.
W Direct ion J C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE 13TII CHAIR.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 3.
BUSINESS BEFORE PLEASURE.
Introducing, for the first time in Australia, the
Celebrated Hebrew Comedians, ADAMS and AVATERS,
and J. C. AVilliamson’s specially-organised Comedy
Company, including MAGGIE MOORE,
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
ALA C E THEAT It E. SYDN E Y.
Direction J. and N. TAIT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
GUY BATES POST.
the AVorld’s greatest English-speaking Actor, In
THE MASQUERADER,
(John Chilcote, M.P.)
Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
U NIO N PICTURE THEATRES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
'I he Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 13. a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATEIt J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
H
Elt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. AVILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
KATINKA.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
THEATRE ROYAL., MELBOURNE.
■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR in
THE MAN WHO CAME BACK.
The Drama that Stirred All New York.
CK££
£
&
<
%
ft
i^oos
This fs the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
Cm*
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Nervous Dyspepsia.
Nervous dyspepsia is a disease of the
nerves, not of the stomach.
Indigestion one day and complete freedom
from symptoms the next usually means ner-
vous dyspepsia, especially if the patient is of
a nervous or highly emotional temperament,
The attacks recur at more or less regular
intervals, and are often brought on by
nervous excitement. A sick feeling after
eating, sometimes vomiting, a weak, shaky,
“gone” feeling when the stomach is empty—
these are the usual symptoms, but in the
case of some highly nervous people the sight
of food or the approach of meal-time may
cause vomiting.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are especially
useful to sufferers from nervous dyspepsia,
as they not only build up the general physi-
cal condition but also act directly on "the
nerves, strengthening and revitalising them.
These pills, with proper regulation of the
diet, afford the most correct and successful
way in which nervous and functional dys-
pepsia can be treated.
Two booklets, “Diseases of the Nervous
System” and “What to Eat and How to
Eat,” will be sent free on request by the
Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Box 594
< 1.P.0.. Sydney. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills
are sold by all chemists and storekeepers at
2s. 9d. per box; six boxes 15s. 3d.—Advt.
Amusements.
ING’S THEATRE, JIELBOCK KB.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Jv & N. TAIT present
EME LIE POLIXI
in
BE LUXE ANNIE.
The Greatest Dramatic Success in Recent Years.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan's.
AUDITORIUM, m e l b o u k n e.
n Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Sole Direction Chappell & Co. Ltd.
CHAPPELL BALLAD CONCERTS.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 3. S p.m.
Special Engagement of
MISS STELLA POWER,
Australia’s brilliant young Soprano.
MISS DOROTHY MURDOCH, Contralto.
MR. HARRY LEWIS, Tenor.
MR. LES. PAULL, Baritone.
MISS MARGERY GRAY, Violinist:
MISS VERNON BOYLE, Solo Pianist.
MR. HAROLD ELVINS, Accompanist.
Popular Prices: 2/- and 1/- (plus tax).
'Box Plan at Allan’s.
CHAPPELL CONCERT GRAND PIANO USED.
|y|A.)ES’JTC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE SIGN INVISIBLE.
A Mighty Drama of the Northland, featuring
MITCHELL LEWIS,
of “The Barrier Fame.”
Matinees Daily at 2.30, Nights at 8.
|Y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, includin','
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
Amusements.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY..
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
JACK PICIvFORD in
THE SPIRIT OF ’l7.
PAULINE FREDERICK in
MRS. DANE’S DEFENCE.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday 2.30.
This week’s Feature:
GEORGE WALSH in
THIS IS THE LIFE.
Prices as Usual.
-|-0 IV> HAD L, sTeLB OVR N E.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 3.
.1. C. WILLIAMSON FILMS (by arrangement with
Co-operative Films Ltd.) will present for FIVE
NIGHTS ONLY, the Stupendous Picture Spectacle,
LEST WE FORGET.
An 8-act study of real war that is a Damning
Indictment of Germany’s Crimes.
Prices: 2/6, 2/- and 1/-.
Plan’s Allan’s and Paramount Theatre.
Tj O U T H E A T R E, SI E D 15 O U K N E.
Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
THE NEAV AMERICAN MUSICAL CRAZE.
THE JAZZ BAND.
Also PAUL STANHOPE’S CO. in
SAFETY FIRST.
Kelly and Drake, O’Keefe and Livingston and the
Falvey Sisters.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
SHJUI
IWVIST
lONCLY
V_BOB
Trades Hall, Sydney.
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
Eig'ht-Hour Art Union
AND SPORTS.
PRIZES value £.3500
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 2, 1918.
FIRST PRIZE, value £650
SECOND PRIZE, value £3OO
THIRD PRIZE, value £2OO
And 397 other Valuable
Prizes.
CHANCE FOB 1918.
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1917 won bv Mrs. T. A. Peterson, Am a Qhltlino 1
Balmain, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of wllllllllg
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOR 1918.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, Nov. 7, 1918. To any
person forwarding stampe d addressed envelope a list of the results will be
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from —
ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
SOLID SILVER
SALT POURERS
and Peppers are tlie latest fashion for table use, and a most
sensible and convenient fashion it is.
To meet in price in Solid Silver the demand for these
necessities, our managing director, when in England, devoted a
lot of time and attention to them, with the result that he
ordered many hundreds at so much an ounce, and allowed the
makers to turn them out in slack times. We therefore, are
now able to sell here the pair of heavy, solid silver hall-marked
Pourer and Pepper, 2*| inches high, 15/6 the pair.
We stock two other sizes at proportionately low prices.
Fairfax $ Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Heavy Solid
Silver Salt
Power or Pep-
per 2j inches
/high .. 15/6
Less 20%
discount.. 3/-
12/6
Heavy Solid
Silver Salt
Pourer or Pep-
per, 3 inches
high 12/6
Less 20%
discount, 2/6
10/-
as
\&
g
HO RUCKS
MALTED
MILK
Baby knows the difference.
He knows what makes him feel good.
happy, and contented.
You know that he thrives upon this
easily assimilated, nourishing food,
therefore insist on always having
Horlick's Malted Milk for him.
Write for sample, sending 2d. in
stamps to HUTCHINSON & Co., Ltd.
26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
No Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
FOR SEA SICKNESS
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL S has received the
unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testi-
monials from the world's greatest men,
women, and institutions. Amongthese are
Bishop Taylor-Smith (Chaplain General
of the British Forces), Doctors, Bankers,
Polytechnic Tours, Salvation Army, etc.
«
WaSBB
Sold Under a Positive Guarantee to
Prevent and Cure Sea or Train
Sickness or Money Returned.
MOTHERSILL’S it guaranteed not to contain
Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral, or any oi
the coal-tar productt.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECTS.
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO.. LTD..
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.
ra ARE YOU
RUPTU RE
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WIN SLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
Good Health, Good Looks,
Good Spirits, Good Sleep
A clear head, clear complexion, clear eye,
clear bowels are the reward
of keeping the liver clear:
and Carter’s Little
Liver Pills take
care of that. Don’t
wait to be bilious.
Keep them at
hand. Purely
vegetable.
Safe for
children.
dsg
Carters!
IVESt
wus.
TTLE
Small Pill—Small Dote—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
thoroughly British and “miles” better.
Agents s HAMMOND (Q » CO> ( 212 Cl&rence Street, Sydney,
Queensland Agents: QLD. MOTOR. AGENCY LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Agents: H. C. PANNIFEX, 22 Marßet Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents : GIBBS, BRIGHT &. CO., Adelaide.


Suffered With Eczema
For Twelve Months.
Healed By Cuticura.
* ‘For 12 months I suffered with eczema
which commenced behind the ears and
«■»
V.
spread over both sides of
my face, neck and head.
The itching became unbear-
able and I used to scratch
myself. It disfigured my
face and caused my hair to
come out.
“I commenced using the
Cuticura Soap and Ointment
and I noticed the soothing
effect at once. After using them for 2
or 3 months all traces of eczema have
gone.” (Signed) Mrs. Elizabeth Bailey,
Bailieston, Vic.
With an apparent tendency to skin
troubles you should use these fragrant,
super-creamy emollients for all toilet
purposes. They prevent as well as
preserve, purify and beautify.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address:
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE’S
£P£CML/5£
TWO
L /A/PJS
$K«f
...
WUIT-E
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORGES T SYDNEY
Zc /IOAJTER <§> T NEWCASTLE
•CARTRIDGES’
Always Reliable
m
ELEY ‘Grand Prlx'
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless <3>- Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
mmi
ELEY
450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
ELE Y
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L- LONDON
MW
m m 1 m 1 1 |§|p|i s , - -
wm
• _•:•■ . • '
What is Punch in Petrol?
YY7HEN your engine literally
** “purrs” with power— when
you feel your car just HUMMING
along and you know that the
accelerator needs but a gentle
foot-pressure to make her LEAP
like a live thing—THEN you’re
wise to what “punch” is, and
glad you specified “Plume.”
It’s always best to ask for your
Benzine by name and call for
“Plume” if you want the petrol
with the “punch.”
Most motorists know that “Plume”
gives easy starting, sweet running,
more miles.
Don’t say “Benzine” —ask for
“Plume.” All garages sell it.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
'mr
41#
PR 10
NS
ds
I :
10
2
9
8
Watclax
big
BEN
7
5
6
Masterpiece of Westclox
Big Ben is the master-
piece in a line of well-
built, well-liked alarm
clocks. Westclox is
his family name and
punctuality his other.
Folks believe in Big
Ben because the Western
Clock Co. believed in
him first
Before he could wear the
merit mark, Westclox, on his
dial, he had to run and ring on
time. Then they gave him good
looks outside to match his good
works inside.
All Westclox alarms are made in the
same patented way that brought Big
Ben’s success. Friction is greatly re-
duced by needle-fine pivots of polished
steel. That’s why Westclox are known
as success-clocks. They keep good time
and keep good faith with their owners.
Big Ben is seven inches tall with a
deep-toned bell and a frank, open face.
You’ll like him and want him when
your clock dealer shows him to you.
Price 17/6.
Western Clock Co. —makers of Westclox
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
Big Ben 1716, Baby Ben 1716, America 716, Sleep-Meter 1016, Boy proof Watch 716.
AUSTRALIA’S RANKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Defeat is not for such as these.
If here and there the line should swing,
The ground they lost by slow degrees
Shall know their swift recovering.
Long, long ago in their fair land
l saw a native, bronzed and bare,
Stand with his boomerang in hand
And hurl it far upon the air.
It cut the blue with royal sweep,
Climbed high and higher, hovered, hung;
Then swift returned across the steep
As though some god had backward flung.
Deliberate to his feet it pressed,
And there upon the sandhill lay.
E’en as that blade returned to rest
So shall their swords come back to slay.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.
It is time the bloated cities did something
to justify their existence. Adelaide con-
tains 517 out of every IUOO of its State’s
population; Melbourne 502 out of every
1000; Sydney 413 out of every 1000. Ship-
building is one of the big ports’ jobs, for
the farmer can’t build ships on his selection.
These big, hopeless, hulking creatures seem
to have fallen down on their job at the
first time of asking. If Noah were only
alive these days!
The Defence Department’s aviation ex-
perts at Melbourne are now examining an
aeroplane improvement which may mean a
lot to the Allies. John Lewis, a Lithgow
(N.S.W.) engineer, is the man behind the
idea. He alleges that his ’plane, unlike any
yet built, will rise straight up into the air
without “taxi-ins.” Let’s hope Pearce’s
Department will profit by its humiliating
experiences with other important inventions
which have met with acceptance in Britain
after maddening delays at this end. There
should be no difficulty in making a prompt
decision in this particular matter, Lewis
being on the spot in Melbourne with his
bag full of plans.
“Dial-sight”: Melbourne is brightened
every now and then by a weird individual,
middle-aged, husky and by no means of the
derelict type. He makes flamboyant speeches
about nothing in particular, decks himself
with strange symbols and bright draperies
and dances in the street. The other day,
after performing a saraband in front of a
tram, he harangued the crowd that had col-
lected. His symbols or accoutrements are
various. I noticed a band-conductor's baton,
a butcher’s steel, and what looked like the
jawbone of an ass. He’s an asset in a dull
winter.
“Gwy”: What a logical advocate of con-
scription Randolph Bedford can be uncon-
sciously. Witness the following excerpt
from his fine article, “At Necropolis” (B.
4/7/’18)
But unless, as a people, we are prepared to die
out, and die out in unspeakable horrors, every citizen
must rer/ard ldmself and his body as the property
of the State, and the State must deal with him in
the, interests of public safety.
Bedford did not italicise these words; but
they underline themselves. And although he
was speaking of compulsory medical examina-
tion to check venereal disease. I can’t see
why the Hun should be regarded as any less
immediate a menace.
“Tyke” : In building new ships, piore con-
sideration should be given to the size and
position of the wireless-room. Operating on
a dozen or more liners of the largest English
cos. I found only two wireless-rooms that
were convenient. Usually the outfit was in-
stalled in disused linen-lockers, potato-cup-
boards or any old place. The exposed
position of some of the rooms is an invitation
to U-boat gunners. On one ship my
room had to be held down by hawsers during
bad weather, to save it from being washed
overboard. It was on the fo’c’s’le-head, ex-
posed to sea and wind. On several ships my
sleeping-room was at the other end of the
vessel, away from the wireless plant alto-
gether. On one boat the wireless qabin was
built on the top of the freezing-room, which
made receiving difficult when the refrigerator
was running. It doesn't make for efficiency
to have an operator and his outfit exposed
to all the elements, or surrounded by noises
from the pantry or the kitchen. On one
Canadian liner the wireless-room was next
to the ladies’ bathroom —but I’m not saying
a word about that!
“The Oldest Inhabitant’s” account: —
Concerning the old “City of Melbourne” fire-bell
mentioned in The Bulletin. It must have been cast
subsequent to the year 1847, as up to that year
Melbourne was only a “town.” The first fire in
Melbourne was in 1838. It broke out in the wattle and
dab lockup which stood midway between big and
Little Collins West. Half a dozen abos. were im-
prisoned in it for sheep stealing, and the credit of
burning the place was given them. All the prisoners
escaped. In 1839 Dr. Clutterbuck was burned out
in Collins-street East, near where Melbourne Club
now is. On a Sunday evening in October, 1839, a
big fire occurred in Collins-street West, the insur-
ance companies losing about £6OOO. The only means
of extinguishing fires at that period were a pump
at the Yarra and a water-cart. In 1845 there was
a blaze at Condell’s brewery, and, behold, three clergy
were amongst the volunteers working to extinguish
it—Fathers Geogliegan and Walshe and the Presby-
terian minister, James Forbes. Half a dozen of
the leading publicans also lent a hand —James
Stewart Johnston (afterwards large in political life),
J. G. Taylor (“Bakers’ Arms”), Kenneth Bethune
(“The Star”), Michael Lynch (“The Rising Sun”),
William Mortimer (“The Crown Inn”), and F,. C.
Greene (“The British”). In November, 1853, a
destructive fire took place in Collins-street, when
several Jews were relieved of very heavy stocks.
Six shops were destroyed. George Francis Train
has left it on record that he could not control his
laughter on witnessing the clumsy and puny efforts
of two or three asthmatic fire-engines—the property
of the insurance companies—that were clustered
together by the clamor of the little hand alarm-bell.
On one side were the Governor (La Trobe) and
suite, and on the other the Mayor (I. T. Smith)
and the whole corporation. The machines were placed
before tlae burning buildings awaiting the arrival
of water, which was brought in one or two water-
carts from the Yarra, each carrying about 200 gal-
lons. As they were emptied they returned again
to the river. In these days and for some years
after, church-bells rang out on an alarm of fire.
About 1859 Owen’s timber-yard in a’Beekett-street
East was ablaze—a large yard with great stacks
of timber. Not a foot of it was saved.


London Hair Specialist
Offers “Bulletin” Readers
Another 20,000 Free Samples
of WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR GROWER
BALDNESS, FALLING HAIR AND DANDRUFF QUICKLY OVERCOME
BY THIS REMARKABLE PREPARATION.
THOUSANDS OF LETTERS SIMILAR TO THE FOLLOWING ON FILE.
£lOO FORFEITED IF I CANNOT PROVE THEY ARE GENUINE.
FREE TRIAL.
m
m
mm.
Mrs. D. Fowics and Daughter, from a photo.
Mr. JOHN CRAVEN-BURLEIGH, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Katoomba.
Dear Sir, —I. am sure you will be interested to known that your True Hair
Grower has given me entire satisfaction. Not only has it stopped my hair
from falling out, but it has entirely cleared the head from Dandruff, and has
improved the growth and thickness of the hair. I also used your preparation,
with excellent results, in the case of my daughter, and to let you see what
extent her hear has improved I am enclosing photograph of myself and
daughter, which I have just had taken. You are at liberty to use this in any
way you thmk fit. Thanking you, I am, yours very truly, ,
D. FOWLES.
20,000 FREE SAMPLES.
THIS ANNOUNCEMENT is of special interest to everv MAN or WOMAN
who has previously tried other HAIR-GROWING PREPARATIONS. If you have
HAD NO SUCCESS: WITH OTHERS, please write to me. I REFRAIN from
expressing any personal opinion as to other preparations, but point to the vast array
of letters received from persons who, HAVING TESTED numerous advertised
compounds, wasshes, etc., without benefit, used my pomade, and FOUND IT TO BE
EXACTLY AH RE PRESENTED—A REAL HAIR-GROWER. It is always
prepared in accordance with the formula with which mv name has become famous,
and which is endorsed by NOTED ANALYTICAL EXPERTS in ENGLAND,
FRANCE and the UNITED STATES. It can be shown by many letters which I
receive that IN A FEW DAYS AFTER THE FIRST APPLICATION THE HAIR
BEGINS TO GROW, AND CONTINUES UNTIL A HEALTHY, STRONG,
PERMANENT GROWTH IS MANIFEST.
Besides being a Time Hair Grower, my operation quickly removes DANDRUFF,
and stops FALLING HAIR and ITCHING. It is known the world over, and 1
have in my consulting rooms upwards of 3000 letters from grateful men and women,
who have derived so much benefit from the use of my True Hair Grower as to compel
them to write and thank me. Now. I do not wish you to accept my word for any
statement I make, but watnt you to prove the matter for yourself in your own home.
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
Post the Coupon below TO-DAY, enclosing 3d. stamps for postage, etc. By
return fyoti will receive (L) A liberal supply of Mr. Craven-Burleigh’s True
Hair Grower; (2) one Shampoo Powder; (3) an interesting booklet,
entitled “Concerning the Hair.” This book has been carefully written, and con-
tains much valuable information concerning the hair that could not be obtained
from any ofther source. It will prove a valuable guide and reference book.
John Craven-Burleigh (Dept. 168), 321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
POST TO-DAY
To JOHN CRAVEN-BURLE3GH, Dept. 168, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —Please send me your free trial of True Hair Grower and Shampoo Powder,
also a copy of vour book, entitled “Concerning the Hair.” 1 enclose three stamps for
postage, etc.
NAME
ADDRESS
State
u©
I'pnrra
OF STERLING VALUE. RIGID and RELIABLE.
We Carry the Finest Range in Australia.
“Koolah” Shaving Sticks
Delightful to Use. 7d. each, post free.
Owing: to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted hold g;ood
for only two weeks from date.
mm
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2ifn. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate.
Weight 7£lb Freight paid
£11/11/-
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
12-gauge, similar description to 833 Freight paid, £ll/11/-
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOON,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/» post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
•Nv - ;
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight
about 541 b Freight paid
£5.
GUNS & RIFLES of all kinds REPAIRED .
Keep your Razor
keen by using
STROPOLINE
9d. tin post free.
Marble’s Match Boxes,
Water & Moisture Proof.
Price 2/10 poet free.
gds
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, high-filed rib, 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, D. & E. fore-end, side clips, chambered for 2|in. cartridges, beauti-
fully engraved, weight about 731 b Freight paid,
*l4/14/-
Smote Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/-, Post Free.
gds
823. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.1j. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks,
Greener cross-bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about 7Jib.
Freight paid,
£B.
If troubled with Mosquitoes
USE SKEETERBANE.
1/1 & 1/8 bottle, post free.
“SURE CATCH" ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
i
m
830. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.1i. Guns,
top lever, ease-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 71 to 8 lb.
12-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,
£4.
BIRD LlftlE.
Best Quality,
21- tin post free
importing Repairs
a. Specialty.
sdg
B2Ti “The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, SOinu steel barrels, exte
sion rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol giip, "a nut stoc.' ,
weight about 71b. Pre * ht pald ’
70/-
dsg
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8.1 j. Gun,
12-gauge,
top action, solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol
grip, walnut stock; weight about 6|lb. Cun can be taken apart, same as an
ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
bi Non-Ejcctor, 37/6 ; 82-Auto-Ejector, 40/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.;
4/8 Inter-State.
L/C
J
fIUSTmLIriS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS
72ND TOBACCONISTS
dg
d
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
Newcastle l Brisbane j


The Black Diamonds
Swear by Rexona.
m
■
TIIE BLACK DIAMOND COSTUME COMEDY CO.
( from, a photo).
We all swear by Rexona, for we think it is truly the Rapid Healer
and most wonderful Ointment we have ever come across. We have used
it at the Front when on Active Service in France and Gallipoli, and found
it unequalled for the minor injuries which were forever occurring. It is
no less a friend to us here at home, and we sihall sing the praise of Rexona
wherever we go. You have no idea what a godsend Rexona Soap and
Rexona Ointment are to the boys at the Front, and we heartily recommend
them to all our friends.
Wishing Rexona the best of good luck,
Sincerely yours,
THE BLACK DIAMOND COSTUME COMEDY CO.
Rexona—First at the Front and
First at Home.
Most of our brave boys have been brought up to treat all their injuries with
Rexona the Rapid Healer. They know its value, and so want it with them at the
Front. With their triangular pot of Rexona, which looks like the cooling herbs
of which it is composed, they anoint their injuries amd make them well; they heal
their hands bleeding from Chilblains, the cuts, scratches and minor wounds of
trench life, and a little feeling of thankfulness to the sender comes over them when
deep in their pockets they feel the same triangular tin to which they are so used.
Don’t forget to buy two tins of Rexona to-day. One for your home use, the
other for your friend at the Front. ‘ *
Rexona price, 1/6 and 3/-.
0
0
o
THE RAPID HEALER
rf
IT
Preserving Room
m
■
as
\jA.
THROUGH THE
REX PLANT
w
h f
r*.
One Section
Of the Spacious “Rex” Factory
This large well ventilated room filled by fresh country air
and bright sunshine is devoted to that important part in the
manufacture of “Rex” Goods — i.e.: Preserving. This is an
example of the ideal conditions under which
H*
QV
“Rex”
Luncheon
Cheese
and the other “Rex" Pure Foods are made.
The superiority of quality and flavor possessed by “Rex”
Cheese and the confidence of thousands of housewives is
the result.
“Rex" brand is a full cream cheese, perfectly matured, em-
bodying valuable digestive properties.
It’s fine for sandwiches or on unsweetened biscuits.
Try it to-day. Sold every where. Refuse profferred substitutes
“Rex ’ Ham Pate and “Rex” Veal and
TonQUe Pate make a welcome change in Sand-
wiches. They are all meat, finely minced.
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd
Packers of “Rex" Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J 290
The Old Story.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAVE been canvassing the electorate
Of love, and find much variant opinion
As to the poetry that fits it finely:
The maiden’s sentiment, the boldly sensuous,
Anaemia prepared to love in Heaven
(Exchanging cash for promissory notes) ;
Or that wild cult that tells but does not
kiss—
The flagrant psychological adultery
That raves, and sweats, and cries of writh-
ing limbs
That only writhe on paper—-sexual fraud
That hath no healthy appetite, but only
words.
So here I cite these variant poetasters.
Anaemia the Intense Virgin:
Uncoil! Uncoil! The burgeoned flesh is
weary! '
Smother me not with tempests of desire!
My lips drip sweetness, though mine eyes
are dreary;
My blood is filled with fishhooks and with
fire ;
How hast thou bathed my soul in holy oil?
I’m much obliged for thine unselfish toil.
For love that doth absolve me and assoil.
But now, O love ! Uncoil! Uncoil! Uncoil!
Uncoil!
Uncoil! Uncoil! Stay me with many
flagons;
For joy and riot make me faint and tire
Of that wild burning of the breath of
dragons—
A thousand volts that set the heart on fire;
So that the eyes smoke, and the blood doth
boil;
Thou hast anointed me with Dinkum oil;
But that me should old Death, the Wowser,
foil,
Uncoil! Uncoil! Uncoil! Uncoil! Uncoil!
Uncoil!
Kindly Ancient Spinster with memories:
Love is a gentleman, and well brought up,
And educate at Eton or at Harrow;
Slightly inclined to be a prig or pup, •
But yet a gentleman unto the marrow ;
Mentally disabled at a University ;
But gentle as a Dove’s Apology.
Love is no hoyden in a rumpled gown ;
Love is no vampire with a mouth of blood ;
Love is no blowen, laughing round the town;
Love is no galliard sprawling in the mud.
The cold, anaemic love I do prefer
Is love tied up with lace and lavender.
Direct Action:
Love is not lavender, but tuberose,
And its deep scents my very bones do win;
Not some poor dandiprat in silken hose,
But sunned and naked in a leopard skin;
Not lavender, but perfume of desire,
And, in the blood, the quick alarm of fire.
Hearts that burn fiercely, and hot blood that
crashes;
Faces that smoke with torrid passion’s riot;
Pulse that leaps, surges ; and an eye that
flashes
A moment, and is closed in misty quiet;
And, to the two made one, the world dim-
distant,
And only that that should resist, resistant.
The Temperamental Philosopher:
Ah! the Sicilian lover that I saw!
Stark white and gnawing on the iron grille
Guarding the girl; his hands worn bloody
raw,
He in Love’s anguish takes nor sup nor meal;
And women wailing of life, dreary of them,
And agonising for men weary of them ! ’
And, in that very street, a slighted lover.
The good fool cries: “Oh, happy stars that
see her!
Oh, happy sheets her satin skin that cover!
Happy who from virginity shall free her!
Happy the moonbeams that do come and go,
Reporting her a lily in the snow !”
“O happy moon,” he sings, “that gilds her
hair
And sifts it with effulgence, strand by
strand!
Oh, wind of night that finds her wondrous
fair,
Plays with her breasts more lightly than a
hand —
Take me with you on your aspiring beams.
Her heart to enter through her lonely
dreams!”
And she behind her half-closed jalousies
Feigns kisses for the lover of another;
The roving eye will have not that it sees,
Nor its most vagrant fashions can it
smother ;
Often the bridal veil of white I’ve seen
Hold less love than the widow’s bombazine.
Often the bride loves dearly—but herself.
Maybe the widow, craped from head to toe,
Careless of him who’s dead and left her pelf,
Loves (sitting behind the hearse plumes
nodding woe)
The undertaker, when life’s lamps are low,
And they unto the cemetery go.
This love! Why should not gluttons rhyme
of eating,
Instead of fleeing girls who trail a wing?
Or sing a lyric of pork chops, and treating,
Instead of this disease, that comes with
spring,
To us who pray St. Anth’ny to suspend
The Ten Commandments till our sins shall
end.
The Cheerful Ribald:
Many are the ways to make love to a lady
(The same will do to make love to a wench) ;
In the palace, on the street, in the garden
shady
(Vary it a little for a wench) ;
Doff the hat, and bow the head, and touch
her finger-tips—
And follow that immediately by kissing of
her lips.
The Poet:
Lady, whose soul that sleepest now must
wake
Unto the love that leaves my blood a-burn-
ing;
Whose quiet life, though now a placid lake,
Alust stir and ripple to my fiery yearning!
Ah! thy cold beauty doth me maddened
make,
Lady, whose soul that sleepest now must
wake!
Lady! Lady !
Lady whose soul that sleepest now must
wake.
Lady, whose glances kill me with their scorn,
Scorn of that love for which 1 am a-dying ;
Lady, whose face is as the freshest morn,
While my soul faints with all the long
night’s sighing—
Sighs that on every vagrant breeze are born ;
Lady, whose glances kill me with their
scorn,
Lady! Lady!
Lady, whose glances kill me with their
scorn!
The Politician:
If there were no such damned things as
elections,
Nor the considered themes of place and pay,
How happy we to practise our affections,
And tear off life a piece of joy to-day !
It may not be. Down, heart ! And, brain,
be colder!
When the election’s done I may be bolder;
Meantime dissemble, till I win the laurel
(Votes leave the candidate who’s called
“immoral”) ;
Love in cold storage must contented stay
Till Freedom comes —after election day.
The Hun:
I love my love with bombs worn in her
stocking;
After our frugal meal of dynamite,
Where none are near to whom it would be
shocking,
Strike detonators to our nuptial night.
We laugh at matrimony, dull, corrosive,
For true love always is a high explosive.
The Prodigal (after selecting his fatted
calves for keeps) :
Ladies fair, and brune, and blonde,
Long of vou I’ve been too fond;
Ladies blonde, and fair, and brown,
Raven tress or golden crown ;
Brown as honey, ox-eyed blonde,
Long of you I’ve been too fond.
Vital brune and sleepy fair
Fairly did my homage share;
Brow of black, and cheek of blonde,
Long of you I’ve been too fond.
Vital brune and sleepy fair
Fairly did my homage share.
Ladies all, ye must despond,
Ladies fair, and brune, and blonde;
Serious love can never share,
Though ye all are passing fair;
To one lady I am bond,
Ladies fair, and brune, and blonde.
QUEENSLAND.
RANÒLPH BEDFORD.
One of the Heads.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An ’Erb at Alexandria is worth two at Gov’ment
House.”— From, Lola’s Autograph Album.
Honorable Charles Chorroughcop
I (pronounced “Chump”) unpacked
himself in Sydney without showing
the slightest traces of his journey from Eng-
land. Not a corner had been knocked off
his kitbags or his complacency; his collars
and his manners retained their high gloss;
neither his shoes nor his accent had lost any
of their polish. The whole ship’s company
deserved a certificate for their care of him ;
but even the stoker could see upon his eye-
glass the legend “This Side Up,” and upon
the stiff creases of his trousers, “Use No
Hooks,” and upon his hot silk socks the
admonition “Stow Away From Boilers.”
But do not run away with the impression
that the Hon. Charles was an idiot. He
wore an eyeglass because he had lopsided
vision, not because he had a lopsided
brain; the creases remained in his trousers
because they had been planted there by a
tailor who knew his business; his accent
and his mannahs had been imposed upon his
plastic soul by Eton and Oxford; and he
couldn’t help being born an Honorable.
What was left of the original Chorroughcop
was good material. The Hon. Charles was
a simple, good-looking and ingenuous chap,
modest and sincere, who went through exist-
tcnce with a humble wonder why the world
tolerated at all a chap so painfully stoopid
—what?
The Hon. Charles had been despatched
from London to Sydney as an A.D.C. That
was the only degree he seemed ever likely to
get, though some years later he managed to
acquire another one, the V.C. But the
choice of becoming a Gentleman Help had
been forced upon Charles. Ever since the
war broke out he had been trying to enlist:
but a lung that worked erratically had
always failed him in the medical test. Even
when a navvy, with creases in his moleskins
and an eyeglass, turned up before the medi-
cal officer, that lynx-eyed official penetrated
his disguise. Between enlistments Charles
got a job in the War Office. He felt that
he was doing his bit, but it seemed
such a little bit. All he had to do was
to send out form KZ 793348 to Deputy Fore-
men of Boot Factories, and then to send out
form MJS 82465 to them, asking them why
they hadn’t replied to form KZ 793345.
Then conscription came, and Charles joy-
fully lined up again and coughed. But
England refused to conscript that wobbly,
mis-fire lung.
Charles saw a specialist in eccentric lungs.
“Ye-e-s.” said that doctor; “a couple of
years in a warm climate will soon put that
right. What about Australia?”
Luckily, Charles had heard of Australia.
He hurried home to his mother, and his
mother remembered that she had a second
cousin in the Governor business; he was
somewhere in Australia now; he would be
delighted to have Charles visit him.
Subsequently the Sydney newspapers an-
nounced that the Hon. Charles Chorroughcop
had arrived as extra A.D.C. to the Governor,
and all the' society maidens in Sydney started
voluntary-aid classes to study the pronuncia-
tion of liis name.
(Continued on next page.)


Working' Under a
Continual Strain?
Does a Lame Back Keep You Worn Out All the Time?
Maybe you have weak kidneys, a trouble
that often follows a cold, a fever or a spell
of worry, overwork or unwise habits. It
shows in constant, dull, throbbing back-
ache, or sharp twinges when stooping,
lifting, getting up or turning in bed, with
headaches, dizzy spells, a tired, nervous
state and irregular kidney action. Don’t
neglect weak kidneys, or you run the
danger of having dropsy, gravel, heart
disease or Bright’s disease. The kidneys
are the blood filters, and must work all the
time to keep you in good health. Take
things easier, follow regular habits, and
take Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, a
remedy in use the world over and recom-
mended publicly in Sydney week after
week. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
certainly worth a trial.
U Every Picture
Tells a
Story.”
Il
/
\
m
n
: v
nU::::"-
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold
by all chemists and storekeepers at 2/9
per bottle, or post free by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Serious Kidney
Trouble.
Inflammation of the Kidneys.
Sydney Man Cured After
Long Suffering.
Mrs. George Wood r off e, 10 Roseby Street, Drummoyng,
Sydney, says: “I have derived very great benefit from the
use of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. Seventeen years ago
a cold settled on my kidneys, and eventually inflammation
of the kidneys and bladder set in, and up to the time of
taking Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, some months ago, I
suffered terribly. I have been treated by some of the
cleverest and best-known Sydney doctors, and was for seven-
teen and a half weeks in the Sydney Hospital, where I had
one kidney removed. Though the va/'ious treatments eased
me for a time I was not cured, and would soon relapse into
my former ill-health. I also tried patent medicines adver-
tised to cure kidney complaint, and they did not even give
me temporary relief. My brother was always worrying me
to try Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, if I only took one
bottle. To please him I got them, and before I had finished
the bottle I felt much better; in fact, I had not felt so well
for years; the pills were working wonders for me. I con-
tinued taking them, and am now perfectly cured of every
symptom of kidney trouble.”
Mr. Woodroffe confirms the above eleven years later: “My
cure has lasted, for I am still free of the terrible torture of
kidney and bladder trouble. If I ever feel the slightest
pain near mv kidneys I take a few doses of Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and they never fail to relieve me at
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PI
But the first girl to. meet the Hon. Charles
sccmliy was Lola of the chocolates, the
staitiingly beautiful assistant-forewoman of
°\T -°V- e big confectioner y factories at
Alexandna.
The factory girls, most of whom were con-
genital anti-conscriptionists, were enthusi-
astic workers for Billjim. Conscription to
them was a vague and dreadful thing, but
Billjim in his uniform was both accessible
and exciting. Their Red Cross Committee
had done as much for him as any plutocratic
centre with, a shop-window in Pitt-street and
a line of limousines always waiting at the
nooi. Their president was the wife of the
owner of a factory whose most noticeable
products, as far as Alexandria was con-
cerned, were assorted smells with plenty of
body in them. So when her Excellency, to
show her encouragement of the movement,
invited the committees of various groups of
Eed Cross workers to afternoon-tea at Gov-
eminent House—on a day when his Excel-
lency was unfortunately obliged to be absent
on the golf-links-—Lola’s committee' was
among the guests
r , , ... .. ~ ..
ihl Ti n ’i nA ,aA- nC a
Gaa f e G J., 101 . election. b>he
t do any leal woik, except to knit an
occasional pair of socks that simply refused
to recognise their relationship, or make a
pair of pyjamas that distinctly limped; but
her beauty and her “flash” manners appealed
to her chums. They felt that Lola’s eves
and Lola’s figure would really help to win
the war. And Lola certainly had ideas.
Every girl who knitted socks put into the
toe a little loving message for the wearer,
with name and full address. Lola had the
inspiration of knitting her own name around
the top of each sock. Her bitterest enemy
remarked that anyhow it: would keep that
Billjim’s feet warm. And it was Lola, too,
who sewed up in the pocket of the pair of
limping pyjamas she had constructed for an
unknown sick Billjim the touching little mes-
sage: “Think of me when you’ve got these
on!” But she didn’t add her name or
address.
Obviously Lola was the right person to be
on the committee.
The factory girls weren’t keen on the invi-
tation to Government House. All factory
girls are snobs: they do not care to mix
socially with other classes. It wasn’t at all
likely that there’d be a band, and dancing in
the ballroom all the afternoon, or even a
merry-go-round and swings. A mob of fat
"flash” old women and a lot of speechifying,
That seemed to be the idea “the heads” had
of enjoying themselves. Still, the girls might
get some new ideas of the latest fashions to
copy. But there wouldn’t be anything there
in trousers.
The event, at least in its opening stages,
confirmed Lola’s pessimism. There was an
informal welcome by “one of the heads”-—a
class that comprised everybody in the world,
from the girls’ bosssess to the King. There
was a presentation of a bouquet of flowers,
for which flowerless Alexandria had sub-
scribed, to be handed over in a gloriously
beautiful garden. Then there was tea on the
lawn; and then they were told to make
themselves quite at home and enjoy them-
selves. And not a boy in sight!
Lola, in her new dress that she was
delighted to see was the latest thing in
fashion, and her aeroplane hat that haloed
her glorious coppery hair, wandered peev-
ishly away from the crowd. A whole Satur-
day afternoon wasted ! But the conscious-
ness that she was wearing new silk stockings
and that her underclothing was so full of
lace-insertion that the rest didn’t matter, pre-
vented her giving way to absolute gloom,
Wonderful how a little thing like this buoys
up a woman!
So there was a reminiscent smile lingering
0 n her beautiful face when, suddenly round-
ing a corner of a narrow garden-path, she
m et the Honorable Charles Chorroughcop.
r rlinf „ .. ~
• h ' uv| ■’ 1 a „If w a!.l * fl been shirking his
,' t TI ~ st appearance 1? Syd "
I'T ‘ I J? 1 ' r Excell f T° y lu,d fought
! ’ s , being exactly a society tunc-
£ oul i, b ® ® n exeellent one tor breaking
E , ut ,, tu ‘ appearance of so many
f Gmales and tlie sadden consciousness that
IG ,," as , alone and unprotected, combined
with what he had heard about the beauty
and the paralysing allure of the Sydnev
Girl, had broken down his nerve, and lie hail
fl e( | to the conservatory to console himself
w j t fl severa i cigarettes,
. , ~ . . ~
the sight of this dazzling apparition the
Eoll ' Charles caught his breath. I bat was,
/f. course, bad tor his wobbly lung ; but
Charles didn t mind. He would do it every
day for such a cause. All that he had heard
the loveliness ot the Sydney .girl had
failed to prepare him for Lola. lie had never
conceived her possibility,
, . However his hand went automatically to
llis straw hat, and he readjusted his fallen
monocle .and stammered, “Ah, good after-
noon. Warm, what?”
Coin assumed her haughtiest manner,
Bar donneV' she murmured in her only
I rench.
said the Hon. Charles, “but ler”I —
er ”
Lola swept him with her magnificent eyes
as one sweeps the leaves off a path.
“I fancy you’ve med a mistake!”
She thought herself in King-street, wait-
ing for a tram at night. There were always
so many young men who seemed to be wait-
ing for the same tram—till she caught it.
She hadn’t been introduced to this boy, any-
how. How dare he speak to her! But she
liked it all the same.
Having thus withered the intruder Lola
attempted to sail past him.
But the pathway was narrow, and the
Hon. Charles wasn’t going to let that escape,
“But, I say, y’know,” he stammered, “I
ought to introduce myself. I’m her Excel-
lency’s aide-de-camp. I live here, don’t you
know?”
“Go on!” said Lola in amazement. “One
of the heads? Fancy!”
“Silly sort of job, ain’t it?” he laughed,
“Got to make my bally self useful, and all
that tosh, you know. Entertain the guests
and buzz round.”
“Really! Well. I haven’t seen you buzz-
ing much, have I?”
“Too bally scared of all those women!”
The Hon. Charles laughed easily: he was
really getting on quite nicely with this
lovely creature. To his consternation a
frown troubled the beauty of Lola's brow.
“i’ll trouble you, Mister, not to use lan-
guage in the presence of ladies!” And Lola
made an elaborate pretence of sweeping past
him. Not that she had the least intention of
quitting this nice young boy.
By an effort Charles recalled his innocent
“bally.” He didn’t know that Lola had
never heard the adjective before, and there-
fore suspected it.
“I beg your pardon,” he eagerly said.
“Granted,” Lola benignly pronounced.
Charles was so relieved that he had a
bright idea. “I say, Miss” and paused.
But Lola wasn’t going to give herself away
till she knew more of him. “I say, I’ve got
to entertain the guests. Couldn’t I start by
entertaining youf”
Lola began to think that her afternoon
wasn’t going to be quite wasted. This boy
rather reminded her of ’Erb, of the boot-
factory. In her most engaging manner she
replied, “You have a neck !”
“What?” the aide-de-camp cried. “That’s
Australian slang! I’ve heard such a lot
about it. Charming, I think, wdiat? Especi-
ally as you say it!”
“Well, if it is,” Lola retorted, suspecting
his ingenuous admiration for criticism, and
quick to seize her advantage: “I don’t talk
flash like you, Sissy!”
But these were merely verbal fireworks,
necessary in factory conversation if you
meant to keep your end up. Each took the
other in, and the same thought struck each.
At any moment this interesting encounter
mifrht bo interrupted.
“I say, let’s look at the flowers in the hot-
house,” the youth eagerly suggested.
Lola languidly assented. It didn’t do to
give yourself away.
lie led her to the hot-house. Once inside
that steaming paradise of blossom, and once
assured that they had it to themselves, they
paused.
There were gorgeous flowers there, but
none so exotic and so fatally beautiful as
Lola. She and he stood and stared at each
other. The Hon. Charles had a sudden dis-
integrating thought. He was a prehistoric
man in the lush tropical jungle of the
steamy era of long-dead ages; and this girl,
this exotic blossom, was his mate, his prey.
.... She waited for him, the woman’s eternal
enigmatic smile on her brilliant lips, parted
in expectation? All he had to do was
to But Charts was an Englishman and
an aide-de-camp. VKho was this girl?
Evidently a society girl; that was obvious
from her exquisite costum-g, so regally worn.
Her accent was curious, and so were some of
her expressions. . He hadn’t quite got over
Lie shock of having had his pardon so curtly
granted.” But then he had been told about
the Australian accent: so that was all right.
Still, to take, advantage of a confiding Syd-
ney society girl and rudely kiss her so soon
after meeting her was hardly cricket. He
would have plenty of opportunities of meet-
ing her again; and in the meantime he
would be able to find out her name. Better
be careful, Charles !
But one. look at Lola’s impassive face
undid, all his noble resolutions. She seemed
quite oblivious to the admiration in hi«
monocle.
“Sort of tropical forest racket, what?” he
burst out. “You and me in the jungle so'rt-of-
idea. I say, you do look top-hole! Ripping
don’t you know!”
Lola was wondering how long he was
.1° keep her waiting in that horrible
steaming place. Another minute and the
P ei ' s P ir ation would be making channels down
the lewder on her nose. Why didn’t he kiss
have" lone'it three fhnS by now! W ° UW
“I’H trouble you to take your compliments
where they are wanted, if you pleaseToh
retorted, in the best manner of Alexandr a
society, where the ruder a girl is the mom
flattered does her bov feel. But of course
her dazzling smile undid it all. ’
Then Lola looked at him, with those
slowly-opening eyes of her. She had uric
tised the trick so often before the little look-
ing-glass in her bedroom that it was never
known to fail. There was a whole fihn-
scenario in that look. It said: “I am shv
and innocent, and just a teeny bit afraid of
you. But I trust you, trust you utterly
I'm only a weak woman, though; I’m sure
you 11 be kind to me ; you won’t hurt me, will
you... darling’” ’
' Charles’s monocle dropped. He crouched
S&, ***** hol '« 1 ‘" at —
But Charles was nervous, Charles was
young,, Charles was English. Nervously he
took her neatly-gloved hand. And with the
other he replaced his monocle. He didn’t feel
so naked with it on
“You dear!” he murmured. “I must see
you again. Look here”- ' m '
He put his hand into his breast pocket
and produced a little pack of blue
“There’s a little private dance on Wp ™
Thursday next. I’ve got the job of sending
Fll ” Tell me —» d
Tell that silly chump her name when he
didn’t know enough to kiss her! Lola was
very angry indeed. All that time wasted'
“Not much j” she cried,
Charles mistook her heightened color for
excitement. “Well, then,” he said, “take one
now. It doesn’t matter about filling it in”
He thrust the invitation, for which society
girls would have fought each other to the
death, into her reluctant hand.
“We’ll sit the dances out—here!” he
added.
“Thank von for the invite” said Lola
primly—though angry and disappointed she
remembered her manners—“but I’ve «ut a
previous engagement that night.”
And though the nervous Charles waited
eagerly for her appearance at that select
function on Thursday evening, Lola never
came. For Thursday was sacred to Mrs.
Beberbaum’s Select Dancing Academy, and
Lola could depend on ’Erb. her new boy, kiss-
ing her good and hard at that shady street-
corner on the way home. ’Erb wore his hair
longer than that flash bov at Government
House, and ’Erb knew how to treat a lady
proper.
HENRY JAMES JAMES.


t" 3
m
m
mm
w«iM&
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.
Queensland Agents-HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Waterman^
(Ideal)
FoimtaSiJßen
M:
%
m
%
m
m
is the simplest, safest,
J_ quickest and best self-filling
device in fountain pens. And
it is to be had only in Waterman’s
Ideal, the World’s Best Fountain
Pen. All you have to do is to raise
the lever, immerse nib in ink, lower
lever, and this latest type Water-
man’s Ideal is filled. It takes but
a moment. Nothing could be
simpler, nothing more effective.
Waterman’s Ideals are made in three types :
"Lever Pocket Self-Filling,” "Safety,”
” Regular.”
Of Stationers ami Jetvellcrs everywhere.
L. G. sloan, Ltd., ChelJen. Cwttet
London, England.
Australia: Harold D. Dixon. 105 Clarence St., Sydney
This
little
lever
fills
tr*.
, The
lever
Pocket
Self
Filler
•RS I HHt ,on '
1
m. m
•»'a
W<m
V
EIVfiNGTON UMC cartridges
are made and tested f:r every
standard make of pistol and revolver.
Their uniform accuracy and absolute
reliability make them the favourites
among shooters of this class of fire-
arm, whether used by the expert marks-
man or by the casual purchaser for
self-defence and safety.
Write for special booklet
free upon request.
REVOO'ER-'PISTOL
CARTRIDGES.
remington arms umc company
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
B-l Box 686. G, P, 0., MELBOURNE
gd
0*
THE AUSTRALIAN
“SKANDIA”
a.
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
m
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON § ROBERTSON, Loftus Street, Sydney.
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
are onp of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. “Time tells
all things” says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that Beecham’s Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10 gd (36 pills), 1/1 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
sgd
SCORCHING winds and
parched roads give little
anxiety to the motorist using
Spencer - Moulton Three-
Ribbed Tyres.
World-wide experience has
enabled the British makers to
produce in Spencer-Moultons
sg
a tyre that is resilient in blazing heat or tropical rains—
that is tough and safe on all kinds of road
surface—a tyre certainly that offers the maximum of
speed, comfort, and economy in the most searching
conditions of motor travel.
The farther you go on Spencer-Moultons the greater will be
the enthusiasm you ’ll find for them, in yourself and others.
Interesting ‘Particulars and Prices on request.
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., LTD.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England.
Works x Brad ford-on-Avon, Wilts. England.
STOCKISTS :
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, Kin* Street.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON 8R05.,1212. Madras Street.
P.C.8.—14^
; a a'
fvsLCi'
IS ftV:>
m
m
•'WSwO!.
ti
!■. ?<
523
COME UP TO *- v
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
•<
Barron Falls - Barron Gorge _
the wonderful hinterland
unshine , Palm Trees ,
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
"v. and scenic .splendour
A Booklet telling all about it
is yours for the asking
/“?// in fhtj coupon.-
X
\
/ferns ...
X,-,. Address.
8.8.
X
X,
fia /-4e JOrrecior o/ '■
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Brisbane . OHJEEMSLANTI» X
is
EKfl S
|§gg|
“Dreadnought" Wire Strainer
10/-
each
( Patented)
P»Q B
10/-
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
With Full Particulars
and illustrated Circular.
Fiq 5
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
“MAGPIE” FLOOR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKEIIS
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .


MANGROVITE*
LEATHER
LUSjOLi!,
“THERE’S NOTHING LIKE LEATHER.”
For efficiency under the most trying condi-
tions no belt has ever given better satisfac-
tion than
“MANGROVITE” RAWHIDE BELTING.
This famous power-transmitter and power-saver
is dependable under all conditions.
Made from the best hides procurable. Tanned
and Manufactured by the Mangrovite Process.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square, near G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
°IE ON fc ®
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
I Sin. x 3-1, 18in. x.I3, 29in. x 13. !Mh>. x 10.
5«in. x 11. 26in. x 12. 2fiin. x 13, 2Gin. x 14.
2Bfn, x 11. 2Sin. x 12, 28m. x 13. 30in. v 12,
SOin. x 13, 82in. x 10. 321n. x 11. 32:n. x 12.
30lu. X 11. 3Sin. xll. 42in, x 9. 12ii:. x m.
43lil.x 11. 44in, xll), 48in. \ 10.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle U Globe Steel Co. Ltd.
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
!i(H JLatrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle, lvalgoorlie.
ttSW
IoBf
V.' ..
rwoc
Sms
-
Charles Atkins & Co. Btd., Adelaide. John Reid & Nephews. Brisbane.
* '
HARDIE’S
“Fibrolitc (Reg.)
CEMENT,
The Australian Asbestos
Cement Sheets,
is cheaper than any other
building material.
It is proof against Rust.
Rot, White Ants and
Decay.
'Defies Time’s Touch
\WM
I
TRAM JJARP
It is absolutely , Fire-resistant, therefore
Insurance 111t.es me 9.5% le*s tjwh those
charged for wooden buildings.
It is also impervious to temperature.
For further information, prices and sample'
apply to —
JAMES HARDIF. (Sb CO. Ltd.,
“Asbestos House,
Corner Wynyard and York Streets, SYDNEY.
Phone 8456 (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at Brisbane and Adelaide.
PURE,
STIMULATING,
BUY WHOLE
BOTTLES
BLOOD-WARMING and
HEALTH-GIVING.
SPECIAL
Mellowed and matured in
Nature’s way, and contains only
those ethers necessary in a spirit
intended for medicinal purposes.
HOSPITAL
TUCKER & CO. LIMITED
SYDNEY (Agents).
“Clayton” Portable Steam Engine.
‘Tangye” Portable Lamplesa
Oil Engine.
Star” Portable Oil Engine.
Palgety’s Machinery Agencies
comprise
tancye’S LamplessOil Engrine3, Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps of all types, etc.
CLAYTON Portable Steam Engines. WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. BUNCLEOhaffcutters.
CANE Milking Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Crutching Plants.
TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type. “STAR” Portable Oil Engines, etc.
-MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
Buncle Travelling: Chaffcutter.
tni
"SHEEP —~~~
Shearing Machines
are guaranteed.
Get your complete outfits now, while full stocks are available.
You can gain 50 01b. of wool per 1000 sheep by using a
machine stead of shearing by hand. Enquire about terms
for payment and other details.
DALGETY & CO. LTD.,
Australasian
Ail Branches.
Agents—
( '
When Time and Production cut important figures
in your costs it pays to instal
MODERN MACHINE-SHOP EQUIPMENT
We have in stock for immediate delivery Modern Machine Tools designed to handle to-day’s work
under to-day’s conditions—tools designed to increase your output and reduce your costs.
High-speed Engine Lathes, Universal Milling Machines, Universal
Grinders, Drilling, Shaping, Screwing and Sawing Machines.
Write for Catalogue and Prices, or call and inspect.
Y
. LTD.
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
MINING <& CONCENTRATING MACHINERY.
DORR CLASSiFtERS
Do not add Water to the Mill Pulp.
Consume only one-tenth Horse-power.
Take only 12in. Headroom.
Cost practically Nothing for Upkeep.
Cannot Choke.
Treat up to 250 Tons Dry Ore per day.
Give an adjustable and satisfactory
separation of Sand and Slime.
Dorr Agitators & Thickeners
are invaluable for water-saving, time-saving
and recoveries. They are in every large
Modern Mill.
Write us for Booklets and information.
We are Sole Licensees for Australasia.
DORR CLASSIFIER.
YOUR ENQUIRIES WILL BE WELCOMED
for
CRUSHERS cf all types.
JlGS—Plunger & Pulsators Types,
SCREENS and Screen Cloth.
TABLES—The “Card" and the
“Ruffer. "
ROCK DRILLS.
PUMPS.
VALVES.
EXPLOSIVES and all Mining Accessories.
We are practical Mining Engineers
and can meet your requirements.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Mining and Electrical Engineers, 350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
