

DEWAR’S —THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. O. WATKINS <SC CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kemt: Street, Sydney,
—FOK— _ m m
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
THE “AUSTRALIAN REVIEW”
says:—
“The Company is very well
managed, and the name is quite
a household word in Sydney. Its
reputation is excellent, and,
although the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a vampire, the
charge cannot be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de Piete D.
and I. Co. Limited.
{fit
Of.
On all Classes of Security.
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
Easy Terms and Lowest Interest.
D&I-C9I J?
SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
te : . ; ,__ ** ’* ' “ , /
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone:
9325
40 Adelaide Street, Bri-sbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General M
BUY
i
Cash Coupon
on Every Packet.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
THE BEST !
u
n
6?
u
a?
mm
m.
m
9.
C 32
I.
T
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for tlm
digestive organs. -
J
HANSENS
jhk
ror INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
K
T-r
m
The “Big Chief UField Type W Oil Engines
Represent the Pick of America’s Productions. Simple, Economical and Always Reliable.
Any Schoolboy can handle these Engines. Hundreds in daily use all over Australia.
EVERY ENGINE THOROUGHLY TESTED BEFORE LEAVING OUR WORKS.
CASH OR EASY TERRIS . Catalogs Free. CASH OR EASY TER/VIS .
BUTTON & CO. LTD.
THE ENGINEERS' DEPOT.
161 Clarence Street,
Write to 8 Spring Street, Sydney,
for a free copy of “The Referee,” a
booklet containing much useful and
instructive information.
jhk
Supplied to the Naval and
Military Authorities of
Great Britain and Australia.
J.D.K.Z. GENEVA
The White Heart
on the Black Bottle
“POILITE.”
Asbestos Cement
Sheets and Tiles
(GENUINE BRITISH MADE).
jh
Build with Poilite." "Poilitc”Sheets are ideal
for Walls (inside and out), CdliltgS, PdftitiOAS, CtC.
They are attractive in appearance, but time alone
will reveal their greatest virtue —firm, dogged
ENDURANCE.
Write for Catalog “A.”
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Ltd.
115 Clarence Street, Sydney.
(Melbourne) Proprietary Ltd., 499-501 BourKe St., Melbourne.
k
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth
— i
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
jhk
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Yol. 39.—N0. 1983.]
[Thursday, February 14, 1918.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CHATEAU-TANUNDA
SPECIAL# If: sfc * HOSPITAL
BRANDY
tS the spirit that gathers more friends every day. It is a spirit of undeniable
-•■purity and general excellence. Accepted as the best brandy made by the medical
profession and it is used in all hospitals. Tried and found wanting in nothing
that make's a brandy of unequalled excellence.
•TucKer (St Co. Limited —Sydney—Proprietors.
KILL THAT FLY.
FREE TRIAL. .
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept H-, BojgJ
G.P.0.. Sydney, and a sample tin of I lu
die” Powder will be sent post f ™e,
forward 9d. in stamps for a full-size tm.
HOUSE FLIES
ARE POTENT
CARRIERS OF
DISEASE ANL
FILTH.
f
"MUSTDIE”
IS NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
[3
The Red Page
The Fleet
The best book to date upon the Navy is
The Long Trick, by “Bartimeus” f Cassell,
45.), the first novel of an author whose
delightful short-stories of the navy are well
km/vn. True, there is only the merest
fictional connecting-thread between these
incidents; but that matters not, since the
author’-s heroine is something more import-
ant than a real girl: it is the Grand Fleet
itself. “Bartimeus” takes us aboard every
class of craft in that amazing gathering of
war vessels, and he makes us personal
friends with all ratings. We even learn
their slang: a torpedo, we know, is a “tin-
fish” ; but it is news to us to learn that
mines are “warts” and that a is
a “Fritz.” The most remarkable thing
about the Navy, as “Bartimeus” sees it, is
the number of specialists that have been
evolved in branches of naval warfare
hitherto unknown and unsuspected. The
Submarine Hunter, for instance, is in a class
by himself. And on the outbreak of war
the steam fishing fleets became an arm _of
the Navy itself. They became submarine
hunters, mine sweepers, fleet-messengers and
patrollers of the commerce sea-ways. They
became a little navy within the Navy,
already boasting their own peculiar tradi-
tions, and with probably as large a propor-
tion of decorations as any other branch pf
the mother service. “They are a slow, crab-
gaited community that clings to gold ear-
rings and fights in jerseys and- thigh-boots
from which the fish-scales have not alto-
gether departed. Ashore (where their
women rule) they consent to the peaked cap
and brass buttons of His Majesty’s uniform,
and wear it, moreover, with the coy self-
consciousness of a bulldog in a monogrammed
coat. Link by link they have built up a
chain of associations with the parent Navy
that will not be easily broken when the time
comes for these little auxiliaries to return
to their peaceful calling.”
We learn much of the doings of the Fleet
during its waiting in its northern rendezvous,
waiting for The Day. And we glimpse the
indefinable spirit of the Fleet. They even
have regattas in war-time. Regatta-day in
the squadron immediately, concerned, for
each squadron has its own in its spare time,
is, next to the annihilation of the German
Fleet, the chief consideration of their lives
for weeks previously. And training is often
interrupted by attentions to the King’s
enemies and the inclemencies of the northern
weather. Regattas are one of the safety-
valves’ for the ships’ companies after the
repressed monotony of their unceasing vigil.
One wonders if they have regattas at Kiel?
We catch a glimpse, too. of Jellicoe, lonely
on his vast quarter-deck, pacing up and
down. .
But it is the vivid snapshots of the indi-
vidual units of the Fleet that bring home
to us what the Navy means. Here is the
submarine lieutenant, telling how he chased
a Fritz all the way to Heligoland on the sur-
face. “Signalled to him with a flashing lamp
to stop and fight; called him every dirty
name we could lay our tongues on. Think
he’d turn and have it out? Not much. Yet
he had the bigger gun and the higher speed.
Signalled back, ‘Not to-day. thank you !’ and
legged it inside gun-range of the forts. Phew !
... .Their nerves are just putrid... .By God !
I wouldn’t be a Hun when the war’s over.
They’re having a nice little drop of leave
now to what they’ll get if they ever dare put
their noses outside their own filthy country.”
There is a moving description of the de-
parture of the Fleet for the Battle of Jut-
land ; and that fight is partially pictured.
“A fleeing German cruiser fell among a
flotilla of destroyers and altered her helm,
with every gun and searchlight blazing, tc
ram the leading boat. The destroyer had
time to alter course sufficiently to bring the
two ships bow to bow before the impact
came. Then there was a blinding crash:
forecastle, bridge and foremost gun a pile of
wreckage and struggling figures. The blast
of the German guns swept the funnels, boats,
cowls and men away as gale blows dead
leaves before it. Then the cruiser swung
clear and vanished into the darkness pursued
by the remainder of the flotilla, and leaving
the destroyer reeling among the waves like
a man that has been struck in the face with
a i knuckle-duster by a runaway thief. In
the direction where the cruiser had disap-
peared five minutes later a column of flame
leaped skyward, and the flotilla, vengeance
accomplished, swung off through the darkness
in search of a fresh quarry.” But the mq-st
impressive picture is that of five English
sailors on a raft passing amid the wreckage
within hailing distance of four Germans in
a boat. They just passed each other.
And though “Bartimeus” will not tell us
much about submarine catching, he contrives
to indicate the thrill of that “good hunting.’
And in this great gathering of naval officers
he finds a curious resemblance. “It was
elusive and quite apart from the affinity
of race. The high physical standard de-
manded of each on entry, the athletic train-
ing of their early years, the stern rigor of
life afloat, perhaps accounted for it. But
in many of the tanned, clean-shaven faces
there was somethings more definite than that
a strain that might have been transmitted
by the symbolic Mother of the Race, clear-
eyed and straight of limb, who still sits and
watches beneath stern calm brows the heri-
tage of her sons.”
The Greatest Book of the War
From time to time this page has hailed
certain war-books as masterpieces—-I hi lip
Gibbs’ The Soul of the War, Boyd Cables
two books, lan Hay’s Ihe First lut ,0U(.
Hugh Walpole’s The Dark forest, and
others, because they brought before even the
civilian reader something of the meairng
of modern war; but these, despite-their bill-
liant "psychology of the fighting unit and
their grim realism, are but amateur inter-
pretations compared with Henri Barbusse s
Under Fire, the excellent English transla-
tion of which is published by I)ent \P ei
1 iymock’s Library). This “Story of a
Squad” is the lteal Thing—as real as mod-
ern war. It not only shows the rain-sodden,
mud-caked Beast in all its horror, but it lays
bare the soul of the fighting man, the patient
poilit , and in its style and sombre beauty it
ranks as a tragedy as fine as Shakespeare s
King Lear. Under Fire will send a dis-
integrating shock throughout the world: if
only it were used as a text book for the
youth of the world to come there would be
no more war ever. ,
The' book, obviously a faithful first hand
record of an insignificant squad m the
French army, opens quietly, preceded by a
wonderful vision. “The streaming plain,
sepmed and seared with long parallel canals
and scooped into waterholes, is an immen-
sity, and these castiftvays who strive to ex-
hume themselves from it are legion. But
the 30,000,000 slaves, hurled upon one
another in the mud of war by guilt and
error, uplift their human faces and reveal
at last a bourgeoning Will. The future is
in the hands of these slaves, and it is clearly
certain that the allianee to be cemented some
day by those whose nun;ber and whose misery
alike are infinite will transform the world.”
“The drama in which we are actors has
lasted much too long for us to be surprised
any more, either at the stubbornness we have
evolved or the garb we have devised against
the rain that comes from above, against the
mud that conies from beneath, and against
the cold—that sort of infinity that is every-
where.” One poilit is lucky ; he is wearing
the boots of a German corpse. When he was
pulling them off, the legjs of it came unstuck
at the knees, and “the legs and the feet had
to be emptied out.” Common men, these
poilus, revealing the simple nature of men
who have reverted to the state primeval,
rusting and waiting. “Damp rusts men as
it rusts rifles; more slowly, but deeper....
We have become waiting-machines.” Not
soldiers, they pathetically tell us, but men,
simple men further simplified. “And at in-
tervals they are cries and dark shudders of
humanity that issue from the silence and
the shadows of their great human hearts.”
And one bv one Death gets them, horribly,
I~~ i they tell each other about it, simply
iddle of his body blown away. He was
ptied of blood on the spot in an instant,
e a bucket kicked over. .. .They found
a with his head completely flattened out,
t as a pancake, and huge—as big as that.
see it spread out on the ground, black
I distorted, it made you think of his
idow —the shadow one gets on the ground
netimes when one walks with a lantern
night. . . .We arrive at last on the summit,
ich is marked as with a signal by a
unded and frightful man. He is upright
the wind, shaken but upright, enrooted
:re. In his uplifted and wind-tossed cape
see a yelling and convulsive face. We
ss by him, and he is like a sort of scream-
>• tree.” But the most awful picture—
e of the most arresting in literature —is
at of the death of his comrade by a shell.
feel myself lifted and hurled asi do-
ubled up. choked, and half-blinded by this
htning and thunder. But still my recol-
:tion is clear; and in that moment when
looked wildly and desperately for my com-
le in arms, I saw his body go up, erect
d black, both his arms outstretched to
Sir limit, and a flame in the nlace of his
ad!” ,
Horrors, yes, but horrors unstressed,
erely part of the casual conversation of the
inches. Throughout this book there is not
le filth''' word, yet Barbusse manages to
it the tone of the soldiers’ talk, with a
arvellous verisimilitude ; and he gives just
} much emphasis to the other common
lings of this war. Thus a whole chapter
devoted to the gift of an egg while the
uad was in billets. An egg to a starving
an is worth a whole chapter. And there is
le story of a French soldier who was given
le chance by an Alsatian Hun to visit Lens,
isguised as a German soldier, and see —but
ot speak to —his wife. He glanced in
rom the street and saw his wife. “She was
miling. She was contented.” And she was
itting between two German soldiers; and
is baby was climbing on to the knee of one
f the Boches. The poor fellow relates his
:ory with a pathetic attempt to believe in
is wife. He has confidence in her; she
aunot be crying all the time; but she was
miling, at this time of the war!
But amid so much sadness there is em-
edded' the charming idyll of Paradis and
oung Tosephine’s boots. This big clumsy
ellow finds the old grandmother cleaning
he girl’s daintily feminine boots. He offers
o do it himself. To quote even a part of
his beautiful idyll would be to spoil The
picture remains of the tiny boots so tenderly
held in the clumsy hands ot the adoring
i,oilu. And there is the hopeless love-aftair
of a gross poilu for a beautiful girl, bhe
always repulsed him ; but at the last he finds
her, a month dead—and on her bosom were
fastened the remains of a bunch of flowers,
“and that was rotten, too ■ • • • ”
And there are always the dead. The
descriptions of the corpses, in all stages ot
decomposition, will sicken the reader; am
vet the author describes these things- with
•m unimpassioned calm. They are part ot
the furniture of war: the poilu becomes
accustomed to them. And amazingly ap 1
Barbnsse’s description. Here is , a man
stretched out as if he slept, but he has that
close flattening against the ground which
distinguishes a dead man from a sleeper.
J*
In the rest billets there is also misery.
What makes it more bitter to the poilu is
that the villagers are making money out ot
the war • Barbusse s belief is that the old
people wish the war to go on for ever—
except those who have sons at the front.
And the shirkers behind the front! To these
trench inhabitants there is something
vaguely wrong when so many of the popula-
tion have “cushy” billets. One sums it up:
“No I’d never have believed there d be so
many men on chairs while war was going
on!....The farther you go from the front
the more you see of them. Their battlefield
is not the same as ours There are some
of those others who’ve got killed by an
unluckv chance: among us there are some
that are still alive by a lucky chance. let
the soldiers shrug their shoulders with a
fatalistic philosophy. .
A bombardment has never been so graphi-
cally described as this poilu pictures it.
And so compelling is his narrative ot a
charge that he carries his readers with him;
shoulder to shoulder. Here is a vivu
glimpse of the men about to go over the
top :
“They are not soldiers, they men.
They are not adventurers, or warriors, or
made for human slaughter, neither butchers
nor cattle. They are laborers and artisans
whom one recognises in their uniforms.
They are civilians uprooted, and they are
ready. They await the signal for death or
murder ; but you may see, looking at then-
faces between the vertical gleams ot then
bayonets, that they are simply men. Bach
one knows that he is going to take his h«i4,
his chest, his belly, his whole body, and all
naked, up to the rifles pointed forward, to
the shells, to the bombs piled and ready,
and above all to the methodical and almost-
infallible machine-guns—to all that is wait-
ing for him yonder and is now so frightfully
silent —before he reaches the other soldiers
that he must kill. They are not careless of
their lives, like brigands, nor bunded by
passion, like savages. In spite of the doc-
trines with which they have cultivated
they are not inflamed. They are above
instinctive excesses. They are not drunk,
either physically or morally. It is in full
consciousness, as in full health and full
strength, that they are massed there to hurl
themselves once more into that sort of mad-
man’s part imposed on all men by the mad-
ness of the human race. One sees the
thought and the fear and the farewell that,
there js in their silence, their stillness, m
the mask of tranquillity which unnaturally
grips their faces. They are not the kind
of hero one thinks of, but their sacrifice has
greater worth than they who have not seen
them will ever be able to understand.”
Equally true are his tremendous visions
of the charge; of the dead—there are fright-
ful and sickening pictures of the awful ways
that death comes to one on a modern battle-
field ; of the ghastly horrors of a refuge for
the wounded, shelled by the enemy; though
this macabre scene is woncerfully lit by the
glimpses Barbusse allows us into the heroic
psychology of the sufferers. And through-
out the author lightens the horror by his
amazing use of philosophic irony—a striking
example is the story of the airman who flew
down to find out what two groups on either
yide of no-man’s land —one of Bdches and the
other of French —were doing, and who
discovered that each side was conducting a
religious service, “so exactly alike that it
looked silly.” And the two prayers that
floated up to him* came as one murmur, “Gott
mit uns!” and “God is with us!”
But the final scene is-the most tremendous
indictment of war. The whole scene of the
fighting is inundated and the poilus lose
their way in the mud and look out at last
on a dreadful dawn. The impression of
dreariness and desolation is overpowering.
the reader feels almost as if this vast ex-
panse of land were some great ocean suddenly
emptied. And on that drear muddy desert
these common soldiers —some of them dying
—talk, unforgettably, of war. One feels that
this noble and wonderful debate could never
have happened there ; yet, logically, it could
only have happened there. It is the final
scene of the greatest tragedy every written:
for it is the death of a world. The fear of
these poilus, towering in their dismal
wretchedness like demi-gods of heroism, is
that they will forget. “We’re forgetting
already, my boy! We’ve seen too much to re-
I member. . . .Men are things that think a little
but chiefly forget.... Then neither the other
side nor us’ll remember! So much misery is.
wasted !.... If we remembered, there wouldn’t
be any more war.” And one tells the truth
that it is only in one charge that a soldier
remembers an earlier charge. And from that
utter weariness of the dawn slowly rises
a steady tranquil hope. These desolate and
dying soldiers, getting ready to begin the
war again, know what war is, and who their
real enemies are. On that insurgent note
this great epic of heroism fittingly ends.
Re-naming Our Birds
In submitting, at the request of this Page,
a list of Australian bird-names which call
loudest for alteration, the Queensland bird-
ologist, A. H. Chisholm, offers these observa-
tions :—•
As indicated on the Red Page, the most
desirable names' for our birds are those
“chosen” by the wee creatures themselves.
F’rinstance, when a bird cheerily shouts
Currawong, why should a kiddy be asked to
pass by that musical word in favor of “pied
bell-magpie”? The white-plumed honey-
eater calls itself chiclcowee ; the spine-tailed
log-runners of Q. address each other as
ehO'W-cMUas;. and a certain little G cry gone
insists on introducing itself as the jan-da-
berry. And why not? Essentially simple-
definite words all of these, and that is what
we must have if the birds are to take tlxeir
rightful place in Australian verse—-such a
place as the pleasantly-named bobolink,
chickadee, blue-bird and irliipoor-will have in
the affections of American bards. But, while
it is well to follow the standaru names of
the world as far as possible in respect of
cosmopolitan families, it is essential also
that any new bird-names be thoroughly Aus-
tralian. In point, the black-faced cuckoo-
shrike, by reason of Its pretty habit of wing-
waving when perching, is neatly known in
some districts as the lapwing; but this name
is untenable as that of a well-Known old-
world flier ; same with the bird’s other local
title of blue jay; same also with all other
borrowed plumes, such as Australian canary
and Australian nightingale. Australia has
overdone these borrowings. Our robins are
much prettier than the true “red-breasts of
the old world; similarly, our magpies (piping
crow-shrikes) are much finer than the mis-
chievous mag. of England; but probabli
both of these names will have to stand. Who
was it suggested that our black-and-white
mixture of music and fight should be known
as the Anzac-bird? ...
The list subjoined refers only to familial
birds. The vernacular names are those at
present used by the Royal Australasian
Ornithologists’ Union (Check-list, , Ul?) -
and, in the interests of popular identification,
local names are bracketed instead of the
scientific titles. I take it there will be no
objection to contributors supplying sugges-
tions for new names for birds other than
those mentioned below :• —•
Names for Correction. _
Blue-bellied Lorikeet (Blue Mountain, Rainbow
Lol Jrlmson-betiied Parrot (Blue-Bonnet Bull-oak).
Warbling Grass-Parrot (Love-Bird, Bechenygah).
Australian Brown Flycatcher (Jacky Winter,
Stump-Bird), and other lengthily-named members ol
the Flycatcher family. , ~
Wldte-throated Flyeater (Bush Canalj) and othe
members of the genus Gerygone. „ ,
Yellow-bellied Shrike-Tit (Yellow-Hammer, Crested
Tit).
Yellow-breasted Whistler, Rufous-breasted Whist-
ler (Mock Whip-birds, Thunder-birds, Bush
Canaries,. Joy-birds) and other members of the
musical genus Pachycephala, .
Black-faced Cuckoo-sltrvke (Summer-bird, Blue
Jav, Blue Pigeon). . n
White-shouldered Caterpillar-eater (Pee-wee-Lark).
Spotted Ground-Bird (Ground-Dove, Pigeon) and
other members of indefinitely-named genus Cinclo-
Chestnut-rumped Ground-Wren (Ground-Warbler.)
White-browed Field-Wren (Field-Warbler, btink-
White-fronted Bush-Chat (Tang,,Nun, Tintac) and
other members of the-genus Epthianura.
Golden-heated Fantail-Warbler (Corn-Bird.)
Tit-Warblers (Tom-Tits) carrying the adjectne
“rumped.” ,
Pardalotes (Chip-chips, Ground-Diamonds).
Honey-Birds generally, especially the Sanguineous
Honey-eater (Blood-Bird), and White-bearded Honey-
eater (Yellow-wings). .
Bell-Magpies (Crow-Shrikes, Scrub-Magpies).
[Anybody with a better local or original
name for any of these unfortunately
christened birds will oblige this page b)
sending it in. The suggestions need not be
published, but they will be sent for considera-
tion and selection to fi committee of birdoio-
gists and bird-bards.]
The competition for the best Australian
proverb, unearthed or manufactured, c ose
on March 2. Unless entries are definitely
addressed to this page they are apt to De
delayed or overlooked.
The chief conditions of an Australian n 2rafian
producing firm's offer of £5O for the best ‘
scenario received on or before Februa j -
summarised for various correspondents. w p a t
scenario in the form of a short-story, telhng^Mt
happens; your yarn must deal with Au. . duce
and problems, must be dramatic, and must “t ° oge
Australian types in an Australian e
ire oils safe's
(3) photographic and winner 's
Result to be announced in this page. nro moters in
scenario to become the property of the p
return for £5O. pg


CatJjeamotdefasjlje
jh
Canton Disc Ploughs , have discs 26in. in diameter, each of which will turn a
furrow from 3 to 12 inches deep, and from 10 to 12 inches wide. The discs
are all ball-bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are set at the proper angle
to revolve freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely
over and is thoroughly pulverised.
Prices— Single Furrow, weight 6301 b £lB
Double Furrow, weight 7801 b £23
Treble Furrow (as illustrated), weight 9001 b. . £2B
The Wiard No. C 8 Road or Contractor’s Plough, as shown, is intended flor
heavy work where great strength is necessary, and four or more horses are
used. The forged crucible steel points and mouldboard are specially designed
for digging and loosening the hardest clay, gravel and rocky ground.
No. 68 Road Plough, weight 3251 b.
£ll
YViard’s Patented Steel Beam 2-horse Plough, No. 100 (as illustrated),
weighs 1061 b. It cuts from 6to 9 in. deep and 10 to 14 in. wide, and
is the easiest of draught of the Wiard Series.
No. 100 2-horse Plough
£5/2/6
Anthony
Horderns’
Farming
Implements
Economise
Time and
Increase
Efficiency.
-M
■p B3S-
The Wiard Hillside Plough, No. 120 (as illustrated), has a steel beam
and ploughs from sto 8 in. deep and from Bto 12 in. wide. The
beam is so adjusted that the plough works perfectly when reversed
either way. The coulter is of the ordinary Colonial pattern, not
as shown.
No. 120 Hillside Plough, weight 1181 b £5/10/6
No. 21 1-liorse Hillside Plough, 781 b £3/2/6
_
«ssiipiplg
Swi
fiii !i|jf %
The Wiard 1-horse Steel Beam Plough, No. 74 (as illustrated), has a forged
steel beam, and cuts from 4 to 7 in. deep and from 6 to 11 in. wide. It is
strong and simply adjusted.
No. 74 Steel Beam Plough, weight 841 b.
£3/17/6
HI
linteiilßß
The Wiard 1-horse Garden Plough, S T o. 62 (as illustrated), has a wooden
beam and handles, with steel mouldboard. It turns a furrow from 3to 5 in.
deep and from 6 to 8 in. wide. A handy garden plough.
Wiard 1-horse Garden Plough, No. 62, weight 401 b.
32/6
**
The Wiard Sub-soil Plough (as illustrated) is strong and serviceable, and will
loosen the soil in the bottom of a furrow from 3to 6 in. deep. For ditching
purposes it is unequalled.
Wiard Sub-soil Plough, weight 1001 b.
60/-
m
■Be
pv
The Wiard Gang Plough, No. 203 (as illustrated), makes a double furrow
22in. wide and from 4 to S in. deep. Has soft centre steel mouldboards, con-
trolled by levers.
Wiard Gang Plough, No. 203, weight 3601 b.
£lO/5/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
■
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


¥M
AS
V- A. j
:
m
■
m - •• ■
V • -v*.:
m
m
■ .
I m
1111
i
w
■ -
. . . :. :
Before treatment. Actual photo-
graph supplied by Messrs. Dixon
and Byrn, of beaker containing
muddy, clayey water very difficult
to precipitate.
Actual photograph, taken after
2i grains of “Klaro” added and
all impurities precipitated. 24-
grains = 2800 gallons water clari-
fied per lib. of “Klaro.”
DIXON ft BYftN
A. J. DIXON, w.i.c., r.c.»., *.t.i
AN»
«. A. BYUN, W.1.C., WC.t.
Tslsphons No. CITY 4303
Chemical and Assay Laboratory
Reiby Chambers,
Reiby Lane, Circular Quay
28th January 8
Messrs Willlaa Adasas & Coy. Ltd. ,
Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Dear Sira:
We have experimented ao to the
effect of "Klaro" on clarifying water.
We tried it on a very muddy
clayey water using 2& grains of "Klaro'’ per
gallon and herewith send you photographs
of the water before and' after treatment.
Before taxing the photographs
both the treated and untreated waters were
allowed to &tand over night.
The result it will be seen was
very satisfactory when "Klaro" was used, a
perfectly clear water being obtained.
fours faithfully.
SCIENCE TESTIFIES to the
valuable properties of “Klaro ’!
Tests made by Messrs. Dixon and Byrn, consulting Analytical
Chemists, prove that
n
is highly efficient as a precipitant of impurities in water.
Photographs reproduced herewith show the condition of water
before and after these tests were made.
The drinking of impure water has caused such widespread
sickness that all doubtful supplies in Wells, Tanks, Dams or
Cisterns should be treated with “Klaro” before the water is
made available for consumption. “Klaro” causes no harmful
effects to drinking or boiler water, if used as per our direc-
tions. It leaves no disagreeable flavor—simply clarifies—
leaving the water clear as crystal.
lib. “KLARO” WILL CLEAR 3000 CALLONS WATER.
ONE LEVEL TABLESPOONEUL WILL CLEAR 150 GALLONS.
ONE LEVEL DESSERTSPOONFUL WILL CLEAR 75 GALLONS.
ONE LEVEL TEASPOONFDL WILL CLEAR 37 GALLONS,
“KLARO” IS USED BY ALL THE AUSTRALIAN
GOVERNMENTS AND PRINCIPAL WATER BOARDS.
Sold in lib. boxes, price 2/6; 31b. boxes, price 6/9; and 51b. boxes, price
10/-; by principal Storekeepers, or, if unobtainable in your town, send us
postal note or cheque for 35/-, and we will send you small case contain-
ing: an assortment of boxes of “Klaro.”
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS:
William Adams & Company Limited
BRISBANE:
Edward & Mary Streets.
MELBOURNE:
521-=3 Collins Street.
SYDNEY:
175 Clarence Street.
ADELAIDE:
96 Currie Street.
PERTH:
33 King Street.


Grease Lubricators.
3
•SV-ST
Specify....
“DESLYN”
(Reg. Trade Mark)
GREASE CBPS
and see you get them.
Scientific, Economical,
Easily Applied.
Used by N.S.W.
Government.
AUSTRALIAN MADE by
D. F. GLYNN MFG. CO., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Wholesale only). ’Phone 7680.
Write for Particulars and list of Supply Houses.
k
jhk
is now
enjoyed daily by
those who previ-
ously never used
sauces.
Its new, thick, fruity
flavour is quite unique.
Try a "bottle right away.
CJS€/>
3*
£
&
<1
%
£
&&OU*:
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
'f'lc&c/? izice
818 liittte Collins St., Melbourne.
O ">
or B, Alleys
.
' iss
4is.tr it>ii
jh
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide
T. L. SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
You Say “I’m Well” —
But Are You?
one is really well who is dependent upon
A physics and cathartics for relief from a more
or less chronic condition of constipation.
Physics give only temporary relief and their
after effects intensify the very condition they are
supposed to remedy.
Nujol, the common sense relief, is not digested or
absorbed into the system. It acts merely as an in-
ternal lubricant.
Nujol is not a drug. Drugs give quick, temporary
relief but they aggravate the very condition they
are meant to cure. But Nujol is a genuine remedy
in that it relieves constipation in the most natural
way by lubricating the lining of the intestines, soft-
ening the intestinal contents, and thus promoting
healthy and normal bowel activity. The use of
Nujol is not attended with the griping or distress
that follow the use of drug remedies
3
/
V-!
TOR CONSTIr/
=K=WW
r&yd
jttvt-hMR
sc
3SF*® 5
bt7
■trorr
Ask your chemist for booklet.
Nujol is sold only in 16 ounce
bottles bearing the Nujol trade*
mark. Never in bulk. Avoid
substitutes.
Nuiol
FOR CONSTIPATION
STANDARD OIL CO.
(New Jersey)
U. S. A.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
A
Right Makes Might
RIGHT ideals of building, the rule
which puts quality first; here is the
might that has built Firestone fame.
Right design, right materials, right work-
manship, right service; this has been
the Firestone standard for 16 years. It
is the secret of a success without rival in
sales-increase and industrial prestige.
Ride on Tyres for luxurious
comfort, insurance against delay or acci-
dent and the economy of Most Miles per
Shilling. Let your nearest dealer serve you.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria ; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing- Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. I-latrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garage*
Write for Illustrated Literature
liretfotie
TYRES
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Song of O’Driscoll.
[Fineen, O’Driscoll, lord of Baltimore, was famous
for his piracy. With eight vessels he harried Eng-
lish shipping and fought a successful engagement
against a squadron of warships.]
Would it be a green flag, would it be a
black ?
Would the seas of all the world roaring turn
us back?
King’s ships, tall ships and ships of high
renown —•
Every ship’s a foe’s ship that goes to Bristol
town !
For we’re cruising with Fineen O’Driscoll
From Kerry to bleak Finisterre.
There is good Spanish wine and the dubloons
that shine
For rovers to drink and to share.
Was it Dons that you fancied we were?
When ’tis cutlass and pistol and Fineen
O’Driscoll
Let Sasenach ship-men beware !
Would they spoil our green fields, tread us
to the sod?
Would we look for vengeance, trust our pikes
and god?
Broad sails,. full sails, flags with pride
unfurled —
Forth we fare to plunder them who plun-
dered half the world.
Would it be a green flag, would it be a black?
Sons of Drake and Hawkins, run —we’re
upon your track;
Long ships, bold ships, ships that fight and
drown —
Every ship’s a foe’s ship that goes to London
town!
For we’re cruising with Fineen O’Driscoll
From the Lizard to Baltimore Bay.
There’s a wide sea to keep and a harvest to
reap
When the Sasenach comes in our way.
Now who rules the waves did ye say?
When ’tis cutlass and pistol ’tis Fineen
O’Driscoll,
The pirate of Baltimore Bay.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Fairy Ride.
In the merry, merry morning I rode down
On a little white mare to True-love town.
Oh, her bells rang high,
And she seemed to fly
As we raced through the glens and the
hollows brown.
With a tirra lirra la by Childhood Bay
To a carnival call she pranced in play,
Till the rein I drew
At a tower I knew,
Where I called to my love, “Come away,
away.”
Oh, I holloed “A-hoy, I’ve come for you!
Will you ride to my home of billows blue?”
But he cried, “Alack,
You must gallop back,
For I’ve battles to wage, and my tasks to
d 6.”
“I’ve a ripple-lapping cave of pearl,” I said,
“And a myriad harps their airs will w T ed
To delight your ears
For a thousand years,
If you’ll sleep on the weeds of my fairy bed.”
With a tirra lirra la he flew to me,
And he rode in my heart to Youth’s far sea,
Where a-hoy, a-hoy,
Like a girl and boy,
We dwell with our dreams and our fancies
free. \
N.S.W.
ZORA CROSS.
A Galway Hill.
Red corn, and a red poppy laughing
At a young man tall, swinging down the
hill
To a mouse-grey frock and a wild heart beat-
ing
Under a cherry-red silken frill.
Deep fields, and the summer languishing;
Sweet wet fields on the side of the hill;
Rapt grey eyes and a deep voice crooning
All the way down to Denis’s mill.
Wet, cold fields, and the winter weeping
For a girl on the crest of a lonely hill;
She watching ever, still lonely dreaming,
Hearkening the wind’s voice mournful and
shrill.
White, dim fields, and the wind still calling
A soldier’s name over the hill;
She in her little room, lonely, praying;
He on a Flanders field, lonely and still.
An old woman in a corner nodding;
An old dream leaning on the window-sill:
A young ghost laughing, and over her bend-
ing,
A proud ghost over and over the hill.
N.S.W.
HILARY LOFTING.
A Memory.
There was a fragrance in your hair
Of the sun, and the wind, and the sea;
And a man might bury his hot mouth there
And breathe the soul of him free
Of sin, and loneliness, and care,
And thoughts that bite like steel —-
The pain of a heart that is hard to bear,
And the dream-wounds slow to heal.
In your dear eyes lived charity,
And the peace of a deep, grave thought;
But the sun, and the wind, and the magic
sea
In the deeps of your hair were caught.
n.s.w.
JOHN EGAN.


w
to
3
XSk
.
m
m
iiii
c
Ki
Perdriau
Rubber Driving Belting
has great gripping power—
is impervious to moisture and unaffected by acid or
alkaline fumes—
runs evenly, and is liable to the minimum of stretching.
MANUFACTURED IN AUBTRALIA BY
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
All States.
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4-7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 O „ „ £lO
£43 15 O „ „ £5O
£B7 10 0 „ „ £lOO
£875 0 0 „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6“ War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/S
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. October, 1917
m
msmm r
m
N TA
1. •'.:/ A ' ¥
•' ; .%*za
(
Mm
y
m
M S
3 -•-
» i-*v ***
bacf
fi
///
y
A Great
BRIGADE
of housekeepers RING the
changes at meal-time bp servirm
“Rex ” Camp Pie
to their families and friends at frequent
intervals.
There’s no ESCAPE from the fact that it EXTIN-
GUISHES hunger, and is fine with a piquant salad,
as a SPRINKLER.
BLAZE a new Luncheon trail bp packing "Rex" Camp
Vie sandwiches in pour bread-winner’s crib.
“Rex” Camp Pie is made from the choicest morsels of meat skilfully
compounded and cooked bp the famous “Rex” Chefs.
TRY A TIN TO-DAY! Sold bp all Grocers.
ALSO TRY
“Rex" Ham Pate and “Rex" Veal and
Tongue Pate, two UNITS called into action for
sandwich fillings bg economical housewives.
Foggitt, Jones <& Co. Ltd.
Packers of <
“ Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “ Rex’’ Hams and Bacon
J. 134
k
Marine Engines
gritojX
For All Boats
CalUe 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started.
Electric Lights
Callle Five
Speed Row*
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hoar
Caille 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear or Same Baso as Engine
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- t o four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock ; also
Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers
Limited,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE.
Dodge Brothers
motor CAR
REMARKABLE GROWTH OF DEMAND.
ITS GOOD VALUE CONCEDED BY PURCHASERS.
Satisfying the demand which the goodness of the car
creates is still Dodge Brothers’ one great problem.
Their works are attaining the proportions of a city in
themselves, hut the demand grows in excess of
the expansion.
Owners have found that the economy and efficiency of
the car are unchanged through the changing seasons.
That it is all it is represented to be is taken for granted.
That the car is good value is freely conceded by
purchasers.
DALGETY & COMPANY LIMITED,
Sydney and Brisbane,
Agents for New South Wales and Queensland.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Yol. 39.—N0. 1983.
THU USD AY, FEBRUARY 14, 1918.
Price 6d.
“BUBBLES.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £ 1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
aiidkess in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, aclcnoivledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and AVliite.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which lias to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., W Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal. ; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hono Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord llowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Zid.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, 1/oz., Id., and id. each
additional Zoz.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1918.
ARBITRATION GETS FIRST AID.
Once more the N. S. Wales Legislature is
struggling with the details of an Arbitration
Bill. Events had made this inevitable; for
the system in vogue had plainly become broad
farce. Powerful influences had been at work
to produce this hilarious performance. Minis-
tries by shirking the obligations the statute-
book cast upon them; Parliaments by acting
on the principle that national economics have
relation to neither industry nor social con-
ditions ; organised capital by taking from
Labor with one hand everything it had been
compelled to give with the other; Labor by
encouraging a public policy of profligacy
and waste and by putting the knife into the
vitals of a system created by itself —all had a
share in bringing arbitration into the gutter.
And so it happens that with the object of
giving the machinery a fresh start and
patching up the holes and otherwise cleaning
up the disorder, Minister for Labor Beeby
has produced this Bill. It is a complicated
measure, having no new principle, but deco-
rated with several innovations the success
of which if put into operation will depend
less upon their merits than upon the
exterior circumstances which caused othey
innovations and experiments to fall in
a heap. Its main purpose is to secure the
observance of awards by trade unions. To
do this there are proposals under which
strikes are made, in- certain circumstances,
illegal; penalties are provided for breaches
in this direction; and a scheme is devised
for taking secret ballots among union mem-
bers before a strike can come within the defi-
nition of a legal disturbance. There is the
additional provision that strikes among
unions of State employees shall be illegal,
ballot or no ballot. Except for the ballot
under Government auspices and a schedule
of penalties, all this is merely a variation or
existing law; and so far as The Bulletin
can see there is no more reason in expen-
ence to suppose that the new will turn failure
into success than there was to expect a crop
of calamity from the old. The whole of this
business must hang upon the readiness or
otherwise of trades unionism to make arbi-
tration workable. If the unions do not want
to do this, then all the pouring of old wine
into new bottles is futile. If they do, then
experience seems to point towards the need
for simplifying the practices into which the
unions and the State have stumbled. It is
here, in the judgment of this paper, that
Beeby has taken the wrong track. He makes
the system more complicated than ever, in
spite of irrefutable evidence that every addi-
tional complication has produced more riot,
more bill and more difficulties of administra-
tion.
* * * *
The Bulletin submits that setting up an
elaborate system under which the State is
to decide through a judge or a committee
whether Jones is to drive in a nail in-
stead of Smith, or whether Mick is to
knock off before Bill, and generally to piffle
round with the details appertaining to
Brown and llobinson, is worse than use-
less. It is all a departure from the original
ideas relating to arbitration, and has proved
a mistake. The demand for arbitration
sprang out of a realisation among men who
worked for wages and the more decent sort
of employers that the strike was a barbarous
institution, and that there must be some
more rational way of settling disputes. No
student ever supposed that intervention in an
argument between the Bricklayers’ Union
and the bosses as to whether pay should be Is.
2d. or Is. 2|d. meant “a solution of the labor
problem.” The idea behind the intervention
was very different; it was based wholly upon
a belief that, by providing peaceful methods
of settling points of acute difference which
would otherwise end in explosion, the way
would be left open for consideration of
economic and other problems free from the
exasperation and bitterness inseparable from
strikes and lock-outs. Instead of confining
itself to a plain task of offering a method of
settlement, and to the easy job of making
observance of an award as compulsory as
any other contract once it had been accepted,
the State went joyously ahead delving into
the minutiae of industry and trying to carry
compulsion to a point where it became a
fantastic impossibility. Perhaps most of us
allowed hope to triumph over reason in this
matter. The Bulletin is one of the papers
which have stood for arbitration as against
the strike. It does so still. But experience
has taught it that there is a vast difference
between a system of arbitration designed for
the purpose of preventing strikes and lock-
outs among men who dread both, and one
which, by distortion of purpose, makes the
strike and the lock-out something that one cr
both parties yearn to adopt.
* * * *
The Bulletin is convinced that Beeby’s
better course would have been to retrace his
steps—instead of providing long lists of
penalties for this, that and the other, to
have allowed the strike to be the penalty for
those who want a taste of it as an alterna-
tive to accepting something else. The original
case for arbitration, as stated by the labor
unions, boiled down to half a dozen words:
‘‘lt will save us from strikes.” The case
during the last three or four years has been :
“It gives us more reasons for striking.” As
set out in Beeby’s Bill the case seems to .be:
“If you want to avoid arbitration, pay cash
and take a ballot.” There is more confusion
than anything else about this, and it seems
to be mainly a warning to Ministers against
going ahead of public sentiment or beyond
the severely practical. It is not much good
fumbling on with Acts of Parliament drafted
for the purpose of bringing all industry
within the scope of State regimentation and
putting the internal control of trade unions
into tiie hands of public officials. To Labor
the dangers of this are immediate and sin-
ister, and to almost every trades unionist
arbitration will appear to be a thing designed
for the purpose of reducing unionism to
impotence and narrowing his individual
rights as a citizen. For the reason that the
State, by going far beyond the original pur-
poses of arbitration, has hitherto got in-
volved in increasing difficulties, this paper
sees no justification for expecting that fur-
ther expeditions in the same direction will
make the difficulties any less numerous. The
responsibility for strikes by unionists must
rest with the unions themselves, not the
State. If the unions don’t want to avoid
these disturbances —if they want to rely on
strikes —then all the legislation on earth will
not make any difference. An Arbitration
Court which unions and employers might
evoke for the purpose of settling disputes
relating to wages and hours of employment,
and whose finding the disputants would be
compelled to observe for a fixed period, upon
pain of joint and several liability for dam-
ages, might be made an instrument of great
industrial and social usefulness. It would
give unions that wanted to avoid striking the
option of doing so, and those which did not
want to do so of accumulating further experi-
ence of what strikes mean. And this paper
has a suspicion that, the more the trades
union of to-day becomes acouainted with
what real strikes are actually like, the more
interest it will take in alternative methods.
Putting up obstacles to strikes is bad policy.
Academically there is much to be said for it
—in practice there is nothinsr. In the end it
would be infinitely better if the way were
left clear for either the strike or arbitration
in the simplest form, confined to the ques-
tion of wages and hours only. But it should
be an arbitration based upon sureties for
performance of contract. As it is now, arbi-
tration is very largely an incitement to tear
up the contract as a preliminary to demand-
ing a better one.
PIECE-WORK RATES FOR STATE
POLITICIANS.
Hitherto the politician in office (like the
one out of office) has been paid by time
rates, just like a day laborer with a pick
and shovel. He gets the same whether the
results he shows are good, bad or indifferent;
whether he is a toiler or a loafer; whether
he works for the country or only for himself;
whether he is honest or simply well posted
in the ways of keeping out of gaol. In other
words, he is paid for his adhesiveness and
for nothing else; so long as he keeps his job
the monthly cheque comes in. The results
have seldom been very good, and of late they
have been no better. Perhaps they have
been worse. There are still patriots, but as
the party system becomes more elaborate
the patriot’s chance of getting into office
diminishes. His desire for office diminishes
also. Hence arises the idea of putting the
Minister on piecework so far as possible.
He can’t be paid by results in the matters of
his language, his grammar, his morals or his
pleasing appearance. In fact, there are
quite a number of cases in which the piece-
work system wouldn’t apply. But it would
apply as regards the Treasury, and there is
more dry rot at th Treasury than in all the
other departments put together. Out of the
big, easy, shiftless loan, the interest on which
is handed down to posterity, is found the
money for the hopelessly unprofitable railway
which improves the estate of the landowner
and tends to purchase his vote, and which
gladdens the toiler with wages for which the
country gets no adequate return. So it
helps to purchase his vote also. Likewise
the loan pays for many things that are even
less profitable than a very bad railway. In
the same manner the big shortage on revenue
account provides a bogus liberality, which
breaks out in all manner of places and also
tends to the acquisition of votes. The coun-
try having almost lost the habit of looking
at the finances so long as there is money for
to-day, the politician who is paid for his
adhesiveness generally takes the line of least
resistance, and pleases as many people as he
can. He is like the aboriginal who eats
the whole kangaroo to-day and lets to-morrow
slide.
* * * *
It is hereby suggested that the politician
in office should be bribed to be a disinterested
and vigorous patriot. If political honesty
can’t be got for a fixed wage the obvious
course is to throw in a commission. The
first clause in the programme would be to
largely reduce his fixed salary; but every
year when the Auditor-General certifies that
there is no deficit —that the public income
has covered the outgoings without any dodge
or fake or shadow of doubt —he should re-
ceive a bonus which will more than make
good the deduction. In other words, the
Minister who doesn’t make ends meet should
have his pay cut down, and the one who
does should get a rise. Next, when a finan-
cial year is got through without any addition
to the public debt except the unavoidable
loss on the renewal of old loans, it would be
a reasonable device that each member of the
Cabinet should have his salary doubled for
that year—of course on the steel-plated cer-
tificate of the Auditor-General. In the third
place, the theory is hereby advanced that
when the Ministry actually reduces the pub-
lic debt by payments out of revenue, it
should receive 5 per cent, of the amount of
the reduction —per cent, for the Premier
and the rest to be divided among his col-
leagues. Unavoidable loss on the renewal of
old debts would, of course, not be put to the
discredit of the Ministry; but the loss must
be unavoidable, for any Cabinet might turn
an old liability of £1.000,000 into a new one
of half that amount by offering a sufficiently
large rate of interest. The reduction must
be certified by the Auditor-General as above
suspicion. Thus by paying off £1.000,000
of debt per annum for three years Holman
or Bowser or Ryan could retire with
£75,000, and 'any one of six colleagues with
£12,500 each. This would be in addition
to their savings out of the extra salary paid
them for not having a shortage. To the
financiers that Holman and Bowser and
Ryan are to-day the proposed payment is
outrageous. But to the financiers that they
would have to be in order to get the money
it would be quite moderate.
* * * *
The proposal looks grotesque—at least it
would be called grotesque at first sight.
Most new ideas have that brick thrown at
them. Federation and Government paper
money and an Australian navy were all
grotesque in their day, according to many
people. An Australian silver coinage was
once spoken of by respectable fossils as if
it amounted to cannibalism aggravated by
bigamy. Yet it is almost certain that the
scheme of payment by salary and a' big com-
mission would appeal to Ministers and to
members who hoped to be Ministers. And
many a back-seat member would be glad of
a chance to clear his character with his con-
stituents by telling them that he would
cheerfully attend to the swindle and put the
job through, but a shamelessly mercenary
Government won’t hear of it. In other
words, it would be the correct thing for the
old political brigade to look shocked, but
probably the old brigade wouldn’t be so
much shocked as it looked. The salary
and commission Minister might also have a
hard row to hoe at first, but it wouldn’t
necessarily be very hard. To earn his extra
salary and perks he would probably have
to grind out a little extra taxation from a
heavily-taxed community; he would find it
necessary to stop a thousand leakages, and
he must needs swallow much indigestible
Hansard while reversing the nolicy of a life-
time. His constituents would foam at the
mouth to some extent, and threaten ven-
geance and throw eggs. A section of the
press would print language of weighty dis-
approval, and another section would be
abusive and say things of the decomposed
cat variety. But the politician would have
a rock of strong defence. It might be pos-
sible to throw him out, but it would be diffi-
cult to find in his place a man who could
be relied upon to do the great renunciation
and abjure his Ministerial profits or his
chance of Ministerial profits. There were
many who objected to payment of members
but they all took the money. In this case
the. outlay would be more justifiable, for
unlike the honorarium it would be payment
for tangible services.
THE FREEDOM OF THE STREET.
A Sydney coroner has suggested that owing
to the frequency of motor accidents children
should be taught the safest methods of avoid-
ing cars. The suggestion would seem to
indicate that this coroner has missed the
essential feature of street law, which is that
the thoroughfare belongs to the pedestrian,
and that it is the motor-driver and not the
child who has to learn. This theory is perfectly
sound, and its application dates back to the
earliest days of British freedom. Once let
the coroner’s notion get abroad that
children should be specially taught to avoid
vehicles because the risk of death or injury
from the wheels is their own affair, then
citizen liberty is subverted. The street is
the world in miniature; and nobody, however
rich or exalted, has the right to run over
the meanest or poorest with wheels or any-
thing else. This principle requires to be
asserted by every person who values his free-
dom ; for the despotism of wheels grows and
increases, and there are altogether too many
small graves filled with the victims of the
unpunished murderers who imagine that the
honk of their horn is an excuse for any
infamy. Congestion is a serious matter, but
the persons responsible for it are rather
those in the motor-cars than the pedestrians;
and while every child of the cities pays a
grim price for the evil, it is surely
not too much to insist that the congestionists
and their friends should pay the lesser price
of reduced speed and trifling inconvenience.
Australia needs all her children now as they
were never needed before; and as the chil-
dren are the chief victims of the traffic,
their protection is a public duty. Cars may
cost a lot of money and represent some pre-
tence of progress; but a nation could get
along without them. The children of the
poor may be cheap ; but who can tell the
value of a child’s life in the profit and loss
account of the nation?
* * * *
The tendency of the age that is being
blown away in battle was to run the cars of
alleged progress over anybody who was too
weak or too slow to get out of the way. In
the street of the world the strong thing went
on with a honk of triumph, acknowledging
no right of the road to anything that its
wheels could grind into the dust. It was
this notion that found its height and final
expression in Prussianism. The Kaiser built
the juggernaut of his military system on
the plea that he wanted a place in the sun.
Nobody objected to his getting all the warmth
and brightness he could, nor to his raking
in even the rather doubtful profits of nigger
exploitation in his tropical possessions. Even
the nigger’s right to his own share of the
road wasn’t insisted upon as long as the
white person was left alone. But Wiliielm
was intoxicated with the magnificent honk
of his horn, and couldn’t be persuaded to
leave the pedestrian a share of the earth.
He blew an extra-loud blast and rolled over
Belgium. Then the trouble began. The
explanation that if Belgium had hopped
speedily out of the road nothing would have
happened didn’t satisfy civilisation. The
very bedrock notion of human freedom was
that the world must be free and safe to the
small child ; and for three years and a half
the Allied nations have been pouring out
blood and treasure to secure the arrest and
execution of the criminal driver who mur-
dered small nations because his car was
powerful and fast. No doubt some inter-
national coroner could have been found who
would have recommended' small nations to
study the art of crossing the road without
getting under the wheels; but the Allies
have taken the only safe and satisfactory
course of compelling the other fellow to
control his wheels. It is the motor-driver
that must learn the lesson; and even the
strongest things in all the world must be
taught in the plainest way that for any
attempt to run over pedestrian freedom, the
world, which is bigger than any car they
can build, will run over them. The Kaiser
is still uncrushed and some lands are still
under the wheels; but there is no joy in
Berlin now over the honking of the battle
horn, and the punishment cannot be long
delayed.
* * * *
But even with the' overthrow of the
Kaiser and all his military works there
remains the great danger that the lesson may
not be properly understood. In Australia
as well as in the older countries the war
itself has created despotisms as ruthless in
their way as Wilhelm’s own. What we
want is a safe world-street in which man-
kind can really get along towards whatever
it imagines to be its goal. It must be a
road properly policed, well lighted by night
and decently constructed. A child and an
old woman must be able to walk in it as
well as a Prime Minister and an athlete.
In the world-street hitherto there have not
only been motor-hogs but pitfalls and
obstacles. The big teams pulling the nroduce
of the harvests have been apt to bog there,
and a thoughtless step too often meant a
broken life. These things must be changed.
Down at bedrock the men and women of the
world mean well by one another, and the
nations of men, being composed of men and
women, would act well towards one another
if given the chance. There can be no shadow
of doubt about what the men and women of
the Allied countries mean by this war. They
are fighting for the freedom of the world-
street and f*>r the rights of the mere pedes-
trian along the road of life. Statesmen filled
with the craft of office and accustomed to
read the world in terms of power and
intrigues may have other notions; but peace
will not be peace if the ideals of those who
have borne the real sufferings of the war
are denied or obscured. -In any country
where there is less freedom _ after the war
than before there must remain a real sense
of defeat —a sense of having been tricked
and cheated. If the international coroner
investigating the contents of several million
graves can offer only the suggestion that
people must learn to hop cleverly out of the
road of the strong, the seed of a yet more
bitter harvest will have been sown. To
merely defeat the Kaiser is little. To defeat
and destroy the ideas and shames that made
Kaiserism possible is the thing to be aimed
at. And that must be done in Australia as
well as in Europe if our war sacrifice is to
be made worth while.


“BOTANY BAY.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Let a man be wliat lie will when he comes here,
he is soon as bad as the rest; a man’s heart is taken
from him, and there is given to him the heart of a
beast.” — '“Jacky-Jacky,” notorious lifer , when sen-
tenced to death for complicity in the Norfolk Island
revolt of 1&H.
In April, 1537, a Mr. Ernest Augustus
Slade, lately officer in charge of the Hyde
Park convict barracks at Sydney, presented
himself with an eloquent testimonial of effici-
ency, when giving evidence before a Select
Committee of the House of Commons ap-
pointed to inquire, into “The System of
Transportation, its Efficacy as a Punish-
ment, its Influence on the Moral State of
Society in the Penal Colonies, and how far
it is susceptible of Improvement.” He
claimed credit for having brought the art of
flagellation to such a state of perfection as
it had never before attained. He had im-
proved the cat-o’-nine-tails and speeded-up
the dogger.
“Will you,” asked- Sir Robert Peel,
“describe one of these instruments, and the
improvement you made in it?”
Mr. Slade obliged the Committee.
“The instruments before,” he explained,
“were exceedingly short, very short handles,
and only three lashes, and the knots were so
trifling that I should say the punishment
inflicted was of no avail, as in cases where
men have been sentenced to receive 50 lashes
instances have been known where the skin
has not been broken. I ordered them to
have a handle about two feet long. I had
five lashes put to them of whipcord, and on
each of these I had about six or seven knots.
I stood by, and saw every punishment in-
flicted myself; and in cases where the
scourger did not do his duty, I adopted the
system, as has been the practice in His
Majesty’s army, of having the scourger
brought up to account for his relaxation of
duty; and when the Scourger discovered that
I was determined that punishment should be
duly inflicted, I found that by superintend-
ing it myself 25 lashes under my surveil-
lance had the same effect as 1000 under any
other person’s hand, from the motive that I
have stated, that those persons were
birched.”
And Sir Richard Bourk'e, a kindly and
humane pro-consul, afterwards -wrote to him,
as Mr. Slade was able to show by a letter
produced:—
I had ample reason to be satisfied with the manner
in which your public duties were discharged whilst
you held the employments of superintendent of Hyde
Park barrack and police-magistrate in Sydney.
It was only the regrettable fact that this
painstaking official lived with a lady who
•was not Mrs. Slade that caused him to lose
his interesting and improving occupation.
Two huge volumes contain the minutes of
evidence, appendices and report of the Select
Committee; to read them to-day is to be
horrified and astounded at the fact that such
hideous things as the penal establishments of
New South Wales could ever have been
tolerated in the world. And it seems almost
a trick of Fate that here, where bloodshed,
inconceivable misery and unnatural crime
were bred, less than a hundred years later
there should have been developed the best
prison system in the British Empire, if not
in the whole world.
It is a large statement to make, and the
writer’s qualifications for making it may be
doubtful. He has, however, made very
painstaking examinations of two big convict
prisons in England—Dartmoor and Port-
land—and, having been commissioned by a
London morning paper, procured himself five
days’ imprisonment in Pentonville. This last
experience might possibly give him some
notion of the prisoners’ point of view, with-
out which it is useless for any outsider to
attempt to obtain enlightenment as to the
merits or demerits of any penal system. A
casual visitor to a “jug” can do little but
accept the official inference that all is as it
should be. He sees, very naturally, only the
best of it. He is apt to come away with a
notion that gaol is an enjoyable place—
which under no circumstances can it ever be
to any prisoner. If he has no insight into
the prisoner’s mind, he can have none into
the working of the prison. You must have
realised prison discipline, loneliness, the con-
tempt of prison warders, abject submission
of mind and body to often unreasonable
authority, and the close companionship of
crooks, before you can attempt to judge the
success or the failure of different penal
methods. It is no use being, as more than
one of us is, merely an undiscovered crook.
So I went, in the course of a few years, to
look at Dartmoor and Portland, at as much
of Pentonville as my gaolers allowed me to,
at old Darlinghurst, Melbourne, Pentridge,
Parramatta and Long Bay, to say nothing
of minor establishments in three continents.
And a conclusion was possible that the
“Botany Bay” system of to-day is as much
above the average of .any prison system that
has ever been devised as the old “Botany
Bay” was below it. The man who has built
it up during years of learning-liow-to-do-it,
of hard work and enthusiastic optimism—
the present Comptroller-General of N. S.
Wales—shall explain it himself :
The system in operation aims at training prisoners
to take their places in the community as law-abiding
individuals, and life inside the prison walls is ordered
on lines approximating as far as practicable and
appropriate those outside. If, at liberty, a prisoner
worked as hard and conducted himself as well, all
the benefits the community afford would be his. Two
main considerations are in force —plenty of reproduc-
tive work and strict classification. No capable, able-
bodied is engaged at labor that demeans
him. He is encouraged to do good work and to take
pride in it. He is not associated with others who
are either. a menace or an aversion to him. He
must attain and maintain a certain standard in
conduct and labor, and a well-disposed prisoner finds
this easy enough to accomplish, and material benefits
result. The outcome is that the prisoners recognise
the necessity for self-control, and with the assistance
they may receive from the Prisoners’ Aid Association
the lesson should be valuable to them on discharge
from gaol.
To put it shortly, “Botany Bay” to-day does
not seek so much to knock seven bells out
of its citizens—after the manner of Mr.
Slade- —as to reward them for being good.
And it does this, not under any futile
Yankee honor system, but under a disci-
pline that is strict and unwavering. Parra-
matta is now the convict prison—the home
of hard cases and bad hats—-and you will
find there that, though the place has the
aspect of a busy and profitable factory, there
are no chances taken as to the keeping of
Bill Sikes in his place. Half-way up the
length of certain workshops where danger-
ous tools are in use, there is a space, about
five feet in width, fenced off with steel bars
that run from roof to floor, in which a sen-
try armed with a Martini-Henry carbine is
on guard. Every yard is commanded by the
rifle of a similar sentry, and in the big
garden enclosed by the northern walls of the
prison a sort of tiger’s cage, elevated above
the ground, gives accommodation to another
marksman to whom every gardener is within
easy range. “Be as good as you can, and
you’ll find it pays,” says the system. “But
be as bad as you can, and you’ll find a
bullet.” The result is that each year’s tale
of punishment is astonishingly small, and is
growing smaller.
If you devour such records as you may find
in the Mitchell Library, at Sydney, having
to do with the administration of the penal
establishments in Australia and Norfolk
Island in the 130 years of the country’s
settlement —blue-books, journals and letters
—you will come into a notion that Man, on
the whole, is a more enlightened animal than
he was. The hellish tyranny, looseness and
cowardice of the earlier years has gradually
given place to something that has, at least,
the elements of humanity, commonsense and
reason in its composition. Port Arthur
was a degree less evil than Norfolk Island.
Cockatoo Island, in Sydney Harbor, during
the ’sixties was a little less so than Port
Arthur. Then Darlinghurst lost its hlack
cells; and the last prisoner left Berrima,
where the “coercive treatment” had carried
on the traditions that were the everyday
practices of the times of Ernest Augustus
Slade.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Pushing Aside of Bigjohn.
Looking at the business from a purely per-
sonal point of view, the only thing to be said
is that if it gratifies the vanity of an
enfeebled old man to be handed a British
Barony, not many people will begrudge Big-
joiin all the gratification he can derive from
it. Yet most of them may be sorry that an
Australian who has, on the whole, played a
very creditable part in the history of his
country should not have been satisfied to
remain to the end an Australian, instead of
allowing himself to become one of an official
“aristocracy” foreign to the Commonwealth.
And it seems odd to them that even a citizen
who is over 70 should feel himself parti-
cularly honored by being given an alleged
distinction that is on sale in the market
place as openly as beef—and always has
been. Only the other day there was a wild
outcry in London at the scandalous nature
of a traffic that has turned the creation of
“Lords” into a subject of jest and ridicule.
But all that was mostly a matter for Big-
joiin himself to consider. For Australia
the point for earnest discussion is whether
acceptance of any title to nobility in another
country should not automatically .deprive the
person immediately concerned of all rights as
an Australian citizen. This paper believes
that it should, and that a start should at
once be made to give this idea the necessary
legal force. And, further, that resolutions
should forthwith be submitted to all Aus-
tralia’s numerous Parliaments urging the
British Government not to make either the
Crown or Australia ridiculous by the experi-
ment of trying to set up in this part of the
world an aristocratic caste. Barons, mar-
quises and viscounts and all the rest of the
crowd, with their comic-opera trappings and
pretensions and entourage of flunkeydom,
would be bad enough in Australia if the
community was fathead enough to make
them on the premises. But to have them
foisted upon the country by processes that
are a strange mixture of political intrigue,
personal audacity and social superstition, and
through an authority which Australia cares
nothing about, would be monstrous. Forrest
is the first Australian to be created a peer.
Unless there is energetic protest he will not
be the last, and a new terror and a fruitful
source of gross corruption will be added to
the political life of this country. Most of
us know* something about the ignoble schemes
that have been wmrked to get Australian
knighthoods. But if peerages are to be in
the scheme, and if party heelers and incon-
venient parasites and ambitious traders in
beer and played-out politicians are all to be
struggling for what they conceive to be their
just reward, then our politics are going to
become still more putrid, still more degene-
rate. Even in the case of Forrest there is
more than the hint of a political job. John
has been in the way more than once lately.
He had ambitions that w*ere not quite agree-
able to others. He might have been very
troublesome a few ago. But they got
him this, and he is done with now.
It All Comes Back to the Tariff.
A stkaw which reminds us of how the wind
ought to blow, but doesn’t, is Major Hay, a
Cornstalk magnate who recently returned
from the United States and spoke a piece at
Berry. Some extracts follow :
The effort America is putting into the war is
wonderful. Science is the power the United States
recognised, and as a result she is one of the most
advanced countries in the world. He had always
advocated increased knowledge in production and
recognised the importance of science. . . .Every effort
was made by science to help remove drudgery....
Also much more to the same effect. Yet
with it all there wasn’t a mention of the
fact that the United States and Germany
were mere dumping-grounds for British goods
until about 40 or 50 years ago in one case
and 35 years ago in the other. Then they
began to get, not science—that came after-
wards—but high Protective tariffs which
were shoved higher as time went on. In the
early days of last century our father J.
Bull, with the most strenuous Protective
tariff on earth, was building up his affairs
until he became something approaching the
sole manufacturer and financier and sea-carrier
of the globe, and meanwhile his two great
rivals-that-were-to-be trotted along humbly
on foot in the dust of his chariot. That was
Bull’s High Protection against their
Revenue Tariffism. Then J. Bull, abso-
lutely convinced that his position was un-
assailable, that Britain would always be “the
world’s workshop” whatever happened, began
to take to Freetrade by instalments in the
hope that he would thereby get cheaper raw
materials. So there was an intermediate
period when all three —Britain, the United
States and Germany—adhered more or less
definitely to the Revenue Tariff faith, but our
father Bull, having a very long start and
most of the science, still kept far ahead.
Next Britain became really Freetrade, while
the other two went in for more and more
strenuous Protection, and the scene was
changed. Within the remembrance of any
middle-aged man the United States became
the leading industrial country of the w r orld,
with Germany a good second' and Britain a
bad third. This was what Uncle Sam’s
leaders said to the people:—
(1) Root, hog, or die.
(2) Get industrial science, my son, get lots of it
and get it hard.
(3) When you have got all the industrial science
that is going, wade in and invent a lot more.
(4) But it isn’t proposed that while you are mak-
ing your baby efforts to acquire and apply indus-
trial science you are to be wiped out by the great,
hulking, old-established competitor who has got in
ahead of you and represents two .John L. Sullivans
combined against a feather-weight. The tariff will
secure you a market, and all manner of paternal legis-
lation will be thrown in to teach you how to fill
that market.
(5) And if, with these advantages to give you a
start, you don’t get science and turn out good stuff
you’ll have to do with bad stuff —-and serve you right.
(6) And if, thanks to Protection, which helped you
to get science and supplied you with a sure market
for the products thereof, you climb to the top of the
industrial tree, don’t acquire bloated cranium and
throw away your tariff, or something may strike you.
Sometimes a country, after it has licked its enemy,
has let its defences go to seed because its position
was so assured that there would never be any more
trouble. Then some day in the middle of its dinner
it learnt that a reorganised enemy was over its
border and was raising Cain and all his wicked
relatives.
And the German rulers harangued their
people to the same effect. This is the aspect
of the case that people like Hay, the rich
man who held forth at Berry, generally over-
look. It is quite true that no country ever
rose to industrial greatness without science.
But Avhere is the raw, backward country that
shows signs of securing any useful quantity
of the blessed article and thus getting in
line with its big competitors without Protec-
tion—and plenty of it?
♦
“Fill ’Em Up, Fill ’Em Up!”
A startled yell from Melbourne Age last
week announced that it had discovered in
the just-published details of Commonwealth
expenditure evidence of mose furious spend-
ing on ordinary services than had prevailed
when the last mass of arithmetic was handed
out. The Bulletin does not know whether
its agitated contemporary expected to find
anything else. But it knows that this paper
would have been astonished if the figures
had been different. That £362,508 more
should have been required for conducting
peace during the first half of the current
financial year than was necessary in the
preceding six months is a mere detail. The
Commonwealth and the States, revelling in
increased revenues and the expenditure of
heaps of loan money, are out on a competition
to see who can get rid of most in the time
available. Heaven only knows how big the
bill will be when this frantic spree is over,
and Heaven maintains a discreet silence on
the matter —probably because the authorities
have noticed that nobody here seems to care
2d. about the matter. This is the really
calamitous feature of the business, for so
long as the public tolerates such proceedings
they will go on, pending interruption by
an earthquake. Meanwhile this paper would
again mildly inquire of all these prodigal
Ministries how long they think the jag
can continue and what they imagine is going
to be the consequence thereof. If they were
to answer honestly the reply would be that
they do not think it necessary to have any
views on either point—they are satisfied to
let to-morrow remain a new day and stall
through the passing hour. It is a deplorable
state of mind for men to be in, but there it
is. Every Government and political party in
Australia to-day is, more or less, shirking its
duty and conspiring to exhaust the national
credit in order to keep a ruinous boom upon
its legs. That they will do anything else
until compelled by force of circumstances is
as certain as the coming of a day when
Australia will curse them and their works
with the bitterness of an ancient Hebrew
prophet. And when the language evapo-
rates and the population bends its back to
the job of working off the dead horse—well,
if they omit then to inquire into a system
which gives a young democracy seven Par-
liaments and the keys of the' cashbox to
machine-made twisters to buy votes with, the
plight of the Australian kid is going to be
pathetic.
Hospital Licensing and Inspection.
Everything is inspected, apparently, save
the hospital. At Nyngan (N.S.W.) the other
day, when a probationary nurse gave notice
that she was leaving, she made a statement
which led to an inquiry and an unannounced
inspection by some members of the com-
mittee. On the premises they found (1) a
dozen dogs, said to be the property of the
matron, with evidence that they slept and
were fed in the matron’s bedroom; (2) a
corpse, dressed in a pair of boots and for the
rest covered with some old hessian, in a
shocking state of decomposition. The de-
composed corpse wasn’t a fixture on the
premises, but, according to statements made
to the committee, which seemed to have
known little of what happened at the hos-
pital it was supposed to manage, the dogs
had been for a good while part of
the staff, employed in cleaning the
crockery. That a public hospital, sub-
sidised by the State, should be so con-
ducted —that it should be possible for it to
be so conducted —is, of course, a scandal;
and there is obviously something very wrong
with the system of inspection—if there is
any system—in N. S. Wales. Also, though
The Bulletin knows no instance in which
a matron has mistaken a private hospital-
for a kennel, there is overwhelming evidence
that some of these institutions are miscon-
ducted, too. Into the management of pri-
vate hospitals no official inquiry whatever
is made. Not only may the premises be
entirely unsuitable for use as a hospital, but
the unfortunate patients, from whom large
fees are usually extracted, may be and are
left to the tender mercies of maids-of-all-
work masquerading as probationary nurses.
The law in Sydney the other day threw a lot
of vigor into the prosecution of a qualified
man who, after being struck off the roll for
some reason or other —a very good reason
probably—dared to practise his doctor’s pro-
fession. The law fined him £5O. In nine
out of 10 cases of sickness nursing is as
important as drugging; but nobody seems to
be officially concerned as to whether it is
done well or otherwise; and no N. S. Wales
private hospital was ever fined 50 pence for
being unsuitable for the purpose, or for leav-
ing itself in the hands of grossly incompetent
people, or for being a quack and a fraud.
♦—
Australia’s Prejudice Against
Australians.
“Jimmie Pannikin’s” old trouble :
George D. Meudell asks (B. 24/l/’18), “Why is
a national Australian spirit non-existent ?” I ag-ree
most cordially that the accursed apathy and indiffer-
ence is not due to lack of intelligence or education.
It is very largely owing to the easy-going generosity,
the happy-go-lucky casualness, the poorly developed
civic sense of the average Australian; to his failure
to realise that “the franchise is the greatest of all
human powers, underlying and creating all others,”
as G. S. Curtis says, in his article on “An Educated
Democracy” (B. 24/l/’18). On every Empire Day
for the last decade or so I used to make a strong
appeal for the formation of a society for the depor-
tation, not of the Tom Barkers and such, but for
the infinitely worse—the ashamed, apologetic and
apathetic Australians, the little, piffling, pettifogging
Australians who never would be missed. The
Bulletin has printed that appeal more than once,
but a prophet frequently has scant honor in his own
country. A society for the safe, sure and certain
system of spotting winners at the races would have
attracted thousands of my countrymen who are
horse-mad and franchise-foolish, instead of being
suffrage-sane.
Not only have we Australians encouraged the
little sectaries, the lovers of Wales or of Scotland
or London or Ireland or Rome or any other old
out-of-Australia place, to renew their bickerings and
their brawls in this delightful, glorious and lovable
continent, but we are still obsessed with the idea
that every good thing must be imported. Not
content with the importation of necessaries,
we retain the habit, taught us by the
Freetrade fanatics and the corpulent calico-jimmies,
of importing even most of the blights that blast this
lone, lovely land. Our pests, evils and nuisances are
almost all imported. Most of our pledge-breakers
are imported ; but very few of our patriots are.
I concur heartily with Mr. Meudell when he says:
“For a beginning, all foreign-made schoolbooks and
histories used in Australia should be burnt at the
stake, as being destructive of national sentiment.”
Two of my addresses to gatherings of inspectors
caused me to be branded by some stunted and stodgy
colleagues as Pannikin the Parochialist, Pannikin
the Provincialist; yet the titles of those two stimu-
lating addresses were: (1) “An Australian National
Sentiment —How, When, Where and Why to Cultivate
it,” (2) “The Utterly un-Australian Aspect and Atmo-
sphere of so many of our Alleged Australian Schools.”
The intellectually astigmatic and the mentally
myoptic, those empty husks of humanity with the
starved, stunted and shrivelled souls, labelled me a
Desperate Demagogue!
In addition to a holocaust of foreign-made text-
books, another step should be taken, viz., the anni-
hilation of the pernicious system of turning down
able, ardent, energetic Australians, men and women
saturated with love of country, in favor of foreigners,
when big places are to be filled. Our departments,
and especially the Education Department, should
show a full faith in home-grown brains and charac-
ter. When A. B. Weigall, head of Sydney Gram-
mar, died, it was insolently and stupidly alleged
that a suitable successor to that very fine man and
administrator could not be found in the Common-
wealth. When the N. S. Wales Teachers’ College
was opened, it was found that no Australian was
good enough for the chief position, so a wee Scot
had to be imported. When the Ma State’s Educa-
tion Department decided at last to have an Inspec-
tor of Secondary Schools, Australians of conspicuous
merit and fitness were passed over and an officer
was imported for that work. Members of Parliament
raised no protest in any case. They took these
appointments as a matter of course, mere Australians
being deficient in ability, energy, enthusiasm, initia-
tive and grasp of Australia’s unique atmosphere.
The N. S. Wales Minister of Education, the Under-
secretary and Director, the Acting Chief Inspector
are all Australians, products of our State-school
system. The Chief Inspector (a capable, courageous
Scot by birth) is an Australian by adoption,
and there is a well-organised effort on behalf of
Professor Mackie, of the Teachers’ College, and
another effort on behalf of Inspector Elliott, oi' the
Secondary Schools, to secure the succession of one
of them, to the chair of our own Australian Peter
Board when he retires from the dual position as
Under-Secretary and Director. Very many of us
native-born are not at all anxious to sec any of our
Cui Bono?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Soft sway the sighing oleanders,
Starred thick with rose and snow ;
But some that loved them sleep in Flanders
Till God's trump blow.
The lark’s glad song is brimming over
The bowl of Heaven’s blue;
But drunk with death, adown the clover,
A hawk-wind flew.
What boots it Christmas bells are pealing,
While Hell’s own blind crevasse
Spits back to God, through star-ways reeling,
A Devil’s Mass?
What matters Love, Hope, Friendship’s
leaven,
Bird-song or rose or star?
What recks it God is in His Heaven. ...
So men make war?
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


jhk
a
99
e
THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, lees, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
IN THE DINING lIAEE, A LA
CARTE ROOMS or PRIVATE
ROOMS at Luncheon, Dinner or
Supper. Eatest Music.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
!
1\
M
present able Departmental heads retire for some years.
When they do go out of office to enjoy their well-
earned ease with dignity, we ardently desire genuine
Australian successors, not .5 foreigners. If there were
not eminently suitable men to take the place of A. B.
Wkigall, to become head of the Teachers’ College,
and to become Inspector of Secondary Schools, and
if there are not men of excellent courage, character
and capacity to succeed to the positions of Under-
secretary, Director, Chief Inspector and Deputy
Chief Inspector, then all I have to say is that
either our system of State-school education and civil
service training is rotten to the core, or the human
material upon which it operates is absolutely worth-
less.
•*
One More Gas Bill.
N. S. Wales Parliament lias been turned
loose again on an amending Gas Bill, after
showing its utter incapacity to deal with
such a financial question five years ago. The
chief purpose of the new measure is to pro-
vide machinery for increasing the standard
price by reason of increases in the cost of
production; for every penny rise in cost a
penny rise iu price may be gazetted. There
is no visible reason why the companies should
not have this provision so long as the stan-
dard rate of dividend is fixed accordingly.
There is some loose talk that 8 per cent, is
a fair rate. Whether sorBor 20 per cent,
is a fair rate in this or any other enterprise
depends entirely upon the risks; and it is
to this point that Parliament ought to give
its closest attention. If the effect of this
measure is to virtually guarantee the stan-
dard rate of dividend, by permitting a co. to
put up the price until sufficient profit is made
to pay that rate, then there is no reason why
the standard dividend should be much higher
than the rate guaranteed by the State on its
own loans. Actually, no doubt, the State
does not guarantee the dividend. For in-
stance, a new light might be discovered
which might rob a gas co. of its customers.
But that is not a risk to which an investor
will attach any importance. There is very
little doubt that he will regard the right to
put up the price as costs go up as being very
nearly equivalent to assuring him the stan-
dard dividend. That being so, the rate ought
to be very little more than an investor can
get from any other State-guaranteed security.
And—this is where the public comes in—the
lower the standard rate of dividend, the.
lower, of course, the standard price of gas.
Trouble Ashore and Afloat.
The most interesting of recent news is about
the submarine, and it can be divided up this
way :
Scraps about two transports torpedoed in the
Mediterranean.
Rather more comprehensive information about the
sinking of an American troopship.
A statement by First Lord of the Admiralty
Geddes that the destruction of submarines is pro-
bably equal to the German rate of construction.
A recommendation by Jellicoe that members of
the British Ministry should knock off making opti-
mistic speeches until August, and a suggestion that
if the nation holds out till then it may be possible
to regard the surreptitious craft as beaten.
It would have been better for Jellicoe’s
reputation if his own optimistic and wildly-
incorrect statement of last October —“There
is no need for anxiety ; the war is almost at
an end” —had never been made. But it can
be taken as certain that Jellicoe knows
pretty well what he is talking about now,
and that the submarine, directly and in-
directly, is to-day a factor of greater signifi-
cance in the war than at any previous time.
Add to this that the Central Towers are
still strong enough to plan a land attack of
great magnitude upon the Allies, of whom
two are without a doubt feeling the war
with terrible acuteness, then what military
grounds are there for expecting an early
peace based upon a German recognition that
victory lies with the Western democracies?
The Bulletin can see none, nor any for
supposing that before victory can come to
the Allies their constancy will be tested to
the uttermost fibre. From Russia lately
the available details have been a beautiful
jumble of the incredible, the contradictory
and the inevitable. With peace in the
trenches and bloodshed in the cities, the red
tragedy seems to be unfolding itself to the
great joy of Potsdam. It may be that
Potsdam is making a mistake. But if that
occurs the Kaiser will at least have
the comfort of knowing that his mis-
take was nothing compared with the
frightful bloomers made over Russia
in Loudon and Paris at the beginning
of things. Such bloomers are now obvi-
ously turning the British nation sour in
regard to Lloyd George ; and the end of
the political truce, is at hand. The sad
truth there, as here, is that the public has
been doped—that, instead of having at the
head of affairs a practical man of action, it
has permitted itself to be ridden by a man
of words, just as we ourselves have been.
The result has been triumphs of rhetoric;
and we have been fools enough to be satisfied.
The most mournful thing in our own recent
history, apart of course from the moral mis-
conduct of Ministers, was the determination
of the Governor-General that his duty was
to, at almost any cost, retain in office those
who would win us some more triumphs of
rhetoric. That was the most deplorable
blunder yet made by any Governor-General
in Australia, and shows, this paper fears,
that his Excellency has been doped, too.
♦
Though the strike of Victorian medical
men against the Friendly Societies is still
in full blast, no announcement has yet been
made as to Sawbones’s strike pay. The
only thing made clear by the Union is that it
will have nothing to do with arbitration in
any form—an attitude which is being taken
very careful notice of by quite a lot of
people. Meanwhile the view adopted by the
Medical Journal, the organ of the Union
in Australia, is delightful. A year ago the
Journal was firmly convinced that the
Union, in permitting the old terms of lodge
practice to continue, ‘ while every loyal citi-
zen is prepared to expend all his energy for
the safeguarding of our Empire, should set
an example to those trades in which the
country’s need is grasped as an opportunity
for furthering personal interests.”
While the British Empire is faced with the
necessity of meeting a stupendously large bill,
and while evety loyal subject must be prepared to
sacrifice everything to maintain the integrity of our
beloved Empire, any action which might contribute
to economic embarrassment must be regarded as
antagonistic to duty and loyalty.
To-day, with the number of medical men in
the country much reduced, the Journal
reckons the time is ripe to grasp the oppor-
tunity. It dismisses arbitration as a
‘‘stupid expedient to escape accepting terms
that are moderate and just” and solemnly
declares that “discussion is redundant.” The
phrase is horrible enough. But how about
our beloved Empire and the coal shoveller
now—the wicked, greedy coal shoveller who
takes direct action in the midst of the
nation’s troubles !
+
When last month The Bulletin reported
that syndicates were offering money to the
N. S. Wales Government to build specific
railway lines which had been approved by
Parliament, the opinion was expressed that
this new policy required the careful con-
sideration of Cabinet. But apparently
Cabinet was not consulted until the first
contract had been actually signed. The
objection, as The Bulletin saw it, was
not so much to syndicates providing the
money to build lines in which they are
directly interested—such a case, for in-
stance, as that of the Mt. Hope railway—as
to the provision of a rake-off for some in-
termediary. It is well known that syndi-
cates were lately undertaking to put up
capital provided that the people interested
agreed to furnish a sum of money which
was to go either as a bonus to the syndicate
or for distribution otherwise; and there are
such obvious dangers about any such plan
that it ought to be knocked on the head at
once.
“Phthisis” : The Defence Department, in
its reply to my criticism of the Mont Park
Sanatorium (B. 31/1/T8), says that the
irregularities are due to the fact that most
of the men are discharged and therefore not
under regular military discipline. Well, if
military discipline is necessary to run a
sanatorium how is it that Greenvale, Water-
fall and other State institutions are run
much more cheaply and efficiently without
it? The soldiers, being disciplined men
already, and with pay to lose, should be
much more amenable to treatment than
civilians. And if discharging the men is a
disadvantage, why discharge them? Much is
lost thereby, and the only gain is the few
shillings difference between the weekly pay
and pension. Again, if a consumptive is
under military law the only punishment his
health permits is fining. Then why not
make a regulation empowering the stopping
of a discharged man’s pension if he breaks
sanatorium rußss, and thus put both men on
the same footing? But why let patients draw
full pay or pension when all their material
wants are provided for and comforts and
amusements are added? Most of it should
be deferred. Boys who never had 10 shil-
lings clear weekly to spend in their lives
before enlisting are placed in a camp 10
miles from Melbourne, and every fortnight
00 or 70 shillings are put into their hands.
What do the authorities expect but that
many of them will go off to town and spend
their money on beer, girls or theatres —all
poison to a consumptive? But the main
trouble at Mont Park is that every officer
who has disciplined the patients and tried to
enforce the necessary restrictions has of
course been unpopular, and when friction
has arisen has been removed. Ask the in-
mates why Major or Sergeant
left Mont Park, and you will be told. “Oh,
he was too strict. We had him shifted.”
Whatever the reason, the sanatorium has in
18 months lmd no less than six different
officers-in-eharge; and so long as the patients
believe that a conscientious commander is
easily got rid of, while they themselves will
only be discharged after repeated offences,
and “as a last resource,” the present unsatis-
factory state of things will continue.
“Bobstay”: Of course, all John Brown’s
tugs were not taken over for war purposes,
but would the Commonwealth Government
oblige by stating: (1) How many tugs were
commandeered; (2) How many belong to
the astute coal baron?
In the latest N. S. Wales Industrial Bill
the positive prohibition of strikes by . em-
ployees in the public service is maintained.
Anybody else may strike; but the public
service is still forbidden to. Considering
what the railway men did the other day, this
is evidently Beeby’s little joke.
“Vandorian” the other day printed a let-
ter from a man at headquarters, London,
reporting that Hilda liix, the Australian
miniaturist, was mourning for her husband,
Major Nicholas, “whose brothers, Lieut. B.
Nicholas and Cpl. F. Nicholas, have also
been sacrificed in the European madness.”
Just what that headquarters man meant by
“sacrificed” isn’t clear: he may have been
thinking of wounds and injuries. Anyway,
Cpl. F. Nicholas has cabled from London to
his people at Trafalgar (Vic.), stating that
he is well and now in a home-service job.
So it plainly didn’t mean death.
In his will Norman Samuel Cohen, manag-
ing director for many years of Elliott Bros.,
the big Australian drug firm, left a whole
£lOOO to charity and £247,511 2s. 9d. to his
family. In order to make the £lOOO go as
far as possible the careful Jew ordered that
the sum be invested and the interest there-
from be paid in rotation to one Yiddish and
three Gentile Sydney hospitals for 50 years,
when they are to receive £250 each —if
they’re still on deck. But, as Broadway
Jones would say, what was the 2s. 9d. for?
The death of fine old ,T. G. Russell has set
the S.A. Government a problem. It has
finally decided to do as it did in the case of
Hartley in the Education Department long
ago, and divide the work among three men.
The Stamps Office has grown out of all know-
ledge since it was organised, and E. H.
Cornish will find it all of one man’s job.
Exactly the same remarks apply to the
Taxation Office, of wdiich R. W. Smith will
be in charge. As Commissioner of Insol-
vency and S.M. of the local court, S. J.
Mitchell will have promotion from the
Police Court, which he has ruled siime James
Gordon died. Mitchell was auctioneer and
mayor at Port Augusta before he thought
of taking up law. He has also been Attor-
ney-General of S.A. and Government Resi-
dent in the Northern Territory; so he
brings a good broad outlook to his new
duties as (practically) a judge in two much-
used courts.
Adelaide has given the usual stately
funeral to Charles Eastick, a veteran of the
navy. He was in the Crimean War ;in a
British frigate sent over to see fair play on
the American coast during the Civil War;
and on the Rapid, the first man-of-war to
go through the Suez Canal on its opening in
1868. But he had been an Australian for
40 years, 20 of which he spent uneventfully
in a signal cabin on the Glenelg railway.
Another Russian snapshot from The
Bulletin’s friend at Petrograd:—
Even Russia had not previously produced quite so
picturesque a rogue as Manasevitch, who was tried
the other day. Manasevitch was a secret agent, and
executed commissions of a shady political character
in the European capitals. He used his position to
practise blackmail on extravagant lines, and as he
was a valued contributor to the Novoe Vremya he
was able to employ that organ in furtherance of his
schemes. His great trick was to pretend influence
in autocratic circles —which, indeed, he had —and he
would promise help to moneyed obscurities whose rela-
tives had got into trouble. The negotiations usually
began with a large fee, ostensibly for “expenses,”
which increased in size as Manasevitch allegedly
worked his way up to the ear of the Czar. Usually
his victims would part three or four fees, and when
they began to get reluctant and ask for results he
would threaten to expose the whole business in the
Novoe Vremya. Once or twice he went too far, and
once was actually committed to gaol, but was released
by an authenticated order of the late Czarina. It
has been substantiated that he tried to buy the
Novoe Vremya for the German Government, and was
suspected of being Sturmer’s chief lieutenant in the
nefarious business of depriving the Roumanian Army
of the promised artillery and reinforcements when the
little kingdom plunged into the war. Manasevitch
had many other misdeeds to his discredit, but he
was only one of thousands whose success was made
possible by the shameless general corruption. English
papers are full of the present horrors of Russia.
There are horrors; but there were horrors all along
-—only their nature has changed. In that connection
perhaps the most striking fact in the present situa-
tion is that social revolutionaries who suffered
unspeakable punishments from the autocracy are the
least vindictive towards their former rulers. For
instance, a member of the Provisional Government of
Kronstad, an ex-political and exile with an unhappy
record, was lately the gaoler of several military and
naval officers of the old school, and insisted on every
one being decently treated and getting a fair trial. The
real Bolshevik notion of justice is-tinged with com-
passion for all offenders, and more for offenders who
have not “seen the light” than for those who have
and sin in spite of it. Thus in Kronstad the acting
Government shot three or four members of their owrt
Soviet who had been caught plundering a farmer,
and executions of a like nature have occurred in
many other places.
The price of rabbitskins was fixed at
22d. to 26d. a pound for the pick of the
skins. The Hughes Government sold the skins
not lower than 40d. a pound, and up to
57d.; and the difference, £170,000, was col-
lared by the Government. The brave Govei n-
ment thus conscripts wealth —if it be the
wealth of rabbiters.
Macaulay tells bow the diplomatists of
Europe met in their pomp and knee-breeches
to fix up terms of peace in the days of
Louis XIAL, and after many months had
done little lnrt prance in a gilded hall and
debate as to which king’s agent should speak
first. If the Commonwealth Minister for
Boats had a military guard all in uniform
and with gilded armor on its stomach, while
the representative of the Boiler-polishers
Union arrived at the palace dressed in silk
and brocade and plumes —arrived in a coach
and six with bedizened horsemen in front
and footmen running behind all in a bravery
of cocked hats and such-like softgoods—-the
proceedings with regard to Australian ship-
building would be the 17th century come
back to life. The sluggish methods haven t
altered; the futility is the same; nothing
has departed except the beauty of the clothes
and the dancing motion of the legs and the
habit of carrying the hat under the arm and
letting the sword stick out behind like a
monkey’s tail while making a bow.
“Eryander” explains;—
“Cyclone,” “hurricane,” “typhoon,” “tornado” and
“whirlwind” are regarded by most people as inter-
changeable terms. They’re not. Typhoon and hurri-
cane are local names—Oriental and Occidental —for
storm upon the grand scale, while cyclone (“wheel”-
storm) and tornado (“turning”-storm) are equiva-
lents of whirlwind. But in meteorological practice
the name tornado —originally the Spanish term for
the cyclone—is restricted to those very violent re-
volving storms of small circumference which are fre-
quent in certain parts of the U.S.A., and are not
uncommon in Australia; and the term whirlwind is
scientifically used only for the very limited disturb-
ances that produce the sandstorm and the waterspout.
Alike in the cyclone of 3000 miles diameter and in the.
air-whirl of only a few yards across the effect is pro-
duced by the rush of air from a high-prcs3ure area
towards a low-pressure centre, the direction circling
inwards in a curve that never returns upon itself.
The centre of a big cyclone advances on its own
path at 30 to 70 miles an hour. The tornado-centre
moves ahead at about 30 miles an hour, and the
destruction-belt, sometimes as narrow as 20 yards,
never exceeds a width of two miles; whereas the
cyclone’s force-belt may be 1500 miles across. The
wind-velocity in severe cyclones defies measurement,
but 200 miles an hour has certainly been reached,
and even that must have been much exceeded in the
tremendous Bay of Bengal cyclone of ’76, in which,
by the way, the present writer was wrecked. In
that case the central mound of water, due to the
diminished atmospheric pressure, combined with a
huge storm-driven wave and descended in a deluge
upon the low-lying coast between the mouths of the
Ganges and the Brahmapootra, drowning 110,000
people within about 20 minutes.
“Parkes” ; Re “666’5” query (B. 31/1/’18)
as to why Billjims refuse to light three
men’s cigarettes with one match. The
superstition has existed for as long as I can
remember among the type of Australians
from whom in the main Billjim is recruited.
Its origin I don’t know, but it is reckoned
a sure thing that a third man lighting a
cigarette will have bad luck. A few days
ago I was refused a light from a match that
had already started two smokes. A fresh
match was given instead, and this by a man
who had never been in khaki.
• Uncle Sam, less secretive and more prompt
than the other Allies, has made it clear that
he regards Spain as Germany’s negative
accomplice. Among other things, America
seems to be getting tired of Spain’s protests
against Germany’s alleged ungratefulness in
torpedoing her coastal steamers. If such
“outrages” actually occur they are probably
put-up jobs, like the capture of Swedish
cargo ships by German cruisers earlier in the
war: Spain has got to prove her innocence
somehow, so Germany supplies cause for
bogus indignation and pays handsomely for
everv ship she sinks. The public is easily
bluffed. When the bluffing is done on a race-
course it is called spieling. When it is done
in a European “court” it is called diplomacy.
The Bowser Government in Vic., with a
view to stopping the losses annually
announced by the Railways, has decided to
“strengthen the management by appointing
the most experienced Commissioner obtain-
able at Home or abroad.” Ah, now, they’re
not after J. H. Cann, are they?


t)V
O
YG
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&, OLD TOM
1
&
DT
Swift & Company Ltd.* Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney.
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
MfIFTY I IMITFft Head Offices Corner Pitt
OIH/ILi 1 JL I Mi I Li/. & King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY. Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
SPECIAL MILITARY I WIRELESS CLASS,
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN A TECHNICAL UNIT.
Our Instructors have arranged a Special Class for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army.
The Tuition extends over four three evenings a week. The course will be made
quite practical, use being made of the installations in the school, also of an aircraft* set now being
installed especially for this course. The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and Motor-car Stations, Aeroplane Apparatus, etc., etc.
A SPECIAL RATE OF £8 FOR THE FULL COURSE has been decided on.
All particulars on application to THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS, Dept. C, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE THE EMPIRE.
jh
kjh
k
Black Oilskin Coats
Made of Light Japara Cloth, double throughout, waterproofed
with special non-sticking preparation. A strong, light coat
with wind-guard cuffs, wind-flap under buttons, throat tab and
vent. The collar is not like that illustrated, but is upright,
with velvet lining. These are the best-class oilskins, and
remain weatherproof and watertight in the wildest weather.
Walking Shape 35/-
Pommel Slicker for Riders 27/6
Peapes Pay Postage.
Please state height and chest measurements.
New Catalogue on request.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
Criterion “Daddy Long Legs^
Hkh Majesty's “The Bing Boys Are Here
Palace “Turn to the Right
Tivoli “Samples
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Dick Whittington
Royal “The Easiest Way
Princess’s “The Rajah of Shivapore
King’s “Aladdin
Tivoli Ada Reeve
Hoyt’s Dio Luxe & Oi.ymima Moving Pictures
Majestic .. Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
UitITANNIA Moving Pictures
—.
The “Samples” revue was duly unpacked
at Sydney Tivoli on Saturday, and the small
stage nearly burst under the pressure.- The
squadron of chorus ladies had to frolic with
care, and when the star fox-trotters whirled
on there was no room for the usual applaud-
ing stage-audience. According to the pro-
gramme a tramload of composers and
dramatic and artistic A.D.C.’s have contri-
buted to the show, which passes in a gale
of eccentric costumes and original settings,
some quaint and others beautiful. But at
present the stage has got a bit more than
it can hold, and such bright specialists as
Neiman and Kennedy, the singing tramps,
are wasting their time as butlers and such.
Their ordinary turn should be restored and
made part of the hill.
* * -* *
Phil Smith, principal comedian and rather
nervous about it, starts the fragment of a
plot by raising the baritone Devil, who proves
to be Frank Greene. The Londonising of his
Majesty is done rapidly, and he soon sheds
liis panto, traps and smoke and is discovered
tamely singing a telephone duet with Nellie
Leach, who has added her pleasant self to
the legions of professional footlighters.
Eileen Boyd gets numerous chances; but
her touch is too heavy for the featherweight
job, and her fine solemn contralto doesn’t
add to the gaiety. Celia Ghiloni with her
excellent comedy sense lifts the show along.
Marie Eaton, also, acts and sings joyously
and looks darkly impressive. The Magleys,
a young imported dancing couple, put some
of the right carnival fizz into the bill, with
modern stepping and drapery whirlwinds,
while Elsie Parkes is delightful in Ballets
A and B—a soothingly classical interlude.
Then she has the spotlight again in the
Cretonne Ballet—one of the daintiest effects
of a varied show which will be a lot better
when producer Lester Browne has had a
chance to trim and fit it. For a new com-
bination of departmental chiefs, working in
limited space, “Samples” makes a very
creditable start.
* * * 5k
Sydney Majesty’s (“The Bing Boys Ai’o
Here”)-is happy in the possession of a long-
distance show that is advertising itself. It
had its 50tli performance during the week.
Young Florrie Allen, lately starring with
the Firm’s juvenile panto, team, is now one
of the attractions in Somnambulistic Melo-
dies and pink silk pyjamas.
“SAMPLES,” AT THE SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Reiman and Kennedy sing of Mr. Jazz.
The Taits have given “Turn to the Right”
another lease of Sydney Palace, in order to
rake in some more of the cash that’s offering
for crooks and peaches. “Peg o’ My Heart”
will not carry in dog Michael until Saturday,
February 23.
** * *
The most-discussed play in Sydney, “The
Willow Tree,” will be replaced at the Cri-
terion on Saturday by a revival of “Daddy
Long Legs,” in which sentimental comedy
Kathlene Macdonnel made her first appear-
ance here.
Sydney Playhouse’s potted panto., “Alad-
din,” together with a delightful programme
by those old favorites, “The Strollers.” con-
tinues to attract large audiences. Sydney
James is, however, haunted by the fear that
some night a giggle from the gallery will
cause Billy to fling his master down and
rush from the stage.
On Saturday afternoon “Robinson
Crusoe,” at Sydney Opera House, goes into
its second edition.
%
Sydney screens have been practically cor-
nered by the popular novelist this week. At
the Strand, E Phillips Oppenheim’s “The
Hillman” has been rechristened “In the
Balance.” Earle Williams is the woman-
hating recluse who falls at the first eye-flash
from the beautiful actress (Grace Darmond).
Louis Vance’s study in criminology, “The
Lone Wolf,” is being reeled off in eight acts
at the Crystal Palace. O. Henry’s “Guilty
Party” occupies a corner in the Lyric pro-
gramme, and Pinero’s stage success, “The
Amazons,” at Hoyt’s and the Ilaymarket,
gives Marguerite Clark a chance to make
another success. “His Convict Bride,” at
the Majestic, takes a dive into early Aus-
tralian history and brings up a few of the
horrors and excitements of those had old
days. Fine Mackay flood pictures are show-
ing at the Strand and Empress.
“The Conqueror,”
at Sydney Royal,
turns out to be an
elaborate film-play,
filled with stage
battles between
Red Indians,
Ameri c a ns and
Mex i c a ns, with
some historical in-
terest, some charm-
ing pictures of
Early Colonial
architecture, and a
rather slow-moving
heart-interest. Wil-
liam Farnum is the
strong man, but he
would look stronger
if he wasn’t so
plump. On the
same programme is
a comedy that for
dare-devil stunts
leaves Douglas
Fairbanks at the
starting post.
“Turn to the Right,”
at Sydney Palace.
Maurice Dudley as
Isadore.
“The Rajah of Shivapore,” arrived at Mel-
bourne Princess’s last Saturday, presents a
rather puny appearance, due partly to the
limited exoenditure in orchestra and chorus,
not to mention the small field of action
which the stage setting allows. That it is
an amateurish-looking show may be ascribed
largely to the performers and the rest to the
librettist and stage-manager. Entrances
and exits are crudely contrived, there is a
sad want of incidental business, or “guts”
—to use the speculative showman’s expres-
sion—and more action is needed to dis-
tract attention from the bald fictitiousness
of the story. The keeper of the Temple
of Shiva has pawned the golden idol to pay
his dicing losses; therefore he keeps the
establishment closed against worshippers to
escape further prevarication. Then the local
Rajah, more like a melodrama villain than
the Mikado in Gilbertian ooera, comes along
to make flabby mischief, whereupon an un-
interesting pilgrim hero somehow persuades
the incredibly simple daughter of the Temple
verger that he is the pawned god incarnate,
and an unaccountable blind beggar turns out
to be a stern and stodgy Emperor, in order
that he may flummox the dreary Rajah and
make a happy ending to it all. The plot is
thin and grotesque, not light and amusing.
No suggestion of human interest commends
the story, save when Ohunder, the verger,
makes drunken admissions to the hard, in-
flexible Pilgrim. In this the actor (Frank
Hawthorne) is funny but not forcible. His
comedy style lacks breadth and thickness.
* * * *
Composer Alfred Hill and librettist David
Souter didn’t bind themselves to a definite
scheme of construction for “The Rajah of
Shivapore.” Much of the music, includ-
ing the concerted numbers, is good,
melodious operatic stuff, whilst the sou-
brette’s songs and a duet between Haw-
thorne and Fred Ward are in the conven-
tional musical-comedy class. And as for the
entrance of Ward, the necromancer, on a
bogus baby elephant, it is indisputably pan-
tomimic. He might be Abanazar or Ali
Baba. He bestrides a pair of animal im-
personators, and only in pantomime or
ancient burlesque can any man be disguised
as the hind legs of an elephant. Hill’s
music is rich in melody, though hardly more
distinctive than that of many a less
musicianly composer. “Sword of Mine” is
a pretty fine thing, but it breaks no records
when Tristam Greene, the best vocalist on
the job, adorns the end of the opera with
it. All the same, the music all round seems
to deserve stronger rendering than it gets.
There is not a really compelling voice or per-
sonality in the co., and there is material
in the entertainment for a much more effec-
tive display. Whether a more expensive
performance would be commercially worth
while is another question. The public in
general would certainly be disposed to favor
Australian musical shows as against the im-
ported goods. This “opera of the East,”
however, is not Australian in character.
But it is the work of Australian collabora-
tors who are pretty sure to do better next
time—if they get a next time. This critic
hopes they will.
“The Easiest Way,” with its gilded sin
and cynicism, is doing very well at Mel-
bourne Royal. An emotional Laura, who
turneth to giddiness for a living and pities
herself in lace trimmings, always commands
the sympathy of her sistern, and an out-
spoken Elfie, who talks of artful devices for
renewing the fires of affection in her deluded
capitalist, appeals to them as a bold and
fearless champion of the Sex. Also the
profligate philosopher, when he pauses to
ask himself what’s the use of fooling with
women for pastime, wins a silent “Hear,
hear” from many brethren who find nothing
to admire in Kimball, the callow journalist.
Kimball is the unreasonable man of virtue,
for when he sees Harvey let himself into
Muriel Starr’s flat with a latchkey he pro-
poses to murder the gentleman, as though
his latchkey were not a satisfactory explana-
tion of his intrusion. Which suggests that
virtue.and stupidity are twin characteristics
—in journalists.
** * *
The Melbourne pantos, are in their eighth
week, and panto, performances never go
fewer than eight to the week. But they
have their ends in view, apparently. Whit-
tington, at Her Majesty’s, is stated to be
“getting ready to move on its long annual
tour,” though each particular panto, has but
one year, wherefore its tour cannot be
annual. A first hint of the impending dis-
appearance of “Aladdin” from the King’s is
the announcement that “Turn to the Right”
will be there shortly.
** * *
At Melbourne Tivoli the farewell nights
of “Winnie Brooke, Widow,” are stated to
be drawing near. Also friends are reminded
that these are the positively farewell appear-
ances of Ada Reeve in Melbourne. Mean-
while the winsome widow and the singing
solicitor have changed the ditties they warble
at the party where they conspire to make
the other fellow jealous. Charles Albert and
Lucie Linda continue to discover that their
friendship has ceased to be platonic. Albert
on platonic friendship is just a ginger-
headed scream.
** * *
The Fox film people are unwinding eight
reels of “Camille” at Melbourne Auditorium
this week. The leading part is (mis) taken
by Theda Bara, who finds it difficult to
model her tarty smile to the needs of a pure
emotion. Theda looks better than she acts
in a swagger circle of women who represent
the latest brain-waves of Yankee dress-
makers, and their hairdressing and their
manners synchronise with their clothes.
Theda’s strongest support are a gentlemanly
Armand and a jolly Madame Prudence, but
the mouthings of Armand’s angry papa are
suggestive in silhouette of Moses Braun-
schwein eating salad. A Central American
travel-film and a Gazette showing scenes in
the Bolslieviction of Russia’s Fat classes
precede the principal event on the pro-
gramme.
“Enlighten Thy Daughter” is the latest
restless sermon at Melbourne Majestic. The
film shows how the course of untrue love is
made smooth by the fashionable abortionist,
and warns girls about putting their trust in
Man. As a moral discourse the piece will be no
news to the average city damsel, but it will
probably prove useful in enlightening her
mother. A healthier picture, “Silent Scott,”
presents Roy Stewart in a lively Western
American romance. Roy is known to photo-
fanciers as the “two-gun man,” and his hand-
ling of the artillery is an undertaker’s joy.
“Her Fatal Move,” a smart Triangle comedy,
affords some relief from the serious business
of the evening.
❖* * *
Marguerite Clark heads the celebrities at
Hoyt’s Melbourne houses in an adaptation
of Pinero’s “Amazons.” wherein her photo-
playfulness is more arresting than the de-
cayed satire of the story. Wallace Reid
appears in a more animated subject entitled
“The Hostage,” which pictures a scrap be-
tween two mythical Balkan kingdoms, and
has all the incentives to thrill barring muni-
tions and men. Hoyt’s customers are also
enjoying a brief excursion into farce in the
company of Chester Conklin in ‘ The Pull-
man Bride.”
Anderson’s “Beanstalk” pantomime is still
going strong at Adelaide Tivoli. The gang
“THE RAJAH OF SHIVAPORE,” at
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Chunder (Frank Hawthorne) and Bunder
(Frederick Ward).
plank is worked hard; Mabelle Morgan’s
gifts of black cats are immensely popular
with the kiddies; and the boxing skit and
the imaginary drink (both brought over by
Welch from the Tivoli Follies) and the
Chinese laundry and the white-washing in-
cident are all in the true spirit of panto-
mime. Only the appearance of ghosts ought
to be cut out; it is easy to frighten a child,
and distinctly not worth while. At the
Majestic are a lot of new people, Skipper
Francis, Thurber and Thurber, Clevalli and
various musical turns. The open-air Pier-
rots have got Providence on their side at
last, an unusually sweltering February hav-
ing helped on the demand for their clean
and clever show. In pictures Julian El tinge,
at Wondergrapli, is the brie-htest thing in
sight; he “makes up” just like a handsome
girl. West’s have the sentimental story of
a corner grocery; the orchestra is a special
feature at this house. Charlie Chaplin is at
the Pav., as a fireman this time. The Royal
also continues with pictures, Nance O’Neil
being the star of the week; but manager
Myers announces that this house will pre-
sently get back to drama, all tin* Williamson
attractions being booked for AdeN.de during
the winter.
Item in Sydney press (8/2/TS) :
The appointment of Miss E. M. Gormlev, a >
instructress in physical culture, Agricultural Depart-
ment, was confirmed yesterday.
New drills for turnips, presumably.
“Copabella”: This is the aftermath of war.
We own in our town an old lady, the mother
of soldiers, who is over-fond of looking on
life through a glass. When loaded all her
desire is to kiss the “brave soldier boys”
she meets, and on her lively days a Bosche 1
aeroplane isn’t more effective than she in
sending khaki under cover. But there is
one veteran of Lone Pine who cannot escape
-—the area-officer, a nice, fresh-faced boy
who left part of his works on Lemnos. The
drill-hall is on the old lady’s home track, so
there is no escape for him. There is never
any difficulty in getting a good muster of
cadets on parade if it becomes known that
“Mother” is “on.” The heroic side of the
thing is that the officer submits —for the
sake of a dead soldier-boy in France, her son.
It is not only on the fighting fronts the sacri-
fices are made —were you ever kissed by _a
beer-charged old lady in front of 300 15-
year-old boys?
“J.L.F.”: Australian people ought to know
more about the big Department sustained
at the Vatican for the obtaining of informa-
tion regarding missing soldiers. Austra-
lians who may communicate with the Vatican
will be sure to get thoroughly reliable news.
The agency’s official name is the
Lost Soldiers’ Department, and the Pope
himself, Benedict XV., is the actual working
head. They get about 200 letters every day
from all parts of the world, and the Pope
himself reads them all —sometimes, as may
be supposed, with the help of an interpreter,
lie has 30 clerks, who speak many languages.
Since the Department was established, over
10.000 lost soldiers have been traced for
their relatives. A priest named Huisman is
the working head, and there are branches at
Berne, Constantinople, Brussels, Paris,
Vienna and other places. Further, every
R.C. chaplain at the Front is an agent, and
every nation in the big fight supplies a list
of every haul of prisoners.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. .If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
jh
kjh
k
You Can Learn Free
how to remove every blemish in a few days.' Grace Duncan,
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years.
You have never used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel,
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus;
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a “fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey.” This
wonderful treatment, in just a few days, positively removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way.
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and tint
of puritv of a freshlv-blown rose.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally.. Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders are beautified beyond your
fondest dreams. All this I will absolutely prove to you before
vour own eyes in your mirror in a few days, This treatment
is absolutely harmless to the most delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No change in your mode of living necessary.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment.
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give you full
details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dept. 52, 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
“V. 0.5.”: Thoughtful beggars, the chaps
who cater for us here in Palestine. There
has just been made available to t a small
cross, on which is inscribed our name and
number, etc.; also the usual “Sacred to the
Memory.” Now imagine a regiment riding
out of camp to give Abdul battle, each carry-
ing his tombstone with him. All there is
to be done when a chap is “outed” is to kick
a bit of sand over him, take the tombstone
out of his vest pocket, stick it in the sand
somewhere in the neighborhod of his resting-
place, and bid the daisies bloom. Jolly good
idea, I think, though Billjim insists on treat-
ing it as a joke.
Edgar L. Stevens’s snapshot behind the
lines:—
It had been Hell! Four days and four nights the
air had vibrated with quick, jerky waves ; discordant
shrieks clashed through the eardrums, piercing to the
brain ; faces, tense and drawn, thick with grime and
mud, lined the trenches; eyes, bloodshot but still
lighted by hidden fire, peered out across the waste —
REVISED.
“Y’know, Uncle, I dreamt last night that you
wouldn't lend me five bob.”
“You're an A1 dreamer.”
“Yes! I am glad you think so, Uncle, because
I went to sleep again and dreamt that
you said you wouldn't mind making it
half a crown.”
four days and four nights they had fought doggedly,
at times fiercely and gloriously. And now they
tramped back wearily, brains numbed with the too-
long strain. Semi-consciously the battle was being
fought again. They were hungry ; they were thirsty.
To stop was to fall asleep. They were tired, tired.
Through the shortening afternoon they trudged
along the shell-torn road.
“Who's got a fag?’’
A big, red-haired, lank, loosed-limbed Australian
despairingly slapped his empty pockets.
“Not a one!’’
Hopeless mutterings. They trudged along silently.
“’Struth ! Look!”
Through the thick grime of a week’s fighting eyes
glistened strangely.
“The last fag!” and the corporal held it up.
The others gazed at it longingly, but their hopes
fell. One fag. Among fifteen!
The corporal found a match, and inhaled deeply.
He handed the fag to Ginger.
“Have a draw.”
Ginger took it tenderly—a father could not have
handled his firstborn more tenderly. lie took one
long draw, and handed it back —quickly, lest be
should be again tempted.
“Go on, Curly.” And the corporal handed it on.
So it went mound from one to another. It worked
out at four draws each. Four blessed moments.
And then they sang.
And someone cracked a joke.
Perhaps a little weirdly—yet they laughed.
Then they settled down in silence once more.
Tramp, tramp, tramp. The mud squelched in their
boots.
Tramp, tramp.
Their heads drooped ; their eyelids drooped. They
were too tired t0....t00 tired t0....t00 tired....
We found them scattered along the roadside sleep-
ing heavily. It was Ginger we tried to rouse first.
“Aw right, my draw,” he said, and fell back
heavily.
“F.”: The Gippo interpreter who wrote
“My God, I am annoyed,” in a letter to the
military authorities excusing himself for his
absence, somebody having ensnared his wife
(B. 31/1/’18), was not more annoyed than
a western Outbacker I once came across.
Lie was employed wood-carting for a mine,
and was away a lot from his little grey
humpy in the scrub. Gentlemen in other
occupations sometimes used to call on Mrs.
Carter while the coast was clear, and offer
her something out of a bottle or two. The
lady was very fond of bottled stuff. One
day the often-absent husband complained
about it all to one of the surface-bosses, feel-
ing the need of sympathy and advice. “’S all
right, Joe,” said the boss, reassuringly, “that
sort of thing often happens, y’ know. /
wouldn’t worry.” “No, p’raps not,” grouched
Joseph, “p’raps not —but I tell y’ some fel-
lers wouldn't like it!”
* * # *
“Trallwm” : In nearly every motor smash
that occurs John Hop’s notebook gets the
entry that “Mr. A. was accom-
panied by Mrs. B„” or “Mr. C.
had Miss Bebe Straitfront, em-
ployed at the Light of Asia Hotel,
with him in the car.” when the
accident happened. There was a
Melbourne motor-cycle smash last
week —an affair of a dog and a
passing car and a general mix-up,
out of which two battered bits, one
each male and female,
were salved. He was
Mr. D., married ; she
was Mrs. E., not by
any means widowed.
The second pair
escaped notice in the
catastrophe, until Mr.
F. was seen riding
back to the scene
alone. John Hop was
perplexed, and asked
after the absent ,ady.
F. said he never had
one, but. pressed for
a better answer, said
the lady had continued
the journey (Mel-
bourne to Geelong) on
foot! John 11. third-
degreed him, and his
subsequent entry was
“Mr. F., married,
accompanied by Mrs.
G., also married.” There must be something
about a motor-car that encourages mixed
marriage !
“Aeronaut”: Battlers? Yes, we’ve got a
few. Exactly two hours after the Anzac
mounted’s entrv into Jaffa there were tw r o
cafes open for biz—one “The Australian” the
other “The New Zealand.” I went into the
first-named to see what was chalked up, and
came across one of our boys trying to get a
feed on the strength of an Ideal milk-tin
wrapper. I stayed long enough to see him
succeed and get nine Turkish piastres in
change! Not satisfied with having carried
his point, he demanded wine and liqueurs
(there are plenty of both here), and the last
I saw of him he had the whole staff running
to serve him.
“Copabella”: War-pay Day brings out
some dear old souls who’ve never wandered
into public offices before in their lives. We
were in the midst of a larceny case last
Thursday when an old lady bustled in, shov-
ing aside the police orderly and forging
through the usual crowd of loafers at the
“WANTED—A PAYING GUEST.”
OPTIMISTIC ACTOR: “Dear boy, comeanareadrink.”
PESSIMISTIC PRESSMAN: “Sorry, but I haven't got any money!”
back. She was about to scatter the row
of accused, when the sergeant headed her off.
“Here, here!” he said, “what’s your hurry!
You must wait till your case is called. Sit
down and keep quiet!” He tipped out a
couple of dead-beats and gave the old soul a
seat. She sat for a while, and then she
jerked a bobby’s coat-tail. “What’s this
I’m at?” she asked in an Irish whisper.
“Shure, an’ ut’s a po-lice coort,” replied
John. “Good gracious,” said the old lady,
gathering up her reticule and gamp, “and
I came in without paying!”
“Green Tape”: Premier Holman has
astonished the N. S. Wales Public Service
with an announcement that the Government
will hereafter favorably consider the ques-
tion of paying for deferred “recreation leave”
to dependants of deceased officers. Hitherto
it has been a basic principle with the P. S.
Board that such leave, granted with the
object of keeping men fit and well, had no
monetary value. Officers leaving the service
with a stack of accumulated leave could take
out a maximum of only two months; in the
event of death their rights died too. In
orddr to make this clear the Board in 1912
decided that if any officer neglected to take
his three weeks’ annual spell-o, arrears
would be forfeited. Whereat the “chair-
warmers” and others who boast that “1
haven’t had a day’s leave for 40 years” all
began to take their holidays at due date. The
Board’s rule, however, will be nullified by
Holman’s latest. The obvious result will
be to make a number of officers bank their
annual leave and so provide their dependants
with a more or less handsome gratuity.
While applauding rapturously this announce-
ment personally, I’ve my doubts as to how
the taxpayer will take it. Or. rather, how
he will take it when he wakes up.
* * * *
The Ferntree Gully (Vic.) Bumbles got
a harsh jolt from Conscriptionist Westralia
at the last meeting of the local shire coun-
cil. The Inspector of Nuisances, or the
Abater of Brambles, or some such munici-
pal Pooh-Bah, had served notice on the
owner of certain land demanding that he
clear it of blackberries. The letter was
delivered to his wife, Mrs. Ruby Richards,
of South Fremantle, and her reply was such
a boomerang that the council gibbered of
misunderstandings and ignorance of facts,
and resolved to return it to the writer. This
is what she had said :
I am forwarding the notice on to Mr. Pearce,
Minister for Defence, as I think, knowing all the
circumstances, he will admit, that my husband will
be doing more for Australia if he comes home to
fight thistles in your disloyal State than if he
remains in France, where he has been for 18 months
doing his duty. Should you decide to fine my hus-
band anything from £2 to £2O will you let him
know, as he might prefer to save up his Is. a day
towards paying your council fees, instead of wasting
the money on food and cigarettes. I really hope
you do not waste the thistles, as I understand
they are a staple article of diet among donkeys and
asses, so should be very necessary in Victoria to-day.
DARES TO BE A DANIEL.
HE: “Fred is the pluckiest chap I know.”
SHE: “Why, has he been to the war?”
HE : “No, but he'll walk round the block a
dozen times on a button day and not (jive
a penny.”
WAITING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Silence and snow ; and all the world seems dead.
The great guns wait the sudden word of doom
When ruin’s garden breaks in awful red
Profusion of its liate-engrafted bloom.
Blow, wind of Spring, the shattering quiet rend,
That we may hear the thunders of the End !
Our nerves are strained by waiting, not by fear.
These lines we held with ragged hosts and few
In the red winter of that trial year
When war and all its murder-shames were new.
Dare we fail now when, girt by force and flame,
We face the last great task in Freedom’s name?
Blow, wind of Spring! We face the final test.
The desperate foeman here shall knock in vain.
We stand full-armed to meet his last and best,
Till truth is victor and till wrong is slain.
Blow, wind of Spring, blow warm on land and sea,
Blow on the flaming pipes of victory 1
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


PIKE BROTHERS CATALOGUE
POST FREE TO YOU.
Fill in this form, cut out, enclose in an envelope, and post direct, Now !
Messrs. PIKE BROTHERS LIMITED,
BRISBANE. 1917.
I tcould he pleased to have a copy of your COM-
MONWEALTH CATALOGUE, SERIES SIX.
Also please send me patterns of
material!
NAME
FULL ADDRESS
PIKE BROTHERS
Toowoomba BRISBANE
LIMITED
Townsville
jhk
Electric FANS.
All Standard Types
in Stock
British General Electric Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY
257 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE WELLINGTON, N.Z.
590 Bourke Street. 8 Willeston Street.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: The Bishop
Court Estate at Randwick is to come under
the hammer at last. When Archdeacon
Broughton went to England and came back
a bishop he lived on Bunker Hill, in the
Sydney Rocks area. But what was all very
well for an archdeacon was not good enough
for a bishop, so he rented a mansion just
built in Macleay-street by A. B. Spark. The
rent was £2OO a year, and the landlord agreed
to spend it on the property. Financial blight
overtaking Mr. Spark and many others at
the same time, the Macleay-street house
was sold to “Bill” Long, father-in-law of
James Martin and W. B. Dailey, and the
Bishop shifted to Goderich, in Upper
William-street—-the house in which Sheriff
Macquoid suicided. In the first ’fifties
Broughton went to England and died there.
His successor, the six-foot-six Frederick
Barker, was the first to occupy Bishop Court,
and it remained in occupation until present
Archgaiters Wright decided that it was too
far away from the job.
A sound sleeper (aged 53 —the daily paper
always likes to publish the figures and to
state whether the dead was a Unitarian or
a Methodist) has been buried at Narromine
(N.S.W.). lie slumbered in his cart while
the goods it contained were on fire. He took
fire himself, but apparently he still slum-
bered. Then the wakeful horse began to
scorch about the tail, and it bolted, throw-
ing out its driver, who is now no more. Next
day Dobbin was discovered, badly burned
and dragging some ashes behind him. Sleep-
ing in carts is common in the country, and
it generally takes six blasts on a motor-horn
to rouse Jehu and another to wake his
horse, wherefore the law against furious
stopping should be more rigidly enforced.
But the animal at Narromine fled without
a stain on its character. It was awake.
* * * *
“Mustard Gold”: On top of the fares,
which exceed those per steamer from port
to port, there is the item of board to be
taken account of in a run over the East-
West line. The charge is 4s.
for dinner and 2s. 6d. each
breakfast and lunch —9s. a day
for meals which are not sump-
tuous. Second-classers are
allowed in to an evening early-
rush for 3s. a head; but there
is an obvious and painful haste
in putting the function through,
while hungry first-class lions
roar at the other end of the cage.
Steerage passengers conse-
quently bolt their tuclter and re-
tire to their lairs. The trouble
will only be overcome by the
introduction of separate dining-
cars. It is exhilarating to rush
at 70 miles an hour over the
long straight track on the Null-
abor Plain ; but there are great
stretches nearing Port Augusta
where the speed is monotonous
on account of a fine, shifting
sand which lifts in clouds into the coaches.
That moving sand is going to cost you and
me a few pounds.
“Captain”: The very soul case was being
worried out of the Major as the transport
was getting under weigh. In the midst of
his troubles a fussy n.c.o. reported “a fright-
ful smell ’tween decks, sir.” With a mind
on bigger matters the Major barked: “All
right, Corporal. All right! Put a sentry
on it. I’ll fix it later.”
Milo Davine, president of the A.N.A.,
made a special effort at the annual sand-
wich-and-lager of his society on Foundation
Day to show how brutally overbearing are
the doctors who want another bob or two
a year out of their lodge patients. Elmslie,
M.L.A., spoke to the same effect; and the
doctors themselves
have also been mak-
ing a considerable
noise in various
places. Yet in all
the discussions not
one word has been
said about the unor-
ganised and shame-
fully-sweated lodge
secretary, whose con-
temptible wages offer
a constant reproach
to the friendly-
society system. There
may be exceptions,
where a sec. gets
what might be con-
sidered a fair rate
for the hours worked.
But the fact is that,
if a lodge secretary
were worth £1 a
week before the war,
his labors are worth
much more nowa-
days, owing to the
tremendous increase
in clerical work
caused by attention
to soldiers’ business.
What has Elmslie,
for instance, ever
said or done to
remedy this abuse?
The Labor leader is
pretty good at howl-
ing with the crowd
when somebody comes
along with what
looks like a popular
grievance and lays it
under his nose; but
it takes a real demo-
crat to dig up the
little sweating abuses
for which the work-
ing-man is mainly
responsible and give
them an airing. And you’ll not often find
the real democrat with M.L.A. to his name.
“Jean Sibi” : The readiness of the human
pilchard to be converted into a sardine is
shown by the crowded, inglorious existence
of hundreds around the eastern shore of Port
Phillip. From St. Kilda to Mornington there
are numerous housefathers who have been
enabled to double their beer money and get a
gramophone by bedding a couple of families
besides their own. Seaside shelter is so valu-
able that mother never resists the tempta-
tion to turn her shack into a People’s Palace
FURLOUGH.
“The afternoon nap is my favorite hour in
the day."
“I thought you didn't sleep after lunch."
“No. But my wife does!”
and retreat to the limited privacy of the
woodshed. As the rents range from about
£1 a week for an unoccupied bread-bin to £2
a week for a piano-case with a seaward view,
and increase in fabulous proportions as the
prospective tenant approaches the request
for a separate room, one can understand that
some previously-indigent people are consider-
ing whether to put their money in a daily
paper or buy out John Wren. Farther down
the bay, around Aspendale and Carrum, life
is not more sedate, and becomes a peculiar
mixture of bad music, tinned fish and cigar-
ette ends. Young men, armed with accor-
dions and lumps of salmon, segregate them-
JUST TO COMPLETE THE AFFAIR.
HE: “Oh, I say, dearie, will you come to my
wedding in a month or so ?”
SHE: “Oh — er!"
HE : “By the way, would you mind being the
bride?"
selves into half-dozens and dozens, and revel-
ling in the distinction of special blazers and
hatbands, assault the welkin with tinned
fish and song. Sometimes they bring down
their lady friends, when shrieks, scent and
hairpins are ad(L*l to the confusion; but
they all feed and howl in a sort of careless
concentration, contentedly herding in tents
and huts in a manner which in Melbourne
they would consider worth a Housing Com-
mission.
* * * *
“The Fourth”: Just outside Beersheba we
found a plantation of gums—good Australian
gumsand, after taking the town, we col-
lected our dead and buried them with the
good clean scent of their dear own land float-
ing over their graves.
“Pot Jostler”; One of our Australian
padres who knows what a decent fellow Bill-
jim is. tells this story in every camp he
visits. An English lady asked him if he
knew of a few young Australians who would
like to spend a week-end at her house. “But,”
she added, “please do be careful whom you
send, as we keep a governess and four
maids!” It’s wildly absurd, of course, but
seme official fools have inferentially slan-
dered our tro@ps by accepting this perverted
opinion. When an Australian transport
enters a port, all the inhabitants (ex-
cept the sly-dope sellers) go into mourn-
ing. Pubs close their doors by order
and Respectability shudders or goes into the
country. Leave is not granted till noon
in order to give the stores and pubs an
opportunity of trading that day before the
wild men land. When Billjim gets to Eng-
land it is a little better; but in London and
Salisbury he frequently goes into a hotel
to he told “We don’t serve soldiers.” “Sol-
diers” in such a case means Australians,
for they know us by our hats. You meet
this sort of thing even in some camps. In
canteens (dry and wet) where women are
employed, once an Australian unit marches
in m.en are appointed to do the women’s
work. Even at the School for Australian
Infantry Officers one finds this damnably
false indictment of Australian morals. Here
women wait on the messes, and their living
quarters are surrounded by wire-netting 10
feet high strongly reinforced by barb-wire,
and the stockade has only one entrance. We
canuot find similar precautions being taken
in any other lines. Who is to blame for
this huge lie about Billjim’s conduct? And
has any official protest ever been lodged
against it?
“Smokehouse” : The Government teacher’s
job on some of the Torres Strait islands
(married men only) is not the laziest in the
world. Besides having to bump the three
“R’s” into 70 or SO half-savage nigger-kids,
he has to be Magistrate, Clerk of the Court,
Supt. of Police, Tax-collector, Sanitary In-
spector, Censor, Auctioneer, Postmaster,
Forwarding Agent, Inspector of Fishing
Boats, Doctor and District Registrar. He
is also supposed to keep public property
in a state of repair. In his spare time he
must make out weather reports, school re-
turns, reports of all boats calling at the
island and their catches of pearl and other
shell, beche-de-mer, etc. For this he gets a
whole £l5O a year—that is, if he doesn’t get
his screw docked because of time lost through
malaria or other tropical troubles. It some-
times makes the teacher’s missus wish that
dad was a wealthy wharf-laborer down in
Sydney.
“0.K.” : One result of the war will be to
explode the fallacy that you can’t make
people sober by Act of Parliament. A
great and sturdy fallacy this in its time. I
guess it originated with some genial Bung
who stood behind the bar talking to a knot
of owlish moderate-drinkers. They all
shook their heads and murmured “Very
true,” and filled ’em up again. Also they
invited the landlord to have one himself,
whereupon the old oracle pretended to take
another go of gin from a bottle that con-
tained water. There’s a convincing sound
about the statement that no Act of Parlia-
ment can make peoole sober. It agrees
with the Johnsonian dictum: “Man, being
a reasoning animal, must get drunk” —
whereas millions of reasoning animals never
think of getting drunk. Within the past
few months prohibition has been applied to
millions in Canada and U.S.A., the men
approving of the Act of Suppression and
the women delighting in it. There are
munition areas in Britain—even Britain —
where the brewer and distiller have been
temporarily baffled, and belief in the saving
grace of alcohol is going the way of ancient
reverence for Druidical monuments. The
path of civilisation is strewn with the frag-
ments of customs said to be essential to
human nature. The inevitable result of the
anti-liquor law is to strengthen public
opinion in favor of it, until public opinion
is strong enough to defeat the opposing
forces and lead them captive. The old sec-
tarian Rechabite wowser calls himself a
miserable sinner. The new wowser only
accuses himself of having been a “damn fool”
before he knocked off drinking. And there are
many other sorts of “damn fool” to whose
rescue Parliament might go just as easily
and just as effectively.
SHE'D A FANCY TO BE SPRING LAMB.
“Yes, it’s my ambition to be the first in a
man’s life."
“Foolish girl; a wise woman always seels
to be the last."
THE LADY WORE LACE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Transparent Ball Dress Shocks Husband. Wife
Savs Lace Also Worn.” —Headings in Melbourne
Hkrald (31/1/’18).
Its style was translucent, its substance chiffon,
Its bodice two straps and a bow ;
Itself and its trimmings, its pleats and its flounces,
Wouldn’t tip the toledo at more than two ounces,
And would ail in a nowder-box go :
Its motif transparent
Made boldly declarant
Its wearer’s most-manifest grace:
But, lest her light frocking
Some prudes should think shocking,
The lady declared
She wore lace!
She “also wore lace.” But, oh, where was it worn?
As a fast’r.ing for corsage or shoe?
Or, threaded in front, did it hold in her gossard,
Successfully outing the story her boss heard
That she went as La VeritG Nue.
Or p’raps on her hanky
(If she were so swanky)
A gossamer edging found place?
Such camouflage bare we
Insist is unfair; we
Demand to know where
She wore lace!
VICTORIA.
C. L. GRIFFITHS.
POINTS OF VIEW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Youth looks forward, Age looks back ;
Down the long and misty track
Youth sees battle-standards pass,
Hears the clash and clang of brass.
Age with gentler eyes and kind
Sees home candles in the wind ;
Hears the giggling, sweet and low,
Of fiddles of the Hong Ago.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


THE RUSSIAN ASSEMBLY GETS TO BUSINESS.
[Being the effort of the Artist to construct a Historical Picture out of the Daily Cables.]


THE RETURN.
“It is reported that Mr. Hughes will shortly leave for England.”— Any paper any aay.


SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE. NURSE FRANCES, V.A.D., writes of Clements Tonic.
The proprietors of one of the leading weekly newspapers, Wellington, N.Z., whose letter can be seen if necessary, writes:
“ Nurse Frances has just returned from the firing-line in France and used your Clements Tonic there. 1 m sure her
testimony is of very great public value.” Nurse Frances herself writes; “ I should like to tell you how very
pleased 1 am with your Tonic as a nerve restorer. 1 have used it with very beneficial results. Several of our
nurses in France have also proved its worth. 1 can highly recommend it to any one suffering from brain-fag.”
(Signed) ( c/f UAAA ) if ft, c/l. *
Get Clements Tonic and get good health at the same time. It is invaluable for Anaemia, Nerve Breakdown and Loss of Sleep.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere. It does good because it is good.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Major Morton Williams, a Ballarat boy
and a professional soldier, went to the Front
with a- Queenscliff lot about two and a half
years ago. He and his boys were put on to
new and unfamiliar traction guns the size
of a gaol, got effective control in a few
months, and then went battering Huns. The
Huns returned the battering with compli-
merits, an cl al
though h e ha cl
escapes by the
score, Williams
kept at it for two
years. Then one
night while he was
honking round the
back tracks on
duty, his driver
picked out the big-
gest traction-
engine in existence
and tried to hit it
for six. Williams’s
share is a shattered
hand, a head split
several ways and
a broken femur
that obstinately re-
fuses to mend.
IF. J. GEORGE,
W.A. Minister for
Works,
Henry John Miller, who died in M.L. the
other day, had been a member of the Leg.
Council since ’05 —he succeeded Harry
Atkinson as Speaker in ’92 and held the job
with conspicuous fairness for 11 eventful
years, while Ballance and Seddon were mak-
ing history. Yet he was one of the least-
known men in the country. The big, gruff-
voiced, rather shabby-looking farmer could
walk along the streets of Wellington confi-
dent that, except for some passing official or
pressman, no one he met knew who he was
or remembered ever having heard of him. All
of which means that on the personal side
he was an unobtrusive, decent sort of man,
who provoked no enmities. He had consider-
able pastoral interests at one time, and was
chairman of the opulent Westport Coal Co.
Miller also happened to hold a baronetcy:
the first baronet was M.P. for Chichester
from 1690 till 1705. The Maorilander was 88
at the finish, and until well over 80 was as
erect and active as he had been a quarter of
a century before.
Judging seems to be a healthy job. The
Equity Trustees Co. had six directors when
it went into business 30 years ago in Mel-
bourne. These were Edward Fanning, Henry
Hodges, John Madden, Robert Reid, Francis
Stewart and Oliver Vial. Madden and his
learned brother Hodges are the only sur-
vivors.
“Solomon Gay” : Here I am mixed up with
the Russian revolution and passing sleepless
nights through fear of assassination. The
day before the news came through I had pro-
posed Peter Simonoff as a member of the
Queensland branch of the Australian Jour-
nalists’ Assoc., and now Simonoff is Consul-
General for the Bolsheviks. When I looked
him up to congratulate him he was wearing
a satisfied smile and a soft collar, and he
confided to me that 90 per cent, of the -offskis
in Australia are M ximalists, and that the rest
are either boneheads or scoundrels. Simonoff,
a typical young Russian, speaks English
fluently, and was editor of the Russian paper,
The Worker’s Life, until Hughes sup-
pressed it. He is secretary of the Brisbane
Soviet, though an effort was made to depose
him when the news of his appointment came
through, on the ground that he was only half
an Anarchist. An interesting little secret is
that the late spokesman for Russia in Aus-
tralia tried to have him interned.
Two fine old S. Australians just dead in
their eighties had given all their lives to
wool. Patrick Henery grew it, as manager
in turn for Walter Hughes, G. C. Hawker
and Henry Scott, and then on his own sta-
tion. G. H. Michell bought it, and built up
ihe largest wool-scouring business in his
State. He was a Cornishman by birth,
Henery an Irishman, but both had been in
Australia since boyhood.
The N. S. Wales public service officer
holding the long-service record is Aubrey
Mowle, chamber magistrate at Paddington,
who is 70 and has been in the service 54
years. His father tried the land in years
gone bv, but became Usher in the Leg. Coun-
cil. Associated with Mowle, sen., on the
land, Canberra way, was Terence Aubrey
Murray, Speaker of the Assembly and Presi-
dent of the Council in his time.
Old Apps, one of Melbourne’s best-known
undertakers, has been put away in one of
his own coffins. The old fellow’s boast was
that he had earthed-in more of his fellow-
creatures than any other operative in Vic-
toria. He was something of a sport, with
a preference for pugilism, and for years was
a conspicuous figure at boxing matches in
Melbourne. He had himself put two cham-
pions out and under in his time. The vet-
eran had one gag which he passed round with
much unction: “Patronise the old firm and
you will go to Heaven, per-Apps.”
. “Stripey”: Barrister Eggleston, of Mel-
bourne, isn’t the only lawyer doing a law-
yer’s job nowadays in the A.I.F. in Eng-
land. J. L. Williams, barrister-at-law,
Under-Sec. for Justice (N.S.W.j, was re-
cently on court-martial work in England.
But there is always a joke somewhere in
the neighborhood of every military appoint-
ment. In this case it lies in the fact that
Williams was assistant to a young man—
also of N. S. Wales —who was a mechanic
of some sort before enlisting.
An old Melbourne public-school boy has
got back with pals of long ago. N. B. de
Lancey Forth, of Geelong Grammar, was
in a Queensland Bushman’s Contingent in
S’Africa, and started his collection of honors
with the Queen’s Medal with four clasps.
Gaining a commission in the Mancliesters,
he added the Egyptian Medal with clasp in
the Soudan campaign of 1908, and the Soudan
Medal and clasp two years later, which per-
formance he repeated in 1914, with the Mili-
tary Cross on top of it. Having been with the
Gyppos from 1907 to 1916, he relinquished
command (he’s a colonel now) of the
Soudan Frontier Force to join his old regi-
ment in France. Thence to Palestine, was
wounded in the second battle of Gaza, and
recovered in time to help the other Aus-
tralians capture Jerusalem. He has a
D.S.O. as well.
There were a pair of record-breakers in
the London Gazette of November 19 —2nd
Lieut. Percy Lay, of Ballan (Vic.), who
has: won the Military Cross, the Croix de
Guerre, the Distinguished Conduct Medal,
the Military Medal and mention in des-
patches; and 2nd Lieut. E. W. Mattner, of
Oakbank (S.A.), who holds the Military
Cross, the Distinguished Conduct Medal and
the Military Medal and Bar. But if it’s
years you’re counting they can’t score 50
between them.
PRECEPT—AND PRACTICE.
PARSON (who had been preaching on “The
Sin of Dissimulation”): “Ah, What did
you think of my sermon this morning,
Mr. Brown?”
MR. BROWN: “Well, sir, in the first place
you read it, and in the Second place you
read it badly, and in the third place it
wasn’t worth reading.”
There is at least one Billjim flier on the
Italian Front—Harold Bush, a Bendigo boy,
who used to be assistant clerk of courts. His
previous service includes Gallipoli, Egypt
and France. His ’bus carries two machine-
guns and can rise to 10,000 ft.
An Irishman except by birth, Dan Flynn
was imported by Tasmania as Professor of
Biology for the local
“shop.” The screw
for the job is pro-
vided by the Ralston
bequest, which stip-
ulates that it must
be drawn by an Aus-
tralian ; and Flynn
fills that bill —nomi-
nally, at any rate.
Bast year he was ap-
pointed a Royal
Commission to in-
quire into the
Sneck’s fishing in-
dustry : his fine re-
port is still pigeon-
holed, along with a
receipt of £6OO.
Stretching nearly 80
inches from his deep-
tinted blonde hair to
his shoes of the same
color, he is as active
as a whipsnake and
has a penchant for
playing tennis and
dancing the two-
step.
PROFESSOR
FLYNN, Ralston
Professor of Biology,
Tasmanian
University.
R. E. Chapman, manager of the Bank of
N. S. Wales at Ballarat, is to retire in a
few weeks. Numerous bank-managers have
gone from the desk to the pulpit; Chapman
reversed the process, and before he entered
the service of Mammon labored for years in
the vineyard as an Anglican parson. In
Ballarat he combined banking with church
work and golf. On his retirement he. intends
settling in Newcastle, which was his head-
quarters when he buttoned his collar at the
back.
Another of the Australians who did their
bit with the British armored cars in Russia
has just returned on furlough. Petty-officer
A. S. Pursell, of Sydney, was in England
when the trouble began and joined the Scot
Maxim Machine Gun Section of the R.N.A.S.
He was wounded at Suvla (Gallipoli), and
after repairs coupled on to the armored cars.
Followed the historic ice-bound five months
in Lapland; then Armenia, where they
fought Kurds and Turks near Mount
Ararat; next, they covered the Russian re-
treat in Roumania; and then came the terri-
ble rearguard action behind the Russian
dcb&cle in Galicia. Pursell was not im-
pressed with the ordinary Bruin’s capacity
as a fighter: “He’s a sheep who will only
go where he is led under iron discipline.”
But the Cossack is a dandy scrapper.
The Sydney “shop” has just filled some
vacant benches. Dr. S. J. Johnston, 8.A.,
D.Sc., who succeeds Haswell as Zoology, is
a Sydney graduate; Leslie Wilkinson, assist-
ant-Professor of Architecture at University
College (Lon.), drops into the newly-estab-
lished Chair of Architecture ; and Dr. H. G.
Chapman, of Melbourne Uni., takes on
Pharmacology. He has been chief lecturer and
demonstrator in physiology since 1903, and
has done much burrowing for the Federal
Science and Industry Council.
Stepped in the road of a Turkish shell at
Beersheba, Tom Wills, who, in the ’9o’s, was
known along the Bananaland coast from
Normanton to Townsville. He tried his hand
at everything, from trepang fishing to sugar-
growing, and it was amongst the cane at
Bundaberg that he heard the gong. He was
wounded by “Beaehy Bill” at Anzac, and
was “boarded” for Australia ; but when the
boat sailed Wills was missing. Turning up
hopefully at Tel-el-Kebir camp he was
drafted into the Camel Corps, and stuck it
till the Black Beast bore him off.
THE FINAL PUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An appeal is being made to secure members for a
Four Minutes League. When the names have, been
registered each man will be allotted a time for his
daily appeal for recruits. Whether lie is in a picture
theatre, train or tram, or is walking in the street, he
will address those around him punctually at the hour
appointed.— Argus.
A bag of fruit upon his arm, a brolly in his fist,
The patriot stopped, with some alarm, his country
to assist.
[Ding-dong! Dong -bang! —the fateful chime!]
Oh, for warm, stirring words to charm
Young men at this the appointed time!
“Ladies and —hem !—the time has come
For us to do our fuller share.” A sudden, scarey
hum
Arose around him as he stood and waved his gamp on
high,
Arid staid old ladies grabbed their skirts and thus
prepared to fly
For safety. “Help! He’s mad!” they said.
“A looneytick is loose!” and fled,
The while the patriot rattled on, annoyance in his
eye.
“The time is ripe”—he roared and shook his bag of
fruit at those
Who came along to take a look. “The time is ripe
to close
The ranks and with one mighty blow
Drive back the Hun!” Once more he took
A long, deep breath and let her go.
“Are we downhearted, boys, at all?
And shall we in this crisis fail to heed our country’s
caH?”
The crowd surged round him, gaping, and with
giggles watched him pray
The throng to do the fair thing by their fighting-
men that day;
And shrinking damsels shrank some more
Inside the few glad rags they wore;
And then a solemn John arrived and brushed the
crowd away.
The fated hour of nine drew nigh. Upon the movie-
screen
The hero goggled, with a sigh, the Girl that Might
have Been;
And then, with slow, reluctant feet
And quite a wild look in his eye,
The patriot climbed upon his seat.
“Awake!” he said. “Arise!” he cried.
“Your country needs you!” Moans ensued and
pained howls of “Outside!”
Rude, bitter snarls of loud impatience came from all
around
And on the sheet the heroine fell fainting to the
ground.
“Join up, young man!” the patriot roared.
(“Sildown!”) “We shall not sheathe the sword
Until” Loud yelps and caterwauls his further
efforts drowned.
THE NEW STENOGRAPHER.
“A Zurich report states that Krupps, the arma-
ment firm, has purchased the Wolff Telegraphic
Agency, controlling the German official news. They
also have started two new companies to control the
foreign news service.” — Cable.
ANANIAS ( to Bertha Krupp): “My dear, I
feel sure we shall get along well
together.”
And so it went. At one o’clock a Minister broke out
And gave his family quite a shock at lunch. At two,
a shout
Arose from where a staid old bloke
Who sunned himself upon the Block
Paused there to spurn the German yoke.
At three, hysterical and pale,
A startled miss fell off a tram and tore her guinea
veil.
At four o’clock, in factories, black eyes and thickened
ears
Occurred as some bold toiler tried, amid wild groans
or cheers,
To speak his mind. .. .Throughout the day
And half the night, men went their way
Winning the Same Old War amid loud laughter and
liear-hears.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
HOW TO GROW HAIR,
y ou baye prob ably tried various tonics,
dressings, pomades, etc., already, but. the
following formula has produced such excel-
lent results in other cases that you really
ought to- give it a trial. Obtain from the
chemist 3oz. Bay Rum, loz. Lavona de
Composee, and \ drachm of Menthol Cry-
stals. Mix these ingredients thoroughly and
then add just a little perfume. You will be
pleased with the appearance of this tonic, it
j s so bright and clean looking, but you will
be still more pleased with the results you
obtain from its use. Rub it well into your
scalp night and morning and you will find it
eradicates scurf and dandruff, allays irrita-
tion, stops hair falling out and makes it
grow long, glossy, thick and beautiful. —
Advt.


L
ML
*=» A
ncV
X
MM
HW
Iftfsf!
ft
***s
r-ww
wWwws
&,
r#
##f#
mwmw
u
-
#s*6#
( Kp!
frtyjfA'Ar+rA*'.
*W*
K#
mvi#
###
##sw#
ripi
w##
tra
W'fwHrw
Hill
!*#••*!
I
WW
W*
W-W
#4 ##i#
WW
» «#**!
M**
WWW
*
rat
= 4
Sm
ww
»*
»W»iiiW'l
««
W*
WW
WW
«•»
W
www
**m.
wwWHHr
WW
HI
«w
tifr
4r*
W*
8#
wy
ww
VVVW
+4r+4r/ir.
w*w
wwwwy
*****
www
Hill Tl'flMHMlTg
yyyyy*
99
mu
wwwy
#4 hhw*&w
wry
II
ww
I! liMfeisiitiiiiliiH'
Mi
Mi
ww
W*
wr-ww
yy-y
wiry
WWW
w
w
Ww
■yw
w
wy
•«#
##4
yy
# y
W 4
1 y
II
yyy
w
K
8 #
It
- y
**y
SI
w
11#
#r-
«r
m
♦hMN
rW
y>
wy
yw
y»y
1
y#y
yi’y
r#
■y 1#
w* #rr
ww
♦ y
yyy
yy
It
f
9 y
W'l«
•fiw
■
yyw
w
m?
i*
iff
*#p
ns
W wshWp
yyyy
s =sr
gf
#3
&NMHHKS'
MW
imi
IwwfflKS
Mm
yyy
MMltf
W
'vw
1'
w
A6\j
4wwi
WOT
TO
WIN
«k®*4
*
*
mt
TO
54 >■
&mko<
w
illllll
WWW
■
ftp
w*
*W
181
•> •>■
H
11
If*
la
Hll
N any company of Well-dressed Men v/ill be found those who
are more noticeable on this account than others Men who
are singled out at a glance because of the conspicuous good style
which is characteristic of their dressin
This character in a man’s clothes does not lend itself to ready definition, although quite tangible and
definite ; expressing as it does a high standard of the 7 ailor s Craft and the Cutter s Art and i .
Just such a character as this it is that typifies an AUSTRAL SAC SUIT TO ORDER by
whoever wor^ —and in whatever company.
Our Customers in Town are cordially-
invited to call in and inspect the New
Season’s Suitings at their convenience.
Customers who live at a distance may
judge from patterns, selected with dis-
criminating taste, and sent post free to
any address on request.
‘AUSTRAL” SAC SUITS TO ORDER
75/-, 85/-, 95/-, 105/-, 115/-, 126/-, 147/-, 157/6.
CARRIAGE IS PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
Gowing lzp
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484-490 George Street, 3=17 Royal Arcade, and 304=306 George Street (near Hunter Street),
SYDNEY.


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, X.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Siiicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Gradei
Sl «s:s, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
BHAS
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobei
Samsonne
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Sydney and Suburban
Hydraulic Power Co. Ltd.
For Hydraulic and Electric Lift Maintenance, Repairs, Renewals of Lifting
Ropes and other parts—for Hydraulic Material, Pipes, Valves, Tubing and
High-pressure Stocks generally. Best Workmanship and material.
Quotations supplied.
A MAYNE HERON, Manager.
14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Circumstances alter cases. During the
S'African war, when the Boers wanted any-
thing they “commandeered” it; which was
a shocking thing to do. In this war we do
things differently. We don’t “commandeer”
articles. Instead, the Prime Minister
arranges for the purchase of the entire out-
put or entire crop or clip or whatever it
may be at so-and-so; and then we are in-
vited to stand off and consider what a genius
the Prime Minister is. The latest “sale” is of
copper; and the only thing very well worth
noting about it is that the British Govern-
ment isn’t at present contracting to take
any of the metal after June 30 of this year.
* * * *
The Bank of Victoria: —
Dividends.
t ——A Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Pioiits. 0 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1910.. 50.012 12.503 31,837 5,672 254,593
Dec., 1910.. 52,097 12,503 31,837 7,757 202,350
June, 1911.. 55,266 12,503 31,837 10,926 273,276
Dec., 191 1.. 58,829 12,503 31,837 14,489 287,765
June, 1912.. 61,685 12,503 31,837 17,345 305.110
Dec., 1912.. 67,073 12,503 31,837 22,733 327,843
June, 1913.. 61,980 12,503 31,837 17,640 345,483
Dec, 1913.. 61,972 12,503 31.837 17,632 363.115
June, 1914.. 64,567 12,503 31.537 20,227 383,342
5 p.c. 5 p.c.
Dec., 1914.. 59,756 10,419 26,531 22,806 406,148
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
June, 1915.. 52,646 12,503 31,537 8,306 414,451
Dec.. 1915.. 52,660 12,503 31,837 8,320 422,774
June, 1916.. 52,277 12,503 31,837 7,937 430,711
Dee., 1916.. 53,784 12,503 31,837 9,444 440,155
June, 1917.. 53,143 12,503 31,837 8,803 448,958
Dec., 1917.. 56,190 12,503 31,837 11,850 460,808
There is no visible reason why this bank
should be making a poorer profit than it did
just before the war. Its advances are ar
large as they were then, and 12 months ago
they were larger; it has £lOO,OOO more
undivided profits; and, though foreign
exchanges have been disturbed, _ it is
by no means certain that it is mak-
ing less out of that part of the busi-
ness. Nor have expenses raced ahead like
that of most businesses. In the latter half
of 1913 “current expenses, head office and
91 branches and seven sub-branches,” were
£53,792; in the past half-year,
additional sub-branches, they were £55,559 —
a pretty good indication that the clerk hasn’t
been getting much help towards meeting the
higher cost of living. Most trading profits are
abnormal owing to the easy way in which
money is being thrown about; and in the
natural order of things a bank takes its bite.
That, notwithstanding all this, the Victoria
shows a poorer profit than it did three or
four years ago is probably due to the direc-
tors’ uncertainty about the future. A bank’s
profits are not the kind of thing you can
measure in a tin, like a peck of peas. They
are a matter of estimation : and whether a
Board makes them £50,000 or £60.000 de-
pends largely upon what it thinks is a fair
thing to set aside towards making good the
losses that will show up presently on accounts
that at the moment may look fairly good,
and to provide for other contingencies—war
taxes after the war is over and when the
bill has to be paid, for instance.
This paper doesn’t know what the
Bank of Victoria is doing in this matter.
It only knows that the “Money” Millers and
the Clarkes, who are heavily interested,
wouldn’t be likely to see much advantage in
at present showing very large profits in
excess of the amount necessary to pay the
dividend. That the visible surplus was
pretty steadily increased prior to June, 1914,
was by way of preparation for increasing
the dividend to 7 p.c. And anything of that
sort isn’t likely to be contemplated while the
future is so uncertain.
That the bank is holding its own, so far
as one can judge by figures, this comparison
shows: —
Liabilities.
Dec., ’l3. Dec., ’l6. Dec., ’l7.
Notes in circulation £9,611 £7,258 £7,101
Bills etc 461,229 396,396 757,918
Deposits at interest 4,265,837 4,014,347 4,239,801
Free desposits . . 2,214,407 2,231,824 2,705,119
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 2.400,528 1,879,654 3,276,588
Advances . . . . 6,083,542 6,392,586 6,081,242
Premises, etc. • . 354,481 342,090 337,268
Thus the public’s money in the bank’s hands
is £7,709,939 now as against £6,951.084 four
years ago; but £461,000 of the increase is
Government money; and that isn t nailed
down for very long. All the money added
during the past four years is represented
by liquid assets—about half of it by money
at short call in London, waiting for profit-
able exchange to Australia, and the other
half by War Loan and other public securi-
ties. The Victoria never has overwhelm-
ing liquid assets in proportion to liabilities;
but the figure is now 43 p.c. as compared
with 30 to 35 p.c. before the war. That
the dividend is a comparatively modest 6 p.c.
is largely due to the fact that the share capi-
tal is exceptionally large in proportion to
the other figures. Lumping all the public’s
money it doesn’t amount to £4 for every £1
of the shareholders’ funds. And the free
money is also very small in proportion to
capital and fixed deposits. It all means
exceptional security for depositors, small
risks for shareholders and comparatively
poor dividends. But the foundations are
capable of taking a lot more business.
Growth has been and still is hampered by
a stupid provision tying the bank down to
its home State: it is now the only Melbourne
bank which hasn’t a branch in Sydney, and
while losing N. S. Wales business it is
doubtful whether it gets a ha’porth of ad-
vantage in Victoria.
Port Jackson and Manly Steamship
Co., Ltd. (Sydney) :
’ To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., ’t0..£18,971 13$ p.c. = £7,040£11,931 £38,425
June, ’ll.. 24,477 13$ „ „ 7,040 17.437 55,862
Dec., ’ll.. 23,861 13$ „ „ 7,040 16,821 72,683
Transferred to capital, £52,803 . . 19,880
June, ’12.. 19,245 13$ p.c. = 10,561 8,684 28,564
Dec., ’l2. . 23,705 13$ „ „ 10,561 13.144 41,708
June, ’13.. 21,405 13$ „ „ 10,561 10,844 52,552
Deficit.
Transferred to capital, £52,803 .. 251
Reserves.
Dec., ’l3. . 54,765 13$ p.c. = 14,081 40.684 40.433
June, ’14.. 18.606 13$ „ „ 14,081 4,525 44.958
Dec., ’14.. 19,791 13$ „ ~14,081 5,710 50,668
.Tune, ’15.. 17,210 13$ „ „ 14,081 3,129 53,797
Dec., ’15.. 16,336 1,3$ „ „ 14,081 2,255 56,052
June, ’16.. 13,909 13$ „ „ 14,081 55.880
Doc., ’16.. 14,360 13$ „ „ 14,081 279 56,159
June, ’17.. 14,076 13$ ~ ~ 14,081 56,154
Dec., ’17.. 13,024 13$ „ ~ 14,081 55,097
The profits column above includes additions
to various insurance reserves; the net profits
as presented by the co. for the past two years
have been as follows: —
June, 1916 ..£11,623 | June, 1917 ..£12,115
Dec., 1916 . . 12,317 | Dec., 1917 . . 12,574
That gives a total net profit of £48,629 for
the two years. Nevertheless, shareholders
have received their usual half-yearly div. at
the rate of 13$ p.c. p.a., amounting in all
to £56.324. How can the co. afford to con-
tinue to pay a div. which according to its
own showing has not been earned? A fur-
ther examination of the accounts throws this
light on the matter :
Dec., ’l3. Dec., ’l5. Dec., ’l7.
Assets other than steamers,
freehold and plant .. £70,737 £109.073 £118,619
Liabilities. . . . . . 2,247 1,918 2,042
Surplus liquid assets £68,490 £107,155 £116,577
So, after paying dividends totalling £56,324,
the cash position has actually improved by
£9422 in the two years, though the net profit
is said to have been only £48,629 altogether.
Perhaps not another co. in N. S. Wales
has had a more wonderfully successful
career: —
Original capital . . . . £25,000
Debentures converted, 1906 . . 4,335
Water added, Dec., 1907 .. 58,670
do. do. Dec., 1909 . . 17,601
do. do. June, 1912 . . 52,803
do. do. Dec., 1913 . . 52,803
Preseut paid-up capital .. £211,212
Thus of the present paid-up capital of
£211,212 (281616 £1 shares paid to 155.)
no less than £181,877 represents capitalised
profits. Not one penny of new coin has
been got in, so the co.’s customers have pro-
vided the money to purchase every one of
the fine steamers that have been added to the
fleet since 1906, in addition to giving share-
holders handsome dividends and building up
a cash surplus of considerably over £lOO,OOO.
That, however, is more or less back history.
There is evidence in recent balance-sheets
that the dazzling speed of past years has
slowed-down considerably. During the four
years to December, 1913, though three of the
finest steamers in the fleet—the Bellubera,
Balgowlah and Barren joey—were purchased,
deposits and cash in hand increased £24,116.
During the past four years no new steamer
has been added; but a further £48.768 of
cash was accumulated. Tabulate the result:
4 yrs. to 4 yrs. to
Dec., ’l3. Dec., ’l7.
New steamers bought out of profits. . Three Nil
Cash accumulated . . . . . . £24,116 £48,768
Divs. paid 72,164 112,648
Increased wages bills and cost of coal and
stores are cutting into profits. But like
most shipping cos., the Manly co. has very
little to say about itself in its half-yearly
parade. The P. and L. account gives nothing-
further than a bare announcement that net
profits are so-and-so after “maintaining
steamers and plant in thorough order and
providing for all costs and charges.” In that
way the co. can camouflage its profits, since
no hint is given as to what has been spent
in “maintaining stores and plant in thorough
order.”
Equity Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1910.. £2589 10 p.c. = £1250 £1339 £27,886
Dec., 1910.. 2279 10 „ „ 1250 1029 28,915
June, 1911.. 1832 10 „ „ 1250 582 29,497
Dec., 1911.. 1869 10 „ ~ 1250 619 30,116
June, 1912.. 2646 10 „ „ 1250 1396 31,512
Dec., 1912.. 5528 30 „ „ 3750 1778 33,290
June, 1913.. 3755 20 „ „ 2500 1255 34,545
Dec., 1913.. 5518 20 „ „ 2500 3018 37,563
June, 1914.. 4890 20 „ „ 2500 2390 39,953
Dec., 1914.. 5005 20 „ „ 2500 2505 42,458
June, 1915.. 2310 20 ~ „ 2500 42,268
Dec., 1915.. 6111 20 „ „ 2500 3611 45,879
June, 1916.. 3392 20 „ ~ 2500 892 46,771
Reserves transferred to Capital, £25,000 21,771
Dec., 1910.. 4326 14 p.c. = 3500 826 22,597
June, 1917.. 4420 14 „ „ 3500 920 23,517
Dec., 1917.. 4667 14 „ „ 3500 1167 24,684
This old-establis! , co. lately lost its chair-
man, Edward Fanning, who had been a direc-
tor ever since the baby was born 30 years
ago. Had Mr. Fanning been personally
appointed executor of a hundred wills there
would now be no §nd of commotion and ex-
pense ; but the co. goes on just as if nothing
had happened, so nobody is prejudiced
beyond this—that one man’s services are lost
to a Board of five. And with an extensive
organisation, specially trained to this busi-
ness, that loss hardly counts. The Equity,
though its directors are mostly barristers
and politicians, is not at all talkative. What
progress it has made in the matter of secur-
ing business has never been disclosed. But
judged by the fact that in the latter half of
1007 its earnings (including interest) were
£4BOO, whereas last half-year they were
£10,236, one would judge that some fin,e fat
estates have come into its hands during the
10 years. Meantime, though the directors
have been very liberal in regard to dividends,
this progress has been shown:—
Dec., ’O7. June, ’l7. Dec., ’l7.
Liquid assets ..£25,395 £45,476 £45,473
Other assets . . 23,299 32,697 32,747
Liabilities . . 99 Nil Nil
The liquid assets (cash and public securi-
ties) have thus increased by £20,078, and
other assets (net) by £0547. In the past
five years the shareholders have got back
more than they put into the company ; and
in the past 10 years they have put by as
much. A very fine, profitable business for
the shareholders, especially when you reflect
that (1) the assets are practically all in
gilt-edged securities, (2) the co. hasn’t to
back anybody’s bill and (3) with careful
handling by experienced men the risks inci-
dental to the trustee’s business are very
small. Yet there can be no question that
the trustee co. performs a vast public service
at very small cost —or what would be very
small cost if it were performed by a man
who had only one estate to administer in-
stead of a hundred or two.
The North Coast Steam Navigation
Co. (N.S.W.) :
Unexplained
Busi- Additions Written
ness to Re- Off Re- Re-
Dec., Profits, serves. Dividends. serves, serves.
1907. . £17,574 Bp.c.= £17,016 £7Ol £56,487
1908.. 15,198 £5282 8 „„ 17,500 59,467
1909.. 18,334 1858 8 „ „ 17,500 62,159
1910.. 17,903 4013 8 „ ~ 17,500 66,575
1911.. 20,710 8 ~ „ 18,629 3245 65,411
1912.. 24,762 2789 8 „ „ 33,420 69,542
1913.. 27,707 4466 9 „ „ 27,000 74,715
1914.. 27,234 1953 9 ~„ 27,000 76,902
1915.. 25,644 2165 9 „„ 27,000 77,711
1916.. 27,516 4098 9 „ „ 27,0.00 82,325
1917.. 25,416 4426 9 „ „ 27,000 85,167
In these days the unexplained additions to
reserves are accretions to “insurance and
repairs suspense account, etc.”—no doubt
profits put aside to meet contingencies; and
contingencies are pretty numerous with a
shipping co. whose fleet pokes in and out of
N. S. Wales North Coast bar harbors. But
if the entrances to the harbors and the fine
rivers of the North are nearly everything
they shouldn’t be, the country behind is
almost all that the heart of man could desire ;
and nowhere in Australia, outside mining
fields, has there been so rapid a settlement
of so affluent a population. Nor has the end
been anything like reached ; it is nearer the
truth that hardly a beginning has yet been
made. Thev make a bit of butter certainly,
and they have started to keep a few pigs ;
but Australia doesn’t really know what hogs
are yet. In Uncle Sam’s one State of
Illinois there were at the last count 4,900,000
of them. If you cut Illinois out because
Chicago is inside it, drop on to almost any
other —Indiana, for instance. Well, Indiana
has over 4.000.000 swine. Florida., down
south, which doesn’t reckon it keeps pigs, has
900.000 of them. Australia, all Australia,
has under 800,000. What progress Australia
has made in this business has been very
largely made by the N.S.W. North Coast,
which has worked pig,-raising in connection
with dairy-farming. But the pig-raising busi-
ness isn’t to be limited like that: there is an
enormous future for it quite apart from the
supply of separator milk. Some of the future
will, no doubt, be in conjunction with
banana-raising. In this latter business there
is a large quantity of vegetable offal suitable
for pig-food; while the Australian banana
business itself is almost bound to receive
great help in the future from the manufac-
ture of Danana-flour.
It is a district, then, of phenomenal rich-
ness that this co. serves ; and the district’s
rapid growth is certain. To what extent this
co. will have its trade is another matter,
dependent largely upon the attention the
Government gives to the harbors and
entrances. There is a North Coast railway,
a thing of shreds and patches, Norton
Griffiths having been knocked off when they
had driven half a tunnel here and made half
an embankment a few miles away; but
though the idea is to connect the whole Coast
with Newcastle and Sydney, it will probably
do this co. more good than harm, provided
even two or three harbors are kept usable.
It will do exactly what the Transcontinental
might do for the Northern Territory—supply
it with people, who will mostly use the sea
for goods carriage.
According to the first table the co. has in
10 years added less than £BO,OOO to its
reserves. But have a look at this:—
1907. 1916. 1917.
Capital £218,750 £300,000 £300,000
Liabilities . . . . 21,194 20,626 37,717
Ships 245,492 232,170 225,870
Wharves, works, etc. . . 23,997 26,868 27,424
Cash and book debts . . 28,888 67,261 73,265
Sundry assets . . .. 6,804 90,152 109,825
In 10 years the co. has got in £81,250 of
capital and increased its debts by £30,528.
Total, £97.773. For that it has to show
£140,398 more of liquid and semi-liquid
assets. This means that the co. has all the
capital it has raised and borrowed during the
past 10 years intact, in the shape of floating
assets, and (before paying the last half-
yearly div.) nearly £50,000 into the bargain;
and meantime it has made additions to its
wharves and plant and paid for anything
that has been added to the fleet. Often and
often the Profit and Loss balance hasn’t paid
the dividend. But there are plainly things
that the P. and L. account doesn’t tell.
Manly Gas Co. (N. S. Wales)
„ . . To Re-
Uec., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1907 .. £1969 9 p.c. = £1639 £330 £2,348
1908 . . 2454 94 „ „ 1914 490 2.838
1909 .. 2273 10 „ „ 2566 2,545
Premiums on new shares .. 1054 3.599
1910 .. 3219 lOp.c. = 3195 24 3,623
1911 . . 4076 10 „ „ 3816 260 3,883
1912 . . 6350 10 „ ~ 4247 2103 5,986
Assets written up, £8093 .. .. 14,079
Bonus of £9150 (20 p.c.) distributed. . 4,929
Reserves disappeared, £3790 .. 1,139
1913 .. 6169 10 p.c. = 5599 570 1,709
1914 .. 6167 10 „ „ 6375 - 1,501
1915 .. 6481 8 „ „ 5100 1381 2,882
1916 .. 5626 7 „ „ 4462 1164 4,046
1917 .. 5595 6 „ „ 3825 1770 5,816
Manly has continued to grow ; and this co.’s
revenue from sales (gas and residuals) has
had this brisk progress: 1914, £18.277; 1515,
£23,193; 1910, £24,221; 1917, £28,116. But
whereas revenue lias increased 54 p.c. in
these four years, outgoings (including provi
sion for renewals) have increased a shade
over 100 p.c.; or, if you exclude the provi-
sion for renewals, then the increase in out-
goings has been 89 p.c. Last year things
were rather worse than usual, for, owing to
the statesmanlike way in which the miners’
strike was settled, coal cost 36 p.c. more than
in the preceding year. How the future will
pan out will depend a good deal upon the
bill which has just been introduced to the
N. S. Wales Parliament. One section runs:
Upon the auditor of any gas co. certifying that the
cost of production and distribution.,. .has been
increased. .. .the Minister shall cause an inquiry to
be held by a Supreme Court Judge, and if such Judge
shall certify that the cost has been so increased, the
Governor shall forthwith by proclamation in the
Gazette increase the standard price by one penny per
thousand cubic feet in respect of every penny by
which the Judge shall certify that the cost has been
so increased.
Whether that will go through remains to be
seen. Practically it means guaranteeing the
co. a dividend; and with that State guaran-
tee the House is pretty certain to decide that
the rate of dividend should be very low —
probably no more than 6 p.c.
According to the table above, the co. after
paying 6 p.c. had £1770 to lay by for the
year; but £lBOO has been transferred to re-
newal reserve, and if that amount was
necessary to cover depreciation, in addition
to what was actually spent during the year
on renewals, then the dividend was not all
really earned. The capital is £63,750; and
the co. owes £26,309. Practically all this is
in fixed assets, which have increased from
£44,094 to £93,521 in the past seven years.


9
and Molybdenite.
We are instructed by the Commonwealth
Government to pay the following
Increased Prices at Producing Centres
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- per
unit MoS2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 per
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Mutual Life and
Citizens’ Assurance
Company Limited.
Net Cost of an M.L.C. SPECIAL
PROBATE POLICY for £2OOO.
Age at Entry, 35. iO Years in Force.
Annual Premium .. ..£52 18 4
Deduct Cash Value of the
Reversionary Bonus of
£6O for one year . . .. 25 12 5
Net Cost of the Assurance
for one year .. ..£27 511
The General Electric Company has developed and
standardised a mine type of Induction Motor, which
fills the demand for a motor of more rugged mechani-
cal construction than the standard line of induction
motors. These are designed for heavy-duty motor
applications. Write to the Australian General Elec-
tric Company, Sydney and Melbourne, for particu-
lars. — Advt.
A wise builder wants more than words. He
wants proof that Adamax Roofing is “the best his
money can buy.” So we have prepared a well-
illustrated, 20-page booklet, “The Adamax Series,”
which is chockful of facts about Adamax roofing
and the many uses to which it can be applied. It
is equally serviceable for the mineovvner, the farmer,
the stockowner, the dairy farmer, the country home
builder, etc. Send for a free copy. It will go to
you as soon as we receive your name and address.
William Adams & Co., Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide. — -Ai>vt.
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America. — Advt. f 1
* * * *
It has proved its worth for all purposes where
light, strong, durable pipe is required. Pioneer
Wood Pipe, the ideal pressure pipe. Send for illus-
trated catalogue, free upon application. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Company, Limited (head office).
Burns Bay Road (near Fig Tree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Post Office Address, Box 1576 G.P.0.,
Sydney. Contractors to all State Governments.
Factories: Lane Cove River, N.S.W.; Footseray, Vic.;
and Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian and Other Patents. Obtainable through
P. M. Newton, Patent Attorney, Opp. Commonwealth
Patent Office, Flinders Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
» * * »
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Head Office, Sydnev.
Earth-handling Machinery: Road Graders, Scoops and
Ploughs. Concrete-mixing Machinery: The famous
“Austin” Cube Concrete Mixers in different sizes and
capacities. “Robey” Portable Steam Engines, 8,
14 and 16 nom.-h.p. “National” Gas, Oil and Petrol
Engines. “Leplastrier” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds and
Collapsible Moulds for Concrete Culverts. Queens-
land inquiries to The Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * »
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay-
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. II B
Selby & Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; 'and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Slock.
insure in
The!
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .. 96.165 6 6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established I'.lW.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every Sl.ite.
Write for particulars.
\Y. U. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS -IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Farmers and Citizens’ Trustees
Co. (Bendigo, Vic.):- Deflci t
Towards (Flotation
Profit Dividends. Reserves. Expenses).
Dee. _ £740
1910.. £99 £9? 6*l
1911.. 307 Nil 30/ 334
Reserves.
1912.. 371 Nil 371 37
1913.. 291 Nil 291 328
1914.. 402 3 p.c. = £353 49 377
1915.. 518 4 „ „ 471 4/ 424
1916.. 734 5 „ „ 589 145 569
1917.. 995 5 „ „ 589 406 9,5
As friends of the co. oblige by dying, or as
trusts are transferred, the income grows
slowly but steadily, though a sharp eye vvnl
have to be kept on exes., which are racing
ahead, too: they have nearly trebled in five
years. The capital is £11,780; £lO,OOO of it
is lodged with the Treasurer, and the balance
is in mortgages and sundries.
The Bulletin told you so:—
Twenty years ago or more The Bulletin started
to hammer at two big financial propositions the
al olition of borrowing and the establishment of a
Government note issue, the profits thereof to go to a
sinking fund for the extinction of existing State
debts. With the coming of Federation it hammered
at the second proposition even harder than before,
and it was a special feature of James Edmond s
“Policy for the Commonwealth,” published before
the Federal Convention sat. A small C.O.D. (Cash
on Delivery) party was then formed to fight a State
election in N. S. Wales. But practically all the mem-
bers soon fell away, probably because they wanted a
bit of the loan money for their own constituencies.
Also “experts” solemnly assured them that borrow-
ing paid well, for the public works so constructed
yielded enough to cover the loan interest, and showed
a profit over and above. They were likewise in-
formed that the country couldn't possibly find the
money to pay for public works out of revenue. Both
statements were lies then ; they have been worse and
more glaring lies ever since. The N. S. Wales loan
works never paid their way and showed a surplus,
and most of the other States were as bad or worse.
With the vast increase of the debt burden and the
interest bill to be carried, the public undertakings
are to-day a millstone round the community’s neck.
To-morrow it will probably feel as if Fink’s
Buildings and the Australia Hotel were also
tied to its head and feet, for heaps of the
old cheap loans are falling due and calling for
repayment. N. S. Wales alone has to repay well over
£12,000,000 this year. These are per cent,
securities, and there isn't the ghost of a chance to
renew below 5| p.c. plus expenses—probably 6 p.e.
in all. That means about £325,000 a year added to
the State’s outgoings with nothing to show for it.
In 1919 over £11,000,000 borrowed at from Si
to 3J p.c. must be renewed- —possibly at 7 p.c. Call
it 6 p.c., and still another £260,000 a year or more
is added to the State’s expenditure ; —-total increase
£585,000 a year with nothing to show for it.
As regards the glib assurance that the country
couldn’t pay for public works out of revenue, that
was also false. The country is now handing out in
special war taxes more than was ever really required
to pay for public works out of revenue. If The
Bulletin’s policy had been adopted over 20 years
ago there would be the war taxes to pay just the
same, but there wouldn’t be the interest bill accumu-
lated by 20 years of profligacy in addition. The
Bulletin’s desire was to take opportunity by the
forelock. Its opponents are finding to-day that they
are too late to snatch it by the heels.
As to The Bulletin’s scheme for an issue of
Federal Government paper money' and the utilisation of
the proceeds for the purchase of old State securities —
not in new loans to State political prodigals—it was
proposed that something like £20,000,000 of legal-
tender paper should be published, with a reserve of
25 per cent, in gold. That would leave £15,000,000
for the repurchase of State securities, the interest to
accumulate on the compound principle till the Com-
monwealth had acquired all the State debts and
could arrange for their obliteration. Assuming it
averaged 34 p.e. on its investments, it would possess
at the end of the first year £15,525,000 of State
securities; at the end of the fifth year # nearly
£18,000,000 ; at the end of the tenth year nearly
£22,000,000. In other words, it would have taken
£22,000,000 of State securities off the market in
10 years, and £7,000,000 of that would be absolute
profit—money made out of nothing save the exercise
of a little common sense. But barring the Melbourne
Age, which gave a certain amount of encouragement,
practically all the city papers were either silent or
hostile. Those that were hostile explained with the
lofty air of Beelzebub addressing an infant class that
all experiments with Government paper were crude,
that they were doomed to failure, that the gold
standard must be maintained in all its purity, and
such like piffle. Ancient bank managers who had
shown their incompetence by wrecking many of
Australia’s financial institutions in 1892 and 1893
emerged to explain that the ignorant shouldn’t rush
in where experts feared to tread, and trusted that the
country would rely on the experience and talent of
the old brigade which lost the capital and the reserve
funds, and sometimes the deposits, so joyously in the
good days.
Then after 10 precious years had been wasted The
Bulletin’s policy was adopted, with one unfortunate
modification; instead of the profits being devoted to
buying up old State securities on the open market, a
good deal was invested in new State loans floated to
maintain the public-works razzle. Nobody had the
courage to tell the State Governments to build their
works out of revenue and hustle for their own crust.
All the same, the event proved that The Bulletin
was right and that its supercilious critics were
either ass or Ananias. In fact, the event has proved
that Australia can carry with ease more than twice
as large an issue of paper money as this paper
suggested, and that it was fully £14,000,000 that
the Commonwealth lost in its first 10 years by listen-
ing to the advice of Tory papers and bumptious
“experts.”
“Smiff”: The brown coal crowd in Mel-
bourne is putting up a fight to move Mini-
sters to do something with Morwell, but
after recent experiences the Government
is very cautious in handling coal. Hence it
js at the moment listening to the voice of
the folk who want to snavel private rights
to supply electricity from the Kiewa or the
Snowy liiver. Indirectly, this plays into the
hands of the crowd that waits to grab Mor-
well, just as the Germans would have done
before the war. The difference between the
brown coal and the “white coal’’ crowds is
that the first is solid for State ownership,
the other for private profit. Huge wealth
has flowed to Germany from its brown coal,
and Victoria has better-grade material to
start on, with easier mining conditions. So
the brown coal party has had prepared at
no cost to the State a carefully-compiled
scheme for Morwell by three of the best
electrical engineers in Australia and wants
Bowser to send men abroad to go into the
by-product problem. N. S. Wales has more
than a shred of interest in the hydro-electric
or “white-coal” scheme, as the promoters
talk of grabbing the Murray for Victorian
power purposes. The State is already draw-
ing water from Murray tributaries for irri-
gation in a way that will lead to straight
talk one of these fine days when the effect
on the main strehm is apparent.
* * * *
Kiteliener-Maedonald Molybdenite, Khar-
toum (near Chiliagoe, Q.), has been formed
into a co. of 50,000 paid £1 shares, the capi-
tal being subscribed by those at present inter-
ested in the show. This mine contains one
of the very few reef formations of molybde-
nite so far discovered in the world, and the
metal is exceptionally pure. The reef is 4ft.
to 12ft. wide, worth anything up to 4 p.c.
Experts are enthusiastic about the show.
Queensland Government Geologist Saint-
Sinith reckoned six months ago that
it “probably ranked amongst the world’s
most important individual molybdenite-
producing deposits.” Since then develop-
ment work has disclosed a further
large body of ore. Alex. Macdonald
is down 220 ft., and has sunk three shafts and
opened up three levels. Production is now
to be commenced on a big scale, and more will
be heard of the co. when the battery has
spoken.
w * * *
Dark Horse Syndicate (W.A.) hands out
another 75 p.c. on its capital of £2OOO. The
two distributions made by this Kalgoorlie
crowd amount to £3OOO, or 30s. per share.
For a start 12 tons gave £3068, and since
then various small parcels of specimen stuff
have gone to the mill. The claim is on the
Broad Arrow.
-*■*-**
South German, Maldon (Vic.), after pay-
ing 129 dividends from gold, is turning to
arsenic, which, until recently, when the
price rose to £5O per ton, was considered a
most obnoxious mineral. At 560 ft. and
680 ft. the co. has a reef 4ft. wide carrying
froifi 9 p.c. to 11 p.c. of arsenious oxide.
Arrangements have been made with a treat-
ment syndicate, the South German Co. to
receive 40 p.c. of the profit from sales.
* * * *
Kalgoorlie is whooping a little over two
new finds. One is out west in the Ivanhoe,
where a bore has penetrated what “may
prove to be important ore bodies.” and the
other is in the Associated Northern, where
tributors have struck “practically a new
mine.” A lot of payable ore has been ex-
posed. though when the old co. dismantled
its plant it was satisfied that there was
practically nothing left in the ground to
take out.
* * * *
Westralian Geologist Blatchford has the
following to say about the Westonia lodes
in an official report just issued: —
They are of pegrnatitic origin, and, as they have
no extensions beyond the gneissic belt, they must
necessarily have come from a deep-seated magma.
Their permanenc.v at depth should therefore be
assured, though the size of the veins or the mineral
contents is still a matter of conjecture. The whole
system of quartz reefs in the gneissic belt appears
to be converging to a common source, a parent dyke,
the extent and mineral contents of which it is im-
possible to foretell.
He describes the Edna May lode as
granitic and the acid residuum of a quartz-
felspar pegmatite. The occurrence of such
lodes, he adds, is frequent; but a high gold
content, such as the Edna May lode pos-
sesses, is unique.
Victorian specialists in the treatment of
refractory ores are rushing round securing
all the areas in Westralia containing arseni-
cal lodes that they can locate. A number of
leases at Randalls, near Kalgoorlie, have
been acquired, together with the better-
known Transvaal leases, three miles south
of Southern Cross. The latter are every-
thing that could be desired for arsenic. They
were worked for years by private owners,
but owing to the refractory nature of the
ore due to the presence of arsenic, gold
extraction was too poor. They knew how to
recover the arsenic all right, but there was
practically no market for it in those days.
The position is different now. The Trans-
vaal is expected to produce 100,000 tons of
10 p.c. ore.
* * * *
The Tyrconnel North Co.’s claim, the King
of Creation, beyond Laverton (W.A.), has
been visited and found wanting by expert
Macpherson. The stall goes to the north
end of the Golden Mile, Kalgoorlie, to test a
block alongside Hannan’s South. To the
north Crispe and Parkin are said to be
making a fortune out of the treatment of a
Tft. body of 15dwt. ore. Hence the attrac-
tion of the prospect, to say nothing of a
yarn about 3ioz. stone being got to the
south. Only £3OO is to be flung into the new
go unless a crosscut at 300 ft. hits a bonanza.
* * * *
From Westonia :
At the half-yearly meeting of Edna May Deeps it
was stated that the ore body was 180 ft. long, of an
average width of 15ft. between the 480 ft. and 566 ft.
levels. Also the stopes were up 25ft. and a block
of stone would have to be left in the level to secure
the safety of the workings and the men engaged
therein. It was further represented that there were
from 18,000 to 21,000 tons of ore remaining in the
level. Twelve cubic feet approximately equals one
ton quartz, so making allowances for stoping (not
forgetting the underhand stoping from 480 ft. level)
and the block of ore referred to, and assuming the
average width as stated to be correct, it is difficult
to arrive at 18,000 to 21,000 tons. During the half-
year the co. received on account of gold sales £21,500
from approximately 4000 tons ore; and the profit
was £3500, equal to a dividend of Bd. or 9d. To
date the co. has expended £64,000.
* * * »
“Teltelo” from the Solomons -
After reading the figures of cos. like the Solomon
Islands Rubber Plantation, Ltd. (B. 8/11 /’l7), I
feel impelled to ask, “What are you going to do
about it ?” Such cos. have my deepest sympathy;
they are a striking commentary on Solomon islands
conditions. Here is a co. which has been fairly
vigorous, and in Capt. Svensen possessed an experi-
enced pilot. To date it has spent (roughly) £60,000
and stands possessed of 1028 planted acres and about
13,000 acres of scrub. The co. took over from
Capt. Svensen seven years ago, and The Bulle-
tin's “Wild Cat” makes the estimate that in “six
years from now the co. should be earning 10 p.c.
on its present capital—£6o,ooo.” Frankly, is it
good enough to wait 13 years for 10 p.c. ? Many
other cos. will find themselves in a similar box if
something violent is not done soon. Many are
nourishing the idea that a big jump ’in copra prices
is going to make the garden bloom. The jump may
come. But it is well to note that costs are mov-
ing, moving steadily upwards, and labor is drifting
backwards. These are the worms that are going to
eat the joy out of the enhanced prices.
Up to date planting by companies in the Solo-
mons has been a weary business. Many of them
are of an age (nine to ten years) when comfortable
dividends should be materialising. But the mad
scratching for labor effectually prevents that.
Physically there is nothing wrong. The Solomons
are probably the best copra islands on earth. But
the lack of labor damns everything. At the present
moment, on the island of Vella Lavella, two plan-
tations of 400 and 600 acres respectively have 10
boys between them! Ten boys to 1000 acres! On
one of these estates during the last three months
it is estimated that 30 tons of copra has gone to
ruin for lack of labor to harvest it: 30 tons at
£24 = £720. And yet we talk of economy,
national elimination of waste, and Winning-the-
War!
Labor is the pivot. The Administration must be
shaken up. The ultra-paternal labor regulations
make it almost an impossibility to keep a grip upon
labor. Not only is it scarce, but it is less efficient
than formerly. It has deteriorated steadily during
the last few years owing to rotten laws and namby-
pambyism in excelsis. And what are the cos. going
to do about it? Are they going to take everything
lying down? Are tbev going to sit in their Austra-
lian offices and let their island estates go to perdi-
tion ? Much Australian capital has been poured into
the sink of the Solomons. If the cos. want to get
it back in the lifetime of present shareholders they
will have to get busy and start doing something. The
only thing to do is to shake up the Governments
concerned. If it is humanly impossible to get out-
side labor in, much can be done by putting the
present Solomons labor regulations into the dis-
card and starting a vigorous toning-up process. Out
off the dead hand of Fiji and let us work untram-
melled. The spirit of dry-rot, laissez-faire and
helplessness, which has characterised Solomons Ad-
ministration hitherto, should be dynamited. There
are signs that, given a free, discretionary hand,
new Commissioner Workman is the man to do it.
A scientific, constructive policy for native affairs
is called for. There are many men in this group
willing to give the Administration the benefit of
their experience if called upon to do so. In the
past business men have been discouraged—-they have
disturbed the slumbers of the Administration. The
individual planters have done their feeble best
through their organisation—the struggling Planters’
Association. It is up to the Australian cos. to lend
a hand; for they are the ones that are going- to get
it in the neck worst if something is not done soon.
Small people can scratch along where the big cos.
will starve.
By the way, about those 10 boys to 1000 acres,
wasn’t it Gov. Murray who reported to some Minis-
ter that the labor shortage in the Solomons was
“probably exaggerated”? Exaggerated!
: There’s a vague prospect of use
being made of the Nowa Nowa (Vic.) iron
and manganese deposits (B. 24/1 /’IS) before
our grandchildren’s time. The Broken Hill
Prop, has had its eye on the leases of the
Vie. Manganese Co. there. If Australia de-
cides that it is too great a bore to use the
stuff at home, U.S.A. may kindly take it off
her hands. The Bairnsdale Advertiser
says that an American syndicate has taken
a iease of some of the deposit and is thinking
about sending the manganese to U.S.A. The
States imported over 500,000 tons in 1910,
and are naturally looking round for sup-
plies.
With war came a slump in osmiridium,
which dropped from £ll. an oz. to £6 or £7,
and was hard to sell at that. But it is now
skied to £lB, and there’s a great scramble for
it in the creeks running into the Whyte and
Savage Rivers in the north-west of the
Speck, one of the few places in the world
where it is to be found. With water low in
the creeks the searchers have been getting
from Idwt. up to £oz. a day.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page SJf.)


CIMRIB
Vintage 1906 (
CfflflMffi
NE PLUS ULTRA
jh
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
438- P^ o rd£> tree V
V 22 0» street, =| dne y
£&?*•*-
! s< L,u Bea ch .,„.. c e.
A° d a \*eveW
m®
A WAR-TIME BEAUTY SECRET.
HOW TO LOOK BEAUTIFUL ON LESS
MONEY.
In these days of economy we welcome
anything which enables us to cut down ex-
penses, and many lady readers will gladly
accept my advice and try this excellent and
inexpensive recipe for the complexion. Any
chemist will mix it up for you, and it is
made up from 2oz. rose water, 1 dram tinc-
ture of benzoin and 2oz. flowers of oxzoin.
When well shaken it should be applied with
a sponge and allowed to dry, then dust the
face with a soft cloth. Even if you have
been using expensive creams, powders or
rouge, you will be surprised how much nicer
this lotion will make your complexion and
how delightfully smooth and soft your skin
will become under its influence. It will save
you money, too, because it takes the place,
in your daily toilet, of the best cream,
powder or rouge you can obtain, and the
cost is comparatively small. — Advt.
Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE*
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) „ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ ... 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <&. CHANDON.
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE 1906.
FESQ (Sb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
A WOMEN’S
LETTERS
Sydney, Febkuaky 11, 1918.
My Deak Akini, —
The King’s School held its annual com-
mem. last week. This was the first big
gathering at which the new headmaster’s
wife, Mrs. Pattinson, poured out tea after
the sports events. During the proceedings
came a message from old boys now in Pales-
tine. You’d expect a good khaki record from
King’s. Bishop Broughton had a big say in
the school when it was being incubated. He
was an old friend of Wellington, and the
latter, in writing his opinions of what was
most urgent in a new land, strongly advised
the cadet system. “Defence,” wrote the old
campaigner, “will be imperative, and should
be taught to every boy in a new land so far
from the Mother. Country.” Hence the first
compulsory trainees in Australia were the
Australian shrimps in the historic grey-and-
red uniform of the old King’s School.
M. V. Murphy, the plain, genial Aus-
tralian who administers Norfolk Island for
the Commonwealth without a cocked hat or
motor-cai’, is at present in Sydney. If any-
one offered Murphy a cocked hat or a braided
coat with gold lace on the tails he would
run five miles (the length of Norfolk) and
laugh all the way. One of his stories con-
cerns a respectful Island deputation that
put to sea in a whaleboat to meet a bygone
N. S. Wales Governor. A gale was blow-
ing, but the deputation held its belltopper
on with both hands —and then climbed aboard
the cruiser to find a sensible Excellency
awaiting them in a horribly crumpled cap.
Before he became an Administrator Mur-
phy was in the Lands Department, and
learnt his island, chain by chain, behind a
theodolite. The cable is laid on, but he
gets his papers by the barrowload once every
three months, and sighs mournfully when he
sees them coming.
There’s a welcome-back to Captain Car-
michael, M.L.A., on February 16. He’s on
leave, and will be purred over in the Con-
servatorium Hall.
Writing from Paris, where she is help-
ing the Distributing Committee with the
placing of France’s Day money, Miss
Soubeiran says:—
People take their sugar with them when they are
asked out to a meal. In a shop the other day I
waited to be served while the hands discussed a
fellow-worker who had flourished a fresh loaf under
their noses! “My dear,” gasped one, “she actually
let me smell it—then snatched it away!” You must
understand that no bread should be sold under 24
hours 01d....The gold—or some of it —that I was
allowed to bring from Australia caused a block in
a large shop. “Gold? Never! Can it be good?
From Australia, too! Surely not!” The cashier’s
desk was surrounded. “Yes,” said he, “it is indeed
gold!” In the teashops you see women produce
tiny medicine-bottles. These are full of milk, which
they add to their cups, for they could not buy it in
a chance way.
To the French-Australian League, which
has its headquarters in Macdonell House,
the real Australia speaks in quaint letters
from school-kiddies of Outback. One patriot
of 11 has, under his mother’s direction, been
a persistent pyjama-builder—his gift to
France. To the mercery he last week added
10s. from his money-box. Being a very human
little boy he is a stamp collector, and the
League, through Miss Gurney, has sent him
fodder for his album. Apologising for the
decoration which he, with infinite pains,
painted at the head of his last letter, young
conscientious Sunset says: “I didn’t waste
money on colored ink in war-time —the green
is dye, the yellow is the stuff advertised to
save eggs, the red and purple are washings
of inkbottles bought before the war.”
Remember a popular Frenchman named
Desc-hars? Was Consul here and lived
in Macleay-street crumpet-zone—years ago.
When the trouble began he took his place in
the early struggle to stem the invasion.
Badly wounded, he was sent to a hospital in
the track of the enemy legions. Seeing the
hideous brutality of the German soldier to
the wounded, he managed to stagger to his
feet and went into the open to remonstrate
with the officer in command. Speaking Ger-
man fluently he finished his appeal. Then
the High Command shot him where he stood.
A French-Australian woman now in Paris
says: “I have just seen Madame Deschars —
very pathetic in her widow’s weeds. The
tragic story of her husband’s death is one of
the never-to-be-forgoten memories of a ruth-
less f0e.... The sorrowful lady spends her
life looking after the needy in the poorest
quarter of Paris.”
One of the Mackinnon clan, of Derribong
station, a lieut. in the Reserve Household
Battalion, Windsor, was wed in November
fogs. He married Alva Gertrude Miller,
daughter of a lieut.-colonel formerly of the
Royal Marines.
Rockhampton, now reappearing over the
face of the Queensland flood-waters, recently
formed, under Miss Carr Boyd, a local
branch of the French-Australian League.
Just before the cyclone a picnic marked the
jump-off of the new depot. Result, a cheque
for £250, which got away before Rockhamp-
ton wanted Noah’s Ark to navigate its main
street.
After a long illness Mrs. Fanny Ranken
passed peacefully away in her both year. To
many Sydney writers and artists she was
the wonderful old lady—as young in spirit
as the youngest—whose picturesque and
vivid personality was one of the tonics of
life. Until 18 months or so ago her black
widow’s bonnet, with its graceful floating
veil, was a welcome sight in every gathering
of aesthetes. Slender to attentuation, her
activity at 77 was phenomenal. The large
blue-grey eyes, almost undimmed by time,
were a magnet that drew even comparative
strangers towards the keen intelligence that
dissected everything—from a doubtful piece
of early Australian history to a new fashion.
In a loose, patchwork way she collected
everything that had even a sentimental link
with the land she loved so well. Her father
was a British General; her husband, whom
she married in Scotland, became something
of consequence in “the Lands.”
A few of the season’s swallows are flying
home. The Archbishop Wright family, after
going to Tasmania in relays, is settling
down again in relays. A battalion of Judges
will get back by the end of February. Local
society will recover from its exertions in the
surf and on the hilltops to look at the
autumn fashions early in March.
Dugald Bertie, a brother of the useful
municipal librarian, has been enticed to take
his law books to Port Moresby; and he went
north last week. For these last few years
he has been practising with father-in-law
Crommelin at wheaty Grenfell.
It’s not all ledgers and exchanges with
the young women in the banks. A few weeks
ago the Commonwealth Bank girls tried their
racquets and challenged and beat the Com-
mercial girls at the nets. This Saturday the
Bank of N. S. Wales fastened a pale-blue
band round her hat and asked the royal
blues of the Commonwealth adding machines
to “come on and do it again.” The royal
blues, however, weren’t in it. Probably the
inter-State badge on the jersey sported by
one of the. N. S. Welshwomen had an awe-
inspiring effect. Anyway, the game ended
in a slashing victory for Russell French’s
girls. Oh, no, the boys at the Front were
not forgotten: £3O was collected and handed
to keep the gas-stove of the Anzac Buffet
burning.
The new matron
of Prince Alfred
Hospital, Miss Phyl-
lis Boissier, has a
big task ahead of
her. P.A.H. is a
village rather than
a hospital, and its
girth increases as
each year goes by.
Australia has only
made complete dis-
covery of the rare
ability of her own
trained nurses since
the war. But now,
already, the local
Nightingale is
almost a prophetess
in her own land. Pro-
bably no member of
the A.T.N.A. is better fitted than Sister
Boissier to take charge of the big hamlet of
sick in the Sydney Uni. grounds. Trained in
P.A.H., she left it to go as matron to the
Manly Hospital. When the war came the
Sydney woman volunteered for service. Iu
Egypt she went through the strenuous days
at Gezira and Mena, when the wounded
poured in as fast as they could be handled,
and often faster, and the rush from tragic
Gallipoli broke down the strongest nurses.
At last to Sister Boissier came the alterna-
tive —a return to Australia or on to England.
She chose the latter. In London at the 4th
General Hospital, and in France, this dis-
tinguished sister rendered further conspicu-
ous service.
Of one great rush of wounded Miss
Boissier says: “Opposite us was the British
Hospital—all English, matron and staff, ex-
eept for one Australian sister. Word came
that a thousand wounded had suddenly to
be prepared for. Tents were rushed up. and
the matron went to —whom do you think?
Our Sister, the one Australian girl she had,
and regretfully took her from the operating-
room. “You are the Sister I can rely on to
cope with this rush—please take over.” It
pimply means that the Australian girl is
more versatile, and therefore quicker in
coping with the unexpected, than nurses who
have been brought up in more conventional
surroundings.
The new matron of P.A.H., whose little
picture is by Gordon Swan, wears the Royal
Red Cross for her splendid work in Egypt,
“Boissier? The name is French?” said the
King as he pinned it on. “Yes —we were
French. But that was nearly 500 yeats
ago.”
The Veterans’
Home at La Perouse
costs, under the ex-
cellent management
of Sergeant Gordon
Allan, a soldier
gassed in the early
days in France, about
£23 a month. This
comes from private
benefactors, who have
the privilege of see-
ing the brave old
soldiers end their
days in comfort. The
youngest of the lads
is 80 and still active.
Why not? The old-
est is 90, and when
he came into town to
go before Judith
Fletcher’s camera lie scorned the ease of a.
chair. Here lie is—-Corporal Richard Cow-
ham, who fought with the 40tli Foot in the
Maori and other wars. The old soldier is
grandfather of well-known black-and-white
artist Hilda Cowham.
Another Australian throws in his lot very
shortly with a lady in a cap ana apron. She
is Matron Sophie Kelly, of the Biggart
Memorial Hospital in Ayrshire, Scotland. He
is Captain Philip Potts, A.1.F., who won a
decoration a while ago in France. In pre-
war days the mild-mannered young man
steered a concert co. round this State.
Going through the Engineers’ Officers’
Training-school here is 11. C. Cardew,
F.E.G.S., lately on special duty in Papua.
Cardew belongs to an English family which
iias contributed 16G men to the firing-line.
London Times not so long ago referred to
the decorations of this contingent of rela-
tives, who have gained everything from the
K.C.M.G. up to the Military Cross. Cardew,
who enlisted as a sapper, was in the search
for Stanifortli Smith in Papua some years
ago, with Beaver and Ryan : the former has
since been killed in France, the latter has
been twice wounded. The F.R.G.S. man
married a younger daughter of Captain R.
A. Wakeford, a well-known Queenslander
lately returned from transport duty.
Word comes of a scoop made by the naval
authorities at Malta. They have secured our
ex-Governor Strickland’s eldest treasure
Mary as typist, shorthand writer and general
rouseabout at nothing per annum. It is
unlikely the stony isle contains another sec-
retary so proficient and so gifted as a lin-
guist. The younger Strickland girls are
getting the same business training from
their peep-o’-dawn father. But blue-eyed
Mary has the Australian experience behind
her.' As a confidential secretary, rarely off
duty, to the tireless Governor who made
work as other men make play, she left in
this State profound admirers of the ability
and energy which she now gives to her
country.
Director Mann, of the National Gallery,
is so spinning the web of the forthcoming
Loan Exhibition that even the most remotely-
possible exhibitor is not likely to escape.
The object is to show the strides made by
x\ustralian artists within the last 25 or 30
years. Conder, Streeton, Fullwood, Phillips
Fox, George Lambert, Tom Roberts, David
Davies (now in London), Longstaff, and
every Commonwealth brush man of note will
be represented. James Dyer, of Melbourne,
is lending some valuable pictures ; so are the
Vic. National Gallery Trustees and Baldwin
Spencer and Mrs. Louis Abrahams, of the
Southern city.
Mrs. Langer Owen’s death left a gap on
the Edith Cavill Home Committee, where
she represented the executive of the Red
Cross. Mrs. George Lee steps into the
vacant place. Mr. Owen has taken daughter
Gladys off to Maoriland for a few weeks.
The Rosalind Black ward in the Lady
Edeline Hospital for babes at Vaucluse was
opened this mid-week. It is named after the
kindly woman, formerly a trained nurse, and
wife of George Black, M.L.C., whose recent
death is so much lamented. The necessary
remarks came from J. D. Fitzgerald, Minis-
ter for Public Health.
There’s a dark-eyed girl in a blue hat and
a lad with a yellow hibiscus over one ear
who ought not to be parted. Pastel sketches
by Mary Edwards in Tahiti, they hang side
by side in Albers’ rooms in Bond-street and
represent this youthful artist’s best work.
Since she left Sydney for the Isles of Lots of
Time Mary’s brush has slapped on the color
at a great rate. The Papeete native —slip-
pery as a buttered eel when you try to pin
him to an appointment—is depicted in a
score of pastels and a few water-colors. After
seeing this lot aboard an Australian-bound
steamer Mary took her easel inland. The
Papeete native is too blasA After much
coaxing to sit, the Very Tired frequently
says: “I mind not that you do it if you give
me the picture when it is done !”
The almost uncanny calm of Menangle is
once more to be broken in upon with swords,
camels, bands and the dust of battle gener-
ally. All of these things are to happen on
Friday, February 22, when General Jack
Antill and his following tender the second of
those Picnic Gymkhanas which, from now on,
are to be monthly fixtures at the Light Horse
camp.
The Highland Society’s rooms held a
gathering that launched a testimonial fund
for Walter Bentley. The old Scotch actor
has been a very sick man for many months,
and the Campbells (and others) are coming
to the rescue.
The Highland Society, in the dull season,
is contemplating a Carlyle Society. James
Mackenzie is behind the suggestion.
Tulle, which has been a stupendous re-
vival this last year or more—no 1918 bride
may go to the sacrifice without a tulle or
georgette gown to support her —is one of
the few things left to us at a normal price.
Why or how it has escaped while everything
else from beef to button-hooks has suffered
no one can tell me. Has it been forgotten
by some strange chance? All I know is it
will be cheaper to dress the ham bone in it
than in frilled paper if paper gets much
dearer.
Mrs. Jeanie Dane, who died at Mosman the
other day, was a daughter of the late Sam
Cook, the old S. M. Herald identity who
was for many years general manager. Jeanie
married an American citizen, Major Dane,
and went to U.S.A. Left a widow before
very long residence over there, she returned
to Sydney full, of enthusiasm for the ’Mur-
kan way of running Free Kindergartens.
Until heart-trouble laid her aside Mrs. Dane
took a leading part in the Sydney movement
to better the lives of the children of mean
streets.
“Australia Jane’s” Brisbane gossip:—
Sister Eileen King, daughter of an ex-Commis-
sioner for Railways, has been awarded the Military
Medal—some consolation for a bad wound she re-
ceived from a bomb which the gentle Hun aimed at
the red cross above her station.
Paul Brady, son of A. B. Brady, of Brisbane, and
in the Cable Service at Halifax, was a victim of the
great munitions explosion in the Nova Scotian capital.
He is still suffering from numerous cuts and bruises,
and his face is badly scarred. However, he reckons
he was lucky, for 250 people around him were
totally blinded. Young Brady walked about the
streets for nearly three hours before medical atten-
tion could be had; then he found a nurse who
bandaged him temporarily. He says the worst feature
was that some of the tragedy happened in a blizzard,
the temperature dropping to two degrees.
The Young Women’s Christian Association is about
to appeal for £25,000 to erect a building on a site
it owns in Ann-street. The association has gone
along for 16 years in rented rooms, and, although it
now has a membership of over 700, this is not the
time to pass the hat round for £25,000. Hasn’t the
Y.W.C.A. heard of the comforts funds for Billjim
that are languishing for want of cash?
Passed out, aged 81, Mrs. Annie Bain, a fine old
pioneer of the Toowoomba district. Left with a
young family of eight by the death of her husband,
this gritty woman made a success of farming. Her
five sons are all well known in business circles in
N. S. Wales and this State.
Fred Bean, son of Police-Magistrate Dean and
popular old boy of Brisbane Grammar, has been
killed in action. He was a well-known solicitor in
the Ayr, Townsville and Charters Towers districts.
Brother Harry, formerly of the Charters Towers
School of Mines, is returning to Australia, wearing
an artificial leg.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


*>
f
a
\
m
w&®B’iPifi@a
*3ii
ft ! -
@|
■•’ V ‘^'
jgBSBBB
w
§m s
mm
■U'
>.:>
gHil
IK
-mm
m
SfJ&sSS
i?
.iy&jjfs&'SJW:
Sw
WMmm
- ;
SB
S9B
1
HMfi
■
: rV+S'A* V&'rvJ
»Sri*flSßK
efttfeafias*.
§s***sBfe
sHiii
If s
■ t n' :; -
g m
mm
WSR
r&M
K 5
• ;*• sn. 5 n . i/ VtSSSj
* **• • V-;" •’vSl-V^v'
-* *» i • * '/•'•; ?’£•.•*'
,*33
’.-?/■
*§|P
,-k.
J-.'i-.
f-'vsSi
'•: V
IT’S no use “Humming and Ha-ing”
I about it when it comes to the question
of your Suit. You want the best you can
get for your money. You won tbe satis-
fied with anything else. And quite right
too! These are days when one has to con-
sider economy, but fortunately economy
does not mean taking “slop-made or
badly-tailored Suits. Real economy
is effected by buying the best —and buy-
ing it at Joe Taylor’s keen prices.
Joe Taylor Suits
From £44-
Joe Taylor Costumes
From £s|s|.
JUST to let you into the know a bit, we may say
that Joe Taylor is particularly fortunate in the
matter of the stocks he holds. Immense shipments,
bought for two States, at the keenest possible bedrock,
spot-cash prices—long before the heavy rises forced
prices up to their present high level enable him
to give values absolutely unapproachable by the
ordinary tailor.
The quality of Joe Taylor tailoring is so well
known that it needs no “boosting.” Anyhow,
every Suit or Costume he creates is sold under
pis positive guarantee of Your Money Back if
the Suit or Costume is not right.”
Don’t waste time. It’s a case of hustling if
you want to get your order in at the present
favorable prices.
Fill in the Coupon
in the opposite
corner, cut out
and mail to
JOE TAYLOR,
THE TAILOR,
95 King Street,
SYDNEY,
or
109 Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
€
#
Ta
lor
“Seven Busy Tailoring Stores”
95 King Street, Sydney.
109 BourKe Street
69 Swanston Street, Melbourne
And at
FOOTSCRAY, BRUNSWICK, RICHMOND and NORTH MELBOURNE.
Patterns, please Mr. Taylor.
Name
Address
Suit or Costume
Shade
Price about
Bulletin, 14/2/’lB.


CHaminaoe
OURUBAI"
Sgggg^icaggl
FBI.
Farmer’s Perfumery department holds very complete stocks
of the most dainty and exquisite toilet requisites, including
choicest English and French per-
fumes, Eau-de-Cologne, bath crystals,
toilet powders and creams, etc.
Articles such as those illustrated
make ideal and acceptable gifts.
Farmer's, Sydney,
PRI. Moray's Chaminade Bath
Crystals.
PRICES 7/6, 17/6, 35/-
PR2, Yardley’s Eau-de-Cologne.
PRICE 10/6
PR3. Lazell’s Sachet Powder, lily of
valley, rose or lilac. PRICE, 6/6
FR2.
FK3
m
leltoman
HIGH-CLASS
[SPECIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
kjh
E. BROWN @ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
NO MORE INDIGESTION.
BENEFICIAL RESULTS ACHIEVED
BY BISURATED MAGNESIA.
Soon we may hear no more of indigestion,
dyspepsia, heartburn, flatulence, wind or
similar forms of digestive and stomach
troubles, for really excellent results are being
obtained from the use of a simple antacid
known as bisurated magnesia Quite a typi-
cal instance of the efficacy of this product is
contained in a letter recently sent us by Mr.
W. J. Marktelow, of Newstead, Waikato,
Auckland, who says: “I suffered with pains
in my stomach for 20 years, and although I
visited doctors both in New Zealand and
England I obtained no lasting benefit until
I tried bisurated magnesia. That was about
three years ago ; and although I am 03 years
of age, bisurated magnesia still keeps me
well, and I would not be without it.” Simi-
lar cases are reported almost daily, and it is
now regarded as certain that the old unsatis-
factory methods of treatment, such as diet-
ing and drugging, will soon become obsolete,
for whereas drugs merely alleviate the symp-
toms, bisurated magnesia removes the cause
of the trouble. That is to say, it neutralises
the harmful acid in the stomach, stops the
food fermenting, dispels wind and soothes
and heals the inflamed stomach lining. To
accomplish these desirable results it is only
necessary to take half a teaspoonful of the
bisurated magnesia in a little water after
meals—no alteration in diet need be made.
It is important, though, that sufferers should
ask the chemist very distinctly for bisurated
magnesia, as, of course, the results men-
tioned could not be expected from ordinary
forms of magnesia, such as the acetates or
citrates.—AnvT.
SORELLE,
T. & G. Buildings, Park St.,
SYDNEY,
announces
AUTUMN & WINTER
SHOW
COMMENCING
Monday, February 18.
Including
Exclusive French Models
in
Coats and Skirts, Evening and
Day Dresses.
Also
LATEST DESIGNS IN MILLINERY 4
Miss GRACE PALOTTA will be in attendance.
Public Notice.
AUSTRALIAN BANKERS' LEAGUE.
IT is proposed to form a League of Bank Employees
with the object of securing better pay and ?® n ,
sions, etc. The League will be controlled by retired
bankers. There are 9500 bank employees in Aus-
tralia. Correspondence, anonymous or signed, wtucn
will be confidential, is invited with information an
suggestions, addressed to George D. Meudell, Acting
Secretary, 9 Scotts Court, Melbourne.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, February 11, 191 S.
My Dear Yarrie,—
By the death of Lady Helen’s brother, the
Marquis of Dufferin, Lord Frederick Black-
wood succeeds to the title. Lord Freddie
came here as military secretary to the Com-
monwealth Excellency, but returned to
England to join the army when the war
began. He has been wounded several times.
After having spent a fortnight, quiet as a
mouse, in a St. Kilda private hospital, Ex-
cellency Stanley’s lady is holiday-making
at Sorrento. Don’t ask me what was her
malady, because I don’t know. So little
has been happening socially of late that
sassiety, for the most part, was not aware
that her Ladyship was ill until it was an-
nounced that she was well.
Marjorie Heinbockel Raphael’s first pro-
minent public appearance since her return
from London was made in the District Court
the other day when Melbourne’s most expen-
sive tailor sued her for £36, representing the
cost of a gown, dressing-gown and shawl,
alleged to have been purchased in October,
1911. Marjorie, arrayed in diaphanous
draperies, held the attention of numerous
legal rushlights when she entered the box
and explained languidly that, although she
had received £l2OO a year as a marriage
settlement, her present allowance was “no-
where near that.” Further questions, which
borod the fair witness almost to yawns, :
elicited that she was now scraping along on
£5O a month, and had only £8 or £9* in the
bank. The Court, having succeeded in
repressing Marjorie when she sought to go
into details anent her marriage settlement,
mentioned that the amount would have to
be paid at the rate of £lO a month. Counsel
for the tailor alleged that the lady had a
passport which would enable her to leave
for England immediately. Wonderful, my
dear, how some of us can secure these
precious documents, while others are told
severely that anything of the kind is not to
be thought of—even when we are wearing
our nicest hats. But Marjorie announced
that she had no intention of returning to ,
England for three years at least.
Charley Wallace has sold his beautiful
.yacht, The Bona (named after the lady who
later became the heroine of the famous
divorce drama), to 11. B. Howard Smith,
chairman of directors of the firm that con-
trols the good ship Edina and other levia-
thans.
Another step towards Winning the War
was taken the other day by the Equestrian
Chib, when it ambled quietly across to the
Caulfield racecourse and had its picture
taken for the movies. The most striking
effect was provided by Mrs. George Johnston,
whose General is just back from France on
furlough, putting her nag at a jump or two.
side by side with Mrs. Herbert Embling,
wife of the new Base Hospital O.C. Mrs.
Johnston was on a side-saddle and Mrs.
Embling a-straddle. The om way may wake
tender memories in dad and but the
new way looks more acceptable in the eyes of
the rising generation, which takes its best
girl in riding-pants quite as a matter of
course.
The matronly V.A.D’s who work under
deah Lady Helen have struggled into their
new uniforms, after a long and strenuous
chase to find enough of the correct khaki
to cover their buxom figures. The khaki
is “piped” with red. A large detachment
of the ladies gathered for lunch the other
day in Collins-street, and then went out to
help open a new military hospital at Heidel-
berg. Collins-street thought it was Mel-
bourne’s Battalion of Death.
Boomerang Day happens on Friday, and
a big “bag” is expected. Mrs. Barry Thomp-
son and Mrs. Merson Cooner have snared
The Girls Who Stayed at Home for their
afternoon party at xvlenzies’; but the Girls
Who Didn’t will probably be found just as
capable brigands elsewhere.
A very handsome woman has just come to
town. She is Mrs. Laidlaw, and her husband
is an imported expert in horticultural pests.
Mrs. Laidlaw, besides being handsome, is
rich, being related on her father’s side to a
factory of most popular golf balls.
The Percy Thiels are over from Sydney
putting in some time at farm life in Gipps-
land. The small Thiel daughter has put up
her hair and shortened her frocks to modern
grown-up length. Dad is motoring them
about, and occasionally they do some sea-
fishing. They’ll roll down to Melbourne for
the March races and then trundle back to
Sydney. That’s the way to farm.
The Australian Red Cross has just estab-
lished a convalescent camp near Port Said,
with recreation tents where up-to-date Aus-
tralian papers are a special feature.
Myra Merfield has now added LL.B. to
her train. One of our very first women
B.A.’s, she has spent years coaching other
students, and studied law all through the
drudgery.
Consul Barros, of Chile, has been toiling
like a theatrical agent for the Red Cross.
The tireless young bachelor has been rejected
for active service abroad, so he does his bit
by raking in hundreds' of pounds for the war
funds. Last week he collected a crate of
popular actresses and mounted guard out-
side a popular Bourke-street chiffon store
where all-nation dolls were displayed in a
window; then he set the girls selling art-
union tickets. La 11a De Beere, Winifred
La France and Fayette Perry got rid of
heaps of books, while Mrs. Watt and Mrs.
Saunders did some chaperoning. The art-
union is to be drawn on February 27 in the
Town Hall, and there will be a cafe chan-
tant and a concert surrounding it.
Senator Pearce, his wife and all the family
returned last week from the West to their
home. They found the fence blown down,
the chooks all killed, the garden uprooted by
the mad wind, and Colonel Sands and his
wife (Honorary caretakers), repeating dis-
mally : “And we had it in splendid order for
you!”
Big manager Borrowman, of the Trustees
and Executors Co., is rejoicing over the re-
turn of his Anzac son. After losing a limb
in the field, young Borrowman begged for a
wai; billet which could be managed with one
arm; and he added nearly a year to his
“bit” before giving up.
The youngest of the four Fred Godfrey
sisters had the ill-luck to be caught in the
Brighton cyclone. She was buried beneath
the rotunda, which collapsed on top of her,
and it took six men to unpin the victim. She
has been slowly 7 recovering at Toorak from
shock and bruises.
Dr. Macansli’s wife, ill in bed just before
the cyclone tried to flatten Brighton, had
been allowed to sit up for half an hour that
afternoon. The permit probably saved her
life, for her bed was smashed by a falling
beam..
This summer Portsea seems to be the
smartest refuge on our coast. Aquaplaning
is the sport there. Tim bather or batheress
stands on a board holding a pair of reins
while a motor-boat tows at top speed. The
difficulty is to keep up your position, and
there is always the delicious danger of a
stray shark. The girleens’ water suits are
getting a bit more Ostendy, and it’s about
time, too. Amongst the leading mermaids
are little Mrs. Jack McComas, from Gee-
long ; Marie De Bavay. an intrepid swim-
mer ; and Girlie Felstead and her pal, the
Nathan daughter. Further along, near Sor-
rento, Mrs. Leslie Stuart, with a touch of
green on her smart swimming rig, dips more
sedately. There is always a gallery of in-
valided Anzacs spelling at Point Nepean to
applaud these sea nymphs.
Lieutenant Gilbert McKinley, one of our
original legionaries, gets back this week or
next for a brief rest in the family humpy at
Brighton. It will be a sad homecoming, as
his elder and younger brothers have both
died soldiers’ deaths. Brother Harry, also
an Anzac, is still in the field; but cousin
Rob McKinley sleeps under a wooden cross
at Bullecourt. Gilbert won his Military
Medal and commission in France. His mother
organised the Y.A.I). movement in Victoria,
and is the official head.
Cousin Adelaide’s confidences :
Two young scientists who have come very much
to the front during the war are Dr. Robertson, now
of California University, and W. Bragg, both South
Australians. The former has discovered a way to
heal wounds which has proved its value to French
and American experts; and Bragg- has perfected an
instrument by which concealed artillery can be dis-
covered. At present the latter young man (he’s in
his twenties) is in Fran«e, teaching gunners how he
does it. His only brother was killed in France in
the early days of the war. Dr. Robertson married a
daughter of the Edward Stirlings. Another one-time
South Australian to give a good account of himself
is Professor T. Hudson Beare, who has been handed a
civic honor for notable services to Edinburgh.
Recently he spent some weeks in France, and has
just gone over again at Haig’s special invitation.
He’s an Engineer.
Lieut. Talbot Bruce, of the Royal Flying Corps,
reported missing in early November, is now known
to be a prisoner in Germany.
Captain d’Erlanger, Lady Galway’s son, who, while
on sick leave, has been acting as A.D.O. to the
Governor, has been ticketed as “fit to travel,” and
has booked to rejoin his unit, a machine-gun corps.
News is from England of the death at Bourne-
mouth of E. H. Wainwright, who joined the Westing-
house Co., Manchester, after finishing his School of
Mines course here. He enlisted in the Royal London
Fusiliers, and was detailed for duty at Vicars’
munition works, where, putting in long hours on
heavy work, he suffered a breakdown. He was on
sick-leave when he died.
After all, Dalgety's old building in Grenfell-street
is not to be the Soldiers’ Club. What happened is
not quite clear, but the Federal Government appar-
ently allowed its option of a five years’ lease to
lapse, and someone else stepped in. Now, a placating
tongue says that negotiations are in progress for
“more satisfactory” premises.
Renmark has been taking an unofficial census, and
finds that out of its 2500 or so inhabitants 550 have
enlisted. Of these nearly 50 have been killed, one
has annexed the V.C., and there is a considerable
sprinkling of other decorations.
John Lewis, M.L.C., has given the Wattle Day
League the painting “Golden-Tufted Wattle,” by
Mrs. Follen-Bishop (Florence Fitzgerald). Which
reminds me that the Wattle Day League’s secretary,
Mrs. Jeanne F. Young, who is also our most tireless
advocate of effective voting, is to be a candidate for
an Assembly seat at the elections.
The first of their receptions to returned soldiers
was given by the Mayor and Mrs. Glover at the
Town Hall on Friday evening. The party included
all the Billjims and nurses who have come back since
mid-November.
On the same date we had our first Button Day for
the year. The Soldiers’ Home at Fullarton was the
objective, and the sales were helped by a swimming
carnival on the following day.
Dear old Canon Andrews, just dead at 87, was a
younger brother of Judge Andrews, of a past genera-
tion. Ordained by Bishop Short in 1855, there was
never a sensation in his long, spotless career.
Squatter Quin lias just been requested to
get readv the fifth trousseau in the family.
Daughter Edith has accepted the usual lmlf-
hoop from Alec Langlands, who is back on
the paternal acres at Wangaratta acreage
after a spell of soldiering. The news of the
prospective wedding drifted in soon after
dad had written cheques for the bridal trap-
pings of daughter Merita, who hitched up
last month with her flight-lieutenant. The
sixth Miss Quin is sheltering with sister
Tarella Quin Daskein on her Never Never
station.
Hon. Major Frank de Yilliers Lamb, Red
Cross Commissioner, now in England, sends
word that he will soon be marrying Una
Barron, daughter of Mrs R. B. Barron, of
Harlow, Essex. Frank is one of Dalgety’s
bright young men, and set out for Egypt on
Red Cross work in the early stages of the
War. He is one of the numerous flocks of
Lambs which carpet the N. S. Wales pas-
tures, and is related to some of the purest
merinoes.
The wedding service has been read over
to our Alison Smith in London. Alison
lately married Arthur Deasy, a younger son
of the late Sir Gerald Deasy, of Aldridge
Abbey, Ireland. The Smiths were Toorakese
who also owned their own place on fashion-
able Upper Macedon.
Dorothy Robinson, daughter of R. T.
Robinson, K.C., the Westralian Attorney-
General, has been V.A.D.-ing in England.
She lately stopped war work long enough to
marry Captain Fay, of Melbourne, who
stepjfbd over from France for the ceremony.
Let us talk of something else
Milkmen arc anathema.
My window is set high in a wall; yet far below,
on the stones of the cavernous road, reverberate the
foundation-shaking rumble of the milkmen’s carts.
Before dawn, before the sleepy birds get moving in
the big pepperina opposite, they start.
There are 20 houses in our street and 20 milkmen
pass. One man, horse, cart and burst of cataclysmic
clatter to each household. If milkmen co-operated,
wouldn’t that be a dream! There’d be one volcanic
rumble to one street, the passing of the one lone
milkman; and then peace, pifrfect peace, until
“Butch-er-r-r!”
Your own milk-o is always the last. The bottled
milk-o may bang the doors of his ice cart at three
in the morning; the yodelling fiend may pass at
four, and the cheerful coot who bawls “This is the
Life!” get into action at five, while the nondescripts
keep up the soul-stirring cavalcade; but you wait
your own milk-o in vain. Useless to yearn for milk
in your tea if you go to chase an early-morning
train. None other than your own true knight will
stop at your door —the knight whose gage js the
three-and-thruppenny weekly account. The singing
kr.ights swing on their way. Not for them to stay
at the beckon of ye lily hand of ye fayre ladye at
ye high window. They turn not aside; they pursue
the Grail.
All milkmen are aggressive except the exception.
He was discovered one dewy dawn. -A particularly
irritating chanting of “The Long, Long Trail” dragged
me to the balcony. Rip Van Winkle sat in that
milk-o cart. He was bowed and wrinkled—an old,
old man. His beard was white and flowing. As his
cart bumped and rattled, his old voice quavered:
“There’s a long, long trail.” It was Rip Van
Winkle. He had been a milk-o in his youth and had
reared fine milk-o sons and blossoming milk-o grand-
sons. Then a war had come; their country called
them. Rip, wakening from a century’s sleep, found
himself left to handle the ribbons and the pint-pot
of the business. “It’s a long, long trail.”
Poor, plucky old Rip ! I hope the milk cans were
well covered. The big, ridiculously-emotional tear
which splashed down to that cart may have caused
a fine. I hope not.
The hat is going round for tenor Walter
Kirby, lately in hospital and for months out
of collar. While the letter is being debated
around SassietyV tea-tables, the recent
patient is touring Tasmania and giving con-
certs.
Gastritis has forced Barry Lupino into a
private hospital, and his place in the “Alad-
din” panto, is taken by Bert Barton, an
agile young man who ordinarily appears as
the Magician.
Mrs. “Captain” Ellis, who runs the Coli-
seum picture theatre at Ballarat, shared the
managerial pen at the King’s on Thursday
night with two men and two kookaburras.
These birds, Jack and Jill, have been trained
to laugh when ordered to do so by the lady,
and at intervals throughout the show they
did noble work as claqueurs. The witticisms
of Lupino and Bailey provoked loud guffaws
from Jack Jackass and peals of shrill merri-
ment from Jill Jackass, moving Bert Bailey
to remark, on the spur of a couple of hours,
“It takes an Australian to appreciate a
joke.” .
A packed house welcomed “The Rajah ot
Shivapore” to the Princess’s. Fritz Hart
had a party in the managerial crib, and the
box underneath housed Mrs. Charley Wen-
man and her ma. Fred Newman, the dia-
mond-selling bachelor, of whom feminine
Melbourne has almost despaired, was in the
stalls; and Mrs. Ernest Scott (Emily Dya-
son when she plays the piano) had her
Professor with her in the circle. Six Syd-
ney Conservatorium girls, who revel in their
work, produced a volume of sweet sound equal
to that supplied by an average chorus of
twice the size. Alfred Hill conducted, and
his musicianly hair was in a state of wild
disorder when he thanked the audience at
the finish and exploded the old-established
rumor that he is a Maorilander. Alfred ex-
plained that he was born in Richmond,
whereupon the gallery cheered and reckoned
’e was a bonzer bloke.
Widower Jim Allison is showing the
sights of Melbourne to dainty little Fayette
Perry. Fayette makes a Rotten Row of
Alexandra Avenue, driving along there
every morning. She airs a different motor-
ing rig-out every trip.
Actress Marie Ney, of the Allan Wilkie
co., is mourning for her small pet tortoise
that used to accompany her to tea-parties
perched on her shoulder or InuUen up her
sleeve. Marie is dressing in purple with
spots these days. Suppose that is the cor-
rect mourning for tortoises.
Tours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—still going strong
\
c. '
X
&
L
<1
/
*
V/
4/
Vu
"A
/
iT77O>
> 1
A' *!
\
s
'Ur
\V
\
JL
r
7
£
s
:
7,
ia
r
EO
v
Johnnie Walker (to his host): “What is the matter with my doleful friend ? ”
Mr. Merryman : “Why! He was afraid you could not come.”
Johnnie Walker : “He should understand that, like love, congenial spirits
laugh at locksmiths.”
JOHN WALKER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KTLMARNOCK, Scotland


Be Prepared for COLDS and SORE THROATS.
The phenomenal rains and winds recently experienced all over Australia are sure to result in
an epidemic of colds and sore throats, which will call for prompt treatment. The possibility of penu-
°4 1 ' Tu 11 coemption being contracted as a consequence of a neglected cold is an ever-present
he relfer) 0 ?.i th ® c °" iml,rllt - v . Bllt need not be so, as the prompt use of Heenzo mav
cfeTf+uf 1 - UP +v? Cl< T V a cok ! when the first symptoms of attack are felt. As soon as the tickling
tathfi ce ln . v | he t ? roat . or sneezln S indicates that you have caught cold, you should lose no time in
taking something for it. If you are wise that something will be.
HEENZO
REGISTERED NAME for...\
MEAN’S ESSENCE/
The Famous MONEY.SAVING REMEDY for
Coughs, Colds, Croup, Catarrh and other Chest and Throat Troubles.
. 6000 USERS OF HEENZO have writen from all parts of Australia expressing thanks for
the speedy relief derived from the use of this efficacious and economical remedy in cases of Asthma,
Bronchitis, Influenza, Whooping Cough and Inflamed Throats, even after other treatments had been
tried on vain for months.
■IB SXSOO
SAVES 10/-
Each bottle of HEENZO (Hean s Essence) when added to water and sweetened according to
easy directions printed on the label, produces a pint of splendid mixture for Coughs, Colds and Sore
Throats. A pint of ordinary mixtures would cost at least 12s. HEENZO (Hean’s Essence) costs
only 25., and is obtainable from chemists and stores everywhere, or by post from G. W. HE\N
Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, or Wanganui, New Zealand. ' ’
King George IV
* unv m WHISKY
a
k
THe TOP_NOTCH SCOTCH
A SAFE PROTECTOR
A BORIGIN-
ALITIES
MORAL:
If you will do a sly bit of punting, don’t
tell the missus which horse you bached —if it
doesn’t win.
“Jimmie Pannikin” : One most interesting
and instructive phase of Nature-study, viz., the pro-
pagation and cultivation of native fruit and native
flowers, has received very little attention in our
N. S. Wales country schools. There are a few
enthusiasts who have had great success in growing
native trees, shrubs, vines and flowers about their
school-grounds. Frederick Bridge, of Gloucester Pub-
lic School, and Arnold Weber, of lionibor Public
School, in the Manning District, raised some native
vines, especially the lovely Hardenbergia mono-
phylla, with striking success. The vines make great
response to cultivating, manuring, etc. Here in
Pannikin Park I have growing as large and healthy
a wild clematis as I ever saw. Last Spring it was
indeed a glory unto God. I transplanted it, from
the bush, about 18 months ago. Harry L. Fry, of
Gordon Public School, grows glorious Christmas-
bush in his garden at Gordon. Probably many Aus-
tialian flowers and fruits could be improved almost
out of lecognition. Here s work to fire the enthusi-
asm of our bush-loving Australian lads and lassies
and to slake the importing mania.
* * * *
“Pick”: To “Condamine” (B. 10/1/T8),
who wants to know if 96,000 flying-foxes would make
a lecoid flight, I can only say that, judging from the
mviiads 1 once saw pouring out of a jungle at
Wagonga (N.S.W.), his little lot were only a few
advance scouts. We were fishing in the Narooma.
Just before sundown a whirring noise like distant
surf arose from a gully southward, and then the
foxes began to appear. For about an hour their
flight threw a dark shadow over the valley. They
soared fiom just over our heads to as high as we
could see, and when darkness hid them thev had not
ceased streaming from the bush. Some time later a
party was organised to attack this fox haunt. The
Government assisted with £lO worth of ammunition,
but a bushfire had dispersed the camp, and as the
cartridges had to be used the shooters gave the
parrots and satin-birds gyp.
*
“F.N.T.”; Another imported tree is hang-
ing out signals of distress. The plane, with which
so many of Melbourne’s suburban streets are planted,
has acquired a disease which promises to bring
about the visitor’s extermination, Having no more
profitable business on hand —never mind the St.
John’s wort and the Scotch thistle—Lands Minister
Frank Clarke is calling a conference of tree-experts,
municipal Bumbles and nurserymen to save the plane-
tree from its doom. All this confabbing costs money,
of course; but the State must keep its planes and
its oaks and elms, even though they do work only
half-time on their job of providing shade and orna-
ment.
“Makutu”: The younger generation of
Maoii has not, in spite of what some pakehas may
write, entirely lost the faith in, or dread of, the
tohunga’s evil eye and baleful influence. Taumutu,
up in the Lakes Country, told me some time ago he
was at particular pains to keep sweet with a certain
old man, whom he named, because of that aged
blighter’s command over the powers of evil. “If
R tells me to go and die,” he said, “I’d have to
g ? „ and , clie! l,se kicking—l just go and
die.” There are cases even in these days
where a young girl or man has refused all
food and declined away into the Reinga as
the result of the “comether” being put on them
by some venerable rascal, in pursuance of a quarrel
or squaring of a tribal account. But the really
competent practitioners of the black art are verv
few these days. I could name several reliable
cursers, warranted to kill by the mere projection of
the will, but refrain from mentioning them since
they mightn’t be above suing The Bulletin for
slander. One good old witch-doctor—l can give his
name safely because he’s dead—was Rangi-Tahau, of
Taupo, once notorious as “Te Kooti’s butcher.” He
was a wily old ruffian, with an A 1 knowledge of devil
business, in which he achieved as successful a prac-
tice in his late years as he did with tomahawk and
tupara in other days.
“Cliff;”: If the southern face of Mount
Buller, rising from the valley of the Howqua River
(Vic.), isn’t the biggest precipice in Australia it
must be well in the running. It is six miles long
and anything from 1300 to 2150 feet high.
“E.S.S.”: A little reddish-brown boring
beetle, a relative of the auger-beetle found in dead
long investigation, of perforating the
lead sheathing of telephone wires, thus
admitting moisture, destroying the insu-
lation, disorganising communication and
causing much whirling language. Records
of 67 cases of perforated cables were
furnished by the chief of the electrical
lines, but the final link in the chain of
evidence was wanting until an officer
obtained some freshly-infested lead, with
two of the beetles at work. Fresh marks
made by the borers’ jaws could be seen
on the walls of the burrows. The beetles
don’t eat the metal, and it is surmised
that they alight accidentally on the
wattles, has been found guilty, after
cables and go exploring through the lead to see if
there’s a snack behind it.
* * * *
“Paul Cupid”: “Dick” is correct (B.
17/1/’18) when he calls attention to the loyalty of
the soldier-bird in promptly enlisting for active
service in the defence of his cobbers. Often when
out duck shooting, after I have crawled for a couple
of hundred yards through thistles, burrs and saucy
jack along a river bank, a solitary soldier has spied
me, and flying to the nearest tree has started to
sound the slogan. In two minutes that tree has been
alive with soldiers, screeching down at me as if I
was a Hun. That has been quite enough. The ducks
have understood, and have always flown off close
to the water, rising only when above the bank well
out of range. The narks and I would then “fly off”
simultaneously. ,
‘Wart”: Should private bird-collecting be
allowed or should all collections be for a public
institution? In the village I live in in Tassy T
know of some seven or eight good private collec-
tions, yet the only public accumulation, in the local
Museum, is almost useless to students. There are
laws protecting the birds in every State, but every
dabbler seems to consider himself privileged to break
them. If a so-called collector gets a rare specimen
MR. T.’S HABITS.
BELATED VISITOR (knocking up friend at 1 a.m.): “Oh, eh, excuse me, hut does Mr.
Tosspot live here?”
MRS. T. (resignedly): “Yes. Bring him in.”
or a rare clutch of eggs there will be half a dozen
of his kidney in the district next season, and the
hunted bird will run a good chance of being exter-
minated. Some hogs even go to the length of trying
to wipe out a bird so that their specimen may be
enhanced in value. A European collector, writing a
book on extinct birds, exterminated one of the rare
Maori land rails, which had only survived on a small
island off the coast, so that he should have the only
known specimen. Again, many collectors are not
satisfied with one clutch of eggs. I know some who
have taken dozens of magpie eggs in an attempt to
get a full graduation of the various colors (the
greatest rarity is a set with a rufous tinge). The
Birds’ Protective Assoc, is changing the nature of
the schoolboy in this respect, but something more
drastic is required for the Hun of the bush.
* * * *
“Machete” : lamenting the fate of sundry
young black ducks, scoffed untimely by the pond
eels in Brisbane Botanical gardens, “Norbell” asks
if this sort of wickedness is customary with the
wrigglers. It is. The eel will eat anything he is
big enough to surround. Murray cod and water-rats
are also partial to ducklings. I lived for years at a
homestead on the banks of the Balonne River, in
S.-W. Queensland, where there was a ’’hole” famous
for its bis cod and Donald Dinnie water-rats. Rear-
ing ducks there was no sinecure. But the champion
chookle t - absorber of my acquaintance was a pet
emu. This individual ate young poultrv as young
poultry eats corn—one gobble and “good afternoon.”
* * * *
“Jacko’ : Gulgong (N.S.W.) claims to
have produced tins season’s shearing champion in a
boy, J. J. Davis, who, at Compadore shed, Winbar
station, has put through his 240 in a day. Davis,
who is only 22, dished the Queensland champion.
The latter had 280 to his credit for a day in 1916,
but failed to exceed 200 on the Winbar fleece.
“Eddyson”: Ivitt was an ingenious Scot
who ran a farm at Ploughboy, growing many and
various comestibles, and nourishing a large school
of cows. He was not content with cows that
merely yielded milk. To sufficiently water his farm
it was often necessary to raise fluid from the river,
and for this purpose he devised an endless proces-
sion of buckets up the bank from a dam of his
own making, operating over a big and little wheel,
and drawn entirely by cow-power. Every cow-
coming up the slope from the ford at milking-time
set her forehead to a piece of Kitt’s mechanical
water heave, and lifted 20 buckets on her way up.
Every cow departing after being milked went down
the slope on the other side, setting her forehead to
the same “demnition grind” ; and Kitt had 80
cows, all efficient drawers of water. When Piblo
bought Jamieson’s place up the river, his chief
amusement was to drift down to Kitt’s in the even-
ing, and laugh at the preformance of the primi-
tive waterworks. Piblo said he would show how
this thing should be done by an up-to-date agricul-
turist, and Kitt said: ‘‘Aye, verra weel,” and went
contentedly on with his 80-cow-power irrigation.
Eventually the newcomer invited a few of the
neighbors to come along and inspect his irrigation
plant at work. He had put in a pump, and it was
busily engaged throwing a jet. “There,” he said
exultingly to Kitt, as he stopped the engine, “that
licks your old cow contrivance, I reckon!” “Aye,”
Kitt replied dourly; “aye. Noo milk it!”
* * * *
“Barbwire”: When the best substitutes
for tobacco are being served out give me, too, cow
dung. By the way, fresh cow dung is used exten-
sively by the blacks in cases of burns, with success-
ful results. When I was a brat I wandered into a
hot ash-heap and was severely scorched about the
feet. Billy, the last King of the Warrego tribe,
who had hung his crown on an adjacent fence and
was cutting wood, rushed to the cowyard and
returned with a quantity of the animal excrement
which he applied as a poultice. It had great sooth-
ing power.
(Continued mi vane 24 )
REPAIRED,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Hauled I was from out the tip
Fritz made with his demonstration,
All broke up, a fractured hip,
In me Darby Kell a rip
Settin’ up a cool sensation
Like excessive ventilation;
One ’and cluttered up a treat —
S’elp me cat you wouldn’t know it
From a ’andsome plate of meat.
They had sorter pied me feet,
And a bullet of the foe hit
Where no decent bloke could show it.
’Arf a year they’ve botched me now;
Ev’ry scientific schemer
In the cor’ has faked me prow,
Soled ’n’ heeled a bloke somehow—
Gawd, the last one was a screamer,
Wirin’ up me flamin’ femur!
Comes a guy and pipes you square,
Gogglin’ at you through his glasses,
Swings you in the barber's chair,
Tilts you this end up with care,
Lets you have a whiff of gasses,
Ohattin’ off-hand with the lasses.
Then he slices clean ’n’ swift,
Like a cobbler cuts his leather,
Gives the splintered knob a lift—
S’elp me tater, it’s a gift
How they glues you all together,
Sayin’ it's bin nicer weather!
Surgeon wipes his ’ands, a verse
Chortles softly as he pitches
Probes and sponges to the nurse,
Thinks the lunch might have bin worse;
Close your little gap he hitches,
Whistlin’ as he jabs the stitches.
I’m caught in with fiddle-strings,
Stuck about with bits ’n’ patches,
Fixed with ligatures ’n’ springs,
. Lath ’n’ plastered, swung in slings,
Skewered with little wooden matches,
Hung with hinges, knobs ’n’ latches,
Till I lay behind me screen,
Serious ’n’ sober one day,
Satisfied ’n’ all serene,
’Arf a man ’n’ ’arf machine
What they winds up ev’ry Monday
’N’ it tilts all ways by Sunday.
’Ome again I’ll come, a neat,
Semi-autymatic loafer,
Number up, ’n’ all complete,
Creakin’ round on Collins-street,
With a license (which I’ll owe for)
My own car and my own shofer!
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


Laurel
Ke
: L ID
"roserie
ft!
H
m
'A
a
□
‘7/re sojt, while, light'*
DRIGHT is the home lit
D up by “LAUREL.” 1
The soft, white effulgence
given out by this purest of
kerosenes, soothes and rests
the eyes as flickering gas and
glaring electric light never
can.
“LAUREL” burns clearly
and tranquilly to the very last
drop, and is most economical.
For lighting, heating or cook-
ing it is incomparable.
Good Storekeepers and Gro-
cers sell it. Don’t say “Kero-
sene” —ask for “Laurel.”
Vacuum Oil Co.
Pty . Lid.
LR
□
Hillier’s
Chocolates
Mailed to any address in
Australia on the same day
they a e made.
i
Jus/
/ov’c/u
DIRECT FROM THE FACTORY.
m.
■c—
,
' '
o
m
r?.
Prices : 3/-, 5/
6/6, 10/6,
15/-, 25/-
Sydney
Leviathan
TAILORING
A Leviathan Suit is not only right
when you get it, but it stays right and
retains its good shape after many
months of satisfactory wear.
Leviathan Suits are designed by the
most expert Cutters ever engaged by
any house, while the tailoring is en-
trusted to carefully-trained, highly-
qualified workers.
If experience counts —and it does —
you know beforehand that you are
SURE of a correctly-tailored, perfect-
fitting Suit if you entrust its making
to our cutters and their efficient staffs.
Write now for Free Patterns of the
New Season’s Suitings at
63 s 75!-, 84/-
90/- to 147/-
together with Free Tape and Home-
measurement Charts.
Country customers can rest assured
of receiving the same satisfaction as
our city clients do.
■
-I
Cl
jhk
ORDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
T»*
Leviathan
MELBOURNE.
10-inch
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3/-each
N.Z. from 3/6
BRITISH-MADE
Columbia
M Records %
12=INCH
DOUBLE=SIDED
from
5/-e&ch
N.Z. from 5/6.
Twelve Extra Good All British Columbia 12-iftch
Double-disc Records at Pre-War Prices. 5j- each.
ORCHESTRAL.
141
(Barcarolle, from “Tales of Hoffmann” (Offenbach)
( Rubinstein’s Melody in “F” (Rubinstein)
Haydn Orchestra.
Haydn Orchestra.
476
Enters”
Enters”
Overture, Part 1 (Orpheus m Hades) {92 en } ,ac N‘
Overture. Part 2 (Orpheus in Hades (Offenbach).
Court Symphony Orchestra.
( “Orfee aux
( “Orfee aux
597
-Four Indian Love Lyrics (Amy Woodforde-Finden .
(a) The Temple Bells, (b) Less Than the Dust.
. (d) Till I Wake.
PRINCE’S GRAND CONCERT BAND.
Union Symphony Orcli.
(c) Kashmiri Song.
179
(“Carmen”
(“Carmen”
Selections —Part 1
Selections —Part 2
(Bizet).
(Bizet).
443
PRINCE’S MILITARY BAND.
( Bersaglieri March (Italian Rifleman). Strict March Time
) March of the Little Pierrots (Strict March Time)
(Eilenherg).
(Bose).
REGMENTAL RAND OF H.M. GRENADIER GUARDS.
507
(Dr. A. Williams).
(Dr. A. Williams).
( For the Front
j Britain’s First Line—A’aval Patrol
563
1-,’Apres midi (l’nn faune —Prelude
Prelude de “I/Assomption”—L.e Dernier Sommeil de la Vierge.. (.Massenet;.
VIOLIN, FLUTE AND HARP TRIO.
171
j Tyrolean Echoes
I Iriilio—An I<lyll (Lack)
(Geo. Stelil).
Prince’s Orchestra.
VOCAL,
263
( Parted (Tosti)
) I Hear You Calling Me (Marshall)
Mr. Morgan Kingston, tenor.
Mr. Morgan Kingston, tenor.
233
t “The Mikado” Vocal Gems (Gilbert & Sullivan) .. Columbia Light Opera Co.
Including. “Behold the Lord High Executioner.” “Three Little Maids,
“Tit Willow,” “Flowers that Bloom in the Spring,” “He’s Gone and
I Married Yum-Yum.” and Finale. “With Joyous Shout.”
I “The Mikado Selections (Gilbert and Sullivan) Prince s Orchestra
REClTALS—Dramatic, etc.
jh
( Dasea (Desprez), Descriptive Recital
iSlieridan's Ride (Read) Descriptive Recital ..
(With incidental music.)
Edgar L. Davenport.
Edgar L. Davenport.
388
f The Green Eye of the Yellow God (Milton Hayes).
•> Dramatic Recital by Bransby
[The Caretaker (Chas. J. Winter) .. Humorous Recital by Bransby
Williams.
Williams.
ALL COLUMBIA RECORDS ARE BRITISH-MADE, AND ARE RETAILED
AT PRE-AVAR PRICES.
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS-
SVDNEV, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Place. '
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA.—Messrs. Hugo. Wcrtheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King. Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.—Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street. I
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
ail Information
may be
obtained.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
-A,
/•
p\ ,J J ,<i
eg
M 1
k t him
.. o
v;r| « A
OT7TS
I ./*»
K/
r u°
TTA
* tov.
He Knows It’s MEGGITT Time.
PROFIT BY ECONOMY
Profit is definable by value received from given expenditure:—
When you buy ton of food that is ALL FOOD for LESS ; you make profit on buying.
When that food —which is both palatable and digestible—gives better results, your profit is proportionally increased.
MEGGITT’S —THE Linseed Oil Meal — Gives Results.
Feed Your Horses, Cows, Calves, Pigs and Poultry on
MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL.
Read what Mr. S. Williams, of Wallacia, via Mulgoa, wrote us on 21/8/’l7: —“I have tried other so-called fattening cakes and
meals, and have proved conclusively that Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal is superior to all others.”
Pamphlet No. 3, instructing how to feed, mailed free.
Full particulars from Agents: Wm. Adams Ltd., Perth; Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd.. Melbourne;
F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston; R. S. Exton & Co., Ltd., Queen St., Brisbane; Blair, Reed & Co., Ltd.,
Box 941, Wellington, ST.Z.; or
MILGGITT LTD
• *
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and
Oil Meal Manufacturers),
26 King Street, Sydney.
“Silas”: We couldn’t understand why
Brodrib kept the three deplorably dirty, half-famished,
under-bred tykes that littered up his back yard. We
had gone to Ready Swamp for duck, and were putting
up with Brodrib for a week, although in point of
fact he was the kind of man nobody could put up
with for a day. We particularly detested Brodrib’s
dogs; they poked their noses into anything, slept
everywhere but in those places where a dog might
reasonably have been expected to sleep, and ate all
things with such gusto that we saw the disagreeable
possibility of their ultimately attempting to eat us.
One evening I said, pointing to Spike: “What do
you keep a worthless beast like that for, in Heaven’s
name?” Brodrib snorted. “Worthless!” he said.
“Worthless! I wouldn’t sell you that dog for fi’
pound. Worthless! There ain’t his equal in his
line in the ’ole country 1 That feller’ll scratch a
post-hole deeper, ’n’ cleaner, ’n’ quicker than any
other dog I got, ’n’ all the dogs I got is better at it
than any other dogs I ever met.” Susbequently
Brobrib gave an exhibition of his method. He made
a hole in three minutes with an auger-drill, dropped
a bait in, and the dogs did the rest. The resulting
post-hole was not symmetrical, but Brodrib was not
finicking about his post-holes.
* * * *
“Mon. C.” : Re B. E. Minns’s picture, “A
Christmas message from Angledool” (IS. 10/l/’IS).
Here on the Narran it is considered a masterpiece
save in one respect—the Narran has no plated king
now. King Tom the Second dried up and blew
away in a whirlwind years ago, since when every
black at Angledool has been his own king, except
he be in that glorious state pictured by Minns. Then
he is everybody’s king; and some of these monarchs
are pretty hard doers. A few years ago one, King
Roley, seated in an old rattle-wheeled sulky, with ■
a bottle of whisky alongside and another one inside,
pulled up in front of the local police station. Uncork-
ing the bottle he was steadily trickling the contents
on to the shaky wheel when P.C. 49 walked out and
roared “Phwat are ye doin’ there?” Said his Maj.
without looking up, “I jus’ seein’ if this, grog tighten
the plurry spokes. It made me pretty tight.”
* * * *
“Fy7”: “Jim Carew” (B. 17/1/T8) talks
of the weapon used by Australian black gins in their
peculiar duels as “a light club.” I’d loathe to get
a tap with “J.C.’s” heavy waddy. In several of
these scraps that I have enjoyed, the weapon was
invariably the “yam-stick” once carried by every
self-respecting western gin for use as a spade,
gohanna-killer, walking-cane and family corrector.
It was usually of boree or brigalow, five to six
feet long, and weighed as much as a service rifle.
“Jim C.” asks who has the right to the first
whack in these affairs. The petitioner (the cases
are invariably in matrimonial jurisdiction) has that
privilege, and if the co-re. survives the initial wal-
lop she has her turn in rebuttal. I don’t know
where the respondent comes in unless he officiates as
referee.
CONSOLATION.
PROUD FRENCHMAN: “Yes, this beautiful
cathedral which they destroyed had been
in use 600 years.”
SAME OLD BILL: “Oh, well, anyway, you
might say you’d had yer money’s worth
out of ’er.”
“F.Y.7”: The best decoy for dingoes—the
only infallible one —is known to every Western man
who owns a lady dog (and they all do). As to
bait-laying, the best scheme I ever struck was
employed by a Western Queensland boundary-rider.
He mixed small balls of tallow and flour, putting
the strychnine into a deep, narrow incision. Then
he wrapped each bait in paper and in dropping it
lit the paper. This served the double purpose of
scenting the bait and destroying all flavor of the
Hated human.
NOT HIS MATE’S VOICE.
LAWYER ( reading bushman’s will to the sole legatee): “This is the last will and testa-
ment of me, John Gashington Chalmers. I hereby bequeath to my friend, William
Boggs, all that piece of land in the parish of Jika Jika, bounded on the”
LEGATEE (sadly) : “That don’t sound like ole Jack. Whenever ’e give me anything
before, he’d say, ‘’Ere, blarst yer — catch.’”
“Te Whare”: Want a good slush-lamp?
This is an old bushman’s recipe. Ladle a jamtin
half-full of sand or earth, and in this stick the
velvety centre core from a dry honeysuckle cone.
Melt some fat and fill up the tin, leaving an inch or
so of the core above the surface. If you want a
swell lamp with a handle, use a pintpot instead of
a jamtin. The honeysuckle will make a better wick
than rag.
# * * *
“H.V.E.”: Australia’s known venomous
snakes now tot up (according to Waite) 62 species,
while harmless varieties number 31, but many kinds
are rarely seen. Barring the black, brown, tiger and
whip and the death-adder, writer has during a pretty
wide experience come across no venomous species
except a red “swamp snake” (so called). Of harm-
less snakes I can only speak from experience of the
diamond, carpet, green-tree, lead-colored and blind.
I have caught a glimpse of the green tree-snake twice
about willows on Monaro (N.S.W.) rivers, and of the
lead-colored reptile thrice in the same quarter. One
of him ended his existence in the jaws of a collie, a
noted snake-killer; but the dog practised on tigers
and browns, and, finally, one of the former sent him
expeditiously to the happy hunting-grounds. There
are several species of blind snakes, sometimes mis-
taken for gigantic earthworms. I dug my specimen
up from humus in an old garden in Wardell-road,
near Sydney. The little whip-snake, whose bite,
Krefft asserted, was “no worse than the sting of a
bee,” once boarded permanently on the bluffs about
Balmoral Beach. I have killed several there. While
searching for the insidious death-adder on South
Coast (N.S.W.) bluffs, I’ve also (occasionally) found
this diminutive grey-brown crawler neatly coiled in
sunny spots. Far the most common, however, of all
our snakes are the deadly black, brown and tiger,
and their distribution throughout Australia is wide.
Of these the first is, comparatively speaking, a
gentleman, for, as the abos. say, “He won’t bite
until you touch him.” Nevertheless, I wouldn’t
trust a carmine-belly when pairing. I have seen a
tripe-hound stop short at a large black devil lying
in striking position (small neck coil succeeded by
large body-coils) and sniff at the reptile’s head —I
thought they were rubbing noses, Maori fashion—
but the black devil made not the least aggressive
movement. A tiger or brown would have made dead
meat of that unsophisticated pup.
“Stapleton”: I have been 10 years in the
N.T., and have never yet heard “coo-ee” from the
niggers. Their usual call is “coo-o-ooo,” long
drawn out. When they carry on a long-distance
conversation their voices drop at the beginning of
each word, and rise to an ear-piercing yell at the
close.
“W.A.C.”: Kespect the dead marine, the
cockies’ good friend. It is his rolling-pin, candle-
stick, mouthpiece for the water-bag, bottom bear-
ing for swing-gate, bordering for flower-beds, and,
dressed in an old skirt, baby for the kids. A
bottle with the business end downwards, the bottom
knocked out and filled with water, and suspended
by a wire threaded through the cork, guarantees
the hanging-safe ant-prof, and —there goes the
whistle! By placing her bottom lip to the bottle’s
mouth and blowing, Mrs. Cocky has given her old
man the office to cease ploughing.
THE STATE CALLED BLIND.
FRIENDLY DRUNK: “Hello (hie), Smith! Hope (hie) I shee you well, ole mansh?”
UNSYMPTHERTIC JONES : “I hope so too, hut I doubt it.”
BULLOCK-DRIVIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Whey, come here, Battler! Gee back, Brown!
I’ve half a mind to knock you down,
You skulkin’, half-bred cow!
Why can’t you keep the bloomin’ road,
’S a bullock ought, without a goad?
You’ve only got a half a load
For some old Darling scow.
Heave, bend and bust her! Stand up, Boan!
You crawlin’ swine, I’ll make you groan!
Get to it, damn yer eyes!
Until the camp’s in easy hail,
The most y’ do is switch yer tail;
Unless I’m near you with the flail,
You’re only killin’ flies.
Get over, Brindle ! Strike me pink!
You ’fraid ye’ll strain a blanky link
By tuggin’ at the chain ?
Come, bend yer necks an’ dip 3er toes,
An’ up she rises—screamin’ woes!
A turn or two an’ down she goes
Right to her naves again!
Now, then, you beauties, shoulders up;
Hang to her like a scrappin’ pup —
Pull till yer muscles crack !
Whoa, Blucher! Blast you, help yer mate,
Or square yer yoke, at any rate;
There ain’t no time to meditate
On this bog-blinded track.
Gee up there, Ginger! Whoa-back, Spot!
You wobblin’ cow, I’ll make it hot
For you. Now, step it out,
’An’ never mind the shady tree,
Or lo ’ ; n’ at the scenery.
It’s in the cask you ought to be,
There’s not the slightest doubt.
Up, Billy! Gee, you scabby hound!
You sneakin’ rat, come, scratch some ground,
An’ win the blanky war!
Another hill of sand an’ sod—
Heave ho, my loves! Another rod,
An’ here’s the camp at last (thank God!)
Where all the good things are.
N.s.w.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


' •
*
■ ■
L
■ ■
. *-• :
*sM<VVSI
"f:v- -p-'* s -
:
' 4:
m'M
r •• .'.
. ...
•..PA
Xfxmg
B
■ '; I
•. , i
a '• i:A
SB S
->
■: VV, ' • V :
• ■ a
.
tisstm
m
.
. :
is
BislffSlS
S'- .
• :
ll
'
spiipliiiliiiiaiii
• ;■
~ :
4
m
'msm
v
\
■ns*
BlllllllliiiMß
. jagfe.-—-
li
-
SS&
*llll
■lil
'* '
lilliillllll
mmm
K
ol* fill ■ • p• |
mhBhBNBP
.
ISilllliiiilil
;
■
!«-'V > ~
‘ay4‘- 4' v v-; „
Pi*Pi*p§
IllllliiP
ftaaiSiii
%Z&OX - ’''
-
I • ' ’ • .•• • •
V
i*aa
i
iHKSH
I
VP
'
118
BSB®liilSS
aii
-
I®®
SSpV .111
*§ifl#
m
:
Actual thickness
135 m/m section
Dunlop
‘Grooved” Cover
ThanKs
from one of the biggest users
of motor tyres in Australasia
★ * * *
When hundreds of tyres are used annually by
one Company, and accurate figures kept of the
mileages obtained from every cover, the average
mileage result affords a reliable guide to the quality
and dependability of the covers and tubes used.
Here is one experience:—
THE CITY MOTOR SERVICE Pty. Ltd.
The Manager Melbourne, 26th Nov., 1917.
Dunlop Rubber Co.
Dear Sir,—l have just been looking through the tyre result book
and find that your tyres have given such a wonderful account of themselves
that I must congratulate and thank you for the excellent product you have
supplied us With. Many of the tyres ran over 10,000 miles—one did
13,441 miles. The average is the best We have ever had and speaks Well
for Australian manufacture. Yours faithfully,
P. W. TEWKSBURY,
Chairman of Directors.
* * * *
The average mileage obtained on this Company’s fleet of
Taxi and Touring Cars, shod with Australian - made
DUNLOP TYRES
was 6,541 miles per cover. They used just the same
standard tyres .as are available to you at any garage.
All you have to do is to fit " Dunlops”—keep them properly inflated and you
can have the same satisfactory results at a CHEAPER RUNNING COST
than is obtainable from any imported tyre. Use Dunlops—it pays!
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. OF AUST. LTD.
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, ADELAIDE, PERTH, BRISBANE, LAUNCESTON, WELLINGTON, CHRISTCHURCH, AUCKLAND


Engineers, Farmers and Skilled Workmen should know the
OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING and CUTTING PROCESS.
The Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest addition to the engineer’s workshop and to the skilled worker’s bench. It is simple of working and
portable, so that cutting or welding may be done at the bench, in the field or by the roadside.
CUT OUT COST OF NEW MACHINERY.
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remarkable variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following
are a few of the broken and worn machinery parts our process will make new again : —-
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes, Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn
Keyways in Shafts. Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other
process.
*is2K
rn*
i
r
-'S'
-Jr* v
e
din. Steel Shaft, in head of 12001 b. Press and
frame, back of shaft-box, 14in. wide and 2in.
and 4in. thick, welded where chalk-marked.
Not possible of repair by ordinary methods.
Repaired in a few hours by our process, sav-
ing- the cost of a new press and big loss of
time.
■
111
f ™
dill.liUf.ntM
/i
»«—.
hMh>
,is
Oxy-Acetylene Welding applied to Pipe Work,
Ammonia Refrigerating Coils.
Farmers, do not scrap your broken parts, but get them
welded by our process at the nearest engineer’s.
X
Poppet-head dismantled in Tasmania
to be erected in New South Wales.
Approximately 12,000 rivets were cut'
out with the Oxy-Acetylene Metal-
cutter, without damage to the struc-
ture. This work was carried out by
A. I>. West & Co., of Sydney.
THE COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN CO. LTD.,
The Permanent Trustee Building Agents—MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
&DEEAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Etd., Murray Street.
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“E.S.S.”: California is going in for
“organised rabbit craft.” The organisation
includes co-operation in the purchase of
breeding stock, expert teaching in housing
and feeding, and the establishment of fac-
tories for turning out potted meats, fur
pelts, fur garments and fertilisers. Bunny,
it is alleged, is, in the Yankee opinion, the
coming meat for the masses. With us, too,
the rabbit would be an asset if we could get
a Government to use it properly. The animal
is a pest only on the under-manned big pas-
toral properties. No complaints come from
closely-settled parts about the rabbit; but
the protests from there about the enormous
damage that is being done by the infernal
poison-cart are rising to a howl. Still the
spineless Governments take no heed. They
allowed South Africa to appropriate our
wattle-bark industry, and before very long
the shops in this misguided country will be
stocked with potted rabbit from Chicago.
Even shipping conditions like the present
won’t block it. When the Win-the-Warites
could find space for 54,000 cases of Ameri-
can apples, which were dumped here a
couple of months ago, to compete with our
own superabundant crop, they will easily
find space for imported rabbit.
Nahum Barnet, one of Melbourne’s top-
hole architects, is barracking for the develop-
ment of an Otway Coast industry. lie
has designed a considerable share of Mel-
bourne’s city buildings ; and he cites Apollo
Bay sandstone as a good thing which has
been foolishly neglected. Barnet has had the
stone specified in some of his buildings, and
finds that it has two important qualities: (11
It has a fine texture, and is very easily
wrnrked ; and (2) it indurates very quickly
on exposure, becoming almost as hard as
basalt. So far, owing to the lack of roads
on the one hand and of breakwater or moor-
ing facilities on the other, he has only been
able to get supplies up per fishing-boat, with
much bumping-about of the newly-cut stone
and resultant waste. The quarries are tre-
mendous and easily worked, and therefore
would provide large quantities of inexpen-
sive stone; but the Government prefers to
put up a bold front with cheap stucco and
try to forget about the future.
* * * *
“Myola”: The porpoise industry is pur-
sued to a limited extent by some La Perouse
(N.S.W.) fishermen. The “season” lasts
for five months, ending at Christmas. Dur-
ing this time the procedui'e is to start at
dawn in a motor-boat capable of doing 12
knots. Schools, often consisting of hun-
dreds, are sighted within a few miles of the
coast, and the approach is made so that some
of the beasts will swim across the bow.
One man steers, while liis mate stands
for’ard with harpoon poised. Practised
judgment is necessary to hit a pig, travelling
at perhaps 16 knots, at the moment it flops
out of the water, while crossing a boat which
is doing 12 knots. Once the harpoon has
sunk the launch is stopped and the porpoise
can sometimes be played by hand. More
often he is too fierce and too heavy, so a
couple of sealed oil-drums, already tied to
the end of the harpoon-rope, are thrown
overboard, and his nibs is left to his
reflections. Loss of blood soon weakens
him and he is manipulated alongside.
Grunting and squeaking, he is then further
wounded with a bayonet-like knife, until
the couple of hundred pounds of him is limp
enough to be hauled on board with block and
tackle. Porp. is then beheaded. His
carcase of rump steak-like meat is heaved to
the sharks, only the jaws, from which the
teeth are extracted by boiling, being kept.
Each porpoise has about 60 teeth. They
are bought at £lO per thousand by a ship-
ping co., and bartered to the South Sea
islanders, who use them as money and
jewellery. Ten porpoises are an average
morning’s catch for one boat. Acres of
hides are thrown away. We prefer to im-
port our bootlaces and other porpoise-leather
goods from the North Sea, via Europe.
Local soap factories have offered to buy the
carcases to boil down for their plentiful oil,
but the fishermen do not bother to take the
weighty objects to Sydney. They can make
handsome profits by simply extracting
teeth.
* * * *
Still another young Australian industry:
We noticed a par. in this week’s “Business, Rob-
bery, etc.,” to the effect that a new industry, forced
on us by the war, is the rejuvenating’ of carbon
paper. The time, therefore, seems opportune for
mentioning that we are doing better —we are manu-
facturing the article on the premises. We also
make typewriter ribbons, and waxed stencils, which
not only compare favorably with the imported, but
(and we say this with confidence) are superior.
Naturally we have all the importers’ agents up
against us, but we have never had any illusions on
that subject, and we get no more “stinking fish”
thrown at us than we expect. As for typewriter
ribbons, we can make any color for any brand of
machine.
Thomas Halls, Ltd., of South Brisbane, are
the people who have hatched out this new
duckling.
* * *
The farmers of South Aus., or such of
them (mostly on Kangaroo Island and
Yorke’s Peninsula) as go in for barley, are
having the time of their lives. In the past
they have had about two buyers, both from
Melbourne, though one does its local malting
in Adelaide. This season there are over a
dozen Vic. buyers flying round in cars, each
offering the bewildered farmer a penny a
bushel more than the previous one, till he is
afraid to sell at all. Unexpectedly, the
demand for malt liquor is enormous. India
wants it. The army in Mesopotamia demands
it, and England can’t send it. The wowser’s
feelings may be hurt, but Australia has a
big new chance, if only she can seize it —and
get the requisite freight.
“Quan”: In a Sydney police court the
other day a bloque, who was described as a
camel-charmer, was charged with attempt-
ing suicide. I’ll go without a beer till some-
one tells me what a camel-charmer is, and
how he sets about his job.
“X.Y r .”: Like “D’arcy” (B. 24/1/T8) I
couldn’t make a do with young turkeys until
a Yankee neighbor gave me this tip. Don’t
mate hens with gobblers under three or over
five years of age. Hens may be of any age
from one to five; but not older. Acting upon
that advice, I found that the young birds
were as hardy as scrub fowls.
* * * *
A South Aus. sheep which has been
greatly admired for two years past at shows
had to be killed to save its life in the recent
hot weather. It was found to have a sort of
lining of 2in. of fat everywhere. It weighed
1501 b. dressed, but was hardly fit to eat,
and had to be sold to a soap factory. There
seems to be some sort of moral hanging
around this story.
Thirteen young women from Bussell’s
drapery in Bourke-street pleaded guilty
lately to thieving from the firm. They were
sentenced to a month apiece, but were liberated
on bail. The loss of one hat led to the dis-
covery of a sort of thieves’ exchange where-
by the girls bartered kimonos, corsets,
blouses, skirts, gloves, hats, hankies, veils,
anything. “No money passed,” sniffed one
of the culprits. “When a girl wanted any-
thing, she just went to another department
with something in hand. If you can fix me
up with some undies I’ll give you a hat.”
“Phoenix”: Several Melbourne woodwork-
ing firms are now making axe and tool
handles. The Australian timber used is
second to none for this purpose, and the
goods are turned out with a finish that is a
pleasure to feel. In making and polishing
our hard timbers a great deal of abrasive
grit is used. This used to be imported from
Germany. A North Melbourne firm at last
decided to try a local quartz which can be
got for the asking and needs only carting
and grinding. It answers the purpose beauti-
fully.
“Bill Bowyang” : Now that we have suc-
cessfully knocked at the gates of Jerusalem
we can pretty well sum up this land that was
described as “flowing with milk and honey.” It
is a semi-desert land where the inhabitants
are miserably poor and deserve to be. The only
fruitful patches we have met are around
Gaza and Jaffa. There is neither coal nor
copper, gold nor silver. Grapes and olives
are still grown in some parts, and have
undoubtedly been grown far more in other
days. The harvest of wheat and barley
depends upon a very capricious rainfall.
Locusts, too, not infrequently invade the
land and eat up everything. A succession of
bad seasons is a disaster, not only to tin*
crops, but by driving the Bedouins from
their usual somewhat arid haunts into the
cultivated area, when if not checked they
clear the land like a plague of caterpillars.
Durra, the Egyptian maize, thrives with
little rain. Fat-tailed sheep and small cattle
seem to do well, finding feed in the valleys.
Malaria, typhus and eye diseases are preva-
lent. To make a living on the soil in Pales-
tine would mean hard work under difficult
conditions, with no great return in the end.
It would be useless for any to settle here
who were not practical agriculturists and
who were not prepared to face very many
difficulties. I don’t think there will ever be
a great population of the Twelve Tribes. It
certainly isn’t the sort of prospect that
would attract any Lazarus of my acquaint-
ance.
THE WRECKERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The sea is blowing red wine up the roaring strait—
Casks they filled in Portugal are knocking at the gate.
Throw the thorns upon the flame; give them cheer
and light—
A London ship with tattered sails will find the
rocks to-night.
The sea is blowing white spray—hear them grind
their teeth,
All the reefs of Inverdare hiding black beneath !
Whips are in the sloping rain hissing on the straw
That burns to bring the red wine with no king’s law.
The wind has brought a great cry; the breaking
timbers roar—
A wet face, a cold face is drifting to the shore;
Hut fill the cup and laugh your fill, there’s wine and
wine to spare—
The casks they hooped in Portugal are loose at
Inverdare!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
THE UNDERTAKER'S FUNERAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The long: procession dribbles by,
The lean black horses slinking;
The mourners in the coaches sigh,
Each with a ’kerchief to his eye,
Absorbed in solemn thinking.
The hearse is glazed, the coffin there
Is oak and worth a ransom ;
An old-time carriage with a pair,
Then taxi-cabs and motors rare,
And finally a hansom.
You’ve carted from my side just so
A-many friends, believe me;
And, now it is your turn, I know
It grieves me less to see you go
Than you it grieves to leave me.
I marked your eye on me, old Bob,
Its calculations making.
You looked upon me as a “job,”
And thought it mean of me to rob
You of an undertaking.
An old man drives the hearse before,
Old men fill all the coaches,
And in the cabs and things a score
Of cronies, seventy years or more,
Are perched like poisoned roaches.
’Twas long the dread of all this crew
That you’d provide the traction,
And box the lot, and plant them, too ;
That they have lived to bury you
Gives gen’ral satisfaction.
Well, on your way, for years dry-eyed,
With something like a chortle,
You drove those others ; now you ride
The solitary one inside.
We dreamed you were immortal:
The pitcher too oft to the well
May go. Some day not far on
I’ll picture you on Styx’s swell,
With motor-boat and starting-bell,
But still the same old Charon.
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


kjh
k
3K
Various types of Mine Locomotives are manufactured by
the General Electric Company, and just the correct type of
Locomotive can be secured for any specified set of haulage
conditions.
The rugged, durable character of G.E. MINE LOCOMOTIVES
is evidenced by the fact that they endure under the severe
operating conditions of mine service for many years.
For full information on this subject communicate with
▲
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, C? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS 51 MELBOURNE.
sss
m
m
iii
l
$
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE <Q.>: The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.I.
Ltd., corner Eriwuril anil Charlotte Streets
PERTH (W.A.): Chas. Atkins & Co (W.A.t Ltd.. Hay Street
ADELAIDE (SA.lt Unbchaua & Johnstone. ICO Currie Street.
MEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical £ Engineering Co. Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tulloclt A Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs. Oliver
and Oliver. MacQuarle Street. Hobart.
13-TON INSIDE FRAME
LOCOMOTIVE.


A. Saunders’ Circle
Brooch, set Pearls and
Turquoise, or all
Pearls, 9ct. Gold,
20/-
A. Saunders’ 9et.
Gold Necklace, set
with Tourmalines
or Amethysts, £2.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Cluster Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £7/10/-
A. Saunders*
Lady s 9ct.
Gold Tablet
Rina:, 12/6.
Initials en-
graved free
A. Saunders’
Lady’s 9ct.
Gold Signet
Ring, 12/6.
15ct„ 207-
Initials en-
graved free.
A. Saunders’ Amethyst or Topaz Bar
Brooch, 9ct. Gold, 12/0.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Australia Pendant,
7/6.
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily engraved,
20/-. 15ct. Gold, 35/-
Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set
Aquamarines, 25 / -
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Crossover Ring,
18ct. Gold, £lO.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Half-hoop King,
18ct. Gold, £5.
Larger Diamonds,
£7/10/-
A. Saunders’ Silver Wristlet Open-face Lever
Watch, full jewelled, 40/-. Extra quality,
£2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-. Gold-filled
Elgin or Watham, £3, £3/10/-. 9ct.
Gold, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Wed-
ding Ring. 9ct.
Gold, 20/-. 15ct.
Gold, £2. 18ct.
Gold, £2/10/-
SAUNDERS’ ARTISTIC JEWELLERY DESICNS.
A. Saunders’
Bracelet, £2.
15ct.
9ct,. Gold Nellie Stewart Secret. Snap
Others, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-
Gold, £3/10/-, £4/10/-
Hi
n
HU
SSS\
A. Saunders’ Nickel Silver Hunting Keyless
Watch, full jewelled, adjusted movement, com-
pensation balance, 35/-. Solid Silver,
£2/10/-, £3, £4, £5. Gold filled, £3,
£4/4/-, £5/5/-, £6/0/-. Solid Gold,
£lO, £l5, £2O.
BSSsgs.
A
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wnstlet
Watch, full jewelled lever movement, compensation balance.
9ct. Gold, £B/10/-. lott- Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Curb Padlock Bracelet, £2/10/
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-, £5.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
SO5-815 George St., Sydney
(Opposite Railway Station).
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Ring, set
Amethyst, 15 / -
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring, 20/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
Initials engraved
free.
Saunders’ Amethyst Bar Brooch,
9et. Gold, 15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, 20/-. Heavier,
25/-, 30/-. 15ct.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Friendship Pendant,
15/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Red Stones, 22/6.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Marquise King,
£l5.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut. Diamond
set Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct.
Gold Wedding
Ring, 25/-
18ct., 30/-
A. Saunders’
Pearls and Aqua-
marine or Ruby
Ciro’e Brooch, 9et.
Gold, 25/- .f
A. Saunders’ Diamond
and Aquamarine or
Tourmaline Nec'klac'e,
15ct. Gold, £4/15/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Diamond
Cluster King, 18ct.
Gold, £l5.
A. Saunders' Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Hunting Keyless Lever Watch,
adjusted balance, £3/10/-
Extra jewelled, £4,
£4/10/-. 14ct. Gold Cases,
£5. £5/10/-
ill
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
... SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay .
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from’ 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
jhk
THE BEST RAW MATERIAL
HONEST MANUFACTURE.
REMEMBER!
7
m
jh
will OUTWEAR the
HEAVIER MAKES
OFFERED AS
SUBSTITUTES
SEE
“HORROCKSES”’
ON
SELVEDGE
BOOKS! BOOKS! 800
YBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OE OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world. _
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Mekrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 16.
Moll Flanders, a rare book by Defoe, 1/3
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
i/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, 10d., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/b.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window licket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics Work-
shop Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wale?.
1/3. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, Ulus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science op Life, 12/6. _ Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3/6.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/- posted. Mysteries
of Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Not Guilty (Blatchford), 1/-. The Art op
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and My Neighbor,
9d. Britain and the British, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. ’Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How __ to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/6. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, etc.,
1/6 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
jug. 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. The Doctor, Cures for All Diseases,
1/6 posted. Letter-writer Up-to-Date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver's Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee's Priceless Recipes, 1/9
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
NO MATTER WHAT BOOK YOU
WANT, I’VE GO„T IT.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Established over 25 years.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook. 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's .Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/6. Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed,
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY
STOCK CAN BE GOT FROM
THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO
DUTY. ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSE-
WHERE SENT.
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wipe, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 ulus-,
leather bound, my price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Dynamos and Electric Motors, l/b.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets op Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age op Reason, by Paine, lOd.
posted Adventures op John Johns, 1/6 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted, The Night of Temptation,
1/9. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
i BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ““•IS


Amusements.
Harry Rickards
Governing Director .
Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
... HUGH D. MCINTOSH.
1* IVO L I THEATR IS, SYDNEY
Nightly at 8. Matinees Monday, Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents (by arrangement with
Andre Chariot)
THE GAY LONDON REVUE,
SAMPLES.
■J* I YOU I THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ADA REEVE and CO.
in the Sparkling Musical Play,
WINNIE BROOKE, WIDOW.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-.
Clt 1 T E R I O N T H EA T R E. SYDN EY.
Direction .1 C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF THE WILLOW TREE.
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, AT 8.
IvATHLENE MACDONELL
With CHARLES WALDRON
In the ever-delightful story of girlhood,
DADDY LONG LEGS.
He R Ma,JEB T Y ’ S, SYDN E Y.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinfies Wednesday and Saturday.
The Brilliant Spectacular Revue,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE,
A Gorgeous Spectacle eclipsing anything hitherto
staged.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDN E Y.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
LAST NIGHTS.
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
THE MASTER PLAY OF MIRTH.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNE Y.
* Direction J. & N. TAIT.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23.
PEG O’ MY HEART.
SARA ALLGOOD as PEG.
Plans at Nicholson’s, Monday Next.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION IMCTUR E TIIEA T R E 8
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, II a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present
THE RAJAH OF SHIVAPORE,
By DAVID SOUTER and ALFRED HILL.
Popular Prices. Plans at Pianola.
LIEU MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 * Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
Their Gorgeous Pantomime Extravaganza,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
TIIEA T RE ROY A L, M ELBOU RN E.
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR
in
THE EASIEST WAY.
vr ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
MATINEES SATURDAYS, WEDNESDAYS AND
ALL HOLIDAYS.
J. & N. TAIT AND BAILEY & GRANT’S
GORGEOUS CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
-ALADDIN and THE WONDERFUL
LAMP.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices: 6/- R. Stalls, 5/- D.C.,
Stalls 4/-, Gallery 2/- and 1/-. Plus Tax.
OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE, BOURIvE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matinfies Satni’day at 2.30.
FAMOUS PLAYERS-LASKY, MAX
SENNETT. ARBUCKLE, etc.,
FEATURES.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
MARGUERITE CLARK in
THE AMAZONS.
Also
WALLACE REID in
THE HOSTAGE.
Prices as usual.
|y|A.7ESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
NORMA TALMADGE
in
THE LAW OF COMPENSATION.
From WILSON MIZNER’S PLAY.
Matin&es daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
gRITANNIA MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE’
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
IAORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
k
The pure-toned
“AMBEROLA” JO.
Here is a highly popular model of the Edison
“Amberolas.” Tlie tone is sweet and natural,
its appearance is high-grade and pleasing
hut it is sold at the moderate price of £9 10s.
You should inspect it. Any Edison dealer will
gladly give you a demonstration —without
obligation on your part.
An illustrated catalog mailed post free on
request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.
(Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
qUEEWSLAM
i
Ei
S.B
/Varna
address -
/UrELL/CeUC£
a. roumsr eu&eau. sk/sbas/e l
A Book of |
192 Pages
i
“POCKET
QUEENSLAND"
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
, Tel Imp all about' the ■
Millions of Acres ,
of ftrhle. land for ;
fhfcodmp jefflens |
wi 11 be senf you ■
by filling m fhe \
Coupon below, y
CAPILLARINE
jhk
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
jh
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.G.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the wc'-'.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., ICC.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed .. £21,560,000
The Sdfiety issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for nrnsnpct.ns and full information without delay.
safeguard YOUR health
ptJ.Coltis Browne’s
CWorodync
The Original and Only Genuine.
Till'] It ESS T MEDICINE I'Olt
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
nud in the Cough of DIiONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, IJ$, SJ-, of-.
Made in England.
liP'ilfiH! -
Hi
Run-down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or over-work
—when your vitality is lower-
ed—when you feel “any-how”
—when your nerves are "on
edge ” —when the least exer-
tion tires you —you are in a
Run-down condition. Your
system is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water.
And just as water revives a
drooping plant—so ‘Wincar-
nis’ gives new life and new
vitality to a "run - down”
constitution. Because ‘Win-
carnis ’ possesses a four-fold
power. It is a Tonic, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker,
and a Nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
try
The Win* of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it doing
you good. You c'an feel your
whole system being sur-
charged with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Don’t continue to suffer
needlessly. Get well the
‘ Wincarnis ’ way—the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get well
TO-PAY.
Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Win-
carnis Works, Norwich. You can
buy ‘W'incarnis’ from all Chemists
and Stores selling wines, prices
4/3 and 7/-, but if you experi-
ence any difficulty in obtaining ft,
write direct to Sole Distributing
Agents, Fassett & Johnson, 233
Clarence Street, Sydney. N.S.W-
Horlicks
, MALTED
-MILK
kjhjh
k
jhk
jh
kljh
\
:ai,\
The Ideal Food-
Drink(Milk, Wheat,
and Malt).
for years and never I
becomes stale or loses
any of its admirable
qualities. It is made,
in a moment, any-J
where. Only water!
is needed.
L
In hot climates it is,
invaluable. A
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
M
Cr.
tm
ABBEY
SHOES!
“ABBEY” is the name that identi-
fies footwear of superior quality ; a
mark that appears only on shoes of
the highest standard in materials,
fit and appearance.
We illustrate a choice Patent Ox-
ford Bal., with Dull Calf Legs.
Price - 47|-
In Highest-grade Tan Willow Calf,
same price.
All our footwear is made in half-
and full-sizes, and in narrow,
medium and wide fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (J.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
INDIVIDUAL FITNESS
This is a time when our people need to
be strong of muscle and steady of nerve.
Hysterical people are of no use in war
time. When they try to help they hinder.
Fitness should start with the individual.
If you are run-down and nervous, pale and
lacking in strength to do your part, you
need more blood.
If your hand, your thumb or foot trembles
when you try to hold it still, if the lines
are shaky when you write, if you have
tremors of your lips or chin, your nerves
need strengthening.
Proper food and a good tonic will keep
most people in good health. Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills for Pale People are the most
popular tonic medicine in the world, harm-
less, non-alcoholic and certain in their
action, which is to build up the blood and
to restore vitality to the run-down system.
For those who are failing in strength Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills are an ideal tonic.
“Building up the Blood” is a booklet, full
of useful information. So is the pamphlet
on “Nervous Diseases.” They are sent free
on request by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney. Your
own chemist or storekeeper sells Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills at 2/9 per box; six boxes
15/3. —Advt.
VON
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.


A RESTORATIVE OF VIGOR AND
VITALITY.
RELIEF FOR DRUG SLAVES.
The outcry against the use of habit-form-
ing drugs has resulted in the recognition of
a drug-free product known as bitro-phos-
phate, which seems destined to take the place
of the old-time drugs and tonics. Already
chemists are supplying bitro-phosphate in
the form of sgr. compressed tablets, one of
which has to be taken during or immediately
after every meal. Taken in this manner
Intro-phosphate has a soothing influence upon
the nerves; it relieves insomnia and neuras-
thenia, banishes depression, increases mental
and physical power, and brings about a
remarkable improvement in the general
health. A handy pocket-flask, containing
sufficient bitro-pliosphate tablets for two
weeks’ continuous treatment, can be obtained
from the chemist for quite a small sum, and
therefore the question of expense will cer-
tainly not stand in the way of those who,
feeling weak, nervous, run down or out of
sorts, desire to give this remarkable restora-
tive a trial. — Advt.
081
*******
if
OK
THE
CRITERION
OF PERFECTION.
Next WeeKs Releases at tke Big City Theatres.
Haymarket and
Julian Eltinge
“THE COUNTESS
CHARMING.”
Hoyt’s Theatres,
Vivian Martin
“LITTLE MISS
OPTIMIST."
Piccadilly Theatre,
Marguerite Clark
“THE
AMAZONS."
Pitt Street.
Wallace Reid
in
“THE
HOSTAGE”
PARAMOUNT HOUSE, 302 PITT STREET, BYDNEYI
I
POLITICAL
POINTS
Repatriation: Any scheme for returning
Ministers and other politicians to their old
jobs.
If somebody proposed that, because John
Smith was a pretty good hatter, we should
be compelled to let John Smith’s sons and
grandsons make our boots until the end of
time, we should certainly say that somebody
was mad. Yet that is the British system of
hereditary neers; and with civilisation fight-
ing for its life, the British Government has
time to spend extending it. Some fools seem
to be asking for an explosion.
WASTE.
“The Supreme War Council therefore decided that
our immediate task is the most vigorous prosecution
of the war.” — Cable.
DEATH: “Say when!”
If Victoria’s Rich Landlord Rees isn’t
careful he’ll be getting into holts with the
Commonwealth police. He has just re-
turned from Canada, where he “saw four
ships building on the Welland Canal with-
out any sort of shipyard whatever. At
Vancouver he saw three ships building side
by side under much the same conditions, and
the whole administrative business was
carried on in one small room. Here,” he
adds, “it is all talk and preparation.” But,
then, in Canada -they want to build ships.
In Australia there are people who want to
damn the unions, wherefore they manoeuvre
to get no ships built and fasten the respon-
sibility for it on the unions.
The ribald boys in Palestine called the
last lot of reinforcements “The Wheel-
barrows.” Had to be pushed all the way.
From the Priminister’s speech on 14th
November last at Sydney Town Hall, as re-
printed for circulation among the electors:
We must build ships, and more ships, and still
more ships. The Australian Government has decided
to throw all its energies into the soale, attacking the
problem in real earnest. Everything is practically
ready.
Another three months have passed, and not
a tap of work has been done in Australia,
though lots of taps have been done meantime
in Germany. Nobody thinks anything the
less of Hughes for having mended umbrellas
for a living before he got into Parliament ;
and Higgs was quite entitled to recall the
fact the other day as evidence of the size
of Hughes’s real business capacity.
THE EASTER EGO.
“It is understood that the Government is seriously
considering the situation of recruiting, in order to
lay a settled policy before Parliament after Easter.”
—S. M. Herald.
THE KID: “He hatched policemen out of the
Warwick egg; he’s hopin’ for soldiers
from this one.”
E. E. Keep, president of the Vic. Employ-
ers’ Federation, has been asking what sort of
service Australia gets from its 650-odd mem-
bers of Parliament. It gets just as good as
it deserves. Ministers enter into wicked con-
tracts like that with Norton Griffiths; and
no politician suffers. There is proof of
appalling mismanagement and waste in the
Defence and other departments; and the
party machine keeps the wasters in office.
So far as this paper can remember no poli-
tician has been punished in Australia during
the last 20 years for prodigal extravagance;
but dozens have been rewarded for it.
If there is any reason at all why public
servants shouldn’t be permitted the luxury
of striking, it isn’t the one Beeby suggested
in introducing his new bill to the N. S.
Wales Assembly:—
Once the citizen became an employee in a State
concern he voluntarily took on new obligations. The
business in which he was engaged was not run for
the making of private profits. It was expected to
meet working expenses and interest on borrowed
capital. Beyond that no serious amount of profit
was looked for.
This attempt to distinguish between “in-
terest” and “profit” is nonsense, for a
Railway Commissioner, for instance, though
he may be showing only 3| or 4 per cent, all
round, has to struggle to make 10 or 12 or
15 per cent, on some lines in order to wipe
out losses on others. There are no very
good reasons why public servants shouldn’t
strike if others may; but, such as they are,
the only ones that count are:—
(1) The community is the employer; and the
community must be presumed to be willing to do
justice.
(2) Public services are the common property of
the citizens, who are responsible for the maintenance
of those services, and a strike in such circumstances
is an act of rebellion.
The German-named places in S. Aus. which
are to be rechristened happen, by luck, to be
mostly wayback townships without railway
stations. Three stations have, however,
come under the ban, and are to he called
Peterborough (formerly Petersburg), Marree
(formerly Hergott Springs), and Dorrien
(this replaces Seppelts). In the back-
ground The Bulletin can see a grinning
German. His troubles so long as Australia
merely fusses around with the names of
things and doesn’t (1) send along recruits,
(2) demand a high tariff, and (3) repeal the
War Time Profits tax, which bars new indus-
tries and keeps the market nice and free for
Hamburg again.
“Is there no man in Parliament with
courage enough to disregard what seems to
be the slavish etiquette of the Parliamentary
Club and raise a protest against the squan-
dering?” the Age asks, talking about the
recent misuse of motor-cars. No, there
isn’t. Etiquette has ruled that parliamen-
tarians shall silently acquiesce in scandalous
expenditure, which is turned to purposes of
patronage by most of them. Any candid
member who insisted on giving the game
away would be assailed with the cant cry of
“Dirt!” Etiquette forbids him to blow the
gaff—requires him to uphold the “dignity”
of politics by saying nothing about their
corruptness. In the administration of
Hughes and Co. there is one glaring scandal
which has been widely discussed by men and
women outside the House ever since the
war started. But there has been never a
word about it in debate.
Black Rod is trembling in his shoes in Vic-
toria. Premier Bowser proposes to “sim-
plify the forms under which the business of
the House is conducted.” This is the time
for such economies, of course, and with one-
shove-all-together Bowserism and Labor
could push the mace and other frippery out
into the back yard, with complete satisfac-
tion to the taxpayers who foot the bills. Still.
Bowser will probably content himself with
wagging a finger and remarking “Tut, tut,
naughty!” and things will just go on the
same as they did last century, so easy is it
to assist one’s reputation as a reformer
merely by promising reforms.
In spite of Ministers’ talk that returned
men are given preference in Government
jobs, the Defence Department in S. Aus. is
still over-run with men who have never been
at the Front, and the Pay Office and other
branches are sagging in the middle from the
weight of their staffs. As usually happens
in such cases there is a tangle of red tape
and interminable delays in dealing with
matters, especially with regard to returned
men. On the medical side the position is
nearly as bad: even the P.M.O. has never
been on active service, though there are
now plenty other men, equally distinguished
in their profession, who have been.
There is much talk in Adelaide over the
curious position of Alfred Styles, colleague
in turn of Crawford Vaughan and, as a
coalitionist, of Peake. He was the one
politician strongly condemned in the finding
of Webb, who sat as a Commission on the
land purchases of the Vaughan Ministry. On
that he naturally resigned his position in
the present Ministry, and demanded further
inquiry, suggesting that there was nothing,
in the evidence given, to justify Webb’s
strong condemnation. Plis resignation was
accepted, but all further inquiry was re-
fused. Various Government officials who
also came under the lash have demanded
and obtained further inquiry, with the right
to be represented by counsel; but Styles is
just up against a dead-end, and the position
is therefore most unsatisfactory. The man
ought to have a fair go. And so should the
public. It has a right to know definitely
whether this is a rogue or an honest man.
P.S.
“Uncle said that there isn't another woman
in the world like you, Auntie."
“Did lie really, dear?”
"Yes, and it was a jolly good job, too.”
The S. M. Herald last week printed an
article showing that the United States has
built a steel steamer of 8800 tons in 70 days
and is now cutting the time down to 63 days
—this while Australia seems hardly able to
build an oil launch. It was a crowded
article, but it quite forgot to mention that
the U.S.A. has a high Protective tariff while
Australia hasn’t. Everything was mentioned
except that.
THE PATTERN.
“In acknowledging greetings from the Court
preachers, on the occasion of his 59th birthday
(27th January), the Kaiser telegraphed: ‘With deep
thankfulness I commemorate to-day’s event. God has
performed great deeds for the German people. My
special sympathy is with the great tasks set equally
before the Church and the State in the reconstruc-
tion of the family life and the education of a God-
fearing, healthy young generation, worthy of their
fathers.’ ’’
"Go tliou, mein solm, undt do likewise!"
“Sillee, stupid Pritishers” have had another
lesson. Having ridiculously over-praised
Captain Muller, of the Emden, that swollen-
headed pirate, on his release from captivity
in England, no sooner got among his Dutch
cousins than he started to complain of the
“unheard of treatment” he had suffered from
the English, somewhere or other. And that’s
the thanks “sillee, stupid Pritishers” got for
having made a hero of this pinchbeck cap-
tain, on the ground that he hadn’t been a
brutal murderer in the pursuit of his piracy.
Various “learned brothers” in Victoria are
getting ready to argue that water is a food
within the meaning of the Pure Foods Act;
also that it isn’t. The point arises over
Bendigo’s absurd objection to having its
water diluted with sewage. The State
Rivers and Water Supply Commission has
repeatedly been urged to keep the Coliban
reservoir free from house drainage, and at
last Bendigo has sooled the Vic. Board of
Plealth on to prosecute it under the Pure
Foods Act. Though pure water is as neces-
sary as pure beer, the wiseacres who built
the law didn’t say anything about it; so a
mountain of costs will be piled up in deciding
the point. Probably the decision won’t be
satisfactory when it is given. But the costs
in the fool of a case will be beyond sus-
picion.
THE INSULT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The grey Plantagenets are dust,
Their pomp and glitter passed away ;
The kingship yields to moth and rust,
No spotlight gilds the duke to-day.
A lingering show, a dreary sham,
The old nobility of blood,
With scarce a democratic damn,
Trails its worn trappings through the mud.
The little lordling on a stage
Of narrow sloth mouths out his part,
Deaf to the movements of the age
And to the people’s beating heart.
None murk his path. Ilis petty pride
Is in the tailor’s craft alone—
His noble trousers stand beside
The musty smell men call a throne.
While Wilson rules and Trotsky yells,
While splendid France restrains the foe,
The warning voice of Freedom tells
The tinsel Things That Were to go.
These stood for chains. Their pomp and feast
By shames and bitter sweat were won —
E’en China in the ancient east
Has marked the rising of the sun.
Australia, free and somewhat clean,
In Freedom’s war has borne her part
And over clouds of death has seen
Red lightnings tear deception’s heart.
What shame is this that bows her head
And sets her in the scorn of things?
O’er woman’s tears and good blood shed
The past its mouldy gew-gaw flings!
We knew a man. We held him such.
Something he wrought in younger days.
And he was ours. What hand should smutch
The laurels of his toil-won praise?
Yet from the carrion of the past,
AVhile flames the present’s conquering sword,
Dead hands, befouling, round him cast
The insult of the title “Lord” !
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


A New Novel by Arthur Wright,
THE BREED HOLDS GOOD
A splendid Australian war novel, with a sporting interest.
One of this popular sporting novelist’s best books.
By the same Author.
‘THE HATE OF A HUN.
A great Australian war story that tells how the Kaiser made
war on the Commonwealth.
ALL BOOKSTALLS and BOOKSELLERS.
Price: ONE SHILLING (1/1 posted.)
Write for a Catalogue of over
ONE HUNDRED SHILLING “BOOKSTALL” NOVELS
Australia’s most popular fiction library: Over
1,500,000 volumes actually sold.
Australia’s Best Authors Represented:
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
EDWARD DYSON.
LOUIS BECKE.
E. J. BRADY.
AMBROSE PRATT.
THOS. E. SPENCER.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
STEELE RUDD.
M. FORREST.
ROY BRIDGES.
JOHN SANDES.
AC3® t?C3E.
N&SJPILAHB
A TALE OF
. TOMORROW
JoMhSaNO€5
Should be in every Australian kitchen—
“lnvalid and Convalescent
Cookery,”
by Kate Harriett.
1/= 1/1 posted.
Q
Published by
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO. LTD.,
476 George Street,
i-- SYDNEY.
111111111111111111»t iTi 111111111 Tf 11 f 1111! 111111111111111111111111111 i 11111111114 Jllllllllllllll m I! 1111111111 i Ulllllll f FIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIII i 11111 (1111 ■ IJIIIIIJII < 11
Wcstiiighousc
Tramway Controllers
L
■
SOME SPECIAL FEATURES:
Exceptionally strong mechanical construction.
Simple mechanism with minimum number of parts.
All parts made to gauge and strictly interchangeable.
Liberal rating of all current carrying parts.
Low maintenance.
All wearing parts easily and cheaply renewable.
Renewable finger and drum arcing tips.
All parts easily accessible both for inspection and repairs.
Simple method of cutting out either motor, when required.
Most powerful magnetic controller blow-out on the market. ,
Constant finger tension irrespective of wear.
Stubbing entirely prevented by special design of finger springs.
All connections are visible on removal of front cover.
Ample space for incoming cables.
Head Office for Australia:
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
mum i m minimmi m m iimmimimmimmimimmiiimmmmimmii'iimmiiimimmiii
Works—Tralford Park, Manchester, England.
imimm mm mmm m m imiimiiyTTfiimimn m mmmm mil mmiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin
PREVENTABLE ILLNESS
The cost of living has been increasing by leaps and bounds during the past few months,
and thousands find difficulty in making ends meet. It stands all classes of the community
in hand to practise economy in everything, and to look to their general health to see there is no
waste of time and expense by preventable sickness. By keeping the system clean by using a
simple remedy to ensure the proper working of the digestive organs when they show signs of
needing help, will prevent many serious illnesses. Carelessness regarding these simple require-
ments of Nature is costly both to the general health and the time wasted. Keep Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills always at hand, and take a pill or two occasionally to prevent the little troubles,
and the big ones will take care of themselves. No better remedy can be had at any price. All
classes of the community use them, rich and poor, male and female —professional men who do not
get enough physical exercise, hard-working laborers who get too much, ladies of society and shop
girls all find in Dr. MOa'SCS Indian Root Pills just the remedy to keep their systems in
order. They cleanse the stomach, purify the blood and tone the system, and aid in the digestion
and assimilation of the food. They are sold at a price within the reach of all classes.
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD-SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
A SAFE, SURE AND RELIABLE SPECIFIC FOR
THE ERADICATION OF WORMS IN CHILDREN
AND ADULTS.
The general symptoms of worms are a
tendency to pick the nose and a sensation of
itching in the anus. Other symptoms are
nervous affections, such as fretfulness, irri-
tation of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, and grind-
ing the teeth, sudden starting out of sleep as
if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not infre-
quent in children, and symptoms resembling
water in the head have been ascribed to
worms, and have ceased on their expulsion.
The long round or stomach worm is the
commonest kind of worm from which man-
kind suffers, and is of a light, transparent
color, resembling the ordinary ground worm,
except that the extremities are more sharply
pointed than the ground worm.
Young people are more subject to these
worms than middle-aged or elderly people.
They live in the bowels, and sometimes make
their way into the stomach and throat, caus-
ing sickness, vomiting and choking. Gener-
ally one or two would be the most a person
would be afflicted with, but sometimes a
much larger number is met with. The length
varies from four to eight inches, but young
ones an inch to two inches long are also
found. The first thing to do is to rid the
system of the worms, and Comstock’s “Dead
Shot” AVorm Pellets, taken according to
directions, are an effective remedy for the
thorough eradication of the long round or
stomach worm —the common enemy of the
child, the youth, the middle-aged and aged.
A light, nourishing diet, out-of-door exercise,
and, if possible, a change of air will greatly
improve the general health.
Threadworms or pinworms are of very
common occurrence in children. They are
very small, from one-sixth of an inch to half-
an-inch in length, and resemble cotton
thread—they are sometimes called seat
worms, and reside in the lower bowels. The
chief symptom of this worm is severe local
itching, restlessness and irritability, and a
frequent desire to urinate, picking at the
nose; loss of appetite and anaemia are also
observed. To get rid of. the worms and their
eggs their nests also must be removed, and
that requires a specific remedy. Comstock’s
“Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, taken according
to directions, on an empty stomach, followed
by a dose of opening medicine, will succeed
where others fail.
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are packed with full directions, and
are for sale by chemists and stores
generally at 3s. Gd. per packet, or six
packets for 205., and if unable to obtain
locally will be mailed post free on receipt of
price. Prepared only by The AY. H. Comstock
Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Sydney, N.S.W.;
Parish Street, AVellington, N.Z.


It would seem that the Allies’ greatest
danger is from internal dissension caused by
constant carping, puling pessimism and
egotistic envy, suggesteth that united-effort-
inspiring spirit, King George IV. topnotch
Scotch. — AdVt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder -Soap
LEWIS &WHITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
Business Notices.
GENERAL MANAGER, CENTRAL
SUGAR MILLS.
STATE OF QUEENSLAND.
A PPLICATIONS are invited for the
J\_ position of General Manager of the
Government Central Sugar Mills of Queens-
land.
Applicants must state their age, and fur-
nish satisfactory evidence of their technical
and administrative experience and general
qualifications.
A salary of £l2OO per annum is offered,
with an engagement extending over a period
of one year from Ist April, 1918, with an
extension of a further four years if services
are satisfactory.
The successful applicant will be respon-
sible for the good and efficient management
of the Government Central Mills now estab-
lished or to be established, and will super-
vise for the Treasurer of Queensland five
other Central Mills which have also been
established out of State funds.
Applications will be received up to 7th
March, 1918, by the Under-Secretary, the
Treasury, Brisbane, and must be endorsed
“Application for Position of General Man-
ager of Central Sugar Mills.”
G. L. BEAL, Under-Secretary.
The Treasury, Brisbane,
30th January, 1918.
IT'S GREAT
kjh
how I find I can
get p.way for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On slfle by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
R. R. Russack, 377 a Elizabeth St., Syd-
ney; Philip Frankel & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Ltd., Pme
St., Adelaide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300
Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto.
Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne. _
■-r
df.ls
55 ®«3SS?a*
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
To find the winner of Caulfield Futurity
Stakes one always looks at the late entries first, a
late entry being an expensive investment. Theie
are four of them this year—Desert Gold, Duntulm,
Cetigne and Colonel Chutney. The last-named is a
3-year-old brother to Captain White, the smart
sprinter of former days. This colt, in Whitty s
stable, has been given 7st. 31b. for the Newmarket
flutter, and is one of the minor Victorian hopes tor
the event. All the same, there is a general Vic.
impression that none of the local stuff will be quite
up to the class of the visiting cracks, although a
lot of it is in the early betting for the Newmarket,
and the hard-working Chrome is most fancied 101
the Australian Cup, where Red Pennant seems to
have a second-to-none chance. #
Perhaps the Oakleigh Plate sprint at
Caulfield next Saturday will reveal the winner of
the Newmarket, but more likely punters will have
to wait another week for the best of their latest
form” advices, and even then may be led quite
astray. The Oakleigh is mostly a matUr of lack
as regards the fleetest of them, anyhow—fu longs
with a turn in the course, as compared with the
straight six for the Newmarket. The blood of Ibex
may be up in the front. #
Wedge and Petracia proved themselves
all right again by their running in a 7-furlong
race at Sandown Park (Melb.) last Saturday, the
form suggesting that Petracia will be prominent at
the distance-post in the Newmarket as she was last
year. The black mare may stay the full journey
this time, though in the Sandown test Wedge made
her look very like a squib. Another one that seemed
to fail again at the finish was Half-a-Glass in the
mile race; nevertheless the imported son of Isin-
glass ought to be worth considering for the Aus-
tralian Cup. The two horses that beat him by heads
only will meet him on much worse terms at Flem-
ing-ton in the long-distance event, and Half-a-Glass,
with only 6st. 101 b. up, will want a lot of catch-
ing. The handicapper has treated him as though he
had no pretensions to stamina, but he usually
battles on pluckily after he is collared.
A smart imported horse that might be
sufficiently acclimatised to win the Newmarket is
Elsdon, in Bradfield’s stable. He did a pretty good
gallop the other day. But these English horses aie
matters for grave suspicion until they have proved
themselves in a crowded field. If they do get into
good condition they are apt to be timid in a jostle.
Something among the seven-stones or
under usually wins the Australian Cup. The last
quarter of the 2J miles finds the weight-carriers
out. The last time the top-weights excited their
backers was in 1913, when Cadonia and Piastre weie
likely winners,, until Almissa (7st. 121 b.) shot out
at the distance and beat them easily. Old Wishing
Cap, second in 1915 and ’l6, would have a chance if
he came to the scratch in his best form. He
carried 2lb. and 121 b. more than his present handi-
cap. But the son of Fortunatus is now aged as well
as uncertain —darned uncertain.
* * * *
Vic. jockey Norman Godby will do no
more race riding. Avoirdupois has beaten him. A
fine horseman in his day, he has a long list of classy
wins to his credit, including Melbourne Cup, Bagot
Handicap, Debutant Stakes and Futurity Stakes,
also A.J.C. St. Leger and Champion Stakes, Metro-
politan and Randwick Plate. His Melbourne Cup
was collared in 1903.
* * *
Flemineton has taken a tip from Rand-
wick. The V.R.C. Committee has decided that
future “sticks” shall be similar to those in use on
the Randwick track. For a start, they look much
more formidable than the old battens.
* * *
Totalisator at Sydney meetings on Satur-
day—Moorefield (horses), £3082, seven races; Vic-
toria Park (ponies), £9686, 12 races Divs. on
1 and 2 at Moorefield; 1, 2 and 3 at the othei
place. They might as well make it a flat dividend
on the first three all round right away—and. it
wouldn’t do Ikey any harm to second the resolution.
* * * *
Caulfield Cup winner Bronzetti was a
starter in the Club Handicap at Moorefield (Sydney)
on Saturday, and what happened wasn’t much of
an inducement to hope for big things at Caulfield
and Flemington. Handicapped at Sst. 71b.., among a
field of moderates —Tosson was top weight with
Bst 111 b colt seemed more than well treated,
and, was solidly backed at 7 to 4. The speedy
Brolly got away with a long break, and though
Bronzetti closed on her at the finish and ran into
second place The Christian Brother and Rara Avis
were doing just as well as he w r as at the finish.
Indeed, the performance of the Brother was a good
deal better than that of the Cup winner, because he
was away out of the proceedings when the others
struck the turn. The writer expects to see Bron-
zetti win a good race yet, but it isn’t much good
trying to make out that his two most noticeable
performances —in the Caulfield and in Biplane’s
A J C. Derby—were altogether free from fluke.
• * * *
Horses for courses —sometimes. And one
of the nags that can be relied upon to do as good
at Randwick and much better elsewhere is the well-
bred and speedy Dear Laddie. He won a Welter
Mile at Moorefield in November; beat one home in
the Rosehill December Handicap; and in the
December Welter, carrying lOst. 71b., was never
sighted on the trip, finishing last but one, and justi-
fying the offers of 16 to 1. At Moorefield again, on
Saturday, he took the Kockdaie Mile, carrying lOst.
and winning easily at 2 to 1. Dear Laddie’s objec-
tion to Randwiek may be that he was once nearly
killed there. He has certainly never done anything
on the course worth noticing since.
“Lex Talionis” writes: “The V.R.C. lias
disqualified two jockeys and refused to renew the
license of another, they having been mixed up in a
police-court case resulting in one of them being
fined £2O. This was for riotous conduct at mid-
night. In no other walk of life is a man deprived
of his means of livelihood for unseemly conduct in
his own time. Even a gent, one of the Supreme
Court can go a long way in his spare hours without
invoking the censure of the Law- Society.”
The V.R.C., if it refuses to renew the license of a
jockey on account of “behavior,” is not arrogating
to itself the right to hand out punishment for an
offence committed outside its jurisdiction. But it is
resisting the right of the riotous jock, to demand
from the club a license free from all conditions
except those regarding him when he is on board a
horse. It is plain foolishness to say that “in no
other w’alk of life is a man deprived of his means
of livelihood for unseemly conduct in his own time.”
Let “Lex” get some of his legal friends to go publicly
on the scoot with, say, half a dozen bank-tellers, and
then sit back and see how long the tellers are hand-
ling coin at the little window. The fadt of the
matter is that a racing club has a very direct interest
in the private lives of the individuals it gives a
certificate to. Indeed, the line is not drawn sharply
enough; the lives led by at least some registered
horsemen and trainers and the character of the
individuals they habitually associate with are glaring
illustrations of an indulgence which in itself is a
scandal.
* * * *
He encountered a John Hop in Sydney
last week and commenced a yarn which caused the
Law to gurgle “Howld on, now!” and turn round
three times to make sure it wasn’t a dream. Then
the fooree led him away and took down the rest.
It transpired that when he came to town he met a
couple of coves at the Coffee Palace who owned a
hoi'se. It v\ r as a tremendously last ’orse, and they
were going to back it for a race next week, but the
name of the race or the place or the moke didn’t
happen to be mentioned. He gave them £2O to put
on, and then they took him to a stable and showed
him the horse, and remarked that it couldn’t lose.
Later on, they intimated that they could get £BOO
to £4OO about it, whereupon he gave them two
cheques each for £2OO. They cashed the cheques and
the two coves hadn’t come back to the Coffiqe Palace,
and the horse they took him to see wasn’t theirs,
and —wow —ow- —ow ! And the wretched hayseed
has gone back to toil and a couple of magsmen are
living in quiet retirement cultivating a new fashion
in whiskers as a preliminary to looking for someone
else. This paper puts it to the management of all
pubs, coffee-palaces and hash-mills that every visi-
tor from the country should on arrival be presented
with a printed card urging the holder, in the event
of being asked if he goes to the races or knows a
horse from a rabbit, to immediately break the fire-
alarm and remain in the vicinity until the arrival
of the brigade.
» * * #
When three blokes were charged at
Bathurst (N.S.W.) the other day with conspiring to
cheat and defraud another bloke of his money, the
case resolved itself into this: that the three blokes
boarded a train and invited the other one to have
a game at cards to pass the time; that the methods
allegedly employed were those of “guns”; and that
the lonely bloke finished with a loss of £7 and a
loud squeak. Judge Bevan said that unless some
dishonesty was shown no charge of fraud could be
sustained, even if it were established that the
accused were guns. Since then a Sydney paper has
moaned that it is “practically impossible to get the
evidence” which the Judge declares to be necessary.
To this moan the reply is that the prosecution of
people without evidence of guilt is waste of time,
whether the charge is conspiracy, arson, lunacy or
failure to register on the electoral roll. Bevan’s
ruling is not only good law but good eommonsense.
If the Courts took the opposite view everybody who
plays cards would be open to blackmail of the grossest
kind. It would be monstrous if, in order to protect
the kind of sucker who falls in on a train or
steamer, the common law should be interpreted in
terms which would make it an ever-present menace
to citizens who are neither guns nor chumps, and
put the professional take-down on a better wicket
than ever.
The fact of the matter is that the citizen who
loses money to strangers at a game of poker on train
or steamer is seldom entitled to any sympathy. Long
experience of him has confirmed this writer in the
belief that when he runs to the nearest John, justice
would generally be best served if the Law gave
him six months’ hard. In more than nine cases
out of 10 he is a half-cunning, unreliable sort of
individual who reckoned he knew quite a lot and
spent most of the time trying to surreptitiously ap-
propriate a royal flush. When an individual like
this takes a hand with a party which knows how to
play, his wad is mortgaged from the start, even
though the game be played absolutely on the level.
There is a fearful lot of nonsense talked about
“putting up a deck” and all the rest of it in connec-
tion with poker. This is the crudest sort of tear-
away, the most easily circumvented and the least
resorted to.
* * * *
“Shepherd” : Know a younger jockey than
Sam Robinson, of Kelly’s Gully (N.S.W.)? At a
meeting held thefe he rode his pony in the flat race,
and another over the batons. Second in the flat;
nowhere in the jumps. He is 11.
* * * *
J'Clumbungy”: On the Lachlan on opening
daw, February 14, I last year saw 53 teal duck
killed outright by two shots from a 12-bore breech-
loader, and there must have been a dozen or more
wounded and escaped. Waterfowl have taken advan-
tage of the three wet seasons in succession out west
and multiplied amazingly. The river and every tank.
swamp and crab-hole from the reedbeds at Tupra
Landing to Hillston are teeming with duck of all
sorts, from the little spoonbill and teal to the big
black and freckled fellows. It’s slaughter, not sport,
to get amongst them with a gun. Vet four or five
years ago, on the same part of the Lachlan, the
wild variety was so scarce that pothunters were
wont to shoot the cockies’ ducks to fill the menu.
* * * *
“Mat”: The Sydney press flare-headed last
week the butchery of wild duck near Lockhart with-
out a blush. Twenty-eight alleged sportsmen with
firearms were credited with bagging 1137 birds, which
was noted triumphantly as the biggest one-day holo-
caust in the district. As there is not a chance of
all this excellent food getting to the market, it is
up to somebody to fall on those responsible for this
waste. The State badly needs a gun and fishing
license, with “bags” limited, as they are with deer
in Maoriland. It would preserve the natural food
with which the State is abundantly supplied; also
it would go some way towards paying the wages
of inspectors whom the State helps out of its coffers.
Incidentally, shootiers with a thirst for big “bags”
might remember that there’s a “call” in France.
They could do more for civilisation there than by
wasting food in Australia.
* * * *
D. G. Stead, the N.S.W. deep-sea fisher-
man, lately had a yarn with some North Coast
Creeks at Nelson’s Bay. These excited foreigners
swore that their lobster-pots (they are 3 ft. 6in.
across) were being taken by a shark J 15ft. long.
They described its head as “beeg as da shed on da
wharf.” Stead had a long look at the shed and
guessed the Greeks were stretching their shark a bit.
They insisted, anyhow, that it had bitten a piece out
of one of their launches. The printing of the yarn
awoke an early seafarer, and he sat up and supplied
a circumstantial account of how, in the year 1879,
in longtitude so-and-so (this detail always lends
tone to a nautical yarn), while the barque River
Nith, bound from Liverpool to San Francisco with
a cargo of t — and *** for the Censor’s depart-
ment, was lying becalmed on the oily Pacific, a
shark 60ft. long and 18ft. across the head rose
beside the ship and dozed fitfully on the surface of
the ocean. They knew the brute was 60ft. long
because it arranged itself right alongside and
stretched from the mizzen-topgallant-binnacle to the
aiter-loggerheads, a distance of exactly 60ft. Then
it turned lazily and disposed itself picturesquely
dead astern so that everybody could see its head
was precisely as wide as the ship. Shortly after
this the vain horror left—possibly to make arrange-
ments with a press-cutting agency. The ship’s com-
pany, apparently, threw nothing at it. Perhaps it
had nothing suitable. #
J. N. Crawford’s double-barrelled effort of
scoring 110 (out of 308) and taking 10 wickets for
133 runs was the bright spot in the Wellington v.
Auckland interprovincial match recently. Crawford
dropped into Australia first with A. O. Jones’s ’O7-
’OB English team, and stayed here. With S. Aus-
tralia he lent a hand in inter-State cricket, and in
1913-14 scored 264 runs, averaging 33.12, and headed
the 35 bowlers from N.S.W., Vic. and S. Aus. who
played Sheffield Shield cricket that season, by taking
most wickets (33 worth 17.03 each). R. J. Massie
(N.S.W.), who is now tickling up the Hun, was the
only bowler to get within cooee, with 31, averaging
18.25. Crawford was then enticed to Maoriland,
where he has since played cricket for profit and
pleasure. He is one of few who have done it with
success in specs. #
Ted Brown last week dropped into N.S.W.
Rifle Association’s chair for the fifteenth year. Over
a quarter of a century ago he was an enthusiast
with regard to rifle-shooting; to-day the enthusiasm
is a blaze. In his younger days he had other fancies,
football and cricket, in the old town of Parramatta
(N.S.W.). A brother is Dr. W. S. Blown, who
doesn’t need a second invitation when there’s a
roll-up at bowls. Another old stager on the Rifle
Ass. executive is George Douglass, who 37 years ago
was in the Ma team which won honors at Brisbane.
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang”: Some time back, at a
boxing tournament in the Big Smoke, Canada wiped
the floor with a poorly-selected team of Billjims.
There’s not much danger of such a thing happening
in Egypt. Two lightweights, Rutherford and Souter,
have so far beaten all the English, Welsh and Scot-
tish pugs, opposed to them, and should they meet
with defeat Billjim will put his piastres on one or
two other chaps in the Light Horse who have made
a name for themselves in rest-caifips at Rafa and
Khan-Tunis. Send Bill for a couple of days spell
by the seaside, and before he has erected his bivvy
he measures out a likely site for a stadium, and
then the ancient stillness of the Holy Land is dis-
turbed by the sounds of biff.
* * * *
“Mujik”: When the old-time puncher
dies or the new man comes into the limelight
always the s’ame old argument rages. How would
he have performed if he had been in the ring 2o
years later or if somebody else had been born that
many years sooner to argue the point with him . it
is a'waste of breath, as a rule. When Fitzsimmons
took the count any number of cocksure people were
satisfied he could at his best have put Jack John-
son’s pot on. And any number are equally certain
that if Jonel Sullivan had been on deck when a
later generation of finished boxers were about the
premises they would have pushed him out in a
round. Apart altogether from the obvious fact that
all this matters nothing anyway, it is fairly certain
that Massa Johnson in his prime was not a person
whose downfall at the hands of a man nearly 3st.
lighter could be foretold with any confidence. When
they did come together it wasn’t the darky who got
hurt. And whatever may be said about John L.
being a mere slugger, he was without doubt a very
vital individual with an instinctive aptitude for
bash that, had he come later into the game, would
have made him at least a formidable boxer. Any-
how, no mere boxer ever went very far if the other
sort of person was there to hand over a wallop.
Considering how hard it usually is to tell which of
two contemporaries will out the other, the problem
of what someone would have done to someone else
who was not there, and under different circumstances
than either had been accustomed to, is about as
comprehensible as dropping guesses down a deep
dark well. Did you never notice that the man who
never picks a winner on a racecourse except by
accident always has a mouthful of certainty about
what some nag long since dead would do to various
others which happen to be alive?
• * * *
“303”: “Observer’s” disbelief in fox-
terrier’s funk (B. 31/1/T8) is surprising. The
truth is that dogs, like men, don’t always live up
to their reputations. I have seen bulldog, Newfound-
land and fox-terrier show the white feather. The
terrier, a well-bred but pampered pup, had a big rat
cornered. The bubonic-carrier jumped, fixed his
teeth in the terrier’s nose and hung on. The amazed
tyke stood spellbound, his mouth wide open, tears
running down his cheeks. Then he started screaming as
plainly as a dog could: “Take him off! take him off.
Rat seemed Drepared to stay, so when we could get
our breath after the laughing fit we outed him, and
the dog yelped his thanks. Once saw a Newfound-
land, the life-saver of all the children’s stories, refuse
to help a coolie who was drowning, i'e got poor
Ram Chunder out and were administering first aid
when the Newfoundland showed he was a fool as well
as a coward by fixing his teeth in the coolie s calf.
Only recently my lifelong faith in the bulldog breed
slumped badly. Across the way this hang-on-till-
death hero had for months exchanged terrible threats
with a long-wooled, dirt-colored mongrel who resided
behind a high fence and was not allowed out. But
the other day bully came along as usual full of
bluster and found the mong’s gate open . Something
like an old bearskin rug threw itself out and tied
itself to the emblem of courage. Emblem howled
and beat it for home with the woolly mong hanging
on like a tick. Haven’t seen the bulldog since.
* * * *
“W.E.”: “Merrigal” (B. 31/1/’18) errnl
in saving that 9000 kangaroos were killed in one
drive at Trinkey, Warialda district (N.S.W.), about
30 years ago. 'The Trinkey where the drive took
place was not the place of that name in the \\ arialila
district, but the old Trinkey station, Liverpool Plains
district, and the drive took place about 40 yoais
ago. The greatest number killed on one day was, I
believe, 3000, though it was claimed that 0000
were massacred; but there were liars even in those
times. I should know something about the matter,
for I took part in the drive.
* * * *
“Bob Rogers” : Another word about ’roo-
shooting champions. We who are in the game in
Western Queensland quite admit that Jack Livingston,
of Aramac, is one of our best killers, but we won t
agree that he has slain more kangas. than any other
three men in Australia. I for one consider that, I
have sold as many skins as Livingston, although 1 m
a much younger man. Many of us now are getting
four to his one. He never did and never will put a
large number through in a year; his methods are too
slow and out of date. As to Charles Noon, I was
his mate, and while we were in partnership he got
16 more than I. Noon is a good shot, nevertheless he
uses a lot of ammunition. His big tally, 76,
was put up at Fleetwood homestead, in the little
horse paddock, but most of his total of 4000 were got
on Albion Vale. “Mookington’s” statement that
Riley gets 85 to 90 out of 100 shots may be cor-
rect ; but I don’t know any Riley in the business—
and there are not so many of us that we haven’t heard
of one another, as a rule. I know that’s my average
—B5 to 90 from 100 shots. I use a .303 and dum-
dum the bullets.
# * * *
“Pick” : The late Captain McKeaehie. who
many years ago owned Mt. Cooper station on Monaro
(N.S.W.), had a clumsily-built rifle similar in length
to the short Snider, it was designed for loading
with a ball cartridge which had no percussion-cap.
The breech chamber was pulled under with a
mechanism somewhat like that of the Martini-
Enfield, but it was provided with a sharp, forward
rim which cut off the rear end of the cartridge
when the breech was closed. A cap, like the caps
of the old muzzle-loader, had then to be jambed
on the nipple before the gun was ready for action.
The captain, who had taken part in the American
Civil War, often told me that this pattern of rifle—
he called it the Filibuster —had enabled the North-
erners to win.


A Skilful Boxer Fears No Foe!
L
A skilful Boxer is a man to be envied and admired.
He has himself under complete control. He has been taught to be
patient and tolerant. He is not easily “put out,” and usually is the last
to seek a quarrel.
When he is forced, however, to defend himself, he does it with a quiet
calm that breathes self-confidence in his every action. He is mot flurried
in the least. lie has a set plan, and adapts himself to circumstances. He
reserves his strength until the other fellow is getting “groggy.” He is
always doing the right thing at the right time.
Would you like to be a skilful boxer —to be able to give aggressive
a couple of stone and a beating? Then, why not learn
Scientific Boxing from me in your own home?
I Teach Boxing by Post.
I want to tell you all about my methods. How
simple and interesting they are. What rapid pro-
gress you’ll make, and what healthful exercise you
will secure from my instruction.
Here’s an extract from one pupil's report:—
“I find all Lessons remarkably interesting. They
are so thoroughly explained that anyone can catch
on to the meaning. I am beginning to feel some
confidence in myself already.
“W.M.R., Malanda, Q.”
Write for my illustrated booklet, “Scientific Box-
ing in Your Home,’’ which gives fuller particulars
and cost of tuition, etc. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement and post it to me.
I’ll know what you mean. Send three penny stamps
for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
Specialist In Physioal Culture,
596 Belmont Buildings, Sydney.
Zr.
i ’///'/
NO TOOTH BRUSH can CLEAN
THE TEETH THOROUGHLY
It is impossible for the brush to enter
the scores of tiny crevices—the vital
spots where bacteria commence their
dealdly work of tooth-destruction.
(gyuj)
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDER.
is scientific. The moment it enters
your mouth it liberates oxygen. The
oxygen penetrates into every crevice
and recess and destroys the bacteria
caused by the decomposition of food
particles, and neutralises the acid
secretions. The primary causes of
decay are removed.
Calox leaves the teeth snowy white
and purifies the mouth. It is delight-
fully refreshing to the taste.
msLo&
(Tin>C MMX)
THE OXYGEN
DOTH POWDER
©
Send for Free Sample
(Supplied anywhere in
Australia.)
Attach your name and
address to this adver-
tisement and forward to
Geo. Wills and Co , Ltd.,
480 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, with two penny
stamps to cover postage.
Procurable from
All Chemists
and Leading Stores.
F. 14.2.18.
THE COMFORT
OF POWER
s
\\ v V s
All You
Need to
Look for
on a Motor Cycle
is the Name
l £kdim
Catalogue '' Q " with pleasure.
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
109-113 RUSSELL ST., MELBOURNE.
MOTOR LORRIES
I=2=3 and 5
Tons
Capacities.
‘CTWIVj
■ V-
C.H.BARRIBAU.
HOOFER
IBM
The Denby is able to use a smaller motor and save you fuel expense,
because the power losses with the internal-gear axle are so much
less than with any other form of drive.
The only power you are interested in is the usable power delivered
at the wheels. And Denby delivers its greatest power at the slower
speeds, when the load is heavy or the road rough.
That is only one of a score of points of Denby dominance.
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
KRUSE'-S
FLUID MAGNESIA.
O.oKi ADoSal,
Calcutta. 1883.
t/DIIQC'P
FLUID MAGNESIA
util ,«s tss »sj «si: w »sh
W*V'»'«\.Vs'>\V\Y A,\:\'A,\Y tW.YAXVU'WM UNi"
VWXVt c'OO. NX C.\'.V\\Y»'«\N! VO*i <VC **i\VV
VV\' X.N'NWW'XvW .V\\.\WNU'
U.W.'.V VttW'AY.V WV'v'.W'A.V Vf t »' »»•« >'»
AS m* Xftfttm* XHAA »'NU\V .WWUvUU
nm »m»:x<t nxv'aaua.v ma« xcuu
ax<\k tm m tuumv
AiWV*\' VCI XA» AXVV Jilf A\Y.U«CA.\II»
.vu\‘.v> ff mvt. :» \\ v .*\ .Y»v mum
I' II llHtl'
i -iminii iiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiu
•■•IIIIIIMilllUUUIMMIIIIIlHIIIH
FELTON. CHIMWADE & CO., MELBOURNE,
H i> im ilia 1111. til hi iin'ini U.n mu mm
111 . .I*. ill,II II II !••* Him mu l him
The Australian Remedy for
Indigestion,
Biliousness and
Acidity of the
Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR
OLD AND YOUNG.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS DUE TO
VACCINATION AND TEETHING. A COOL-
ING MEDICINE FOR SPRING AND SUMMER.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
The “Stockman
Riding Boot
>\S«
211 -
//
%
V/.
m
"A
m
'vjgm&'-u
m
mt s
m
HUS
m
S
:
' i
•B (f
SS
✓2
*1 7;
/y*
m.
'V£
i)SW
&sr-«
... , % .. /'■'•'■ {ffijm*
\'Panned , m^^o^di' t lS^k„ < Qon'ijfail .
GuaiMte^^^sfaction^-^
~ Lincoln,. Stuart and
,
244-254 Flinders il:."
|p^i^jlly r^e6n^ructe(i:
Calf, vVjth Elastic Sides
an.dDouble"Tags; Dust*
-Easy
on- and- off, the-
~%tockman” is a boot
that no Australian horse-
man should be without.
Obtainable in all sizes.


BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSED, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
ft, if
W<
TECHNICAL.
THE CHEMICAL ENGINEERING AND
MINING REVIEW. Contents for February:—-
The Coal Problem (editorial) ; Eutectic Alloys—A
Study in the Structure of Metals ; A Canadian Pro-
posal to Encourage Mining; Carbonisation of Black
and Brown Coal (Part 2) ; Use of Oil in Flotation
Concentration; Prices of Rare Metals; Reports
from the Mines; Ore and Metal Market; Industrial
Progress; Current News.
Sample Copy, 7(1.
THE COMMONWEALTH EN-
GINEER— the recognised journal of the profession
—deals with various phases of engineering. The
February number contains the following articles: —
Depreciation of Power Plants; Part 1. of serial —
The Direct Current Generator; Description, with
plan, of Newcastle Harbor; The Murray River Im-
provement Scheme; Photograph and Description of
Marine Engines of 1200b.p., Manufactured in Aus-
tralia ; A Municipal Road Metal Plant; Reports of
Electric Tramway and Lighting Undertakings; News
of the Month from every State.
Sample Copy, 7(1.
Call and inspect our large stock of engineering
literature. Shipments of new books by every mail. IE
you cannot call, write for list, mentioning subject.
PETER. G. T AIT,
203 Ceorge St., Sydney. 90 William St., Melbourne.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
k
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
Legal Notice.
TO RICHARD KERR SIIAW, son of
Hunter Shaw and brother of Edwin
Hill Shaw, deceased, and to the children of
the said Richard Kerr Shaw and all persons
claiming by, through or under him or them.
Pursuant to an Order made under the
provisions of Section 25 of the Public Trust
Office Amendment Act 1913 by the Honor-
able Mr. Justice Chapman, a Judge of the
Supreme Court of New Zealand, you are
hereby called upon to send in to the under-
signed on or before the 31st day of March,
1918, your claim or claims to the estate of
Edwin Hill Shaw, who died on the 3rd day
of February, 1914, at Rookwood, New South
Wales, intestate, failing which the estate
will be distributed among those entitled
thereto, disregarding your claim.
Dated at Wellington this 21st day of
December, 1917.
E. P. HAY,
Solicitor to the Public Trust Office,
Wellington, N.Z.
Don’t Be A ‘Wish*
Some men keep on wishing they had an Onoto Self-filling
Pen so hard—that if the pen grew with the wish they
couldn’t see it all.
The Onoto does not leak. It FILLS ITSELP In a flash— without any
filler. A perfectly-balanced fountain pen—
QUIT WISHING—GET AN
Onoto
Self-filling
Safety Fountain
Pen
Manufacturer* : Thomas De La
Rue & Co., I,td,, Bunhill Row,
London, E.C. Managing Agents s
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
Sydney.
Jlsk (or ONOTO IKK- Best lor all Pens
hjkjhk
14/6
and upwards
Also ONOTO
Valveless tor those
who do net want a Self-Fllilng
w jjfetv Pen, 10/6 of all Stationers,
lawallers and Stores.
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to lone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
a good night’s red. Try a tew drops of
Dhosfo
1 THE ROYAL TONIC
rino
This is a real nerve invigorator, and will tune up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- . 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 8C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
11
A Msrrihil ManisMtrcihil fo His Bruts
m
LESLIE SALT LICKS
Stand on the pinnacle of Purity and Quality. For all animals.
2/- per block or 22/6 per case of 1 dozen.
At all Saddlers, Blacksmiths, Produce Merchants and Stores or
Wholesale
from
IBUZACOTT & CO.—7-11 Market St.
HOEDS WORTH, MACPHERSON & C 0.—252 George St.
HOOKER, CHAPMAN & CO.—lBB Sussex St.
HARRY SHELLY-185 Clarence St.
PASTORAE FINANCE ASSOCIATION, LTD.-Phillip St.
WATSON & NOBEE—2S7 Sussex St.
N.S.W. PRODUCE C 0.—226 Sussex St.
Retail:— NOCK & KIRBY LTD.—George St. North (near Quay).
Country orders: Freight, to be added.
'/ bought (Jim at
ago'w.
r>
a*?
Selected Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£l4.
2 Choice Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£l5.
3 Fine Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£lB/18/-
5 Selected Diamonds,
set in Platinum,
£lO/10/-
Fairfax & Roberts, Ltd.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney.
PLAIN FIGURES.
CASH ONLY.
23 & 25 Hunter Street
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat,
Vic.) :
Added to Re-
Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
June, 1910.. £4201 71 p.c. = £3187 £lOl7 £77,657
Dec., 1910.. 4176 7 „ „ 3187 989 78,646
June, 1911.. 4276 74 „ „ 3187 1089 79.735
Dec., 1911.. 4356 7 „ „ 3187 1169 80,904
June, 1912.. 4395 74 „ „ 3187 1208 82,112
Dec., 1912.. 4481 8 „ „ 3400 1081 83,193
June, 1913.. 4449 8 „ „ 3400 1049 84,242
Dec., 1913.. 4480 8 „ „ 3400 1080 85,322
June, 1914.. 4514 8 „ „ 3400 1114 86,436
Dec., 1914.. 4534 8 „ „ 3400 1134 87,570
June, 1915.. 4566 8 „ ~ 3400 1166 88,736
Dec., 1015.. 4581 9 ~ „ 3825 756 89,492
June, 1916.. 4611 9 „ „ 3825 786 90,278
Dec., 1916.. 4633 9 „ ~ 3825 808 91,086
June, 1917.. 467 S 9 „ „ 3825 853 91,939
Dec., 1917.. 5238 10 ' ~ „ 4250 988 92,927
This poor little chap will be lonely now. The
disappearance of the National of Tasmania
leaves its small brother of Ballarat the only
Australian bank with head-office outside of
a capital city; and there have been many
suggestions that it, too, should compose it-
self nicely on the plate of one of the big
institutions and submit to be swallowed, a
section of the shareholders has been calling
out in favor of this for a good while past.
A few years ago they pointed to the fact
that, though the bank was supposed to have
as much reserves as : share capital, or more,
it was paying only an 8 p.c. dividend —less
than 4 p.c., that is, on the combined funds.
“Give us our money,” they said, “and we will
make more than 4 p.c. with it.” Probably
this accounts for the energy with which
the dividend has been flogged up to 10 p.c.
The movement in the past 20 years has
been very slow :
1597. 1907. 1917.
Capital and reserves .. £143,101 £160,835 £182,177
Liabilities . . . . 210,772 254,088 242,251
Liquid assets . . . . 70,071 108,849 90,507
Advances .. .. 272,261 .301,633 331,420
Premises, etc. .. .. 11,541 4,440 2,500
Uncle Sam likes the little local bank; Aus-
tralia doesn’t. Neither does John Bull.
The system probably suits Australia least
of all three; for we depend so very largely
upon wool and wheat and meat, and because
of varying weather the wool and wheat and
meat business is liable to feel desperately
sick in some districts while it is booming in
others. This season, for instance, while
30-bushel crops are being cut in some
parts and every .second cocky is poring
over motor-car pamphlets, other parts have
been so afflicted by red rust that what
promised to be the best year they ever knew
has turned out the worst. It isn’t good for
a bank to have all its eggs in one basket
when all its watching can’t prevent a smash.
Ballarat is certainly different from most
districts: it isn’t wholly dependent on pre-
carious wheat. But it is quite clear,
nevertheless, that its little local bank is
either hobbled or hamstrung, and it has to
cut out many of those sources of profit from
which the big banks get a lot of their fat.
The Bulletin hates to see city concerns
swallow the little fellows in the backblocks;
but sooner or later this one will go.
The Trustees, Executors and Agency
Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, serves, serves.
June, 1910. .£4994 7 p.c. = £3150 £1844 £39,410
Dec., 1910.. 5659 7 „„ 3150 2509 41,919
June, 1911.. 5416 9 „., 4050 1366 43,285
Dec., 1911.. 5742 ‘ 7 „ „ 3150 2592 45,877
June, 1912.. 5015 7 u „ 3150 1865 47,742
Dec., 1912.. 6366 9 „ „ 4050 2316 50,058
June, 1913.. 5485 7 „„ 3150 2335 52,393
Dec., 1913.. 5959 8 „„ 3600 2359 54,752
Written off premises, £2500 .. 52,252
June, 1914 . . 9738 10 p.c. = 4500 5238 57,490
Written off premises, £5OOO .. 52,490
Dec., 1914.. 6282 8 p.c. = 3600 2682 55,172
Written off premises, £2500 . . 52,672
June, 1915.. 5073 8 p.c. - 3600 1473 54,145
Dec., 1915.. 6375 10 „„ 4506 1875 56,020
June, 4 -- 1916. . 5015 8 „„ 3600 1415 57,435
Dec., 1916.. 5503 8 „ „ 3600 1903 59,338
.Tune, 1917.. 5759 12 „ „ 5400 359 59,697
Dec., 1917.. 7272 10 „., 4500 2772 62,469
The past half-year wasn’t any more profit-
able than its predecessor ; but the predecessor
had to pay out £1693 as a bonus to the
staff. Still, what a co. like this makes or
says it makes in any one or two terms isn’t
really of much consequence. This co., for
instance, reserves a certain proportion of its
commissions; hence the amount of profit
claimed in any single term is quite arbitrary.
Revenue comes in two forms: (1) a single
commission (1 to 24 p.c.) on the gross capi-
tal value of the estate; (2) an annual com-
mission (24 p.c., as a rule) on the income.
Take a £25,000 estate, under administration
for 10 years. The corpus commission is
£625; the aggregate commission on income
(say) £312. That is, £937 for 10 years’ work —
say, £94 a year; and the exes, are liable to
take £55 or so out of that. Suppose, then, a
£25,000 estate comes in. Obviously it will
make a big difference to the look of the pro-
fits for that year whether the management
drops £39 into the profits (£94-£55), or takes
credit for the whole £625. And it will make
a lot of difference to subsequent years, too.
In the one case £39 or so will drop into the
profits every subsequent year for 10 years;
in the other the chances are that no profit
at all will be available, the annual com-
mission being barely sufficient or perhaps
insufficient to pay the outgoings.
All this indicates that in summing-up the
position and prospects of a, trustee co. the
only safe thing to do is to sweep in. the
history of, say, seven years. In this case
the co. has averaged slightly under a 9 p.c.
div., and, after writing £lO,OOO off premises,
has put by £20,545, equal to 34 p.c. p.a.
Meantime the value of the estates in hand
has climbed from £5,923,134 to £12,259,460.
And that the profits claimed have been some-
thing better than book nrofits is shown by
the fact that, while the dividends have cer-
tainly been paid in cash, the deposits and
investments in public securities and mort-
gages—that is to say, net assets other than
freeholds and furniture—have increased in
seven years by £36.901. This amount is
made up, roughly, of the £20,545 added to
visible reserves, the £lO,OOO written off
premises out of profits and £5OOO written off
premises in 1911 out of old debts recovered
and not shown in the table as profits.


—--C.*
HP
ns
•*!
it
f.
BtA
A
/ -
£s*
«4*—
i
i
S*\\
i
'V >
• •••• •
5%
a/i
li
m
h \Wi L
/|a>t
P»
; . \ \%^
y 54
W I
*•. t ■
X?
A
M
' •/! y ‘l ih '
1 \
Z*«?Z
lt\
I
VA
J
I
tA
£/r%
//
ZC
*«•
Z
A
I
Sfcl
er
#-2
P*
Va
M
m
<r-->sT
m
&
33
SSK
Va
SI
t/4
m
'imWpf,
Wh
IS.
m
m
%'■>
w?
-Z
at
•o*
Z 2
I it If
/ >'
%
'circaroi
roniTahs o/° fluff man.
'T'HIS charming selection —perhaps not intrinsically a very
great composition —has spread the sweetness of its
haunting strains over the whole world. It possesses a depth
of feeling so elusive that frequently the finer effects are
lost. In its execution the expression is its all.
With a Beale Player-piano you will
find that it is not at all hard to play
music with characteristics similar to
the “Barcarolle.” It is an instrument
essentially responsive to ones best
musical thoughts, and is so sympa-
thetic that complete, soul-satislying
rendition becomes almost instinctive.
Showrooms:
333 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
lecde!
&>C? OP
2>X> Geortfe
Sydney
Si
Factories:
-47 TRAFALGAR STREET,
ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
And al Bathurst, Orange. Lismore. Newcastle. Goulburn. Wagga. Victoria ' Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs. Tasmania: Williams Bros.. Hobart.
Maples. Launceston South Australia : John Evans Ltd. Adelaide. Queensland: 90-92 Queen Street, Brisbane. Kent Street, Maryborough.
Flinders Street, Townsville Rockhampton. Sydney Street, Mackay. Cairns.
jh


The “
99
r
mwiHru
r
'£SL
as illustrated, is a firm favorite
with men of mature years. Height
is lfin. and 2in. Sizes, 13Ain. to
ISin., linen-faced- Price 9d. each.
Ask your retailer for
Collars
by name. This make is worn by
discriminating men who insist on
highest quality always.
You may select from 12 different
styles and a variety of sizes.
Made in Australia.
kjh
WEAR
C7?e£a,co^
SHIDTS& PYJAMAS
ALSO
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
k
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Monr* Far Phono man >' tinies aa efficient
liiGuiS Lul 1 llOllts an( | powerful aa the old
model. Ninety-six decrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and lor all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 8916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
Toy Dog Lovers U Breeders.
FOR SALE. —ALL-BLACK PUG PUPS, Corrard
prize-winning stock; splendid heads, short
bodies. BLACK AND FAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE WHITE POMER-
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCH-ES; YOUNG
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome young PEKIN-
ESE DOG. Bargains—no reasonable offer refused.
Inspection invited.
KIRNBANK, Arthur Street, Croydon, N.S.W.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 rears.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under P’ain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ectab. 1891.
ARE YOU
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we thinlc of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more.
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
340 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
jhk
The “ Bulletin”
Stock Saddle
AND
The "Bulletin"
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddles we make.
Thev both have pigskin seat, the G.S.
panel, with leather down sides, long flaps and
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, girth, leathers and surcingle.
£7|o/6 Complete.
without Stirrups.
£6/9/6
without Stirrups
and without Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
in N. S. Wales.
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 13/6; post, 1/-
Saddle Cloth, 6/6; post, 9d.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
WRITE FOR SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or, If in
Australia, Nearest Railway Station.
The Kemp Saddle
AS USED BY
PROFESSOR KEMP
OF
BUCKJUMPING FAME.
In this saddle it is impossible for rider to
be thrown on to head of saddle, while it
also has all the benefits of stock kneepads
without their disadvantages. See how the pads are brougnt
high up, level with the pommel. The seat and skirts_ are
made in one piece of kip leather, making a worraerfuiiy
comfortable seat. The fittings included are Solid Nickel
3B Stirrups, Bevelled Leathers and Folded Girth.
£Bll5/- Complete, or without Stirrups.
Freight Free to any Port or Railway Station in N. S. Wales.
Cash with order.
WALTHER $ STEVENSON Ltd.
SADDLERS, IPAWS? ITSiS; SIDNEY.
jhk
*
B.B’
Grown on British own&d plantations
the British West Indian Island
Montserrat.
Shipped in British vessels. n
Montserrat
Lime Juice
The finest health beverage. Warranted
by a British -firm of world-wide renown.
Of All Storekeepers. , j „
Evans Sons Laacher & Webb, Ltd. — Liverpool London.
Remington,
.44 CaL
Repeating
RifL
r
v\
A 4
The
u
mversaJ
ffR
A
rm
Proportionate to
their size and power the .44
caliber cartridges are the lowest m
price. They are universally used
and will give excellent results with
tbe Remington UMC .44 caliber
Repeating Rifle.
Write for special descriptive
booklet sent free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT. Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewna
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoa
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay;-
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube eveiy-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROC TOMPSIT rri & CO.. Melbourne^
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Warwick Male: You read it, did you"?
So did all the others. We knew they would. That’s
what we printed it for. Now send along something
as interesting about yourself, and we’ll print that.
Meantime, as to “pepper-tree,” look up Webster’s
Dictionary, and then kick yourself.... Dinkum Aus-
tralian : Sorry, can’t. The authority under which
you suffer grievances takes mighty good care that
the Australian people don’t know that such griev-
ances exist.... A.J.C.: Ditto.... Fanuela: Old idea,
worked out disappointingly.... Legs: Lamentable.
W.J.C.: Not enough there L.A.G.: A hint
in them, but no more....A. Coy. Flea: It doesn’t
shout for print... .8.H.: Too slight... .J.A.K.: No.
....Gum-Nut: Rather sorrowful even for a first
try. .. . 2662 : Only worth a paragraph.... Digger:
“Stiff Luck” misses... .F. 8.: One is overproof and
another too weak even for afternoon-tea... .3.
Jingle: Not up....U.D.: Good of its kind. Try it
somewhere else... .R.H.: “Thought Machine” bumps
too heavily... .1.M.A.: There’s not enough in it.
. ...F.E.K.: Very boyish, but it shows some pro-
mise. .. .Libra: No use... .Jack U.: Pretty crude
verse... .Ringorm : Not quite... .W. 11.5.: “Teddy”
is very mild commonplace... .A.D.: Doesn’t sound
promising. . ..F.J.M.: A very lumpy «r0p....
Venus: There’s a thrill in it: —
The cables next, day told us here
How they stormed the slopes so well,
They shouldered a gun with never a fear
In the charge of the Dardanelles.
. ...S.S.D.: Pretty horrible... . .P.F.: Old idea;
rotten verse.,. .1.A.N.: What a laborious effort to
catch laughter !... .W.ILL.: Falls down with a gasp
and a flop. .. . K. 1.5.: Clumsy... .O.B.: It has a
light, fantastic movement: —
Things got more mixed when Dolly blamed Trix,
For having some of her things in her bag;
Dolly flew at Trix, and there was a mix;
A mixture of hair, with silks and rags.
As the Johns were told off about the scene,
They were just in time to hide their crime,
To get away home before they were seen,
For they only just finished their spree in time.
.. . J.H.: The Carsonites were armed to resist an
Act of the British Parliament. No side-stepping
can, therefore, evade the fact that they were armed
for treason.... D.L.P.: On the showing of your yarn
the parson was a better man than Crawly... .Emu:
Not up... .A.G.S.: They haven’t enough punch....
J.M.: “Bit of Luck” a trifle rugged... .T.R.: “High
Street” doesn’t tell its tale. .. .Drofder Mob: That
yarn has an ancient feeling... .R.H.: Doesn’t get
the effect... .R.S.F.: Crude thing... . Ivatharos: A
good way off yet H. 8.: There’s real feeling ill
“Custody.” Do some more work on it. .:. . J. 5.11.: Not
up....H.T.: Doesn’t quite make a yarn... .J.M.:
“Bully Beef” moves too stiffly... .W.C.H.: “Bath
Parade” misses.... J.P.C. N 0... .0.P.K.: Sorry, it
must go back. .. .E. 0.: The “Passenger” doesn’t
make g00d... .A.A.K.: Don’t care for them....
M.W.L.R.: They must trip home. ... Bipod: “Deci-
sion” is against it....R.N.: It doesn’t move u 5....
Observer: Mere commonplace... .A.J.T.: The “Coun-
ter Blow” narrowly misses being used as an awful
example.... Seedy: N 0.... J.H.: Try to get rid of
some of those “thees” and “thous” and other antique
conventions that spoil the promise of your work....
S.: The “Dead” don’t laugh pleasantly... .A. P.F.:
Good enough verse of its sort, but not interesting.
... .Aroha: As a first offender you are let off with a
caution; but for the sake of that genial sanity
which a nation should preserve in war-time,
try to find out what verse is. .. .Merriong: There is
no skill in it. ... Challoner: “Australian Nursery
Rimes” is published at Is. by Wins Brooks, Ltd.,
Castlereagh-street, Sydney. Add postage if you’re
ordering. .. .W.H.G.: Your declaration that “time
will tell” relieves our mind. We were in doubts
about it.... A Good Unionist: It’s a rotten argu-
ment, but you’ve got the dinkum spirit R.W.:
Old.. ..Cooz: Not in that form. .. .Mul: Apparently
you’ve got something to say ; but you only ask ques-
tions. .. .Glug: Yes; it will prove interesting if you
get to the point W.M.8.: Will you guarantee
that.... Mr. A.G. (Tas.) : The Answers to Correspond-
ents will struggle on, thank you... .E.J.8.: No; but
you might anchor it in an English magazine.
TO ARTISTIC (AND IN’VRTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
P.S.: Gag is of the 1850 vintage... .V.P.L.:
Sorry can’t use it....M.R.: Perspective is 0ut....
G.W.: Don’t like your illustrated ballad, or whatever
it is... .T.Ii.K.: Over the pale blue edge... .M.J.C.:
Not like a. parson, not like a sport.... C.W. Ram-
shackle drawing. .. .Black C.: It’s art for the family
circle only.. . . J.F.LI.: As a suggestion it comes too
late. .. .E.8.J.: It’s a sad thing and your own for
ever. Most first attempts are like that.... Charles
McN.: Very shaky drawing; heartbreaking joke....
lI.R. J.: It misses us.
The Bulletin merely notices as a
quaint circumstance that while all the names
chosen for the vessels to he built for Aus-
tralia in Yankeeland begin with B, the
great national Blanky has been quite over-
looked.
“John Quill” raises the dead: —
Talking- about bushrangers, we shall probably never
get to the truth about the demise of Bourke, of the
Ben Hall gang, who was shot during an attack on
Keightley’s place near Rockley (N.S.W.). All the
histories say that Keightley’s gun was responsible,
and he received the Government reward ; but T. Pye,
one of the oldest living pioneers of the Bathurst
district, and among the first to appear on the scene
after the tragedy, maintains that Keightley was using
buckshot, whereas Bourke’s body was perforated
with slugs. Also, he asserts that Bourke was
crouching behind a cask round a corner of the
house, and it is Pye’s opinion that Keightley’s gun
was not capable of shooting round corners. The
slaughter of Bourke, Pye reckons, was the work of
one of the gang, probably Gilbert. John Vane was
Bourke’s mate and Gilbert was Ben Hall’s. Previous to
the attack on Keightley’s house Vane and Gilbert
quarrelled and fought with their fists (their com-
rades had disarmed them). It is quite probable
that Gilbert, cherishing malignance towards Vane,
also cherished it towards Vane’s mate. Certainly
Vane withdrew from the gang a short time after
Bourke’s death. Some say this was because he was
beaten. It is my opinion that he deserted because
of the loss of his mate. Anyhow, it was Vane’s belief
that Gilbert did for Bourke.


■
m
A/
l Ift
to; "'
n
SW
£ M
B t«
f'f
-O-
-,U
hn
8 * Is
II
bS
I SI
4 a
II
Mt
19
II I
J 1
LJLi
rroTUTM in
ii
ii
1111111 In a ii i
uiiirnsi ■ jl-j—a
ii
ii
11«1 11 IS li UJUJLMI
LL!_I
31 il
f)3
CS
z
~m
v
S ,t35Hk. >w
• •«£
ran
.//jO'-v
Government Buildings, Wellington, N.Z.
One of the largest wooden buildings in the
They Hold the Goodwill of Every User
Not very many years ago
when the pneumatic motor
tyre industry was in a less
advanced stage than now, the
element of chance did to a
certain extent enter into the
production of the tyre itself.
Through specialization in the
laboratory and factory this
element of chance has been
practically eliminated, short
of the human factor present
in all but entirely mechanical
processes of production.
The quality of raw materials,
is clear to the expert. Routine
and mechanical process in
the factory are definite and
exact, allowing for no
variation.
Experience in manufacture
with the most modern
machinery and equipment for
standardised production are
manifested in all Goodyear
Tyres, for Goodyear has
always been in the van with
improvements.
For these reasons Goodyear
Tyres are unquestionably
better tyres, always giving
better and more enduring
service.
What tyres do your friends
use?
How do they speak of them ?
The chances are most of them
use Goodyear Tyres. The
chances are, also, that they
speak warmly and commend-
ingly of them Goodyear
buyers are repeat buyers, as
proved by Goodyear’s
steadily mounting sales.
More Goodyear Tyres would not
be sold, and continue to be sold
in increasing numbers, if the
intention of their maker to
produce a better tyre were not
carried into effect to the satis-
faction of users.
That is obvious, as it is also
obvious that the tyres which
serve a growing army of Aus-
tralian and New Zealand
motorists better, will serve you
better too.
We know that the Goodyear
Tyre you buy will gain your
goodwill and those that you
purchase later on will continue
to hold it for us permanently.
THE GOODYEAR TYRE AND RUBBER COMPANY OF AUSTRALASIA' LTD.
HEAD OFFICE: 231 CLARENCE ST., SYDNEY. BRANCHES AND AGENCIES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
sc


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA CNGLAN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
Maryborough
GLADSTONE
RUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) I
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMHALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Feb. 27.
Leaves Sydney, March 2.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 6.
Leaves Sydney, March 9.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Feb. 23.
'Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies. &c.
. XHJE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSHY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COAVLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT I’IIILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Oitice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEAV
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE AVORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . .. .. . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 189 S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; AV. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
IIISAI) OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches —London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARAVOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the AVorld.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Rank of Hem Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping See.
Canad ian-Australas ian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through liookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU , of the Pacific.
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
i
m
: -i.
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send, for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP S CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St„ Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
jh
£3,901,860
- £2,875,000
£3,901,860
£10,681,720
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
. ■ Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Coinmomvealtb^fcJßank
■ HEAD OFFICE SYDNEY.
Bnstralta
i
Open
for a.ll
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches, and over
2600 Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at f>°/
per annum * # /o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL. Deputy Oorernor. June, 1916 DENISOX MILLER, GoTernor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1884.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
- £2,000,000
- £2,000,000
- £2,000,000
£6,000,000
f. w
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. P. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Office: 18 Birchin Lane, E.C. London Bankers: The Bank of England; The
London County and Westminster Bank Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports. y
S.S. MORIALTA, Feb. 16.
S.S. PARINGA, Feb. 23.
S.S. RUPARA, March 2.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Fort of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can he
ascertained on application at the Company's Ollice.
G. S. YUIT.L & CO., I/ri)„
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice versa,
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomalmna between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON &"CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 Us.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports,
Melbourne and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Inter-State Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.'s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP 8 COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, 11 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austbal-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the Bkitisii Austsalasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Ilol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tb®
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


The pleasure of making'
Kodak pictures
is a pleasure that never grows monotonous,
because there is always something new to
snapshot, something new to maintain your
interest. And then the pictures you have
taken are always reviving pleasant memories
—always growing in value.
The No. 3a Folding- Autographic Kodak takes splendid
postcard pictures—s| x3J inches. Price £6.
The No. 1 Autographic Kodak Junior is a splendid
little camera —reliable, simple, and efficient. Takes
pictures 2\ x 3|- inches. Price 55/ = . Others from
35/= to £l5/2/=.
Ask to be shown any other Kodak —by the nearest
Kodak dealer, or
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; ‘The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne;
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.,
Hobart; Ruthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denliam St., Rock-
hampton ; 346 Argent St., Broken Hill ; Dixon St., also corner Bambton Quay and
Willis St., Wellington, N.Z.; 3 Rome St., Auckland, N.Z.; 76 Stuart St., Dunedin,
N.Z.; and Christchurch, N.Z.
J
*V:
1
4
fi
Wm
)
/
Wm
99
m
r
X
m
w.
>
L
%
/
"1
The family Chorus:
“His Masters Voice
is superb .
-—the instruments and records
that educate and entertain !
They EDUCATE, because they bring to
you masterpieces of song and music
rendered as only masters can render
them. The great celebrities record EX-
CLUSIVELY with “His Master’s Voice.”
They ENTERTAIN, because their re-
production and tone are perfect. They
bring to you THE LIVING VOICE, the
pulsating cadences of orchestral music,
the soulful melody of the violin—just as
you would hear these fascinating musical
wonders in the great theatres and opera-
houses of the world’s foremost cities.
Be sure you get “His Master’s Voice.”
The AUSTRAL Model
is a portable hornless instrument in
polished quartered oak with nickel-
plated fittings, j It has full rich tone
and splendid volume of sound.
Fitted with the f amous“Exhibition”Sound Box
and Gooseneck Taper Tone Arm, 11 Guineas.
Instrument catalogue, record list and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co., Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
“Gramophone."
Regd. Trade Mark,
ft
The “Austral.'
“His Master’s Voice."
Regd Trade Mark.


Government Notices.
TENDERS.
For the Removal of Rock in the River
Tamar.
Tiii: marine board of Launces-
ton. TASMANIA, is prepared to
receive tenders for the Removal of portion
of the Porpoise Itook in the Estuary of the
River Tamar, Tasmania.
Specifications, Forms of Tender and Con-
ditions of Contract may be had from the
undersigned upon application on and after
the Ist day of February, such applications
to bo accompanied by a cash deposit of
£3 35., which amount will be returned upon
receipt of a bona-fide tender.
Drawings may be inspected by intending
Contractors at the office of the MARINE
BOARD ENGINEER, and copies of same
may be obtained upon payment of one guinea
for the set.
Tenders, endorsed ' PORPOISE ROCK”
and addressed to the Master Warden, Marine
Hoard, Launceston, Tasmania, must reach
this office not later than noon on the 3rd
day of June, 11)18.
GEO. S. MEREDITH.
Secretary,
Marine Hoard Offices.
Launceston. Tax.
25th Jnnuary, 1918.
Legal Notices.
Estate of annie bourke Car-
lisle McCOURT, late of Goulburn,
deceased.
JOSEPH BLACK, son of Thomas Black
and Helen Black, formerly McCourt, or any-
body acquainted with his whereabouts, is re-
quested to communicate with the undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
Public Trust Office, Culwulla Chambers,
67 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
0/2/’lB.
Wanted.
T E A M SHOVEL
Or NAVVY WANTED.
Particulars to
KOLLASON, BRANDON AND COMPANY,
31 Queen Street, Melbourne.
High-grade Luminous Watch, with Fifteen Jewel
Three-quarter Plate Gilt Movement, Radium Hands
and Figures; in Solid Silver Hunting Case, with
Screw Back and Fly-up Front. An Accurate
Timekeeper. Price 70/-
A HIGH-GRADE
LUMINOUS
WATCH from
STEWART
DAWSON’S
for 70f-
Post
Free.
Stewart Dawson’s
Extensive Stocks
together with the fact that our
operations cover no fewer
than Ten Stewart Dawson Estab-
lishments in Australia and London,
account for the Invincible Values
we are able to offer.
Our Customers thus benefit to the full from the great advantages arising
out of our unique position in the trade. arising
CALL AND INSPECT OR WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
STEWART DAWiSON’S
, Always Reliable, World-Wide Reputation,
strand Corner, George Street, SYDNEY.
Tenders.
NEW QUEENSLAND COPPER CO.
LTD.—In Liquidation.
Important to Mining Companies, Inves-
tors, Speculators and others.
TENDERS are invited by the Liquidator
of the above-mentioned Company for
the purchase of the properties known as the
Mount Perry and Normanby Copper Mines,
together with mining machinery, plant and
improvements.
The freehold of the Mount Perry Mine com-
prises an area of 131 acres 2 roods 3b
perches, containing 3 working shafts, each
fully equipped.
The freehold of the Normanby Mine com-
prises an area of 237 acres, 3 roods 37 perches,
with three working shafts, each fully
equipped.
The Mount Perry and Normanby Mines
have been worked for a number of years, and
are at the present time being worked and
are in a highly-developed and payable state.
Titles —Freeholds under Real Property
Act.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Sealed tenders to be lodged with the
Liquidator, Public Curator’s Office, Kirk-
lands’ Buildings, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane,
at or before noon of Friday, the first day
of March, 1918, and to be addressed “Tender
for New Queensland Copper Company,
assets,” and is to be accompanied by a Ban
Draft for £lOO as a guarantee of good faith,
this deposit to be returned in the event o
tender not being accepted.
For further information and particular,
apply to the Liquidator, or to Messrs. Ham-
ilton and Neilson, Solicitors, Bundaberg,
Queensland.
F. W. MOLE, for the Liquidator.
Kirklands’ Buildings, Elizabeth Stiee .
Brisbane, Queensland.
30/1/TB.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tiie Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15H6.
Write for Boot
oseu since lose. CURES _ TiT'emuT
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHI.
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road. London EnglMfl
Insist on “ Singleton's "—refuse all substitutes.
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAVS
AT ALL THE
LEAOING
THEATREI
SU[?]
FCAT[?]
“Bowyang”: Some time back Lena Ashwell
sent a concert party from Blighty to enter-
tain Billjim and his cobbers in the push
through Palestine. Most of the artists were
well known on the English variety stage,
and the show was so good that Bill’s cheers
disturbed Abdul in his trenches miles away.
It would be a fine idea if Australian man-
agers, working together, made arrangements
for a concert party of dinkum Australian
artists to come over and give us a slice of
bur own goods. Furthermore, it would be
a darned good advertisement. If Vera
Pearce and Fred Bluett could accompany the
party they’d sing to the audiences of their
lives; and an advance party of Billjims will
hold back Abdul while the artists warble
Within sound of the guns. You know, some
of us have been here over three years, and
it’s up to a country for whose name Billjim
has done a bit to do a bit for Billjim. Mean-
while, a concert party selected from the staff
of the 14th A.G.H. (Cairo) is entertaining
the chaps around the Suez Canal zone ; but
they cannot spare the time to tour the Holy
Land.
It was rumored in ’Frisco lately that
Allen Doone was shortly to appear in the
role of bridegroom to the widow of his one-
time manager, who was reputed to have left
a million dollars.
“Barbavano”: We’ve just had word of the
death of Fred Dark, a comedian well known
in Australia in the early ’Bo’s, when he
showed with the late D’Arcy Stanfield. At
the time of passing the entertainer was per-
forming with Cecil Garth’s “Private Secre-
tary” co. on tour in England, and acting
as stage manager. A cold contracted at
Bury developed into double pneumonia.
Fred Dark was 62, and left a widow, two
daughters and one son; the son is at the
Front. On the visit to Australia Dark,
D’Arcy Stanfield, Amy Horton, Ida Osborne
and Will Simpson (the Drury Lane clown)
opened the Olympic, Sydney, with “Mother
Goose” ; but the venture was not a success.
“75”: Died at Hastings (Eng.), aged 80,
George Warde, who visited Australia with
the London Comedy Co. 38 years ago.
Frederick de Belleville (who a few years
back was doing stage work in the U.b.A.)
and Mrs. G. S. Titheradge (Alma Santon)
are the only surviving members of that
bright lot. Warde wore grease-paint for half
a century, and played with Samuel Phelps,
Charles ‘ Kean, Barry Sullivan, Forbes
Robertson, Kate Terry, Helen Faucit, Mary
Anderson, Lewis Waller, Mrs. Pat Campbell
and other notables.
“H. 0.”: Poor Florrie Gleeson’s end was
very sudden. Returning from a holiday in
Queensland, she dined with the Bland Holts
on Sunday night, and when she left them
was apparently in good health and spirits;
next day she was in a private hospital and
at night the curtain was rung down. It was
with Holt that Florrie made her first stage
appearance, at the old Alexandra, playing
kiddy parts in “Alone in London” and
“London Day by Day.”
“0.K.” : Florrie Gleeson made her appear-
ance with the Williamson Co. 17 years ago,
and soon gave promise as a character actress.
She seems to be remembered mostly by her
performance of the silent Nat-u-rich in “The
Squaw Man.” but she did several better
things. Her 'lweenie in “The Admirable
Crichton” was very humorous, and she was
equally droll and convincing as the lisping
Cockney young woman in “An Englishman’s
Home.” In the striking contrast between
the silly suburban spinster of Du Maurier’s
drama and her Bessie Broke in “The Light
that Failed” poor Flo showed her versa-
tility. But it was her keen sense of humor
that should have given her a good position
on the stage. She was unaffectedly funny.
She played the incidental doctor’s widow in
“Penelope,” the hypochondriacal patient who
got her medical treatment gratis; and the
incisiveness of her absurdity was most amus-
ing.
“J.F.H.” (London) : A couple of lights of
other days are billed together at the Coliseum
—Ellen Terry and Lily Langtry. Miss
Terry appears in three brief scenes as
Mistress Page of “The Merry Wives of
Windsor,” a character in which she scored
heavily once; and for the sake of Auld Lang
Syne audiences are respectful and toler-
ant, and give her a couple of calls after she
has disposed of Falstaff in the clothes-basket.
Ellen made her London d6but in “The Win-
ter’s Tale,” at the now-derelict Princess,
and probably holds the contemporary
record for continuous stage service—some 62
years. That fine, sonorous old Shakspearian
actor, J. F. Cathcart, well remembered in
Sydney and Melbourne, was associated with
her in Kean’s co. at the Princess’s. Mrs.
Langtry, the professional beauty of the
’seventies, does not exhibit the signs of decay
that are too painfully apparent in her sister-
contributor. She still knows thoroughly well
how to make up and present a colorable
appearance of youthfulness, even if she has
it not. After two years’ absence she has
braved the perils of the Atlantic and returned
with some American successes, which she
hopes will be equally palatable to Britishers.
The one she has started with at the Coliseum,
“Overtones,” has certainly not caused any
enthusiasm.
“Masetto”: Kathlene Macdonell isn’t the
“Turn to the Right,”
at Sydney Palace.
John Junior as Muggs.
first star actress
to scare a Sydney
audience with hys-
terical wailings.
When Charles
Car t w right and
Olga Nethersole
put on “The Vil-
lage Priest” at the
Garrick,” in Sep-
tember, 1891 (the
Brough and Bouci-
cault show was a
year later), Olga,
who played the
wicked Countess,
had a nerve-storm
of some sort on
the first night, and
her screams were
heard in front of
the curtain during
an interval. Cart-
wright had to come
out. explain mat-
ters and assure the
big audience that
the drama would
go on.
From the U.S.A.: —
Pirie Bush, the young Maoriland novice, who came
here with Fred Niblo, has lately been flourishing in
“Yes or No” at Indianapolis. “Yes or No” repre-
sonts the consequences of being nasty or nice when
the bad man asks Gladys to go out for the evening.
The play testifies to the awfulness of female virtue
in some parts of America, but has a capable leading
ladv, Emilie Polini, whom one of the sharp-sighted
Taits has engaged for Australia. Cyril Iveightley has
a billet in “Broken Threads,” a shout from the alarm-
clock school of drama. Hale Hamilton and another
old acquaintance, Charlotte Ives, are deeply con-
cerned in the levity of “What’s Your Husband
Doing ?” at the 39th-street Theatre, New \ork. Near
by Leonard Willey and his wife, Irby Marshall, are
Captain Bastling and the Duchess of Strood in a
revival of “The Gay Lord Qucx.” “The Three
Bears,” a Charles Frohman comedy which celebrates
the efforts of three bachelors to dodge the pangs of
matrimony, is played by an excellent cast, including
the two Australians, Jerome Patrick and Margaret
Linden. Ronald Byram is expected to reach New
York in “Among Those Present,” a crook play in
which he invited notice at Richmond (Va.). Allen
Doone is doing better in San Francisco in “Lucky
O’Shea” after his unlucky New York venture. Allen’s
theatrical father, Andrew Mack, was at the same time
pouring out his decayed falsetto in “Molly Dear in
Toronto. Dolly Castles was one of the minor
splendors of the musical “Flo Flo,” which was given
a trial at Syracuse. And finally Nance O’Neil
announces loudly that she has no present intention of
going to Australia.
“Busker”: I nominate Newton Griffiths,
now with the Firm, as the oldest mummer
in harness in Australia. He speaks with
shining memory of parts he played with
the two Keans, Phelps, Brooke, Montgomery
and Ellen Terry when she was a blushing
ingenue. Newton is striding on with firm
step towards his 90th milepost, accepts many
kinds of parts still, but draws the line,
laddie, at juvenile leads. Also, the other
night I saw’ Fanny Wiseman frisk through
the part of Cornelia Carlyle in “East Lynne.”
She is the original Topsy of “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” and coyly admits to 75.
Australian mummers Cyril Keightley and
Jerome Patrick both joined in Canada,
“The Rajah of Shiva-
pore," at Melbourne
Princess's.
Alfred Hill returning
thanks to the audi-
ence.
but after training
for some time were
discharged from
camp as medically
unfit.
“Jwosp” : Moved
to another scene,
William Edmond
Rose-Smith, better
known as Ned
Rose, an oldest
stag e-h and in
Maoriland. He
started in India in
the ’fifties and
landed in Auckland
in 1859, when the
audiences were
chiefly soldiers. In
1861 he was with
Foley’s Dramatic
Co. in Taranaki
when the Maori
War broke out and
the female side of
the shotv went
nursing. He settled
in Christchurch in
1870 and was in
work until a day
or so before the fall of the curtain at the
close of 82 years. A son is with Wirths’.
“Glen Huntly”: Humphrey Hall, Sydney
journalist, would certainly seem to be the
victim of a coincidence or something. About
10 years ago he submitted a play, “Madame
Dudevant,” to Mrs. Fiske. In February,
1909, the actress wrote to him saying that
she had found it interesting, but unsuitable
for production. Now New York has seen
the first production of a play with the
amorous novelist for heroine. “Madame
Sand” is the title, one Philip Moeiler the
author, and Mrs. Fiske plays the name part.
Hall’s play—an act of which was produced
at a Sydney matinee in 1912—opened in the
Latin Quarter, while the second act. featured
the break between George Sand and De
Musset; and so does the play in which Mrs.
Fiske is appearing.
“Yatep” : The ringing down of the curtain
during the performance of “The Willow
Tree,” at Sydney Criterion, recalls a similar
incident during the B. and B. regime at the
same house. In the middle of Act 1 of
“School for Scandal” the gods became giggly.
Dot Boucicault ordered the rag to drop,
stepped out in front and gave a curtain
leeturette. Then the show made another
start from the beginning. The artists thanked
the gods that the hubbub hadn’t occurred
during Act 3.
“C. Ockney”: “The Exile” remarks (B.
31/1/T8) that “about one theatre-goer in
10.000 over here [i.e., London] has ever
heard of Niblo or Hamilton.” Which seems
to me to be a bit over the odds. Both
Yankee comedians visited London before Aus-
tralia saw them. Fred Niblo was responsi-
ble for a monologue turn at the Palace 12
The Strollers, at
Sydney Playhouse.
Stroller Desmond sup-
plies a few eccentric
steps.
years or so ago—
a breathless stump-
speech similar to
the one he intro-
duced into “Excuse
Me.” Hale Hamil-
ton’s appearance
was of a much
later date. He
opened at the
Queen’s just five
years ago in his
original parr in
“Get - Rich - Quick
Wallingford,” and
at the end of the
run went to Drury
Lane to create the
part in “Sealed
Orders.” played in
Australia by Lin-
coln Plurner.
“Fax”: Panto-
mime is seemingly
going to be the last
refuge of vulgarity
and coarse sug-
gestion. Silly obscenities have disap-
peared from the best vaudeville shows, and
“blue” jests are out of favor with the man-
agements, notwithstanding the guffaws of a
section of the audience. But panto, is still
an open field for double-entendre and broad
impropriety of “business.” It can’t be on
the kiddies’ account that these shows are
flecked with items which would be howled at
if the comedians tried them in musical
comedy. Apparently there must be an out-
let for suppressed yearnings for cerulean
jokes, and panto. —the kiddies’ entertain-
ment —has had the bad luck to be collared
and compelled to supply the occasional
hankering for this something “over the
fence.”
“The Eternal City” film was lately*
screened at Broken Hill. In one part the
Count denounces Roma thus: “By all laws
of nature you are my wife!” The orchestra
immediately struck up the duet from “The
Firefly,” the opening words of which are
“Someone has been such a haughty boy.”
THE FALLEN STAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve never known an actor yet
As proud as Hugh O’Halloran;
No artist I have ever met
As earnest as this good young man.
He held his great profession dear.
“No other art there is,” said he,
“In all the world to sate, I fear,
The hectic soul that burns in me.
“Upon the stage all arts are spread.
A gifted actor must express
Sublimity in each,” he said.
“I would not be a king, much less
A toiler for a vulgar wage.
No broader field than this may be;
For world-wide is our little stage,
Sun-high, and deeper than the sea!”
In two years’ time I heard that Hugh
Worked in a grocer’s store of late.
He loved his noble art, ’tis true,
But some temptations are too great.
“They offered forty bob,” he says.
“The salary sounds rather slim,
But, ’struth, I pet it!” So he stays—
The novelty appeals to him.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.
SUPEREROGATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met Brutus Buskem, the matinee pet;
I’d missed him for more than a year.
He’d been touring, he said, with “The Vampire’
soubrette;
We refreshed our acquaintance with beer.
He talked by the mile of the hits he had made
From Nimmitabel to Moree,
Till I asked, to escape from this trick of his trade,
How it fared with his wife, Mrs. B.
He throttled a sob, and he strangled a sigh,
Then assumed an expression austere;
As he encored a pint he’d a lachrymose eye,
And a tear trickled into his beer.
“My wife? I have lost her!” he brokenly said;
With emotion (or beer) he was hoarse.
“You’ve lost her?” I murmured. “Poor Mrs. B.
dead!”
“Not by death,” he explained—“by divorce!”
“You’ve divorced her!” I cried. “I am shocked
and amazed,
She seemed such a good wife to you! ”
“She was,” he agreed, with his pewter upraised—
“ She was too good, alas, to be true!”
K.S.W.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.


Country Club, £395
Light Four, £365
Motor Cars
Electric Lights
Electric Starter
Magneto Ignition
MB
1
Overland Light Four-Cylinder Touring Car
Overland “Country Clu^
A New Achievement—and
its Va*ue to You
From motor cars that emphasize the
utmost economy without sacrifice of
quality, to the very highest type of car
in the luxurious class, virtually every
size and type of motor car is represented
in the Willys-Overland group of models.
This is a new achievement in the
motor car industry.
Its accomplishment, has necessarily
been gradual, involving as it did the
accumulation of vast resources, exten-
sive physical properties, an. enormous
amount of equipment and the training
of a huge organization.
This has been distinctly a Willys-
Overland aim and achievement.
From the beginning the policy has
been the quantity production of motor
cars of quality.
It has been a steadfast policy to
share the economies and advantages of
quantity production with buyers of
Willys-Overland motor cars.
Heretofore this policy has benefited
certain classes of buyers only. But now
there is a quality motor car in the
Willys-Overland group for every class of
buyer.
Straight through from top to bottom,
quality considered with price, will show
you values in every class, possible only
as the result of this consummation of
Overland plans.
One executive organization,
-—one factory management,
—one purchasing unit,
—one sales management,
—one dealer organization, produce
and sell all of these models.
Enormous economies thus effected
are thus distributed so that every motor
car shares proportionately.
Any buyers of Willys-Overland
cars regardless of class, save materially.
See the Willys-Overland cars first.
Let us show them to you today.
WILLYS-OVERLAND MODELS INCLUDE:
Big Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Light Four-Cylinder Overland
Touring Car
Roadster
“Country Club ”
Willys-Knight Model
Four-Cylinder Touring Car
Complete Catalogues and Prices on Request from
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney. HEATHORN &. CO.. Hobart & Launceston,
EAGER & SON, Brisbane. AUIOCARS LTD., Adelaide.
KELLOW FALKINER LTD., Melbourne. ANDERSON & ADAMS, Perth.
A. HATRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS‘ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION, Christchurch, N.Z.
The Willys-Overland Company Toledo, Ohio, U. S. A.
Mamilactuiers of Willys-Knight and Overland Motor Cars
and Light Lorries


London's Beauty Writers*
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
The Killing of Superfluous Hair.
It is easy to remove superfluous hair tem-
porarily, but to remove it permanently is
quite another matter. Not many women
know that l’or this purpose such a simple
substance as powdered plieminol may be
used, applied directly to the hair. The recom-
mended treatment is designed not merely to
instantly remove Ike hair, but also to event-
ually kill the roots entirely. Almost any
chemist could supply an ounce of plieminol,
which quantity should be sufficient.
Renewing Complexions by Absorption.
If your complexion is marred with sallow-
ness, moth patches, pimples or freckles, it is
useless to potter with powders and paints,
lotions, creams and things in an effort to get
rid of the trouble. Unless you have some
ability as an artist, you will mar your ap-
pearance still more. The new and rational
way is to take off the complexion itself, with
all its offensive marks. Just get some pure
mercolized wax at the chemist’s and use at
night the same as cold cream. Remove next
morning with water and soap, following with
dash of cold water. The mercolized wax
absorbs the half-dead scarf skin in flaky
particles, so gradually that no one guesses
you are treating your face —unless it be by
the result, which is truly wonderful. There
is nothing like it for bestowing a natural,
healthy and beautiful complexion.
A “Blackhead” Secret.
Blackheads, oily skins and enlarged pores
usually go together, but can be instantly
corrected by a unique new process. A tablet
of sty mol, obtained from the chemist, is
dropped in a tumbler of hot water, which will
then of course “fizz” briskly. When the
effervescence has subsided the face is bathed
with the stytnol-cliarged water and then dried
with a towel. The offending blackheads, of
their own accord, come right off on the
towel, the large oily pores immediately con-
tract and efface themselves naturally. There
is no squeezing, forcing, or any drastic
action. The skin is left, uninjured, smooth,
soft and cool. A few such treatments should
be taken at intervals of three or four days
thereafter in order to insure the permanence
of . the pleasing result so quickly obtained.
Don’t Have Grey Hair.
Grey hair is often a serious handicap to
both men and women while still in the prime
of life. Hair dyes are not advisable because
they are always obvious, inconvenient, and
often down-right, injurious. Few people know
that a very simple formula, which is easily
made up at home, will turn the hair back to
a natural color in a perfectly harmless man-
ner. You have only to get two ounces of
tammalite concentrate from your chemist and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum to prove
this. Apply this simple and harmless lotion
for a few nights to the hair with a small
sponge, and the greyness will gradually dis-
appear. The Jotion is neither sticky nor
greasy and has been proved over and over
again for generations past by those in pos-
session of the formula.
About Shampoos.
To quote an eminent London beauty
specialist: “The slimy egg cannot dissolve
Ihe scalp impurities, but only adds to the
trouble by completely choking the pores with
animal matter.” The substance sticks, de-
composes. thereby causing the hair to assume
a dead, “dull color.” Avoid eggs (and soap
too) on your hair. Try the delightful pre-
paration made by stirring a teaspoonful of
stallax in a cup of hot. .water. It will bring
out new beauty possibilities in your hair,
will clear and prevent dandruff, "and leave
that .fine fluffy effect so much sought after.
It also, removes excess oil or greasiness. [1
Neat Underwear.
(f
Made in
Australia
Swdmucwt
‘ffiecMfaujtfpoa'
.WOYENNAMES
Elective:
May be procured throuch-
ANY UP-TO-DATE MERCER OR DRAPER .
-! , OUR NAME ON THE BOX
Is a. guarantee of QpaMfy
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6,
jhkjh
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
AIR GAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
LETTE.” Adds.4o% to your mileage. Yon
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
v
m
Ifflt
w
/f
sN
$
22
US
l| 'V''wA
%
»•*•»
Vu**
y
Y$
/
m
Y
A
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible—•
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
Kruschen Salts
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,
68 Deansgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle.
Woatjn j
frOssard
COFZ<SFTsS
Thqylucc In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma—an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from S.
Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
Waterf&an’s
(Ideal )
FountaiiiPen
&
EQUIPPED
And not least in value does he
reckon his Waterman’s Ideal.
It occupies an abiding place in his
schenue of things. He is going to
write home regularly—with his Water-
man's Ideal. He is going to keep a
diary—with his Waterman’s Ideal. And
after the war, ah ! after the war —then,
with this peerless fountain pen to help
him he means to win fresh laurels
in the field of commerce.
Three Types : “ Lever Pocket
Self-filling,” “Safety,” “Regular.”
Of Stationers and Jewellers
everywhere.
L. G. SLOAN, LTD., Che PC It o©im
London, England.
Australia: HAROLD D. DIXON,
105 olareno3 Street, Sydney.
RAZOR TROUBLES ENDED.
How many men fret and fume and waste time in the
morning, because they’ve never solved the Razor
problem. There’ll be an end to all your difficulties if
you try
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
“Glug”: Comment has been made re Ger-
man-made goods in use on the new East-
West Railway. It’s an old had habit. I saw
a set of engine-wheels in a South Aus.
station this morning on their way for re-
tiring, and scraped away the erease to get at
the maker’s name. Thought so ! “F. Krupp.
Germany, 1913.” How many siege-guns did
Unit, order buy?
Owing to its leader's habit of covering the
lower half of his face with his hand when-
ever he makes a pronouncement, either public
or private, Victorias Bowser Cabinet is
becoming known as the Hand-to-Mouth
Ministry.
Where there’s a will there’s a way. An
ingenious citizen of Flinders Island (Tas.)
gashed himself across the wrists, so they put
him in a cell with nothing wherewith he
could do himself a mischief lying about. In
the night he pulled the bandage off one wrist
and strangled himself.
Incidentally it has transpired that one
Victorian public official was capable of re-
fusing to keep a motor-car at the public
expense when the State Government wanted
to thrust it on him. Whereupon the Chief
Sec. of the period remarked that Police-
Commissioner Sainsbury, the official in ques-
tion, was the most extraordinary man he had
ever heard of.
From an old-age pension office: —
Old Mrs. Cutts, who was on my list, had lost her
memory. She would . walk four miles in for her
money and forget her card ; then, on returning for it,
she would forget what she went back for. At last
I took charge of her papers, and she was very grate-
ful. “I’m getting so forgetful,” she explained. “But
1 wasn’t always like it. In fact, it’s all different.
My poor husband used to be very wealthy, but he was
cut off in the prime o’ life while ’tending to his busi-
ness.” Several times she had got this far with the
sad story and then stopped, and I began to get inter-
ested. “What did he die of, Mrs. Cutts?” “Oh, he
was a bushranger, you know.” She proved to be the
relict of one of the most famous men in the pro-
fession, and though a widow now for the fourth time
she remembered only the bushranger husband.
“H. 0.”: Billjim is nothing if not chival-
rous. In a Melbourne suburban train the
other evening one of him tackled a flash
youth who had been using some mildly-
indecorous language, and demanded that an
apology should be tendered to a couple of
women who were sitting on the other side of
the. compartment. The flash youth, who
obviously was no more anxious to fight
inside the 10-mile limit than beyond it, sul-
kily supplied the necessary apology. “A
good job for him he* did, the rotten
cow !” Bill Galahad confided to the ladies.
“Centurion”: Add this to the collection of
casual letters from Billjim to the old folks at
at home. It came into the hands of the regi-
ment at Romani, and read :
Dear Mother,—l got that 10 quid you sent me,
but they won’t give me leave to go to Cairo. Dear
mother, ain t it a bastard?—Your loving soil, Jim.
After that, whenever anyone, from the
colonel down, wished to relieve an overflow-
ing heart, he didn’t burst into blasphemy.
He just sighed “Dear mother,” and the
rest was taken for granted by a sympathising
audience.
The Hummocks station, near Snowtown
(S.A.), is to be cut up into holdings for
returned soldiers. The vendor is Tom Barr
Smith, and the price £151,000. As the little
lot is nearly 30,000 acres, and, so it’s said,
about 22,000 head of horses, sheep and cattle
are thrown in, it is likely to be one of the
very few S. Aus. Government land-purchases
that will not have mud thrown at it.
The P a r- re Robert Peter Walker
(R. 24/1/18) has a tragic sequel. After his
first attempt at suicide, frustrated by the
penny-in-the-slot gas-supply running out, he
waited a week, then again put his head in a
blanket at his home at Port Melbourne, and
did the trick properly over the stove. The
meter gave full measure the second time.
Adelaide” : That “getting a bit back” on
aarr/rars in an In Memoriam notice (B.
20/12/ 1 1 ) recalls an Adelaide gibe which
goes a step further, being carved on a tomb-
stone. It runs thus:—
Never trust, and hold your own,
That no one may break up your home.
At first sight it looks like a matrimonial
squabble; but inquiry shows that deceased
was a hotelkeeper whose home was broken
up in the financial sense; and this is the
widow’s mite in the way of a moral.
M. Ireland : Thirty years ago, in our
meetings at The Good Woman, in Hobart.
Solomon Blay told me some grim and hor-
rible stories. “Nosey Bob,” with his N. S.
Wales record of 75, was not in it with Blay,
as he, I understand, was 50 years at the
awful trade. He showed me by touch where
he put the knot under the left ear, and snid
he always watched for the feet to be in a
certain position before he pulled the lever
M hen Manvood, the English expert, intro-
duced the long drop, Blay was sent to
rmgland to see the innovation work, and
reported that he would adopt the new idea
'•i i -T as bat would not bo respon-
sible if anything went wrong. He had in
87 a pension of a pound a week.
Gietin : Goitre is a disease rare or non-
existent in most parts of Australia, but in
some of the mountain districts of Gippsland
t V ic. ) it is common, and apparently becom-
ing commoner; a good proportion of the
population have big swellings, sometimes
nearly as big as a child’s head, on their
throats. Occasionally someone has it cut
out, but mostly they prefer, to yub along with
it, and tew of them complain that it causes
them any inconvenience. As to the cause,
some say that it is due to too much lime
m the water (though it does not seem to be
confined altogether to limestone country)
and some think it’s caused by drinking tank-
water with too little lime in it (on which
theory it should be a heap commoner than it
is). Others, think that it is something in the
mountain air or to the comparative lack of
ofVh 1 * C l °nt fined V^ lleys d and others ’ the wisest
of the lot, say that they don’t know—don’t
know even whether it’s hereditary, although
afflhd-pd mem Jf rs 2, f the one family art- often
wfnpfl d An! E -? r ° Pean theory has been
melted ice h 18 CaUSed by dl ' ill!dl5 ?


Our New Mill at Alexandria.
SBa
CM
S 3
>r Wl‘'
SrSl
at=^®Sl»L-jl. «■
r.^
:w
CS
>-T
rs
W
TS
■
iv§
sS
a
tsfi
‘fK
TD
?8g
i-Uii
JL
b?x
»£s
MITH 4-
ULIU.?
Announcement to Oil Trade.
AMES BARNES LTD. beg to inform the public generally, and buyers of oil in
Australasia in particular, of the completion of their big mill at Alexandria for the
manufacture of oil from linseed.
d hey are pleased to be in a position to give absolute assurance of their ability to satisfy
the demand both as to quality and quantity. The mill is provided with the latest machinery, only
the highest quality of linseed is used, and the extent of the plant is a guarantee of the prompt
execution of all orders.
Big shipments of linseed have been arriving at the mill for a considerable period, and
further large tonnage has been booked up. Oil is now in the maturing process, and not one
gallon will leave the mill unless thoroughly tested and matured. It will be sent from the mill
early in April next.
To Farmers and Stock Rais err*
In consequence of the large output of oil, linseed meal for feed for calves, cows, pigs, poultry, horses, etc., is now
available, and all orders will be expeditiously executed.
Special Announcement to the Trade.
The proprietors have pleasure in further informing the public that they have secured the co-operation of Harold Meggitt,
recently managing director of Meggitts Ltd., to handle the whole of their selling arrangements throughout Australasia. The Oil
Trade will be particularly pleased to know that Mr. Meggitt, whose name is so well and honorably known in connection with the oil
business from end to end of Australasia, is to act as adviser to the co. in the manufacture, and as he has such a thorough knowledge
of linseed oil manufacturing and is giving the whole of his life’s experience in this business to the co. the public is guaranteed that
nothing' but first-quality oils and meal will be put on the market. James Barnes Ltd. consider themselves lucky in securing
Mr. Meggitt’s lengthy experience and expert knowledge, which is a guarantee to the public and to the trade of the high aims of
the co. Mr. Meggitt has expressed the firm conviction, after inspecting the machinery of the mill and all other arrangements,
that the oil of Barnes Ltd. is equal to anything sold in the Australasian or any other market.
All inquiries for oil and for meal should be addressed to
HAROLD MEGGITT, Telegraph Buildings. Sydney',
'Phone 9552, M


VULCAN TRADING CORPORATION
General Merchants
Importers and Exporters
Manufacturers 9 Agents
120 Broadway - New York, U. S. A.
The entire facilities of our great organization are at your
disposal for the conduct of your export
and import business.
Inquiries for raw and manufactured products of any country are solicited.
Offers on all raw products of your country are desired by our import department.
Liberal advances will be made on consignments.
All inquiries and offers will receive prompt attention.
AUSTRALASIAN REPRESENTATIVE:
FRANK B. SMITH, 4 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
'Phone 9148 City.
CJC
ssisss
aJC
rr
rrr-rr*
/,
gjteW
pfe
S/
c
Sllllllm!
|
11XB|||| p||N 4 ■ V ' lfit!|J
„,a:, i , !IUOHtfrNoL i
ni[id ] iji'j li ll!|!!][nl'tt!' ili'iij' L-w^KMii^^x^w^mtuHtiiii 1 i p i iii[iiiiii..ii||iii..uA|i!iiiii||ii|| |
SIMS Wmm\
n
mm
n
n
m
n ■:
M
TRANSCONTINENTAL RECORD
FREMANTLE to SYDNEY
Reducing' Previous Record by 45hr. 18min.
Time from Fremantle to Sydney, 170 Hours 17 Minutes.
Former Record, 215 Hours 35 Minutes.
We would emphasise the point that it is not the fact of
the car simply breaking a record between one place and
another, but the fact of the engine running practically without
a stop for 7 days and nights, and covering deserts, negotiating
washouts, bogs, etc., without it being necessary to put a spanner
on any part of the car, that proves the HUPMOBILE to be
the car par excellence for Australian conditions.
Dealers in Australia and New Zealand—
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTORS LTD., Brisbane.
DENNYS, LASCELLES LTD., Melbourne and Geelon
PHOENIX MOTORS LTD., Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY, Perth.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE, Hobart, Tasmania.
A. HATRICIv & CO. LTD., Wanganui and Wellington, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD., Christchurch, N.Z.
Hupp Motor Car Gorp., Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.—Cable Address: “HUPP DETROIT.”


Of Little Girl, Red and Inflamed.
Hard Scales Formed, Cuticura
Healed In Two Weeks,
“My little girl had a very bad scalp
with patches of eruptions all over it.
k
The trouble began
with pimples and the
skin was red and in-
flamed. _ The erup-
tions itched and
burned and hard
scales formed.
‘ ‘I saw the Cuticura
advertisement and
sent for samples and
bought some Soap and Ointment. In 2
weeks the eruptions had disappeared.’'
(Signed) Mrs. A. L. Hansen, Main
Road, Taita, N. Z., August 23, 1916.
Why not make these fragrant emolli-
ents your every-day toilet preparations ?
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address :
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SPECIALIST
TWO
LINTS
j#
S#/
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T
Z<r /IOAJTER § T
rw
SYDNEY
NEWCASTLE
ELE¥
CARTRIDGES
Always
Reliable
mgf:
uwmEßmm
wm?
l*SourloT£o”
CARJ*LI.DSX
ELEY ‘Fourlong’
A .410 bore 2J inch
Indian Red Cartridge,
loaded with Eley (33gr.)
Smokeless Powder and
No. 6 or smaller shot.
ELEY 450
No. 1 Rifle
ELEY -38
Automatic
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY -410
‘Universal’
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS. L D LONDON
Worn spots
can easily
be repaired
with JOHNSON'S
PREPARED WAXi
r
L-&
I**?*** 0 *
Door- Ways Are The Bug-Bear
of finished floors. They receive the hardest
wear, and naturally need most attention.
Busy housekeepers and careless maids allow
the finish to wear entirely off, and soon the
wood gets rough and splintery. It’s a very simple
matter to have beautiful floors if the doorways are
kept well-polished with
“The Dust-Proof Polish”
It is splendid for linoleums, too—for it brings out
the pattern and preserves it. Johnson’s Prepared
Wax imparts a beautiful, durable polish—easy to
keep clean. Less than an hour is required for pol-
ishing an ordinary-sized floor, and it may be walked
upon immediately.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared Wax for
keeping dining room tables bright and tempt-
ing. Hot dishes have no effect whatever upon it.
Have Your Piano, Gramophone and Mahog-
any Furniture a Bluish, Cloudy Appearance?
This can be easily, quickly and permanently re-
moved with Johnson’s Prepared Wax, The Dust*
Proof Polish. Splendid for Craftsman Furniture also;
I mamumm
JOHNS
'""wo*
*****
mt
A
Every family has dozens of uses
for Johnson’s Prepared Wax.’
Keep a tin always on hand for
polishing your
Linos . Piano
Floors Furniture
Woodwork Motor Car
Johnson’s Prepared Wax comes
in the household and larger sizes.
It may be obtained from all
good dealers, or from
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent St* Sydney. N. S. W.
TJe
WftK
PRICES
©
kl>
ms,
'"'' < y* £ \\ A ft v\\
«
V/
Q
Vou secure Lather
thats fragrant
Lather that lasts.
c
P RIC E’S, 4 Lond on „
PRI
ES
Liverpool, Manchesrer. Glasgow
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a handt
The Inky Way.
“Mustard Gold”: “What . are you?”
demanded the sergeant at the recruiting
depot, a warrior of the self-made type.
“Journalist,” answered the applicant.
“What?” queried the roughy, obviously at
sea. “Journalist,” reiterated the victim.
The sergeant, biting his pen, gave up in
despair. “Here,” he commanded, “take this
bloke over and get him weighed, anyhow.”
* * * *
From the Woolgoolga correspondent of the
North Coast Examiner (N.S.W.) -
Among those holidaying here are Bishop and Mrs.
Druitt, Archdeacon Tress and family, Canon Ware
and family (Casino), Revs. Haslam and Gray, Messrs.
R. D. Bawden and family (South Grafton), F. Davis
and Wallbank (South Woodburn). For the first
time in the history of this peaceful and law-abiding
little township, one police officer proved inadequate
to preserve law and order, Constable O’Sullivan of
Coff’s Harbor, being requisitioned to assist Con-
stable Nugart. in his duties.
Dear, dear! But what was the trouble all
about?
* * * *
In the wowseristic nature of things, the
best headings are the ones that don’t get in.
The other day the man who runs Melbourne
Herald’s church page was pu.t on to the
congenial subject of removing the ancient
Hebrews from their section of the Old Ceme-
tery to make room for additions to the Vic-
toria Market. His captain got as far as a
revise proof before it was outed. He had
put up “Raising the Dead.”
* * * *
“Anti-Copyist” : It will be news to Monty
Grover, Adam McCay, Howard Ashton and
Guy Innes that they ever loafed on the repu-
tation given to a column by John Sandes.
They were all contributors to the “Oriel”
column in the Melbourne Argus within the
period during which “Copy Boy” (B.
31/1/T8) states that the loafing was done.
A number -of others with high ability as
writers of light topical stuff in prose and
verse have been among the suppliers of
“Oriel” matter since Sandes left Melbourne
some 13 or 14 years ago. Anyway, Sandes
was only a part of the early “Oriel.” For
years before he ran the column alone it had
included work by Davison (“Peter”),
Symmons, E. T. Flicker, D. H. Maling,
Donald Macdonald and others.
* * * *
“Solomon Gay”: Wearing a hole in his
head large enough to hold a cigar, Lieut. G.
Clay is back in Brisbane. The argument
that made him decide to return was an h.e.
shell at Broodseinde. When the war broke
out Clay resigned from the Daily Standard
and was in camp within a week. Cheating
the first contingent of a military funeral at
sea, he recovered from' pneumonia to land
on Gallipoli; but after the first two months
he got enteric and sampled numerous hos-
pitals. It was only his tin hat that saved
his life in slushy France, and when he came-
to the first thing he said was, “W T ell, my
name’s mud !” (It wasn’t, of course —it was
still Clay.)
W T hen the flood waters put the gas-works
down and out, the Rockhampton Record
staff wouldn’t take the count. Two linos,
were kept running with blow-lamps, and
old-time hand comps, also helped. Then
they “petrolled” the gas engine, and the
paper began to circulate triumphantly.
NO STORY IN IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In an office I infested there had been a change of
tables,
And the sub., who knew his business, had gone
writing leaderettes;
The roundsman was promoted to concocting latest
cables,
And they let us have a junior—from the Wanteds
and To Lets.
He was wasting time, he told me, taking money at
the counter;
He had writing-sense, he felt it, and he knew he
could make good;
He explained he was of obstacles a natural sur-
inounter —
If he started out to “get there” it was odds-on
that he would.
(Oh, the fields of Young Ambition, what a crop they
promised us —
We who started out to “get there” and fell down
and missed the ’bus !)
“Mignonette” was snowed right under, and a wed-
ding must be covered,
So the acting-sub. instructed young To Let to get
a par,
And he raced away to where at noon the love-birds
should have hovered
(Where the love-birds ought to hover, now and
then the oof-birds are).
In the afternoon young Wanteds reached the office
empty-handed ;
He explained there was no story, and no copy to
be had.
At the church door, as the bridegroom from his
motor-car had landed,
There appeared upon the landscape an infuriated
Had,
Who assailed the would-be-wedded with a punch that
knocked him dilly,
And then grabbed the girl, and swung her to his
motor in the street;
He was swearing, girls were screaming, she was wail-
ing for her Willy—
Hence there wasn’t any wedding; hence young
Wanted’s virgin sheet.
Of the story of the fracas, the hysterics and the
slaughter,
He had none but what he told us—and that wasn’t
very much.
But the Bishop, who did churches, knew the parson’s
youngest daughter,
And she ’phoned him in an outline, which took
substance at his touch.
From the facts the Old Hand juggled out a spicy
quarter-column,
Using much ornate profanity, and many cigarettes;
And Young Ambition lingered, for a space, in silence
solemn,
Then meandered back to juggle with the Wanteds
and To Lets.
N.S.W.
M. BAKER.


j
82
THE MOSELEY TYRE is made
all through up to a high standard
of exactitude; —so high that out-*
side manufacturers could not make the
woven foundation fabric up to the standard
which Moseleys required* Moseleys
insisted on a better fabric than manufacturers
could give them. The rubber deserved it.
Moseleys were determined it should have it.
Moseleys wanted a thing specially well
doing, and so they did it themselves.
And that is the reason
why every inch of the
Fabric used in the
Foundations of Moseley
Tyres today is woven in
the Moseley weaving
sheds at Ardwick,
Manchester, England.
MOSELEY
For further particulars and prices ask your nearest dealer
If you find any difficulty in obtaining,
your requirements, please address
DAVID MOSELEY AND SONS, LTD.,
2 8 7-289, CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 1451 City. :: :: Telegrams: “ Grear,” Sydney.
MOSELEY TYRES ARE OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING GARAGES.
C.W. H.
British
The All
LIGHT
CAR
A PROVED LIGHT CAR with a Colonial
Reputation for Reliability under any Conditions.
Make sure of getting early
delivery of a Post War Model.
4-
£
m
Qm
Agents —
I. PHIZACKERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
The “different” Food!
Bender’s Food differs from all others because it contains
the means to partially digest the fresh new milk with
which it is prepared. This means much, as the inability to
digest milk is very common among children and adults.
Therefore always use
jh
Food.
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT. —Benger s Food Ltd., regret to
announce a possible shortage in the supplies of Benger’s Food arising from
shipping difficulties and restrictions consequent upon the War.
If customers, therefore, experience a temporary difficulty in securing Benger’s
Food, will they please understand that this is the cause. Any communications
on this subject should be addressed to our Sydney Office.
3j5A
BENGER'S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, England.
BRANCH OFFICE: »7, Pi” Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U.S.A.) 90 Beekmaii St. Depots throughout Canada.
iv*,-'*.
Sporting'
Rifles.
Irrespective of the price you want to pay, you’ll
find here a greater assortment than elsewhere.
kjh
“A marvel at the price. 1 ”
81. Steven’s Little Scout Single-
shot Rifle, 22 calibre, lSln.. round steel
barrel; open rear and knife-edged front sights.
Weight, about 2.}lb
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/3; other States, 2/2.)
17/6
kjh
“Splendid for all small game."
831. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model,
24in. octagon or round barrel, 22 calibre rim fire,
magazine takes 25 short, 20 long, or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-
hardened receivers, fitted with sliding rear sights; weight, Ci/il
511 b., take-down. freight paid, SDf**
WE REPAIR ALL KINDS of GUNS and RIFLES.
k
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/2/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/5/-
With 4-Octagon Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, £5/5/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,— "t if
20in. round barrel, weight about s|lb Freight paid,3L *f'/ A 4/ >3
jhk
“A good rifle at a moderate price.”
823. Savage Single-shot Rifle, 1905 Model,
22 calibre, 22in. barrel; weight, 4Jib.;
length over all, 39in.; open front and rear sights *“**■'/
Same Rifle, but with Micrometer rear sight
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
40/
jh
“Shoots with guaranteed accuracy.”
813. Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906
Model, 16-shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger,
straight grip, ladder rear sights, slide action, handles 22
short, long, or long rifle cartridges; weight, about sJlb. ..
Freight paid,
72/6
kjh
“Simple and extra strong in construction."
810. Winchester Single-shot Rifle, 1904 Model, for 22
short or long rim Are cartridges, 21in. heavy round steel barrel,
plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight; length of rifle
over all, 371 in.; bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
which will not tarnish; weight, about 41b o
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9; other States, 3/2.)
aarSPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
mmsri
“A suitable weapon for the boy.”
82. Stevens’ Marksman Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F.,
round barrel. 20in., chambered for long rifle cart-
ridges, case-hardened frame, oiled walnut stock, open
front and rear sights; weight, 41b
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/9 ; other States, 3/2.)
27/6
Owing to market fluctuations, the prices here quoted only hold good
for two weeks from date.
k
One of the hardest-hitting 22 cal. rifles on the market.
837. Remington Automatic Hammerless
Rifle, Model 16, 22 calibre, take-down action, length of barrel 22
inches. Magazine holds 15 cartridges. Weight s|lb. .
Freight paid,
Remington Auto Cartridges for above, 39/3 1000; 4/. 100.
Please note cartridges cannot be sent by post.
aa^
A perfect rabbiter's rifle.
836. Remington Hammerless Repeating Rifle,
Model 12A, 22 calibre, solid breech, side ejector,
straight grip, 21in. round barrel, handles 15 short, 12 long or
11 long rifle cartridges; adjustable rear and open _—,
front sights; weight. 4»U1).
SUNOLTOBACCO
2 oz. sample pkt.
1/- post free.
jhk
83. Stevens’ Favorite Rifle, 22 calibre, R.F. round 24in.
barrel case-bardened frame, solid breech, block under lever ,
action; weight 4jlb., fitted with ladder rear sight and open front, u 5 /“
Fitted with Lyman Combination Rear Sight
Same rifle, but 22 W.R.F, 25 or 32 calibres, 2/6 extra.
(Postage—N.S.W., 2/-; other States, 3/8.)
47/6
jh
A low-priced, reliable rifle.
811. “Winchester,” Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 calibre, rim fire, peep or V sights, scroll trigger
guard, rubber heel plate; weight, 2flb.
(Postage—N.S.W., 1/6; other States, 2/8.)
28/6
Illustrated Firearms and Sports List ( Catalogue Bl), also 1918 “Sure
Anglers’ Guide ( Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one
lists. They are money savers.
Catch”
or loth
1C
'J
mSTRTILia'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
mD TOBTJCCOmSTS
kjhk
City Sports Depot
119 King St, also at
Newcastle dßrisbane !


Our Soldiers ail Need Rexona
Why Don’t You Send a Tin
to the Front?
Read What Our Boys Say :
L.-Cpl.
BROOKES,
(from a
photo.).
m
mam
mm
All Australians prove themselves when put to
the test. So does Rexona.
I lel't Australia 11th May, 1915, and went to
Gallipoli. After 41 months in the trenches at
Quinn’s Post I was blown up by a mine
exploding. I also received nineteen 'l9)
shrapnel wounds in my legs. I, like all our
Boys, received a Christmas Billy, and enclosed
inside was a tin of Rexona. While in the
No. 3 A.G.H. at Heliopolis, Egypt, 1 used it
frequently on m.v wounds. While other reme-
dies failed, Rexona completely cured them.
I am quite well again and able to take up
my duties in life as before, many thanks to
the unsurpassable, healing and soothing
powers of Rexona. I assure one and all any
soldiers at the Front will be pleased with a
tin of Rexona. If he uses it once he will
always use it.
I can recommend with confidence
and. furthermore, I have sent several
Forces.
Rexona, as I have given it the fullest of tests,
tins to friends now serving in the A.I.E.
Yours truly,
L.-Cpl. H. N. BROOKES,
17th Batt., sth Brigade, A.I.E.F.
Another of our Heroes Praises REXONA.
I’ll like to add my testimony as to the
value of Rexona Ointment. A soldier pal
of mine cured himself of painful hemorr-
hoids solely by its aid, and I have, by
degrees, come to believe in it as the most
curative Ointment to be had in the world.
I have found it particularly effective as a
healing agent in skin sores and wounds.
Heaven knows I’ve seen enough of them to
last me a lifetime, and I know what I am
talking about. I can recommend Rexona
Ointment heartily for (1) hemmoroids,
because I have seen its work; and (S' 1 for
cuts and sores that have become unhealthy
through a worker’s carelessness.
I remain, yours faithfully,
(Sgil.) S. R. SIMPSON,
No. 736, First Battalion.
FIRST AT THE FRONT,
and FIRST AT HOME.
jhkhjh
Pin.
8. li.
SIMPSON,
(from a
photo.).
The wonderful healing: powers of Rexona have made it a password among: the
boys at the Front. For all the injuries, sores, cuts, burns, sore feet, Piles, Exzema
and all skin diseases, Rexona, the Rapid Healer, is without an equal. Rexona is
just as necessary and effective in the home as at the Front. Get two pots of
Rexona one for home use, and the other for your boy at the Front. Sold only
in triangular pots at 1/6, or large pots, holding nearly four times the quantity,
, for 3/-
o
0
o
THE RAPID HEALER
J.T3J
ASK FOR A
HAT
fU N R I VALUE
&
for i
// Style & Finish.
* C 4PS OF ALL OP
/
MAKERS:-
fRESS &C°L T ?
LONDON, ENGLAND. ,
Wholesale Agents:-
COX & MAILER.
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES—
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
I/O ALL CHEMISTS,
Or if not easily obtained write
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO, 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward, post free.
m
%
[8
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
My Immortality.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I STAND midway, and backward view,
A-down a green and golden hill
That merges in the heavenly blue,
A teeming crowd that seems to fill
The happy earth with beauty new.
From heights to which my eyes are blind,
From dim. deep fissures that defy
The lightnings of man’s praying mind,
They troop exulting, letting fly
Their crimson banners to the sky.
They dancing come. The joy of life
Shines with them like a spirit flame:
The harlot and the cherished wife;
The lady and the aproned dame;
The skipping minstrel with his fife;
The seer with wide, inquiring eyes;
The smith with sooty board ; the droll,
Poor, gaudy fool; the teacher wise;
The rascal with the gold he stole;
The caveman leering from his hole.
Tumultuous through all the day
Towards my stand the tumult sweeps.
I spread my arms; a welcome gay
1 sing to all. Exultant leaps
The certain knowledge—l am they !
Midway, still standing* down, I turn
Where drifts the slope to rivers cool,
Where roses in the shadows burn.
And children leap beside the pool.
And hope, unbounded hope, has rule.
There, dancing off a lusty rout,
Fans out toward the blazing sun,
That leads them all this world about,
The virgin with the Scarlet One,
The grave man and the grinning lout;
The mincing artists in a band ;
A tinker seeking pots to mend ;
The rogue, a youth on either hand ;
The drunkard and his pious friend,
And wee, fat babies without end.
To fates below the bended sky,
Away to wonderment unseen,
With throb of feet and swelling cry
They pour across the world between.
Sings loud my soul, for they are I!
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.
A Day’s Work.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MARKET DAY, end of the week and
near to Christmas —three good
reasons why we are “pushing things”
in what we have been advertising for sale for
months past as our “Up-to-date dressmaking
business; going concern.” Behind the parti-
tion my senior partner, Miss McQuirlt, is
hurrying the apprentices and prodding the
machinists to fresh endeavor. She herself
works like a fury, carving out skirts, wrest-
ling with billows of crackling lining, and
sticking pins in her chest with recklessness.
Through a curtained doorway she pitched
directions at me re the bodice in my hands
-—a creation of sevenpence-halfpenny silk
edged with rabbit-tails. It is wanted in
haste for a wedding, and it is a thankless job.
The flimsy silk almost melts at sight. The
hair of rabbits fills my nostrils and makes
my personal aim, which is to be classed as
“dainty,” practically impossible.
Bearers of burdens enter, mostly women
tangled up with vegetables and new milli-
nery in paper-bags. The market stocks all
commodities. One has a duck quacking
through the meshes of a string bag. Another
has a dress to be made for the ’olidays. They
consult the fashion-plates, taking even the
most extravagant designs into consideration,
though between the elegant creatures therein
portrayed and their own bulky figures there
is a great gulf fixed. A lady who is not the
one with the duck refers to the material she
has brought:
“It’s a tussock silk,” she says. “I’ve
always craved for a tussock—so cool for the
’olidays.”
“That’s right,” chorus her companions.
“Oh, yes,” I chime in, adjusting the smile
I keep for such moments. “They are cool, the
tussore silks, and so dainty.”
“Qu-ack, qu-ack, quack!” cries the
duck. I run my fingers through the alleged
“tussock” and utter staccato cries over its
texture, its gloss, its durability. Asked to
guess the price, I name a fancy one. To
mention the true value would give offence
and lose Miss McQuirk a customer.
Coming back from these flights of fiction
to common things I am told that “she” (one
of the group who is minus an eye) wanted
a “tussock,” too, but owing to having lost
her optic she couldn’t “run it.” Over this
disaster I assume an aspect of such grief
and horror that the victim hastens to re-
assure me.
“Oh, only my glassy,” she remarks. “My
real eye was knocked out years ago with a
chair leg. Yes, I’ve got rotten luck in eyes.
Gotter save up for another now for Christ-
mas. Couldn’t fancy Christmas without me
eye. That’s how I’m having a muslin, in-
stead of a tussock.”
There is a commiserative silence broken
only by a requiem from the duck.
“I’m ’aving a blue one,” she adds.
“Muslin?” I inquire. “No, eye. For a
change. The last was a brown.”
It appears on discussion that the popular
taste runs to a match in eyes, but as the one-
eyed person decides: “Let them as wears ’em
speak.”
But here my partner appears, thinking
sufficient of my time has been wasted, and
the customers, thoroughly rested, depart in
haste. My partner looks bitter as quinine.
Instinctively I try to propitiate her.
“Another order,” I say chattily, indicat-
ing the parcel of tussore. She glances scorn-
fully at it.
“We shall have to work late again,” I
prophesy.
“Why remark the obvious?” asks the
brutal McQuirk, who, if not dainty, is at
least dirty, inasmuch as she is coated with
dust.
Though bruised I am forgiving—after
counting ten —and when she demands the
measure-book I produce that dog-eared
volume. She turns the leaves briskly with a
needle-scarred finger. “Where’s that old
bride’s measures —old Miss Buzzard? Oh, I
see, here they are.” About to enter the
workroom, there to resume the rabbit and
sevenpence-halfpenny mixture, I am recalled.
“What’s this ‘+ 5’ beside ‘waist 21’
mean’?” she snaps.
“Oh —er,” I answer, “that means 26-inch
waist.”
“Then why, in Heaven’s name, don’t you
put 26 waist, Miss Daud? One would need
be a cypher student to understand your
entries. Why is not 26 down in plain
figures?”
“Well! You see,” I reply in a mollifying
tone, “she said she could wear a 21 corset.
So seeing she expected me to measure her
21, I —er —to please her, as she’s just about
to be a bride, too —entered her as 21 waist.
The other figures mean ‘add 5.’ ” Pleased
with my goodness of heart, 1 metaphorically
wag my tail like a dog and wait a pat on the
head. I do not get it. Metaphorically, 1
get kicked.
“God bless my soul, what a ninny you are,
Miss Daud,” cries my fuming chief. “Aren’t
our prices low enough without, having to
throw a bonus of flattery to every idiot who
gets a dress made?”
My smile, through repeated snubbings.
falls off. "She wasn’t looking for flattery,”
I object, with the stubbornness of the turning
worm. “She really thinks she’s —well —
svelte.”
“Svelte!” What in Heaven’s name is
that?”
“Slender,” I translate.
“Well, why not say slender, Miss Daud?
I hate this glossing-over way you have. If
a person is bony, sbe’s bony; if she’s fat,
she’s fat. That’s the end of the matter.
Pshaw ! Plow hot it is ! How can you get
up these arguments in such weather —and
waste time and money?”
Under this gross injustice I withdraw and
hear Miss Bright, the new apprentice, being
ordered out for cooling liquors for the reduc-
tion of Miss McQuirk’s temperature.
Returning, my smile re-adjusted, I find her
hacking buttonholes. She has removed from
her cranium an allotment of hair arranged
in unstable balloons. This she tosses over,
with the remark, “Section one —put it in the
button-box, or it will be swept out. No need
to pretend you’re surprised, Miss Daud,” as,
blushing not so much for the sham as for its
publicity, I obey. “You know my pompa-
dour is not real hair. Any fool can see that.
My ‘illusion’ also” —she unhooked another
growth from the skull—“not much illusion
about it, is there? So why are you looking
shocked?” I pray for patience. She seems
positively wolfish to-day. I must appease
her.
“Well, I thought”
“Don’t shuffle, Miss Daud. Don’t shuffle.
You knew my hair was artificial; so why
not own it?”
Other customers enter. They turn amazed
eyes on their almost hairless costumi&re.
Some interrogate, but Miss McQuirk metes
out open contempt to them. Mine is the
task to pour oil on the troubled waters,
and with hints of “over work” and “braid
fag” still keep their patronage. All hinder
me with special orders. One wants a
Peter Pan collar. Why is it named so?
No? She hasn’t even the vaguest idea of
the origin of the term —thought it had some-
thing to do with pans, both pan and collar
being circular and fiat. Some clamor for
boot-top skirts. Others, less smart, will
wear nothing less than ankle lengths.
One old dame, in to purchase a ready-
made blouse, hesitates over it for half an
hour. She paws the shoddy thing and
examines it so carefully as to suggest the
finding of some lost article..within its folds —•
the missing birth-certificate, possibly, or
the forged will. Miss McQuirk, coming
in and finding her still there, reminds her
acidly that we close at 10 p.m., though it is
not yet five.
Then the would-be buyer gives me “the
swap,” and goes for her blouse to the
market.
A machine canvasser is the next. He
does not get a sale. Miss McQuirk tells
him bitterly to close the door after him.
The hint, however, is useless. He is lazy,
and leaning on our counter to rest he tells
of the number of citizenesses who say they
have a machine when they haven’t, and
thus lose the opportunity of a lifetime. He
is a pleasant rogue, and pleasant men so
seldom come my way. I smile for all I’m
worth, hoping that he will notice my dainty
collar —my dainty stylfc. I tell him that the
folks next door are machine-less. He bucks
up at this. “Thanks,” he says; “I’ll try and
get a sale there.”
“Don’t say who told you,” I implore, “or
they’ll boycott me, for they don’t want a
machine. It’s —er —just to oblige you.”
On his honor as a canvasser he assures me
and departs. Listening I hear his confiden-
tial rat-tat on my neighbor’s door. In an
incredibly short time he again puts his head
within our portal. “They’ve got one,” he
quoths and closes the door. Opening it
again he quoths once more, “Liars!” Also
he adds cheerfully, “Good-bye !” and is gone.
The apprentice, despatched for more cool
drink, returns to find* Miss McQuirk mop-
ping her-lined visage with remnants of cus-
tomers’ muslin and kicking to right and left
their dress goods. These, encased in paper,
overflowing from counter and table and bulg-
ing from boxes, are always getting under
foot.
“How sick I am of all this shoddy!” she
scolds. “Cashmerette. silkette, satinette —
there’s not an inch of real honest material in
the whole God-forsaken country in my
opinion”
The apprentice rushes in where even part-
ners fear to tread. “That’s what mother
says,” she remarks. “Nothing is any good
nowadays, she says. She had a silk frock
once that lasted”
She tails off into silence, vaguely aware of
ferocious hostility in the air. She finds all
(Continued on next page.)


IS IT KIDNEY TROUBLE?
Nothing Much ! ” —This is what the
kidney sufferer will tell you when you
ask him what is the matter. You can
see how miserable and hopeless he looks ;
his skin is yellow, his eyes puffy and
swollen ; he is afraid of his life to move
quickly or to bend. -He is never free
from a pain or burning ache in the back ;
now and then becomes so dizzy that
he nearly falls ; his heart acts strangely.
He has bladder and urinary troubles,
rheumatic pains, and is always feeling
tired and worn out; he is sleepless and
restless.
Nothing Much ! ” —He little knows
how serious his trouble is, and how
every day draws him nearer the fatal
Bright’s disease or dropsy. Take your
trouble in time, and begin with Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, the reliable
kidney and bladder medicine, at the first
sign of anything wrong. Read how
thoroughly the Sydney people who
speak here have been cured ; it will
encourage you.
Every P} c ture
Te//s A Story ~
>d
V
Tired out from morning till night —
Head had —heart had —rheumatic and dropsical-
Have you suspected your kidneys?
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or
post free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Backache and Kidney
Trouble.
TWO SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
Mr. Jos. Goddard, 6 Windsor Street, Paddington,
Sydney, says: “For some time my health was far from
good, due to the fact that my kidneys were very dis-
ordered. I knew this to be the case, as I had aching
pains in my back, was always tired and languid, and
c « u i n °t s^e . e P we H at night. When I first began to feel
ort-color, I did not bother about it, thinking I would soon
he all right again, but this is where I made the mistake.
1 got worse instead of better, and by the time Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills were recommended to me I was
suffering a good deal. A friend advised me to try these
pills, so I got some, and after taking them for a few
days, my health began to improve, and by the time I had
used five bottles, I was cured. I feel grand now, thanks
to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.”
Two years later, Mrs. Goddard says: “My husband is
still well, and has had no return of his old complaint
since Doan s Pills cured him over two years ago.”
r Emily os borne (store), 101 Foster Street,
Leichhardt, Sydney, says: “Some years ago I had a very
bad attack of disordered kidneys, and, as a result, I
suffered agony from backache and rheumatic pains all
over my body. I was often so bad that I could hardly
get about the house, every movement giving me increased
pain. My rest at night was very disturbed, as it was
impossible for me to lie in one position for any length of
time, owing to the nagging pain in my back. My ankles
and arms swelled a good deal, and were very painful if
I touched them. I had no energy for anything, and was
really far from well. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
were recommended to me, and after taking a course of
these grand pills, I was completely cured. It is eight
years since I was cured, and I have had no return of
kidney trouble since.”
Six years later, Mrs. Osborne says: “Fourteen vears
have elapsed since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured
me, and I am still well, a fact that speaks volumes for
this splendid remedy.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
eyes upon her—some alarmed, some wild
with rage. Never within the memory of the
oldest hand has one of the staff dared to
quote mother to Miss McQuirk. That
lady’s eye alone is so absolutely glacial as
to make the wrongdoer shiver though it be
mid-summer.
“Are you On the f iss?” she asks
with satire. “If so you’d better not waste
time here. You’ve evidently missed your
vocation. Might I suggest that something in
the electioneering line would suit you—a pity
that abilities like yours—have you got the
soda? —did you ask for it cold? —gimme it.”
The apprentice, mentally deciding to leave
and go to the jam factory, where treble the
wages are paid with right of free speech
thrown in, flees to her tacking, and Miss
McQuirk rushes to the bottle.
A man enters. Facially resembling a billy-
goat he, in other particulars, favors the
undertaker. A long-skirted coat flogs his
shanks. His trousers are too short. His
vest is too long. His hat should have been
labelled “antique,” and presented to a
museum. “District visitor” is writ large
upon him. Casting aside my smile, which
is not for such as he, I regard him in stony
silence.
The grin I put off he assumes. “What is
the name here, please?” he asks.
Smith is the easiest, so I say Smith. I
wish afterwards I had said Megalosaurus.
“And where might you attend Divine
worship now?” he asks, with a certain play-
fulness.
“Nowhere,” I snarl in a manner worthy
of my chief.
This rebuff he affects not to hear, and con-
tinues cheerfully: “I think you told me last
time I called that you were reaping close to
the Gleaner’s side?”
“I don’t understand you,” I say icily.
“Something about a reaping-machine, is it?
Perhaps you are canvassing for Show ex-
hibits?”
“Oh, no, no! I was referring to One
Above.” He points to our dirty ceiling. Per-
haps he thinks we have lodgers. “You see?”
I do not see. I see nothing but a hypo-
crite in baggy tropsers. My expression must
convey this, even to the sense of a billy-goat.
But, no, he will not take offence, for he is
a saintly goat. Behind the screen I hear
the snorting of McQuirk, punctured by such
epithets as “Madman,” “Impostor,” etc.
Clearly she is getting out of hand.
“Is all w r ell with your soul?” came from
the whiskers, with a leer which, in a sinner,
would materialise into a jocular dig in the
ribs.
Mechanically, like unto a sleep-walker, I
pick up my shears. My eyes, mesmerised,
fix flicmselves on his face.
“Shall I offer up a prayer, sister?” he
says. He leans forward. His whiskers are
very near. “As a sheep that is shorn” buzzes
in .my brain. His ej*l*s close. His jaws open
—in supplication.
Madness conies upon me. I see red. The
blouses are the color of blood. A wild shriek
breaks from me. I leap at him, and before I
know what I have done two pints of his
whiskers have fallen upon the floor.
WEEROONA.
A Strong Case.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HAD called in to ask after Mrs. Mar-
tini’s cold, and I found Tony, her
husband, violently busy and explosively
profane over a job of bedding-out. Tony is
a small, narrow-eyed, wiry Neapolitan who
has thrived hardily in the transportation
from his native soil. He lives in a state of
perpetual anger over his two grievances—
religion and the smallness of his pension
from the railway, where he miraculously
held a job as guard for a prescribed period.
He greeted me floridly, at the same moment
dashing with an impatient hand a generous
shower of sweat-drops from his over-heated
brow, lit his pipe, and smiled ingratiatingly
at me.
“Fresh from praying you come, as the
little daisy is fresh after the dew. And
why not?” he mused. “This prayer it is
a good thing for the young virgin, and the
little child ; but for an old rooster like me
—bah, it is no good! What angel would
come from Heaven to the aid of an old
sinner stinking with beer and tobacco —it
is not to be expected ! But you Irish, you
take your religion'with a great seriousness.
In the North you are all Orangemen, and
in the South you are all priests and holy
nuns. Psst!” And he spat his contempt
into the gravelled path. “Now the Orange-
man I hate as I hate the foul smell.” Here
Tony blew his nose violently. “For years
I have suffered under the tyranny of one
Orangeman all the sufferings of the Holy
Martyrs. Aha, he was the devil, that one !
He was the top-dog loco, driver on the
Western line, and I was the guard who had
most often the van on his train. Scarcely
a ceevil good-day would he give you, and he
watched, as the cat for the mouse, for a
rudeness from the stoker, the guard or the
gangers by the way. Then he would write
the report—oh, at great length, for their
mouths are full of words, these Orangemen,
telling the Commissioners all a man’s sins
from the day of his baptism. Me, I say
nothing. I am the quiet one. I am only
the alien, the little Dago. But it was ail
inside here,” he thumped his breast, “work-
ing—what you call ferment
“And so we come to a day like this, with
the bells of the little churches ringing the
holy ones to the Mass. It was the good
St. Patrick’s Day, and as the train stopped
for water above Mulga Crossing we saw
the little _ girls in white dresses and veils
hurrying into a church by the railway iine.
It was for many of the children of the pious
Irish fathers and mothers the day of First
Communion. I went over to the level cross-
ing to have a look at the innocent ones, for
to me it was touching, and I called out
to Jim Sweeney and his two mates who had
the contract for carting gravel to the level
crossing to come with me to Paddy Lynch’s
and what you say drown the shamrock.
“We drowned the shamrock three times
altogether, and then we went back, for
trains they cannot stand all day. Owen,
the engine-driver, he was in the rage like
a tower. ‘Come along, you loafing little
Papist,’ he bellowed. ‘My oath, I’ll report
you for this! You delay my train ten
minutes.’
‘“What name did you call me?’ I said, oh
in the very cold and calm voice. ‘Say it
again, I am a leetle deaf.’
“Owen foamed at the mouth as the dog
that is gone mad. ‘You dirty Roman,’ he
howled, and the next thing he knew he was
picking himself from the ground wiping the
blood from his lip. ‘l’ll report you for
this’
“With the spring of the wild cat I was
on him. ‘You’ll fight me first, vou black
Orangeman,’ I hissed.
. “The boys they cheered and made the
ring—Jim Sweeney and his two mates who
had the contract for carting shingle to the
level crossing, the stokers and the boy out
of the cab. Oh, but my knuckles tliev had
been itching for this! His nose, that poked
itself without necessity, it was a ielly, and
his eyes !
“Jim Sweeney he pulled us apart in the
end. and we got the train away, with Owen
half-blinded at the engine, and me standing
on the step of the van with the boys cheer-
ing. It was a great moment of living.
“At the next station we were held up
with instructions to wait for the line ahead
to be cleared, so my luck-star it was shining.
An hour we wait altogether, and they do say
that Owen called for the pen and paper to
write his report before he ask for the beef-
steak for his so-smashed eye.
“For two weeks I wait, and always my
wife Santuzza she meet me of the evening,
and ask what the Commissioners have said.
Then, one day, I get a notice to go before
the Board to-morrow ; and that night when
I come off duty I run bang-right into the
Honorable O’Reilly, the Commissioner. He
has the broad smile on his face as he ask
me: ‘What is this you have been up to,
Martini ?’ ’
“I shake my head with a great sadness.
I have done no wrong, and what I am
accused of I cannot think.’
“O’Reilly his eyes twinkled. ‘Martini, do
you remember one night five years ago
a sick and worn-out passenger in the
IU.oO special a nip out of your flask? You
said it will put the heart back into you. It
did, Martini, and I formed the plan that
beat my opponents: I saw that a firm denial
makes a strong case, Martini.’
“I looked him in the eye with a ‘Good-
evening’ sir’; and the next morning I am
called into the station-master’s office where
the Commissioners are sitting at a long
table, and around the wall Jim Sweeney and
his two mates who had the contract for
carting gravel to the level crossing, the
stokers, and the boy from the cab sat with
bent heads watching so keenly the hats that
they played with on the hands between the
knees. O’Reilly he look at me the same as
if he have not seen me before, and read out
the report so full of words from Owen about
the thrashing I had given him on the day of
St. Patrick, saying how the goods-train had
been delayed half an hour thereby. I listen
to the end. Then ‘lt is a lie, gentlemen,’ I
say, and look O’Reilly straight in the eye.
“The men around the wall they stiffen as
if they have received the galvanic shock.
“ ‘Do you mean there is not a word of
truth in the whole report? Have the care
how you answer, Martini,’ say the Honor-
able O’Reilly with a sternness of tone and a
glance like the lightning at me.
“ ‘There is no truth at all in it.’ And I
put into my words the bitterness of aloes.
“Then they question Jim Sweeney. Jim
he look over O’Reilly’s head. ‘I never seen
no row,’ he say, ‘and I was talking to Mar-
tini when the train started.’ And the twp
mates of Jim Sweeney they say: ‘lt is a lie.
We know nothing of it.’ And the boy from
the cab, he say: ‘Mr. Owen he go barmy on
the day of St. Patrick. He muster dreamt
it.’ The stokers they try to remember, but
can think of nothing at all that happened on
that day.
“The Commissioners look at one another,
then one of them —with the face of a sheep
and the whisker of a goat—he say: ‘Well,
how do you account for the delayed arrival
at Dawson’s Junction?’
“ ‘lnstructions at Frankton to wait for
the line to be cleared,’ say the first stoker,
coughing in his throat.
“The records of the station-master they
look into, and there it was in black and
white. O'Reilly fingers his pencil. ‘lt seems
to me, Mr. Commissioners, that the report
against Martini had better be dismissed.’ So
they all say ‘Good-day, gentlemen,’ with a
great politeness, and file from the room.
And the black pig, Owen, next week he was
lowered to the job of running the locos, in
and out of the yards—a work that is spat
upon by every driver with a self-respect.
And Jim Sweeney and his two mates, the
two stokers and me, we drown the shamrock
every day for the next month at the hotel of
that good Irishman Paddy Lynch.”
JOHN EGAN.
New Times.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Music’s the food of love,” I said, and gazed
Into her dear blue girlish eyes contented.
Her lip drooped, half reproachful, half
amazed,
As though I’d dared some statement she
resented.
“Music,” she lisped, “in Shakspeare’s day
sufficed,
But quite a different age and period this is.
To-day we don’t prefer emotions iced.
We know, for instance, Love feeds best on
kisses.”
N.S.W.
JOSEPHUS Q. HARRIS.


"
V
:‘v'\
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
W rite for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOIiSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD..
Sueensland Agrents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
/
k
SSI
.#.l
'•>::
;4yp%
mm
m
ssas?-™*,
«**»
J
i
I
•v:
Eight-Cylinder Automobiles
for IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT.
A cablegram order through your local bank
or export house will bring one of these power-
ful cars to you as quickly as shipping facilities
permit* Now in service the world over and
adopted by the United States Government.
7-passenger Touring Gar, $lB5O 7-passenger Sedan, $2300
4-passenger Foursome, $l7OO 3-passenger Roadster, $1585
PRICES F. 0.8. DETROIT. WIRE WHEELS §lOO EXTRA.
KING MOTOR CAR COMPANY,
Export Department,
50 Union Square, New York, U.S.A.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Persona! attention a feature of the business.
Qfficesj 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE AUSTRALIAN
“SKANDIA”
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
fitH
UNLIMITED SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Lrofttis Street,
SYDNEY.
BEECHAM’B
PILLS
are one of the oldest and the best tried of family medicines. "Time tells
all things” says a truthful adage. The test of time has been applied,
most assuredly, to Beecham’s Pills, for this preparation has been in
the public service for over seventy years. Such a record should surely
be a safe guarantee. It proves beyond the shadow of a doubt that
people are fully satisfied with the results obtained by using this world
famous family medicine, and appreciate the fact that in it they find an
easy and efficient aperient, a safe and sure corrective, and a speedy and
reliable restorative of weakened or disordered digestion. No wonder,
then, that BeechanPs Pills
ARE ALWAYS
TO THE FRONT
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10£d (36 pills), l/l£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
k
jhk
jh
kjh
Post Free
in Us 2.
( Patented)
F.o S
k
each
ost
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
jhk
simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA,
MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—'
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
way-
U
When you specify
the Saddle
say BROOKS
Nw you will ensure a comfort
otherwise impossible
STOCKED BY MOST DEALERS.
jh
SCREWING
TACKLE
,4
rp
30bi,
Jin. to J/in.
Screws,
Tubes j
Bolts,
FOR ECONOMY in all-round
tube-screwing use the time-
saving
OSTER
SCREWING
MACHINES
and save money over hand-
screwing. Furnished in four
sizes for belt- or motor-drive.
Dies and extra parts carried in
stock here. Ask for catalog.
Australasian Representative:
CHARLFS WRIGHT, Box 251, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
THE OSTER MFG. CO,, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.


NGROYIT
LEATHER
LTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY
“MANGItOViTIi” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Beltin'", is often referred to bv users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel
mimmsmSufrim
CAPITAL
“ULTRA CAPITAL”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Automatic Machines.
READY FOR USE.
ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
Dannemora Steel Works, SHEFFIELD. ENGLAND.
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIE.CES-
x3" I- x 3 -|x4
16 16
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. L™
379 Kent St.,
SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
-
Build with Hardie’s
"FIBROLITE"
(Reg.) Cement
and insure your home or
factory against Fire, Rust,
White Ants and Decay.
Write for samples and
prices.
James Hardie & Co.
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY.
’Phone 6239 (3 Lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street,
MELBOURNE.
Also Brisbane and Adelaide.
Defies Time’s Touch
a
T3R
T
T^DEmRK
kjh
HESS
e
h
a
y
01*
&
I
l
TRY
$8
m
-
A
is
£sSs?
Helpful to those who need a re-invigorating stimulant.
. I
X
rJ..';
m
kjh
“Star” Portable Oil Engine
“Tangye” Portable Lampless
k
Dalgety’s Machinery Agencies
comprise
TANGYE’S Larnpless Oil Machfnes U< BUNCLI Chaff cutters.
CLAYTON Portable Steam Pumping Engines, Crushing Plants.
jgz
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT-MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine
-
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
Buncle Travelling' Chaffcutter.
Wk
HEEP
—constructed for efficiency.
Success has crowned the Wolseley Sheep Shearing
machines from the beginning-they have ALWAYS been
satisfactory.
Owners proclaim them the most efficient therefore best
as an investment; shearers prefer them.
Obtain full particulars.
Dalgety & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents-All Branches.
«
imam
'■i
t
m
3gpK£:
For the GARAGE
and REPAIR SHOP
Improved Designs G&r&je Air Compressors
_ 0 f nne of the little compressors is indispensable,
Even in the small garage and repair shop the installation of one
both from a point of economy and greater convemenc v _ , PARTS OF ENGINES, OPERATING SMALL
INFLATING TYRES, CLEANING CARS CHIPPING HAMMERS, DRILLS, etc., are among the
PNEUMATIC TOOLS, such as AIR HOISTS, ** ended
numerous applications for which they are particularly recommended.
_ „ _ . , c , I „ for full descriptive Catalogue.
Call and inspect our »tocK, 01 wine w*
on os
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
FOR SALE
Secondhand, Guaranteed Coed Order
We have for immediate delivery the following:
TANDEM COMPRESSOR, 400 c. ft. air per min.
By KELLY & LEWIS.
RECEIVER, sft. diameter, 20ft. long ; all mountings.
LAUNCH ENGINE & BOILER, 12-15 h.p.
STEAM SHOVEL, 1 and liyd. buckets, 12 h.p.
By RUSTON PROCTOR.
10 TON WEIGHBRIDGE.
ELEVATOR PLANT, complete with c/ shaft & pulleys.
RAILS, 40 and 601 b.
F«ll details ora application to
PANKLAST CRUSHERS
are in use at Sydney Mint and
Leading Assay Laboratories
throughout Australia.
POWER or HAND.
The Hand Machine is very portable,
and indispensable lor
assayers, prospectors,
MINE SAMPLERS.
The Power Machine is the best for
Small Mills and Experimental Plants.
Further data, prices etc., from
jhk
N.
GUTHRIDGE LTD., Equitable Building, 350 George Street, Sydney,
