

DEWAR’S —SUPERB OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
R. O. WATKINS &> CO.,
. Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— _
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining K»equisi^*s.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always availabl
m ”,
r
on all classes
security
Trade Bills Discounted
TELEPHONE: CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “ DAILY TELEGRAPH ” NEW BUILDING
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET. NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
■../ : .. .. i_ •. : “ -■. ..
215-217 SWANSTON STREET,
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTAGE BENNETT, General Manager
Say Good-bye to Your
Cesspool Outhouse =
it is a breeding-place for flies. Then there's
the danger of disease arising from such
insanitary surroundings.
Place your sewage disposal on a par with
sewered cities. Instal the MONTGOMERIE-
MEILSON SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
Superior to Water Sewage System arid
infinitely better than any Septic System. Most
hygienic —even on the hottest days—abso-
lutely no odor arises—the system, treating
sewage by contact with air so effectively that
yon can have it right handy to your home
with perfect safety.
Over 600 in use in N. S. Wales alone —
endorsed by Hospitals, Institutions, Homes
and experts alike.
Free 'Booklet gives valuable information—
send for copy.
MONTGOMERIE-NEILSON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8976.
9Ue
min.
9
MW'C
V'
3
Ntrrmwc
toArcui
About!"
s BA- C °
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
J
HANSENS
n
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when takeu daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Used the
World Over
T <3
OTOR
■j
'MpMbtd
for low-pitched and flat roofs
“Not the same as others
For bungalows and city flat roofs Malthoid is considered best by prominent
architects who have the opportunity of testing every pliable roofing manufac-
tured.
Malthoid is absolutely waterproof, and remains so under the most severe weather
conditions.
Extreme heat or cold or w r et will not cause it to perish or crack—it remains
perfect for an indefinite period, outlasting the building on which it is used.
Bend for samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Sydney-
YDE ENGINEERS
MINING
LOCGMO
AGRICULTURAL,
AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
L?
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
; • ' . - .. '
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions.
Road Metal and Farm
Mill Machinery . Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings.
Waggons. Portable Steam Ent
Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks
Arthur
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
<5 0
MACHINERY.
i I
iii
9 9
World Renowned ENGLISH-MADE
HORIZONTAL PETROL and OIL ENGINES.
Immediate delivery from Sydney at Prices BELOW PRE-WAR RATES
liiJi.p. PETROL ENGINE £5O Slli.p. OIL ENGINE £75
31».p. „ „ 65 4Jh.p. „ „ £B5
NET CASH ON BAIL OR WHARF, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER. TUBES.
Manufactured in Canada by the Dominion Copper Products Go. Ltd.
Solid Drawn Tubes—
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles —
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
Sole Representatives—
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
mn
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
—— —•
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Toi. 39.— A0. 2010.]
[Thursday,* August 22, 1918.
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Tranainission by Post as a Newspaper


&
•^5
I
»
fl'
A
31&3
NATIONAL
Motor Oils
It matters not what the
conditions of service, nor
the type of engine con-
cerned, to lubricate with
National Motor Oils is to
assure the zenith of engine
efficiency.
National Motor Oils arc
of unvarying, high-grade
Quality—olean, even-flow-
ing, and possessing high
flash-point and remark-
able viscosity.
Obtainable all
Garages and
Storekeepers
in 1-gal. tins, 4-gal. tins,
and barrels. Ask also fm
National Motor Greases.
National Oil Co.
l,t a.,
4 Bridso Street.
Sydney.
James Wardle
anil Co.,
Adelaide.
m
London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Oi.GA Amsiikll, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Grey Hair—Home Bemedy.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable, and plenty of reasons wliy
liair dyes shonld not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why yon should
have grey hair if you do not want it. To turn
the hair back to a natural color is really a
very simple matter. One has only to get from
the chemist two ounces of concentrate of tam-
malite and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply to the hair with a small sponge
for a few nights and the greyness will gradu-
ally disappear. This liquid is not sticky or
greasy, and does not injure the hair in any
way. It lias been used for generations with
most satisfactory results by those who have
known the formula.
Blackheads Fly Away.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into gen-
eral use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a stymol tablet
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full of
hot water. After the effervescence has sub-
sided bathe tlie face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft clotli. In a few minutes
dry tlie face and tlie offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large
oily pores immediately close up and efface
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at intervals of four or five days
to ensure tlie permanence of the result.
Emergency Complexions.
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull
or greasy can. he made beautiful in a moment
by a perfectly harmless home recipe. If you
have no cleminite in the house, get about an
ounce from your chemist, and add only
enough water to dissolve it. The process de-
fies detection, and the result is au immediate
appearance of velvety, youthful “bloom”
which every woman desires. The effect will
last ail day under the most trying conditions,
indoors or out, and renders powdering quite
unnecessary. This simple substance is also
very good for the skin, and no possible harm
can come from its regular use.
Effectually Killing Superfluous Hair.
Many women know how to remove ugly
growths of superfluous hair temporarily, but
few know how to remove it permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
used. Get .gbout an ounce from your chemist
and apply a little directly to the objection-
able hair. The purpose of the recommended
treatment is not merely to remove the super-
fluous hair instantly, but also to kill the hair
mots completely in a comparatively short
1 ime.
How Nature Makes New Complexions.
It is well known that the human skin is
constantly undergoing a tearing down and
building up process. With advancing years or
waning vitality this tissue-change lags: the
lifeless, soiled surface skin stays on so long
that its owner gets a “poor complexion.”
Commonsense tells ns this dead skin cannot
be enlivened or beautified by any cosmetic,
lotion or powder. The natural thing to do is
to actually remove the offensive skin —remove
tlie bad complexion- It has been found that
ordinary mercoli/.ed wax completely absorbs
tlie devitalised skin, in minute particles, so
gently, gradually, as to cause no inconveni-
ence. Mercolized wax, which any chemist can
supply, is put on at night like cold cream,
and washed off in the morning. If you would
have a brilliantly beautiful and youthful com-
plexion. just use this simple treatment.
How to Have Thick and Pretty Hair.
Soaps aud artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair bril-
liant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely, and greatly stimulates »the hair-
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed quarter-pound pack-
ages. which retail at about four shillings.
However, as this is sufficient for 25 or ?,0
shampoos, it really works out very cheaply
in the end. H
AFTER A HARD DAY’S
WORK
You want something to tone you up, help
you enjoy and digest your dinner and have
a good night’s rest. Try a tew drops of
phosforiiio
r THE ROYAL TONIC
Tliis is a real nerve invigorator, and will tune up
your whole system, so you can tackle the work
and worry of these days, with ease and certainty.
’ PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton &C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
■YCfntawMj*
■qaw Hoiioaoas
iVIOHdV
ur.asPA
FIRST AID TREATMENT
FOR cuts, bruises, and skin irri-
tations of ail kinds use
Vaseline
Mark -Registered
Carbolated
Petroleum Jelly
It lessens the risk of infection.
For sale at all chemists and general
stores, in glass bottles and tin tubes.
Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Go.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
Always Reliable —— Always Pure.
The need for a pure Baking Powder of uniform quality and reliability was responsible for
Ireland’s
Baking Powder
To-day borne cooks who use this carefully-mixed Baking
Powder have found the. secret of the most tempting cakes—
the lightest scones, and the flakiest, most easily digested
pastry.
It is a cooking medium that perfectly meets the demands
of the thrifty housewife —Quality and Economy.
Use it to-day for better results in all Baking efforts.
Sold by grocers everywhere.
J. IRELAND Ltd., Newcastle.
baking
m
O*S
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL JUJUBES
Tins 1/6
THe Great Antiseptic
and PropHylactic.
V/M'.’JX.
HO
nn
utstw
■WWIVI
urrsvrvdQtM
»ArtTOU.O?nf
vuuaMCM
viS^
r.nr
Unlike cougli medicines, “Eumekxhol
Jujubes” do not interfere with the diges-
tion. On the contrary, they have a beneficial
effect, as their Antiseptic Properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the wod when
taken after meals.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Threats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Suitable for Young and Old. I®
The Red Page
The Influence of the Press and
the Suppress on History.
I chanced, the other day, on a mention
of a man named Parkes, and it set me
thinking.
Cleopatra was not made but unmade by
the press. When her mild old father, the
Flute-Player, died and went to that rest which
he had never found on earth, he left half his
throne to dapper Cleopatra. She was
a wise and gallant dapper. Rome was.on
the east and west of her kingdom. Rome
commanded the sea to the north and the bar-
barians: were on the south. She might either
see her dominions absorbed and walk in
chains in somebody’s triumph, or she might
strike .out and become Queen of Rome and
dominate the situation. Bhc married Gsesar
and later Antony, according to Egyptian law
which she probably made herself, and each
time just missed the throne by a hair's--
breadth. Rome didn’t want a queen, especi-
ally a foreign one. She died \yith dignity, to
avoid falling into the hands ofr ii Pecksnitlian
dictator with chronic snuffles in the nose, and
the malignant Roman wrote her alleged
biography, and published it at Semprouius’s
job-printing ollice.
When Carthage was on its last Phoenician
legs the remnant of the people, with their
books, records, history, biography, science and
general knowledge, were penned in the capi-
tal city. When it was wiped off tlx- earth
with all its contents there was hardly any-
thing left of the people save the Romans’
bad opinion of them. It was published in
many volumes garnished with curses and
illustrated with rude pictures of devils.
Rome had a very bad opinion of any nation
which nearly licked it, so Carthage was, in
the main, a suppressed edition.
Alfred the Great owed a great deal to the
press. That great publication, the Anglo-
Saxon Chronicle, was patiently compiled
for centuries before and after his time by
monks in a monkery. It was a good
Chronicle when a brilliant monk was in
charge. When he passed out and his quill
fell into the hands of a dolt with the literary
style of a time-table, it wasn’t much
Chronicle. Alfred had. luck, though he lost
three-fourths of England. The monks loved
him for his piety, his learning and his
encouragement of knowledge, which supplied
many a good cleric with a billet in the Edu-
cation Department. His victories were
mostly won not far from the monastery door,
a matter of importance when railways, tele-
graphs, telephones, cablegrams, newspapers
and printing-offices were not and roads
hardly existed. The Chronicler could almost
look out of the window and see Alfred win-
ning a battle —when lie did win a battle.
Besides a real writer was on deck then. And,
on top of all, the Good King is said to have
revised the whole work up to his own time
with his own good hand. Alfred was buried
rather unobtrusively on paper—it is sur-
mised because a very inferior scribe had
taken over the plant and copyright in his
last days. His son, Edward the Elder, who
recovered the lands that the father had let
slip, seems to have been something of a
thunderbolt of war, but it isn’t recorded that
he revised the proofs himself. Also the
incompetent person at the desk mentioned
his achievements as unemotionally as if he
had been a long-priced animal which won an
obscure bush handicap. He might almost
have run stiff. The Chronicle never recov-
ered its old brilliance and flickered out in
an illegible condition in the days of Stephen.
It made no more great men and towards the
end the spelling and punctuation were below
par. The increased cost of paper may have
hastened its end. for there was commotion
all through Stephen’s gory days.
It is recorded that Richard lll.’s minions
slew the two little princes in London Tower
at dead of night when no reporter was pre-
sent except the Eye of God. Henry YIT.
saw- to the insertion of the paragraph him-
self, and headed it, “A Blood-Spattered
Monster!!! Late Mis-shapen Usurper Kills
his nephews in Cold Blood!!!! Finger-
Prints of a Hunchback Found on the Dress-
ing Table!!!!!’/ If the children were alive
when Henry stole the crown they were as
much in his way as in that of the previous
crown-stealer, and if he killed them- and
then inserted the paragraph he was a wise
king. Anyhow Richard ascended the throne
naked to the waist and with his wife in
the same condition, so that the anointing
with holy oil might not spoil their clothes.
A greasy spectacle like that deserved all that
Truth said about him, and it said a lot.
The press made the late Victoria. It made
her taller, wiser and more imposing than she
was. It found unexpected merits in her pub-
lished works, including the emotional corres-
pondence that was full of italics. She labored
most of her days for the aggrandisement of
her daughter’s future kingdom of Prussia,
and she was possessed of many domestic
virtues which were the more valued because
some of her predecessors had no virtues at
all. When she died one pressman wrote that
she was the most notable figure since the
time of Jesus Christ.
It is a far cry from Cleopatra to Parkes,
and-there are many omitted links on the way.
Parkes v r as the Father of Federation who
wrecked the Federation movement of 1891.
and he was the Father of Education whose
wonderful Act of 1880 was a poor .copy of
the Victorian “free, secular and compulsory”
law of 1872, and resembled the Queensland
Act (1875) and the S.A. one (1878). But
Parkes served the foreign importing interest
well, and the foreign importers’ papers made
him a Great Man in return. They had to do
something in return. A man with whiskers
like Parkes’s couldn’t be expected to work
for nothing. Besides, N. S. Wales was to
Australia what Prussia was to Germany.
Its Premier had to be the greatest man in
Australia on paper, and there were men like
Berry and Griffith to compete against.
Some day I hope to establish a paper and
invent a Great Man of my own. He will
be purely imaginary, so lie can’t do anything
disgraceful. He will have the most colossal
intellect that the combined staff and head
(Con 1 inued 'on page 2(1.)


V
a
1
=9w
a
3
0
Anthony Horderns’ for Footwear Satisfaction.
IN the selection of footwear consideration
should be given to the quality of the leather,
linings, stitchings and workmanship, for with
this combination of good qualities footwear
satisfaction is assured. Anthony Horderns’
footwear is renowned for its excellence. Here
are examples of the unequalled value obtainable
at the New Palace Emporium.
n
must
be
added
to alt
prices
quoted.
1/-
N.S.W.,
1/8
Other
States.
1
12
VALUE IN LADIES’ SHOES.
No. I.—Ladies’ Smart White Kid Court Walking Shoes, medium toes, pump soles,
covered Cuban Louis heels lice < *°/ “
No. 2. — Ladies’ Smart Champagne Suede Court Shoes, self buckle, extended last, pump
soles, Cuban Louis heels ’I CG
Also in Grey Suede Pnce 42 /^
No. 3. — Ladies’ Smart White Nubuck Lace Shoes, medium toes, pump soles, Cuban Louis
heels Prlce °
No. 4.—Ladies’ Smart Patent Colt Court Shoes, tongue and fancy bars, pump soles Louis
heels, made on latest last oO/ m
No. 7. —Ladies’ Smart Battleship Grey Glace Kid Lace Shoes, medium toes, Cuban
Louis heels, pump soles 40/-
No. B.—Ladies’ Smart Patent Colt Court Shoes, self buckle, medium toes, Louis heels,
pump soles 30/-
No. 11. — Ladies’ Smart White Nubuck Oxford Lace Shoes, toecaps, extended last, Cuban
Louis heels, pump soles 38/o
No. 12. — Ladies’ Smart Patent Colt Whole-goloshed Lace Shoes, extended last,
leather Cuban heels, welted soles 20/-
ECONOMY IN MEN’S BOOTS.
No. s. — Tan Willow Calf Balmorals, whole golosh, welted soles, exclusive shape.... 29/6
Also stocked in Box Calf 29/6
No. 6. — Glace Kid Derby Balmorals, medium toes, welted soles 22/6
No. 9. — Box Calf Derbv Balmorals, welted soles, medium high toes, good fitting 22/6
Tan Willow Calf Derby Balmorals, welted soles, similar shape 26/6
No. 10. Glace Kid Balmorals, whole golosh, welted soles, good quality, made on latest French
last 2c*/o
Also Tan Willow Calf Balmorals, whole golosh, welted soles, similar style. . 29/6
No. 13. — Glace Kid Balmorals, whole golosh, welted soles, kid lining, best make throughout,
highest:grade quality, in full and half sizes 32/6
No. 14.——Glace IVid Balmorals, whole golosh, welted soles, latest straight last, easy fitting 29/6
Similar Boot, with patent toecap 29/6
No. 15.—80 x Calf Derby Balmorals, medium toes, welted soles, easy fitting. 22/6
With patent toecap and facings, and patent back counter 23/6
In Glace Kid, with patent toecap 21/-
No. 16. Patent Colt Balmorals, whole golosh, dull kid leg, welted soles, made on latest
extended last 26/6
llll
/
ta
a
in®
womi
m
16
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,US
Only Universal Providers,
New Pal ace Emporium,
.
it Vg
Stxs^/uvt'^
Brickfield Hill,
Sjy d. n ey.


n
4
mn
m
m
n
»
mnm
€
I- - . •
- * . - * i
I
■pg
■
: SH'S S'
. • .
3i
e
■
■
HH
rv *’i
: .. '
S-CsP
V
■
: - ,
sew
< m m • >, ;
- i'#S; , ? *
■wiiilull ■willhi * s jjl §j§§| §S \ f J
s
1;
as*
an
m
■■-;.:
■
IH
n
, iii
«
s»Af»k|
K&fe
IP®”
yegfffe-?-?''
f&'&J-? **.'•;
Look to the future of your Roof-
then you’ll order “Adamax.”
Will your roof come to an early end, attended by leaks and repair bills? Or will it give you many of
service free from all roofing troubles? You answer those* questions when you buy the roofing.
“Adamax” is the Best Roofing
that Money Gan Buy.
It is the long-life roofing that gives year-in-year-out satisfaction, whether used on Homes, Factories Mine
Buildings, Farm Buildings or Outhouses. It is practically timeproof. The secret of its long wear ’lies in
the special process of finishing the long-fibred felt after it has been thoroughly impregnated with nure
mineral hydro-carbon. 1
No Fish Oil, Tar or Resin is used in this finishing process, with a result that there is nothing to drv out or
rot. Neither do the elements, Rain, Heat, Wind, Cold, Sea Air, etc., harm “Adamax” Roofing and because
ot it being proof against the ravages of Acids, Mining Gases or Chemical Fumes it is the ideal Roofing for
Mine Buildings. There are many other reasons for “Adamax” supremacy contained in our Booklet “The
Adamax Series.” A free copy is here for you. Send for it to-day.
“Adamax” costs only One-third the price of Galvanised-iron.
Add to that saving the great reduction in freight charges, and you’ll order your “Adamax” Roofing to-day.
Here are a few reasons why “Adamax” should be your choice:
43M miles of “Adamax” Roof covering are being used on wool-storaee sheds
erected in Wentworth Park by Messrs. Stuart Bros, for the Central Wool Coin
mittee.
Again, recently 13 miles of “Adamax” Roofing were ordered
authorities in Perth for the West Australian Wool Stores.
by the Imperial
22,000 sq. yds. for use on the Commonwealth Buildings at Molongo, Canberra.
20,000 sq. yds. on the Leeton Canning Factories.
13,200 sq. yds. for W.A. Govt. Freezing Works at Wyndham,
An order for 44,000 sq. yds. was placed for use on the South
Board Buildings.
Australian Wheat
The contracts for the N. S. Wales Railways for 1917-18, and again for 1918-19
were or “Adamax” Roofing, the estimated requirements for the year
m
I
■
Sill
■
■ II
m i !
■
I
William Adams eC2;
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE : 521=3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cor. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33 King Street.
n


m
JOs^f/osiery
O PECIALIZED
methods in desi&n-
in& and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
tiie genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
I
The New Sauce
Gives a new enjoy-
ment to the daily
fare.
Even the plainest food be-
comes tasty—appetising and
digestible with H.P. Sauce.
Not like any other sauce —
different —quite different
Rich Thick Fruity
CONSTIPATION CUBED
By Simple Home Treatment.
No medicines, trouble or expense ; just an easy,
natural self-treatment discovered by a Mel-
bourne business man, after 25 years of suffer-
ing. Valuable explanatory booklet forwarded
FREE
to all sufferers who send 3d. postage
and this advt. to the author-
3
J. P. GALE, Cotham Rd.. Kew. Vic.
a
Jell |||
El’b&'&cltics
Kizstare
il&tt
a'-tt
B
m
TDCCaS
m
Q JQ
nm
THE
v* _ ’steßßmrSiSfei 'i ‘
K
j';3|.
>TI
-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1.498.220. Reserve Fund, £700,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: Siu JOHN GRICE, Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD. Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.'; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. 11. WREEORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: E. J. OSBORNE.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia. Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
For laaie Shafting:,
Machine Tools,
Mining; Machinery,
Saw Milling and
Factory Equip-
ment, etc., etc.
n
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
I
i
Q— H
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The SKF Self-aligning Ball-bearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
GARDNER, W>ERN & CO.,
Chief Agents and Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE— BRANCHES—
Office, 384 City Road, S. Melbourne. SYDNEY . . . 225 Clarence Street.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street. BRISBANE . . . 367 Queen Street.
Power
is the moving prin-
ciple of things—it
is that mysterious
force which enables
one to act upon, to
move or influence,
both people and
events. . . .
A
%
X
H
m.
I
To exercise this mystery of “power” you must be full of
nervous energy, alert and virile—in a word, you must be fit.
Fitness is a harmony of mind and body which accompanies a
state of constant general good health—good health comes with
regularity of habit .
The Kruschen Habit keeps one fit as nothing else does—it
aetermines regularity of habit. With your system cleansed and
fortified by Kruschen Salts you will become a centre of health
and fitness, so of power—you will radiate your influence on all
around you. Get the habit—persevere with it —be “ fit ” !
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
Of all good chemists, grocers and stotes throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents :
MESSRS, H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes (Kruschen) Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Book Song.
My heart is in a green book
For all the world to read;
Singing phrase and lover look
And white thought seed,
Dr earnings of a summer night
And laughter in a tree,
A grey sea, a long light—
All the heart of me.
A friend of mine with good words,
A thousand miles away.
Talks with me where small birds
Sing the merry day;
Step by step we walk the road
And watch the yellow sea
Where tides of all years flowed
Through the heart of me.
And here shall be the song-rest
A-sprawl on sunny grass;
And here the girl you love best
Shall laugh and kiss and pass.
O friend, I set the tune line
For tales below a tree;
It's all yours and all mine—
The very heart of me.
I’ll never look you in the eye
Nor clasp you by the hand ;
But words on white wings fly;
And, friend, you understand.
We looked into the set of sun
A thousand miles apart;
And all the little threads he spun
Bind us heart to heart.
My life is in a green book
That all the world may read;
Singing phrase and lover look
And white thought seed.
You’ll find the rose of summer night
Dream-white along the sea,
A great hope, a long light—-
All the soul of me.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
Moon Dance.
The Moon Sprite touch’d her lute of stars,
I heard the night-Winds sigh,
And strains are sweet for silver feet
As she goes dancing by.
Oh! Dance with me on a sward of green
In the flood of a full white moon.
Through shgde and light we will haunt the
Sprite
As she steps in her silver shoon.
Away to spheres where the Moon sinks low,
And the Dawn is pearled in dew,
With footsteps gay to the Edge of Day
And the Deep of Infinite Blue.
We dance to mists of the Great Unknown
With the lilt of the sea and wind.
With skies alight to the Arc of Night,
And the trail of the w T orld behind.
QUEENSLAND.
RITA MACLEOD.
Argentine Hoof Beats.
A caballero rode up from the south :
His hard eyes stared above his close-shut
mouth.
To Tierra del Fuego, burnt and grim,
A whisper from the north had followed him.
And hoof-beats pattered on the stony track,
Nor horse nor rider ever once looked back.
Past blackened ridge and desert camp they
fled,
His eyes implacable and misted red.
In Tucuman he knocked upon a door :
(The dark palms shuddered on the patio
floor.)
“Where is the maiden that I left with thee?
0 Madre Dios! Tell me, where is she?"
“&tenor,” the woman said, “the wren is
flown.”
The caballero’s face went grey as stone:
“Some gossip says that she is on the town.
I know not. Gossip lies. Ere leaves were
brown —
Before the north wind blew for last year’s
fall—
She laughed and snapped her fingers at us
all.”
His hot eyes seai'ched the woman’s fright-
ened face,
And, dangerous and soft he said, “The
place?”
“Sefiora Cortez’, in the Gamblers’ Lane”. . . .
The hoof-beats pattered down the slope
again.
Red blood upon the cards and table white—
Between her breasts the silver hilt shone
. bright.
And hoof-beats pattered down the narrow
street,
Like echoes of a dancer’s tapping feet.
A caballero galloped for the south,
His wet eyes raining on his shaking month.
N.s.w.
HILARY LOFTING.
We’ll Meet Again.
Old creeds wear thin, but Faith lives on,
And, when we’ve done with pain
And this great shadow world is gone,
Somewhere we'll meet again.
They were too fine, too rare to end,
Those splendid hearts of old;
So I have hopes of many a friend
Beyond the sunset gold.
Sweet thought have I of hands long dust
And eyes closed many a year.
Aye, fierce and stronger grows my trust
As more go out from here.
They vanish, but I cannot grieve,
For Love’s a deathless thing,
And friendship's threads a pattern weave
Where stars and planets swing.
N.S.W.
E.


Smjk
Made in Australia
Mean security from roadside tyre worries and induce a sense of
well-being that is the essence of all motoring enjoyment.
Their Sturdiness and Resilience are noticeable features, essential
in all Tyres that must give satisfactory service over our
exacting Australian roads.
Perdriau success is the direct result of Perdriau Design, Perdriau
Haterial and Perdriau Workmanship, planned, chosen and
maintained always with the object of producing the perfect
Tyre for Australian conditions.
Long experience and the constant aim for the perfection ideal are big factors in the result
that has made Perdriaus’ the Tyres of Security.
Obtainable through all garages or from the manufacturers—
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane
Flinders Street, Melbourne
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street, Perth
i
The Eclipse Emasculator
AVe have been fortunate in being: able to land a further shipment of
the Famous “Eclipse” Brand Triple-crush Emasculators, and are now
prepared to meet the large and ever-increasing demand that the
superiority of these instruments have created.
The “Eclipse” Emasculator is accepted by A'eterinary Science as the
most modern, efficient and satisfactory instrument of the kind yet
introduced.
They are superior in construction, ensuring quicker action with greater
safety.
Price 50/- each. Postage, 9d. extra.
Send to-day for our Free Catalogue.
DENYER BROS.,
Australia’s Veterinary
Specialty House,
281 George Street, Sydney.
<r *
J *iFC
;
Of
vest?
V /o/l
Sr'wfi?
* U /V
-s'’
•V’
S?\N
r '.
4
(
W r tNQfr*
WEDNESDAY
1
v NV
«\«i
V-
Y s^
VVJNC%
nO-Qr'*
Air,
m
Gr<*
ANY DAY—EVERY DAY
ANY TIME AT ALL
When hunger needs satisfying there is
nothing so tempting and nourishing as a
sandwich or two of “Rex” Luncheon
Cheese. In thousands of homes the neat
little tin of
"REX”
Luncheon Cheese
is in use almost all day. Cutting the
school or business sandwiches in the morn-
ing—at 11 o’clock —for lunches—afternoon
tea, or supper, “Rex” Cheese is the house-
wife’s standby.
It is a full cream product possessing all
the valuable nutritive properties of a per-
fectly matured cream cheese.
“Rex” Cheese has a flavor that tempts
every appetite, and its easy to spread
consistency makes butter wholly unneces-
sary for its enjoyment.
Order a tin to-day, and there are some new
palate joys in store for you. Be sure you
get “Rex” Brand.
and “Rex” Veal and Tongue
are two other taity sandwich spreads. They
are all meat finely minced. Try them.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
GOODRICH
Black Safety Tread Tyres.
“BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
When you buy a “GOODRICH” Tyre
you are not paying for an
“experiment.”
Behind it you have the experience of
the largest rubber factory on earth.
You are on a “certainty” when you buy
GOODRICH BLACK SAFETY
TREADS—
The tread with its seven bars extend-
ing to the side walls
Ensures immunity from side-slip and
protects the tyres from blow-outs.
“ BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
DUVAL ®. CO.
145 Collins St,
13 Castlereagh St.,
SYDNEY.
300 Adelaide St,
BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.—N0. 2010.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 22, 1918.
War-time Price, Sd.
THE REVERSE.
"War took up the glass of Time, and turned it in his bloodstained hands;
Every moment, lightly shaken, ran itself in gory sands.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 10s. per annum, you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year , to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
Which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
B.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., J,'tl Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.- — Ignace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Hoang, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —IP. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maonlana,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id. ; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, looz.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.; 8ioz. to 10oz., „ld. .
lOoz. to 12oz., 3d.; elsewhere, l/oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 22, 1918.
COMPOUND INTEREST, PUBLIC
INSOLVENCY, ETC.
So far as concerns the biggest question on
its political horizon, the Australian people
are divided into four classes. There is a
big, or at least loud, section which pro-
poses to borrow and spend all we can, and
have a great time, and repudiate the public
debt when borrowing becomes too difficult.
There is a considerable section which knows
that the country is going towards bank-
ruptcy and hopes that the next generation
will pull up after the present one has had a
good time. There is an infinitesimal one
(chiefly The Bulletin) that believes Aus-
tralia should reform now, and swear off
loans, barring absolutely necessary war and
renewal loans, and start to pay off the old
public works liabilities with all possible
speed. And there is the very large section
—probably the majority—which doesn’t
know the difference between loan money
and our own money, or between paper and
gold, and which isn’t aware that nations
can go insolvent or ever have gone insol-
vent, or that anything might happen if they
did. When the crisis comes a large part of
this unlettered gang will probably drift into
the repudiationist camp as the handiest
place to go. And then, just when the repu-
diationists are feeling well satisfied with
themselves, they may learn with surprise
that the foreign creditor proposes to do as
he did with that other sensational bankrupt,
Egypt—put in a bailiff, and establish his
own military Government, and collect the
taxes, and run the show, and tell the One
Big Union to take a anodest back seat and
not wear its hat in the presence of its
masters. For the creditor will expect to be
consulted —a matter which the child-like
repudiationists. who talked so loudly at
Perth Labor Conference, leave out of their
calculations.
* * * *
How Australia acquired, in peace times,
the biggest debt per head on earth is a story
of shame and ignorance and cowardice and
incapacity and laziness and stupid self-
satisfaction that has few parallels in history.
The country began with such chances as no
other nation is recorded as possessing. It
did not start its self-governing career with a
huge legacy of debt incurred in bygone wars.
The early settlers, before they left England,
were burdened with a liability of about £45
per head —an unprecedented burden in the
days before the great gold discoveries, when
the yellow metal was almost as rare as an
intelligent Freetrade argument—the result
chiefly of the great disagreements with
Louis XIV., Washington and Napoleon.
They left this behind them when they
quitted England. They never had to fight
for their new property; King Billy wasn’t
organised for war. They didn’t buy out old
proprietors; King Billy didn’t even knovr
the meaning of private property in land.
They had no boundary to guard against
dangerous neighbors. Preliminary expenses
were small. Scarcely even a pretence was
made of paying for any real land or sea
forces. The suzerain? exacted no tribute
as Turkey did from Egypt, or Spain from
Mexico, or .mini Comnany from India. And
the land-sale revenue began to drop in early.
N. S. Wales, the luckiest of the States, has
received about £60.000,000 from sales alone
since 1861, when the business commenced
in earnest, and perhaps £50,000.000 from
rents and sundries. Certainly the country
had all its railways to build, but so had
every other country, for railways didn’t
commence till long after Australian settle-
ment was in good going order. Likewise
it had its roads to make, but other countries
had to do much the same, for modern road-
making didn’t commence till the idea of laying
broken metal on the mud-and-slush highway
came to light, and both Tasmania and N. S.
Wales were going strong then. And Aus-
tralia was in the absolutely unique position
of having a whole continent to sell or lease
so as to raise revenue for railways and roads,
and of having no debt to absorb the revenue.
It wasn’t a bad continent either. The four
eastern States all have big areas of good
land, and Westralia has scraps of good land,
though, on the whole, the rainfall is poor.
Only South Australia struck almost unmiti-
gated ill-fortune and inherited the desert,
like Isiimael. And the States are all fairly
rich in minerals save S.A. again. Providence
gave it next to nothing.
* * * *
But Australia, despite all its Ministries,
never had a Minister for Political Thought
with a Department of Retrospection and a
Department of Introspection and a Depart-
ment of Prophecy or Foresight. It never
took any thought for the morrow, and it
took very little for to-day. It set out with
the simple idea that this country, because
it was “new,” shouldn’t be expected to pay
direct taxes or any other taxes, except by
accident. Even a beer excise was long
regarded in N. S. Wales as an impossible
outrage. So the hopeful young continent
spent its easy land revenue gaily—especially
N. S. Wales, which had by far the biggest
land revenue—and borrowed for public works.
And when they yielded a profit over and
above the interest charge, which happened
now and then, it spent that too. It made
borrowing a habit. It raised a race of
politicians who hardly knew how to do any-
thing else, and a race of electors whose votes
went solidly to the man who promised most
loan money, and a race of workers who
regarded it as a sort of hereditary right to
be employed on public works on which it
was easy to darn the cost, because they
didn’t need to pay their way, being built out
of loan money. And slowly, as the unprofit-
able loan works failed to pay, taxes were
put on to make good the deficit in the inter-
est bill. If anything like the same taxes
had been put on earlier to pay for the works
there need never have been any interest bill,
and imposts, apart from war imposts, would
tend downwards now instead of upwards.
But Australia never looked ahead. It was
in the position of a man who borrowed at
200 per cent, just about as much money as
he could earn in six months, and worked
all the rest of his life to pay interest on the
bill.
In the year 1881 N. S. Wales paid far less
as indirect taxation than it does now. In
direct taxation it paid ss. per inhabitant
per annum, because it was quite sure it
couldn’t possibly pay more, and it borrowed
hard because more taxes were quite out of
the question. Supposing the impost had
been put up to 30s. in these easy days, when
there was no war to pay for (it is 40s. now,
for peace purposes only, plus about another
40s. of Federal direct taxation for war pur-
poses, making £4 instead of 55.), this might
have happened: Taking the average popula-
tion for the period between 1881 and June
30. 1914. when the last financial year of
peace ended, the extra 255. per head of taxes
might have been invested in public works
calculated to yield 34 per cent, (they have
to yield £3 16s. per cent, now to pay inter-
est), and if the earnings had been invested
in more works the State would have had in
1914 over £99,000,000 of revenue-yielding
works paid for. That is to say, it would
have owed nothing beyond the £17.000,000
which it owed at the date of the reform in
1881. It would have possessed more works
than it did under the insane and accursed
loan system. It would have had far more
industries, for the foreign loans all came
here in the shape of goods to make local
industry unnecessary. It would, naturally,
have about £3,500.000 per annum less inter-
est to pay; and if it was thought necessary
to slow down on public works during war-
time it could take £1 per head off its State
taxation and still have as much money
available for works as it is likely to have
on the loan system, while the tail-end of the
war lasts. Yet N. S. Wales is only an
example, and not the most striking one. The
States as a whole paid rather less than 6s.
per head per annum as direct taxes in 1881.
(Westralia paid only 10d., and S.A. Is. Id.,
though they were both borrowing joyously.)
If they had sworn off borrowing when things
were gay and affluent in 1881, and had put
on another 255. per head of taxation, mak-
ing 31s. (they now pay about 38s. in direct
State taxes and more in direct Federal
taxes) and used the profits (estimated at 3i
per cent.) for more works, they might have
had, in 1914, more public works than they
had under the loan policy. Also they would
have had something like £8 500.000 a year
less interest to pay, and it would be possible,
by slowing down a little on public works,
to take off a big lot of taxation instead of
putting it on. Compound interest is a great
help when it works for us, and a dreadful
handicap when it works against us. Few
people realise that if we build a gaudy Aus-
tralia House in London to put a plain
Andrew Fisher in, and it costs £1,000, (JOG
of money borrowed at 4 per cent, in London,
the unfortunate thing will cost about
£2.500.000.000 in 200 years from now, or
£17,000.000,000 if the interest is 5 per cent.
—that is to say, unless the insane liability
is paid off.
* * * *
The report of the Departments of Retro-
spection, Introspection and Prophecy or
Foresight is that things are in a bad state
and that they will become a great deal worse
if a radical reform isn’t made now, though
the reform will be immeasurably harder than
if it had been done in 1881, which is the
starting point of this story. The figures
given cover 33 years with compound interest
at 5 per cent. —and we are paying more now
—a difficulty doubles itself in 15 years, mul-
tiplies itself'by four in 281 years, and multi-
plies itself by nearly 12 in 50 years. The
present situation, especially according to
Holman, the Premier who tries hardest not
to reform, is that the more public-loan works
we have the more public-loan works we re-
quire, and the bigger the revenue the more
borrowing is necessary. Therefore because
the Ma State managed with £2,288,742 of
loan money in 1904 when the revenue was
£9,507,928 it naturally spent four times as
much loan money 20 years later when the
revenue had doubled. Whether the Treasurers
look forward to default as inevitable in the
end, or as an easier thing than reform, or
whether they don’t look forward at all, is
known only to themselves, and it doesn’t
really matter. But already (as hereinbefore
mentioned) a very large pro-Hun party advo-
cates not merely default but blank repudia-
tion, and as matters grow worse they may
find allies who are not pro-Hun—only tired.
The feature of the situation which is com-
monly overlooked (also as hereinbefore men-
tioned) is that though repudiation of the local
debt—or so much of it as could be repudi-
ated with no worse result than wrecking our
own savings banks, life-assurance offices,
building societies, etc. —would be our own
affair, the outside debt is a different matter.
The outside bond-holders have a mighty pull,
and their demand would almost certainly be
for the appointment of a British Commis-
sion, supported at our cost by whatever
force was necessary, to take charge of the
Australian finances till things were straight-
ened out, and for the suspension of as much
of our constitution as was necessary for as
long as was necessary. In theory every
man’s house is his castle, but when the mort-
gage on the castle is in arrear the theory
sometimes falls through.
A KINGDOM INSIDE A COMMON-
WEALTH.
Tiie centralisation and unification of the
many trades unions of Australia into One
Big Union has been undertaken in due form
by the Trades Hall Congress at Sydney.
This business concerns the whole nation, for
it is no less than that of supplying the
nation with a new Parliament and a new
Government and a new Constitution. That
is to say it is a scheme whereby part of the
community, by getting absolute control of
the industrial machine, intends to rule the
whole community—or its oligarchy of bosses
is to rule the whole community—more abso-
lutely than Parliament ever did, and to do
so according to laws which may or may not
be published. The proceedings began in
secret save ior such publicity as might be
given by bald official statements to the
press. With no Hansard, such as every
Parliament has, and such as the Federal
Constitution-makers had, and with the
general public shut out, the community has
very little chance of knowing what its new
laws will really mean—what arguments there
are for or against, what purposes not
visible on the surface they may serve; in
short, how far they are loaded. Whether
there was a fear that some things might not
bear inspection and wouldn't look well in the
light of day is not known ; but it was resolved
to lock the door and hang the cloak of
secrecy over the keyhole. Behind the locked
door and the cloak of secrecy over the key-
hole certain men set to work to construct a
kingdom inside the Commonwealth —one
which, it is intended, shall really control the
Commonwealth with its Commonwealth Par-
liament elected by the whole people on the
widest possible franchise. The franchise of
the inner monarchy is to be based on union-
ism, with power to exclude from their unions,
and thus disfranchise and take away the
means of livelihood of those who fall foul
too violently of the kings of the Inner
Monarchy. By consolidation, rigid disci-
pline, an intensely regular goose-step and
the enforcement of unwavering obedience to
the Napoleons in charge, a minority which
is always on a war footing may for a time
keep a majority in a state of profound
humility even if it loses its own liberty
in the process. It may do this just as a well-
trained Prussian army may rule like kaisers
over 20 times its number of people, while
being itself kicked by its own kaiser as if
it were a dog.
* * * *
The new movement started by the oligarchy
lashing its tail to put itself in a rage. Its
manifesto or preamble was a Song of Hate.
It set forth that “hunger and want” prevail
among “millions of working people” and that
“the few who constitute the employing class
have: all the good things of life.” If this is
meant to apply to Australia it is a sorry jest,
for the last census showed less than 2,000,000
“workers” of all sorts in Australia, including
bankers, landlords, employers, money-lenders
and sundries, and “hunger” isn’t strikingly
apparent. And if it is intended to apply to
the interior of Russia where the “militant
industrial” folk have taken charge, or to the
upper waters of the Amazon, it is hard to
see how they will be helped by the Australian
artisans handing over their entire liberty to
a handful of czars. There was also a roar
of bitterness about “the rapid accumulation
of wealth and concentration of the owner-
ship of industries into fewer and fewer
hands.” That may be true in Prussia, but is
certainlv a lie in Australia, where the big
estates are always being broken up, and the
greatest and most prosperous banks like the
Commonwealth Bank, with its savings depart-
ment, and the State Savings Banks are the
property of the people, and where the biggest
corporations are the mutual life assurance
offices, with between £70,000,000 and
£80,000,000 of assets the property of about
1,000,000 co-operators ; and where the biggest
enterprise of all, the railways with
£220,000,000 of capital, is the property of
everybody. Still it is perhaps necessary to
persuade the Australian artisan that he is a
skeleton fighting with lower animals in the
gutter for a crust in order to induce him
to entrust a few high-salaried Judds with the
job of saving him and putting some flesh on
his haggard bones. According to the scheme,
some 300 officials in the employ of the One
Big Union are to save the emaciated toiler
at an average wage of nearly £3OO each per
annum.
* * * *
The men who are building up the plan of
the Inner Kingdom, whereof the Parliament
publishes no Hansahd and meets with
closed doors and the garment of mystery
hung over the keyhole, have a bitter anil
undisguised hatred of politicians. That is
only natural. The aggregate politician repre-
sents, so far as the electoral system permits,
the whole people, and his constituency is
one from which ho man or woman can be
expelled except for proved crime or lunacy.
The politician of the Inner Oligarchy pro-
poses to represent a selected part of the
people, which part expects by strict organi-
sation to boss the whole, and the ways of
expelling or excluding the constituent are
numerous. (Thus in Brisbane the other day
four returned soldiers, who wished to prac-
tise their trades, had the union doors shut
in their faces with a slam, apparently be-
cause they were returned soldiers, so they
won’t be constituents.) Also, the movement
proposes to establish its own workers’ bank
—the Bank of the People Inside—as against
the Commonwealth institution, which is the
Bank of All the People. There is no possible
objection to a Bank of the Feople Inside so
long as it doesn’t demand subsidies from the
community in general. But it is interesting to
note that the demand that the Bank of All the
People shall be “put on a democratic basis” and
“revolutionised” has long been insistent
among the folk with the Song of Hate and
the great love for the Prussian mode of dis-
cipline. The position is understandable in
one sense, The Commonwealth Bank cer-
tainly has no capitalistic shareholders. It
has no capital; the small loan from the
Treasury with which it started has been
repaid out of earnings, so it has cost the
people nothing. It is reckoned that it has
saved Australia £3,266,000 by floating and
managing foreign loans at a lower commis-
sion rate than the joint-stock banks used
to charge—not £3,266,000 for politicians to
blew on railways in their electorates, but
that amount saved all the same. And it
accumulated in its first 5| years about
£760,000 of reserves (the current half-year’s
figures will greatly increase that) —not re-
serves to be spent with a free and patronis-
ing hand by self-constituted saviours of the
community and regenerators of society, but
the property of the people none the less.
And if it has done any injury the sufferers
have been not the “workers,” but the joint-
stock banks into whose bpsiness it has cut.
But it treats political and trades-union
potentates like common mortals. It is too
democratic to recognise their special dig-
nity. They can’t drop in casually and call
the manager “Bill,” and glance at the
ledgers to see what political friend or enemy
has got an overdraft, or look at the bills pay-
able in order to collect campaign informa-
tion, or advise that constituent Smith
should have an advance or hold pleasant,
informal political committee meetings in a
side room. In fact the concern looks for all
the world like a stuck-up formal capitalistic
affair, and the happy spirit of brotherhood
is not in it.
* * * *
The One Big Union appears to have at
least one eye on the control of the Press.
Hitherto there has been a tendency to regard
an editor, because he engages and supervises
the staff, rather as an employer or capital-
ist’s minion than as an oppressed toiler.
But the One Big Union includes him in the
list, putting him in Grotip 11, along with
barmaids and fishermen. Presumably the
idea is that the man who runs the policy of
the paper must be either a unionist or a
“scab.” If he is a “scab.” either because
he won’t join the union or because the union
won’t have him, he must quit his job, else
there will be a very large strike, in which
the barmaids, chambermaids and fishermen
will be called out among others. His union-
ist successor will, of course, be bound to
the union policy, and if he departs from it
in his paper he may be • cast out as an
unworthy member, and created a “scab” and
then be removed from his billet for being a
“scab.” One way and another it looks as
if there may be, under the One Big Union, a
rather cold time for papers, or at least for
pressmen, who don’t subscribe unreservedly
to the One Big Union idea of things.
THE TROUT AND BLUEBELL
METROPOLIS.
‘‘Billy Bluesiiirt” writes: —
What is responsible for the policy of misrepresen-
tation adopted by Tiie Bulletin with regard to
Canberra? Arriving from Victoria, where the Fed-
eral Capital Territory is generally- accepted to be
an arid and wind-swept waste, I was agreeably sur-
prised to discover a noble site ideally situated for
a great city. I was particularly struck by its
typical Australian features. A broad grassy plain
rolls back in gentle undulations from the rich
alluvial flats of the Molonglo to abrupt foothills
covered with open box and gum forests. Beyond,
the blue cloud-wreathed- peaks of the Great Dividing
Range ever sing the majesty of their Creator. The
winter climate is unbeatable. Warm sunny days
follow frosty nights, and the keen, snappy air fills
one with the joy of life. In the Spring the air is
heavy with the scent of wild flowers. I have neier
anywhere seen bluebells grow to such a size. The
Cotter is a dashing mountain stream of sparkling
water, rushing merrily between frowning gorges
and rows of stately oaks until it joins the ’Bidgee.
Unfortunately the Territory has been the shuttle-
cock of various self-seeking politicians, and grossly
exaggerated reports of waste and extravagance ha\e
been assiduously disseminated. The work so far
done has been developmental, and the seeker for
something spectacular will no doubt be disappointed.
The water-supply system is now almost completed,


and the power-house and electrical equipment and
mains are the admiration of every visiting electrical
expert.
Unfortunately work on the sewerage system was
stopped before completion, on the advice of one man
(the Chief Engineer of the Melbourne Metropolitan
Board of Works), and this notwithstanding the fact
that it had been chosen by the Public Works Com-
mittee after considering all available expert evidence.
It is interesting to note in this connection that
Mr. Oliver did not instal the septic-tank system he
advocated for Canberra in the eastern suburbs of
Melbourne, recently, but adopted the very system
he so ruthlessly condemned before the recent Com-
mission, and this despite the fact that a tremendous
additional strain was placed on the already over-
burdened Spottiswood pumping-station.
In the mountain streams within the Territory
some of the finest trout-fishing in Australia is to
be had. The country is sound and on the whole of
average quality. Anyhow, you don’t want to estab-
lish a capital city to grow spuds.
Tree planting on a considerable scale is being
carried out, and the nurseries, although recently
established, are an education. The work so far has
been for the most part experimental, but it has
been conclusively demonstrated that the Canberra
Plains will successfully grow practically all tem-
perate fruits and cereals. The finest apples I have
ever tasted were grown within a stone’s-throw of the
capital site.
The revenue from the Territory is considerably
greater than the expenditure. The roads are well
made, well maintained, and are a pattern to the
municipalities around.
Why not let Australia know the truth, that in the
Federal Capital Territory they have a great
national asset, containing a site for a capital city
second to none in the world for climate, position and
location.
* # * *
Getting down to details, and leaving out
the cloud-wreathed peaks of bunkum and the
forests of bosh on the hills, this is the situ-
ation :
No one said Canberra was espefcially “arid.” It
is just plain second-class soil. It wasn’t described
as more “windswept” than any other elevated place
of its size. It grows grass, which is not uncommon.
The average rainfall at the adjacent observing station
of Cooma is the smallest recorded for all the coastal
and tableland regions of N. S. Wales, and it is
smaller than that of any place on the western slopes,
barring Urana. The rainfall at the other adjacent
station, Queanbeyan, is less than that of any station
on the N. S Wales coast or tableland barring Cooma,
and is inferior to Moree, Warialda, Bingara, Narrabri,
Gunnedah, Coonabarabran, Quirindi, Young, Murrum-
burrah or Albury on the western slopes. The site was
thus a place that N. S. Wales could well spare.
The Cotter is a dashing stream after rain. So is
the Petersham storm-water channel. Being a very
short creek —so short that when the Federal Statis-
tician published in one of his early editions a list of
the rivers and creeks of Australia it wasn’t men-
tioned—it doesn’t dash long. The writer has walked
over it without getting his feet wet. It is perhaps in
the category of Sydney’s old Tank Stream, now run-
ning gaily to the sea below Pitt-street. Being mostly
below the level of the capital any very large water-
supply will involve pumping.
The climate is the same as that of any other place
at the same elevation. The bluebells are beautiful,
like the wild flowers and umbrageous forest that used
to be in Paddington, Sydney. But bluebells and
even trout have a tendency to disappear when a city
grows, and the scent of Spring becomes just like the
Spring scent in Flinders-street, Melbourne. Anyhow,
Australia can’t afford a fishing metropolis. The place
wouldn’t pay its way.
It is quite true that money has been spent on a
■water-supply and a sewerage system, and on tree-
planting (as if there weren’t forests of box there
already), on nurseries (as if the Trout and Bluebell
Metropolis was to be a horticultural centre), and on
“temperate fruits and cereals,” including apples. It
has all been a spending of money. When is a decent
bit of revenue going to come in?
It is infernally cheeky to say that “the
revenue from the Territory is considerably greater
than the expenditure.” Recent figures show the
year’s expenditure to be £105,972, not including
interest and having no reference to works at Jervis
Bay. (That was the greatly-reduced expenditure
owing to the war. In 1915 the outgoings were
£212,505. In 1914 they were £251,669.) And the
revenue was £22,559, of which £20,133 was raised
by selling or leasing the public lands handed over
with the capital city. The rest consisted of £l6Ol
earned by agistment—by taking in cows to grass—
and £825 from rates. The rates are real, honest,
dinkum revenue, and they aren’t much for 912 square
miles —say, 583,680 acres of Trout and Bluebell
Metropolis. In “Billy Blueshirt’s” own State of
Victoria there are only four or five petty munici-
palities (mostly dead alluvial fields) that don’t make
a better showing.
The population of the whole Federal capital terri-
tory—not the town of Canberra, but the entire 912
square miles — is given thus in Knibbs’s Quarterly
Summary of Australian Statistics dated March, 1918,
issued at 14d. so as to be within the reach of the
most enthusiastic trout-fisher of the capital city:—
1913 .. .. 2449 1916 .. .. 2613
1914 .. .. 2646 1917 .. .. 2493
1915 .. .. 2467
That includes all the persons in Federal employ.
And it took over £83,000 of public money—the dif-
ference between revenue and expenditure—to keep
the diminished population going, say £33 per
head, or £165 for a family of five. The total year’s
revenue was about £25 per square mile, or 9d. per
acre, including land-sale money, which wasn’t
revenue. The population is a shade over 2i people
to the square mile, which is much less than the
average population of Queensland, N. S. Wales, Vic-
toria, Tasmania and South Australia all lumped
together. And if they required an annual subsidy
of £9l per square mile —£91 per square mile over
and above income—it would cost roughly
£134,145,739 (one hundred and thirty-four millions
odd) per year to keep them going. They would cost
more than a war.
The complaint against the Bluebell and Trout
Metropolis is that it lacks visible honest means of
support. Its rivulet is too low down to be even a
cheap supply of drinking water. There is no
abundance of cheap water-power for manufacturing
purposes. It is away from the known coal and
gold deposits. There is no harbor or navigable river
to make it a commercial city by sea. It isn’t on any
great land route of commerce any more than Berry
or Rylestone. It isn’t in the same category with
Dungog, which is at least on a great though un-
finished main line, or Culcairn, where three railways
meet. The Canberra capital will live so long as
the people send money to support it—that is to say,
it will probably live a lot better than it is doing
now, if they send a lot more money. When they
cease to send the money it will die. It is a remit-
tance woman with a bluebell in her hair.
There are political capitals that prosper, even
though they lack special facilities for manufacturing,
which the original proposed capital at Dalgety
would have had in some degree by reason of its
water-power.
Ottawa (population 87,000) has grown to be the
fifth city in Canada, but then it is on a big river—
in fact, three rivers meet there and six railways,
and it is on a high-road of traffic between the
Atlantic and the Pacific.
Washington (population 331,069) has grown to
be the 16th city in the United States. But then it
has a great river alongside (in fact, one-seventh of
the U.S. Federal territory is water), and there are
some coal and iron deposits close at hand. Also a
number of important railways meet there, and it
is on lines which run to the Pacific, to Mexico and to
Canada.
Pretoria (with 29,618 white people) is the seat of
government of South Africa and the fourth city. It
has all the drawbacks of Canberra save that it is in
the middle of a big and fairly level country instead
of near the edge, so that commerce had a way of
dropping in there. Also, it is a place where four
railways meet; it is only a few miles from the
world’s greatest goldfield; and through being for
many years the political, commercial and military
centre of a fighting race it has become a national
habit.
Canberra town, at last census, was about No.
2000 among the towns of N. S. Wales alone. There
are 30 closely-printed columns of Cornstalk towns in
the Australian Year Book for 1917, and ’Berra’s
place among them is worth investigation.
This is pretty well all that there is to say about
Australia’s Trout and Bluebell Metropolis. It was
intended to be a failure so that it wouldn’t rival
Melbourne and Sydney, and it. just is.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Chadband and Stiggins Take Tickets
in Tatt’s.
Anyone who happened to be asked whether
the rush of the Federal Income Tax Depart-
ment at the winner of a prize in Tatt.’s
should be a subject for laughter or scorn
might have to think twice over his answer.
There are two ways of contemplating Chad-
band, and public policy was never so satu-
rated with hypocrisy as in the attitude of
the Commonwealth to the consultation in the
Speck. First of all, the Post Office refuses
to carry letters to the promoters of the
sweep and objects to remitting cash. Also,
it noses round after individuals who are
supposed to act as go-betweens aiM puts
their addresses on a black-list. Generally
speaking, its attitude towards the sweep is
the same as it takes up towards Blood-
thurst and Goreburst Ltd., of Hamburg,
and the Sultan of Turkey—except at Hobart,
where it pockets substantial revenue from
the sale of stamps incidental to the conduct
of the frequent sweep. Alongside of all this
elaborate effort to officially repudiate the
sweep and make it impossible, the Common-
wealth collects a tax from the promoters on
each ticket in the gamble, demands a share
of every prize distributed, and is now getting
ready to go in pursuit of income tax from
the individual prize-winner. Having made
up its mind to take a further bite out of the
cake it objects to being manufactured, the
Commonwealth has decided to take the bites
it omitted to take before, and for this pur-
pose it is out after every winner of a prize
since 1915. Whether the winner of a prize,
who -has already been taxed on his ticket,
should pay an additional tax to the Govern-
ment is a question on which there is room
for difference of opinion, though the general
consensus of opinion would probably be that
he deserved little sympathy, anyway. But
that a Government should make a parade of
virtue by spending time and money trying to
block a sweep, and then spend more time and
money surreptitiously appropriating large
lumps of the proceeds thereof for revenue
purposes, is an example of the way to live in
a whited sepulchre that would have caused
the original Chadband to be paralysed with
admiration. Either this sweep is an evil
thing or it is not. In any case, it should be
either stopped or allowed to stand up in the
open. The present position of the national
Government towards the thing is evil,
for it gives to Australian policy a tinge of
sneaking imposture that is revolting to con-
template and sets before the people a stan-
dard of evasiveness and moral trickery which
in an individual citizen would indicate base-
ness of the worst kind.
c*
Uncalled-for Tears.
One of the N. S. Wales Industrial Court
Judges, Curlewis, made a queer break the
other day, and the episode moved S. M.
Herald to a column of comment from which it
transpired that Curlewis had in some way,
not particularised, directed public attention
to “the unhappy situation of the working-
man of moderate views” who finds himself
forced into joining a union. There had been
no evidence to show that anybody was un-
happy or that moderate views were in colli-
sion with the other sort. And in spite of the
complaints from Hunter-street about the
working-man’s lack of logic, its own logic
appeared badly in need of repair. Curlewis
had before him the case of a plasterer against
whom judgment had been given by the Indus-
trial Magistrate for £5 9s. 6d., being 224
weeks subscriptions, less 12s. 6d. paid, to the
Operative Plasterers’ Union. At the hearing
before the magistrate the defendant did not
appear to resist the union claim, but he
materialised in Curlewis’s court as the
appellant against the magistrate’s finding.
The man’s membership of the union was not
seriously disputed, nor was the general lia-
bility of members of a union for fees chal-
lenged. But it was alleged that the appel-
lant had been compelled to join the union
under duress —that a threat had been made
by an official to call out the men with whom
the appellant was working unless he became
a member. The appeal turned on whether in
such circumstances the plasterer should be
regarded a member of the union for recovery
of fees, and Curlewis, finding as a fact that
consent to join had been procured by the
alleged threat, held that he should not. Where-
fore he allowed the appeal. Also he thought
the matter over:—
Unions must not enforce their excellent argument
for attracting membership by saying to the non-
unionists, “Either see the validity of our reasoning
or starve.”
Furthermore, it had to be remembered that
there were some men who objected to joining
a union and expressed their attitude this
way:—■
We object to getting entangled in politics; we
object to being hounded, or hounding others, out of
the Labor movement if we or they happen to hold
conscientious views differing from those of the
majority. And we also object to being compelled to
choose between the alternative of joining in strikes
undertaken in defiance of the law, in total disregard
of our duties to our country, and of the solemn
obligations of our agreements—strikes that assist the
Germans and stab our fighting men in the back, or
subject ourselves and our helpless wives and children
to foul abuse.
And this, to wind up with: —
I express no opinion here as to the rights or
wrongs of military conscription: I simply say that,
if it is slavery, industrial conscription is no better.
Followed by approval from S.M.H. and the
remark that—
The more militant unions display great bitterness
towards men who, though receiving the benefits of
union organisation, refuse to become members, yet
these are the unions which, above all others, fought
the conscription proposal, in which exactly the
same principle was involved.
Whether, having found as a fact that his
plasterer became a unionist because of a
threat by the union secretary to call
the men off the job, Curlewis was justified
in giving the decision he did is open to seri-
ous doubt. Taking the groundwork of
fact in the appeal, it would have been
much more reasonable for the Bench
to have dismissed the application for
annulment of the original judgment with a
judicial intimation that it was up to the
Employers’ Union to reimburse the appellant
than for the Court to give the judgment it
did. There are two reasons for this. One
is that on the appellant’s own showing his
action in joining the union had prevented
the employer being tangled up in a strike.
The other is that the judgment, instead of
doing anything to protect the hypothetical
“workin’-man” who is forced to join unions
against his natural impulse and to the
outrage of his political sensibilities,
will do exactly the reverse. In the
case before Curlewis a strike had
been prevented by roping the man into
the union. For not striking, or for failing to
withdraw from industry or something of the
sort, the union is robbed of its dues and ser-
monised at great length. If the unionists
had actually walked off the job or not turned
up, and the object of Curlewis’s compassion
had hurriedly motored round in pursuit of
the secretary and applied for a membership
no one had mentioned to him and there had
been great uproar in the Tory press about
an important industry being paralysed, and
finally the lamb had gone into camp with the
lions—well, then, Curlewis could have done
nothing except stand afar off and observe
that the lamb had not been threatened
by the other animals. All this talk
about the worker who objects to join-
ing a union and doing various things
in defiance of the law and his conscience, as
an alternative to remaining a non-unionist
and starving, is nonsense—the outcome
of the legal mind playing with words. It is
no use looking at this business through a
library window. Long experience has taught
the man who works for a wage that one of
the greatest dangers to him is the non-
unionist, who is invariably either a sponger
or the pliant tool of the boss. Every work-
man who is neither of these things knows
that without his union he would be powerless
to hold his own in the economic struggle. A
century of history proves this to him. His
own experiences confirms it. Every political
economist repeats it and warns him what to
expect if he forgets. Very often, no doubt,
a worker has reason to object to the policy
followed by his union. Terrific squabbles on
the subject are common. But he knows that
nothing his union will do is a circumstance
compared with what the unions of the other
party would perpetrate on him. It is not
true to say that the alternative before a
worker is to join the union or starve. The
real alternative is the other way round —
starve or join the union. And when he is a
unionist the alternative is to work with
union men alone or run continual risk of
being torpedoed. To call trader unionism
“industrial conscription” and “slavery” may
sound the quintessence of wisdom to the
employers’ newspapers. To the workers it
sounds at the best like a rather feeble joke
and at the worst like a revelation of judicial
obfuscation. The whole literature of the
world rises up in protest against the notions
embodied in such analogies.
«
Cinderella.
Seeing that two of the States are in receipt
of relief from the Commonwealth it is mar-
vellous how South Australia keeps on its
legs, even if they are its last ones. It is the
driest of the crowd. There are 1.105.000
square miles of the Commonwealth with less
than lOin. of rain per annum, and S.A. owns
317,000 of them, which is a good deal out of
the State’s total area of 380,000 square miles.
There are 392,110 square miles with over
30in. of rain, and S.A.’s poor little share is
1048 miles. In other words, it has nearly
three times its fair proportion of drought, and
only about 2 per cent, of its fair proportion
of rain. Little Tasmania has 14 times as
much well-watered soil. It began to produce
gold in 1856, and its total output since then
has been about £1,000,000. Victoria since
1851 has never produced less than that in a
year. Its tin, coal and silver are practically
nil. It doesn’t possess a single permanent
river of its own worth calling such ; there are
big casual rivers that flow when they feel
inclined, but they disappear into the salt
lakes. South Aus. possesses the driest capital
in Australia. The Federal Statistician fur-
nishes a list of phenomenal rainfalls —nearly
four pages of them going back to 1544; and
S.A. isn’t mentioned. It never bad a phe-
nomenal rainfall. Out of 102,000,000 acres in
the Commonwealth described as “forest” it
has less than 4,000,000 acres—about one-
eighth part of its share according to size. A
good deal of the famous Nullarbor Plain,
where the transcontinental train runs for 300
miles as straight as an arrow because there
isn’t even a hillock to dodge, belongs to S.A.
and gets its name from the fact that there
isn’t a tree in the whole diocese. The State
is short of mountains; in fact, part of it, out
of sheer cussedness is below sea-level. The
lakes are numerous and almost all are salt,
and many of them dry up when they are
tired. The harbors are fairly numerous, but
the coast-line doesn’t face towards Asia or
Africa or America or Maoriland, or any other
place of trade; it looks straight towards the
South Pole. Yet S.A. holds up its head man-
fully, asks no alms, turns out more manufac-
tured goods than Westralia and Tasmania
combined ; beats Queensland, Westralia and
Tasmania combined as a wheat-grower; has
the best show per head of savings-bank
deposits ; possesses the show city of Australia
with far too many people in it in proportion
to the rest of the population, and has the
most awful debt per head in the Common-
wealth, barring Westralia’s. On the whole,
and despite its debt, it is about the best
example of pluck and self-reliance that Aus-
tralia possesses.
Arbitration Considered Without
Prejudice.
It being the fashion now to decry industrial
arbitration as a failure—those who declare
it an utter failure are ready to show the
better way in return for a steady salary—
it is fitting to consider what the despised
expedient has done. This is its record for
all Australia:—
Number of People
whose Wages Total Total
were changed net rise net rise
by the Courts, per week. per vear.
1913 .. 166,132 £37,713. £1,96i,070
1914 .. 125,218 30,685 1,595,620
1915 . . 197,410 51,905 2,699,060
1916 . . 492,487 142,923 7,431,996
1917 . . 292,910 81,007 4,212,364
£344,233 £17,900,116
There were a very few cases in which wages
were reduced a trifle, but they were very,
very few, and after taking off the reductions
there was a net increase of £17,900,116 per
annum of wages. Apart from that a great
many increases were secured outside the
court. Unfortunately the increases led in
some cases to an industry shutting up in
whole or in part, for in addition to the ex-
pansion of wages granted by the Court there
were many reductions of working hours,
many strikes and an increasing tendency to
“go slow,” causing a diminished output. So
expenses sometimes became greater than the
value of production. Factories diminished
and so did the cultivated area, likewise the
number of employees declined all round. But
the Arbitration Courts attended to the work
of pushing up wages in a strenuous fashion.
The grievance is that the Courts do their
business automatically. No politician in or
out of Parliament can point to a single item
in the £17,900,000 per annum of extra wages
and say :“I did this! Alone I did this ! For
this yon are indebted to me! Therefore vote
for me.” The politicians got their advt. when
they established the courts and said they were
good. Now the only advt. thev can get is
by destroying the courts and saying they are
dashed bad and always were.
Beginning to Think of Pondering.
The idea that vigorous work, even accom-
panied by greatly increased earnings, is a
crime, seems incurable. Dealing with one
of the interminable shipbuilding disputes—a
mere bud of disagreement on the great forest
of negotiation — Justice Higgins listened to
the Victorian organiser of the A.S.E. say:—
We are quite amenable to reason, and if it can
be established that piecework is essential to the
quick building of ships, we will have no hesitation
in CONSIDERING THE MATTER.
In other words, there will be no hesitation
in beginning to officially hesitate over the
matter. Yet surely it isn’t worth while to
wait. This country obviously wants ships
and heaps of ships, and wants them in great
haste. It has 400 shiploads of wheat alone
waiting for ships. It has wool, meat and
all sorts of things waiting for ships. It has
shut up its painfully-acquired South African
trade for want of ships. There are £26.000
worth of cargo for South Africa alone waiting
at the one port of Melbourne for want of
ships. The railways are drying up for
want of material carried by ships. Even
before the war we wanted" ships so badly
that we were almost wholly dependent on
outside capitalists—British, Hun, Dutch.
Swedish, French. Italian, American and
Japanese—for ships. We will want ships
so long as Australia is surrounded by sea
and until the air vessel comes into its own.
and then we will want airships. It is per-
fectly well known that piecework won’t make
construction slower. Such a thing is impos-
sible. It is practically certain that it will
make it a lot faster, unless self-interest is a
dead sin and the desire for money is an
extinct iniquity. It can be made to yield much
better wages. And yet the sluggish union
official can only say that his people will have
no hesitation in beginning to ponder over
putting on a remunerative spurt if the neces-
sity of it can be shown to them. If they
are resolved not to see it nobody can show it
to them.
The Little Rushes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Still our infantry went on in little rushes, the
bayonets continually flashing in the evening sunlight.”
—Cable to Australia.
Still they go on in short and sudden rushes,
The while the great guns thunder in the
rear;
The low red sun the evening landscape
flushes,
As though the dying day would raise a cheer
For that fine valor, held so long in check,
That makes the Prussian line a death-strewn
wreck.
Up the low hill, across the nearer valley,
But with no pause to give the foeman breath,
Strike home before their mighty legions rally
And write the name of victory in death.
The little rushes and the shining steel
Mark where proud Freedom makes her
grand appeal.
Still was it so since first the earth went
spinning
In merry circles round the glowing sun;
The little rushes were the fine beginning
Of each tremendous battle man has won.
The big battalions on the other side
Broke in those waves that marked the turn-
ing tide.
N.S.W.
MAY McC.


T*l e Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A ustralia
Limited
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Cooperative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liafoifi ty for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of Ahe Man on the Land to support this cooperative
company.
W rite immediately for particulars.
Head Office: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOOTH AUSTRALIA.
The Place Where the Furnace Roars.
Bill, mr seems to have had a busy day or
two during the proceedings south of the
Somme last week. And it is better to hear
that the losses among our lads were very
slight than that they accounted for many
Germans. These troops' of ours have a lot of
fighting yet to do, and the more there are of
them left to do it the better. The battle in
which they appear to have been the spear-
head had died down at the beginning of the
week, with the German in an uncomfortable
position, and much doubt existing about what
he was going to do next. Judging by cap-
tured documents it looks as if he may spend
a not inconsiderable time gnashing his teeth
together and groaning over what he might
have done if Focii and llaig had not done
something else. There is a report that
three generals commanding between Mont-
didier and Amiens have been recalled to Ber-
lin in disgrace. This is not improbable.
The German has never shown any hesi-
tation about scrapping generals. Dozens
of them have been outed since the war
began. There is a further report that the
group of armies thereabouts have been
placed under Von Boeiim, the first occasion
on which anyone less than a prince or a
duke has been made a group boss
on the Western Front. This is only
partly true, for Ludendorff, who bosses the
lot, is neither a prince nor a duke, nor was
either Von Moltke or Von Falkenhayn.
The explanation given of Von Boehm’s
promotion—that he has been given this big-
ger command in order that he may be made
the scapegoat for some anticipated disasters
-—is obyiously a clumsy invention. Von
Boeiim is one of Germany’s most successful
generals, and is without doubt a very able
soldier. It was he who scored so heavily at
St. Quentin, and who latterly dragged the
armies of the Marne back to the Vesle. His
promotion can be easily accounted for on
the ground that the princes and the dukes
are getting found out. The galling things
for the Kaiser to contemplate are that at
the. two points where .the Allies were most
seriously threatened his armies have been
thrown back badly mauled, and that the
American is running to time-table. This
American excursion 1o France is much the
more disturbing incident of the two. And
Uncle Sam having given the submarine a
miss in baulk, this paper has been wondering
lately how much longer it will be before
something in the way of a big naval battle
transpires. To get some of his warships into
the Atlantic the Kaiser might not unnatu-
rally think it worth taking"a lot of risks
with others.
♦
The Tory Loafer.
The demand of a section of the Tory press
that no Government should do anything until
the war is over, except shout about winning
the war, is a deadly nuisance. Even State
Governments, which have no official connec-
tion with the war, are appealed to in this
fashion. The tariff is, of course, to be left
alone till after the war. Now the day that
peace is established the ships—more ships
than ever before, judging by the rate at
which they are being built in countries that
hardly touched that kind of business in other
days—will begin to rush along the cheap
labor goods. And they will be very abundant
goods, for the world —except in Australia—
has learned to work as it never worked
before, and the disbanding of the armies will
throw perhaps 20,000,000 men back into an
industrial market that has almost learned
to do without them. It will take about two
years to fix up our new tariff if we don’t
begin till after the war, and two years of
fierce cheap competition will leave few in-
dustries in Australia —in fact, there are few
now, and they are decreasing. And the
absurd Tory dailies of Sydney object to the
Holman Ministry’s Local Government Bill
on the ground that it is a “contentious
measure” which should be left over till after
the war. Even the proposal to run National-
ist candidates for Sydney City Council roused
one paper to complain that this wasn’t a
war measure. The S. M. Herald lias gravely
stated that the present N. S. Wales State
Assembly (which has nothing to do with
the war) was elected on the crest of a
“wave of national enthusiasm” (as if it
could be elected on an upheaval of national
depression), and therefore it should do
nothing but be earnest about the war. The
other side of the case may be put something
like this: —
There is too much going slow already. Also there
are too many arrears to be caught up.
Things won’t stop happening till the war is over.
The Tory theory is that Parliament, which is created
and paid to see that they happen the right way if
possible, should just let them happen. Old laws,
old methods, old machinery (industrial and political),
old pavements, old, sluggish vehicles for carrying
mails, old paddle-steamers that eat more coal than
they are worth, wear out or become obsolete. If
they are not repaired or replaced by new things, then
the end of a six years’ war will leave us six years
behind the times, and the political or financial or
social road or just .plain road with a six-year-old hole
in it will be impassable.
In fact, we will be 26 years behind the times.
Nations like BritaiJn, the United States, Canada,
France (behind the fighting-line) are crowding tour
years into one in the effort to find out how, by all
manner of improvements, they may enable one per-
son to do the work of many.
This is the time a! love all others when Australian
State Legislatures especially should repair the
mechanism of the country. It is their easy time.
They have no war on their hands. They have fewer
public works to do, fen - loans are falling off. They
have fewer men to fii id employment for on public
works, because so many’ have gone to the war. This
is a quiet spell for ope ning a few new ports, finding
out why people are getting off the land (they may
be all off the land if vie wait till the war is over),
finding out why two-th irds of the officials in some
public service departmt nits are “temporary” (they
may' be all temporary if we wait till the war is
over), and putting the half-hundred municipalities
of Sydney on a sane footing.
If the Government par ty in any Legislature learns
that it is to do nothin; \ for perhaps another four
years, save look at the lower button of its waistcoat
and listen to the public (lebt growing, it will begin
to stay away. Then the Opposition, which has no
idea of waiting till the w fir is over, will often have
a majority, and may amuse itself by rejecting the
Estimates, and thus stoppfmg the pay of the police,
appointing Royal Commisslions of its own party to
find that all its I.W.W. friends were not guilty
and should be largely compensated, and cabling sym-
pathy to the Bolsheviks at the pufilic expense.
And before the war is over a disgusted people will
probably put such a party into power because they
would rather see bad things done than nothing done
at all.
Anyhow, if the crowd which was returned on the
crest of a wave of public enthusiaxun does things
that the coonrnunity doesn’t like, it is competent for
a different Legislature, chosen at the bottom of a
vale of public apathy and stodge, to undo them.
The work will at least prevent it becoming mouldy.
« .
Another Blighty.
The combination called the British War
Cabinet is a thing of the moment —-the result
Of compromise and stress. It is a Cabinet
within a Cabinet, and a mighty interesting
experiment in Britain. The outfit known as
the Imperial War Cabinet is not quite the
same thing. No one seems to know what it
does or what it is responsible for. The
responsibility of Lloyd George and Bonar
Law and other members of the War Cabinet
constructed out of the British Ministry to
the House of Commons is absolute; but the
House of Commons knows nothing about
Borden, Hughes and Massey in any official
sense in the war plan. All it knows about
Hughes and co. is that as representatives of
oversea communities that are up to their
neck in the war these p>arsons are in some
vague way “conferring” with the British
Ministers about the proceedings. The posi-
tion is just about as an< mialous as it well
could be, yet, in a way, ;it was inescapable.
In every essential point this Imperial War
Cabinet is a sham—an ' attempt to make
something out of nothing and to give it the
appearance of reality by ta. Iking mysteriously
about its great usefulness and importance.
Except in the most remote way it is an
entirely irresponsible bortj y for obviously
enough, though Australia may have some
measure of control over Hughes, it has not
even the shadow of authority over Lloyd
George, Borden and Massey. There is now
the proposal that Austral ia and other coun-
tries shall have permanent representation
on the War Council, or rather that their
representatives shall be remitted to all sit-
tings of the Council other than those
attended by Prime Mil listers. And the
suggestion is made that; Senator Pearce
shall be the man from Australia. The
bizarre character of this suggestion entitles
it to admiration. Peal ice fe certainly an
individual the Commonwealth could do with-
out for quite a long tir ie, but before the
departure of Pearce or a ntyone else London-
wards, there is the p>reliminary ques-
tion of whether the Con innonwealth Parlia-
ment is ready to put a lather Minister on
the pay-roll to discharge m jnsterious functions
at the other end of the earth. From what
has been seen of that 1 ’atrliament hitherto
the probabilities are t hint a substantial
majority thereof is ready to do the deed and
that the opposition of the ■minority would be
tempered by the reflect’ ion that when it
becomes a majority the' :e will be another
attractive billet to fill. ! ill this is no reason
why the majority shoal I pretend that the
Minister-Resident-in-Lonc lon scheme has any-
thing to do with the wa: -. Tbe idea is that
the “Imperial War Cabi net” having formed
the nucleus of an Imperial organisation, this
should be maintained sej that .there may be
something in the naturi* of an accomplished
fact when the war e xpires*.. Of course it
will not be much of a tact, but. that matters
very little just now. Meantime, assuming
the possibility of PKiauce being manoeuvred
away, The Bulletin.; hopes for a preliminary
explanation of what, hold .the Commonwealth
Parliament would bav-e on. him in the event
of him muddling the job over yonder—of
how he could be challenged' or otherwise
dealt with —and of ’now’ the practical dis-
franchisement of his electoral supporters
would be provided for. These minor points
are at least worth paying attention to.
Meat Muddles and Other Muddles.
A letter about oxen and wattle and sun-
dries :— ■
If this country is any kind of country in particular
it is a gold- and food-producing land. (Wool is only
a substance that grows on food as a side-line, and is
cut off once a year.) Yet at time of writing the
cities (at least Sydney, and to a less degree Mel-
bourne) are short of eggs, butter, onions and especi-
ally meat—there is a famine in meat. Also a very
large proportion of gold-mines are closing or going to
close because of the enormous advance in the cost of
imported iron machinery, and the ruinous freights
charged by imported ships, and the difficulty of get-
ting the stuff imported at any price. The rich mine
which in pre-war days spent only £2 2s. 6d. in
getting an ounce of fine gold worth £4 ss. is still all
right, but the poor one which spent £4 in getting
an ounce of gold has gone dead for an indefinite period,
unless it is helped with a subsidy. And nowadays
rich mines are few and poor ones many. The in-
crease in wages helped the increase in the cost of
imported machinery to break up the gold industry,
but increased wages were inevitable owing to the
enormous increase in the cost of imported goods of
all sorts, including building material, which latter
item, along with increased wages, skied the price of
houses. Then the increased price of imported loans
helped on the trouble.
The local food scarcity is a recent development, but
it was only to be expected amid the general confu-
sion. It was required to complete the symmetry of
chaos and round off the cosmos of muddle. Now it
only needs a scarcity of drought and a disastrous
famine of strikes and caterpillars to make things all
in order. We may even run short of locusts and
have to import them.
The culmination of the trouble is set down to the
fact that stock-owners resent the fixing of meat
prices and have combined to keep their animals off
the market, but that doesn't account for the butter
and onion racket. Nor does it wholly account for
the mutton racket, for jumbuck-raising is now
largely a poor man’s industry, and the number of
sheep-owners is so enormous that combination is
difficult. No doubt the reduction in prices decidAi a
great many that it would pay better to wait a while
and get the wool off before selling, for the price of
wool wasn’t reduced ; in other words, the sheep was
changed by price-fixing from a meat implement to a
wool implement.
As for the bullock, it is up against a matter
which hadn’t been much taken into account. In a
very great part of the ox-country, including much
more than half N. S. Wales, the ox isn’t expected to
fatten except in rare seasons. He has to travel over
too many acres a day in search of food, and becomes
an active beast almost fit for tree-climbing. The
outline or framework of this creature is sold, and the
buyer puts him to fatten on grass that is too valu-
able to be used for other purposes. Presumably if
the wholesale seller, instead of the wholesale buyer,
did this final fattening the result to the retail eater
would be much the same. The wholesale buyer with
a lot of stock on his hands when the price reduction
came tried to put an extra cwt. on the purchased
framework before selling it, so as to avoid loss, for
it would be his loss—not that of the man who grew
and sold the sketch of the beast; and the delay while
waiting for that extra cwt. struck the market hard.
Also, the cattle-man doubtless tried to be very nasty.
But he isn’t responsible for butter and onions or
potatoes or the fearful price of eggs and a lot of
other things, so there must be other causes.
The number of sheep slaughtered in N. S. Wales
dropped from 6,000,000 in 1914 to 4,000,000 in 1915,
and the number of cattle slaughtered diminished
nearly one-half in the same time, so the trouble
began long ago and the reason isn’t explained. The
stocks of sheep and cattle and horses are all less
than they were before the war, and the cause of that
isn’t explained either. Area under cultivation is
diminishing also, and that isn’t accounted for any
more than the rest. Some things are certainly
known. In the principal States the meat animal
(like the wheat) has, every year, further to travel to
market. In New South Wales, which isn’t the worst
of the States, the last official count dealt with 152
municipalities outside Sydney, and in 56 of them the
poprrmtion was dying out. The people had gone to
Sydney which is always growing, and the meat had
to follow them regardless of expense. Sometimes it
had to follow them 400 miles. Then the cost of
shifting the meat per mile has gone up, likewise the
wages of the shifter, and the difficulty of shifting
has increased, and the cost of slaughtering at the
State muddle at Ilomebush has increased, and but-
chers’ rents have increased. In fact everything
seems to have increased save the public capacity to
understand the cause of all this increase.
The commandeering of meat seems inevitable, but
to put the screw on about 20,000 sheep-owners in
N. S. Wales alone, fully 14,000 of them small owners,
seems as big a job as taking a census. (How many
ox-owners there may be this writer doesn’t know.)
Anyhow, a Government that can’t commandeer
recruits for the army, even when the country’s
existence is at stake, and which can’t commandeer
labor even at its own price, and which can’t fix
wages even when they have been fixed by law after
consultation with both parties, and then raised
above the rate thus fixed, and then unfixed again,
and which can’t fix the rate of interest on its
loans, doesn’t seem able to fix or commandeer any-
thing very well.
Further, it seems to me that when this country
has taken to importing wattle-bark from Africa, hav-
ing apparently to some extent forgotten how to
grow its own national vegetable, nothing is impos-
sible, not even eggs at 3d. each, and it is hardly
worth while for anybody to ask the reason of
anything. A while ago South Africa bought some
wattle-trees from us, and at latest advices it was
exporting 20 times as much bark as we do, and
even selling the product of our own treasured shrub
back to us.
There is something in the Scripture which forbade
the Israelites to plough with a hoax and an ass
harnessed together. I think that is the sort of
team which ploughs the field of Australian policy.
—— ♦ —-
The beauties of the foreign-trade gospel can
be easily detected by contemplating the
Red Cross Society’s shortage of wool. De-
mands are made upon the Society in N. S.
Wales for wool, incidental to war-work,
amounting to about 4001 b. The supply is
limited and precarious, and in order to meet
the demands in this and other States the
Australian branch has made arrangements
to procure direct supplies from England. At
present the Society gets a small helping
from the residuum of a local mill at ss. 6d.
per lb., which, to say the least, is a fairly
solid price. For the balance of the inad-
equate supply it is invoiced at Bs. 6d. per
lb., a figure which calls for charitable judg-
ment. We cannot abuse the Ilun for this.
The blame rests on our own heads.
Here is Australia, the greatest wool-produc-
ing country on earth, with millions of jum-
bucks’ waistcoats tied up in parcels along the
shore waiting for shipment—a country packed
with the raw material of manufactures for
which the outside world is always clamoring
—yet here, too, is Australia, in the pathetic
state of haying to depend on the wool sent
back across the sea to produce socks for the
nation’s soldiers. Of course this humiliating
evidence of political and industrial shirk was
bound to be forthcoming. But realisation of
that makes it no more tolerable. Everyone
almost can see now that the time was long
ago ripe to put Australian industries on the
sound basis of effectiveness. Whether quite
as many will continue to see the same thing
after the war is another matter. Meantime
details of this wool episode ought to be
posted up in public places as a reminder of
one of the things that happened from shirk.
*
“Buck”: Some ideas as to the superiority of
imported goods over Australian have been
sharply corrected by active service. The
first question we ask now is, “Is it Aussie?”
British factories have done their best to pro-
vide us with an Australian-pattem hat
with truly awful results in coloi', shape
and weight, and fortunate “Diggers” in
possession of the oldest Aussie Saieeda tend
it carefully, cleaning, rebraidiug and even
painfully ironing it, rather than accept the
present issue. As for boots, stand and
watch the stream of men towards the boot-
maker’s tent! A stock of Australian-made
has just arrived. They are handsome, com-
fortable and honest. Diggers who have
avoided boot parades for weeks, fearing an
issue of British ammunition boots, now
crowd up, hopeful of getting a pair that
will be kind to their feet. There is an Aus-
tralian polish, too, that does up leather
like nothing else we can discover. The
blankets brought from home are far better
than the issue here, and the lucky soldier
who has retained or has acquired an
“Aussie” travels light and sleeps warm. This
appreciation of the home-made article,
which extends to breeches, puttees and under-
clothing. is by no means sentimental, but
the outcome of experience. Now about
food. An experimental issue of Queensland
beef was a great success, but we have not
had any since—just the same old salt-horse
from the U.S.A. and the Argentine, and that
does not approach the Bananaland “bully”
for flavor, quality and method of packing.
It is hard to realise the comparative excel-
lence of our Australian tomato-sauce until
one has tried all the best English and
American brands. One division imported
stocks of a good brand of Australian sauce
for its canteens, and although twice and,
in some cases, three times the price of
English makes, it is the only line sold while
it lasts. Finally, the man who could export
Australian beer to the troops would, rapidly
acquire a fortune.
“Croson”: Melbourne can’t yet see the
obvious remedy for its oongestion-of-traffic
problem. The chief reasons for that conges-
tion are its habit of importing millions of
pounds’ worth of articles that it could pro-
duce itself, and its other habit of scattering
factories haphazard in the residential sub-
urbs, so that all day long the main arteries
are packed with long processions of lorries
and drays, carting goods to and fro, to the
increased cost of the articles and the annoy-
ance of everybody. Yet Melbourne has, in
Fisherman’s Rend, a huge area lying idle,
an ideal site for docks, wharves, factories,
timber-yards and coal dumps. With a bridge
across the lower Yarra hardly a ton of goods
need be carted through the city—the rail-
ways could take all to the suburbs required
—and factory and wharf workers could be
taken thither by electric trams running to
and from the opposite side of the city—no
residences being allowed on this area.


TUENBULL & JONES’
TOTALISATORS
HAVE BEEN IN STALLED AT:-
Napier Park Racing Club.
Masterton Racing Club.
Gisborne Racing Club.
Taranaki Jockey Club.
Egmont Racing Club.
Feilding Jockey Club.
.Marion Jockey Club.
Manawatu Racing Club.
Wellington Racing Club (two).
Canterbury Jockey Club (six).
Dunedin Jockey Club (two).
Wanganui Jockey Club.
Stratford Racing Club.
Foxton Racing Club.
Rangitikei Racing Club.
Hawkes Bay Jockey Club (two).
Rosehill Racing Club.
Warwick Farm Racing Club.
Coonatnble Jockey Club.
Murrumbidgee Turf Club.
West Maitland Jockey Club.
Moorefleld Race Club (two).
Heddon Jockey Club.
Hawkesbury Race Club (two).
Southern District Racing Association.
Woodstock Jockey Club.
Clarence River Jockey Club, etc.
REPRESENTATIVES:
W. G. WATSON & CO. LIMITED,
Electrical Engineers, Suppliers & Contractors,
279 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
An Improved Macintosh
Peapes’ introduce a Waterproof Macintosh made of
stout Cotton Duck, treated with Black Vulcanised
Rubber. The shoulders are protected with double
pieces on outside, like an oilskin coat. The material
is so strong and the proofing so reliable that this
macintosh will give absolute protection under the
roughest conditions. The coat buttons to neck, has
windguards on sleeves, vent back, two outside
pockets, and ample ventilation throughout.
Made in lengths from 50 to 56 inches —all sizes.
Ready to wear, 45/-. Post paid by Peapes’.
Please state height and chest measurements.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney
V.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “Oh, Boy!’’
Criterion “Business Before Pleasure”
Palace “The Nigger” & “The Masquerader”
Tivoli “S’nice”
Playhouse “Pierrot Pie”
Union Theatres .4 Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Katinka”
Royal “The Thirteenth Chair”
Kino’s “The Invisible Foe”
Bijou Fuller’s Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli “Time, Please”
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majrstic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Auditorium (Aug. 24) Chappell Ballad Concert
Who slew Edward Wales with a stab in the
back.
When the scene of the seance was eerily
black,
And never a cause for the fatal attack
Was stated or heard?
On whom did suspicion of guiltiness rest?
And who, when appalled by the Medium’s
test,
Fell under the table and weakly confess’t?
Why, Mum is the word.
* * * *
“The Thirteenth Chair,” shifted to the
Royal (Melb.) last Saturday night, has the
attraction of a good murder. Says one of
the village gossips in “Silver King,” talking
of newspaper entertainment, “Now, my Avifc
is all for divorce and the little titbits; but
give me a Good Murder —one that ain’t
found out for a long time.” To which one
of his cronies adds; “And where you ain’t
sure whether you’re got the right man till
after he’s hanged.” The knifing of the
occupant of the unlucky chair doesn’t result
in the hanging of anybody during the action
of the play, but the audience is kept in
the dark as to avlio did it, and the search
for the truth is the only thing that matters.
Therefore all persons present at each per-
formance, including persons Avho report these
theatrical cases for the press, are desired to
refrain from giving away the identity of the
person (male or female) who stabbed
Edward Wales between the shoulders whilst
sitting in a spiritualistic stance circle at
the home of a harmless American capitalist.
The present writer grants himself the liberty
of saying that it wasn’t the host of the
seance who did the deed. The rest is
silence. The mouth of criticism is gagged
as regards the probability of the person
who committed the murder being afraid that
a cunning old fraud of a “medium” could
reveal the name of a person avlio had com-
mitted a previous murder of the same sort.
Nor would threats of the rack and the
thumbscrew scare this critic into discussing
the probability of a murderous person
(male or female) being present at the
seance aforesaid with a large, murderous
knife concealed about his or her person. In
the light of truth Bayard Veiller’s play
might seem founded on unreasonableness;
but the light of truth is turned off at the
meter by request of the management. It
Avas done in the case of “Grumpy.” and this
is at least a more ingenious mystery-play
than “Grumpy.” Also, the old woman pre-
sented by Margaret Wyeherly is more
“The Thirteenth
Chair,” at Melbourne
Royal.
Brinsley Shaw as
Tim, the fiery detec-
tive.
consistently natu-
ral to the changing
situations than
Cyril Maude was.
Miss Wycherly is
the centre-pin of
the play, and were
she defective i t
w ould fall to
pieces. Prior to
her entry the dia-
logue and action
(apropos of the
engage ment of
Lizette Parkes to
her rather unpre-
possessing young
man) have been
strikingly unreal.
For that matter,
the discovery o f
the fact that
Lizette is old Rosa-
lie’s daughter
doesn’t make her
engagement to
young Crosbie look
desirable from the
Crosbie point of
view, nor does it
give her a claim on
the audience’s sym-
pathy. One can
have a certain
amount of sym-
pat h y with the
dangerous old Rosalie whom Miss Wycherly
creates, but one can’t admire her, or expect
much of her daughter. If heredity counts
for anything, young Crosbie can't be con-
gratulated on his future wife.
Infatuated believers in spiritualism get some
nasty jars from “The Thirteenth Chair.” The
nastiest is when the old professional humbug
is herself deceived into thinking she has
summoned two knocks from the spirit world,
whereas it was merely the butler knocking
for admittance. But the wily author of the
play makes a concession to credulous spook-
hunters. He depicts Rosalie as a fraud-in-
ordinary, x and an unscrupulous, conscience-
less conspirator at that, who yet is vaguely
connected with supernaturalism. She is the
same fraud as all the other mediums —said
to be quite genuine until somebody finds
them out. Although her supposedly psychic
powers are useless at a crisis, except for
playing on the improbable terrors of a cold-
blooded assassin, they are supposed to give
her a mild and dreamy nature, as though an
old woman who lives by fraudulent con-
spiracy and vigilant cunning could really
afford to have a
mild and dreamy
disposition. Miss
Wycherly’s make-
up . might have
been studied from
a picture by Pet-
tie, P».A. “An
Arrest for Witch-
craft.” The poor
old creature in the
picture is not much
older than Rosalie
in the play, who is
understood to be
“a wonderful
woman,” on the
word of Lizette
Parkes. Why won-
derful ? Sha w
plays an ultra-
melodramatic de-
tective, revelling in
the fact that he
can dominate the
stage for a time,
and spring one or
two surprises on
the company. The
others are a fairly
well-chosen circle
of seancers, whose
business is to cre-
ate camouflage re
the identity of the
murderer. Any par-
ticular reference to
“The Thirteenth
Chair,” at Melbourne
Royal.
Margaret Wycherly as
Madame La Grange.
their methods of camouflaging would be a
breach of confidence.
The 11th week of “Katinka,” at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.), was marked by the
return of Florence Young to duty in the
glad rags of Mrs. Hopper. The convalescent
was in good heart and voice, but she didn’t
make her old part seem quite the same as
when Phil Smith used to present her to a
harem-keeper by mistake. Smith continues
to be sadly missed from the clothes of Thad-
deus T. Hopper. They fitted him neatly,
whereas they look like a slop-suit on Welch.
Fortunately the chorus defies influenza and
shows no signs of war weariness.
To-morrow (Friday) is the last night of
Emelie Polini as the siren book-canvasser.
Annie is about to close her long innings at
the King’s (Melb.), and the unconventional
leading-lady will appear in “The Invisible
Foe’’ on Saturday.
** * *
Belgian pianist de Bourguignon found a
vacancy on the Chappell concert programme
at the Auditorium (Melb.) on Saturday.
The newcomer is a tall and athletic-looking
youth, who apparently isn't sufficiently
developed to venture beyond an established
interpretation. In his bits of Tscliaikowsky,
Rubinstein and Saint Saens he was more
in the nature of a human pianola than an
artist coloring music with his own personal-
ity. Guido Cacialli buttered several songs
with the sentiment of a warm and winning
nature, and was almost blown from the
platform by the gale of applause. The
trouble with Cacialli, however, was that
he excited odious comparison with a couple
of amateurs in operatic singing, Joseph
Mummery and Ivor Boustead. The pair
did their ambitious best from “Faust”
and “The Barber of Seville,” but
their earnest and expressive tootling was
passed down by the veteran’s robust art
into the kindergarten class. The only lady
soloist, Constance Buchan, showed evidence
of an artistic temperament in “The Young
Nun” of Shubert and Arne’s “Lass with the
Delicate Air,” whilst she had the help of a
sweet-voiced quartette in Liza Lehmann’s
“Sherwood Forest” and the dainty “Trip-
ping Hither, Tripping Thither,” from
“lolanthe.”
At the Auditorium (Melb.) another Chap-
pell ballad concert will happen next Satur-
day, and then the season will be interrupted.
The Taits announce Leila Doubleday for
August 24. Miss Doubleday, a child when
she last sounded her violin in Melbourne, is
a notable artist these times, and the local
musical world is expected to make her glad
to be back in her native country.
The advt. of “Time, Please,” at the Tivoli
(.Melb.), foreshadows the approach of ,'■closing
time. The revue is in its last-nights stage.
A large and comfortable female, who, looks
like an abdicated queen of palmistry, .-'is pro-
fessing to read people’s thoughts at the
Bijou (Melb.). The lady rejoices in the
name of Sa-IJera, and under the voluble
direction of a male confederate sits blind-
folded near the O.P. wing mentionirug num-
bers and names written on the blackboard
behind her, whilst subsequently enlightening
the public generally about tilings 'in the
minds of various spectators. T’ne whole
business is painfully wearisome*, and is
less convincing evidence of telepathy
than the demonstrations by this Howard
Brothers some years ago. TJae dame’s
peeps into sundry brain-boxes are par-
ticularly unexciting, and merely tend to
reveal the weird unanimity *of thought
among any dozen casually selected citizens.
A party of new artists throng the rest of
the bill, but none of them cauise the same
commotion as Fred Bluett. Thl sis his first
appearance at the Bijou.
The stars that pass in the nig ht at Hoyt’s
(Melb.) this week are Williram Farnum,
SessueHayakawa and Wallaceßeid. Farnum,
who was lately featured in the Fox version
of “Les Miserables,” is the centre of gravity
in “The Heart of a Lion,” fn-eely adapted
from Ralph Connor’s novel, “*The Doctor.”
Hayakawa represents the piebald lead of
“Hidden Pearls.” a five-act Hawaiian story
highly embellished by the hero’s conscience
and some brilliant local scenery. For Wal-
lace Reid as “Rimrock Jonies” there are five
reels relating to the ownership of a copper-
mine. Among the lesser lights, Tom Mix,
as “Six-shooter Andy,” turns out to be a
cowboy who conceals Baptist principles
beneath a wealth, of artillery.
The Majestic (Melb.) is fomenting popu-
lar prejudice against the K tiiser with a long
riot called “The Beast of: Berlin.” “The
Wolf-hound of Potsdam,” As the advt. also
describes him, is fearsomehe depicted by ex-
Australian Rupert Julian, who doesn’t err
in revealing Wilhelm’s awful character. A
Triangle five-acter, entitled “The Hand at
the Window,” follows the “degenerate viper”
of Germany, and unwinds a seething detec-
tive mystery that gives the C.I.D. brain-
fever before it cools down. A. sweet Triangle
heroine, Margery Wilson, makes the leading
bachelor uneasy in this spectacular yarn.
John Cosgrove should be admiring him-
self in Adelaide. He has put up a fine
series of performances at the Tivoli, with
Anderson’s Co., as Rasputin, in the Rus-
sian melodrama; a kindly cleric in * “The
Woman Thou Gavest Me”; and lastly
as Dennis O’Hara in the Australian racing
play “Coo-ee,” written by himself. The
Royal finished a too-brief season (a week)
of “The Thirteenth Chair,” with its daring
plan of going back to the old “unities” of
tune and space, and showing that the action
of a drama can be represented, on one spot,
in just the time taken to play it. One ought
to see the “Chair” twice—once for the sur-
prises, and again to conceive the clever act-
ing. At the Majestic, the usual revue is
rather overshadowed by Abd.v’s kangaroo
and the Jazz Band, both of which have an
element of novelty. At the Royal is the
“Lest We Forget” picture, which shows some
of the horrors of war. At Wondergrapli,
Mary Pickford charms. West’s announce
proudly that they got “Panthea” past
the S.A. censors only by accepting “certain
restrictions as to advertising.” Alex. Watson
has made hosts of new friends at the Town
Hall. He is strong in every department, but
the writer would like to suggest that he
should make his characters’ laughter more
moderate.
The Palace (Sydney) is fighting for
breathing room with “The Nigger.” Guy
Bates Post is due to leave for America on
Wednesday. August 28, and four perform-
ances of “The Masquerader” are to be
crowded into Monday and Tuesday (August
26 and 27). Till then it’s “The Nigger”
twice a day.
* * * *
“Oh. Boy!” is ending its hectic existence
at Her Majesty’s (Sydney). It lived gaily
and tunefully, and will be gratefully remem-
bered by all but confirmed wowsers.
“Business Before Pleasure” continues to
keep the wolf far from the door at Sydney
Cri. and the clerk at the box-office busy find-
ing a place for the citizen who merely wants
somewhere to sit. Matinees are now on
the menu.
Sydney James, carving his “Pierrot Pie”
at the Playhouse (Sydney), finds a satisfac-
tory . crowd gathered round the table every
evening. The twinkling burlesque, “The
Masquerader in the Thirteenth Chair,” comes
last out of the dish.
With the help of a few new songs, “The
Million Dollar Girl” is filling in this week
at the Tivoli (Sydney). On Saturday the
new revue, “S’nice,” is due, with Eve Kel-
land in the lead. Fayette Perry and Leslie
Gaze are among the stars.
Patriotic Australians anxious to learn
“The Nigger ,” at Sydney
Palace.
Lionel Belmore as Dis-
tiller Clifton Noyes.
how to con-
found Germain
spies are
warned that
Allan Wilkie
has only two
more nights of
•his “Seven
Days’ Leave”
at the Opera
House (Syd-
ney) for demon-
stration pur-
poses. After
that B. and J.
Fuller’s Vaud-
eville co. at the
National will
move into the
big the.atr e.
The Cas 11 e-
reagh - street
house is to be reconstructed.
Mrs. Vernon Castle is. as usual, exuber-
antly well-dressed as Marion Sterling on
the Strand (Sydney) screen. On this occa-
sion she has as side-lines a murdered father,
a family lawyer and an innocent lover sus-
pected of a double crime. It’s a large order,
and in “The Hillcrest Mystery” it is ex-
plained to be really the work of German
spies. The Crystal Palace unblushingly
reveals Constance Talmadge in what is ad-
vertised as a “nifty nightie,” taking a Hying
leap into bed—the wrong bed —not the one
that holds Aunt Martha, but the couch that
encloses a horrid man, who has been storm-
bound like Sallie and auntie in a house,
the owners of which for story purposes are
absent. There are live days full of compli-
cations, ravelled and unravelled to the joy-
ousness of the onlooker. “Up the Road with
Sallie” holds a laugh for everybody. “The
Brand of Cowardice,” at the Globe, is the
story of a carefully-brought-up young
American who thought himself too exalted
to fight in one of the Mexican flare-ups. till
the best girl hands him back the ring. Then
lie fights and in such a way that we under-
stand why the Hun steps back rather than
tread on the corns of Uncle Sam’s advanc-
ing army. The Lyceum and the Ilaymarket
feature Sessue Hayakawa, with mystery
and romance amongst the South Sea Islands
for a background. It is the storv of n quest
for pearls to satisfy the desire of a girl.
Ilawkesbury” : There is much wild reason-
ing about the cursed drink that might be well
ballasted by a few facts rarely mentioned, but
well known by experts :
Alcohol is the excrement of the yeast plant, and,
as with tuberculosis, man never acquires immunity
by habit, but by evolving a race less susceptible to
it. Every aboriginal race so far as it has had the
chance destroyed itself with alcohol. It is an in-
herent craving of primitive man. Every temperate
people were once drunken, as shown by their ancient
writings. Diet, climate, race, or structure do not
appear to be factors. The black in tropical Australia,
or the Esquimo near the Pole are both eager to
drink themselves to death. Negroes on'the African
Coast, long accustomed to palm wine, are not victims
to "in like those of the interior. As regarus alconui,
Asiatics as a body are temperate because long ago
they evolved against it. The more modern European
is in the hall-way stage. This is illustrated bv
opium. In its home, India, the natives long ago
evolved against it; but China, taking to it in modern
times, is still a victim. The higher apes and the
negro have evolved against malaria, but not against
tuberculosis; the contrary is the case with the white
These _ are some facts given by Dr. G. H.
Reid in “Heredity”; but for his interpreta-
tion evolved against” may be substituted
acquired the habit of.” This is a matter of
opinion ; but whichever view is taken, man
2I ? himself or ancestors seems doomed to an
alcoholic jag: and it is curious to note that,
while the jamboree of the race was on, or
shortly after, it shows its most vigorous
mental development. There is evidence that
Australians are rapidly losing the drink
crave, although you wouldn't think it judg-
ing from their fiscal policy. Incidentals,
years ago, Windsor (N.S.W.) had 36 busy
pubs; now it has six far from busy, and that
with an immensely increased population.
The Sydney police took no chances last
week when they went down to Woolloomoo-
loo to collect Walter Sutherland, the speedy
person who jumped handcuffed from a mov-
ing train at Strathfield and got clean away
from the warder who was talcing him to
Bathurst Gaol. A file of John Hops in
their best official togs proceeded to the
piemises, around which plain-clotlies men
were ringed. Two uniformed men went in
and introduced themselves to Sutherland
(who has 10 years to work off). He made a
dash for the window ; but the duet of advance
guards assured him he would be only wast-
ing energy and raising unnecessary dust. A
watching carter who saw the escapee in
pyjamas and bracelets bundled into a motor
that the 25 Hops had requisitioned, remarked
disgustedly, “Well, he might ’ave made a
fight for it!” There’s no satisfying some
people.


NO ESCAPING HIM.
“London. —Mr. Hughes, welcoming the Australian press delegates, said that they had come to Britain in the fifth year of the greatest war of all the ages to see,” etc., etc. (Loud yawns.)


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi. X.SAV.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Read
Corroding Read
Antimonial Read
Assay Read (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Rino Metal, Ritharge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABLE
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade?
Slags, etc., containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Registered
BMAS.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
FOR EVERY ENGINEERING NEED THERE IS A
PIONEER Leather Belt
SfkVkns. J- C. LUDOWICI (Sl SON LTD.,
PIONEERS and LEADERS SINCE 1858. 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
/
Oui* 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd. (Sydney),
pastoral property and products’ salesmen
(the deficit to start with consisted of good-
will less reserves transferred from the old
co.) :
Towards
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1910.. ——•— £31,729
1911.. £20,214 6 p.c. = £11,212 £9,002 22,727
1912.. 17,893 6 „„ 12,345 5,548 17,179
1913.. 17,834 6 „„ 12.345 5,489 11,690
1914.. 21,100 0 „„ 12,345 8,755 2,935
1915.. 13,819 6 „ 12,345 1,474 1,461
Reserves.
1916.. 21,811 7 „„ 14,403 7,408 5,947
1917.. 22,600 7 „„ 14.403 8,197 14,144
1918.. 25,168 7 ~ „ 14,403 10,765 24,909
This co.’s business is not expanding very
rapidly, as the following sales figures show:
1912. 1916. 1917. 1918.
Wool (bales).. 101,295 119,661 108,370 119,685
Cattle 15,368 11,699 12,191 12,993
Sheep . . . . 307,736 206,926 172,795 176,390
Meantime, owing to the high prices ruling
the total turnover has increased from
£2,038,025 in 1912 to £3,263,995 in 1917, and
to £3,605,370 last year. And, of course, that
has meant increased commission earnings.
But what extra has been earned in this way
has nearly all been swallowed in increased
expenses, particularly in wages and rents.
Owing to the scarcity of shipping, stocks
have been piling up, and the co. has had to
look round for storage accommodation. How-
ever, the net profit for the past year is the
best the co. has shown since the present co.
was formed in 1910 “to give woolgrowers
and stock-owners an opportunity to acquire
an interest” in the old-established business of
Winchcombe, Carson and Co. That move
brought £lOO,OOO more capital into the show.
For goodwill £41,083 was paid, though about
£lO,OOO of reserves were brought over from
the old co. Up till now the good-
will item has been retained at the original
figure as an asset in the balance-sheet. Now,
however, the directors propose to do the
proper thing and write off £5983, reducing
the item to £36,000. Winchcombe, Car-
son’s is an instance of a co. in
which, at the reconstruction, the personal
factor was an important one. Here were
men who had spent years building up a fine
business, and whatever goodwill was worth
was due to their energies. Since the present
co. began, death has robbed the Board of all
the old hands with the exception of Duncan
Carson. As things have turned out the co. is
doing even better than it used to. But if
the old directors had been succeeded by men
less capable than the present team, the re-
sults might have been quite different; and
if things had gone badly the shareholders
would have found that their goodwill asset
was not worth much. Everything has
turned all right in this case ; but the direc-
tors are doing a wise tiling by writing down
the goodwill item.
The balance-sheet figures have expanded
considerably in eight years:—
1910. 1917. 1918.
Liabilities .. .. £78,348 £274,728 £261,907
Freeholds . . . . 85,483 158,415 159,215
Advances, etc. .. 118,372 308,344 292,203
Investments.. .. 9,252 21,646 23,696
Consignments .. 7,887 - 1,151
Plant, etc 4,935 14,452 23,506
The advances are a solid item, and are made
up of “advances against wool and produce,
stock, mortgages, liens and sundry debtors.”
Capital is £205,755, all in fully-paid £1
shares. So to finance its advances the co.
is leaning on the bank to the extent of
£89,929. while £171,978 is owing on current
accounts and due to sundry creditors.
The big increase in the freeholds item is ex-
plained mostly by the extension of the business
to Brisbane shortly after the present co. was
formed. Since 1910 £39.993 of new capital
has been got in; and liabilities have in-
creased by £183,559. Meanwhile £273,844
has been tacked on to assets. So if the assets
are worth every penny shown in the books,
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd., has improved its
position by over £50,000 in the eight years
it has been in business. Meantime it has
been paying 6 and 7 p.c. divs. with ease, the
average net profits for the past three years
being equivalent to over 11 p.c. on the co.’s
capital, though on the total of shareholders’
funds in the business it is slightly under
9 p.c.
The Bank of Victoria: —
Dividends.
, A N Added
Pref. Ord. to Re- Re-
Profits. 6 p.c. 6 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June 1910.. 50,012 12,503 31,837 5,672 254,593
Dec 1910.. 52,097 12,503 31,837 7,757 262,350
June 1911.. 55,266 12,503 31,837 10,926 273,276
Dec 1911.. 58,829 12,503 31,837 14,489 287,765
June 1912.. 61,685 12,503 31,837 17,345 305,110
Dec 1912.. 67,073 12,503 31,837 22,733 327,843
June, 1913.. 61,980 12,503 31,837 17,640 345,483
Dec 1913 61.972 12,503 31.837 17.632 363,115
June, 1914.. 64,567 12,503 31,837 20,227 383,342
5 p.c. 6 p.c.
Dec., 1914.. 59,756 10,419 26,531 22,806 406,148
6 n.c. 6 p.c.
June 1915.. 52,646 12,503 31,837 S,3OG 414,454
Dec 1915.. 52,660 12,503 31,837 8,320 422,774
June 1916.. 52,277 12,503 31,837 7,937 430,711
Dec., 1916.. 53,784 12,503 31,837 9,444 440,155
June, 1917.. 53,143 12,503 31,837 8,803 448,958
Dec 1917.. 56,190 12,503 31,837 11,850 460,808
June, 1918.. 61,076 12,503 31,837 16,736 477,544
Take another view of the Victoria’s figures
before and since the war: —
1914. 1916. 1917. 1918.
Gross profits* £119,245 £106,935 £109,004 £117,693
Management exes. 54,67 S 54,658 55,861 56,617
♦Less taxes and provision for contingencies.
So gross profits are now within £l5OO of
what they were before the war, and for the
first time since Wilhelm upset the world
disclosed net profits have exceeded the
£60,000 mark. Arid despite the disturbance
of overseas exchange business and added tax-
ation, there seems to be little reason why
profits should be leaner than they were
prior to 1914. Certainly the management
has been proceeding cautiously in the matter
of advances, “discountenancing any -business
of a speculative nature, but fully aiding all
legitimate producing, manufacturing and
other sound business enterprises.” Never-
theless, including the £475,730 advanced
under the Government wheat scheme,
advances are now greater than they were
in 1914. Further, the holding of public
securities has increased from £250,240 in
1914 to £573,833 as at June 30 last. Calcu-
lated at, say, 4 p.c. p.a., the return on this
increase would add about £6400 to each
half’s profits. At any time a hank’s dis-
closed profits are really nothing more than
an estimate, for it never knows, for certain
what lies ahead and what losses it may have
to meet. Probably, because of the uncertain-
ties of the future, the Bank of Victoria man-
agement has not been so much concerned
about the profit it discloses, but has preferred
to provide liberally for contingencies.
The Victoria has also been strengthening
its position by piling up liquid assets, which
have been increased considerably by realising
on assets that were not showing a satisfac-
tory return, and investing the money in more
profitable lines. This shows, how the balance-
sheet figures have moved since 1914: —
Liabilities.
June, ’l4. June, ’l7. June, ’lB.
Notes in circulation £9,138 £7.153 £7,028
Bills, etc. . . . . 667,466 443,643 783,833
Deposits at interest 4,366,077 4,191,039 4,430,242
Free deposits . . 2,481,461 2,676,844 2,845,438
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 2,654.948 3,027,461 3,119,860
Advances .. .. 6,431,156 5,921,635 6,610,942
Premises, etc. .. 343,728 340,893 335,634
The directors don’t show the figures ,in the
same way : the £475,730 advanced under the
Government wheat scheme is included with
the liquid assets, and not among the advances
as in the table. Taking the figures as shown
in the table, liabilities now total £8,066,541,
of which £3,119,860, or 38.6 p.c. is held
liquid. Including the wheat advances as
liquid assets the proportion is 44 p.c. This
compares with between 30 and 35 p.c. before
the war, and as low as 27 p.c. as at Decem-
ber, 1915. Paid up capital is £1,478,010, and
reserves £477,544; total, £1,955,554. So fob
every £1 of its own funds the bank holds
slightly over £4 of the public’s money. Thus
from the depositors’ point of view the posi-
tion is very snug. But it means a compara-
tively small return to shareholders, the pre-
sent 6 p.c. dividend being equal to a little
over 4\ p.c. p.a. on capital and reserves.
Meggitt. Ltd. (Sydney), manufacturers
of linseed oil (the deficit to begin with was
represented by goodwill £2OOO and flotation
exes. £582) : —•
, Dividends. \
Pref.
Loss. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.
N0v.,’11.. £2,582
Dec., ’12.. £5,163 Nil Nil 7,745
Dec., ’13.. 3,194 Nil Nil 10,939
£14,938 Capital written off and
assets written down .. .. 3,548
Profit.
N0v.,’14.. 2,328 Nil Nil 1,220
Reserves.
N0v.,’15.. 12,730 £1333 30p.e.=£4479 5,698
Deficit.
Written off capital ( £14,938) restored
and bonus shares issued (£14,938).. 17,313
12 months to
May, ’17.. 22,412 3326 10 p.c. = 4481 2,708
Reserves.
May,’lB.. 67,627 3994 20 p.c. = 8963 51,962
Transferred to capital, £29,876 .. 22,086
It is an amazing record : and the table tells
only part of the story. The co. took over the
old Meggitt bdsiness towards the end of
1911, paying £2OOO for goodwill. But the
old plant was unsatisfactory, and the first
year of the new co. was chiefly devoted to
getting new machinery together and making
arrangements for handling and distributing
the output. Further, there was a slump in
the value of seed, and the co. lost heavily
on its stocks. The following year’s opera-
tions also showed a loss, but the co. was able
to demonstrate during the 12 months that its
new plant could turn out linseed oil of a
quality equal to any imported. Reviewing
the position at this stage, the directors
decided that half the capital (£14,938)
had been lost, and they therefore wrote down
assets to that extent. The third year showed
the first profit, but towards the end of the
year the whole of the works and stocks were
destroyed by fire. Besides having protected
its assets by insurance, the co. had also in-
sured its profits and standing charges.
Within three months new works had
been established and in a little while the
plant was in a position to increase the
former production. Next year the co. did
better and showed a net profit of £12,730,
hut, as the directors pointed out, that “did
not by any means cover the loss which was
incurred in establishing the business.’’ How-
ever, shareholders got their first dividend,
and the goddwill item of £2OOO was written
off.
At this time the prospects of the industry
in Australia were looking very bright. The
scarcity of shipping was helping the market
for the local product, which had already
proved its quality. The directors seized
the opportunity and approached the Federal
Treasurer on the question of raising capital
to extend the plant to supply the whole of
the Commonwealth’s requirements. The
proposal was agreed to, on condition that
£20,000 of new second pref. capital was sub-
scribed. Under the arrangement the writ-
ten-off capital was restored, and bonus
shares for a similar amount were also issued.
The figures in the table show what has hap-
pened since. Last year the co. had a gorgeous
time, even though it sold its oil at 2s. per
gallon under the proclaimed price, and the
year’s operations showed a net profit of
£67,627 on a paid capital of £84,814. The
War-time Profits Tax, however, has yet to
take its cut. After establishing a reserve
to cover goodwill (£14,938) and paying
dividends, reserves and the balance of the
profit totalled £51.962. Of this the meet-
ing recently decided to distribute £29,876 in
bonus shares, two new bonus shares being
tacked on to every three of the old ordinaries.
Capital as at May 31 was £84,814, made up of
89.628 ords. of 10s. each, 20,000 £1 first prefs.
and 20,000 £1 second prefs., both fully paid.
Liabilities total £87,333., Freeholds and build-
ings stand in the books at £28,110, plant and
machinery at £27.254, while a depreciation
reserve of-£3237 has been accumulated. The
co. was carrying stocks worth £69,764,
sundry debtors owed £47.861, and there was
£75.160 in cash and War Loan; but as
stated previously the War-time Profits Tax
has yet to be collected. Though Meggitt's
has been having a wonderful time, there
have been formidable difficulties. While the
shortage of shipping has helped the co., it
has also interfered with the importing of
seed, and the works were temporarily shut
down a while ago. Later on, no doubt, it
will be found that linseed can be grown
quite as profitably in Australia as it is in
India, Canada, Argentine and Russia. As
it is, the industry has given employment to
about 8000 Australians.
Sargents, Ltd., caterers, etc., of Sydney
and Melbourne, who started with a deficit of
£46.235, representing goodwill (£45,000)
and preliminary expenses :
Towards
Reduction
Profits. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
June, 1910.. £6,038 10 p.c. = £4500 £1538 £36,278
Dec., 1910.. 8,076 10 „ „ 4500 3576 32.702
June, 1911.. 7,669 10 „ „ 4500 3169 29,533
Dec., 1911.. 5,520 10 „ „ 4500 1020 28,513
June, 1912.. 7,159 10 „ „ 4600 2559 25,954
Dec., 1912.. 9,308 10 „ „ 4700 4608 21,346
June, 1913.. 9,027 10 „ „ 4850 4177 17,169
Dec., 1913.. 9,412 10 „ „ 5000 4412 12,757
June, 1914.. 10,529 10 „ ~ 5000 5529 7,228
Dec., 1914.. 11,453 10 „ „ 5000 6453 775
, To Re- Re-
serves. serves.
June, 1915.. 8,680 10 „ „ 5208 3472 2,697
Dec., 1915.. 8,454 10 ~ „ 5312 3142 5,839
June, 1916.. 9,524 10 „ „ 5312 4212 10,051
Dec., 1916.. 10,140 10 „ „ 5312 4828 14,879
June, 1917.. 8,158 10 „ „ 5312 2846 17,725
Dec.. 1917.. 6,057 10 „ „ 5312 745 18,470
June, 1918.. 9,734 10 ,; „ 5312 4422 22,892
The net profits for the past half-year show a
splendid recovery on the previous term’s
trading. Catering is an erratic business: the
adjustment of prices to meet continually
varying costs being a ticklish problem. And
a scattered business like Sargent’s, with
27 cafes and tea-rooms in Sydney and half a
dozen shops in Melbourne, requires a particu-
larly keen and watchful management. In this
respect the, co. has been exceptionally fortu-
nate, for it has succeeded where many others
have gone under. The measure of its suc-
cess is shown in the string of uninterrupted
10 p.c. dividends handed out and the hand-
some additions to reserves after paying the
divs. Another view of the progress Sar-
gent’s has made is given in this comparison
of the balance-sheet figures:—
June,’lo. June.’lS.
Capital £90,000 £110,212
All liabilities . . .. 9,395 40,303
Freeholds.. .. .. 10,800 70,000
Leaseholds .. .. 14,550 18,300
Furniture, plant, etc. .. 20,035 53.870
Stock 3,166 19,616
Cash and book debts .. 12,126 17,464
So since 1910 £20,242 of new capital lias
been got in, and liabilities have increased by
£31,448. Meantime £59,200 has been added
to freeholds, £3750 to leaseholds, £26,935 to
plant and £21,788 to stock and cash. Thus,
after paying a regular 10 p.c. dividend, in
eight years the co. has strengthened its posi-
tion by almost £60,000. The goodwill item of
£45,000 has now been written right out of
the balance-sheet, a similar amount of accu-
mulated reserves also disappearing. As pre-
viously mentioned, good profits are dependent
entirely on good management; and so long
as the shareholders have men as capable as
those at present in charge, everything should
be all right. A very big trade has been
built up, the gross profits on manufacturing
and trading ha vine expanded from £35,589
eight years ago to £83,249 as at June last.
* * * *
Commonwealth Steel Pkoducts Co.,
Ltd.- —This co. represents an attempt to
establish the liigh-class steel manufacturing
industry on a large scale in Australia. The
co. was the outcome of the efforts of Messrs.
A. Goninan and A. M. Henderson, two men
whose experience and ability got the Clyde
Engineering Co., Ritchie Bros., the Pioneer
Spring Co., Howard Smith’s and other users
of steel interested when early in 1917 they
discussed the possibilities of establishing the
industry. Fifteen months ago the co. was
provisionally formed and Messrs. Goninan
and Henderson were sent abroad to investi-
gate the most modern methods and make
arrangements with regard to plant. In
March this year the co. was registered with
a nominal capital of a quarter of a million
(250,000 shares of £1 each) —the Federal
Treasury granting permission for the issue
of 150,000 shares paid to 10s. —and the New-
castle Brick and Tile Co.’s property of 47
acres, at Waratah. near Newcastle, was
acquired for £13,650. For its manager, the
co. appointed A. M. Henderson, who de-
signed, built and operated Ruwolt’s, where
he produced manganese steel for the first
time in Australia, and who also installed the
first modern steel-casting plant in the Com-
monwealth at the Steel Co. of Australia’s
works in Melbourne.
Since March much progress has been
made. The first difficulty was to secure
plant, but the manager has a profound be-
lief in the capabilities of the local engineer-
ing firms, and, except for portion of the elec-
trical equipment, the designs for which are
not available locally, the whole of the plant,
including steam hammers, electric furnace,
the tyre-rolling mill and machine tools, has
been manufactured locally. The co. expects
to produce railway and tramway tyres from
purchased steel early next year, and to be
turning out its own steel within nine months,
the latter depending upon the arrival of
electrical equipment and the supply of suffi-
cient power from the Newcastle Council.
The co. is setting out to produce only
the highest quality steel, and is installing
the most modern electric furnace, similar
to those used in Britain and America for
turning out gun steel. Practically the only
doubt about the future is the protection
which the politicians will give the industry
after the war. In 1913 the Commonwealth
imported wheels and tyres valued at
£239,000, on which the general duty was
5 p.c. and the preferential duty nil. Of the
total, £129,000 worth came from Germany
(most of it from Krupps), £96,000 worth
from the U.K., and £14,000 from Belgium.
In the majority report of the Inter-State
Commission, which conducted a tariff investi-
gation in 1916, this appears:—
If Australian blast furnaces had been able to
provide the grade of pig-iron for the manufacture of
steel for cast-wheel centres, and the manufacture of
tyres could be also undertaken, we would have un-
hesitatingly. .. .recommended only one duty, which
would have been sufficient to at once encourage their
local manufacture; but on account. .. .of having to
rely on imported tyres....arid on imported pig-iron
for wheel centres, we can only make such recom-
mendations as, in our opinion, will give encourage-
ment to the initiation of the manufacture of cast-
wheel centres and the completion of the imported
tyre in Australia.
The Commission under those circumstances
recommended a duty of 30 p.c. But the
politicians have, as usual, done nothing. And
since the Commission made its recommenda-
tion the steel industry has been established
in Australia, and this co. will also be turn-
ing out its own steel in about nine months.
Of course, the war is providing all the neces-
sary Protection just at present, but cos. like
this, which by establishing new industries
are doing something practical towards kill-
ing German post-war trade, are getting little
encouragement from the politicians who are
most talkative on the subject.


The British Westinghouse Electric 81 Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even at the highest speeds.
m
SPECIAL FEATURES:—
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “ flashing over.”
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller, and
materially reduces the strain or the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia :
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STBEET, MELBOURNE.
Works—Trafford Park, Manchester, Englanc.
Every engineer should be a subscriber to the
General Electric Review. It is a monthly maga-
zine, containing descriptions of the latest develop-
ments and practical applications of electricity in
every sphere. No library is complete without it,
as the contents are original, instructive and complete
in every detail, being contributed by the leading-
engineers of the world. The subscription is only
ten shillings (10/-) per year, so subscribe now or
write to ttie Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney, for a sample copy.— Advt.
The approach of summer makes it imperative for
every stock-owner to give a thought to the purifica-
tion of drinking water for his stock. If he is content
to let them drink muddy, slimy water he cannot
expect them to keep in good condition. All over the
State careful stock-owners are using Aluminoferric in
the proportion of one pound to every 2000 gallons of
water. It ensures pure liquid water in dams, wells,
tanks, etc., at very low cost, by precipitating all
impurities and leaving the water clear and pure,
free from any ingredient injurious to man or beast.
Let us go into details telling you how it will be to
your advantage to use Aluminoferric. William
Adams & Co. Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide.
—Advt.
* * * *
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as thev can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis “Engineer-
ing. Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Pioneer Wood Pipe provides the most economical
and efficient means of carrying water over your land.
In first cost, freight charges and labor for laying,
money is saved. Made in all sizes from two inches
upwards. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd., H.O. Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. address: Box
1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove.
N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic.; and Port Adelaide, S.A'.
Contractors to all State Governments. — Advt.
* * * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Ilassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.— Advt.
* * * *
To borrow is human; to lend is ridiculous; but
to paint with “Pabco” is commonsense. “Pabco”
1 aint protects and preserves iron roofs, machinery
drinking troughs, iron tanks, windmills, and all
exposed surfaces. Two coats of “Pabco” Paint
equal three or more coats of other paints for iron
and metal work. “Pabco” is anti-corrosive, hard-
wearing, is not affected by chemical fumes, sea-air
or salt water, and is non-poisonous. “Pabco” is put
up in 1-gallon tins and 5-gallon drums. Price, 12s
per American gallon. Call or write for booklet to
Spriggs’ Asbestolite Company, 338 Pitt Street Syd-
ney.-— Advt.
National ’ English-made petrol and oil horizontal
engines, immediate delivery from Sydney at prices
below pre-war rates: Petrol engines, 1$ h.p., £5O.
3 h.p., £65. Oil engines: 3* h.p., £75. 41 h.p
£B5. Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Head ‘Office’
Sydney.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Pateni
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Me
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty vears’ practice. Writ
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * ft
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling
Balances, M eights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun
Sample Crushers Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, a
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. I
®€ by r, & ? 0 ” o P td 7’ 8 OConnel! Street, Sydney; an
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne. —Advt.
v£ ARE BORN TO
Vita ba*u\x%
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
m 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
w. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS' IRON S STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
at S e if ie important provisions in
IV to. Wales Mines Minister Fitzpatrick’s
Amending Bill is that throwing open to
piospectors the private lands on which the
mineral rights, outside of gold, have been
reserved to the owner. Should the clause get
through the numerous areas of loc'ked-up
mining land in this State will become the
subject of applications for authority to enter
by processes similar to those already existing
m respect of unreserved lands. The only
new condition attached is the payment to the
owner of a sort of royalty in the form of a
percentage of the net profits. For years
prospectors have unsuccessfully barracked
for this reform. Another clause intended to
encourage the genuine prospector relates to
the right of entry to leases over which the
existing leaseholders have little or no surface
rights. In the past many cos. have held up
developmental work by hanging on to big
areas carrying underground rights with only
a . small piece of the whole having surface
lights. Some time ago the matter was argued
m the Supreme Court, which held that the
original holders in any form were the only
persons competent to enter the land. This
rilling will be definitely upset if the present
Bill succeeds.
* * * *
T. J. Greenway, who in the old days ran
the Broken Hill South, Block 14 and Chilla-
goe, has taken on a bigger job than any of
those shows. This is to shake up things
generally in respect to oil problems in Aus-
tralia, and incidentally to divert the local
oil-flow to the Anglo-Persian Co. This is a
British semi-State affair, in which Britain
holds a two-thirds interest. Strathcona and
Breen way’s brother Charles are the British
Government nominees on the Board, the lat-
ter being also general manager. The lure
to the Federal Cabinet to join hands with
the Anglo-Persian Co. is that the Common-
wealth can become a partner, share in
Britain’s oil-fleet, and get the benefit of the
co. s organisation and its business connec-
tmn. Last year the Anglo-Persian netted
out of a restricted oil output £400.000, and
it has £4,000,000 of capital to plav with.
Other big oil people are also offering a willing
hand to the Government, but Greenway’s big
card is that they aren’t in partnership with
Britain, and that because the British Govern-
ment is taking our wheat, wool, meat, copper,
tin, lead and zinc, Greenway can claim it to
be a fair thing to extend the partnership to oil.
Anyhow, if outsiders are to be allowed into
lapua or any other Australian oil-fields,
the Federal Government must have the final
word in the control of the show. The techni-
cal and business may be left to the
shareholders to organise and develop, but the
dominating interest must be in the hands of
the State.
* * * *
.n. * ng Suffering” : What is this yarn about
the big metal octopus putting out another
tentacle to get hold of the tin producers?
Copper, lead, zinc and the rare metals,
scheehte, wolfram and molybdenite, all
have been yarded up very nicely. Now
comes_ the whisper that someone holds that
Britain is paying Australia too much for the
white metal it ships across the seas. If
the deduction is that the same sort of con-
trol should be exercised which allows private
people to get Australian wolfram and
molybdenite at about half the price Canadian
producers obtain from the U.S. for those
products, then there is going to be a terrific
yell from tin-mining community. If
the price of tin is to be reduced producers
will want to know why pig-iron, steel, zinc
shavings for gold-mines, steel plates for tin-
dredging shows, coal and wood for use under
the boilers, the wages of the workers, and all
the other oddments should not have their
price reduced to a decent level. If the idea
is to get tinplates for the canneries, will the
price of the inside steel plates be cut? No
one has ever sought to jolt Broken Hill cos.
out of their fat profits when zinc, lead and sil-
ver sky-rocketed, nor is there any move to cut
copper down to about £BO, or iron and steel
to anything approximating pre-war prices.
Anyway, if the Australian tin-producer is to
be hit, how will Australian cos. that mine
tin in Malaya be brought within the scope
of any control?
* * * *
The activity of Government Geologist
Harper, and the granting of a Government
subsidy of £lOOO to go on with, gives hope that
the old Hill End goldfield (N.S.W.) may look
up again. The recent company re-organisa-
tion marks the opening of a scheme for the
unified development of the field. The main
proposal is the driving of a tunnel from the
southern to the northern end of the leases,
starting at about 700 feet and deepening
with distance, as the surface runs up a
hill towards the north. The drive will go
through the old Amalgamated leases, the
Central, and the Reward, passing under the
famous Robert Emmett cross-course. This
is for the purpose of unwatering the lower
levels, which are fully virgin, but which
have not been accessible before owing to the
heavy make of water. The greatest depth
sunk has been 525 ft. in the Patriarch shaft,
under which the tunnel will pass a further
couple of hundred feet down. This will
allow of a connection with the shaft for the
hauling of the stone broken down en route
a hundred feet or so up the Patriarch to the
old Consolidated tunnel, along which it can
have a smooth passage. For the present,
however, the new Deep Levels Co., in co-
operation with the earlier shows, will pro-
ceed with the drive. The Reward continues
to get nice-looking stone from a newly-cut
reef met with in a crosscut, and is busy
improving the plant to deal with the big
body of low-grade ore in sight in the inter-
mediate levels.
Carpathia tin, Ardlethan (N.S.W.), per-
haps “never looked better,” but heaps more
information is wanted by a share-market
that has climbed to 28s. per share. Very
few mines overlook informing the public
how much ore has been hauled in a
week, and there certainly should be a
fair quantity raised from' faces 6ft. wide.
The lengthening of the slope from the 121 ft.
winze is a favorable development, but while
developments underground have been unusu-
ally good, the quantity of tin ore hauled
week by week appears to have been small.
Quite recently 13 tons of special milling ore
were despatched to the mill in a week, and
3 tons scwt. of concentrates were recovered.
* * ■* *
An additional £523,000 was dug out of
the Great Boulder (W.A.) last year, and
the usual 3s. per share was paid in divi-
dends. The average grade of ore handled
was a little over 134dwt., and from this,
with costs at 28s. Bd. per ton, a net profit of
£253.000 was earned. The mill encroached
on the reserves to the extent of over 50,000
tons during the period, but when the year
ended there was still 387,000 tons of an esti-
mated gross value of £1,175,000 in sight
Manager Hamilton hopes to treat a larger
tonnage during the current 12 months, but
while values are not likely to show much
variation, costs are expected to be higher.
* * * *
What are the Princess Royal Co.’s inten-
tions in regard to the Happy Jack at Comet
ValeV After allowing the water to rise the
co. recently decided to drain the workings
and do some sampling in order to determine
whether the show was worth bothering
about. A start was made to put the plant
in order, and then word came to do nothing.
An inquiry into the circumstances surround-
ing the acquisition of this property is being
urged by local shareholders.
* * * #
Bemoaning the lot of the Westralian mine-
owner at the Golden Horseshoe meeting,
chairman Purcell alleged that the shortening
of the week’s work from 48 to 44 hours and
other concessions granted to the miners by
Justice Powers was making it very hard for
the mining industry to live. Experience at
Broken Hill had shown that the 44-hour
week reduced tonnage by about 12 to 15 per
cent. Such a reduction of output in the
West would, he reckoned, almost paralyse
gold-mining. Turning to recent mine de-
velopments he said the No. 4, or Boundary,
lode was showing up well, and in the bottom
level a run of at least 400 ft. of payable ore
could safely be relied on.
* * * *
Many Perth and Adelaide holders of Com-
modore (W.A.) scrip are bitterly complain-
ing about the recent boosting of the show
and _ the conditions which made such
boosting possible. The authorities in
the West have been urged over and
over aaain to frame a law making it
a criminal offence for anyone to circulate
misleading reports about wild-cats, but
nothing has been done. After all the talk
about the good values heading from the
Ingliston into Commodore ground and whis-
pers about good prospects in other parts of
the show, the last crushing of 115 tons
yielded only £96 worth of gold.
* * * *
The draw to take up the wad of forfeited
Yilgaim Consols (W.A.) scrip, was the offer
of mine-manager R. J. Salvado to accept the
bundle and pay any calls due. The co. is
again financial, so Salvado has gone back to
unwater the main shaft and to tackle the
Big and the parallel reefs at the Karridale
lease. However, if the yarn concerning a
6ft. reef worth 60s. per ton and a small
reef carrying 3oz. values over a length of
600 ft. was correct, why did Salvado leave
the mine to worry over any doubting Mel-
bourne crowd?
* * * •
Riverina South (W.A.), having been
stuck with heavy calls, a debenture debt and
a recalcitrant gas-machine, gets the West-
ralian Government to back a p.n. to the tune
of £2OOO in order to get on the go once again.
With the new debt the co. will have to pay
off £BOOO before the shareholders can start
to get back the £60,000 the mine owes them.
* * * *
The Tyrconnel North Co. has left West-
ralia and gone to Trentham, in Victoria.
The co. made two attempts in the West, and
both failed. The first was at Laverton,
where its prospects were frequently declared
in Perth, Adelaide and Melbourne papers
as being either bright or brilliant, but the
show ultimately proved to be the very
reverse. The second was at Kalgoorlie,
where reported good values in one of the
trans-Australian railway cuttings vanished
in the course of development. The co. now
proposes to try the old Egerton-Sultan group.
Lots of gold came out of the Annie
Laurie and Grace Egerton reefs from the
stopes of these ancients, above a big tunnel.
This working was never continued to the
Sultan line and the Tyrconnel North is out
to hunt for it. If reefs are got, there will
be 300 ft. of backs. “If” is the big factor in
this new go, because the old miner who
worked the Sultan reef down to 900 ft.
wasn’t the sort of chap to let much gold go
out of sight under foot.
G. D. Meudell and J. L. Strevens have just
completed a tour of certain supposed oil areas
in Westralia, and claim that boring for
petroleum with modern oil-drilling machin-
ery is fully justified on some of them. All
that Meudell asks of the State Government
is the undertaking of a proper geological
survey to determine the best site for boring,
and when this is done he says he will do the
rest. But as the Government geologists say
that there is no oil in the State, the W.A.
Oil Syndicate will probably be invited to
bore where it likes.
From J. L. Strevens, an English oil-man,
who has lately had a look at Westralia: —
Modern petroleum technology is continually bring-
ing to light facts which indicate that oil is widely
distributed throughout nature, and in places where
geological evidence as to its presence is either not
available or distinctly unfavorable. It is rather
surprising, therefore, to read “Oof Bird’s” damaging
comments (B. 15/8/T8) in connection with the
Westralian oil discoveries, and which he has doubt-
less based upon statements made and published from
time to time by the W.A. Geological Survey. It is
ti'ue that some months ago one Walter A. English,
said to be acting for the Vacuum Oil Company, made
a cursory examination of certain areas in Westralia of
a supposedly oil-bearing nature and came to similar
conclusions on its unlikely possibilities as had been
arrived at previously by the State Geological Depart-
ment, after surveying the same districts. Unfortunately,
Mr. English’s statement, which condemned the whole of
the State from the few casual observations that he
made personally, is likely to have far-reaching
deterrent effects upon those having faith in the oil
possibilities of this continent. It is only fair to
state that at least two of the best-known mining
and geological experts of the Westralian Government
have expressed to the writer their possession of
perfectly open minds upon the question of the exist-
ence of petroleum in their own State. The W.A.
Oil Syndicate certainly found oil from the districts
of Busselton and Pingelly, and a bituminous material
from east of Esperance. So far as one of the
districts is concerned a recent investigation has
indicated that it is a likely spot to bore for oil with
the right kind of modern, drilling rig. The settle-
ment of the all-important question as to whether
oil deposits do or do not exist in Australia must
be left to the drill and the drillers, who are, after
all, the final arbiters in the controversy. The slight-
est positive evidence of the presence of petroleum in
the Commonwealth should be diligently followed up,
whatever the cost, as a vital national necessity.
Right on the Indian Ocean, at Yampie
Sound in the nor’-west of Westralia, is a
mountain of iron, which a Queensland syn-
dicate is in danger of losing. It has had
possession for several years, hut as appa-
rently nothing has been done to develop the
deposit, it has been jumped by some Perth
people.
One of the mainstays of Dyason’s Bendigo
Amalgamated scheme was the late George
Lansell’s Virginia, but the co. could do no
good with it, and so passed it on to the
tributors. They soon got on to payable
stone, and Opie’s party, at 1950 ft., led the
way by snicking 12Soz. from 28 tons, and
cleaning up an additional 230 z. from the
plates. From a little 50ft. block £3OOO
has been taken in six months. Next door,
in the Great Northern, another party, with
Betts as leader, got on to ounce stuff, and
now they are topping off with 4oz. crushings
won from a 100 ft. block. These yields draw the
co. back to the same formation, so that after
all this ore channel may turn Dyason’s luck.
His liberality to the tributor is not the
least reason why Bendigo smiles on him
nowadays.
* * * *
The output of electrolytic zinc from the
Risdon works (Tas.) has grown from 2501 b.
per day in March, 1917, to the present
22,4001 b. (or 10 tons) per day. Zinc assay-
ing 99.9 p.c. is exceptionally pure, and is
particularly valuable to munition-makers
and the electrical trade. Silver and lead
are recovered as by-products, and zinc works
treating, say, 100,000 tons of Broken Hill
concentrates a year would, in addition to
40,000 tons of zinc, turn out large quantities
of silver and lead products.
* * * *
The old Tyrconnel, Kingsborough (N.Q.),
crushed 825 tons in June and .July for
11490 z. of bullion, equivalent to 27dwt. per
ton. The money value of the crushing and
a statement of working costs would be in-
formative, for the bullion is' seldom worth
more than 60s. per oz. Numerous good
crushing's were reported last year, but wages
and other expenses took the lot. At present
the deepest level is at 265 ft., and stopes 6ft.
wide carrying payable values indicate that
this reef Jives down. So a contract has been
let to sink the shaft to 385 ft.
A deposit of phosphate of lime on Hol-
bourne Island, near tne Great Barrier Reei.
has given fair assays for phosphoric acid, and
the owners have now formed a subsidiary co.
to convert the raw material into superphos-
phate. The Australian Co-operative Fertil-
iser Co. has taken a half-interest in the
venture, and the erection of treatment works
on the Queensland coast is in contemplation.
(Continued on page 32.)


IN ACCORDANCE WITH CUSTOM.
“The Australian Red Cross . wool to England to get yarn made to knit our soldiers’ socks.”— Fact.
OLD FAT TRADITION: “All in good time, ladies. After Birmingham, please.”


WARNING TO THE WEAK AND
NERVOUS.
THE DANGERS OF DRUGGING.
It seems so easy to take a small dose of
some drug and thereby secure relief from
pain, forgetfulness of worries and cares, or
the sleep that has long been denied; but just
consider the awful consequences of this
drug-taking—think how the habit grows.
The small dose soon becomes larger and
larger, and has to be taken with increasing
frequency. Thus drug slaves are made. But
because drugs are harmful it does not mean
that sufferers from neurasthenia, insomnia,
debility, failing strength, loss of weight, etc.,
are to be denied comfort and relief. On the
contrary, it is quite likely such sufferers will
turn their attention to a product known as
bitro-pliosphate, and as a consequence much
good will be done, for bitro-pliosphate gives
better results than any of the harmful or
dangerous drugs, yet no re-action or ill-effect
will follow its use. Moreover, it is within
the easy reach of all, for the tablets are now
stocked by high-class chemists everywhere.
One tablet taken with meals three times
daily soon strengthens weak nerves, increases
vim, vigor and vitality, and ensures refresh-
ing, health-giving sleep at night.— Advt.
MAMMA, DADDY AND CHILDREN ALL
LOVE CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses the
stomach, liver and bowels without
any griping.
A delicious cure for constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, disordered stomach, in-
digestion, coated tongue, sallowness —take
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.” For
the cause of all this distress lies in a torpid
liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Pleaso
don’t think -of California Syrup of Figs—
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you are
drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it, as safely as
a robust man. It is a most harmless, effec-
tive stomach, liver and bowel regulator and
tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig”
—California Syrup of Figs—which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sisses. Is. Ijd, and Is. 9d., [6
ZTi
waanr
FAUIDfKGiCO
0
PERTH AND LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lewt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
n
Don’t
Stay
DEAF!
You can hear —and we
will prove it! Let us
send an “Acousticon”
at our own expense for
10 Days’ FREE TRIAL
in your own home. No
deposit. No obligation.
More than 329,000 deal people now hear per-
fectly with the “Acousticon,” including the
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth, Mr. \V.
M. Hughes.
For the “Acousticon’' user there are no years
ahead of increasing deafness, no nervousness
caused by straining to hear. Convince your-
self at oun expense—and DON’T STAY DEAF.
Lamscn
Store
Service
Co.,
102 Dakingr House. SYDNEY
152 Oiderfleet, MELBOURNE
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Titles get in the way sometimes. For one
exciting day recently the S. M. llerAld’s
law reports spoke of “Mr. Justice Sir
Edmund Barton.” Then it went back to the
old style. Perhaps Mr. Right Hon. Sir
Judge Griffith, who is a stickler for accuracy,
put in a remark.
“Swanstjon-street”: Gone on to the
Highest Court, at 62, Judge W. E. Johnston,
of Victoria. A large, kindly man with an
intellectual face. I first became aware of
him in the late ’nineties, before the motor
had arrived to rush the democratic push-
bike off the roads and the “scorcher” had
to depend on his own wind and leg-muscles.
In those days his Honor used frequently to
pedal into town, and if the weather was
warm he would have to shake the beads of
perspiration from his sparkling brow on to
the doormat before he wheeled into his fav-
orite bicycle shop and called for the manager
in a deep, legal voice. Like Madden, the
late C. J., Johnston collapsed and died while
ou a Sunday visit to a friend. If he exer-
cised as strenuously of late years as he did
when I knew him, perhaps his heart gave
out.
London Observer deals tenderly with
Hughes’s lack of inches in an article by
“An Australian Correspondent”:—
Though physically of no great size, though handi-
capped by severe deafness and recurring ill-health,
lie is invariably a fighter for his sincere convictions.
“No great size” is a delightful way of ex-
pressing the fact that William barely turns
the scale at 7st. 21b.
The oldest Anglican clergyman living in
Australia, Rev. Septimus Hungerford, cele-
brated his 93rd birthday on August 12. He
is the sole survivor of the State-paid clergy
of 1863, and he is the seventh out of eight
sons of Emanuel Hungerford, of Farley, near
YVest Maitland (N.S.W.), lieutenant of the
32nd Foot and afterwards captain, of the
South Cork Militia, who emigrated to the
State in 1828. The padre was ordained by
Bishop Tyrrell, of Newcastle, in 1853, and
worked at Armidale for 21 years; at Darling
Point in 1876; at Newtown 1877; at Holy
Trinity. Fort-street, 1878; at Ashfield, 1879 ;
and at Enfield, 1879-95. He is now in retire-
ment at Mosman.
AND HE WON’T BE HAPPY TILL HE
GETS IT.
HIS MAJ.: “Joe seems to be very well
pleased with his little trophy, Billy;
what would you like?”
BILLY : “The one you've got on your head,
please.”
Killed in France lately, Major Herbert
Musgrave, whose only connection with Aus-
tralia was that he was born Tiere. His
father, Sir Anthony Musgrave, was Governor
of S.A. in the eighteen-seventies, and two
sons were born in Adelaide. The one just
dead had a brilliant career. He got “men-
tions” in the Boer war as well as in the
world war (several times), and had won a
D.S.O. before going back to France for the
last time. He was 42.
Passed on from Portland John Huxley,
famous as one of the discoverers and owners
of the golden Londonderry pit (W.A.). Be-
fore joining the Western rush in the early
’nineties, J.H. was a wheelwright in Hamil-
ton (Vic.). After selling out in W.A. he
retired to Portland, and then purchased
Struan estate, near Casterton. This turned
out another Londonderry, and John’s pos-
sessions at his exit were well over six figures.
Bar a weakness for buying and holding fast
to Portland town allotments, Huxley had no
visible hobbies. He was a bachelor. Per-
haps that was his hobby.
Captain Brian Desmond Hughes, M.C.,
who was killed in action on August 6, was
one of four sons of the late John Hughes,
M.L.C., N. S. Wales, and a nephew of
Thomas Hughes, ex-Lord Mayor of Sydney.
SPEEDING UP THE IOU.
“Joseph Ward has decided to introduce aeroplanes
into Maoriland to carry the mails from end to end
of the country as soon as the war is over.” — Cable.
ST. PETER: “You’re well up to time.”
POSTMAN: “ Rather! The blessed stamp
ain’t dry yet.”
Three brothers are at the. Front —Lt. Gil-
bert N. Hughes (formerly of the Bth Royal
Dublin Fusiliers, but now on the staff of
General Allenby in the Holy Land) : Lt.
Maurice Hughes, Royal Garrison Artillery;
and Gunner Frank Hughes, Australian
Field Artillery.
“O. Blin” : The late Commonwealth archi-
vist Pethericlc was certainly jealous of his
collection, as “T. 0.1.” asserts (B. S/8/T8),
but he never objected to it being inspected.
Indeed, Petherick’s complaint was that he
could never arouse any interest in his
treasures, though he promised
a kindly welcome to everyone.
Practically buried in the base-
ment of Federal Parliament
House, the archivist almost
every day during his lifetime
heard busy faraway feet, but
with few exceptions the foot-
steps never came nearer. The
only man who visited him
regularly was Professor Ernest
Scott, then a Hansard re-
porter, and Scott’s calls were
not unconnected with the bor-
rowing of some scarce inforjna-
tion for one of his books. G.-G. Munro
Ferguson was, I believe, a disinterested
visitor who sought out the old bibliophile
in his cellar at various times.
“M.’s” send-off:—-
William Samuel Byrne. M.D., Bac. Surg., Mus.
Bac., news of whose death comes from Johannesburg,
was a very gifted man. As a surgeon he was in
the first flight of his profession, and he was a musician
of unusually high attainments. No one outside of
three or four topnotch professionals has ever inter-
preted Chopin as did William Byrne, under whose
clever fingers the spirit of the music was presented
with unfailing charm. He was a welcome guest
among London’s foremost orchestras (with whom he
has frequently appeared as soloist), and he positively
reigned over music circles in Brisbane for 10
years. He was president of the Liedertafel, presi*
dent of the Johnsonian Club (and what a host!),
and president of the Golf Club. Never was a fashion-
able practitioner pursued and captured by such a
host of poor patients. With him the fretful
rich were apt to be left waiting while he gave of
his best to an inmate of a hospital ward. His
science knew no class. Then one day he was sud-
denly gone—back to the fuller life for which he must
have continually longed—to America, Europe, South
Africa, and now the Unknown.
“Floater”: “The Oldest Inhabitant” is in
error in connecting the late Mrs. Greig with
the Melb. firm of Greig and Murray (B.
15/8/T8). Greig and Murray are importers,
and were not acquainted with the deceased
lady. The only Mrs. Greigs related to the
firm are the mother and wife of the present
partner, though the former is no longer
Greig, having taken the surname of a new
husband.
Solomons, Benjamins and others of the
tribes that were not lost settled in Hobart
at an early date, and the Synagogue in
Argyle-street has just been cele-
brating the 75th anniversary of
the laying of its foundation-
stone on August 7, 1843. For a
long time there were not enough
Hebrews in Hobart to form a
congregation, so many having
fled to places where bithneth
moved a little faster; but rein-
forcements have arrived during
the last few years, and what
bithneth there is isn’t having
any bank holidays.
“Bad Australian” : Lieut. Can-
delaria has flown over the
Andes, away down south in the
Rio Negro territory. The Re-
public hasn’t gone wild over the
performance because, although
he has crossed what there is of
the range down in the Black
River country, his feat, com-
pared with that of flying across
the Uspallata Pass, where New-
berry, Macias and Zanni came
to grief, is like flying over the
Dividing Range where it peters
out on the-Western Plains and
crossing over from Gifipsland to
the Upper Murray. Candelaria
tackled an easy route both on
account of altitude and to be
sure of landing almost anywhere
en route if his engine went back
on him. The Uspallata Pass,
on account of the altitude
(13,000 ft.) and the absolute im-
possibility of making a success-
ful descent except at three
points in about 300 kilometers,
still remains for the man who
proposes to do something really
worth doing on wings. Zanni’s 140 kilo-
meters to Las Vacas, although it ended in a
smash, is an immeasurably greater achieve-
ment than Candelaria’s crossing.
One of the last of the Barcoo (Q.)
pioneers, Mrs. Donald Charles Cameron, died
lately, aged 99, In 1866 with her four
daughters and two young sons she was met
at Rockhampton by her husband and son
John, who had been members of a party
which started from New England (N.S.W.)
a few years earlier on a land-hunting expedi-
tion. Cameron’s mates were James and
William Crombie. James Crombie repre-
sented western constituencies for several
years in the Bananaland Parliament. Cam-
eron became a considerable cattle-station
owner, and of the Cameron sons John was
M.L.A. for the Mitchell and later North
Brisbane and a Q. N. Bank director. Donald
is now managing director of John Cameron
and Co., which owns Kensington Downs and
Caledonia stations. Mrs. Cameron left 84
direct descendants. Ten grandsons have put
on khaki.
Australian histories generally remark,
in a hazy sort of way, that Angus McMil-
lan “discovered” Gippsland; but McMillan
himself made no such claim. AVhat
he did claim, probably correctly, was
that he was the first to cross Gippsland
from the Monaro country to the sea at
Corner Inlet. At a dinner given to him at
Port Albert in 1856, he definitely stated
that other Monaro men had gone into Gipps-
land before him. When he arrived at Carra-
vong, in the Monaro country, in February,
1839, with instructions to look for
cattle country farther south, Bayliss had
already been down to Buchan (where the
caves are, not far from Orbost). Omeo was
already occupied when McMillan struck it
in 1840, and Walter Mitchell, a nephew of
MacFarlane, the pioneer of Omeo, had been
as far as where Bruthen now stands, near
the mouth of the Tambo. It was not till
May, 1841, that McMillan, starting from a
station which he had formed on the Avon,
reached Corner Inlet. He related that
for 16 months on end he never slept in a
bed nor had even a tent to shelter him.
THEY FOLLOWED HER, TO SCHOOL.
Mary had a little lamb—which was such an
unusual tinny during the meat shortage
that it blocked, the traffic.
Brisbane lost its oldest Anglican cleric a
few days ago when Canon Thomas Jones
died. He came out in the year 1860 as one
of a little bunch of curates introduced by
Bishop Tufnell. The young clergyman
served under Bishops Tufnell, Hale and
Webber (all now deceased), and was an
unfailing helper of Archbishop Donaldson,
the present supreme Anglican dignitary in
Bananaland. Canon Jones used to boast
that he had married hundreds of people
whom he had also christened, and that he
had baptised numbers of babies whose grand-
parents he had also sprinkled with christen-
ing water in the early days. He served for
a brief space in Hobart, but the rest of his
life in Australia was passed in the North,
mostly near Brisbane. In his 82nd year the
infernal climate put an end to the career of
a good and vigorous shepherd.
“F.” : William Andrews, who died last week,
was a solicitor of 43 years’ standing, a Sydney
native and a member of the firm of Andrews
and Manning. The latter is a son of the
late William P. Manning, four times Mayor
of Sydney. An early Andrews kept the
Ship and Mermaid Inn, in Gloucester-street,
about 80 years ago. He was a shipowner,
shipbuilder, and prospered generally when
whalers sailed in and out of Sydney Harbor.
The firm of solicitors was founded by the
late William Whaley Billyard, who took his
son-in-law, Captain Moseley, into the busi-
ness. Eventually the firm became Billyard,
Andrews and Moseley, and later Andrews,
Moseley and Manning. Captain Moseley, at
85 or about, is still a mere youth, busily
doing War Chest work.
J. li. G. Adams, of Adelaide Public
Library, has had just 40 years in the service
of the Board which controls it as well as
the Art Gallery and the Museum. He is
secretary of the Board now, and all his
colleagues got together last week to mark
the occasion by a presentation. It took
the appropriate form of a water-color paint-
ing by G. A. Barnes.
CHEER-O!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If I should fall and Death unknown should leap
Out of the distant darknesses 1 face;
If I should leave this pleasant, dreaming place
For some strange sphere, do not so much as weep.
Na} r , all the old familiar customs keep.
Sing Joy, and gather Love in swift embrace;
Nor turn aside with slow and solemn pace,
From Life’s bright morning-ways to Sorrow’s deep.
I should not know you if you walked in woe
And garbed yourselves in Grief’s grey drapery.
Be blithe with laughter all the long years through,
That I, remembering, may come and go.
O friends, keep living full and free for me
So I, the seeming dead, may live in you.
N.S.W.
V. C.


CHAMPION
TOBACCO
Roll your own Cigarette
from
Champion Tine Cut
Rich &Full Flavoured
M)c/cat
7iex>t tc 'the,
'iw/y
7/utAic^t^
i o/f it;
k &o
B&ollyour own Cigarette
W from
f Champion Fine Cut
Tobacco.
PLUG


THE ROYAL ROAD TO BEAUTY.
LADIES!
As culture begets taste, taste
begets beauty; even as music
soothes the soul, so beauty soothes the heart. It is true
all good things come to an end, but you can delay
that end from coming too soon. Flowers even will
fade without nourishment and care. Heaven helps
them who help themselves. The great war has made
you the greatest factor on earth, but, with the
wastage of manhood, in the struggle to come it
will be the survival of the fittest. Nature in her
wonderful way has determined that all life must
display its beauty to the opposite sex to gain appro-
bation, and to each she has allotted its own par-
ticular charm. Beauty is only skin deep, and it is
exposure to wind and weather principally that
prevents your face from being as perfect as the
rest of vour body. Your skin needs care and nour-
ishment to keep pace with the wastage caused from
exposure. In modern skin hygiene the aim is to
cleanse and improve the texture of the skin and
develop and bring back its latent beauty rather
than gloss over imperfections. JOHN STRANGE
WINTER’S TOILET PREPARATIONS have beer,
scientifically prepared for this very purpose. They
offer the modern creams, which arc a supreme aid
in making women more comely, more attractive and
more charming. Use them daily after shopping,
motoring or a busy day at home, to remove dirt
from the nores and freshen up the skin. You need
only rub it in and rub it out again to rejuvenate
your skin and bring a healthy glow to your cheeks.
Dry, tender and chapped skins are soothed and
softened by their use. They are so dewy, so deli-
cate —harmless to the skin of the merest babe.
J.S.W. preparations are used by royalty and have
gained six gold medals at London, Paris and Rome.
This should be a sufficient guarantee for you. Moreover,
more women are using them every year, because of
their genuineness and purity, because of their soft-
ness, transparency, pleasing odor and adherent
qualities. If you wish to look your best, to be
comely, you must give attention to those little arts
which no woman can afford to despise. Use J.S.W.
Hair Foods (non-oilv for oily scalps, oily for dry
scalps), Dry Shampoo, Lakshmi Cream (for a dry
skin), New Face Cream (for an oily skin—two
colors: soft white, soft pink). Creme Marquise,
Powder (in tints: white, cream and pink), Soap,
Dental Cream, Carmine, etc. Send 3d. stamps to
.JOHN STRANGE WINTER (London, Paris, Rome),
31 Depbt, 26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney, for a
sample of Powder (name the tint), or Dental Cream,
or Soap, or Lakshmi Cream, or New Face Cream,
and Booklet, which will give you valuable informa-
tion.
\Aelt om an
I ▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
[SPECIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
is
E. BROWN (§> SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
Go, victims sad, of coughs and cold,
No longer your distress endure;
Seek out some store where it is sold,
And purchase Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
To-night a dose or two in bed
Will soothing sleep to you assure;
To ease the lungs and clear the head
There’s naught like Woods’ Peppermint Cure.
—A DVT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
Tied tape did not count,, for much in the
early official letters in N. S. Wales. In 1803
Governor King received from his secretary,
W. N. Chapman, the following reply to
some remarks of Captain Colnett, of H.M.S.
Glatton :
I hereby declare that Captain Colnett, or any
other person who dares to say that ever I gave it
out publicly and officially, as secretary to his
Excellency Governor King, that the Glatton was to
sail at any particular time is a liar, a scoundrel and
a vagabond, and that whoever he is, if he has the
spirit to come forward, that I will wring his nose
and spit in his face.
No gentleman could go further without being
offensive.
The Germans interned on Soames Island
(M.L.) had reason to fear last week
that a new form of frightfulness was
about to be launched, with themselves in
the role of victims. The wooden coastal
steamer Defender caught fire at a Welling-
ton wharf while loading case-oil from an oil-
steamer, and after frantic efforts had been
made to put out the flames the little ship
was towed across the harbor aw r ay from the
city towards Soames Island, leaving behind a
long trail of smoke and flame. Eventually
the blazing vessel was beached on a reef
on the windward point of the island, and the
Ftitzes enjoyed a stirring and stifling after-
noon. Two nights previously four crippled
Germans, who because of their infirmity had
extra liberty, escaped on a semi-submersible
raft made of kerosene-tins and biscuit-boxes.
After four hours spent in sitting lip to their
waists in water and rowing with spades,
they reached the railway line and road on
the coast of the harbor, where one of the
adventurers collapsed. The others, though
more dead than alive, got a passing taxi to
take them to the city. He ran them to
the police-station, where the brotherly Huns
mentioned casually that they had left a half-
dead mate on the beach some miles back.
John Hop tore out aboard a taxi, and found
the German half awash and completely
settled. He died on the way to town.
“Dave L.”: One dark night I was stroll-
ing along a badly-lit Melbourne street, when
a hungry shadow caught up to me and
yelped cheerfully with the rising inflection
of Yorkshire, “Will ye give, me some money
for a plate of soup? I'm going away to the
country to-morrer.” As I was feeling pretty
good, and hoped never to meet him again, I
gave him a shilling and lie left me. Half
an hour later I was coming back the same
way, deep in thought, when a familiar cry
hit me on the ear. “Will ye give me some
money for a plate of soup? I’m goin’ away
to the” “D —n you!” I shouted, “I’ve
just given you enough money to swim in
soup!” He left me deeply dejected. If lie
is still practising I guess he has revised his
system- so that he progresses at regular
intervals down the bill-of-fare.
* * * *
The occasional civil servant who tries to
give the public good value for his wages is
often worse than the other sort who thinks
he is dying of overwork when he’s really only
suffering from sluggish intellect. A Sydney
woman recently tried to register her new tea-
room as (say) the Jane and Betsy. There
was a succession of hitches at the Circum-
locution Department, and at last she tackled
the Comptroller of Signboards and demanded
to know what all the shuffling was over—she
only wanted to paint two homely names on
a wall. “Well,” remarked the' cautious
official, “it’s war-time, you know, and we’ve
got to be careful.”
ADVICE FREE.
THE FAIB ONE: “That young Jenkins told
me that he wants to take up a medical
course .”
THE RETURNED ONE: “What did you, say to
that?”
THE FAIR ONE: “Advised him to take his
medicine in France.”
“Duglio”: Bill was in our ward with a
badly-lacerated lsg. “How did it happen?”
asked the sweef Y.A.D. Bill looked up
pathetically. “I was leaning up against the
barrage, when some fool lifted it and I fell
on a jam-tin.”
WELL MEANT.
THE MUSICAL ONE: “The soldiers seemed to appreciate my battle-piece last night.”
THE OTHER: “They found it most realistic. One man said that nothing of the horrors
was missing .”
The Lloyd George Government is unani-
mously condemned in London press for
sanctioning a flood of knighthoods in
connection with the new Order of the
British Empire. It was originally supposed
that this was to be the civilian D. 5.0., a
recognition of exceptional service in war time,
but in practice thousands of minor officials,
contractors and departmental parasites of
all sorts and characters, many of military
age but drawing big salaries in cushy jobs
in London, have been nominated to its mem-
bership. Westminster Gazette says the
whole thing is calcu-
lated to bring title-
giving into con-
tempt and derision,
though it’s late in the
century to suggest
that. The Daily
News indulges in this
pleasantry: “What
did you do in the
great war, Daddy ?”
“I kept out of the
Honors List, my son.”
Hall Caine is one of
the new’ Knights of
the British Empire,
in reward for his un-
paid penwork on be-
half of the cause of
the Allies in America,
Italy and Ireland.
Poet Alfred Noyes
was only deemed
worthy of a “com-
panionship.” and the
same small satisfac-
tion was given to
war-writer “lan Hay,”
who in real life
is Major John Hay
Beitli.' The K.B.E.
also goes to Harry
Brittain (who organ-
ised the first Imperial
Press Conference),
Bertram Lima (who
runs the London Daily Mirror and Sun-
day Pictorial) and to Howard Spicer,
member of the paper-manufacturing firm of
London and Sydney. Spicer is said to have
done good work in providing the Ministry
of Munitions with numerous paper substi-
tutes for metals.
“Nor’-West” : Education-Minister James,
of N. S. Wales, recently deplored the fact
that out of some thousands of school-children
who were examined by the Department’s
medical staff and found to be suffering from
adenoids and other throat troubles, a very
small percentage was treated for these com-
plaints. He expressed considerable astonish-
ment that, although a fair number of chil
dren with defective teeth were attended to.
the more serious complaints were apparently
let “rip.” Well, the reason is not very diffi-
cult to find. About four years ago my uni-
versity was visited by one of the Department
doctors, or doctoresses—it was a lady—and
my heir-apparent, among others, was found
to be suffering with adenoids, and I was
strongly advised to have him operated on. I
was assured by the oldest inhabitant that it
would only cost a “few bob” in Sydney, so
young Nor’-West was taken to the city,
underwent the operation satisfactorily, which
took place in a private hospital, and we went
home rejoicing. Then the shock came. The
doctor only charged six guineas, which, toge-
ther with hospital fee and the train fares,
made 10 pounds look a mere trifle. The coun-
try medico usually charges more than his
average brother sawbones of the city, conse-
quently it does not require a very brilliant
flight of imagination to solve why parents
don’t give the defective children the needful
professional attention. Little Billjim is
taken to the dentist to have his teeth “fixed
up,” for that, as a rule, does cost only a
“few bob,” while his adenoids, etc., are left
to look after themselves. As the Education
Dept.’s travelling hospital staff can, appa-
rently, only treat a very limited number of
children it is up to Minister James to make
some arrangements with Sawbones to be
more reasonable in his charges for the benefit
of the nation.
* * * *
A. _ Barnett, formerly one of Sydney sti-
pendiary beaks, appeared last week before
the Royal Commission which is inquiring
into the working or otherwise of N. S.
Wales Civil Service. With 40 years’
experience of blight and barnacles behind
him, Barnett denounced the whole chloro-
formed contraption from the Public Service
Board down. As an instance of the ineffi-
ciency of the P. 5.8., when Reid ordered
retrenchment, he quoted the case of an old
civil servant with 11 children who was
suddenly handed a fortnight’s notice. The
wretched man fainted away and, when he
came to, although previously no drinker
and an efficient worker, he went out, got
drunk, and remained so for a week. Eventu-
ally he died as a result of the way he had
been treated. Barnett told how he tackled
a job years ago with a staff of 11, of which
eight were workers and three were merely
civil servants. They yawned so much and
so exhaustedl.v that Barnett fled to an
Under-Secretary and begged him to sack
them. But it couldn’t be done. Probably
the Under-Secretary was too tired.
(Continued on page 18.)
NIGHT STOCK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From Winterbroolc to Ashton
The road is white and clear.
In the low light, in the moonlight,
In the heyday of the year,
To Winterbrook from Ashton
Riding came my dear!
A columbine, a red rose,
A tiger-lily grand,
And pansies blue as elves grew
In fields of Faeryland,
To Winterbrook from Ashton
lie brought me in his hand!
But more than royal red rose
Or tiger-lily fine,
A blue bowl, a pearl bowl
Abrim with wizard wine ;
lie brought me scented night stock,
And all the world was mine!
A purple leaf, a green leaf,
A hint of pink and brown
And deep in charmed sleep
I laid my senses down,
And heard the beat of wee feet,
The fairies come to town!
Oh, Faery Town is Dream Town,
And none may break the spell,
But the earth-scent and the wind-song
And the murmur of a shell
At moonset when the ebb tide
Is tolling like a bell!
And Faery time is all time,
Nor aye is near or far,
For heart’s need or love’s meed,
A mercy or a star,
The bless&d gates of ivorie
For ever stand ajar!
The wind that wakes the clove buds
Blows east by Hindustan.
From Celebes the spice breeze
Brings junk and merchantman,
With frankincense and camphor
And myrrh and frangipan!
But fleeter through the palm seas,
Low-loaded to the rail.
With scented snow of peach blow-
Like foam before the gale;
To Faery Town with witchgold
The fleets of Faery sail!
And first they gave me lad’s love,
And mint and dragon’s tongue,
But the last gift was black thrift—
Slow, slow the sea-tide swung,
And white as bone the moon set,
The bells of Faery rung!
Oh, soon they gave me witchgold,
But syne they brought me rue,
And the earth-scent and the wind song
Like hounds of night ran through,
And loudly belled the white stag,
The hours of Faery blew !
The columbine, the red rose,
The tiger-lily grand,
The pansies blue as elves grew
Were dust within my hand ;
But mine for aye the night stock,
My Faery contraband.
From Winterbrook to Ashton
The road is white and clear.
In the low light, in the moonlight,
In the heyday of the year,
To Winterbrook from Ashton
Riding came my dear!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


Sfte PIANOLA
PIANO.
The PIANOLA is the Perfecft
Piano that you can play.
HROUGHOUT the history
of the player-piano the Pianola
has been the leader —the in-
strument without a peer.
The infinite variety of touch —the rich
tonal effects —the almost limitless range of
musical expression it makes possible—
have brought the Pianola the patronage
and endorsement of the great musicians, of
the leading educators, of the men and
women foremost in every walk of life.
Such universal recognition is won only by
distinctly superior quality —by unqualified
supremacy in all essentials.
Pianola perfection is a product of many
minor perfections, but a few of its features
are outstanding and revolutionary. .
The Metrostyle is an instance. This
wonderful tempo control is unapproached
in effectiveness. It aids the novice in
music to utilise with fine artistic effect the
wonderful technical resources of the Pianola
—this by guidance of the famous “red
line” interpretations recorded by the
most eminent of modern musicians.
Be careful and see that our trade-mark
“PIANOLA” appears on the piano of
your choice! You have a world-famed
selection for your consideration in the
Steinway, Stecß, Stroud,
British Weber,
Farrand and Aeolian
Pianola Pianos.
IVrite to-day for Catalog and Price List,
■
c
Si S'&g.
r?
&
f =2
r's
l
I
fcr*
wifeber
|f-Q
n-i
JBj
---3 L
%
acme
n
i
/y /
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne 5 436 Queen Street, Brisbane
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent peneopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
f y m
m
m
Edward Branscombe, one of the leading Entrepreneurs of Australia, writes of
Tonic that it is a medicine that all theatrical persons should use.
An important testimony from Mr.
Edward Branscombe, the well-known
theatrical and musical entrepreneur,
to whom Australia is indebted for
the visits of the Westminster Glee
Singers, Sousa’s Band, and the
famous Russian Instrumentalists,
The Cherniavkis.
Mr. Branscombe was also the
originator and producer of The
Scarlet Troubadours, the first Cos-
tume Comedy Company to visit this
country, as well as the numerous
companies of Dandies which have
been performing in Australasia for
the past seven years.
Clements Tonic Ltd.. Rozelle, N.S.W.
The Garden Theatre,
Baysvbater Road, Sydney.
TO CLEMENTS TONIC LTD. .
As a consistent user of Clements Tonic for the past nine years I have pleasure tn testifying,
through my own personal experiences, to its undoubted efficacy.
The mental and nervous strain associated with all theatrical and musical touring work is an
ever-present source of trouble to those so engaged , and I have been no exception to this ? u e.
Particularly was this the case during the tours of Sousa’s Band and The Westminster Glee
Singers, the latter alone extending over an uninterrupted period of two years and involving a consiam
demand on the nervous system.
This demand was always unfailingly met by a course of Clements Tonic, and there is no gam-
saying the practical benefits I have derived from its use.
If further testimony were needed I could add that my opinion is strongly substantiated by
similar experiences on the part of the many friends to whom I have recommended this exceuenv
Get it and good nerves at the same time.
Ail Chemists and Stores sell this medicine.
“0.K.”: Yic. Assembly last week con-
firmed a previous decision to extend North
Melbourne Market to where the old original
cemetery was established. “Because it is
desired that cabbages should be sold a little
more cheaply, it is proposed to act as vandals
and desecrate God’s acre,” said Sergeant
Ryan, as though every progressive city with
centuries of history behind it hadn’t pro-
gressed on similar desecrations. And the
House was solemnly assured that “the move-
ment of the bodies would be done with all
due reverence and respect.” Bodies as good
as those of the forgotten pioneers of Mel-
bourne are not getting much due reverence
and respect in France and Belgium to-day. I
have seen a couple of old London church-
yards dug up, after the churches had been
duly deconsecrated in the presence of 10 men
and a boy (I was the boy), and in one case
I got away with a thigh-bone from a little
pile of mixed “remains.” This was the yard
of the church where the late Milton had been
christened, so the bone I pinched was pro-
bably not more than 250 years old. Some
of the bones in the old Melbourne cemetery
must be already 70-year-old relics. One can
only value the contents of a grave by the
amount of attention or neglect which the
ground has received since the last occupant
was put there. Doubtless the grower of the
bone I made off with from the yard of
that London church was deeply mourned
for some time after her decease (it was a
lady bone), but the mourners passed out in
their turns and the grave ceased to matter.
That’s how it is with these graves in Melb.
old cemetery. When bones have ceased to
matter nobody should lie so silly and hypo-
critical as to talk of doing them reverence,
simply because they are bones.
* * * *
Henry Cook, convicted last week of hav-
ing, in company with an unknown, stuck up
and robbed two Yic.' Printing Office pay
clerks of £4471. goes into retirement for 10
years, principally because the victims were
not up to schedule time in arriving on the
scene. Cook and his accomplice knew what
hour to expect the officials back at the
printing-office, and wore at the door with a
motor-cycle and side-car; but the clerks
were delayed at the bank for 25 minutes
that chilly morning, so the engine couldn't
be kept running. While they were waiting
the stopped machinery got cold and a couple
of employees had a good look at the hangers-
on. When it was time for the get-away the
chilled engine needed coaxing, which the
robbers hadn’t time for. Then a shot was
fired into the petrol tank and the vehicle
was left behind, necessitating half a ton of
laborious explanation, which a jury declined
to believe. Had the weather been warmer
the job might have worked. Incidentally the
detectives' seem to have neglected no point
in tracing the real or imaginary progress
of Cook that morning. Even the suburban
tearoom waitress who served hint arid bis
lady friend with lunch was called to testify
that the customers ate nothing!
THE FIGHTING SPIRIT.
“Why do so many of you Australians marry
just as you are going to the rear?”
“Well, it's like this. If a bloke's game he’ll
take on anything .”
“Explorer”: One of the many curios
brought back from the firing-line is at pre-
sent exhibited in Hobart. It is a violin,
made by a member of the A.I.F. on the
Western Front. The body is formed from
a German field-telephone box, the neck and
arm came from a German rifle, the tail piece
ANOTHER LABOR DIFFICULTY.
“This year if is expected that, a, warship will be
launched in England built entirely by women’s
labor.”
THE BIRD : “There will be trouble when this
is reported to the Storks' Union."
(the small bone part to which the strings
are attached) are out of the knee-cap of a
mule, and the hair of the bow was obtained
from the same animal. The whole of the
back of the body is carved with the names
of the villages in which the soldier has been.
It took two years to complete the work-—all
done with a penknife.
“Hamer” : When I
reached France I
fancied I would at
last be able to find
out the correct way
of pronouncing
“Ypres.” I made a
mistake. The soldiers
call it, indifferently,
Yeeps, Yeep e r s,
Yeeper, Yeepree,
Yeepri, Iper, Ipers,
Iprey and a score of
other somewhat simi-
lar things, down to
one Tommy’s “Ilipo.”
“Is it Eper?" I asked
one woman of the
shattered district.
“Eper, m’sieur," she
assented. “Or is it
Eprey?” I pursued.
“Eprey, m’sieur,” she
assented some more.
“It doesn’t happen
to be Woolloomooloo,
does it?” I asked. “It.
is anything that
m’sieur pleases,” she
said politely. It
doesn’t matte r—-
“Heaps” would be
the best word to use,
all things considered.
* ¥r
“E.T.”: The two middle-aged ladies had
evideritly been to the “pictures.” Their con-
versation could he heard above the rattle of
the tram. “And to think,” exclaimed one.
“that he married her, after all!” “Ah!”
sighed her friend, “I know a lot of men who
wouldn’t."
“8.T.”: A curious character turned up
at a' Melb. city hotel recently, and stayed
for a few hours. His name is not Tweedale,
and he owns a lump of land on a Murray
tributary, the finest soil in his district, and
is rich, a bachelor, and lone from choice. He
is, in short. a
notorious woman-
hater, and afflicted
with a quaint be-
lief that all the
females within
miles, young and
old, lie awake of
nights concocting
schemes against
his freedom and
peace. For greater
security he has
made his home in
a hut on an un-
stable island in
the river. This
island is infested
with rats, and
Tweedale encour-
ages the vermin as
a bodyguard, argu-
ing cunningly that
no daughter of
Eve will dare in-
vade his domain
with hostile intent
while it swarms
with famished ro-
dents. It was
almost compulsion
brought Tweedale
to Melbourne, and
from the moment
he set foot in the
city he betrayed
the liveliest appre-
hension. Wherever
he turned there
were women. He
fled to the appoint-
ed hotel, and there
were women there;
women in the bar,
women in the kit-
chen, women in all
the rooms and pas-
sages. Tweedale
complained to the
landlord that he
had been given a
room between two
women, and was courteously conducted to
an apartment on the other side of the
house. The landlord opened a window and
explained casually: “An outdoor iron stair-
case, you see—for escape." “My G —d !”
said Tweedale. “Are they as bad as that
in Melbourne?” By the next train the agi-
tated tiller returned to his island and his
bodyguard.
“Bill": We are fighting in famous wine
country, and there is sometimes as much fun
in getting the right stuff as there is in drink-
ing it. In a village recently captured by
us, our burly intelligence-officer went a-hunt-
ing in some cellars. He lit a match and
was just putting his revolver back in the
holster when he heard a whine of “Ivam-
erad!” He leaped back arid found two
dejected Fritzes waiting for him like lost
children. He swelled up his chest arid
marched them back as if he had been fightirig
lions. After that we rolled a bomb down
each cellar for luck. The French were on
the job, too, and we admired their systematic
way of working. A dozen men went, out with
a stretcher. If unlucky the stretcher brought
back a man. but if the luck was in it bore a
freight of bottles.
* * V *
“Eastern”: “Roughcoal” (B. l/1/’IS) is
correct in saying that the Loch Sloy was
wrecked on Kangaroo Island in 1809. Nine-
teen years ago I was in the telegraph-office
at Kingscote, the island’s capital, and I
have a clear recollection of preparing the
death-registration papers of 21 of the crew
one day and several others subsequently,
most of them “name unknown” and some
of them “sex unknown," so severely battered
were they. If my memory serves me well
only three were ultimately saved. Four
actually got ashore, one of whom was the
only passenger aboard, a young man making
the trip for his health’s sake. The sailors
were barefooted, but the passenger had on
boots, which he gave to one of his com-
panions to aid him in securing help. The
passenger elected to stay on the spot, whilst
two sailors struck westward along the unin-
habited coast. The other went eastward. The
latter reached the homestead of an Outback
squatter next day, and later the other two
were found near to Cape Borda in a half-
demented condition. They had lived for
some days on dead birds, etc., picked up on
the coast, and, when found, were consider-
ably decorated by numerous over-ripe speci-
mens hung round their necks. With the aid
of a local tracker search veas made for the
passenger, and by reason of the tufts of
wool left from his socks on the flinty stones
he was eventually found a couple of miles
inland —dead, of course. The bodies and
portions of bodies were conveniently dis-
posed of on the spot, mainly by covering
them, where they lay with rocks. Some
months later the then second keeper at
Cape Borda was given the gruesome job by
the Government of removing all the scraps
and giving them proper burial at a more
suitable spot. I greatly doubt “Roughcoal’s”
statement re the hidden whisky. “Rough-
coal” chides “Briner” for omitting the Loch
Vennacher from the Loch sinkings off K. 1.;
but he himself omits the Loch Torrid'on'.
which disappeared with all hands somewhere
south-west of Cape Willoughby. The Island
has been unkind to the Loch line.
* * * *
“Siri” : The Italian medical-officer at our
rest-camp in France was a dandy with the
scalpel and he had a way of Iris own of
treating boils. When Cootamundra Bill
turned up with one low down on his back
Dr. Tiber got the familiar little knife ready.
The rest bf the story is Bill’s: —
I took up the trunk-forward head “possie,” with
hands on thighs. All right. It wasn’t too bad at
the first and 1 thought I could stand it without
shifting. But I did shift. Yes, by gum, I shifted!
It came up like a bee-sting—just ordinary; then
the sting became supported by old-age-pensioner
nettles and smart-weed thrown in. I took up the
trunk-6«cfcwards bend “possie.” Then it seemed as
if the whole flaming hive of bees had a fly. I did
the “possie” some more, then more so, and by the
time the dago finished his stunt I'd looped the
blanky loop !
* * ■*- *
“0.5” : This is what came in after .Toe’s
fox-terrier had nipped the Gippo hawker: —
To his Excellency, the colonel officer of Flying.—
As I have given satisfaction to the Army all my
life, and I am a very- deserving father of large
family, I tell you with righteous indignation that
of yopr camp one dog bitted me near my hand, caus-
ing outpouring of blood in large quantities and dis-
tressing pain, and this on to-day, when I was accom-
plishing my lawful task, and he did not give me
notice. The dog it was cnglisli, with a color of
black and white and sleeps with flying officer,
I do not know him. Please most excellency
because this dog is not like good egyptian will you
murder he and we egyptian workmen who one all
fear the dog will give dog officer 20 p.t. for conso-
lation to him. Please most excellency we all bless
you as you are a righteous master and full of virtue
to poor men, and hope you .will live long with
plenty wives and much children.— Abdel Ahmed.
DIPLOMACY.
“Have you ever met your ideal woman?"
“Scores of times; but I’ve always been lucky
enough to change my ideal.”
BIG-GAME HUNTERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Says a Melbourne' philosopher: “In nothing is
hereditary more pointedly demonstrated than in
the persistence of the hunter’s instincts in civilised
man. Man remains the hunter in spite of training
and environment, while in woman we find a powerful
natural aversion to all those pastimes that delight
the hunter.”
The little maid comes from her school
In sweet simplicity.
She is not taught the killer's rule,
No lethal brand has she.
Her hands are soft as roses white,
Her great eyes fill with sudden fright.
Her dimples shelter witchery,
They are not pits for game.
Her jewelled mouth is good to see.
From that with cunning aim
There issues forth no poisoned dart
To cleave a trusting creature’s heart.
The strong man strikes the lion down,
He takes the mammoth’s skin,
He sees the horned hjppo drown,
And brings the tiger in.
Man hunts big game where’er he can—
The maiden hunts and takes the man!
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Meggitt Ltd. Silos
at Parramatta.
fi
B
k
0^
i
%
%
LOVi
A LANDMARK
of the Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers
of the Southern Hemisphere in the Pioneering Town—
PARRAMATTA—of N.S.W.
MEGGITT LTD. UNSEED OIL and
One Quality Only
m
LINSEED OIL MEAL
—The Best.
CATALOGUE NO. 2 MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from all Agents: Messrs. HARRISONS, RAMSAY LTD., 666 Rourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. R. S EXTON & CO
Queen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. W. ADAMS & CO., Perth; Messrs. F, W. HERITAGE & CO.. Launceston and Hobart* Messrs
CLARKSON LTD., Adelaide; or
Wl EGG ITT LTD.
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 KING STREET. SYDNEY. AUSTRALIA.
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality .


HOW TO RELIEVE STOMACH PAINS
IN A FEW MINUTES.
Nine times out of ten when your stomach
hurts, when you are doubled up with the
pains of dyspepsia and indigestion, it is
simply because of acid which burns and in-
flames the delicate stomach lining, and fer-
menting food which forms gas that distends
the stomach just like blowing up a toy
balloon. In cases like this—and most all
stomach trouble is directly or indirectly due
to acid and fermentation—almost instant
relief may be obtained by taking in a little
hot water immediately after eating or when-
ever pain is felt, a half-teaspoonful of Bisu-
rated Magnesia, obtainable at any chemist
at small cost. This simple remedy may seem
old-fashioned, but those who have used it say
that besides being inexpensive it beats the
expensive remedies they have tried for quick
and positive relief. Try it and see. —Advt,
Elsie Ferguson,
n
mn
THE BEAUTIFUL ARTCRAFT STAR.
m
Elsie Ferguson is considered to be the screen’s most beautiful actress. She will
be well remembered for her great work in “BARBARY SHEEP" and “THE RISE
OF JENNIE CUSHING.”
Miss Ferguson appears exclusively in the superb Artcraft picture productions.
Three Ways to Know PARAMOUNT and ARTCRAFT MOTION PICTURES.
1. By seeing these trade-marks or
names in the advertisements of your
local theatre.
2. By seeing these trade-marks or
names on the front of the theatre or
in the lobby.
3. By seeing these trade-marks or
names flashed on the screen inside the
theatre.
CuEi
PARAMOUNT PICTURES
ALEC LORIMORE Managing Director-
THREE' HUNDRED and TWO, PITT ST. Sydney.
I^p
POLITICAL
POINTS
The loan of £4,750,000 which the Com-
monwealth is raising in London on behalf of
the States that can’t pay their way was
only permitted by the British Government
on the promise that there would be no more
borrowing for temporary and unproductive
Shirks while the war endures. The war
may endure a long time yet, so the. Last
Loan is a” solemn event, like the Burial of
Sir John Moore or the Lay of the Last
Minstrel, or the Fall of the House of
Usher.
According to the Local Government Bill,
now before N. S. Wales Parliament, coun-
cils are to have power to prevent overcrowd-
ing—whether by providing more space <?r by
shoving the overcrowders into internment
camps pending developments doesn’t appear.
Until the date of last census affairs were
steadily improving especially with the
humbler classes. In 1891. out of every
10,000 N. S. Wales, inhabitants, 305 lived in
one-roomed dwellings; in 1911 only 178. The
two-roomers diminished from 455 per 10,000
to 236. The three- and four-roomers
diminished from 2720 to 2393. The solid
increase was in the five-and-six-room crowd
who stand for unpretentious comfort (3240
to 4103). The seven-to-10-roomers, who also
stand for solid comfort but begin to look like
luxury, increased only from 1973 to 2124 per
10,000 people. The really rich crowd, dwell-
ing in houses of 11 rooms and upwards, re-
presented only 969 out of every 10,000 people
in 1891, and were down to 781 in 1911, so
they were a diminishing race. Getting down
to finer details, among 1,494.504 inmates of
private dwellings in 1911 the medium stan-
dard of comfort was represented by four-
roomers (303,967) ; five-roomers, the most
numerous class (366,640) ; six-roomers
(295,975) and seven-roomers (155,418).
There were nearly 50,000 dwellers in houses
with 20 or more rooms, but nearly 46,000 of
these were dwellers in hash-houses or pious
institutions. The very big house that is
just house and not hash is very rare nowa-
days, and the name of the ambitious ances-
tor who built it is almost forgotten. A side-
issue is that when the count was made in
1911 the average rent in Sydney was 3s. 3d.
per inhabitant per week while in the rest of
the State it was Is. lOd. But congestion
must be paid for. Probably the house
famine has altered things a good deal of late.
“ J.G.’s” recollection ;
Re the late Max Hirsch (B. 1/8/T8). I knew the
oily German very well, and he had an astonishing
following among the squatters and cockies of Northern
Victoria, though this was somewhat strange in view
of their bitter opposition to a land tax of any
description, and Hirsch’s two main ideas were (1)
to tear down the tariff wall and to dump in German
goods to kill local industries, (2) to make up for
the loss of Customs revenue by means of the single-
tax. Hirsch maintained that the land should pay
the State’s whole revenue. He attempted to get
into the Assembly just prior to Federation, when he
made an unsuccessful attack on the seat held by Dick
O’Neill, strong Protectionist and good Australian;
this was the old Mandurang electorate, now absorbed
by Eaglehawk and G’unbower. I never saw an
electorate before or since that was so flooded by
canvassers and spruikers in the interest of Germany,
That contest must have cost the Freetrade candidate
thousands and thousands of pounds, and as Hirsch
admitted being a poor man the question as to who
paid the’ money is easy to answer. But although he
had got the bump, he wasn’t done with. He took
upon himself the work of interviewing Departmental
heads and such like on behalf of Mandurang electors,
work that is always left to the sitting member ; and
the heads, instead of kicking the interloper off the
office mat, seemed to welcome him and helped him
to undermine the influence of O’Neill. Cases are on
record where, after the member for the district was
unable to get through red-tape entanglements, the
plausible German would take a matter up and get
what was wanted done, without any trouble evidently.
When Federation was brought about Hirsch came out
as the Freetrade candidate for the division that con-
tained the State electorate of Mandurang, and again
money was spent like water; and the Protectionist
candidate, Jamie McColl, had his work cut
out to win the seat. He succeeded, how-
ever, by a margin of a hundred or two. Another
State election soon followed this first Federal elec-
tion, and Hirsch again bobbed up in opposition to
O’Neill. This time no chances were taken by the
THE PRODIGAL SON .
“W. Holman is being entertained to celebrate the record-term Premiership in N. S. Wales.” —News item.
COHENSTEIN: “You take the fatted palm, Villiam, for long and faithful service.”
Foreign Trade crowd, and the sectarian devil was
dragged out by the tail and set to work. Hirsch
this time got the seat. At the Federal contest he
threw up the place, as, of course, a Hun agent could
do very little to assist Protectionist Germany in the
State Parliament now that the Federal Parliament
had control- of the fiscal question. He came out
as the Freetrade champion for the Wimmera
division against Protectionist Phillips. The German
went down this time with a crash, and soon after
he left Australia and went back to the Faderland.
It would be interesting to know what information he
was able to convey to Germany through being a
member of the Vic. Parliament, and thus able to get
access to practically every document in the country.
And it would be interesting to know what the Win-
the-War cockies and squatters now think of them-
selves when they reflect that they assisted to put
a German agent into an Australian Parliament. Some
time after his arrival in Germany he went to Russia,
no doubt on the same mission as that which brought
him to Australia. He died there.
For the year which closed on June 30
Australia had £15,000,000 worth less im-
ports than in the year before —partly be-
cause we couldn’t get more for lack of ships,
partly because we couldn’t pay for more
through lack of money. If the tariff; had
been fixed to make this diminution perma-
nent we might have made £15,000,000 worth
more goods to fill the gap, but as the tariff
says that the old importing game is to
resume in all its vigor when the war is over
we just did without a lot of things and
paid absurd prices for those that were avail-
able.
“Cosmos”; Queensland Leg. Council is
represented on the Opposition side by many
tired old men who still breathe the Tory
politics of the Mcllwraithian era without
any of the vigor of that dead and gone Scot.
A. J. Tliynne, one-time Minister for Justice,
wearily contributes his quota to the debates,
somewhat feebly resentful of the new bloods
of the Labor party occupying the benches
which used to be exclusive to bloated indivi-
duals who owned vast tracts of Queensland
territory and unlimited quantities of unearned
increment. Leahy snap's out sarcastic inter-
jections from the same end of the Chamber,
while the balance of ancients, with the ex-
ception of Fowles and O’Shea, look on and
silently acquiesce in any slating ladled out
to the interlopers over the way. Fowles,
somewhat commonplace of aspect until moved
by his outraged emotions, fires into a small
tornado of invective, and is an effective casti-
gator. O’Shea, the legal facilitator of the
House, despite some hard-crusted convictions,
is valuable in the polishing of measures sent
U p from the Assembly, obviously wishful to
mould them into law sound and unassailable.
Jones, big and breezy, reminiscent of a
schoolboy going through his task, leads the
Chamber with a cheerfulness that tones down
the acridity of critics. Crampton is a
capable lieutenant, while Nevitt—selecting
three standing out from the Ministerial
crowd—plunges boldly into the fray with
refreshing independence.
gure]v the ()ne Big . City party ’ s policy
. ,
01 bringing everything to Sydney may be
overdone. Owing to the overturning of a
car on a Blue Mountain road, Greene, Com-
monwealth Minister for Meat-Fixing, and
his secretary were somewhat jolted and
the unfortunate driver was smashed. His
catalogue included a leg broken in two
places, a broken collar-bone and damage to
the chest. He was hurriedly put in a rail-
way engine to be taken to Sydney, but as it
was found that he would almost certainly
die before the process of centralisation was
complete, he was reluctantly dispersed into
a comfortable hospital at Penrith.
“J.C.S.” : Apparently the verses in which
J. C. Squire (B. 1/8/TS) gives “a nasty
one” to South Australia are a plagiarism
from Belloc’s “Lord Lundy,” published a
few years ago. There also the subject is a
young man who is pushed by his relatives
into politics, and one of the verses runs:—
The Duke, his aged grandsire, bore
The shame till he could bear no more.
He rallied his declining powers,
Summoned the youth to Brockley Towers,
And bitterly addressed him thus:
“Sir, you have disappointed us!
We had intended you to be
The next Prime Minister but three;
The stocks were sold, the press was squared,
The Middle Class was quite prepared;
But as it is!....my language tails
Go out and govern New South Wales l”
This (of course unintentional) plagiarism is
very curious, seeing that Mr. Squire and Mr.
Belloc are, I think, closely associated in
“Land and Water.” However, what about
the “nasty one” now?
Lionel Hill, of S.A. Assembly, has his own
ideas of a compliment. He was paying, in
the course of debate, what was apparently
meant to be a graceful tribute to Coney-
beer, the Speaker. “Apart from politics,”
said Hill, “I have always found him impar-
tial and courteous.”
The Commonwealth is borrowing a mere
trifle of £4,750,000 in London and paying
per cent, for it with a discount of 10s. per
cent, thrown in. In Australia it offers only
5 per cent, with no discount, though it wants
no less than £40,000,000. But in Australia
anybody can buy £lOOO worth of stock with
£lOOO worth of the Government’s paper pro-
mise to pay in gold. That currency doesn’t
pass in England ; the gold itself is required.
A London trade journal has patted the Ma
State on the head with a club re a remit-
tance by cheque of £1 and some coppers. It
was accompanied by four foolscap forms on
thick paper, three receipt forms on large
thick paper, a thick letter signed by a thick-
headed person, and a thick envelope. Still
the Ma State is waking up to the need of
reform. A royal commission appointed on
fine thick paper is looking into things.
But it isn’t only Governments which suffer
from megalomania. The One Big Union,
for instance, is to have a Grand Council of
14; six Provincial Councils of. eight mem-
bers each; six Departments in each State
with their Councils; and six Councils, one
for each division. Also, many other offices
arid officers. And nothing of any importance
is to be done without reference to the Grand
Council at the top.
“The Pariah”: “L.L.W.” (B. 8/S/T8) is
off the track when In 1 scoffs at the teaching
of Japanese in Sydney University and, in
place, advocates Esperanto. His statement
that it takes eight years to learn the Jap
language is ail wrong. I know men who
wrote and spoke it in two years. Three years
is the time set down for learning Chinese —
an infinitely harder task owing to the enor-
mous number of characters. (About 3000 is
all you want in Japanese.) The hidebound
Britisher is hard to teach. From 1900 on to
the year of calamity, British trade in China
was losing ground to (he German. The reason
was that the British boasted that he had been
10 years (or 20 years) in China and couldn’t
speak the language, whereas the young Ger-
man who had learnt the language could do
personally what a Britisher could only do
through an interpreter. As taught in our
High Schools. Japanese is being done well,
but if “L.L.W.” had protested against the
way in which it is being done at the Univer-
sity I would be with Tiim. There must be
some explanation why so many of the 70 or
so enthusiasts who began last year have
defaulted. I am one of the defaulters (and I
am in good company), though I am keeping
the study up privately. One last suggestion
(God bless the Censor!) : England was an
ally of Prussia 300 years ago. If she had
footled round with volapuk or ido, instead of
German !
STEADFASTNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The message which I send to the people of the
British Empire on the fourth anniversary of their
entry into the war, is, ‘Hold fast!’ In no other
way can be ensured a world set free from war.”
—Lloyd George.
The years loom long in the future painted;
But the long years shrink in the treasured past,
Since war, at whose shadow our hearts had fainted
Touched palms with the sons of our lands at last.
By shadowy Ways and by quiet waters,
Go hosts whom the valleys of twilight bless,
With white flowers scattered by Death’s pale daughters
Who wept for our soldiers’ steadfastness....
Oh! the beat of their drums said,
“Steadfastness!”
The years burn out over fields of glory,
The deathless glory that lives by pain.
And we must envisage in line and story
The faces we never shall see again.
And we must have courage, like theirs undaunted,
Who faced such deaths as ‘we cannot guess,
Lest vain were the pain of their valor vaunted,
And lost the reward of their steadfastness.
Oh, the smile in their eyes was
Steadfastness 1
The years loom long ’mid the future’s shadows,
But short is the path each man may tread,
By the mountain ways and the blossomed meadows
And the breaking seas, to the sunset red.
And pleasure shall beckon to us to tarry
And sloth shall come in its careless dress;
But the deathless message which we must carry,
For our sons to stand to, is “Steadfastness.”
For the blood of men’s heart spelt
Steadfastness.
MAOIIILA.ND.
WILL LAWSON.


Beautiful Grand Pianos
at PALING’S.
CHAPPELL
Mignon Grand.
A perfect example of the
British Piano=maker’s
art. Used in the lead-
ing Conservatoria and
Musical Colleges in
Great Britain.
BEHNING
Sheraton Grand.
Possesses a remarkably
full and resonant tone
of liquid purity and
resonance, and a touch
which is perfection
itself. Undoubtedly an
artist’s Piano.
SAMES
Boudoir Grand.
A small and compact
Grand eminently suited
for the home where
space is limited. The
Durability of this in-
strument is assured.
BRITISH MADE.
BEHNING
Boudoir Grand.
An ideal instrument for
those who appreciate
artistic excellence of
tone and responsive-
ness of touch. Superbly
finished, just the Grand
an artist would love.
CHAPPELL
Bijou (irand.
This highly artistic in-
strument is finished in
Sheraton style and is
noted for its chaste
design and pure sing=
ing-tone quality.
Touch is perfection.
Any of these glorious instruments may be purchased on our Easy Terms, if required. Catalogues free.
Your present piano taken as part payment and full value allowed.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, LISMORE, TOOWOOMBA and NEWCASTLE.
Engineers, Farmers and Skilled Workmen should know the
OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING and CUTTING PROCESS.
The Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest addition to the engineer’s workshop and to the skilled worker’s bench,
portable, so that cutting or welding may be done at the bench, in the field or by the roadside.
CUT OUT COST OF NEW MACHINERY.
It is simple of working and
All Engineers should at once write ns for free catalogues and illustrations showing
are a few of the broken and worn machinery parts our process will make new again
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases. Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels,
Keyways in Shafts. Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be wrnlded, including Cast Iron, W rought Iron,
process.
the remarkable variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. I ollowing
Pipes, Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, W orn
Mild Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other
I
tin. Steel Shaft, in head of 12001 b. Press and
frame, back of shaft-box, 14in. wide and 2in.
and 4in. thick, welded where chalk-marked.
Not possible of repair by ordinary methods.
Repaired in a few hours by our process, sav-
ing the cost of a new press and big loss of
time.
wmm
(Hfnmrn
■ ■ 11
m
mk
■
.
Oxy-Acetylene Welding applied to Pipe Work,
Ammonia Refrigerating Coils.
Farmers, do not scrap your broken parts, but get them
welded by our process at the nearest engineer's.
Poppet-head dismantled in Tasmania
to be erected in New South Wales.
Approximately 12,000 rivets were cut
out with the Oxy-Acetylene Metal-
cutter, without damage to the struc-
ture. This work was carried out by
A. 1.. West & Co., of Sydney.
THE COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN CO. LTD
•9
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents—MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart. Collins House, Collins Stree..
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co.. Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt. >
mn
REG 9 NAME FOR"
HEANS ESSENCE
The Famous floney-saving Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS, CROUP, CATARRH
and other CHEST and THROAT AILiTENTS.
If you do not require a family supply of cough Mixture, ask for Heenzo Cough
Diamonds. They are medicated with Heenzo.
OBTAINABLE FROM MOST CHEMISTS and STORES,
or from G. W. Hean, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ABSOiVfEEir'lf
King
SecngelV”
WIHIBSKY
HieTOP'NOTCH'Scotch
ABORIGINAHTIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES-LINSEED OIL
OF COURSE NOT.
FIRST COUSIN JACK : “Dad 'e ever see two
men more alike than John and Silas?"
SECOND COUSIN JACK: “No, I never ded, an’
’specially Silas.”
“J. Ivin”: Whilst shearing up North
recently I came across the remains of the old bush
shanty on the banks of the Barcoo (Q.) made famous
by Banjo Paterson in his poem, “A Bush Christen-
ing.” Although the owner of the shanty is called
“Michael McGee” in the poem, his real name was
Michael McGuffen, and he kept the pub for some
years up to the time of his death. On his tombstone
is an inscription that says he died whilst looking,
for water. He is buried about three-quarters of a
mile from the old shanty.
* * * *
“E.R.P.” : The best scheme that I know of
for exterminating rabbits was that devised by a
farmer at Blayney (N.S.W.) in 1914, the time of
the drought. He had a thickly-wooded 800-acre
paddock which was infested with bunnies. In one
corner there was a small dam, the only watering
place in the vicinity for miles around. This dam
he roughly fenced in with a rabbit-proof wire-netting
fence, and in the netting he cut a few holes over
which he placed wire so as to make a door after
the style used in pigeon traps, where the bird can
push the door in and gain admittance but cannot
get out again, because the door will not open back-
wards. At sunrise and sundown every day he visited
this trap and let the dogs in. Then the slaughter
would begin. llow those dogs did look forward to
sunrise and sunset! It took about three weeks to
thoroughly clear the paddock of the rabbits. I’ll
admit that this scheme is only workable under cer-
tain conditions, but when it is workable it is
absolutely the most efficient rabbit exterminator
known, and I’ve had a little experience, I can assure
you.
* * * *
“Black Bonnet”: Re paw-paws. At
Rossville (Q.), where they grow to perfection
and ripen all the year round without cultivation,
we drop the seeds from a ripe paw-paw anywhere,
and when the young trees appear we wait until
they flower so that we can make sure of the sex,
then pull up the male trees and as many of the
others as we want. It is considerate of people to
set the paw-paws in pairs—male and female. 1 never
bother about it. The nearest male tree on my place
for years was a quarter of a mile away, and we had
heavy and continual crops of fruit. Have never known
a female tree to bear male flowers, but have had
several male trees on which fruit has formed and
ripened, depending from the branching blossoms
instead of growing to the trunk as with the female
tree. The freaks are not the same shape as the
legitimate fruit, being long and somewhat like
cucumbers, but they are perfectly good for eating.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: “Barcoo,” paralysed at the
Papuan giant frogs paraded by me, asks airily if
I have ever heard of the Borneo frog which carries
about a balloon which it inflates when wishing to
rise in the world. I have; but the only specimen I
ever met was attacked by enemy mosquitoes when
aloft taking aerial observations, and broke the frog's
equivalent of a neck in the subsequent fall. Does
“Barcoo” know the giant frog of Surinam? He
allows his missus to lay her eggs on his broad back.
Then the skin softens and swells up round each egg,
embedding it in the hide. When the eggs are hatched
the infants continue to inhabit the holes, and every-
where that father fares the family’s sure to go.
When the old man thinks the time is ripe, he sheds
both hide and offspring and goes a-wooing next
Spring again. The missus apparently fades out of
the picture after starting the trouble. The habit
ought tp be encouraged.
* * * *
“Shepherd” : The acacia family, the white-
wood and the leopard-wood yield great quantities of
gum, which when treated properly is as good as the
best imported. Pound the gum and fill a
bottle two-thirds of its capacity. Add
cold water until the bottle is almost full.
’Hie gum dissolves in a short time, and a
little alcohol should then be put in to
prevent fermentation. This gum will keep
for years if necessary. Resin from the
pine-tree is prepared like gum except
that methylated spirits or alcohol is used
instead of water. This is superior to gum
for sticking purposes, and if once set is
not affected by water; while if turpentine
be added till the mixture is thinned an
excellent varnish results. . When the bark
of the acacia, which grows on low flats
and river-courses out West, is chopped
fine and boiled in water for two hours the
mixture is very suitable for tanning small
skins.. Put the skins into a cask or other
suitable vessel, and pour the mixture over
them. In six weeks take them out and
rub with a little beef-fat or mutton-fat
while drying. When dry they are soft
and pliable and the fur is not damaged in
the least. I have always found this bark
superior to black wattle. The “sandal-
wood” of western N. S. Wales produces a
tar which is equal to the best imported
from Stockholm. Although the pine is
very good for producing tar, it is worth
more for its wood, but the sandalwood is
too small for wood and produces more tar
than the pine. Why do we send to foreign
places for these products, when our own
land teems with as good if not better?
“Eddyson”: Polglaise remembered him
well. “He come to Tinbilly when the bit of a place
was goin’ all to pieces, consequence iv the Enery the
Eight ’avin’ petered out. He bought Olger’s hut, jist
ezshe stood, bed-linen ’n’ all, the same consistin’ iv
an ole, bald ’possum-rug, two riddled blue blankets,
’n’ a ragbag piller, ’n’ walked in, ’n’ sat down to
Olger's dinner, what Olger ’ad cooked fer issclf.
Walter John Tellingham was the name he give, ’n’
he had somethin’ the look of a lawyer struck religious,
me havin’ seen one iv the like once in Ballarat in
1874, when there was a Wesleyan hepidemic on. He
was tallish ’n’ thin, rather pale, with tufts iv side
whiskers, ’n’ a high collar, ’n’ the blackest eyes I
ever seen outer the head iv a dog. He had a black
suit, with a long, preacher sorter coat, ’n’ white
shirts with cuffs. In all the time I knowed him at
Tinbilly he never altered a ’air. lie was the most
head-strongest feller I ever set eyes on, that man
Tellingham, not that he had nothin’ much t’ do with
nobody. Anythin’ goin’ contrary to his wishes or
his ideas of what was doo to Walter John Tellingham,
Esq., produced a hell iv a flare-up at Tinbilly, with
Walter John in the middle of it, holdin’ forth like
a Yankee gaffer, ’n’ the two eyes fair blazin’ in his
’ead. He was at Tinbilly seven year ’n’ over, all that
THAT SETTLED IT!
BENNO THE EAT: “Ho! MUDERER, am I? Never mind! If you 'ad yer blanky rights
yer'd be proclaimed a blanky thistle!"
time livin’ in Tom -Olgcr’s sway-baclced log ’ut,
cookin’ his own, but Mrs. Warne doin’ his washin’
for him, ’n’ starchin’ up them collars ’n’ shirts he
was so p’ticular about, when one day a stout, wcll-
set-up dame drives out from Carstair in Dr. John-
son’s buggy, ’n’ asks for a Mister Tellingham. 1
points' out Walter John where he’s standin’ at his
door. There’s a tumble-down saplin’ fence round
Tellingham’s hut, ’n’ the dame goes to this. ‘Arthur !’
sez she. He looks at her. ‘Arthur,’ she sez, ‘ain't
you coinin’ home?’ He stands there without a word.
‘I bin searchin’ the country for you these three
years,’ sez she. ‘Don’t let us be foolish children.’
‘Madame,’ sez he, sharp ’n’ short, ‘was that, a custard
apple or a gherkin?’.he sez. The dame squares her
shouldcrs, her face flushes. ‘lt was a gherkin,
Arthur Dustan,’ ; sez, she—‘a gherkin—a gherkin!’
The man glowers on her for ten seconds, ’n’ then
backs in ,’n’ bangs the door. She held her head up
proud ’n’ high, marched to the buggy, ’n’ was druv
off. That was in ’92. In ’95 a feller comes to-our
Walter John Tellingham with news iv the death iv
his wife, Mary Dustan. Walter took it at his door,
erect ’n’ cold; ’n’ sez he: ‘Did she by any chance
speak of gherkins on her death-bed?’ ‘No, sir.’
Walter John stiffened. ‘No?’ sez he. ‘Then, by
G —d, the woman.died unrepentant!’ ’n’ he slammed
his door again. Walter John Tellingham died at Tin-
hilly as ;such, ’n’ it turns out his true name’s
Dustan, ’in’ lie’s worth 30 thousan’, ’n’ was a.
married man what parted with his missus in a huff
five hours after the marriage.”
* * * *
“Gerardy”: Down by Jericho, where sport
is but a memory and amusement a bygone dream,
vermin of every conceivable shade and appearance
abound. Specially prevalent arc two species of
scorpions, 1 one black, the other a pale yellow. When-
ever face to face these horrors duel till one or both
are completely out of action. Size and weight arc
no criterion, but the struggle mostly ends with the
black on top. A common practice is to obtain
one of each breed and place them together in an
empty fruit-tin. The ensuing proceedings brighten
up the monotony of our controversies with Abdul. At
present we are in possession of a heavyweight,
undefeated black bully with over a dozen victories to
his credit.
“F.T.7”: “Eme,” who recently praised
the wedge-tailed eagle (or eaglehawk, as he calls it)
as an article of diet, evidently likes his game “high.”
A confirmed carrion-feeder, the huge fowl is one of
the rankest birds that fly, not excluding the big sea
birds, all the reverse of violets in their way.
“F.G.L.”: In Canberra I witnessed a
battle .between a rcd-backcd spider and a colony of
sugar-ants. The redbaek had blundered into the
ants’ lines, and before he could backpedal and make
a break for neutral territory a couple of ants had
grabbed a leg each while a third signalled for the
main body to come up. In a few minutes they came
swarming over the top and attacked in mass. The
spider disappeared under the first wave of shock
troops. He emerged badly knocked about but full
of fight, and began to slug- his way through a party
that was trying-to cut off his line of ret real. Wave
after wave of the enemy were rushed to the assault,
only to .find their attacks crumple up a few inches
A NOSE FOR NEWS.
MUM : “When the King gave Jack his medal
he told him that he was proud to have
fellers like him in the army."
DAD : “He must have heard all about him
bein' a champion milker and wood-chop.
Shows yer that George knows what's
goin' on in the world.”
from the redbaek by a rope of fine webbing that he
kept casting out as he fought his dogged rearguard
action. The language of the ants when they got
their bluchers caught in the net was awful. After
putting about 50 per cent, of the enemy’s effectives
out of action the spider battled himself clear. He
deserved the Order of the Pat Fly.
(Continued on page 24.)
WEEN THE COACH COMES IN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little town is quiet and still,
And scarce a soul stirs down the street,
While faintly from the distant mill
There sounds the stamper’s thudding beat;
But twice a week, at half-past four,
With quickened life the folk begin
To gather outside Conlv’s store
And wait until the coach comes in.
Down the grey road that skirts the ridge,
Across the dip and round the bend,
With loose planks rattling on the bridge
The wheels spin to the journey's end.
And some there are who, making back
To love and friends, to home- and kin,
Have trodden long the exile’s track,
But leave it when the coach comes in.
A little town, yet wide and far
Its thoughts reach out o’er land and sea,
To fields where shines an alien star
And where less quiet customs be;
From girls who felt the city’s thrill,
From lads who write ’mid red war's din,
From long-left homes, remembered still,
Come letters when the coach comes in.
The great world lives its hate-filled days,
The rifles crack, the cannons roar;
The little town in busliland ways
Is set far-off from lust of war;
Yet even here there chills its breath,
And women’s cheeks with care are thin,
Hearts beat lest word from fields of death
May stab them when the coach comes in.
TASMANIA.
O'PHIMERTY.


URI
UR 5
w:>.
B UR2
m
&
-
■0K
***!
>
:
UR6
UR3
H
11
I
m
li »
*>**
■ H 1 :
*m
s&w
F&VV
UR 7
*s«F
>UR4 /j 3&isS
-5* ///
*4$* *'>
Jr
COMFORT
ECONOMY
FARMER’S Footwear em-
bodies every essential
>to complete comfort, style
and satisfaction. Built on
'smart, lasts from depend-
able f material, it gives
excellent wear. The follow-
ing seven examples will
commend themselves to
every keen judge of quality
and value.
URl—Imported Patent Coltskiri,
Lace Boots, made On a smart
French last, finished dull kid
tops. To be had in half 0*7 1C
sizes-- - - - Price **•/"
Also may be had in all Patent
Derby Style . -* - Price 37/6
UR2—Leggings in Black or Tan
Calf, spring front, smartly
blocked. These are excellent
riding leggings, or again are,
very smart for.,, motor 99//?
bike, etc. - - Price
UR3—Fine' Grade Glace Kid.*
Lace Boots. These have very
smart toe-caps, and are to be
had in several fittings. The
shape is an exclusive 97 /£
model Price «• / v
WE PAY CARRIAGE
FA R.M E R!S
CHARMER'S 'Footwear
* Service for ” men pro-f
vides Footwear of absolute
dependability,
and distinction,
UR4—Finest Imported French'
Glace Kid Lace Boots. These
are made on new extended last,
and are a neat, light-weight
'boot for business wear, oq /(•
Jn half sizes - Price Ou/O
UR5-vCalf Elastic Side Riding
Boot, single soles, standard'
screwed. A smart yet \AICL
serviceable boot. Price l 4 */®
Also in Black and Tan Calf]
these having welted soles 32/6
UR6 —Box Calf' Derby ,Boot;
These are of imported leather;
and a good boot for business,
wear. May be had in several]
fittings and half sizes. OC/
Price - -i - - -
UR7 — Smart ‘ Glace Kid Lace!
Boot. This style shows a very,
jneat punched golosh, is finished!
with medium soles, and to be;
had in medium and wide *) Cl
fittings - - - Price 4*0 ! m
WE PAY CARRIAGE
west!a
UAI.IJ
??RVIC*
m
Motor Accessories
Two of the latest! And built up to tbe standard
tbat has made Stewart produces so popular witb
Motorists throughout tbe world.
nm
Can be attached
instantly to any
wind shield .
Autoguard.
This new Autoguard is all that its name implies—a real Guard for your
car. It guards you and your car against the annoying, troublesome, and
sometimes expensive, accidents which you are liable to meet with at any
time. It protects your car from the small accidents which insurance
policies often do not cover.
For safety’s sake you should have a Stewart Autoguard, both on the front
and rear of your car. It will pay for itself the first time someone backs
into you. Saves your fenders,
headlights, springs and tyres.
The Stewart Autoguard has
many exclusive features. It
has a rigidity, combined with
springiness, not found in
ordinary “bumpers.” The
channel bar is made of high
carbon steel, and the spring
members of high carbon spring
steel.
It has universal, adjustable
brackets, allowing it to be used
on practically any car, and
though one of the lightest, is
the strongest autoguard made.
r'
s,a 4
mmpm
■.
8 51-
n
V-Ray
37/6
This is a real Searchlight. New in design, in construction, in finish and
efficiency. A decided departure from, and far in advance of, the ordinary
“spotlight.”
It is designed with scientific accuracy, and for one purpose—to produce an
intense, piercing “Searchlight” beam. It is light in weight, well propor-
tioned, and extremely convenient. You can, with the greatest ease, throw
the penetrating Searchlight in any direction—front, back, down, or to
either side.
It has a full 6-inch curved lens, and a 3 -inch
reducing mirror is fitted in the back.
The Searchlight is furnished with focussing
device, which permits replacing the bulb with
any bulb on the car, an operation that can be
performed in a few seconds.
Stewart products are
obtainable from all
Motor Accessory Dealers.
mn
Back
Manufactured by Stewart-Warner Speedometer Corporation.
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd
129 Sussex Street 9 Sydney.


The germs of tonsilitis,
The microbes of catarrh,
Bacilli or bronchitis,
Host deadly foes they are.
They charge in big battalions,
They dare us to endure;
But wilt and sag and dip their flag
To Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN, ENGINEERS,
And Everybody’s Pencil Purpose.
Sold by High-class Stationers.
m
-VENUS
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE-
-129 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH —
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
“M.P.”: Can’t answer “Yannatherra’s”
inquiry (B. 4/7/’18) as to whether it is the sight or
the smell of their dead that frightens horses; but
when in France I found that horses coming across a
corpse in the roadway shied and in many cases com-
pelled the rider to make a detour in order to pass the
carcase. Not that the rider objected very much. I
saw this happen only in cases where the prad had
not been in the front area for some time. They
apparently get used to both sight and smell, as I
have seen many horses and mules plodding quietly
along the Bellewarde sleeper-track, which ran from
Menin-road towards Westhoek Ridge, and always had
a good supply of dead horse and mule flesh along it.
“Vee”: William Lane’s pilgrims at New
Australia found it rather difficult to accept the
principle of “the co-operative owmersliip of all pro-
duction and property.” Fortunately there was scant
opportunity of the pioneers securing anything of
value, so that the rule was not strained to an} 7
great extent until Mrs. Jones became the envied
possessor of a fowl. It happened this way. Mrs.
Jones was an expert lace-creator and one particularly
fine piece of dainty fabric she owned attracted the
eye of a Paraguayan maid, who coaxed the New
Australian to barter it in exchange for the hen. For
two days it cock-a-doodle-dooed secure in a coop
near its new owner’s hut. The bubble burst on the
second night, when the usual camp-fire parliament
was held, at which to-morrow’s job and to-day’s
trials were discussed. George Pope, an Adelaide
native, caught the chairman’s eye, and said he wanted
to know who the fowl belonged to that was harbored
by Mrs. Jones. “Is it the property of the settlement?”
lie went on, “or does Mrs. Jones infringe the rules
by keeping private stock which has to be fed from
the produce garnered by the collective industry of
the association ?” As no answer was forthcoming
he moved that the bird be declared an asset of the
colony, as it might lay eggs which in time would
result in chicks and fowls. After a classic debate
extending over two hours, the settlers decided that
the spirit of co-operative effort required Mrs. Jones’s
fowl to be confiscated for the common good. Mean-
time Mrs. Jones had vanished. A deputation was
sent to convey the wish of the meeting that the
poultry be handed over. As they made through
the tropical darkness toward the contraband they
heard several frantic squawks and arrived on the
scene in time to witness the lady holding a headless
chook. Mrs. Jones and family roasted and ate the
basis of argument.
■X* * *• *
“Waroo” : Apropos of “McNorth’s” re-
cent par. on blood-letting in the Cape York Penin-
sula. In Torres Strait the other day, a girl of 14
ran a needle, into the palm of her hand and in
trying to get it out broke the steel. A razor of
doubtful, cleanliness was procured to cut it out. The
girl’s sole comment during the operation was, “You
cut him more deep or he no come.” I saw the gash,
a good inch and a half long, and was assured by
the operator, “she never sing out.” The wound is
healing rapidly. I have frequently noticed great
fortitude displayed by these natives in serious hurts,
but they will make a fearful hullabaloo over trifles.
■** * *
“Sapper” : Henare strolled into the office
of the registrar of marriages. With swelling breast
he introduced the prospective sharer of his dried
shark. “Py korrv,” he beamed, “she the blurry bon
souvenir, eh!”
SHOPPING MADE EASY.
“My wife ashed me to buy her something or other here, but I’ve lost my memorandum.
Would you mind running over the names of a few things?”
THE DECADENCE OF POLITICS.
THE OLDEST INHABITANT: "The paper says this ’ere candidate has great personal mag-
netism.”
THE SECOND OLDEST: “Yes, an’ there’s other charges agin him, too.”
“F. 8.” : In a recent newspaper controversy
Archie Meston, the notable Bananalander, traces the
name “wahgoon” (scrub turkey) through seven differ-
ent dialects, from Bundaberg to the Tweed. He
said that in the Oonda district of Bribee Island
spoken by the Goondubbarie, it (the turkey) was
“wahwoon.” In the Coobenpil dialect of Lvtton, the
Noonuccal of Stradbroke, the Cateebil of Ipswich, the
Yoocum of the Logan, the Turrabul of North Bris-
bane, and in the Dippil of Dwumdur wahgoon was
the name of the scrub turkey.
* * * *
“Jobber”: In a recent Bulletin someone
wrote that Billy Doyle had driven the coach from
Bourke (N.S.W.) to Wanaaring for donkey’s years.
He hasn’t; he drove, for the greater part of his
time, between Bourke and Yantabulla and took the
Wanaaring run in April, 1908. My cobber and I did
a trip with the old man once, 82 miles, which occu-
pied 24 hours. The way he piloted his team of five
horses through the scrub on an almost invisible
track was a revelation to us. He doused the coach
lights after crossing the bridge, though the night
was as black as the Kaiser’s heart.
“Waroo”: One of the troubles (perhaps
the principal) incidental to travelling in Torres
Strait is the cockroach. It invades every-
thing that is not hermetically sealed. Open a tin
of milk or jam, and a few hours later a score or so
corpses of the pests are awaiting removal. If by
chance the mixture is left overnight, the undertakers,
provided by themselves, get to work and by the morn-
ing a tin is cleaner than when it first left the
factory. Care must be exercised in covering up
one’s extremities when trying to sleep, or a banquet
of minced fingers or devilled toenails is inevitable.
Some people become indignant if you kill a giant
’roach, because he is the only manicuring utensil
available. Sometimes a lugger is sunk for a day
or two to efrown the beasts. That is a good way if
the boat belongs to some other fellow who doesn’t
mind his fittings being spoilt by salt water. Cyanide
and sulphuric-acid makes an excellent destroyer,
but it is just as well to give that job to someone
else. Recently I tried 141 b. of sulphur with tip-
top results. But not for long. In a month or two
the pests were back and the hideous nightmare was
repeated.
* * * *
“Conbard” : “J.G.” (B. 11/7/T8) is right
in his contention that the Avenue of Honor proposed
at Wallan (Vic.) should consist of perennial Aus-
tralian trees, and not the deciduous elm and oak
and the pinus insignis. “J.G.’s” list of Australian
evergreens is a good one, but what’s wrong with the
kurrajong? It will grow in almost any portion
of the continent. A proof of this is the fact that in
the garden on Noekatunga station, in the Cooper
district (Q.), is one of the finest kurrajongs to be
seen anywhere. The plant originally came from
Bathurst.
“Mookingah” : Thomson Bros, captured a
fine specimen of a white kangaroo lately. This
marsupial had been seen several times and could
have been shot with ease, but they’re sports out that
way. One day the brothers got it in the open and
ran it down with horses, and carried it ten miles on
horseback to the homestead. The ’roo put up a
great fight on the journey by biting and using his
hind feet with vigor. The catch is milky white,
without one colored hair showing, about three-quarter
grown, and premises later to develop into a large-
sized kanga. This is the first white kangaroo caught
alive in these parts (Tibooburra, N.S.W.), although
one was shot at Mount Sturt some months back.
* * * *
“Sundowner” : I have struck a great num-
ber of bunda-bunda snakes (commonly known as
“bandy-bandy”) on the Richmond River (N.S.W.),
but I never saw one approaching 3ft. in length
(“South 0.,” B. 25/7/’18). Twenty-four inches is
considered big up there, The bite is very venomous
to man or beast, and “South C.” is wrong in stating
that the wriggler is harmless to man. A young
woman at Chatsworth, on the Clarence, died two
hours after being bitten by one. As for sea-snakes,
those above the Clarence, particularly about Byron
Bay, are not marked with bands. They are a silvery-
grey color. They have heads exactly like the land
tiger snake. They are very venomous, and will attack
upon the least provocation. Would like to hear
about the short, podgy “heath snake.” This little-
crawler has a long narrow head with a crocodile-like
snout. Has it been found south of the Clarence?
A FOUR-TON CROP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sometimes I wield the blade in sheds. Sometimes
the axe I swing,
And often down in gravel-pits I make the banjo sing.
I’ve swung the pick on public works, and once I
pushed a pen
(But that was when I led the life pursued by steady
men).
In dungarees and blucher-boots I chase the festive
pound
That buys me ’bacca, beer and beef as I go knockin’
round.
But you can have these capers all for one that comes
on top.
It’s digging out potatoes in a four-ton crop.
Across the field I stride ere yet the soldier-bird’s
a-wing,
I give the butcher-bird salute, his carol in full swing.
The wine of life is in my veins and in my heart a
song—
To Fate and Care I fling a glove as blithe I bowl
along.
The folk who go per motor-car might envy me the
walk
That ends where “up-to-dates” grow thick around a
gleaming fork.
A fig for frost or mountain fog; for rain will
scarcely stop,
When digging out potatoes in a four-ton crop.
I push along the fork by day, and idly speculate
If I shall soak in township beer or jump the rattler
straight.
I own I’d love a month or so in Sydney-by-the-sea,
Or then, again, November time it’s Melbourne town
for me.
So when I get Jim Fahey's cheque—-the last sack
standing up—■
7TI wave my hand to Crookwell side for Melbourne
and the Cup;
And at the pub on Bathurst-road one merry night
I’ll stop
And book again for Easter next a four-ton crop.
N.S.W.
BLACKBOY.


A*>S° VUt<?T 9 °o,q
j a-intbeir gualmes 0
STi
i+i
If es 0%5
IT
THE absolutely unique qualities of State Express
Cig'arettes, wbicb make them tbe favorite
amongst discriminating' men everywhere, are
tbe result of tbe extraordinary care tbat is taken in
tbeir manufacture.
S^TE^PRESi
CIGARETTES
are made by experts of unrivalled
ability, and only life-long experi-
ence bas rendered it possible to
produce tbe wonderful blends of
tobacco which have made vState
Express a household word
amongst smokers of culture and
taste.
No. 333
6d.
Per
Packet.
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Sold by all Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers s
trdath Tobacco Co. Ltd., London, England.
r
k
»L
V
A
1
A
S,
y
.


A Little Talk to
Business Men.
“ONLY A COLD,” but a man’s head is not clear for business. He may not be able to grasp
the opportunity that he has waited for so long. His appearance is against him, too. With
swollen face and reddened nose he cannot meet his employer or business friend with that
look of confidence which inspires confidence in return. Socially, he feels himself a
nuisance—almost an outcast. Hardly ill enough to compel him to abandon' his engage-
ments, he moves about, the embodiment of physical distress, and only awakens the feeling
of pity or disgust in his acquaintances.
“ONLY A COLD,” to which a man must not give in, but must run the risk of more serious
ills by braving the weather, no matter how inclement it may be. How many cases of
pneumonia and other serious illnesses, causing the deaths of fathers of families, result
yearly from “ONLY A COLD?”
“ONLY A COLD,” but it becomes localised and inflammatory. Rheumatism has him in its
awful grasp. It goes to the ear, so closely allied to the throat, and becomes a life-long
danger to the man’s life, or affects the eyes, and the suffering is unbearable.
“ONLY A COLD,” but which others catch; it spreads through the family, the office, the
club. There is only one remedy which can be relied upon to stop a cold and is powerful
enough at the same time to arrest the development of much more serious allied diseases.
The sensible and responsible business men of Australia appreciate the value of such a
remedy, and, as a result, hundreds of thousands of bottles of Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
yearly pass over the counters of Chemists and Storekeepers of this land, and into the use
of heads of families.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery is found upon the desk at the office, it is carried in the
pocket of his overcoat, it stands on the mantelpiece at home, but wherever it is found the
immunity from coughs and colds, the minimum of danger from bronchitis and pneumonia,
and protection from all pulmonary troubles is also found. Business men and workers from
all parts of this country testify to the grand work done by Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery,
and gladly proclaim its merits to the world. Price 1/6 i.nd 3/-
Only a Cold!
ft
A
Vi
*
m
t
OUGHS
AND
compositor can think of. His virtues will
shine like a burning city on a hill. Nv hen
he has to appear publicly, which will be sel-
dom, by reason of his retiring nature, I will
get a presentable actor to personate lnm.
And when he dies, at a slack season when
news is scarce, he will have an imposing
funeral, even if I have to till the coffin with
bone-dust and hire the mourners myself. His
weeping family, also hired, will make a
brave show at the grave, after which they
will go into complete retirement unless there
is a chance of a public subscription for them.
The Great Man’s poems and miscellaneous
works will appear shortly after his death,
provided I can offer sufficient inducement to
David McKee Wright or some equally cap-
able scribe to compose them.
HENRY HORSECOLLAR.
The Inky Way
“L.E.”: Lord Nortlicliffe, owner of The
Times, Daily Mail, etc., lias long been the
butt of writers like Chesterton, Belloc,
Arnold Bennett and others who are never
tired of making merry at his ‘‘sensa-
tions'’ and literary howlers. Fleet-street is
now laughing at a poem, called "The Old
Volunteer,” that appeared in Tiie Times
over the signature of Uudyard Iyipling.
Next morning Kipling informed the jour-
nal that the verses were not his. The
fatal lines had reached tin* paper from
Brighton, signed “Uudyard Kipling,” and
that seemed sufficient. Kipling, like most
bards, has written some bad verse in his
time; but is it conceivable that any sane
paper could be hoaxed by stuff like the “Old
Volunteer” ! This is the first verse :
I can hear, the bugle calling
And it don’t want me
While the Superannuation-drip
O’ Germany
’S a-fightiiig for the Kaiser in
His Fatherland ;
But our order’s for the young ’uns
O’ the old Brass-Band.
It was the Nortlicliffe gramophone press
that boomed W. M. Hughes, and as its taste
in politicians and poetry is about the same,
“Bellerive,” when published in book-form,
will probably get an enthusiastic review in
The Times Literary Supplement.
Sydney pressmen struck a hurdle which
they bumped and fell over badly during the
first day’s proceedings in connection
with Justice Harvey’s inquiry into the
internment of the Seven Irishmen.
Many letters in Gaelic were read by that
broad old Scotch K.C., Ralston, and the
obstacle that tripped the newspaper men was
the kindly reference to Archbishop Kelly in
which he was described as “that contempti-
ble old slioneen.” The word “shoneen” as
Ralstonised and reprinted was completely
camouflaged. Sydney News had two
attempts, first “leonin” and then “sheonin.
The Sun printed it as “ceonin” ; while the
Daily Telegraph improved on the News
with “leonine.” The Herald knew too little
to use the word at all. but the Melbourne
Argus got the word correct, marked it with
an asterisk and placed a footnote at the
bottom of the column explaining that
“shoneen” is the “Gaelic for truckler . to
authority.'’ What about Gaelic being in-
cluded in the course for the proposed School
of Journalism?
“To”: Ncavs comes of the marriage in
N’Yark of Spencer Krodney (he was
“Brodsky” before the war), the amiable
Jewish youth who was Sydney Sun’s Mel-
bourne representative, llis wife was Esther
Siebel. of Uncle Sam’s Education Depart-
ment. Brodney is now associate-editor of the
Current ’ History Magazine, published by
N’Yark Times, and one of the advisory edi-
tors to the American Labor Wear Book.
“A.RAY.”: I think the Twenty Seconds
Echo— a regimental eight-pager—puts up a
record in more ways than one. It is entirely
composed, printed and published in the
trenches. The plant consists of a small
press and a few other things dug into the
side of the ditch. The difficulties in bring-
ing out this paper fortnightly can better be
imagined than described. We liave a real
fighting editor. C. R. Blatchford. sometime
of the Commonwealth Rubric Service
Journal. The other day lie' was in the
throes of supervising the issue when the
battalion had to do an attack. He exchanged
pen for rifle and bayonet, hopped the bags
that night, and returned to resume compos-
ing the publication the wearer of three
stripes and a Military Medal.
Author John Galsworthy visited Australia
in the long-ago. He was a barrister then,
and went down to the sea in big ships to get
to know their ways, as he intended making
a specialty of Admiralty Bar work. He had
scarcely thought of authorship. At Adel-
aide he met another man who had thought
of it, but had not had anything published.
This was Joseph Conrad. In the Holy City
these two, destined to become beacons in the
ocean of literature, formed a friendship
which endures.
“Pica”: Re “Musketoon’s” inquiry for
lone-hand pressman (B. 18/7/TS). 1 was
editor, leader-writer, comp., machinist, devil,
vendor; in fact the whole staff of a news-
paper, and have seen millionaires waiting
outside the shop for an issue containing the
latest stock quotations received by wireless.
My rag was published weekly on board the
’Murkan liner Philadelphia. There were
only four pages, and well-known authors,
who happened to be aboard, sometimes con-
tributed articles. It had an average circu-
lation of about 300.
“S.T.S.”: “Stargazer’s” verses about the
actor (B. 4/7/’18) whose Hamlet brought
him an engagement as pantomime dame, re-
call an experience. I once wrote practically
the very same thing about a leading man in
melodrama. He was a third-rater, small and
quaint, with a trick of standing with his head
on one side. I suggested, quite innocently,
that he would make a good Widow in “Fun
on the Bristol,” then still a popular piece.
The ungrateful man, being his own manager,
refused me admission to his show the next
time it came along! However,_ Providence
watches over the critic —sometimes. M.\
notice was not due for a day or two, and
meantime the critic of a leading daily came
out with a positively blistering notice ot
the opening night. Then I had only to
write that, being denied admission, I must
accept what other people said. So I quoted
the other fellow's words, which were far
stronger than anything I should have
dreamed of using.
Poet-Laureate Robert Bridges has found
little or no inspiration in the war, although
any number of unofficial and unsalaried
poets have made good use of its heroic deeds
and brilliant episodes. Bridges is a vener-
able octogenarian living a secluded life in
Oxford. He emerged from his retirement
the other day to address a meeting in sup-
port of a Red Cross Library. One class of
sick and wounded soldiers, lie said, needed
only novels and light literature, but another,
composed of young men whose studies had
been suddenly interrupted by the war,
desired to resume their serious mental exer-
cises and intellectual pursuits. Then there
was a third class, comprising _ the large
number of soldiers from Australia, Canada
and the oversea Dominions and colonies.
They were for the most part keen and
practical young men whose reading tastes
lay in the direction of text-books, mostly
on applied science, books of reference and
cyclopaedias. Some relentless humorist must
have been taking a rise out of the aged
laureate.
“P.A.L.” : A scribe from one of the Wel-
lington (M.L.) papers made a horrible 'mis-
take the other day. ‘ Arriving at his office
lie found himself down to interview (say)
a Thibetan visitor of some note. A quarter
of an hour to spare before the interview was
spent in the nearest bar. As he was being
whirled up in the hotel lift the influence of
four three-finger nips brought with it, the
recollection that his wife had abjured him
before leaving home that morning _ that he
was on no account to forget to get his collars
from the laundry. Absent-mindedly he took
out his laundry ticket, presented it and calmly
waited. What the Thibetan visitor said
couldn’t be taken down. No interview
appeared.
A Satchel of Books
In The Theocracy of Jesus Ignatius Singer deals
with a subject that is much too large for the space.
To compress the theory of Christianity into 54
pages is impossible, but he gets in a fair amount.
What he says is mainly to the effect that the
New Testament is a strangely composite document.
It has been said often before; still there are new
ways of saying it. One point is that the Saviour
never claimed to be of the royal House of David.
Possibly He took little' interest in the Jewish legend
to the effect that He was to trace his pedigree from
the »one Emperor of Israel. Possibly He wasn’t
dazzled in the least by the Emperor of Israel or the
fleeting empire either. Anyhow two pedigrees were
made for Him. They didn’t agree and neither of
them had anything to do with the case, for both
ended with Joseph of Nazareth, who wasn’t the
father of the Redeemer, and had no earthly connec-
tion with His pedigree. Jesus Christ bequeathed
to the world a beautiful gospel of peace and love.
Persons more or less unknown, some of whom wrote
so long after the event that they could hardly b?
first-hand witnesses, handed on the teaching garnished
with miracles and wonders. Some time after the
Church was started there arose a heated and bust-
ling man who apparently had never met the Saviour,
and this hasty person proceeded to write nearly one-
third of the New Testament off his own bat. The
Leader was an evangelist; the hot and dusty follower
was a theologian—which made a difference. The
Church suffered from the difficulty that it had to
start with very little Testament to guide it. It
hadn’t the Book of Acts, for that is in the main a
story of wanderings among churches already estab-
lished. It hadn’t Paul’s works, for he wrote copi-
ously to churches that had begun without him. In
fact it is almost certain that, it had nothing at all
except the Contribution of Mark, who seems to be
the earliest writer, and it is hardly probable that
it had even him. When the Church grew up on
its own and the Book on which it is founded
straggled in afterwards by instalments supplied bv
many writers over a very long period of years, con-
flicts were bound to happen, for an old father church
is apt to be cross when dictated to suddenly by a
baby revelation from a new writer. Also discrepan-
cies were bound to happen, and Ignatius Singer
makes no attempt to disguise the fact. (C. W.
Daniel, Ltd., publisher, London.)
A Sporting and Dramatic Career, by A. T. Wat-
son, issued from the house of Macmillan. For many
years Watson has combined dramatic criticism with
racing gossip and reporting in various London papers
—-Referee, The Standard, Punch, Illustrated
Sporting and Dramatic News, etc. —and has made
good in both department,. The Sabbath was always
his busiest day, for he had to write up for Monday’s
press the Saturday race meetings as well as the
new plays usually produced on that evening. Very
few journalists would bo able to stand such an
exacting task, and Watson is certainly entitled to
say this for himself: “If I may humbly claim to
have been fairly successful in my profession, it has
been by the accomplishment of extremely hard work.”
His wide knowledge, authority and thorough compe-
tence arc attested by his being selected to edit the
sporting section of the “Encyclopedia Britanniea.”
Outwitting the linn, by Lieut. Pat O’Brien (Heine-
maim, London). Pat O’Brien was an Irish-American
who learned to fly in the United States, crossed over
into Canada in order to get a chance of hitting the
Germans, performed well in England and France, and,
having been taken prisoner by the enemy, put up a
record of dodges and expedients in escaping. That
record included a jump from a, fairly fast train, and
as many other adventures as would serve a hundred
men of sportive instincts for their natural lives. A
book that turns its own leaves over.
Rough Rhymes of a Padre, by G. A. Studdert
Kennedy (Ilodder and Stoughton, per Cole’s Book
Arcade,:, Sydney). Verse of a kind that a lot of Aus-
tralian readers will appreciate. The author, known
as “Woodbine Willie,” has seen much of the war.
Three Golden Weeks in June, by Jack Eliot (The
Author, Mosman). A booklet of love verse that has a
certain daintiness without much force or skill. The
author has a sympathetic feeling for words, but his
thoughts are as thin as cigarette smoke; and his
“Princess Zephyr” isn’t the sort of person who seems
worth spending a whole three, weeks with.
The Unguarded Hour, by A. W. Marchmont
(Cassell, London). A tissue of yarn that doesn’t
matter —except that in war-time paper might be
considered.
Pros and Cons of the Second Ballot, Preferential
Voting and Proportional Representation, by Thomas
J. Ley, M.L.A., is a capable and interesting essay on
a subject to which people will give more attention
when they haven’t so many other things to do.
(William Brooks and Co., Sydney, publishers.)
RAVAGES OF WAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In writing-fluid pale and slack
I trace the lines I think.
This war has made all things look black
But ink !
VICTORIA.
D.


\\
ttl l
l«i
is
ft
3$
&?,
38$
fe-S
£
ettK
JS«
<*ne
*3'V
m
m
cr
w*
<U6
®BS
ssss
«.y
«2
K
3)iv
•j ■
y?S
3N
*m
W-‘§*£
m
XT?
w=- - ''&££2 7^'.
*39
»*
a
£s.f'^y?/7<£
'Zrft&W'
m
vr,
777
777/'/'A
-&U
r/. v
ofSi
*
v
g^^pp
"'/A^.'WJJrA.
Z 7.
w.
<7/*;
7177
ym
tf&MP&y&'/nk' Vz
f ///f/s
m
"s-rc.
's'
/'O
Y'a/s
m
Y/'<A'/'y7s
"At.
Y'/s//7
rx
'/dd
>///*
v<-
'.ssY'
t/,, !'
C'A
Wt
wL
see
*sy*A
fefW’/J
“SUS'/s*
>sl
dznk
«*U7 4
Before the Wool Season comes on
INSTALL A C.E. ELECTRIC GENERATOR
to supply current for operating your Shearing Machines.
THERE are suitable G.E. Electric Motors for running the machines not only
•1 for Shearing purposes, but for the Farm generally. Almost every task
on a Station or Farm can be done more rapidly, more safely, and more
economically with electric power than in any other way.
A
Corner Wentworth
Avenue & Goulburn
Street, Sydney
Corner Queen and
Little Collins Sts.,
OTHER AGENTS.
BRISBANE (Q ) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) ; Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone. 100 Currie Street.
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical Sc Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIALindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd., Launceston; Messrs.
Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.
n
© ©
o o
o
mn


A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full-jewelled Lever ino vement, compensation balance,
£lO. 15ct. Gold, £l5. Extra jewelled, £l6/10/-
A. Saunders’ Extra-quality 14ct. Gold Elgin
or Waltham Lever, extra-jewelled movement,
£l5. 18ct. Gold, £2O. Extra-heavy
cases, double jewelled, £25, £3O, £4O.
Guaranteed.
A. .Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Wristlet Watch,
full-jewelled Lever movement, compensation balance,
£6/10/-. Solid Silver, £2/10/-. Guaranteed.
With Grey, Black or Brown Straps.
Watch Specialist,
KD
30
ED
.■ n
A. Saunders’ Patent Lever Military Wristlet Watch, with Ml[
Dial and Hands, extra-jewelled compensation balance, in Leatnei btrap,
£2 Solid Silver, £2/10/-, £3. Gold-filled, £4/10/-
9ct. Solid Gold, £6, £7/10/-
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Hunting Keyless Watch, lever
movement, adjusted balance,
£B/10/-
Extra jewelled, £4/10/-
14ct. Gold, £5/10/-
18ct. Gold, £6/10/-,
£7/10/-. Guaranteed.
ALL
ORDERS
POST
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
A. Saunders’ Lady’s 9ct. Solid Gold Patent Expanding Watch
Wristlet, full-jewelled Lever movement, compensation
balance, £7/10/-. Extra quality, £B/10/-
15ct. Gold, £lO, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Solid Gold, Open-face
Elgin or Waltham Watch, full jewelled, patent
adjusted balance, accurately regulated, £lO.
14ct. Gold, £l5. 18ct. Gold, £2O. 18ct.
Gold, full-jewelled Rotherham, £2O, £25,
£3O.
A. Saunders’, luminous Radium Dial Wristlet Watch,
Gunmetal or Nickel Cases, jewelled movement,
25/-. Extra quality, 30/*, 40/-
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
JEWELLER
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
ample security assured, trust accounts always open to inspection.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
every description Of trustle work undertaken, full details on application.
“ O'CONN ELL STREET, S.DEET E. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may set a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
QtJ.Collte Browne'S
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine. •
THE BEST MEDICINE TOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, Iji, SI-, 51
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRA.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
gI DR t< V. YRN' s' * ''i LLT J STR AT E D EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOR- ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine’s Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly’s Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/0 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
-r, L Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3,
nosted Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s including Nana. 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys ok Life, 2s. Love
Letters of a Priest,. 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/T. The Yokf,, by Hubert 'Vales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, Ulus., 1/b.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How r to Make Love, 1/6 post tree.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/d.
Ilow to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/9. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of,the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 2/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/-. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/6. Colonial Horse Doctor, -/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/9.
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How io Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/9. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads. 1/6. Soldering, Brazing, &c.,
1/9 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6 That Rascal Gustave, -1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille. 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy RiVER,
4/- Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. 1 arlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
i;l Secret History of the Court of Eng-
i and 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/-
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), o/-.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other \ erses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, -./-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/9. Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/-, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant 1/9. The Wife's Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits' of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 ulus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/9. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/9.
Moore's Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses, 1/3. Ihe
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/- posted. Damaged
Goods, 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. Ihe
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life's Shop Window, 1/9. Ihree
Weeks, 2 ]- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 $69 Market Street, Sydney <only>.
0 | m~ BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ___


BALANCE-SHEET
OF
The Australian Bank of Commerce Limited
INCLUDING LONDON OFFICE—(BY CABLE),
Dr. 30th JUNE, 1918. Cr.
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000 0 0 '
To Capital sub-
scribed and
paid-up . . 1,198,679 0 0
„ Reserve Fund 130,000 0 0
„ Inscribed deposits 1,494,704 15 3
■ £2,523,353 15 3
„ Customers’ de-
posits a n d
other liabilities 6,000,202 0 6
„ Government de-
posits., .. 155,000 0 0
£6,185,202 0 6
Bills in circu-
lation and
other amounts
payable . . 497,636 16 11
Balances due to
other banks .. 197,173 5 10
6,880,012 3 3
Profit and Loss Account:—
Balance, 30th
June, 1918.. 32,199 1 3
Brought for-
ward from 31st
December, 1917 16,835 3 7
49,034 4 10
£9,752,430 3 4
Contingent liabilities, consisting of
letters of credit, etc. ; for which
customers are reponsible to the
Bank, £609,753 10s. 7d.
ASSETS.
By Coin and bullion £717,558
„ Australian notes 694,172
~ Cash at London
Bankers and at
short call in
London..
„ Government and
municipal securi-
ties
~ Balances due by
other banks ..
„ Bills receivable
in London and
remittances in
transit ..
10 0
173,823 1 3
523,152 17 6
131,162 1 10
548,150 12 2
£2,788,019 10 4
Bills discounted, loans, advances,
all other debts due to the Bank
and other assets. . . .
Provision in terms of Clause 163
of the Bank’s Articles of Associ-
ation
6,454,674 6 6
15,000 0 0
Bank premises
. 494,736 6 6
£9,752,430 3 4
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Interest on Inscribed deposits ..£29,894 1 1
„ Reserve Fund (making it £130,000) 15,000 0 0
£44,894 1 1
„ Dividend at the rate
of 5 per cent, per
annum on the paid-
up capital.. .. £29,966 19 6
„ Balance carried down 2,232 1 9
32,199 1 3
£77,093 2 4
By Profits for the half-
year ended 30th
June, 1918 . . £94,045 2 11
„ Less graduated land
and income taxes.. 16,952 0 7
~ Balance brought down
„ Balance forward from last half-year
£77,093 2 4
£77,093 2 4
£2,232 1 9
16,835 3 7
To be carried forward ..
..£19,067 5 4
RESERVE FUND.
Balance at 31st December, 1917 .. .. .. ..£115,000 0 0
Amount transferred from Profit and Loss Accounts as above .. 15,000 0 0
Total
..£130,000 0 0
MARK SHELDON, Chairman.
C. M. C. SHANNON, General Manager.
WILLIAM CRAIG, F.C.P.A. 1
G. MASON ALLARD, F.C.P.A. J
Auditors.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STBEET, SYDNEY.
Directors : —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C., C.M.G.; Samuel
Hordern, Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000.
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Incomej £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1,000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
I &
fxS:
—the three-ribbed,
rough-road tread,
Rubber-as-it-ought-to-be, constitutes this
Palmer tread the toughest, most wear-
resisting tread ever moulded, on to a t<y'ie.
And beneath is the Palmer* Cord found-
ation, which gives the tyre longer life,
increases gallon mileage, cuts out tyie-
heat, and protects against bursts.
The Palmer Cord consists of multiplied and
separately insulated cotton strands, interwoven
with the structure of the tyre itself, superseding,
and totally eliminating the friction set up by the
canvas lining of ordinary tyres.
Palmer Cord Tyrea, for Light and Palmer Fabric Tyres,
Heavy Motor Cara, Cycle Cara. for Motor Cycles,
Motor Cyclea, aod Aeroplanea. Cycles S’ Autowheels.
THE PALMER TYRE,. Ltd.
Chief Offices and Showrooms :
119/123 Shaftesbury Avenue,
London, W.C. 2. England.
m
nm
o/i. <i>
Enquiries for Cycle,
Motor-cycle and
Motor Tyres to
India Rubber,
Gutta Percha and
Telegraph Works
Co. Ltd.,
279 George Street,
Sydney;
21-23 Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne.
HUDSON
SUPER
SIX
o
HUDSON
SUPER
SIX
HUDSON CLOSED CARS,
The Worlds Finest. '
The Hudson Motor Car Company is the largest builder of closed cars in
the world. Hudson Super-Six Limousines and Town Cars are the highest
examples of the coachbuilder’s art. In luxury of design, in color and finish
they are distinctive. Hudson closed cars have plenty of speed.
The tremendous reserve power of the Hudson Super-Six motor carries them
with ease. They are the choice of those who seek superlative performance
combined with beauty. L -
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Brisbane.
Kellow-FalKiner Motor Co., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaide.
W. Johnson &. Co., 851 Hay Street, Perth.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address: HUDSONCAR-DETROIT.


The Edison
"AMBEROLA” 75
The finest of all cylinder
instruments—a superb Edi-
son production, worthy of
the great inventor.
The “Amberola” is fitted
with the new-style Dia-
mond Stylus, which ensures
a clear, natural tone—the
delight of all music lovers.
Plays the celebrated Blue
Amberol Records, thus
placing at your disposal a
perpetual programme of the
world’s most famed artists.
The “Amberola” 75, in
either Golden Oak or
Mahogany finish. Price
£24.
Will
The nearest Edison dealer will gladly give
a demonstration.
Illustrated catalog post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale only),
364-3/ 2 Kent Street, Sydney.
K9l5 —Star-shape
Setting, all Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £l5/10/-
K962—Ornate
Cross-over Diamond
Ring, finest quality,
set Platinum and
18ct. Gold.
Price, £32/10/-
m
KBl0 —Fine quality
Diamond Circle
Brooch, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £25.
K963—t'U.e quality
Diamond Ring,
chaste setting,
Platinum and ISet.
Gold.
Price, £l6/10/-
K5B7 —Pretty Dress
Ring, Pearl and
Diamonds, set
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
Diamonds
of Intrinsic Worth.
Unexampled for Beauty and Bril-
liancy, and fresh from the
Gem-setter’s hands.
ALL DIAMONDS SET IN PURE PLATINUM.
Call and Inspect our Stocks, or Write for
CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER) SYDNEY.
R23l4—Superb
Diamond Ring, 3
large, finest-quality
Diamonds, set in
Platinum.
Price, £135.
K2s7—Five-stone
Diamond Ring, set
Platinum and 18et.
Gold.
Price, £3O.
K9s9—Fine quality
Diamond Ring, set
Platinum and 18st.
Gold.
Price, £22/10/-
»
K964—New Design
Diamond Cross-over
Ring, set Platinum
and 18ct. Gold.
Price, £27/10/-
C 9303 —15ct. Gold
Brooch, set Pearls
and Peridots,
swing centre.
Price, 35/-
Indian Imports and
Exports.
ADVERTISER is desirous of getting in
touch with a reliable firm to handle
our exports of Myrabollams, Tannin Extract,
Tannin Jelly and other produce. Correspon-
dence. Address WARMER & CO., Bombay.
n
<r
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
It has been before the public for years, and is
daily proving its efficacy and genuineness as
a true moustache-grower. The military
“swear” by it.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
SUPED
FCATURES
Gregan McMahon’s Repertory Theatre,
which has done much good work without
prospering greatly, has been formally
adopted by the Taits, who, in future, will
finance Repertory productions in Melbourne,
Sydney and elsewhere, retaining McMahon
as general director. The idea is to give
matinee and, where possible, evening per-
formances of the works of Shaw. Gals-
worthy, Ibsen and other intellectuals, the
casts, or the nucleus thereof, being supplied
by Tait artists, whilst the energetic brethren
will also furnish the theatres, scenery arid
staffs. The scheme will give the young firm
the chance of testing and training promising
“SEVEN DAYS’ LEAVE.” AT SYDNEY
OPERA HOUSE.
Captain Allan Wilkie and Colonel Herbert
Leigh, of the Intelligence Department,
discover the Crown Prince’s mistress.
amateurs, whilst providing an outlet for the
suppressed genius of the regular pros, who
feel that their art is not getting its full
opportunity in the ordinary work. The whole
proposition has many points of merit about
it, and it is relieved from any suggestion of
a siieculative enterprise by the fact that the
Taits hope only to gain for themselves the
celebrity of being a theatrical firm willing
to risk losses to supply superior dramatic
entertainment.
“Melb”: A revival of the old-time minstrel
show at the Bijou (Melb.) lately did not last
very long. The first bones-and-tambo show
I can trace here was that of Rainer’s Ethio-
pian Serenaders. Rainer afterwards had for
many years the tremendously lucrative
American Civil War panorama, which
trundled over its rollers until worm to rags.
It ran, even when a far better panorama of
the Franco-German War failed, with Kyrle
Bellew as lecturer in Melbourne, at the
Waxworks. The Backus Minstrels came
from the U.S. to Coppin’s Olympic. The so-
called Christy Minstrels, at the Theatre
Royal, did well, with Brown, Norton, Rain-
ford, Melvyn, Steele, etc. Next were the
minstrels at the Haymarket, with Abecco.
Herberte, Feuillade, etc. After that co. was
Weston and Hussey’s. Then Emerson’s;
then Kelly and Leon’s.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre has had a
heavy loss in the death of Douglas Walsh.
He came back from the war invalided, but
was able to attend one or two recent per-
formances, and his death in the military hos-
pital at Keswick came as a shock. As an
actor, Walsh was an ideal stage-lover, bright
and breezy, but earnest, and could at any
time have obtained a professional engage-
ment if he had cared for it. Another brother
was killed last year.
“W.T.S.” : The Tasmanian Censor Board
is causing no end of trouble to picture show-
men. Why the Speck needs a Board all to
itself, when one exists for the whole of the
Commonwealth, is, of course, best known to
those who’ authorised its formation. The
other day a Burnie showman who had much-
boosted Pauline Frederick in “The Love
That Lives,” received a wire a few hours
before starting to the effect that the Board
desired a special screening of the picture
immediately at Hobart. The unfortunate
exhibitor had to hunt around for an emer-
gency programme, and lost a lot of business
and prestige as a consequence. Similar
notice was given to a showman the other
night at exactly two minutes to eight. An-
other way in which showmen are penalised
is by film exchanges slipping in pictures
other than those contracted for, and conse-
quently unregistered in Tasmania. A num-
ber of displayers have had to appear before
the Court for this reason.
“Melb”: “Arrah-na-Pogue” has been
pleasantly revived at Melb. Princess’s, and
Boticicault’s dialogue and construction shine
amid the crudities. The drama was first
acted here 53 years ago, by Barry Sullivan,
at the Royal. Shaun the Post was among
his best characters, all his variety of Ham-
let, Richard, Charles Surface, Benedick
thrown in. Mrs. Heir appeared as a beauti-
fully exuberant Arrali. Harwood was a
good Feeney, but Rogers excelled him in
Sydney. Greville did the comic valet Win-
terbottom in a scene at the Irish Secretary’s
Office, Dublin, which is cut out nowadays.
After the run of Williamson and Maggie
Moore in London, with “Struck Oil,” the
management wanted to stage “Arrah-na-
Pogue” for them, and this caused a break of
engagement, because Williamson would not
offend Boucicault. It was great self-denial,
for Williamson's Shaun ranked with his
Stofel. Kerry and Rip Van Winkle. Andy
Mack excelled in the pathos and simplicity
of Shaun. Sullivan was most at home in
the manly attributes. These two, I should
think, excelled Boucicault.
“Private Boxer”: Some plays, no matter
what they are called, could get along very
nicely with no title at all. Take two money-
makers now in Sydney bills. None of my
playgoing friends mention “The Masque-
rader” by name, although they have all been
to see it.’ They have carried away memories
of Guy Post’s acting, but as to the title of
the piece, well, it might be “Much Ado
About Nothing,” or “Oh. Chilcote!” Simi-
larly no one seems to know—-or care—that
the Hebraic farce at the Criterion is called
“Business Before Pleasure” (and I’m sure
/ don’t know why). “Potash and Perl-
mutter” every time! Dramatists, I have
always understood, go through a horrible
brain-racking period when it comes to chris-
tening a play ; but it seems to me that their
trouble, after all, is wasted. The title doesn’t
matter much. A success by any other name
would be just as successful.
“Ibsenshaw”: I came across a copy of
Edward Sheldon’s drama, “The Nigger,” in
Melbourne Public Library the other night,
and put in an interesting hour perusing it.
It is well worth reading, as it was well
worth seeing performed; in fact it reads
almost as well as it acts. Most good plays
do. When seeing the production it had
struck me that the realistic Southern dialect
affected by the principals was just “put on ’
by the adaptable mummers intent on giving
us the correct “atmosphere,” but I found by
the printed book that the author has been
careful to write the dialogue as he wants
it spoken, which is. presumably, how
Southerners speak. Thus the white folk in
the play have no choice but to say “heah, (
for “here”; “ovali,” for “over”; “nearah,’
for “nearer” : “fo\” for “for ; “mistah for
“mister”; and so on. That this niggah talk
did not get on Australian nerves says much,
I think, for the all-round artistic handling
of the play by Bates Post and his associates.
A SAILOR’S STAR.
A. B.: “Where did yer pick her up?”
O.S.: “AP the pictures. Lumme, she’s u
real mix-up of Mary Pickford, Olga
Petrover and Theda. Barn. I’ll have to
leave yer, matey; this is one of her
Theda Bara nights.”
“D.”: The manager of the Garrick
Dramatic Co. was named Rollick. He was
giving Ballarat an opportunity of witnessing
great plays by great players, and one of his
special engagements was the celebrated
metropolitan actor, James Cathcart. Rollick
when unfinaucial was profoundly apprecia-
tive, and the greater the strain the more com-
plimentary he grew. ' “Jimmy,”' he would
say. “you are one of the finest actors on
God’s footstool. You have a wonderful
voice, soft as a lute, commanding as a
clarion. For scholarly diction, dignity and
artistic appreciation of the value of a charac-
ter, I put James Cathcart first always.”
Then he would shake Jimmy’s hand, with
deep emotion, and Jimmy hadn’t the heart to
ask for his money. This continued for eight
days, arid on the ninth Cathcart appeared in
the manager’s office, pushing a stout, indig-
nant man before him. “Jimmy,” said Pol-
lick. “glad to see you. By the Lord Harry.
you were fine last night—magnif- ” “All
right, Rollick, all right,” Cathcart responded.
“I can’t ask for a cent. In mercy's name,
try it on my landlord!” And Jimmy fled
leaving Pollick with the unpaid publican.
“Spreader” : A dinkum Australian trio has
found its way on to Sydney streets at last.
There are only three members, all of them
graduates of the Binghi Conservetofium of
Music at La Perouse. The full-blood in
charge tenderly saws the violin while two
half-castes play a gum-leaf apiece placed
between the teeth. “Marching Through
Georgia” never fails to draw a crowd and a
hat sprinkled with small change.
“75”: Bayard Veiller offered “Within the
Law” to nearly every manager in N’Yark
and could not get a taker. At last a shindy-
kit bought it outright for £lOO, and made a
fortune. When it came to disposing of “The
Thirteenth Chair” Veiller got some of his
own back. He is alleged already to have col-
lected £60,000 in royalties, and the knife is
still dropping from the ceiling nightly in
N’Yark (where it has been dropping for 22
months) and in various cities and villages
in England, Australia and elsewhere.
“L.I-1.P."; Some recent writer said that
Bland Holt played “The Ironmaster.”
Wrong. He must have been thinking of
Bland Holt's production of Sims and Pet-
titt's melodrama, “Master and Man,” which
also deals with ironworks. Ohnet's French
play, "Le Maitre de Forges” was first done
in Australia by Marie De Grey in 1884,
under the title of “Lady Clare,” the English
version emanating from the pen of Robert
Buchanan, who first staged it at London
Globe, April 11, 1883. The scene was laid
in England, instead of France, and an Eton
boy and an American were introduced as
comic relief. Subsequently Pinero’s deftly
and delicately-written version entitled, “The
Ironmaster,” was staged in Australia by the
Majeronis, Harry St. Maur and Kyrle
Bellew-Brown Potter. For nearly 20 years,
dating from its production at London St.
James’s in ISS4, “The Ironmaster” was a
strong card in the Kendal repertoire, and it
would have formed one of their attractions, if
they had come to Australia in 1890 or there-
abouts. J. C. Williamson offered them
£6OOO for a 15 weeks’ tour. But there
was too much gold to be picked up in
America, and tin; Kendals never got beyond
’Frisco.
“Snell” : It was Miln. I think, an Ameri-
can ex-parson pro. playing at Melbourne
Opera House, coming down to the footlights
as the distracted Shakspearean king, and
emitting his hoarse roar : “A horse, a horse,
my kingdom for a horse!” From the
stalls a voice with a distinct Yorkshire burr,
loud enough to be heard in Bourke-street:
“I ve got a little mare I’ll let you have dirt
cheap!” The Royal was the scene of an-
other interjection that broke up the house.
Handsome George Rignold was giving ’em
melodrama, and in one of the hero’s most
effective moments a child started to cry in
the gallery. George lifted his voice to beat
down all opposition. The infant went one
better. George raised him. The babe re-
sponded gallantly. George stopped a breath-
ing space, arid then mother cut in: “Perhaps
if you make less noise. Mr. Rignold, I may
get Willie to sleep !” But the bull-roarer of
them all was Gus Glover. Gus was appear-
ing at the old “Aleck” in “The Golden
Farmer, or the Last Crime,” or words to
that effect, and the management had com-
missioned him to roar his darnedest in a
scene that called for some clamor. Gus
went out to roar. He roared himself to a
standstill, only to be greeted by a piping,
massive voice from aloft. "Speak up, Gus.
We can’t hear a word up here."
From London Tit Bits :
Madame Melba, who has just celebrated her 75th
birthday, possesses the secret of perennial youth.
And few, not knowing the facts, would guess that
over half a century has elapsed since her voice first
charmed an audience. Her debut was made at the
Yew York Academy of Music .when she was only
sixteen. She is said to have earned well over a
million sterling.
Melba’s debut was in 1887, at the Theatre
Monnaie, Brussels, as Gilda, in Rigoletto.
“II.” : Comparatively few playwrights are
alike eligible arid of military age. One of
them is Arthur Wimperis, who lately came
before a London tribunal as an applicant
foi* three months’
exemption. He is
under contract to
complete three
pieces before the
end of the year,
and if one of them
was not ready in
August a certain
theatre, its com-
pany and staff
would suffer
severely. The
chairman of the
Military Board told
him that theatres
were only a minor
and secondary con-
sideration in World
war-time, but that
he would tie ex-
empted for six
months. Wimperis
replied : “That will
be quite satisfac-
tory. I have no
wish to avoid mili-
tary service." He
is now 43, and
“The ’Nigger,'” at Syd-
ney Palace.
Gay Bates Post as
Governor Morrow.
is classed in Grade
1. He served in the South African war, gain-
ing the Queen's medal and four bars.
ALL ONE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I loved a circus beauty then,
And I was barely one-and-twenty.
She chose me out of many men ;
Her ripened charms were good and plenty.
I did not marry Myra, though.
Her temper promised endless woe.
I ran, for peace and freedom aiming,
And left my Myra lion-taming.
I loved a little, lithe soubrette—
Her repertoire was quite extensive —
She left me very much in debt;
My Josephine was too expensive.
And then a dancer in the play
I loved a twelve-month and a day.
I left her (’twas a wish of mother’s),
For Loo admired too many others.
Five more I loved. From all I fled—
They were too gay, or else too doleful.
A small, pale, milliner I wed,
A simple creature, soft and soulful.
Though to my fitting fate resigned
It grieves me to the heart to find
The one I yielded to included
All those I thought 1 had eluded !
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
V
\f/
sS&jSs*
V. <
l w
5SSS*f>
& .
,y
..v
W'^
-~fma?
awsv;,^
is~'
jg?Q£. >C V •.
SSSifS^^w’jK
s»s:
•;.;; \.
••. -~'. "-■■ ..•>.. ... ...->
«Si<feVvi*
2\
89W
' v/^.'Lrf,s’
Sm n
ffiKHSfeS
;;,v:
ToHi
Ullli
K
8®
wm
:/>:v‘
!§g
frtjii'Vsc
:#3k
<> »->7««!.'WK
&&
B*a*^«^7*K
a®
ijfSffi
jiM
»8>
Ml
WifWiJ
feU
3iB
y /' l-
*
s®«Si
£
St
sw^sagw!
~nii
' ill
ass
1?
:v~%vi
fmwl^fc
as
■ ■'■ ' : }:;V -'PP :■:/<
W 0&
mfc
mm
: W-%
<sim
mm
mm WmwßT&M)'
I >Mm
SgStil
m
m
wm
m
mmm
m
mXr
¥k
mmm
WZBi&zi
is
faMpß
: r '.>-
3
aS-
@ 5
M
mm^p
UJlPlfggg
Wpf
i&&iai
IS
2 j
*
111
m Mp
■
iSSSS
aBs
M&
Sift*
few
&&$■
m
Vj&m&lSßr-
*m
55SSS®
I
'v. MW
■
®SSSI
K*i : ai’ i>
jmpp?
m
>:.v
3^SS
3r,,
-=§•>
fe;
O
'SI
««JrH>i
; :.,;,S
S3SSS£S
ss*2s
•«S'S
■
V^^AvV*^
'■■ ut
tmmm
r.^*
o,)n.
C i
L*.
‘-r—s
w»
i',V«»yJ-'
wari’
S. C - ~"f .i.7:-*--
«-*
■^^^rr^irii
• -
li;lfcr«y3
£i&£n* n»l
,y »
ivWi
■^Sr) : o
m
*&&!&$
brfttKVt
mm-
■:.i^
„ »...^wW'*^ K ' ,< Tv‘ '■*■'■ . >•«, <te*-* -.'iJS^aiWo
Stoj
•." :: :
a®9 s
WS K
'*«4lsr»
■' - 1
(.■»': v ;• 7 .;• j*.v- r
: "v.j^7 ‘ ‘- P'y P •
Cobra,” Boot PolisH
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Strafes the lurkin
U-boat too.
Look! H ere come
The Cobra Three
Straight across the
H aunted sea !
D own the depth bomb
Goes ! N ow, clear !
Sudden death is
Waiting here !
BOOM ! the sea shakes
In its dread.
COBRA’s cleaned the
Ocean bed !


mn
RABBIT
SKINS.
'
Regular
WeeKly
Auctions
Winchcombe, Carson’s Skin Prices are at
the bottom of this.
Consign Rabbit Skins, Fox and all other
skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SYDNEY. LTD.
Salesmen only. Not buyers or dealers.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
states, 2id.
QUEEN S ARMS HOTEL
In the Heart of the
City of IVlelbourne
If contemplating a visit to Melbourne you
can confidently book accommodation at
the Queen’s Arms Hotel. This fine hotel,
situated a few seconds from trains, trams,
theatres, public buildings and business
centres —with modern accommodation,
excellent cuisine and pleasing service—is
the ideal “home” for visitors.
Tariff by the day, 10/6.
queen’s Arms hotel,
(Late Champion’s),
Cr. Swanston Street and Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE-, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sola
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
PHOTOGRAPHY !
AMATEURS—for Good Results and Speed send your
Developing, Printing and Enlarging to
TBE|
m
STUfcI&S
278 Ceorg-e
Street,
Opp. Margaret Street, SYDNEY.
Criticisms Free—lndividual Attention—Postal Orders
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
Ail Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way. He likes,
and must have, the best.
Mellin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the
battle. Then, what a boon to the
mother to use a food which requires
no tiresome cooking or preparation.
MeNin's
Food
Is made in a flash—needs no cooking
Send (or sample of Mellin's Food and Hand-
book for Mothers ‘The Care of Infants’— Free
Messrs. Gollin & Co. Proprietary
Ltd., Sydney
Your Economy and
Comfort Calls for
Dominion Tyres
BSSS
If
You want a tyre that
will give you the most
resiliency and elasticity
—the greatest possible
riding comfort.
THAT TYRE IS THE
DOMINION.
Made in Canada.
Your Dealer will be glad to
procure if not in stock.
DISTRIBUTORS:
UNITED STATES RUBBER COMPANY
(Australasia) Limited,
HEAD OFFICE: 53 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
8 BARKELL LTD.,
Castlereag'h Street,
SYDNEY.
n
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
mn
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER <BHAS> BRAND
Containing about 95.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS;
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
See that a Box goes in your Soldier’s Next Parcel.
NAZETHA PASTILLES
The Best Mouth and Throat Antiseptic,
AS A PRECAUTION AGAINST THE GERMS OF
Meningitis, Influenza, Diphtheria.
For
HUSKY THROAT, COUGHS, LOSS OF VOICE, &c.,
NAZETHA PASTILLES.
OBTAINABLE 1/6 FROM ALL CHEMISTS.
[2
As
--•■
&2k
&m
; Huvji
53-
COME UP TO ’
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
Barron falls - Barron Gorge V r v
the wonderful hinterland. '
Sunshine , Palm Trees ,
Tropical Flowers. A glorious v<
season of soft sunshine
and Scenic Splendour
A Booklet telling all about »t
X N is yours for the asking
N /v// in this coupon:-
\
Ah me
8.8-
Address
Jo Director o/
&Tounsr Bureau.
Brisbane. QUEENSLAND.
m
m
mm
m
m
v
BOSTOGK’S—the Sign of a Good Shine-
m
THE SIGN OF
AGOOD SHINE
The present being times for the practise of economy, no better preservative of
leather can be recommended than
Bostock’s Shoe Dressings.
This well-known Shoe Polish possesses all the qualities for enhancing the wear of
footwear, keeping the leather soft, pliable and brilliant. Shoes regularly cleaned
with Bostoek’s give added service.
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark Brown, Ox Blood and White. In Bottles and Tubes.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd., Sydney
The Ballakat Trustees, Executors
and Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividendg. serves, serves.
Dec., 1910.. £1913 12 p.c. = £9OO £lOl3 £17,357
June, 1911.. 1826 10 „ „ 750 1076 18,433
Dec., 1911.. 1907 12 „ 900 1007 19,440
June 1912 i JO »» >» '5O 1088 I cqq
’ '' j Transferred to capital, £5OOO f 5 “ 8
Dec., 1912.. 1732 12 p.c. = 1200 532 16,060
June, 1913.. 1528 10 „ „ 1000 528 16,588
Dec., 1913.. 1758 12 „ „ 1200 558 17,146
June, 1914.. 1610 10 „ „ 1000 610 17,756
Dec., 1914.. 1878 12 „„ 1200 678 18,434
June, 1915.. 1488 10 „ „ 1000 488 18,922
Dec., 1915.. 1679 12 „ „ 1200 479 19,401
June, 1916.. 1503 10 „ „ 1000 503 19,904
Dec., 1916.. 1656 12 „„ 1200 456 20,360
June, 1917.. 1453 10 ~ „ 1000 453 20,813
Dec., 1917.. 1771 12 „ „ 1200 571 21,384
June, 1918.. 1673 10 „ „ 1000 673 22,057
The profit for the past half-year is given less
£lOO written off the Ballarat freehold and
£lOO off furniture. Gross profits, £5566,
show an improvement of over £7OO on the
average of the previous four terms and about
£1.500 on the figures of five years ago. But
expenses have also climbed. This time last
year the directors announced that as reserves
had reached £20,000. which was equal to the
paid-up capital, they proposed to make no
further additions to the fund, blit would allow
undivided profits to accumulate, and from
time to time declare bonuses and make calls
until the shares were paid up another ss.
This would bring them to the paid-up limit
of 255., the remaining 255. per share being
held as a reserve liability to protect clients.
The undivided profits now amount to over
£2OOO, which would enable the directors to
pay a 10 p.c. bonus and call up 2s. per share.
It is a very comfortable business and is ex-
panding steadily. Trusts in hand now total
£2,494,516, compared with £2.287,282 as at
June, 1917, and £1,712,250 five years ago.
Of the co.’s own funds no less than £37,041
is in public securities, while £1740 is in
cash, and £4476 in freeholds and furniture.
The investments alone probably contribute
about 6J p.c. of the dividend paid, so com-
missions have to provide only about p.c.
on the capital to maintain the present aver-
age dividend of 11 p.c.
* * *
“Henry Horsecollar’s” reflections :
A mining town, if it has nothing save mining to
depend upon, ought to be on wheels. To build a
permanent city round an industry that is here to-day
and gone to-morrow is bad enough, and sometimes
it is even worse, for the industry may be an
unusually plausible wild-cat, so that it was really
gone yesterday instead of to-morrow —in fact, it was
always gone, because it never came. People in the
Transvaal are thinking over this problem. The Boer
land, which made so much history, is the greatest
gold country in the world —in fact, it is about 40
per cent, of the world in this respect, and is equal
to the Commonwealth five times over. But it is a
poor sort of place, apart from its minerals,-and its
miscellaneous resources are like hairs on a bald hrad—
few and far apart. There are dazzling mines ; also
there are very many big solid mines that don’t dazzle,
but which, by reason of a huge output and much
cheap nigger labor, have paid well enough. Then the
war rushed up the cost of machinery and stores and
food ; and when the food of a numerous five-shilling
nigger goes up half a crown it is a much bigger
problem per cent, than if the food of a rather rare
£lO white man went up 10s. The further increases
in costs which are now in view will put many mines,
which had been living on hope and a profit that was
down to a few pence per ton, on the wrong side of
the ledger, and as no one can tell how long the situa-
tion may last or how much worse it may become, a
huge suspension is expected. The idea of using up
ore for a profit of about nothing per ton or less when
it might yield 10s. per ton after the war has no
attractions, for the ore doesn’t grow a fresh crop next
year like potatoes. A lot of small towns therefore
are likely to suspend. They will be still there and
still quite right when circumstances allow the owners
to come back —except, of course, for the ravages of
weather and insects, and the consequences of neglect,
and the disappearance of doors and fittings and sun-
dries which travellers, black and white, may use for
firewood, and the investigations of wild unclean ani-
mals when the doors are gone, and the smell of the
animals, and fires, and floods, and the occasional
disappearance of a house which somebody has put on
a waggon and removed bodily. Contents which the
owners were unable to remove will, to a great extent,
evaporate, as mi watched contents do, and the said
owners will have to pay for house-i’oom elsewhere
during the interregnum, and find work if they can,
which by reason of the rush they probably can’t.
If these towns were on wheels they might shift
bodily to pastures new, but they were foolishly tied
down. A proposal is made that the Government
should subsidise gold at so much an ounce, or ore at
so much a ton, to prevent worse things happening, for
if a town becomes- null and void a frightful amount
of paper value —credit, goodwill, land values, mort-
gages, advances on real and personal security, savings
bank and building-society investments and the like —■
become thin air. There is something- weird about
the idea of subsidising gold—not the prospecting of
new fields but the daily work of old well-established
ones. The logic of the thing is plain enough in the
present upside-down circumstances, but it sounds
like an old-age pension for capitalists.
* * * *
“Oof Bird - ’: Platinum is now quoted in
London at £2O per troy ounce, as against
255. per ounce 40 years ago. By ISBO it
had a value of 355. per ounce, by 1889 it
was selling at 555.. and a year later, princi-
pally on account of its use in photography, it
had buyers at 80s. Later on it was priced
at £5 ss„ and up till 1914 it could still be
got at £lO an ounce. Then the war came, and
its use in the manufacture of acids which
form the base of high explosives, its appli-
cation to magnetos and its utility at the
“contact points” of engines for aeroplanes,
hydroplanes, etc., have forced the price up to
the present figure and caused the Imperial
Government to make the metal a complete
Government monopoly in Great Britain. The
great bulk of the world’s supply comes from
Russia, and most of the balance is furnished
by the Republic of Columbia. A little has
been produced in N. 8. Wales and Tas-
mania, and a little less in Canada.
“D.F.” : New buyers have come into the
market for osmiridium, and the price has
soared to £27 an ounce—more than double
the best price before the war. Consequently
the hunt for it in the mountain country
beyond Waratah (Tas.) is very keen, and a
new field is being opened up near Mount
Stewart.


Yf
&
o?SM'
iSSi
*&■
t£3
<V*
'jJk-
<oBB
a
«r
'fiSr.
v. *. V
**so
**W
&J
l w *
vS&
W
>-
JfiC
Vi.
-~"S
o
IM
ir.
W‘
■£'%wh
»•*?«
A<-
8?
Wrf
&
?*
SSf
r»
us
A STANDARD Dipping Preparation
lof PROVED Quality
and Effectiveness
The Australasian Sheep Raiser can rest assured that there will be NO shortage of effective
“Dip” for the coining season, for there is now a Dipping Powder produced in Australia—
AN ARSENICAL “DIP” OF THE HIGHEST POSSIBLE QUALITY—that at once
allays ALL possibility'of a famine in RELIABLE dip.
HU
POWDER SHEEP DIP
is CHEMICALLY and PHYSICALLY equal to the Best Dip EVER Imported—a claim provable by
analysis, and its quality guaranteed. Your actual use of “Vallo” Dip this season will convince you
“once and for all” that it is second to none in its destructive action against Ticks, Lice and all other
sheep-infesting Vermin ; and will prove to you that it reduces Fly Strike to a Minimum.
Australasia’s Largest Demands Can
be Supplied On Time.
Important to YOU —at this time of “rumored” shortage—is the
fact that “Vallo” Powder Dip can be supplied to meet EVERY
demand Australasia may make —whether for part or the whole
of Australasia’s vast number of sheep. Further, “Vallo”
Powder Sheep Din is TIIE RESULT OF YEARS OF EX-
HAUSTIVE SCIENTIFIC INVESTIGATION , AN!) THE
APPLICATION OF EXPERT CHEMICAL SKILL, IS PRE-
PARED BY A SPECIAL PLANT, and manufactured by
A. VICTOR LEGCO & CO., who own their own Arsenic Mines
in Australia, thus avoiding any necessity for importing of the
chief essential ingredient for this STANDARD dipping prepara-
tion,
A. VICTOR LEGGO (Si CO.,
Works: Yarraville and Bendigo.
Mines: Southern Cross, W.A., and Queensland.
Head Office: 524-526 Collins Street, Melbourne.
gj
Procurable
All Stores
Agents for N.S.W.
DANGAR, GEDYE and
CO. LTD,,
9, llj 13 Young Street,
Sydney.
North Queensland.
CUMMINS & CAMPBELL,
JLTD., Townsville.
Central Queensland.
WALTER REII) and CO.,
LTD., Rockhampton.
South Queensland.
BRABANT & CO., Brisbane.
The Farmers’ Co-opera
tive Wholesale Federa
tion (N.Z.) Limited,
Christchurch.
Wholesale for Victoria
and Tasmania.
A. VICTOR LEGGO
and CO.
Agents being appointed
W r est Australia and
South Australia.
VALLG
Powder
■Sheep
Dip
MADE
fUSTRAE/ A
Of RE
r IONS
FOR
USE
J=
S
SSWiK
"We***
i
r'A
,v-' E 'V
esT*?
o3a
“ORIENT” SHIRTS
AND
RIDING BREECHES
r"" i• i
mm
hl
rst
n
mn
40G22.—The “Orient” Tunic
Shirt, “made by David Jones’,” from
fine, cool, hard-wearing Cambric, with
stiff single cuffs and soft front. Supplied
in various blue and black stripe designs
on white grounds, and representing a
typical example of our policy to provide
goods at the lowest possible prices com
sistent with reliability. Sizes 14in. to
m
5/6
40R25. —“Orient” Riding
Breeches, “made by David
Jones’,” in white odorless Canton
Moleskin, full cut, with strapped
knees and lace front (as shown
in illustration above).
All sizes. Price
17/6
As above, in drab odorless
Moleskin. Price,... .... 18/6
40R26. —“Orient” Riding
Breeches, “made by David
Jones’,” in Khaki Drill of hard-
wearing quality and of light,
summer weight, full cut (as illus-
tration), with strapped knees and
lace fronts. All sizes.
Price
18/6
Better qualities, 22/6 and 25/-
We Pay
Carriage.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
sss
S 3
->••>:,. m : •
■•'-.,.,.v.:.: j
: ~
m
/
&


LIGHT!
LIGHT!
LIGHT!
It i$ almost impossible to have
too much light in any sense.
WE ARE JUST PUTTING IN A
BIG PLANT FOR
ST. VINCENT’S ORPHANAGE,
BRISBANE
THE AUTHORITIES OF THESE
INSTITUTIONS KNOW HOW TO
MAKE BRIGHT AND HAPPY
HOMES for the BOYS and GIRLS.
THEY STUDY THE POINTS OF
VANTAGE FROM EVERY
ASPECT WHETHER IN
ELEVATION, BRIGHTNESS OF
OUTLOOK, DESIGN AND
CONSTRUCTION OF BUILDING,
HYGIENIC CONDITIONS OR
OTHERWISE.
HENCE THE REASON FOR
PREFERRING
QUIRK’S SAFETY AIR GAS
SYSTEM
TO ANY OTHER.
IT IS THE CHEAPEST, SIMPLEST
SAFEST and CLEANEST
SYSTEM KNOWN.
CALL OR WRITE FOR PARTICULARS.
QUIRK’S
Lighting (Engineering
LIMITED.
SYDNEY - 245 ELIZABETH STREET
BRISBANE - 24-28 WHARF STREET
MELBOURNE - 110 STURT STREET
ADELAIDE - 112 GRENFELL STREET
PERTH, W.A. ALCOCK & CO. PTY. LTD.
m
m
l'i
Wherever
You Need
Current
nm
Columbia
Batteries
are all-round utility batteries. They
operate as well for heavy as for light
work. They are portable, compact,
non-corrosive—easily connected in the
circuit. Dependable, uniform, strong.
Columbia Batteries sent abroad are
so constructed as to give satisfactory
results under every
climatic condition;
They are protected by
moisture-proof cartons
and carefully packed.
Dealers: I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us :
National Carbon
Company
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland ”
IOtUMf;
IGNITOR
-•'<>
z§mo r
si°Ar
,Ju w 4
«r=
CA
'
USA
Mquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENCLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water .is drawn from a spring at
.Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Tei.kgkaph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, IIARROOATE, England.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.AY.
Branches in all parts of the worM.
n
ABBEY
SHOES
‘ are made on our own lasts, in the
most exclusive models. They are
not only distinctive in appearance,
hut they will give you the utmost
in service and comfort.
They are made in half and full
sizes, and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide, therefore you
are assured a perfect fit.
We illustrate one of our latest
mod.els- —a choice Glace Kid Bal.,
with Patent-Leather Toecaps.
Price - 32/6
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
N.S.W., Style Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading, Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States,
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
mn
m
DENBY
MOTOR LORRIES
I=2=3 and 5
Tons
Capacities.
_
There are 105 replacable bushings in the 3-ton Denby, 102 in the
2-ton, and 86 in the 1-ton model.
Every part that wear will a ffect is protected by one of these bush-
ings. They can be renewe d when worn at a slight cost, and the
truck is as good as ever.
They add to manufacturing cost—but they form one of the many
ways in which Denby construction saves you money.
A. HATRICK & COMPANY, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
The town-planners, holding pow-wow at
Brisbane, had a breeze over the Australian
capital. Fitzgerald wanted the work pro-
ceeded with at all costs, because the plan of
it was admired by town-planners all over the
world. Which is quite likely. The difficulty
is that Canberra, being without coal, iron,
water-power or a harbor and not even being
an oasis in a desert, has nothing special to
live upon, and even if it was as universally
admired as the ruins of Karnak or Luxor or
Louis XlV.’s palace at Versailles, this coun-
try can’t afford to keep it up. Some other
delegates declared that Australia wouldn’t
require a capital for another 100 years,
which was not worthy of a town-planner.
Australia wants a dozen new cities, with the
people as sole ground landlord, and.each good
enough to be a capital—not gilded pau-
pers, but places that can support themselves
like any other ordinary cities by reason of
their manufacturing or commercial or other
possibilities, and pay a big dividend in
unearned increment. These are. the sort of
cities that would have grown before this if
the railway policy of the three congestion
States hadn’t been gerrymandered from
Sydney and Melbourne and Adelaide in the
exclusive interests of Sydney and Melbourne
and Adelaide private landlords and private
bagmen. And if one of these self-supporting
cities was made a capital, then the extra
unearned increment which the political busi-
ness brought along would be so much the
more for the Treasury. The barren logicians
who say that Australia can’t afford a capital
might just as well advocate the destruction
of Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Hobart,
Adelaide, Perth. Darwin and Port Moresby
on the ground that the Commonwealth can’t
afford eight capitals. They start with the
assumption that a capital, unless it is a
State capita], must be a pensioner, because
Canberra is a pensioner, and was always in-
tended to be one. It is just because Aus-
tralia is rather hard up just now that a new
metropolis of the right kind is badly wanted.
If the Labor leaders could spare a moment
from their efforts to get the baby-murderers’
Pacific Islands restored to them they might,
have a look at the almost-forgotten Public
Land Ownership plank in their platform.
This question is the good old plank.
Some newspapers lately have been pub-
lishing statements which reflect in a
measure on the war-work of the Y.M.C.A.
The gravamen of these appear to consist of
allegations that the canteens charge for
eatables and drinkables. Simple replies to
this are : (1) That these canteens were estab-
lished at the request of the army authori-
ties; (2) that charges are made compulsory
by army regulation, are inescapable and
are necessary; and (3) that if it sets out to
provision the army gratis the Y.M.C.A.
would be bankrupt in a week. The main
work of the institution, for which the funds
collected in Australia and elsewhere are ex-
pended, is not in connection with these can-
teens. A vast amount of gratuitous service
and comfort is by it afforded in the war
zone. It may be worth mentioning in a
casual way that any profits made out of
canteens by the Y.M.C.A., in consequence
of having to observe the scale of charges at
the neighboring regimental canteen, <*o to
the free services fund. In carrying gratui-
tous service and comforts to the men in the
trenches and to the wounded alone in France
£2500 is now being spent every pionth. The
institution operates closer to the line than
any other, and nearly everywhere the
advanced dressing-stations have Y.M.C.A.
orderlies close at hand. The work of the
Association has received the warmest com-
mendation of General Mon ash. The Bul-
letin reckons that is good enough.
To judge by a suggestion made by
Lieut.-Col. Jones, Vic. Inspector-General
of the Insane, at a recent meeting of the Aus-
College of Dentistry, the State’s men-
tal patients are getting a poor deal in regard
to their teeth. Jones’s mild proposition is
that inmates of the asylums would be greatly
benefited by “proper dental attention and
supervision, as is the case in England.” The
average “pauper lunatic,” put away at Yarra
Bend because he believes (say) that all
crockery was made to be smashed on sight, is
deprived of most things making for his com-
fort and well-being. Mostly he wears no
boots, because he might mistake an attendant
for a soup-tureen and try to crack him with
his handiest weapon. He is not allowed a
knife and fork, for obvious reasons. He is
shaved, at fairly long intervals, with a dull
razor. There is no brush and comb on his
dressing-table, as a rule, and no dressing-
table to put them on, anyway. Further, he
is in many cases debilitated by his mental
ailment.. Such a lot of things, indeed, mili-
tate against his ease that it seems extraordi-
narily callous that he should not have
adequate dental attention. The spectacle of
a . drooling, chilly-footed, unshaven wretch,
with, broken, insanitary teeth and perhaps an
unmitigated toothache, is more suggestive of
a German internment-camp than of a Govern-
ment hospital in a British country.
“Ritasun”: A lot of unostentatious patri-
otism is being practised by country traders
I know; yet many of them have cheap
sneers aimed at them because their names don’t
shine on published lists of donations. It is
no secret that many fine fellows found en-
listment practically the only way out of
their financial quicksands. They left owing '
scores to . the local traders—and the traders
mostly wished them luck and hoped silently
for a settlement some day. I know of many
cases where, on seeing the debtor’s name
in a casualty list, the creditor has sent out
a receipted invoice, marked “Paid.” Many
traders in these parts have lessened the
worries of many a worried grass-widow by
not even waiting for bad news. The account
duly receipted has been posted on the
first of the month as a cheerful surprise.
Round our way the scores wiped out have
run into thousands.
S. M. Hekald grows more addicted to
scoring bull’s-eyes or something. The latest
shot (9/8/T8) :
A further offensive on the West by Germany may
suggest that she fears the effect on her people of
such an acknowledgment of defeat.
Of course, everybody knows that an army
only makes an offensive as a proclamation
that it is in the soup. That is why iVh
became offensive on the Marne.


snipping.
ORIENT LINE.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-ae-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4Sio! . Sydney.
Every Three Weeks.
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
“VENTURA” sails AUGUST 28.
Apply - OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282. I
lilinking. Public Companies, &c.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C. ; THOS.
WELSBY.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEF.S.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE AVORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . • ■ 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since IS9S specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. AV. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— AV. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OI'TtCE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up v £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £130.000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARAVOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South AALales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the AA r orld.
Every Description of Banking- Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000.000
Uncalled Capital 500,000
Reserve Fundand Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
HOTEL,
St, Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping *e.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
PRAIRIES. GREAT LAKES.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
Next Sailing—R.M.S. NIAGARA, 24th AUGUST.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours. Returning by Any Available Line.
NEXT CONNECTING STEAMER LEAVES SYDNEY AUGUST 29.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific. ’
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach —“The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENEHY —PERFECT WEATHER —MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
n
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Groups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILF 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH
established 1817.
WALES.
mn
m
£3,904,860
£2,950,000
£3,904,860
£10,759,730
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles R. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfully Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laklley, Esq. ■
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Tlireadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign End 3
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
RTTSSELL FRENCH. General Manager.
Commonwealth
n
JSanfc cf Australia
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issiied to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
At a.ll
Branches, and over
2750
Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia., Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific.
Interest at 3 0 /
per annum ' # /o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor^
PROVIDE A RESERVE FUND
by banking your surplus earnings where they will
accumulate with interest at the rate of 3| per cent, per
annum, and be available when required.
Government Saving's BanK of
New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards.
Interest Limit £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State.
No Agencies at Post Office.
The Bank that Pays
53.0.
± /
Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Inter=State Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. Between Melbourne and Launceston three
sailings per week.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
* Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to 1
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are itNied in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—sceamer to Murwilluinbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by-
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as ’‘the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMFSITT & CO.. Melbourne
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian. fid. weekly —an illustrated paper
I containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British: Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High Hoi
born London. W.C.. where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


HEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1906
(Mwm
HE PLUS ULTRA
~7 ; •
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SVifIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
Too t s st.v^S««’ B polnt
IJ2 o*««j!t 8 , ss“ga»«j
STsSs-’® 6 ®"
mn
PAULINE et CIE
ANNOUNCE THEIR
SPRING AND SUMMER SHOW.
MILLINERY on and after Wednesday, August 7.
COATS and SKIRTS, FROCKS, etc., on and after
Tuesday, August 20. 3rd Floor,
Denison House Chambers, Ceorge Street, Sydney,
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 liooms,
comprising Private Suites, Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts.
Illustrated Prospectus and all particu-
lars forwarded on application.
Telephones: Y2llB and Y 1266.
iio°J V «WI ll no A
33M3553 33JJ03
S3MOOHS
m
nm
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
scaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
n
% 5
/
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVEID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
• Sydney, August 19, 1918.
My Dear Arini, —
Homes Day will be as successful as will-
ing hands can make it. The Voluntary
Workers’ Association has dated September
18 for the rally, and the money raked in will
be spent in the purchase of materials for
soldiers’ homes. The Voluntary Workers do
the rest. It’s clearly up to you to help
partially-disabled men back from the Front
—-men who are unable to do heavy out-door
toil—and widows and orphans of those
who sleep for ever under alien skies. A big
meeting in the Town Hall this (Monday)
afternoon, with Governor-General Ferguson
on the platform, knocked the preliminary
details into shape.
Though some of tin l comforts funds are
still wrestling with pyramids of Christmas
cakes, the private parcels have gone. On
Thursday last the early birds fluttered round
the G-P.O. and dropped their offerings into
that department of hopes and uncertainties.
Next morning the real crush began, and the
largest John Hop in town couldn’t have
turned aside two slips of girls, staggering
under heavy loads (they had missed a train,
and that made them cut the time to the last
second), who fell upon the A.I.F. parcels
office and triumphantly unloaded the cargo.
A moment later the G.P.O. clock struck tin;
closing hour—boom !
Some time ago, Hath more, the pleasant
gabled home at Neutral Bay for convalescent
soldiers, was given for that purpose to the
Bed Cross. The generous donor was Miss
Davey. For months some of the rooms have
been occupied, and there are garden-seats in
use amongst the flower-beds where once
upon a time editor Heney, of the Herald,
used to grow fine roses. This pigeon-cote
jiacl its official blessing from the Minim
Ferguson, lady last week.
Amidst a chorus of congratulations from
Premier Holman’s personal friends over his
record term of office, an opal and diamond
necklet was handed to Mrs. Holman.' The
presentation was made in Cootamuudra, the
electorate that hubby represents in the
Assembly.
The Amateur Patriotic Musical and
Dramatic Society gave a performance of
“The Cingalee,” at the Royal on Saturday
night, to raise more money to purchase com-
forts for our men at the Front. The 4th and
56tli Battalions will split the proceeds with
the Ist Australian Machine Gunners. Lady
Helen Ferguson was compressed into a box,
with Lady Doris Blackwood and a commit-
tee dame or two. In the long list of ama-
teur players, P. G. Smith (in the mixed
attire of Chambudy Ram) and Mrs. Roy
Buckland (in the part of Peggy Sabine)
kept the coffee-colored plot together.
Both were good enough to have saved
a much worse show from extinction. In
a front seat of the stalls, Mrs. Alex, Gor-
don, whose beautiful voice once thrilled Syd-
ney in the guise of Nanoya, the Cingalese
girl, watched dainty Eugenie Moreau softly
coo in the same part to a very wooden tea-
planter. The scenery deserved unqualified
praise.
Three weeks divided between the city and
points of interest in the country will be a
steady round of sight-seeing for the coming
French Mission- The sudden death in U.S.
of the leader, M. Metin, gives a black edge to
the gaiety. In spite of that tragic happen-
ing, the N. S. Wales Government will spread
itself to welcome General I’au and his col-
leagues. There’s to be an evening reception
at Government House and a garden-party as
the sub-regal share in the welcome.
The vice-regal Davidsons are making the
O. Falkiners’ homestead in the Riverina their
headquarters, darting hither and thither to
open country shows. They’re due back at
Macquarie-street in a day or two.
A kindly soul, best known to the poor in
her husband’s parish of Redfern, has gone
over the shadowy border. After a very short
illness, Mrs. Boyce, wife of Archdeacon
Boyce, died on Saturday.
Jessie MacKenzie Mills, only surviving
daughter - (a bright young sister was killed
by a fall from her horse a few years ago) of
Dr. and Mr|, Arthur Mills, murmured the
usual responses in St. Stephen's the other
evening. The happy man was Hugh Eccles-
ton Campbell, of the Merino Downs clan.
Roma. Bananaland. Bridesmaidens Lena
Campbell. Enid Edgley and Madge Sly had
Colin Campbell, Lieut. Harden, M.C., and
Pat Morrisey to escort them down the aisle.
The cake was cut at the Australia.
Mrs. Jack Hindhaugli, of Victoria, is in
Sydney on a health trip. Her three young
children are with her. By way of beguiling
many anxious hours —her husband has been
four years on active service—she has just
written a Gippsland yarn, “The Bridle
Path.” Jack Hindhaugh, who left with the
first Australian lot of Light Horse for the
scrimmage, was wounded in Gallipoli; but
he is back in the field again. He was one of
a number of Australian officers who had the
luck to recuperate in Italy, spending some
time in the Villa Medici, Florence. At pre-
sent he’s O.C. of a cyclist battalion in
France. Like all Australians who know the
bush he loves a horse, and his present job
doesn’t prevent his keeping one. “I call her
Mrs. Pankhurst,” he writes, “because she’s
rather excitable.”
Another good Australian has paid the toll.
Lance-Corporal Hugh Mcßride, M.M., was
killed in action on French soil on July 10.
He,and two brothers, James and John, were
noted athletes. They came from Uralla
(N.S.W.), linked up with the Field Engi-
neers in 1915, and embarked together. Hugh
got the M.M. last year for conspicuous gal-
lantry in action. Jim Wears the same deco-
ration, and with his brother John still belts
the enemy in France.
Sparks of kindness from German chaplains
to relatives of dead British or Australian
soldiers are rare, but they do occasionally
happen. The widow of poor Derek Hudson
(whose fine voice used to decorate the
J.C.W. Musical Comedy Co.) has had a line
of consolation from a German padre, one
Frederick Find, who saw the passing of the
badly-wounded Derek, then a lieut. in the
Flying Corps.
Lt.-Colonel Chapman, V.D- (Volunteer
Decoration, given after ”0 years’ commis-
sioned service in that branch of the forces),
saw lighting in the Gallipoli mSlec, and.
earlier, lent a hand in tlx; New Guinea ex-
cursion to fly the Australian flag above the
hated Hun rag. When in civilian togs lie’s
in the Crown Law Department. Recently he
had a wedding—his own. The bride 'was
Lily, youngest hope of Mrs. John Taylor, of
Bellevue Hill. John Ferguson was overseer
at the ceremony in St. Stephen’s kirk.
Though the size of the audience at the
Hospice concert in the Town Hall was dis-
appointing. the programme was excellent and
of generous length. Fred Collier and Elsv
1 reweek were off the usual beat in Elgar’s
“A Voice in the Desert.” Filippini recalled
memories of the defunct Gonsalez Opera Co.
in an air from “Un Ballo,” and in the ever-
green Prologue from “Pagliacci.” Winifred
Burston, Ella Caspers, Staell and a Hair-
bows’ orchestra from a Parramatta convent
school gave of their best. The lion. secs.
:Glair were Mrs. William Macleod
and Mrs. Leahy, and the lion, treas. were
Mrs. John Tooliey and Mrs. W. J. Adams.
John Browulow was lion, general handyman.
The Australian Historical Sooietv, which
has recently grown the prefix “Royal,” was
founded in Sydney
in 1901. A few years
later Captain James
H. Watson became
a member. That was
in 1904. Two years
afterwards he was
elected vice-president.
Since 191j5 he has
been lion, research
secretary, and if
more local Writers
on early New South
Wales would consult
him before lightly
plunging into anci-
ent chronology, there
would be fewer mis-
takes. For James
Watson has a mem-
ory ivhich seems to
photograph on invisible plates apparently un-
important events of long ago, and opposite
each event is embedded in a corresponding
brain-cell the date on which it happened.
Historical Australian research is now his
life study, and no student of the once frac-
tious infant settlement on the shores of
Sydney Cove is more eager and courteous
than he in passing on information. James
Watson is a Scot, who was born by chance
in England—near Plymouth. Amongst his
forefathers appear the names of Thomson.
Lindsay, and the Earls of Balcarres and
Crawford. His grandmother was a daughter
of that Colonel Lindsay, M.P., brother of
Lady Anne Barnard, who wrote the famous
song, “Auld Robin Gray.”
Before adopting Australia as his country,
and Sydney as his home town, this vigorous
Scot had a roving life and many adventures.
Destined for the navy, the death of Ills
brother in a Royal Naval Hospital in Hong
Kong made his parents decide that James
should hug the shore.,. He was sent to
Newcastle-on-Tyue to got a business train-
ing. In a long life (he remembers the
excitement when the first train arrived in
Plymouth in 1848) he has learnt nearly
everything worth knowing about ships
and their ways, and in 1869 signed
articles on a 900-ton vessel in order to work
his passage from Australia to Bombay, and
there entered the service of the Great
Indian Peninsula Railway Co. A serious
accident laid him aside for awhile. After
that. England, and back to Melbourne. In
Geelong (in 1875) he found the girl who has
tethered him to Australia. She was the
daughter of a local architect, William
Grundy. An only son, Lieut. William R.
Watson, is at the Front. Photo by May
Moore.
Born in Sydney, and doesn’t want to leave
it except to help settle the Hun, violinist
IV. J. Coad, has just persuaded the military
authorities to accept
him for active ser-
vice. Coad is a
young man who
was turned down
some time ago, but
he has now suc-
ceeded in making
himself physically
fit enough to pass
the doctor. His
brilliant technique
as a violinist is the
result of long and
patient study. In Syd-
ney he first handled
a bow under the
tuition of Mrs. 11. H.
Rice, after which
he drifted to Europe
to pursue his art.
For a short time he was with Seveik, in
Vienna, and then with the great teacher,
Cesar Thomson, in Brussels. This musical
giant, by the way. before whom strong men
often trembled, was a child to his wife and
a playmate to a tiny grand-daughter. After
picking up the crumbs of fiddlers’ wisdom
for two years in the Thomson studio, the
Australian returned home. While lie has
most of his time teaching, he has given the
public each year a series of recitals of high
artistic value. Audiences were given a big
repertoire of violin music, and the young
person received an education in harmony
that she will not get quite so often now that
this fine performer is getting measured for
khaki. He goes into camp early next month.
Photo from May Moore.
From Brisbane:—
The Show is upon us, and nightly homeless wan-
derers with hands full of luggage may be seen
wandering from hotel to hash-tower imploring to be*
taken in. The man from the bush will regard Bris-
bane as an immense city full of empty beds, and his
experience each year doesn’t seem to teach him
differently.
Driver E, 11. Holmes and his brother, both of the
Field Artillery, have won M.M'.’s. The two were in
charge of the rations for the 42nd Battalion, near
Zonnebeke, last October, and they carried up supplies
through violent shell-fire, returning twice through
a heavy barrage. A few days later they undertook
voluntarily the work of keeping the forward batteries
supplied with rations. Often they arrived on foot,
laden with bundles, owing to the fire being so heavy
that it was impossible to get pack animals through.
B. T. McKay, who has been carrying out the dual
duties of manager of the Small Arms Factory at
Lithgow and general manager for the engineering
firm of Walkers Ltd., Maryborough (Q.), has relin-
quished the latter appointment, and will in future
confine his activities to the Lithgow works.
A letter came to hand last mail from a
gunner with the Howitzer lot in France.
He and his mates got their Christmas pre-
sents from the 2nd D.A.C. Depot, Sydney, in
May. He says: “Your letter, which was in
the box that came to me, was dated August
4. 1917. Yet we only got our welcome gifts
this month (May).” He doesn’t know that
the depot women were hard at it all one
night to get their Christmas stuff to time on
the wharves the following* morning (August
5). Then the strike held up the shipping,
and in the dislocation that followed, soldiers
on the Western Front got nothing from their
comforts funds for months.
This year the American-Australian League
of Help (Mrs. Brittain on the box seat)
drives its workers, friends and bowing
acquaintances towards one goal—the fund
for Australian prisoners of war in enemy
countries. All the money goes to the Red Cross
for that purpose only. The Tait firm, by
way of giving the fund a push, organised a
matinee in the early part of the week. Guy
Bates Post and Mrs. Post assisted.
An Adelaide mam. William Carey Page,
recently chose a Roseville (N.S.W.) "girl for
his mate. She was Erica Noble, of the gar-
den suburb. The Rev. William Page, the
’groom’s father, came over from the grape
State to help the knot-tying.
Over here, from Adelaide, for good if he
can find a niche, poet Leon Gellert, whose
“Songs of a Campaign” count amongst the
five literary productions of the war. The
poet fought at Gallipoli.
George Crowley, of the City Mutual (Syd-
ney), took a party to Cairns the other day.
Ilis daughter, a recent bride, and her aunt
Cormack met the voyagers at Townsville, and
added their Saratogas to those on the way to
Barron Falls and Kuranda.
Mrs. Helen Barton, the lady who lias come
all the way from wee bit Scotland, ye ken. to
administer a blue-ribbon caution to this con-
tinent, has been heavily charged with the
teapot by farewelling friends. She’s off home,
having finished her curtain-lectures to unre-
generate bibbers hereabouts. Mrs. Joe
Cook, with a new handle to her name, pre-
sided at a party in the Town Hall.
For weeks past the rumble of a lorry and
its pull-up in front of a smart suburban resi-
dence, heralded the arrival of the “Old Clo’
Girls.” St. Vincent’s (Darlinghurst) de-
tachment of Voluntary Aids were after their
friends’ glad rags, boots and any saleable
article they could lay their hands on. Their
jumble-sale on Saturday afternoon went as
if a forced draught was under it. Buyers
surged into the City Mission Hall (lent for
the purpose), past Dr. Maxwell Allan and
other professional men who assisted as
doorkeepers. One hundred pounds fell into
the till in two hours. The money goes
towards the upkeep of the soldiers’ motor-
car at Rose Hall.
Mrs. Forrest got the following tribute from
France the other day :
Sevres, Seine et Oise,
•June, 1918.
My dear Colleague,
I have very much admired your noble and
charming verse, published in The Bulletin, of Syd-
ney. I should be very grateful to you if you have
the kindness to send mo a copy of your excellent
book, “The Bachelor’s Wife,” or another book of
verse. As a. French man of letters I should be
delighted of this h0n0r....
Cordially yours , of La Soviet o des gens de
lettres, France.”
Spring fashions focus in the most elusive
gossamer draperies that ever lady spider
spun to charm her victims. These silks,
soft as an Australian summer cloud, and
muslins fine enough to pull through a ring,
are for the Fortunate Few and the extrava-
gant. A wealth of decorative floral garlands
trail over the latest cotton voile, and the
luxurious georgette is the best in summer
flummery.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.
“M.L.E.”: llow much money is paid
annually by the N. S. Wales Railway Com-
missioners ns .compensation to consignees
for damaged goods? A friend of mine had
a case of fruit despatched to a suburban
station. On inquiring for it he was told
that it hadn’t arrived. Twice a day for
a week he received the same answer. At
last, he looked round himself and discovered
his case of fruit rotten. Compensation paid.
7s. 6d. A parrot sent me was inquired for
the day it arrived. Not there, I was told.
For the next three days I was still after it.
A bored clerk at last handed me the cage
with the dead bird in it. I’m afraid my
thanks overwhelmed him.
Australian rules of Supply and Demand: —
When there is no rain there is a shortage of meat.
When the rain arrives there is a further shortage.
. After the rain disappears the shortage is worse than
ever.
After the dryness transpires the only thing to do is
to wait for wet to restore the situation.
Subsequent to the situation being- restored it is
important not to interefere with it.
And when Heaven interferes pray for it to
have more sense.


Hardy Brothers
%S LTD
IEWELLERS.
DIAMOND AND GEM JEWELLERY.
The Company special-
ises in highly-finished
Diamond Ornaments of
every description.
Diamond and Platinum
Brooch, also forming
Pendant,
£260.
The Gems selected are
of fine quality and
/
the workmanship of
highest standard.
All-Platinum Dia-
mond Fancy Ring,
£42.
Diamond and
Sapphire Cluster
King,
£4B.
Diamond and
Sapphire Ring,
£25.
E 5
Diamond and All-Platinum Single-stone Bar Brooch,
£l5O.
Selections sent on approval if
desired.
Five per cent, discount on all
cash purchases.
A SPECIAL BING BOOKLET, WITH FINGER-SIZE CARD
FOR MEASUREMENT, SENT POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. 116-118 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON.
Yon will take Better Photos
with a KLITO Camera.
British-made.
For i Plates-
The Folding Klito is without doubt THE Camera for amateurs who require
an inexpensive, compact instrument that will do good work, as it possesses
many advantages which place it absolutely in the forefront of camera values.
It has the advantage over all film cameras that
(1) The cost per exposure is lower—a dozen of
the best plates, Imperial, Ilford or Wellington,
costs 2/'6 as against 3/- for films.
(2) One or two exposures can be made, and
developed; thus, if any error has been made, it
can be rectified at small cost. With films half a
dozen exposures must be made before one can be
developed.
(3) Every' picture can be seen on the ground
glass of the Folding Klito, and focussed to a nicety.
You can thus be certain that what is on the ground
glass will come out clear and sharp on the plate.
It can be used as a hand camera pure and simple,
or with a tripod, and has seasoned wood bodv,
covered waterproof leatherette, Leather Bellows,
Reversing View Finder, Focussing Scale, Infinity
Catch, Focussing Back, and Ensign Junior Shutter,
giving Time, Bulb and Instantaneous Exposures.
No 2is fitted with Achromatic Meniscus Lens, takes photos x3J inches.... 307-
No. 2, Postcard size, takes Photos 5* x 3J inches '52/6
No. OOOA is fitted with Rectimat Symmetrical Lens FB, takes photos 4i x3£ in. 407-
Call and let us show you how easy they are to use. If you live out of town, send for
illustrated price list.
Harringtons' Laboratories
Give Best Returns
from Sweepings, Residues,
etc,
The latest scientific appliances for the treatment of Sweeps, Residues and other Waste
Products of Jewellers, Dentists, Process Engravers and other Metal Workers are installed
in our laboratories, and every ounce of precious metal is extracted.
Every order is promptly executed, under the personal supervision of a qualified
chemist from the laboratories of Messrs. Johnson and Son, London, Assayers to his
Majesty’s Mint, the Bank of England, etc., and, in order to thoroughly protect our
clients,
We Reserve Reference Samples until Settlement is Complete.
Materials collected in city or s üburbs free of charge. Give us a ring and our
traveller will call on you.
lIP
Photographic ana Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts ana Assayers,
386 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z,
Laboratories and Works : 57-59 George St. North, Sydney.
m
sssSSSSk
6
: ■*
■
ai
H
i
m
m
m
HI
S
s
'/V-/.
£2
You r Roof
as weather-proof as your walls
YOUR building is no better than
its roof. If your building is to
give protection against heat,
rain, the elements —it is essential
that the roof be water-tight, wear-
proof, fire retardant, and insulated
against the passage of heat.
Certain-teed
Roll Roofing
on your buiding insures a snug
weather-proof home. And it does
not affect the taste or odor of water.
Whether your roof is flat or gabled,
large or small, if Certain-teed, it is
guaranteed by the World’s greatest
manufacturers of roofing material.
Call or write today and learn
more of Certain-teed Roofing,
Mr. C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee Bldg.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation.
SYDNEY AGENTS—
John Banks & Sons Pty. Ltd.
Wunderlich Ltd.
James Sandy & Co. Ltd.
James Hardie & Co.
rsz
3 PLY
Z sauAß*
oo •«"
==3
««•* OI»
II o*» «*• ***
Oi|M
V~-S .r
J|g|g
r HUmtM promts CotP.<**£
*•£.* v ■ ~~~~»
Label REOUiPjS*
nm


Hotel Sydney
(Now Fully Licensed)
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
HOT AND COLD WATER SERVICE IN EVERY
BEDROOM DAY AND NIGHT.
TARIFF:,
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) „ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ ... 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
:>\v
'MhI
m
11
■s T r %h . ' h •****<•• ASi
■ iiAk’iiE
:
■i■ - m
: «:;s:«fS
1 * • - ' ... " *mM Jßiftji
llllllll»lllg ■■■
SH
ill
m
m
*.«~ r • «*"• ••.-’••
■
£ i’Jyt * **?&*
*S
M *•
m
y
i
§
6
a
e
e
“Leslie” Salt Licks prevent
Fluke and Black Disease and
make for robust health and
better fleece.
Stock-inspectors recommend
them as a preventive bf sheep
ailments and the best tonic
for lambing ewes.
Obtainable from all Sad-
dlers, Blacksmiths, Produce
Merchants and Stores.
In 51b. marble-hard blocks.
22/6 per case of 12.
mn
HANG THEM BY THE LOOP
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, August 19, 1918.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Pursey Cliirnside’s son (he is named after
bis dad) is due back on six months’ fur-
lough. Young Pursey is a lieutenant in the
sth Hussars. Dad and mother are in Eng-
land, but they will probably come rushing
home as soon as they can get passports.
Soldier-poet Vance Palmer has been
snatched from his final leave by influenza
and interned in the Base Hospital for ttvo
or three days. His unit is about to leave
for the Front, and he will make a big effort
to board the transport with Ids mates.
A Melbourne nurse, after three months
in India, has been made Night Matron of
the 44th British General Hospital at Deo-
lali. The place holds about 3000 patients,
mostly convalescents. In her night rounds
she has to climb several hills and jump
numerous ditches, as the blocks of buildings
are all some distance apart. She takes a
hurricane-lamp and a stout stick, and has a
native orderly with her. Snakes in the dark
are one of the few pests for which she has
to look out. It is quite an undertaking for
one little Australian woman and quite a
big honor. The Australian nurses there are
well looked after—excellent food and the
use of a car whenever they wish to drive or
go shopping. Every second day they have a
half-day off duty. Their bungalows are newly-
built and very comfortable and clean.
This nurse was 'drafted from Caulfield at
about eight hours’ notice, Avent to Bombay
Hospital as a sister, and then was as sud-
denly drafted to Deolali to her big job. The
doctors all speak in praise of the Australian-
trained nurses.
A small group of Australian V.A.D.’s on
active service have clung together from the
beginning of things. The adventurers are
Fisher (Hobart), Douglas (Launceston),
Swallow and Round (Vic.), Tlall and Ben-
nett (S.A.). They signed on together for
service abroad, and after putting in a spell
at a Manchester (Eng.) Hospital Avith
brooms and dusters crossed to France.
Bombs drove them from Boulogne and they
Avent to Marseilles, where they hoav are—or
were at latest neAvs. They Avrite home vivid
accounts of their good treatment.
Capt. Geoff. Grice, of the James Grice
clan, did not get an M.C., but a 8.E.0. He
is engaged to Muriel, the youngest Tom
Atherton sister.
The four Englishmen who lifted the Davis
Cup at Melbourne from Norman Brookes
and co. are scattered in various places
according to their war jobs. Irishman Parke
is married and a ma jor. He . has been
Avounded several times, but is still going
strong. Gordon Lowe, Avho Avandered round
Africa, Australia and India, after the out-
break of Avar, is back in England doing
a staff-officer’s job. C. P. Dixon, after doing
patriotic banking work for some time, has
broken doAvn in health and is in a private
hospital. A. E. Beamish is a lieutenant in
connection with the mechanical transport
corps, working round the Boulogne district,
and renews acquaintance now and then with
Australian friends.
Airman Alan Paterson, of Armadale, just
back in Melbourne on furlough from France,
did his share in the face of considerable
early discouragement. Before the war be-
gan he had a terrible smash-up with a motor-
bike, and came out of the plaster-of-paris
with a Avarped leg. When the call to arms
came, Paterson went into hospital, had the
leg broken again and re-set, came out normal
and set off for the recruiting-office. His
progress into the air Avas rapid. Brother
Alec is also a soldier.
Rev. Henry Potter, of St. Paul’s, Geelong,
has taken up a rifle and is off with the next
reinforcements.
The swagger Patriotic Tea Roomers (all
noble volunteers) are going on like a flock
of white cockatoos at sunset because an
officer, who should have known better, left
a shilling tip for the waitress who served
him. But it might have been worse; he
might have offered her London’s traditional
tuppence.
For the Henry Harper party at South
Yarra two big rooms Avere cleared of furni-
ture and stalls put in. The Langs, Gran-
thams, Clarkes and Stephens all helped in
the patriotic work.- The Dunbar Hoopers,
the Robbs, the Robertsons, General Mon-
ash’s wife, Mrs. Sargood and Mrs. Rutter
Clarke Avere in the midst of the spenders.
Dr. Spratt, of Tasmania, and his wife, are
in Melbourne with their just-returned
daughter and the new son-in-law, Lieut.-
Celonel Smith, who has been invalided home.
Lionel Robinson, an Australian who has
settled in England, has sent out a handsome
present to his old school. By his gift
Scotch gains a series of scholarships which
are so arranged that a clever youth may get
right through all the forms of the college.
The donor is a partner in Clarke and Robin-
son.
The Macedon people are putting in a
double line of oaks along the Mile-
road, to make an avenue of honor.
Premier Lawson planted the first tree last
week in honor of Lieutenant Arthur Gru-
mont, the first Macedonian to enlist. The
Henry Harpers. Bawdons, Hodges and
Oswald Symes were in the gardening group.
Mrs. Dyer (Louise Smith) has gone to
Coombe Cottage to convalesce after a severe
illness. Melba picked her up at the hospital
and motored her off to take the air at Cold-
stream. Mrs. Dyer's doctor brother, a 1914
veteran, is home on furlough and is hover-
ing anxiously round the patient.
Mrs. Webb is back in Melbourne after a
five months’ trip to Japan and China. “Not
too much of China,” she says warningly, and
adds that the country was too disturbed for
travel. Japan, on the contrary, is peacefully
booming. “One huge, rushing workshop
from end to end,” says the voyager. “But
living was expensive—30s. a day at the
hotels.”
Late grazier George Robert (“Mahonga”)
Jackson, of Urangeline station. Albury, left
over £149,000. His only child Beverley is
heiress to £20,000. Mrs. Jackson is a hand-
some blonde and was a Miss Rand. Dr.
Julian Smith, our clever surgeon, gets £3OOO
under the will.
Mrs. Major James, who has been doing
much war-work in London, brought back a
soldier son this week. Frediswyde Hunter-
Watts (Mrs. Allan Wilkie), who has been
testing the footlights in Boston, was also a
passenger by the oversea liner.
The publishing house of Lothian had a
party on Saturday evening. The invitations
mentioned dancing, singing, games and com-
petitions, and there was an orchestra to saw
off music. The party was in a long room
above the publishing house, four flights up,
and a Green Pierrette to work the lift.
The woolly Ledinghams have returned to
Melbourne after staying with the Bruce
Smiths at their Bowral place and admiring
the convalescent home for returned soldiers
run by Miss Smith.
Genthelp Conant has been on the sick-list.
He is convalescing at the Agar Wynnes’
Western District squattage.
Paul Kitz, son of the old original Kitz, of
cider fame, died in a private hospital the
other day. No doubt the death of his son
Paul at the Avar helped hasten liis end.
He was a jolly fellow of late years, Commo-
dore of the Brighton Yacht Club and a
beaming light on the local bowling-green. In
his younger days the girls admired him for
his musical taste and his singing. He
married one of the well-endowed daughters
of the late J. B. Watson, the Bendigo
millionaire. She ultimately Avent to England
to live.
A new owner has been found for Norwood,
the tremendous pile of bricks, mortar and
fal-lals on the foreshore at Brighton, built
by that patriarchal money-lender, the late
Mark Moss. He spent 40,000 guineas on
the place. Afterwards the late Robert
White, Melbourne’s “chain store” bootmaker,
had it. Son-in-laiv McCaughan lived in it
awhile. The latest oAvner, who got it for a
trifle of £lO,OOO, shorn of most of its sur-
rounding acres, is not inappropriately named
Riches.
A Melbourne bank manager gives this as
a true story of feminine genius for finance.
A lady depositor Avith a not very large
current account at any time Avas notified
that she had overdrawn to the extent of
£2 3s. 6d. She wrote the manager; “Sorry
to know’ my account has been overdrawn,
quite a mistake on my part; but am en-
closing my cheque on your bank for £2 3s. 6d.
and hoffe that will settle the matter.”
Adelaide’s revelations
Influenza has half the populace by the throat and
the rest by the nose. Even the Governor, who
should be immune from the ills of the groundlings,
had to call off all engagements for this \Vbek. Her
Ex. took his place at the meeting of the District
Trained Nursing Society on AVednesday evening, and
was at the Lady Victoria Buxton Girls’ Club annual
meeting on the same afternoon.
A good many congratulations will go to Lieut.
G. Forest Davies on winning the M.C. By birth
and enlistment he is a Victorian, but his mother was
a sister of the late Dr. Gardner, and that wins
him a host of friends in this State.
Port Pirie is, happily, to have a 10-acre children’s
playground fenced off and equipped with wading
pools, sand heaps, shelter sheds and anything else
that is needed. Public subscription is providing
the ground and 2000 or so workers from the smelters
are to put in Saturday constructing it, ready for
ita opening on Sunday.
The latest money-raising dodge is feminine foot-
ball. The first match was played before an appreci-
ative crowd at the Jubilee Oval on Saturday. The
feminine employees (or some of them) of two
drapery firms were the players, and they are so
fired by their success that they are already threaten-
ing a return disturbance.
In his latest report of the King Edward statue,
Bertram Mackennal speaks of the figure of South
Australia, which is to be on the front of the pedestal,
as one of the best he has yet done. The statue itself,
and the figures of Justice and Peace, which are to
be on the sides of the pedestal, have been cast in
bronze; but the sculptor warns the committee that
there is no hope of finishing the group till the war
is over, and that even when the foundries are free
it will take some time to complete.
Miss A. M. Martin, who founded the girls’ school
that bore her name long after' she severed her con-
nection with it, died in Home a few days ago, aged
76.
Abe Shannon has added his name to the list of
Australian Red Cross Commissioners and has crossed
the Channel to begin his work in France.
After less than two days’ illness, Charles Reinecke
died at his home Vt Kensington Parle on Thursday.
He leaves a widow and two daughters. His only
son was killed in France.
A surprising item of news during tlie past
week from the war was the intimation that
Major L. F. Giblin had taken to himself a
wife. Giblin was the only member of the
Speck’s Parliament to enlist, and was re-
garded as an incorrigible bachelor. The lady
was a Miss Burton, an English girl. She
visited Tasmania about three years ago.
Stella Power is ending her first year as a
star with the Wedding March. Willie
O’Rourke, a large young man, who comes
from Sydney, will have the part of bride-
groom. He was visiting America during the
singer’s visit. The marriage will be before
Christmas.
Miss Maud Harvie is an organising econo-
mist, so £B5 is the total of all working
expenses of her
Troop Horse Fund
(the Purple Cross)
since the work was
initiated in August,
1914, up to the end
of the last finan-
cial year. In that
time £3685 in cash
has been sent to the
Front, besides rugs
and veterinary in-
struments, costing
£373, and over
50,000 horse band-
ages. Miss Harvie,
after slie began the
good work here,
found that an en-
thusiastic horse-
lover, Miss Lind-af-
Hageby, had gone to France from Norway
to do the same kind of work, so the two
joined forces under the name of the Purple
Cross Service. Now it supports field-hospi-
tals, bases, vets, and nurses. They have horse
ambulances for transport, and the friend of
man is looked after specially on his boat
trips to' the various fronts. Miss Harvie
visited all the Australian capitals to initiate
the good work; but the thick end of it has
been done in Victoria. Mina Moore has
caught the busy woman in one of her few
leisure moments.
Pretty Mavis MacMillan, of the Gippsland
clan, is having a delightful trousseau de-
signed for her nuptials with squatter Edgar.
Laurie Kennedy, the ’cellist, goes to the
altar this week with Dorothy Mcßride, the
little pianiste.
The stork called at the Norman Bayles
Toorak humpy and there is now an heir.
Mrs. Norman was formerly Mrs. W. Bal-
four Neill, Melbourne's smartest and most
popular widow.
On the first night of “The Thirteenth
Chair,” at Melb. Royal, the critics were
handed notes from the managefuent request-
ing that they should not disclose who killed
Cock Robin or how the deed was done.
Weeks before the first night I had been told
by a dozen friends, unconnected with the
theatre: “You know r , so-and-so happens”;
which shows the impossibility of keeping
the “secret” of a play once it has been
staged. Still, the managerial request was
not so ingenuous as might appear, for, by
thus gagging the critics, comment was
stifled on two of the play’s most palpable
weaknesses. We are asked to believe that,
during a spiritualistic seance in a million-
aire’s home, while a medium and 12 others
are sitting in a circle in absolute darkness
with hands joined, one of the guests rises
from his chair, stabs another guest, not sit-
ting near him, and gets rid of the knife by
throwing it upward and causing it to stick
in the ceiling of the lofty room. This is a
bit steep, the more so in view of the
fact that the murderer, when he joined
the seance, had no idea that he would find
it necessary to kill anyone. Apparently it
was a little idiosyncrasy of his always to
carry, a carving-knife, about 9in. long, in the
pocket of his swallow-tail when he went
to a party. Of course there is nothing in-
herently impossible in this, but such things
are not done by the Very Best People.
Having recovered from wounds received
in France and obtained his discharge Fred-
erick Worlock, the tall, handsome, young
man who was the Caliph when Oscar Asche
did “Kismet” in these parts, has transferred
his talents to light opera. Ilis performance
in “Violette” is favorably noticed by 1.,
critcs.
Melba was among the big audience at
“The Thirteenth Chair” opening on Satur-
day night at the Royal. She sat in a box
in a low-cut evening gown and wrapped in
a pale sea-blue mantle trimmed with chin-
chilla fur. At the proper moment she rose
and flung flowers at Margaret Wycherly.
Willie Kelly, the songster’s guest, was nearly
swept away and trampled on; and son
George Armstrong and bis wife, the latter
in a cloudy blue gown and long white gloves,
had to dodge the flying bouquets. The party
afterwards motored the actress off to
Coombe Cottage for the week-end.
Governor Stanley escorted a house-party
to the stalls of the Playhouse on Saturday
night to see the Alliance Franqoise give its
usual little play with full stage settings.
An act of a Molifere comedy was set in Paris
in a frilly period, the men being dressed in
velvets with lace hanging over their boots,
while the women had hour-glass waists and
immense silk skirts. Florence Herd was a
particularly fetching lackey in breeks and
swallow-tails of pale yellow.
In “The Thirteenth Chair” Lizette Parkes,
who plays the distressed heroine, gets fine
effects with back A’iews. She weeps copi-
ously on tables, chairs or sympathetic
bosoms, and shows each time a very dimpled
neck and shoulders rising out of a baby-
bodice of amber-lined white net. Tien Ilogue
wears a dress that is a shade too long—
black, weighted down with heavy silver
braid. Nancye Stewart’s address is in pink,
cream and amber.
Mary Marlowe, who played the heroine
in the Bailey-Grant production of “On Our
Selection,” and who published her first book,
“Kangaroos in Ivingsland,” a few months
ago, has now followed it with a second
novel, “The Women Who Wait.”
Mary Worth, who played the cute little
blackmailer in the original Australian pro-
duction of “Within the Law.” has just fin-
ished a season with Ethel Barrymore, arid
has been booked by the U.S. War Depart-
ment as leading she of a co. that is to visit
the Sammies in their training-camps and
endeavor to reconcile them to not having left
for France,
Elwyn Harvey cables joyously that she has
annexed an engagement at San Francisco.
A Yankee visitor with a Buster Brown
top-dressing has disconcerted local feminin-
ity by revealing that her hair is not really
cut short, but is arranged to look like it.
Many Melbourne maidens (and some
matrons, who ought to know better), on
seeing some screen beauties with their manes
looking like that of the comic-picture young-
ster, rushed and had their hair scissored.
The young Australian who left here as
Enid Bennett and has since acquired a repu-
tation as a film star and the name of Mrs.
Fred Niblo, hopes to return in a few months
with hubby in tow.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


BLACK
“THE BLACK WATCH."
WHISKY
JAMES BUCHANAN & CO. LTD ,


When you drink to the further success of
the valiant Allies in France let your toast
be fortified by that popular spirit and friend
of man, King George IV. topnotch Scotch.
—Advt.
WIRELESS Instruction
FOR
Naval, Military and Mercantile
Appointments
AT TIIB
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
(Sydney and Melbourne).
Actual Apparatus Installed.
(Special Commonwealth License.)
MANY VACANCIES.
EXCELLENT PROSPECTS.
Apply for particulars to
SUPERINTENDENT,
97 Clarence Street, 422-24 Little Collins Street
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
Missing Friend a.
DANIEL MORONY, son of Thomas
Morony, late of Wilmington. South
Australia, farmer, deceased, send address to
E. P. DIGNAN WILMINGTON, South
Australia.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special li i
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
LEWIS &
WMITTY
MAKERS.
m
teas
YfNO
?;?S
• • '
m
z.-f •;
:- R .
Just Landed.
FAMOUS
STETSON HATS
ORDER TO-DAY.
m
The HAT for men who appreciate simplicity and good taste. New shipment arrives. Now. is
your opportunity to secure a Stetson, Superb Quality, Workmanship Unsurpassed, at a reasonable
price.
PLAIN FELTS, in all latest shades, from 35/-
America’s Famous Stetson Velour, in Black, Slate and Grey, from 45/-
A Mail Order Department and Service that will satisfy the most exacting is at your command.
Send your size—you will receive hat by return.,
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
s'on
Or
D
e *ct
HENRY BUCK & CO.
SWANSTON STREET,
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TLINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
The whole crop of young horses, many of
them well off two years old, in spite of the regula-
tion birthday, are in training at Rand wick and on
other Sydney courses. In a few weeks they will be
reckoned ready for the fray, and those of them that
are precocious enough will go in pursuit of the rich
stakes hung out for juvenile racing. The allegation
that these proceedings are incidental to the improve-
ment of the thoroughbred horse long ago degenerated
into a gag. No one believes that any good comes of
it, nor are there many people who would deny that
two-year-old racing, as it is now known, leads to a
most gross abuse of horseflesh. It is more than time
that Governments took a hand in this business,
for much as this page would dislike to see clubs
like the A.J.C. and V.R.G. made subject to Red-tape
in framing programmes, it can hardly be denied that
in regard to young horses they fail, and fail badly,
to do wliat they ought to do. The big stakes for two-
year-olds are monstrously wrong. Racing two-year-
olds in the Spring is wrong. Under no circumstances
should they be raced before the Autumn, and then
the number of times they are allowed to start should
be limited with a rigid hand. It would be far
better for the horses, the owners, for racing and for
the thoroughbred nag as a general institution if
two-year-old racing was knocked right out. To the
fillies the existing system is ruinous in a double
sense. Season after season scores of them are raced
off their immature legs, patched up to catch a
suburban stake or country stake in the following
season, and then hurried off to service. ’ Lunacy is
a mild term of description for such happenings. Yet
they happen with the direct sanction and encourage-
ment of men who know the proceedings to be inde-
fensible and are, in the main, genuinely anxious
ro see the development of the Australian horse.
What is it that blinds and paralyses them ?
* n * *
A few of the nags that are in the list for
Ra,.a\ijci-. i„ter on were given outings at Warwick
farm (Sydney) on Saturday. Only one of them did
anything to take a note about. This was Poitrina.
Carrying lOst. 101 b., she gave nothing a look-in for
her division of the Pace Welter, six furlongs.
Amadis, the opening favorite for the Epsom, slumped
in the betting after Moorefield a fortnight before, and
slumped some more after Saturday. He started with
list. 71b. at 6 to 4 in the second division, for which
it would need some indulgence to class the field as
second-rate. At no stage did he look like a winner,
and was never nearer than fourth. But, of course,
there is time for this horse yet—and for the gentle
punter to wait a bit. Kenbaquahair was well beaten
by Mount Alf over a mile and a quarter. Tharia had
no chance with Rualma at the end of a mile. Lingle
was still further back. But these three were short
of Condition, and not expected to do much better.
* * * *
The general body of punters had a day
out at, Warwick Farm (Sydney) on Saturday. Of
seven races four were won by the actual favorite and
one by the next best. In the other two races the
winner was backed in some places for a substantial
wad. And to make matters worse for Israel, the
stable that provided the main double helped itself for
all there was. Ike wandered home fortified by the
reflection that there will be something doing soon at
Randwick.
*• *■ * *
“Trot”: It can bo taken for granted that
it was something Amadis had shown on, the track
last year which caused owner Stirton to exchange
loOOgns. for him, and hope of the horse showing it
again which led to him being backed so early ns he
was for the Epsom, the Metrop. and the Caulfield
Cup. Well, he may show it. but in the judgment of
the handicapper for Roseliill, it doesn't look as if
he will. Amadis is handicapped for the Epsom at
Bst., 21b. above Promised Land and 41b. above Nor-
bury and Satin Bird. For the Auburn Handicap,
seven furlongs, on Saturday, he is given 7st. 101 b.,
being placed well below these prads and reckoned of
less account than Cerise Colors and Persian Cat.
This handicap is a tip that for the Epsom the chance
of Amadis is vague and hardly worth mentioning.
* * * *
Mehi King, who after running second in
Wolaroi’s Victoria Derby and at the same meeting
third to Patrobas and Wolaroi in St. George’s Stakes,
let some big backers down with a. thud on several
occasions, died the other day at Rosehill (Sydney).
For a long time there was something mysterious about
this horse, or at least about the way he failed when
everything looked in his favor. It- is now said that
lie suffered from some disease of the bones. He broke
bis back during a gallop, and subsequent struggles
fractured more of his anatomy. East season he did
fairly well, and won City Tatt.’s Cup in good style.
* * * *
There is a whole heap of evidence about
the sort of punters who patronise the tote in N. S.
Wales in the circumstance that during the financial
year to June 30 £306,300 was machined on Svdney’s
four pony courses and £152,100 on the four pro-
prietary courses addicted to horse. And as long as
60, 20, 20 goes, it will be the same.
* * * *
A couple of Derby colts ran in the Three-
Year-Old Handicap at Flemington last Saturday,
with unsatisfactory results. King's Treasure was
going well enough when he broke a small blood-
vessel and was pulled up. This was not a good omen
for the future, anyhow. Tragic Star, on the other
hand, made all the running to the distance, but could
finish only third, so the suspicion that this handsome
black colt lacks stamina appears to be well grounded.
Private King, son of Son of the Marsh, had 261 b.
the best of the weights with Tragic Star, to be
sure, but when he tackled the top-weight he passed
him as though he were no class.
Ethiopian, the unpopular winner at Caul-
field on the previous Saturday, gave further evidence
of his quality at the V.R.C. meeting. With 9st. lib. on
his back he ran the six furlongs in lmin. IJlsees., and
won brilliantly at the finish. All going Well, Ethi-
opian should be one of the best in next Caulfield
Cup.
* * * *
John Hill, the veteran trainer of Glenelg
(S.A.), has led in his last winner. He had been
leading them in close on half a century. Though
only 69 at the end, and he kept going till last year,
when, with Petracia, which Quinn sent over to him,
he added the City Handicap, of the Adelaide Racing-
Club, to his collection of results. Somehow he had
always missed the “City” till then, but for every-
thing else local he had trained successfully over and
over again. Also he had wins in Victoria, includ-
ing a Melbourne Cup with Auraria, and two Austra-
lian Cups. Hill’s only boast was that he had
never asked boy or man to do anything but ride to
win. His memory of past events was a mine of
good things, as, for instance, that Adelaide Cup of
1881, in which “we ran Ist, 2nd, 3rd and 4th,”
with the astonishingly brilliant string, Totalisator,
The Assyrian, Venus and First Water. The old
man stuck to the old ways right to the end. For
the newer training methods he had no time.
* * * *
The St. Leger mare Maude, dam of St.
Elmn, this year’s M.L. G. N. Steeplechase winner, who
comes from Ouida’s family, was principal brood
matron at Douglas’s Te Mahonga stud, Hawkes Bav.
At least three of the dozen foals she threw were
nearly first-class on the flat —Mahutonga, Ivopu and
Mangaroa. The latter was a big raking mare who
galloped after the style of Mountain King, and trainer
Jim Munn had a few of the big Cups in his mind
with her. But she upset these calculations by break-
ing up. St. Elmn’s sire, St. Ambrose, died after a
very brief stud career. He was an imported St.
Simon horse.
“Hawkesbury” : The alleged docline of the
Australian racehorse, shown by the increasing wins of
the imported prad, is probably owing to ignorant
breeding and the influence of the idea that the
quality of the parents decides that of the offspring.
Hence the fancy prices paid for sires in all kinds
of live stock. • The laws of heredity in this matter
are no longer in doubt. In pure blood-stock, further
improvement can only be expected by line-breeding
—that is, by close selective breeding within the
chosen strain. Wide mating—even with pure bloods
—gives some of the results of the hybrid. An occa-
sional hybrid is equal or superior to the parents;
but the offspring are regularly inferior to the
grandparents. Breeding skill is shown by mating
closely related stock, so as ta§ preserve as much of
the good points and as few of the . bad as possible.
All other. forms of breeding for high quality are a
gamble with the odds against you. This theory has
been confirmed by the breeders of sheep, cattle and
poultry. The assumed advantage of the strange stud
sire—except for the first generation—is a delusion.
Given a good strain, stick; to it, use brains in
mating, and the second, third and later generations
give the reward. In horse-breeding this means
time; and a process so slow has found no long-
maintained support locally. If the imported nag
was barred, we should, under our favoring conditions,
evolve the finest horses in the world. The island
of Jersey, by barring imported cattle for hundreds
of years, has evolved her unequalled Strawberry.
“8.T.”: The old jock tells me, “The softest
thing I ever had was when that bloke Colder come
outer the AVest, with his hat V boots full iv raw
gold, ’n’ got plungin’ like a ’obbled ’orse in a pond.
He was the Mug. The Jubilee Plunger was a tight-
wad aside this one. Everybody got at him like
crows at a dead cow, V every bloke that reached
his way got somethin’. The Two-of-Diamonds crowd
sold him Crosscut. Now, if ever there was a dog of
a horse foaled it was Crosscut. He ran twice, like
a creation beater, ’n’ then he wouldn’t run no more.
The swine, he wouldn’t even limp. They sold him
that hideful iv old iron for about a thousan’, ’n’
Blister trained him, ’n’ drew all that was cornin’ to
him twice over. Crosscut was entered for a big
event, ’n’ I’m offered a thick bit to ride him.
That’s all righto, I ain’t pertickler. I’d ride
a whale in Melbourne Cup if you’d shake three
tenners at me, but I know what everyone else knows
but Colder, that this ’orse iv his ain’t got no more
chance of winnin’ than a roast pig would have,
carryin’ a 101 b. penalty. I dunno whether some
leg-pullers had got at Colder to save Crosscut for
the Cup, or what was doin’, but, strike me stiff, the
owner comes to me ten minutes. afore the race, ’n’
sez he aside and very sly: ‘Ned, I don’t want me
’orse to win this. Pull him.’ Pull 'im! Gorstruth,
pull Crosscut! ’N’ so.’elp me, ten men ’n’ a cat if
he doesn’t shove 50 quid into me fist. I rode Cross-
cut all I knew all the way, ’n’ he lost by a street.
Up comes Colder to me again. ‘Bv , you done
that well, lad!’ sez he, ’n’ may I fall down dead
if he didn’t slip me another fifty.”
* * * *
“II.”: The war quickly did Australian
cricket no good. Most of the young players dropped
into khaki and the game was left to the old ’uns.
The Board of Control and State Cricket Association
quickly caught the infection of <J< ing very little, with
the result that nowadays there’s certainly not
much more attraction in it than a dogfight. Still
there is no reason why these controlling bodies should
leave the dry bones to rot indefinitely, and a couple
of suggestions worth consideration are: (1) Reintro-
duction of the premiership competition and (2) in-
clusion of G.P.S. and colleges in the “A” grade
cricket. When the war-clouds roll away, the burden
of cricket will fall on the shoulders of Youth, and it
is no use imagining that present methods of instruct-
ing a few schoolboys do more than touch the edge
of the problem.
* * * *
“Stumps” : “T.0.1.’5” statement regarding
N.S.AV. v. Victoria (B. l/8/’18) in ’56 being the first
intercolonial fixture, is historically wrong. Tasmania
and Victoria broke the ice at Launceston on February 11
and 12,’51. Tasmania won by three wickets, scoring
104 and 34 for seven wickets, against Victoria’s 82
and 57: Other early flashes in Australian cricket
were Jim Phillips’s first “intercolonial” century (115)
for Vic. against Tasmania in ’69 ; and Maryborough’s
0 against Undaunted at Paddington (Sydney) in
’76.
“Slip”: The help given by S. M. J. Woods
(B. 8/8/’18) to Percy McDonnell’s ’BB Australian
XI will not be forgotten. It was a team of 13
players and manager C. W. Beal; but the offer of
help from the stalwart Australian (then at Cam-
bridge) was gladly taken in half a dozen matches.
Sammy is among the few Australians who have
gathered all the wickets in an innings in first-class
cricket. Others were Bill Howell, 10 for 29, Aus-
tralia v. Surrey, ’B9; Albert Trott, 10 for 42,
Middlesex v. Somerset, 1900; George Gillen, 10
for 66, Australia v. Combined XI, at Sydney, ’B4 ;
S. M. J. Woods, 10 for 69, Cambridge v. Thornton’s
XI, ’9O.
* * * *
Stan Gregory, lately awarded the Military
Cross for ill-will to the Turk, is a son of Albert
Gregory, and nephew of Dave, Edward, Charlie and
Arthur. The young man was addicted to the family
failing, and lifted a bat for Waverley in Sydney
premiership cricket.
Western Suburbs wiped out Glebe (12-81
in N. S. Wales Rugby League semi-final on Saturday
mainly through the kicking of A. M. McPherson.
Both sides scored two tries, but McPherson lifted the
wet, muddy air-bag through the uprights three times
against Glebe’s one successful kick. This raised Mac’s
number of goals to 42. Wests v. Newtown appear-
ance in the final on the coming week-end will be the
only time either club has achieved so much distinc-
tion.
* * * *
There was a crowd of nearly 30,000 at
Melb. Cricket Ground last Saturday to see the
Collingwood and Saints teams kick for the semi-final
—double as large as the attendance at the corres-
ponding kickball match last year, and three-fourths
of what it was in the year before the war.
*'■*■■*•*
St. Pat’s (Ballarat) claims a world’s record
in annexing the football premiership amongst local
colleges without having a point scored against them.
In their last victory over the Ballarat Grammar the
ruin of the opposition was shown in the final figures:
St. Pat’s 37 goals 17 behinds; Grammar, 0 goals
0 behinds. That, however, is not their highest
achievement in goal-kicking. A few years back
against Grenville the Pats finished with thd formid-
able tally of 44 goals 43 behinds.
* * * *
Captain A. M. Robertson, killed in Prance
the other day, after getting the M.C., enlisted with
his brother, Lieut. A. D. Robertson, at Melbourne, in
February, ’l5. The latter is home wounded. The
Robertsons were a fine, hefty pair, somewhere about
2J,vds. each. At one time they rowed with Scotch
College and later with the Mercantile Club. Dad
is a parson at North Melbourne.
* * * *
Veteran Q. L. Deloitte. has again been
made president of the N. S. Wales Rowing Associa-
tion. He had a blade in the Fours which won
at Anniversary Regatta at Sydney in ’62.
For the Victorian Motor-cycle 24-hours
reliability proceedings there was a muster of 33
side-car specialists and 12 soloists. The route for
the small-powered machine had a mileage of 376 and
for the high-powered contraption 430 —through
Geelong, Warrnambool, Terang, Ballarat, Castle-
liiaine and Kyneton to the starting-point. The roads
were horrible and the riders had a heart-breaking
trip. But the spirit of invention survived well. One
flier arrived on time with a petrol pipe joint sealed
up with chewing-gum. Sixteen of the competitors
finished, but hopes of getting an absolute winner in
one pop evaporated as six of them (side-car men) arrived
without loss of any points. These were Yott, Taylor,
Parsons, McCall, Wright and Shillinglaw. There
will be an elimination contest later on. Meanwhile
the Barnett Glass Tyre people are remarking that five
of the six were carried on their goods, and 10 of
the 16 finishers were Barnett Glass patrons.
* * * *
Oil the form shown in their recent billiard-
match in Adelaide, there is really very little to
choose between Clark McConnachie, the Maorilander,
and the English professional, Williams. The English-
man allowed a start of 3000 in 18.000 and nearly
wiped it out before the journey had gone' half-way.
The man from down south, however, is evidently
like some horses —goes better for hearing something
at his heels. When the scores were nearly equal,
he drew right away again, and finally ran out when
the scratch man was 16,872. He made the best
break of the fortnight, 343, and it seems more likely
that lie was dead out of form, than that Williams
was altogether “above himself,” in the first few days
of play.
* * * *
Havilah Uren, a brother of champion Tom,
who now wears khaki, had an engagement with Fred
Fitzsimmons, a rising exponent of bash, at Sydney
Hippodrome on Saturday. It lasted only as long as
the Raiser reckoned the war would persist. In the
first round judgment went against Fitz for hitting in
a breakaway, and Uren scored one for a miss. So they
will have to arrange it all over again, and Tommy’s
brother be lucky if he doesn’t miss scoring any.
A new code of boxing rules has been
issued by the U.S.A. War Department’s Commission
on Training Camp Activities. These emphasise the
importance of fast, aggressive punching, and place
before the camp instructors and referees the fact
that the object of training is to develop a fighting-
army. Under these rules the defensive fighter scores
nothing unless he mixes his defensiveness with ginger
—which is what ought to happen everywhere. Mere
defensive boxing is a weariness and dreariness to look
at, and wholly futile. Apparently these rules are
going to count in hash outside the camps in Yankee-
land, and it would not be much of a calamity if
some of their spirit penetrated to Australia.
* * * *
Jack Dempsey’s annihilation of Pulton in
one punch at Newark (LLS.A.) the other day may
be partly accounted for by what happened a little
earlier. After permission for the clash had been
granted the State Governor made a few remarks.
The points of these were (1) that he intended to
take a personal interest in the proceedings, (2) that
if anything happened off the level or in any way
calculated to bring the State into disrepute he would
dissolve the Boxing Commission, and despite the law
prohibit any public scrap in future. So it was
up to someone to bit.
* * * *
“M.P.A.”: At the beginning of the war
I mentioned in these columns that wrestler George
Hackenschmidt was interned in Germany as an
enemy subject. A man named Pyke, who recently
arrived in England after three and a half years at
Ruhleben, says he met Hackenschmidt in Berlin and
got the shock of his life. Pyke says “Hack.” is a
victim of underfeeding, and if he went on a stage
to-day would never be recognised. When Pvke saw
him the good-natured Russian giant had shrunk from
laek of food as an old man shrinks with a#e.
Hackenschmidt is, of course, a very German name,
and means strong-smith, but the real name of the
colossus is Georges Bruen. Looking at a photo of
my oid pal taken at the very height of his fame he
looks a Russian of the Russians, though years before
he visited Australia he became a naturalised Britisher.
Th ® big. chap used to say that he owed his wealth
and positmn in the athletic world to his popularitv
ill England, so he hastened to make himself as near
English as possible. He was evidently blocked in
Germany while on a visit to his friend Jacob Koek,
the Graeco-Roman champion of Germany, and one-
time the Continental top-notcher in that style. Kock
wrestled as a side-line. He was a straw-hat manu-
facturer in business in a suburb of Berlin. Followers
oi strong men and wrestlers in Australia were greatlv
impressed with Hack, as a grappler, but there are
very tew who really knew what wonderful feats of
strength, skill and speed he was capable of. At the
time he threw Buttan Singh around like a doormat
he could have thrown every wrestler in Australia,
one up, one _ down. I missed a lot when I turned
down a genuine offer to tour the world with Hack.;
but I wouldn’t swap tucker with him to-day.
* * * *
“Chev”: Had a few days lately with the
deep-sea fishermen of the North Coast (N.S.W.)
snaring the succulent snapper, and incidentally strik-
,,uP acquaintance with many other inhabitants
of the Pacific. We exploited many of the reefs
from Moreton south to Ballina. A fine, healthy
game, but not exactly one for pleasure, and a bit
more than strenuous on squally days. These
men go out on business. While I was content witli
three hooks on a line Lou and Tom only stopped
with eight and ten —and they used to produce half
a dozen fish at a haul. The sharks are a fearful
pest. _ Time after time a snapper would be hauled
up with the tailpiece chopped off as clean as if
severed by a knife; many time the line would be
cut and tackle lost. The favorite bait with the
snapper-fishers is porpoise. Shark meat is good ; so,
too, is kingfish. Best of all is octopus. But a
school of snapper will take anything you like to
show them, coming at it like fowl after corn. Variety
is a strong feature of deep-sea fishing. Here is
the tally of an average day’s catch: 1 shark (which
got away with 5 hooks and sinker), 1 groper (landed
with the gaffing-hook), 1 kingfish, 3 teraglin, half
dozen or so parrot-fish, 1 barracouta (a ferocious
giant which jumped clean out of the water), 6 sea
perch (of the big eye), 1 sergeant-baker, 1 big
fish none of us were acquainted with, but were told
was a “Samson-fish,” 2 sea-eels or snakes (striped
brown, slimy and most repulsive), X octopus, 12
brilliant red rock-cod, arid 225 snapper. Oh, yes; we
had enough gutting and cleaning to do that night.
“Trist” : After the flood of Dec.-Jan. last
the waters of the Mclntyre, Barwon and Namoi rivers
teemed with fish. Good hauls were easily made,
the cod in particular being very fine specimens.
But during the past six weeks great mortality has
been noticeable amongst the fish, and the extra-
ordinary thing is that this is chiefly between Mun-
gindi and Goondivvindi (N.S.W.). The river has
been at summer level all that time, with a fair
stream of water flowing. Some local naturalists
allege that intense cold has caused the trouble. One
leather-faced gent, with 40 years’ continuous know-
ledge of local conditions, affirms that the slaying is
done by a marauder varying in length from three to
15 inches, of a blood-red colqj', and travelling in
schools. The same reliable authority says that a similar
phenomenon occurred in the Namoi waters after the
flood of ’93. Can any fishologist put my mind at
rest on this matter, and if the trouble is caused
by this invader what is the best means of strafing
him?
* * * *
“Surat”: The treatise on guns by “Q.”
(B. 8/8/’18) would be amusing if it wasn’t so
darned idiotic. Let us consider same to date.
Armed with a second-hand gaspipe this mighty
hunter credited himself with the execution of a
hare at 104 yards. This being questioned and
recent tests of guns mentioned, lie blithers to the
effect that a 50-guinea gun contains £4O worth of
decoration, and quotes a gun of his father’s, attribut-
ing its wonderful capabilities to an unorthodox
loading of cartridges. The purchase of a single-
barrel weapon proclaims him a novice. Yet he has
the hide to assert that £lO to £l5 represents
perfection in guns. His remarks about “Nimrod”
and ejecting locks are equally absurd, as “Nimrod”
distinctly stated that a cheap gun, while it lasted,
was as effective as an expensive one. It seems to
me that most of these “game frighteners” spend all
their time talking and. backing down instead of
shooting something.


Why Wait Till You Get
a Thrashing'
before you learn to box ?
Why run the risk of being an easy prey to the first “bully” that crosses
your path ?
Why take the chance of losing your prestige—your manliness in the
eyes of your fellows —through your inability to assert your rights when
the occasion occurs?
Why not learn to defend yourself, and become a REAL man —a man
always to be reckoned with —looked up to —and respected ?
I Teach Boxing by Post
Teach you how to take your part—how to stand
up and deliver good hard punishment to any fellow
who dares to insult or belittle you.
I unfold to you my wide knowledge of the manly
art of self-defence —teach you every “hit,” “move”
and “stop” known to the world's leading boxers.
My instructions are very simple to follow, and
you will find my lessons both interesting and bene-
ficial. You wili be both pleased and surprised at
the rapid progress .you will make under my per-
sonal guidance. Write to-day for my interesting
booklet, “Scientific Boxing in Your Home,” which
describes my methods, terms, etc. .Tust write your
name and address across this advertisement and send
it to me, with three penny stamps for postage. I
will know what you mean.
L
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
775 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
mi
mmrm
ft
an
BRITISH IMPERIAL OIL CO.LTD.
ALL STATES 0 MEW ZEALAND.
nm
X
u
Ul-J
A POSITIVE DURE
for
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION,
Nervous Ailments and
Physical Weaknesses
, of ail kinds.
For full particulars,
Write for FREE Book!
A. TILBURY, Principal,
Saxon School for Health 8 Strength,
No. 4 Inns ol Court, Adelaide St., Brisbane
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Ravy men.
Used since 15»6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S* GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England
Insist on Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
Mothersi 11 s
SEASICK
CIORE6
I
r
THE
CHARMS
OF A SEA TRIP
need no longer be marred by the
dread of mal-de-mer
MOTHERSILL’S Sea-Sick Remedy
is guaranteed to prevent and cure Sea
and Train Sickness, or money refunded.
MOTHERS ILL’S has received the un-
qualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest
testimonials from the world’s greatest
men, women and institutions.
No Bad After Effects.
All Chemists, in Larpe & Small Boxes.
Mothqrsill Remedy Co., Ltd.,
Corner Clarence and Market Streets,
Sydney.
</iO
O mg
33 > >
73
•5L°»
■ = z.
Z-Jm
Z
3 fft H:
-<o
73-, .
z?c
Hc/)£
P 1/fJH
n
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the iate Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists a?id Stores
throughout Australasia.
ARRIVED !
fATO«I
—l9lB sndim
Big “Powerplus”—“Light Twin”—
All tHe Great Indian Family.
H
ERE is good news for the motor-cycle world. The new Indians are
here—Powerplus in all its 1918 greatness, refined, improved, more
than ever the world’s motor-cycle masterpiece—Light Twin, the de Luxe
Lightweight—the splendid 5?4 Twin, the popular 4h.p. model.
See these matchless machines, and pick YOUR Indian now.
First shipments are limited—don’t delay.
CATALOGUE WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Pty. Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., Ltd., 156
Castlereagrh Street.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79
Pirie Street.
mn
T i
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
• etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
m
Marine Engines
n
For All Boats
CalUe 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started,
Electric Lights
Callle 8 H.P. Unit Power Planl
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
mn
Callle Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 b.p. This embodies
one- to four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole
Australasian
Agents—
Benson Brothers Limited
76=78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY ;
71=75 Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE.
NORTH
BRITISH
Tyres
4tm
?
'll/*
m
a*
i
r
SMITH
JUHUS
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
Won
“The Tyres that
are Superior"
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
New South Wales: William Crosby & Co., 20 Loftus St., Sydney
Victoria: Nortn British Tyre Agency Prop. Ltd.,
525-527 Collins St., Melbourne
Queensland:Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Adelaide St.,Brisbane
South Australia: Phoenix Motor Co., 114-122 Pirie St., Adelaide.


!
Collars.
No. 15 .—PROTECTION.
/"VUR guarantee—should any
fault be found in the fit
or finish of a Pelaco Garment
it will be replaced free of
charge.
This Illustration shows
v
“ Austin ”
Price 1/- Linen Faced.
Height 1U in.
Size to 18 in.
WEAR
(P-e£cico~^
SMIDTS& PYJAMAS
. ALSO
Made in
Australia.
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
m
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch _ of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents.
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE SITREEr,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
m
m
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5/-
Prepare Your Dogs for the
Coursing Season
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
You Gan Become a
Successful Artist.
You can learn drawing in
your own home, with Harry
J. Weston —Australia’s famous
commercial artist —as your
teacher.
Drawing is an
i n t e resting
and profitable
pastime, but
success in art
cannot be
built up on
an unsound
foundation.
THE WESTON POSTAL
COURSE OF DRAWING
thoroughly teaches the
fundamental principles
of drawing, and carries
its students step by
step. through every
phase of commercial
art.
So explicit and simple
are the instructions,
and so helpful and
personal Mr. Weston’s
criticisms that rapid
progress under such
able tuition is certain.
Send three penny
stamps for our booklet
“THERE’S MONEY
IN THE PEN.” It
tells about the possi-
bilities of drawing as
a profession and as a
pastime.
ja yms
txx
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
70 Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, Sydney.
n
Make a break
from the tongue-stinging fire-bowls that
masquerade under the name of pipes.
Get behind A REAL BRIAR—a cool, sweet-
smoking, comfort-bringing “G.8.D.”
You’ll appreciate the extra quality in the
jps% «S3jjN
jJBI
—the perfect pipe!
mn
m
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
nm
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED.
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
n
Mr. Ford Motorist!
Smile with Me!!
I’m smiling because I have practically no
back-axle troubles, and my Petrol Mileage
has increased, too, since I fitted the
BISHOP THRUST WASHER
It has done 9000 miles over the hardest
roads in Queensland, with perfect results.
Cost? Why, only 25/-, but —gee!
See the Saving in Upkeep. It’s a
Great Idea ! Get one and Smile.
Write to-day to „
BISHOP,
Queensland’s
Motor Man,
CHARLEVILLE, QUEENSLAND.
mn
m
imvtsrnuO
I°MtLY f
v_bob »'*
Trades Hall, Sydney.
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
Eig'ht-Hour Art Union
AND SPORTS.
PRIZES value £.3500
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 2, 1918.
FIRST PRIZE, value £650
SECOND PRIZE, value £3OO
THIRD PRIZE, value £2OO
And 397 other Valuable
Prizes.
CHANCE FOB 1918.
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1917 won by Mrs. T. A. Peterson,
Balmain, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of
One Shilling
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE FOB 1918-
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper Nov. 7, 1918 To any
person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list of the results jvi 1
posted. Tickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from
ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany. »
Chap: Yes; but that's a saw that cuts
both ways.... Ba tlow: Thanks ; will keep an eye on
them.... Arthur: None of them any use ; it doesn’t
seem to be your line. . . .V.P.C.: (Lower Burma):
They were not nearly so steep as some of the
Irregulars; but once give a man or a dog an evil
name, the prospects of a fair deal are few and
remote... .F.M.: Don’t like them.... Bill Aussie:
Starts fairly well and then flops. .. .A.E.G.: No
thrill Red Rover: Not good enough .J.S.H.:
So the good young man got the bride and the villain
got the beer. Well, virtue is its own reward....
M.A.: Too slight for us.... Drum: No force in it...
V.F.8.: Bumps. . .T. 8.: Very crude M.McC.: Not
nearly up M.G.: You can’t rhyme “mirth” with
“death” unless you’re a major poet H.W.: Jig-
getty-jog and flop E.G.8.: Verse too rough
A. : Not what is wanted... .E.M.O. : Not nearly
up 11.5. L.: Yarn doesn’t strike us; verse very
poor R.R.S.: Age 16 may excuse it W.P.:
Well enough done; try somewhere else J. 11.:
“Morn” 'only wanted a touch of reality to make it.
I.M.D.: Not force enough P.L.: Too bumpy.
M.R.: Doubt if the Censor would pass it....
R.S.A.: Yarn doesn’t earn print.... E.0.E.: Might
sell somewhere else. . . .W.H.: Bad multiplied. .. .
H. 11.: Metre all out. ... Donohoe: It makes us hope
that the Burning Lake is not a myth E.F.M.:
Well enough dohc, but too thin. .. .M.R.J.: Verse
fails E.P.L.: No Cymro : To tell a yarn you
have to take the trouble to get some freshness and
vigor in the manner of it....E.M.: You don’t read
the paper. .. .G.A.M.: Very rough verse. .. .R.8.T.:
Fancy we’ve seen that “new” poeni of Burns in
print before. Fancy also that Burns didn’t write it:
Fancy, further, that if he did write it the offence
might be forgiven now that he has been a century
dead Haldane: Not suitable E.F. A.: N 0....
B. :No good told in that way E.H.: Not for
us... .Druid’s Oak: Nothing there.... .E.D.: Doesn’t
make a yarn. . .M. 8.: The sonnets lack one thing only
—a little imagination O.B.: The greatest rhyme
scheme we have ever met: —
Oh! May Australia’s Day move all darkness and
sorrow,
To move all sorrow from our Widows and Orphans
to-morrow;
So as they will never want or wish to borrow,
But live and be respected in a Borough.
Oh ! May these Orphans grow up and be loved by all,
And never have any fear and no need to call:
But keep in memory of the Dear Ones that fall,
And the History of to-day and not only Ephemeral.
Oh! May Australia Day be never loitt to sight,
For to teach these Orphans to fight for justice and
right;
That they too will be able to judge and write,
To fight as their Fathers did with all their might.
Oh! May these Orphans in many years hence,
Read these few lines in silence;
For they will never have any cause to wince,
Only to' deliver back their blow with vengeance.
R.E.: Weak G.P.M.: No use Senex : No.
J.M.M.: Doesn’t do it H.D.A.: Language
doesn’t convince R.8.L.: Same idea better worked
before L.E.S.: Not for us Pat Pakeha: Very
clumsy... .Fanuela: Too rugged.... Daffodil: Doesn’t
strike us. ~.2K’s: Can’t find a smile in it....G.L.:
“Dear Buclcsburn” is horrible. .. .R.J.A.K.: No, it’s
not poetry; on that you can stake your beer....
D.A.: Not up.. .. J.IC.: No use for “Scallops.”....
H.T.: Verse bounces too violently in places S.E.:
Not quite enough there Rataplan: “Candle
Ends” misses... .M.K.: N0...R.E.L.: Don’t like it.
....Bacilli: Your letter has been sent on to the
doctor named.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Bushie: Almost any raw beginner could do as
well A.W.8.: No, thanks H.W.: Not up
tj publication level. .. .T.J.R.: You don’t know the
rudiments yet. . . .1.V.1v.: Crude stuff. . . .R.C.: Artis-
tically it’s a sad thing... .K. 8.: Feeble... .N.E.H.:
You’re too early. Study. .. . J.M.C.: If all the other
infants were as badly drawn they were no loss. . . .
Frank A.: All wooden... .P.C.: Can’t use it...5.T.:
Learn to draw a little better? K.U.F.: Some ex-
pression, but it’s too rough. .. .H.T.: A dismal pro-
duction. You ought to be commissioned to sketch
the N. S. Wales loan policy.... Seeisu: You’ve got
something to learn.. .H.E. : Drawing and idea shaky.
... .A.H.: Not well enough done.... Bat: Weak gag
and the drawing isn’t impressive.
“T. 0.1.”: The Diamond Jubilee of Mel-
bourne Wesley Church has just been cel-
ebrated. The first minister was Rev. D. J.
Draper, who was drowned when the London
went down in January, 1866, with G. V.
Brooke and other well-known Melbourne
people aboard. This church has another
romance attached to it. The first Methodist
chapel in Melbourne was erected by J. J.
Pears on an allotment owned by him on
the N.W. corner of Swanston-street and
Flinders-lane. The little bethel later became
the kitchen of Tom Monahan’s public-house.
When the “connection,” as the Methodists
call themselves, sought another site, a Lands-
office official drew attention to the half-acre
on the N.W. corner of Collins and Queen
streets, which was secured for £BO. To that
corner a sad story attaches. At the first
land sale conducted by Surveyor Robert
Hoddle, on June 1, 1837, the corner was
purchased hy one Bowerman, _of Sydney.
He paid the usual 10 p.c. deposit on the lot
and set sail for Port Jackson. The little
ship in which he travelled was lost with
all hands. Some years later Bowerman’s
son got an official appointment in Queens-
land, and falling foul of his Chief, Under-
secretary Manning, clouted him on the head
with a tomahawk. The violent party was
sentenced to life imprisonment, and a special
Act of Parliament was passed giving Man-
ning a large pension, on the ground that he
could not live six months. He beat the
estimate by over 40 years! Bowerman’s
wife stuck to him and got him released after
ten years’ imprisonment, but she died on the
morning of his release without seeing him.
Bowerman wandered aimlessly for some
years, and wound up by suiciding in Sydney
Domain. The Methodists commenced build-
ing on the “Bowerman corner” in 1840, but
only half a church was put up. Many years
afterwards the corner was sold to the Bank
of Australasia for £40,000. The church
which has been celebrating and three others
| were erected out of this sum.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn't got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO..
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
r-\
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure vour corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, yon will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never faiis.
Sold bv retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
p •
23/
V
S 3
m
58
A
b' v
m
0
y/A
*
!?&
n
v
S
<!ranny Chamberlain
(COPYRIQHTE.O) '
Hacking coughs
torture old folks.
THOSE hacking coughs that almost tear you to pieces
are bad enough for the young and robust, but they are
torture to the old and weak.
You know the kind I mean —that rob you of your sleep
till your system becomes so run down that you are in grave
danger of pneumonia. The kind that make your head ache,
your throat sore and inflamed. For such coughs there is no-
thing equal to
n
mn
A dry hacking cough is usually
caused by an irritation of the
mucous membrane of the throat and
bronchial tubes. Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy will allay this irri-
tation and remove the cause.
When the cough is dry, loud and
sonorous it indicates a cold. Take a
double dose of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy, bathe the feet in hot water,
take a cathartic and go to bed and
you can relieve a cold in one night.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
allays the irritation of the mucous
membrane and checks the cough
that so often follows influenza.
m
BE PREPARED
Dike many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder hns developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
can be summoned.
Those who have the interests of their family at heart keep a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, dysentery and
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual loosenessof the bowels the attack may be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy.
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage. The excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains, in the stomach for which
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relited upon to do this.
Rare you n
UPTUREU
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind : they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed:—
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
nm
Zmm
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS*
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pill,
Small Does,
Small Price.
r
W
THE BEST
(SMOKE
is
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
Don’t Experiment.
The Real Thing in Razors is the “Plum.” Gets
through the job in a quarter the time, and makes
the. business a pleasure. “The ‘PLUM’ is the Razor.”
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21 / -
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present. All the above Post Free.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2, post free.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor.
»»
Fx. & R, SPOONS
AND FORKS
are the most heavily-plated of
all spoons and forks the world
over. They will be good after
40 years of every-day wear.
They are plated on the finest
quality Nickel Silver bases that
it is possible to silverplate.
They engrave like solid silver.
Silver deposit considered, they
are the cheapest spoons on the
market.
They are made by the latest
new process, which makes them
twice as hard and strong as by
the old method.
We carry 7 an enormous stock in
Electro-silver and Solid Silver, in
cases and uncased.
A 1 Old English Table Forks', and Spoons ui i‘ * iaoup
per doz.
Less 20 per cent, discount ..
Dessert Spoons and Forks .‘
Less 20 per cent, discount . .
Teaspoons, per doz. ..
Less 20 per cent, discount . .
Plain Figures.
Cash only.
Fairfax § Roberts Ltd
Tf *s- CJTda '.t Jewa’fen Nous® in Sydney.
23 and 25 Hunter Street.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
Missing: Friends.
Photographer named Murray,
who carried on business in Dubbo about
20 years ago, and afterwards moved to
Orange. Any person knowing of his where-
abouts please communicate with
D. MASON, c/o this Office.
Legal Notices.
DE ROBERT KERRIGAN, late of
IV Cairns, in the State of Queensland,
deceased, miner, but latterly a member
of the A.I.F.
Notice is hereby given that all persons
claiming to be next of kin of the abovenamed
Robert Kerrigan, late of Cairns, in the State
of Queensland, deceased, who died on or
about, the Fifteenth day of February, 1917,
a.d., in Asia Minor, are hereby required to
forward proof of their relationship to the
Public Curator, Brisbane, on or before the
Twentieth day of October, 1918. And that
after the expiration of the last-mentioned
date the Public Curator will proceed to dis-
tribute the assets of the said deceased
amongst the parties entitled thereto, having
regard only to the claims of which he shall
then have had notice.
Dated this Eighth day of August, 1918.
R. .T. S. BARNETT,
Official Solicitor to the Public Curator,
Brisbane.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 3rd August, 1918.
Vacancy for Chemist in Charge of
Laboratory, Small Arms Factory.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as
Chemist, Small Arms Factory, Litligow, New
South Wales.
Pay £336 per annum inclusive of all allow-
ances except travelling, under Common-
wealth Government Factory Regulations,
Class D, Professional Division.
Applicants must have had a sound training
in Analytical Chemistry and Physics and a
good knowledge of the testing of materials
and metallography of steels; and should hold
a University Degree or Diploma from a Tech-
nical College.
Experience in industrial undertakings, if
any, should be fully stated.
Applications should be forwarded addressed
to the Secretary, Department of Defence,
Victoria Barracks, Melbourne, to reach him
not later than the 30tli August, 1918. and
should be accompanied by certified copies of
not more than three (3) recent testimonials
and two personal references. The date and
place of birth and nationality of applicants
must also be shown. First preference will
be given to returned soldiers, all things being
equal.
T. TRUMBLE,
Secretary, Department of Defence.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 9th August, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of Badges.
TENDERS will be received until noon on
Friday, 30th August, for the supply of
Badges to the Royal Australian Navy.
Specimen Badges may be inspected and
tender forms, specifications, etc., obtained at
the Offices of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; and the Victualling
Store Officer, Royal Edward Victualling
Yard, Pyramid, Sydney.
A. POYNTON,
For Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 13th August, 1918.
TENDERS are invited until noon on
Tuesday, 27tli August, 1918, for the
purchase of three Direct-current Motor Gener-
ator Sets, comprising > three 3-h.p. 230-volt
D.C. Motors, coupled direct to three 3-h.p.
500-volt D.C. Motors. This apparatus is new
and originally purchased for the Heterodyne
Receivers at Radio Stations.
Further particulars appear in Common-
wealth Gazette of 15th August, 1918.
A. POYNTON,
For Minister of State for the Navy.
A Tonic for Efficiency.
Debility is not only distressing to the indi-
vidual, but it is an economic loss.
If your blood is thin and your head aches,
if your digestion is weak and your nerves
unsteady, you capnot do your work well.
True efficiency consists in building up your
general health so that you again find
pleasure in work.
Stimulants do not give real help. They
enable you to draw on your reserve strength,
but this in turn leaves you weaker than
before.
Debility is pot a disease of any one
organ. It is a; general condition of unfit-
ness. It must be met by a remedy whose
good results will he quickly generalised
throughout 'the' entire system. In fact, it
must be corrected by building up the blood
which, being rich and red, carries renewed
health and strength to every part of the
body.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are a tonic, not
a stimulant. They build up the .blood and
have transformed thousands of sick,
grouchy, irritable, tired and nervous people
into active, energetic, capable, efficient men
and women. They will help you too.
“Diseases of the Blood” is a booklet full
of useful information. So is the pamphlet
on “Nervous Diseases.” They are sent free
on request by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
Amusements.
Hurry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JI VOLI THEATK IC. SYDNEY
SATURDAY NEXT.
Commencing at a Matinee.
EVE IvELLAND
in ESPINOSA’S Gorgeous Revue,
S’NICE,
a A Musical Pick-me-up.
“pTvoEi theatre” .Melbourne.
; EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
Espinosa’s Sparkling Revue,
TIME, PLEASE.
Featuring Beatrice Holloway, Espinosa and Barry
Lupino.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
|4 K « M A .1 E S T V ’ S, sTI) N E v 7
1 Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST NIGHTS.
MATINEE WEDNESDAY AT 2.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S AUGMENTED MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
OH, BOY!
For Two Years the Rage of New York.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
CR I T E R 1 O N T II EA T R E. SYDNEV.
Direction .T P. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY AT 2.
The Latest “Potash and Perlmutter” episode,
BUSINESS BEFORE PLEASURE.
Introducing, for the first time in Australia, the
Celebrated Hebrew Comedians, ADAMS and WATERS,
and ,T. C. Williamson’s special] v-organised Comedy
Company, including MAGGIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
PAL A C L 'l' II EATIt E. SYI) N
1 Direction ,T. & N. TAIT.
GUY BATES POST,
the world’s greatest English-speaking actor, in
THE NIGGER.
For Three Nights and Three Matinees Only.
(Thursday. Friday and Saturday.)
THE MASQUERADEII.
For Two Nights and Two Matinees.
(Monday and Tuesday.)
PLAYHOUSE.
1 Castlereagli Street, between Liverpool
and Itatliurst Streets, Sydney.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
SYDNEY JAMES AND BIG NEW COMPANY in
PIERROT PIE,
one of the ingredients in which is
THE MASQUERADER IN THE 13TH
CHAIR.
MATINEE EVERY SATURDAY, 2.30.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
IJNION I’ICTU It E ’THEA T it E S
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
Tiie Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GI!EATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
HlOli MAJESTY'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
KATINKA.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Theatre royal,, .Melbourne.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WTLLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR in
THE THIRTEENTH CHAIR,
By BAYARD VEILLER, author of “Within the Law.”
The Drama that Stirred All New York.
RING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, AUGUST 24.
J. k N. TAIT present
EMELIE POLINI
in
THE INVISIBLE FOE.
The Greatest Dramatic Success in Recent Years.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
Auditorium, Melbourne.
Lessees: J. & N. TAIT.
Sole Direction Chappell & Co. Ltd.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 24.
CHAPPELL BALLAD CONCERTS.
Special engagement of Dame Melba’s brilliant pupil,
PEGGIE CENTER,
PEGGIE CENTER,
Soprano.
A. C. BARTLEMAN, Baritone.
PERCY BLUNDELL, Tenor.
THELMA CARTER, Contralto.
JOS. FOSTER, Baritone.
THE STRALIA TRIO (Myrtle Liddy,
Pianiste ; Nena Lucas, Violinist;
Florence E. Brown, ’Cellist.
HAROLD ELVINS, Accompanist.
Popular Prices: 2/- and 1/- (Plus Tax).
Box Plan at Allan’s.
CHAPPELL CONCERT GRAND PIANO USED.
|y| V.IESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALICE BRADY’
in
THE KNIFE.
Matinee Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan now open at Allan’s.
DIJOV T II EATR E, M E L B O U R N L
° Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
FULLER’S VAUDEVILLE CO.
The MYSTERIOUS SA-HERA and FRED BLUETT,
RAY and OLGA, THE GORDONS. SEATON and
BROOKS, HURLEY, HARRIS and WRIGHT, FIN E
LEWINS, etc.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
HO RLICK’S
MALTED MILK
For dispelling that tired feeling—for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies—take Horlick’s. Horlick’s
Malted ifilk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
TRY IT AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN®
- I r
«K*a-
No Shortage of Supplies. Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
A better article
at a lower price!
Rexine
—the perfect leather substitute.
Looks like leather but is better in every way. It wears better
and never becomes shabby, as being impervious to atmos-
pheric action it never peels or cracks. It is stain and grease
proof, and can be made like new by simply washing with soap
and water. A Rexine-covered suite has all the beauty of
leather upholstering without any of its disadvantages, and its
cost is only one quarter that of leather.
Do away with unhygienic, dust-collecting fabric upholsterings
and insist upon having Rexine.
A. BUCKHAM & SON,
95 York Street, Svdnev.
Sole Makers :. REXINE Ltd., Hyde, nr. Manchester, England.
: Makers of bags, suit cases, fancy goods, siivpers etc., and bookbinders who are ■
: using leather should write at once for samples of Rexine. It will effect a big !
i saving and give greater satisfaction.
Amusements.
H °* TS THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
1 * Also SYDNEY.
DB LUXE, BOURIvE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
SESSUE HAYAKAWA in
HIDDEN PEARLS.
TOM MIX in
SIX-SHOOTER ANDY.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday 2.30.
This week’s Feature:
WILLIAM FARNUM in
HEART OF A LION.
Prices as Usual.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
jV/TODERN WORKSHOP PRACTICE. Series by an
L Australian Engineer in England, commencing in
Commonwealth Engineer. August.
P ENEWING Moorabool (Vic.) Railway Viaduct,
xk; 1300 ft. long. Described. Illustrated. Com-
monwealth Engineer, August.
UJIVIL, Mechanical, Electrical Engineers all read
w Commonwealth Engineer, 7d. monthly. TAIT,
90 William Street, Melbourne; 273 George Street,
Sydney,
PROKEN HILL IRON AND STEEL WORKS, New-
castle, fully' - described and illustrated, Chemical
Engineering and Mining Review.
"PRESENT Position and Prospects Kalgoorlie Mines,
x Third Article. Chemical Engineering and Min-
ing Review.
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING AND MINING RE-
VIEW, August. Single copy, 7d. PETER G.
TAIT, 90 William Street, Melbourne; 273 George
Street, Sidney. ,
is
tpl
til
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease. In
Anaemia—or bloodlessness—
the red corpuscles are more
or less deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Therefore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
—the eyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feeling of
intense weariness pervades
the whole system. To over-
come Anaemia, the blood
supply needs recharging with
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
n
The Wine of Life
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘ Wincarnis ’
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks—
gives a sparkle to the eyes—
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
■Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
earnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street. Sydney. N.S.W.


CHUM HEALS
SKIN TROUBLES
r\
m
*v
The Soap
to Cleanse
Ointment
to Heal
I
Nothing
better,
quicker,
safer, surer
at any price
for skin
troubles of young or old that itch,
burn, crust, scale, torture or disfig-
ure. Besides, you may try them
before you buy them.
Sample Each Free by Mail
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card, “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N.S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
SPECMUSf
TWO
L/NES
|# 5
s
Ij#
WQiTE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
mn
m
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
0
Nil
m
- / •'
Sffl
ki
M
ELEY “ACHILLES”
A deep-shell, dark blue gastight
Cartridge, loaded with ELEY
(33 g r -) Smokeless Powder and
i& oz. shot.
ELEY
’320 Revolver
ELEY
*32 Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale:
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON.
The Power of
Natural Heat can
banish pain
'
w3m*
m
wj>
Thermogene
proved relief for:
Rheumatism
Bronchitis
Lumbago
Neuralgia
Sciatica
Chest Colds
Sore Throats
Sprains
Muscular Pains
’Pleurisy
’Pneumonia
*AIso seek Medical
Advice.
JUST as Natural Heat—Nature’s
inner Warmth —disperses and re-
places the congested blood beneath
a bruise with fresh, healing, soothing,
active blood, and thus banishes the
blackness and the pain, so, too, does it
banish in like manner the aches and
pains of more serious and long-standing
ailments. But in the latter cases
Natural Heat must be stimulated.
Thermogene stimulates the inner
warmth of the natural forces and draws
a new stream of pain-banishing blood
to the seat of the trouble. Thermogene
gets beneath the surface —makes its in-
fluence continuously felt, deep in the
tissues. It is easy to apply, easy to
keep applied.
Everyone can use Thermogene, from the
athlete to the delicate phild, and in
practically every case the result is free-
dom from pain. Pain goes when
Thermogene is applied, and the erst-
while sufferer experiences ease and
tranquillity.
Get Thermogene to-day. Your Chemist
supplies it in boxes at 1/6.
Thermogene is and always
has been a product of
British and Allied ownership,
production and management.
Write for the illustrated book on the
Thermogene treatment, which tells how to
get the best results. Send a postcard to-day
to Thermogene Bureau, 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W.
THERMOGENE
ABSORBENT MADDING
Look for the familiar Orange-colored
Box in the Chemists 9 Windows.
Sole Agents for Australasia:
FASSETT & JOHNSON, 233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Manufactured by
THERMOGENE CO. LTD., Haywards Heath, Sussex, England.
“Yes! I Don’t Think”
Some people ■will tell you chatsfch. ■
ordinary fountain pen never leaks,
and is always ready to write.
You’ve had one and you know, and can say in the Follies’ immortal words:
“ Yes, I don’t think.”
But there is one pen that
-Never leaks
—Rills itself in a flash
-Writes right and shuts tight
You have heard of it—you know people who swear by it —but have you got one
yet yourself ? X
It can br obtained, price \7/ and upwards ; also ONOTO Valveless for those who do not
want a Self-Filling Safety Pen, 12/6 upwards from all stationers, jewellers and stores,
Manufacturers : Thos. De La Rue & Co. Ltd,, 167 Bunbill Row. London. E.C.
Onoto
Sell-Filling • •
Safety Fountain
Pen
Managing Agents:
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
Sydney.
H
/T\
Z.
Ask for ONOTO INK—Best for all Pens
Business, Robbery, etc.
The oldest recorded whaling done out
of Sydney dates back to 1791, when the
Britannia (commanded by William Raven,
whose sealing gang at Dusky Bay did the
first shipbuilding in Australasia) and the
Mary Ann cruised southward along the coast
for 15 days. They killed seven whales in the
first two days, but bad weather robbed the
crews of all but two. For the rest of the
time it was too rough to send the boats
away, but Raven reported * that thousands
of whales had been seen. For some years
after this little or no whaling was done on
the Australian coast, the whalers who came
this way preferring to go over to the South
American side of the Pacific. Sealing was far
more important as far as Sydney vessels
were concerned. “Bay whaling,” which flour-
ished exceedingly at Eden (N.S.W.), Port
Fairy and Portland (Vic.) and other places
in the ’thirties and ’forties seems to have
been started in Tasmania, where it “boomed”
before 1820.
* * * *
“Wonga”: Bananaland for some years
has been running a very good scheme in the
way of children’s competitions for corn-
growing, and results are startling. In com-
petitions recently finished the kids on their
plots averaged 83.5 bushels of maize to the
acre, as against the State average of 25
bushels. Allowing for the fact that dad
would not have the time or inclination to
sleep alongside his paddock and tickle the
growing plant like the youngsters who would
be “all in,” the figures show that there is
room for a heap of improvement in the
cooky’s methods, which if followed would
mightily alter dad’s condition and tend to do
away with the depressing growl that occa-
sionally comes from the backbone of the coun-
try. Queensland is repeating the experi-
ence of the Boys’ Corn Clubs in U.S.A.
Corn is the big crop in the States, and its
average is being brought up to a great
figure. In Australia there is an enormous
area of land that will grow maize to per-
fection, but we have done little with it, as
it hasn’t dawned upon Australians what a
great industrial proposition maize is, for
no product is capable of utilisation in more
ways. The grain cob, husks, silk, tassel and
foliage are all used for manufacturing, pur-
poses in the U.S. In the Queensland com-
petitions it is disconcerting to find that the
boy who won the second special prize was
one G. E. Gon Gee, who produced at the
rate of 153.3 bushels per acre. However a
youth with a more Australian name, E. V.
E. Burton, beat him by recording 169.6
bushels to the acre.
* * *
English tanners are taking an added
interest in wattle-bark for tanning now
that the war has cut out some of their
usual supplies for that purpose. In London
the price of chipped wattle is leaping
rapidly. Experiments with the waste pro-
duct, i.e., the expended bark with the tan-
ning matter extracted, have proved that
it can be utilised in the production of a
wrapping paper of very good quality. There
should be an opportunity here for a new
Australian industry. South Africa is a big
supplier of the bark, well over 50,000 tons
being shipped annually. Perhaps it will be
necessary to import some of this to get the
industries going in the Commonwealth.
Importing and industrial sloth were
unknown diseases to Australia’s first
settlers—keen-eyed people who appreciated
the raw material they discovered everywhere.
On September 28, 1788, nine months after
he landed. Governor Phillip sent samples of
clay to Sir Joseph Banks for trial. It was
submitted to Wedgwood, the greatest pottery
authority of the day, who said that it was
excellent material for pottery and proved it
by turning some of it into medallions, show-
ing “Hope Attended by Peace, Art and
Labor.” That’s about as far as we’ve got.
“Wart”: Thirty years ago Thom Sing,
who had a small tobacconist’s shop in Laun-
ceston (Tas.), decided to try and make his
own cigars. He got a Chinese gardener
down on Invermay to grow him some tobacco
and began his task. Soon he had another
Chinaman out at Deloraine growing tobacco
for him and a cigar factory in Launceston
with 30 or 40 hands at work, and local
smokers proclaimed the quality of the
smokes. Then the importers began to get
in their fine work. They represented to the
Government that if little cigar factories
were going to spring up in the island, all
the revenue from imported tobacco would be
lost, while it would be impossible to keep
a close enough eye on the factories and
tobacco-growers to collect the excise. Also
they had a yarn about the home-made cigars
being injurious, having opium, etc., in them.
Likewise it was against the divine law of
Freetrade. W r hcreupon the Government, being
Freetrade and friends of the Fat importers,
nipped Thom Sing’s promising industry in
the bud.
“The Wanderer”: In close proximity to
Wingham (Manning River, N.S.W.) is an
unlimited supply of timber suitable for
making axe-handles, hammer-handles or fur-
niture. Saw samples of such timber worked
up the other day, amongst them axe-handles,
which are stronger and quite as good every
way as the imported. One resident made all
his furniture out of timber growing adjacent
to his holding. It is time the Forestry De-
partment crawled out of its hollow log and
ceased prosecuting road-contractors or others
for selling trees cut down in the making of
new roads. If a contractor has to cut down
a tree suitable for mill purposes, he can burn
it and be safe from the clutches of the law.
If he sends it to a sawmill, or uses it to
advantage, he’s liable to prosecution unless
he pays royalty.
* * * *
A high-quality paint is being manufactured
in Hobart from a pure white pigment dis-
covered in deposits in the Derwent Valley,
and it is being placed on the market at a
price considerably lower than any procur-
able. The dyes used to produce the various
tints are the only imported ingredient.


nm
War Service
Continues to engage the whole of the energies of
the Wolseley Factories, and we are still unable to
supply private customers.
We shall, however, be pleased to receive enquiries,
and to add your name to our rapidly-growing
Waiting List.
AGENTS:
F. H. GORDON & CO. LTD., 133-135-137
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
KELLOW FALKINER MOTOR CO., Russell Street,
Melbourne.
HOWARD CYCLE & MOTOR AGENCY, Brisbane.
G. M. MAY, Victoria Square, Adelaide.
WOL.SEI.EV MOTORS LTI).
ENGLAND.
Proprietors: VICKERS LTD.
n
; r>' .1
Six
BARS
IN
EACH
PACKET
mn
This delicious. lons - lasting
'-V--
sweetmeat has always been
a BIG bargain in benefit.
NOW you get 6 bars in each
packet for 3d. it is econom-
ical and, best of all, it’s
good for you.
m
m
m
&
Ih* f
3r
%
B
*
Helps teeth* appetite*
digestion, allays thirst*
soothes throat and
stomach.
Get it wherever confec-
tions are sold.
J. C. Gambles & Coy
Sole Australasian Agents
Commerce House, Melbourne
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA 5
'SEALED TIGHT - KEPT RIGHT
The Flavour Lasts
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOQN,
all metal, very strong.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
m
BS. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight
about silb Freight paid,
£5.
If troubled with Mosquitoes
USE SKEETERBANE.
1/1 & 1/8 bottle, post free.
“SURE CATCH "ANGLERS' GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
m
827, “The Cert” J).8,1!,L, Gull, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, SOin. steel barrels, exten-
sion rib, rebounding- locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip, walnut stock ;
weight about 71b Freight paid,
70/-
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/-, post free.
n
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2}in. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate.
AVeight 7Jib Freight paid,
£ll/11/.
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
12-gauge, similar description to 833 ... Freight paid, £ll/11/
“KOOLAH"
SHAVING STICKS.
Delightful to use.
7d. each, post free
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices Here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date.
mn
826. Midland Gun Co.’s D.8.8.L.
Pigeon Gun, 12-gauge, top action, bar locks,
Greener cross bolt, high-filed rib, 32in. steel barrels,
both choke, D. & E. fore-end, side clips, chambered for 2fin, cartridges, beauti-
fully engraved, weight about 7 Jib Freight paid,
£l4/14/-
V
818. Winchester Automatic Repeating Rifle,
1903 Model, special 22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges in
3 seconds; weight, about s}lb.; sighted
blank to 100 yards; will kill at 500 Freight paid,
£7/10/-
SURE CATCH
“The Tackle that Makes
Fishing Worth While.”
m
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/7/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/10/-
816. Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about sjlb Freight paid.
£52/6
n
831. Martin Repeating Rifle, 1897 Model, 24in. octa-
gon or round barrel, 22-calibre rim-fire, magazine takes 25 short,
20 long or 18 long rifle cartridges, case-hardened receivers, fitted
with sliding rear sights; weight silb., take down..
Freight paid,
-ISIS*
.. ■ '
BA. —Browning Patent Automatic Rifle,
handles eleven 22 short smokeless cartridges ; walnut stock,
pistol grip, 19i-inch barrel; length over all, 36in.; weight, 4ilb.; bead front and screw rear sight,
fitted with safety bolt; barrel may be dismounted by unscrewing quarter turn.
Freight paid,
75/-
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
Illustrated Sportsman’s Guide (Catalogue Bl), also 1918 “Sure Catch” Anglers’
Guide (Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or both lists. They
. are money savers.
ac
msimutis GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS’
arm tobacconists
mn
City Sports Depot
99 King St, dlso at
Newcastle d Brisbane >


Another True Rexona Girl
- Miss Ivy Burnham
1
Dear Sir.,—
I have been u sing your
Rexona anti R exona Soap
for over two y ears, and I
think so muc h of them
that I want you to add me
to your list of Rexona
girls. I think there is
simply nothing: like Rex-
ona, for I find that it
keeps the skin in perfect
condition, prevents chap-
ping, and at once drives
aw a y any chilblains.
Rexona Soap is a great
favorite with me, not only
for the toilet and batli,
but as a shampoo for the
hair I find it truly delight-
ful, Theimany toilet soaps
I have used before cannot
be compared with it, as it
is miles ahead of them
all, amt since first using
Rexona Soap I have never
used or will ever* use any
oilier.
My advice to all my girl
friends who wish to keep
their skin, hair and corn-
complexion in the pink of
condition is to use Rexona
and Rexona Soap first,
last, and always.
May I subscribe myself
as a true Rexona girl?
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.)
IVY A. V. BURNHAM,
St. John’s Road,
Forest Dodge, Sydney.
(This is a photo, by K. Stump of Miss Ivy
Burnham as she appeared in the Rexona
(girls’ Fancy Costume. Miss Burnham is a
true Rexona pirl. Take her advice and try
the Rexona Remedies.)
Try the Rexona
Remedies.
They consist of Rexona the Rapid
Healer and Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap—both universal favorites. The
wonderful healing powers of Rexona
have made it a password in nearly
every home in Australia. Rexona
Soap is the best preservative for the
skin and hair that is obtainable,
and leaves the hair soft, fluffy and
luxuriant. Try the Rexona remedies
yourself, and prove our words.
Rexona, 1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Soap,
1/-. per tablet.
C 00...
/4nh*eph«
fu»’ , * f,a3
t Hcals J Relr^bie
£xona,
J>C~~ " vCii
••' CC2««tiA *>i m 7 •*' d
£2
<4sfe
REXONA
1/6 and 3/-
REXONA
SOAP
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’*, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals>
m
Works: Birmingham, England>
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
*
um
SCIENCE & EXPERIENCE
must precede progress to attain per-
manent success. The scientific and
experimental work undertaken by the
SUNBEAM
Company has been continuous and is reflected
in the present productions, and also in the
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
which has earned for it the title
Supreme on land and in the air.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62. Oxford St., London. England
WORKS * • • • Wolverhampton. England
The Half-way House.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOMEWHERE on the road of friend-
ship the Half-way House is set,
And a grey dove croons on the shingles
where the boughs o’er the roof
have met.
And what is the grey dove crooning when
the west is a mint of gold?
The lilt of the song is new to us—though it
be of the centuries old.
Oh, deep are the mossy pathways that lead
to the studded door
From the many feet that have grooved them
in the years that have gone before,
And the copper reds of autumn and the
Spring’s transparent green
Are under the mats of the summer moss
where the feet have gone between,
And ringing the shadowy garden are the
hedges whose roots were there
When Man first looked in the Woman’s eyes
and knew that those eyes were fair.
And here, when the moon is in the sky and
the. stars are blinking through,
Old ghosts come hack for the roses that
only this morning blew....
And they weep o’er the scattered petals and
grasp at the nodding red ;
But they cannot enter the Half-way House,
for their road lies on instead.
On to the end of the Foolish Dream and
down to a grieving sea.
That is salt with the taste of the dead sea
fruit and the tides of Satiety.
Thousands of others have seen the light and
have followed it, nothing loth,
As it lures o’er the sweep of the open way
as the flame has lured the moth.
They have laid their fingers upon the latch,
and smiled in each others eyes
And challenged a world that they left be-
hind to burk them of Paradise!
Have sworn to tether the laughing boy—
who can never be tethered more—
And have not known that the Half-way
House is built with another door.
Yet out of that door they have crept at last
where the weeds and nettles grow,
And one has passed with his restless feet —
and the other with feet too slow;
And one went forth with a bitter word —and
one with a broken moan ;
And the grey dove crooning among the trees
has crooned to the stars alone.
The wind that blows from a hundred hills
dips here with the weight of flowers ;
And one does not reck of last season’s leaves
in this summer’s burgeoning bowers.
And the wise Spring spins with her master
hand at a carpet for her floor
Till we may forget that the Half-way
House had ever another d00r....
Let us never enter the Half-way House
though the lamp for us is set.
And the delicate twigs of the singing trees
right over its roofs have met.
Let us never knock at the yielding door in
the place where friendships end.
Let us keep to the smile of the Open Road
and the handclasp of a friend!
Queensland.
M. FORREST.
The Midelman and the Kidd
with the Joobious Nose.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IHAV redd a lott abowt the midelman
and the hi prophets he is making. I
am a midelman, at leest Briggs, my
boss, is. I liv on the swet of the toiler; at
leest Brigs duz.
In the morning -when the kok, after
laying his kase before the arbitrashun kort,
has relucktantly resumed his ill-pade labors
and krowed, I nock at the Ist dore in the
roe of flatts. It is opened in coarse of thyme
by a kidd with a joobious nose. I say good
morning. She says nothing worth menshun-
ing. She loox at me as if I waz a gost. She
sez she wil ask her femail progenitor. The
shapeless and kommodious progenitor kant
kum for a wile bekaws she is in her dishab-
bilay. That iz to say her feet are bear and
so is most of the rest of her kommodious
person. Wen she kums she wunders wether
she wil have rump stake. She is unabel
to make up her giggantik intellekt. Birried
in thawt she loox into spase.
Sew she kalis Erniintrood. This long-
legged flaper is reluktant to apear bekaws
her hare isent dun. Wen I look at it I
wish it waz never begun. At lastt she pores
like a refreshing streem on the arrid sur-
phase of the landskape. She sez they
haven’t had oks tale for a long thyme. It
isent my afair if they havent had oks tale
sinse the deth of Punch’s Pilot. They both
hessitait. The unlimited projenitor in dis-
habbilay thinks in a fainte voice that there
is a lott to be sedd for tryppe. In the end
they fiks on a pownd of sheep chopps, cut
thin, with no fatt on the wish-bone. I hav
spent 15 minnits at wun bob an hour wich
is thripence geting an order for wun pound
of chopps cutt thin with no phatt on the
wish-bone, wich is Bd. under the new law for
the regulashun of the speed of beef.
They awl look at me as if I waz a ghoste.
I am lait with the meet bekaws at every
dore I am mett by a kidd with a joobious
noze and she has to go into komitee with
her ampel and kapashus projenitor, hoo is
in bedd or not propperly washed, and even
after she haz emerjed as the sun emerjes
from behind a klowd and konsulted with
Gwendolene they are unabbel to resolve if
they wil have cows horns or pig’s liver. Wen
I arive I am tolled that bekaws of being
lait they have had dinner of eggz. and my
unpunktuality is shamefool and they don’t
want the chopps. They are bad wen I
get back. They weren’t verry good wen I
startid bekaws about 120 people handle the
meet at the slawter house and it is born
ded. _ Brygges gives it to the dog or else
sels it to a womman with a cold in her
knows. A lott of our meet goes to the dog
bekaws there isn’t enough wommen with a
coaled in her noze. I have nown the hole
bilding to say the meet was too lait and
m half the houses ther is a kidd with a
joobious noze.
Brigs says he wil be rooined bi mi inkapa-
CI Y ; I don’t kare wether he is rooned or
?i?u- i er s i n se the korporashun invented
the bi-law to prevent meet barking at nite
my liphe haz been a rnizzery with inspek-
tors. Then the Lokal Goverment past a
Width of Tires Act for pigs feet which I
thowt was the last haybag on the kammel’s
hump. Now this speed lirnmit for meet has
dfide ud all the finer emoshuns of the
human sole. Wen I red that nek of muton
wasent alowed to travel faster than 54d.
per pound wile the pubs close at 6 I sed
the disereppancy dident alow a hardworking
midelman time to get a beer before going
lioam.
If you spend thrippens worth of time
seling * Bd. worth of meet and pennyworth
in delivering, it, and then haven’t soled it
after awl, and you spend the prophet on a
motar-kar, how much have you left to buy
war Bonds with?
Theres me and too other middelmen of the
same sort battening on these phlatts. Sum
wimmen wont deel with Briggz bekaws they
say his meet is offal. Sum wommen deel
with Jenkins bekaws he is a Methoddy. Wun
womman has her flesh sent rownd from Hay-
stacker bekaws her rich aunt from hoom
she hadd expektations marride Brigz, and
Jenkins promised to marry her poor girl
relaslnin hoom she had expecktashuns of
geting rid of and dident. The other wom-
man shook our dust off her feet. She sud-
denly wanted kafs tale suplied instantly for
the first time in ten years, and wen we
hadent any she sed we never hadd anything,
and for the rest of her daze she wood have
her meet sent by registered leter from
Knock and Kirbby. Smith started hear and
was doing wel but an ennemy in the income-
tax otfis undermined him. Half the wom-
men left him bekaws he was an gtheist and
the other halph quitted him bekaws he was
a jesuit. The other womman is a vegge-
tarian.
The paper boy works for Robinson the
midelman. He pushes the arkymeedjan
lever under the doro and kolects every 2
weex if he can. Mostly they have taken
kloroform that day. Wen he has pushed
the orgy of publik oppinion under the dore
for 4 weeks Robinson desides it is a bad
dett. Then a femail who is no younger
than she owght to be kums in to say that
the last peeple left a munth ago, and she
had moved in at 10 this morning, and if
this country manniphestted that strenuous
kommercial instink wich karakterises the
Ammericans and other proggressive races
the traveller would have been wround at 11
to see if she wanted the paiper.
The Dago akross the street sez that fttaly
will wun day be releesed from beneeth the
eel of the tirant. He is a midlemann of
kors. He is about 26 and was born in Bal-
mane and fote under Garrybaldy. He haz
to have twice as mutch froot in the window
as he kan sel for if he hasent the womman
hoo is the widespredd and unlimited pro-
jenitof of the kidd with the joobious noaz
won’t bi from him. She sez it is a empty
bankruppt shop and there kant be anything
in it worth -bring. Nexst day he removes
the botqm haf of the froot to the topp. Next
day lie shifts half of the topp half
inside and sells it to the kidds at rejooced
price. Next day he shoves it into the ash-
barrel. Next day he lias bote another, topp
half for the window and is fined for having
a botom half that is unphitt for human
consumshun. Froot goze badd very fast, and
if the ash-barrel is fool and you throw it
owt of the upstares window it is bownd to
fall on the hed of a royal kommission or a
man who haz just been apointed to the
Bored of Trade at £lOOO a yeer.
The Dago used to be prowd and hawt.v
with the inspekter, not. like Briggz who
krawls. The first inspeckter waz a ynng
man not long from sum akkaddemmy or
other, and our .Toolius Siezer karried maters
with ahi hand. He threttened to withdraw
Ittaly’s support from the Allize if his froot,
was kondemd. He sed that wen he maid his
triumphal side entrance into Roam in 1571
carrying the banner of Vikter JHim Annual
the new King he had been inspekted with
applaws by millions of defening populace and
passed us in good order and phitt for human
consumshun. and he wassent going bak on
it. The inspekter we have now is diferent.
He is i Dago himself, and wen he swore for
an hour at our dago in his native tung about
i a ton of bananas that was defunkt an
N-tent cordial was established with our dago
underneath.
He never gives tikk. Wuns the femail
wlios poor relashun orter been marride to
Jenkins asked for it. He breethed heavily
and sedd that the price of tikk had gone upp
400 per cent, sins the war, and that the
Goverment had seezed all th tikk to fite the
Huns with.
The man with the bred getts on best. He
kant push it under the dore like the paper
and mobbody puts out a jugg for bread as
they do for milk. So he alwaize makes sure
that the peeple arent gone or lorst or been
murdered by the villane in the fourth act, and
their dekomposing remanes lying under the
ice-chest befoar he parts with the bred.
Besides he only sels big loafs and smal loafs
and the only serpent in his garden of eeden
is that the kidd with the feature I alreddy
menshuned is a long time coming and kant
think which loaf they wil hav. He gave up
current loafs for when there were three
kinds the undecidedness of the spacious
parent in dishabbylay ate up all the profitt.
2 grosery myddlemen have gone madd oh
the stares of these flatz and the prezent wun
haz a far away expreshun and talks to him-
self as he walks along. One of them throo
siks pounds of buter at the hedd of the smil-
ing bride in the topp howse and then pored
the groseries down the stares and joined the
war where he roze to be a chaplin. He sed
in a loocid interval that all the wommen
looked as supprised when he kawled on his
daily wround as if he was a see-serpent or
the day of judjment. They hadent expekted
him for two years and in konsekwens the list
wasent reddy. The hole fammilv wood then
be mobbilized exsept thoze that were at skool
and those that wer in the bath, and those
that weren’t owt of bedd and the "one that
was away having her apendiks cutt out in
hosspittle, and the wun that waz never men-
shuned as she had disgraced the fammily
eskutchon by marrying a person of lo degree
that lived hie up in an attick. They would
hold hie-h revelry as to wether they wanted
5 a powndd of evverything eksept the bil
After 15 minnits, wich is thrippens at one
(Continued on nest page.)


TRADESMAN’S WOUNDS,'
CUTS and BRUISES.
Hand and Wrist Injured by Falling Timber
—Bad Gash from a Circular Saw.
PRAISE FOR PERFECT ZAM-BUK HEALINC,
Illustrative of Zam-Bulc's
perfect way and its great
utility in home and work-
shop, Mr. F. Jarvis, of 19
Glebe Road, Glebe, Sydney,
writes: “Sometimeago, while
working in a timber mill, I
had the misfortune of get-
ting my right hand
injured by a fall of
timber —one of the
planks almost dislo-
cating my wrist —
and the bones were
greatly injured,
causing me terrible
pain. Having great
faith in Zam-Buk,
I applied it to the
injury, and after a
week or two my hand
was nearly better. The
bones were knit and very
little effect of the accident
was left.
“After this I met with another accident with a
circular saw. This cut my left wrist, and inflicted a
very nasty gash. I treated it with Zam-Buk, and it was
soon healed. These are two of many experiences I have
had with Zam-Buk, and I recommend it to everyone.”
f'C
/
•M
&
I
v.v
•• v,
:•>»
t.
“KUB IT in..,
Zam-Buk Is ex-
cellent for eczema,
ulcers, ringworm,
bad legs, rashes,
eruptions, pimples,
sores, scabs,
scales, piles, pains,
swellings, chapped
hands, sore faces,
cold sores, chil-
blains, cuts, burns,
festerings, poison-
ed wounds, child-
ren’s sores and in-
jured conditions of
the skin generally.
Of all chemists and
stores at 1/6 and
3/6 per pot, or post
free from C. E. Fui-
ford (Australasia),
Ltd., 39 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Sold by
Stationers and
Jewellers
Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern
with slip ■ on
cap from 15/-
Sfandard Pat-
ternwith slip-on
cap from 12/6
I llustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a u Swan 99 that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using .
Every person s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing. After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
>WAN
nm
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen —a writing
instrument peculiarly,, your own.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester; Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney— (Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston
Street, S.E. Associate House —Matue.Todd & Co.,
Inc., New York and Chicago.
n
Australian Branch:
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings. 255 a George Street, Sydney.
m
HORROCKSES HQRROCKSEV SE V rtORROCKSE S ‘
HORROCKSES'
C-r , ..
WILL
OUTWEAR T»t HEAVIER MAKES
OFFERED AS SUBSTITUTES.
„ SEE
HORROCKSES*”
ON SELVEDGE
'£.sTflSuSn£.l> 1791
nm
AApPPOC KSLS‘.nORROCKSTS: MQRHOCKSES- MORROCKSIS"
VON
TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
bob an hour,, the flaper with the unndesided
ekspressun and the mixed boots wood sum up
the lease, and the verdikt wood be wun bottl
of pikles without costs. Weu he brot the
pikles the fatt girl with the diferent boots
wood tel him he had forgoten the cheeze and
the egz and that she had forgoten the beens
and th raizens and the ketchupp and the
shooger and the tea and wood he bring them
immejately and be more careful in future,
and leeve the kidd’s boots to be repared in
passing and the bil wood do any old time.
That waz why he pored the foming torrent
of groseries down the long flites of scares
with grate klammer, and threw his basket at
a dog and rekaptured Belljum all by himself
in liis raje.
Ther is nothing partikular about the fish-
man exsept that he is fatt and mizzerable-
looking, and seldum gets pade for his fish,
and seldum has any phish, and his physsh is
mostly stale. He deklares it is phresh and
that he getts it every morning by telegraph
from the Federal capittal, but I has doutts.
The name on ‘his sine is Omnibus Rhinoceros,
or something like that, and he tolled me
wunse that he kame from the town where the
Akkroppolis grows under the summer son.
I never tasted akkroppolis, but I suppose it
is good enuf food if you like it.
Wen the Meet Deliverer’s Union is
formed the roolz will inclood only one
bootcher in a flatt, 4d. per minnit for dellay,
the womman that openz the dore to be
fully dressed and in her rite mind, all diss-
kussions wether it will be stake or sheepz
lied to be held in the kitchen, the kidd with
the joobious noze to be kept out of site or
fined sixpense, and the ash-barel to be taken
in errly as it taintes the meet with its
smel. Allso awl kustomers to leeve a dep-
posit insted of leeving the bil unpade, unless
the disordered nrojenitor who is a tram-ride
round the waste kan sho that she is a mem-
ber of the Meet-Eaters Association in good
standing, and has a cleerance from her last
bootcher. Then the myddleman may begin to
have a sho. At present he livs on hoap.
JAMES EDMOND.
Taming a Savage.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
** HY do you wish to go?”
1 W “Because I just want to,” said
the girl.
“But you know that I don’t like your
going. Who are you so anxibus to see over
on Keube? Oh, yes—your pepple. You have
told me that two-score times, i There are no
people of yours over there. Who is it?”
The girl laughed till the flower wreath on
her brown bosom danced.
“Oh, Tiorti is jealous!” she cried glee-
fully. “You needn’t be. Nei Manoua!”
Stepping to the door she loudly repeated
her call. A slender girl, whose raven locks
bulged from under the thick wreath of
heavily-perfumed t’uri blossoms, and flowed,
a glittering mass, over her shoulders, came,
half diffidently, to the door.
“See, Tiorti, I have brought my cousin,
Nei Manoua, to stay with you until I re-
turn.”
“Nei Tokanemene, I have told you often
enough that you can’t go. I forbid you,”
cried the white man angrily.
The girl laughed mockingly.
“Oh, Tiorti is angry—and how it becomes
you ! Your eyes are like, the sharks’ but
fiercer, with the flames in them. Don’t you
like Nei Manoua?” she cried in sudden'pre-
tended surprise : “Is she not pretty enough ?
She is as good-looking as I am, is she not?”
“Nei Manoua is right enough,” said the
man ungraciously; “but you can’t”
Nei Tokanemene lightly evaded him,
jumped out on the verandah and down on
the ground.
“Farewell, my Tiorti! Be good to Nei
Manoua as to myself!” she cried gaily. A
moment she stood smiling under the great
double-branched paw-paw, then waved her
fingers to him and was gone.
Tiorti glared moodily down into the vege-
tation-overhung road which had swallowed
her.
“Tell me. Nei Manoua. who is she going
to see? Why this sudden unquenchable
desire to visit Keube?” he asked.
The substitute was shocked. Tell on her
cousin ! Perish the thought!
“Yes, yes, I know you are a good loyal
girl,” said the wily Tiorti. “But just tell
me. It will go no farther. And I’ll give you
a bottle of sandalwood oil —a large bottle!”
A gleam of desire sprang into Nei Man-
oua’s eyes.
“Well, of course,” she admitted hesita-
tingly, “if it remains between us two it
would not really be telling, would it?”
“Of course not,” Tiorti agreed heartily.
“She is going across with Nan Takabei
Tarawa. Don’t you know that he has
boasted all over the island that he can take
Nei Tokanemene away right from under
your nose? You’ll let me smell at the cork
to pick the bottle I like best, won’t you,
Tiorti?”
Tiorti nodded in reply and also compre-
hendingly at his own thoughts. He might
have known it if he had had a grain of
sense: that fellow had been hanging around
a good deal of late! All the island would be
on tenterhooks to see the outcome. He saw
it all so clearly. In the morning someone
calling at the store for the purpose would,
casually, inquire after Nei Tokanemene. Did
she leave on the trip? When would she
return? All unsuspecting he would reply.
When out of sight the visitor would go into
convulsions of delight. So would the audi-
ence of full-grown brown children when with
suitable embellishments the conversation was
recounted. He saw- the dignified old men
amusedly protest at the jest at the white
man’s expense, the while enjoying it. It
could never be allowed. That was certain.
* * * *
Through the peep-hole in the foliage
where he lay hidden on a few hastily-cut
palm-leaves Tiorti could see the water lap-
ping the beach. Though mirror-smooth
under the lee of the palm forest, the irresist-
ible ocean-swell »ulsed over the outer reefs.
The full moon sailed serenely overhead, cut-
ting a broad silvery roadway lagoonward
from the beach. Half-way out across the
reef, where the breeze, cheating the palms,
gently ruffled the water, the moon’s smooth
path became a rippling glory of frosted sil-
ver. Close to the beach a large sailing canoe
gently swayed on the lagoon. From the.
village came the insistent odor of freshly-
roasted shark and sword-fish.
From village to canoe, carrying sleeping-
mats, baked babai, cocoanuts —ripe, and for
drinking—a live robber crab in a strip of
palm-leaf skin, his huge pincer-claws broken
off, and othev belongings, the natives passed
so close that Tiorti could have touched them,
and all their artless conversation was audi
ble. As always, the bustle was great and
the result meagre. Articles put into the
canoe by one were hurriedly removed by
someone else, and later again brought down
by a third party moved from place to place
by others and finally unconcernedly moved
back to the original place by the first per-
son. Then a nude urchin came scurrying
down, an almost equally nude old crone in
hot pursuit, captured and, loudly protest-
ing. lugged back to his sleeping-mat. Now a
stiff-legged old man, supporting himself on
a long stick, ambled past, breathing noisily.
Tiorti saw the loop of the twine around the
neck of the molasses bottle passed over one
finger of the right hand, and the other
fingers clawing at the folds of the loincloth
which would come undone. Clear as a bell
behind him a voice said :
“Won’t Tiorti be wild when he hears about
it!”
There was girlish laughter, and Tiorti
knew how homicidal mania feels.
At last everything was ready. The sail
was being opened out, and Tiorti had begun
to think that Nei Tokanemene had thought
better of going, when suddenly she and Nan
Takabei Tarawa, with arms encircling each
other's waists, came slowly down the path.
When Tiorti quietly stepped before them the
man instantly dropped his arm from her
waist and stepped back. Tiorti, looking him
over, reflected that the girl had some excuse,
for he was a handsome youth, straight-limbed,
clean-skinned. He knew that the man was
as unlikely to interfere as the people in the
canoe who had paused to see the perform-
ance.
The girl’s laugh rang out sharp, high-
pitched : “O Tiorti, how kind of you to come
to see me off!” But her eyes met his un-
certainly.
“Don’t act the fool, Nei Tokanemene,” he
urged good-naturedly. “Go back home.”
For answer she laughed disdainfully and
stepped into the water. Quickly he grabbed
to stop her. She wriggled. His handwdipped
on the bare shoulder and sank into the long
loose hair. Mechanically he took a turn
around the hand and jerked her backward.
She tripped and fell on the beach. In a flash
her Kanaka lover disappeared. As she fell,
all her laughing good-nature vanished. On
the instant she became the bestial Kanaka,
giving the volcanic passions free vent. She
yelled for help, screamed, bit, clawed, spat,
smote the beach smashing blows with both
fists, twisted with lightning rapidity, kicked
both heels into the air and wept with rage;
but even then the Kanaka respect for the
white man forbade her touching her Tiorti
to free herself.
The screaming laughter from the canoe
grew fainter as the craft was leisurely poled
out to where the breeze caressed the water.
Suddenly, with two quick upward heaves, the
great triangular sail was stopped. The sen-
sitive craft instantly took a leap and sought
the wind. With deliberate haste the old
pilot reached for the steering paddle hanging
in its grummet and forced her before the
wind. When the bow and outrigger waves
ran aft and out, golden over the glittering
silver, Tiorti released the foaming savage.
With a bound she was on her feet and had
unclasped the keen-honed penknife she
carried with blade doubled on a strand of
hair. Holding its point against her bosom
she made rapid stabbing motions till the
blood trickled in tiny rivulets from the
punctures into her loin-covering.
“I am not to go, eh! I am not to go!”
she croaked, hoarse with rage.
Tiorti looked calmly on, though he very
well knew that the fury would end up by her
stabbing herself. He had doctored too many
wounds, self-inflicted in passion, to doubt it.
He knew, too, that any attempt to gain
possession of the knife would precipitate
matters.
“If you intend to stab yourself, take this —-
it’s better than yours,” he said calmly.
Holding by the point the large sheath-
knife he had used to cut his bed of palm-
leaves he offered her the handle. In incred-
ulous wonder she stopped her noise and hesi-
tatingly held out her hand. Instantly he let
the knife fall to the ground. The hand shot
forward seizing the girl’s wrist, forcing the
knife out of her fingers. Catching sight of
the disappearing canoe Nei Tokanemene
flopped heavily on the sand, kicked out her
legs and howled with despair.
Abruptly Tiorti turned and without word
walked up the path. As he disappeared in
the shade he heard a tear-suffocated call: —
“Tiorti!”
He stopped, invisible behind the bushes.
He could hear her weeping and sniffling as
she stumbled among the fallen palm-branches
and nuts. Catching sight of him she stopped,
and he saw in the moonlight the handsome
face swollen and repulsive with weeping and
passion. A moment he waited, then walked
on till again he heard the barely audible
call. But when he stopped she did the same,
and finally when out of sight, instead of stop-
ping, he walked briskly on. Quickly chang-
ing into pyjamas he slipped under the mos-
quito-netting. Soon she emerged from the
shadows into the moonlight flooding the open
space before the house. When her step
sounded on the verandah he feigned sleep. She
was still sniffling; her bosom and throat
heaved and worked and choked after convul-
sive sobbing. Sinking down on the palm-
branch floor by the netting she whispered :
“Tiorti. Tiorti, I taneriko, Tiorti.... I
love you !”
Receiving no answer she turned away and
sobbed anew. Gradually the man passed from
sham into real sleep as Nei Tokanemene, more
asleep than awake, sobbed her submission :
“Tiorti, I tan.,, ,er.... . iko, I tan....”
TE RABARANITKO.


«■
'
■ »s-
IS j
Kv
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear
•Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu°
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WE&TINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93*lo7 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
1
YOU could not make a better invest-
ment than in a bottle of Rem Oil. One
drop judiciously applied to the wearing
surfaces of light machines will prolong
their usefulness and render them capable
of better service. Every household should
have a bottle of Rem Oil. For firearms it is
unexcelled, being at one and the same time a
lubricant, powder solvent and rust preventive.
Ask your dealer for further particulars or
send for special descriptive circular, also
complete catalogue of Remington UMC
Firearms and
Cartridges.
n
MM
&
z'
w-\
is
■Mv
'/
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. 0. BRYANT, Australian Representative, Box 636, G. P. 0., Melbourne
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house .
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Sait' Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
mn
"I'D RATHER LOSE M’KILT
THAN LOSE M’
BEECHAM’S
Pills”
m
SPARK PLU<I
ENERQISER
Introducing to “Bulletin” Readers
A New Electrical Device
OH
WONDERFUL UTILITY & VIRTUE
BY WHICH
Your Spark Plugs give Smoother Ignition.
Your Engine gives More Power.
Your Car gives flore Speed.
Your Whole Outfit gives More Miles per Gallon.
COUNTRY MOTORISTS especially should get interested in
THE SPARK PLUG ENERGISER
and by its continued use practically eliminate
SPARK PLUG TROUBLE.
For ourselves we haven’t yet seen an old plug that won’t spark when fitted with THE
ENERGISER. Plugs sooted and with broken porcelains, and soaked with water, when
thus equipped, have yielded showers of snappy sparks right across the points.
The SPARK PLUG ENERGISER IS THE WONDER OF THE WIRELESS—The
BREAKING OF A CIRCUIT—APPLIED TO THE SPARKING PLUG, thereby increas-
ing the electrical pressure, and thus forcing even a defective plug to spark.
The SPARK PLUG ENERGISER IS A SPLENDID TONIC FOR A FORD.
RETAIL PRICE s 5/6 each, 51 6 each, 5 6 each.
If you have ignition troubles, or if you w ant a better-running motor, or if you are
merely curious, see The SPARK PLUG ENERGISER.
Country Garages get in touch with this, one of the best side-lines you can possibly
handle.
SOLE
AGENTS-
ROBERT C. SWAN 8 CO.
IT4l T 4
304 Pitt Street, Sydney,
The House for Motor Engineers’ Supplies
EL CASTINGS—SpeciaI Good Quality
ig?
o
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street,
Richmond, Victoria.


fifANGROVITEI
LEATHER
HELTING
“THERE’S NOTHING LIKE LEATHER.”
For efficiency under the most trying condi-
tions no belt lias ever given better an
tion than
“MANGROVITE” RAWHIDE BELTING.
Ihis f-amous power-transmitter and power-saver
is dependable under all conditions.
Made from the best hides procurable. Tanned
and Manufactured by the Mangrovite Process.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square, near G.P.O
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA. ’
• '‘’tSSS" G
®/.E ON °
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We Have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
18in. x 11, ISin. x 13, 20in. x 13, 24in. x 10.
26in. x 11, 26in. x 12, 26in. x 13, 26in. x 14.
28in. x 11, 28in. x 12, 28in. x 13, 30in. x 12.
30in. x 13, 32in. x 10. 32in. x 11, 32in. x 12.
36in. x 11, 38in. x 11, 42in. x 9,42 in. x 10.
42in. x 11. 44in. x 10, 4Sin. x 10.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne. I>'remantle.
Charles Atkins & Co. ltd., Adelaide.
John Beid & Nephews, Urisbane.
Kalgoorlie.
Paul & Gray Ltd..
Newcastle.
c&6lOB£
TWSt ?£ MM*
tMDt - MASK
No Grip So Sure
as the Dick Belt. No. speed so steady.
For maximum efficiency equip every drive
with
DICK’S BALATA BELTING
DICK’S BALATA BELTING
DICK’S BALATA BELTING
(The Original & Genuine).
Dick’s Balata Belting has greater flexi-
bility than any leather belt.
SEND FOR BOOKLET.
It contains vital information for every
man who uses machinery.
N. S. Wales Government Railways Stores
Dept., Dockyards, etc., are using Dick’s
Balata Belting.
Sole Importers—
James Hardie &. Co. Ltd.
Cr. York & Wynyard Sts., Sydney. y
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Gray Ltd.
SSI-3 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Also at Adelaide.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling- factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNlNG—which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great ileal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE." Their strong-
construction. and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD Alliance
Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne,
Perth; and Auckland
isbane,
, N.Z.
nm
Latest Motor Jack.
Endless chain, quick and easily worked. Strong, com-
pact, 10- to 18-inch extension. Lift 1 ton. Size
over all, lOin. x sin.
Price 25/-
For up—Place • under car, stand clear from dust and
grease, pull endless chain.
For down —Pull chain opposite way.
Useful other purposes. Highly recommended by
D. 8 W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.,
Ironmongers, 276-294 BRUNSWICK ST., FITZROY. MELBOURNE
-
<
O
tUAOfc M/VJ*
y
Q
O
&
SfCISTtOtO
(Sow
V
Broken Casting's
an.v «i ze . can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
J ensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron,
m t* S < t,ns: ~b* ««/-; ?•”>•. 25/-; 2oz„ 7/6
■ r ? s^ to ss„r.-^ d ls eir u ; o ”‘
coSSSuif Ti r&- ««?«-«
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St, Hilda. Vidloria.
EVERY BRASS ARTICLE
that is used in AUSTRALIA
can be MADE in Australia.
WE ARE DOING OUR BIT.
Enquiries Solicited for Contract Work—Mainly Brasswork.
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool, Vic.
Pump Manufacturers, Brassfounders, Engineers, etc.
mmm
r, 4 rf
®SII HI
mm
fh m r-r
mm
. vt
;sik
ZZZ7T'’"'” 7
Pbli
ii life
■
tgp
&
:-‘ 2
«—»
ELECTRIC LIGHT FOR ALL
DELCO-LIGHT
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand- -
SOLE AGENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND -
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
m
■ -
The Ideal Outfit for Small Shearing Contractors.
1,2, 3, or 4 STANDS. Shears are Friction-driven off Flywheels of 3- or 6-h.p Kerosene Engine.
Mr. C. BROADBECK Pillerene, Gunnenbene, writes: I am very highly satisfied with the
Plant. Have shorn over 2000 sheep and never lost a minute.” '
Mr. F 1). PHILLIPS, Merryulla, Coonamble, writes: “The plant went splendidly— not a
Stait t 0 finiSh< The Lister Chines are the sweetest-running on the
market.”
HUNDREDS OF OTHER USERS ARE EQUALLY SATISFIED
Write for Bulletin No.' 109.
DANGAR,GEDYE&CO. LTD., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
? WINCHCOMBE, CARSON, LTD., Eagle Street, Brisbane, Agents in Queensland,
“PURE WATER 15 AS ESSENTIAL TO HEALTH AS PURE AIR.”
THE FIRST CAN BE OBTAINED BY USING THE
“ABBOT” Australian Filter.
PRESSURE, for attaching to Main.
FOUNTAIN (or DRIP), self-contained.
Made in Various Kinds and Sizes.
Fitted with our New-style Cylinder (or
Candle), which gives unqualified satisfaction.
Also the
“ABBOT” NEW RAPID,
For AERATED-WATER FACTORIES,
BUTTER FACTORIES,
BOILER FEED WATER, etc.
Capacity up to 300 gals, per hour.
Catalogue mailed on request.
m s
=£HE
abbot
“GUTHRIDG” Patent Garbage Destructors
n
WILL ENSURE PURE AIR AROUND YOUR PREMISES.
“Guthridg” Destructors have been in=
stalled in a great many Federal and
State Departments, also Universities,
Schools, Factories, flilitary Quarters, etc.
The new No. 2 “Garden” is in great
demand for Dwelling-houses.
These Destructors are Odorless and Smokeless.
Ask for Bulletin, fully describing.
Prices from 46/- upwards.
N. GVTHRIDGE LTD., Manufacturers, Sydney. City Office: 350 George Street.
