

SUPERB OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 K.ent Street, Sydney,
—FOR— , .
Mining' and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
THE “AUSTRALIAN REVIEW"
says:—
The Company is very well
managed, and the name is quite
a household word in Sydney. Its
reputation is excellent, and,-
although the money-lender is gen-
erally regarded as a vampire, the
charge cannot be laid at the doors
of the N.S.W. Mont de Piete I).
and I. Co. Limited.
fghfg
On all Classes of Security.
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
Easy Terms and Lowest Interest.
NSWMONTDE PIETE-D&I-C?DP
HEAD OFFICE. 74 CASTLEREAGHST SYDNEY 74.
Next to "Dally Telegraph" New Building-
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
pnv
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, Ceheral Manager.
— ■
(i
CHROMOL
91
(Trade Mark)
LEATHER BELTING.
THE SOPER DRIVING BELT.
CHROMOL BELTING is made by us from
mineral-tanned Leather —the Hide fibres are
impregnated with Chromium, which toughens
them as it, does steel.
As a result of tests extending- over 10
years, Chromol has been adopted by the
largest Mining- and Smelting Companies in
Australia on all important Mill drives.
Sole Makers:
J. C. LUDOWICI 8 SON LTD..
Established
in 1858.
117 York Street, Sydney.
THE
BEST
w
wM
m
ra
a
m
ai
hf
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
Junket,
gh
For INDIGESTION
ant l DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
m
For roofs, floors, verandahs
Attractive suburban bungalows, palatial city buildings, modest up-country
homes and all manner of farm and other buildings are most satisfactoi ily
roofed with Malthoid.
Appearance, endurance, economy are the three outstanding features.
As a floor covering for workroom s, verandahs, bathrooms and lavatories
Malthoid gives everlasting wear, and is specially suited to laboratories
and wherever acids and alkalis are in use—it resists all fluid and damp
elements.
Samples and illustrated booklet, post-free.
“ Not the same as others
>mpanies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), CHallis House, Sydney.
A new and revised edition of the
“ Referee ” is now available,
and will be sent post free on
application to
LYSAGHTS LIMITED
8 Spring Street, SYDNEY.
teA v^sN° VVT <Sf& K *
the recognised standard
of quality throughout
the Commonwealth.
Horndale Brandy
ORME, KEIGWIN (Sb CO. LTD., SYDNEY Sole Agents. W
(A mature, high
grade spirit).
• *
ENGINEERS the world over unanimously accept
HOPKINSON SAFETY BOILER MOUNTINGS
and STEAM VALVES as the Standard of Efficiency
and Durability,.
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD., 115 Clarence St., Sydney
Carry Large Stocks. Write for Particulars.
GIVE YOUR OWN
COUNTRY A SHOW!
. ■ ' - i " 1- •
TRY
TOOTH
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
The Bulletin.
Voi. 39. — jS o. 2015. j
[Thursday, September 26, 1918.
WAR-TIME PRICE. Bd.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


sss?
■■v
r.i
m
zzzf
i*>T
sij3?6*s
tv-'
ags
S 3
S?
mm
mmm
m
txn
m
i sa
30
NATIONAL
MOTOR oils
are the IDEAL lubricant for EVERY
type of motor engine. They ensure
smooth, silent, powerful working effici-
ency under EVERY condition of
climate and road.
Their clean-flowing consistency, high
flash-point and remarkable viscosity
will prolong the life of your engine,
and reduce your running expenses to
a remarkable degree.
Obtainable all Garages
and Storekeepers
in 1-gallon tins, 1-gallon tins and
barrels.
Ask also for National Motor Greases.'
NATIONAL OIL CO. LTD.,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney.
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
Victoria Square, Adelaide.
m
TRADE. MARK
Camphor See
for chapped,
sfeinrsplitlip?
koM sores or
bongbened hands.
[REFUSE SUBSTITUTE?
Prtefnfree’Yasdiae
booklet, illustrated.
CHESEBROUGH MFC. CO.
(CONSOWIOATEO).
AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS
BOX 221 G.P.O. SYDNEY.
!!^
sfes
fg
P
HORROCKSES*
LonacletAz GLtld Ca/tccob
EWgamitfH-mMiHBBgB
WILL PAY YOU IN THE END.
ESTAEU SHED 1791
"HORROCKSES"'
on SELVEDGE
hfg
BURNS AIR
h
fgh
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Tea
Kerosene Lamps or One
Hundred Candles.
Burns Air 10# Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. NoWlek! No Ureas* i
No Smote l No Odor! Hang or Bet
itanvwhere. Over XOO Styles.
These Lamps being Portable
they require no fitting.
Let us post you a
Best Light
Wall Lamp
complete, which gives 100-candle power light
for 42/6 Post Free
Send for Catalogue No. 821, v '.ich also
contains Hollow Wire System ot Lighting
BRANDT BROS. LTD.
Air-Gas Engineers
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.”
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the liees of many of us women, and while perhaps a few the more
stoical among us—can avoid worrying over past or prospective events, w<*
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the result
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet matters, and may be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method ‘of retain-
ing or regaining- that beauty of face and figure which is the birthright of
eyery woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally known to the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Freckles and How to Cure Them. —It is always
those with the tiiiest and fairiest skins who
freckle most easily, but this knowledge is poor
comfort when the face is disfigured with these
ugly little blemishes. To prevent the forma-
tion of freckles a wash should be applied to
the face which will form a shield from the
rays of the sun. A simple and inexpensive one
can be made up at home by dissolving an
ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of
hot water. Shake the bottle, and when cold
apply to the face and allow to dry on tin*
skin. If this is done every day. renewing the
application whenever the face is washed, and
a little morcolised wax rubbed into the skin
every night, freckles will not make their
appearance, no matter how hot the sun. To
remove freckles which have already formed,
apply the wax every night, rub it well into
the skin of the face and neck and leave it on
till the morning. Then wash off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water.
To Reduce a Double Chin.—To reduce a double
chin, give hard, firm massage every night with
mercolised wax, stroking the flesh firmly back-
wards from the chin towards the lower por-
tion of the nock. Do this every night, and in
the morning bathe with cold water and rub
into the skin a little pafsidimn jelly. This
treatment will strengthen the flabby tissues
and restore the contour of the face. Occasion-
ally a double chin is due to stooping over
books or work, but generally it is the result
of putting on weight. When the latter is the
case a few clynol berries, eaten regularly every
day, will greatly assist in reducing the super-
fluous flesh. A glass of hot water should he
sipped after each meal.
The Hair—-To Increase the Growth.—To arrest
an undue falling of the hair and increase the
growth, scalp-massage and the application of
a good tonic is absolutely necessary. Part the
hair in the centre, and. starting at the fore-
head, massage for at least; ten minutes. Then
apply a tonic, A simple and inexpensive one-
can be made up at homo by mixing one ounce
of boranium (which can be bought at the
chemist’s) with a quarter of a pint of bay
rum. Add the boranium to the bay runmallow
to st and for half an hour, I hen strain and add
sufficient water to make half a pint. Dab
amongst the roots of the hair with a soft
sponge.
Superfluous llair.—Dark-complexioued women
are far more frequently troubled with a
growth of superfluous hair than those with
fair skins,.and at the first sign of these objec-
tionable hairs steps should lie taken to remove
them, or they will develop into a strong growth
which will take a very long time to destroy.
A little powddred pheminol applied to this
growth will remove the unsightly blemish,
destroying il permanently if the hairs he but
few. Two or more applications may be neces-
sary, if the growth be unusually strong, hut.
about, otic ounce of pheminol should be suffici-
cht for the most stubborn case. Pheminol can
he obtained at the chemist's, and a little
powdered alum should be obtained al the
same time for dusting the skin before applying
the pheminol.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
TO DARKEN THE EYEBROWS (E.M.).—
There is no dye which I could recommend as
“safe,” but if you rub a little mennaline into
the eyebrows and at the roots of the eyelashes
regularly every night it will darken them
naturally, and will also Increase the growth
of the eyelashes.
TO REDUCE WEIGHT (SADIE).—Yes, your
weight and measurements are certainly more
than they should be for your height, and I
quite agree that being so stout makes you look
old. 1 am pleased to' be able to toll you of a
quick, easy and pleasant way to reduce both.
Get a small quantity of elynol berries from
the chemist’s and take one after each meal,
three times a day. Weigh yourself after one
month’s treatment, and you will be delighted
with the result.
TO KEEP THE HAIR FAIR (DORIS).—If
you shampoo your hair regularly with stallax
granules it will prevent it from turning dark.
One teaspoon of stallax is sufficient for a
shampoo, and an original packet will make
from 25 to 30 shampoos. Stallax keeps
indefinitely. [4
TO IMPROVE A DULL, MUDDY COM
FLEXION (D. 8.). —Your complexion is dull
and muddy-looking because it needs thorough
cleansing and renewing of the outer cuticle,
To do this get a tin of mefcolised wax, and
with the tips ,of the fingers rub a little gently
into the skin, going over (he entire face and
neck. Leave the wax on all night and in the
nftorning wash it off with a good soap (you
will find Pilenta excellent). In a month’s time
you will notice a most, surprising improve
ineut. (2) Liquid pergol will prevent the
excessive perspiration of which you complain.
C!) Nothing can be done.
TO ARREST GREYNESS (FLO).—You are
indeed far too young to go grey yet. Get
about two ounces of concentrate of tamina-
lite and mix it. with three ounces of bay rum.
Dab this on the hair and amongst the roots.
It will soon make matters all right.
TO WHITEN A BROWN NECK (W.K.).—To
whiten your neck use"jettaline. Get a tube of
this front the chemist’s and rub a little well
into the skin of the neck; leave it on till next
morning. Do this regularly every night for
three or four weeks and you will find that the
skin will become beautifully clear and white
- \
sfl
(MUCK'S
MALTED
MILK
Baby knows the difference.
He knows what makes him feel good,
happy, and contented.
You know that he thrives upon this
easily assimilated, nourishing food,
thereto e insist on always having
Horlick's Malted Milk for him.
Write for sample, sending 2d. Sic
stamps to HUTCHINSON & Co., Ltd.
26, Jamieson Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
No Shortage of Suppli es.
Ample Stocks throughout Australia.
'*- •'«!&
gST
«~<-5
?4«
COME UP TO
THE SUNSHINE
SEASON
6srcon Falls - iiarron Gorge.
the wonderful hinterland
qunshine » Palm Trees ,
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft sunshine
ana Scenic splendour
A Booklet Tetlinq all about it
is yours for Ihe asking
/=?// in fhts coupon ■ -
Afeme
Addresi .
8.8-
To Me Z)fn?c-For- o/
Intelligence &Toun&f fiureau. —-
Brisbane, CAUEEMSJL»APno.
:• >'■
?2Z
g vzm
m
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROAT
and the Prevention of Consumption.
A. The Larynx or
. Organ' of ' Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
*
C. Th e Bronchial
Tubes of Dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the bone-s.
LET TIIE BUYER BEWARE!—The large sale for
“Euinonthol JUJUBES” "lias led to a number of
imitations being manufactured under the name of
menthol and other jujubes. It is important, there-
fore, when buying to be sure and get HUDSON'S
Eumenthol Jujubes. You may be asked to buy other
jujubes, and be told they are “just as good" as
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes. This proves that these,
imitations and substitutes have no reputation of
their own, and can only be- sold on the good repute
and high character of Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes.
Sold by all Chemists in Tins. Price 1/(J, or sent
post free on receipt of stamps (any State) by
manufacturers,
Hudsons Eumenthol Chemical Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY. i?
The Red Page
Montenegro, its History, Politics
and War
This condensed and interesting story is
of the smallest, bravest, least fortunate and
least considered of the -Allies, by Alex.
Devine. Among the Balkan States Rou-
mania and Bulgaria have Hun rulers. Al-
bania had a Hun ruler—William the Weed
—-during the few days the bogus kingdom
lasted. Greece has a half-Hun king; the
Kaiser is his uncle and his grandfather’s
name was Wilhelm till lie changed it to
Georgius. Only Serbia and Montenegro kept
clear of the Hun disease. When the old Ser-
bian Empire was wiped out by the countless
hordes of the Unspeakable over 500 years ago,
a few people took refuge on a great rock and
proceeded to hold it against all and sundry.
The Turk called them liis subjects, but they
refused to look at the matter in that light,
and called the Turk a bumptious infidel.
Sometimes their rock had an outlet to the
sea. Sometimes a more or less reliable
friend, the republic of Venice, gave him an
outlet by holding a bit of coast in their in-
terests. Most times they had the Unspeak-
able all round .them. Their area at times
was a few hundred square miles, and the
population only 20,000, and agriculture was
so intense that even a hit of soil sufficient to
grow one potato plant was cultivated. At
other times the country spread over a stretch
of the Cowhands, which made it richer but
less defensible. Of necessity every Monte-
negrin has always been a soldier—the mili-
tary age is IS to 02. The law against deser-
tion—the exhibition of tin; offender in
women’s clothes and his expulsion from the.
country—was never enforced because no one
ever deserted. Defensive war against the in-
variable Turk was so much a matter of
course that the prayer at the baptism of
every male child was “May he not
die in his bed.” In 1914 Montenegro
had a little stretch of coast, an area about
a quarter that of Tasmania, a population of
500,000 and a revenue of £890,000. The
Hun offered a great but vague addition of
territory if it would desert the triple Balkan
alliance —Greece, Serbia and Montenegro. The
reply was honest if not politic: “Montenegro
shares with Serbia the good or the evil.
Serbia’s fate is also our fate.” The badly-
armed forces carried the war into Hun terri-
tory and kept it there, with great damage to
the enemy, for nearly six months, and they
kept the war going for 18 months in all. In
fact a few irreconcilable’s keep it going yet.
But the little State was by-and-bye cut off
from the sea—an event which many think
the Allies could have prevented, for the Aus-
trian navy was no overwhelming affair—and
surrounded by land. Supplies' of food and
ammunition stopped. Telegrams stopped,
because the wires led through the enemy’s
country, and the wireless stations were
wrecked. Letters practically stopped. The
supply of news practically stopped, except
such as the Austrians manufactured. The
limelight was cut off and public interest
waned for lack of it. Mount Loftehen, the
defence of the capital, was held towards the
end by 5000 ill-fed men, whose commissariat
consisted of potatoes brought in by women;
with 50 guns, some of them very old, some
very small, and some with only 120 rounds
of ammunition. Thirty battalions, 480
modern guns, 800 machine-guns and an air-
tleet with unlimited gas made an end of
Montenegro. A scrap of the army broke
through to Albania and was ferried by
French and Italian ships to foreign parts.
The country, except for a few of the tallest
rocks, lives under the blessings of Hun
“kultur” and hopes for better times. It. was
always a hungry land, and starvation is
steadily finishing the population. Still, it
may get a small indemnity in the end to
rebuild with. (Tublishod by T. Fisher Unwin,
London. All profits of the sale to go to the
Montenegrin Red Cross and Relief Fund,
London.)
Talking about War Debt
The disordered howl raised in some places
throughout Australia a year or two ago for
a “conscription of wealth” for war purposes,
in spite of the obvious fact that wealth was
being conscripted with great rapidity and
was certain to be conscripted still more copi-
ously as the days passed by, seems to have
joined numerous other defunct howls. Any-
way, it has not been seriously raised lately.
It was a foolish howl. It was dishonest, too,
for the main purpose of it was, if not exactly
to help the Hun, to assist in doing the next
worst thing—and that was to impede enlist-
ment. And it was foolish because it sug-
gested something impracticable, even incom-
prehensible. But behind it there is, of
course, a problem of overwhelming import-
ance. How is the war-debt going to be met?
There are two ways only. One is by fasten-
ing the burden on the nation’s shoulders for
the entertainment of the present generation
and of posterity. The other is by making
one great heroic effort and taxing the bill
off. The result of shouldering the debt in
the old familiar way would be to impose a
terrific annual charge upon earnings. It is
easy to see, in spite of comforting nebulosi-
ties about “increased production” and all
the rest of it, that the consequences of this
would involve changes in social standards
so revolutionary as to be almost immeasur-
able. The revolution would consist of return
to the grinding penury of the Europe of a
couple of centuries ago. There is little doubt
that when peace comes this question of how
the war-debt of the world is going to be
dealt with will become the burning political
issue of the hour. And whatever may be
said about relative methods of finance then
this much can be said now —that the politi-
cal economists of every country in the world
can be quoted by those who believe that the
perpetuation of this debt in all its monstrous
(Continued on page 36.)


n
Anthony Horderns for Fashion ff Economy
895
784-
No. 784. —Organdi Muslin Blouse (as illustra-
tion), smart roll collar, pretty front, finished
embroidery 8/11
No. 895. —Voile Blouse (as illustration), large 1
square collar, trimmed insertion, fastening
crochet buttons 9/11
No. 291.—Voile Blouse, in White, trimmed
Valenciennes insertion and Motifs .. 12/11
No. 071. —Japanese Silk Blouse, in Cream,
Black, Navy, finished pockets and hemstitch-
ing 10/11
Outsizes 11/9
Anthony Horderns’ Portfolio of
Summer Fashions depicts the latest
styles. A copy will be posted free
on request.
r X 92
FX 91
rx 84*
No. Fx92. —Girl’s Tunic Frock (as illustration), in
Navy Blue checked Voile, with skirt of plain Na\j
Voile, 13 to 18 years — , c
Size 39in.. 35/6; 42in., 35/6; 4oin., 37/6; 48m., 37/6
No Fx9l. —Girl’s Robe (as illustration), in White
Japanese Silk, pleated back and sides collar, cuffs
and belt beautifully braided, for girls 16 to 18 year s 63/-
FxB4. —Coat and Skirt (as illustration), m White
Pique, flared and pleated at back, two-piece skiit,
1 4. to 18 vGRrs • ,#•••••••••*•****** "
p x g3.—Coat and Skirt, in Putty shade Poplin, flared
and belted, effective collar and pockets; skirt is
three-piece, 16 to • • • _>
w«l.—Coat and Skirt, in Assam Silk, coat smartly
flared and belted, pleats at side, four-piece skirt, 1j
to 18 years £5/15/-
Moderation is the
keynote of the New
Fashions for Summer Wear in
the Fashion Showrooms at the
New Palace Emporium. This
principle dominates both style
and cost, the latter consideration
being regarded as an essential
by many ladies.
■n
JV?6
JOJ/
7a
No. 3031. —Ivory Japanese Blouse (as illustration), embroidered
and edged hemstitching • 19/11
No. 526. —Japanese Silk Blouse (as illustration), in smart
tailored design, all sizes • ................ 23/6
No. 702. White Voile Blouse (as illustration), tucked and
" trimmed lace insertion ....... • 15 ?'M
jy 0 . 47i. ivory Japanese Silk Blouse, showing the new laced
front 9/11
No. 575. Voile Blouse, trimmed dainty insertion and tucks, latest
collar 13/11
No. 2231. — Japanese Silk Blouse, finely tucked and hemstitched
front, new roll collar, finished pearl butt0n5.......... 10/
No. 271.— Japanese Silk Blouse, Ivory, Black, Navy, finished
hemstitchings, roll collar 11 /o
Ex. outsizes 1 '
TO properly set off a dress correctly-
fitted Corsets are a necessity.
IZOD’S CORSETS are renowned for
the graceful lines they impart. An
illustrated IZOD price list, posted
free on request, will make the
selection of an IZOD model an easy
task. Write for a copy NOW.
fX 98
Vo Fx9o. — Girl’s Skirt (as illustration), in
fine Navy Serge, panelled front and back, box-
pleated at sides, 14 to 18 years- ...
Size 30in., 57/(5; 32in., 59/6; 34m., 59/6
FxSS. — Girl’s Skirt (as illustration), m
White Old Bleach Linen, three-piece, deep,
shaped belt at waist, 13 to 18 years -
Size 14/6: 32in., 15/6; 34in., 15/11
FxB9 ~— u l’s Skirt, in fine Navy Serge,
knife p'.cried front arid back, 15 to 18 yfears—
Size 32in., 60/-; 34in„ 63/-
No. FxBs. — Girl’s Skirt, in Cream Gabardine,
three-piece flared, eased at waist-line and
belted 13 to 18 vears —
Size 30in., 37/6; 32in., 39/6; 34in., 42/6
No
No.
Be wise, buy everything at Anthony
Horderns’ Famous Low Prices, which
permit ladies to dress fashionably
yet economically.
Fx 70
No Fx7o. — Girl’s Middy Frock (as illustration)
in Checked Striped Line.no, Sailor collar and
knot, pocket at side, fitting schoolgirls 6 to
Size 27in., 18/6; 80in.,18/ll; 33in., -19/6
No. Fx72.—Girl’s White \oile brock (as lllus-
' tration )**, trimmed French Filet Lace, pin-
tucks and daintily ribboned at waist, fitting
child 2 to~lo years—
Size ISin. 20in. 22in. 24in. 2 (in. 30in.
27/6 28/6 29/6 29/6 29/11 "29/11
No Fx6s.—Fuji Silk Tunic Robe; the Tunic
' is of striped Fuji, with the charming full short
Skirtette of plain Fuji, suitable for maids 12
* Size* 36in!, S 45/6; 39in., 45/6; 42in., 47/6
ANTHONY
s£>jjve^
& SONS,US
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
ckfiel d Hill.
Syd.n ey.


SUNSHINE FARM ENGINES
Cheapest to Buy. Cheapest to Run.
Easiest to Manage.
m
47
Sues Made:
5,5,7,10 H.P.
STATIONARY
AND
PORTABLE
m
53
THe most economical power for chaffcutting', wood-sawing', pumping and all
farm work. Made at Sunshine. Fadory expert sent to install and start.
No Farm Plant is complete without one of these Engines.
Sunshine Special Double-cylinder 7-h.p.
Engine, for Electric-lighting Plants, Small
Factories, etc. Portable or Stationary.
’
m
.
Sunshine Engine, for driving
Separators, Spray Pumps, etc.
* —•'« 4- .. _
m
m
m
Wiite to any of the undermentioned addresses for illustrated Catalogues and Quotations.
H. V. McKAY, Sunshine Harvester Works, Sunshine
BRANCHES :
Stanley Street, South Brisbane
27-39 George Street West, Sydney
Cor.York# St. John Streets, Launceston
Cor. Collins 8 Spencer Streets, Melbourne
56 North Terrace, Adelaide
56 Pier Street, Perth.


m
jf/ose qfjuxite
** Unalloyed” Dyes
The dyes used in Hose
of Luxite are “unalloyed not
loaded with heavy metallic com"
pounds to give the hose a glossy,
heavy appearance.
The soft, full-bodied shimmer of
Hose of Luxite is gained by the
use of rich, fine-stitched materials*
pure-dyed.
That is why its elegance and
beauty last through repeated wash'
ings.
The wide range of styles and
prices will suit every purse and
purpose.
Don’t accept substitutes, and
think you have “Luxite.”
Insist upon the genuine.
If your dealer is unable to
supply you, write us.
Walter Cathro Pty. Ltd.,
York Street : : Sydney.
Pour a
little
sauce
on your plate
H.P. is thick, fruity,
and delicious
can be taken with
the meat just
like mustard,
bro?s£ti
ESSENCE
COFFER
tjrenq^
for f javo^
mm®
fctif 0
mtb.fui
jLr
Wk
m
Il«s mmm
rm
GREY
tIAIR
15ea u
l£> largely a rrvaH-cr 4
(f?omple^:ior>s^
m
PRICE
S
□
SOAPS
Jz/isuse skin loveliness & add a zest to the toi/et.
PRICE’S, London. Liverpool, Manchesfer, Glasgow, Etc.
British
The All
READINESS*—and suitability for long
or short journeys, under any conditions
give to the STANDARD LIGHT CAR
Owner a satisfaction which can only
come from the possession of a good
article.
Send, your name to our
A ecnts.
mi
S&CS
Agents—
I. PHIZACKERLEY,
169-171 Elizabeth Street, Hyde Park, S>l.\ey.
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO., Ltd., Coventry, Enflland.
fa
■wn
> , /j
Sr' o ''.*
3#
"28
“Foursquare to
all the winds
that blow”
Face the world with a glad heart and a good courage—be ready
for anything and everything as it comes along. The man or
woman who is always ready is the one who is always fit for
whom no task is too hard, no responsibility too great. Regularity
of habit is the secret of such “ all-readiness ” —Kruschen Salts, the
famous home remedy for all those minor ills which militate
against vigour ot body and alertness of mind, is the secret of
such regularity. The Kruschen Habit makes you fit and keeps
you fit as nothing else does—it acts as a gentle reminder to the
liver, kidneys and eliminative system generally to the daily per-
formance of their vital functions—with these organs working
well and regularly the health-efficiency of mind and body is
assured. Get the Kruschen Habit —persevere with it—and
know the joy of life !
!
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents.
MESSRS. H. & W. GREA.R, 287-289 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
Sole Proprietors, E. Griffiths Hughes (Kruschen) Ltd. , 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
The Game.
I thought I held the world within my hand—
A golden ball of beauty and delight—
Rolling it round till every coloied land
Flashed on my eager sight.
And there came one on soft and fleecy feet.
Who said: “What is’t you play with,
laughing there — .
Young Hope or Joy or Heart’s Desires that
beat . . . . r,„
Through the large circles tan .
“Who knows?” I smiled, with wide and
Watching the colors of my plaything fade,
As he who spake drew nearer and my prize
Dulled in his long, grey shade.
“Give it to me,” he begged, and took the
Throwing it from him with a moan of
pain. . ...
But, as it trembled in its flying fall,
My hands caught it again.
“Good sport,” I cried. “Let us play on, my
friend.”
His black, sad looks were lowered as in
death. ,
But on we played—a game without an end
And neither paused for breath.
There came an old man, grey and wise of
eye,
Who glanced upon our sport of worldy
Chuckling' to see us make the bright toy fly
One grave, the other gay.
“Play on ! Play on!” he muttered, “Catch
or miss! , ~
From Life to Death the merry bauble
spins . .
The greatest and the best of games is this,
And Old Time knows who wins! ’
N.S.W.
ZORA GROSS.
A Student Soldier.
You thought to lead a life that evermore
Should narrow down between the ordered
ways
Of studious nights and crowded strenuous
days, ; ...
Battling for Right with those great gifts you
bore.
And our proud thoughts went winging on
before, .
With juries melting to your magic phrase.
Or from the Bench that crowning hint ot
praise,
Grave judges nodding: “You need say no
more.”
Then came the clash that proved our nation-
hood. . . ..
You heard a clearer, more insistent call.
Though one stray bullet broke the dreams
we knew,
We may not shed a craven tear for you.
Who, firm in consciousness of Wrong with-
stood,
Appear before the justest Judge ot all.
SOUTH AUSTKALIA.
S. TALBOT SMITH.
The Law.
God made His world too fair,
Never a lapse nor a flaw
White angels sailing the air
Could find in all that they saw.
But God had a wider thought
Of beautv beyond their ken
When His deep unrest He brought
To the breathing souls of men.
Then one arose with a sword,
Eager for glory to slay;
But the glory bloomed in the word
A dying man could say.
The pain of the wild unrest
Bit deep as a serpent’s tooth,
Till there rose like a star in the breast
Of manhood the splendor of truth.
The green leaves fluttered and ran
In the lisping of merry wind ;
And it seemed to the soul of a man
That only his thought was blind.
Blind! But the great God saw
Down a dream that was fair and long
The vast harmonious law
Of the sob that fathered the song.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
The Dawn.
Weary folk with faces drawn,
Furrowed brows and spirits grey,
Dulled by toil and soured by care,
They are watching everywhere
For the Coming of the Dawn,
And the Breaking of the Day.
In the hovel and the slum,
Where, with fragrant leaves unfurled,
Neither rose nor lily flowers,
They are waiting through the hours,
For they feel the Dawn will come,
Making bright their Underworld.
Such the beauty of the Dream,
Such the Vision, poet-drawn;
Such their hopes, their longings such,
That they start, as at a touch,
When the east darts up .a gleam,
Crying “Lo! the Dawn, the Dawn !”
Then the night shall pass away
And the phantoms of the Past,
Then the Underworld shall cry,
As it gazes on the sky:
“ ’Tis the true, the living Day.
’Tis the real Dawn at last!”
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.


kji
&
ft
G
*2
rm
are experience-built and specially
suited to Australian road conditions.
PERDRIAUS are Quality Tyres
The Perdriau Super Tread has three wide ribs of high=grade rubber, thick and resilient
a strong and flawless foundation fabric.
Perdriau Tyres are buoyant and wear=resisting, giving mileage well over the guarantee.
Obtainable through your local garage or from the manufacturers—
over
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. Ltd.
270 George Street, Sydney.
Adelaide Street , Brisbane
Flinders Street, Melbourne
Gawler Place, Adelaide
Murray Street , Perth
HUNDREDS SAY SO!
“Many’s the razor I have tried, but. there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE. 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, /free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List
CRAIG & AITKEN 654 CEORCE street, Sydney.
unnm PC ni I HEW, Established over SO years.
xn:
Tried and Trusted—
The “ PLUA/I ”
Razor.
K
a
PuREfFOODS
ate
LU/Vp
£
©
Q
*
=?0
te-
np&me
Piraiity"
Smiles of anticipation go round the table
when that neat little tin of
“REX"
Luncheon Cheese
puts in an appearance. It has a flavor
that goes right to the spot oneverg palate.
It is alwags uniform, and mild, and keeps
well after opening. For sandwiches them
is nothing to equal this tastg Cheese.
Sold evergwhere.
Be sure gou get “REX.”
Also trg “REX” HAM PATE
and “REX” VEAL & TONGUE
PATE—The tastg all-meat
sandwich “spreads.”
Recipes from users to Box 2582
Sgdneg, will be appreciated.
Foggitt, Jones & Co.
LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food
Products,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and
Bacon. j. 359
OIL TRACTION ENGINES
20=Horsepower, High=Tension Ignition.
Burn Petrol or Kerosene.
SUITABLE FUR CHAFFCUTTING, THRESHING,
PUiTPING, SAWING, HAULING, etc.
Benson Brothers Ltd.,
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney.
fg
Dodge Brothers
MOTOR CAR
BEFORE the Dodge Brothers’ Factory commenced to manufacture
complete cars it was a plant that embodied an investment of
between three and four million dollars, together with the
fruits of a remarkable manufacturing experience. It was employing
some five thousand men. Probably only the Dodge Brothers them-
selves, John F. Dodge and Horace E. Dodge, know how many more
millions have since been spent and are still being spent in making
it one of the world’s biggest automobile-producing plants.
Five thousand Dodge Brothers’ cars have recently been supplied to the
American Army. Think of fifty cars together; the quantity seems
immense. Multiply this by ten and then again by ten, and some
conception of the magnitude of this order is attained. And all these
cars have been selected for the most trying and exacting conditions
imaginable. __
THE STANDARDISED CAR.
Five=Passenger Cars and Roadsters in Stock.
Dalgety & Company, Limited
136-138 Phillip Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi.. 39.—N0. 2015.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1918.
Wab-time Phice, Bd.
NATIONAL INSURANCE.
AUSTRALIA: “Famine, War, Death, Disease! A few pounds, to be returned to you, will give you immunity from these.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by WiiSuam Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia,
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 10s. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
addiiess in Australasia, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
■part of the contents of this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Talcs
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Letters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
altcnition. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will bo, paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotcli, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town. Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
11. C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Til Hastings Street,
Vancouver, lI.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco ; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cat.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 703 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
llong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Pereva, 10 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth , Maoriland,
Fiji■■ British Papua , Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom , All Sea Route > 16oz. t
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — -otherwise: Soz. 3 Id.: B\oz. to 100 z .% 2\d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere , l/oz., ld. t ant id. each
additional 2oz. ______
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 2G, 191 S.
THE NORTHERN ELEPHANT AND
OTHER PACHYDERMS.
For months past there lias been a constant
grumble and rumble and roar in a section of
the Melbourne press and some other press
concerning the Northern Territory—its
emptiness, its uselessness, its lack of pro-
gress and population, its deficits, its climate
and all the rest. There has been no definite
demand that this great section of Australia
should be abandoned and left an outlaw
plage - for the first passing colored or other
race to pick up. Nor has its transformation
into a colored dependency been absolutely
called for, but the way is being paved for
either proposition. The demand of Darwin
Municipal Council—-the only elective gov-
erning body in the Territory—for colored
labor gives shape to the agitation. Evi-
dently the battle to keep Australia white is
by no means finished. And the demand for
colored labor is liable to resume with a
better chance of success than it had in the
first year of the Commonwealth. The early
enthusiasm of Federation has worn off just
as the glamor of a honeymoon wears off,
that is to say, the Commonwealth has become
a matter of course. The fact that the Terri-
tory doesn’t “pay way” becomes more
serious with the stupendous increase of debt
burdens. The process of congesting popula-
tion into the three big cities of the South —-
the three big cities which are farthest from
tropical Australia and know least about it
-—is 18 years further advanced. The fact
that a far bigger proportion of the popula-
tion is crowded into the narrow ways of the
three big cities than it was IS years ago
makes the pioneering and adventurous spirit
so much more dead. The Labor party was
never national and never Australian. It
always repudiated any interest as a party in
All-Australian-questions like Federation, the
tariff, and the making of a continental capi-
tal ; and its policy re the defence of this
country against the Ilun aggressor was
doubtful till all doubt was set aside by the
policy becoming avowedly anti-Australian.
It has become really a cosmopolitan party.
In its Hymn of Hate against everybody who
pays wages it has established a new idea of
fraternity, and it is quite possible that it
will vet welcome any colored person pro-
vided he is likely *<? become a unionist, a
voter of the Labor ticket and an oppressed
brother. As for the old Tory colored labor
party, it is the same old party.
This is a good time to make a note of the
fact that the Northern Territory was the
best investment that Australia ever made.
When N. S. Wales threw it overboard and
Queensland showed no interest in the matter
it was simply a Crown possession, and its
probable destiny was to be rilled on purely
Indian lines by a deputy from Calcutta.
That would have meant that it and West-
ralia, which had then no Representative
Government and no Democratic ideas, would
have been over-run by colored labor. This
labor would have slopped over into Queens-
land, which was also ready to welcome the
colored folk in those intensely Tory days,
and into the other States. There would have
been no Australia as we understand it; no
Australian nation; no Labor party worth
speaking of save a colored one. South Aus-
tralia, the very poorest and most barren of
the States, saved the situation by taking
over the Territory on very hard terms, for
Britain stipulated that the transcontinental
line must be finished before there would be
any complete cession and any complete re-
moval of the danger that Australia might
be dismembered. The line—still unfinished
and still in consequence a losing proposition
and a butt for cheap sarcasm—wasn’t
started out of mere cussedness or vanity. It:
was the price paid for Australia.
* * * * *
The Northern Territory isn’t losing- its
people, as many ignorant folk are led to
imagine. The population (aborigines not
counted) is small, but it is increasing. Places
that are losing population include the absurd
Federal capital property; all Victoria out-
side Melbourne and suburbs; the whole of S.
Australia apart from Adelaide and suburbs;
about half of N. S. Wales, including three
of the rich coastal counties and a great part
of the tableland; also considerable sections
of Westralia and Queensland. But the Terri-
tory isn’t in that doleful category. It cer-
tainly isn’t paying its way in the sense that
the revenue derived from it doesn’t equal the
expenditure, and Australia in general (in-
cluding the Territory) is responsible for the
deficit. Australia in general (including the
Territory) is responsible for a good many
things. One is the loss on the Federal capital
(about £83,000 for the year to June, 1917).
There is the subsidy to Westralia (£250,000
in the first year, and diminishing by £lO,OOO
per annum till it finishes at £150,000). Also
the subsidy to Tasmania (£900,000 in all,
payable by annual instalments) ; about
£85,000 a year for the upkeep of a marble
fortress in London ; and the inevitable pre-
liminary loss (£222,500 for last year) on the
great railway to Westralia. The year’s deficit
on the Territory accounts, when last Statis-
tician Knibbs published his thrilling volume,
was £649,518, but that was arrived at by
debiting the Territory with the loss on the
Port Augusta-Oodnadatta railway, which is
wholly in South Australia. The Territory’s
own deficit was about £540,000. N. S. Wales
and Victoria make bigger losses on a section
of their territory, but no separate accounts
are kept.
A point in which the payments made on
behalf of the Territory differ from the sub-
sidies to Westralia and Tasmania and the
bill for the upkeep of the marble fortress in
London is that they go towards the develop-
ment of 523,000 square miles of land for the
ultimate profit of the Commonwealth, while
the other payments don’t open up even one
rabbit-burrow for the Commonwealth’s bene-
fit. The Territory’s own railway showed a
loss of £58,000 last year, which is moderate
compared with the losses on some other lines
that suffer from the same trouble —that they
are part of an unfinished scheme. The per-
centage of loss on the cost of the line is only
about half that on the Federal capital rail-
way. The Territory was swindled at the
beginning by being debited with the whole
cost of a work which was started under com-
pulsion, partly for commercial purposes and
partly as a defence work in which all Aus-
tralia was interested. It was as much a
fortification as anything else. A Govern-
ment gifted with foresight and a real Aus-
tralian outlook, instead of one put together
on the idea that every State should, if pos-
sible, have a representative, would have paid
the whole bill out of revenue and put an end
to the dreary, unpatriotic diatribes about the
accumulation of interest. A lot of regrets
can be saved by paying the bill out of
revenue instead of keeping the corpse of recol-
lection on the premises. Such a thing was
said, of course, to be impossible as well
as unprecedented. It would have been
unprecedented, certainly, for prevision is re-
garded in Australia as the idea of a crank
and paying off debts as a sin. As for the
other adjective, the direct Federal taxes that
were levied in 1917 would have settled the
bill twice over.
* * * *
The Town Council of Darwin, the only
elective body in the Territory, perspiring in
the lowlands beside the Port, denounces the
present policy as an attempt to settle a
tropical land without tropical labor. City
paners, accustomed to regard Sydney and
Melbourne as the whole of N. S. Wales and
Victoria, naturally think Darwin is the whole
of the Territory, so they echo the gibe.
Yet the Territory isn’t really the most
northern part of Australia- —that ' honor
belongs to Queensland-. It has a bigger area
outside the tropics than Victoria or Tas-
mania—only the railway hasn’t reached that
part yet. it has only a little more tropical
territory than Queensland or Westralia. In
the way of real low-lying country (i.e., hot
country that is practically on the sea-level)
the Territory has less of this drawback than
Queensland, B.A. or N.S.W., but its capital
happens to be in the least temperate spot,
while other capitals are at about the best
spots, and in Australia, as already mentioned,
every State is judged by its capital. Most .of
its tropical area is tableland —some of it
really cool tableland —but the railway hasn’t
climbed there yet. The river system is the
finest in Australia, bar that of Queensland:
and the white population isn’t thin compared
with some parts of the Ma State. Though
the White Elephant stands for more than
one-sixth of the area of Australia, it has
less than one-seventh of the desert — i.e.. the
regions with 10in.br less of rainfall —which
is a much better showing than that of
N. S. Wales, S.A. or Westralia. It is the
fasliion now to say that the Australian
desert really doesn’t exist, but if it doesn’t
the 1.100,000 square miles where the rainfall
varies from nil to lOin. supply a good enough
imitation. The Territory’s second birth —
its birth as a Federal possession—happened
in 1011, and its calamity has been that out
of the seven subsequent years W. M.
Hughes has been either Prime Minister or
second in command for six. He is the sort
of man who would import postholes from
the Dead Sea for use on a new telegraph
line, or appoint a high-salaried inspector of
antheaps if the idea struck him. In the
States, finance is largely under the control
of local Premiers, but in the Territory, in
Papua and at the Federal capital site the
glittering Prime Minister has a free hand
and flourishes hilariously. The Territory’s
brief experience in its new capacity has
been almost entirely in a time of high wages,
high prices, lavish paper money, scarcity of
ships and frenzied finance. But these
things don’t make it any the less a good
and valuable white man’s country.
THE CHANCE WHICH THE HUN
MISSED.
The trades unionists of Australia are making
themselves ridiculous by balloting on a pro-
posal that the Empire should demand peace
with the Hun by negotiation, with no
annexations and no penal indemnities and no
clear statement that there are to be any
other indemnities ( i.e ., payments for damage
to property). Failing that lavish back-
dowm Australia is. to withdraw its support
from the war —its support in men certainly,
and possibly also its support in wheat and
wool and meat and other aids to the carry-
ing on of the war. Right in the midst
of this childish derangement the llun has
taken the matter out of our hands by
announcing the minimum terms on which
he will negotiate. The statement was
made by the mouth of a Cabinet Minister, so
it is authentic. The Hun is to retire out
of Belgium, which he will probably have to
do in any case; but he is to pay nothing for
damage done, which damage includes not
only the destruction of people and houses
and churches and public buildings and mines,
but the destruction or removal of almost
every scrap of machinery—the taking away
from a manufacturing nation of its tools of
trade. Belgium is to be declared neutral
as it was before, and the Germans will re-
spect its neutrality this time, as they did
last time, till it suits them to do otherwise.
The Allies are to respect the neutrality so
strictly that they are not to follow the Huns
across Belgium, and so the most vulnerable
section of the Huh frontier is to be secured
against invasion. Belgium is to use its
influence with the Allies to secure the re-
turn of the Hun colonies—this in common
gratitude for the restoration of its inde-
pendence, and a guarantee against the pos
sible ferocity of British, French, Austra-
lians, Americans, etc. Germany is to forego
all indemnities, and the territory of all
belligerents is to be restored. Russia and
Roumania being no longer belligerents, the
arrangements made with them are to stand.
By these arrangements Germany secures about
1,800,000 square miles of Russian territory
and possession of Roumania in all but name.
Australia is invited to-day, by the pro-Huns
who run Political Labor, to decide on a
withdrawal from the war unless Britain asks
for terms of peace from the people who have
already stated their terms as above specified.
It is notable that the Minister who stated
these terms is a prominent member of the
German peace party admitted to the Cabinet
as a counter-balance to the war party, which
probably considers the terms absurdly mod-
erate. As a side-issue or postcript the
peace terms are to'include “Freedom of the
Seas,” which has been specified by the Hun
as the abandonment of those naval posts
like Cyprus, Gibraltar, Hong Kong and
Aden, which command important sea routes
and make a chain of defence for outlying
places like Australia. The Hun emphasised
his peaceful views by sinking another big
passenger ship with even more loss of life
than usual.
The Hun, with defeat becoming more
probable every day, offers all this, apparently
in good faith, as the irreducible minimum
which the gods, even in temporary eclipse,
can be expected to grant to mere men —or
mere cattle. For they are all gods; the
KHTser is possible only because he is at the
worst an exaggerated sample of his race.
What the terms would have been if the Hun
had been flushed with success can be
guessed. It can also be guessed what they
will be next time, - with wounded vanity
gnawing at the national soul ; for the
Kaiser and the Australian Political Labor
League evidently look forward to a next
time, and they demand that Germany, even
if defeated, shall be left stronger in propor-
tion to the forces of its opponents than it
was in 1914, so that next time may be a
sure thing. It is almost hair-raising to
consider how splendid the German chances
were at the beginning of the present war.
and how only enormous arrogance led Ger-
many to throw the opportunity away. It
is merely necessary to look back on Bis-
marck’s methods to understand what might
have been. His policy of expansion began
in real earnest in 1864. Germany—not
Prussia, but the mixture of States repre-
sented by the Diet—had a claim on the
duchies which a Danish royal family, ex-
tinct in 1863, had held not as Danish kings
but in their other capacity as'German dukes.
Germany, owing to_ 1000 years of mixed
history and tradition, has a sort of legal
claim to almost every place, including Bel-
gium, Holland, England, Scotland (at least
south of the Forth) and Italy. The
property was seized on behalf of the more
or less rightful heir, the Duke of Augusten-
burg, but the poor, disappointed creature
never got a look in. Prussia, as the man
in possession, secured, by this and later
aggressions, some fine harbors, a good stretch
of coast, the mouth of a great river, and the
chance to create the Kiel Canal, so that its
outlet to the sea should no longer be through
narrow waters commanded by foreign guns.
The war with Austria in 1866 did little
immediate or visible damage to Austria,
which gave up hardly anything save the
right of its German provinces to be con-
sidered part of Germany. It didn't seem
much, still it meant that when the time came
to revive the empire there would be only
two possible candidates for the imperial
crown —the kings of Prussia and Bavaria.
Austria, the seat of the old German em-
perors from time almost immemorial, was
disqualified. The small States which stood
by Austria were annexed or dismembered
wholesale. Of those which partly survived
a dozen or more were surrounded in a
humorous fashion by Prussian territory.
Brunswick was left with five isolated frag-
ments, each surrounded by Prussian terri-
tory, and a rich man whose infuriated hut
confused patriot father had made his for-
tune conditional on his never setting foot
on the hated Prussian soil has been
marooned all his life on one of the smallest
of the fragments. Five or six other States
were similarly scattered, and their letters,
telegrams and provisions were liable to he
cut off in case of disagreement with the
surrounding boss State. They can be found
like this on the map to-day. Then came
the war with France, which grew imper-
ceptibly out of the proposal to put a Prus-
sian prince on the Spanish throne, so that
France would have a Hun on each side. The
small States followed Prussia almost by
compulsion. And with their armies prac-
tically surrounded on French soil by their
Prussian allies, and some of them even
under Prussian command, and many of their
princes there along with their armies, the
new empire was created and the new order
of things began.
* " * * *
One can imagine how the war of 11)14
might have gone if Bismarck, the empire-
builder, instead of William, who thought
he was Gott, had been at the helm. Britain
had no idea of taking an interest in Servian
complications nor in Russian complications.
In fact it had apparently no positive idea
of taking a hand in any complications so
long as Holland, Belgium and the French
Channel ports were untouched —in other
words, so long as the greatest military and
second-greatest naval Power in the world
didn’t establish its aggressive carcase within
gunshot of British shores. Bismarck
would probably have promised everything
and contented himself with the old, short
road to Paris through Lorraine, used in
1814 and 1870, instead of taking the flam-
boyant way through Lorraine and Belgium
simultaneously, on the chance that Britain
might not be serious. There was always
Switzerland to violate if another road was
required, and no Swiss ports threatened
Britain, nor was the place an ancient ally.
When Russia and France ivere disposed of,
which could probably have been done before
there was time for a great revulsion of feel-
ing, Britain, if it did come in. would
have two Allies the less. Then it
would have been time enough to break the
news that the surrender of the French
and Russian fleets and the Channel ports
were among the terms of peace. There
would with luck and good management have
been an unencumbered army and a greatly
increased fleet and a strong sea-coast posi-
tion with which to hold the fort against
J. Bull solus. Russia, by large promises
and intense politeness, might even have been
induced to bear a hand against the one-time
old friend who hadn’t helped promptly in
the hour of need. As for the United States,
Bismarck, instead of sinking its peaceful
ships and drowning its peaceful passengers,
would have done what interference was
necessary for cutting off Britain’s supplies
with the courtesy of a long-lost brother. If
he Succeeded in his duel with isolated
Britain (and incidentally annexed Austra-
lia), lie might have been quite as unscrupu-
lous towards it and towards Italy and
towards defeated Russia as William could
possibly be. But he never was wantonly
uncivil to two big nations at once, let alone
to six great Powers —reckoning' in Japan and
the U.S. —at the same time.
Supposing the present war or series of
wars had been conducted on the policy which
guided Prussia between 1863 and 1870, it
must be admitted that success was possible.
It might even be said that it was highly
probable. And if Hunland can get out of
its present difficulty no more weakened—or
rather less weakened—than its opponents, and
with its 'system of military and autocratic
government unshaken, success next time is
possible—or even highly probable. Only
unparalleled arrogance, brutality and self-
confidence brought the great scheme to con-
fusion this time. Next time all these quali-
ties will still be there —they always have
been there —but they may be concealed.
For four years past the insolence and fren-
zied ambition of the Hun have roared in the
face of Heaven. In Bismarck’s time they
never roared for the mere fun of the thing
till victory was assured.
THE ORGANISER.
W. M. Hughes is in a twilight stage just
now. In a speech at Manchester, when the
flow of oratory had gone to his head, lie was
a strenuous Protectionist. In a calmer
moment, when he was writing, instead of
pouring forth oratory, he hedged saying: “I
do not pin my faith to tariffs but to organi-
sation.” That was more like the real
Hughes. A well-devised tariff gives industry
a chance to grow under the direction of
thousands of “experts” who have to fail at
their own cost if they fail at all, and when
the State has done its share of the business
by providing for fair wages and conditions
and guarding against the growth of dangerous
monopolies, things often go very well.
Organisation, as Hughes understands it, is
a buzzing, ill-formed barrister with a flow of
words and a majority setting out to super-
vise weaving, spinning, iron, steel, the rais-
ing of beets, boats and hobnailed boots, pearl-
diving, the making of chains and cathedrals;
and the same individual, sitting up late over
details, increasing Bill’s wages at Thursday
Island, deciding Tim’s grievance at Fre-
mantle —always hot, always overworked,
always a victim in his country’s service,
always buzzing with a great blue-bottle buzz.
Any industry that Hughes organises is just
about doomed.
.» * * *
The Commonwealth Bank is a great
success because the foundations of it


were laid - by a 4***der who was calmer tha
Hughes and didn’t buzz so much, and the de-
tails of organisation and the management
were entrusted, not to a barrister wit ll
small practice and a majority and a gallon or
hot air, but to a banker who knew the woik
and had no majority. The railways are a
partial success because the management,
which is half the business, was entrusted to
experts; and they are a partial failure be-
cause construction, which is the other halt,
is run on political lines. But the Common-
wealth Bank had a monopoly of the Govern-
ment business to give it a start, and the rail-
ways have almost a monopoly of the land-
carrying business. Also Hughes lmsn i
much to do with the railways, and the tour
systems (about 1700 miles) with which he
has to do are all worked at a loss. Certainly
the Port Augusta-Darwin line can’t be ex-
pected to pay till it is completed, and the
transcontinental is as much a defence work
as a commerical proposition and runs through
a region which has always been empty. But
that the Federal capital line —the one that
b ads to the metropolis of a continent in an
old, settled district and which is a Hughes
Government work from first to last —should
show the very biggest percentage of loss is a
disgrace.
* * * *
The fact which tlfe Prime Wander-
ing Minister seems unable to realise is that
tin first essential is to have industries to
organise, and we have hardly any except
wheat, wool, meat and mining. He has tried to
organise the wheat export, and failed miser-
ably because it took him a dreadfully long
time to understand that plenty of ships are
the first essentials of export, and so his
whole transaction became bogged. Other or-
ganisations such as meat became bogged for
the same reason. He hasn’t organised mines
yet., but if he does the worst may be looked
for. As for creating new industries, his reg-
ular method is to establish departments in
big cities, and appoint big staffs of big-
salaried officers to inquire and advise. He
hasn't created or organised anything except
big departments. The difference between
him and B iG.ro ux Forrest is that when
Forrest got an exploring job in the spacious
da.ys lie bought a smellful camel and went
right out into the wilderness. Hughes, in like
circumstances, would probably hire and fur-
nish a suite of marble halls and explore in
an easy chair from 10 to 4. The reasonable
policy is to give industries the chance to start
by means of a solid Protectionist tariff and
any other assistance that seems necessary —
a. thousand industries that are wanted, in-
cluding 900 that Hughes probably never
heard of. Thus every expert would have a
show; likewise everybody who thought lie
was an expert and was liable to find out his
mistake at his own cost —not at the cost of
the public revenue. Then there being some-
thing to organise, the process of organisation
would be due. But there should be someone
more qualified than a fussy excitable barris-
ter, with a very moderate reputation even
in his own specialty of the law, to decide
when interference was required. Otherwise
there might be a lot of disastrous interference
merely because the fussy one can’t keep Still
and has got into the habit of being a univer-
sal genius and a lavish provider of inspec-
torial billets for political friends who miarlit
otherwise be short of sustenance. And the
actual organising should be entrusted to
somebody who has successfully organised
more than expensive departments and a
costly trip to Europe with imperial pomp,
ceremony, retinue and other unredeemable
assets.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
About Dirt—which Has Been Defined
as Matter in the Wrong Tlace.
Dear Bulletin, —There are all sorts of
shirkers in this war. There is the young
Australian who is at home because he doesn’t
want to risk his life ; but who, his country
having declared against Conscription, is
within his legal rights in shirking. There
is the Sinn Fein shirker and the I.WAV.
war-starter, fools and nuisances, but under-
standable, . even more or less consistent,
calamities. They always have been rebels and
upholders of the minority side; and it is too
late for them to change. And then there is
the “lead-swinger” in uniform, the man who
has edged into a job in a pay-office in
France, or become an equipment officer in
the flying corps, or got a commission in the
K,T. service, or wrangled his way back to
England, an M.B.E. All of these we know
and understand. But there are two vari-
eties of the breed that bear the mark of the
Beast; two classes that are execrated of all,
pre-eminent in degradation—the young Aus-
tralian in Ireland and the young Englishman
in Australia. For years one could not write
or speak of syphilis. It is still contrary to
convention to mention certain of life’s loath
somenesses. In that spirit people avoid the
subject of the A.I.F. deserter in Ireland. Why?
He is a necessary evil, and nothing is to be
gained by treating him as if he didn’t exist.
It is the scum of the A.I.F. that is skulking
on the other side of the Irish Channel, the
men who either never meant to fight or who,
having had a taste of fighting, came to the
conclusion that it was not meant for them.
Ireland’s misfortune in absorbing them is
(he Australian army’s great gain—in effici-
ency, discipline, courage, good repute and
every other thing that an army prizes.
Nobody in the army wants them back, even if
they could be got back in a legal manner,
which they can’t. But every self-respecting
soldier is anxious that their position should
be regularised, so to speak, and soon. Is
Australia going to own them after the war?
Are they to enjoy citizen rights in the Com-
monwealth again, and walk about as free
men in the country whose good name they
have polluted? At a casual glance the Eng-
lish shirker in Australia may seem less
poisonous than the Australian shirker in
Ireland. On examination he turns out to be
a great deal worse. The A.I.F. deserter lias,
anyhow, tried, in most cases. There is a
type of unhappy man who can’t stand the
strain of modern warfare. He feels he must
get out of it or go mad. It is certain that
a reasonable proportion of our deserters be-
long to this class. And, however great then-
crimes may be, they are suffering for it—in
bodily privation or mental torture, or both.
The Englishman in Australia is not suffering
at all. On the contrary, he is on a remark-
ably good wicket. He is earning as much as
ever he did; in many cases, more. He is
living ten times better, as regards food, than
the richest duke in his own country. His
contemporaries in France and elsewhere are
facing death or mutilation every hour of their
lives: the biggest risk he runs is such as
is incurred on a trip to Manly Beach or a
drive to Caulfield races. The young man in
question belongs, usually, to about the most
objectionable and useless class that Australia
imports from England. He is neither a pro-
ductive British working-man nor a Briton of
the cultivated sort. He went to Australia
before the war as heeler to some importing
firm or other; or he lives on “agencies” : or
he is a wool-buyer. The number of English
wool-buyers and English indent-agents who
have had the effrontery to hang on in Aus-
tralia. through Mons, the Peninsula, Ypres
and the Somme, and who are still lurking
l.(i e, ignobly unresponsive, is a matter for
dumb wonder. What is to be done about
them? It will be conceded by every decent
citizen that it is in the public interest that
they should be got out of the Commonwealth.
Amongst many of those who know they are
Englishmen they discredit England and bring
scorn on (ill Englishmen—most peonle twin"'
accustomed to generalise from individual
oases. In the eyes of others they are “Aus-
tralian shirkers.” They are a humiliation to
such friends as they have: and —if they were
normal —they would be a standing offence to
themselves. But they are not normal. They
possess a skunk-like inability to appreciate
their own noisomeness. And they are encour-
aged in it by those who employ them or trade
with them. The head of a big woolbuying
or importing firm may be fulsomely patriotic
ia liis club. He is insistent on the point that
the mere Australian should enlist; but he
doesn’t care what the specialist from Eng-
land does, so long as there is a profit to be
made out of him. Far from the Englishman
of this type being encouraged to do ins duty
he. is. in fact, heavily subsidised to continue
an existence which, in all the circumstances,
may be termed quasi-criminal. If the appeal
that issues from the rivers of blood shed by
the flower of Britain over here, and in other
parts of the world, does not touch the affluent
English shirker in Australia (and the experi-
ence of the past four years has shown that
it does notE then he should be talked to from
a different standpoint. The platform and
newspaper appeals of the recruiters should
be made, not to the actual shirker, but to the
men or firms who are making it worth his
while to shirk. After a specified date they
should understand that any person who pays
a salary and a commission to a Britisher oi
lighting age who is tit (which is to say, wno
has not been rejected by a Military Board
will be named. The effect will be remark-
able ; and, even if the outcome in fighting
material is poor, the change will clear the
air, and remove* a lot of undesirable bitter-
ness in Britain and at home. —Yours, Tillers
Breton neux.
Another Scheme for an Honors Flag.
“Moutere” : Suburb against suburb and
city against city, the sporting instinct of the
community has been tolerably roused over
the seventh war-loan. Commonwealth debt
is being popularised, exactly as the astute
old Athenians in the days of Sophocles
popularised the Greek drama, by making it
competitive and introducing the exciting-
elements of the race or fight. But the per-
son who was wise to these tilings when
Pericles was Prime Minister of Attica
would never have neglected the spot where
ithe feeling of sport was strongest and the
generous heart got its largest expansion.
What’s wrong with the pub as an agent for
collecting the cash to break the Kaiser? The
people who breast the bar pay with every
bubble on the wine cup a higher tax than
the Federal authorities dare to put on any
other commodity, and pay it with a good
heart and laughter. There is no hint of
grouch in the great national chorus of “Good
Luck !” It is the one phrase in the Austra-
lian language that was never spoken with a
tear and that carries every ray of the
Golden Rule in its mellow cadence. Let the
crystal pagodas loose on the war-loan ! Be-
hind the bars are bright damsels of shining
leeks and unquestioned business capacity.
Let them have special war-loan stamps to
sell when the hearts are wide and patriotism
is in flood; and the results will astonish
even the statistician who measures with a
banking vard-stick the depth of the public
trousers pocket. There are llebes who pull
daintilv on the beer-pump and coax whisky,
into a tumbler who would draw gold from
veins of humanity which no spruiker on a
public platform would regard as worth halt
a grain to the ton. Bung has had a lot of rocks
unfairly hurled at him ; and some of his trade
has been cut off: in the name of patriotism.
Give him a show to prove the national good-
will that moves close to a clinking glass.
And let the so-called temperance organisa-
tions come up to the scratch and fairly try for
an honors flag against the tavern. Bung
has saved them so much in taxation in the
past that they ought, to be ready to respond
l;o the challenge. On a count of heads at
the licensing polls they have all but proved
their numerical equality. The test of
patriotism would therefore be a perfectly
fair one and one which every anti-liquor
man ought to Avelcome with a splendid
Hallelujah. The whole argument about the
economy of remaining thirsty would thus be
properly tested; the exact cash value of
anti-liquor patriotism would be known; and
the general public would get a far better
entertainment than that provided by the
triennial dog-fight over Local Option. Some
how, when I think of Hebe’s smile and con-
trast the sort of people who go into pubs
with the sort who stay outside, I should
have little doubt about the result. Brewery
cheques wouldn’t weigh in the contest. _ It
would be a fair and reasonable patriotic
test between the people who shout for
each other and the people who don’t shout for
each other: and when it was over I know
which side would have given the Kaiser the
hardest knock.
-
The Policy of Missing, the ’Bus.
S. M. Herald woke up the other morning
with a startling discovery that it was about
time the Federal Government began to seri-
ously consider the facts incidental to the
establishment of wool-carbonising works. It
happens, of course, that the Federal Govern-
ment was long ago given the same informa-
tion. The Bulletin has frequently
remarked that in wool carbonising Australia
has the opportunity for contributing in a
practical way to the programme of increased
production the politicians and others are so
fond of talking about. Wool carbonising
consists of removing the burrs that cling to
the jumbuck’s waistcoat. It is a simple
business and a profitable one. Before the
war it was one of Belgium’s specialties. The
Belgian found employment and dividends for
himself in buying burry Australian wool and
selling the cleaned product to British and
other manufacturers. What he did was
merely to take advantage of a thick-headed
local apathy, appropriate what was really
an Australian industry to himself, and amass
the profits. If Australians had tidied iv>
the wool themselves they would have earned
a bigger revenue from it and provided them-
selves with a reproductive job, instead of leav-
ing the money and the job to be picked up
by other people while the local politician
went a-borrowing funds to provide other jobs
at ruinous expense to everybody concerned.
About 200,000 bales of burry wool are pro-
duced annually in Australia. Most of it is
harvested in N. S. Wales. The lower price
it realises in comparison with wool not
afflicted with vegetables is the measure
of what Australia loses by exporting it un-
cleaned. There is only one explanation of
this carbonising process being one of Aus-
tralia’s omitted industries, and that is the
prevalence of the “raw material” doctrine,
which teaches that the rawer the stuff sent
away the better. Now, with the compli-
cations caused by the war and vast masses
of burrs and wool piled no on the premises,
there is no explanation of the apparent de-
termination to continue the shirk —unless it
may be that persistence in doing nothing at
one place gives an opening for loud talk
about something else at another. The ques-
tion of machinery is not involved. The
necessary plant can be made in the Com-
monwealth. Supplies of sulphuric acid are
easily available. Freights and shipping space
can be saved by doing the work where it
ought to be done. A considerable field of
employment could be opened up. The in-
dustry would be permanent. The yarn that,
as the wool is the property of the British
Government, the burrs are no concern of Aus-
tralians is not entitled to serious considera-
tion. John Bull does not want, burrs.
Even if be did it would be foolishness for
Australia to Satisfy him. To go on piling
up mountains of uncarbonised wool to our
own loss, and deny Australian growers and
wool-workers the advantages derivable from
a new industry, is in the circumstances worse
than foolish. It is maniacal.
Another Brew in Maoriland.
So far as can be judged at a distance there
seems to be some sort of an understanding
between the Maoriland limejuicer and Bung
to approach the job of discovering a "definite
solution of the liquor traffic’/ over yonder,
upon the preliminary basis of compensation
to the trade. Hitherto the issue has been
Cold Water v. Beer, without compensation to
the pump merchants. The suggestion has been
made that this should be changed to the same
alternatives, with the reservation that if pro-
hibition be carried Bung shall be bought out
instead of being merely thrown off the
premises. Naturally enough such a reser-
vation would disarm him of many of his
arguments against prohibition and possibly
put him in the position of battling for what
he had previously fought against with
fury. But the proposal is one which
leaves out of consideration all that
body of opinion which objects to being pinned
down to a choice between I’. Enterprise at
the beer-pump, and the cold-water crowd —
the section of the community which dislikes
one as much as. the other, and suggests that
in this booze controversy it is as much en-
titled to a hearing as those who want
cash to get out, and those who want
tea. The individual standing between tin 1
two extremists is now raising his voice and
demanding that he shall be given opportunity
to cast an intelligent vote at the referendum,
and his case boils down to a proposal that
the voting should be on these issues—
Continuance,
Prohibition,
National ownership,
with determination by a bare majority on
any issue, voting to he restricted to one issue
only. Well, there is a string to that, just
as there is to'the water and beer poll,
because on a three-cornered light at a ballot-
box on sudden-death principles, it is possible
for a minority to be a majority. Thus, if
2794 people voted prohibition, 2040 continu-
ance and 2574 national ownership, the water-
waggon would win the race, 2794 consoVidated
voters voting down 5214 who had b < n broken
into sections. And taking the probabilities into
consideration, it is more than likely that
this is what would happen. On a close
vote taken under such a system Parliament
would find itself tied up in a knot and no
nearer a solution than before. There are
two ways out. One is to take a vote on
National Ownership v. P. Enterprise, and
then another between the winner and Prohi-
bition. The other is to take the three-issue
vote. on the proportional basis, giving each
citizen a single transferable vote, to be used
in order of preference. To go on the way
proposed is to invite tenders for trouble. To
confine the issue to beer or limejuice is to
get a verdict in which the opinion of the
jury is distorted in the same way as it would
be at a murder trial if the 12 men in the
box were unable to say, if they wanted to,
that it was a case of manslaughter.
Treating the Local Enemy Tenderly.
“E.F.” : Wiiat hurts me most in these ever-
recurring recruiting campaigns is the fact
that they are, in a measure, costly attempts
by the Commonwealth Government to
rectify a mistake which it made in
the first place, and continues, to make.
A recruiter’s job is to infuse into _ the
mind of slackers and enemy sympathisers
antidotes to a poisoned spirit. Now, who
has poisoned the spirit of these people?
Mostly Germans or other' unfriendly aliens,
who should have been interned to keep them
out of mischief, but were graciously per-
mitted to go into pleasant exile a certain
number of miles beyond the metropolitan
radius. Some have the run of the whole of
a State outside a 20-miles radius of its
G.P.O. Others mustn’t live within 100 miles
of the capital where they were known to have
been actively pro-German or definitely anti-
British (if any distinction between the two
sorts of enemies be recognised). The result
is that the doctrines of Boloism, Bolshevik-
ism, defeatism, pacifism-at-any-price and
plain unvarnished treason have been spread
in rural districts where there is least general
information about the why and wherefore of
the war, the atrocities of the Iluns. or the
position in which Australia would stand if a
German peace were imposed upon the Allies.
In most holiday resorts throughout Australia
the exiled enemies of recruiting are spread-
ing their influence. It is as though the
Government had sent them to spread anti-
national sentiments among the ill-informed,
before spending thousands in organised
endeavor to counteract the mischief. The
Government is incorrigibly persistent in
this fatuous policy. A few weeks ago it
arrived at the same conclusion that a number
of observant citizens had arrived at long
previously concerning a certain German shop
in one of the capital cities. This place had
been a rendezvous for all the disaffected old
Fritzes and professional rebels of the local
community. What time things were going
apparently well with the Hun armies the
shop was full of sounds of jubilation. The pro-
prietor celebrated every sinking of a passen-
ger steamer, and the two defeats of conscrip-
tion were occasions for all round rejoicing on
the premises. So at last the evil influence
was ordered to clear out of his shop, and go
—somewhere a 100 miles away. Ilis scan-
dalous disloyalty to the Government of the
country where he had flourished for 40 years
was now considered to be beyond a joke, but
because he was a Hun of such long standing
the authorities allowed him to'go and do his
worst in a provincial town, instead of putting
him behind barbed wire.
-<►
Work for Soldiers.
“0.K.” : At last meeting of the l ie. Council
of the Australian Protectionists’ Association
the chairman touched upon the question of
new industries for returned soldiers. From
the point of view of established manufac-
turers. whose interest in the community
radiates .from their own personal concerns,
the Repatriation Department is merely
fiddling with the question. Soldiers have
Peace Proposals.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now, when our war machine has broken
down,
And the sure licking waits for us and ours,
When we have ruined all our old renown,
Murdered our people, wasted all our poweis,
Let the strife pause and all the thunders
cease —
We hate rude war and are in love with
peace.
We said that war was war four years ago.
Nothing must stay our march of splendid
pride.
We slew and tortured; and the children
know
In shuddering dreams of that red battle tide
Which sought to flood the world in its vast
sweep
With tears of blood the broken lands must
weep.
We said that war was war; but we had steel
To guard our own and murder at our will.
It was the other peoples who must feel
The horror of the beast made strong to kill.
For them the shame; for us the triumph
sure.
We guessed not what the old earth could
endure.
Weakly in arms, but mighty in their right,
They stood, they suffered and they broke our
blade. , ,
A thousand treasons could not blast nor blight
The stalwart strength of that defence they
made.
Eager for conquest still, with strode on
stroke
We thrust against their line* that never
broke '
At last we felt our power begin to fail
And wildly hurled our still remaining weight,
Backed with a murderous and destroying
gale
Of poison shells against their guarded gate.
A moment from our mad assault they reeled,
Then turned and drove us backward from
the field.
Now, loaded with four years of infamy.
With blood of innocents besprinkled rod.
We hear the foeinan shouting victory
Above the graves of our dishonored dead.
T’" time has come when war at last should
cease.
Holding our plunder, let us sue for peace.
The proposition is a simple one.
If as a nation, we got all our due
We all should have our places in the sun,
High up for all the future world to view.
For simple justice, as our sages taught,
Would hang us all for crimes our hands have
wrought.
Foil: hanging is unpleasant, as we know.
We touch our necks where soon the rope
should be.
Oh. let us “kamerad” our kindly foe
And ask for such a peace as leaves us free
To start again the bloodshed and the crime
With better hope to win another time.
But if he will not listen ; if his guns
And thunderous battalions keep the field V
Well, after just a few more backward runs,
We shall throw up our weary arms and yield
And eat plain dirt and bow and humbly own
Ourselves the best-whipped curs the world
has known.
FRITZ VON LICKTMAN.


"■
SSK
f THE PREMIER HOTEL IN THE COMMONWEALTH
THE RENDEZVOUS OF THE ELITE.
ENTERTAIN YOUR FRIENDS
IN THE WINTER GARDEN at
Morning Tea, Afternoon Tea or
Theatre Supper—Strawberries and
Cream, Fruit Salads, Ices, Delect-
able Confections and Cool Drinks to
your fancy.
IN THE DINING HALE, A LA
CARTE ROOMS or PRIVATE
ROOMS at Luncheon, Dinner or
Supper. Latest Music.
Say or 'Phone Your Requirements,
and our Experts do the rest.
The Manager.
hf
gh
Ear
been encouraged to learn small hand indus-
tries, weaving, toy-making, etc., which are
doomed to die as soon as the war is over,
when “they will be up against foreign com-
petition, and merchants will not be able to
give them preference,” because the politicians
are winning the war at great expense
for gas instead of turning up their sleeves
and building a Protective tariif wall. That’s
how the case presents itself. One of the
suggestions before the Council was that the
money now being “squandered” by the Re-
patriation Department could be “better spent
in encouraging manufacturers to extend
their present factories and in the establish-
ment. of new industries.” Another proposal
was that “the Government should subsidise
certain large factories and place returned
soldiers in them.” In fact, all repatriation
effort, as far as the Vic. Council of the
A..P.A. can approve of it, must be devoted
to the assistance of vested interests in the
manufacturing way. The possibility of
great industries growing out of the small
beginnings that repatriated soldiers are
making is not admitted by the A.P.A. Yet
there is surely the chance of a bright future
for homespun tweed, say. Why is the
teaching of hand-weaving “utterly futile,”
as has been expressed? Then, as re-
gards toys. Considering the extravagant
prices paid for inferior imported stuff
during the war years, the tariff could surely
provide adequate Protection for local handi-
craft. The manufacture of pipes from Aus-
tralian briar, cherrywood, etc., is also an in-
dustry which might well be established as a
Government monopoly, and which would be
a veritable labor of love to the repatriated
Billjims. Apparently the Vic. Council of
the Australian Protectionists’ Association is
a concern run by manufacturers and mer-
chants who want the handling of all the
labor obtainable from repatriated soldiers,
whereas the interests of the public would be
best served by the establishment of entirely
new industries on a firm Protective basis
and a co-operative system.
♦
Our Alleged Millionaires.
“Henky Horsecollar” pursues the subject
further:—•
“Trot,” dealing with Australian and United States
income taxes, misses a good part of the point—if you
can miss part of a point. He puts it this way ;—■
United States. Australian
Income. Tax. Tax.
£5OO . . £6 £l2 13 10
1,000 . . SO 35 8 0
2,000 . . 109 109 7 0
10,000 . . 2499 1917 0 0
And he might have added that the United person
provides for incomes of £50,000. £lOO,OOO, £200,000
(this kind pays £139,000 in tax) and still bigger
ones. He saj's “the Yank takes to the big man with
both hands first. In Australia the little chap is
reached for first.”
Well, this country goes for “the little chap”
because there is no big chap in the United States sense
to go for. We have no railway or telegraph or tele-
phone magnates here, because the railways, etc.,
belong to mostly-foreign money-lenders ; no shipping
magnates, because we trade mostly by the aid of
foreign ships largely manned by niggers; no oil
magnates, because we import practically all our oil;
no steel millionaires, unless one company that is just
starting the business can be called such, and it isn’t
much of a millionaire and its shares are largely
owned abroach Most of our steel comes from abroad.
We haven’t even coal or wool millionaires that we
know of. The Federal income-tax returns (latest
analysis published by Statistician Knibbs) showed
that out of over £240,000,000 of incomes discovered
(and it is fairly safe to assume that the biggest ones
were discovered, they being too conspicuous to be
missed), only £7,950,244 consisted of incomes of
£5OOO and over, and these belonged to 832 people—
an average of £9563 apiece. All the incomes above
£2OOO amounted (the last time Knibbs published his
analysis, which was in 1915) to £17,430,321 divided
as follows :—•
Average
Persons. Income.
Between £2OOO and £3000.. 2024 £2431
„ 3000 and 4000.. 761 3429
4000 and 5000.. 433 4489
Over 5000 . . 832 9563
Judged by the latest income-tax yields the figures
haven’t altered much since 1915. The latest complete
figures available showed that the Commonwealth
collected in one year £7,987,121 in income tax and
war-profits tax, which more than equalled the whole
of the incomes above £5OOO. The States collected
£3,762,105 as income tax (these are the latest com-
plete returns of Knibbs’s that I can find —they are
for 1916, and the figures have greatly increased
since). That made £11,749,226, and if the tax had
been concentrated on incomes above £3OOO it would
almost have absorbed the lot. Your correspondent
“Trot” omits to mention that the State Governments
in the United States don’t levy income tax like our
State Governments. Also, there are two land taxes
here —State and Federal. In the U.S. the land tax
is, or was till the other day, a purely State impost.
So this country pays four taxes where the U.S. pays
two.
The war-profits tax falls almost entirely on big
incomes, and runs as high as 75 per cent. That
alters “Trot’s” figures a little.
To put it shortly, the reason why Australia doesn’t
concentrate its attention on the man with the very
big income, as the U.S. does, is that he doesn’t
exist. The breaking of the land-boom at the end
of last century wiped out a lot of such men, but
their incomes were only paper frauds at best. The
gold millionaires are dead. Graduated land taxes,
income taxes, heavy probate duties, resumptions for
closer settlement and other valuable devices have
tended for a long time towards the diffusion of
wealth. The big incomes which strike the eye are
those of the A.M.P. Society, National Mutual Life
Society, Commonwealth Bank, Bank of N. S. Wales,
the combined trades unions, the Sydney University,
and a lot of co-operative enterprises ; but their money
is the property of thousands of members, while the
Tax Department only deals with the wealth of
members individually.
The importing policy, which makes big industries
impossible, also makes big fortunes practically im-
possible. If a man or a company is seen starting a
big industry the tendency of a large class is to kill
ic right off and prevent the people getting work,
even if it is making its money at the expense of
foreigners and spending it here. This is done lest
it should lead to monopoly. Thus a wool company
which was making about £90,000 a year by export-
ing wool-tops and paying two-thirds of it to the
Government fell under suspicion, and finally shut
up amid a cloud of difficulties. The imaginary
millionaire is an asset for the kind of politician who
makes a living by being down-trodden on paper—
the one who wants the Australian people to rise
against the privileged class because there is a
privileged class in Russia; and to regard the cadets
as a public danger, because there is militarism in
Germany; and to demand their political rights, be-
cause there isn’t one-adult-one-vote in Austria; and
to abolish the Australian millionaire, because they
have read about Rockefeller and Standard Oil;
and to consider the starving Australian poor, because
they have read of short rations in Belgium ; and to
suppress the “profiteers” who corner wheat as is
done at Chicago in books, when the country would
be glad to find anybody who would buy up and
pay for a whole year’s crop and make a corner of it,
or an angle, or even a hexagon. The importing
habit is so bad that Australia even imports grievances,
or it manufactures them out of imported materials.
They are among the few things it does manufacture.
Australia pays more to non-productive revolutionaries
who denounce millionaires than to millionaires them-
selves.
The 4050 persons receiving £2OOO or more per
annum don’t all get their incomes from property.
Some of them get nothing from property, but are
just precarious wage-earners of unusual ability or
industry or luck. These include seven Governors,
20 or 27 Judges, a smattering of clerics, a fair
number of managers of big banks and insurance
offices, four railway commissioners, the managers
of a number of big mines, mercantile concerns and
shipping companies, a fairly large number of barris-
ters and solicitors, a few doctors, a great many
business men with connections of a personal nature —
sharebrokers, property-dealers and miscellaneous folk
who don’t require much capital but a great deal of
hustle; some bookmakers, and those variable or
speculative people who break into the high-income
category once in a lifetime through a gold-find, a
Tatt.’s ticket or the like. Such people, if they lack
the saving instinct, are liable to drop into the
poverty-stricken class like any other workers, should
they lose their earning capacity through accident,
disease, or being found out, and they aren't capital-
ists —only bubbles.
•*— —■ ———*
In the Holy Land and Elsewhere.
The most important war news of the
moment reads like an up-to-date chapter of
the Old Testament. Anyway it is all about
sensational happenings on the Plain of
Esdraelon and the mountains of Samaria
and over against the Jordan, even unto
Mesadieh and Armageddon. The short
story appears to be that after the Turkish
position from Rafat to Jerusalem had been
breached by infantry, large bodies of cavalry
were poured through the orifice and broke
Jacko the Turk. Further up on the coast
beyond Jaffa, round the corner, so to speak,
more cavalry outflanked him and cut through
his lines of communication. The rest re-
ports the taking of masses of prisoners*
disorganisation and panic amongst the
stricken enemy on the bolt, and the possi-
bility of the Turk being down and out alto-
gether. It was nearly time something
cheering began to happen in that war zone,
where the proceedings have generally ap-
peared rather pointless, not to say exasperat-
ing, for a long while. The victory for the
Allies appears, to have been complete, and
if it induces the Damned to retire to his
harem and seriously think of his position
the results ought to be satisfactory—except,
of course, to himself and his model, the
Hun. With the Turk being walloped and
Bulgar maltreated, and Ludendorff's army
badly mauled and the Russian revolution
boiling over next door, the German has got
quite a lot to sustain his interest in the
passing hour. On the Western Front the
Allies are closing in on the Hindenburg
line along almost its entire length. At the
lower extremity and up north towards Cam-
brai, Australian and British troops are
already well inside the outer line of fortifi-
cations. The old method of settling down
having become unfashionable, there seems
no reason to suppose that the enemy will be
allowed to try the rest cure. It remains
to be seen whether improved methods and
more purposeful enterprise will induce the
German to still further efface himself.
There is a good month for experiment, at
any rate. Meanwhile, the bait the. Austrian
went a-fishing with for peace the other day
has been disrespectfully refused. Neither
the Kaiser nor his marionette at Vienna
expected anything else. But they will try
again with something else on the hook. In
the interval it is worth noticing that the
German has not yet made any direct pro-
posals of peace to the Allies. Until he does
there is nothing else to do than to pursue
the argument with a bayonet.
The Threats of Wilhelm.
“Fax” : A booklet boupd to sell like hot
cakes one of these days will be compiled from
a collection of the Kaiser’s authenticated
utterances during the five years before the
war and the five years afterwards. It will
have to be divided under various headings
beginning with threats —threats of what
might, could and would be if Germany drew
its gleaming sword from the blessed scab-
bard. Threats of what was about to be when
that much-talked-of weapon teas drawn
naked from its glittering sheath. Threats
of what would happen to France and Bri-
tain, but especially Britain, if they didn’t at
once permit Germany to return her conquer-
ing sword to its peaceful habitation. Threats
of awful consequences to civilisation in
general if the triumph of Kultur were longer
delayed. The next section will be devoted
to Kaiserian utterances of haughty deter-
mination to shed the blood of the last avail-
able Hun rather than permit the'Sword of
Gott to be shoved back into the scabbard by
the hand of the hatedenemy. The third chapter
will present a collection of recantations of
the old original threats, and a series of pro-
posals for peace at fixed price, half-price, or
any price at all. And, finally, the Kaiser’s
abject apologies for having ever posed in
shining armor with the Hun Gott’s drawn
and sharpened sword in hand will be con-
trasted with the blatant balderdash he talked
in the first chapter. The world has a
wretchedly short memoir and a reprint of
William’s rhodomontades will come like a
book of Revelations. What was it he said
to his own pet regiment of “Cockschafer”
guards when he was seeing them off in the
first fortnight of the war? “Having reluct-
antly drawn the sword we shall not return
it to its scabbard until German Kultur has
been imposed upon our foes!” If the
squareheads had a suggestion of a sense
of humor they would laugh this iron-
monger out of court, but a century and more
of methodical militarism has left them in-
capable of perceiving the tragic humor of
the megalomaniac. The declensions from
blatherskite to bullying, from bullying to
bluff, and from bluff to beseechment in his
vaporings moves no Hun to mirth. The
watchword of all the dissembling Maxes
and Fritzes in the Commonwealth has been
“Shermany must vin in der long run.” The
privileged Iluns in what used to be German
New Guinea have mocked at the credulity
of der stoopid Australians who thought they
had taken over the colony for keeps. The
Germans are bounders among the nations,
and the bounding Kaiser is their champion.
♦
“Benicia” - Re soldiers’ wills (B. 5/9/T8)
The rule that a soldier on active service or a
sailor at sea may make a valid testamentary
disposal of his personal property by word
of mouth is a fairly venerable one, dating
from 1837—Sec. 11, Wills Act (English).
Here in Maoriland we have had in the last
three years the case of a digger handing
his bank-book to one of his brothers in the
presence of another, shortly before leaving,
and saying: “If anything happens to me
there will be over £3OO for Mum.” Held by
Chapman, J., that this was a valid wili,
and the digger's mother benefited accordingly.
Another wrote thus: “Of course if we ever
leave Maoriland I will make a w-ill leaving
all to you.” In the hurry of departure the
will was forgotten, but the letter sufficed.
An unsigned will in a deceased digger’s
l'.f i.dwriung at the back of his paybook was
also admitted to probate. The M.L. Par-
liament last session gave another lead to the
Empire by extending Section 11 of the
Wills Act to real as well as personal
property, and now not even the stroke of a
pen or a scrap of paper is necessary to
dispose of anything in the shape of realty,
from a 40ft. suburban allotment to a 50,000-
acre wool run. All that may be required
are a few stray words falling from the
mouth of a soldier. The section takes effect
retrospectively as from the beginning of the
war. Another mighty sweep wipes away
the last hope of quibbling Costs, for it is
provided that every member of a M.L. Ex-
peditionary Force shall be at all times,
whether he is in M.L. or abroad, a soldier in
actual military service within the meaning of
Section 11 of the Wills Act. •
♦—:
“F.”: A Vienna paper is responsible for the
glad tidings that “General Hugo Kuhn was
killed from the air near St. Quentin. British
aviators at the same time shot down the
majority of his staff.” Lieut.-General Smuts
told the miners at Newcastle (Eng.) last
week that “if the war lasts another year our
air efforts will make Germany shudder.”
Everything goes to emphasise, the wisdom in
the advice of the Amsterdam merchant: “If
you want to win the war quickly bomb the
Rhine towns ; bomb them to a‘standstill.”
The suppression of militarism can be accom-
plished only from the air. The only way of
ending it is to rob it of its swank, reduce it
to ridicule by giving object-lessons in the
futility of standing armies, drop dead cats
and rotten eggs, so to speak, upon its head
from aeroplanes controlled by youths who
have never swotted on the goose-step, but
who are morally and physically the superiors
of ground swashbucklers whose nerves are
unequal to the flying test. Not only the
ending of the present war, but the preven-
tion of future wars, can be achieved from- the
air. Not Germany alone, when retribution
overtakes her swollen military vanity, but
every other country with crowded cities ex-
posed to the risk of destruction, must shud-
der at the thought of what war would mean
in the future if it were pushed to an all-in
air-fighting conclusion. And if Australia got
a move on in the formation of a defensive
air-fleet, an enemy would think hard before
setting out with his warships and transports
to pay the Commonwealth his disrespects.
“Wart'’: About Senator Gardiner and his
avowed intention to revolute in the event of
being deprived of his vote under the Holman
Sedition Act. I would like to remind Gar-
diner that the Labor Government, of which
he was a member, deprived me of my vote
half a dozen years ago, and I have not been
able to vote at a Federal election or Refer-
endum since. The crime for which I was
punished was that of being an invalid, quite
incapable of getting to the poll. I don’t feel
any more resigned when I see the party
which took away my postal vote so very
solicitous about the votes of traitors and
German sympathisers, but I haven’t headed
a rebellion yet. But I give you my word
that I would if I could.
“Hamer” : If the man who did the carving
on the Sydney G.P.O. is dead, the Common-
wealth has evidently gone to great expense
to get a relative of his to sculpt the figures
on the corner entrance of the otherwise mag-
nificent Australia House building in Lon-
don. The statuary apparently does not
mean anything in particular, being merely
a group of six figures, of considerable muscu-
lar grossness and appalling ugliness,
sprawled uncomfortably over the archway of
the entrance; and, to make matters worse,
some of the figures have large iron pimples
on them. These are the studs on the end
of the irons which fasten the figures to the
building. Maybe we’ll get a rebate off the
loan when we pay it for pimple complaints.
“Pleece”: With five years’ -experience of
the tropics behind me I feel sure enough to
bark some advice to “Tyke” (B. 8/8/T8),
who says that wireless signals are “dull”
when the humidity of the atmosphere is high.
Quite so ; but damp telephone diaphragms and
a film of moisture on the crystal detector are
more often the cause than “ether” effect.
File the point, chip the crystal, dry the
diaphragms and try again. Far too many
operators curse “atmospheric effect” instead
of trying to locate the trouble in theit own
sets.
There is a lot of talk in Tassy
about planting spruce-trees for the future
manufacture of paper-pulp. Before anything
is done some inquiries should be made about
the aphis which is destroying all the spruce-
trees about Launceston. There were some
fairly old trees and a number of young ones
in the Launceston parks, and quite a number
in different gardens round the city. These
have all been dying, owing to an aphis
attacking them. About the only way to save
them is continual spraying with tobacco-
wash, etc., and no one is likely to do this
to a forest. In any case the Speck’s hard-
woods make a good jmper. In 1914 a Laun-
ceston chemist, C. H. Saltor, was carrying
out some experiments in the production of
paper-pulp from waste sawdust. He fixed
up a small experimental plant and turned
out several samples of pulp, which were
forwarded to an English paper-mill. A
reply was received stating that the samples
were similar in quality to that on the Eng-
lish market, and requesting a bulk sample
of scwt. to lOcwt., so that they could give it
a practical test for commercial value. The
Government was asked to provide £2OO, to
elect a plant large enough to give the mat-
ter a practical test. Belton, who was Min-
ister of Lands at the time, refused, but
instead spent a lot more money in getting a
Yankee expert, Surface, who wandered in and
said that the timber was unsuitable. If the
same amount of money had been put into
plant, the Speck would have been turning
out a good quantity of pulp to-day—and
making it of wood that is going up in smoke.


EXECUTOR, TRUSTEE, ADMINISTRATOR, ATTORNEY and AGENT.
Expert, Efficient and Economical Management.
Write or call for full particulars, CULWULLA CHAMBERS, 67 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
T. W. GARRETT, Public Trustee.
&
YG
3 O°N
FINEST DRY GIN
& OLD TOM
&
DT
■ Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE & ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
Head Office: Corner Pitt
& King Streets, SYDNEY.
s
SUN-PROOF MALABAR CLOTH
—A NEW TROPIC=WEIGHT INDIAN MATERIAL
Any material, to be popular in India, must be sun-proof and wash well-
Malabar Cloth, now introduced for the first time by Peapes’, is a light,
porous, hand-loomed washing material, in three distinctly new shades <vi
Buff or Biscuit,color. One of the few novelties available for Summer. Send
for patterns, which show the fine texture and effective colorings.
Economic Tailoring—Coat, vest and trousers made-to-measure .... I«l -
Simple self-measurement form will be sent with patterns. Peapes’ pay
postage.
Peapes &. Co. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 <3L 311 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
6YDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
HsA Majesty’s “Potash and Perlmutter
Criterion “The Man Who Came Baclc
Palace “The Invisible I oe
Tivoli “Vanity Fair
Playhouse “Pierrot Pie No. 4
Union Theatres Moving 1 ictiires
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Oh, Oh, Delphine!
Royal “Oh, Boy D
King’s “What Happened to Mary
Tivoli “Honi Soit
Hoyt’s De Luxe & Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
♦
“The Invisible Foe,” now at the Palace
(Sydney), might be a better show if the
green-faced ghost of Richard Bransby would
stalk into the dimly-lit library and give
Cyril Mackay some visible excuse for clutch-
ing his (Mackay’s) collar and beating the
air with his hands. Cyril Mackay does his
melodramatic best with the part of Stephen
“The Invisible Foe,”
at Sydney Palace.
Cyril Mackay as the
wicked Stephen Pryde.
Pryde, the villain-
ous brother who
embezzles £lO,OOO
of his uncle’s money
and then fakes his
soldier brother’s
ledger so that
uncle turns the
hero down hard.
When it comes to
drafting the sol-
dier’s resignation
of his commission,
he absent-mindedly
signs his brother’s
name, as he has
been in the habit
of doing, and uncle
terrifies him into
writing and signing
a confession of
guilt. Then he is
sent to look for and .recall Ms
wronged brother. While he is gone the
old gentleman, who suffers from heart-
disease, collapses and dies. He has
just time to hide the confession between the
covers of “David Copperfield” before pegging.
The rest of the play is devoted to searching
for the confession; the villain searches sys-
tematically for base motives, and the dead
man’s daughter (who loves the good brother)
searches blindly because she “feels there is
something that will prove Hugh’s inno-
cence.” The two main weaknesses of the
play are (1) that the audience knows
exactly where the confession is hidden, and
(2) that it can’t see or sense the invisible
presence of the late Richard Bransby that
guides the daughter and worries the nervous
villain. Emelie Polini is natural and appeal-
ing as the overwrought girl, but Mackay’s
face contortions and staggering's are not suf-
ficient to suggest a guilt-tortured soul and a
conscience on fire, or whatever combination
of ailments Stephen Pryde is supposed to
suffer from. The discovery in Act 3 of the
confession merely draws a relieved cheer
from the impatient house. Whether the
introduction of a real salaried ghost would
make the play or merely- ruin it may
found a debate for wet Easter Sundays.
Harmon Lee, as Uncle Bransby, gets
some thrill into his death scene; and
John Fernside, as Hugh Pryde,. acts
the lover quietly. Olive Wilton infuses
some sparkle into the sluggish piece as the
gushing lady who pursues the tall and sheep-
ish doctor (G. Kay Souper). Maurice Dud-
ley dodders humbly as a faithful old English
clerk, and Georgia Harvey fusses in an obvi-
ous wig as Bransby’s elderly sister.
At Sydney Cri. “The Man Who Came
Back” continues to lose his reputation at
the bottle’s mouth and seek atonement in
respectability and matrimony. Perhaps he
finds it worth while, but this writer has sus-
picion that later on the repentant heir of the
affluent Potter would naturally be haunted
with vain regrets that the razzle in ’Frisco
hadn’t started sooner and ended later. Each
performance deepens the mystery incidental
to the marriage of the private sleuth in the
pay of Potter the elder with the lady who
transpires first in a minimum of raiment
and next in riding-trousers. About the
reason and purpose of this matrimonial ad-
venture there is a conundrum as baffling as
surrounded “The Thirteenth Chair.” Young
Potter’s infatuation for Marcelle is, of
course, understandable and very human. And
as Marcelle Miss Starr fills the bill at every
point. The other night, when it was revealed
in the papers that Miss Starr hadn’t been
Miss Starr since a little ceremonial in the
afternoon, the audience gave Marcelle the
accumulated glad-hand all at once and
decorated the Potter mansion with multitu-
dinous flowers. It gave the final scene, in
which Marcelle is returned to the yearning
Potter, an appropriate realism.
“Business Before Pleasure” closes the
books at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) on Fri-
day. A five-nights revival of “Potash and
Perlmutter” begins on Saturday. “Katinka”
is due on Saturday, October 5.
“Vanity Fair” is keeping the Tivoli (Syd-
ney) going. Jack Waller is in charge, and
most of the supporting artists are the
capable musicians and singers xvlio have
been associated with him in other light
shows. They include Gregory Ivanoff (vio-
linist), Frederick Dennett (pianist), Wylie
Watson (’cellist), Cecila Gold, Ada Smart
and others. The reinforcements are headed
by Fayette Perry, whose speciality is
youth and daintiness. Others are Harry
de Robeck (comedian), Leslie Gaze, the
Camille Trio (dry and silent horizontal bar-
men) and the Dick Dorothy Trio (dancers).
The show is extra strong musically and
moves along smoothly in a smart black-and-
white setting.
“Pierrot Pie No. 4” is now being served
at the Playhouse (Sydney), and the exuber-
ant managerial advts. are full of admiration
for it. Most of this optimism is justified.
Including comedian Brennan, showman Syd-
ney James now has 20 artists under the Pie-
crust, and none of them are duds.
Clara Kimball Young is nightly emerging
unscathed from the wreckage of her house
of respectability at the Crystal Palace (Syd-
ney), when she has to own up to being a
ticket-of-leave woman. A big film. The
Strand shows Gloria Swanson dashing
through the briny and rescuing a man who
is to be her future husband from a suicide’s
grave. (Her excuse may have been her
extreme youth and inexperience.) The
title of the picture is “You Can’t Be-
lieve Everything,” a statement which seems
to have a glimmer of truth about it. At
Hoyt’s and the Haymarket Charles Ray is
very human and likeable as “The Hired
Man.” His reward is the boss’s daughter
as a wife; at least that’s what he got. The
Lyceum has a big attraction in its war-film
“For the Freedom of the World.” It should
be seen by every family who owns a soldier.
“Oh, Oh, Delphine!”
at Her Majesty's,
Melbourne.
Florence Young
as the Persian
woman.
Beethoven’s Mass in D was repeated in
Sydney Conservatorium last week. Per-
fected by practice, choir and orchestra gave
a magnificent performance. Verbrugghen
led his forces, after training them to the
desired pitch, through the stately mazes of
this old religious music with wonderful vim.
A heavy strain falls on the sopranos in this
great effort. Beethoven was at work from
1818 to 1523 to complete this Mass to his
satisfaction, and it has taken probably some
months of rehearsals to satisfy Verbrugghen
that choir and orchestra were up to the mark
of producing it in public. Violinist Jenny
Cullen’s heavenly music in the Benedictus,
and Mrs. Goossens’ scholarly singing of the
soprano solos, deserve special applause.
❖ >!'
“Seven Days’ Leave” had a longer run
than planned at the Royal (Adelaide). Its
strong point was the comedy-relief—the
humor of a duke’s son as a private and a
cook’s son as an officer, when they are back
in the family circle. “I wish you wouldn’t
call me sir, my Lord”; and, “I wish you
wouldn’t call me m’ Lord, sir.” The serious
side of the play was just melodrama, sup-
ported by an incredible submarine that could
only be communicated with by a long swim
and a dive. The acting all round was good.
The Tivoli has entertained a “Million-Dollar
Girl” for a week; she was not worth that
sum, but a sound rather than a brilliant co.
made the most they could out of her. Jean
Keith is growing into a promising girl, and
Adrienne Ainsworth seems to have pos-
sibilities. The Tivoli has reverted to
melodrama. The Majestic has been
giving half its bill to an old-fashioned
Minstrel show, with the aid of Jack Kearns.
Ivy Moore and co. In the other part of
the show are the magic of Nikola, the com-
edy acrobatic work of Coco and team, and the
cheeky humor of Daisy Harcourt. In pictures,
the Central this week has a Burke-and-Wills
drama of historic interest. Its only fault is that
it makes the leaders too heroic. The suc-
cess of the war-film, “Over the Top,” con-
tinues at West’s. Wondergrapli, starring
Pauline Frederick and Hayakawa in two
strong plays, has been finding the picture of
the Adelaide women’s street march as pay-
able an attraction.
“Wanted, a Baby,” a four-act comedy by
Edith Aird, a clever Adelaide presswoman,
has been given two trial trips by a co.
made up entirely of girls. One really
good player, Mrs. Christobel Bagot, was dis-
covered ; otherwise the interest was mainly
in xvatcliing women make a hash of swear-
words and appear a parody in male attire.
The play Ms some clever lines, and the situ-
ations arising from an advt. by a fashionable
bachelor for an infant are well drawn. 11.
D. Mclntosh is said to have secured an
option on it.
“Oh, Oh, Delphine!” has only one more
week to stay at Her Majesty’s (Melb.). An in-
sufficiency of catchy musical numbers is the
fault that Melbourne finds with Ivan Caryll’s
treatment of this risky French farce, and a
couple of ballads might very well be interpo-
lated ere the handsome show is withdrawn.
The comedy makes a very promising start in a
somewhat Gilbertian manner, the grouping
of the six models for the “Posing for Venus”
song being a novelty in chorus effects. But
the interest of Act 1 isn’t maintained
through the next two acts. The lighter
characters exhaust their humor, and some of
the burden of the narrative is shifted to the
shoulders of characters that are essentially
stodgy. Ten girleen housemaids, armed with
feather-dusters, are bright young friskers,
but hardly enough is made of them. In
short “Oh, Oh, Delphine!” doesn’t improve
on acquaintance, although it gives one a first
impression that it contains ample material
for a better entertainment.
** * *
“Oh, Boy!” made a fresh start at the
Royal (Melb.) last Saturday, when Maude
Fane took over the part of the pugilistic
actress from Cecil Bradley. Some changes
in the male section of the cast might have
been more xvarmly welcomed. The women
are distinctly the better half of this co.
Gracie Lavers continues to be charmingly
unconventional and refreshingly young, and
the eight dancers are maintaining the repu-
tation they have made. The show is to be
transplanted to Her Majesty’s, where it will
feel more at home than at the Royal, on
October 4.
“What Happened to Mary” is happening
again in the same old artless fashion at the
King’s (Melb.). A new Mary (Gracie
Dorran), however, has entered the slovenly
domicile of Billy Peart and become an un-
heeded sermon to Billy’s languid missus.
Gracie is satisfactory in all respects, though
she represents Mary’s innocence as some-
thing unexampled in human phenomena. The
latest villain, Leslie Woods, has a crude
conception of the character he is supposed
to limn. Instead of a dashing chap with
silk and satin manners we get a gauche
young fellow who sags hopelessly. The
hero, by Plarcourt Hare, is not much better.
But Bert Bailey still keeps Cap’n Jogifer
up to specification, and scores full marks as
a salted Samaritan. Also Tuck Wintergreen
(Fred Macdonald)
continues to throw
himself on the
mercy of the local
tailor with tremen-
dous effect; whilst
Lilias Adeson suc-
cumbs very grace-
fully to the inertia
of Mrs. Peart.
* *
This is Show
Week in Melbourne,
and “Honi Soit” at
the Tivoli is, to all
intents and finan-
cial purposes, a
novelty show for
new audiences. The
superabundance of
matter in “Honi
Soit,” which is ob-
jected to by blase
habitues of the
Tiv., counts as a
special virtue when
farmers fill the
house.
Lucrezia Boi’gia
and her poisoned
goblet are solxdng
the congestion pro-
blem in the ancient
village of Fei’rara
at the Britannia
“Oh, Oh, Delphine!”
at Her Majesty’s,
Melbourne.
John Ford as Uncle
Noel Jolibeau.
(Melb.) this week. Charlie Chaplin in “The
Adventurer” is Miss Borgia’s incongruous
companion all the week at the Britannia.
The same hero, garishly disguised as “The
Count,” is also slapsticking the screen at
the Melt). I, where Belle Bennett commenced
on Monday as “The Last Rebel,” and van-
ished last night in a blaze of finery. To-day
Betty Blythe and Harry Morey ask the for-
bearance of the multitude while they attempt
to sort out their “Tangled Lives.”
Visiting agriculturists are offered a xveek
of flattery at Hoyt’s Melbourne theatres.
Cocky’s splendid virtues are especially
flourished in “The Hired Man,” wherein
Charles Ray shows the surpassing wonder of
a hero who has gained his manly training-
close to nature. Another flagrant appeal for
Outback silver is entitled “Western Blood,”
wherein is revealed broncho-buster Tom Mix
perched high on the summit of a Texan
saddle and threatening to reach down the
welkin at any moment. For the ordinary
picture glutton the star attraction is Ann
Pennington in “Sunshine Nan,” taken from
Alice Ilegan Rice’s “Calvary Alley.”
The dirty linen produced by the Adelaide
Methodists took about a fortnight to wash
in public, and it does not seem quite clean
yet. A libel action by one parson against
another of the same sect is a novelty. In
this case there had been talk of untruthful-
ness and of not accounting for marriage-
fees ; also the handy word “Jesuit” seems to
have been flung about, one of the parties hav-
ing been a Roman Catholic as a child. (He
’verted at about 15.) A tired jury thought
the whole matter worth £l5O damages. £lOOO
had been claimed.
“Gouger”: When the Turkish army was in
full retreat, after its disasters in Palestine, a
goodly number of the footsore Turkish sol-
diers, on arriving at the native villages,
hurriedly hid their equipment, and, donning
ordinary Arab clothes, managed to escape
us by mixing among the villagers. The
patrols used to search the hamlets closely,
as these escapees often turned them-
selves into snipers as occasion suited. I
got the scare of my life on one of these patrol
expeditions. We dismounted in a big village
and, leaving a strong guard over the horses,
proceeded to examine the densely-populated
mud hovels. I foolishly got a little distance
away from my mates, and, turning down an
evil-smelling lane, entered a large mud house.
I ran a speculative eye over the Arabs squat-
ting about, more with the idea, I’ll admit, of
borrowing some tobacco from them than of
looking for Turks. Suddenly a little piece
of dried mud struck me on the hat. I
looked up. The ceiling was only three feet
above my head, and was composed of thin
saplings lightly held together with mud. In
the centre these saplings had a most pro-
nounced bulge downwards. As I looked I
could swear the saplings moved, just as if
a heavy body was lying upon them. Keep-
ing a now wary eye on the watching Arabs,
I fixed the old bayonet, and kept very silent.
A moment later I turned my head
quickly, and was just in time to see one of
the Arabs hastily hide a long Bedouin knife
behind his back. The beggar had crept
behind me with the stealth of a ghost. Lung-
ing at a crack in the rafters with all my
force, I had the satisfaction of feeling the
bayonet enter something that gave a ter-
rific yell. I didn’t wait to open the door-
just jumped clean through it out into the
lane, and broke a record to get in touch with
the patrol.
For shabby treatment of the women
teachers S. Aus. takes the flour-bin,
and judging by the bitter tale of the
Teachers’ Union to the Minister of Educa-
tion recently, the school mar in is worst off
in S. Aus. than she is in N. S. Wales —-
salaries, £B4 and £136 respectively. Two lady
members of the deputation gave the Minister
some unpleasant jolts. There are 1172 women
employed by the Department, and 902 of
them receive from 4s. 7d. to ss. lid. a day
“a wage less than that paid to an ordinary
charwoman.” In 1910 the Commission
recommended that no teacher should have
more than 40 to 50 pupils, and on that
estimate a number of these pedagogues, who
are teaching up to 80 pupils, are doing
double work at from £BO to £lOO annually.
A girl spends five to six years of the best of
her life poring over difficult examinations, to
find on emerging from the University Train-
ing College a beggarly £lOO a year—less than
a girl of her ability could obtain in commer-
cial life in six months. The minimum wage
for a telephone girl is £126. The Minister
said that he knew the truth of the state-
ments, but the financial position forebade a
practical demonstration of his sympathy.
The Government policy was no further tax-
ation, and as this meant no additional income
there could be no additional outlay. How-
ever, when the question came before the
Cabinet later it was decided to make the
following alterations and chance the revenue:
Women acting-assistants to start at £9O a
year instead of £B4, rising _to £100; and
the next rank £lOO, rising to £llO.
The ladies are not at all satisfied with these
increases, and the schoolkids are hoping
for a strike. In any case the S.A. Educa-
tion Department is likely to be seriously
short-staffed, as already a number of
teachers have gone to other States or moved
into more lucrative positions outside the
service.


THE AUSTRIAN DOVE TO THE RESCUE!
“Over a hundred women and children were drowned when the Galway Castle was torpedoed.”


LEAD
British Owned and Controlled.
SILVE
The Bro Ken Hill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Smelting Works : Port Pirie, S.A. Coke Works : Bellambi, N.S.W.
Branch Offices:
LONDON : 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE :62 Brookman’s Building. SYDNEY :25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Read Corroding Lead
Antimonial Read Chemical Read
Assay Read (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Rinotype Metal, Ritliarge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY
FAVORABLE TARIFF OF—
"SUTcious "Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade;
Slags, etc., containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Registered
BHAS
Brand.
LITHARGE
All Enquiries to
be addressed to
the Secretary.
ANTIFRICTION
LINOTYPE
smm
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting: Gelatin©
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
PERPETUAL Trustee Company Ltd.
DIRECTORS: —Walter C. Watt, Chairman;
Hon. K J.Rlaek, M.C.C.; Sir James R.
Fairfax; T. 11. Kelly; Harry S. Levy.
Subscribed Capital £1,000,000 0 0
Uncalled Capital 925,000 0 0
Reserves & Undivided Profits 90,414 11 1»
Perpetual Deposit with Gov-
ernment 20,000 0 0
The Company acts as Executor and Trustee under Wills, Trustee of Marriage
and other Settlements, Administrator of Intestate Estates, Attorney for
Absentees, etc.
WRITE OR CALL FOR BOOKLET, which sets out its Methods and Charges.
Secretary:
R. L. MASSIE.
33-39 Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Manager:
R. COPLAND LETHBRIDGE.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Union Bank of Australia
. Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
£ £ • £ 0
Aug., ’lO. . 141,4-54 14 p.e. = 105,000 15,°00 1-,3TU382
Feb.,’ll.. 135,807 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,092,159
Aug., ’ll. .135,321 14 „ ~105,000 l o s °o-0 4.412,010
Feb.,’l2. .145,257 14 ~ ~105,000-10,000 1,442,/67
Aug., ’l2. . 155,552 14 ~,,105,000 1.195,349
Feb.,’l3. .155*654 14 ~..105,000.
Aug.,’l3. .135,424 14 ~,,105,000
l’rerniums on new shares, £400,000 1,974,42 i
Feb., ’l4. .171,083 14 p.c.= 140,000 -- 2 005,510
Aug.,’l4. .165,950.14 ~,,140,000 - 2,031,460
Feb.,’ls. .139,050 14 ~,,140,000 2 >°i|o,olo
Aug., ’ls. . 140,018 14 ~,,140,000 . 2,030,028
Feb., ’l6. .140,846 14 ~,,140,000 2i°?1,374
Aug., ’l6. .140,484 14 ~,,140,00.0 2.031,858
Feb., ’l7. .161,275 14 140,000 2,053,133
Aug.,’l7. .160,371 14 „ ~140,000 2,073,504
Feb.,’lß.. 165,789 14 „ ~140,000 2,099,293
Uor a couple-of years-after Wilhelm upset
things the Union’s disclosed profits were
somewhere in the vicinity of £140.000 each
half-year, and between August, 1014, and
August, 1916, only a miserable -£398 was
added to visible reserves after paying the 14
p.c. dividend. Since then the disclosed pro-
fits have gradually climbed to almost the
pre-war level, and in the past 18 months
£67.435 has been tacked on to reserves after
paying the div. But there is little reason for
supposing that the last half-year was so
much more profitable than other recent
terms. The explanation, no doubt, is that
the management is now satisfied with the
provision it has made To cover any losses
which may be incurred later on. For many
years the Union has been steadily piling up
solid internal reserves. It has even created re-
serves to protect its holding of War Loan
and (Government securities, now totalling
£1,655,878, and six months ago the.chairman
told shareholders that in one of these inter-
nal reserves, the “investment suspense
account,” “they had a sum remaining which
Would allow them to see a fall of some
points in the holding of War Loan.” These
provisions against possible losses in the
future have, of course, taken a bite out of
profits. There are very good reasons why
the actual profits should be greater than .just
before the war. First of all, look at this
comparison of the balance-sheet figures
Liabilities.
- 1914. 1917.- 1918.
Notes .. .. £183,408 £877*405 £432,599
Deposits . . . . 23,538,534 24,227,108 24,975,570
Bills, etc 1,714,216 1,936,814 2,032:494
Assf/ts.
Liquid assets .. 12,770,974 12,161,184 13,186,963
Advances .. 16,300,478 18,582,776 18,00/,44/
Premises .. ■ 504', 216 490,500 • 485,546
The Union thus holds £1,437,036 more
deposits than it did four years ago, and in
addition it has put £93.783 of surplus pro-
fits into the business. Now it has £1,700,969
more out in advances than four years ago,
and the rates for accommodation are higher
than they used to be, while the exchange
business is much more profitable. Of course
exes, have increased —particularly income
tax. The income tax paid by this bank for
the years ending February have been: 1915,
£26,722; 1916, £48,498 ; 1917, £73,857; 1918,
£63,951. And it is certain, there will be fur-
ther increases later on.
As to the future much depends on how long
the war lasts and how we win the war. On
present appearances it looks as though
nothing short of a miracle can prevent the
Allies completely smashing the Kaiser’s
dream of world-domination. For the rest, a
lot depends on the seasons, the markets for
our products, and, not least, the political
management of the Commonwealth. Any-
how, the Union is well equipped to meet any
dull time that may lie ahead. No less than
48 p.c. of its total liabilities to the public are
held in liquid form, and to meet the
£14,253,700 not represented by liquid assets
there are £18,007,447 of advances, and pre-
mises with a book value of £485,540. though
that is only a fraction of what they are really
worth.
The Chamber of Manufactures Insur-
ance Ltd. (Melbourne) :
Bonus to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Policyholders, serves.
1915. .£9,699 10 p.c. = £2372 £4,311 £3,016
June,
1916.. 6,727 10 „ 2625 2,438 4,680
1917.. 23,506 10 „ „ 3000 13,397 11,789
1918.. 21,917 10 „ „ 3000 16,475 14,231
Four years ago the Vie. Chamber of Manu-
factures decided to try and- save the profits
that Private Enterprise was making out of
its members’ insurance business. So this
co was formed and put under expert
management. These figures show the pro-
gress that has been made: —
Loss Expense
Premiums. Claims. Exes. Ratio. Ratio.
1915 £3l 907 £6,027 £3400 18.9 p.c. 10.6 p.c.
1916*' 2 9 ; 6 70 9,881 2638 33 3 „ 8.8 „
1917 43 182 14,497 .>444 03.6 ~ 8.0 ~
1918 - ! 55,011 21.310 6603 38.8 „ 12.0 „
*Nine. months.
And because the co-operating manufacturers
bring their business to the co. without can-
vass, it has also been able to save for them
most of what used to go in commission,
travelling expenses, etc. Hence the wonder-
fully low expense rate shown in the table
above.
The result is that in the three years and
nine months the co. has .been in business out
of total net premiums of £107,871 the policy-
holders have had £42,501. rebated, while- the
parent Chamber, which holds about one-third
of the 30,000 £1 shares issued, has also re-
ceived £6196 under an arrangement provided
for in the Articles. During the past year
there have been substantial reductions in
Workmen’s Compensation rates, but in addi-
tion this co. has made allowances to policy-
holders of a further 35 p.c. on their pre-
miums, while 20 p.c. has been allowed on
public risk, plate glass, fidelity guarantee,
personal accident and sickness premiums,
15 p.c. on marine and 10 p.c. on motor-car
premiums. And in the near future the directors
anticipate “further substantial reductions in
rates.” Last year, by 4he. way, the co. was
penalised by the ridiculous War-time Pro-
fits Tax, and was called upon to hand over
£2OOO to the Federal Treasurer. The co.
lias been in business only since the war
began, and thus has no pre-war standard.
The Bulletin reviewed a co. the other day
which during the war period has been pay-
ing dividends at the rate of between 40 and
30 p.c. p.a. on a heavily-watered capital (pn the
money put up by shareholders the dividends
have moved between 214 and 1601 p.c. p.a.),
but because that co. is not making as much
as its pre-war standard, apparently it has not
been called on for a penny by the War-time
Profits Act. It is all ludicrous.
From both the shareholders’ and the
policy-holders’ point of view things are very
comfortable. For unexpired risks £24,145
has been provided, which is more than the
proportion generally regarded as adequate.
Everything lias been going so nicely that a
couple of months ago the co. acquired its
own freehold in Flinders-strofet at a cost of
£53,000, £47.700 of which it has raised on
mortgage Besides providing premises, for
conducting its own business, the co. has also
been able to provide a comfortable home for
the Chamber. Apart from the mortgage, all
ether liabilities amount to £1.0,026; and in
addition to the freehold pfonerty and £l5O
of well-written down furniture there is
£75,953 in deposits, cash and War Loan, no
less than £51,250 being invested in the last.
Th’e four years have proved a great adver-
tisement for co-operation under good man-
agement.
V * . * *
The Mutual Store, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends.. Off. serves, serves.
.Tuiv £ £ £ £ £
1906.. 6,313 54 p.c.= 5,000 1313 3,590
1907.. 8,498 5 ~ ~ 5,000 3498 <,OBB
1908.. 10.373 £5/8/4 „ ~ 5,417 - 4956 12,041
1909 10 618 5/16/8 ~ ~ 5.834 1400 3384 15,428
1910"12 655 7/8/4 7,083 2448 3124 18,552
1911 !14 123 7/18/4 ”” 9,233 1026 3864.22,416
1912. . 1 9/11/8 ~ ~ 11,979 1813. 3144 25,0,6 p
1912 17 451 10 ~ 12,500 1500 34al 29,011
1914 is'o77 10 ~ ~ 12.500 1500 4077 33,088
1915 ' 14,442 10 .; 12,500 - 1942 35.030
1916- 15,732 10 ~ ~ 1 2,50.0 1242 199:0 3<,020
1917 16 539 TO ~,,12,500 2000 2039 39,059
1918'. !
If, when we were getting our first little
expeditionary force together in 1914, some-
body had whispered that Wilhelm would
still be going strong four years later, and
that by that time''the ■ Commonwealths share
in the war would have cost over £240,000,699.
he would have been regarded as an alarmist
run amok. But what if such a person could
have been found, and lie in turn had been
told that even should his prophecy come
true. Melbourne’s Mutual Store would be
making a record profit in 1918! But that is
exactly what has happened. The Mutual
Store’s gross profits have grown in this way :
1913 .. £57,348 1 1916 .. £58,798
1914 . . 60,860 | 1917 . . 61,462
1915 .. 56,710 I 1918 .. 68,i45
The explanation is that, though the war has
cost Australia those hundreds of millions,
the bill is being met with a p.n., and because
of all the loan money that has been scat-
tered, particularly in the capital cities, most
people are apparently more prosperous than
they were four years ago. And when a loan
razzle is in full bloom, the glad-rags em-
porium naturally gets its share. How much
longer the present artificial prosperity is
likely to last The Bulletin makes no
attempt to guess. The dead-end must be
reached sooner or later, and, so far as this
paper knows, there’s not a banker in the Com-
monwealth who does not anticipate a period
of depression when the loan drought sets in.
Georgettes and silk stockings won't sell so
easily when that time comes. How we pass
through that cold, sackcloth period depends
upon political management and the way in
which we get to work.
How the Mutual Store's balance-sheet
figures have moved during the war years is
shown in this comparison:—
19.14. 1916. 1917. 191 S.
Liabilities .. £67,768 £63,529 £67,642 £70,988
Assets: —
Property .. 103,625 103,625 103,625 103,625
Plant,'etc. .. 13,964 11,435 10,700 12,950
Stock .. 50.204 83,719 55,990 94,92 S
Cash, etc. .'. 31,737 34,262 30,631 37,300
Capital is £123,000, and £45,000 of the lia-
bilities mentioned above is a mortgage loan.
Thus £63,025 of the capital of £125,000 is in
property. In the four years liabilities have
been increased by £3220, and assets have
grown by £19,273. Meantime, alO p.c. div.
has been paid. The £2OOO shown as written
off in 1917; was expended in providing fur-
ther lift accommodation, and the £SOOO in
the last line is being laid out on further
alterations to premises.
Pitt, Son and Badgery, Ltd. (Sydney),
station-produce salesmen, etc
Written
•lr.no, Profits. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1905. . £3,523 spie.== £2,500 —• £12,401
1900.. 12,061 5~ „ 2,500 £7,500 15,022
1907.. 17,033 10 ~ ~ 5,500 17,500 9,055
1905.. 8,277 10 ~ „ 5,500 11,832
1909.. 13,845 19 ~ „ 10,500 . 15,177
Property written up, £IO,OOO .. 25,177
1910.. 19,859 35p.c.= 21,000 24,036
1911.. 17,509 23J ~ ~ 17,500 24,045
1912.. 14,793 16 „ ~ 13,500 25,338 1
1913.. 20,438 21 „ „ 19,000 26,770
1914.. 25,315 10 ~ „ 10,000 r— 42,091
1915.. 25,366 10 ~ ~ 10,000 57,457
Reserves capitalised, £20,000 .. 37,457
1916.. 2-1,700 124p.c.= 15,000 14,157
1917.. 24,210 121 ~ „ 15,000 53,367
1918.. 27,752 121,, ~ 15,000 r 66,119 1
The.gross profit on trading for the past year
was £78,241, compared with £66,297 for 191 V
and £61.271 for 1916. But expenses have
also been climbing rapidly; 1918. £52,242;
1917, £43,670; 1916, £41,101. This co. does
a big business in live-stock, and its yardings
for the past three years have been as follows:
1915-0. 1916-7. 1917-8.
Cattle .. 148,864 149,457 146,9,06
Sheep . . 2,327,033 1,703,603 1,754,303
But it is in the wool department where rapid
progress is being made, 38,823 bales were sold
for the 1916 financial year ; 49,147 for 19IV :
and 55,846 for the past year. Prices all
round have been increasing (the average real-
ised per bale of wool two years ago was
£ls 2s. 4d„ for last year £2O 6s. Scl.), and
higher prices mean' higher commission earn-
ings, of course. The feature of this co. is
that it has been able to build up a very big
connection without risking much of its capi-
tal by making advances to clients to get their
business. Last year the total turnover was
£2,952,615, but advances, sundry debtors and
all other amounts due to the co. total only
£56,094. Here are the balance-sheet figures:
1900. 1910. 1917. 1918.
Overdrafts .. . . £55,741 £17,311 £25,994 £17,500
Other liabilities .. 3,009 20,421 7,861 13,743
Advances, fovcclos- ■ ■
ures, etc. . • 87,087 35,303 47,71* 56,094
Freeholds, etc. .. 10,718 104,465 125,874 125,594
Goodwill .. .. 25,000 Nil Nil Nil
Liquid assets ..
The £17,500 shown as overdraft is merely
an advance from-the bank to enable the co.
to take up War Loan; otherwise the over-
draft item has entirely disappeared. Going
back to the 1900 figures some, big changes
are noticeable. Paid-up capital is now
£120.000. £70,000 of which represents profits
capitalised during the past 10 years. But no
less than £125,594 is in the co*’s fine city
freehold and in saleyards. There are very
few cos. in this class of business which can
show such security for shareholders' funds.
«■ * * *
Edwards, Dunlop and Cos., Ltd. (Syd-
ney) , paper merchants . and wholesale
stationers:
Dividends.
~ *-r TO Re- Re-
Apl., Profits, op.c.prefs. Ordinaries, serves, serves.
19! 5 -—. -£81,924
1916. .£37,561 £4325 10 p.c.=£25,423 £7,813 .89,737
1917.. 40,'861. 4325 ION., ~ 25,423 11,113 100,550
1918. . 44,008 4325 10 ~ „ 25,423 14,260 115,110
This co. has almost 50 years experience be-
hind it, but the shares were not quoted on
the Stock Exchange until three years ago.
No fresh capital was then issued, but by
capitalising some of the reserves there was
an issue of bonus shares, apparently bought
by clients and old friends of the co. Capital
was then £340.740, made up of 86.509 £1
ptefs. fully paid and 254.231 £1 ords. fully
paid. After capitalising portion of the accu-
mulated profits there still remained a very
substantial reserve of £81.924 when the co.
published a balance-sheet in 1915. Owing to
the scarcity of shipping .and other war
troubles, this co. is no doubt experiencing a
lot of difficulty in securing stocks, and what
can be got of course, at inflated prices.
However, the demand for the co.’s goods —
paper. stationery, printing machinery,
printers’ requisites, etc.—-has been well
maintained, and profits, after providing for
contingencies, have even improved, and
£2500 has been voted to an employees’ bonus
and provident fund in addition to the figures
shown in the last line. The management has
always made up its balance-sheets on conser-
vative lines, and no doubt adequate pro-
vision is being made to protect stocks from
any possible slump in prices. The balance-
sheet figures have moved this way in three
years:—
1915. 1917. 1918.
Liabilities .. .. £18,994 £69,492 £77,621
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 88,510 85,818 83,941
Stock .. .. •• 187,314 229,402 173,384
Sundry debtors . . . . 150,452 189,843 158,303
Cash and investments .. 17,348 33,486 111,020
It is a very comfortable business, and there
is a substantial margin between the ordi-
naries’ 10 p.c. dividend and tne amount
available for distribution —during the past
three years an amount equal to over 18 p.c.
of the ordinary capital has been left in the
business, besides which there are probably
h,to,} , nal reserves which may not be called
upon.
Tlie Zinc Corporation, Ltd.: —
( —Dividends. * Written Re-
Profits. Pref. Ordinary. Oft', serves.
Dec., £ p.c. £ P-c. '& & ■& '
’ll 75 121 30 = 36,854 20 = 32.057 Nil 3,733
>l2 200,276 371 ~ 92,135 35 „ 114,299 40,630 22,939
’l3 210 236 35',, 85,992 30 „ 97,971 22,551 26,661
1 4..143,635 20 ~49,138 22,275 98,883
'15..136,156 25 ~61,423 10 „ 32,657 121,032 19,92<
16 230 740 371 ~ 92,135 36 „ 114,299 18,262 26,971
’17,.26i)4 10 40" „ 98,277 40 ~ 130,628 36,262 22,220
That table gives the history of the
Zinc Corporation since it took over
the South Blocks. The eo. was origi-
nally formed to buy Broken llill tail-
ings dumps and extract the /fine. 1 lungs
didn’t turn out very well, and tlie c<>. hat!
to get in some pref. capital. Capital is now
£572 263 —245,692 £1 profs, fully paid and
353 139 10s. ords. fully paid. The pref. shares
are entitled to a cum. pref. dividend of 20
|).c.. and also share rateably in any surplus
profits with the ords. llow well these prefs.
have fared is shown in the table. Last year
they got Bs. on their £1 shares, and the ords.
4s. on their 10s. shares.
The South Blocks, which had a poor
career worked on its own, was purchased by
the Corporation principally to provide a
supply of zinc ore when the purchased dumps
had been exhausted. But the South. Blocks
provided a big surprise, and the future of the
Zinc Corporation was entirely changed by
the amalgamation. When the mine was
taken over ore reserves were reckoned at not
quite 550,000 tons; but in the. seven years
the Zinc Corp. has h.ad the show something
like a million tons have been taken out, and
the ore reserves (exclusive of the zinc lode)
at December 31 last were estimated at
1.887,000 tons containing 14.3 p.c. lead.
2.60 z. silver and 9.2 p.c. zinc., and in June
shareholders were told that they had grown
to a figure “not out of sight of 2,000,000
tons.’’ A bulge at the north end of the mine
has been developed, which is regarded as a
replacement body and part of the main lode,
extending from below tlie No. 5 level to the
lowest point so far developed (No. 9 level),
where a crosscut has shown a width of as
much- as 140 ft. It is further given out that
“there is no reason to suppose that this body
will not extend to greater depth.” So every-
thing is “more than satisfactory,” and apart
from the supply of zinc ore, the co. now
possesses a valuable lead mine. So chair-
man F. A. Govett muses; “It is pleasant for
us to reflect that had it not been for the
amalgamation tlie Zinc Corporation would
now have only a visible life of about three
years.” At December 31 last tlie tailings re-
maining in the dumps were estimated at
951,350 tons.
• • • • • •
Production for the past two years has been
as follows: —
Lead Concentrator. 1916. 1917.
Treated .. . . 136,901 tons. 134,61 S tons.
Lead concentrates .. 29,47 S ~ 24,829 ~
Zinc middling . . 33,524 „ 40,576 „
Zinc Concentrator.
Treated .. .. 200,510 ~ 207,590 ~
Zinc concentrates . . 48,313 ~ 63,700 ~
Lead concentrates .. 5,079 ~ 7,164 ~
During 1917 only 8432 tons zinc concen-
trates were disposed of, 19,324 tons were
held ready for despatch, and the remainder of
the production was stacked on the works.
Besides the splendid prices the Cos. lias been
getting for its lead, fine profits have also
been realised on silver, which, of course, is
only a side-line. The lead concentrate from
the lead mill contains 10.20 z. silver (68.2
p.c. of which is recovered), while the lead
concentrates from the zinc concentrator con-
tain 30.20 z. (recovery only 12.7 p.c.). Every-
thing considered, the profits for the year are
very good. Mine development, absorbed
£31,620 (about £6OOO more than for the pre-
vious year), while the big strike necessitated
a special expenditure of £8948. The
£36,262 shown as written off is .made up of
depreciation of plant, £38.262, and deprecia-
tion "of investments, £IB,OOO. Out of the


Every engineer should be a subscriber to the
General Electric Review. It is a monthly maga-
zine, containing descriptions of the latest develop-
ments and practical applications of electricity in
every sphere. No library is complete without it,
as the contents are original, instructive and complete
in every detail, being contributed by the leading
engineers of the world. The subscription is only
ten shillings (10/-) per year, so subscribe now or
write to the Australian General Electric Company,
corner Wentworth Avenue and- Goulburn Street, Syd-
ney, for a sample copy.— Advt.
When Alurninoferric is used in connection with
reservoirs its application is extremely simple. The
cakes or slabs (which measure 22in. x 7in. x 6in. and
weigh about 561 b. each) are placed on edge in a per-
forated wooden box, or other suitable cage, at the
inflow to the reservoir, and as the slabs dissolve
readily the rate of Alurninoferric applied is in-
creased or diminished in proportion to the rise or
fall of the water passing, and may be readily regu-
lated to a nicety. One pound will clarify up to
3000 gallons of most turbid waters. Particulars from
William Adams & Go., Ltd., Clarence Street, Sydney.
—Advt.
Modern methods of metal concentration require
fine and efficient grinding devices, and the tube mill
is becoming more widely used every day. Present
conditions prohibit the importation of machinery
from abroad, so that we have to fall back on our
home manufactures. The Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne manufacture tube mills of any size,
as well as grinding machines of every description.’
They are also makers of the famous Hardinge Conical
Mills, which have made a name for themselves in
America.— Advt. [l
Pioneer Wood Pipe provides the most economical
and efficient means of carrying water over your land.
In first cost, freight charges and labor for laying,
money is saved. Made in all sizes from two inches
upwards. Send for illustrated catalogue. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd., H.O. Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, . N.S.W. P.O. address: Box
1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove,
N.S.W. ; Footscray, Vic. ; and Port Adelaide, S.A.
Contractors to all State Governments.— Advt.
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If go, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from lel ton, Grinnvade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: I linders Lane, Melbourne.— Advt.
Anierican batch concrete-mixers from Sydney
|° 7 C ’ is ' The famous “Austin”! It built Panama.
Sizes stocked: 6 cubic feet cap., each batch; 11 cubic
eet cap., each batch; 17 cubicr feet cap., each batch.
Catalogues and further particulars upon application.
Arthur Leplastrier and Co., Circular Quay, Sydney.
Queensland inquiries. The Australian Machinery Co.,
Ltd., Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
IDEAS. Commonwealth and Foreign Pate
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street M
T and ; Vle ! ai A !e -., Thirt y years practice. 'Wi
us for Inventors Guide. —Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Anoaratus A*
R^n U n Sl p. teS ’ Su PP lies - Ainsworth’s & Oertlir
?™nl CeS ’o Weights. Morgan’s Crucibles, Brau
foTnst%oS UBh p S, n Furna P es - Pure Chemicals,
tS or write for particulars. H.
*! Co., Ltd., 8 0 Connell Street, Sydney: i
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The American Exporter. A guide for buyers
American merchandise and machinery. Also'assii
traHn- Cln t> for 6x P°rtable products of Ai
tralia. Published monthly. Post free 12/6 r
? ai S ple copy 1 /'• From Hamilton &ci
Publishers Representatives, 34 Pitt Street, Sydne
—Advt.
are Boon to
win bo*aa%.
Insure in
Th ' t.O.A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
W hen making a Will or Settlement
appoint The
Union Trustee
Company of Australia Ltd.
Your EXECUTOR or TRUSTEE.
The only Trustee Company with branches
in more than one State.
NEW SOUTH WALES. VICTORIA.
QUEENSLAND.
Sydney Office, 48 Young Street.
Directors: Hon. Sir Charles K. Mackellar,
K.C.M.G., M.L.C. (Chairman) ; Hon. James
Ashton, M.L.C.; Hon. H. Y. Biiaddon,
M.L.C.; F. B. S. Falkiner, M.H.R., James
Kidd; W. H. Mackay, R. M. Pitt, and
Duncan Sinclair.
V. G. Watson, j. Mair,
Assistant Manager. Manager.
Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
PRICES AT PRODUCING CENTRES:
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- for each
unit MOS 2.
WOLFRAM AND SOHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 for each
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
THE MUTUAL LIFE and
CITIZENS’
ASSCE. CO. LTD.
HAS AN
EMPLOYERS’
INDEMNITY POLICY
that meets exactly your requirements
under Workmen’s Compensation Acts.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS- IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON-3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
eai S' profits £15,000 has also been set aside
as a reserve for redemption of wasting
iISSGtS.
Ihe future of zinc is somewhat clearer
now than it was 12 months ago. With Ger-
many, Belgium and France out of the
market, stocks have been piling up in Aus-
tralia. However, the British Government
has contracted to take all the accumulations
and, with certain reservations, purchase the
entire Broken Hill production for 10 years
atter the war. Chairman Govett puts his
view of the zinc position this way to the
shareholders:—
At present zinc is suffering from a natural reac-
tion in America, though there are some indications
ot recovery. Enthusiastic optimism in the wild
advance in price in 1915 and 1916 led to extrava-
gant over-production, and then it swung to gloomv
piedictions as to the future of the smelting industry
■in zinc, which are probably just as wrong. Mv own
idea is that the present depression will tend to
finale the inefficient plants, the mushroom growth
of the boom in price, as well as the low-grade ore
producers, and that after a period of convalescence,
moie or less protracted, the industry may again
become normally remunerative.
Full details of the Imperial Government’s
agreement have not been made available, “in
the national interest.” And though, as
Chairman Govett pointed out, very little has
yet been done in England to extend the spel-
ter industry, at any rate the Government
purchase and control of the zinc 'output will
help to kill German interests. Further it
guarantees a market for the 8.11. cos.
The Corporation’s liabilities amount to
£79,640, besides £20,158 which is payable in
easy instalments for tailings. There are
hquid assets amounting to £508,255, and in
addition a big holding of investments, includ-
ing £IOO,OOO in the Associated Smelters, a
interest in the Barrier South
(61,940 shares paid to 11s. 6d.), £40.000 in
the Electrolytic Zinc Cos., and over £230,000
in miscellaneous investments, mostly Ameri-
can industrial bonds and railway stock. For
tne Period covered by the table dividends
totalling £926,110 have been paid.
* * * *
. “Old ’Un”: Twenty years have slipped by
since Bowes Kelly invited Lindsay Tullock,
a handsome, blond-haired, light-hearted resi-
dent of Launceston, to join the Mount Lyell
Board. The two had shared in the boom
that swept from Queenstown to Rosebery
after Con Lynch and Grotty had done the
pioneering. . Now Tullock is dead, passed
out in his prime. Tasmanian mining is the
worse off through his loss. Not only was
he able to call to his aid stout assistance if
any mining deal was on, but he had the good-
will of nearly every West Coast prospector.
His last big job was to fight for supremacy
over the Hercules Tasmanian Copper deal.
Of course, in this his ally was Bowes Kelly,
but Tullock’s enthusiastic work was invalu-
able, and whatever may be the end of the
Read-Rosebery combination no one did more
to push it through. Tullock leaves another
show, run principally by himself. This
is the Mount Lindsay tin-mine, back from
Zeehan. No one will miss Tullock more
than the women and kiddies along the wide
stretch of the West Coast, for his big trunk
always had some little gift to go to them
with a cheery greeting.
* * * *
Occidental (Cobar) held its usual half-
yearly meeting the other day, and the re-
ports submitted did not cause much delight
amongst shareholders. The position, or por-
tion of it, as given by the mine manager,
runs in this strain :
Like all plants £hat have been built up, a bit now
and a bit at another time, it is of a nondescript
character; a portion is quite modern and other parts
just as old-fashioned, and all of it expensive to run.
The slimes plant is in the best condition. The high-speed
engines driving the generators are in bad order, the
same remarks applying to nearly every steam and
air valve on the mine.... The conditions of the sur-
face and underground workings are both in an un-
satisfactory condition.
The present position is that all work is sus-
pended and the mine becoming flooded, which
will not improve matters; and the directors
patiently await a reply from the Government
re an application for a loan of £IO,OOO to
enable them to re-start the mine. It is
rumored that, provided the Government ad-
vances the money, the co. will endeavor to
raise a similar amount by debentures.
At the meeting fresh blood was put
forward for a seat on the directorate, but
was defeated, so apparently the majority of
shareholders are quite satisfied to allow the
affairs of the co. to be run by the old crowd.
But now the taxpayer has been approached
to put up some money (apparently to be
handled by the same directorate) it’s up to
the Government to protect the taxpayer, and,
first of all, insist on a report being furnished
by the best available expert, and some defi-
nite scheme or policy outlined for the future
working of the property. If this is not done
and acted upon, when the co. does again get
to work it is not unlikely that matters may
before very long again drift into the same
unsatisfactory position that exists to-day.
* * * *
Latest information about the old Sunny
Corner, mine (N.S.W.), which has resur-
rected itself in earnest, shows that the lower
level is to be unwatered to allow of access to
a big body of ore. The cleaning up and re-
timbering of the old workings will allow of
more than the present 100 tons of stone a
week being broken. Wilkinson and party
are doing the work thoroughly, and are
making good profits eti route. The old show
was first worked _as far back as 1875, but
was shut down 25 years ago because of the
presence of complex sulphide ore, and for 20
years everybody agreed that the stone was
too refractory. But when the 1000 tons of
ore at grass were tested at Cockle Creek the
value of the proposition was revealed. The
stone from No. 4 tunnel, now being worked,
gives 260 z. silver, 6dwt. gold, 12 p.c. lead, 14
p.c. zinc, and 2.5 p.c. copper. Some of the
assays have been as high as 520 z. silver and
7dwt. gold.
* * * *
While the Mt. Dudley co. is preparing to
put through the stone taken from the reef on
its leases three miles from Turnkey (N.S.W.),
Archie MclVellar, who discovered the make
five years ago, has been busy pro-
specting in other parts of the same locality.
He lias been rewarded by the discovery of a
promising looking reef. The formation has
been traced some distance—the reefs in this
part of the old gold-mining district have the
habit of showing out —and hand crushings
have given good prospects. The scene of the
find is the old Kempfield copper leases, which
were worked for years. The main shaft
actually struck the reef without arousing
suspicions. All the likely-looking ground has
been taken up.
* * * *
Mammoth molybdenit,. (N.S.W.) lias fin-
ished carting the parts for its second 10-liead
of stamps, and is now busy installing the
plant. The electric-power plant has been added
to in preparation for a third 10-head set later.
The battery is still working three shifts, but
the results of recent crushings have not
been disclosed. The B. H. Prop, has sent
along a staff for the prospecting of the leases
taken over from the Mammoth under option,
and has put up an assay office and quarters.
Mount Tennyson is. also active, the erection
of the co.’s plant being well under way. The
other shows on the field are not doing any-
thing worth mentioning.
* * * *
For some time Carpatliia (N.S.W.) has fed
its battery mostly on selected ore from a rich
tin shoot, so with a booming metal market
it isn’t surprising that the profit for the
half-year to July 31 should work out at
£11,630, which is really a fine return from
108 tons concentrates. Together with £3146
brought forward there was £14,776 available,
and £7806 was distributed in dividends. The
directors provided £6500 for the erection of
the mill at Ardletlian and the sinking of the
new shaft, s 0 on July 31 there was £470 to
go on with. Since the close of the term the
show has maintained yields and shown a pro-
fit at the rate of £2OOO a month.
* * * *
The old Jingellic tin and wolfram show
in the Albury district (N.S.W.) has been
taken up again by an enterprising syndicate.
The claim is situated on a high hill, and the
lode, which lias been sunk on to a depth of
200 ft., can be economically ■worked at a
much greater depth by tunnelling. The
lode at the bottom of the old shaft is lift,
wide, and appears to contain a mixture of
tin and wolfram in nearly equal proportions.
* * * *
Avoca tin (N.S.W.), having had indiffer-
ent luck in boring Kangaroo Flat, has pur-
chased the Stannum co.’s leases. The pur-
chase price is £2500, and payment is to be
made by handing over to the vendors 25 per
cent, of the gross value of the tin recovered.
* * * *
Bendigo Amalgamated is elated over a
strike at the Constellation. This is next
door to the Golden Pyke and the Golden Age,
and so far has been one of the disappoint-
ments of the big area held by the co. Mac-
Duff knocked £27,000 out in divs. from a
1200 ft. formation, but left alone the saddles
overhead. Constellation put out a long
crosscut at 723 ft., but didn’t go out far
enough. Now the final shot of the Amal-
gamated shows the presence of a treble folded
bit of country in which lies a big saddle
formation. The cap carries 17ft. of quartz.
Of that 10ft. is on the east side, and a trial
lot thence went over sdwt., while the balance
on the west side went so well that an aver-
age of Bdwt. was recorded. The stone is
more to the taste of Bendigo critics than any
the co. has yet developed, and with the
mine so well opened up nearby it should not
be long before north and south drives will
show that the long-expected has turned up
in this Constellation make of stone. If so,
there is a run of 2000 ft. to cut up.
* * * *
Barrister Morley and a Gippsland crowd
are out to stir up the Dalmayne colliery
(Tas.). What stands out in that water-
logged concern is its debenture debt of
£45,000 and the heavy paid-up capital against
subscribed cash. The till is becoming empty,
and Morley has been letting light in on
some of the deals carried through in the past.
Seemingly he has been squeezing water out
of some of those who loaded up heavily with
paid-ups at the original float or when de-
bentures had to be placed. Fear, if
Morley’s advice that the Attorney-General be
asked to wash the linen, that the co. could not
raise the wind led to appeals, at the
meeting the other day, to let bygones
be bygones. Morley as a director represents
the debenture-holders, but he is also a
trustee for the shareholders. Most people
think Dalmayne needs a wash-up. It could
not be much more hard-up than it is; and
the chances of getting fresh capital are
pretty blue, unless the public gains confidence
in the show.
* * * *
From Westonia: Stuckey unexpectedly re-
sumed control of the Edna May Deeps on
September 10, and Campbell Shaw, who had
been appointed manager only a few weeks
previously on the recommendation of the
Westralian Chamber of Mines, was handed
three months’ salary. The official reason
given for Shaw’s sudden retirement is that
he employed the surveyor on the adjoining
Central mine to measure up Deeps ore
reserves, but this excuse is not regarded here
as the real one. The mine is looking better;
but the sinking of anew shaft, which will
absorb a lot of money, is reckoned to be
inevitable.
*** * ,
At last Mararoa (W.A.) has taken over
the Light of Asia, at Cue. The co. applied
to the Federal Treasurer for a transfer three
months ago, but while the Department was
considering the matter, the vendors took a
further £6OOO worth of gold out of the
ground. Since the vendors acquired the mine
in 1913 it lias yielded over 20,0000 z. gold,
and the tailings, of which there are estimated
to be about 20,000 tons, are reckoned to
assay 4Mwt. per ton. The whole of the ore
recently extracted from the property came
from a winze below the bottom level at
310 ft., and at this point the reef is said to
be all right.
* * * »
“Oof Bird” : Promoters of boring for oil
ventures are bobbing up everywhere in the
West, partly as a result of Meudell’s and
Strevens’ visit, and despite the report of
Walter English, the Yankee expert, who
positively declared there is no oil. There
is much talk of the prospects of petroleum
being found around the Leeuwin, and some
of the local papers are not behind in saying
something more than circumstances war-
rant. Another locality greatly fancied is
the Warren River. Some years ago a ven-
turesome co. had a drill put down, but
after boring for the best part of 1800 ft.
through sea-sand the quest was abandoned.
It is unlikely that any more Westralian
capital will be found to drill there again.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia shareholders may have to
struggle along with smaller dividends for
some time to come. In breaking the news
chairman Richards explained that the mine
was all right, but owing to unfavorable work-
ing conditions, much ore of low grade, which
would not bear the present cost of mining
and treatment, had necessarily to be left
standing in the workings. The result is that
the reserves, which 12 months ago were
reckoned to be 4$ years ahead of the mill,
were now estimated at only a little over 3|
years’ supply. One satisfactory feature
about the mine was that payable values
were continuing at depth.
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) had its annual
roll-up in London the other day, when the
usual story was told shareholders to the
effect that circumstances still did not justify
the co. getting rid of tributors and undertak-
ing development on its own account. Sev-
eral new ventures were dangled before the
Board during the year; but not one was
considered worth a trial. Cash in hand
at date of balance amounted to £6262, or
about £I2OO less than it was 12 months ago.’
* * * *
Eastern option hunters are having another
look at Coolgardie (W.A.). One Victorian
co. has decided to do a little prospecting in
the. Prosperity lease, another has its eye on
Griffiths’ mine, while others are nibbling at
one or two shows in the vicinity of Bayley’s
Find. Twenty miles away at Kunanalling,
the Turn of the Tide is in the hands of a
Melbourne option syndicate, and there is
said to be a good chance of a co. being formed
to work the property.
* * ' *• *
In August Queensland got down to a
yield of 10,5370 z. fine gold, compared with
17.5580 z. for August, 1917. The slump is
partly due. to the closing down of the Scot
tish Gympie, which used to crush 8000 tons
a month, and the played-out condition of
Charters Towers, which last month yielded
only 8950 z. The Brilliant Extended, which
in its palmy days used to crush 5000 tons
a month, has withdrawn the pumps, and will
shortly make a final clean-up preparatory
to voluntary liquidation.
* *- * *
The Consolation tin show, near Watson-
ville (N.Q.), provides an example of what
a boom market can do. From an open cut.
40ft. deep, 20ft. wide and 40ft. long, eight
men and a boy have been raising and treat-
ing 60 tons 1 p.c. ore per week. The total
so far crushed by the Bischoff mill, which
has been rented by the claim-holders, is 950
£2916 tons concentrates worth
* * * *
Seven Australian smelteries turned out 2900
tons copper during August. Mount Morgan
gave 587 tons (fine) ; Wallaroo and Moonta,
t»18; Plampden, 614 (fine); Cuthbert, 345
(blister); Elliott, 360; Lyell, 312 (fine);
and C.S.A., 187 (blister). Although Hamp-
den is the largest producer it has been 15
months oft the dividend list.
(Continued on page 82.)


THE AIR MAN MAKES GOOD.
“Mr. Hughes has made arrangements by which ‘1914’ men will be granted home leave. table.


THE DEAF HEAR!
The Joy and Happiness
of perfect hearing are
only appreciated by
those who have lost it.
The
Mears Earphone
makes it yqurs. The
Latest Model 96-Tone
Mears Earphone
In the hollow of the
hand or attached to
ear with light head
band.
with its great range of
tone and power, can be regulated by a touch
of the finger to suit the hearing for every
occasion, and for all stages of deafness.
The MEARS EARPHONE catches and inten-
sifies even the least whisper, and enables the
deaf to hear lectures, sermons and plays clear-
ly and distinctly. Small, compact, and incon-
spicuous. The MEARS EARPHONE is
recommended by leading Aurists, and many
prominent Australian citizens have had the
Mears Earphone in daily use for Seven
Years, with continued satisfaction.
A Lengthy Guarantee with each Instrument
FREE TRIAL !
Call and test it, or write for booklet post free.
The Mears Earphone Co., Bernard’s Bldgs.,
Tel. 3916 City. 387 George Street, Sydney.
M.
NURSE DUGGAN.
Nurse Duggan, of 195 Cowper Street, Waverley, writes that
Clements Tonic is a remarkable medicine for convalescent people.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
"I am sending yon permission to use and advertise as you wish my thanks to Clements Tonic.
“My daughter was taking it for some time, and it improved her nerves so much that I recommend it to
any of my patients or friends.
“I have been nursing for the past 13 years, arid had an extensive practice in South Africa (Johannesburg)
and am professionally known in nursing circles to -day in Sydney. I have a very great and good opinion of your
medicine.
“Yours faithfully,
This letter is but one of hundreds. This medicine gives new stomach strength,
appetite, regular bowel action, good rest and health, and new strength after Dengue
or Typhoid Fever, Operations or Wasting Illness.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in Australia and New Zealand.
Clements Tonic Ltd.. Rozelle, N.S.W.
fg
*AVCI“OI II IHD
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
Driver Harry Dalziel, of Atherton, is the
first North Queenslander to hang the V.C. to
his tunic. He pulled on khaki at Cairns in
1915, and won the coveted decoration by
going for a Fritz machine-gun crew single-
A NON-STARTUP.
HE : “No, this ballot is no good to me. I
like a run for my money, you know.”
SHE : “What you mean is a run for your life,
don't you?”
handed. He captured or accounted for every
member of it, and so enabled his mates to
move on in attack. He is another weakling
who found the awful Bananaland climate a
sapper of energy.
George Mead, the Wesley College school-
master who before the war stood as a
Laborite for the Federal electorate of
Balaclava (Vic.) and afterwards for the
equally old and crusted St. Ivilda State seat
(included in Balaclava), is dead at 44. He
was a brother of Mrs. Frank Tudor, and
therefore received some encouragement from
the party to go ahead in politics; but, though
he battled gamely enough, he never got fur-
ther than to secure a term as president of the
P.L.C. executive. Mead’s platform- style was
against him. He had a non-persuasive man-
ner and a wooden voice; also, he failed to
keep his eye on the clock. A schoolmaster
with a hardwood voice who doesn’t keep his
eye on the clock hasn’t much of a show in
politics these days.
“Mustard Gold” : Casually arrived on the
Perth landscape two ancient and fading poli-
ticians —A. E. Morgans and Ed-
ward Wittenoom. Morgans made
a heap of money out of the
Westralia Mt. Morgans mine in
its good days when the lode at
the 200 ft. level bulged 100 ft.
wide and crushed over an ounce
per ton. He was managing
director of the controlling Eng-
lish co., and son Percy, who
afterwards died in Mexico in a
similar capacity, was manager.
The town of Morgans is named
after the old man, who acquired
enough fame in the locality to
find a seat in Parliament and
subsequently the position of
Premier. For several years now
lie has kept out of politics alto-
gether. Wittenoom, close on a
couple of decades back, was
Minister for Mines, and got him-
self burnt in efligy by a furious
crowd of alluvial miners, who
had staked a lease known as the
Ivanlioe Venture, and were
blocked from getting into deep
ground where the slugs were by
a regulation confining working operations to
the limit of 10ft. from surface. The gold-
fields labelled Wittenoon “Ten-Foot Ned.”
William Patrick Plunkett, a solicitor of
35 years’ standing, who died last week at
Darling Point, Sydney, was a son of IV. E.
Plunkett, for many years Under-Secretary
for the Justice Department, and a grandson
of Captain Plunkett, of the 80th Regiment,
who became police-magistrate at Goulburn
(N.S.W.), and who claimed cousinship with
John Hubert Plunkett, the old-time Imperial
Attorney-General. W. I’. Plunkett’s mother
was a daughter of Captain Crook, a one-time
Sydney harbor-master, and bis wife was a
sister of Tom Lawry, of Kirribilli Point.
W. P. Plunkett served articles with the old-
time firm of Ellis and Makinson, in which
he eventually became a partner.
“John McC.”: Taking a weii-earned fur-
lough in Sydney, Rev. John Done, missioner
in charge of .the Torres Strait
Islands and fine seaman. Four
years ago the London Mission-
ary Society, which had had
charge of the souls of the black
brethren in the region between
Cape York and Papua for many
years, made over its interests to
the Anglican Board of Missions,
and Done (pronounced Doane)
was placed in charge. There
is nothing of the. stodgy, com-
monplace parson about this
shepherd. He is a man of parts
who can do anything from build-
ing a church with native
materials to sailing the mission
lugger Herald. Since he started
chasing the Devil out of the
Islands into Europe he has won
a great respect from the natives;
and natives are no mean judges
of character —especially since
they have had time to study it.
There was a time when charac-
ter went up in steam, and the
missionary was judged merely
by his shank-bone.
“Pick”: A good Australian
soldier entered his last dugout,
when on September 4 Sergeant
Christie Hayden had a military
funeral at Bungendore
(N.S.W.). He served in South
Africa, and on one occasion,
from behind a dead horse, he
alone held at bay an attacking
party until his officer worked a
jambed leg from under a fallen
horse. When Hell slopped over
in Europe Hayden left wife and kiddies to
strike again for the Empire. Two years ago
he returned home a lame and broken man.
He was 41 when he went west.
Dr. Philip Sydney Jones, K. 8., of Sydney,
who died last week at 82 years, was born in
Pitt-street in 1836. He was a son of David
Jones, who immigrated to Tasmania from
Landiloxawar, Cartnarthen (Wales). He
opened business in Hobart Town with one
Appleton, but in 1835 the partners came to
Sydney and opened on the site now covered
by Farmer and Co. When they separated
Appleton made a start in Pitt-street, and
Jones removed into George-street, on the cor-
ner of Barrack-street, where the business is
still carried on. The recently-dead medico
was educated at University College, London,
where he took his M.B- in ’59 and his M.D.
in ’6O. After a turn at Uni. College Hospi-
tal, London, and a look in at Paris, he
returned to Sydney in 1861, and was for 12
years surgeon to the Sydney Infirmary. He
held many important offices, including that
of Vice-Chancellor of Sydney University, of
WAR HARDSHIPS.
“Drastic economy in paper proposed.”—Announce-
ment, by Controller.
“ 'Orace! You’ll ’arc to redooce ycr hulk.
That there blanket won't- cover us both!”
which he was a Fellow. He retired from
general practice 40 years ago, and devoted
himself to consulting work. Though his
father was an M.L.C. the son did not inter-
est himself in politics.
W. F. Ilayley, who runs the Commercial
Bank at Wellington (N.S.W.), has just
covered his first half-century of service. He
joined the show in Sydney on September 1,
1868, and after wandering round the country
put in time handling coin on the old Hill
End goldfield, when there were 54 pubs to
satisfy thousands of miners. Now there are
only two bars. Ilayley did 23 years at Lith-
gow, and has been stationed at Wellington
since 1902.
“Melb”: County Court Judge Woinarski’s
appointment gives general satisfaction. His
father was an exiled Polish patriot, and be-
came lessee of advertising on the Victorian
Railways, where he preceded Nat Levi. He
gave his five sons a tiptop education in the
Melbourne Church of England Grammar.
The new judge won high University distinc-
tion, after passing under the ferrules of
headmasters Bromby and Morris. One of
his brothers is a leading physician. As
Crown Prosecutor, Woinarski’s last job was
putting Cook, the holder-up of a swag belong-
ing to the Government Printing Office, in
his place.
J. H. Stewart, of Mt. Pleasant estate,
Bathurst (N.S.W.), has passed the 93-year
peg with reasonable prospects of bagging
the century before he hands over his remain-
ing 2200 acres and palatial residence to some
of the family who have not already had a
cut out of the original 15,000 acres in the
estate. Just how the estate came about has
been the subject of a lot of myth. Stewart’s
father, who came to Australia in 1825, had
a written authority to select 3000 acres any-
where as a reward for his service in the
Napoleonic campaign in Spain and services
in the West Indies and Canada. Crossing
the mountains soon after his arrival,
Stewart, who held the l’ank of Major-General
as well as the job of Lieut.-Governor (he
was actually Governor for three iveeks),
chose 3000 acres on the bank of the Mac-
quarie, half a dozen miles from the present
Bathurst. Later on he annexed the remainder
of the old parish, and thus acquired the
15,000 acres which were recently cut up among
the present Stewarts, Athol receiving the
biggest cut in 10.000. since sold to Reid, of
Dunkeld, for £50,000. The old Stewart
house, right on the river, built with convict
labor, is still standing. When the old man
died in ’54, at the age of 85 years, the son
erected an obelisk on the top of Mt. Pleasant,
which is visible any clear day from selected
points 50 miles away.
“Snell”: George Reid opened Bill
Dyson’s exhibition of caricatures in
Melbourne just before the caricaturist left
for England, and G.R. in a subsequent heart-
to-heart talk admitted : “I’m not a self-made
man. ‘Hop,’ of The Bulletin, made me.
One day, some years ago. journeying to Mel-
bourne, I got out at a wayside station, and
a workman on the platform called out to a
friend, ‘lt’s that fat blanker outer The Bul-
letin.’ ‘Yes,’ said the other, ‘but not as
good as “Hop’s.” ’ You see, ‘Hop’s’ was the
original; I was a base imitation!” George
continued: “In Sydney one day a paper
sent an artist to get a sitting. I
simply hated the drawing he made of me.
and said so. It was execrable, and made me
look like a dissipated balloon. The artist was
not in the least perturbed by my outburst.
‘I tell you straight,’ he said, ‘you’d better not
kick about it up at the office, or they’ll pub-
lish a photograph!’” Reid loathed his cari-
catures ; they always hurt him. “Nobody
can draw me,” he complained to a Melbourne
Town Hall audience, and a coarse brute in
the orchestra chairs audibly suggested: “Try
a poulterer !” Dyson had a commission to “do”
George Reid for his colored caricature scheme
in London World, but the sitter’s approval
of the drawing was necessary. That was the
trial of Dyson’s young life. George insisted
on being nice and neat, and compara-
tively slim, but finally Tiie World backed
up the caricaturist’s idea of what Reid was
as against George’s idea of what Reid should
have been, and our Pie Commissioner was
undisguisedly furious. “A gross exaggera-
tion,” he said; “a gross exaggeration.”
“Shall we use that for the motto?” asked
the artist sweetly.
Samuel Cohen, father of the Speaker of
the N. S. Wales Assembly, who died recently
at Sydney, aged 88, came to N. S. Wales in
1851, and after a year in Newcastle went to
the Clarence River district, where he re-
mained for close upon half a century. There
were 13 children in his family, of which 10
survive.
Professor Mackay, a son of old G. E.
Mackay, the Albury breeder of Shorthorn
cattle, was intended for the station until
lie won a Melbourne University scholarship
and collected the Dixon scholarship. Attain-
ing the M.I.C.E. tag, he made a specialty of
machine designing. The gold-dredging boom
inveigled him to Maoriland in ’99, and sub-
sequently to N. S. Wales, where lie linked
up with the Australian Gold Dredging Co.,
and acted as engineer for its many flotations
both in the Ma State and Queensland. He
designed the machinery for Warring and
Rawden’s ill-fated Adelaide Outer Harbor
contract, in conjunc-
tion with George Hig-
gins, and went to his
present job in the
Speck when the crash
came. It was Mite
who induced Tassy’s
University to install
the high-class wood-
testing plant which is
now ascertaining the
suitability of Austra-
lian timbers for aero-
plane construction.
Maekay’s Shorthorn
herd is Tasmania’s
best and biggest. Rom-
ney sheep, too, from
his runs are regular
winners at the princi-
pal Tasmanian and
mainland shows, and
his own typical Aus-
tralian figure, per-
sonality and versatil-
ity camouflage the
University professor
and student.
J. H. MAC KAY,
M.C.E., Professor of
Engineering, Tas.
University.
“Dot-Dash” : Passed out recently in Vic-
toria T. R. James, the man who sent the
first telegraphic message in. Australia. Then
a youth of 20, he was the first manager of
the Victorian Telegraph Department, and
made the wire talk on March 3, 1554.
GEORGE V. AT SPELL-OH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“George V. only smokes cigarettes in public, but
when the day’s official tasks are done he likes to
get into an old coat, fill an old pipe, which his sister
carved, and enjoy an hour’s quiet.” —American paper.
God save the king! The day’s dull round of work
Is over, and he leaves the tinsel show.
No longer need he talk, or bow, or smirk,
Or watch the loyal, dull procession go.
Bring the big pipe. Produce the easy coat,
Frayed at the sleeves and worn about the neck.
It is the hour of peace. Let all men note,
A bloke’s at home, the king is not on deck.
In lands where now they know just how it feels
To take a licking after years of brag,
The ancient pantomime (in fifteen reels)
Must rage forever without droop or sag.
Whate’er their inclinations, kings must be
Part of the show from morning-tea till night,
Prancing : n emblematic heraldry
As gilded clowns in all the people’s sight.
There a king’s boots are laced to bugle notes,
His pants are buttoned to the beat of drums;
The golden braid upon his calmest coats
Shrieks to the world his splendor as he comes
Out of his bathroom. Pale press-agents throng
The staircase to observe his whiskers’ pose,
While tame court, poets make a moving song
To hail the tender tinting of his nose.
Yet there are kings and kings. Old orders change.
The world-museum still has many shelves.
From mob to monarch future eyes shall range;
And, as exhibits, we are queer ourselves.
God save all blokes! When the big pipes draw free
And tasks are done and ragged coats feel good,
’Tis soothing through the curling smoke to see
A king-bloke suited to a plain bloke’s mood.
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


HE Character and Service of
“Austral’ Tailoring stands
relatively higher to-day in the
estimation of Austral’s well-dressed men
than ever before.
“Austral” Tailoring Standards of
Ouality have been steadfastly rnain-
tamed, despite the effects ol the rising
price of wool and woollen piece goods,
which has long continued and still goes on.
An “Austral” Sac Suit to Order not
only looks as good as it is, but proves
as good as it looks through' every
of wear.
Those men who live within a distance which enables
them to make a visit to our stoies may leam
all they want to know by a personal inspection
of the New Season’s Suitings, and a chat about
the styles with one or other of our staff of Kxpert
Cutters, who are all day at their service.
“Austral" Sac Suits to Measure
75,/-, 85|-, 95/-, 105/-, 115/-.
12 61-, 147/-, 168/-
%
K
.V '
i
MW®
11
m
m
mi
mm
M
H
at
V-.
r
i
v V'
I
i
H
1
m
m
lit
m
mm
y: m
U
:v ; ,"
,x*
•- &
ssB2 3
... v
v
v- s
■
>v •'■
it
: e
1
; y:'
1
;r*.
j§glilli
Wm
I
im
■
H
ms
'< >•;
4\t
&
7*j*
r' r
■KJS!
H
a
s?
S#s
va v*
m
lw
IS
r7 Vf* l ,
<s»
ags
>s»
MS
11
I i
yt»>
m
YY. !
r
S
//
w\
--■-1
r^4f^
"^*5P
*y>
P
■\-r
£
r/.
■>
V '
SOSS
m
m
■.--
m
\
IF YOU CANNOT ENLIST—INVEST.
BUY A WAR LOAN BOND TO=DAY.
We Stock Everything for Men’s and Boys’ Wear
and pay carriage on all Country Orders.
Pioneer Distributors of Australian Goods,
484-490 George St., 3-17 Royal Arcade,
304-306 George St. ( - N> s“ r SYDNEY.
Country Customers and those who live at a
distance or find it inconvenient to call will be
interested and pleased also by an inspection of
the patterns at their leisure and in their own
homes. To any address we send, post free,
complete ranges of patterns, with measurement-
forms and tape, which make it simple and
quite safe to send an order by post.


ZANETIC Penduplicating Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
1
N&
s
Tonic Salt FOR
fham Sf&tm ProducoMi wuska M rrJrsm/Ms & T/trougfioutMe Cemmonutealth
A
m
Society
PENEOLD'S
WINES
EXPERT ADVICE.
“Do you think that stimulants will hurt me,
Doctor?”
“Not if you leave them alone.”
One Judd, in a recent deliverance in Syd-
ney, classed the British, French and Aus-
trian flags together as representing
“certain geographical limits which are
the concern of the ruling classes.”
Which is very characteristic. France,
for example, is a rather remarkable
country. The Government confers no titles
save military ones. The survivors of the old
nobility seldom use their titles, and are
merged in the mass of the people. There is
manhood suffrage for the Lower House and
suffrage with an age qualification for the
Senate. There is no property qualification
for any office. Princes of the old French
dynasties are disqualified for Parliamentary
membership. The law which subdivides
the deceased’s property among the child-
ren has made France a land of small
farming landowners, and it has made big for-
tunes very rare and temporary affairs. The
Presidents are men of the people, and so are
the diplomatists, though in most countries
diplomacy is the surest refuge of the aris-
tocracy. (In Germany every diplomat is of
“noble” blood, as a matter of course.) Yet to
the people like Judd every land which isn’t
ruled by dictators with their red flag and
their passion for upheaval is a prey to the
“ruling classes,” and its boundaries are main-
tained by them alone in their own exclusive in-
terests. The fact that they may be main-
tained by a passionate love of country and
of race is a sealed book to the international
asses who want to bind mankind in the
bonds of a common hatred towards all who
don’t subscribe to the red-flag doctrine and
submit to be Prussianised by the drill-
master. When next the color question
comes up in Australia, which may be soon,
it will arise in a new form. The present-day
Labor leaders object to the Asiatic as a
cheap indentured serf of the capitalist—
object as strenuously as ever. But the indi-
vidual colored man who is willing to sub-
scribe to the union law has become an
oppressed brother and one to be welcomed.
To the up-to-date “militant” the pride of
country and of race are dead things, and
boundaries which used to be regarded as use-
ful for keeping white and black apart are
mere wicked devices of the “ruling classes.”
There is too much dashed brotherhood, of a
sort, about the new unionism.
* * * #
“Karee”: Ali Hussein Azwad, driver in
the Camel Transport Corps, could speak
Arabic plus what he fondly imagined to be
French, but he owned a father-in-law, who,
being a “dirikum guide” by trade, wrote the
following English letter, brought to me for
interpretation, by the aforesaid Ali: —
To my dare son in law, Alii Hassan Aswed, be-
loved. First 1 send you may best salaam, and I
kiss your eyes. Your mother, Om Atrf, also kisses
your eyes, and Mrs. Kezomak also sends. Your
daughter, Bint Yahabibtee, kisses your eyes. Should
you enquire after our health, thank God I can tell
you we are all in health, and I pray God we may go
to so. Your letter we have received. Your mother
kisses your eyes and Abdoo kisses both your hands.
Your brother, Ebn Khelb Tesini Mara, wife have
died (may your life be long), but, before dying, she
brought into the world a child. The child also has
gone blazes. What can I say of the decrees of
Allah? Your brother, Mahrass, has also been taken
a soldier. We pray God and Colonel, he preserved.
But his wife she say it’s up to putty. Every boddy
sends salaams. Everybody kisses your hands and ail
your feet. God keep you from danger! Your lovely
father, Mahmoud el Maknoon.
* * * #
“Karee”: There’s no fool like a borrower.
An Arab, after painting the town red with
what little he had, and being
consequently stone-broke,
approached the local Shylock
for the loan of 4 P.T. Egyp-
tian to carry on with. Uncle
promptly lent him a 4 P.T.
on his new galabieh, redeem-
able on payment of 10 P.T.
cash within a month. Mah-
moud, pleased with such
modest terms, joyfully dis-
robed, and was going on his
way when Moses called him
back and spoke unto him
softly thus: “Whither goest
thou? To a low den, where
you will poison your man-
hood with 4 P.T. worth of
hashish and ruin your liver?
Give me that 4 P.T., Oh my
son, and you can bring me
the balance of 6 P.T. you
owe me next month, when I
will hand you your garment,
after you pay me. for the
disinfection of same. I have
spoken.” And Mahmoud
meekly returned the coin
and went his way, with a
dim suspicion in his A-h.p. brain that some-
thing was amiss somewhere.
* * *
“Beryl”: A R.11.A. battery attached to
one of our Australian Divisions was very
unlucky on a recent dust-up. Some little
time afterwards they pulled in and parked
their guns on a Supply Depot, run by
Aussies. The O.C. Supplies went and re-
monstrated with the O.C. Battery, who
replied that it was quite all right. “The
Battery is not going to steal the Depot,”
he concluded testily. The Australian
answered that what was troubling him was
not so much anything from the dump being
stolen, but he thought the Battery was tak-
ing a great risk of losing its guns again!
Then the whole massed bands played.
TRANSPARENT.
“A flimsy dress like that is merely a trick to attract attention .”
“ M'yes; anyone can see through it.”
“Harry J.”: It’s very rarely you can get
a digger to state his real reasons for enlist-
ing, and no matter how patriotic an Aussie
is he’ll seldom tell you that it was love of
country that induced him to take up arms.
One chap dropped his camouflage the day
he and a few more of us went out to se.e the
Pyramids. When we’d got fairly close to
them we paused and had a good look. “Well
I’m !” he said. “To think that I left
the missus and kids and came all this way
just to look at those blanked stone-heaps.
Why, I thought they were something won-
derful to see.” But the best I heard was
from a little old chap who only “wangled”
into khaki on account of his having two
sons at the Front. He looked about 60,
snow-white, and with the subdued, docile look
of the figure that represents Henpeck in
illustrated jokes. “What made you take it
into your head to come to the war, Bill?”
I asked him one day. “Well,” he said, “to
tell you the truth I joined up to get a bit o’
peace.” That’s what we all did in a sense;
but I know Bill didn’t mean it in that sense,
because I’d seen his wife at the camp one
day.
* * * *' .
“Gouger”: A. few days after the fall of
Beersheba our brigade was pushing the Turk-
ish rearguard hard on the extreme right
flank. For three days we had been pestered
by snipers harrying our rear. On the fourth
morning a persistent marksman had shot;
three of our troop horses, and finally a man
through the heart. Six of us were told off to
settle him. We started him from among the
rocks on a little hill to our right, but not
before he had shot another man through the
thigh and killed another horse. He proved
to be a Bedouin, and he made straight for
the Turkish lines. But we galloped him off,
and in despair he turned and jumped down a
large dry well-hole. These holes are hewn
out of the solid rock, the opening being just
large enough for a man’s body to
go down, but widening out into a
considerable chamber underneath. One
of our hot-headed lads galloped up,
jumped from his horse and before we could
stop him peered down the narrow hole. Imme-
diately he was shot through the head. It was
impossible for us to lean over and shoot
down, because we were then outlined against
the blue sky—an unmissable target to the
rifleman in the dark chamber below. We called
out in Arabic for him to come up, but the
only reply was a hoarse snarl. So we laid
aside our rifles, and each man collected a
huge,pile of stones. We stood a little away
from the hole, and then methodically com-
menced to throw the stones in. Except for
the steadily falling rocks there was silence
for half an hourthen the man below com-
menced to shoot upward as the stones closed
around him. The chamber below was 14ft.
deep, but in an hour’s time we had nearly
filled it. The gentleman below must have
begun to climb on the heap as the stones
gradually filled the chamber, because sud-
denly his rifle muzzle showed out above the
small opening. He was trying to hold the
gun so that his bullets might chance to hit
SHE MAY HAVE MEANT IT.
HE: “So you — axe — think marriage is a
failure?”
SHE : "Decidedlxj.”
HE: “But don't — er — i ton think there are
exceptions to the rule?”
SHE : “I’d take good care there would be no
exception taken to my rule.”
one of us, but we held ourselves very low and
threw in the stones faster. The man fired
until his arms must have been wedged tight
with the stones ; but he never surrendered.
The last we saw was liis rifle muzzle, now
silently showing over the edge of the hole.
Soon that was covered, and we came away.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE FIDDLE AND THE CROWD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the day was at its middle,
Tired of limb and slow of pace,
Came a fiddler with his fiddle
To a crowded market-place;
Lying, cheating, boasting, bragging,
Men and women walked together;
Heads were nodding, tongues were wagging,
Talk there was of trade and weather,
Talk there was of man’s enslavement
To the tyrants, Toil and Worry;
Yet the fiddle on the pavement
Minding not the noise and hurry,
Singing low and singing loud—•
Spoke in music to the crowd.
Said the fiddle —
“Pause and listen ;
Can’t you hear the waters running
Down the mossy mountain valleys?
Don’t you see the lyre-bird sunning
Glossy plumes in fronded alleys?
Life is glory, life is glamor!”
Said the fiddle
In the middle
Of the tumult and the clamor.
Though unheeded seemed the fiddle,
Bidding each and all rejoice,
When the day was at its middle,
Yet beneath its magic voice,
Laughing, sobbing, teasing, fretting—
Men and women met together,
S'miled to find themselves forgetting
Troublous thoughts of trade and weather;
One bethought him of a cavern
Cool and sweet with running water,
And another of a tavern
And a tavern-keeper’s daughter—
Ale to drink and lips to kiss—
’Twits the fiddle did all this!
Said the fiddle—•
“Hush and hearken
To the sofig that I am singing,
For it is a song entrancing.
Telling now of gladness ringing,
Telling now of children dancing;
Life is music, life is glamor.”
Said the fiddle
In the middle
Of the tumult and the clamor.
N.S.W.
R. Q.


.
" '~vV
raßtilMl
-s 3ft >.-.
pXf 1 : ' /Xplll 11l IBtBI
.. §
Braver
IH
:
-
M T .
.
mm
mmm
mM
a
■
m, " 'v/ *
:
A
■
1
m ■
' '
- PP ''
1 ;a—
-| t s *
S' it^^mll
mi. ' 'MfflMm'J' *„ '
if) _
;:: :■■■'■'
H
P i
mm
i V
M
HI
ill
RilF
r
:• ;■'■■ :
a
m m
V
11
MHi
■■l
§§ Mm §#fgl pi §ll.
'mm
l ••
»»S'
*■>•. ■ ■ .... V •- y ‘
W!S9mBr
13
w mm
.
■
«§|Pfg? ,
"If i
How World - wide Goodyear
saves Money for the Motorist
World-wide sale means tremendous buying
of raw materials —buying to the best
advantage.
World-wide sales means enormous pro-
duction keeping factory overhead to the
minimum per tyre.
Lower cost per mile and greater satisfaction are the
causes of world-wide sale. But these Goodyear
superiorities have climbed with Goodyear sales. The
wider and greater the demand for Goodyear Tyres
the better we are able to make them.
The story of the far-flung Goodyear institution reads like a
romance. Like the English language, the sign of the winged
foot has travelled the world around. Because millions of
motorists have chosen Goodyears as better value tyres, it
has been necessary to establish over 100 wholesale distributing
centres throughout the world. These wholesale centres
supply the Service Stations who serve the motorists of every
race and clime.
Again, the production of better tyres means constant and
costly experimental work. It means keeping high-salaried
chemists and engineers continuously working on formulas and
methods of manufacture. If Goodyear produced only a
few thousand tyres, each tyre’s share of this cost would be
high. But spread over millions of tyres it becomes so small
as to be less than one per cent, of the cost of each tyre.
That is one of the principal reasons why Goodyear is such a
vastly superior equipment for your car.
TO THE LIMIT OF YOUR RESOURCES
INVEST IN THE SEVENTH WAR LOAN
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES.
DEALERS AND SERVICE STATIONS EVERYWHERE.


Imagine American family joy
For a “glory girl” or a “glory boy,”
Born of distinction, no need to ask why,
Born on the “glorious fourth of July.”
In Australian homes, any clay the year round,
Glad welcome to “baby” is heard to resound,
And amid the rejoicings babe’s health to assure
Warm welcome for Woods’ Peppermint Cure.
—A DVT.
hf
Ufye
“MERTON”
HAT —15/6
POST FREE.
THE “MERTON” has earned its popularity because of its
good, unexaggerated style. There is a quality about it, too,
that makes it worth every penny of its price. 2 M-inch brim;
cut edge. SHADES: Grey, Steel or Fawn. If you like the
look of it send for your size on approval. Money will be
refunded on return of the Hat, if unsuitable.
PIKE BROTHERS
TOOWOOMBA
LIMITED
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE.
To meet the
demand
TOOHEYS
Have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnislied ami Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
.Managing Director.
All through its long life the Roman
Catholic Church has been a mighty and
wonderfully-artistic builder. It did its work
with the patience of an institution which felt
itself to be immortal; the wonderful fane of
THE PAINFUL SIDE OF IT.
THE VISITOR: “ What a terrible lot of suffer-
ing the war has caused.”
THE HUMORIST: “It has that. I’ve had
to think of something funny about it
every week since it began.”
Milan took 400 years to complete, and yet
the Church showed no sign of weariness.
Some of its splendid work has now gone into
the dustlieap, for the Prussian seems to have
a special hatred of grandeur in stone and
marble. When the French recaptured, the
other day, what used to be Lens, it was im-
possible to identify even the site of the
Cathedral. If the Hun had taken Rome and
turned his kultur loose on St. Peter’s the
world would have been a lot poorer.
“Three Stars”: A word to the girls and
the mates who don’t for-
get to send a gumleaf to
France now and again.
The other night there
were two of us in the
billet —one a Banana-
lander, who was brought
up on gum-leaves and a
certain red-covered Aussie
paper. A mail had just
arrived. The Banana-
lander got a letter from
home, and I had two red
papers. His letter con-
tained a gumleaf; so we
each took a paper, and
reverently lit the gum-
leaf in the candle. In a
few seconds the room in
France was full of the
scent of summer bush-
fires, and Australia was
very near to us. And
hereby hangs another
yarn. While the battery
was at W some of
our fellow's had been
living in a pillbox
where they had been get-
ting plenty of Hun gas.
The Major and my
Bananalauder were
alone reading when the
Major sat up and took a
sniif. “Can you smell
gas, Brisbane?” Brisbane
inhaled deeply. “I can
smell something; but it
smells like gumleaves
burning.” “Strewth!”
yelled the Major, and
made a dive for the cor-
ner where a bunch of gumleaves his wife
had sent him were hanging. The candle had
set alight to the treasured reminders of the
southern homeland.
“G.A.”: The War Tank (Lady Galway
smashed a bottle of the best on its nose and
named it “Grit”) is having a profitable
time in Adelaide on the charges of a shilling
for a look at a distance, a guinea to inspect
its vitals, and £lO for a ride. Tank is an
apparently incongruous word to describe
the latest development in modern warfare,
but here’s the story of its origin. Thomas
Tank Burall (Tank was his mother’s maiden
name) manager of a Norfolk firm of engi-
neers, in IS.SI invented what was then a
most novel thing, a 10-k.p. steam traction-
engine. Owing to the difficulty in getting
over rough country Burall conceived the
idea of the famous caterpillar wheels. Among
his fellow workmen Burall was known as
“Tank”—and his traction-engine was called
Tank also. Naturally the war-machine (be-
ing the outcome of the traction-engine) got
the same name.
All the old scientific fossils in the Speck
are rattling their bones in preparation for
an event of great importance in the bug-
trapping and star-gazing world. It is no
less than the 75th birthday party of the
Royal Society of the Apple Isle. It is the
oldest scientific society in the Commonwealth,
having six years more to its existence than
the R.S. of the Ma State.
“Latchy” (from Western Persia) :
We are a party of 21 Aussie officers and 40
N.C.O.’s from France and Palestine, engaged on “a
job” for the War Office, and we are footslogging all
the way—lG7 miles to our credit so far and not one
has fallen out. The other “colonials” and U.K.-ites are
not so fortunate in their performances. I think we
can claim to be a fairly solid crowd, the officers
having 21 decorations among them. Things are a
bit sick with this country, especially near Kerman-
shah and Karind. The Turks and Russians have both
these places in turn. Ninety per cent, of the peasantry
is starving, and we have become quite used to seeing
UNCLE SAM SAVES THE POSITION.
SHE : “So devoted a patriot, and you didn’t
enlist?”
HE: “I give you my word, if America hadn’t
come in I would have.”
men, women and kids lying around in the streets
dying by starvation. The Persians don’t seem
to mind, but both the British and U.S.A. are
doing all they can with relief work and rations.
Typhus is raging, also. It’s a great pity, as some
of these mountain valleys are the real thing—great
wide stretches of free soil with knee-deep grass and
any amount of good water —-just the place for raising-
cattle, and not -a head to be seen anywhere and
hardly a living soul about. The natives are almost
too weak to beg, so you can imagine what state they
are in. The Russians burnt all their ploughs and
farming gear, and generally made a mess of the
towns. Then when the revolution commenced the
Russians dismissed themselves and made for home
and vodka as fast as they could. The Kurd (a
nasty fellow from the Hills) waited for them
in the big mountain passes and collected a dividend.
The Kurd barracks for Jacko and the Hun, so you
readily see that our march has no chance of becom-
ing monotonous. We left France at the end of
January, and though it is June 10 we are still a
long way from our job. This war sprawls all over
the place. As we tramp we live on what we carry
(bully and biscuits) and on what we can buy (not
much). Time to move on now.
“Chasuble"’: There is blank astonishment
throughout the Church of England in Aus-
tralia over the drastic revolutionary pro-
posals by the Commission appointed by the
Archbishops of Canterbury and
York. The local clergy have
palpably received a tip from
the highest authorities that
disestablishment is at hand.
Incidentally I dropped upon a
notice of Australia’s Bishop
Broughton the other day. He
was a curate near Wellington’s
estate of Strathfieldsaye (Eng.).
Wellington took a
great fancy to him,
and made him chaplain
to the Tower of Lon-
don. This cosy billet
was grateful to
Broughton, as a young
married man. How-
ever the Duke shortly
afterwards advised
him to become Arch-
deacon of Australasia.
A bleak look out! But
Broughton rose to the
call of duty. He
visited all parts of
Australasia where
there were any whites,
and eventually became
bishop.
* *
“C.M.”: We came
out of the line a few
days ago, and going
to a village near the
billets in search of re-
freshments were con-
fronted with a notice
board at the entrance
to the town. The board
had two notices on
it. One in English
read : “Out of bounds
to all Australians.”
The other said in
Chinese (we got this
from the iuterpreter) :
“Out of bounds to Chinese labor company.”
As all other troops were allowed in we lost
our tempers. The cook says the board made
fine kindling.
From an aspirant for wings:—
We imagined we were going straight into the
school on arrival here (never mind where “here” is).
Instead we were sent up the line for interview before
selection. After hanging round the aerodrome for a
couple of days we received sudden orders to report
to somewhere (that’s at the old address) for Medical
Board. We had to pass the eye, ear and throat
specialist and the pathologist before we got to the
Board, then finally got up against a tough proposi-
tion in the nerve test. They had us standing on one
leg, arms outstretched and eyes shut, trying to retain
balance, then hopping along a line with eyes shut,
retaining position and balance whenever halted, still
with eyes shut. After" getting Our nerves nicely
keyed up with this pastime, we were given pencils
and told to draw a straight line on a piece of paper.
I was just getting along nicely when the doc. fired a
pistol close to my ear, and I naturally went right
off the page. My second or third attempts were
pretty good. Next they gave me a couple of sheets
of paper, just stiff enough to support an empty
matchbox standing on end. I had to lift this up
with a stiff arm to level with the shoulder and put
it down again without shaking the box over. Did it
at first attempt, though the matchbox did do a sort
of tango. By this time my heart was going like a
sledgehammer, and the doc. felt the pulse and
sounded for general fitness. Another test is the
breath-holding. This is to see if you are any use
for nose-diving (the latest machines do about 250
miles an hour, so it is impossible to breathe during
that act). I was not at all sure that I’d get
through, but they were evidently satisfied, as I was
passed fit. And now let ’em all come.
South Africa is one bit of the British
Empire where it isn’t good for pacifist fools
and traitors to hold forth about the essential
pedcefulness of the Hun people as distinct
from the military caste. Being inflated with
the idea that their fellow Huns in East
and South-West Africa would yet wipe out
the. Union, the peaceful Hun residents gave
dinners and parties to celebrate the sinking
of the Lusitania and proceeded to jostle mere
British subjects in the streets. Wherefore
indignant citizens burned quite a number of
Hun establishments, though they did no
damage to the owners. It was the only sort
of argument that the Hun understood.
A strange case lias been set down for hear-
ing in S.A. Supreme Court. It is in con-
nection with the unlucky Glenelg breakwater.
BOTH SATISFIED.
“ Please, teacher, would you punish a chap
for something he hadn’t done?”
“Certainly not, Billy. That would he unjust.”
“ That’s all right, then, ’cause I didn’t do my
homework.”
Stone and Siddeley. the contractors, claim
that they were induced to contract by a
promise from the Harbors Board that the
local waves in the gulf would not exceed
30 feet in length and S h feet in height,
whereas in July last year they greatly
exceeded that, and smashed up much of the
work in progress. They make various claims
for rescinding the contract as impossible of
performance, and talk of £60,000 damages.
The Harbors Board denies having given any
guarantee about the waves, and counter-
claims £4OOO-odd.
“Tell-off"’: There are still red tapeworms
in the army system. Just before the recent
storm broke over Fritz We had no gunpits
at all and wanted some sandbags, so I in-
dented some. I was told my indent would
have to go through brigade. So I sent it on
to them. Then it went to division, then to
C.11.E. Then to the supply office, and back
to me through the same roundabout channel.
Two hours after the stunt finished I got per-
mission to draw the bags.
“Duglio” : Some time ago a couple of our
Billjims, while on leave in Blighty, were
pulled up in the Strand for the usual breach.
When told that they “didn’t see him coming”
the fussy brass-hat exclaimed. “What damned
rot!” “Righto,” said one of the diggers
cheerfully. “Go back and we’ll have it all
over again.” That bright spirit has since
passed over to tell the yarn to Peter.
TWO GIRLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The butcher's daughter is ruddy and fierce, and the
customers she could eat;
She wraps the chops and the steak all day in a
bower of red, red meat;
Her temper is short as her well-filled sleeves, her
bosom heaves ’neath its mesh,
And she wears the look of a savage dog because she
eats too much flesh.
But the vegetarian girl next door is as sweet as a bale
of hay,
Through living on celery soup and bread
And nibbling nuts like an ape instead
Of gobbling oxen and sheep and swine in a primitive
kind of way.
But the butcher’s daughter is good to hiss, for her
blood is rich, you know,
While the pale, frail vegetarian girl is as dull as a
lump of dough.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
TRIOLET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Jeanette, though diffident and shy,
Still deigns to let me press my suit:
Last May, with the demurest sigh,
Jeanette, though diffident and shy,
Lisped softly “Yes.” We wed. Now I
Can see a large rift in the lute:
Jeanette, though diffident and shy,
Still deigns to let me press my suit!
N.S.W.
THE IMMATURE MALE.


ss
m
:■
/
Mm
: '%&tg
'gam
&
m
ii
....
M
pB
ni
m
,
m*
tK-ISISa c
.
|UH f’ ;
lii
awSRSKi'W .;..
«S
•■■S
r"--
r
I
. .
'
m
i£i
, i
,
1
> 9 r. W .*«** i
• j r 1 ,„|
. . ...
, Inf*
Uw.l
'■• 'W-Jgti->*
*7*
B
1L
3B
Sr.; i
' .
tiff
■
w
(
.
SS»®BB y
HIS
K'^WMg
m
...... L: '•:
.
....
©'swsifii
-
jM
lii*
Mamax Saves in First Cost, Freight,
and in Cost of Upkeep.
rf Adamax Roofina did not live ud to the claims we make for it the contract for the supply oi.
A dam ax 1 to the N 1 Wales Railways for 1917-1918 would not again, after careful, analysis, have
been secured for 1918-1919. Neither would Adamax have proved itself, under critical examina-
tion and tests by experts, worthy of being used in the following “big jobs :
43} miles
of Adamax Roof Covering is being used on
wool=storage sheds erected in Wentworth Park, Sydney, by
Messrs. Stuart Bros, for the Central Wool Committee.
Again, recently, 13 miles of Adamax Roofing were ordered
by the Imperial Authorities in Perth for the West Australian
Wool Stores.
22,000 sq. yds. for use on the Commonwealth Buildings at Molongo, Canberra.
20,000 sq. yds. on the Leeton Canning Factories.
13,200 sq. yds. for W.A. Govt. Freezing Works at Wyndham.
An order for 44,000 sq. yds. (25 miles) was placed for use on the South
Australian Wheat Board Buildings.
These are the proofs we give you of Adamax Superiority—not mere wordy talk that might be
applied to any other composition roofing.
Follow the lead of the master minds who were responsible for the placing of the above huge orders,
and order Adamax for roofing your factories, mine buildings, garages, sheds and homes.
Adamax costs One-third the price
of Galvanised-iron.
Get that fact embedded in your mind. Take note of the saving in freight—nearly two-thirds less
than on iron.
And Adamax unlike iron, is not damaged by the elements —Rain, Wind, Heat, Cold, Sea Air,
Mining Gases or Chemical Fumes, Rot or Rust do not wreak their vengeance on it therefore.
Adamax will not pinhole or dry out and become valueless—because* it containss no
Pure mineral hydrocarbon is thoroughly impregnated into the long-fibred telt, which is tnen
finished by a process which makes it impervious to the elements.
“The Adamax Series” is a free Booklet, which explains the many merits and uses to which Adamax
can be put. Send for free copy.
William Adams Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521=3 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.
BRISBANE: Cr. Edward & Mary Streets.
PERTH: 33 King Street.


LftiO
Water Lifted 500 ft.,
Pumped a Mile,
at a coat of about Id. per hour.
OUR FARM PUMP
ENGINE will do this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood, work shearing-
machines, etc.. It can be
attached to a windmill of
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needs no mechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
attention. Hundreds sold
and giving satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
If interested in water supply ov irrigation
state your working conditions and we will
quote. We stock Steam, Kerosene, Petrol
and Hot Air Engines, Centrifugal Pumps
and “Myer’s,” “Gould’s” and “Deming’s”
Pumps for all services. Mackie’s Kock
and Water Borer, Working Heads and
Plants for deep well and bore pumping a
specialty. Immense stocks Challenge
Windmills and Water Supply accessories.
We erect plant if required and give easy
terms. Catalogues and expert advice free.
Langwill Bros. S Davies Pty. Ltd.,
110-1 W Sturt Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
Near Princes Bridge.
JV
rv< q
’<r=
NP
rr*
A
VS
Here is Our Guarantee
Every tin of Ireland’s Baking Powder is fully guaran-
teed, without reservation or restriction, and should
the contents for any reason not meet with the
approval of the purchaser, it may be returned to your
grocer and he will refund the purchase price. We
could not give so strong a guarantee if we were not
positive that
Ireland’s
Baking Powder
is absolutely reliable.
It contains only the choicest ingredients accurately
compounded in the right proportion which insure
purity and uniform quality.
Ireland’s Baking Powder is more economical
because a smaller quantity is required to give the
desired result. Sold everywhere—be sure it’s Ireland’s.
J. IRELAND LTD.,
Newcastle
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
ZINC
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
gh
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
fgh
BRAND
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONSs
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
THAT “ THOROUGHNESS ” AGAIN.
DER MANUFACTURER : “Dot no good vos.”
DER INVENTOR: “Vot' s der drouble mid id?”
DER MANUFACTURER: "Id only der front
way marches. You vos vont to alter der
mechanism so do id also hackways
marches like der drue Sherman.”
Apropos the £40,000,000 loan, people and
papers are rising daily to mention that the
total production of all Australian industries
is £270,000,000 a year, and with that avail-
able the country should easily meet its own
war liabilities. Yet, when one comes
to think of it, about £70,000,000 is
wanted to pay for imported goods; and
about £00,000.000 more to pay interest on
foreign debts and foreign investments; and
a considerable amount (perhaps a few mil-
lions) to pay freights to foreign shipowners;
and £10,000,000 worth, on a rough estimate,
is simply stored away among the gophers
and the mice for want of ships to remove it.
If there was £155,000,000 left it mostly
represented the bread and butter and coal
and local sundries that we require. If a
country has a surplus it often shows itself
in a tendency to pay off foreign liabilities
perhaps by buying back local securities that
were held abroad; or else by a tendency to
invest money abroad so that the foreigner
may work for us. But Australia doesn't
show either of these signs—-rather the re-
verse. And it certainly isn’t accumulating
specie, though it is accumulating unsold pro-
duce and live rabbits. That production
boast is hollow.
“A. T. Pence’s” yarn of Yes-No: —•
When George Reid was i.n a visit to the North
Coast (N.S.W.) at one centre he was subjected to a
constant stream of interruption from the local hotel-
keeper, who was noted for the inferiority of the
whisky he traded. George, on the pretence of help-
ing himself to a glass of water, ascertained this
from a member of his committee, and he got ready
for the nuisance. The theme was of course Free-
trade versus Protection, and the immediate phase
was “local production.” As soon as Bung inter-
rupted Reid said, “But you are not a producer, Mr.
Blank?” “Indeed I am,” promptly answered the
noisy oracle. “Well, then, you ought to sell the
imported article,” replied George. The suggestion
of the spirit having been locally produced, there
being rumors of an illicit still in the vicinity,. put
the kibosh on the nark for the rest of the evening.
At an inland town when George was painting the
fury of the Socialistic tiger, he asserted that no
community who had ever adopted Socialism had
adhered to the tenets of its doctrines for any appreci-
able period of time. One listener who had evidently
been dipping into Plutarch piped out, “What have*
you to say about the Spartans, Mr. Reid ?” George
adjusted his monocle, smiled, and said softly, “They
are all deadl”
“Ex-M.L.A.” : The late Pat Hogan was as
eccentric as lie was kindly and amiable. He
was full of dry humor, which oozed out of
him in unexpected places. Plain Bill Lyne,
when he was Minister, once kept Pat wait-
ing for a long time outside his door at the
N. S. Wales Works Department. Pat was
furious when he got in, and said: “Here,
Lyne, what do you mane by keeping me
plastered acrost your dure like a blanky
proclamation for two hours?” Lyne pro-
duced the usual soother. A Kandwick resi-
dent met Hogan hurrying one boisterous
winter night towards John See’s residence
in Avoca-street. “Where are you going,
Pat,” said he, “this wild night?” Hogan’s
reply was: “I’m goin’ to have me rivinge
at the kyards off Jack See. I’ll make him
sphit ink to-night.” Whether John had to
write a cheque is not on record. Joseph
Abbott once called Hogan, while a member,
to “tell” a division in company with this
scribe. I held the pencil and Pat was sup-
posed to give me the names. It was a new
Parliament, and, as Hogan had to make
personal inquiries, I soon left him behind.
When I finally lost him, he had met a new
and young member of Irish parentage and
had squatted beside him. As I passed the
pair I heard Pat say: “An’ you’re one of
the O’Ohine’s, of Tootywhack spuddery, are
you? Sure, I knew your father whin he
first came to the colony—he was sewin’
pitaty bags on Fiddler’s wharf, sn he was.
An’ I knew your mother” Just here the
Speaker said: “Tellers must not sit down
during the taking of a division,” and Hogan
rejoined me, saying, “Did you put O’Ohine’s
name down yet? Don’t miss him. He’s
the son of an old friend of mine!”
“Law Student”: Justice Hood, of Victoria,
lately expressed the opinion that “it
was high time the Federal Govern-
ment took action to eliminate the re-
strictions concerning domicile which at
present face persons seeking divorce, where
there is no doubt as to the State in
which their legal residence is located.”
For divorce purposes the Commonwealth
is like a collection of small nations.
At present each State administers its
own matrimonial law, and, as is the case
wherever British law prevails, a petitioner
in divorce proceedings must first prove that
he or she is domiciled in the State in which
the petition is brought. If a man is born in
the State there is generally no trouble, nor
is there for his wife, as her domicile is that
of her husband ; but trouble arises when her
husband has abandoned his domicile of origin
and chosen another. To satisfy the Court
you have to show that you have formed “a
fixed and settled purpose, a determination, a
final and deliberate intention, to abandon
your last domicile, and settle in this new
one.” Now this is where the farce comes in.
A person living outside Australia may come
here and marry. He may. then, like many
do. wander about Australia from State to
State without acquiring what the judges
call a “domicile” in any of them. If he vio-
lates his marriage oath, his wife has no
remedy but to spend hundreds of pounds (if
she has them) in suing for a divorce in the
country from which he came. A man may
have no intention of leaving Australia, and
yet, by continually moving about, avoid
being “domiciled” in any part of it. The
Federal Parliament has power to pass legis-
lation creating an Australian domicile,. and,
if it did so, many hundreds of disillusioned
wives could obtain divorces, which they can-
not now do, as their finances preclude them
from going out of the country.
The question was put in the Reps, to
P.M.G. Webster whether the publication
of his “Three Years of Postal Administra-
tion” was done at his own cost or that of
the suffering taxpayer. He asked that
notice should be given of the problem. An
agile Vic. politician was once asked in like
manner whether he had done something, or
dene something else. He unhesitatingly
replied “Yes”; and his enemy being of a
heavy or cargo-carrying habit of mind re-
tired in a dazed condition.
Victoria has an Economy Government —in
theory it can’t sleep for economy, and its
desire to do the right thing amounts to a
disease. Yet when Labor-
member Hannah pro-
posed to begin the sav-
ing at the very top of
the Estimates by abol-
ishing the State Gov-
ernor—this country has
seven Governors in all—
he didn’t get much of a
hearing. His Ex. may
not be a very large item,
but there aren’t many
large items to save,
though there are a mul-
titude of small ones. His
Ex., by the way, isn’t
very small. And he is
very, very absurd. He
existed as a link be-
tween the Government
here and the Crown in
England, but he left off
linking when the Gov-
ernor-General took over
the work. He is now
merely the man who
passes the word along—
a sort of superfluous repeating station.
The great ambition of people who deal in
long-distance telegraphy is to cut out re-
peating stations.
Half-Treasurer Fitzpatrick, of N. S.
Wales, who is all for economy, is invited
to answer the following, which has been
received from The World Paper Trade
Review (London) :
For sheer extravagance in the matter of stationery
we should think the Government of New South
Wales would be hard to beat. Recently we had
the opportunity of seeing the sheaf of documents
considered necessary to accompany a cheque just over
a pound, the amount being remitted through the
Government’s London agency. These were four forms
in foolscap size, two in 6mo, and two in Bvo, the
receipt forms in triplicate, being printed on foolscap
sheets of good writing-paper, which, in any ordinary
business house, would each have been cut up into at
least six such forms. Then there was a heavy foolscap
envelope. The weight of the whole consignment came
to 2oz. Thus, in order to enable this colonial Gov-
ernment to settle a thousand accounts, well over a
hundredweight of paper would be required, without
reckoning the time and labor spent on printing, type-
writing, pen-writing, vouching, initialing, counter-
signing, and all the other multitudinous ramifications
of the red-tape labyrinth in which this Government
seems hopelessly immured.
From the inside :—■
Regarded as a Treasurer the late George Reid was
the most unabashed fraud that had existed in Aus-
tralia up to his time. Previously the revenue account
for the year closed sharp at a certain date, but the
expenditure account was kept open till all the bills
chargeable to the year were paid. It was awkward,
for it prevented the final balance being arrived at
for a long while; but it was honest. Reid founded
the Cash Basis, by which every account not paid on
June 30 was charged to next financial year. That
has been done ever since, but, of course, the profit
only happened once. In Uae first Cash Basis year
only about 11 or 11$ months’ accounts were met.
Succeeding years had to meet 12 months’ accounts —•
11$ months of that particular year and $-month’s
arrears. Reid worked the dodge for all it was
worth; many civil-service salaries, even, were paid
a day late to carry them forward into next year. A
vast slab of interest was payable in London on
July I—one day after the accounts closed. But
N. S. Wales had to hand the money to the English
bank not later than June 15, so not only was the
money a liability of the old year, but it w T as paid
out of the Treasury during the old year. Still
because the bank didn’t begin to hand the money
over to the bondholders till 10 hours after the old
financial year closed George reckoned it as cash on
hand, and made his accounts look about £600,000
better on this item alone. His bitter anger at
Auditor-General Rennie for presenting the accounts
as they really were, and his efforts to shunt that
immovable official so that he might be replaced by
an auditor who wouldn’t audit things, were remark-
able. Some other devices were equally strange.
Various economies done by Premier Bibbs he declared
to be illegitimate, and to have been effected by
“starving the services,” or something like that. “I
will put these charges back where they belong,” he
said cheerfully, so he spent moneys which he said
Dibbs should have spent and charged them back to
previous years as if Dibbs had spent them. He also
annexed amounts out of sundry trust funds which he
said were superfluous and used them, not to reduce
old debts, but to help out revenue. Reid was a man
of many small inventions.
Private R. W. D. Weaver, Willoughby's
representative in Ma’s House of Assembly,
is putting his energy into a special recruit-
ing rally, his object being to raise a platoon
THE ANCHOR.
FRITZ: “I wonder why it won't fly?"
of 60 men. He has made a good start, and is
taking only those that he actually enrolls
himself. Weaver is thankful to be in khaki
after four years of rejection from it. At
his latest test he was given a clean bill of
health.
The local settlers, having put up the money
at 5 per cent, interest to pay for the Henty-
Billabong (N.S.W.) railway, the Henty-
Billabong railway is to be built, to the great
advantage of the local settlers and the loss
charged to the community as usual. Other
events of the sort are happening, or likely
to happen. It is just ordinary borrowing
with the extra drawback that the money
borrowed at 5 per cent, must be spent on a
certain railway instead of on. the most
promising railway. Yet the weird Holman
financiers thought they had struck a new
inspiration when the idea first cropped up.
The formula “peace by negotiation with-
out penal indemnities or annexations” made
its first apearahce in Bolshevik literature
long before it was adopted by the P.L.L. in
Australia. It was the formula on which
the alleged friends of Labor went to Brest-
Litovsk, where Russia got the negotiation
and the peace, while Germany got the
annexations and the indemnities. It being
now proved that the Huns ran and financed
the Bolshevik movement and supplied its
literature, one begins to wonder if it is also
writing literature for Australia. There is
a suspicious similarity about the wording.
REPATRIATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Repatriation schemes have so far been mainly
confined to torrents of rhetoric.” —Daily paper.
Fenced with line adjectives the farmstead stands
Along tlie road from Nowhere to Takedown.
About the rhetoric flats and rising- lands
Of peroration wander verb and noun
Eating the grass of promise somewhere bare,
But well sustained with warm and subtle air.
It is a place a soldier might desire
Returning from the war-stirred Flanders mud
Ana ruined lands beneath the German lire
That sapped liis strength and drank his flowing-
blood.
He might desire it if he stood complete
Without the need of cash or things to eat.
A farm of words is quite an easy thing.
Words breed at times as fast as rats and flies.
You simply have to mate them in the Spring
With a few old and very simple lies.
They do the rest; for not a wind can blow
About the jaws but- helps the stock to grow.
We have had words and words and still they pass.
As current coin where politicians prate;
For the large public is a simple ass
And yields applause where leathery lungs orate,
Policy, business, win-the-war I—all1 —all chase
Their shadows through the opening in a face.
But, when it comes to soldiers who have stood
In Young Australia’s name to smash the foe,
Who met the shock of battle red and rude,
It does seem playing it a little low
To make each promise futile and absurd
By claiming that a man can eat a word.
Try out that diet on the men who talk.
Pay the good wage of office on this plan.
Offer the spruiker adverbs on the stalk,
Let prepositions fill his frying-pan—
Hold up with words the politician’s screw
Till each returning soldier gets his due.
N.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


THE BILLY BOOK
LOW.
Fifty new drawings by David Low —Australia s world-famous
cartoonist.
Illustrating the adventures abroad of lit. Hon. \V. M. HUGHES,
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth.
Hie best volume of political humor ever published in Australia.
Obtainable from all Bookstalls and Booksellers.
Price : Two
WRITE FOR A COMPLETE CATALOGUE OF
One Hundred
Australian Shilling Novels
in the
“Bookstall” Series of Australian Books.
SPLENDID NOVELS BY
STEELE RUDD.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
THOS. E. SPENCER.
AMBROSE PRATT.
M. FORREST.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
A. G. STEPHENS.
RALPH STOCK.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.
EDWARD DYSON.
ARTHUR WRIGHT,
SUMNER LOCKE.
LOUIS BECKE.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
ROY BRIDGES.
JOHN SANDES.
E. J. BRADY.
BRODA REYNOLDS.
DESPITE PUBLISHING DIFFICULTIES. DUE TO THE WAR,
“BOOKSTALL” NOVELS ARE STILL SOLD AT THE PRE-WAR
PRICE:
1- each ; 1/1 posted,
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO. LTD
476 George Street, Sydney.
The British Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
HiitimmriiiimiimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimmiimiimiiniiiiiimiiiiimiiiiimiii
Westinghousc
Tramway Controllers
. ? «,
a
i
1
SOME SPECIAL FEATURES:
Exceptionally strong mechanical construction.
Simple mechanism with minimum number of parts.
All parts made to gauge and strictly interchangeable.
Liberal rating of all current carrying parts.
Low maintenance.
All wearing parts easily and cheaply renewable.
Renewable finger and drum arcing tips.
All parts easily accessible both for inspection and repairs.
Simple method of cutting out either motor, when required.
Most powerful magnetic controller blow-out on the market.
Constant finger tension irrespective of wear.
Stubbing entirely prevented by special design of finger springs.
All connections are visible on removal of front cover.
Ample space for incoming cables.
Head Office for Australia:
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
m
l
M
Manchester
■pu-eirsugr ‘M J,e d P- , °ii l2J A-- sv I JO /A
mimimimiimMii.inimimimmiiimiiiimmimmmmiiiiimiimmmiimmmmiiiimiimii
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD-SHOT” WORM
PELLETS.
A SAFE, SURE AND RELIABLE SPECIFIC FOR
THE ERADICATION OF WORMS IN CHILDREN
AND ADULTS.
The general symptoms of worms are a
tendency to pick the nose and a sensation of
itching "in the anus. Other symptoms _ are
neivous affections, such as -wretfulness, irri-
tation of temper, wakefulness or disposition
to excessive sleep, disturbed sleep, and grind-
ing the teeth, sudden starting out of sleep as
if from fright, dizziness, spasmodic move-
ments of the eyelids, dilated pupils, per-
verted vision, temporary blindness and deaf-
ness. General convulsions are not infre-
quent in children, and symptoms resembling
water in the head have been ascribed to
worms, and have ceased on their expulsion.
The long round or stomach worm is the
commonest kind of worm from which man-
kind suffers, and is of a light, transparent
color, resembling the ordinary ground worm,
except that the extremities are more sharply
pointed than the ground worm. Young
[ioopie are more' subject to these worms than
middle-aged or elderly people. They live
in the bowels, and sometimes make their
way into the stomach and throat, causing
sickness, vomiting and choking. Generally
one or two would be the most a person
would bo afflicted with, but sometimes a
much larger iiumber is met with. The length
varies from four to eight inches, but young
ones an inch to two inches long are also
found.
Threadworms or pinworms are of very
common occurrence in children. They are
very small, from one-sixth of an inch to half
an inch in length, and resemble cotton thread
—they are sometimes called seat worms, and
reside in the lower bowels. The chief symp-
tom of this worm is severe local itching, rest-
lessness and irritability, and a frequent desire
to urinate, picking at the nose; loss of
apoetite and anaemia are also observed. To
«-et rid of the worms and their eggs their
nests also must be removed, and that requires
a specific remedy.
For both stomach- and thread-worms Com-
stock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets, taken
according to directions, on an empty
stomach, followed by a dose of opening medi-
cine, will succeed where others fail. Com-
stock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets are
packed with full directions, and are for sale
bv chemists and stores generally at 3s. Gel.
per packet, or six packets for 205., and if
unable to obtain locally will be mailed post
free on receipt of price. Prepared - only by
The W. 11. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; Parish Street, Wel-
lington, N.Z.
A WISE PRECAUTION.
THE healthy man or woman is usually the most careless, and fails to observe the little
indications of coming trouble. However healthy a person may be, he needs to watch
himself, because a little indigestible food or a little too. piuch food or drink upsets
the whole digestive machine, and unless nature receives some assistance trouble is certain to
follow ; first, perhaps, by a common bilious attack, and then other serious digestive troubles.
Thei sensible man or woman, however, keeps a sharp eye on the little signs of ill-health, and
takes a remedy like DR. MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS to aid digestion
and help nature over some obstruction caused by too much food or drink. There is
no better remedy for this purpose in this or any other country, and their ever-increasing
use by all classes of the community bears testimony to their high efficiency. The best
advice that can be given is to always have a bottle of these pills at hand, and when
the first indication of trouble appears, in the form of Constipation, take a dose. The
result is certain to be effective, and in a simple manner the system is put right again.
No remedy at any price is better or more carefully prepared than DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS. They are the Standard Remedy of thousands ; used in
the city, town and country with equally good results, and sold at a price within the reach of all


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
Prevention is than Cure.
The Influenza Epidemic
IS STILL PREVALENT.
Safeguard Yourself and Your Family by Using
|pnl
Innl
Na
REGISTEREDX
. . NAME for . .
HE AN’S
ESSENCE
The Unfailing Remedy for All Throat and Chest Troubles.
Costs 21-,
Worth £1
Easily and quickly prepared. Full directions with each bottle.
OBTAINABLE FROM MOST CHEMISTS and STORES,
or G. W. Hean, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
tt
sr^
rgelV
WHISKY
the'TOP NOTCH’scotch
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES- LINSEED OIL
TAKING NO RISKS.
“Walk close in front of me, Bill, or well be
gettin ’ a bullet in this.”
“0.K.”: A recent Saturday article in
Melbourne Age revives old Baron Van Mueller’s
claim for enormous giant trees in Victoria, merely
for the purpose of stating that the Baron’s discover-
ies were myths. The article quotes J. H. Maiden,
Government Botanist of N. S. Wales, as saying that
320 ft. is our highest authenticated tree. This is
only a trifle under the mark. As far as the writer
knows there never has been a more trustworthy
authority on Australian giant trees than the late
Nicholson Caire, who roamed Gippsland with his
camera long years ago, and supported the evidence
of his photos with some interesting letterpress on a
subject which he had at heart. Whereas .old Baron
Von Mueller wrote as a credulously enthusiastic
barracker for his adopted country, and a boastful
German at that, Caire was the indefatigable land-
seepe photographer who believed only what he saw,
whilst taking time and trouble to see all the big
trees he had ever heard of in Victoria. He photoed
the Neerim giant, which, by Government official
measurement, was 4Sft. girth, and 325 ft. high, with
the top broken off. This specimen of Victorian
growth was afterwards destroyed by fire. As for the
notion that anything in Gippsland could rival the
biggest Californian trees, Caire wrote:—
In California, at the Yosemitos Valley, there are
about 18 monster parents of the forest, up to I2oft.
girth. They are carefully protected that they may
live their natural span of life, estimated by the best
American experts at 3000 years. In Victoria we have
had perhaps a score or more of these mammoth trees
measuring up to 80ft. girth, but they have been
destroyed by bushfires until now we have only five
or six left standing. An American expert estimated
that our giant trees were 2000 or more years old.
One was felled for the purpose of sending a slab to
the Paris Exhibition, and the annual rings or mark-
ings from the centre to the outer edge were counted
up to 1200.... Possibly the largest gum-tree that
has been known to exist in Victoria grew in the
ranges south of Warragul. Its trunk had decayed
away leaving a g'reat hollow shell. The owner of the
land was a teamster having a team of 12 bullocks,
and this trunk shell, fitted with a fence or gate, was
used by him as a stable shelter for his team.
“Musketoon”: llovv many of you have
beaten this? Sam Potter, accompanied by a man and
a boy, landed at Aubrey Webb’s property, Cudal, near
Forbes (N.S.W.), with a mob of 3128 sheep. These
were brought by road from Wagga, and were 15
weeks on the track. Although they travelled over
barren country for a portion of the journey, not a
hoof was lost.
* * * ♦
“S.”: The extinct Tasmanian blackfellow
must have been the model conservative. lie does
not seem to have made any improvement in his tools
or weapons from the time he arrived on the island
till the white man came on the scene, 100 years ago.
One of the abos.’ chipped chalcedonic knives was
discovered in 1016 at the Doone mine, north of
Ringaroorna River, a couple of miles from Gladstone.
It was adhering to a boulder of wash. The wash was
10 feet below the present surface, and since it was
laid down the sea has been over it and added at
least 70ft. of marine sediment, and since the sea
retreated all except 10 feet has been denuded. It
is impossible to say how long ago this happened;
but the wash runs southward across the Ringaroorna
River, so it must have been laid down before the
river flowed in its present channel. It may even have
been laid down as far back as the time when the
Ringaroorna flowed out to sea at the west end of
Mount Cameron. The knife is chipped on one side
only, and there is no noticeable difference between
it and the knives the blackfellow was making when
the first settlers arrived. Another curious thing about
the Tasmanian blackfellow was that he used neither
net nor fishhook. Some people held that he had
a religious prejudice against eating scaled fish, but
he never Seems to have caught the blackfish of the
rivers, which are scaleless. His fish diet consisted
of Cray and shellfish. The gins did all the fishing.
They would swim out and dive down amongst
the kelp, and bring up a dillybag filled
with half a dozen crayfish or a dozen or so of the
big sea-ears, which they prised off the rock with
wooden spatulas. Apparently they could stay under
water an incredible time. Some of the old writers
have stated 15 minutes, but probably they were
unreliable. There are an amazing number of unreli-
able old writers who escaped doing time for perjury.
* * * *
“Bouragi”: “Waroo’s” remarks on the
Torres Strait cockroach recalls old memories of
these giants, which equalled some of the Abo.-
writers’ eagles in spread of wing. The great objec-
tion to killing the pests in a lugger by cyaniding
them is that they perish in thousands in ungetatable
places, with horrible results. Sinking the lugger
at high tide is the best way. The roach climbs
out ahead of the rising water, till he has to swim
for the shore. But don’t go about the job as the
Hon. Cholmondeley Margoribanks did. He hired a
lugger from D. V. and Co., say, on the time-payment
system, soon after his arrival from Oxford, via one
or two Australian Government Houses. After a
couple of the cockroaches had knocked him down
and gone through his pockets, the hon. sought advice
from a hardened old hand. He was told to take his
craft to a quiet beach somewhere, lift his gear clear
and pull out the plug. This he did, with splendid
results as far as the cockroaches were concerned.
Even those who climbed the masts were not saved,
bu<- since the Hon. G. M. pulled his plug out in
12 fathoms of water and left his ballast in, the
lugger wasn’t saved either. C.M.’s subsequent inter-
view with D.V.’s manager at Samarai was distressing
in the extreme. It was so distressing, in fact, that
he chucked the vulgar occupation.
* * * *
“Machete”: “Gerardy’s” fighting scor-
pions (B. 22/8/’18) are as likely to have been love-
making as indulging in the other and less dangerous
form of scrapping. According to Fabre the lady
and gentleman clutch their great lobster claws
together and wrestle furiously for hours sometimes.
When the lady considers the time is ripe she eats
her admirer, and that is all there is to it. Appar-
ently she has nothing to learn from the two-legged
species.
* * * #
“McNorth” : Under the regulations govern-
ing such things, Binghi is permitted to kill birds
otherwise protected. The idea is that as many
of these birds are black brother’s natural food,
strict protection would inflict undue hardship upon
him, and that such crude weapons as spears, nulla-
nullas and boomerangs could not inflict much dam-
age, anyway. That was all right in the old days;
NOT TO BLAME.
PARSON: “I hope you don't cut wood usually on Sunday, Peterson."
PETERSON: “Bli’me, no! The missus mostly does it."
but nowadays many abos. possess 12-bore shot-guns
and go in for bird-murder even more thoroughly
than the alleged “sporting’’ white. A few days
ago I came across a Binghi lying in wait at the
c-dge of a swamp with nine sacred ibis—strictly pro-
tected birds —at his feet.', On my preventing the
murder of the tenth, Billy took two of the birds to
his camp and left the rest for the dingoes. Getting
amongst a mob of ducks Binghi will eat enough
of the birds he shoots to satisfy his immediate
hunger. Then he goes to sleep and lets the. surplus
rot. Most white shooters will salt down any birds
they have over, or give them to their friends.
Binghi is too tired to do this, and he can’t be
bothered employing a white man to do it for him.
* * * *
“Lachlander”: Everyone in the back coun-
try, from the squatter to the tea-agent, is convinced
that if horses eat wild melons they will develop
blindness and semi-paralysis, and to argue con-
trariwise is to encourage ridicule. Each year,
shortly after the spine-covered spheres with the
cucumber interior —and odor—are in vigorous growth
horses on infested pastures develop the symptoms.
Nevertheless science asserts that the melon is a
much-maligned plant. Dodd, of Sydney University,
has lately been experimenting with the fruit of
the melon vines, and he found that horses and sheep
fed for a prolonged period on it were as vigorous
and as hungry at the end of the term as when they
started. They showed no signs of blindness ,or of
staggers. As the experiments were conducted with
ripe fruit, it is probable that there is poison ih' : the
greener growths, for the blindness is a well-known
affection at melon-time, and the scientists offer no
other explanation. Even if the leaves are eaten
at the matured stage they form fibrous balls in the
intestines of animals, and death ensues from the
obstruction.
* * * *
“McC.”: The cannibals of the little-known
upper-waters of the Fly River (Papua) have a
variety of cheerful customs. One is to regard the
breasts of a newly-slain young woman as a titbit.
This particular item is cooked’ by being revolved on
the point of a stick over a slow fire. Another
pleasure is to smoke a head, stuff it with grass, and
place small shells in the eye-sockets. Then it is
carefully preserved as a memento of a particular
banquet. The old men love to gather the young
bucks together, and, fondling these gruesome relics,
with a far-away look in their eyes, tell of a meal of
long ago. As a spur to the young men the old
villains generally end up by wondering what the
rising generation is coming to. Human hands are
often dried and smoke-cured and worn suspended
from the neck in the fashion of a necklace. But for
plain, sheer horror the custom of making a flute out
of a human leg-b.one takes the johnny-cake. While
the well-fed diners rest, after their labors the handy-
man and musician of the tribe scrapes the marrow
out of the shin of the dear departed and makes a
hole from end to end. Then he fashions a series of
small holes, puts the affair to his lips and produces
BUSINESS BEFORE PLEASURE.
“Ah thocht ye would ha' marrit one o' they
wumen fairmers i' th' Auld Country.
She wud ha’ been a power o' help tae
ye oot here!"
“But, Dad, I’m engaged to a nurse."
“Aye, hut ye dinna expect tae he sick all yer
life, do y’?”
a species of ghastly music that serves as an accom-
paniment to the psean of praise softly chanted by the
gorged and sleepy savages lying in the half-circle of
flickering fires.
(Continued on page 24.)
THE NOTABLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you have seen the western side,
Or ridden io and fro
Across the sheep-runs lone and wide,
I reckon you will know
The men of note, who shear or ride,
Or lead where drovers go.
You'll know them not by proper names—
Which p’rhaps you’ll never hear,
Except when Jones and Smith and James
In black and white appear—
Though you may join them in their games,
And side by side may shear.
You speak of them as “Wingy Dick,”
And “Wonnaminta Joe” ;
As “Bogan Dan” and “Crooked Mick,”
“Long Bob” and “Warrego” ;
Which names are known Outback, and stick
A thousand miles or so.
A reference to “Gunningbland,”
“The Splinter,” or “The Bed”;
To “Thackaringa Billy” and
To “Brumby” or “Big Ned,”
Is plain for all- to understand
In any camp or shed.
I cannot tell their history,
But scores there are who can ;
I do not know their pedigree,
Nor where their days began;
But what’s the odds if their decree
Is “white” to every man?
And whether it be “Greenhide Jack,”
Or “Sam of Mumblebonc,”
The nickname ’long the western track
Will ever stand alone—
Immortal ’mong the sons Outback
As though engraved in stone.
N.S.W.
EDWARD SORENSON.


Even the Temperature
Is Going Bp!
Makes you wonder what will go up next. But
you needn’t worry if you’ve got cool, Summer
Suits that keep down tbe body temperature to
normal. Keep cool —get into
Murdoch’s
Summer Suits
Ready - to - Wear.
Here are values that will appeal to you. We
have a size to fit every man —call and try on
yours to-day or write .Desk B.
Smart Silk Suits.
These Two-piece Sqits, made from good-quality
Tussore Silk—tailored in dressy . styles—light
weight, easy fitting and good wearing—splendid
value at
651-
ti
>
Two - piece
Washing Suits.
jtist ready to step into. Made from
Striped Mercerised Itepp- -good Wear-
ing and good Washing inateHals. Cool
suits for hot days.
35/-
Crash
Sports’ Suits.
Two-piece Suits, made from Pine
Island Crash. A good strong, service-
able fabric that will wash and wear
well—in plain or pencil-stripe _ design
—Sinattly tailored and well finished
excellent value at
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.’
<§rabe ——.
#em is>et
Sapphire & Diamonds.
£ B2llol ■
Emerald & Diamonds,
£350
Diamonds,
£240
Diamond and Platinum Wrist
Watch, on Black Moire Ribbon,
£75
SELECTIONS
FORWARDED TO
ANY ADDRESS
IN THE
COMMONWEALTH.
ALL RINGS
AND JEWELLERY
ARE
MANUFACTURED
IN THE FIRMS 1
OWN WORKSHOP
ON THE
PREMISES.
FIVE PER CENT.
CASH DISCOUNT.
fg
Diamond- and Platinum
Bow Brooch,
£25
VISITORS TO
MELBOURNE
ARE INVITED TO
INSPECT THE
FIRMS’
SELECTION OF
DIAMOND
AND GEM RINGS
PEARL NECKLACES
BRACELET
WATCHES
GOLD & SILVER
WARE
TORTOISESHELL
AND IVORY WARE.
Wim. ©ttnmnoui) & Co
344-346 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
99
66
Split-Sleeve Ahihlzr
es correct Set to Cuffs always) sm? s wW9B
(Gives
“TAI'FAT WILL” SHIRTS. The most popular in
Australia, made by and obtainable only from The Leviathan,
have gained ehis high reputation by reason of their intrinsic
worth.
“TAFFATWILL” is a veritable triumph as a Shirting
Material, combining a beautiful appearance with remark-
able wearing qualities.
PATTERNS. —A rich cream ground, with various stripes
of Blue, Grey or Black, as preferred.
THE SHIRTS are perfectly cut and well finished.
Either stiff or soft double cuffs are supplied as desired.
Sizes 13jin. to 18in. neckbands.
%
m
jy«/ l»fM
PCINTB OF MERIT.
Split Sleeves, Sleeve Lilts,
Reinforced Inlay Fronts.
I
BEST SHIRT
VALUE IN
AUSTRALIA
SI 6 each
(3 for 24/9)
“TAFFATWILL”
COLLARS, with
Vertical Stripes to
match,
BAPFY
1/
each.
t&UOhan "3atsmU£
SHIRT BLOUSES.
“TAFFATWILL” is equally successful and popular
as a material for .Ladies’ Shirt Blouses, and, despite the
steady rise frt the prices of all Blouse Fabrics, we con-
tinue to offer
i‘TAFFATWILLi” BLOUSES AT THE OLD
PRICE)
and at. 8/6 each (or 3 for 24/0), they represent most
wonderful value indeed.
NOW IS THE TIME.
To lay in a good supply, while our present stocks last, will
“TAFFATWILIi” SHIRT BLOUSES may be ob-
tained in Blue, Grey or Black Stripes, on Rich Cream
SXS'e with Two-way Collar, which may bo wornJennl.
Stvle (as shown), or Golf Style, by slightly raiswg a rt
securing it with a collar pin; or with V open neck,, which
also can be folded to throat and worn with a tie.
OKDER BY POST. WE PAY CARRIAGE.
jjS T**
Leviathan
Corner Swanston 8 Baurke Streets, MfchbUiißNE.
m
fn
m
816
(3 for
i 24/9)
BRITISH-MADE
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
fst
10-inch
DOUBLE-
SIDED
2/6
EACH
(N.Z. 3/-)
SoiM Splendid British-made Rg&&1 Records
All at 2/6 Each, Dcmble=sided.
6012
Stanley Ivirkby, baritone.
Stanley Kirkby, baritone.
f Boys of the Dardanelles
) What Do You Think of Australia Now .
6813
( La Marseillaise
| The Bed, White
and Blue
Harrison Latimer, baritone.
King’s Military Band.
6895
( You Planted a Rose
l in the Heart of the City
William
Thomas & Quartette.
lrving Gillette.
6931
Sam Ash & Quartette.
f Good-Bye, Virginia Campbell & Gillette.
{ Come Over to Dover
7077
Miss Annie Rees & Choir.
Miss Jessie Reeves.
J Ora Pro Nobis
Ave Maria
7175
f Till the Sands of the Desert Grow Cold
{ When the <Joy Bells Bing
Stanley Kirkby.
Stanley Kirkby.
h
, „ ... Miss Gertie Gitana.
i In the Evening, toy the Moonlight Irving Gillette.
1 My Eittle Alabama Coon
7208
Geo. H. Elliott.
Geo. H. Elliott.
(Big Brown Eyes •••••.
| There’ll Be Joy Bells Kinging.
7214
F. W. Ramsey.
F. W. Ramsey.
f
l
Somewhere in
When I Reave
World Behind
7318
F. W. Ramsey.
F. W. Ramsey.
\ Pack up Your Troubles
{ All the Boys in Khaki
7249
Stuart & Burton.
. Stanley Kirkby.
( A Long, Bong Trail
| just a Plain Silver Locket
7255
F. W. Ramsey.
F. W. Ramsey.
\ Bad as You Are, I Love You
| Dear Old Mother
7268
Stanley Ivirkby.
(The Story the Angelos Tolfl - Stanley Kirkby.
V Swinging High, Swinging Low
7286
( Australia Will Be There •■••••
1 Australia Will Be There, March
Stanley Kirkby
Band of H.M. Welsh Guards
7293
When I Leave the World Behind
Wrap Me in a Bundle
Miss Gertie Gitana.
. Jones & Robbins.
7294
Geo. H. Elliott.
Geo. H. Elliott.
( Down Home in Tennessee
i Just a Few Fusiliers
fg
Eric Randolph, tenor.
Eric Randolph, tenor.
\ Island of Dreams ......
| I Know a I.ovelj Garden
7353
Eric Randolph, tenor.
of Roses Eric Randolph, tenor.
When a Boy
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR REGAL RECORDS
svnNFV N S W. —Grafonola, Ltd,, Dakins House, Rawson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., anti TASMANIA—Messrs. Hugo Werthefca
Tt<l 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE Q. —King and King. Ltd-.. Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A.-Cornell, Ltd.. 13* Pirie Street.
PERTH W A—II. R. Firth. Royal Arcade.
.Si r i\n tm'/ Arthur 11. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON N Z—liannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., WakelleUl & Allen St s .
CHRISTCHURCH. N.Z -Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 213 H.gh Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom,
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.


When wife and kids are snug in bed
I fretwork wood out in our shed.
The friends who know it all declare
That I’m unwise to perish there.
It dawns on me that right they are,
I’m growing chronic with catarrh.
All youthful hobbies I’ll abjure,
And take to Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—-A DVT.
Meggitt Ltd. Silos
at Parramatta.
hf
gh
fgh
fg
A LANDMARK —
of the Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal Hanufacturers of the
Southern Hemisphere in the Pioneering Town—PARRAMATTA—of N.S.W.
MEGGITT LTD. LINSEED OIL and
One Quality Only
h
UNSEED OIL MEAL
—The Best.
Pamphlet No. 2, instructing how to feed, mailed free.
-Messrs K. S. Exton & Co., Qxieen Street, Brisbane;
Full particulars from Agents .—.«ess rs ... s. « v;o., xjueen Street, Brisbane; Messrs. Harrisons,
Ramsay Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne; Messrs. Clarkson Ltd., Adelaide; Messrs. W. Adams, Perth,
YV.A;; Messrs. F. VV. Heritage & Co., Launceston and Hobart; or ’ ’
MEGGITT LIMITED,
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Linseed Oil
Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 King Street, Sydney
WORKS: PARRAMATTA.
GOTTS
LjNSEED oiim^j
[MI
V PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
“Azaek”: Can any Abo. account for the
migration of the quail from the coastal area to the
Tablelands? Perhaps I may bo mistaken in asserting
that the bird was originally found only on the coast,
but of this I am certain, that quail are now numerous
in places on the Tablelands, where, up till some little
time ago, they had never been heard of. It is the
Canberra district in the Riverina to which I refer.
The quail is now numerous in that part of the coun-
try, while on the South Coast district, around Shell-
harbor, the family has practically disappeared alto-
gether.
* * * *
“Merrigal”: The Balikunji tribe, which
inhabited both shores of the Darling (N.S.W.) from
Bourke to Tilpa, used a compress of earth, chewed
gum-leaves, or crushed bark to be applied to the
severest flesh wounds after they had been sucked.
Splints and complete rest were prescribed for frac-
tures, and boiled marsh mallows for rheumatism. For
headache the cure was repeated diving, or placing
smoking-hot green
leaves on the head, or
bandaging the eobbora
with strips of just
removed opossum skins.
The Kamilaroi sect
(Banvon and Cwydir
livers, N.S.W.), im-
bibed cold water
steeped with wild
mint-leaves for colds,
and the same beverage,
flavored with wild lav-
ender, they took as an
aperient. Pains in the
pantry were dislodged
with hot eucalyptus
foliage. One ligature
was placed above, and
another below, a snake
puncture, which was
then scarified an d
sucked, and if a ten-
anted red-ants’ abode
were handy the patient
stood on its roof to
receive the attentions
of the occupants.
THE TEST.
“Why, dammit, o' man, you're intossicated,
an' you know it.”
“Don' talk (hie) nonshensh. I’m never
'tossicated till I'm too drunk to (hie)
know it.”
“G.H.”: A bush girl I know has some per-
fectly tanned water-rat skins. She used wattle-bark
well bruised and boiled, allowing the skins ro be
steeped therein, when cool, for six weeks. When
removed they were well washed in clean water
and thoroughly rubbed with a brick. The fur
retained its gloss and the skins are soft and sweet
to touch and smell.
“G.A.”: In the ’forties, when the South
Australia Co. had a whaling-station at Encounter
Bay (the native name for which was Weeramulla),
the tribe inhabiting the district was called Narrin-
yeri, and the killing of the first whale in the vicinity,
according to Dr. Leigh, provided the abos. with a
furious gorge. After the useful parts had been cut
away, the carcase was rushed by the blacks. Before
long the brethren and sistern were descending in
flocks from all over the neighborhood. Sitting round
their fires they impatiently watched the meat cooking
in their stone ovens, and when the feeding started
many of the diners never stopped until they were
powerless to down another morsel, and lay prostrate
on the sand. The name Narrinyeri is evidently an
abbreviation of Kornarrinyeri, from kornar (men) and
inyeri (belonging to, belonging to men). They took
great pride in this designation, contending that other
tribes were merely “wild blackfellows,” while “we
are men.”
* * * «
“F.II.Il.” : Every try a bag coat? Get a
new cornsack, rip up, put on a couple of buttons
and sleeves, and wear under your ordinary over-
coat. I’ve done some travelling in the rain while
following shearing, and this is 'a dead-sure combina-
tion to keep a man dry who is driving all day in
the wet. Then ot a frosty night it makes a very
handy rug for your horse by tying the sleeves round
his neck. They are just as effective and much lighter
than the Tasmanian bluey.
* * * *
“I>.": When Barclay died no one had
greater reason to be glad than Dinny Chin. They
had been sworn foes for 20 years, and little Barclay
exhausted his impish ingenuity in reflecting harass-
ment and loss upon his big, slow, sensitive neighbor.
Dinny Chin was a long, all-wool bushie, with a
perennial expression of sad bewilderment. The whole
world puzzled him, existence was a riddle, and he
never gave up guessing. When Barclay
succumbed to kidney decay, Dinny had
fair prospects of a peaceful life, and it
was assumed in the Saucer valley that
thankfulness to Heaven for his blessed
release inspired Chin’s subsequent actions.
The big fellow supervised Barclay’s bury-
ing as if deceased had been a beloved
relation, and then at his own expense,
and with his own hands, put a cut blue-
stone kerb about the grave, and let a I
heavy granite slab into this, completely
-covering the mound. Curiosity concern-
ing Dinny , Chin’s attitude towards
“Gnat” Barclay’s grave .did not die out
for years ; Dinny’s own actions kept it
stirring. He was most regular in his
attendance upon his dead enemy. Twice
a week at least he walked over to the
Saucer cemetery on Pete’s Hill, and care T
fully investigated Barclay’s grave, stamp-
ing the earth in about the coping, exam-
ining the granite slab, and depositing
some small offering of flowers. Then
to our amazement the man set to work
and hewed a vast, urn-like ornament out
of a half-ton junk of bluestone. When
the thing was finished it weighed 6ewt.,
and Dinny Chin carted it to Barclay’s
grave, arid set it up at the head on the
granite slab. Dinny
regarded thiseffect
with great satisfac-
tion, ail'd would fill the
urn at least once a
week with a propitia-
tory offering of green-
ery and any blooms
that happened to be
blowing. Questioned
and reminded that Bar-
clay had dragged him
into three law-suits,
pestered the life half
out of. him and driven
his children from
home, Chin only shook
his head and said, “It
a i n’t n o partic’lar
trouble, ’n’ it’s jist ez
well t’ keep sweet with
a bloke like Barclay.”
After four years Dinny
contracted a sickness
through going out in
flood-waters to have a
look at Barela y’s
grave. It ended in
rheumatic fever, and
Dinny had to go to
hospital. He came back, looking pale and
pulled down, and he grew paler and more
gaunt and troubled. The next we heard
was that Chin had sold his 300 acres at a
ridiculous price, and was leaving the valley. Steele
questioned him about it in the presence of several
sympathetic neighbors. “I gotter go,” said Chin
hopelessly. “I jest gotter. He said he’d drive me
out, ’n’ he’s done it. It’s ‘Gnat’ Barclay. He’s
druv me out. I stoned up his grave ’n’ done every-
thin’ in the world t’ keep him down, but while I
was away in the hospital the rabbits let him
out! ”
EXHIBIT A.
P.C.: “ The evidence shows that you threw a flat-iron and saucepan at your husband.”
MRS. O'CALLAHAN : “Be the look av him it shows I hit him, too.”
“Jay Pay”: “P. Pollard” (B. 8/8/18) is
very wide of the mark when he says that pleuro is
now almost extinct in Victoria. It is only a few
months ago since there was a big outbreak in a
dairy herd not very far from Melbourne. Had it
not been that the Agricultural Department’s officers
were wide awake, the outbreak might have had very
serious and far-reaching consequences, as the owners
of the herd when several deaths had occurred, instead
of notifying the authorities (as they are bound to
do under the Contagious Diseases Act of Victoria),
rushed the stock, contacts and all, into the market
and, sold them to buyers from all parts. These beasts
were, later, all tracked, by the Agricultural Depart-
ment’s inspectors, aided by the police. Last year
there was an outbreak of pleuro on the Werribee.
Cattle from different parts of the State killed at the
various abattoirs very often show old pleuro lesions
in the lungs. If an animal becomes affected with
tin's disease and recovers, it will still, after months
have elapsed, be a potent danger and may be the
means of causing a fresh outbreak.
* * * *
“John McL.”: A strangely-assorted pair of
immigrants landed on the beach at Cape York (N.Q.)
the other day. One was a short-necked, full-breasted
pigeon, colored man-o’-war grey on the underside,
■with wings of dirty blue. For a pigeon it had a
labored flight, and was about twice the size of a
ground-dove. The other was a kingfisher, with a
blue, breast, black head and multi-colored wings.
Both were foreigners in these regions. They came
from the direction of New Guinea and flew in com-
pany—a most extraordinary thing, seeing how con-
servative and cliquey birds are. After landing, the
pair kept together for half a day, the pigeon pro-
specting the ground for a feed of grass-seeds while
his mate hunted amongst the leaves of some near-by
cassava plants for insects. Towards sundown these
strangers in a strange land who had ventured for
days together in their long flight from wherever they
came from, parted company, the kingfisher striking
inland and the pigeon making for a clump of man-
groves down the coast.
“Eddyson”: “Scanlan’s mansion” was
the standing joke of Pigweed, or at any rate for
as long as it remained standing. Scanlan built the
four-roomed residence himself. It, was the ribald
youth of Pigweed dubbed the humble abode “Scan-
lan’s Mansion.” Having had a great success with
the Scanlan one-eyed spud, yielding fabulous sacks
to the acre, the apples having gone off well, and
the hens being in an apparently perennial state of
“both doing well,” Tim Scanlan came to a sudden
resolution on a subject that had been discussed for
seven years—he would have a new house. The
two-roomed, log-built, clav-plastered hut had served
very well for simple Tim Scanlan, selector ; it was far
below the station in life of Timothy James Scanlan, Esq.,
farmer and orchardist. So Tim ordered the palings,
he procured a small amount of sawn timber from
Wilson’s mill, and set about erecting “Donegal.”
Scanlan built the house from plans and specifications
contained in his own capacious head. He put on
the shingle roof himself, and painted the name
“Donegal” over the door with his own hand, and
rested satisfied with his labors, despite the ridicule
of his neighbors and the assured- prophecy of the
experts that the first gale sliding round Copper Top
would blow “Scanlan's Mansion” over the land-
scape like a capful of. chaff. Tim Scanlan was
very proud of his house. If it had a decided list to
the setting sun Tim’s eye could not detect it. If
the eastern aspect betrayed a portentous bulge
Scanlan was not the one to admit any disadvantage
in such a development. Scanlan shifted in, and
Scanlan’s Mansion was a fair spot on the green
slopes of Copper Top for a good twenty days. The
storm came when Tim and the missus were a-bed
and sleeping. Mrs. Scanlan was the first to cry out
about the admonitory tremors, and the quaint, deso-
late complainings of their great new house. “ ’Tis
moanin’ in pain, it is, Tim,” said Mrs. Scanlan.
“Tush ’n’ shtuff! Go to sleep woman, will yeh?
The house above is as solid ez the Causeway iv
Antrim.” There came a ferocious gust, the house
canted, the roof slid over into the yard, and the
west wall came swaying gently in on the occupants.
“She’s down, Tim Scanlan!” screamed Mary. It
was well Scanlan had built lightly ; the wall rested
on the iron head- and foot-pieces of their bed, and
remained so, a fairly effective cover from the storm.
“Will yeh go to sleep wid yer row, Mary Scanlan?”
Tim responded. “There’s nothin’ wrong wid me
house .at all a few minutes mendin’ wid a pail
won’t put right in the mor-r-nin’.” “The poor
house is broke over us, ’n’ we’ll be kilt together
entirely,” Mary wailed. But come what might
Tim would admit no defect in Donegal, the pride
of Copper Top, and he kept to his bed, controverting
all aspersions, till the day came, and with it a
rescue party that tore the palings from the wall
over Scanlan’s bed, and disregarding Tim’s protes-
tations pulled Mary through. Then it passed round
for Tim, where he was hid under the bedclothes,
and dragged him, squealing, through the aperture.
Then Timothy Scanlan, standing erect in his shirt
beside his home (a mere pile of wreckage) drew
attention to the hole broken in the wall. “Gintle-
min,” said he, with magnificent dignity, “was
there no dures to my house?” But not till three
days later did Pigweed know that Tim Scanlan had
commenced an action against the members of the
rescue party for breaking and entering!
WET AUGUST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The white rain runs before the wind—
Oh, wind and rain what do you here,
In this green bridal of the year,
When quickening boughs are blossom twined?
Oh, wind and rain, what do you here,
M itii cold, sharp showers eddying blind,
W hen quickening boughs are blossom twined,
And each clod lifts a tender spear?
With cold, sharp showers eddying blind,
The hours are dark that should be clear,
And each clod lifts a tender spear;
And, oh, the wee nests all unlined!
The hours are dark that should be clear;
The chilly airs are still unkind ;
And, oh, the small nest's all unlined!
By breaking buds grown pale' with fear.
The chilly airs are still unkind
In this green bridal of the year—
By breaking buds grown pale with fear
The white rain runs before the wind.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


Your Part
is Easy I
You can at least be
in the second line of
defence by investing
-— not giving—your
money in War Bonds.
Are You going to do
YOUR part . . .
VjffSSS
%
i
WAH
loam ao«o«
/>-
X
y
/
:>
y
W'
C
Vi
and MOTORISTS —you will have more money for investment if
you always keep your car shod with dependable Australian-made
DUNLOP TYRES
You save in the initial outlay—secure the best tyre for our road conditions—
and ensure satisfaction at a price unapproached by any imported tyre.
Benefit yourself, and assist Australian Industry by using “Dunlops.”
Stocked in “Grooved” and “Railroad” patterns at all garages .
ALL STATES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Founders of the Pneumatic Tyre Industry.
AND NEW ZEALAND


School Children
are very liable to catcb
cold. They have to
go in all weathers —
often having to sit in
school with wet feet. Apart from this, they are always face to
face with the risk from infection —especially when epidemics of
Whooping Cough, Measles, Diphtheria, Influenza, etc., are about.
Mothers of School Boys and Girls however can he always FREE
of ANXIETY if they have a bottle of
s
Bronchitis
= Cure =
i» the [louse, as one dlose of tFiis Medicine at t[ie
first indication of a “cold” will at once “nip in the
bisd” what might otherwise prote to be a serious
illness. Cork the bottle up —the rest will keep.
For Goughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
W. G. HEARNE & CO. Ltd.,
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
Sydney. N.S.W.. Wellington. N.Z.
4/6
Double
Size
w
V*
26
\
&
J
•5?
12
?.C Ui nyilV >Mt mj
magnitude would be a financial and indus-
trial crime. The subject has been discussed
in England and France with considerable
freedom during the last year or two. A
book on the subject was long due. One is
now available —a Levy on Capital, by F. W.
Pethick Lawrence, sometime Fellow of
Trinity College, Cambridge (George Allen
and Unwin, Ltd., London Is. 6d.). The
writer does not pretend to make a complete
statement of the case, since the war is not
over; the figures he deals with are incomplete
and on the result of the war will turn the
cogency of most of his facts. For instance,
in the event of a peace unfavorable to
Britain the arithmetic relating to “available
wealth” would be knocked into an unrecog-
nisable heap. Much of the argument there-
fore rests upon hypothesis. But it is an
interesting argument and a useful one, tem-
perately put. Broadly speaking Lawrence’s
case is this: That it would be cheaper to
pay the debt than groan under the burden
of it; that payment would not change the total
aggregate wealth of the country (Britain),
but- merely change its distribution. And
after a cold analysis of pre-war conditions
and post-war probabilities (of the paradox
that before the war 2 per cent, of the com-
munity owned 64 per cent, of the nation’s
wealth and the circumstance that the war,
by making the State poorer, has given
immense fortunes to some individuals and
ruined others), comes to the conclusion that
only by payment of the debt will it be pos-
sible to put an end to the gravest part of
mal-distribution of wealth, deflate the cur-
rency, make both ends meet, and free the
industry of the country ■ from a crushing
burden
I believe that when the war is over a great demand
will arise from sections of the community not con-
fined to the proletariat, that the whole debt shall be
swept away by a levy on .capital, so that production
may in the future be directed towards supplying the
needs of the many rather than the luxuries of the
few. I appeal to those who possess great wealth
not to place obstacles in the way of the satisfaction
of this demand. Many of them have increased their
wealth during the war without special exertion, and
as a result of the necessities of the nation.... I can
conceive of nothing more fraught with grievous peril
to the country than a sordid struggle in which the
very rich are fighting with their backs against the
wall to preserve their vast hoards of wealth against
the growing demands of industry and the persistent
claims of poverty and distress.
As the writer is not a political partisan—
stands for neither Fat nor the other fellow—
has nothing but gentle pity for the agitated
citizen who imagined the war could be
financed by the State suddenly taking pos-
session of mortgages, diamonds, factories,
motor-cars, gasworks, shares and so on—all
of which come within the category of
“wealth”—goes into close details, and meets
objections, his yarn is well worth reading.
At the present stage of affairs not many
people will have commenced to understand
the sj.ibje.ct until they have digested this
book, Tiie Bulletin recommendsit to every
Australian as the best so far available on a
matter which in other forms he has a lot of
hard thinking to do later on.
Our Hidden Forces and The Psychology of the
Future, by Emile Boirac, are two learned works which
skirmish round the suburbs of the infinite. Any
student of immaterial things will find them intensely
interesting though polysyllabic. For 19 centuries the
Church (and perhaps before that, its ancestor the
synagogue) held, and as far as possible enforced, the
idea that the soul didn't need inquiring about. The
Book of Revelation, produced by some unknown party
who was never apprehended, is still held to be the
last word. Consequently though the flesh was fairly
well known at a very remote time the inhabitant of
the flesh only began to be a subject of scientific
research about the middle of yesterday. Alcoholism
was Studied in Noah’s time ; spiritism may be dated
from some of Mesmer’s successors. It is much too
early to say that the soul, and the state after death,
and the state before birth can’t be located by
science. When science has been on the job for half
the years that have been devoted to the investigation
of bile it will be time to accuse it of failure.
The first essential is to understand the case. Smith
exists. There plainly was a time —an illimitable
time —before Smith. Yet the possibility of him
always existed, else he wouldn’t have happened. In
other words, he must have had an illimitable sort of
existence, perhaps a conscious one. There will also
b,G an illimitable time after Smith, for time can’t be
stooped with an axe, nor can it be sandbagged; and
unless the previous precedent is upset, which seems
absurd after it has endured so long, he must still have a
possibility of existence —in other words, a kind of exist-
ence, perhaps a conscious one. The question may be pid
this way. Is the Smith known to us 1 a visible but
utterly insignificant isthmus like Panama, connecting
the continents of the past and future? Or is he an
island like Kerguelen without even an appreciable
shoal of reminiscence to the east or of prognostica-
tion to the west? What man knows is that he is in
a confined space or box. He can t break into the
future by any known method, for though he gets
there gradually as the box moves it has ceased to be
the future when he gets there, lie can’t break into
the past by any known method, lie can’t go up by
any yet known device to find out if the explanation is
above; breathing and other difficulties bar the way.
To go down is only to make a ventilation hole in
the globe and land in a similar compartment at the
other side, and possibly let out strange and disagree-
able animals from their internal home in the process.
Revelation shows nothing that is of the slightest use
to any living creature, and what use the thing it
says it shows may be to dead creatures we don’t
know. Clericalism admits that it can’t tell how to
reveal anything, so science is taking a hand,
with much disapproval from clericalism. Emile
Boirac’s two books are a patient review -of
what has been done. Barring the appearance of
Fisher’s Ghost in Australia, the burning of witches
and the alleged raising pf Samuel, the old arrange-
ment of things had little to show. The New Testa-
ment never professed to be a matter of detail on this
subject. So the men of to-day are trying many paths,
some of which may lead somewhere. There is no
chart to steer by. because no one knows whether the
Unknown lies east, west, north or south, but there is
a. chance of finding it, or at least of striking oil on
the way. Amid a multitude of new mental sciences
or sub-sciences many things have been discovered
about mental diseases and mental conditions which
are of value, seeing that in the days before mental
and spiritistic sciences began the chief treatment of
lunacy consisted in confinement and walloping.
Some of the discoveries may relate to soul con-
ditions. As to whether the wall between the seen
and the unseen thin, the author offers no
opinion, but he seems to have hopes. Anyhow, he
holds that things are better than in the days when
there was nothing doing, save that each sect said it
hgd found a hole in the wall and took up a collection
at the alleged entrance. (Frederick A. Stokes Co.,
New York, publishers.)
Business, Robbery, etc.
Another Australian idea is getting a
chance. This one is a system of telescoping
mutton carcases so that they take up only
two-thirds of the refrigerated shipping space
usually occupied by one frozen sheep. Maon-
land has adopted the idea. Carcases are cut
across at the pin-bone, at the loins, and the
smaller piece is pushed, shanks first, into the
hollow of the ribs. •
“Rangan”: About four years ago, the
Banana land Lands Department, having plenty
of spare forests on its hands, ottered for
sale a splendid stand of valuable softwoods
at Ball Creek, near Port Douglas. It held
2,500,000 square feet of kauri-pine alone, and
much cedar, hickory and other unexcelled
Bananaland woods. As shipping space was
then cheap and there was a big supply of
foreign timber, there were no buyers for the
standing wood. But times have changed, and
when it was offered again the other day it was
eagerly snatched up. But delivery had
already been taken, for inspection showed
that a fire had swept through, and not a stick
was standing !
* * ■ * *
H. H. Corbin, B.Sc., is conducting experi-
ments with wattle, which will, if successful,
give the bark industry a big lift in S. Aus.
Growers in the past have merely levelled
their groves when ready for stripping, con-
sidering they had served th,eir pur nose and
were of no further value ; but now Corbin
comes along with a system of pruning that
will enable trees to yield a fresh crop every
two years, i.e., if correctly treated when
stripped another crop of equal value will be
available 24 months after. Usually a tree
takes about seven years to arrive at the
right stage to be barked (and is then
passed out), so the production will be enor-
mously increased if this can he achieved in
two years. The experiments if successful,
taking into consideration the thousands of
acres of wattle under cultivation here and
the other States, will be of incalculable
value, to the Commonwealth. The demand
for the bark for tanning is rapidly increas-
ing, and the price is well over £8 per ton.
“Peter Pan”: National salvage is one
important war-born industry which has come
to stay. Junk, dunnage, lumber, scrap
(especially of metals) have suddenly become
marketable. The chief lines of trade are
tobacco tins, boot-polish tins, milk tins and
bottles. Tobacco tins, formerly 4d. a dozen,
now fetch Sd.; essence bottles, once 2d.,
are now Is. a dozen; jam-tins, formerly
only suitable for decorating dogs’ tails, sell
at 4d. a dozen; fruit and milk tins are 6d.
and Is. per dozen respectively. Old news-
papers, once 9s. 4d. a ewt., now bring 225.
6d. Sauce bottles are Bd. a dozen, while
wine, whisky, brandy and vinegar bottles
are worth from Is. 6d. to Bs. a dozen. Even
beer-bottle capsules are bought back at 2d. a
dozen. Ink-bottles are very scarce, and local
ink is being put into medicine anti essence-
bottles. Before the war small irik-bottles
could be bought filled at 3s. a gross, while
to-day they fetch 2s. empty. Toothpaste
tubes are melted down into ingots weighing
2Jib., worth exactly 10s. each. Tinfoil is
bought and treated for anti-friction metal
for artificial limbs. Waste metals vary in
price, but thev all find eager buyers. False
teeth have soared in price; old jewellery
ought to be taken at on.ce to the nearest
jeweller, while misfit glass eyes are precious.
“F.N.T.”: David Paterson, an experi-
enced Melbourne printer, has brought out
another pamphlet on the local manufacture
of printing-paper. The author has done
much book-printing, which involves an inti-
mate knowledge of papers, their texture and
composition. His conclusion is that Aus-
tralia could and should be making its own
paper. There are a good many difficulties
in the way, he admits: but none of them is
insuperable, or even formidable. The ten-
dency in the U.S., according to the experts,
is in the direction of a glut of production.
Yet there seems no indication on the part of
Australian importers to let the light shine
on the gorged condition of the American
paper-market. On the basis of £ll a ton,
the present U.S. price, and allowing for a
high freight-rate, not to speak of a healthy-
sized importers’ profit, there seems to be
plenty of room for Australian operations,
particularly if the Federal Government
were to do its proper share in helping to
establish the industry here. If the U.S.
can produce far more than it needs, with
labor costs higher than they are likely to be
in this country for some time to come, local
production hardly appears to be a wild-cat
proposition. The fact that paper can be
made from Australian timbers, has of course,
bc-en demonstrated already. What this
country needs is a little more confidence in
the opinions of its own experts and a bar-
rier to block the devastating competition of
foreign labor—mostly cheap.
* * *
“Camelero”: Before the war tourists
roaming around Egypt purchased thousands
of pounds’ worth of curios made in Birming-
ham. Even Billjim sent a few boatloads
home in the days when he camped at Mena
and Maedi. Arriving in Jerusalem he dis-
covered a similar state of affairs, only the
goods in this instance had been made in
Germany. Strings of beads, crosses, cigar-
ette cases, etc., which are supposed to be
made out of olive wood are just plain pine
varnished. For years the olive-trees grow-
ing in the Holy Land have been protected,
and since the British occupation each tree
has been valued at £lOO, At present pre-
parations are being made to plant thousands
of acres of olives in and around Jerusalem
and Bethlehem.
“I. Say”: Called in at the tobacconist’s
yesterday to buy a new pipe, and had to wait
my turn while a dusty stranger had a good
satisfying suck at live different stems. Two
of them he was doubtful about, so he gave
each of them a couple of extra sucks to make
sure, then finally chose a sixth. As he
didn’t e.ven wipe the moisture off before
replacing the discards in the box, I passed.
“F.N.T.” : Some figures have been adduced
by a Melbourne trade paper to show that the
horse is not much good to Australia, after
all, A hardworking Dobbin costs some £(j a
year for his shoes and a lot more for his
feed, and he has to be stoked whether he
works or not. It is calculated that if horses
could be generally replaced by mechanical
traction Australia would make ah annual
saving of £45,000,000, leaving the horseshoe-
steel available for machinery, rails and so
forth and the horsefeed for human needs.
It is a simple fact that the internal-combust-
ing vehicle is rapidly overtaking Dobbin on
the roads and elsewhere. In the Ma State
for instance, there are now 224 mail and
passenger horseless services, covering 11.000
miles of roads and doing the necessary work
for an outlay that doesn’t approach the sunt
which would be needed if horses Were used.
It goes to plainly indicate that the sooner
the Commonwealth Government puts its
energies to discovering a local oil-supply
the better it will be for Australia in the long
run.
* * * #
“Dale” : If the trimming process goes on
at the present rate it should not be long
before the country contiguous to the Murray
begins to look distinctly bald. The amount
of wood used along the river is surprising,
and there are over 15 boats employed in the
trade. Some idea of the quantity of timber
cut may be obtained from the fact that it
requires 24,000 tons of wood a year to keep
the irrigation plants at Merbein and Mildura
going. On contract for the Mildura Irriga-
tion Trust one boat gathered enough sticks in
a year to make a stack 6ft. high and 24 miles
long. Straight wood only is required, and
the varieties most favored are box, gum and
mallee. All the river boats use wood as
fuel; in fact, coal is an unknown quantity.
A royalty of 6d. a 50ft.-ton is charged oil
all wood cut on Crown lands, and the pri-
vate owners charge sums running tip to
Is. 6d. It would pay the Government in
the long run if it devoted some of the pro-
ceeds of the sales to redressing the river by
the planting of new timber. But State Gov-
ernments are not supposed to make anything
pay, are they ?
.** * *
“Gal. Iron”: The Royal Agricultural
Society of Vic. got a hint the other day of
the pass to which the habit of not making
things for ourselves has brought us. It
wanted some galvanised-iron to cover its new
pig-pens, and got out tenders for sufficient,
new and second-hand. The average for the
second-hand stuff was £l3 a ton higher than
for the new iron. But then the new iron
was to arrive some day, if it had luck, and
no one would guarantee that it would be
landed by this Christmas or the next. So
the owners of the material in hand carried
it shoulder high. Of course an official price
is fixed, but no one is fool enough to take
any notice of that.
“Splitter”: Timber price-lists in Sydney
have got the jumps again. Before the war
Australian hardwood could be purchased at
16s. per 100 ft. super; the lists just issued
asked 325. per 100 ft. —a rise of 100 per cent.
With the softwoods there’s the same tale to
tell. Millowners say they don’t see a big
profit. Anyhow the high price of timber is
giving other side-lines a push. In some
suburbs of Sydney a big demand for concrete
houses has set in. These are set in blocks,
sometimes nearly half the size of the wall;
and being strong and not likely to fall down
without an earthquake, are an improvement
on the old-style weatherboard tenements.
Perhaps the unfilled want in the price-
fixing business, so far as the retailer is con-
cerned, was a very large and very secret
commission to inspect the ash-barrel. It
ought to be inspected for, say, a week in
moderately warm weather, and re-inspected
in hot weather. The ash-barrel tells the tale
of the waste incurred by those who deal in
perishable goods—a big item, but one on
which the garbage receptacle is the only
reliable witness. Of course it can’t be sworn,
and it can’t be brought into court; its evi-
dence must be taken at its own residence in
the small hours of morning. And if a
whisper of the business leaked out it would
run stiff and lie shamefully—in fact it would
be loaded. The idea only applies to retail
businesses. When a whole bullock goes bad
it can’t be put into the dirt-box without its
head and its hoofs and its tail hanging out.
“T. Hawk”: The rise in imported axe-
handles (about 150 per cent, over pre-war
prices) has led an enterprising Sydney firm
to give Queensland hickory (they call it
booyong on N. S. Wales North Coast) a
much-deserved trial. It is as tough as wire
and works up beautifully. Another timber
in big demand is teak, famed because white-
ants don’t like wasting their energies on
it. The heavy war risks and heaven-high
freights are not doing Australian industry
any harm.
“Melaleuca” : Why doesn’t someone with a
big stick get to work on the Speck’s timber
industry? The hardwood forests are being
cut right out, and what timber is produced is
thrust on to the market as “hardwood.” This
term covers all timber from bluegum, which
will last for years, to swamp-gum, which
will rot in six months if placed in contact
with the earth. Still as long as the mer-
chants can sell it who cares for the future?
Rodway, the Speck’s chief market-gardener,
has been lecturing for years on the need for
re-afforestation, but his wail goes unheeded.
The trouble is that Rodway is a local genius,
so he doesn’t count.
POTATERS—ALL 'OT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Potaters all ’ot an’ smellin’ of the ground—
Them’s easily the best thing what I found
Down in the field be’ind the old chateau.
I sets ’em sizzlin’ in the brazier’s glow
An’ watches patient-like until they’re brown’d.
Just now the bloomin’ major comes around ;
'E puckers up ’is nose an’ sorter frown’d.
Ses ’e: “What’s that there smell I’d like to
know?”
“Potaters —all ’ot!”
I sits ’alf froze an’ very nearly drown’d
An’ thinks of ’ome. Oh, ’strewth ! I’d give a pound
To smell the Edgware-road and see the row
Of stalls an’ barrel's —naphtha flares ablow —
While down the wind there comes the cheerful
sound:
“Potaters —all ’ot!”
ON ACTIVE SERVICE.
DION TITHERADGE.


I
ftmfm
H
Sectional view of a Beale
Tuning pin in all-icon wrest-
plank. The pin is kept
tight against the face oj its
bearing by a set-screw which
is adjusted at the factory.
The operator, in tuning,
proceeds as with any other
piano.
fm
Top of Beale wrest-plank,
showing the tuning pins in
relation to the wrest-plank.
When fully strung, this part
of the piano hears a strain
of nearly JO tons. No
wooden wrest-plank can in-
definitely stand such a strain
without the wood fibres
finally being crushed.
&
Jg
Complete iron frame. Note
how the top is cast en
bloc with the rest of the
frame, giving a construction
that will endure for ever.
This strength of the Beale
Piano is the secret of its
tone-permanency.
m
mmmm
m
m
m
m
m.
H
i©i
■
1
-
W,
m
m
m
m
1
/:
fj
fl
m
m
r pHE use of an all iron wrest-plank
■I enables us to guarantee the tone quality
of the Beale Piano for at least 25 years.
This is about ten years longer than the guarantee of most
other makers. With our all-iron tuning system the pins are
permanently held in position. Vibration above the pressure
bar—owing to loose pins—is impossible in a Beale instrument
Investigate the many constructional advantages ol the ‘ Beale'’
when you decide you want a good piano. Terms if desired.
SKowro oms
333 George3s Sydney;
fgh
&'C<?X v T 0
Factory
4M7 Trafalgar SfArmandale.
rirtr nil mt#*Yf w* I
■ J|> J&. JL /vTi.O %js i®-- JL-JL, Ji» 2LJL*#


Useful Gifts.
A. Saunders’ Hunting Kit Bag, solid nickel fittings, canvas
lining: 18-inch, 35/-; 20-inch, .39/-; 22-inch, 43/-;
24-ineh, 47/C.
A. Saunders;’ Attache Writing Case, detachable blotter,
fitted with every convenience, £2/10/-
Others, £2, £3.
A. Saunders’ Smoker’s Companion, bevelled edge glass base, solid
copper mounts, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Cutlery Canteen, containing 3-piece Carving
Set, 6 Table Knives, 6 Dessert Knives, 6 Table Forks, 6
Dessert Forks, £5.
A. Saunders’ 3-pieee Carving Set, Xylonite Handles, finest-
quality hand-forged Sheffield steel, 15/6.
Others, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
A. Saunders’ Swan Fountain Pen, 14ct. gold, iridium-
pointed nib, olain, J2/6
2.9 ct. Gold Bands, 21/-, 22/6, 23/6, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Solid Leather Suit-ease, solid nickel-fitting 1 ,
canvas-lined, cap cornel’s. 20-inch, 48/6; 22-inch, 53/6;
24-inch, 58/6 ; 26-inch, 63/6.
wmffl
w/Mm
m
wm
A. Saunders’ Soldier’s or Tourist’s Canvas-fitted
Toilet Roll, all metal unbreakable fittings, 30/-
Smaller size, 21/-, Larger, £2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Pocket Wallet,
Morocco Leather, Silver Shield,
8/6.
Others, 10/6, 12/6, 15/-
A. Saunders’ Combination
.Match Holder and Ash
Tray, pure silver-plated,
hand burnished, 5/6.
.SAUNDER
JEWELLER, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION), SYDNEY.
/
H B
Blßiaia
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
SAFEGUARD YOU* HEALTH
j.Coltis Browne's
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
anil in tiie Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, lis, Sl-, op.
Made in England.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a linking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
_ : 44 _BRIDGE STREET, SYDN _
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Hi l Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3,
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's including Nana, 2/* each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life. 2s. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beadty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 1/9. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. _ Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/9. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael. 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 2/9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/9. How to Train for
All Sports, 2/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets. Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions. 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 1/9. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing. 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Gaud Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/9. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping. 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/0.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6' posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/-.
Self Instructor: Every Man llis Own School-
master, 2/- posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 2/-. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio Heptameron. and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Thicks with Cards.. 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook. 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
10/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 1/-, 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Goates), 1/9 posted.
Ciievasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/9. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses, 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/- posted. Damaged
Goods 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life's Shop Window, 1/9. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 §69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
I BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.“WS


THE FINEST TAILORING
SERVICE IN AUSTRALIA.
1I8|S1» «
: a
i .NS
*r
r '*'>> ...
% /'":■■
m
■ di
m
■ ■
■ 7*»
V^<i>r x ,
\
...as.' rr.sf ....*
■
■
L
:
*
1111111
HHffi
9
;iA
pRr- \ /If. *
; V
S v
■1
It:
t
/
1 k
*
1 ftm
MU
SB
:
, *
~...!
Piri-
.- d »
/\V >
! 11 \ |gr^
*i •• S ggMP • «■ ' iteeMF w
- . .j 4
: I® @1
' 'SB h4' : d
: | mHmL
s
£ | ——
WaaßliglE
I #".r
li
t
I
it;
a
i.
■H
■ ■■
i?
,L
' f'i SK;
.
K
m
V
n
WHEREVER you live—you can
shop by mail from London Stores,
opp. G.P.0., Melbourne—get
Suits made to your measures in the latest
style-- tailored by the best tailors that
money can employ —and obtain more
satisfaction at less cost than by any other
way of ordering tailoring.
London Stores have no travellers or
outdoor representatives. We sell to YOU,
the wearer, direct by Mail, and thus elimi-
nate all those great selling expenses that
would otherwise make it necessary to
charge More for.
Cup Suits to Order
fg
THOUSANDS of well-dressed satis- !
fied Men all over the country order
their suits in just this way. Simply
post the coupon for *
Style BooK and j
100 New Patterns,
together with concise home-measurement
chart, with which anyone can measure
you as expertly as a Tailor.
Post the Coupon TO-DAY. We
guarantee satisfaction or money back.
. .
(OPP. G.P.O.)KELkOURNE
S’
K
v i
O
J „& ' -cT 1
r <*** #


SUFFERING AND SYMPATHY.
When the whole history of the war comes
to be written it, will be found that all the
books in the world will not be large enough
to contain all that could be written. The
thousand and one little things that go to
make up the pathos, that reveal the fellow-
ship in suffering and that make life still
worth living to many cannot possibly be
recorded. They will be known only to
those who have participated in them, one
here, one there, but rising into millions in
the aggregate, and to the “gods who see
everywhere.” Here is one instance, recorded
of Bournville Cocoa Works, but typical of
numbers up and down Great Britain. In
these works of Cadbury’s there has been
formed a. War Relief Committee, whose
business it is to look up and deal with
needy cases among the families of Bourn-
ville men who have gone to the Front. The
method followed is by personal visitation,
and to this a band of 150 workpeople, mostly
women, has devoted itself. The committee’s
business is to provide the personal neces-
saries and comforts which a soldier’s slender
pay cannot furnish, to give maternity
grants, and to look after cases of sickness,
particularly among children. In this work
the whole Bournville community shares, the
employers by providing the necessary funds,
something like £25,000 a year, the employees
by doing the bulk •of the work, but by no
means all. In referring to this, at the annual
social meeting of the workpeople, the chief
of the staff spoke of the self-sacrifice made
by the visitors in their self-imposed, effici-
ently carried out and long continued duties.
It may be mentioned that the Bournville
workpeople themselves maintain and conduct
two convalescent homes for 'wounded sailors
and soldiers, numbering about 60 inmates,
the premises only being provided by the firm,
the firm itself maintaining a third.— Advt.
©
k-©
©
Specimen Section of a
“COLO” Tyre.
Eight Points of the “COLO” Tyre
(1) TREAD.—Corrugated, presenting small sur-
face to the road, thereby saving friction.
(2) TREAD. —A great thickness of rubber, which
is practically cut- and chip-proof.
(3) BREAKER STRIP, which, being made of
loosely-woven, heavy fabric, binds the tread
to the carcase of the tyre.
(4) PURE RUBBER.—Pure Rubber is placed
under Breaker Strip.
(o) CARCASE.—Composed of five plies of heavy,
long-fibre canvas, heavily impregnated with
rubber.
(6) FULL AIR SPACE.
(7) SI DE WALLS.—Realising the severe work
tyres are called upon to do in the country,
we have placed a great thickness of rubber on
the side walls, preventing water from entering,
as often happens in other makes of tyres after
a few months’ service. Other makes have
very little thickness of rubber at this point.
(S) BEADS are heavily reinforced and skin-
coated with rubber, to prevent rust.
MARCUS CLARK & CO. LTD.,
162 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. City 2567.
POVERTY
POINT
CHARLIE
CHAPLIN'S
MILLION
DOLLAR
COMEDIES
SUPER
FCATURES
Australian mummers Alfred Woods and
Maud Williamson are still earning grease-
paint in England. At latest they were
appearing in the suburban halls in a new
sketch written by Maud and entitled “The
Home Wreckers.”
“0.K.”: “Sherlock Holmes” on the film,
with William Gillette in the name-part, is
a striking testimony to the excellence of the
show which J. C. Williamson staged just 10
years ago. It may be granted that Gillette,
now rather too old for the character, in some
of the places, was an unsurpassable Holmes
in his younger days.' Nevertheless, he
couldn’t have been more effecjtjye than his
imitator, Cuyler Hastings, whose deadly calm
manner suggested the morphia-taker and
whose voice was a noble organ. Perhaps
CRITICAL.
“ That's a fine thing, of yours, Dauber. In
fact, there’s only one thing in the show
I like better.”
“Whose is that?”
" Mine.”
Lumsden Hare was not a more likeable Dr.
Watson than the actor supporting Gillette
on the screen, nor the memorable Atholwood
a stronger type of Moriarty than the burly
fellow who controls the Criminality Organi-
sation Society in the American pictures
lately to hand. But they were at least as
good. At all other points of comparison the
original Australian production was vastly
superior to the show Gillette prepared for the
camera. Madge and Jim Larrabee on the
screen don’t look or play their parts as
Mabel Lane and Hamilton Stewart did. The
little cockney burglar is a crude, amateurish
figure where Edmund Gwenn was a magnetic
actor. The Billy boy in buttons isn’t a
Patch on young liege Carey of old, and the
Alice Faulkner is a plain, commonplace
young woman where May Chevalier was a
fine, full-blooded heroine. Moriarty’s gang
of burglars and cut-throats, too, are feeble
make-believes compared with the J.C.W.
cluster of criminals, headed by Gus Glover!
The cast of “Sherlock Holmes” was an Aus-
tralian record for all-round efficiency.
At any other than this war-time the
destruction of the Wallace-Hagenbeck Circus
train, near Gary, U.S.A., on June 22, would
have ranked as a most appalling calamity.
Owing to a “hot box” the train had pulled
partly into a siding when an empty troop-
train dashed into it, demolishing four of the
flimsy circus sleep-
ing-cars, and con-
siderably wrecking
the rest of She
outfit. Sixty-one
members of the co.
were crushed or
burned to death,
whilst 179 others,
mostly “auxili-
aries,” were injured
more or less.
Whole families of
performers were
wiped out. One of
the tales of hero-
ism reported from
the wreckage was
that of a woman
who, screaming in
agony beneath some
burning timbers,
saw the flames
threatening the
men who were try-
ing to release her.
“The Invisible Foe,”
at Sydney Palace.
Morton Grant
(Maurice Dudley)
calls with some un-
pleasant news.
“Get away, get away quick, or you’ll
be burned. too!” shrieked the poor
wretch. Then the flames silenced her. A
similar catastrophe happened to the Benjamin
Wallace branch of the Hagenbeck-Wallace
Circus about 15 years ago. In that case 2(1
persons were killed and 50 injured, through
a collision between two sections of the train.
The “bob hop” ranks pretty high in Aus-
tralia nowadays. A frequent warning in
Melbourne advts. of Saturday evening
“darnces” is “No pass-out checks to ladies.”
It doesn’t often happen that a dramatic
author has two plays running in this part of
the world at the same time. Recently while
Guy Bates Post was playing “The Nigger,”
Kathlene Maedonell was appearing in
dramatist Sheldon’s better-known effort,
“Romance.”
When the original Chang was
in Geelong (Vic.) his height and chest
measurements were taken and marked on one
of the walls of my father’s business pre-
mises. The marks are still visible, and I
have carefully measured them. Result:
Height, Bft. If in. Reach, lift. 1 in. I
believe that Chang was measured in his boots
and socks. That ought to settle the argu-
ment.
Australian girls in the Firm’s musi-
cal companies have lately been kept
busy exposing the hollowness of the
plea that principals must be imported.
Gladys Moncrieff, in “Oh, Oh, Delphine !” has,
despite temperamental disqualifications, blos-
somed as a musical-comedy actress equal to
the best of the imported talent. This is
largely due to the tuition of the pro-
ducer, George Highland, who has a
good opinion of Australian ability. When
Gladys was out of “Katinka” Eva
Webber, a Brisbane girl, stepped from
the chorus and warbled pleasingly in her
stead. The first night of “Oh, Boy!” in
Melbourne was a triumph for the native-born
girl. _ Owing to Maude Fane’s illness, the
principal part fell to Cecil Bradley, whose
ease and intelligence made her success cer-
tain. _ No less clever was the second lady,
Gracie Lavers, who got her chance when
Charlie Wenman and others saw her imitat-
ing the principal boy at a private perform-
ance, given for their own amusement by
some pantomime youngsters. Another Aus-
tralian who made good was Flossie Lusk,
who played the part for which Cecil Bradley
had been cast.
P. A. Howells has been celebrating the
jubilee of his starting work in the musical
world of Adelaide. He is merely 65 now.
He began with the Marshall music firm. Of
late years Howells has had a lot to do with
management, and has introduced to Adelaide
many prominent musicians.
The Oxford, one of London’s oldest music-
halls, has declared a 10 per cent, dividend
for the past year, and the co. has written a
lot off its old speculative' investments. The
report remarks gratefully that the £24,000
net profit is “due entirely to the phenomenal
success of ‘The P>etter ’Ole.’ ’’
“Melb”: The four brothers Tait have in-
dustriously climbed into rivalry of the for-
midable Tallis, Ward, Meynell and Wen-
man combine. Charles led the way as
an employee at Allan’s music-warehouse,
where he gained the confidence of
visiting showmen as a front manager.
The younger brothers took jobs as
ticket-sellers. Their rise was precisely simi-
lar to that of Musgrove, who commenced by
selling opera books. They undertook a long-
film of the Kelly Gang for a picture-show
which was very successful. Later, they ad-
vanced to great enterprises, with Dolores,
Clara Butt, Hambourg, McCormack, Bauer,
Calve, Lauder, and so forth. A big step was
leasing the site of the old Presbyterian
Assembly Hall, Collins-street, and erecting
the splendid Auditorium. Another enterprise
was the Majestic picture theatre, Flinders-
street. Bailey and Grant have yielded the
King’s Theatre for eminent Tait stars, such
as Guy Bates Post and Polini. That’s the
trouble—theatres.
“Masetto” : Re the death of Bobert Ken-
nedy, of the old-time musical family. The
father’s name was David. The family first
appeared in Melbourne in 1872 at the Tem-
perance Hall, and was a very popular show
for some time. Three of old David's chil-
dren, James, Kate and Lizzie, met a tragic
death by the burning of the Theatre des
Italians at Nice in 1881. They were not
performing, but they were in the audience.
Another daughter, Jessie, married Tobias
Matthay, who has caused a stir in the piano-
teaching world for some years. The late
Robert Kennedy did a lot of platform sing-
ing about 20 years ago. but in recent times
he was known only as a teacher.
“L.H.P.”: “L.L.W.”: (B. 12/9/’18) asks
for the Bland Holt production in which a
film was used. It was “Hearts Are Trumps,”
a four-act drama by .Cecil Raleigh, staged
at Drury Lane, in 1899, and done at the
Lyceum, Sydney, in March of 1902. Mrs.
Bland Holt played Maud St. Trevor, a
music-hall star who induced the Earl of
Burford (Arthur Sty an), to whom she was
engaged, to dance unknown before a film-
operator (Mr. Carr), and when later on
the Earl wanted to drop the lady, the film
was used in the breach-of-promise proceed-
ings. The biograph was supplied by the
Crown studios, and was used with fine effect
in a most realistic scene in Act 111, showing
“A Theatre Within a Theatre,” one of
Bland’s many stage triumphs. Baker, Fran-
ces Ross, Albert Norman, Styan, Harrie
Ireland and Frances Rutledge played leads
in this fine spectacular play, which also
showed a realistic horticultural gymkhana,
the Royal Academy and a thrilling Alpine
fatality. We get nothing to-day like those
old Bland Holt productions. Probably the
film has helped to kill spectacular drama,
for the movies can supply effects that no
manager could portray on the stage. For
instance, recall the difference between the
stage and film versions of “The Whip.”
“0.K.” : Dorothy Gumming, the Australian
girl who was interestingly decorative in
‘ Grumpy” and impressively emotional in
“Caste,” has been engaged by Belasco for a
new play, by Knoblich, that he is producing
at the Belasco Theatre, N.Y. She is billed
to appear with Frances Starr and O. P.
Heggie, and her contract is worth far more
than the engagement with Cyril Maude.
Time and opportunity are bound to bring
fortune to Dorothy Cumming. She is the
stuff that_ “great” actresses are made of, and
would shine in a round of Shakspearean
heroine parts.
An important theatrical lawsuit in a
London court has ended with honors divided.
The admitted facts were that Lily Lena had
a contract in variety at the Victoria Palace ;
that during rehearsals she found she was
programmed for the first turn after the in-
terval, objected to the position, left the
theatre when the management would not
change it, and promptly sent a doctor’s cer-
tificate that she was unable to appear; after
which her contract was cancelled. The
management said that she refused to perform
and agreed to the cancelling, both of which
allegations she denied ; also that the custom of
the profession gave the management a right
to cancel dates booked for an artist who turns
nasty. She got a verdict for £lOO for loss of
“BUSINESS BEFORE PLEASURE," AT
SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Potash (James Waters) and Perlmutter
(Nick Adams) discuss a movie vampire.
salary. The jury gave her another £lOO
which she claimed for “loss of the benefit of
publicity” that she would have had while
playing her contract; but the Judge thought
this too shadowy an injury and refused to
allow it. His Honor said, also, that the
management had a right to arrange the pro-
gramme as it pleased; where it had gone
wrong was in cancelling the lady’s dates —
arranged for four years ahead —when she
showed temper.
The prize for musical criticism goes
to Adelaide Mail (7/9/T8). Dealing with
Waller’s co. in “Look Who’s Here” at the
King’s, it describes the combined musical
effort in the “1812” overture in this delicate
fashion: “Something unique was introduced
in the finale, and the audience were treated
to five pianos belching forth.”
OLD HALF-A-CROWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Old Half-a-Crown we called him then.
He was an actor chap,
The blandest and the best of men,
Who never had a rap.
But meeting him about the town
He chatted of our great renown,
And ended: “Bless you ; half-u-crow.n ?”
You came upon him in the bar;
He’d known you all his life.
“Dear boy, say how the children are,
And how’s the little wife?”
You will forgive (your ventures thrive).
I would be glad if you’d contrive
To lend me half-a-erown till five.”
All knew Half-Crown for good or ill.
One day he rushed at Brown.
“1 know,” said Brown, “I’m great; and will
I lend you half a crown ?”
“You’re wrong, sir.” Half-Crown’s eyes
transfix
Poor Brown. “I’d ask how are the chicks ?
And can you spare me two-and-sixf”
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


vr
>-*> •
•'■:''■■ )*»
1-f>*T.
r>-
f
-V ?.'
rn
4}
2*lV
5®
«s|
i
-kA
v* J A
Yt
ri
r* »
m
A?
V-'-J
S>«f?
Si
r
li;
</ <>/ T'W
m#
hf
The Car of Quality.
Choose An Overland
The great Overland range of models includes a car for
practically every need of motoring.
And the popularity of Overland cars is due to five distinct advan-
tages— appearance, performance, comfort, service and price .
Here we show the famous Model 90, a car light enough
to be very “mobile,” yet heavy enough to hold the road easily;
powerful, easy to drive and easy to ride in.
Investigate this Model 90 at your early convenience. Then,
with hundreds of thousands of other people, you will choose
an Overland.
Immediate Delivery.
Australian Distributors—
GARRATTS LTD., Sydney
KELLOW-FALKINER PTY. LTD., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
EAGER & SON, Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO- LTD., Hobart.
A. HA TRICK & CO., Wanganui, N.Z.
N.Z. FARMERS’ CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION,
Christchurch, N.Z.
WILLYS-OVERLAND, Inc.
n 62 Toledo, Ohio, U» S» A»
rTir.'x
...
»gr*a/.
S~
•<WI
m
<r,
*JK«J
J
irw *?
X'j
*^w
&>
*4
«<A s . j»W J
•&t-'#3&iw:<i
T*ll
~•-jf r ?* ' ' ""' •i <*.*Wir^<*;
flAmS&ytkl. f .• xjC *vivx\v '; V>
*W «. 7 Wv* _ r
. * VA V/v.V«i#;/*»* #♦ #» £* . , s Z * . •
v,W;
9:V
?;v*
•m
mi
S*>
*
S®ll
w's*
f \ %jii
fj
\s
*8
n
fV
ysu
r-v / ;/*• •« &y«* y^r*:*fV
**swsX
i" tr;\ wtmMMmm
m
■\
• -uita*bt9&fii
*•*
IvJ
a
»A
¥\
mtse*.
i •; f *j
If?:
2
»i«.i
-V 4 :: -
: PSj&gMpSs'
**
asil^i
til ** /s r , o>> y ■<£*'w i i
mm
imzm
m
:■;■
£S
K •*' i .:V?k‘
3*
>2
m
wt> V
“>*£
•**<!•
YA**<
‘Ai
n
5«?
iSftUSSI
>v/:
IsHlftl
nsg
*.».-* i
ftff-A-
-m
r»t t
sr-r
a-
i* t
=«
J&S^asYi
•’
* i
*}&
$2
5®
sssa
'Xt^V
<?*
m
y*s*
S£
iV-sA.
&£ca:
> Ac
; Autt'-v.^


See This Woolbale?
111
Carson
1
It contains the' Best Possible Advice
to Sheepowners.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
WOOLBROKERS, LTD.
Sydney AND Brisbane.
T 3
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSES, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper P<jlls are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sola
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
I---
\
Your Mirrotf
will dive
you
the pleasing
assurance that
your Complexion
IS what It shouk.
v be If you use
/TETLOW’S
Tl,
sw
FACE POWDER
It imparts a delicate bloom to the
Complexion, so pure that it will
not harm the most sensitive skin.
Sold In Five lints .—
White. Cream. Pink. Flesh and Prunette,
by all Stores • Chemists, Perfumers and
First C/ass Drapery Houses
-Per
Tio
1 PRICE
box
Wholesale DislribuHng A^enrs:-
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.,
Sydney.
; vONOON WHOLESALE AGENTS I *
HENRY C. QUELCH & CO. #
fk & 5. Ludgate Sq., London. Eng.
Sydney’s Hotel de Luxe.
Clifton Gardens
This beautifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, being RIGHT ON THE HARBOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Fine New Bedrooms have just
been erected, built over the water,
every room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Boat, to and from No. 4 Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Tels.: YlO3l. MOSMAN, N.S.W.
Y 1952.
GOOD
HARNESS.
WRITE FOR A CATALOGUE.
Sill
1
BEST
HEADSTALL
STYLE
WINKERS
WITH LOOSE
CHEEK STRAP
CARRYING THE
BIT.
FACE PIECE
and
ROUND EYE
STRAP.
No. 43
STATION
HARNESS
£ll/1216.
-N°- 43 STATION HARNESS is one of the 20 styles of Harness illustrated in our Catalogue
Work" The WinV 6 Harnes f a . lul Leather Goods. This Harness is .Specially Suitable for Station
Nickel Rea l thV“r are ”l ade 111 est st - vle > th e Collar ia.Spot-stitched, the Saddle is 4in. with
Folded Seat ’• l .„i%vre e |i? le c.* eaVy ’ s 2 l l , ld leather - with 'lined points and ends, and the Breeching; has
Mt and SRlft HI P Straps. The Reins are good and strong, with Hal hand parts.
™P^rt , o?Vaaig/fcK 1 d n U S “w. Pa,tS 7/0 extrai Sent freight Free for Cash with Order to
Write for Special Freight Terms to the other States.
HODGSON-MADE
STOCKWHIPS
Post Free Anywhere
for Cash.
■>
v/T"
X
i-pCeux
PRICES OF THONGS ONLY:
Oft. 7ft. Bft. 9ft. 10ft.
12-plait, 12/6 14/- 16/- 18/- 20/-
16-plait, 14/6 17/- 19/6 22/- 24/-
20-plait, 19/6 22/- 25/- 28/6 31/-
50ML WOR/\!”
Handles to Match, with Turk’s Head: 16-plait, 13/6; 24-plait, 15/6; 32-plait, 17/6.
WALTHER
LTD.
SADDLERS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET,
Sydney.
I
'.'ssA&j.
»
<O.
m
m
m
A True Eye and Steady Nerve
A man may be a heavy smoker and yet be able
to compete successfully in any line of endeavor.
Much depends upon his selection of tobacco
and PIPE. To get a cool, sweet smoke choose
the genuine old French Briar as found in the
gh
—the perfect pipe!
m
BO
Many Popular Shapes.
The Standard Fire and Marine Insur-
ance Cos. (Maoriland) :
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904. . £12,715 10 p.c. = £7,500 £5,215 £72,666
1905.. 12,953 10 „ „ 7,500 5,453 78,119
1906.. 11,570 10 ~ „ 7,500 4,070 82,189
1907.. 12,697 10 „„ 7,500 5,197 87,386
1908.. 8,180 10 „ „ 7,500 080 88,000
1909.. 12,573 10 „,, 7,500 5,073 93,139
1910.. 20,610 11J ~ „ 8,312 12,298 105,437
1911.. 18,512 111 „ „ 8,500 10,012 115,449
1912.. 19,801 12 „ „ 9,000 10,801 126,250
1913.. 23,176 13 „,, 9,750 13,426 139,676
1914.. 18,425 13 „„ 9,750 8,675 148,351
1915.. 34,508 13J ~ „ 10,000 24,508 172,859
1916.. 11,834 13J ~ „ 10,000 1,834 174,693
1917.. 23,170 13J „„ 10,0001,,, n - n
Written off property, £IOOO J U 1=6,86u
J line,
1918.. 12,934 131, p.c. = 5,000 7,934 194,797
The Standard in future is to make up its
accounts to the end of June each year
instead of in December, and to change step
figures are now presented for the six months
to June 30 last. There’s little.to comment
upon ; things seem to have worked out nicely,
and the loss rate is somewhat under the
average. Here are the figures :
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66.5 p.c. 30.7 p.o.
1900.. 55,475 29,830 15,285 53.8,, 27.6 „
1905.. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54.2 ~ 33.2 „
1910.. 73,370 36,593 23,760 49.9 ~ 32.4 ,
1912.. 90,441 47,792 31,476 52.8 „ 34.8 „
1913.. 100,663 50,777 36,123 50.4 ~ 35.8 „
1914.. 112,056 62,928 39,283 50.1 „ 34.9 „
1915.. 127,081 56,947 43,675 44.8 „ 34.3 „
1916.. 128,581 77,661 50,175 60.4 ~ 39.0 „
1917.. 125,502 61,926 50,521. 49.3 ~ 40.2
1918*. 59,948 27,200 25,352 45.4 ~ 42.3 ~
*Six months.
During the half-year a further £IO,OOO of
the co.’s funds (making a total of £75,000)
has been invested in War Loan, and the
loans on mortgages and debentures (mostly
municipal) have been reduced by slightly
over that amount. The funds (£287,224) are
now made up of mortgages (36 p.c. of the
total), War Loan (26 p.c.), debentures (20
p.c.), cash £l3 p.c.) and premises (5 p.c.).
For the past five years the interest from
these funds alone has more than paid the
T>p.c. dividend, so the whole of the under-
writing profit lias been available for further
strengthening funds. Capital is £75,000, and
there are reserves of £194,797, of which
£46,500 is reserved for unexpired risks.
* * * *
When the last mail left London the West-
ralian Agent-General was busily distributing
throughout Britain a Mines Department
dodger giving a list of some of the 3000-odd
abandoned gold-mining leases in that State,
and adding a word or two of commendation
to each. No end of official literature on
this subject is to be turned out as soon as
there is money available to pay for it. But
as over nine-tenths of the unworked leases
are mines of apparently very little hope,
and others too full of water to determine
what their prospects really are, it is going to
be a difficult matter to attract capital. A
few prizes no doubt have been missed, but to
find them won’t be easy.
* * * *
At the Sons of Gwalia meeting held in
London in July chairman Richards claimed
that the co. had been one of the chief suf-
ferers by adverse war conditions, high costs
having, besides partly paralysing its efforts
in other ways, necessitated the elimination
of blocks of low-grade ore from the esti-
mated reserves, and thus reduced them from
44 to 3 years S months ahead of the mill.
However, the directors were hopeful of pull-
ing through to better times.
“Oof Bird”: Re ,T. C. Strevens’ par
about Westralian oil discoveries and refer-
ences to one Walter F. English (B. 22/8/’18).
English spent about six weeks in the West
looking for oil, and examined five different
localities between Cape Naturaliste, which
is just below Busselton, to Cheyne Bay, 10<
miles east of Albany. Strevens was in the
State barely half that time, so if English’s
examination was “cursory” what must
Strevens’ have been? The areas inspected*
by English were (1) Cheyne Beach;
(2) Blackwood River, near Cape Leeuwin ;
(3) between Mt. Barker' and the Southern
Ocean; and (4) between Cape Naturaliste
and Donnybrook. In every instance the
presence of lignite or lumps of bitumen,
varied by stories of oil seeps and oil on pools
of water, was the evidence put forward by
local people as indicating the existence of
petroleum. But English found (1) that in
no instance where lignite was found could it
be regarded as an indication that oil was
also present; (2) that the bitumen lying on
the beaches was a refined product, suggest-
ing that it was part of the cargo of a wreck.
Some bitumen dredged in Albany harbor was
shown him, but as the harbor is surrounded
by granite ridges he considered the chance
of an “oilfield” awaiting development there
hopeless, and told the speculators who had
pegged out the locality so. Two oil seeps
were spoken of, but when English went to
visit one his guide was unable to find it, and
when he expressed a desire to have a look at
the other he was told that it was in the bed
of a creek which was “running a banker.”
Lie did manage to get a squint at a well said
to have a coating of oil on the surface of the
water, but the said coating proved to be a
thin film of iron oxide. Strevens’ assertion
that “at least two of the best-known mining
and geological experts of the Westralian
Government” have perfectly open minds
upon the question of the existence of
petroleum in that State comes as a
great surprise to me. When Robinson was
Minister for Mines a year or two ago and
announced that he proposed to spend some
money in looking for oil, the whole of the
geological staff prevailed upon him to save
the money—and he did.
The Lisle goldfield, N.E. Tas., has been
slowly dying for 30 years. In the early
days over a million pounds worth of alluvial
gold was won, but the ground gradually got
poorer until the one or two fossickers who
hung on could hardly make tucker. A small
Launceston co., the Lisle Hydraulic Gold
Mines N.L., has for some time been nrepar-
ing to give the old field a test. A clean-up
the other day after 20 shifts' work, gave
470 z. of gold.


■
1
71
Jfc
l -'•'• •■
' o%: ; .
■
i
r«*-
1
v :•
•M
•••
■ ■:
■
«
I
■1
A
mr
m
ms
S
m
m
H
ii
1
m
m
■
i
■
SK
m
■ ■ S.
KODAK pictures tell your life’s story
Every scene, every incident recorded in this delightful way will live for ever—the pages of your Kodak album should
portray the history of all your experiences in pictorial detail.
You can learn to use a Kodak in half an hour. It’s a splendid hobby—get a Kodak and try it yourself.
The No. 3A Folding Autographic Kodak is the most popular camera in the world—makes pictures postcard size, oYz x 3%
inches Price £6/6/ '
bf all Kodak dealers, and
KODAK (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; "The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne;
250-252 Queen St.., Brisbane; The Valley; 37 Bundle St., Adelaide; 45 Elizabeth St.,
Hobart; Buthven St., Toowoomba; Flinders St., Townsville; Denham St., Bock-
hampton; Argent St., Broken Hill; Optical and Photo. Supplies Co., Perth; “The Kodak
Corner,” corner Lainbton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z.; 148 Eichfleld St.,
Auckland, N.Z.; 76 Stuart St., Dunedin, N.Z.; and 194 A Hereford St., Christchurch, N.Z.
Summer-time is Picnic-time—time for
u ffis Master's Voice
>
y
0
£
%
i
The Kaiser will hear “HIS MASTER'S VOICE” ere long.
Buy YOUR Share in the Victory.
Take up War Loan Bonds.
which makes the
hours pass pleasantly.
Outdoors or in—at the picnic or the party —
wherever and whenever you want good,
bright, cheering music—you would appreciate
the merry-making influence of “His Master’s
Voice.”
Realise that these portable instruments—these
delightful records—bring before you “The
Stage of the World’; all of the best music
and songs; all of the great celebrities.
THE “EXCELLO” MODEL
(ILLUSTRATED)
is a portable, hornless instrument in oak. It gives
clear reproduction—the tone and volume being perfect.
Price - - - £B/8 1-
Other models, various prices up to £6O.
Always look for the Dog trade-mark, shown in part in
the larger illustration.
Instrument catalogue, complete record lists and name
of nearest accredited dealer on request.
fg
hf
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
•‘GRAMOPHONE”
Eegd. Trade Mark.


The Light
m Of ■■ ■
Australia
Brighter Homes.
In no sense can a Home be a Home
where the lighting is not all that it
should be.
Bright, cheery homes are a reflex of
a happy household. Where the light
shines bright and cheerful there may
be found the true conditions which
make for happiness and health.
No matter how far your home is
removed from the centre of popula-
tion the difficulties of lighting can
be qvercome by the installation of
QUIRK’S SAFETY
AIR GAS SYSTEM.
It gives the whitest artificial light
yet invented.
For country homes it is unsurpassed.
Not only is it the best reading light
possible, but in the drawing-room,
the billiard-room and the living-
room it will be found to be all that
can be desired.
In smaller country homes the com-
fort of the family is enhanced 100
per cent, by the installation of the
system, the running-cost of which is
inconsiderable and, once installed,
requires no technical knowledge to
maintain. During the hot summer
months the housewife will find
Quirk’s Air Gas System for cooking
and ironing a great boon, giving the
maximum of result with a minimum
of heat.
Some Striking Advantages
of Quirk’s Safety Air Gas System.
It is absolutely safe, non-explosive
and non-asphyxiating.
No gas is wasted.
It has no smell.
It requires practically no attention.
Insurance Companies demand no
extra premium when it is in-
stalled.
It can he adapted to existing acety-
lene installations.
The cost of maintenance makes it
the cheapest form of artificial light
known.
The Installation.
Quirk’s Lighting & Engineering Ltd.
maintain specially-trained staffs of
mechanics, who install the system
expeditiously and cheaply. The cost
of installation is moderate, the work
is done thoroughly, and once in-
stalled all lighting troubles are at an
end.
Do Not Hesitate
to make enquiries into the system.
The fullest investigation is courted
Thousands of country homes, schools,
public institutions, etc., in all parts
of Australia have practically tested
the System, and in no case has it
been found to fall short of antici-
pations. A postcard to Quirk’s
Lighting & Engineering Ltd. will
bring to you an illustrated pamphlet
thoroughly explaining the System.
An estimate of the cost of installa-
tion will be supplied.
WRITE TO-DAY TO
QUIRK’S
Lighting 8 Engineering Ltd.
Sydney 245 Elizabeth Street
Brisbane 24-28 Wharf Street
Melbourne South .... 110 Sturt Street
Adelaide 112 Grenfell Street
Perth, W.A. . . . Alcock & Co. Pty., Ltd.
C'~i'
tr>. . \
f\
„->cl ;.
/ \t::'
,-l l'^
*C
IB
S~N
v
»5
5^
».
The Strength of ATLAS in a drop of
PLUME BENZINE
THE ability of Atlas to carry the Globe on his
broad shoulders is positively outdone by the
ability of “Plume” to create power.
Fill up with “Plume” and you get a spirit so rich in
heat units, so full of energy, that the maximum of
horse power is developed in your engine.
Every gallon of this popular Benzine is of the same
high quality—a quality that ensures “easy starting,
sweet running, more miles.” All garages sell it.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty, Ltd.
Throughout Australia and New Zealand.
P.R. 2
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Glub
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since lflun. CURES Write for Bools
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT. FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
For Every Day Use and
Complete Satisfaction —
Dominion Tyres
1
■
w.-
Complete Tyre Satisfac=
tion can only be had from
tyres built to withstand
the continual bumps and
strains of rough roads.
Users of Dominion Tyres
are increasing daily—
why not become one now?
Dominion Tyres are
proving to be superior.
Made in Canada.
Procurable at all
leading Garages.
DISTRIBUTORS
United States Rubber Company
(Australasia) Limited,
53 York Street,
SYDNEY.
Bennett & Barkell Ltd.,
Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Dominion Tyre Agency,
27-31 Little Bourke Street,
MELBOURNE.
Cheney Motor Company Ltd.,
Waymouth Street’
ADELAIDE.
The scarcity and dearness of houses,
caused in part by the cost of building
materials, which in its turn is partly charged
to “profiteering,” were discussed lately in
N. S. Wales Council. Local profiteering is
to some extent waylaid and sandbagged by
the War Profits Tax, but a big part of the
evil —that done by the foreign maker and
the outside shipowner—is beyond reach. And
no law can turn one sheet of galvanised-iron
into three. When there aren’t enough goods
there is an extra tendency to sell by auction
and very often the fixed price is lost to view
in the excitement. If goods were scarce, and
the fixed price low, and the law happened to
be observed —well, the auctioneer would pro-
bably knock the lot down to his brother, or
to the creditor who had promised to renew
the bill on easy terms, or to the wise man
who had tipped him in advance. He couldn’t
in decency tell the 10 maximum bidders to
fight it out and try to turn an honest penny
by picking the winner. Nowadays houses
are often sold to be destroyed, or they are
destroyed and sold piecemeal, because some
debris —galvanised-iron especially—may fetch
more than it cost when new a dozen years
ago. There is no fixed price for old houses,
and debris is an elusive beast. The buyer is
often a farmer who wants a roof to put over
his crops or his implements and doesn’t want
a tenant who is possibly a bad tenant. The
man who builds a house nowadays is paying,
say, £6OO for something that may be worth
only £3OO when the war is over, and he gets
no great interest on his money. The man
who sells a house even for purposes of demo-
lition may be making dead sure of £6OO with
a certainty of getting good safe interest for
it in the meantime and a chance of two
houses a few years hence. Sometimes the
person who wants to sell a building and
allotment makes a better bargain by dispos-
ing of the building to a house-knacker and
keeping the allotment. The N. S. Wales
Government proposes to nail or glue together,
largely with scarce and high-priced imported
materials, 500 homes, which isn’t very many.
With a different tariff—one that would give
some assurance that the industries would be
permanent—it is just possible that some
hundreds of people might set to work to make
materials for 5000 houses. A find these days
would be an old English gaffer of the smock-
frock variety who remembered the lost art of
thatching, but thatched buildings are pro-
hibited in Sydney and Newcastle, and what
other places are there in the Ma territory?
“Hamer”: Embattled Britain is so
crowded with assorted Ministries, each
travelling their own way. that occasionally
they trip over one another’s feet. The Law
having announced that no hoarding poster
of more than 2400 inches is to be permitted,
prosecuted a bill-poster who put up posters
covering 57,000 inches; and then learnt that
the paper extravagance had been authorised
by the Food Ministry to advertise • its
operations. It was stated recently that
there were 92 practically independent
“committees” carrying on work which should
in the ordinary course of events be controlled
by Parliament!
The Vic. Railway Commissioners are
about to embark on a movie-enterprise, pre-
sumably to try and overtake their losses in
the ordinary business. Tourist-officer John
Boyce is to go lecturing on the picturesque
places of the State, his remarks' being illus-
trated by films showing the best of Victorian
scenery. It is an interesting plan, and may
be good advertising; but it is hard to see
bow it is going to help the farmer to cheaper
freights, which is what is wanted to make
the railways really popular.
“Terry Hy Hie”: The extreme casual-
ness of a Government department takes
some beating. At Yanco (N.S.W.) Irriga-
gation Settlement, where enthusiasm isn’t a
noticeable crop, the Trust some time ago
ran a few traction-engines on certain works.
Most people who own these leviathans leave
them browsing handily without fear of
thieves, but the Trust seems to be an easy
mark. Anyhow, two of its tractions were
removed in the darkness. One turned up
after 18 months’ absence, having done, as it
is said, the carting of poles for two energetic
toilers about the area for Trust works. The
other mass of ironmongery is still in strict
seclusion.
“Gleniris”: Melbourne's ancient Account-
ants and Clerks’ Association continues to
drag out a humble and meagre existence,
mainly as a registry-office. The other day
the concern carried its ledgers and office
sticks around to a new address in Flinders-
lane, so as to be right in the middle of the
labor market, and the move was celebrated
by a festive gathering whereat the company
mildly encouraged itself to further efforts in
humility and forbearance. The president of
the Employers’ Federation, Edward Keep,
graciously filled the chair and put the seal
on the Association’s standing by remarking
that “its relations with the Federation had
always been very cordial.” The offer of a
clerical job at £2 10s. for a married man is
a strange, chilly way of showing cordiality,
but that’s the extent of it occasionally.
For the rest, employers chiefly recog-
nise the concern by an occasional,
condescending shower of kind remarks
or the flinging down of a small dona-
tion. Like the management of the Clerks’
Union, that of the Ass. spends a large por-
tion of its time dunning members for their
arrears, when it should be dunning the boss
for a rise.
The Hun has a great difficulty in getting
the perspective of things. Like the badly-
disguised king in the “Yankee at the Court
of King Arthur,” he tries to appear in mufti
as a plain human being, but the part doesn’t
fit. Thus a semi-official peace proposal pub-
lished at Berlin is to the effect that he is
willing to give up Belgium, to surrender
Northern France on conditions, and that the
question whether Alsace-Lorraine shall be
French or Hun shall be decided by a vote of
the inhabitants, said vote to be taken by
Hun officials. There are to be no indemnities
and no other concessions.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabmes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads an
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel. —City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
lift Sydney.
Travel in Safety
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANADA
and
GREAT BRITAIN
“VENTURA” sails OCTOBER 30.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Unliking. Public Companies, Ste.
THE.
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Ivt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. 11.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.; THOS-
WELSBY.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Hear! Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq.; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - BRISBANE.
Branches —'London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £130,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of New Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares. . . . . . 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up . . .. . . 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
SUVUQ SINVU3
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian’United Steam Navigation Cu„.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFIGE: BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian-Avstralasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALE-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
NEXT SAILINGS:
R.M.S. MAKURA, early October; R.M.S. NIAGARA, October.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER —MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
i m,
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulara to
BURNS, PHILP g CO, LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
gh
fg
£3,904,860
£3,950,000
£3,904,860
£10,759,730
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer,
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager,
jM ot 2taralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
At all ab a
Branches, and over 27 OU Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific.
Interest at oy
per annum v */o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
hf
gh
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Ivater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
London Bankers— The Bank of England; The London County Westminster and
Parr’s Bank Ltd.; The London Provincial and South-Western Bank Ltd.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
FOR BRISBANE AND OTHER QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
FOR HOBART.
Huddart Parker LiM
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ings between Sydney anil Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every three weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
DIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACIIARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER. SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, DELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to UYItON BAY, CORE’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are iOued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwilluinbah,
rail to Bvron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with oue of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply :
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
A.U.S.N. Co. Ltd.
Tours to Fiji.,
THE FINE TWIN-SCREW STEAMER
“LEVUKA,” 6500 tons,
maintains a service every four weeks from Melbourne
and Sydney.
The “Levuka'’ is fitted with wireless and with
every modern convenience for the comfort of passen-
gers.
The round journey from Melbourne occupies 26
days, and from Sydney 18 days. Passengers desiring
a more extended tour can travel by S.S. “Amra,”
which connects at Suva.
For all particulars apply to Agents, Macdonald
Hamilton & Co., 469 Collins Street,
Melbourne, or Burns, Philp & Co. Ltd.,
9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 110 High Hoi-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
I charge.


| Under
■ Royal
fg
To H.M.
George V
CHAMPAGNE
Q^leslieidsiafc
Reims
fell/«ie>e#»'
CHAMPAGNE
hf
gh
kl
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWJFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
a te oUa^ BrallC \t S»
nV tue
S^
obtai«j
3 ,oft *AttSj?
* o £:.sy a» e y
b avd>'. e >
%SSSfISES?
•®® vitt St-,jf tfils
--. ..ifV
d« ey „>« r« int
fc ' e * r Jitt St-J
9...f0rd -, »v
122 s t„ S> sv dn«y
1»^ ltt stt»» d i!sey
»®«dUse^Vous?.^
56G d e i°Bea ct
BoT '\nCt° n
*££&>'!
Hcj
Aney
«**JSS
fg
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 Rooms,
comprising Private Suites, Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts, Bathing, Roof Garden.
Illustrated Prospectus and all particu-
lars forwarded on application.
Telephones : Y2llB and Y 1266.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET (& CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
FESQ (Bb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
1906.
BOSTOGK’S—THE ECONONY SHOE POLISH
We wish to stress the fact that ECONOMY is one of the chief attributes of
Bostoek Shoe Dressings. It is economical by virtue of the fact that it is more
than a mere polish.
Containing, as it does, ingredients which nourish and preserve the leather, it gives
longer life to footwear. .
With the coat of shoes mounting
higher and higher, the daily use
of Bostock’s, with its leather-
preserving qualities, is particu-
larly desirable.
hf
THE S|IGN
AGOOD SHINE
Colors: Black, Brown, Dark
Brown, Ox Blood and White.
In Bottles and Tubes.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Bostock’s Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
. . SYDNEY. . .
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 1918.
My Dear Arini, —
The War Loan ship, quite a good stage
imitation of a destroyer, is securely anchored
in Moore-street, just opposite the Common-
wealth Bank. Amongst last week’s speakers
from the craft was C. Le. M. Walker, the
lion. sec. of the War Chest. Few men have
a better right to ask every Australian to
lend something to his country. His two
sons have died in the cause of freedom. All
his spare time, and some of the time he
can’t spare, is given to unremitting work
lor the War Chest. He talks of finance with
the voice of a scrupulous accountant. The
ship’s locker is open every day for the small-
est contribution.
Dr. Philip Sydney Jones, who died last
week, aged 82, was until the last year or
so, anyhow, wonderfully active and alert.
He used of late to spend the summers on
the cool hilltops. Leura was his favorite
haunt, and he got over the ground, even at 80,
with an elastic spring in his walk. llis
useful work for the eradication of consump-
tion leaves a mark in the Wentworth Falls
Sanatorium and the Home at Thirlmere.
Uproarious enthusiasm marked the big
meeting in the Town Hall vestibule called
to consider how best to welcome our home-
coming heroes from four years of war. Many
have already returned in small sections,
gassed, wounded or wanted on Home Ser-
vice, and Mark Sheldon paid them a grace-
ful tribute. On behalf of the Chamber of
Commerce he urged that these should not be
forgotten in the city’s great reception to the
Anzacs who will arrive on furlough in
batches. Mayor Joynton Smith was a lively
chairman of the gathering. David Storey.
Ministerialist, and John Storey, Leader of
the Opposition, sat side by side, and a holy
calm prevailed upon them. Speaker Cohen
and Justice Ileydon warmly supported the
resolutions that we must do something more
tangible than flag-waving when the boys
come home At one overwhelming moment,
in the meeting there seemed a danger of
several hundred excited citizens demanding
to be included in the executive committee.
But the crisis passed without casualties.
“To meet the French Mission” is the legend
on the sub-regal garden-party pasteboard
now fluttering in to the right people. The
date is October 1. There isn’t much garden
left since Government House grounds were
cut down in the earlier Ilolman regime;
still the harbor view, one of the finest in
this city of beautiful vistas, is in the same
old place. The only quarrel the ordinary
citizen has with these invitations to meet
interesting visitors is that he (or she)
mostly doesn’t meet them. The French Mis-
sion, after the local French residents (with a
first claim) get a brief look in, are almost
invisible atoms entirely surrounded by
politicians, bores and Pushingtons.
The Presswomen’s stall on Homes Day
took £122, which is very good business,
considering how hurriedly the Inky Way
women went into their undertaking.
Ryde Home for Incurables’ concert had a
bumper house in the Town Hall last week.
Leading artists gave their services, and the
modest shilling a head charged at the doors
made a sound backing to the auxiliary col-
lection-plate. William Cullen. C.J., iii the
chair, mentioned the remarkable efforts of
the blind Miss Schardt. This intrepid col-
lector for the Home, to whom long journeys
are no bar. has been responsible for one-third
of last year’s income from outside sources.
She travels from town to town and from one
hamlet to another gathering subscribers. The
lugh cost of living (a hardened foe!) and
the clamor for more room in the flower-
trimmed haven at Ryde, however, is strain-
ing the finances.
Consul-General Eles, the Italian official re-
presentative, came over from Melbourne to
take charge of, on'behalf of the Red Cross
headquarters in Rome. £55,000. This is the
sum in hand from Italy’s Day in N. S.
Wales. Another £5OOO is still to come in. ’
Doone Machen, youngest daughter of the
late James Machen (he is remembered as
having been the owner of Tartan, a bygone
Melbourne Cup winner), is engaged to Lieut"
Frank Mason, M.C., of this town. Both the
panties to the contract are in London.
Kathleen Ussher, sister of violinist Lorna.
now married and living in U.S., is chief
section-leader to a unit of the Women’s
Royal Naval Service (familiarly known as
the “Wrens”) at Gibraltar, the first unit
to go abroad for the navy. Previously she
served a year at Salonika with the Scottish
Women’s Hospital, and earlier still was
doing munition-work in England, with inter-
vals of ambulance-work when Fritz strafed
London from above. Before William made
his contract with Satan Kathleen was study-
ing applied arts in Leipsic. From there the
trio, mother and two daughters, went over
to England, thence to the U.S.A., and back
again to England.
Lieut.-Colonel Ted Norrie, D. 5.0., of
Rabaul, Gallipoli and France, and Rose Bay
when he is home, has acquired new responsi-
bility, a daughter, who arrived a couple of
weeks ago in England. The wedding hap-
pened a year back over there, the bride
being an Australian girl, daughter of one of
the P. and O. managers located in Blighty.
Soldiers’ Dependants’ Day, on October 11,
is the next rally on the programme. To
help the little things that Bill left behind
him, the Lord Mayor's Patriotic Fund was
started. Now the cash-box is nearly empty.
Comforts Fund committees ate, as usual, in
the front linp of this organisation and their
working members are humping home nig
bundles, mostly material in the raw that
will burst forth on the stalls as little pants
for Jonnikins, or pettis for his small sister.
Kiddies’ clothes are “best sellers” on any
Day.
When the judge in
the Musical Associa-
tion’s award of some
short time ago
handed out the first
prize to Arnold R.
Mote he had before
him another composi-
tion of sound merit.
This was a trio for
piano, ’cello and vio-
lin. After marking
this effort as a
worthy second in the
race, the name of the
competitor was dis-
covered. Under the
veil of “Quixano”
was a Sydney girl,
Dulcic, daughter of
Rabbi and Mrs. F.
L. Colii'ii. She was first a pupil of Arundel
Orchard, and latterly of Alfred Ilill at the
Conservatorium. The photo was taken by
Dorothy Alar tin. The trio was not this
young Sydney musician’s first effort at com-
position. In lighter vein she has written
songs and music for stringed instruments.
Writing to her relatives on this side, Doro-
thy Gumming (who went to TJ.S.A. to finish
her tour in Cyril Maude’s co.) says: “In
my luggage is a contract from Mr. Belasco
for £5O a week....l can still hardly believe
it.” When Dorothy, who has a tall, slight
figure and good looks, appeared before
Belasco, he had in his studio a lady. “What
a nice tall girl,” said she. “Yes,” said
Belasco. “What do you think of that nice
girl?” “Ideal,” replied the ojther judge. “So
do I,” confirmed the big man. And in less
time than it takes to write Dorothy was
engaged for a new plav that will go on in
N. Y ork about October.
The three lady motor-bus conductors who
were licensed last week were offered good
advice by Inspector-General Mitchell of the
Police. Good advice won’t do any harm in
that direction, and words of caution to male
motor-drivers in Sydney are long overdue.
Woman behind the steering-gear of any petrol
vehicle is a careful creature, and so far is
innocent of even slaying, a chicken with her
run-about. But some men are just plain
hogs.
An overseas correspondent voices the
sympathy of Aussies in London for the
Lucas Tooth lady. This much-bereaved
woman has lost her husband and three sons
(killed in warfare) since 1914. The last son
to go out in France, Archibald, left an infant
daughter. The Tooth fortune will be the
lone baby’s inheritance.
An Australian birdman, Captain A. Ilen-
sliaw, was married a few weeks ago to Wini-
fred Moore, an English girl.
The Junior Red Cross movement is doing
fine work amongst the kiddies. Before the
organisation is more than well started over
10,000 youngsters have lined up for service.
Knitting is a strong line of defence chosen
by many of the veterans of 10 or 11 summers
and they won’t make the kind of purl and
plain which has to be unpicked by wrathful
workers in busy Red Cross depots. I saw
an alleged pair of socks sent in to a hive
the other day. One “sock” had apparently
been made to fit the foot of the largest man
on earth—whoever lie may be —but, appa-
rently, he is deformed, because the second
sock was dwarf-size.
The first-night performance of the “Invisi-
ble Foe,” at the Palace, brought Emilie
Polini (Mrs. Ellis) before a big audience in
a lovely garment of puffed white satin. That,
however, was only in the first act. Mie sub-
sequently wore mourning for her stage
dad. The theatre was crammed with
the Best People, and the floral tri-
butes handed to the leading lady were
previously on view in the d.c. foyer—a
blaze of blossoms dressed in tulle. The
Spencer Bruntons were in their accustomed
nook. The Arthur Allen clan, the Kelso
Kings and the decorative Consul-General Eles
were in the crush. The new Cleopatra ban-
dage was a noticeable feature. \\ orn just
above the eyebrows it gives a fearsome look
of mystery to otherwise ingenuous counte-
nances. Whiskers for ladies—or the approxi-
mate effect by bringing the hair forward a la
mutton-chop on the cheeks —were featured in
the boxes.
There’s to be a hop in Paddington Town
Hall on October 18. The cash goes to Jack’s
Day, and the Imperial Service Club is god-
papa to the rally.
Home on a visit, Mrs. Hugh Hall, of
North-West Australia, who left here as
Cecile Deakin some years back. Husband
Hugh (late of the First Division) and a
small son accompanies her, and the trio are
staying with Dr. Jeff Deakin at Mosman.
From Brisbane: —
The Stock Exchange was closed on Monday, in
consequence of the death of the sons of two mem-
bers. Gunner Jock Horstmann, sou of \V. C. Horst-
mann, and Lieut. Bob Monteith, himself a member of
the Exchange, and a son of Henry Monteith, were
the ones mourned for.
Leslie Brown was farewelled the other day, prior
to her departure for Singapore, where she is to be
married to Will Bartley,
Another gallant Bananalander, • Lieut, Charles
Collin, has gone west. He was A.D.C. to General
Lee both here and in N. S. Wales, and had to try
many times before the doctors would pass him.
Sergt. Harold Taylor, an Anzac who was returned
invalided to Bananaland in 1916, and re-enlisted
the same year, was married in Weymouth recently
to Sister Hilda Kuper-Brown, a cousin of Admiral
Jellicoe. The pair will come to Bananaland shortly.
Meetings to shape the form of an Eliza-
bethan pageant in aid of Jack’s Day have
come safely through preliminary arguments in
Farmer’s Lounge. The water babies will put
oil their high ruffs to sail by moonlight (if the
moon has tine weather) on October 10, 19
and 23. Ferry-boats, chartered for the trips,
will on each occasion finish the jaunt by
hitching alongside Clifton Gardens Wharf,
A hop on shore, in which Sir Walter Raleigh
may be persuaded to lead Queen Bess
through a mediaeval dance, will give an appe-
tite for supper.
Pitt-street outside the Voluntary Workers’
Cafe was powdered with confetti the other
evening—remnants of the shower that fell
on Lieut. It. W. Perkins (Royal Flying
Corps) and his bride. After the ceremony
in the City Temple (Church of Christ)
the wedding party hurried off to the V. W.
Cafe to exchange the usual greetings. The
best girl was Ruth Gole, a Roseville bud,
who kept her part of the compact in a
shimmer of white satin, with a cloud of
white tulle floating over her head and face.
The Australian birdman (he’s a Sydney
resident when he’s at home) has seen about
four years’ service.
The Australian
composer has to
climb many boulders
on the trail that
leads to success in
his ow n country.
But the obstacles are
smaller than they
were 10 or 15 years
ago. The N. S. Wales
Musical Association
is helping to clear
the way of aspiring
pilgrims with its
1918 award of two
prizes for the best
musical, composi-
tions. The competi-
tors were disguised
under assumed
names. Arnold R.
Mote, who carried off the first prize (20
guineas) had the foresight to chance the
nom de plume “Alpha.” Side-by is his photo,
lie studied music under the late W. .J. A,
Delany, and learnt the art of free composi-
tion from Alfred Hill. He went from Syd-
ney to England in 1904 and attached himself
to the higher branches of harmony and coun-
terpoint under Sir Frederick Bridge, the
famous organist of Westminster Abbey.
Mote graduated Bachelor of Music at
Queen’s College, Oxford, in 1906, and was
created a Fellow of the Royal College of
Organists, 1914. He was, by the way, the
first Australian to get this double—Mus.
Bac. Oxford and F.R.C.O. He is now organ-
ist and choirmaster at St. Jude’s, Randwick.
The Lord Mayor’s Fund .has received a
pleasing souvenir in the form of a cheque
from the Welsh Choral Society’s concert.
The Town Hall was just expansive enough
to hold the audience when con-
ductor Jones waved his baton over
the chorus at 8 o’clock, and the refrain of
the Welsh National Anthem arosfe. Raie
Alexander, soloist, put up a valiant
effort with such a formidable enemy as
“Ei gwrol ryfelwyr gwladgarwyr tra mad.”
The encore fiends were in their accustomed
mood. A. E. Y. Benham, just up from an
argument with the ’flu’; Harry Thomas, in
recitation; Mowat Carter, at the fiddle; and
soprano Alma Berge, who sighed for a
“Breath o’ the Moorlands,” had to give a
second helping.
A few years ago, chiefly at the instigation
of Miss Alice Currie (now of Victoria),
there was a commendable agitation set going
to bring some of the women and children
from the burning Outback summer to the
seashore at Dee-Why. There were difficul-
ties, but these were being overcome
when the pandemonium commenced. Now
there’s a similar notion. This time to give
whiffs of sea-breezes to the wives and
kiddies of our soldiers and sailors, and a
committee has the preliminary details in
hand. Mrs. George Fuller is president, and
the cottage-by-the-sea will house the wel-
come guests some time in November. The
locality is Narrabeen. Expense? That’s
where the public comes in to do an extra
whack for the families of Billjim and Jack.
The King decorated Major Selwyn King.
Deputy-quartermaster A.1.F., not so long
ago with the D.S.O. He’s a nephew of
Kelso King of this city. Selwyn was named
after the late Bishop Selwyn, of missionary
fame, in the South Seas.
Off to US- went Mrs. Plogsted, the
lion, business organiser and smart general
utility woman of the Australian-American
War. Workers’ band bn a six months’ holiday
trip. Also on a trip to U.S. is F. G. Sar-
good, of the York-streot firm, who left last
week.
A Sydney War Literature Society has
established itself in the Atlas Buildings,
and hope's as a side-line to issue the
work of the best authorities on the 1914-18
section of the war. The committee, which
bristles decorative tails to its names,
has secured William Cullen, C.J., in the
non-committal post of patron. George Earp,
M.L.C., is president.
The League of Ancient. Mariners is going
to have one of the big shows of Jack’s Day.
A model of Navigator James Cook’s cockle-
shell.the Endeavour, will be securely anchored
in Pitt-street, or thereabouts —anyhow, not
far from the Exchange—and seafaring
items will give the public something special
for its patronage.
The Rose Fete for Jack’s Day Fund will
bloom on October 19. - The Davidson lady
will lend her aid, and Centennial Park,
where the rose garden is the glory of the
coming month, is to be the pleasure-ground.
This week’s meeting of the National Coun-
cil of Women will have the excitement of
electing its hon. lady officials. As the inter-
national sec.. Miss Rose Scott, is a gentle
member of the ..Peace Society, all should be
well, especially as Billjim is helping to keep
the barbarians from interrupting the pro-
ceedings.
Not for a long time has the small girl in
Sydney been able to gloat over such a family
of French dolls as were displayed in a big
shop-window last week. They were a
pleasure to see., with their fluffy hair and
cream-and-roses. complexion. The traffic was
temporarily suspended the other afternoon
to give a chance to the youngster-on-the-
Block to glue her nose to the inlook of the
dolls’ paradise. Happily the German brand
of dolls has ceased to find an avenue to
Australian nurseries; the French beauties
have taken the floor.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


I OFFER THE
VALUES
KEENEST TAILORING
IN AUSTRALIA.
15&
mm H
< r*
V vT
-
m
,i»-\
■
■
m
m
'
. \l V-;,
■
m
Imam
• i
|||||fP
gfe
.
■,;v. ;
BBBi
liti.
<•;-■■
||f|||
V'V''
■
m
** •*.«.
i
,•••■'
; iHnMF
ill
. •: y «g|§H«gp^
Sill
■H
yy-y ~ WlWesßlßMMmMgmmMsii-
f - i -*' ‘
, vxs&gmp.
m
i ••'• • ■
;v • •
. .
: :>-v: v
w
n
i
■ ‘ ■
•» v »
■y. ■ !A
■SHSgiS
y
m
m
U y
,- : y
»
is 1 :
*
IMMllgillillMl
wmmmMmmm
-?'i:
■
yy'-y. y-.yy-: KSS yyy
: &
m
PM
■
m
i ®m
•'■<■ • ■■■.
;.*' i
y
? . ®
SS
JOE TAYLOR
Suits from £4 4s.
Costumes from £5 5s.
MY unique position as a large importer,
buying direct from the mills for Nine
Busy Tailoring Stores, enables me to
secure big consignments at bedrock spot cash
prices—figures the other fellow has not a hope
of touching. That’s the big reason which makes
possible the wonderful values I offer.
The superb qualities of Joe lay lor tailoring
are well known. Every Suit and every Costume
is made in my own big workrooms by my highly
skilled staff of specialists, and absolutely
guaranteed “Your money back if your
Suit or Costume is not right.”
Get your order in early. Delay can only
mean one thing paying more later on. You
stand to gain every way by 'buying now bigger
and better stocks from which to select, bigger
and better values !
Call if possible. If not, use the coupon
for FREE patterns —POST IT TO-DAY.
(r
Cj
ZXQ Tailor
gh
‘‘Nine Busy Tailoring Stores/ 9
95 King St. § 17 George St., Sydney
109 Bourke St.; 69 Swanston St., Melbourne.
Brunswick, Richmond, Footscray and North Melbourne.
Fill up and Post this Coupon TO-DAY.
Suit or Costume
Price about Shade
Name .
A ddress
B.ULLETIN 2G/9/’IS.


\Aeltoman
I▼ 1 HIGH-CLASS
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS ana SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
* s
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN <$ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALE - OVER • THE • WORLD
Empress
Farmer’s Sole Agents
in Sydney.
a
Art Stones
The Latest Registered
Jewellery Novelty.
Empress Art Slones ” will please all who seek a novelty in the Jewellery World.
They are made up into high-class Necklets with Pendants, Rings, Brooches, and
Hat Pins, to make a harmonising color set. The colorings of these Empress Art
Stones are adapted from “ Landseer’s ” famous works, and are both delicate and
artistic. They are showing an assortment of tones in the Fancy Haberdashery
Department, Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Necklets Price, 12/6, 17/6, 217-
Pendants Price, -5/-
Brooches, 9ct. Gold Mounts, three designs 17/6, 18/6, 21/-
Rings, 9ct. Gold Mounts ... Price,2l/-
Brooches, Sterling Silver Mounts Price, 5/-
Hat Pins, 9ct. Gold Mounts
Sterling Silver
Price, 8/6
Price, 2/9
FARMER’S
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
SYDNEY,
GROSS, FEVERISH, BILIOUS CHILDREN
NEED CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Look, Mother! See if the tongue is
coated; this denotes sluggish
liver and bowels.
Mother! You're child isn’t naturally cross
and peevish. See if. the tongue is coated ;
this is a sure sign that its little stomach,
liver and bowels need attention at once.
When listless, pale, feverish, “stuffy” with
cold, throat sore ; when the child has tainted
breath and doesn’t eat, sleep or act naturally
or has stomach-ache or diarrhoea, remember,
a gentle liver and bowel cleansing should
always be the first treatment given.
Nothing equals California Syrup of Figs
—“Califig”—for children’s ills ; give a tea-
spoonful, and in a few hours all the waste
matter, sour bile and fermenting food clogged
in the bowels pass out of the system, and
you have a healthy and playful child again.
All children love this .harmless, delicious
fruit laxative, and it never fails to effect a
good “inside cleansing.” Directions for
babies, children of all ages and grown-ups
are plainly on the bottle.
Keep it handy in your home. A little
given to-day saves a sick child to-morrow,
but get the genuine. Ask your chemist for
a bottle of “Califig”—California Syrup of
Figs—then look and see that it is made by
the California Fig Syrup Company. Kefuse
substitutes. All chemists sell “Califig”—
California Syrup of Figs—in bottles of two
sizes, Is. lid. and Is. 9d. [4
MCLBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rusr Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, September 23. 101,8.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Munro Ferguson and her Ex. motored
to Coombe'Cottage for lunch on Wednesday
and had Doris Blackwood to accompany
them. Doris took a suit-case with her, as
she was spending a few days with Melba.
The G.-G. is to be godfather to the new
Armstrong baby.
The Oonrieks are mourning their second
son Rupert, killed in action during August.
The sad news came while the family was in
Sydney at the doctor son’s wedding. Rupert
was an actor of some standing before he left
Australia.
Mrs. G. H. James, fresh from two years
with the Wanes in England and France,
was welcomed by the women of the Overseas
Club on Tuesday. The energetic matron tells
thrilling stories of her adventures in Buck-
ingham Palace and other popular resorts.
Lady Stanley has received a cheque for
£lOOO from an anonymous donor toward the
cost of new baby wards at the Children’s
Hospital.
Arthur Pearson’s school of poultry-
farming for blind soldiers at St:. Dunstan’s,
England, has a farm in Kent as an adjunct.
At the farm relatives of the afflicted men are
taught practical poultry work, so that a
skilled help may be at hand when the blind
start on their own account. The aptitude
these men show for the work is amazing.
They can grade eggs and tell the breed of a
hen by touch, manage incubators and chick-
lings and soon learn to dress and stuff ebooks
for table. Australians. Canadians and South
Africans are among the pupils. A Sydney
man writes home about Ids success with
eggs and pullets. Blind as lie is he built his
own pens and crates.
Mrs. Cottrell Dormer, yisiting from Tas-
mania, is seeing the 'Show and Melbourne
with Dr. Crowther’s daughter.
Colonel Maekworth (ire know him as
Leonie Peterson’s husband) has been trans-
ferred to Ireland as signalling-commander,
lie has been in Egypt since the beginning of
the war.
Paris fashions now include '“cellar” boots
for use during air-raids. A lending fashion
journal describes them as high, red boots of
Russian leather, embroidered in gold. It’s
terrible what we have to put up with during
war-time.
News is to hand of the promotion of the
popular O’Hara Wood brothers, good sports
and good fighters. Capt. Arthur, of the R.F.C..
has been made major. lie has been flying
since the end of 1915. Lieut. Pat, who is
A.D.C. to the commander of an Australian
division and left in a L.H. regiment, is now
a captain in the 23rd Battalion. The
brothers are old Melbourne Grammar School
boys, and at Trinity College they won,
together and singly, many tennis champion-
ships.
Engineer Lieutenant-Commander Boddie,
R.N., who has been recommended for the
D.S.O. for his share in the Zeebrugge attack,
was for two years in charge of the Engineer-
ing Department of Royal Australian
Naval College. He joined up at Geelong in
1914, and left Australia in June, 1916, for
the Grand Fleet, When volunteers were
called for the Zeebrugge attack, Boddie was
accepted from H.M.S. Hercules and spent a
few months in training for the attack. He
was appointed chief-engineer of the Thetis,
which was to be sunk in the entrance to the
Canal. She safely passed the Mole, and
then stuck on a sandbank. Thinking
the position was hopeless, the skipper sig-
nalled to the other two cruisers to pass
them. The engines of the Thetis were dis-
abled, and the crew was ordered to abandon
ship. While preparations were being made
for this, Boddie alone returned to the engine-
room, and finally started the starboard engine.
The ship was refloated, and proceeded to the
entrance of the Canal, where she was sunk.
All this was accomplished under heavy shell-
fire, and every man aboard was sick from the
fumes. Finally they safely launched a
cutter and pulled away under the deadly fire,
and later on were picked up by a motor-
launch and conveyed to Dover. Boddie has
been recommended for early promotion.
Mention of Francie Hooker last week
seems to have been misleading as regards
her return to Melbourne was concerned.
After 30 years in England with grandfather.
Sir Joseph Hooker, she came back just pre-
vious to the war. She was only a young-
girl during her years of exile. A clever
daughter of a clever family is Miss Francie.
Her great-grandad was the Dr. Hooker of
whom Darwin talks with respect and grati-
tude in his “Origin of Species.” Her father,
an Australian, is an authority on the Malay
language, and his daughter is an accom-
plished linguist.
Valentines, the mammoth establishment
built at East Malvern by the late Matthew
Davies during the “Boom,” is being taken
over for living purposes at last, after years
of desolation. The Percy Sergeants are in
possession, and have split the pile up into
flats, a fate, by the way. which has over-
taken The Towers, Matthew’s earlier ex-
travagance at Toorak. Matthew himself
never lived at Valentines, money for fur-
nishings being scarce bv the time the last
batch of stucco had dried ; but brother John,
now president of the Leg. Council, for many
years inhabited a small section of the place,
with his immense family. Afterwards, when
J.M. had grown tired of the solitudes and
built himself a little villa near by, the white-
elephant was used for a brief period as a
Salv’army home.
Mrs. George Chirnside and Mrs. Fred
Payne, who share a double Hat in Mayfair,
London, have had to change their methods
of entertaining Billjim and co., owing to (In'
food and lighting restrictions. Instead of
the soldier guests stepping along to Mayfair
they are invited to the Y.M.C.A. halls, where-
the two Anglo-Australian matrons do all
they can to cheer them up.
The Fred Fairbairn pair, having finally
disposed of their Toorak-road mansion, Logan
House, to the Leslie Stuarts, are worrying
round preparing to welcome their younger
daughter Jean back from England, and meet
their new English daughter-in-law. The
youthful Mrs. “Beau” Fairbairn is a niece
of the Huntingdon earl who married one of
the hate Samuel Wilson’s daughters.
A fancy-dress masked ball is being
ai-ranged by the students of the National
Gallery, all proceeds to the hospitals. The
revel is to be held in the St. Hilda Town
Ilall on October 30.
'riie (>.-<«. and Lady Helen went to flu-
patriotic fete at Footscray and Yarraville
on Wednesday of lagt week and got through
tin' afternoon without anybody calling for
the complaint-book.
Last year Red Cross goods were sent to
the Agricultural Show from country centres,
and a carrier trundled them round town for
four days! They arrived when the Show
was over. But one careful dame, who carried
her goods herself to the Show, won two
special prizes; wherefore all the country
Red Cross toilers are wheelbarrowing their
individual exhibits out this year to be sure
of them.
Brig.-General Cus-
eaden, the
I r i s h - Australian
Chief Medico with
the delightful brogue,
was formerly P.M.O.
for Victoria. Now
he is resident boss of
Australia in the
medical military
sense. He volun-
teered as soon as
war broke out. They
mobilised him in
August, T 4, and he
has been hard at it
ever since without
a holiday. “The
man really in it
must stay,” he ex-
plains ; “there is no
time for new or temporary help to pick up
the threads.” Mina Moore has caught the
busy officer ion a bright morning.
More papers please! Miss Forth, who is
Secretary of the weekly newspaper service
to the trenches, says she still has not enough.
Send what you can, care of the Victoria
League, Collins-street. The railways carry
packages free.
The patriotism of J. C. Matthews, a
former manager for the E., S. nnd A. Bank,
has found vent in a booklet of compilations
from Australian writers concerning the un-
speakable Hun. He is so keen on the neces-
sity for educating the public to the idea of
justice being exacted from Germany for her
crimes that he has printed “The Screech of
the Kookaburra” at his own expense. Per-
sons wanting copies for propaganda purposes
are referred to the Tytherleigh Press, Mel-
bourne. The centre of the booklet contains
lawyer Joe Woolfs lecture on the War in-
demnity question.
Great preparations are being made for the
celebration of the jubilee of St. Vincent’s
Hospital, the great healing house on Eastern
Hill. The show will crowd the Exhibition
on Monday evening, October 7. There is
no charge for admission, but a Jubilee Fund
will take all you can spare. The big R.C.
hospital has looked after people of all
creeds, and deserves well of everybody.
Alelbourne City Alission has just cele-
brated its 63rd anniversary. It was estab-
lished in 1855. and its first and chief apostle
was Dr. Alilton, himself as poor as the
proverbial church mouse. Dressed in very
seedy black, with a tall hat, out of which
the shine had gone long years before, Dr.
Alilton regularly attended the police-court
to help the down-trackers. The old man
was highly respected by the officials, and
Sturt, P.AI. (brother of the explorer), paid
him great deference. When Lola Alontez
was “spider dancing” at the old Theatre
Boyal the Doctor protested from the pit
against the exhibition, lie was reverently
handed out of the house.
This' Australian,
Mar i a n Phillips,
ALA. (Melb. Univer-
sity) and Bachelor
of Economics (Lon-
don), lias, been doing-
bard work in Eng-
land, and has just
published a book on
problems affecting
working w o m e n.
Some time ago she
did some work for
the London City
Council. She took a
working-woman’s flat
in the East End and
lived the life of the
type she wished to
help. Last year Miss
Phillips was selected
by Lloyd George to represent the sex on a
committee considering post-war problems.
Marian Phillips has had a scheme for muni-
cipal kitchens accepted by the English Food
Controller. Her spare hours are spent
addressing meetings of women wage-earners
on the possibilities of the industrial situation
after the war. One of her early flutters
into literature is in the Melbourne Public
Library. It is ■> thesis labelled “Ten Years
of Autocracy.” She is a large, cheerful per-
son who isn’t afraid of big problems. Mor-
ris Phillips, Chief Clerk of the Supreme
Court, is her brother.
Miss Adelaide’s contribution: —
The .Tosiah Symons’ son Charles, who has been
with the Coldstream Guards for the last three years,
has won the M.C. for setting, a “magnificent example
of courage and devotion to all ranks,” and
incidentally deliberately exposing himself so that he
might draw the'enemy’s fire, and locate his machine-
guns. A D. 8.0. has also been -added to the MIC. and
D.F.C. already awarded to Oapt. Cedric Howells.
Immediately after the decision of the Cricketing
Ass. to allow no eligibles to take part in flic
coming season’s games, comes an intimation from the
South Australian Bowling Ass. that it is “undesirable
for any unmarried man eligible for the A.T.F.” to
take part in its games, coupled.. with a request to
the clubs not to select such players for any associa-
tion fixture.
The Women Teachers’ Progressive League’s appeal
for improved conditions and increased salaries has
borne some fruit. The next Christmas holidays arc
to be five weeks instead of four, and salaries in some
of the lower- grades are to be advanced.
We are to lose the District Naval Commandant,
Captain O. L. Burford, who has been with us since
1911 and in Australia since 1881. He has been
moved on to Western Australia. The family is now
saying their good-byes.
Dr. Swift has had details of the gallantry that
won his two sons their latest distinctions. The elder,
who had already the M.C, with a bar, got the D.S.O.
for “conspicuous gallantry and devotion to duty in
leading his battalion in a counter-attack which was
completely successful.” (Unfortunately he was
severely wounded, and has since died.) His brother,
who is with the R.A.M.C., won his honor by staying
with the batteries when the front line had been
driven back close to the guns and being the last to
leave the position.
Capt. R. H. Reid, third son of the Malcolm Reids,
has been killed in action after three years’ active
service. He was here on furlough about a year ago.
On the eve of her departure for Maoriland
Lizette Parke's displayed an engagement
ring to her friends.
Emilie Polini is going to drop into domes-
tic seclusion with her husband after her pre-
sent contract is ended. He cannot war any-
more, and lias plenty of money. Sydney will
be home when the stage-curtain falls.
Conductor Alberto Zelman led the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra in the Town
Hall on Saturday night, and musical Mel-
bourne had a treat. Alberto is conspicu-
ously free from conductor mannerisms—very
noticeably so after seeing the neat Yerbrug-
ghen shake himself into the semblance of a
scarecrow in the wind, and watching Fritz
Hart do a dancing-dervish act. The orches-
tra on Saturday night was scarcely numer-
ous enough in strings for Schubert’s
Unfinished Symphony; in the Peer Gynt
Suite of Grieg Melbourne lias never heard
anything better. There was a packed house,
and it rose and acclaimed its appreciation.
The orchestra is mostly girls; there is even
a girl at the big drum. “The Meistersingers”
and ‘‘The Plying Dutchman” required more
heavy instruments than this orchestra pos-
sesses ; but when it came to Schubert and a
concerto for piano and orchestra (Ada Free
man at the keyboard), music-lovers were
quite satisfied. Ada, In pink, punished the
piano with strong, rounded arms bare to the
shoulder.
The orchestra has 75 performers, and the
first violin is Miss Imelda Clancy. Mrs.
Alberto Zelman sang twice with orchestral
accompaniment—Weber’s “Softly Sighs” and
Senta’s Ballad from “The Flying Dutch-
man.”
On Saturday Melba, accompanied by
pianist De Bourguignon and Stella Power,
set out for Adelaide, where Stella is to star
at a Bed Cross concert.
The Music Club is arranging an At Home
for Jessie Masson, to happen at the Lyceum
on the 27th. Jessie is Hitting to America,
where she intends remaining; so her concert
on. the 21st will be her last public appear
anee hereabouts.
Melba has promised to sing at the con-
cert of the Lady Northcote Orchestral Trust
fund, in November. Before then she will
appear in Sydney with the Yerbrugghen
orchestra.
Lady Stanley spent a morning last week
looking at Bertha Merfield's pictures in the
Athenamum. Her Ex. was piloted by Edith
(Miians.
Gone to the last assembly, at 42, George
Mead, art-master at Wesley College (Melb.).
While taking a ljtfely interest in educational
and social affairs at Wesley, Mead found
time to put in some strenuous work with
the Labor party, and incidentally was an
active member of the University Council.
In 1010 he unsuccessfully contested the
Balaclava seat in the Bops, against Agar
Wynne, and later had the same luck when
he* tried to capture McCuteheon’s seat in
the State Assembly. As a teacher lie was
genial and kindly, and he had the knack
with his pupils.
A memorial exhibition of the late Hugh
Bamsa.y's pictures is open in the Fine Art
Gallery.
In addition 10 scoring a mild boom in
“The Bing Boys on Broadway,”- Toots
Pounds, the little Australian mimic of years
ago, has acquired a prospective husband, one
Duncqn. Grinnell Milne, lie is an air-corps
lieutenant and for some time was a prisoner
of war in Germany.
Gertrude Gl.vn, the thin musical-comedy
blonde who, when here in "Gipsy Love."
set local flapperdom trying to imitate the
Gertie. Millar walk or waddle (Miss Glyn
was for some time the other Gertie’s under-
study)-, has just got married in England.
Her bridegroom is Captain Walter Beresford
Bulteel.
Marie E. J. Pitt prated last week, at
Furlong’s Studio, on women poets and prose-
writers. She compared the work of Aus-
tralian penwpmen with that of the men till
the audience glowed with pride and wished
that some mere male scribblers were present.
Mrs. Pitt prophesied that with the growing
power of women war would yet become “as
unfashionable as cannibalism.” Mrs. J. C.
Beilinson made an imposing chairwoman, and
Wynne Macoboy, from Ballarat, sang an
Australian song—“ The North Wind”—com-
posed by Mabel Downes.
Parson Frederick Stillwell, who for some
years has been shepherding a bunch of the
purest Anglican merinos as vicar of Caster-
ton. has trekked. 50 miles across country to
take the place of Canon Carmichael (retired),
in charge of the stained-glass and mellow
associations of St. Stephen’s, at Portland.
Youi's sincerely.
JOHANNA.


Born 1820
—still going strong
Mt
y"
A
«v\
EE,
C XU/
&
%
**v<y{
\
->
'r/
*c
y
a
U 5
r
X,!
i
■c
>1
=s*\
s
iofc
A
/\
TBSU-
-N
Ny
r%
• ~»
V/
tlt
*
ev
N;i
■Hm!
7
i
\
tr~i
i-
r
w.
V
*
r\
7i
yj
Rl
w
/
r=--\
0
/j
•<*
K >
Eo
n.
Johnnie Walker : “ ‘ Don’t count your chickens before they’re hatched.’
Peggie : “ I can hardly wait! Dad says you wait over TEN YEARS lor your
chicks to hatch ! However do you do it ? ”
If you pav a good price you should get a guarantee.
Johnnie Walker “Red Label” is guaranteed by the name on
the label and the Non-refillable Bottles in which it is put up.
OVER 10 YEARS OLE
It is quality protected
BUY WAR LOAN
BONDS.
JOHN WAT
KER & SONS, Ltd., Scotch Whisky Distillers, KILMARNOCK, Scotland


The Germans would have been better able
to endure their recent “strategic retreat” on
the Marne if their war spirit had been rein-
forced by that perfect stimulant King George
IV. topnotch Scotch.— Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMEB & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Goldfinder Soap
LEWIS & WI-lITTY MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
No one can afford to waste.
Spend only what is necessary
and then always with an eye
to saving. Men, be practical
■— economise shave your-
selves.
fgh
t&lii-X3JHH
NO STROPPING NO HONING
One bought to-day will save many a
shilling in a year, and hours of your
valuable time. Many styles to
choose from. Sold everywhere.
British made. Write for free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia:
S. Hefinung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street,
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd., London, Eng.
TRADE
KNOWN THE
fg
MARK
WORLD OVER
R
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost.
Light, yet
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
SPORTING
NOTIONS
"ON TOP" WITH
MICK SIMMONS
SURE CATCH TACKLE
On Biplane’s first public appearance in
Sydney last year he gave the crowd the surprise of
their lives. That was in the Chelmsford Stakes. On
the same appearance this year he repeated the shock.
This was in the Spring- Stakes, one mile, w.f.a. run
at Rosehill on Saturday. There were 15 starters,
with Biplane and Rebus on the extreme outside. The
Maorilander started by trying apparently to climb
across Rebus and get over the fence. Before Bracken
got him moving in the right direction he had lost
anything up to a dozen lengths. Then he travelled
like the wind, and was seventh up at the turn, but to
win then he-would have had to travel quicker than a
hurricane, and, as his own supply of steam was
beginning- to run out, his rider gave up the attempt.
As he went out a roaring favorite the moans were
long and bitter. Biplane has thickened a lot since
Sydney saw him before, and is now a conspicuously
fine-looking nag, but is just as flighty as ever. On
appearance he seemed to need a gallop or two, but
the way lie travelled from the stern left no doubt
about him being as swift as ever, over a short course,
at any rate. They were all going at top.
Mainly because of Biplane being- on tap and
Poitrina in the company. Panacre was at a long
price—14 to 1. He had to give weight to both, and,
good horse though he is, there was fair reason for
pessimism on the subject. But lie won well, having
the race at his mercy a furlong from home after
settling Wolaroi and Kenelis. The mile was run in
“40.” Outlook’s second was a vast improvement on
recent form down south, but though having 171 b. the
best of it he had no chance against the winner. It
was a great Epsom trial, and promptly made
Panacre a short-priced favorite for the big mile.
Dame Acre was doing well at the end, and as she had
anything but a comfortable journey there was a lot
of merit about her appearance at No. 3. She looks
remarkably fit, and was well backed on Friday for
the Epsom.
It may have been because of a suspicion that
Desert Gold had lent Finmark some of her rapidity.
Possibly it was owing to a notion that as Gloaming
came across from Maoriland, and as Biplane hailed
from over yonder, the next nag must be a repetition.
This writer cannot explain. Anyhow, on Saturday
the fact was that Ike and nearly all his customers
reckoned the Rosehill Guineas was a cakewalk for
Finmark. It wasn’t. The stranger got well trimmed
by a colt which Tiie Bulletin had several times
mildly pointed to as a Derby possibility—Woorawa.
In the light of Saturday’s performance and the
appearance of Finmark, this paper is going to regard
that animal as an overboomed moke, and is not
going to reckon him a Derby colt until furnished
with definite proof on the subject. Anyway, horses
that are not too large to pick up and walk off with
and peter out with less than Derby weight at a mile
are not the material that usually annex Derbies.
Finmark conforms to these specifications. There was
a very ordinary field for the Guineas, too. Finmark
reached the straight clear of Sweet Lady, with
Woorawa and Priricess Clara five and six horses
back. Woorawa reached him opposite the Leger,
settled him in a couple of strides, and going on won
by two lengths easily. Princess Clara needed very
little further to go to move from second to third.
The winner, who started at any price, is a powerful-
looking brown colt by Charlemagne 11., and ran
with unusual frequency and consistency among the
young ’uns last season. In the Chelmsford, won by
Gloaming at Randwick the previous week, he got off
badly and had an uncomfortable trip. On Saturday
he began slowly again, but finished in something like
Derby style. An even greater disappointment than
Finmark (he was 7 to 4 “on”) was the other Maori-
lander, Almoner (6 to 1). He got a good position
early and rose to the occasion by promptly evapora-
ting. But Red Fox, winner last year at Randwick,
Caulfield and Flemington,-did worst of all. He fell
and broke his back, an occurrence which probably
makes owner T. A. Stirton wonder whether the
phenomenal luck he had last year is going to keep on
sticking.
* * * *
Most of the Maorilanders wandered home
fre«u Rosehill more or less happy on Friday. They
had dropped their money on Finmark and mis'-
laid some more on Biplane—and then let their
next run loose and watched him win. This was
Kilmoon in the Rosehill Handicap, a mile and a
quarter. There were 21 runners, and most money
for Thana, 9st. The mare was taken right out at a
mile, and Kilmoon, luxuriating in 6st. 121 b., soon
followed. It was the Stranger who lasted best, win-
ning in a sensational finish by a few inches. The
books hardly wrote the winner’s name. Kandos again
came into prominence, and though only third, was
close up and was running on better than anything
else at the end. This genuine stayer may soon be
right up to his form of a couple of years ago. The
liberally-weighted Kennaquhair (9st. 71b.) was fourth
to hit the line. He missed a saloon trip, and is
certainly going to be a mighty hard horse to beat in
the Metrop. The much-talked-about Arch Marella
was confidently backed in this race, but though well
up at nine furlongs Dempsey’s hope of getting a
winner then went rapidly up the pole. The Mel-
bourne Cup prospects look far from bright. Kilmoon
is in the Derby. It had -been generally supposed
that Brother Stead brought him over for sprinting
purposes. Perhaps he did.
* * * *
The handicapper for the Rosehill (Syd-
ney) meeting on Saturday brought 16 hurdlers
together inside a margin of 3st. and allotted weight
for 41 in the Rosehill Handicap between 9st. 101 b.
and 6st. 71b. But in the Highweight Handicap,
with 36 nominations, he had to put a margin of
4st. 61b. between the best and the worst—and that
occurred because Poitrina happened to be one of
them. She got 12st. 91b., or 2st-. 41b. above the
next on the schedule, or lib. short of 3st. over
Quaestor, a heavily-backed Epsomite. Of course
Poitrina is a remarkable galloper and weight-
carrier, and the handicapper could do nothing else.
But as the lligliweight Handicap was seven furlongs,
and this mare, to which he had given llcwt. 91b., has
9st. 61b. in the Epsom, it can be taken as fairly
certain that this handicapper does not reckon her on
being without, say, a fair opportunity in the mile.
As it happened, Poitrina declined the
heavyweight competition and started in the Spring
Stakes. The subsequent exhibition was very ordinary.
She never looked anything like a winner. She pulled
up all right, apparently, but -one of her forelegs has
been worrying lvelso a lot lately.
Betting on the A.J.O.Derby has-been turned
upside down several times since the beginning—twice
within a fortnight. Up till a month ago Outlook
was reckoned a moral, or something. Then came the
Memsie Stakes—and doubts. Meanwhile the Maori-
landers Finmark and Almoner arrived and confident
wads behind them. Finmark quickly came down to
a figure that was only double the unit and Almoner
to unattractive quotes. At that stage Gloaming was
not in the argument, but just before the Chelmsford
there was an animated demonstration—and just after-
wards there was another and a new and red-hot
favorite. Last week Woorawa sprang into the lime-
light, and rapidly ran down the scale of odds all in
one act.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Already the knowing birds are
saying that the field for the Caulfield Cup will not
be a dangerously large crowd. Developments at
the A.J.C. meeting are not expected to make a
great difference to the Caulfield outlook. Biplane
is backed as though lie were a certain starter, all
going well with him in the meantime; but why the
good judges should assume that the speedy New
Zealander is sure to last the journey out with a
number of brilliant and more kindly handicapped
horses in the opposition, is a puzzle to me.
Imported King Offa (7st. 111 b.) is possibly
as good a thing as the stable reckons him.
Ethiopian, at the same weight, needn’t improve
much on his recent form to be a mighty hard fel-
low to beat at a difference of 221 b. Eusebius
(7st.) and Dunwill (7st. 61b.) look a smart pair
of three-year-olds, and John Wren tells his pals
to put at least one of their socks on the latter. Red-
fern, Prince Viridis, the lightly-weighted Mount
Alf, and honest Rael Locin, who ran third last year,
are among the possibles. Biplane, with 9st.” 51b.
up, may be capable of playing hare and hounds with
that lot, but the book doesn’t favor the idea. Wake-
ful (9st.) tried to do it with a very moderate field,
but Hymettus wore the wonderful mare down in the
last 50 yards. And Hymettus had Bst. 12lb to
carry, which is a very different matter to 7st. 111 b.
and thereabouts. In this scribe’s opinion King
Offa will shake the heart out of Biplane.
» # * #
The interruption in the preparation of
Shadowland is now written of as a reason for dis-
missing the horse’s Melbourne Cup chance from one’s
mind, although he is already “in steady work again
at Flemington.” Well, Moses has certainly pegged
Shadowland back to 25 to 1 on the lists, but if the
imported animal is sound enough to continue at
work for another six weeks lie is not unlikely to be
all the better for the pause in his preparation. More
horses have lost the Melbourne Cup through being
overdone than underdone. Besides, Shadowland
probably doesn’t want a lot of galloping to get
him fit. He was thought to be only half-trained
when he .ran second to Rebus for Sydney Cup.
Since then he has at least become acclimatised, if
he hasn’t put on more muscle.
* * * *
Two well-known figures on Bananaland
turf recently died. One was Jimmy McGill, who
had won most of the best-gilt events up north, in-
cluding a half-dozen Brisbane Cups and Derby. W.
Richardson, Q.T.C. handicapper, who had been in the
game over a long term of 26 years, was the other.
* * * *
“Cobber”: The last will and testament of
“Tattersall” George Adams stipulated that the total
unclaimed prize-money for the first seven years sub-
quent to his death was to go to charity. Although
that period has not quite expired (prizes are not
accounted unclaimed until seven years after they are
drawn) the sum of £66,002 9s. lid. is awaiting col-
lection. The Speck’s Government has now come
down with an enactment appropriating to the State
all unclaimed prizes after the expiry of the term
covered by Adams’s will, and thereby reckons to get
an increased revenue of £lO,OOO per annum. The
Speck’s div. from horse last year was £70,000 per
Tatt.’s and £15,000 by way of the tote.
“Chev” : Dropped across Arthur Postle in
Gympie (Q.) the other day, looking as well as he
did 10 years ago. At that back period he was on
the Manchester United Football Ground, at Clayton
(Eng.), when the flying Bananalander first showed
his pace before an English crowd in his memorable
match with W. Growcott, then the British champion
sprinter. Odds of 3 and 4 to 1 were freely laid
against Postle (whose party had backed him days
before at 6 to 4, which they then reckoned good
odds), and it is perhaps now permissible to state
that had Postle been beaten that day his crowd,
which included Reefe Naylor, now rich "from success-
ful theatrical ventures in Africa and running a
Government-subsidised lottery, and Jack Todd, now
in business in Brisbane, would not have had much left.
Postle landed the stakes by a bare hand’s breadth in
four yards inside evens. A grand performance, seeing
that it was on a rough grass-track with a rise to the
centre, from corner to corner of a football pitch
that was by no means the best in the land; and
heavy rain just before the race did not improve
the going. Postle needed grit as well as pace to win
that day. Postle has been running for over 20 years
and he can still shift scenery, as Gerald Taylor may
find when they meet; though whether the veteran
retains enough speed to beat the young ’un remains
to be seen. Nowadays he is up in the Gympie dis-
trict, carrying on business as a produce merchant.
Fine sprinter though Maorilander Ronald
Opic was, Billy Woodger, still among the quick, and
helping run the Snailways over yonder, was his
master. They met in all four times, Woodger snap-
ping the thread first on each occasion. The 1909
championships raised extraordinary interest both on
account of the constitutional split in the N.Z.A.A.A.
'and the prospect of a meeting between the two
cracks. A week before Opie had done a sensational
furlong, and a little earlier the watch had had hard
work to reach the lOsec. mark while Woodger was
putting 100 yards astern. On such a day as only
dour Dunedin can let loose, and a track ankle-deep
in mud, the}' sped over the final of the hundred
championship in 10 l-ssec., Woodger 18in. to the
good. The furlong was a procession, William speed-
ing away from the gun, to win pulling up by 10
yards in 22 4-ssec. A few months later Woodger, at
Brisbane, left Nigel Barker well behind in the Aus-
tralasian furlong championship one day, spent the
following in bed, and rose with sufficient left in him
the next to beat Barker again in the hundred. Next
season at Auckland Woodger again beat Opie twice
in the one day, carving out the furlong on a heavy
track in 21 4-ssec. Opie, fresh from his three Maori-
land championships in one day, and Woodger, tourist
at large on the strength of winning a M.L. Times
voting contest, were in England together in 1911, but
did not meet on the track. There was a great con-
trast between these two. Opie, stocky and strong,
bursting through the atmosphere gave the impression
of a bolting locomotive. But what a finisher he w r as!
Anyone with doubts on that point is hereby referred
to Percy Redmond, to whom he gave 2ft. start and
6in. of a beating in the last yard of the Australasian
100 yards championship at Wellington in 1911.
Woodger, tall, fine even to thinness, with a long,
loping, effortless stride, was one of the most graceful
runners ever seen on the track. 111-health and a
delicate constitution caused his early retirement, if
such can be said of one who did not seriously take
to the game till 25. The sprinter at that age is
usually an old cripple regaling a younger generation
with what he did in the days when runners were
runners.
P. J. Heath (S.C.E. Grammar), a stockily-
built lad of pace and grit, can bo written down as
the “find” in this year’s G. P. Schools athletics. At
last week’s championship meeting he won the 220
yards (23 2-ssec. —3-ssec. behind the schools’ record),
440 yards (54 2-ssec.), and dead-heated with N. S.
Langdon (Sydney Grammar) in the 100 yards (10
4-ssec.). Langdon, who was also runner-up in the
220 yards and 440 yards, recently won the S.G.S. 100
yards (10 3-10 sec.), and got a place in other events.
In the open hurdles H. S. Hawkins (S. Grammar)
lepped finely and won the 120 yards (17 4-ssec.). He
put up the 90 yards (under 16) hurdles record (13
3-ssec.) two years ago. Over the “distances” New-
ington College took all honors—J. Watley and R. G.
Potts winning both mile divisions, and B. G. Orchard
the half-mile. In the high jump the long-legged E.
R. Zlotkowski (S. Grammar) gathered the title with
a leap of sft. 4in. For the senior championship
Sydney Grammar (46$ points) made' the 22nd win
in 24 meetings; and S.C.E. Grammar (48 points)
left a second mark on the junior championship—
having previously won in 1916.
* * * *
“Sprinter”: Isn’t it about time the A.A.A.
had something to say about timekeeping in N. S.
Wales schools’ championships? There are some smart
runners among the lads, no doubt; but it is hard to
believe that youths of 16 and under can run “four
worse” over 100 yards. At the Technical High
School meeting one lad was even credited with 100
yards in 10 l-10sec. ! A professional sprinter who
can slither through space at that speed is not one of
the worst. At the G.P.S. meetings all previous
records stood; but at the Combined High Schools’
championships nine records were broken and one
equalled. As schools’ records stand or fall on the
watch, the A.A.A. should insist that only where
official timekeepers are present will the figures be
recognised.
* * * *
The “first final” of the Australian Rules
football premiership at Sydney on Saturday had
exceptional features. Paddington jumped off in the
first quarter with 29 points to 7 ; Eastern Suburbs
took the second by 24—1 ; Paddington again rushed
away with the third by 31—19; and in the final
quarter Eastern Suburbs rattled up 18 —0. Easts
won in grand total by 68 —61. Paddington’s effort
of only scoring 1 in the second and 0 in the last
quarter takes a place among the unique happenings
of the game.
* * » »
“J.W.K.” (from Cairo) : They are war-
riors for cricket here, and everyone was happy last
week when “Doc” Hordern arrived. He celebrated
the day by making the Y.M.C.A. team form a pro-
cession. The bag was 6 for 41. He seems quite in
his old form, and is playing for the swanky Gezireh
Club, which includes J. Dillon, one-time captain of
Kent (an English top-notcher), and numerous county
specialists. Prior to Hordern’s arrival, F. R. Lucas
(S.A.) was the star Australian bowler. On his day
he makes short work of the best. Every time his
team (Australian H.Q.) has played the Gezireh
Eleven Lucas has captured Dillon cheap. The death
of Lieut. Walter Farquhar, one of the airmen, for-
merly of Burwood Club (Sydney), was a big loss to
Cairo cricket. He was a fine bowler and had a
variegated assortment.
* * * *
Downed at 33 after three years and three
months’ . active service, Lieut. M. Kirkham, a
v'ary fine rifle-shot. After the formation of a rifle
club at Dandenong (N.S.W.) Kirkham found he
could reach the target, and entered for some of the
big events at Sydney. He did well, and in 1913 was
m a State rep. team, narrowly missing Bisley. At
Leongatha, in July, 1914, Kirkham perpetrated a
great feat, putting 38 holes in the bull with suc-
cessive shots at 500yds. This stands nearest to the
Australian record for the distance, E. Rowling’s 62
bulls, at Wingham four years earlier. One of the
dead soldier’s brothers was D. Kirkham, of cycling
fame, and maker of road records.
* * * *
“Mopoke”: Excuse me if I pull “Nor’-
West” (B. 5/9/’18) out of the fish-tub. His allega-
tion that the golden carp is “utterly worthless as
food” is all wrong. The animal compares favorably
with many of his race and is certainly superior to
the muddy mullet. I lately sampled two (21b. and
lilb. respectively) and found them tiptop. But
they are full of small bones, and owing to this it is
not advisable to attempt to swallow anything over
lslb. a bite. The Hunter River is full of carp,
but I’ve never heard of them in any other Eastern
fiver. There are certainly none in the Manning.
Nor -West” says “they rarely bite.” Wrong again.
They are a constant source of annoyance to the
mullet fisherman in the Hunter and its tributaries,
and will readily take dough, pollard or worms. They
will live anywhere, some of the swamps around
Maitland and Hexham being absolutely Ml of
them. As they feed on the larvae of the mosquito
they ought to be treated in a more friendly way than
being pushed into a frying-pan.
* * * *'
“Nimrod”; I thought we were going to
hear of wonderful happenings, and 10, here is
“Pick” (B. 5/9/’18) with a yarn about a man who
broke a pipe-bowl at 100 yards for a wager, and
then assassinated a cockatoo at 600 yards! Just stick
up a_ pipe-bowl, step off 100 yards, and try if you can
see it. If you can, then try and find a rifle with
a foresight fine enough to hold on to it. Of course,
there is no rifle in existence accurate enough for
such shooting. The finest grouping ever attained
. 0 yards is a 2in. circle, and this is only
obtainable by firing the rifle in a specially-con-
structed testing-rack. And don’t forget that
grouping and aiming are two different things. Yet
thia expert goes about calmly bowling over
cockatoos at 600 yards with a. Martini-Henry—a
w eapon that won t make a 12in. group at that range,
and with which the world’s best shots never fired
at less than a two-foot bull’s-eye! It is a joyful
circumstance that no argument should be complete
without the man whose performances far transcended
world s best authentic records. \Vhv do these won-
derful fellovvs remain in obscurity when fame and
fortune await them on coming into the open and
proving what they can do besides cackle?
“Trot’’: Of course these long shots are
mere flukes, though there is not a shadow of doubt
about them coming off occasionally. My longest
kill was a liare at 1324 yards, measured by a sur-
veyor’s chain, with an ordinary 12-bore gun. But
let that pass. I may never do it again. Rapidity
of fire is far more interesting. The man who gets
a good left and right at 60 yards—who does it five
times out of six regularly, is the man for me.
Probably the best sporting shot who ever lived,
judged by this standard, was my uncle. He was a
very fat man and ambidexterous, and in the long
ago had a habit of slaying ducks near Lake Eles-
mere (M.L.). He always went out with four guns
and a piano stool, put the furniture down behind a
flax-bush, and built a couple of rests for the artil-
lery, so that he could lean over and quickly reach
a gun with each hand as the seat revolved. Thus
he was surrounded by munitions and occupied a
central position. When a flock of poultry came
over uncle was ready from any angle. If they
came from the left he shot from the left shoulder;
if from the right then it didn’t matter. The
rapidity of his work was marvellous. Many a time
I have seen him get eight ducks in a revolution of
the stool, emptying one gun and picking up another
like lightning. It’s a pity he’s dead while the
argument is on. The dog he had was a most intel-
ligent tyke. It marked them as they fell and
retrieved them all in a basket. I’ve got the basket
to prove it.
“Wandi” : A retriever-dog I am acquainted
with was till lately reckoned one of the best water-
dogs in the country. He’d bring a duck out of the
weediest and reediest swamp about and from any
distance. One morning a brace was shot in a clear
pool, and the retriever sprang in to collect. He
brought one ashore and returned for the other. It
lay still on the water, apparently dead ; but just as
the carrier was about to take it in his mouth the
bird fluttered and dived. The dog lifted himself
suddenly, swung round and- swam out as though the
bunyip was after him. Since then nothing can induce
him to approach the deadest of dead ducks on the
water. In fact, he has sworn off water altogether.
* * * »
“Burrundi”: The best sport I have ever
had was recently among the Grose Islands, between
Darwin and Wyndham. With three nigs I went out
at low spring tide to a coral reef, having from Ift.
to 2ft. of water over it, spearing fish and incidentally
carrying a .32 Winchester. In the deeper water the
nigs got busy, and presently the water was lashed
up with the mad rushes of brother shark disturbed
at his feast. Standing on an extra high bit of coral
I imitated Cinquevalli and ladled out the goods from
the .32 as fast as the ejector worked. Now I am
ready to back brother shark to beat anything in the
world dodging amongst reefs. At 50 miles an hour
he beat round the lagoon until the gun got too hot
to hold and my head giddy with following him.
There was reef everywhere, but he never made a
mistake. Not once did he go ashore, and the chances
were many. Finally I decided the bloke who could
stop shark with a rifle in a lagoon ought to get the
D. 5.0., and made it a drawn game. I’m no bad
shot, either.
* * * *
“Report” (from France) : “M.P.A.” (B.
7/3/’18) sheds tears over the Goteh-Hackenschmidt
match of years ago and tells how the big “Hacky”
was badly mauled by the lighter and less experienced
Gotch. Well, supposing he was. What was “Hacky”
doing ? Catch-as-catch-can means catch when and
where you can and hang on. I certainly think
gouging, tickling and the chokehold (also one other
hold) should be cut out. But when you start to cut
out the foot- or toe-hold, the arm up the back, the
hammerlock, etc., well you are just making it a
decent, gentlemanly exercise. I was on one occasion
up against it. My opponent started “putting the
dirt in” by placing his forearm across my mouth and
working it about until he had my teeth into my
lips. I opened my mouth and dug my teeth into his
arm. He eased up and told me I was a (catch-as-catch-
canner). The average athlete from U.S.A. when he
is out to win will get there somehow if the other
bloke is mug enough to let him. Any style of
wrestling—unless you are a crank on it—is a rotten
thing to sit out.
* * * *
Cecil Healey, lately killed in action,
came from a legal family. An uncle, Nicholas
Healey, was a solicitor in practice at Cootamundra
(N.S.W.) for some years, and died there. Patrick
J. Healey, father of the swimmer, was a barrister,
“called” in December, 1865, and he was considered
one of the first criminal lawyers in the Sydney of his
day. He was junior to Dailey in many big cases.


YOU SHOULD LEARN
i
m
“HOW” TO BOX
—learn how to defend yourself. Such a knowledge will never be a burden
to you, but in times of need will prove your best fiiend and pio cc 01.
No man knows the day or the hour when he will be called upon to avenge
some insult, or the time when he will have to defend himself against some
bully or ruffian.
Are you capable of taking care of yourself in such an emergency? If not,
NOW is the time to learn the art of scientific boxing'.
I Teach Boxing by Mail
teach you how to become a skilled and scientific
boxer. My boxing instructions are very thorough—-
you'll find them most interesting and be surprised
at the quick progress you will make under my per-
sonal coaching.
My lessons provide an enjoyable pastime, and are
cramful of health-giving relaxation and exercise.
Write your name and address across this advertise-
ment and post it to me, and I will send you b[y
return mail my interesting Booklet, “SCIENTIFIC
BOXING IN YOUR HOME,” which tells all about
my methods, terms, etc. Please send three penny
stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,’’
790 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY,
Buy War Loan Bonds
and know the pleasure
that comes from
doing your best.
Use “ Shell ” Benzine
and know the pleasure
that comes from
getting the best.
British Imperial Oil Co. Ltd.
Ali States and New Zealand.
Uncle Sam’s Choice
in war as in peace is
Indian
Sr
The Indian Factory
is now engaged on
the largest war
orders yet placed
for motor-cycles.
Catalogue with pleasure.
RHODES MOTOR
CYCLE CO. PTY.LTD.
Russell St.,
Melbourne.
The Edison AMBEROLA
—a splendid instrument.
The “Amberola” has remarkable tonal puijty,
and perfectly reproduces the quality of the
singer’s voice or the instrument playing,
every shade of expression can be fully
appreciated.
The “Amberola” 30, in a cabinet of Golden
Oak, is splendid value at pi ice, ,€lO/10/-.
Call on any Edison dealer for a demonstra-
tion, or write for catalog, post free,
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
hf
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
CO
a
CO
«£3»
»
&>
a
• ■
ghf
Large variety of Drills
for Hand or Power, and
All Styles of PORTABLE
FORGES IN STOCK.
Benson Brothers Ltd.
70-78 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
71-75 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, MELBOURNE
KRUSE'S
FLUID MAGNESIA.
O. 0.1& ffirtal,
<Xa!cttu«. 1883
KRiicro
FLUID MAGNESIA
mm' sxs m «» xm: »*m
'MVi'.W iW.VAXWYWS* SAJW
V\X.VV» W x'.N'.VVOIJ «V< XV AM
VVV .WV'v\N\ v <V\\\* XvN.W'ANV «VW*«V.\*
X.VA.V'.V VVVVvSW'.V .WVv'.WXW U’i'A A AAA •'>
>X »m sm AUUV .UU'VxUU
Itm Sj.V’U.'XW* .WAX\m.V <A\'AA X\A\\k
SAX? m .*X**U WWW* Jk' A\ft VA V
xSWS't.X V* X«» .vm >'W AW’.WK'UtW
*\vv«t» •; I'-vxV. »7 *\?X )*»««*
FELTDN. CRN
The Australian Remedy for
Indigestion,
Biliousness and
Acidity of the
Stomach.
A MILD APERIENT FOR
OLD AND YOUNG.
ALLAYS FEVERISH CONDITIONS DUE TO
VACCINATION AND TEETHING. A COOL-
ING MEDICINE FOR SPRING AND SUMMER.
Sold by Chemists and Storekeepers
throughout Australia.
BANKS’ DASPYL
BRASSWORK.
Made in Australia.
«ASPYL” is Banks’ make —the Trade-mark that
) stands for absolute reliability, and signifies the
■*—' excellence and efficiency of the article.
“DASPYL” Brasswork is an Australian Manufacture
-—made in our own Melbourne and Sydney works, and
offers better value than imported goods of a similar
nature.
“DASPYL” manufactures include various classes of
Brasswork, Cocks and Fittings. Also Brass, Copper and
Aluminium Castings, and Repetition Work, Wheel
Cutting and Repairs.
Absolute satisfaction is assured by entrusting your
requirements to BANKS’.
Other Specialties include—
Lead Traps, Compo Pipe, Soil Pipe, Sheet Lead,
Water Meters, Engineers’ Tools, Engineers and
Plumbers’ Brasswork, Tools for all Trades, etc.
A VICTORY OVER PRUSSIAN MILITARISM IS WORTH STAKING
EVERYTHING ON. BUY WAR LOAN BONDS.
“DANKS”
Otherwise John, DanKs C&L S on Pty., Ltd.,
324 Pitt Street (near Liverpool Street), SYDNEY.
And 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne.


(\: jr«
In the public eye.
On the, i public nerl\
The Defence Minister
.leads the great administration
that stands to protect Australia.
COLLARS
as leaders in Australian Industry
conform to the Highest Ideals of
Protection.
SHAPE ILLUSTRATED:
The “MINERVA” Linen Faced. Price 1/-
Height, lJin., lfin., 2in., 2jin.
Size, 13Jin. to 18in.
WEAR
(P-afnco-*
SMICTS& PYJAMAS
. ALSO
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA.
Sold by all
Leading-
Retailers. [4.
WIRELESS Instruction
FOR
Naval, Military and Mercantile
Appointments
AT THE
MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
(Sydney and Melbourne).
Actual Apparatus Installed.
(Special Commonwealth License.)
MANY VACANCIES.
EXCELLENT PROSPECTS.
Apply for particulars to
SUPERINTENDENT,
97 Clarence Street, 422-24 Little Collins Street,
SYDNEY. MELBOURNE.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
1
&
n
m
The above
is the title
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing —both
as a profession and
as a pastime. It
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out • the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. It ex-
plains, in clear,
concise language
what tlie Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
“THEßE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
76 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
In the Heart oP
cyMelbourno
—handy to everywhere—sums up the position
of the Queen’s Anns Hotel. You can choose
no better hotel for YOUR stay in Melbourne.
The Queen’s Arms offers modern, homely
accommodation and excellent cuisine.
Tariff, by the day, 10/6. AVrite now.
QUEEN’S ARMS
HOTEL A
C» SWANSTON ST
FLINDERS /
i LANE s;
Claud It. Kerr,
Proprietor.
A
3S is
Missing Friends.
3HOMAS WILSON, of Bombay and
London, deceased.
' ' * —• — .. ••
¥#. SANDFORD FLEMING WILSON, the eldest
son, who is entitled to share in the estate, is.
requested to communicate with the Solicitors under-
mentioned acting on behalf of the Executors and
Trustees. Anyone having any information as re-
gards the whereabouts of the said Sandford Fleming
Wjlson is also invited to communicate.
MUNTON, MORRIS, KING & CO.,
Solicitors and International Law Agents, Temple
Chambers, Temple Avenue, Londpn, England, E.C.4.
Be honest: pay what yon owe
You are in debt. »
It is useless for you to deny it. Every one of us is in
debt—to our boys at the Front.
Have you ever thought of repaying what you owe
them, or even a fraction of it? Surely you have: but
perhaps you do not know how.
There is an easy way. Pay your debt to the men by
lending to the nation.
Honor your debt: buy Bonds
They will return you 5 per cent.
Any Bank or Post Office will give you full particulars.
Banks will help you to buy, and will charge only 4 per cent,
on the overdraft.
Commonwealth Treasury,
20th September, 191 S.
W. A. WATT,
Treasurer.
n°W SHALL,
imvtsTT
t°nCLf
VBOB ’ _VS.
mm
im
BY BUYING A TICKET IN THE
Eight-Hour Art Union
AND SFOBTS.
PRIZES value £.3500
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General.) Drawn Nov. 2, 1918.
FIRST PRIZE, value £65 0
SECOND PRIZE, value £3OO
THIRD PRIZE, value £2OO
And 307 other Valuable
Prizes.
CHANCE FOR 1018.
TRY IT.
First Prize in 1917 won by Mrs. T. A. Peterson,
Balmain, N.S.W., for the modest outlay of
One Shilling
GET A TICKET AND HAVE A CHANCE J 011 1918.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper, Nov. 7, 1918. To any
person forwarding stamped addressed envelope a list, of the results will bs
posted. Jickets may be had from Agents Everywhere, or direct from —
ARTHUR W. YAGER, Secretary Eight-Hour Committee.
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Wanted.
Motor Mechanics Wanted.
G
00D WAGES to capable, sober men.
Fare refunded after 6 months’ satis-
factory service.
LONGREACH MOTOR CO. LTD.,
Longreach, Central Queensland.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
CAPILLARINE
gh
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
It has been before the public for years, and is
daily proving its efficacy and genuineness as
a true moustache-grower. The military
“swear - ’ by it.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654- George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
imrinam
SEA-SICK
REMEDY
has received the unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testimonials
from the world’s greatest men, women, and
institutions.
Does not contain Cocaine, Morphine, Opium, Chloral or any of the
coa tar products.
No Bad After Effects.
MOTHKItSIJ-.1-. BE.VIEI) V CO., LTD.,
Corner Clarence and Market Streets, Sydney
Guaranteed to cure
SEA OR TRAIN SICKNESS
OR MONEY RETURNED
N's
&
K9l5 —Star-shape
Setting, all Dia-
monds, set Plati-
num and 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £l5/10/-
K962—Ornate
Cross-over Diamond
Ring, finest quality,
set Platinum and
lSct. Gold.
KBlo—Fine quality
Diamond Circle
Brooch, set Plati-
num and ISct.
Gold.
Price, £25.
K963—Fine quality
Diamond Ring,
chaste setting,
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £l6/10/-
K5B7 —Pretty Dress
Ring, Pearl and
Diamonds, set
Platinum and 18ct.
Gold.
Price, £5/5/-
Diamonds
of Intrinsic Worth.
Unexampled for Beauty and Bril-
liancy, and fresh from the
Gem-setter’s hands.
ALL DIAMONDS SET IN PURE PLATINUM.
Call and Inspect our Stocks, or Write for
CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
R 2314 —Superb
Diamond Ring, 3
large, finest-quality
Diamonds, set in
Platinum.
Price, £135.
'Ami
K 257 —Five-stone
Diamond Ring, set
Platinum and 18<-t.
Gold.
Price, £3O.
K9s9—Fine quality
Diamond Ring, set
Platinum and 18st.
Gold.
Price, £22/10/-
K9G4 —New Design
Diamond Cross-over
Ring, set Platinum
and l.Sut. Gold.
Price, £27/10/-
C9303—15ct. Gold
Brooch, set Pearls
and Peridots,
swing centre.
Price, 35/-
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. Ao
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted: and no MS. trill be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Cayna : You’ve got a tough job on to fit
St. Luke’s quotation (20-40) with General Newton
Moore’s Special Order. .. .H.M.H.: Thanks, but it is
fruitless to go into the points of that old argument.
. ...Uloola: No; you had a good subject, but you
were in too much of a hurry with it. . . .M.1t.8. : AN ell
enough done, but. it's time wee Willie AA inkie was
in bed for a spell, lit turning - . ... Davo (on Service):
Yes, there’s still some of them about. Aon can buy
them even in the Sydney shops. . . .R.8.T.: AA hy didn t
you mention the matter to the local John H0p?....
Penno: Glad to read it, but won’t guarantee to accept
it.... Karo: Always glad to read paragraphs, parti-
cularly personal paragraphs, Don't understand the
point of the “bath drill” yarn N. Brisbane: Too
academic.. . .8.R.: Thanks ; but we have seen it. .. .
AVm. E.: Guide-book matter only. .. .Jessie AY.:
Thanks. . . .Tom Richardson, Scottish baritone vocalist,
G.M., of 134 Farrnloan-rotTd, Rutherglen, by Glas-
gow, Scotland: You’re a rotten poet, Tom, whatever
you may be as a “vocalist”.... Lad: Glad to hear
from you. Regret to tell that “Jimmie Pannikin”
has crossed over.... Sapper: Thanks. .. .Ybned : Have
sent your letter on to the contributor. . . . X.Y.Z. : Try
Angus and Robertson, Sydney.... T.P.8.: In places
your track is as obscure as the outline of the coming
political assault on A\ r . M. Hughes... .Ben: Doesn’t
make a yarn. .. .AALM. and L.E.: Kindly telegraph
why you make it so dull?. .. .C.D.C.: “Dog Pier” un-
grammatical. That might be overlooked if there was
anything else to be considered. .. .N.G.: “Pulling
Corn” is too rugged... .P.P.: Only marketable with
the Paper Controller... .D.C.E.: Yet another “Some-
where in France” and a worse one than usual....
D. : Too slight for such a noble theme as steak
and onions. .. .E.M.: Pray for a sense of humor....
Corib: Ancient arid stupid theme badly handled....
E. .T.G.: “Busy Day” doesn’t convince. .. .J. 8.:
Nearly; but why work the idea in double shifts ?
.. . . J.M.S.: Not. vigorous enough. .. . J.V.E.: Not
up G.E.M.: But for a halting line or two it is
fair verse and deadly uninteresting. .. .M.R.AV.: Don't
like it. .. .G.L.T.: No yarn there. . . .Bellerive: “The
Fatal Cards” does it: —•
Two gamblers with their, seconds
In the woods did meet.
Prepared for a ..duel
In the keen morning sleet,
Their distance measured
' Pistol shots did sound,
The duel was o’er one
Sank to the ground,
In the arms of a Second,
lie gasped for breath,
And writhed in the throes—■
Of convulsive death.
A quarrel at cards over
The greed of gold,
Had created the duel
Between the opponents bold.
. ...P.AY.R.: Doesn’t thrill... .K.K.V.: Can’t find a
yarn in it. . . .F.M.R.: Moved the Religious Editor to
tears and the office strategist to quinine and vinegar.
. ...11.J.E.: Not nearly... .D. 11. S.: Hopeless....
O.B.: Your top note to date:—
OF THE ANGLO-AMERICAN ALLIANCE.
Now the King's dream turned out has he realised,
May we have the same opportunity of the war ;
That may our dream turn out as we surmise,
So that we’ll never be troubled by any bore.
The King’s speech of welcome to the delegates,
It will enable them to judge what we are doing;
To show our enemies that we’ll investigate.
And that we are not only weanling.
Has it as always been my dream,
AArith fondly relations and loving idears;
Without .any griveanee to have their esteam,
But to take them to my bosom as my. own dears.
Now after the war we’ll still continue together,
So that the World will be impressed:
To live in harmony to love one another,
So they need no more to be addressed.
. ...A.M.A.: “Spring Memories” wooden....
J.E.G.S.: The verse doesn’t say much worth listening
to AY.T.: “The Him” and “Correspondence” very
poor.. ..Pattie: Not nearly... .Lela M.: “The
Searcher” is close. .. .AV.F.K.: Not up. .. . J.AA r .: You
have a fine simple style:—
Said Mr. AVatt to Billy Hughes
I think we should constripto.
Said William then to Mr. AVatt
But do the people think so ?
Said Mr. Cook to one who knows
We want some wooden shipso.
Said one who knows ,to Mr. Ceok
The timber is too dearo.
. ...G.E.A.: Verse too bumpy. .. .C.D.C.: AA r e get
about one a week on that subject. .. .Billy M.: Misses.
.. . .E.E.0.: AVell enough written, but no use to us. .. .
Ben: Last stanza falls down; anyhow, a mere wail is
not attractive. .. .G.F. (Scotland) : No use to u 5....
Tibi: Very little there. ... J.M.: Under consideration.
.. . . L.AAL : Rather late for that. And why the
American setting? Australians are “imperturbable,-”
too. . . .P. 1.0.: Not up M.A.H.: Too bumpy....
M.F.: Doesn’t count.... Mag: The verse goes with
great leaps and wallows. .. .11. K.: “My AAYeath”
won’t do, but save it up, save it up R.R.F.:
Take a front chair in the auditorium and listen to
yourself snorting: “Ever since Rome’s luxurious,
grain-swilling, class-bought slaves, ever since a Con-
queror owned all the land, ever since a penny bought
the labor in the vineyard, men have been strutting
arrogantly because they held the power of life and
death over many souls.” On page 3 you wind lip
your trombone solo with “Hell is here.” AA'e thank-
fully light your contribution at it....J. Craigie:
Knibbs puts the private wealth at £1,619,517,000.
The Year Book (1916) gives details about debt. . . .
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
R.Y. : A bouquet of artistic mistakes. .. .F.G.:
Study the rudiments -first. .. .J.S.: Crude stuff....
R6v'H.: You’re only beginning, but you’ve invented
something’ new in ears. . . .Leo D.: Cheap. . . .Roy M.:
Right out of our line.... Miss AA'.: Ideas unsuitable;
. ...M.R.: It looks about 100 years old. , . .C.E.S.:
Nightmare figures. ... I! oy - Morgan : AVeak jest, but
there’s a glint of promise in your line....
Colonel George Francis Murphy lately got
a bar to his D.S.O. He was a Bathurst
(N.S.W.) State-school teacher when the tire-
bell rang, and, got away early with the 20th
Battalion, A.I.F. He became a captain in
May 5, 1915, and a major a month later.
Transferred to the 18th Battalion in August,
1915, he soon received temporary command,
and acquired the rank of lieut.-colonel in
December, 1910. That's all so far—except-
ing two “mentions.”


fg
MAGIC NOTES
trade mark a
Wonderful
6-inch
RECORDS
Every Note as Clear as a Bell*
Quarter the Price of other Records.
Will Play on any Disc Machine.
p
'’M2
% SSS
& w %
NO. B7 '*
SoLon^Letfw
Sv VOCAL DUE.'T/jd
These are the “LITTLE WONDER”
RECORDS, that sell by the thousand in
America. They increase your collection ol
musical gems fourfold.' They possess as clear and
mellow a tone-volume, and are of the same
superior, durable quality as the most .expensive
records' on the market. They run long enough to
(rjve one verse and full chorus of vocal items. _ r lhe
mstruinenfa 1 records give the full theme of the
piece.
NOTE THE PRICE
4 for
3
One Dozen, 9/9,
Post Free in N.S.W.
Other States, 10/-
Post Free.
Long Enough to Interest Your Audience.
Short Enough to Permit of Quick Change.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
CAN STILL SUPPLY NO. 1 LIST as under:
524—50 Long, Letty V ° Cal
15—Silver Threads Among the Oohl J
85 —When You’re a Long. Long Way from Home, Solo
When I Leave the World Behind - ’
Smile hol °
It) 7
40
4SIv
05—The Sunshine of Your Smile . . .. o
86—Under the Double Eagle March
182 —Stars and Stripes for Ever March J «
47‘> COD. (Come On and Dance) One Step *’- UK j
400 Romany Wait, _ ;;;;;;;;;;;; xyiophone soTo
Banjo Solo
562 —American Patrol
56!) —The Smiler ...
No. 2 LIvST Now on
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
288—Hoik of A*e» ; Sacred Quartette
563 —There’s a Ton;*, Tony; I rail ... - • • • Vocal r
547—Yacldie, Kaddie, Kiddie, Raddie, Koo. Vocal Duet
<H>—Tittle Grey Home m the West \ocal |
106—Rillarney ;• vocal Solo
108—Where the River Shannon .blows Voca bo
168—The Rosary Accorcleon Solo
507—Blue Danube Walt/. ... ••• .• • • Acto Rqri d
529—Ben Hur Chariot Race (Descriptive) Dami
330 —Midnight Fire Alarm (Descriptive) R ‘ n( j
40—The Forge in the Forest Baml
130 —Washington Post March
Hear these “LITTLE WONDER’
Records at Your Music Dealers.
Or, if you have any difficulty in obtaining “Uttie Wonder” Records,
send a 3/0 Postal Note for the four you fancy to GRAI Oh OLA
Daking House, Rawson Place, Sydney.
New Hupmobile Car
the comfort car.
T—MDING I AS I', and road steadiness that invite complete rest and relaxation are only the
hC bemnnine of vour comfort in the new Hupmobile. Add a very unusual economy and
A po\ver-and- p e r fo r m a n ce qualities even better than in previous Hupmobiles, and you lealise
that this is indeed The Comfoit Cai.
£specifications.
BODY TYPES—-Five-passenger, two- or three-passenger single seater.
bloc, removable head- 82 mm. bore x 140 mm. stroke.
ST U\Ti NG-—Two unit, system Automatic leiease.
H'\!TIO\ T Dixie high-tension magneto.
LUBRICATION —Pressure system. Gear pump driven from cam shaft.
COOLING Thermo-syphon, extra radiator capacity.
CLUTCH—Dry-disc type. Seven steel plates faced with asbestos fabric. - Kuily housed.
BEAR AXLE-!— Floating type. Spiral bevel gears.
TYRES—BIS x lOoui.in. clincher type. Plain in front, all-weather tread on teal.
UPHOLSTERY —Genuine leather, stuffed with real curled hail.
tonneau carpet hood manual and prices. '
DEALERS.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.,
Brisbane.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
PHCENIX MOTOR COMPANY. LTD.,
Adelaide.
SKIPPER BAILEY .MOTOR CO,,
LTD., Perth.
The Comfort Car .
'T— i
»\ ' *-
m
• I *
«7~/
tv
o
, r V «*
V
o
IW
t?
4
iS.
SV
1 w Ui\W,**j|i
DEALERS.
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE,
LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., LTD., Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
THE
NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’
CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
OF CANTERBURY, LTD.,
Cashel Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand,
The Comfort Car


Missing Friends. _
IF ALBERT MAYNE, son of the late
Andrew Mayne, of Echnca, will com-
municate with the Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co., Ltd., 412 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, it will be to his advantage.
7
r
>o’
n
ABBEY
SHOES!
are made on our own lasts, in the
most exclusive models. They are
not only distinctive in appearance,
but they will give you the utmost
in service and comfort.
They are made in half and full
sizes, and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide, therefore you
are assured a perfect fit.
YVe illustrate one of our latest
models—a choice Glace Kid Hal
with Patent-Leather Toeeaps.
Price 52/6. Postage Extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
£
<
v
*
<£
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
318 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
Government Notice.
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT.
Vacancy for Director of Forests.
Applications for the position of
Director of Forests, Queensland, will
be received by the undersigned up to 30th
November, 1918. A thorough knowledge of
Forestry in all its branches is essential.
Applicants should state age, qualifications,
experience and salary required.
IV. GORDON GRAHAM,
Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Lands,
Brisbane, 17tli May, 1918.
Public Notices.
'T'HE Patentee of Australian Patent No. 17961/1914
1 for “IMPROVED WATER HEATER,” Henry
■Moss Keesing, is desirous to enter into negotiation
| for and to complete arrangements by way of license
or otherwise for manufacture and marketing in Aus-
tralia of this 'invention, now being successfully
marketed in New Zealand, as the GIANT CALI-
PHONT, by the Auckland Gas Company, A. & T.
Burt. New Zealand Acetylene Gas Company, and
other leading houses. Enquiries solicited and will
be replied to by COLUSON & CO., 483 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
Hurry Kickurils Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. MCINTOSH.
“|“ IVO L I THEA T K K, SYDNEY
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY k SATURDAY, at 2.30.
JACK WALLER
and his Great Company of Comedians in
VANITY FAIR,
A Sparkling Musical Extravaganza.
"piVOEI Til CAT HE, MELBOURNE
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents
the Sparkling and Spectacular London Revue,
HONI SOIT.
Featuring Beatrice Holloway, John Junior and Barry
Lupino.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
KI T E It 1O N TII IS A T~lt K. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C, WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING ’AT 8.
First presentation in Svdney of
THE MAN WHO CAME BACK,
with MURIEL STARR, FRANK HARVEY, LOUIS
KIMBALL, together with J. C. Williamson’s
SPLENDID DRAMATIC COMPANY.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
U E It Tl A .1 E 8 T Y ’ S, S Y 1» N K 4 .
1 * Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Last Two Nights of Business Before Pleasure.
SATURDAY NEXT. SEPTEMBER 28.
FOR FIVE NIGHTS ONLY.
POTASH AND PERLMUTTER.
Introducing the inimitable Hebrew Comedians,
ADAMS and WATERS, and J. C. Williamson’s
specially-selected Comedy Company, including
MAGGIE MOORE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
C> A J, A C E T II E A T It E. S Y I) N E Y.
■ Sole Direction J. & N. TAIT.
Every Evening at 8. Matinee Wednesday at 2.
EMILIE POLINI,
with CYRIL MACKAY and HARMON LEE, in
THE INVISIBLE FOE.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
D L A Y 35 O U S E*.
* Castlereagh Street, between Liverpool
and Bathurst Streets, Sydney.
NIGHTLY, with MATINEE SATURDAYS.
SYDNEY JAMES’S ENTIRELY NEW SHOW.
“PIERROT PIE NO. 4,”
A NEW PIE—THE REVUE PIE !
BOOK BEFORE YOU SLEEP!
Prices:' 4/- (Res.), 3/-, 2/'-, 1/-
gRITANNTA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d: and 6d.
Amusement*.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: Sd. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE MUSICAL PLAY OF SNAP AND SPARKLE,
OH! OH!! DELPHINE !!!
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
II EAT R E ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the NEW
MUSICAL COMEDY CO. in the American Musical
Hit,
“OH, BOY!”
KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Direction BERT BAILEY and JULIUS GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Reappearance of the BERT BAILEY CO.
in Owen Davis’s Charming Play,
WHAT HAPPENED TO MARY.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
HOYT'S THEATRES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
CHARLES RAY in
THE HIRED MAN.
ANN PENNINGTON in
SUNSHINE NAN.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. MatinOes Saturday 2.30.
This week’s Feature:
TOM MIX in
WESTERN BLOOD.
Prices as Usual.
j|y| A.JESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALICE BRADY
in the Select Feature,
THE WHIRLPOOL.
Plan at Allan’s.
Matinees daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN. VTTAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68i PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.AV.
Branches in all parts of the worW.
THE SUPER “Fx 8 R” WATCH
The original “Fx & E” Watches are known through-
out Australasia for their marvellous accuracy and
endurance.
But, as usual, we progress, and so now we are
showing the
SUPER “Fx & R” WATCH.
Its present price is 635. in steel case, but what a
watch it is! Every latest improvement known to
horological science is in it.
It is jewelled in every part where wear occurs. It
will go with profound accuracy, indeed it is so accu-
rate that a ship could be steered to England by it.
For strength and standing up against hard wear
we unhesitatingly say that no watch the world over
equals the SUPER “Fx & R” Watch.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS, LTD.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street*
Plain Figures. Cash only.
Gent.’s O.F.
Oxidised Steel
“Super Fx & R”
fully-jewelled
- Lever Watch,
ft 63/-'
/
S'
V
thoroughly British and “miles” better.
N.S.W.Agents: HAMMOND (SL. CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Queensland Agents: QLD. MOTOR AGENCY LTD., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Agents r H. C. PANNIFEX, 22 MarKet Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents: GIBBS, BRIGHT &. CO., Adelaide.
Business Notices.
SEAWATER
will Destroy Noxious
Plants and Rough
Herbage.
APPLY SEVERAL HEAVY DRESSINGS.
VIVIAN, Commerce Street, Auckland, Discoverer.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
True Efficiency Needed.
Debility is not distressing to the indivi-
dual, but it is an economic loss.
If your blood is thin and your head aches,
if your digestion is weak and your nerves
unsteady, you cannot do your work well.
True efficiency consists in building up your
general health so that you again find pleasure
in work.
Stimulants do not give real help. They
enable you to draw on your reserve strength,
but this in turn leaves you weaker than
before.
Debility is not a disease of any one organ.
It is a general condition of unfitness. It
must be met,by a remedy whose good results
will be quickly generalised throughout the
entire system. ' In fact, it must be corrected
by building up the blood, which being rich
and red carries renewed health and strength
to every part of the body.
Dr. Williams’ rink Pills are a tonic, not
a stimulant. They build up the blood and
have transformed thousands of sick, grouchy,
irritable, tired and nervous people into active,
energetic, capable, efficient men and women.
They will help you, too.
There has been no increase in the price of
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. 2/9 per box, six
boxes 15/3, at your chemist or direct from
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Box 594
G.P.0., Sydney. The pamphlet, “Diseases
of the Blood,” is free on request.— Advt.
hi
&
Run-down
When your system is under-
mined by worry or over-work
—when your vitality is lower-
ed—when you feel‘ 1 any-h ow”
—when your nerves are “on
edge ” —when the least exer-
tion tires you —you are in a
Run-down condition. Your
system is like a plant that is
drooping for want of water.
And just as water revives a
drooping plant—so ‘Wincar-
nis’ gives new life and new
vitality to a "run-down”
constitution. Because ‘Win-
carnis ’ possesses a four-fold
power. It is a Tonic, a
Restorative, a Blood-maker,
and a Nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
hfg
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force, and
new vitality. The- benefit
begins from the first wine-
glassful. You can feel it doing
you good. You can feel your
whole system being sur-
charged with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
10,000 Doctors recommend
‘Wincarnis.’
Don’t continue to suffer
needlessly. Get well the
‘ Wincarnis ’ way—the quick,
sure, and safe way to obtain
the new health you need.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Win-
carnis Works, Norwich. You can
buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all Chemists
and Stores selling wines, prices
4/3 and 7/-, but if you experi-
ence any difficulty in obtaining it,
write direct to Sole Distributing
Agents, Fassett & Johnson, 233
Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W*


ALL OVER SCALP
Began With Pimples. Very Painful,
Often Causing Loss of Sleep. Hair
Fell Out. Cuticura Healed.
“I was greatly troubled with an itch-
ing rash all over my scalp. The trouble
m
began with pimples which
became very itchy and the
more I scratched them the
more they spread. They
were very painful, often
causing me loss of sleep
at night. My hair began to
fall out and I was troubled
with dandruff.
“I sent for samples of
Cuticura Soap and Ointment and after-
wards bought more and I was healed.”
(Signed) Miss Helen Dixon, Avondale,
Stuart Tbwn, N. S. W., June 12, 1916.
The majority of skin and scalp troubles
might be prevented by using Cuticura.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address :
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SPEC/AL/OT
TWO
/ /A !E3
jgp
*
mtmm
*#•*#
1 9
m
s
SI# 5
V/QITE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
Xr fIONTERa* NEWCASTLE
EIEY
'CARTRIDGES'!
Always Reliable
1
HNCIHn
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL*
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs. T.S. Black
Powder and ij oz. of shot.
hf
gh
ELEY
’3BO
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 38
S&W Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS. L 5 LONDON
\\nr^V7-^S
\
4
\
' v
0?57
P
-4
S»gM»
€ ®sTHsnrs
—*/./] J l —
Your
Furniture
Is it smoky, finger
stained and dust-
catching? Has your
gramophone, piano
and mahogany furniture a bluish, cloudy appearance'
It can be easily restored to its original charm and
beauty with
w
ft cleans and polishes in one operation—protects and
preserves the varnish—covers up mars and small surface
scratches—prevents checking.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is a DUST PROOF POLISH.
It contains absolutely no oil and imparts a hard glass-like
surface which does not collect or hold the dust. It never
becomes soft or sticky in the hottest weather. Apart from
polishing furniture, it keeps like new:
Floors
Pianos
Woodwork
Motor Cars
Linoleum
Leather Goods
Johnson’s Prepared Wax is sold by all
good dealers. Go to your dealer today.
S. C. JOHNSON & SON, Manufacturers, Racine, Wisconsin, U. S. A.
v .1
-f.
A A
H
vU
s
*?9ek
ja I
CARRY AN ONOTO WITH YOU
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills itself in a flash,
cleans itself in the act of filling, and contains sufficient ink to
write 20,000 words.
Never leaks— always writes smoothly—and is always
ready for'writing. Can be filled from any ink supply with-
out a filler' without mess or trouble, in five seconds,
Onoto
Self-fillinq Safety Fountain Pen.
Price 17/- and upwards ; also ONOTO
Valveless tor those who do not want a Self-
Filling Safety Pen. 13/6 upwards, of all
stationers, jewellers, stores, etc.
Manufacturers;
T. D. La Rue & Co., Ltd.,
219 Bunhill Row. London, E.C.
Managing Agents :
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
AskforONOTO INK-Bestfor all Pens.
THE GIRL WHO SOUNDS ALL RIGHT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The assertion is made in Melbourne that men
marry telephone-exchange girls, attracted onty by
their delightful voices.
The man who goes to seek a wife
Must have a nimble mind.
The road he takes is ever rife
With pitfalls for the blind.
Oh, very wary must he be,
And quick to feel, and sharp to see.
A camouflage about her pet
Has cunning Nature cast,
To lure the hunter to the net
And catch the trapper fast.
And if the seeker have not care
His prey will take him unaware.
What hope for those with faith immense,
Who, hearing sirens call,
Abandon every other sense,
’And seeing none at all.
With doltishness that has no fear
Contrive to choose a wife by ear?
VICTORIA.
SNELL.
A law seems to have been recently con-
templated in the U.S.A., ordering anything
up to 10,000 dollars line and 20 years
imprisonment for the use of contemptuous
language about the President. It was an
amendment proposed by Senator Poindexter
to the new Spy Bill, but it was struck out in
a preliminary overhaul by the Judiciary Com-
mittee, and didn’t reach the Senate. Roose-
velt had hastened to give a preliminary warn-
ing that he would simply disregard the law,
,if passed. “Whenever the need arises, I
i shall in the future speak truthfully of the
President, in praise or in blame, exactly as
I have done in the past.” Nobody doubts it.
One new York publication suggests that the
law couldn't have applied to Teddy, any-
way, because to stop his favorite amusement
of pitching into Woodrow would be a “cruel
and unusual punishment,” such as the Con-
stitution of the U.S.A. forbids.
The orthodox proceeding, when a haughty
monarch wants to get out of his trouble
without losing all the plunder, is to ask some
one to “mediate” between him and his
enemy. He doesn’t ask the enemy directly,
because he isn’t officially aware of his exist-
ence ; a third party pretends that he has
just wakened from a long sleep and learned
for the first time that a war is in progress,
so he has got out of bed and rushed the
’phone in his nightgear, and rung up both
parties in the cause of humanity. The King
of Spain and the Queen of the Netherlands
are both suggested. The President of Swit-
zerland would be better for many' reasons,
but the Hohenzollern pride is above dealing
with Presidents. The choice of mediators
is exceedingly limited, for the Kaiser-despot
has hardly a friend left outside his own
country, barring the Australian Political
Labor League.
“Aussie Abroad” : Violent hands should so
effectively be laid on “Head of a Four-Genera-
tion-Old Firm,” who wrote to The Bulletin
sometime ago disparaging the wonderful
work of Lord Rhondda, who sacrificed his
life in his successful effort to feed the mil-
lions. Collisions with the projectiles of
William the Beast have given me periodical
sojourns in London. For the rest, I have
two eyes and two ears and sufficient obser-
vation to remark that the business man in
question spoke out of his turn and the
squeal didn’t emanate from his heart. Six
months ago I saw the queues he mentioned
—hundreds of ragged women, many with
infants in their arms, waiting with resigna-
tion for hours, often in falling snow and a
temperature below zero, hoping against
hope that those ahead would not
mop up the whole supply and leave them to
go meatless, tealess or butterless. Then
Rhondda got his scheme going. To-day
London is as free of food-queues, as Sydney
is of air-raids, and on all hands it is agreed
that the Welshman’s rationing did' the trick
and provided a plentiful and easily-obtained
supply of the necessaries. If, as your cor-
respondent avers, Rhondda has “done more
to upset trade and the public” than any
other man, then we must infer that “trade”
means confusion, unfairness and inflated
profits. As for the public, he is right. A
decent feed, after months of semi-starvation,
would upset anybody. “F.-G.-0.-F.” can still
atone by a pilgrimage- to Rhondda’s grave,
and there publicly eating liis words.
“The Oldest Inhabitant” writes
A recent golden wedding recalls a somewhat notori-
ous celebrant. On September 12, 1868, at the
Tabernacle, Burton-street, John Farrell to Margaret
Hughes, both natives of Sydney, were married by
Dr. Bailey, who called himself “Bishop of the Free
Church of England.” He was a learned man, who
had the misfortune to come as a guest to Van
Diemen’s Land in 1843. In Hobart Town he became
editor of one of the papers, while Dr. West (after-
wards of S. M. Herald) was holding a similar
position in Launceston. The rivals in time came
to Sydney; one to the Herald, the other to establish
a tabernacle in Burton-street. He did a big busi-
ness in marriages, until he fell foul of the law in
conducting the marriage of a minor at midnight. Jus-
tice Alfred Stephen sentenced him to six months. On
his release he applied for registration, whifih was
refused on the ground of “no congregation.” Bailey
appealed to the Full Court, was complimented on his
learning and refused again. In the last chapter the
old man earned his living by coaching for University
exams. Many a gone-by lawyer was “crammed” by
him.
“Chloe” : France has never made the fatal
mistake of underestimating the power and
ability of her opponents’ leaders. L’lllus-
tkation for June 8, for instance, contains
this of Ludendorff, whom the French con-
tinue to regard as being (on the German
side) not only the master, but also the chief
artisan of the war: —
His head has all the marks of a quick and alert
intelligence of a quick wit, and a spontaneity which
is in remarkable contrast with the heavy and pon-
derous Hindenburg. Ludendorff is inclined to cor-
pulency, and is below middle height, but his face,
figure and bearing are impressive, giving the idea of
a man of immense energy, in full physical and mental
vigor and perfectly sure of himself. He has had a
rapid and brilliant military career, displacing many
of his seniors. From the time of his attachment to
Hindenburg's army he has counted a series of vic-
tories —commencing with the Mazurian Lakes. A
merciless foe, most difficult and dangerous, without
his wonderful combination of talents the war must
have ended long ago.


Up-''
),
ife
HI
v
7 A
1
Clyiesbalo
MOTOR jjjjj||LORRIES
Knows No Obstacles.
The Allies’ Cause
When it became known that the
standard type of lorry as constructed
in 1914 fell short of meeting thes re .
quirements of war service, S
and American engineers collaborates
which resulted in building the Clydes-
dale Lorries. The Clyde Cars Com-
pany have increased facilities
further production, end Clydesdale
Lorries are now available for f
merit for commercial uses. iliis 1-
the opportunity of lorry-users the
world over.
made in
Clydesdale Lorries are
capacities of to 6 tons.
Special Clydesdale Features:
Krebs Automatic Controller main-
tains constant engine speeds.
Separate unit four-speed gear box.
Worm-drive axle.
Straight Copper Tube Radiator.
Massive frame, with deep centre
section.
H.
t» VAN BRUNT, Factory Representative,
P.O Bo* 2093, Sidney, AUSTRALIA.
New South Wales Distributor:
E. HARDY-JOHNSTON,
350 Kent Street,
SYDNEY.
New Zealand Distributors:
INGLIS BROS. & CO. LTD.,
Harris Street, WELLINGTON
T. E. SHI EL & CO.,
Stafford Street, DUNEDIN.
THE CLYDE CARS CO., Clyde, Ohio, U.S.A .
The
Best that can be
said with truth about
any other pen does not
do full justice to the merits of
V3OI
h
\u
111
Fountain Pen
Watermans
hi
Every Waterman’s Ideal is guaranteed, and there
are iridium-tipped gold nibs to suit every hand.
Three Types: ‘' Lever Pocket Self-
Filling, ” “ Safety, ” “ Regular. ’ *
Of Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere%
L. G. sloan, Ltd., tbe Pen Corner,
London, England.
% Australia: Harota D. Dixon,
105 Clarence St.,
" Sydney.
/
sk
SCORCHING winds and
parched roads give little
anxiety to the motorist using
Spencer - Moulton Three-
Ribbed Tyres.
World-wide experience has
enabled the British makers to
produce in Spencer-Moultons
*
*
a tyre that is resilient in blazing.heat or tropical rains—
that is tough and safe on all kinds of road
surface—a tyre certainly that offers the maximum or
speed, comfort, and economy in the most searching
conditions of motor travel.
The farther you go on Spencer-Moultons the greater will be
the enthusiasm you ’ll find for them, in yourself and others.
Interesting ‘Particulars and Prices on request.
GEORGE SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., LTD.,
77-79, Cannon Street, London, England,
Works : Bradford-on-Avon, Wilts, England,
fg
m
I
w
w-
-7
CRICKET
SEASON 1918-19.
Our stock comprises everything
for the Game. Now showing a
fine range of materials by the
world’s leading makers.
For full particulars of Cricket and all indoor
and outdoor Sporting Materials see a copy of
our new edition Sportsman’s Guide. Post
free to any address.
Military Training Quarters and Camps supplied with all
kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
MEN’S BATS.
Each.
M.S.. All Cane, special value **/6
M.S., Colonial Driver
M.S., Marvel Driver ••••••
M.S., Haymarket Driver, single rubbei. . 10/b
M.S., Haymarket Driver, double rubber 17/0
M.S., Haymarket Driver, Spec. Selected 22/0
Ayres’ International, 30/-. Improved., 32/-
Ayres’ International Improved Selected.. 30/-
C. G. Macartney Autograph
City & Suburban Sport Co., 17 /6, 21 /-> 20/ -
(C.S. Sport Co.’s bats are specially faced
for Australian wickets, and require .no
prepararation before using.) . 0 ~,
Clapshaw’s Cork-cased Handle *2/0
Clapshaw’s Spiral Spring 27/0
Dye’s Champion, 17/6; selected .... 20/-
Dye’s Champion, specially selected .... 22/0
Gunn and Moore’s Autograph ••••••■• ad/-
Nicholl’s Automatic 20/-. "2/0
Shaw and Shrewsbury’s A 1 20/-
Spalding's London Club 25/"
Spalding’s County Special gU/-
Spalding’s Hayward Record gO/-
Stuart, Surridge Rapid Driver 25/-
Stuart, Surridge Oval Driver 17/0
Stuart, Surridge Standard Driver ... . . 22/-
Summers Brown P. Spoon, 27/6. 32/6. 35/-
Svke’s Yorkshire Driver, ord., 25/- 1 s oL, 30/-
Warsop’s Conqueror, ord., 25/-! sel -> 30/-
Bats, retail from 21/-. are guaranteed.
MEN’S STUMPS.
Set of 6.
Blackwood, very strong, plain 3/6
Brass Top, steel shod, ash 7/0
Half Solid Brass Top, steel shod 9/-
Solid Brass Top, steel shod, ash 10/-
Revolving Top, steel shod, ash 12/6
CRICKET BALLS.
All Match Weights, viz., sioz.
Each.
Duke’s Match, 8/6; P-K-D., 9/6; Best, 10/-
M.S., Match, gr.t levn 5/0
Eclipse Compo., 3/6; Eclipse Victory.. 4/-
. Compo. Balls, 1/6. 2/-; Nicholsons.. 5/6
FULL-SIZE CRICKET MATS.
(GREEN).
Made from Best Material.
In two pieces, for double wicket, Oft. wide.
Bound Ends, metal eyelets and spikes, £5/7/0
Leather-bound £6
MEN’S BATTING GLOVES. p .
Featherweight, felt protection 4/9
Buff Chamois, best tubular rubber o/O
White Kid, Gold, cape points, hair-stufted 5/-
Superior, ex. stout tubular rubber 10/0
Surry Shields, R. or L. Hand 5/0
MEN’S GAUNTLETS.
Ventilated, very strong 7/-
Gold Cape, ventilated and padded y/O
White Kid, ventilated, extra quality . . 9/0
All England, rubber palms, padded tips. -20/-
Celebrated Lilley, padded tips 21/-
MEN’S LEG GUARDS.
White Drill, strong ••••• \
Tan, continuous straps, good club guard
Tan, continuous straps, ventilated
Gold Cape, cont. straps, superior
Half Skeleton, Gold Cape, new pattern..
Half Skeleton, White Buck
Best Skeleton, Gold Cape
Best Skeleton, White Buck
Gold Cape, ex. quality for wicketkeepers..
Pair.
7/0
10/0
13/0
12/9
15/0
17/0
17/0
20/-
17/6
CRICKET SUNDRIES.
Abdominal Pads ... 3/-, 5/-> o/6> J/~^ c^
Bat Covers, waterproof canvas 4/oe«ih
Bat Oil specially prepared 1/6 ottle
Canvas Boots, welted soles .. • ■■■■■ lg/Of*"
Club Kit Bags 15/-, 17/0 MCh
Cricket Belts, two straps .••••••;• *C 3
Cricket Nets ■• ■ 50/-, 60/- eac«
Gripolene, gauntlet solution 1 1 V' , e
Handle Rubbers ...1/-, 1/3. 1/6, 1/9 each
Scoring Books, full size..... 1/-, 1/6- 2/- each
Scoring Books, pocket size, 6«-> 1/-, l/«5 eacll
Bats of all kinds Repaired.
TENNIS
WE HAVE LONG BEEN RECOGNISED AS THE LEAD-
ING SUPPLIERS OF REQUISITES FOR THE GAME.
M.S. Handicap ....
M.S. Standard ....
M.S. Champion ...
C. 8.8. Quadruple .
Haymarket ......
Haymarket Special
Haymarket Selected
Haymarket Ex. Special
(Postage on Rack
RACKETS.
6/-
10/6
12/6
15/6
22/6
27/6
40/-
42/6
Ayre’s Champion .... 27/6
Ayre’s S.N.D 55/-
Slazenger’s Ich Dien .. 30/-
Slazengcr’s Whitehouse 36/-
Slazenger’s E.G.M 46/-
Slazenger’s Doherty ... 50 /-
Slazenger's Stadium .. 55/-
Prosser's Phenomenon . . 55/-
Davis Risley Hexagon. 55/-
e t N.S.W., 9d; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Each. Doz. • j Doz.
Challenge, covered 1/6 17/6 Slazenger s Champ. 2/4 27/6
Ayre’s Champion 2/4 27/6 I Spalding s Champ. 2/2 20/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 11-; other States, 1/8.)
TENNIS NETS.
Full size, well made — 10/6, 16/-. 18/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-,
35/-, 40/-, 50/-, 60/-
Tennis Nets under 25/- are suitable for school use.
PRESSES, MARKERS, TAPES & ALL SUNDRIES STOCKED.
Rackets Re-strung and Repaired.
1C
AUSTRALIA'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
and TOBACCONISTS
hd
City Sports Depot
99 King St also at
Newcastle l Brisbane


Mr. Joseph Brennan Praises REXONA.
•••?
mm
Mr. JOSEPH li REN NAN (from a photo).
Mr. Joseph Brennan, now
appearing in “Pierrot Pie,” is
one of Australia’s finest stage
craftsmen. Of handsome and dis-
tinguished appearance, and with
gifts of the highest order, Mr.
Brennan is now daily delighting
Sydney audiences at the Play-
house. Mr. Brennan is well
known and a favorite throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
Dear Sirs, —
Just a word to tell you
what a really fine thing I
have found your Rexona
to he. It is an old friend
of mine, and how I ever
got on without Rexona in
the past is a mystery to
me, for I certainly con-
sider it now one of the
necessities of life. Not
only have I used Rexona
with the greatest success
as a rub-down and as an
ointment for bruises, but
I have found it simply in-
valuable for catarrh. I
have never noticed that
you recommend it for this
trouble, and I can assure
you it is excellent.
By the way, I also use Rexona Soap for the hath and to remove make-
up, and find it excellent. Rexona and Rexona Soap are luxuries indeed,
which lam sure that any man will appreciate. Believe me, wherever I
go Rexona goes too, and I shall always recommend it, for I believe that it
deserves it. I am so pleased with Rexona that you may publish this
letter if you wish, for I know everyone who tries it will soon have the
same oninion of Rexona that I have.
Wishing Rexona the best of good luck, I am, your very truly,
(Sgd.) JOSEPH BRENNAN.
TRY THE REXONA REMEDIES.
There are so many uses for Rexona that a pot of this new Rapid Healing; Oint-
ment should be kept in every home. You will find a thousand uses for Rexona, so
keep it handy when needed. When you are still' and tired and your muscles ache,
Rexona will be found a soothing embrocation—follow with a Rexona Soap bath, and
all your aches and pains will vanish as if by magic. Rexona is a famous Rapid
Healing Ointment, banishing cuts, bruises, burns and skin diseases of all kinds.
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap is a worthy companion for Rexona the Rapid Healer,
and is a pure antiseptic soap, cleansing the skin and hair. Rexona the Rapid
Healer, price 1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Soap, 1/- per tablet.
o
o
0
THE RAPID HEALER
L*\3J
TmsS
f|l UNRi VALUED
Bv u r
c>
Hr
for
/y Sfyle & Finish.
* C 4PS OF ALL ' Jp
A*.
A.
/
£RS
MAKERS:-
CRESS &c C° UP
LONDON, ENGLAND.
'Wholesale Agenfsr-
cox & MAILER.
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY
The Greatest Cold Cure JL Commonwealth.
NAZETHA
For Gold in the Head, Bronchitis, Asthma,
and ail Chest and Throat Troubles.
OBTAINABLE 1/6 EVERYWHERE.
If difficult to procure sent post free for I\6 from
A. P. Miller & Son, chemists, Hobart.
[i
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking- Are you going to
let the Ravislier of Belgium, icin withor
lifting a hand?
The Shadows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
rll HE dancers swung, and their shadows
Fled after them over the floor,
For mirror-bright was the polished
floor
And flower-barred was the carven door.
The music throbbed to a lover’s measure
And Folly wed with her wanton, Pleasure,
For the space of a reckless night,
And she flicked the heel of her scarlet shoon
And forgot the lake, and the pale-faced moon
And the uplands chaste and white.
And I wondered, watching the gyring throng
That trod Mirth’s maze with a lilt along
M here the guilt of blood could lie,
Till I saw one go with a stealthy air,
A feathered cap on his lank, black hair,
And a dagger at his thigh.
His arms held a maiden young and white,
As fair as star on a stormy night.
Ah! How could such linking be?
My bitter glance to the floor sank down,
Till the blurred reflex of her silken gown
Took the shape of a gallows tree!
For I knew how in bed of curtained state,
With his fallen jaw and his dead eyes’ hate,
Lay the Ancient Reckoning.
And I knew that over the snow-soft hills
And over the lock of the frozen rills
Rode the troopers of the King
Dawn struck in with a daggered hand,
A door was wide to the wintry land,
And the King’s armed men drew near,
High bosoms hid ’neath the swift-drawn lace,
While here was a proud, inquiring face,
And there the smirk of fear.
Aloof she stood by the flower-wreathed door,
Tapped with her heel on the polished floor,
As though for the dance she cried.
Oh, the clean, crisp air came rushing in
On that foolish riot, of Sense and Sin
From a world so clean and wide !
And I laughed as I moved to see them take
Unyielding grip of that subtle snake
Who had dared to clasp her hand.
She was white as a pearl by a tropic sea,
She was pure as a moonlight’s mystery,
Then I heard the curt command :
“In the King’s name, for murder foul!”
Oh, the sun drew under a grey cloud cowl
And became a cloistered thing,
’Twas not the knave with the lank, black
hair,
But a milk-white maiden, wondrous fair,
Who was prisoner of the King.
Steadily stepped they over the floor,
Silent, grim, to the open door,
And she stepped steadily.
And the upheld loop of her gown of white
Made in a floor that was mirror-bright
The shape of a gallows tree.
QTJEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Six Fathoms Deep.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OWGAKI KEISHWA stood in the
centre of a sea-garden and shook his
fist at the shadow of the Mabel’s hull
that swayed at anchor on the surface above.
Round him teemed the life of the sea-floor.
Great sea-slugs, like lumps .of animated
jelly, crawled and fed upon the sea-grass.
Gorgeous anemones, old Neptune’s sea-
flowers, spread vivid chrysanthemum-petals,
crimson orange and mauve, among the weed.
Small painted fish, flashing in burnished
mail, armed cap-a-pie with spine lances,
played in and out the waving kelp fronds.
Wayward Jack-o’-sunbeams struck out of the
blazing day above, danced through the water
and made rainbows on the white of the pul-
verised coral.
Through the centre of the garden ran a
sand-road —-an open line, like a wide path-
way, spaced and cleared through the maze
of surrounding sea-grasses. Shell, in plenty,
lay around for the gathering; but the shell-
net that hung at the diver’s belt was empty.
He stood in the centre of the sand-avenue
and, looking up, cursed into the hollow of his
helmet. It was very silent in that sub-
marine backwater. But in the weed Death
waited.
Where the sea-grass thickened into
chumps of darker growth, giant clams
yawned, vast aiid shadowy. Anchored to
the sea-floor, each by a byssus the size of a
tree-trunk, the huge mollusco opened shells
ten and twelve feet across, with a gape of
eight, and waited the chance the sea-life
brought them. Deep in the weed-thicket,
bearded and hung about with waving sea-
growth, it required a practised eye to pick
out the monstrous shells from the multitude
of similar objects that lay around. In the
wavering shimmer of that under-world they
looked harmless and resembled nothing so
much as sponge - grown, coral-crusted
boulders. It was only when near approach
showed the faint porcelain-glimmer of an
opened shell that the passing fish, goggle-
eyed, shied at the hidden death, like a jibbing
horse, and made off into the water-shadows.
Let a fish flash unwarily near those gaping
jaws and the formless nightmare within the
shell woke to life. The pulpy bulk quivered
expectant. The great valve-muscle con-
tracted and the great lids stirred, ready,
toward the closing of the death-trap.
Once caught by those closing rock-edges,
there was no escape. The victim, assimi-
lated by some process of external digestion,
was sucked in, piecemeal, even as it struggled.
Within the porcelain-lined shell was room to
receive a full-grown man.
Overhead, where sea and sky met. was
hung a glistening sheet of glass. It glinted
continuously into coruscations, like the
ripples of a hand-shaken mirror. A dark
blotch of shadow, in one spot, breaking the
fflxisK. showed where the rounded bottom-
bilge of the Mabel starred the mirror sur-
face, like a lump of stone dropped on it from
above. A black line, wavering down through
the sea-shimmer, anchored the upper shadow
to a lighter shadow, that swung, pendulum-
wise, back and forth across the sand floor.
It made a queer picture, this looking up at
the underside of things. It was like looking
up from the bottom of a well at a polished
looking-glass and seeing the world upside-
down. But Owgaki was not concerned with
the queerness of the picture.
Up there on the pearling lugger’s deck was
the man he hated. liaythe, the Englishman
—Haythe, who had capped innumerable in-
sults by robbing him of O-Taka-San!
They had been happy together until the
coming of this white devil into their lives.
She had followed him from far-away Nippon,
and he had loved her after his kind—loved
her for the cloudy passion of languorous
eyes; for her tinted porcelain face, set in
the dark of ebon hair; for the ivory-gilt of
smooth-skinned body and the ripe pout of
crimson lips. How he hated Haythe!
He had bought her a little house beneath
the palms and, after a voyage, had returned
to find his house empty and O-Taka-San in-
stalled as Haythe’s mistress.
Well, what of it? He was not the only
one. North of Torres, on the sea and on the
islands, men make their own moral code.
Men he had known, other divers, had been
content to fall in with the arrangement —
to fawn upon their white masters for a
price ; to count it so much the more added to
the pile they would take at the end of their
term. Would Haythe offer him money?
Would he return O-Taka-San when he tired
of her, and add a bonus at the end to square
tilings up?
He could have killed his enemy a hundred
times during the last month of the Mabel’s
voyage. In the close life of shipboard there
had been opportunity and to spare. He
could have sunk his knife, hiltdeep, between
the broad shoulders and gone gaily to bang
at an outswung gaff-peak. But there was
always the possibility of failure. Haythe
carried a revolver loose in its holster, and
he wanted to make very sure. Besides, that
way death would have come. too easy. He
wanted more. A hundred times bis hands
had itched to the killing, but he had waited.
With the patience of Asia he had bided bis
time. He wanted to see bis enemy die. To
kill him slowly and savor the manner of
hie dying. He wanted him there on the sea-
bed. Haythe and himself! In the privacy
of six fathoms deep.
A great twelve-foot ray winged silently
from the shadows, like a huge bat. _ It
skimmed low over the weed and sucked in the
animalculae with toothless mouth. It blun-
dered against a weed clump, and at once
there was a shock and jar of waters. Owgaki
was thrown off his balance by the displace-
ment, and when be looked again saw that a
hidden clam had snapped-to its shell jaws.
The ray was caught by one wing-tip only,
but there was no escape. The clam had
closed with hardly a crevice. The corrugated
shell-edges sunk into the flesh and. gripped
with hundred-ton force. The flapping body
of the ray, that hung outside the shell, resem-
bled a grotesque square of black velvet waved
invisibly from a boulder-top.
Owgaki moved nearer. Inch by inch the
living flesh was drawn through the shell-
crevice. Something within sucked and pal-
pitated. Something writhed shadowy fila-
ments in a foam of crimson froth that came
oozing up from the shell-depths. It was
monstrous, unspeakable, this silent horror of
the deep, but the sombre eyes behind the hel-
met glass gleamed and the full lips grinned
fierce approval.
For a half-hour, or a little longer, a man
may live and move at six fathoms. Beyond
that the laboring lungs refuse duty, the
breath comes heavy in the metal helmet, and
he must come to the surface or die. Owgaki
knew the time was short. What he had to
do must be done quickly or not at all.
With the jagged edge of a broken oyster-
shell he sawed at the stout rope that held him
to the world of men. When no more than a
half-strand remained uncut, he gave the
emergency signal for hoisting. The chafed
life-line tautened with a jerk, parted and
went circling upwards like some strange
water-snake. But Owgaki dropped lightly to
the sand and hid himself among the weed.
He knew that the chafed life-line would
tell its tale on the Mabel’s deck. He knew
that Haythe, following the unwritten law,
would at once don the spare dress and
descend to his diver’s rescue. He knew that
personal dislike, distrust and racial antipathy
would count for nothing in the anticipated
danger of the man on the sea-flcor. Haythe
had his share of bull-like courage and loyalty
to his crew.
Looking up, Owgaki saw Haythe—saw
him first a shadowy lump against the black
of the lugger’s hull; saw him come down the
side-ladder and drop ; watched him sink, all
a-sprawl, through the buoyant water, like
some huge water-spider, and find his feet at
the head of the sand-road.
Haythe came down the sand-avenue, peer-
ing from side to side among the shadows.
He caught sight of Owgaki’s swaying air-
tube and made toward it. As he came the
latter gathered himself for a fight. He cut
Haythe’s life-line with one sweep of liis knife,
steadied himself, and, next moment, had
caught his enemy unawares in a wrestling
grip.
It was a weird fight, that on the sea-floor.
In their air-inflated diving-dresses the strug-
gling men looked like whimsical india-rubber
dolls. They dropped on the sea-bed, lost
their footing from over-buoyancy, regained it,
never losing grip, fell again and rolled.
Shouts, curses gasped into the hollow of their
helmets were lost in the chug-chug of the air-
pumps, that came down the tubes like tele-
phone-wires and the hiss of air in their ears.
For the Binghis on the Mabel’s deck pumped
on excitedly.
Haythe, bigger and stronger than his adver-
sary, but hampered by the unaccustomed
dress and taken at a disadvantage, was as a
child in the hands of the active Japanese.
Owgaki locked his arms in a pinioning grip
and forced him steadily backward. Haythe
saw, over his shoulder, the loom of a darker
mass in the weed-thicket; saw the wide
yawn of an opened clam and the horror
within. The thing seemed to erect itself in
(Continued on nesci page.)


GET RID OF THAT BAD BACK!
In these days of high prices it’s poor economy to
worry along with a bad back that makes the simplest
work a torture and a full day’s work impossible. If
every day brings morning lameness, sharp pains when
bending or lifting, nervousness, and a dull, tired state,
there’s surely something wrong. Likely it’s kidney
weakness. Urinary disorders may give further proof.
D on’t neglect it! Though easily corrected at first, delay
may run you into gravel, dropsy, crippling rheumatism or
dangerous Bright’s disease. Get a bottle of Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills to-day. They have helped thousands.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY
LASTING CURE OF TWO YEARS.
Mr. Jos. Goddard, 6 Windsor
Sydney, says: “For some time my health was far
from good, due to the fact that my kidneys were
very disordered. I knew this to be the case, as I
had aching pains in my back, was always tired and
languid, and could not sleep well at night. When
I first began to feel off-color I did not bother about
it, thinking 1 would soon be all right again, but
this is where I made the mistake. I got worse
instead of better, and by the time Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills were recommended to me I was suffer-
ing a good deal. A friend advised me to try these
pills, so I got some, and after taking them for a
few days my health began to improve, and by
the time I had used five bottles I was cured. I
feel grand now, thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.”
Two years later Mrs. Goddard says: “My hus-
band is still well and has had no return of his
old complaint since Doan’s Pills cured him over
two years ago.”
LASTING CURE OF NINE YEARS.
Mrs. F. V. Richards, Earlswood. Rawson
Street, St. Leonards, Sydney, says: “For about
twelve months I was a martyr to kidney trouble.
At times I used to cry out with the terrible pains
in my back, and I could not do my housework.
Many a time I have had to get a neighbor to come
and rub my back with liniment. I was treated by
a doctor for a considerable time, but he did me
no good. I heard that Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills were curing similar cases, and decided to try
them. They gave me relief at once, and a course
of the pills perfectly cured me. It is four years
since I was cured, and I have never had any
return of the complaint. I cannot speak too
highly of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, and
recommend them with every confidence to other
sufferers.”
Five years later Mrs. Richards says: “It is now
nine years since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
cured me of backache and kidney trouble, and I
have had no return of those ailments during all
that time.”
"Every Picture
Tells a Story .
m
M
n
%
m
J
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
chemists and storekeepers at 2/9 per bottle, or post
free by Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS.
its shell; to beckon, expectant with filaments.
“Great Christ!” he shrieked and was deaf-
ened by his own pent cry. In the hollow of
his helmet it echoed in his ears with the blare
of a steam siren.
The eye-windows of the helmets were
pressed together. Glass looked into glass.
The strain of the fight was telling on both.
The men panted and gasped within their
headpieces, open-mouthed, like heat-driven
dogs. But in the eyes of the Jap there was
no softening. Ilaytlie shrieked no more but
fought on silently.
The leaden soles of their diver’s boots
crushed and slid on the trampled sea-growth.
They tripped in the ooze of the trodden weed
and slipped on the slime of squelched marine
radiates. Once, for a moment, II ay the
wrenched an arm free. He struck his fist
madly at the glass of his adversary’s helmet,
but was again overpowered, and the men fell
exhausted against and beneath the huge
round of the clam’s shell.
For a minute there was a truce. They
gasped, suffocating in their helmets, and lay
still. Haythe, stifled by the air pressure, was
incapable of further action. But Owgaki,
opening wide the stop of his escape-valve,
recovered breath in the thinning air. He
Wound his arms round the other’s body. He
held him in a lover’s clasp, staggered, half-
erect, and with a last backward and upward
heave, Haythe in his arms, fell into and
between the waiting lids. “Banzai!” he
shouted.
The severed air-tubes writhed back in a
froth of bubbles and a pinky stain oozed from
the closed shell and wavered in the water
like an outspread pennant.
The startled parrot-fish came back to play
among the weed, and the interrupted life of
the sea-floor went on.
In a little while the corrugated shell-edges
parted. Something pushed from within.
Something rolled down the flutings of the
shell and the metal of two diving-suits came
to rest on the white sand beneath.
D. W. O. FAGAN.
Killin’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE’LL kill this evening. I bought
a cow from Jackson jist now,”
Flinn announced to his family at
the dinner-table.
“Did yer see her?” asked his wife.
“No. I’m buyin’ her by weight—two
pounds a hundred, an’ I’m t’ have the hide.
He’ll come over an’ see her on the scales in
the morning.”
“But how’ll yon know her if Jackson isn’t
back in time to show you?”
“There’s on’y the one white cow in the pad-
dick, so I can’t go wrong,” he says.
“Me an’ Jimmy’ll go now an’ fetch her in.
You other fellers go an’ fix up the yard a
bit while we’re away, an’ fix up the gallis,
an’ cut a ropin’ pole.” As he and Jimmy
rode off he shouted back: “Stand well out
when we’re cornin’ with her. She s all
right if we take her quiet, but a bit of a
snorter if she’s stirred up, Jackson says.’’
The killing-yard, which was also the milk-
ing-yard and the horse-yard, had two forked
poles standing in one corner. The crazy
crosspiece and arms fixed in the forks kept
this alleged gallows together. A so-called
wing staggered away from the yard for some
distance into the bush.
After a considerable time young Tom, who
was perched on the cap of the yard, shouted:
“ ’Ere she comes 1”
“Well, git down outer that, or y’ll frighten
’er. Come on, let’s stand out wide, or th’
ole feller’ll be rousing at us,” said one of
the older boys, as the beef appeared over the
hill from the direction of Jackson’s selec-
tion.
She stopped and tossed her head as she
sighted the yard and the three lads running
at a long lope to get into position on the ap-
proach to the yard that had no wing. Flinn
cracked his whip, and shouted at the others
to “Look out.” The cow came a bit closer,
stopped again, and surveyed those in front
with some misgiving.
“Git-back outer that!”
They got back. The cow went forward
along the wing till near the yard entrance.
“Now close up."
They closed up, and the cow raised her
head a foot higher and looked at theija.
“Wonder if she’ll come at a feller?” said
one.
The others must have been wondering
that, too, for they sidled towards the fence.
“Come on!” impatiently shouted the Old
Man. “Needn’t be frightened of her.”
The others shouted at her and threw sticks,
but kept back. Their dog seemed anxious to
lend a hand. “Sool ’er up, Nipper,” said
one. Nipper leaped away through the grass
to obey, but turned and came leaping back
without executing the order, as the milker
raced to meet him with a roar that convinced
the cur that she really did want him.
In half a second there wasn’t a human
being in sight in that direction. Each erased
himself as much as possible from the earth,
and each, as the dog approached bis imme-
diate vicinity, told him, in hoarse, guttural
tones, to “Go outer that.” Thus repudiated,
the dog decided there was no place like home,
and started for it, followed by the bellowing
cow. Flinn assaulted his mount viciously
with his big boots, ahd raced round the
animal and headed her again towards the
place of execution.
When the dog found he was no longer
pursued, he turned and gave chase and took
hold of the beast’s tail, unheeding the dread-
ful language hurled at him by Flinn and by
Flinn’s offspring, who were now flying before
the approaching bovine in hasty and dis-
orderly retreat.
“Block her!” shouted Flinn to Jimmy, who
was mounted on one of the plough-horses
with a winkers and a bag. Jimmy urged his
steed forward at right angles to the cow s
direction, and they met with a crash, lhe
dog was the first to extricate himself from
the struggling mass and limped away howl-
ing. When the others sorted themselves out
Jimmy followed the dog. The draught trotted
off with long strides, snorting his astonish-
ment. The collision sobered the cow, and
she jogged quietly into the yard.
“Jump in an’ put the rope on her,” was the
next order.
One fixed the rope on a pole, while the
cow tossed her head and scraped up the
ground and threw lumps of it over her back.
Flinn climbed stiffly up the fence and taking
the pole and rope, said, “Leave her to me.”
They left her to him. She now began to race
round the yard. When she approached
Flinn’s side he made a wild sweep at her
with the rope. He got it round her neck.
She leaped forward, and before Flinn could
let go the rope he was pulled off the fence
into the yard. He rose hastily, but the rope
was tangled about his feet, and the cow
jerked him down again; after which she
made a rush at him and roared in his beard.
He rose and scrambled up the fence like a
dogged cat going up a wall.
He glared round and swore savagely at
the lads for not coming to his assistance.
“Well, y’ told us t’ leave ’er t’ you,” said
one apologetically.
“I did ; but I didn’t tell ye to leave me to
her!”
They got the beast pulled up to a post at
last and murdered it with an axe. They
had just finished dressing the -carcase when
their neighbor McNabb rode up.
“Not a bad bit o’ meat,” he said, indi-
cating the carcase with his whip. “One o’
yer own?”
“No. Bought her off Jackson. He told me
you bought one off him. How did she turn
out?”
“Weel, Ah’m jist lookin’ for her noo. She
got awa’ an’ th’ boys said they saw her
back w,i’ Jackson’s cattle the morn. Did
ye see onything o’ her when ye were after
your one?”
“No. ’Smatter of fact, I didn’t see the
rest of the cattle at all. I was lucky to
come across this one that I bought, an’
brought her in. What kind was yours?”
“White, wi’ one horn an’ ” ——
“Eli !” Flinn ejaculated, as he straightened
himself up with a jerk.
Young Tom broke in, desirous of giving
information, and observed: “Well, this un
on’y had”
His father told him to go home an’ feed
the pigs.
McNabb smelled a rat. “Ah’m not going
for to kill mine,” he said. ‘She'll mak’ a
richt, guid milker, Ah think. Ah- wouldna’
tak’ tvvel’ pounds for her. Ma conscience;
why, yon’s like her heid !” He dismounted
and crawled through the fence and turned
the head over.
“Aye, it’s her!”
Then he bristled up and turned on his
neighbor.
“What d’ye mean, mon, by killin’ ma
coo? Ye’ll ha’ to pay £l4 for her!”
“I will not,” hotly replied Flinn. “Jack-
son told me there was only the one white
cow in the paddock, an’ this is the only one
I saw, so I reckon she’s mine. Anyway, if
she is yours it’s all the same —you can take
the one I bought.”
“Weel, as she’s deicl Ah tell y’ what All’ll
do. Gie me a pound an’ Ah’ll say naethin’
aboot it. Ah’ll come in th’ morn an’ tak’
her an’ th’ hide. Y’ maun keep th’ heid;
it male’s vera guid soup.”
“Give you a pound ! Are you mad, man?
After me* killin’ an’ dressin’ her fer you, an’
after gettin’ Jimmy an’ Prince and meself
nearly killed ! An’ look at me dog!” as the
mongrel hopped round smelling the meat
and holding up his injured leg. “I wouldn’t
ha’ had that dog crippled like that for five
pounds.”
“Weel,” said McNabb, “maybe we’ll say
naethin’ aboot th’ pound. Wee Donald an’
mesel’ ’ll come i’ tli’ morn an’ tak her awa!”
Shortly after dawn next morning McNabb
rattled violently on FI inn’s door. Flinn
came out ramming his shirt into his trousers.
“Ma coo’s gone!” said McNabb.
“Gone! Where?”
“Ah couldna’ say. Ah thocht mebbe y’d
know.”
“Me? I on’y just got up, as you see.”
“Ah, weel, come an’ gie me th’ hide ony-
way.”
Flinn went to the shed and handed him
the hide, expressing great regret at the car-
c;;se being stolen.
“See. McNabb,” he said, “there’s people
round here tliat’d steal the «ye Out of your
head if you went to sleep with* it open, so
they would.”
“Eh,” answered the other as he eyed his
neighbor like an adder, “Ah believe y’. A
body canna get on aboot here wi’out he is a
guid thief, an’,” he added with emphasis as
he went oif, “a guid liar.”
Some days after this he accosted young
Tom Flinn on the road. He spoke affably
to the lad, and invited him to the house to
have a game with “Wee Donald.” lie
accepted. Wee Donald had been well in-
structed in his part, and reported, after Tom
had gone, that the Flinns were not short of
beef, though Tom didn’t know where they
got it; also they intended to kill the cow his
father bought from Jackson on the following
Saturday.
When Flinn rode out to get the cow she
was gone. He rode across to McNabb’s and
asked if lie had seen her anywhere. McNabb
hadn’t. But Flinn noticed McNabb’s two
dogs stretched out sleeping, and exhibiting
outward and visible signs of having recently
dined well.
As the men were talking about the de-
praved neighborhood they lived in and of
the amount of dishonesty in the world, a
pup came round the corner of the house
carrying the ear of a white cow.
“Ah wunner where yon pup got. that?”
said McNabb, simulating much surprise.
Flinn uttered a dry significant laugh, and
glowered at his neighbor under his shaggy
eyebrows.
“Gimme th’ hide, McNabb,” he said, “an’
we’ll be quits.”
PAUL CUPID.


V
WESTINCHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
C3
01
’
'oee that the next suite"'
you buy u upholstered in
—the perfect leather substitute.
" This is an exact replica of leather, with the same
grains and the same colourings. It has all the charm
of leather but costs only one quarter the price and is
better in every way. It wears better, does not crack or
peel and is unaffected by stains or grease, and is germ and
insect proof. It gives years of service and never gets
shabby, as it can be washed if soiled.
For all upholstering — furniture , motor ears, railway
carriages, etc. —it is the ideal material.
Ask to see samples.
Agents :
A. BUCKHAM & SON,
95 York Street, Sydney.
Sale Maker* : REXINE LTD., Hyde, nr. Manchester, England.
Makers of bags, suit cases, fancy goods, slippers, etc,,
and bookbinders who are using leather should
write at once for samples of JRexine. It
will effect a big s tring and give grioter
_ Ffs . satisfaction. <f>
\V
y
ARE YOU
UPTURE
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Jo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is hot only
OQMPORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS ? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE,
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is
in fact, THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what wo think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every .instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
The Medicine your
Grandparents used
Pills come and pills have gone for half a
century, but Carter’s Little Liver Pills
have all the time been giving health, strength
end happiness to millions.
Large pills and harsh pur-
gatives act violently on
liver and bowels ; this
old, gentle, sure con-
stipation remedy
cures without hurt-
ing. Good for y
old and young./'
Carters
BPITTLR I
I&P
Mas?®
th
Purely
Vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose — Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
/JzenP&Krcb
REM OIL
\7XDU could not make a better invest-
ment than in a bottle of Rem Oil. Or>e
drop judiciously applied to the wearing
surfaces of light machines will prolong
their usefulness and render them capable
of better service. Every household should
have a bottle of Rem Oil. For firearms it is
unexcelled, being at one and the same time a
lubricant, powder solvent and rust preventive.
Ask your dealer for further particulars or
send for special descriptive circular, a! o
complete catalogue of Remington UMC
Firearms and
Cartridges.
% ■?
k \
mMzmm
.REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
B-4 0- D. BRYANT, Austraiiaa Representative, Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
TAKE
warning when the following symptoms make their appearance : —bilious-
ness, acidity, constipation, depression of spirits, flatulence, declining
appetite, headache, loss of energy, restlessness at night and heaviness
during,the day. Generally speaking, these are indications that all is not
well with the digestive system. Take the necessary steps to remedy
matters. Before another day passes seek the assistance of
beecham's pills
which will speedily relieve these unpleasant feelings, generally due to
complications arising from a disordered stomach, and bring about a
radical change in the General Health. For many years this excellent
preparation has been universally acknowledged to be a first-class remedy
for digestive troubles. They improve the powers of nutrition and thus
enable the body to benefit to the full from the food taken. Anyone who
is at all troubled with ailments originating in derangement of the
stomach, liver and bowels is urgently advised to take Beecham’s Pills
AND MARK THE DIFFERENCE !
Sold in boxes, labelled price 10yd (36 pills), 1/1 (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There are no teeth like those furnished by Nature. lfor service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set. '
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by-
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” l/ r tube every-
where. Post free l/o. Free sample posted. ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
w-jßai
'ss£i : *%.'
%mmMWm
mm-;vwM
:>m
mm
S3L
The Tyre of Utmost Endurance
Built up strand by strand from finest material—from the
elemental rubber-enclosed fine cotton strands, to the three-
ribbed rough-road tread—every stage of a Palmer Cord Tyre
is built to endure, to give comfort, arid to cut out all that
tyre-heat which, in a canvas-lined tyre, • saps an additional
TEN PER CENT, of the engine’s power, and wastes TEN
PER CENT, of fuel.
Palmer’s Cord Tyres, for Light and Palmer Fabric Tyres for Motor
Heavy Motor Cars, Cycle Cars, Cycles, Cycles, and Autowheels
Motor Cycles, and Aeroplanes
THE PALMER TYRE, Ltd.
Chief Offices and Showrooms :
119/123, Shaftesbury Avenue, London, W.C. 2, England,
Enquiries for Cycle, Motor-cycle find Motor Tv res to
India Rubber, Gntta Percha and Telegraph Works to r.td
-78 George Street, Sydney; 21-23 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
£
D/6 <f>
9 9
10/-
each
Post Free
(Patented)
r, % «
10/-
each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
~~ r.s o
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of tho
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGPIE” FLOOR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS-—-
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .


The most Effective Belting
for ail your Drives is
iHANGROVITg
LEATHER
LTI
A power transmitter that is unequalled.
“MANGROVITE” RAWHIDE BELTING
will stand the strain under the most trying*
conditions. Made from the best, hides 'pro-
curable, and guaranteed supreme for service.
Mangrovite Belting' Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici), _
49 Wynyard Square (near C.P. o.),Sydney,N.S.W
Western Australia: Gibbs, Bright & Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adeiaide
: ■
__ jhtt
mimmmmhwgi
l'
9
wwn.
CIRCULAR SAWS
Manufactured from BEST SHEFFIELD
CRUCIBLE CASI'=STEEL PLATES.
12in. to 54in. usually kept in Stock.
dr
SAW SPINDLES
tin. to 3in. with Bearings and Fast and Loose Pulleys.
Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street,
Sydney.
204 Latrobe Street, Melbourne; Kalgoorlie and Fremantle, W.A.
1 harles Atkins & Co.j Adelaide. Faul & Gray Lt(l v Newcastle.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Defies Time's Touch*
THE USE OF
HARDIE’S
Fibrolite’ (Reg.)
CEMENT
The Australian
Asbestos Cement Sheets
hd
h
TRABf.II^K
reduces Insurance rates to 25%.- less than
those charged for wooden buildings.
“Fibrolite” is also Host-. Hot-, Whin-ant-
nnd Decay-proof.
Send for prices and samples.
James HardieS Co. Ltd.
“Asbestos House,”
Corner York and VVynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
Phone 845 G (4 lines).
581-3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at Brisbane and Adelaide.
INSIST
HAVING
1 1 . 1 =■ UH I H 11 t» IH : 11 1 1:1:
(blue label)
GSPITAL BRANDY
A
A
©
D
A
SPECIAL
Aged, Mellowed, Pot-stilled,
and Never Varies in Quality.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
HOSPITAL
TUCKER & CO. LIMITED
SYDNEY (Agents).
d
“Clayton” Portable Steam Engine.
rth
‘■star” Portable Oil Engine.
•‘Tangye” Portable Lampless
Oil Engine.
Dalgety’s Machinery Agencies comprise
TANCYE’S Lampless Oil Engines, Benzine Engines, Suction Gas Plants, Pumps of all types, etc.
CLAYTON Portable Steam Engines. WOLSELEY Sheep Shearing Machines. BUNCLEChaffcutters.
CANE Milking Machines. E.R.B. Separator Engines, Pumping Engines, Crutching Plants.
TRIUMPH Oil and Benzine Engines, Vertical Type. “STAR” Portable Oil Engines, etc.
MACHINERY DEPARTMENT-MILLER'S POINT, SYDNEY.
dfh
Triumph Oil or Benzine
Engine.
SS
m
i w
je|i
E.R.B. Separator
Engine.
Mm*
Buncle Travelling Chaffcutter.
fHj
SHEEP
C/)
2:
?
70
Install without delay.
The clip assured —the wool sold—order at once and avoid disappointment.
Full stocks now available
of complete plants and duplicate parts.
Terms for payment can be. arranged.
DALGETY (Sb CO. LTD.—Australasian Agents flll Branches.
d
4BJUSTADH
IN THESE DAYS of
KEEN COMPETITION
QuicK Changes of Feeds and Threads mean so much to the Shop
ox* Factory interested in Speed and the Redudion of Costs.
Can yon afford to he without Modern
High-speed Machine-Shop Equipment?
and insped, or write for Catalogue of our HIGH-SPEED
LATHES. They Have new and distinctive features designed
to sHow definite savings on your work.
PARKE LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
HEAVY OIL ENGINES
in Stock —
4,6, 8 B.H.P.
Also Rocß Breakers,
Rock Drills, Patent Tuyeres,
Concentrating' Tables,
Jigs, Screens & Mining Appliances,
Filters,
Valves for Steam and Air, etc.
KEYSTONE WELL BORERS.
KEYSTONE Portable STEAM SHOVELS.
We have in stock, Second Hand, guaranteed
in first=class condition,
One No. 4 Portable Keystone Driller, with
full equipment.
Prices and all particulars on application.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., Mining Engineers, 350 George Street, SYDNEY.
