

SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. <3r. WATKINS <SC 00-,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOK— , . . . ,
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
Advance
on all classes of
security
Bills Discounted
TELEPHONE* CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “DAILY TELEGRAPH” NEW BUILDING
And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTAGE BENNETT, General Manager
A Modern Sewage System
WHEREVER YOU LIVE
Don’t put up any more with one of the
greatest inconveniences of country life.
Homes, schools, hospitals—no matter
where situated—can now have city sew-
age conveniences and safety by installing
The Oxidising (Non-Septic)
Sewage Disposal System.
The Oxidising System is being installed
all ever the State —over 600 installations
have already been made. It has been
proved to effectually treat all Sewage
matter, and there is ABSOLUTELY NO
OFFENSIVE ODOR as with the septic
system. Inexpensive to instal, and first
cost the only cost.
We shall be glad to send you full
information.
Write for Free Book
and learn all about this great boon to
country residents.
Montgomerie-Neilson
Oxidising Sewage Disposal
BO Young Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 8976.
- *»
9lie
0
-fit.
'■6
NorxiNe
to Ancut
About!'
ft
****s 6 Bh c °
Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Ta
is recommended by numerous doctors as 1
highly nutritious and invigorating for
digestive organs.
HAN S E N’S
m
m
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablet* acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART,
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
MALTEOID
for bungalows and flat roofs.
Not the same as others
A superior roofing—more economical and lasts longest*
For all buildings and sheds it is the best that can be
procured, and will outlast any other roofing. It costs
less than half the price of galvatiised»iron, and does not
rot, rust or leak. Go into the matter for yourself.
Write for samples and illustrated booklet post free.
THE PARAFFINE COMPANIES INC. CF. M. Prince, Australasian Manager),
Challis House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L?
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road l\Hetal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron «& Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Arthur
Office,
SYDNEY.
<5 <3
MACHINERY.
CONVEYING, ELEVATING, SCREENING, MECHANICAL-HANDLING
and POWER-TRANSMITTING MACHINERY. ‘
Plans and Estimates gratis upon receipt of data.
QUEENSLAND ENQUIRIES to—
THE AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY COMPANY LTD., Mary Street, Brisbane
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER TUBES.
Solid Drawn Tubes —
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles- —
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
GILBERT LODGE & CO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
l-resnness to tne Moutn
■ M -
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 39.—N0. 1998.]
[Thursday, May 30, 1918.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as & Newspaper.


The Perfect Pen for all who Write!
In every profession there is a glad army of ONOTO
users. They know what a true friend the ONOTO Pen
is to all who write -how swiftly and smoothly it
glides over the paper all the time.
Do you realise the merits of this wonderful pen
which fills itself in a flash and cannot leak? If not, let
the pen itself convince you. Any dealer will let you
examine and try it.
Pen
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Manufacturers:
Thos, De La Rue & Co., Ltd,,
Buahill Row, London. B.C,
Managing Agents.-
Norman Baker & Lonehurst
Sydney.
i. ty
inwards, of all
stationers.
Jewellers
ft store x
m
Also ONOTO Valveless
for those who do not
want a Self-Filling: Safety
Pen froit !2/6 each
Ask for ONOTO INK—
Best for all Pens
UDSON'S EUMENTHOL
Tins I|6
iPMM
g.Hudson:
The Great Antiseptic
and Prophylactic.
Unlike cough medicines, “Eumenthoi*
Jujubes” do not interfere with the diges-
tion. On the contrary, they have a beneficial
effect, as their Antiseptic Properties prevent
abnormal fermentation of the food wheix
taken after meals.
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the
Prevention of Consumption.
Suitable for Young and Old. [3
The Red Page
SONNETS OF CIVILISATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I.
The old Earth lumbers on. Uncaring, she
Has Man's sloiv, staggering march to great-
ness known,
Has seen him —-from a grunting ape-thing
grown
To clouded knowledge of his destiny- —
liaise towered cities that musf ever be
By ruder tribes in triumph overthrown,
And seen on them, new civilisations sown
That effloresce and fade monotonously.
For Man the Earth has but a pitying scorn;
She knows that.after each experiment
lie will return to live with her again —
A. tribal farmer reaping scanty corn,
A hirsute hunter, happy in Ins den,
Who feasts and breeds and dies, and is con-
tent.
ii.
So many races lived, and left no trace
Save sonic strange skeleton —in strata deep
Close, to his Mother's heart he slept his sleep
Forgotten centimes in her embrace.
Of him we wonder vaguely for a space:
His (drawings on his cave-walls for us keep
Their eerie beauty, and with awe we peep
At the proud art of that long-vanished race.
The Neanderthal, that grim, gorilla-brute,
Who lorried, once the Earth ivith massive
• ! brain 1 -'— ■'
What slew this intellect as ours acute?
And the Crd-Magnon, man of mighty worth
Of mind and art —who closed his glorious
: reifjn?
Wh'at wiped this splendid giant from the
Earth?
if ■
id • III.
The endless struggle that Mankind has made
To, %ift itself a little from the ground!
TM ceaseless cycle, aye with failure crowned,
Fitym cave to city, till its glories fade,
TMt restless itch of Progress is allayed.
Aha Time smoothes down Man's temples. All
j I around
Lies lifeless-desert, and on it a mound —
Spoil for a later excavator's spade!
S6 kingdoms ripe and die; and Time goes on:
There is in some lone place a leaping birth.
On ruins' of a legendary past
A\young race rears stability at last!
domes swift catastrophe, and all is gone
Back to the comfort of old mother Earth!
, v iv.
Whuf is to Man this civilisation worth?
It is'a fever that affects Mankind,
An intermittent madness in his mind,
A festering scab upon the healthy Earth.
She looks upon it with a bitter mirth.
It is a torch that flares once in the wind,
Lighting a little space around, behind;
Then gutters out —yet in its death is birth.
i J
The Mother puts away the flimsy toys,
These broken empires that amused her boys;
Playtime is over, and they weary are.
She mothers them, and knows -when tired of
play
They come back to their cots at close of day;
Despite their dreams they will not wander
. far.
Y.
In angry-waves the hardy peoples dash
Upon the peaceful tribes; beneath the urge
Of crowded camps and hunger on they surge
■To deinquer, murder, rape, enslave and smash.
As predatory tribes with slothful clash
And fuse, a mighty kingdom will emerge;
The conquerors, a necessary scourge,
Uplift a civilisation ivith the lash!
The sated rulers to new luxuries turn,
Unguessed-at in their bitter hunting days;
flic armies of their slaves by duress stern
. or gettheir laziness, new labors learn;
1 On-bleeding backs they a new empire raise —•
And even they their barbarism spurn!
VI.
One moment Mankind rides the crested wave,
A moment glorious, beyond recall;
And then the wave, with slow and massive
fall,
Obliterates the beauty that it gave.
When discrowned king and manumitted slave
Are free and equal to be slaves of all,
Demdfiracies in their wide freedom brawl,
And go'down Shouting in a common grave.
ISo one by one the petals of the rose
Shrivel wnd fade, and all its splendor goes
Back to the Earth; and in her arms embraced
Through wintry centuries the dead seeds
sleep,
Till Spring comes troubling them, and they
nip-leap,
Once more their petals on the world to waste.
vii.
Now that this splendor that we took to build
So many toilsome centuries is torn
With' fratricidal hands, and lies forlorn
And desecrated, with mad faction filled.
Does not the widowed Earth, her fields un-
tilled.
Her budding lives from joy untimely shorn,
For these, her murdered children, gravely
mourn?
Is she unconscious of her millions killed?
Not o'er these hosts of broken dead she
grieves,
Nor mother-like for their stopped laughter
craves;
That rich manure she gratefully receives.
The autumn storm, that ruthlessly bereaves
The forests, lightly flings to unknown graves
A million million more of murdered leaves!
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Spookism
Charles A. Merrier, author of Spiritualism
and Sir Oliver Lodge (Mental Culture Enter-
prise, London, per Sydney Book Club), is a
scientific man with a keenly logical mind and
a sense of humor. “When I read the drivel
that is put into the mouths of dead men who
when alive were of normal intelligence I
began to suspect that the foundation upon
which this structure was built was insecure.”
He claims that he is supported by high medi-
cal authority in his conviction that the pur-
suit of spiritualism leads to a morbid frame
of mind, and tends to render those who are at
all predisposed to insanity an easy prey to
the disease. You can find people who get
messages from spirits and who receive occult
manifestations every hour of the day—in a
mental hospital.. Merrier notes the waste of
time, the emotional impressibility produced,
the carelessness of observation, the atmo-
sphere of credulity, the encouragement of
imposture, as a few of the reasons why this
subject should be investigated and its
methods exposed. He characterises Oliver
Lodge’s strenuous propagandism as unfair
and dangerous.
Always the occult has exercised a fascina-
tion for the human mind, especially at
periods of war when there is universal be-
reavement. But we are called upon to believe
Lodge and his spirits, not on the ground of
faith but .on the ground of reason. All
Mercier has to do, therefore, is to examine
the evidence. Mercier puts the blame for
this recent outbreak of occultism upon
Lodge’s reputation as a scientific man.
Lodge’s honesty is above suspicion; but is he
in a position to know, and does he in fact
know, the things to which he testifies? There
is a wide difference between a man who
works at scientific subjects and a scientific
man. Mercier proves that Lodge does not
possess the scientific habit of mind ; and gives
good reasons why we should not accept the
specialist in electricity as a specialist in
spooks. Mercier suggests that an expert'
conjurer would be a better witness of the
authenticity of many alleged mediumistic
manifestations. And “as long as the per-
formances of mediums are not more inex-
plicable than the performances of conjurers,
the mediums have no title whatever to
demand our belief that their performances
are supernatural.”
Lodge gives evidence in favor of liis hypo-
thesis of telepathy, but no proof; for an
hypothesis is not proved until the evidence
has been shown to be inconsistent with any
and every other hypothesis. In fact, Mercier
shows that the evidence in favor of witch-
craft was of a much more cogent character
than the evidence in favor of telepathy.
Mercier makes out a much better case for
witchcraft than Lodge does for his spooks.
Mediums to-day are not executed, but are
paid, for professing their craft; yet witches,
knowing that they would bring upon them-
selves an agonising death, freely confessed.
The belief in witchcraft was even more
widely held in the past than the present
belief in spiritualism; and Mercier neatly
shows that every argument in favor of the
existence of spirits applies even more forcibly
to the existence of witches.
Merrier subjects Lodge’s written evidence
to a mercilessly destructive cross-examina-
tion that will be conclusive to the unbiased
reader. Yet it seems that there is something-
in telepathy, though no proof has yet been
adduced that telepathy has anything what-
ever to do with the existence of spooks. As
Maeterlinck argues, the potentialities of the
subconscious brain are so enormous and as
yet so inadequately explored, that there is no
need to seek for spirits when all the occult
manifestations may be explained by the
powers of our subconscious brain. Con-
sciously or unconsciously the believers in
communications from the dead credit to
“spirits” the manifestations of their human
subliminal intelligence.
J*
Incidentally, this statement from Current
Opinion is given for what it is worth: Dr.
Crawford, lecturer on mechanical engineer-
ing at the municipal technical institute of
Belfast, lias conducted some remarkable ex-
periments. I)r. Crawford does not worry
about spiritualism : all lie is concerned with
is certain “psychical” phenomena. He has
subjected a case of “levitation” —the raising
of a ponderable body in the presence of a
medium in a manner which cannot be
accounted for by the known laws of science—
to a prolonged and methodical quantitative
examination. Prof.Wliately-Smith in London
World summarises Dr. Crawford’s results:
(1) A wooden table is raised to a height of one or
more feet from the ground, without being in contact
with any person or any other material object. This
result can be produced almost always on demand.
(2) When the table is thus “levitated” the weight
of the medium is increased by an amount practically
equal to the weight of the table.
(3) Experiment has forced Dr. Crawford to infer
the existence of a rigid structure connecting the
medium to the table —a structure invisible and im-
palpable; A thin rod can be passed freely between the
medium and the table during “levitation”—or all
round the table —without effect.
(4) The forces concerned are under intelligent con-
trol of some kind.
Prof. Whately-Smith testifies that lie has
himself witnessed the phenomena, and that
they are undoubtedly genuine.
Well, there it is. All this page asks is for
the experiment to be repeated in the presence
of Dr. Merrier. Or is there any medium in
Australia who can repeat that experiment
under proper supervision?
Norman Lindsay
Even in these days the pen, provided that
it is the pen of Norman Lindsay, is mightier
than the sword. For in this time of war,
with economic pressure ever more heavily
descending upon Australia, a publisher can
be found to publish, and editors to edit, The
Ten Drawings of Norman Lindsay (Angus
and Robertson,’ Sydney, 12s. 6d.). This
special number of Art in Australia, ably
edited by Sydney Ure Smith and Bertram
Stevens, is a complete and final tribute to
the genius of Norman Lindsay. It is also
his justification, if, in the ease of genius,
justification is needed. Here are beauty and
brilliance, imagination in its most daring-
flights, paganism rioting in its heady youth,
and a marvellous technical mastery of a
difficult art. Here is the whole artistic and
social development of the artist, who is
characteristically as Australian as he is his
own self, from his boyhood efforts through
his various phases of experience and experi-
ment, up to a point beyond which in sheer
achievement it seems impossible for him to
go. But with such a record behind him
there must be other vistas stretching for-
ward. Julian Ashton’s essay in this volume
is an excellent appreciation of the man; his
brother Lionel adds his criticism and eulogy
of the artist. The prodigality of Lindsay’s
genius is aptly expressed by Ashton: “For
nearly 20 years Norman Lindsay has poured
into the world a flood of drawings, political,
social and imaginative; illustrations to stan-
dard authors, paintings in oil and water-
color, lithographs, posters and humorous pen-
and-ink sketches. In the leisure moments of
this strenuous life he has modelled life-sized
nymphs pursued by satyrs, built beautiful
miniature models of ships, from the Greek
trireme to the old English line-of-battle ship,
with every spar, rope, and block in place.
Incidentally, he has written on many artis-
tic questions, published two or three books:
illustrated by himself, and is still at work ’
upon the manuscript of others.” Of his work
Ashton notes that it has already begun to
show more restraint, a larger and more tol-
erant vision, “together with a dawning con-
ception of the great role woman plays in
keeping fresh the ideals of civilisation.”
Also, “his red tie and paganism are gone.”
The reproductions are perfect; and the
feast of art herein provided is bounteous and
full of variety. Here are the pictures that
aroused the old antagonism of the public:
“The Crucified Venus,” “Pollice Verso,”
“Dionysus” and the rest; the mar-
vellous illustrations to Rabelais; bacchanals
and processions and bathers, the Tom O’Bed-
lam grotesques, the Villon series, with its
tremendous feat, the great composition, “The
Apotheosis of Villon,” and, finally, a mas-
terly illustration to a Leon Gellert poem.
On this tender and beautiful note, this grace-
ful and unchallenging beauty, Norman Lind-
say exquisitely ends. If this be his depar-
ture-point for new worMs to conquer, the
Norman Lindsay of the future will not
annoy the Wowsers quite as much as he
managed to do in the past. But with this
picture, as with many of the others, “it is
difficult to understand how pen-work can be
pushed further: —but, if it can, Norman Lind-
say is the man to do it.”
A limited de luxe edition, with extra
plates and each plate separately mounted,
will be issued at £3 3s.
Anzalian
IV. A. Osborne, Professor of Psychology at
Melbourne University, drops a ton ot bombs
upon Catholic Ireland in the curiously titled
What TFe Owe to Ireland (Lothian, Melb.).
He doubts whether outside Ireland there is
adequate recognition of the wide racial dis-
parity, the gulf that separates the Ulsterman
Protestant and the Catholic Irish. lie finds
that in business- enterprise, statesmanship,
administration, military and naval command,
achievement in science, letters, law, art and
music, by a comparison of the great names-
in each class, that, “the Irish Catholics rank
very low among the white races for their
contribution to civilisation,” And he claims
that the wrongs suffered by Ulster from Eng-
land are even more real than those suffered
by the rest of Ireland. A further compari-
son of the achievements of the Scotch-Irish
and the Catholic-Irish immigrants in the
United States upholds the author’s thesis.
He contends that “the accumulated evidence
forces one to the conclusion that the Irish
are an inferior race” ; and he suggests that
they are incapable of self-government. The
cause for this alleged inferiority W. A.
Osborne guardedly suggests in his concluding
paragraph. It is extremely doubtful whether
such a bomb should be hurled at this moment
upon any class or section of the Empire’s
inhabitants. The publication of this book
might conceivably result in a racial and reli-
gious bitterness 'that Australia does not, at
this or any juncture, desire to foment.
J*
Some Verse and Worse, by Ernest It.
Peate (Merredin ; Is.) ... . Well, we wouldn’t,
be rude enough to contradict the author.
Win. Martin, of Papatowai, Otago, M.L.,
apostrophises the uncomplaining ocean in A
Seaside Reverie. He gratuitously informs*
the ocean that:- ‘ - ’
Thy waters teemed with silent fish,
Incapable of thought, or wish....
Fish have no knowledge, thought, or share'
Of lands, so beautiful and near,
Or e’en suppose that life can be ...
Beyond the confines of the 5ea..../
Pathetic, isn’t it?
d* _
Chrystal Stirling has done an interesting
thing well. Taking “the ordinary eyeryday
letters” of a man who went to the war,' and
the letters of the wife, “watching and wait-
ing, and acting the brave soldier at home,”
the author of Soldiers Two (“Bookstall”
Series, Is.) has made of them a simple but
readable story. The letters of the somewhat
sentimental Billjim are full of quiet, graphic
touches; he sees the ordinary things 1 and
describes them in the ordinary way; but
the letters of his wife do not sound so real:
they are too literary.... and altogether too
much plot seems to happen in her home town.
As fiction, however, the little book is a
success, though similar letters must have;
passed between thousands of Billjims and
their wives. And the author, with a bee#
seise for a climax, does not shrink from the.
realistic touch of the final communication.
But why does the publisher allow on the.
novel’s cover a representation of Australian'
soldiers charging not in the Australian
slouch hats, which are the only wear over-
seas, but in the British field cap? There
are no Australian badges visible on the
uniforms, either.
• ■ "■
Owing to the abnormal price of paper in
England, the London publishers are looking
out for shorter novels. Before the war
novels ran to distressing lengths: the idea
probably was that the purchaser- insisted on
getting his money’s worth of yarn ; but now
the cost of printing and of paper compels
the publisher to set forth his fiction _in
shorter gasps. Australian novelists trying
the overseas market should not exceed GOiOOO’
words.
“George Hooligan”: It does not matter whether the'
copy on Red Page (14/3/’18) were epigrams, pro-
verbs, sentiments, phrases or aphorisms ; what’s -wrong;
with printing indigenous ones under the title of
Australianisms in a little booklet that would sell at:
6d. ? E. W. Cole arid Lothian have both issued sim-
ilar things of imported stuff which find a ready sale.
I understand Australian Nursery Rimes has been a
success. Australianisms should be a greater success.
My two kiddies look upon “Jika” as a warm personal
friend and rather envy her gastronomica! eccentrici-
ties. " ‘
“Arthur V.”: There’s as much human nature in
youngsters as in grown-ups, and perhaps more. The
blase young “ ’ope and worry of our lives” (2}>
remains quite indifferent to “Tinkle and
“Old Bob’s Canter” in Australian Nursery Rimes.
He yearns for the exciting and the incongruous. Con-
sequently the shocking end of the “Five Little Rab-
bits,” and Mrs. Possum’s headache, caused by-
Johnny Jackass’s ill-timed mirth, attract him most;
while the distressing fulness after meals of Billy
Bandicoot, and the wallaby who always jumped with-
out ever bumping his head, are always sure to gain
his attention. His daddy thinks the latter should
have been included in the book, and is sure that
another omission from the book, “Ten Little
Rabbits,” will- be first favorite with the “’Ope” in a
year or two. -
“Umfaan” belatedly submits “the epitaph of one
of the best Anzacs and finest gentleman it has ever
been my good luck to meet. I refer to Frane Carse,
one-time barrister of Melbourne. When one of
Franc’s batterv passed out, he would remark “He
was a terrible good bloke.” Greater enitaph no
Australian ever had than that. Franc himself passed
out at Bullecourt, loved by his xrieh, his brother
officers and his superiors, and no finer epitaph could
be written of that good Australian than His own
words, “He was' a terrible good blbke.”
“Umnti”: “Furnley Maurice” says Dennis’s slang.is
a bit old-fashioned now. Obviously, therefore, it suits
The Sentimental Bloke. He loved one woman and
was true to her ; quite a mid-Victorian kind of thing
to do in a book, and out-of-date in this decadent
age. It is not surprising then that at least a third'
of the words Dennis puts into his glossary are to bp>
found in The Slany Dictionary (Chatto and Windus,.
New Edition, 1891, but originally written in 1858)..
A good many more of them will also be familiar ta
those who know the various slang words common in
London in the eighties and nineties of last century.


iin.iimuuurM
v 5?
s
ft
r*
m
i in'
512
IT-li
Smart WINTER COATS
at Anthony Horderns’.
m
HE Smart Winter Coats illus-
trated in this announcement
reflect in every detail the
season’s accepted modes.
They are distinctly cosy, warmth-giving
garments, well made and finished from
materials that will give good service. In
these days of national as well as indivi-
dual economy, discriminating buyers look
for the acme of value. Here is value
that overshadows competition.
No. l4ll.—Becoming Coat of Black Sealette, seven-eighth length, the
large shoulder Collar and Revers may be worn quite close to throat,
all-round belt at waist, lined throughout .. .. .. £5/5/-
Similar styles, No. 151, in superior-quality Sealette, £6/6/- and £7/12/6
No. 512.—Smart Coat, of Black Pony Cloth, full-flared shape, wide inset
sleeves with cuff, collar may be worn high as illustration, or open
Revers, lined throughout .. .. .. .. •• •• 99/6
Similar styles 79/6, 95/-, £5/5/-, £6/19/6
No. 276.—Warm Winter Coat, of soft All-wool Blanket Frieze, Sac back,
loosely eased into strap, the front belt extends from shaped empiecement
at sides, new large collar; in Dark Heather shades .. .. 77/6
Similar style, No. 630, with all-round belt; in Medium Grey shade
only 52/6
No. 936.—Very Useful Covert Coating Coat, seven-eighth length, with
new Roll Collar, shaped pockets and ribbed belt at waist; Fawn or
Reseda shades . . .. • • • • • • • • • • 59/6
Similar style, No. 148, with Fur Collar .. .. •• •• 67/6
No. 183.—Cosy Tweed Coat, seven-eighth length, fancy patch pockets, and
belt at waist; the shoulder collar buttons close to throat, giving muffler
effect ; Dark Brown Heather shades only .. .. •• 45/6
No. 235.—Up-to-date Coat, of All-wool Blanket Cloth, generous cut,
with large Cape Collar and Revers, fancy pockets, smart belt at waist
fastening with new Tortoise-shell Buckle; in warm shades of Mole,
Nigger, Wine, Saxe or Black .. .. •• £5/19/6
Similar style, No. 533, with sash at waist .. .. .. £5/12/6
No. 325. —Striking Coat of Soft Blanket Cloth, with handsome Fur
Collar, shaped patch pockets, belt at waist; in Dark Brown Heather
shades .. • • •• •• •• •• •• •• £6/9/6
<L\
,fr;
ki)
i
as
w
to
MSU
X
■#
■v
m
r\
76
-----
■3>
SK
183
\\#
DC
if
35
MMa
32.5
Anthony Hordern 8 Sons Ltd.
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emoorium,
Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m
*
;
m
m
m
A DA MAX
ft
♦
7
m
®§i
.
m
• • .
m
' [g
lhSSi
m.
m
m
The Big Jobs are the Real
Test in Roofing.
N contracts on which many thousands of pounds are
expended the choice of the roofing is not made oil a
low cost basis alone, and the fact that “ADAMAX”
ASPHALTUM ROOFING costs less per year of service
than any other permanent roofing would go for very little corn-
pared with the fact that it is the best roofing to be had regard-
less of price.
Convincing proof of the superiority of “Adamax” is shown by its
use on the following large buildings.
Leeton Canning Factories, 20,000 sq. yds.
West Australian Govt. Freezing Works, 13,200 sq. yds.
South Australian Wheat Board Building, 44,000 sq. yds.
Commonwealth Govt. Buildings, 22,000 sq. yds.
“Adamax” also secured the N.S.W. Govt. Railways Con.
tract year 1917-1918, and again 1918-1919.
mss
I
M
Roofing
m
I
“ADAMAX” is One-third the price of Iron,
and Railage is One-third that of Iron.
“ Adamax ” doos not affect drinking water, and does not
sweat, and is 12 to 14 degrees cooler than Iron. “ Adamax”
is supplied in rolls 72 feet long by 3 feet wide, and in three
thicknesses—l, 2 and 3 ply.
Consider these facts before deciding on the roofing for any
structure. Send for Free Booklet, samples and prices.
Obtainable from District Agent, or direct from
William Adams«C!l;
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
PFRTH : 33 King Street.
BRISBANE: Cor. Edward & Mary Streets.
ADELAIDE : 96 Currie Street.
ma


IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Mellin’s
Food
Messrs. Mellin’s Food Ltd., London, desire
to inform the public that, in consequence of
Government prohibition and difficulties of
export from the United Kingdom, they have
made complete arrangements with their
American branch factory for a continuance
of shipments of Mellin’s Food to Australia.
Mellin’s Food as manufactured in America
is of the same standard composition and
quality, is prepared from the same formula,
and is in every way identical with the English
article.
Stocks of American-manufactured Mellin’s
Food have reached Australia, and Dealers and
the Public can now be assured of adequate
supplies.
All enquiries and requests for samples and
literature to
COLLIN g CO. PTY. LTD.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane
He’s worthy of
the very best
Your boy at the Front needs
Cigarettes to smoke every day.
Are you keeping him regularly
supplied? If not, send him
some “De Reszke” Cigar-
ettes— he’s worthy of the very
best Buy them yourself. Post
the parcel with your own
hands. Then you know they
are bound to reach him safely.
Sold Everywhere
Js
mmm
WMBM
go^f
“ BEST FOR
ARCHITECTS,
ARTISTS,
DRAUGHTSMEN, ENGINEERS,
And Everybody’s Pencil Purpose.
Sold by High-class Stationers.
tiquaperia
(HARROCATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents'. —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
Used the
World Over
MOTOR
...CARS
CELEBRATED
&
im
ss
The Rapid Cure for Corns.
Corns Positively Cured
by the use of a remedy so well known that it
has become a, household word for the removal
of Corns old and young—hard or soft, and
that remedy is ACORN SILK, which
removes the worst corn in a few days, and
the sufferer is free from pain. It is a certain
cure —it kills them. It is a painless cure —
you don’t feel them going. It is a speedy cure
—four or five days does it. It is a handy cure
—no trouble, no preparation, no mess.
Sold in packets, 6d. each, or posted
direct by sending 7d. in stamps to the following,
viz:—
Duerdin & Sainsbury, Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
K. W. Bradley, Worando Building's, Adelaide.
T. L. Seef, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
Druggists’ Sundries Ltd., Market Street, Sydney.
L. Susman & Co., Merchants, Hobart. [1
The Colonial Bank of Australasia Limited.
THE FIFTIETH REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
of
THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Fiftieth Ordinary General Meeting, to be held at the Bank,
126 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, at noon on Tuesday, 30th April, 1918.
The Directors beg to submit to the Shareholders their Fiftieth lleport, With a Balance-Sheet and State-
ment of Profit and Loss for the half-year ended 31st March, 1918, duly audited.
After providing for Expenses of Management, Bonus to Staff, Interest Accrued on Deposits, Kebate on
Bills Current, Tax on Note Circulation, income Taxes and Land Taxes, and making provision for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, the net profit amounted to . . .. .. .. .. .. .. £28,251 16 2
Brought forward from 30th September, 1917 .. .. .. .. .. 7*584 11 9
w £35,836 7 11
Your Directors propose to pay out of the half-yearly profits the following dividend:—
On Preference Shares at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum . . . . . . . . £10,641 10 9
On Ordinary Shares at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum .. . . . . . . 4,733 5 6
The balance of the half-year’s profits they recommend to be applied as follows:
To Reserve Fund (making it £300,000) .. .. ..' ~ .. 10,000 0 0
To Officers’ Provident Fund .. .. j. . t .. .. .. . . 1,000 0 0
To increase amount at credit of Profit and Loss account by £1876/19/11,
making it • 9,461 11 8
£35,836 7 11
The dividend will be payable at the head office on and after the Ist May, and at the branches on
receipt of advice.
The fiftieth ordinary general meeting of shareholders will be held at the head office of the Company,
126 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, on Tuesday, the 30th day of April. 1918, at noon.
By order of the Board,
J. WILSON,
Melbourne. 16th April. 1918. General Manager.
Melbourne, 16th April, 1918.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE COLONIAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
At 31st March, 1918.
( Including London Office at 4 th February, 1918.)
I
Dr.
To Capital paid up, viz:—
31,184 preference
shares paid in
cash to £9/15/-
per share .. £304,044 0 0
77,278 ordinary
shares of £4/5/-
eaeh, paid in
cash to £l/15/-
per share .. 135.230 10 0
£439,280 10 0
Reserve fund . . 300,000 0 0
Profit and loss.. 25,830 7 11
£705,110 17 11
Notes in circulation . . . . 18,092 0 0
Bills in circulation .. .. 208,448 9 9
Government de-
posits Not
bearing interest,
£BB,llB/17/8 ;
bearing interest,
£563,090/4/'8 651,209 2 4
Other deposits, re-
bate and interest
accrued Not
bearing interest,
£2,035,562/10/2 ;
bearing interest,
£2,077,087/8/10 4,112,609 19 0
£4,763,879 1 4
£5,755,536 9 (
Contingent liabilities, as per
contra .. ..£263,071 19 6
Cr.
By Coin, bullion,
Australian notes,
cash at bankers,
and money at
call in London £1,343,612 0 1
British Treasury
bills, £148,687
10/-; British war
loan debentures,
£135,895/9/3 ;
Commonwealth of
Australia war
loan debentures,
Victoria Govern-
ment stock and
debentures and
municipal deben-
tures, £168,606
9/6 .. .. 452,689 8 9
Bills and remit-
tances in tran-
situ and in Lon-
don .. .. 348,861 16 0
Notes and bills
of other banks 2,006 0 0
Balances due from
other banks . . 40,979 5 0
Stamps .. 1,418 12 5
—£2,189,567 2 3
Real estate consisting of—
Bank premises .. . . .. 188,610 9 1
Other real estate . . . . . . 7,520 0 0
Bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision for
bad or doubtful debts . . . . 3,369,838 17 8
£5,755,536 9 0
Liabilities of customers and others
in respect of contingent lia-
bilities, as per contra —
£263,071 19 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
For the Half-year ended 31st March, 1918.
To Current expenses (including sala-
ries, bonus to staff, rents, re-
pairs, stationery, taxes, &c.) .. £44,537
Transfer to reserve fund .. 10,000
Balance .. .. .. .. 25,836
7 9
0 0
7 11
£80,373 15 8
By Balance brought for-
ward from 30th Sep-
tember, 1917 . . £23,959 8 0
Less dividend paid
for half-vear ended
30th September, 1917,
£15,374/16/3 ; less
amount transferred
to officers’ provident
fund, £lOOO .. 16,374 16 3
—— £7,584 11 9
Gross profits for the half-year, after
allowing for interest accrued on
deposits, rebate on bills current,
and making provision for bad and
doubtful debts . . .. . . 72,789 3 11
£80,373 15 8
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
. . £300,000 0 0
By Balance brought forward
Transfer from profit and loss
..£290,000 0 0
10,000 0 0
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
m
BV
APPOINTMENT
©
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
m
\WX/7
\
c JiNDLES
\ h'
For all Climes
AND ALL TIMES.
PRICE’S PATENT CANDLE CO LT?
London. Liverpool'
Manchester.glasgow.'
m
VORIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Tower of Vision.
The caravansary of futile days
Has windows opening on a dull grey sea,
Wrapped morn and evening in a sunless
haze,
Where no ship comes and never breeze is
free.
The twisted trees, set stiff by line and rule,
Lifce bearded ancients stand beside the gate,
Where the long roads agafnst the heart-
strings pull,
Grey, endless, straight as doom, and deso-
late.
In at dull doors the solemn people go,
Out from sad rooms the dreary people come
To watch the everlasting ebb and flow
Of landward dust and waters that are dumb.
Up the broad, faded stairs the people pass,
Down the brown corridors on listless feet;
And, like the arabesques on beaten brass,
The worms a pattern in the wainscot eat.
Three heavy flights to reach the upper floor,
And find the weary chambers of no rest —
But, curtained deep, there is a little door
In the wide wall that shuts away the west.
And I have found the key that fits the lock,
Cross-hilted like a dagger, and so old
It seems the wards of later days to mock
With some remembrance of an Age of Gold.
The door is all of yellow ivory;
And as it turns upon a noiseless hinge,
I find a twisted stair of wizardry
All dragon-wrought about its climbing fringe.
Mounting, the rust is crisp beneath my feet;
A bat wheels startled wings above my head;
And through the darkness creeps a murmur
sweet
Of God’s clean air that in the house lay
dead.
Pull back the brazen shutter —Ip, the sky!
The sea and sky and a wide, purple land !
A glory and a wonder and the cry
Of happy birds that soar and understand.
Oh, little turret, I will linger here
With all that was that I may truly see
Above the withered house of day and year
Truth echo back the thing that yet shall be.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WEIGHT.
A Garden.
A goldfinch from the new-leaved pear-tree
trills
A hymn of ecstasy; a brown bee goes
Droning his way along the honeyed rows,
Gold spangled with the pollen that he spills.
When all my being with this sweetness fills
I lift eyes sated with a flaming rose
To where Ben Lomond crowns with gleam-
ing snows
The purple panorama of the hills.
Then such a subtle gladness fills my soul —
Forgotten the grey spectre of regret,
The broken dreams, the grinning ghosts of
pain,
Those quests forlorn that failed to reach a
goal—
That for a fleeting moment I forget
That I shall never, never walk again.
TASMANIA.
H. W. STEWART.
Twenty-eight.
Twenty-eight! Twenty-eight! All the clocks
are out of date,
But I hear the chime of little things that I
have left top late.
Time’s a tyrant, Life’s a fool, things have
somehow gone amiss;
There’s another little glass to drink, another
girl to kiss;
I'm not ready for the audit when the debit
looks like this.
Twenty-eight! Twenty-eight!
Won’t you have a heart and wait
For a fellow who’s been drowsing till he’s
nearing twenty-eight?
Twenty-eight! Twenty-eight! There’s a
clamor that I hate
From the little things neglected, and I know
it’s getting late.
Little voices raised in chorus make a devil
of a row —
Have you heard about my book of verses
(underneath the brow),
And the stories and the plays I’ve not written
yet? I vow,
Twenty-eight! Twenty-eight!
You are most unfortunate ;
Pleasd' remember that I didn’t see you com-
ing, Twenty-eight!
Twenty-eight! Twenty-eight! I’m a pencil,
Life’s a slate;
I’ve been scratching silly figures at an easy-
going rate.
They are smudged and crooked numbers,
some are furtive, small, unseen ;
There are others written bolder than I’d
like them to have been.
But it really doesn’t matter, for you won’t
know what they mean.
Twenty-eight! Twenty-eight!
Hurry up and clean the slate,
And we’ll start another series—will you help
me, Twenty-eight?
Twenty-eight! Twenty-eight! Though you
think me reprobate,
Won’t you come and make a year of it, and
let us celebrate?
Time’s a tyrant Life’s a fool, all the world
may go amiss,
But there’s still another glass or two, and
maidens like a kiss.
When you come to make the audit will you
please allow for this,
Twenty-eight! Twenty-eight!
Since your middle name is Fate,-
You may want to take me with you when
you’re going, Twenty-eight.
N.S.W.
HUGO KNAPP.


Perdriau Tyres
for fine performance.
THE PERDRIAU SUPER TREAD
mm
a
G
O
%
rm
ii.puiujni
Sdjfil OUIO/J
, dm dadyj'
< r—"7
5a
is a recent further improvement of the Perdriau Tyre.
Its remarkable mileage results have made it the
subject of favorable comment throughout motoring
circles.
Obtainable through your local garage or from the manufacturers —
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.,
George Streets Sydney.
Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Gawler Place, Adelaide .
©
mm
The Danger of Neglected Rupture
The unwisdom of neglect cannot be too strongly-
emphasised in the case of rupture—no matter how
slight.
It only means the certain aggravation of the trouble
with ultimate grave results.
THE DENYER ELASTIC TRUSS
The Truss that’s different—has no irritating, chafing, hard, steel bands, and removes
every excuse for neglect.
It gives perfect support and safety, with absolute comfort.
PRICE: 20/- SINGLE, 27/6 DOUBLE.
Write now for Free Truss Pamphlet in sealed envelope. Don’t delay, for your
own sake.
AITAfVirD DDAC Makers of Trusses, Abdominal
HErn 1 Erf\ DI\U>J., Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
Round Australia with Rex Goods
<r
7
S St
I
fig
.--
u
The Balancino Rock
Between Chillaooe6Munoana. c
m
m
m
m
m
Sight-Seeing
Requires Energy
to be thoroughly enjoyed. From a
vantage point near the Balancing
Rock, a fine panoramic view of the
surrounding country and the huge
mines is obtained, but only after a hard climb.
However, the lost energy is quickly restored by
tising lunch of sandwiches of
Luncheon
The piquant, mellow flavor of “Rex" Luncheon Cheese
makes it superior to all other brands and the perfect way in
which it is matured gives it valuable digestive properties.
“Rex” Cheese spreads easily and always opens up in per-
fect condition, it also keeps well when opened.
Order a tin to-day and try it. Sold by Grocers everywhere,
refuse proffered “just-as-goods."
“Rex” Ham Pate and “Rex” Veal &
Tongue Pate,
are two finely-minced
wich fillings. Try them
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pare Food Products,
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J. 231
THEY COPY THE
COLOR, BUT-
/ v
©
BLACK
GOODRICH
FULL-SIZE
BLACK SAFETY
TREAD TYRES,
GOODRICH First Made the
White Tread Tyres which the
leading Tyre Manufacturers imi-
tated.
GOODRICH then improved their
Tyre by making
THE BLACK TREAD.
Other Manufacturers AGAIN fol-
lowed Goodrich* Lead.
But — COLOR ALONE does
not mean Long - service.
o
The value of the GOODRICH
BLACK TREAD" does not lie
in its Color but in its composition.
Don’t Be Misled by the Color —
Insist on Having GOODRICH BLACK TREADS.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St., 13 Castlereagh St., 300 Adelaide St.,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 39.—N0. 1998.
Til U USD AY, MAY 30, 1918.
Pbige 6d.
"I WILL AVENGE!”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A «iVEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent reyutarly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
rejused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal. Social or other Articles, Verse, Short 'Titles or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. AIL communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. tvhen
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. , When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
toivn, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., 441 Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 163 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt.— Ignace Horn, Port Said, - Egypt; M.
,Iloung, Cairo, Egypt.
Ho’no Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Ilong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 24 d.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, 4<>z., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
tZld&Ti.
THURSDAY, MAY 30, 1918.
WHY AUSTRALIANS WILL HAVE TO
ROLL UP THEIR SLEEVES.
Millions are talked about these times like
tuppences. But behind the vague talk there
is definite meaning, and in the House of
Reps, the other day Treasurer Watt pro-
duced a mass of figures to explain what the
Australian citizen has to grapple with.
According to this arithmetic the position at
the end of April was a Commonwealth debt
made up thus :—•
War loans .. £197,507,169
Other loans .. 28,511,068
£226,018,237
This the Treasurer explained was, “from
one point of view,” the total indebtedness of
the Commonwealth. Whose point of view is
of no importance. That sum does not repre-
sent the debt to-day, and is a long way short
of the debt in sight. There are commit-
ments which have compelled the Ministry to
ask for authority to borrow an additional
£98,000,000; there is an unpaid account due
to the British War Office of £33,550,000;
also there is £10,789,738 owing to the States
for transferred property. These sums added
to the other lot make a total of £368,357,975.
Part of this is accounted for by advances to
the States; but the Commonwealth net debt
already contracted and in the making is not
less than £330,000,000, with an annual
charge in . the immediate future of
£16,500,000. And the war is still raging.
Demobilisation of the army will be a long
and costly business. Hence there will, unless
a miracle happens, have to be more borrow-
ing even after the current authorities are
exhausted. A Commonwealth debt of
£400,000,000 is practically certain—of
£500,000,000 not improbable. Meanwhile an
interest bill of £16,500,000 a year is on the
horizon.
* * * *
That, of course, is only part of the story,
The State debts in June last were
£375.000,000. Now they are over
£380,000,000, and the interest bill is
£15,000,000. So between them all the Com-
monwealth and States have the prospect of
paying £31,500,000 a year on the basis of
obligations already and about to be con-
tracted ; and it will be substantially more
when the basis is altered, as it inevitably
must be through conversions. It is a big
sum this, yet not beyond the capacity of Aus-
tralia to provide. -But it is morally certain
that the providing will have to be done upon
lines verv different from those that have
been hitherto followed. The taxation im-
posed to meet the older debt could be easily 7
borne so long as additional millions were
raised and tossed about. The practical
meaning of that performance was that the
country was borrowing to pay the cost of
previous borrowing. But a doubling of taxa-
tion under conditions which necessitate pay-
ments from legitimate earnings means some-
thing quite different; and that is why, unless
production in Australia is greatly increased
and the lunacy of the imported commodity
repressed (one thing means the same as the
hther), and a, substitute found for the pre-
vailing extravagance in government and ad-
ministration, the debt is eoing to be worse
than a permanent plague of mice and locusts.
In the year before the war Australia
imported goods valued at £70.749,653. r lne
exports were worth £78,571,709. With the
new debt to carry, the Commonwealth can
no more hope to do that sort of thing and
avoid disaster than it can hope to hear of
Hughes having restored the situation by
413 impassioned addresses about an egg-
laying competition at Warwick.
* * * #
It was casually mentioned by Watt that
during the next few years the States would
have to “meet or convert” the promissory-
note issued in the long ago for very substan-
tial sums. The idea that Cgiien will be met
on the doorstep by the local Treasurer, who
will pour several millions of gold into the
money-lender’s wallet in exchange for the
old lOU, is not worth bothering about. The
States will have to turn the old lOU into a
new one, and do it on the terms of the other
party instead of on their own. What these
terms will be is something more than a
matter' of academic interest; they will have a
verv real effect upon taxation and upon what
the Treasurer calls the “true national debt.”
Every fractional increase in the percentage
of interest pa/üble upon non-revenue-earping
debt must obviously discount the value to
the taxpayer of that portion of the aggre-
gate debt which allegedly provides its own
charges. During the current year N. S.
Wales has a loan of £12,649,318 falling due
in London, and lately made arrangements to
pass on the bill. The interest payable was
at the rate of 3| per cent. The renewal is
at 5f per cent., and charges bring the actual
rate to 6 per cent. Thus, instead of the
State having to find £448,000 every year, it
will have to find £758,900. The net effect
is to increase the burden of the £12,649,318,
spent when the sky was clear, to a borrowing
of £21,683,000 at the original rate. This
only requires to be done a few times to make
a vast difference in the burden of debt. Now,
that something or other equally or more dis-
mal will have to be done in a large way
before the nation is much older is practi-
cally certain. In succeeding financial years
State debts fall due as follows: —
1016 .. £17,536,87.3
1920 . . 16,677,340
1921 . . 15,607,629
1922 .. 14,233,722
1923 .. 14,573,078
1924 . 32,828,187
-Total ..£111,456,829
Of this total £72,000,000 is redeemable in
London, the balance in Australia. The in-
terest payable thereon ranges from Si to
4 per cent. The annual interest bill is about
£4,180,000. If the loans are renewed on no
better terms than 6 per cent., the bill will
run up to £6,687,000. The Treasurer tells us
that most of the State’s indebtedness will
pay its own interest. But it is no good
juggling with figures, and no use blinking
the fact that works which paid 3i p.c. will
in future be required to pay probably 6 p.c.
if they are to be self-supporting.
* * * *
The Bulletin has no irremovable
opinion about the state of mind the British
lender will be in after the war, but it has a
dreadful suspicion that the borrower who
happens along with a p.n. for renewal at the
old-time rates is going to be received with
cold disfavor for many- years to come.
Wherefore this paper looks with alarm, not
so much upon the possibilities incidental to
these renewal operations, as upon the con-
tinued reckless piling up of the bill by
current additions-to the public debt. Watt
asks that the problem of the numerous
national blisters should be approached in “a
spirit of sobriety.” Any change from the
spirit of hilarity in which millions have been
and are still being added to the national
burden would be as welcome as rain in time
of drought. But whether people who with
the stupendous difficulties presented by these
debts ahead of them persist in still running
14 Houses of Parliament and maintaining
seven Cocked Hats and borrowing to keep
alive the old institution of Boom and Bloat,
are anywhere near sober is another matter.
It is no use anybody, Treasurer or other-
wise, talking in a large, loose manner about
not being concerned about the financial situ-
ation. They ought to be concerned about it.
Politicians, at any rarte, are where they are
for that purpose; and unless they soon begin
to patch up some of the leaks and get down
to the bedrock question of production in Aus-
tralia, the sooner they are tossed out to be
vaguely eloquent somewhere else the better.
THE RED FLAG.
“The Melbourne Trades Hall has decided that in
future the red flag shall be flown from the hall, in
addition to the Australian flag, in celebration of all
Labor events.”
So “Labor events” will have cause to be
proud of themselves in future with the
garish, foreign emblem of anarchy, excite-
ment and mixed disturbance floating in their
honor. The red flag is' the symbol of the
sort of faith held by Communards and Bol-
sheviks and other breakers-and-smashers. It
doesn’t stand for any constructive policy—
at least those who carried it never got so
far as successful construction except the
building of babel and chaos. It has been
the sign that the old things, good or bad,
were to be dragged down, even if there were
no new things to be put in their place. In
regions where the arm of the oppressor is
long and the hand of the oppressor is heavy
excuse may be found ; but it is difficult to
find it in a land like Australia, where public
affairs are run by the whole adult popula-
tion on an equal basis. In the first case the
rag of the bull-frightening color represents
the protest of the excluded majority, against
the control of the privileged minority. In
the second case, which is our case, it repre-
sents the rising, or the proposed rising, of
a soured or disappointed or wildly ambitious
minority, trying to snatch the power from
the popular majority. There is no engine
of tyranny hereabouts to be wiped out by
upheaval save the majority, and there is
nobody to upheave against the engine save
the minority. The only thing that can be
abolished, if society is to be re-organised
and there is to be a new heaven and a new
earth, is the rule of all the people expressed
in the best way that all the people know
how. The alternative implement is the rule
of some of the people, who may, by force
and froth and loud denunciation and abun-
dant promises and pretensions, make up for
lack of numbers. The red flag here is the
banner of the proposed oligarchy. A section
of Labor leaders or Labor spokesmen lias
been drifting of late towards theoretical in-
surrection. The official hoisting of the sign
of chronic rebellion and combustion sug-
gests hope of turning the theory into prac-
tice.
* # # *
Some of the literature circulated in the
name of Labor these days is strangely and
wonderfully like the literature which the
Hun Government’s stipendiary traitors have
been disseminating in France, Italy, the
United States and elsewhere. It is emi-
nently “pacifist.” It sets forth that a deci-
sive victory over the Hun is impossible, and
thus pours the water of despair on that
enthusiasm which leads to victory. It is
against “conscription,” and gives a mild
approval or no approval at all to voluntary
effort. It teaches “defence” only in the
sense that any heroic effort should bq post-
poned , till the Hun is right here, which
means postponement till our Allies are licked
and we stand, or rather fall, alone. It clam-
ors for “negotiation,” thereby persistently
assuming in defiance of the past and the
present that the Hun is the good sort of
fellow whose word can be relied upon and
whose negotiations are as honest as the
average. If Germany doesn’t pay for the
encouragement of that view it can only be
because some people are willing to work
gratis provided the cause is bad enough.
There is a persistent demand that the
blessed Hun shall not be weakened by the
exaction of an indemnity; that his tender
feelings shall not be humiliated; that he
shall be allowed to get. out of his own dis-
honorable “war of frightfulness” with honor
if he is willing to go out; that he shall get
his chance in haste before the great inflow
of United States reinforcements blights his
hopes; and that he shall be left in good
order and condition to start afresh when
there are fewer reinforcements about.
* * * *
One strenuous pacifist, Wallace, M.H.R.,
struck a very decorative note the other day
by stating that “while he held no brief for
the German,” yet “all Governments seem
much the same in their treatment of the
under-dog.” If that meant anything it must
have meant that Britain and the United
States and France treat their possessions,
such as South Africa, India, the Philippines,
Papua (and possibly Australia) just as the
Huns treat Belgium and Serbia and Rou-
mania and Poland, and that v T e have the
same desperate need to defend our hearths
to the last gasp with gun and steel against
the Senate and the House of Reps, as the
most down-trodden of them all. In other
words the Ilun is ns good and merciful and
unaggressive as the best of the Allies, and
he wrnuld be as good a master here as the
next person. The holding of a brief for the
world’s butcher could hardly go farther. The
pacifist crowd with the blood-colored ori-
flamme always seems to have that sort of
document sticking out of its pocket. It is
among other things a persistent dealer in
foreign grievances as well as foreign revolu-
tionary literature and ideals. It can wal-
lop itself and its audiences to fury about the
old woes of Russian peasants under a dead
and gone regime, until it almost creates a
conviction that hordes of Grand Dukes are
pouring into our cities, and that unless the
ballot-box is upset and the popularly-elected
Legislature and the Public Service and the
Treasury are chased into the bush we will
inevitably perish beneath the heel of the
despot—name of despot unknown. It is in
regular communication with feoreign red-
flaggers who are willing to help us keep an
eye on the despot. And when it heard that
two plausible scoundrels, each trading under
a false name and both strongly suspected of
being Hun agents, had captained a great up-
roar and filled Russia with pillage, arson,
murder, hunger, misery, disease and chaos,,
and abandoned its best provinces to Hun’
militarists, it wanted at once to send an
agent to Russia to report how things are
done.
What kind of system the minority leaders
would supply if they obtained control of this
ballotbox-ridden country is a matter of con-
jecture. They are fairly good at stopping
the wheels of industry. They can hang a
large grievance on a small peg. They live
in constant cheerful disregard of the indus-
trial laws which were passed by the down-
trodden people for their own down-treading.
They give heed to industrial awards when
so inclined and not otherwise. They pro-
pound off-hand theories about “taking” the
control of one thing and another —the fixing
of prices, the reduction of working time to
five days per week, or the management of
big and intricate financial problems—“out
of the hands” of the “politicians” who are
the miserable, ignorant, despised Legislature,
which is, in its turn, the embodiment of the
miserable ignorant despised nation, and
putting matters generally in direct charge
of “the workers.” The minority leaders
have apparently no use for the nation. They
prance on the verge of a paper insurrection,
which may become some sort of flesh and
blood insurrection if the red flag is flapped
hard enough. And under the new order of
things, whatever it may be, the “diabolical”
conspiracy which, according to an official
Labor declaration, Holman and his party-
had devised for reducing the public to star-
vation, will be exposed and frustrated ; and
the scheme, also officially mentioned but not
explained, for raising abundant loans with-
out interest, will get to work; and peaceful
pro-Hun literature will be abundant; and
every Grand Duke or Irish landlord who is
found oppressing the peasantry in Collins-
street or along Circular Quay will be ex-
pelled or worse.
* * * *
Yet amid all these prospects there is time
to feel sorry for the Australian standard.
It has something of a record. It is the
banner of a whole continent, and that con-
tinent stands for one race (barring Bol-
sheviks and other imported sundries), one
speech and one Government —and no stan-
dard ever stood for such things before. It
was devised to represent a white race which
was pledged to remain white even if the
“universal brotherhood of man” was busted
up in the process, and a Parliament which
never admitted political privilege in any
shape or form. If it isn’t good enough for
Melbourne Trades Hall without the cosmo-
politan rag of upheaval to keep it company
on high days and holidays, then Melbourne
Trades Hall might wisely take it dowm, and
fold it reverently away to wait for better
times and better society.
TIME AS A MUNITION OF WAR.
Of all things that you can throw at an
enemy there is nothing that will do him
more damage than a piece of well-directed
time. It was the knowledge of this that
gave the Germans their tremendous advan-
tage at the beginning of the war; while the
Allies’ failure to realise it has accounted for
most of their reverses. The Germans began
the war somewhere about 1872; if Britain
had started it even in July, 1914, tilings
might have been different. Had the glorious
little contemptible army that suffered at
Mons been at Liege, as it might have been,
four days after the actual “declaration,” the
whole shape of the commotion would have
been altered. And had the Australian troops,
who were then engaged in a futile attempt
to wear out their enthusiasm in Egyptian
sand, been at the Dardanelles at the moment
when the warships first tried to force the
passage, there would have been no further
trouble worth mentioning with the Turk,
and the Bulgar would never have given us
an hour’s worry. The idea that time —a
very long time —is on our side at last may
prove correct; but hitherto we have cer-
tainly not hit the German hard with it. All
those years between the first assurance that
the Teuton menace was a real one and the
opening of the great killing itself might
have been as a flail in our hands with which
to thresh flat the disturbers of the peace;
but we would not or could not use the
munition that lay readiest to our hands.
Now, when the war has raged and destroyed
for nearly four years and no man can see
the end, there are still indications that time
is being loosely handled while the enemy is
hitting us with it fiercely and often. The
blocking of the ports which were the chief
submarine bases was a fine feat; but why
wasn’t it attempted before most of the ship-
ping on which the Allies depended for food
had gone to the bottom of the sea? The in-
vention of the tanks marked a big depar-
ture ; but the notion was one that might
well have been carried out in days of peace
and held as a surprise. Five hundred tanks
at Mons would have taken the edge off the
Prussian sword, redeemed Belgium and
hanged the Kaiser. Always it was time that
mattered. And always it was time that
worked for Wilhelm because our side did
not employ it.
# * * *
In this regard the position is worse
probably in Australia than in any other
Allied country. The others have allowed
time to slip from their fingers; we have
deliberately mocked it, kicked it, danced on
its head. A dozen years ago it was plain
to everybody who paused to do a little think-
ing that this big, thinly-peopled continent
must sooner or later be tried in the flames of
war. The system of compulsory service
was introduced in a half-hearted fashion
after public feeling had been so roused on
the matter that the people would willingly
have gone the whole hog and created a citi-
zen army of real strength and efficiency.
Still, the pressing problem which faced our
statesmen at the time was not the raising
of a defence army but the discovery of some
method by which the fighting force of the
nation could be multiplied by ten. There
was no German war in immediate prospect;
the skies were calm; the people willing. It
was then that time lay ready to our hand —
and we did nothing. Our means of trans-
porting troops to the parts of the Common-
wealth most open to attack are no better
now than they were a dozen years ago; the
dangers are greater than they were; our
man-power has been reduced by casualties
in a distant field and our enthusiasm by
muddle at home. Had decent foresight been
shown in those days of profound peace—
foresight backed by honest and persistent
effort —the weight of our blow in France
might have been magnified without any-
thing like the losses we have sustained.
Take the matter of the aeroplane alone. The
history of air invention traces its. beginnings
to Sydney. In Sydney the principles of, the
wings that soar and of the engine that drives
them were first experimented upon and de-
monstrated ; yet to-day, when all Europe is
a land “shadowing with wings,” half the
people living in this continent have never
seen an aeroplane at all, although the aero-
plane looked from the first the very best means
bv which the fighting power of a small and
scattered army could be increased. Had
we gone straight ahead wuth the develop-
ment of mechanical flight in the days of
peace and trained flying units in all parts
of the continent, the outbreak of the war
would have found us in a position to render
enormous service to the Allied cause. If.
instead of the first 100,000 of our troops
transported half-way round the world at
such a cost of shipping space, we had been
able to equip and send to Europe lO.Out
eager, expert airmen who knew the game
better than the other fellow, the Australian
would have come near being the deciding


factor in the war. Instead we let time slip;
and although, coming in at the heel, Aus-
tralian airmen are now giving a splendid
account of themselves, there is no possibility
of making up for the lost years. Further,
we still have done nothing or next to nothing
to provide air-equipment for use in our own
country, just as we have done nothing or
next to nothing to provide ourselves with
an arsenal, without which no country can
be said to have any real defences at all.
* * * *
However, time, though so wasted in the
past, is the sort of munition of which there
may still be a sufficient supply. The tor-
menting doubt and the weakness always lie
in the faqt that no one can ever exactly
gauge that supply ; the hope and the strength
lie in the other fact that it is cheap and
ready, and can be grasped at once by any
honest and patriotic hand. The workshops
of Germany were waging war bitterly a
generation ago in full anticipation of a vic-
tory which they only narrowly failed to win ;
what forces, political, social or industrial, are
even now waging war upon us—a war which
may possibly not “break out” in the accepted
sense until the echoes of the present commo-
tion have long died down? Against such
disquieting likelihoods our great munition
still is time. The thing is with us, sharp-
edged, strong, effective, if we are ready to
take it and employ it for our national
safety. To merely talk about a thing of
urgent importance is a crime against the
future which will assuredly be punished in
some way, it may be through blood.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Prejudicial to Recruiting and Offensive
to Our Allies.
May 24 was seized upon by various news-
papers and individuals as an opportunity
for working off a lot of loose eloquence about
the Empire. In the evening the rising
generation was presented with crackers and
sky-rockets and incited to disturb the sub-
urban peace, and the full-grown Imperialist
proceeded to bang the drum of his cult and
give three cheers on general principles ; for
it was “Empire Day” and the time was ripe
for blither and boast and brag. Sydney
Telegram rose to a great height of what
The Bulletin suspects its old friend re-
garded as “true patriotism” and poured bosh
upon an unoffending populace with generous
hand: —-
At a time when, as never before, the elements of
our heritage are being compacted and arrayed in
the perspective first visioned by Chatham, we pause
to take stock of our Imperial destiny—-of what we
have and are. The day we celebrate is a day that
finds us more truly an Empire than before. No
longer is May 24 a date on the calendar surrendered
to cherished memories of a great Queen in whose life
we sought a symbol of the always existing purpose
of the race. It is a moment when, after wanderings
in a wilderness of blind alleys, we discover that we
have passed another milestone on a path directed
to a goal visible to all. This fourth year of war is
the fourth year of intensive Imperial achievement.
Heaven only knows what this gorgeous out-
burst means, unless the Telegraph was
giving someone a polite tip to go slow about
Victoria the Very Good. But whether it
meant anything or not matters l.ttle. The
main point about all the rhetofic was the
endeavor to make the Australian people
believe that justification for participating
in the war is to be found in rhodomontade
concerning the Empire, and that their high-
est possible achievement would be an exten-
sion of Imperialism in this and other coun-
tries. “We are all doing nothing,” yells
the Telegraph, “that is not intimately
associated with a struggle to maintain the
new-found mission of Imperialism that came
with a certain date in August, 1914.” This
is a perversion of the truth. Australia is
doing nothing it would not have done in this
war if Imperialism was as dead as mutton
and Britain was a republic and the flag of
an Australian republic was in the breeze.
Australia is fighting because war was made
upon the Commonwealth, and is continuing
to fight for the same reasons that the United
States of America and the Republic of
France are fighting—and that is to save their
democratic bacon. If the war is anything
at all it is a war of democracies to throttle
Imperialism and all the insane jealousies and
brutalities that Imperialism stands for.
Does anyone in all the world believe that
Uncle Sam is at war to back up some new-
found mission of Imperialism—that the
Allies are anywhere thinking in terms of
kings and emperors and far-flung flags and
subject peonies and particular brands of
kultur ? Yet The Bulletin has no real objec-
tions jo the Imperialist spreading his bom-
over the land in these days. From
thi purely Australian point of view it may
be a good thing for him to do so. But upon the
ground that any attempt to hinder the Aus-
tralian citizen from realising the direct signi-
ficance of the war to the Commonwealth must
have prejudicial effect upon recruiting, and
because moreover it must be offensive to our
Allies, this naper urges the Federal Govern-
ment to make the distribution of hot air
about “the Imperial destiny of our race”
and similar subjects an offence under the
War Precautions Act.
The Defeat of an Attempt to Misuse a
Court.
One result of the strike of last year was that
many unions in N. S. Wales had their regis-
tration cancelled, on application by the
Minister for Labor, for breach of awards
and law. The main result of the Governor-
General’s recruiting conference was a resolu-
tion, agreed to by the Labor representatives,
undertaking to assist enlistment, conditional
upon the removal of certain Labor griev-
ances, of which these de-registrations were
one. The promises given by N. S. Wales
Ministers on this point were definite. A
clause in the amending Arbitration Act
passed recently made provision for re-regis-
tration being sanctioned by the Court on an
application approved by the Minister. To
redeem the conference pledge Minister for
Labor Beeby submitted affidavits to the
Court the other day in support of applica-
tions made by 15 unions for re-registration.
The cases came before Justice Heydon, the
Chief Judge in Arbitration. The ground
relied upon by the Minister was that con-
currence would help recruiting. “These
unions,” he said in effect, “feel they are
being unjustly treated. Re-register them and
they undertake to help in obtaining re-
inforcements for the army.” The issue for the
Judge was to decide whether he, who had
held that de-registration was a proper
penalty to impose for breach of award,
should say that in his judgment the penalty
ought not to be paid provided the offenders
promised to encourage military enlistments.
Obviously the issue was political, not judi-
cial. Heydon, J., after a prolonged struggle
with himself, said “No.” He said the right
and the courageous thing. Had he said
“Yes” the answer would have set up a
precedent making the Court a mere mario-
nette, to be moved one way or another by the
Crown —would have been a proclamation
that the Court had abandoned its judicial
function and could be swayed by a politi-
cian’s sense of expediency. Australia has
seen something like that happen often
enough in the not remote past in relation to
industrial affairs not to want to see it again.
There was no reason why a Judge should
have been asked to say “Yes” except that of
political convenience. The re-registration of
these unions is essentially a matter for
Parliament —and now the Legislature is to
be summoned to special session to deal with
the matter. It is a queer sort of bargaining
that has been going on, and, strictly speak-
ing, the unions seeking registration are with-
out a leg to stand on, morally or otherwise.
They did a rotten thing, and on eye-for-eye
and tooth-for-tooth principles richly deserved
all they got. But it is better to heal a sore
than scarify it. The new Arbitration Act
is there for trial, anyhow, and no purpose is
served by shutting unions out from proceeding-
under an allegedly better system than pre-
vailed before. Parliament may therefore
properly do what it would have been grossly
improper for Justice IIeydon to do.
Wandering in the Wilderness.
The struggle of N. S. Wales Labor to dis-
cover where it is on the war generally and
the voluntary system in particular led to
wild and woolly happenings at Sydney
Trades Hall last week. Apparently there
are going to be more wild happenings at the
end of this week, and latest despatches from
the Front were rather more than suggestive
of a Trades Hall shaken to the deepest rock
of its foundations. The disturbance turns
on the resolution in regard to recruiting
carried at the Governor-General’s Confer-
ence. This was submitted to the Trades
Council for approval by President Morby,
one of the delegates to the Conference, and
before he had gone very far he had run into
serious trouble. An amendment declaring
the resolution to be out of order was carried
against him by 79 votes to 75, and by 84
votes to 01 portion of an executive minute
was expunged. Whereupon a long, verbose
amendment moved by Judd, a revolutionary
Socialist and a frequent anti-Labor candi-
date hitherto, became the substantive motion,
and after great uproar Morby adjourned the
proceedings. They were resumed on Thurs-
day amidst great excitement, the net result
being that Judd captured the situation and
Morby declared the proceedings adjourned
again. It seems beyond doubt that Morby
is in a minority, and that Judd’s pro-
gramme has the heavier backing. The gist
of his proposal is that, instead of Labor
pledging itself to assist the voluntary sys-
tem, it should “refuse to take part in a
recruiting campaign and call upon the work-
ers of all countries to urge their Govern-
ments to immediately secure an armistice on
all Fronts and initiate negotiations for
peace.” This paper expects to hear of this
or something like it being carried. Hands-up
though this be, it has strong support, in-
cluding that of the P.L.L. Executive. If it
is carried it will mean, in cold English, that
the official Labor machine has been so cap-
tured that a majority of trade-union reps,
in N. S. Wales are in favor of quitting in
the fight, of abandoning the army which was
sent away by a Labor Government and of
taking a German-made peace, for no other
kind of peace is at this stage within the
bounds of possibility.
Co-operation in Cockying.
Victoria has had a conference of farmers’
cooperative societies, with a small repre-
sentation from the other States; and if there
is among them an organiser with a square
chin and unbounded energy, something may
come out of the meeting in the shape of a
federation for wholesale buying and selling.
The conference had the benefit of the experi-
ence of two or three leaders of the move-
ment in Maoriland; and had these men come
into contact also with the Repatriation
Department it might have been greatly
to the country’s advantage. Certainly
if Australia had such co-operative soci-
eties as Maoriland possesses our pro-
blem of “repatriation.” so far as it
is connected with land settlement, would
be vastly easier. For these bodies have
been doing for years past precisely the work
that needs to be done for the returned men
who want to become farmers. In practi-
cally every district the now federated and
always more or less friendly societies have
agencies which keep them informed of land
and farms available. In Australia, if a
city man has wanted to put his son on the
land, he has found the job of selection and
subsequent sunervision surrounded bv almost
insurmountable difficulties. In Maoriland,
blessed with a dozen or more co-operative
societies —one of them alone has a business
of four millions a year—he is able to turn
to a body which will be a foster-father to the
beginner; will see that he gets the right sort
of farm at the right price; will see that it
is stocked right; will make an inspection
half-yearly or oftener, and guide the begin-
ner in the way he should go ; will see to his
supplies and to his sales. Obviously, quite
apart from the large financial gain to the
farmer from co-operative tradinsr, this is
a social service of great value. The butter-
makers of Australia know something of co-
operation ; but apart from these there is in
the. whole of the Commonwealth hardly any
of it worth mentioning. Even in S. Australia,
where there is a company of some size, the
co-operative activities are-woefully restricted.
That conditions should remain like this is
more deplorable than ever it was in view of
the Commonwealth’s urgent need for increas-
ing its production. But how is the machinery
to be started? The longer we leave the job
undone the more vested interests will there
be, and that means increased difficulties.
The Governments cannot afford to any longer
wait for the individual to move. In every
State there is a Department of Agriculture;
in most there is a Department of Labor or
Industry. Between them and the Depart-
ment of Repatriation they can and should
provide the initial movement. If the records
of the Agricultural Colleges are analysed it
will be found that not one-fifth of the students
settle down as farmers of any sort. There is
something radically wrong here. And this
paper believes the thing that is most wrong
is the absence of such co-operative organisa-
tions as Maoriland has, not only equipped to
make things easier for the farmer after he
has become established, but able and willing
to perform that foster-father service of which
every new settler on the land is in great
need.
♦
Caesar’s Hun Wife.
The Labor Party stands for the immediate ces-
sation of hostilities and for the calling of an inter-
national conference to settle peace terms. Such
terms must include: (1) Withdrawal from invaded
territory and reparation by the invader; (2) Self-
government of all small nations; (3) Bight of people
of disputed territory to a vote on their own future
government; (4) International control of captured
possessions pending agreement; (5) No annexations
and no indemnities. —Labor manifesto to the electors
of Flinders (Vic.).
Caesar said on a memorable occasion that his
wife must be above suspicion; and if Mrs.
Caesar had been in the habit of staying out
all night in dubious company he would have
had still more reason for his remark. In a
somewhat similar fashion the Australian
Labor party, though it isn’t necessarily pro-
Hun, shouldn’t be always exciting the sus-
picion that it allows itself to be led by a
pro-Hun minority, either because it is com-
pletely enslaved by an astute crowd which
has captured the political machine, or
because it is too much accustomed to be gov-
erned by catch-words and phrases to realise
that the platitudes put forth in its name are
loaded. Certainly the above pronouncement
is loaded so heavily that it is a marvel the
gun doesn’t burst. It is the same old story
of giving the Hun the benefit of the doubt.
Let the proposals be considered seriatim: —
A conference is to be called to decide terms of
peace. These are to iuclude, among other things,
“withdrawal from invaded territory.” But while
the conference is sitting to decide whether the terms
are to include the withdrawal or not, the Hun will
naturally remain in possession of his invaded terri-
tories and may keep on plundering and outraging
the people and putting men and women and children
to the most awful kind of enforced labor, just as
before. For these things, as he has shown after the
peace in Russia and Uoumania, are not “hostilities.”
Also he may go on reorganising and strengthening
his armies in case the peace shouldn’t come off.
These aren’t “hostilities” either.
There is to be “reparation” to the plundered and
slaughtered and tortured and outraged peoples, the
reparation being decided on by a conference at
which Germany, Austria, Bulgaria and Turkey will
have a voice. The reparation can only be the
amount that the Hun will think it worth while pay-
ing as the price of peace till he is ready for war
again—if he thinks it worth while to pay anything.
At present he thinks (and says) that the Allies
should pay him.
Anyhow, “reparation” can only be for material
damage. All the losses through the slaughter and crip-
pling of the civilian population are our losses, for the
Allies have had no chance even if they felt inclined,
to butcher the unarmed population of Germany. As
it is impossible for the Allies to deliberately slay,
cripple, torture, infect or drive mad by cruelty a
similar number of Germans in order that the losses
in productive power and fighting power and mental
power will be equal, the only way to even partially
balance the account is to exact an indemnity.
The Labor party holds that , there should be no
indemnity. It might hurt the Hun’s feelings.
Also, there being no indemnity for fear of hurting
the Hun’s feelings, the people whom the Hun drove
into a hideously expensive war are to pay their own
bill. If the Labor man is damaged by his em-
ployer’s inadvertence —not by brutal malice but mere
carelessness —he rushes to court for hundreds of
pounds’ worth of indemnity. But he wouldn’t treat
the Hun like that on any account.
There are to' be no “annexations,” so the Hun is
to keep Alsace and Lorraine. They are German pro-
vinces—not “disputed territory.” There must be
two parties to make a dispute, and Germany refuses
to be one.
People of “disputed territories” —which can only
mean such places as Luxemburg, Serbia, Russian
Poland, Courland, Livonia, etc., which used to belong
to one party and are now held and governed by
another —are to have a vote re their own future
government. Not a decisive vote—only a vote. And
nothing is said as to how the people in possession
are to be presented from supervising the vote, and
voting themselves, and also deciding on the qualifi-
cations of voters. The people in possession are
Germans in every case. So there is to be a poll,
with the Hun as returning-officer unless somebody is
strong enough to drag him away, and this poll is to
resolve whether the Hun will or will not finish by
keeping his steals.
As regards “possessions”— i.e., places like German
Papua, East Africa, South-west Africa, etc., where
the population hasn’t reached the voting stage—they
are to be handed over by their present holders to
an international control. The people who hold cap-
tured “possessions” are Britain, Belgium (which got
some of its own back in Africa) and Japan (in a
small way) and these Allies are to retire in favor
of a committee of nations which will necessarily in-
clude some of our four enemies.
So the Hun is to keep all his old territories in
Europe, for the Allies are nowhere on Hun ground
in Europe and his, old estate hasn’t come into dis-
pute. And he is to have a gamble for the retention
of much stolen territory in Europe and all his
possessions elsewhere. The loss by military expenses
is to be divided, each party paying its own costs.
The loss by material damage is to be divided, Ger-
many paying something, assessed in part by itself
and its Allies, for breakages. The loss of strength
and reproductive power caused, not by war but by
the promiscuous murder or disablement of peaceful
fathers and mothers and prospective fathers and
mothers, is to fall entirely on the Allies.
And in another clause of the precious mani-
festo it is specified that the “humiliation” of
Germany must be avoided. The humiliation
of Belgium isn’t even mentioned. What Hun
agent inspires this sort of literature?
Rahab.
“T. Pallid” : One practical detail of Miss
Rout’s scheme which appears to have
escaped notice in the ethical mix-up between
“Dr. Nil,” Mr. “H. 0.” and others is the
unfortunate but undeniable fact that no
guarantee of even reasonable freedom from
risk of disease is afforded by any system of
woman-examination. The most careful of
prostitutes, when at all busily engaged in
the general practice of her profession, is
practically certain to be infectious at fre-
quent periods, even if she herself is not
actively infected. The local and constitu-
tional signs of infectivity are frequently
absent, often slight, and usually intermit-
tent. The Americans in Manila insti-
tuted a most elaborate system for the
examination of prostitutes. The ordinary
visual examination was carried out in
a particularly thorough manner by highly-
skilled specialists; yet out of every hun-
dred cases of discovered infection, only
40 were found on examination, and the
balance of GO were detected in the labora-
tory a couple of days after the lady had gone
back to business. The experts estimated
that, despite all the care taken, about 50
per cent, of infectious prostitutes were un-
detectable at any given examination, owing
to intermittency. The detection of infec-
tivity in the male is almost equally diffi-
cult. Persons of either sex may be viru-
lently infectious and yet be quite unaware
of the fact. A tiny whitish spot on a
mucous membrane may swarm with the
spirochaetes of syphilis. A reddened spot
several inches inside the uretha is all there
is to show for the presence of myriads of
gonorrhoea germs, a survival from some pre-
vious infection of years before. This scribe,
an experienced old bird, would counsel Miss
Rout to give up the idea of starting a
“clean” establishment. It simply can’t be
done. The best results are got from the
issue of preventive appliances against infec-
tion. and the instruction of the men in the
method of using them effectively. The
“clean” prostitute is a physical impossibility.
“The Irish Answer.”
“J. Wallace Greer” takes a point for the
Presbyterians:—-
In The Bulletin (16/5/’18) “Henry Horse-
collar” propounds his theory for the settlement of
the Irish question. But I flatly deny his insinua-
tion that it is the Presbyterians alone who
are the cause of the Home Rule deadlock. Why,
the leaders of the Anti-Home Rule movement during
(say) the last 30 years have been nearly all mem-
bers of the Anglican Church, better known in Ire-
land as the Church of Ireland. What about the late
Colonel Saunderson, one of the staunchest and most
uncompromising there has ever been of Anti-
Home Rulers? Then also the late Marquis of
Londonderry, the present Earl of Erne, Colonel
Wallace, Sir James H. Stronge, E. M. Archdale
and dozens of other prominet Ulstermen whom I
could mention, all members of the Anglican Church.
Ulster’s opposition to Home Rule appears to come
from the Presbyterians, because the population of
that portion of Ulster opposing Home Rule is largely
Presbyterian. According to “Whitaker’s Almanack”
for 1915 Presbyterians formed at that time 10 per
cent, of the population of Ireland, and Protestant
Episcopalians (i.e., Anglicans) 13.1 per cent. The
difference comes in here —that whilst nearly the
whole 10 per cent, of Presbyterians are to be
found in (say) the Counties of Antrim, Down,
Armagh, Londonderry and Tyrone, the 13.1 per cent,
of Protestant Episcopalians are scattered all over
Ireland, and are, therefore, from the nature of their
surroundings, unable to use their numbers so effec-
tively as the smaller but more compact body of
Presbyterians in Ulster. It is only fair to the
Irish Presbyterians that the above should be made
known. ,
And “Hawkesbury” protests that it won’t
suit the Irish :—
“Henry Horsecollar” proposes to answer the
Irish question by transporting a minority section of
Irish people. That is a Saxon remedy utterly useless
and undesirable to an Irishman. The true Irishman
is the dark, black-eyed Iberian; the invaders include
Celts, Scandinavians and Saxons; the Welsh —most
of the Fitzes— and Scotch, the last a blend of Piets,
Danes and Celts; also a percentage of Savoyards. In
result the Iberian has put his brand on the whole
crew, and their character has been constant. National-
ism has always been subordinated to sectionalism.
An Irishman delights in rows as many an Australian
delights in beer ; it is a great diversion. Could you
abolish the local thirst by transporting the breweries?
The injustice to Ireland is largely myth ; but the
Irishman would not lose that myth for worlds. His
land, school and church difficulties were remedied;
the country is more prosperous than ever before; but
the inherent delight in a grievance and a shindy
remains. The Irishman is willing to flght the
foreigner, but he is more willing to fight the man in
the next county, and still more willing to fight the
man over the way. Take the National party. To
outsiders it had a clean-cut policy; but it was rent
in mortal feud by the Redmondites and the Ilealy-
ites. What the difference was about no one out of
Ireland, and very few in it, understood. But what
did that matter? It was a row. Neither parish coun-
cillor nor muck carter could get a job unless he took
sides.
While an Irishman lives there must always be an
Irish question; and that is where he interests Aus-
tralia, for he is here, his everlasting grievance
with him. If he is inclined to slumber on it, a
newly-arrived Irish prelate prods him up, and no
sooner lands than he trails the tail of his coat. The
North of Ireland Orangeman is equally willing; a
good barney is meat and drink to both of them.
And it is on this point that “Henry Horsecollar”
and the majority of alien writers make their miss.
They look for peace, order and tranquillity as an
ideal; while the Irish instinct is for excitement and
variety.
On such a people clearly we cannnot impose our
ideas, or take their words and acts to have the com-
mon significance. We might, however, take a tip
from Archbishop Mannix and keep Australia for Aus-
tralians ; which would mean the barring of all im-
ported prelates and church dignitaries.
Land Taxation in Victoria.
“Frank Bentley” declines to cheer: —
The statement (B. 25/4/’18) that Victorian muni-
cipalities have the power to rate the citizens on the
unimproved value of land is all right so far as it
goes; but there is another phase of the question.
The Rating on Unimproved Values Act, 1915, makes
it optional for councils to adopt that system, subject
to the ratepayers’ right of veto by referendum; but


THE COST OF INSURANCE.
In most insurance companies the premiums paid by policy-holders have to provide for (1) claims; (2) expenses of management- (3) dividends for shareholders*
and (4) strengthening reserves. ’ ’ ‘ ’
H e Farmers’ &
Co-operative Insurance Co. of A
ustralia
Limited
was established solely to cheapen the cost of agricultural and pastoral insurance. How is it to be done?
To begin with, being a purely co-operative company, the policy-holders are the shareholders in .this Company, and though the usual “Associated” rate of nreminms
is charged, whatever surplus remains after claims and expenses are met is solely the property of co-operators. Thus the co-operator secures absolute nroteefinn avainst
all risks for which lie is insured at cost price. Not only does the Company save for co-operators the dividends which in most cos are naid o iSvestorf but
any reserves that are accumulated are also the property of co-operators, whereas in the proprietary offices the surplus reserves also belong 1 to the investor.
In the important matter of expenses, though organisation costs are necessarily heavy, the Farmers’ & Settlers’ Insurance Co again because of ifs co'nne,-»Hve
character, will undoubtedly be able to effect a saving in this direction. again because ot its co-operative
The future of the Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. is assured.
Fire-Hail-Marine
Its organisation already extends throughout the Commonwealth.
WorKmen’s Compensation Insurance at Lowest Current Rates.
Head Office after July 1: 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Present Head Offices 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
the provision that councils adopting the system are
bound by the State Land Tax valuations and are
deprived of the right to vary those valuations or to
hear appeals against them disqualifies the Act, as it
stands, for life. First of all, the councils must pay
the State Commissioner of Taxation for copies of the
valuations upon which the rates are to be based, and
this means anything from £2O to £lOO, according
to the number of assessments. Generally speaking
these valuations are inequitable and unsatisfactory
and even ludicrous. What else could be expected
under a system of patronage which was responsible
for the appointment of valuers whose chief qualifica-
tions seemed to be failure, senility and consistency in
supporting the local Parliamentary rep.? In one
case the writer knows of the State valuations were
made between drinks in a little office in the township
by an old fossil who knew nothing when sober and
only half that when fuddled. When he got tangled
over the task he called in an equally incompetent
assistant and drank with him. The valuations are
not made upon each separate tenement but upon
the whole of a man’s property irrespective of whether
it is in one, two or three municipalities or sub-
divisions, and the brilliant Act will not allow the
municipalities to make the necessary adjustments
themselves, and without adjustments innumerable
in country shires it would not be possible to enrol
the occupier. A great many councils realise the
advantages of the system and are anxious to adopt it
when made practicable; but repeated requests for
amendment of the Act during the last three yean)
have not resulted in any more than promises. It
takes something to get Bumble to scrap his conser-
vatism and adopt a progressive system such as rating
unimproved values. It is madness to choke him off
just as he has taken hold of the idea.
« :
Mars Resumes Business.
Apparently the lid has been lifted from Hell
again. The German artillery on the West-
ern Front delivered heavy attacks on Sun-
day, and on Monday the enemy began to
move to a new address. At the time of
fvriting the news was only in the making,
but it appeared that the Germans had ad-
vanced in some parts of the Rheims and
Soissons sector, north-east of Paris. Here
there has hitherto been heavy fighting; close
by the French gained certain tactical advan-
tages at very heavy cost just before the first
battle of the Somme. Whether the enemy
is definitely committing himself to a deci-
sive struggle in this place remains to be seen.
If he is lie will certainly get badly handled,
whatever else happens, for the ground is very
difficult and the French defenceis are excep-
tionally strong. If he gains any material
advantage, something can be expected from
the Crown Prince’s army, which sits to the
westward. This force, massed in the Valley
of the Oise, is the spearhead from which
trouble will most likely come to Paris if it
comes at all. Its participation to any great
extent in the battle will be a not very
pleasant sign ; it will mean that Ludendokff
reckons he has a sure winning hand. There was
fighting, too, on Monday in the vicinity of
Ypres, a region already heavily drenched with
British and German blood. If, as the first
advance suggests, this is only a side-show, we
shall soon hear of more important happenings
not far away. Probably by way of prepar-
ing us for the new outburst another long rig-
marole from the Secretary for the Colonies
has been published, allegedly giving “a review
of the situation.” It is even cruder than the
last, every line colored by the shallow
optimism of stupidity. The Bulletin has
already protested against this poisonous stuff
being scattered in Australia. Every repeti-
tion is an added insult to an intelligent
people. It is good to hear of the American
success in transnorting men to France. There
is reason for feeling more cheerful about the
submarine since Lloyd George spoke about
recent successes, though it has to be remem-
bered that previous statements by the Prime
Speechmaker on the same subject were tragi-
cally misleading. But the significance of
these things will be in better focus when we
hear of what happens between now and the
end of the battle which opened on Sunday.
If
There are two phrases which during
Labor’s recent search for a war policy have
been given the benediction of much applause:
The time is ripe for the working class of this and
other countries to make emphatic declaration that
the war must end.
and
If the workers had refused to take up arms there
would have been no war.
But whenever the worker of Belgium makes
-an emphatic declaration that it is time the
war came to an end the German either
shoots him or sends him to dig trenches. The
Russian worker also made the most emphatic
declaration about the time being ripe for
the war to stop. He downed tools, dissolved
the army and went home. Whereupon the
German followed him, and is busy annexing
his country and collaring all the available
bread and meat. If the entire population
of Italy, France, Servia, Britain. Ireland,
the United States, Australia and S. Africa
simultaneously declared that the time was
ripe, the only possible result of the yell
would be to emphasise the inescapable issue
put by the German to them all long ago—
tight or quit! In a vague, remote sort of
way the aforesaid phrases are profoundly
true; but used in relation to the conditions
of the moment they are wildly grotesque.
The choice Australia and other countries
have is not between war and peace, but be-
tween resisting defeat and taking defeat
lying down. There is tragedy either way.
In one direction there is what Russia is
getting as well.
Wanted, a Stop-the-War Programme.
A long resolution has been put before Syd-
ney Trades Council as an alternative to
giving assistance in making tjie voluntary
plan a success. One clause is as follows:
That the greatest service we can render the men
at the Front, their loved ones at home, and humanity
in general is to do all in our power to stop the
war.
In the event of this being carried, what do
they propose to do? Mere talk is no good.
That won’t stop the war, any more than
Hughes’s talk could win it. But there arc
many ways by which, if “stopping the
bloody thing” is all that counts, Australia
could do something effective. A general
strike; the release of all interned Germans;
the supply of coal to enemy raiders; the
handing back of Rabaul to the Kaiser; the
refusal of pay or pensions to soldiers —these
and other things would at least help a little
to bring the proceedings to an end. They
are the only things Tiie Bulletin can think
of as likely to be the least bit effective. If
they are not in the scheme of the promoters
of this resolution, what is? What do they
propose to do to stop the war? To merely
say that the best service they can render
humanity is to “do all in their power” and
then do nothing looks like playing a confi-
dence trick on humanity. This paper wants
a programme.
♦
Every five minutes or so someone explains
that Australia possesses magnificent timbers,
that with an intelligent forestry system there
would bo. no more need to import wood than
there is to drag coal to the Commonwealth
—and so on. Now Australia is about to
begin building some steamers. A great deal
of wood will be required for the internal fit-
tings of these vessels; and the official specifi-
cations provide that, except for a little red-
gum, the whole of it shall be imported white
pine, oregon and kauri. Cargo fattens, deck-
coverings, hatches, awning-ridges, boat-
chocks, gangways, cross-bunkers, bridge
bulkheads, topmasts, signal yard and even
the flagpole must be made of imported tim-
ber. The Australian flag made of imported
materials attached to imported halyards run-
ning up and down an imported pole rounds
off the shipbuilding farce quite nicely.
“Plain Australian” : “Ruraidh O’Conor”
produces a fine coil of real home-cured Irish
history, but he does not answer my question
as to how long Ireland would “stand erect”
if the protecting hand of Britain were struck
down, and the Boche got in the boot. Real
history differs from Irish history, and it
records no serious attempt by Norman Eng-
land to invade Ireland. Giraldus Cambren-
sis, who was sent across by the Norman con-
querors to investigate, reported that the coun-
try was not worth the trouble of subduing,
but that if it were decided upon there would
be little difficulty on account of the purehas-
ability of the local chiefs. It also records
that Elizabeth and Ckomwell both were
forced to send military expeditions to Ireland
to teach the Irish that they were not per-
mitted to commit atrocities on the English
and Scottish settlers. On both occasions Ire-
land got a lesson which is remembered by
her people to this day. In the eighteenth
century, again, she got another on account of
the same kind of treachery as she is attempt-
ing to practise to-day. Does “Ruraidh”
know the air of “Croppies, Lie Down,” and
what the song stands for? I made no men-
tion of the Irish question, but only of Ire-
land. Naturally Australians take some in-
terest in the Irish question, as they do in
snakes and the Red Plague, and for the same
reasons. But if Ireland sank at its moorings
to-morrow, the Australian feeling—including
that’of a large part of the alleged third of
Irish-descended —would be one of relief that
England had one less chance of being stabbed
in the back as she fought, and that there
would be no more Mannixes to import. The
writer is not, as “Ruraidh” pleasantly sug-
gests, of German descent. If he were he
would not ask inconvenient questions of the
countrymen of Casement and the Sinn Fein
traitors.
-♦ >. , ■ .
“Bart” : Most of what has been written
about “Motherhood” is pretty, but cuts no
ice. We want a practical encouragement
for the baby-producing just the
same as for other vital industries. Free-
trade has failed here as elsewhere. Dr.
Arthur got very near the right track. His
principle was right but his method wrong.
Direct bonuses don’t hit the spot, and there
is too much room for abuse. How many in-
dustries do bonuses encourage compared
with a Protective tariff? Protect the baby
industry by a good tariff and fill the cradles.
I*i short, extend the Federal system of allow-
ing father a deduction from income ta± for
every child. To begin with, increase the tax;
but for every child make a substantial deduc-
tion —not a deduction that is farcical. I
paid my State (Tasmanian) income tax the
other day and was permitted to deduct ss.
in respect of two children under 16: at the
rate of 2s. 6d. each! With a nice family
of eight I would save £1 per annum in State
income tax! Let the deductions be gradu-
ated. If a man have an income of £3UO per
annum ana one child, let him deduct £5
actual tax; if two children £l2; if three £2O,
and so on. If a man have £lOOO a year, no
deduction in respect of children need be
allowed. The production of degenerates
would not be encouraged—observe I do not
say it would be discouraged—for the simple
reason that in the vast majority of cases
the degenerate parents would not have tax-
able incomes, and therein the deduction has
a huge advantage over the bonus system.
“Fax” : There’s matter for a hundred for-
cible sermons in a recent assertion of
“Glen” in The Bulletin. “Vic. railway
toilers are divided into two main sections —
‘sports’ and ‘wowsers.’ The sport is a good
bloke who doesn’t mind pinching a half-case
of grapes, £5 worth of roofing iron or the in-
toshicated racegoer’s roll of notes. The
wowser, of course, is the unpleasant man
who won’t.” Those two terms aforesaid are
doing more harm than any 50 other words
in the language. O Sport, what sins are
committed in thy name! The boy or girl
who gets unwillingly led into temptation by
the cheap sarcasm of a pal is offered the
choice between being a “sport” or a “wow-
ser,” and the poor weakling elects to be a
sport. Most of the illicit babies one hears
of ought to be christened “Sportling.”
They were begotten in the name of “sport,”
which, by the way, had a specially amorous
significance in Siiakspeare’s time. The
maiden who takes all the risks that Mother
Grundy warns her to avoid is a “good
sport.” The incitement to take a drink,
where drink spells danger, is “Be a snort,”
whilst the popular argument against pru-
dence, honorable scruples or modest impulse
is “Don’t be a wowser.” The latter is the
more mischievous, perhaps, because among
intelligent youngsters the tendency to dis-
like wowsers is stronger than the admiration
of sports. No alternative is offered to the
tempted one. The object of this modern mis-
application of the old term and the new
must either sport or wowse. The one was
invented as a term of endearment for easy
frivollers; the other as a label for saintly
hypocrites. And the Devil took them both
into his vocabulary.
Said the Kaiser recently :
Right will eventually prevail.
Pity he didn’t warn 8010 Pasha of that.
From the Gallery :
Captain S. M. Bruce, the new member for Flin-
ders (Vic.), in the House of Reps., holds his pre-
decessor’s place in the back corner bench on the
Government side. Bruce is abcut the first genuine
whiff of Flinders-lane to blow in. He is also the
firs£ decorated warrior, and would have been our
first curio from an English University if Willie
Kelly had never been born. Willie, however,
burnished his bleat at Oxford, whereas Bruce shook
all the vulgarisms out of his vocabulary at Cam-
bridge. He is a tall, good-looking Australian
with a dark, glamorous eye and an air of trying to
conceal his modesty behind a camouflage of ennui.
“The Pen Drawings of Norman Lindsay”
was a success from the jump. 1500 out 'of
the 2000 copies of the 12s. fid. edition were
sold to “the trade” within three days of pub-
lication, and the _ whole of the three-guineii
edition (150 copies) was taken up before
publication. There is no doubt that, as the
cheap edition will not be reprinted, it will
quickly go up in value.
“Sapper”: The Bulletin’s protest
against the militarisation of the non-military
services controlled by the Defence Depart-
ment might have gone further. At Caul-
field Hospital masseurs and other special
attendants have to frequently knock off work
and learn how to do some utterly useless
and unnecessary parade tricks. I am not
going to say that this means that some of
us have to forego our proper treatment.
But I do say that if we get our proper
treatment under this system a smaller num-
ber could give it to us. at less cost to the
country under an intelligent system. It
isn’t deemed necessary for the attendants at
our great public and private hospitals to
know anything about forming fours. The
sooner the same principles of commonsense
are applied to military administration the
better.
All things come to the John who waits
long enough at the corner. Detective-ser-
geant T. J. Kiely, of Victoria, has just been
promoted to first-class sergeant and given
another bob a day. He passed the qualify-
ing exam. 27 years ago.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Three Twins”
Criterion “The Easiest Way”
Palace “De Luxe Annie”
Tivoli “Time, Please”
Playhouse The Scarlet Troubadours
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Bing Boys Are Here”
Boyal “General Post”
King’s “The Masquerader”
Palace “Carmelite”
Bijou Fuller’s Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli “The Million Dollar Gill”
llnv i s Du Luxe & Olympia .Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Auditorium Moving Pictures
“You’re in Love,” now ending a fill-in
week at Sydney Majesty’s, is a satisfactory
revival of the American musical show except
when Fred Maguire is straining his voice
over the love songs that Talleur Andrews
made so popular, or when front-stall patrons
are leaping and grabbing at Maude Fane’s
bedroom slippers as she swings to and fro
on the boom. One of these evenings a jeal-
ous wife will provide some real entertain-
ment for the watching circle and gallery
by seizing her husband’s coat-tnils as he
is about to spring. When on the stage where
she belongs, Maude fits Dorothy Brunton’s
shoes nicely, and makes a very sweet, shy
Georgiana. Connie Ediss is once more the
impossible widow three times removed who
distrusts man. Frith, wearing the inane
look of an inquisitive gander, succeeds again
as Wowser Wix. His flat-footed walk-out
after singing “Snatched from the Cradle’’
suggests that lie has studied earnest deacons
going up the aisle to get the collection-plate.
Field Fisher as Percy Pinklove, the hoarse,
sun-cured cadger of the deep, is one of the
joys of the show. Cecil Bradley makes a
dainty Dorothy whose song-words are always
heard, and there’s a recall for Madge Elliott
after one of her dances. Tom Preston, Jack
Hooker and little Rita Nugent do the comedy
stepping. “Three Twins” arrive on Satur-
day. The advt. says these children amused
New York for two years on end.
“The Bird of Paradise” will escape from
Sydney Cri. to-morrow night, leaving not a
feather behind. After that it will be “The
Easiest Way,” which seems like the answer
to a great universal conundrum about win-
ning wars or getting out of debt, or some-
thing.
* * *
Now, Cyril walked in purity,
A pastor of the Malbourne fields;
But meeting with fair Alma Lee
He to the old temptation yields.
And, consequences coming, they
At night-time try to find a way.
They met at the old trysting-place,
In Winter when the frost was white;
O’er his black coat and fear-drawn face
He wore a coat and hat of light
Grey tweed, the clothes of Everard,
By Cyril’s sister Lil hit hard.
The father of the girl, Ben Lee,
With loaded gun has tracked the twain,
But by a trick of Fate’s decree,
He, not the Parson, is the slain.
Cyril clears home, while, lying hard,
Alma denounces Everard.
For eighteen years he’s sent to jug,
(Lily remaining always true),
While Cyril lived in quarters snug,
Revered by everyone he knew.
And though his conscience seared and stung,
Dean Cyril Maitland held his tongue.
Then comes his son, young Benjy Lee,
From Canada by Alma sent,
Bearing a letter saying she,
Dying, has now grown penitent.
Ihe Dean denies his son—though wrung
By deep remorse, still holds his tongue.
Then Everard, at liberty,
Flies straight to Lily’s loving breast,
And in her brother’s deanery,
A letter writes to say ’tis best
For all hands now to hold their -tongue.
On reading this the Dean wide flung
The door of silence closed for years,
And in the old Cathedral grey,
He tells his guilt while Death’s grim shears
Snap his life-thread in tragic way.
From many an eye the tear is wrung
For that frail Dean who held his tongue.
So once more “The Silence of Dean Mait-
land” threw its gentle spell over a crowded
Opera House in Sydney on Saturday night.
The dialogue is redolent of Evensong. Bible
Classes and Mothers’ Meetings; but George
Cross manages to invest the yes-no Dean
with an appealing dignity he doesn’t deserve.
Lorna Forbes, as Lilian, sister of the Dean
and bespoken wife to Everard, comes through


m
SPECIAL
m
HOSPITAL
is the veteran among Australian brandies. It has been tried and found to be
brandy of undoubted both for hospital and home uses.
Tucker &. Co., Limited Sydney Agents.
THE “WARRIGAL" HAT
J
Peapes’ trade-marked and registered Australian
make, introducing-, at a moderate price, distinctive
shape and good finish in real Australia* Fur Felt.
We quote H62—a smooth-finished Lounge style—with
tapered crown, brim 2Jtm, flat set, with turned edge,
bow at side or back. Colors: Light and Medium
Grey, Fawn and Nut Brown, with .contrasting bands.
Ask for “The Warrigal” and mention number,
H 62.
The Price is
We pay postage. Please state size and color.
PE.APE.S & CO., LTD.,
Men’s
Outfitters,
-SYDNEY.
309 &. 311 George Street
the emotional work with an -unblemished
nose and a high reputation. Molly Meade
is that slip of unadulterated perjury, Alma
Lee; John Cosgrove supplies two spasms of
comic relief; while the rest of the Deans
family and neighbors support him with
neatness and despatch.
a: * * *
“De Luxe Annie” is in its fifth week at
the Palace (Sydney), and the Taits say that
they have nothing to growl about. IN either
have the audiences that each night and two
afternoons a week mobilise to salute Emelie
Polini.
a: * *
The faithful movie photographer has done
his bit again. Mae Marsh, now progressing
down “Sunshine Alley” at Sydney Royal, is
brilliantly nictured in hundreds of feet of
film, and the story is beautiful enough to
make any young person with a heart sniff
sympathetically in the gloom.
“Time, Please!” is fairly started on its
non-stop run at Sydney Tivoli, and the word
has gone round the suburbs thau it’s a din-
kum show. The de luxe picture matinees
of “Barbary Sheep” keep the doorkeepers
and ushers on the job every afternoon.
** * *
The Scarlet Troubadours are still working
at Sydney Playhouse, which hides at the
far end of Castlereugh-street. But the show
is worth the pilgrimage.
*
At Hoyt’s and the Haymarket in Sydney
Billie Burke is getting married in haste
owing to the inconsiderate invasion of a
Belgian town by the Prussians. At the
same house Mae Marsh handles a miniature
zoo in “Sunshine Alley,” and if Le Souef
sees the way she does it lie’ll offer her a job
at Taronga, and then there will be trouble
with Robert Harron, the millionaire lover
with the hard fist. The Crystal Palace hangs
out a sporting placard, “Kick In.” The
story doesn’t, however, deal with the foot-
ball season —only with the efforts of a re-
formed crook to lead the higher life.
“Mother o’ Mine” is a charming sketch at
the Alhambra, and at the Empress Billie
Burke revives “Peggy,” and the inimitable
Charley does a juggle with “Dough and
Dynamite.”
** * *
Tlie cinema drama which Captain Conant
produced at Melbourne Auditorium the
other night, under the title of
“His Only Chance,” was interesting only to
those whose ghosts figured on the screen, and
their friends who had come to see the
spectres. The photography of the film was
ah right; but the gallant captain’s story was
stereotyped melodrama in its nakedest sim-
plicity. The “author” filled the largest
amount of individual space in his artless
narrative, playing an alleged German spy
who came to a hasty end from cold poison.
“Thus Germany’s greatest agent met his
doom,” or words to that effect. Whilst the
author was assuming the evil smile of the
Greatest Spy another military person dodged
around as the weak-minded little johnnie
who fell into the clutches of a tame adven-
turess and gave her a forged cheque for
£2OOO when she threatened to tell his papa.
Truly, a cinema drama of surpassing silli-
ness. The sassiety ladies were horribly dis-
figured by their facial make-up and the
glittering crowd alleged to be arriving at a
music-hall at night was evidently entering
Melbourne Majesty’s in broad daylight and
evening dress. A couple of dancing turns
from “The Bing Boys” and a horse-race
scene relieved the puerility of the drama;
also Jack Cannot and Clyde Cook introduced
some cheerful comic relief. Even then the
“You’re in Love,” at
Sydney Majesty's.
Connie Ediss as the
Grass Widow with
the sign “Keep of the
Grass.”
Re d Cross end
scarcely justified
the means. As an
entertainment i t
was a tii'esome
glorification of “A
Distinguished Cast
of “Amateurs.” The
full description on
the programme was
“A distinguished
Cast of Amateui'S
and otliei's.” Clyde
Cook. Cannot. Maie
Baird and Nellie
Payne were the
“others” without
a capital o. The
force of sassiety
p r e t e n ti ousness
could no further
go.
* H: :!: *
What had been
billed as a Guy
Bates Post matinee
for the Red Cross
at Melbourne
King’s turned out
to be mainly a con-
genial sassiety en-
tertainment, with
hardly enough of
G.B.P. to leaven the lump. It was an
.afternoon-out for the Most Expensive
People—worthy say, £lOOO to the Fund and
£250 to the florists. It provided vast scope
for ti'ibutes, the final item being a patriotic
tableau with talk in it, in which a number of
dumb lady-conti’ibutors were not forgotten
wdien vegetables were served. Miss Veitch
had devised the tableau, so the speaking parts
were adequately filled and the notion of
Britannia calling to Australia to do her bit
was worked up to a dramatic climax. A
tall, beauteous lady who sang indifferently
in a nurse’s garb, supported by half a dozen
of the saddest singing soldiers that Dennis
ever rhymed of, had beem stage-managed by
Florrie Green. Two of Miss Green’s star
pupils, Margot Lester and Winnie Rossiter,
did solo dance turns, and both were inter-
esting. The toe dancer, Miss Lester, made
a clever attempt to do as Halina Schmolz
use' to do in the Swan dance, and succeeded
very well in soite of the orchestra. Little
Miss Rossiter also had a depressing orches-
tral accompaniment for a song from “The
BHle of New York,” but her gestures and
dancing were charming. Walter Ivirby and
Mrs. Norman Brookes were associated in a
sort of harem scene, where even Walter’s
second-best vocalism couldn’t atone for his
appalling appearance in a chocolate face and
black chin-whiskers. Adele Ritchie (Mrs.
Post) had the advantage of a plain piano
accompaniment in two or three light dramatic
songs, artistically rendered. Her tuneiul
tale of the restaurant proprietress was the
best of the batch.
* * *
“The Bing Boys’’ will cease to bing at
Melbourne Majesty’s after Friday of next
week. By that time everybody will have
seen the show that came with a bonzer repu-
tation from Sydney, though the local appe-
tite for revue is not so keen that the multi-
tude in general can eat it greedily and come
for more. Even the Ladder of Life scene
which concludes the sliivoo is said to lack
variety. It is a great feast of shapely legs,
but, the limbs being all of one sort, the effect
is a trifle monotonous, and as a display of
healthy physical exercise it hardly appeals
to ladies who object to climbing stairs. How-
ever, the positively last week of Bing Boys
will doubtless be rushed. So many people have
seen the show that the others can’t afford to
say they died without having done likewise.
“Katinka,” which is musical comedy, will
have a first outing in Australia when the
revue makes way for it.
z\z * :J;
Ivathlenc Macdonell and Charles Waldron
are finishing at Melbourne Royal to-night
(Thursday), and “Daddy Long Legs” goes
with them —never to return. None of the plays
that Miss Macdonell has heroined in have
“The Million Dollar
Girl,” at Melbourne
Tivoli.
C. H. Workman as
Samuel Simpson.
given her a first-
rate opportunity to
hit the public right
on the bump of ap-
probation. She was
a convincing in-
genue in comedies
where nothing else
was convincing,
aud a virile actress
of distinction in
three acts of “Out-
cast,” which broke
down badly in the
last furlong and
merely limped
home. One of these
days she may get
the star part in a
brilliant play. On
Saturday the pro-
gramme at the
Royal will be
Graham Browne
and co. in “General Post.”
*# * *
Guy Bates Post continues to make “The
Masquerader” gee at Melbourne King’s. This
is the fifth week of the Loder in Chilcote’s
clothing, and credulity is becoming inured
to the fact that the morphia-maniac bolts
from Loder’s lodgings in one suit of togs
and arrives at Lady Somebody’s garden fete
in another.
** * *
“The Million Dollar Girl,” at Melbourne
Tivoli, was an easy matter to liven up, and
the Samples company has done it fairly well.
The enlivened proceedings don’t sparkle like
a diamond on the shirt-front of Solomon,
but they keep the pay-boxes busy, so all is
well. A good word may be said for Vera
Spaull (formerly of infantile charactei’s)
and her Ten Little Bridesmaids. The idea
of the song oidginated with the Ten Little
Nigger Boys of a London panto, which hap-
pened in great-grandfathei , ’s time, and has
been adapted to a hundred subsequent re-
quirements. The Bmpii-e Girls, of the
Rickards period, used it in their collective
ditty of Six Little Bui-gulars. Bantock
applied it to his staff of Wives in “San
Toy.” It sounds now like an echo in the
caverns of memory, and comes as a reminder
that the songs of the fathers are visited
upon the children unto the third and fourth
generation. But the enduring idea must have
a snap in it.
*** * ,
One night last week the Liedertafel gave
an attractive Red Cross concert at Mel-
boui-ne Town Hall, the big crowd of male
voices rendering some part-songs impress-
ively between the solo items. This society
is the suiwivor of two that used to be when
amateur c-horistei’s were more plentiful and
enthusiastic in Melbourne than they are
nowadays, and it was only for the sake of old
times that a small majority of members re-
cently rejected president James Dyer’s pro-
posal to change the name of the concern.
The title might as well be changed, for all
that. Under the name of Sons of Song, or
Offspring of Harmony, they would sing as
sweet, and if there ever was any excuse for
calling them a Liedertafel it had vanished
long before the war attached a stink to the
term.
** * *
Concerning a Melbourne Art show:—
At the Athenaeum Gallery a little show of oil-
paintings, closing to-morrow (31st), has deserved
more notice than it has had. Not that the artist,
A. E. Newbury, is quite unblameable for the neg-
lect. The average patron of pleasing landscapes is
apt to take exception to the painter’s impressionist
tendencies, especially in his green or pallid-brown
“The Scarlet Trouba-
dours,” at Sydney
Playhouse.
Renn Millar warbles
a lay.
groundwork. One is
struck by the fact
that a carefully-
finished landscape
(lent by Dr. Sewell),
with a crowded city
in the distance and a
distinctly Coroistie
atmo.-phere, is the most
attractive canvas in
the collection. ~/ - Some
of the 60 pictures are
even more smudgy in
the foreground than
others; and the pro-
mising appearance of
a frankly unfinished
work on the end wall
would be more im-
pressive but for a
doubt as to the amount
of finish it is going to
get. But when all
the shortcomings in
Labor are admitted,
the truth remains
that Newbury gets
some charming effects
of trees at their green-
est. He deals with
nature in shade rather than sunshine. His art has
no time for Australia dry and dusty. The pictures
are restful and soothing in their manner,
and when he paints a big tree in the central
mid-distance (No. 24—“ By the Basket Willows”)
the visitor feels tempted to look around the trunk
for the best place to sit down and loaf. Four par-
ticularly likeable productions are Nos. 9, 29, 37 and
39, the last two being catalogued at the war-time
price of five guineas only* A lot of people should
give A. E. Newbury’s first show an encouraging
look-in before it disappears. They are bound to
look longingly at “An Autumn Morning” (16) and
“Still Morning” (17) ; also the view of Yarra at
Richmond (23), which has the delicacy of a water-
color.
** * *
The Fullers are going to try the experi-
ment of cheap comic-opera at the Melbourne
Palace next Saturday l * The opening attrac-
tion is “Carmelita,” alleged to be a pro-
longed giggle in sunny Spain, specially in-
vented by Victor Prince for the job.
* * *
The opening exhibit for this week at Mel-
bourne Britannia was Olga Petrova in “The
Daughter of Destiny,” which will be fol-
lowed to-day by Olive Thomas in “Limou-
sine Life.” The Melba started on Monday
with “The Kingdom of Love,” in which
Jewel Carmen was the canoodler’s objective
in a number of gushing scenes. For to-day,
Friday and Saturday June Eldridge is the
star in “The Marriage Market,” which
makes the business of wedlock look like a
cheap line in corsets.
❖* * *
The week’s topliner at Hoyt’s in Mel-
bourne is Gabrielle Ray in “Arms and the
Girl.” The story happens in Belgium under
the German domination. There Gabrielle, as
a prisoner, employs her beauty to soften the
rigors of her confinement, and reveals such
a gift for reducing Hun generals to a lamb-
like compliance that she ought to be smug-
gled into Belgium to end the war. Vivian
Martin is another working bee in the cur-
rent programme. She works through the
honey-sodden narrative, “Giving Becky a
Chance.”
¥ * *
Phil Newbury and Amy Murphy have
dropped into Melbourne Bijou. Their reper-
toire is packed with flowers and tender
thoughts, and the audience greedily swallows
the unaccustomed fare. Bessie Lester, the
latest “queen of syncopation,” roars friendlv
ditties in a voice that sounds like a cold
mixed with brass filings. Two other new-
comers, McLean and Lee, have a cheeky
quarter of an hour in a sketch wherein the
language is slightly moistened with Beer.
Art with the smallest a trickles off the
brush of a painter named Little, who carica-
tures W. M. Hughes and concludes with a
pictorial tribute to the “hero” Les Darcy.
Now The Bulletin is wondering whether
Darcy knew that Mr. Little was going to do
it.
$
Old “Called Back,” revived by the Ander-
son Co. at Adelaide Tivoli, helps to show
how dramatic art has advanced since the
early ’eighties. In the old drama, which
recalls memories of Rignold, one character
after another takes possession of an other-
wise empty stage, and prattles to the audi-
ence of his or her past history and future
plans. At other times there are long asides,
which one has charitably to imagine cannot
° i’rl Kr nr) copfjo. Jf)
these advanced days we bring in comic ser-
vants and witty widow's to tell each other
(and the audience) what has to be known.
As Macari, who helped to make Tree famous
long ago, Fitzherbert gives a fine per-
formance, with solid support from Hastings,
Dunbar, Stanford and Ida Gresham, who
goes “mad in white satin” in accordance
with the best traditions. Bert Bailey and
his clever crowd have had a quiet week at
the Royal in a Garvice, adaptation. The
King’s is getting busy again w T ith a revival
of Tait’s Comedy of Peaches. The Majestic
has a jolly bill which retains most of the
old attractions and adds to them Billie Sea-
ton and Ray Trayner. At the pictures,
“Joan the Woman” has ended her long run;
it is a great story, but painfully realistic.
West’s has been busy showing how the
U.S.A. just escaped being overcome by the
Hun through unpreparedness.
“Unsuccessful Candidate for a Portfolio” :
The deficiencies of Prime Minister Hughes have
been more than ever realised since William Watt took
over his job. Hughes’s temper is bad, likewise his
unpunctuality, and his small manoeurves, and his
hurry which never gets him there any faster, and his
lurky or round-the-corner way of doing things; but
his cat-on-hot-bricks tendency is worst of all. He
gives an impression that he always wants to leap
up and down on the same spot while in conversation.
A member (you can guess his name in twice) said
of him that he was never in one place but always in
another or just leaving it. His thin constitution is
probably responsible for most of these things. If
Hughes could be turned out for agistment in a rich
paddock and fattened, lie might be a new man.
Every year since N. S. Wales smashed
the agreement for a uniform railway gauge
someone has remarked that the dreadful
piece of cussedness should he repaired, and
that each year increases the cost of the
alteration. To which the answer (when
there was any answer) was to the general
effect that: (1) It was a matter requiring
much consideration; (2) it couldn’t be
rushed; (8) there were many interests to
be considered; (4) it would be difficult to
get the States to arrive at an agreement;
(5) the division of the cost would be a
serious matter; (6) it would be wise to
appoint a Commission, and send experts
abroad to measure the width of foreign rail-
ways. An estimate made 21 years ago was
that the adoption of the 4ft. Bsin. gauge all
round would cost about £4,000,000. Six years
ago it was reckoned the job would cost about
£37,000,000. It would cost a lot more now,
and will cost a great deal more later on. Any-
howls years’ deep thought over this inevitable
problem meant a loss of £33,000,000, or
£2,200,000 a year, or £42,300 per week,
which is a heavy nrice to pay for thinking,
especially as many of the thinkers never had
a real think in their lives.
“Tekelo”: Paragraph 8 of a recent
petition to the Secretary of State to con-
stitute the Solomon Islands a Crown Col-
ony runs:—
That the whole interests, agricultural, commercial,
financial and political, as well as the entire popula-
tion, European and native, are opposed to these
Islands being placed under the control of the Aus-
tralian Commonwealth. The natives will readily
grant a deed of cession to the Crown direct, but it is
doubtful if they will do so to any other Government.
The petition also accuses the Commonwealth
of being “unsympathetic in regard to the
conditions which are essential to their
tSolomon Islands’] well being.” The truth
is that the whole of the interests in this
Group (and I’m on the spot) are not
opposed to Australian control. The native
population knows absolutely nothing about
politics, white or black. To infer that it
does is pure perversion, and the talk of the
natives granting deeds of cession to one
Government as against another is a wild
jest. Which way the native jumps depends
wholly on who engineers the performance.
It has been customary to regard it as
musical comedy when one more little Eatin-
American republic issued its declaration of
war against Germany. But the little States
know what they are doing. No one could
be more anxious than they to keep out of
the trouble and sell sugar and coffee to all
parties. But the Ilun residents—planters,
mine-owners and, above all, commercial
men—became a curse. They established
centres of information, wireless stations,
petrol-supply stations, etc,, in unexpected
places, for the Hun benefit, and the
allied Powers said things that were
unpleasant; and yet short of interning
the Hun population, which a neutral coun-
try could hardly do, the Government of El
Dorado or San Pacifico didn’t quite know
how to stop the annoyance. Corners were
worked in local products to secure the whole
supply for the Hun and leave none for the
Allies; and when that caused trouble the
Boche explained at needless length to the
owner of the country that every country
would shortly be Boche country. Just for
the joy of running that Boche into a prison
camp and seizing his treasonable papers,
and shooting him under martial law if
necessary, States no bigger than two-and-
sixpence rushed gladly into war and told the
Kaiser to do his worst.


£n~* by
n.rrfkr
The World-famous Woman
Who lias done much for her fellows, and
produced
THE GREATEST OF ALL
TOILET PREPARATIONS.
AWARDED 6 GOLD MEDALS.
USED BY ROYALTY -
for them at all Departmental Stores
and Leading Chemists.
Send 3d. Stamp for a Sample and
Booklet,
John Strange Winter
(London—Paris—Rome),
26 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
HIGH-CLASS
jspsciALms
Creams
and
Pastes
far
Cleaning § Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG UB
BarraeK St, Sydney;
Russell St, Melbourne.
m
E. BROWN (§ SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALE - OVER • THE • WORLD
The big red lamp of Chemist Keat,
Shone out along the rain-soaked street;
While all within glowed warm and bright,
In contrast to the gale-swept night.
The customers were frequent, too,
Keat still a steady trade could do;
For wise was he, and made that sure
By “pushing” Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
—Advt.
USHER'S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
.Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“The Snake”: Brighten up. God isn’t a
Hun.
* # # #
“C.T.R.”: Usually I’m no lover of argu-
ment, but I worked up a fine frenzy and
vanquished various army surgeons who
wanted to take off my leg after it had been
smashed at the knee by the recoil of a field-
igun. I must admit it was a hopeless-looking
WHEN BILLY COMES SAILING
HOME.
Making good use of the pretext that economy was
called for, woman shortened her skirts shortly after
the beginning of the war. —Fashion note.
Returned Soldier ( mistaking his wife for
his daughter ) : “Why, Esther, darling,
how tall you’ve grown! You must he
nearly as hig as your mother now!”
mess; biW it was my leg and I wanted to
keep it, if only to limp with. As I was
passed on fivm hospital to hospital, I got
to know and hate the leg-snatchers who
wanted to lop like a tree and prune me
like a hedge. They meant well, these flesh
gardeners; but one man’s operation is an-
other man’s meat, and I could never imag-
ine myself chasing a crust on crutches. One
bv one I beat them off and derided their
professional prophecies. Now lam home,
willing to walk miles any. day, and don’t
►even use a stick. It was a Suvla Bay man
who wrote, after saving his arm, that many
■soldiers owed their limbs to the fact that
there never are enough doctors to go round
sifter a big action.
* * * *
There’s an airman in Sydney who has a
■shapely enough foot with only three toes. If
Tie hadn’t been a quick thinker and a hard
doer he would either be one-legged or dead
in France. While arguing with a flying
Hun, one of Fritz’s “tracer” bullets ripped
through his foot and the phosphorus started
to burn it. He knew he couldn’t last long
and turned his machine for home, the Hun
pursuing. Arrived safely over his own lines,
he was just about to land, when he remem-
bered that it was 25 miles to the nearest
hospital. That would mean time,, and the
poison was eating into his foot like a kennel
of tigers. Pulling himself together, he put
the machine up again and flew on, landing at
the hospital door within a quarter of an hour.
Inside five minutes he was on the operating
table, where a neat job was done. It was
one of the same squadron who had his left
arm smashed by a bullet when up 14.000 ft.
Cutting out the luxury of a faint, he experi-
mented and found that the sinews could still
work the fingers. So with his right hand
he lifted the limp arm to the controls,
crooked the fingers round them, swung his
right hand back to its work and came down
safely.
“The Lamb”: Perhaps The Bulletin re-
members the masterly way Billy Hughes
scotched the Hun chemical manufacturers
when he allowed a local firm, working under
license, to perpetuate the trade name of
“Aspirin” so that Fritz could find it all
warm and comfy after the war. The firm,
to give it its due, cut out the name on its
own account, though it meant a big fight to
familiarise the public with the new monni-
ker. But what’s the use? Fully 60 per cent,
of the doctors go on ordering aspirin, and in
the military camps, where, if anywhere, you
would think the Hun taboo, the old name
holds and the drug is ordered under its
Fritzer name scores of times every day. It
is not a lone example either. A couple of
years ago the several Australian State
Pharmacy Boards went to the expense of
sending Sawbones a printed list of German
“patent” drugs with their proper chemical
tabs attached, so that he could order his
dope without asking for Hun proprietaries.
But he’s been too lazy to memorise them.
A “Mongolia will” {ids been before S. Aus.
Supreme Court; and there are likely to be
others. London makes a careful copy of any
will found in a dead soldier’s pay-book, and
sends original and copy to Australia by
different mails. In this case the copy came
safely to hand, but the will itself is sup-
posed to have been lost with the Mongolia.
The trouble is that the hasty Billjim docu-
ment was not witnessed, and so needed a
strong affidavit by someone who knows the
handwriting ; and on a mere copy, however
complete, that, of course, cannot be done.
In this instance the boy’s mother was the
sole legatee, and in case of intestacy his
father would take everything. Their lawyer
admitted that they didn’t mind which way
it was, so the Court let it go as a case of
intestacy. The instance of a lost will which
leaves everything to a girl, or otherwise, but
away from the next-of-kin, and which is
morally though not legally certain to be the
genuine last wish of the soldier, has yet to
be faced.
# * * *
Trof. Meredith Atkinson was lecturing to
a Melbourne highbrow audience, including
some of the Very Nicest, on “The Social
Evil,” and had just stated that ladies who
took to the primrose path did not, as a rule,
last more than six or seven years on it, when
a well-dressed lady in the audience rose and
begged leave to set her personal experience
against the Professor’s dictum. Amidst the
gasps of the social students she calmly
observed that she belonged to the oldest pro-
fession on earth, that she had been following
it, not for six or seven, but for 20 years, and
that she did not feel in the least like quit-
ting. When the lecturer got his breath back
he mildly remarked that he had been speak-
ing in averages, and rushed on before there
could be any more diversions.
* * * #
“Copabella”; After the war the Y.M.C.A,
will have a small army of “secretaries" look-
ing for billets, and a tremendous .organisa-
tion liable to go rusty. So it is casting round
for fresh fields to conquer. Last week in
Yarraville (Vic.) it put in its first two saps,
one each at the great works of the Cuming-
Smith and Mount Lyell fertiliser companies,
in the form of “huts.” It hopes to place
one of these in every great labor-employing
factory in Australia. The hut is to be some-
thing between a cheap dining-room and a
mutual-improvement society. The em-
ployer finds the site, equipment and as much
cash-subsidy as the spirit moves in him, the
head-centre of the Y.M.C.A. finds the cook-
missionary and his salary, and the employees
the committee of management and any lux-
uries they fancy. The great heart of the
worker is reached on co-operative lines, the
ideal aimed at being a daily lunch at Is. lid.
per week, with a menu that runs: Soup, Id.;
pie or pastry, 3d.; tea, 3d. a week. But the
rate depends on the amount of support
given. Any profit on the commissariat goes
THE RULING PASSION.
SPECTATOR ( describing accident) : “It fell over that cliff up there. There ain't a scratch
on the car, hut the people were injured something frightful.”
ENTHUSIASTIC MOTORIST: “ Wonderful, by Jove! What’s the make of the car?"
to the equipment and luxury fund. The
missionary, in addition to making his soup
and keeping his pies hot, will be a sort of
stipendiary big-brother to the employee; and
when industrial troubles arise it will
be the missionaries’ duty to stroke
down the ruffled plumage of the raging
union secretary, and to beard the roar-
ing boss-lion with the other side of
the story. In Yarraville, after a first
sniff of suspicion, the thing has taken
on well, and the missionaries’ washing-up
is running to some 300 pieces of crockery
each mid-day. Libraries, sport-teams, and
game tournaments have been started, and
gym. classes, social evenings and sundries
are in the air. The firms have played up
handsomely to the scheme, donating fine
roomy “huts,” a piano each, books and
papers, and cheques that run into three fig-
ures.
A SOFT ANSWER,
MRS. HARDUP : “I don’t care; I've darned
and I've patched, and I trimmed up last
year’s 'at, hut I will 'ave a pair of new
shoes.”
MR. HARDUP : “Be careful, my dear. Think
what a little you will get for the
money.”
“Aghala” : The most brutal wound I have
seen inflicted on a soldier was at the Land-
ing—not in Gallipoli, but at Port Melbourne
Pier. A boyish Billjim, beside himself with
delight at his home-coining, had just hopped
into a waiting car, and was smiling back at
the cheering crowd, when a blatant oaf with
whose acquaintance he was cursed blurted:
“I s’pose you heard your father was dead?”
Jack hadn’t —and he spent the rest of the
drive with his head in his hands, the sun-
shine all gone.
* * #■ *
Judge Gordon lately told an astonished
“criminal” in S. Aus. that he was “one of
the problems that baffle all students of pen-
ology.” Now 33, he started at Maitland
(N.S.W.) by getting 12 months, at the age
of 14, for indecent assault. Most of the
States have bundled him into gaol for in-
decency of some kind. South Aus. gave him
two sentences of a year last July. They ran
together, and he was out at the end of April,
only to be arrested again two days later, on
the old charge of lewdness. The Judge, who
hates the lash, found that he was bound to
order it, the law having been altered to meet
the recent outbreak of offences against
women and children in S. Aus. —an outbreak,
by the way, which followed the abolition of
recognised prostitution in that State. But
the very human old Judge was very sa,d
about it: —•
This being your second offence in this State I
have no option under the Aot but to order a whip-
ping.... In view of the fact, however, that in my
opinion nothing will deter you, and that I have no
hope that to inflict the lash would -be of any service
in this instance, either as a punishment or a deter,
rent, I propose to order you a very light whipping,
but you will serve the maximum term of imprison-
ment. It appears to me that the only hope of your
reformation is that you be kept in custody and under
discipline.
Four years and 10 lashes, accordingly. But
was jt a case even for gaol? Could this
unfortunate wretch help doing the things
he has done any more than Foch, say, can
help being a strategist? Medical, and per-
haps surgical, science ought to have a word
to say on the question,
BEFORE THE STORM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The night was quiet.” —War repmt.
Behind the lines men wrought with fevered haste;
A thousand fears were crowded in the gloom.
No moment dare the waiting armies waste,
While nations trembled on the edge of doom.
Wheel up the ready death to feed the guns 1
Stand to your post lest murder should awake!
A chill of horror through the midnight runs—
So soon again these solid hills shall shake
And the loud lightning break the lightning’s shield,
Testing again God’s judgment in the field.
A quiet night! There shall be quiet nights
For the sound sleepers under growing grass.
New summers wearing all their starry lights
In other days shall softly bloom and pass.
Where' the guns wait with death, young feet shall
play;
And where men march to die shall harvest come
Hiding with bread the shames of war away. •
Laugiiter shall live when all the guns are dumb...
Strain up the flagging courage for the fight;
Earth shall have victory and a quiet night!
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent peneopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
Four Sydney Professional Nurses testify to this Nerve Medicine, CLEMENTS TON
Because they have noted that in cases of Weakness after fever and operations and general ill-health, a rapid improvement follows its use.
NURSE h. BENNETT, who has her own private hospital, “Montone,” Ashburner
Street, Manly, N.S.W., writes the following letter: —
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“From what I know of your medicine there is no need for sick people to say farewell to
good health.
“I have followed the nursing profession for 10 years, and I have observed the results of
various medicines on my patients, and I agree with others that Clements Tonic is a remark-
able good remedy for people who are affected with bad nerves, melancholy and insomnia. It
certainly has a curative power, and any delicate person could not do better than take it. When
exhausted it always gives me renewed strength. “(Signed) Nurse Bennett ”
NURSE O’SUIXIVAN, Redfern and Parramatta, of 34 years’ constant nursing service
in the above districts, writes that in her opinion Clements Tonic is a medicine
specially suited to constitutions weakened by illness. She writes:—
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“I carried on my profession at Young Street, Redfern, for 25 years, and for the last nine
years at Parramatta.
“I have had a large number of sick people under my care, and it has been a pleasure to
recommend Clements Tonic. I knew it would give good results. My niece was rather run down
in health lately, but she is getting on splendid as the result of taking your medicine.
“(Signed) Nurse O’Sullivan.”
NURSE MARY ROE, 80 William Street, Paddington, sends her opinion of Clements
Tonic after 15 years’ professional experience.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“For many years Clements Tonic has been a great blessing to me. I take it when feeling
the least bit exhausted after the great demand on niy services. I have followed my profession for
15 years, and have a very large professional clientele.
“I have recommended this medicine to my patients and others in cases of Neuralgia, Indiges-
tion and Bad Nerves. In my opinion there is nothing to equal Clements Tonic. I know of
instances where it has almost wrought a miracle in the health of many of my friends. Use it as
you wish. “(Signed) Nurse Mary Roe.”
NURSE E. H. HAUL/, 502 New South Head Road, Woollahra, N.S.W., writes oft
Clements Tonic: “I recommend it to my patients in cases of Indigestion,
Dyspepsia and Acute Nervousness.”
This medicine is certainly one of the best Nerve Restorers possible for Invalids or
those w T hose systems feel the strain of arduous labors, especially in commercial life.
A few doses of this medicine works wonders.
NURSE HALL writes:—
“I cannot estimate the value of your medicine.
“Where my patients show symptoms of want of sleep, nervousness and dyspepsia I often
recommend it. My house would not be thoroughly equipped without it.
“Personally, I derive much benefit from a few doses of it when fatigued.
“(Signed) Nurse E. H. Hall.”
Essentially the medicine for the invalid, or for those weak from overwork, fever or operations. It gives new life to the system, tones up the stomach, liver or nerves. Try it to-day.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Kozelle, NS W. CLEMENTS TONIC DOES GOOD BECAUSE IT IS GOOD. ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
The persuasive Acting-Prime Minister
Watt has made everything clear, to every-
body’s relief, and now nobody need worry
any more. Hughes’s Federal police force
isn’t a police force at all, though what it is
doesn’t yet appear. It has duties to perform,
and they are performed regularly, even fre-
quently. It really existed before the egg
tvas thrown at Warwick, so the suspicion that
it is an omelette is unfounded. Where it
existed will be more fully known by-and-bye.
The fact that it emerged from obscurity just
after the breaking of the egg was a mere
coincidence. The force doesn’t make a prac-
tice of coinciding, but it did then. If any-
body’s mind will be eased thereby it won’t
coincide again. It was at first mostly sta-
tioned in Queensland for reasons quite un-
connected with the egg, and, besides, it may
only have appeared to be mostly stationed
there while in reality it was mostly some-
where else. Any aspect of unemployment
or loafing on its part was mere camouflage.
Its salary is paid regularly, and there is no
blot on its character. So that matter is
settled.
* * * *
“Mayne Stay” : Some 12 months ago the
Navy Department decided that it was neces-
sary to have a guard on oversea and inter-
state ships. This business is controlled by
the navy, but apparently there are not enough
flatfeet to go round ; wherefore in Melbourne
the guard has been composed of home-service
swaddies in khaki. Now these chaps are to be
converted into pukka sailor-men by the simple
process of putting them into baggy pants and
jumpers, at a cost of a thousand or two of
good War Loan. W’hat difference it makes
whether the man who leans on a bayonetted
rifle at the foot, of the gangway is in blue or
drab I can’t see; but I do grudge my share
of the cost of the new clothes.
* * * *
“Fuse-Setter” : Reading in the cables that
14 U-boats have been bagged in a week by
destroyers sends my mind back to the Eng-
lish destroyer I saw under repair in a
Northern port. The stern had been snapped
off by the depth bomb she had been drop-
ping for a submarine hog. These seaquakes
are so powerful thaT the dropper has to set
out for the horizon at top speed directly the
present for Fritz splashes overboard. The
bob-tailed cripple I saw had lingered a few
seconds too long. If surface craft catch it
like that the submerged U-boat must flatten
out beautifully.
* * * *
“H.H.” : “Delilah is always on the side of
the enemy,” said a Sydney feminine orator
to the Australian League of Honor, and she
also was mean enough to call the subject of
her discourse a “temptress.” Surely Delilah,
who was a good Philistine girl and a hair-
cutter more than two millenni-
ums ago, deserves better treat-
ment. She was married by com-
pulsion to an impossible, hulk-
ing, hostile Israelite comedian,
who used to tear up lions
and carry away gates and pro-
pound conundrums. It is speci-
fically stated that he dragged
her into matrimony because he
thought he could use her in
some way for the damage of her
people. Her wedding with the
Hun was by no means volun-
tary, like Queen Victoria’s. The
one-sided Hebrew historian
always denounced the woman
who wouldn’t turn dog on her
race for his benefit, while such
as Rahab of Jericho, who was
a Flossie and did turn dog,'was
called blessed. Rahab was told
to mark her window with a red
sign so that the Hebrew might
know that she was the right
Flossie and spare her when her
townsfolk were slaughtered;
wherefore the Flossie in many
places, notably some parts of
Maoriland, puts a red blind on
her window to this day. Delilah
stood to her country, like Joan
of Arc or the Maid of Saragossa or
George Washington. She was certainly
pretty, as every girl ought to be, and she
could probably spell big words a great deal
better than her husband.
FEMININE FINANCE.
THE CHAIRWOMAN : “I hold in my hand the treasurer's accounts for the half-year. And
I am pleased to tell you that so well has she managed affairs that we have £11
13s. 9d. more in the bank than the balance showing on the books.” (Loud
applause.)
“The Snake”: The hangman’s business is
not so new. J. F. Archibald didn’t discover
it; nor Jack Abbott. I go back a bit to a
story that the old lady was never tired of
reciting, with her clay pipe in her mouth,
down south in Maoriland :
Aweel, Potts was hangit at the Cross o’ Paisley
on the seventeenth day o’ August, 1797, and the
gibbit, forbye, projectid from the corner o’ the
steeple in sich a way, laddie, that it could be seen
frae High-street an’ the Cross. An’ weel I know
it that the buddy hangit half-mast fr’m half-past
three till half-past foor. An’ in the evening the
magistrates assembled i’ the inn-aye, the Saracen’s
Heed Inn —the where they had their parrudge an’
fixings, the whuch cost, forby, £l5 3s. Id. for their-
seves an’ the hangman an’ his scullion.
I have the hangman’s cup—it is a small,
spirit globe with two silver handles.
OVER THE ODDS.
“I (hic) shay, my dear, it’s no use your
rousing (hie). Takes more'n one to
make a quarrel, y’know.”
“Good gracious! Have you got the impu-
dence to tell me you haven't had more
than one?"
“Country Ped”; Six or seven years ago
a nice little country school situated at
Byrneville, on the Wimmera Plains (Vic.),
housed about 20 scholars, most of them of
German descent. The German parents of
these children, disliking the secular educa-
tion given in the State School (so they
said), erected a Lutheran school close by,
and appointed a teacher (pure German).
Then the German youngsters left the
State school, which the Education De-
partment promptly closed. After that
the five or six little Australians had to
journey six miles and more to other
State schools. When war broke out.
the Minister of Education
took steps to —no, no! Not
to close it—“to eradicate the
German element in Lutheran
schools.” He forbade the use
of German textbooks and the
use of the German language;
and he ordered the district
inspectors to report on them
four times a year. Whether
the regulations are obeyed at
all times no one knows —-ex-
cept the Germans. But
this I know: the Byrne-
ville State school is
still unoccupied. Its
windows are broken;
the once fine garden is
a bed of weeds; and
the pole on which our
flag flew every Monday
morning while the kid-
dies saluted it has rotted
and fallen to the
ground. But the Lu-
theran school flour-
ishes, and the little
Australians who want
an Australian school are obliged by their
Australian rulers to travel six miles or more
a day.
* * * *
“0.L.”; The dispute between doctors and
lodges in Victoria has led to an under-the-
rose resuscitation of the old lump-sum sys-
tem, so freely practised in the years before
the B.M.A. began to be run on strict trade-
union principles. Dr. Balls-Headley, who
died lately in ’Frisco, was one of the most
consistent employers of the scheme. He had
a considerable practice among the Chosen,
by whom the idea of a single yearly pay-
ment for the physicking of the whole family
was greatly approved. Nowadays, with
lodge patients and doctors both doubtful as
to the financial outcome of the dispute over
fees, numbers of prudent practitioners are
making quiet arrangements with prudent
housefathers for the payment of a single,
inclusive fee for the year’s treatment. The
B.M.A. knows something about this, of
course; but as such contracts are mostly
undertaken by the older doctors who have
been pulled out on strike by the younger
men, the B.M.A. is watching the proceedings
with a detached air.
* * » *
“T. 0.1.”: In the cemetery of St. Mathew,
Windsor (N.S.W.), is a gravestone whose
inscription runs:—
This stone is raised, by his comrades, to the
memory of Private Dunn, who was kicked out of this
life by the Colonel’s horse, as a mark of respect.
.Here lies Private Dunn,
No more alive and quick;
He died—and so would any one
That had so hard a kick.
Side by side lie a captain and a private,
buried in Jhne, 1823. Orders were strict
in those days. Runaways were numerous, and
.anyone hovering around after dark and not
giving the countersign or password when
challenged, was shot. A very nervous sentry
was on duty, and Captain Charles went out,
“for a lark,” to frighten him. The sentry
fired on getting no answer to his challenge
and shot the officer dead. When he dis-
covered what lie had done he went up to his
room and hanged himself. They were buried
next day, with full military honors, side by
side.
* * * *
The reflections of the Office Deacon:—
I didn’t realise what a terrible war it was till I
saw the Archbishops’ committee recommending the
abolition of pew rents. For ages it has been the
privilege of those who could pay the best prices
to secure the best seats; and the idea of throwing
rich and poor together in one unseemly scramble
to hear the Word is nothing short of revolutionary.
And where is it going to stop ? For all rents are in
a way pew rents. The tremendous religious offices
of sun and air, rainfall and harvest, are intended to
carry a gospel to the souls of men of which the ser-
vices in a church are only the echo. The great
principle involved in letting every man and woman
and little child get near to the priestly ministra-
tions of the sun, and hear the choir of nature sing-
ing bounteous hymns, must follow as a natural corol-
lary on the abolition of reserved seats for the preach-
ing of grace. And as the ecclesiastic has lagged far
behind all other reformers, the fact that his mind is
\yorking is proof that the mind of the nation is
working also. England has always, been a country of
sui prises; and revolution there is likely to be that
moves in spirit before it takes shape in law. Long
ago a Norman Conquest changed into Merry England.
It was the result of continental wars. The Norman
was drawn to his English followers by their united
WAYS AND MEANS.
“Your dad objects to me because he says I
have no prospects.”
“Well, why don't you enlist, and then there
will always be your pension!”
service in battle; and on their return home those fol-
lowers had a new view of their leader and the leader-
had a new pride in his men. To-day, with Conscrip-
tion in force, there is a great levelling in the battle-
area. Aristocrats march in the ranks; “common:
people” hold authority. The calamity that tears;
bodies throws them very close together. England is;
feeling it. The English archbishops have felt it.
The world is going to feel it.
THE LITTLE SON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-day the men came home.
Along the streets the stirring message ran.
Flags of the nations swirled,
And in the van
Of citizens I met a man.
Two-foot —an inch or so to spare.
Under the crowd, nigh trampled in its haste,
We elbowed each aside, and thereby faced.
“Oh, sir,” he said, his breathing coming fast:
“Give me a li/t; my dad is marching past.”
N.S.W.
JOHN BARK.


ALL IN GOOD TIME.
“It is reported that the Kaiser has appointed Kings of Lithuania, Courlaud, Esthonia and Poland.” — Cable.
GENERAL VON SPOOPENDIKE: “What about me, All Highest?”
THE ALL HIGHEST: “Patience! We’ll have a throne for you presently.”


OVERHEARD AT A SMOKE-t <>\'<KHT.
FIRST AMATEUR: “Wliat do you think of the
SECOND AMATEUR: “Not any for, me, thank-you. .1 .|JPi
never mix anything hut water with m»“" ]
WHAT IS IT?
Tlsis is not a Taronga Zoo escapee,
attacking a local resident am* a»
Amazonian Cave*dweller returning from
the chase; hut it's the latest thing in
furs worn by Sydney ladies, and may be
seen on any mild winter's <lay on our
streets.
“WAll IS HEI.L."
FIRST DOMAIN DOSSER: “Tell yer wot it
is. Bill, this war 'as sent the cost of paper
up out of sight,-an’ newspaper# is gettin'
so skeeree that the likes of us is
put to if to rfit bed-elothes
for'tliese cold Mights."
“An American shin arrived in. Syd-
ney lately with such a large consign-
ment of whisky on ltoard tltat there
was no room Jett tn the hold for a few
: : gross of. 4lat^pp^iils: : ihe
Education DcpaHment for the
XS.W. Public Schools,’’: —Daily paper.
jM SCHOOL-MARM: “Subtract JO gross
:■ of . state-pencils from 1000 eosds of
whisky- ?
BRIGHT BOit or am s( HOOF: “Can’t, It's
a role of mathematics that jou can't substraet j
things that are different from things wot ain't similar —and. besides,
Eve not got no slate-pencil."
And, by the- way, why cannot the directors of the'
Zoo keep their exhibits at. home? Here yon see a resi-
dent of Bradley's Head evicting an unclassified snake-out
of his boots the morning after a pleasant night out, while,
a akiticutu Utuemm strolls casually in at the back door.
Ev : Even
the editor.
- ■ of an unmen-
tionable paper,
who resides in
the neighborhood,
while trying to catcH m
tram one morning, was
chased bj a vicious native
bear which had managed to
break out of its cage and elude
its keepers.
UN fr/~~
/V<* Np, * __ /
Profiliin ik&<¥ @y *r
uvpFßSfvoyt Po*j>fnc£
scVo< t j. Qyf LFsSoM •
Our artist caught
, some wild tiling on
liis lawn one morning.
He had it cooked and—
well, he would rather have an Irish stew any day.
THE INTER-STATE FOOT-
WEAR- COMMISSION,
"A dilapidated pump-sole
shoe was produced by the
representative of the People's Food Protection Association."
The Commission decided that this old shoe was unfit for human
consumption.
Matches are dear and scarce. Con-
firmed smokers may have to return to
primitive methods tor getting a light.
Matches .were formerly made in Heaven.
They are now made in Marrickvitte only.
The height of Wte' W»* i# <o be regulated by the War
Precautions Act. An inspector will be appointed, of course.
Hop applied for the billet, bur was turned down as being «w
age—having, besides, a weak heart.
ZOOLOGICAL. BIOLOGICAL AND ILLOGICAL.


m
DEAF?
Let Us Show
YOU that you
CAN HEAR.
Just write: “I will try
an ACOUSTICON.”
We will post you a
suitable instrument for
FREE TRIAL.
No deposit. No expense.
After you have tried it for 10 days you alone
decide whether to keep it or return it. Don’t
delay. Stone Deafness is only mild deafness
that has developed through neglect. So write
at once. The Free Trial places you under no
obligation whatever.
LamsonfeVvicl Co.
Dakingr House. SYDNEY.
Olderfleet, MELBOURNE.
IF BILIOUS OR CONSTIPATED TAKE
CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Harmless fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels
without griping or
discomfort.
An acid stomach, clogged with fermenting,
ill-digested food, means
doing its duty. Nature provided ripe fruit
juices to keep the liver up to its work.
California Syrup of Figs—“Califig”—is a
deliciously refreshing fruit laxative which is
always in season. You can keep it at hand,
and it will be an unfailing friend whenever
the tongue is coated, bowels sluggish, breath
foul, throat dry or sore, stomach full of
wind, and head hot and aching. You can
take a dose whenever it is needed, as safely
as you could eat fresh fruit. In a short
while you will feel the benefit. The bowels
will be gently relieved, and the stomach
cleansed and sweetened as the undigested
food is moved on and got rid of. The tongue
will grow clean again and the head will be
cooled and cleared. There is no mistaking
the beneficial effects of California Syrup of
Figs—“Califig.” Directions are with it for
adults and children of all ages. This
pleasant laxative is good for all, and cannot
possibly harm even the most delicate, but
you must ask for “Califig”—California
Syrup of Figs, and look for the name and
trade-mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
All chemists sell “Califig”—California
Syruo of Figs—in bottles of two sizes,
1/1J and 1/9 [1
M
m
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
mm
m i m
** A
LEWIS &
WIiITTY
- - • 'S' -
MAKERS
s
m
mm
. m
u:u
isssasn
mm
m
»
sssa
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNIS
LINSEEN
OIL
John Forrest, is in such poor health that
the House of Reps, has probably seen the
last of him. He is the only member of the
first Australian Ministry left in politics:
Barton is a High Court Judge; Kingston,
Lyne, O’Connor and Turner are dead;
Deakin, Drake and Fysh retired.
TUNING HIM UP.
William McMeekin, a Warrnambool native,
who died last week, did most useful public
service in helping to Victoria’s
pioneer butter-factories and in founding the
export trade in fat. His declining years
were largely spent with a black Bible under
his arm. Better-known brother Sam
is in the regular sky-piloting business.
Petered out in Launceston, at S 2, Augus-
tus Simson, one of the best-known company
managers in the Speck. He handled the
Tasmania mine both during its prosperity
and its adversity. The Tasmanian Copper and
other cos. were also in his charge. Outside
mining he was known throughout Australia
and further afield as a keen naturalist. In
liis early days, while a wandering prospector
on the mainland and in Tassy, he assidu-
ously followed his natural bent, and for-
warded many hitherto unrecorded species to
Europe. In addition he amassed a very
large and valuable private collection. His
butterflies were purchased by Walter Roths-
child for the Tring Museum a few years
since, and his collection of beetles was*
secured by the Adelaide Museum this year.
In addition to being an entomologist he was
a sound botanist and conchologist, and knew
more than most men about stamps’, coins
and music.
Alexander Willoughby Britton, the new
secretary of N. S. Wales Department of
Navigation, comes of well-known journalis-
tic stock. His grandfather founded the Mt.
Alexander Mail (Vie,) in the goldfields
days, and both his father and uncle (Alex,
and Henry Britton) were well-known figures
on the Melbourne press. Later, Alex. Britton
crossed to Sydney to take up, editorial work
on S. M. Herald, and was subsequently
appointed Government Historian of N. S.
Wales. The late Howard Willoughby, editor
of Melbourne Argus, was another uncle.
The new secretary’s only known vice is
chess.
TIER BIT.
THE INSTRUCTRESS: “But why arc you so
keen on learning fencing?”
T HE PUPIL: “Well, you see, I do so want
to help the tear and knitting seems so
silly—I just must do something practi-
cal.”
A foregathering in a graveyard was held
on the 19th to celebrate the anniversary of
Batman’s arrival in Port Phillip. It seems
a cheerless way of celebrating anything, but
there was method in this mournfulness. Most
of those who attended at the Old Cemetery
were interested in blocking the encroach-
ments of the Victoria Market on the mouldy
bones of ancient Melbourne. That ready
and willing platformist, Isaac Selby, was the
chief mouthpiece of. the assemblage, and had
something interesting to say of the “hundred
representative men” who lie buried in the
historic plot.
Louis Francis Heydon, N. S. Wales
M.L.C., who died recently, was a son of
Jabez Iv. Heydon, and was born in 1848 in
King-street, Sydney. The A.B.C. Chambers
now occupy the site. There the father, J. K.
Heydon, sold in bulk Holloway’s Pills and
Ointment, for which he was sole agent in
the Southern Hemisphere. Louis, like his
brother the Judge, started life as a bank
clerk ; but promotion being slow and salaries
small, they took to the law, one as a solici-
tor, the other as a barrister. After practis-
ing for a while Louis entered into partner-
ship with T. M. Slattery, and the business
of Slattery and Heydon prospered. Heydon,
sen., was a man of many parts. For some
years he was proprietor of the Freeman’s
Journal. At another time lie hung out the
Lombardy Apples.
Old Harry Hay, of Collendina squattage,
is dead in his 73rd year. Harry, of Collen-
dina, and Alfred, of Boomanoomanah, who
went to his last camp two or three years
ago. were sons of the late William
(“Hoppy”) Hay. M.L.A. of N. S. Wales.
“Hoppy” had owned both runs, though Boo-
manoomanah was his headquarters, and
there in the’seventies he tallied 80,000 sheep.
“Hoppy” was one of the old sort, keeping a
rough tongue for his “hands” and a kennel
of staghounds for undesired visitors. Alfred
was a lean, solemn sheepman; but in his
prime Harry was a nuggety son of his
father, full of stoush and hobnailed speech
and death to “travellers”— gr-r-rh! The pair
generally looked to Melbourne for their
slack-season diversions.
Three or four years ago John Forrest was
rather proud of taking a bigger collar than
any rival in Australian politics, not even
excepting George Reid. One day lie went
into a Melbourne shop and asked for his
size in this wear. The shop didn’t have
them. “H’m,” said John —“what shall I
do now?” “You might try the saddler’s,”
said the playful youth behind the counter.
\ enerable Fred Cato, surviving founder
of the hardshell grocery firm of Moran and
Cato, has sent £lOOO to the hospital at
Stawell, the Vic. township where he was
“raised,” as a sort of assurance thftt things
have gone right. Cato left Stawell as a lad
with 305., went to Maoriland and presently
returned with £lOO, which started him in
business with the late Moran. The concern’s
two main principles are strictly-
cash sales and no employees who
take beer and tobacco. The old
man himself, though wowsing
ardently, is not completely above
the pomps and vanities. ' When
he struck his rich vein of profits
he bought an immense dwelling
on the southern outskirts of
Haw-haw-thorn, surrounded by
considerable shrubbery and fai-
lals. It was a rather poor spec.,
as nowadays there is a gas-
ometer to the south and a brick-
works to the north, both of them
greatly discounting the grandeur
of the Cato mansions. Still, he
has had plenty of activities to
take his mind off thosb worries
—always there has been the
extra 4d. to chase around the
corner.
“Ed.”: I see that G.-G. Fer-
guson has had his head hurt
while felling a tree in Melbourne
Domain. One of Von Mueller’s
trees, he explains, as if to justify
the destruction. Old Baron Von
Mueller was a German, but the
best of his kind, and an ardent
tree-lover, persistently offering-
good advice which, if accepted
at the time, would have had re-
sults worth millions to Aus-
tralia to-day. Somehow just at
present I remember the remark
he threw out of his old muffler
at a suburban mayor, head of a
council which was then busy tearing down
a _ fine avenue of, gums. “Useless, mein
friendt, useless! Dere vill alvays sdill be
von tree left to hank you to.”
To Sir Henry Blake, who died a few
weeks ago, was due a new rule with regard
to the appointment of Australian Governors.
In the ’eighties, when it was proposed to
send him to Queensland as Governor, there
was a roar of protest because of the man’s
notoriety as a suppressor of Irish disturb-
ances during “Buckshot” Foster’s rule in
Dublin. In his perplexity the then Premier
of Bananaland appealed to other Premiers
of Australia. Kingston, of S. Aus., took up
the matter and fought it with such fervor
and ability that the British Government
agreed to submit the names of its future
nominees before appointing them. Inciden-
tally, Blake decided to stay at home.
Gone at 82, John Frauenfelder, orchard-
ist, of Lavington, near Albury, and one of
the pioneers of the N.S.W. wine industry.
As he used to say, he had the happiness to
dig the first hole for the first vine planted
in the district—that was in 1851. He came
to Australia in ’49, and never left it. In
1860 he started the now famous Murray
Valley^vineyard, and two years later had the
first 25 acres of vines planted. Of late years
he gave a lot of attention to the prune busi-
ness, which he greatly helped on to its feet.
T. .1. Lindsay, killed in the Hun’s big
push in France, was a grandson of that J.
W, Lindsay who was chaplain at Norfolk
Island and Port Arthur in the bad old days.
Yeung Lindsay won the gold medal of Syd-
ney Chamber of Commerce at his last
school exam, in 1905, and went into the
engineering branch of the Railways. In his
spare time he climbed to a militia captaincy.
When the real thing arrived he went to
New Guinea as a private, returned in six
months as sergeant, re-enlisted, and got to
Gallipoli in time for the closing acts. Inva-
lided home with enteric, he put in some
time as instructor in Liverpool (N.S.W.)
camp, and then went through Duntroon Mili-
tary College and caught the boat as second
lieutenant for France, where he picked up a
second stay and a mention in despatches.
CAPTAIN PIN LAY RON, Censor,
Melbourne.
Now that Adela Pankhurst-Walsh is
otherwise occupied, the Vic. Socialist party
has given its organising job to Harry Scott-
Bennett, the hero of a thousand tongue-
fights.
At Windsor (N.S.W'.) recently died Mrs.
Ann Ouvrier, aged 93. Her husband, a
Frenchman, had, so tradition says, a market-
garden where now is Anthony Hordern and
Sons’ universal providery.
When Sergeant Cornell was up for re-
election to the Westralian Leg. Council the
other day his wife took his campaign iu
hand. The result couldn’t have been more
satisfactory if he had done the job himself.
Gone west to join his brother Clarence,
who was also a captain and M.C., • Neville
Wallach, of Bondi (N.S.W.), killed in
France on May 1. Neville was one of the
seven athletic sons of Henry Wallach, whp
were all educated at Sydney Grammar. Six
of them got into khaki, and two are still at
the Frbnt.
It seems to be an Ulsterman’s pup that
leads the Parnell family. Charles Stewart,
the Irish leader, went over in circumstances
that were tragic enough. Of three sisters
Fanny, the poetess, died young at Boston
(U.S.). Anna was drowned in a pond in
England. Now the cable tells that Mrs.
Ricketts, the last of them, has died after be-
ing a week in South Dublin Workhouse,
where her identity was unsuspected till
some papers were found after her death. She
was probably out of gear mentally, because
she had plenty to live on in comfort.
Many Melbourne people lost the keystone
of their faith when the almost-famous Mrs.
Rising passed out last week. The quaint
old clairvoyante amassed a motor-car, a
mansion and a considerable bag of money
out of the credulity of thousands who sought
her aid. In sickness all that was necessary
to do was to send Jessie a lock of hair or a
bootlace belonging to the patient, and she
would soon be gazing trancefully into his
distant inside. Jessie is alleged to have
defined and cured diseases that had baffled
plain Science, but she hadn’t enough know-
ledge to save herself. The power of self-
diagnosis is not given to mediums, apparently.
She was Scotch, and her clients included the
late Linlithgow, then Ilopetoun, Governor
or Victoria.
GENIUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now most of us be well content to keep the beaten
highway
Anti fear to leave the dusty road or tempt the dewy
hyway;
We never burst the guarding hedge, although we be
not craven,
But. dearly do we love the track, the lighted inn and
haven.
But sometime comes a youthful soul whose eyes are
full of rapture—
He hears beyond the hedge the songs that thrill and
fill and capture;
He leaps the ditch and dashes back the brambles
that would blind him,
And lo! another world appears—the road is all
behind him i
He presses on and on and on; the bog-lands draw
him under
And many a time the storms dash down to daunt
him with their thunder;
The hills that seemed so fair afar are rough with
barren boulders,
And rain and frost and hail and snow will lash his
aching shoulders.
Yet, when the day is on the wane, if courage do
not fail him,
From peaks of gold what views unfold, what songs
of welcome hail him !
He hears the sea in myriad caves her countless
warriors wheeling,
While down the hills the pipes of Heav’n roll forth
their organ pealing.
And newer worlds at night are his, to pay him for
his daring,
And naught shall e’er entice him back from yonder
lofty faring;
What heeds he now the tearing thorns, the lash of
storms untender,
When he hath won the Mountain Gate that opens on
the splendor!
But we, we others, keep the road, we know of noth-
ing surer;
And, though we miss the Glory Peaks, our supper's
much securer;
We do not grudge our friend the crown he won by
tears and toiling,
Content to know we’ve gained an inn that keeps its
pots a-boiling.
QUEENSLAND.
P. ATREY.


They all love Three Caftles


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig: Dead
Corroding Dead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
Registered
buyers on a specially favorable
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (Higrh Grade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
BHAS
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
, FOR EVERY ENGINEERING NEED THERE IS A
PIONEER Leather Belt
SOLE . .
MAKERS,
J. C. LUDOWICI (Si SON LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
PIONEERS and LEADERS SINCE 1858.
“THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Sun Newspaper, Ltd. (Sydney),
which bought the assets of the Australian
Newspaper Co. in March. 1910, for £28,000,
or £3132 less than they were then alleged to
be worth :
Written To Re- Re-
Mar., Loss. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
19X0.. _ £3,132
1911.. £2,063 Nil £B5B 211
Premiums on shares . . £5773 5,984
Profit.
1912.. 3,109 Nil 2042 1067 7,051
1913.. 3,795 Nil 7273 3,573
Premiums on shares .. 5503 9,076
1914.. 10,066 9i p.c.= £B,OOO 6000 5,142
Premiums an new shares .. 6237 11,379
1915.. 12,836 8 p.c.= 8,624 8237 7,354
Net
Profit.
1916.. 12,760 8 ~ „ 10,080 2680 10,034
1917.. 13,959 7 ~ ~ 13,860 99 10,133
1918.. 15,116 7 ~ „ 14,746 370 10,503
Considering all things the Sun did well to
make over £15,000 in the past year. Besides
the strike, which cost the co. over £3OOO, it
has had to pay a war price for paper ; the pre-
sent quotation is 400 to 450 p.c. above normal
—or what was normal before the, war. In
addition it had war-time trouble in connec-
tion with improvements in its Sunday edi-
tion—troubles which apparently mean that
it is unable to make profitable use of expen-
sive additions to plant. Fortunately the
war found the Sun on the up-grade and
with a new organisation capable of supply-
ing an excellent cable service in which no
other Sydney paper shared. Had the world
drowsed along in the old rut this new ser-
vice might not have yielded much profit, in
view of the fact that comparatively few
papers shared the expense; but it meant a
lot when the centre of Australia’s news-
interest shifted to the other side of the
equator. This gave the Sun a boom in cir-
culation. Then came lavish expenditure of
loan money in Sydney and the mobilisation
of much of Australia’s foreign trade at
the same port, partly because of the short-
age of shipping and partly because of the
development of trade with America and
Japan. These things made Sydney out-
wardly more prosperous than it had ever
been before; and the Sun, by reason of its
boom in circulation, was able to command
advertising at increasing rates. So you
get an explanation of a profit of £15,000 in
spite of the tremendously increased cost of
production before mentioned.
Twelve months ago it looked as though
the co. was on thin ice so far as indispen-
sable supplies are concerned. Stocks (at
cost) were down to £27,910. Since then the
co. has had the luck to build up to £89,550 ;
and, the directors say, “contracts have been
made for supplies of printing paper suffici-
ent to enable us to carry on to the end of
1919.” But the stocks in hand are far more
important than contracts entered into. Con-
tracts are easily enough made; the trouble
with a country which has practically no
shipping of its own and no printing-paper
mills is to get them fulfilled in a hurry. The
increase of the stocks has, of course, affected
the financial position :
1911. 1914. 1916. 1917. 1918.
Capital . .£24,950 £83,598 £122,050 £125,463 £145,837
Liabilities 44,334 26,140 27,490 19,441 63,787
Freehold.. 21,277 41,650 62,870 62,870 61,370
Plant .. 36,238 60,118 61,552 69,350 78,084
Stock . . 4,958 11,682 39,252 27,910 89,550
Book debts 6,825 19,435 14,110 25,075 27,303
Cash, etc... 1,056 2,670 5,962 2,233 1,444
Liabilities are thus £44,340 greater although
over £20,000 of new capital has been issued.
But as stocks are nearly £62.000 heavier,
and consist chiefly of one of the most sale-
able commodities in the world, there is no
need for anyone to stay awake at night
thinking about the overdraft.
The reserves are shown above as £10,503.
The table, however, isn’t quite satisfactory:
no table can be when the co. won’t stick to
one form of balance-sheet. Some years ago
the directors used to exhibit the amount writ-
ten off for depreciation. They don’t now.
But, in addition to the reserves shown above,
they have a plant and machinery reserve,
which has moved on from £22,017 to
£27,592 during the year. There is no good-
will item among the assets. Assuming good
management, this puts the co. on an excel-
lent wicket for scoring a high rate of divi-
dends.
The directors have lately acquired, “at a
satisfactory figure the assets and under-
taking of the Newcastle Newspaper Co. A
new co. has already been formed, in con-
junction with the shareholders of the old
co. at Newcastle, for the purpose of publish-
ing the Newcastle Sun and in which this co.
holds a controlling interest.” Newcastle’s
big manufacturing future is as well assured
as that of any town can be in a country
which still suffers from suppressed Freetrade
mania; and apart from the new paper’s
dividend prospects it will suit the Sun very
well to have more non-competitors who will
share the cost of its expensive cable service.
* * * *
The Manufacturers’ Mutual Accident
Insurance Association, Ltd. (Sydney),
formed to do Workmen's Compensation in-
surance for manufacturers. The deficit of
£1()() with which the co. began represents
preliminary expenses:—
Bonus to
Profit. Dividends. Policyholders. Deficit.
£166
April, Reserves.
1915. .£5,421 10 p.c. = £ 155 £2530 2,570
1916.. 7,263 10 „ „ 172 4593 5,068
1917.. 10,641 10 ~ „ 198 6832 8,679
1918.. 12,435 10 „ „ 228 7107 13,779
The reserves are compounded as follows:
IT . 1915. 1916. 1917. 1918.
Unexpired risks .. £1570 £3143 £5667 £9,548
Contingency fund . . 1000 1925 3000 4,200
P. and L. balance .. 12 31
Total .. £2570 £5068 £8679 £13,779
1 his is another remarkable illustration of
the advantages of co-operation. The co. was
promoted by the N. S. AVales Chamber of
Manufactures; and as the members send in
their business without canvass, the costs are
astonishingly low. Look at these figures:—
April, Premiums. Losses. Exes.
1915 .. £6,854 £619 £857
1916 . . 11,023 2,291 1635
1917 .. 16,487 3,722 2384
1918 .. 23,870 8,703 3352
Totals . . £58,234 £15,335 £8228
So for the four years the expense rate has
been 14.1 p.c. of the premiuins and the loss
rate 26.3 p.c.; together 40.4 p.c. This, after
providing a satisfactory reserve for unex-
pired- risks and for contingencies, has allowed
of the return to policyholders of 36.2 p.c. of
their premiums. The shareholders mean-
time have had a dividend of 10 p.c. p.a.; but
that as well as a bite for mother (for the
past year the Chamber gets a grant of £200)
has come out of interest earnings. Last
year the _ new Workmen’s Compensation
Act came into operation in N. -S. Wales:—
This Act increases benefits to injured workers cer-
tainly by 33J p.c., and probably bv 50 p.c., over
and above the benefits of the 1910 "Act. Although
these benefits have addpd greater liabilities to
workmen s compensation policies, insurance cos. have
generally reduced the rates for this class of insur-
ance by an average of at least 33J p.c Dur-
ing the year under review this Association took as
its basis these reduced rates.
The immediate elfec't has been to increase
the loss rate to 36.3 p.c.; but the expense
rate remains at the average of 14.1 p.c.,
allowing, after providing for contingencies,
of a return of 30 p.c, of the reduced pre-
miums.
The only other point for inquiry is with
regard to the assets in which the funds are
invested. These couldn’t be better. Apart
trifle in outstanding accounts
(£111.)) and furniture (£72), everything is
in War Loan (£17,875) and bank deposits.
.The Colonial Bank of Australasia
(Melbourne) :
Divs. on To Re- Re-
Profits. All Shares. serves, serves.
£ £ £
Sept., TO.. 23,509 7 p.c.= 15,375 8,134 153,637
Mar., ’ll.. 23.708 7 „ ~ 15,375 8,333 161,970
sept.,’ll.. 24,626 7 „ ~15,375 9,251 171,221
Mar T 2.. 27,864 7 „ ..15,375 12,489 183.710
Sept., 12.. 27,932 7 „ ~15,375 12,557 196,267
Mar., ’13.. 28,002 7 „ ~15,375 12,627 208,894
Premises written down, £5OOO. . 203 894
Sept.,' T 3. j 28,110 7 p.c. = 15,375 12,735 210.629
Mar., 14.. 28,231 7 „ ~15,375 12,856 229,455
Premises written down, £5OOO. . 224.485
Sept., T 4.. 27,224 7 p.c.= 15,375 11,849 236,334
Mar., To.. 27,318 7 „ „ 15,375 11,943 248,277
Sept., 15.. 25,802 7 ~,, 15,375 10,427 258,704
Mar., T 6. . 26,146 7 ~,, 15,375 10,771 269,475
Sept.,. T 6. . 21,383 7 „ ~15,375 6,008 275,483
Mar., ’l7. , 26,025 7 „ ~ 15,375 10,650 286,133
Sept., ’17.. 26,826 7 ~,,15,375 11,451 297,584
Mar., TB.. 27,252 7 ~,, 15,375 11,877 309,461
It just happens that during the 7i years
covered by the table the visible reserves have
doubled; and, seeing that this excellent fea-
ture is the result of keeping the dividend
down to 7 p.c., it is a performance worth a
bouquet. But it is worth something more
than that; it is worth public confidence. The
deposit figures show that the Colonial is
getting what it deserves, too :
Liabilities.
_, x 1914. 1917. 1918.
Notes .. .. £20,163 £18,235 £18,092
etc 392,980 156,394 208,448-
Free deposits . . 1,723,788 1,782,360 2.123 701
Deposits at interest.. 2,302,538 2,534,386 2,640,178
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 2,078,788 2,013,941 2,189 567
Advances ~. .. 2,845.215 3,023,027 3,369,839
Premises, etc. . . 195,606 196,195 196,130
Thus deposits and other liabilities have in-
creased in four years from £4,439,469 to
£4,990,419. Of that £550,000 only £lll,OOO
was held liquid as at March 31; and in view
of the uncertainties of the present position
those figures would take a good deal of justi-
fying if they stood alone. There is no
doubt something to be said in extenuation.
The Colonial has a considerable pastoral and
other country connection ; and owing to the
system of wool appraisement a good deal of
the clip remains to be paid for on March 31.
This probably explains why the advances
which on September 30 were £2,975,807
moved up to £3,369.539 in the next six
months. And the wheat harvest has also
had to be financed. The advances are there-
fore probably much more liquid than
advances generally are.
Even on the figures as they stood at the
end of the half-year, liquid assets were equal
to 44 p.c. of the total liabilities to the
public; and in ordinary circumstances that
would be reckoned something more than a
fair proportion. Capital is £439,280; add
visible reserves, and you have a total of
£748,741, which is equal to £1 for every
£(> 13s. of the public’s money in the business.
There is nothing unsafe about that either.
All the same, with this amount of the pub-
lic’s money at risk, a shade over 7 p.c. isn’t
very much profit to make on the shareholders’
capital and reserves combined. There has
been a lot of talk in England lately—-and
there is more than usual just at present—
about bank amalgamation; but, however it
may be there, we could do with some more
of it in Australia. There is much overlap-
ping—more of it than there seems to be upon
merely comparing the lists, of branches of the
various banks, inasmuch as one bank estab-
lishes a branch at Tabletop not because there
is enough business for a bank there, but
because it hopes to get a bit of business
from Pegleg, where another bank has a branch
which has been serving Tabletop as well.
This country isn’t so much over-banked as
it is over-branched; and if amalgamation is
too hard a thing to manage it would be better
for shareholders and customers, too, if Boards
could parcel out the country. We don’t do
the producer a good service by putting one
bank at his back door and another at the
front, although as a rule he thinks we do.
Somebody has to pay for it all; and it isn’t
the man in Collins-street.
* * * *
Standard-Waygood-Hercules. Ltd., for-
merly the Standard-Waygood, Ltd., an amal-
gamation of four or more Sydney businesses,
whose chief object is to put in and look after
lifts and electrical machinery (goodwill,
£15,000 to start with) :
, „ „ „ Towards
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1910. . £11,078 121 p.c.= £5,750 £5,328 £9,072
Premiums on new shares. . 5,825 3,847
Reservpa
1911.. 17,274 12ip.c.= 10,080 7,194 3,347
Premiums on new shares.. 6,675 10 022
1912.. 19,970 20 p.c. = 19,345 625 10 647
1913.. 21,372 121 „ „ 14,062 7,310 17’957
Unexplained additions to reserves 1,969 19 926
1914.. 35,725 19,547 16,178 36,’104
191 J.. . 23,215 121 ~ „ 19,547 3,668 39,772
Written off book debts and securities, £9286 30,486
1916.. 6,152 10 p.C. a 15,638 21,000
. 16,288 10 ».. 16,888 20,380
1918.. 16,925 10 „ „ j. 6,888 37 20,417
Iu this case a lot seems to depend upon the
valuation of stock and work in progress”
As at March, 1917, this was stated to be,
at cost, £97, i 55. Previously it was not
stated whether it was “at cost” or “at valu-
ation ’ or partly one and partly the other;
but presumably it was, as in 1917, at cost,
present accounts, however, the item
is stock and work in progress, at valuation
and cost, £94,319; so it is probable that
more or less credit has been taken for the
increase m value of stock and that the past
yoar s profit has been swollen accordingly.
I here is no good reason why stock should
not be valued and, if necessary, written np;
bnt the operation would obviously benefit
the past year’s profit at the expense of that
oi future years.
Going back to 1915 this shows the princi-
pal balance-sheet movements:—
n ~ . !915. 1916. 1917. 1918.
PP'ff.l. • • £156,379 £156,379 £168,734 £168,879
Liabilities . . 30,848 46,603 18,981 18 017
Property and . ’
plant .. 57,800 55,800 -54,500 53,500
StocK and work 90,492 97,500 97,756 94 319
Book debts and 9
all other assets 90,435 78,501 72,726 76,383
That doesn’t . look very satisfactory. The
reduction in liabilities is a set-off against the
increase in capital; so that only the move-
ments in the asset lines need be taken into
consideration. Assume that, though writ-
ten down, property and plant remain for
practical purposes worth as much as in 1915.
Them for the rest, we have a reduction of
iIT,U(JU in book debts, cash and investments
as against an increase of £4OOO in stock and
work in progress; and some remarks have
, been made as this latter item.
Difficulty,, the directors say, “has been ex-
penenced in keeping the workshops busy,
a.though the co.’s manufacturing facilities
are being increased”; yet the general pros-
perity (fictitious and otherwise) of Sydney
in the past year has been much brighter than
we can reasonably expect when war prices
for our biggest export lines cease and War
Loans are no longer being lavishly spent. The
co. did extraordinarily well in its earlier
years; but circumstances favored it, and,
however great the co.’s merits, they don’t
seem likely to favor it to anything like the
same extent in the near future.
* » * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors
and Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sept., 1911. . £lOO9 9 p.c. =£472 £537 £9,236
Mar., 1912.. 1071 9 „ „ 472 599 9,835
Sept., 1912.. 1014 10 „ „ 561 453 10,288
Mar., 1913.. 996 10 „ „ 550 446 10 734
Sept., 1913.. 10 _>> >* n sis 357 11,091
( Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,591
Star., 1914.. 1015 10 p.c. = 551 464 11,055
Sept., 1914.. *? 2 .7 10 „ »» S5O 377 11,432
t Written off, £5OO .. .. 10,932
Mar., 1915.. 753 10 p.c. = 536 217 11,149
Sent 1915 f 891 15 » » 868 23 11,172
aept., ivio.. | written off, £5OO .. .. 10,672
Mar., 1916.. 853 10 p.c. = 702 151 10 823
Sept., 1916.. 882 15 „ „ 850 32 10,855
Mar., 1917.. 986 15 „ „ 850 136 10,991
Sept., 1917.. 1023 15 ~ ~ 787 236 11,227
Mar., 1918. . 850 15 „ „ 787 69 11,296
Only a small affair; but it is doing good
work. The co. now holds £981,(512 in trust;
and it is handing out 15 p.c. dividends to
shareholders with ease, though the margin
for the past half-year has been reduced by
an increase in expenses, chiefly salaries.
Capital is £lO,OO0 —10,000 £5 shares paid
to £l—and there are reserves equal to nearly
£1 2s. 6d. On its own funds, however, the
co. shows only, about 4£ p.c. p.a.—a very
mild return in these dear money times.
From the clients’ point of view the position
is quite comfortable, for even if the co.
should at any time take the wrong turning
there’s £40,000 of capital callable, - and
£25,000 of that is earmarked for the protec-
tion of clients. In addition to doing its job
well, the co.’s charges are modest. Commis-
earnings for the past year have totalled
£3150, and (he average value of trusts in
hand is £959,164. On that basis the total
charges amount to not quite (is. 6d. p.c. p.a.
The Grand Hotel, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
Mur., Profit. Dividend. Off. serves, serves.
1906.. £3Oll 2} p.c. = £843 £2668 £31,877
1907.. 1323 Nil 1323 33,200
1908.. 3021 2J p.c. = 843 2178 35,378
1909.. 2044 25 ~ ~ 843 1201 36,579
1910.. 2713 25 „ ~ 843 1870 38,449
1911.. 5597 34 „ ~1124 £11,553 31,369
1912.. 4848 5 „ „ 1686 3162 34,531
1913.. 3211 5 „ „ 1686 10,-613 25,443
1914.. 1116 24 „ „ 843 2,305 23,411
Loss.
1915.. 2511 Nil —• 20 900
1916.. 1590 Nit 19,310
1917.. 206 Nil 19,104
Profit.
1918.. 3252 Nil 3282 22,386
There are pubs and pubs—pubs that cater
for the comfort of their customers, and pubs
that cater for their discomfort. The latter
make most money. The Grand is one of
Melbourne’s first-class hotels, and its history,
partly shown in the table, is anything but
cheerful. Even in the good times the co.
was unable to adjust its tariff to a scale that
would give a decent return for the service
provided. Under the best of conditions the
residential hotel in Australia is an uncer-
tain business which requires the most care-
iui management. But in troublous times like
the present, with the tourist traffic practi-
cally dead, liquor trading restricted and pro-
vision prices sky-high, the big caravanserais
are having a particularly rough passage.
The Grand showed a loss of over £4OO dur-
ing the three years following the outbreak
of war; but the position was really worse
than that, for apparently no provision was
made for depreciation. Last year’s recovery
was partly due to increased rents from the
self-contained flats into which part of the
hotel has been converted, and also to “the
personal interest shareholders are taking in
recommending the hotel to their friends.” Of
the profit of £3282, however, £l5OO has gone
into a depreciation fund, which now stands
at £3OOO and is included in the reserves in
the table. Capital is £39,319. The book
value of the hotel (exclusive of furniture,
etc.) is £04,025, but there is a mortgage of
£02,000, which calls / for £2600 of interest
per annum. The co. owes £1419 and there
are liquid assets totalling almost £5OOO.
* * * *
Ciioiseul Plantations, Ltd.—This co.,
which operates in the German Solomons,
now under British military administration,
is in 1000 shares of £lOO each. Twelve
months ago. £6O per share remained un-
called ; now it has been reduced to £42 10s.,
and probably another £2O rpay be wanted
this current year. Expenses have been cut
and are to be cut further; but there is a
big force of recruited labor to be paid off
during the year, and £7098 is owing on
account of accrued wages. The German
Government allowed the co. to select 1£,355ac.
A military survey of the areas has been
completed, and it works out at 10,418 ac.
“Negotiations are well in hand for the


immiiiMiiiiiiiimiiiiHiimiiiiimiimniiiimiiiimmiimiiiimimmiimiiiuimiMimimmiiiiiimmiiiiiiimimmiiiiiim'iiiiiiiimmimiii
The British Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
iiniiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiiiiiHiHiiiiwiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiniiimiiiiiriiiimiiiiiiii
Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
etc. Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the features
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts of the world.
Ask for
literature from
rstin
jpusr
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
iiirniiiiimimiiiiiiimimimmiiiiinmimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Negligible maintenance costs are assured if you
specify British Thomson-lfouston Direct and Alter-
nating Current Generators for your power and
lighting supply.. There are more B.T.H. Generators
in operation in Australia than any other make. The
reason is—reliability. Write, for further particu-
lars and quotations to the Australian General
Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Life is full of uncertainties, such as betting on a
sure tiling, for instance. But you cannot afford to
take chances with your water-supply. Country resi-
dents especially should take greater care. They
usually draw their water-supply from rivers and
tanks which very often contain impurities and vege-
table matter. Use Aluminoferric. One ton will
clarify 8,000,000 gallons of water. It will not affect
the taste and will insure a supply of pure, clear
water. For further particulars write to William
Adams & Co., Ltd.. 175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Also at Brisbane, Melbourne, Perth and Adelaide.
—Advt.
* * * *
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
* * * *
Wood Piping is being used successfully as bore
casing. Write for particulars and prices. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Limited (Head
Office), Burns Bay ltoad. Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O.
Ad.—Box 1576 G.P.O., Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise de-
serves. The Federal Government has placed an order
for a large marine set, and their example has been
followed by several of the largest trading firms in
Australia, Tasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch
East Indies. The workmanship of the Australian
“Skandia” compares with any imported engine on
the market. Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street,
Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb. — Advt.
* * * *
Steel moulds for concrete-pipemaking enable suit-
able pipes being made on site from local material
with the addition of cement. Moulds supplied for
making concrete pipes: 12in. inside diameter x
24in. long, 15in. x 24in., 18in. x 24in., 24in. x 24in.
Apply Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Head Office, Sydney.
Queensland enquiries: The Australian Machinery Com
pany, Limited, Mary Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
■*. * * * *
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty' years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.—Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
MtEBWfITO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital ..£250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291'
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 24,9,000
Established 1910.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State;
Write for particulars.
W. K. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
* The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuss
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS— IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
acquisition of the balance,” the directors say
—they are not quite the sort to want less
than they are entitled to. ‘‘The position at
the end of the year was that 5142 ac. had
been planted with 287,972 cocoanut trees,
whilst S69ac. were in various stages of
clearing and preparation.” So far it has
been all expenditure and no revenue; but in
this current year a little copra may be
cooked, and next year, all going well, the
co. will start to make money. So far it has
spent £59,763 on securing and developing
its areas, which are in four estates along 80
miles of coast, plus £3626 of administration
exes. The co. has been exceptionally favored
in regard to labor, the German law and
administration having been much less par-
ticular than the British about the recruiting
of labor from New Guinea and elsewhere.
Hence the remarkably rapid development of
the estates. How things may be altered oy
the war even 8., P. and Co., which fathered
the co., don’t know; and what they don’t
know about the islands is pretty obscure.
• # * •
Broken Hill Junction North Silver
Mining Co., now the Junction North Broken
Hill Mines:—
Gross Written
Profit. Dividend. Off. Reserves.
Mar., 1912. . £16,391 £9,000 £5,281 £36,124
Reserves wiped out; new co. formed.
Sept., 1912.. 36,828 Nil 22,254 14,574
Loss.
Mar., 1913.. 5,744 Nil 2,928 5,902
Profit.
Sept., 1913.. 22,114 Nil 6,338 21,678
Mar., 1914.. 6,121 Nil 3,578 24,221
Sept., 1914.. 7,633 Nil 3,839 28,015
Loss.
Mar., 1915.. 18,120 Nil 9,895
Sept., 1915.. 7,602 Nil 2,293
Deficit.
Mar., 1916.. 8,974 Nil 7,117 13,798
Profit.
Sept., 1916.. 696 ’ Nil 3,865 16,967
Mar., 1917.. 28,381 Nil 20,050 8,636
Reserves.
Sept., 1917.. 19,729 Nil 6,889 4,204
Mar., 1918.. 38,497 18,000 4,328 20,373
And since the term closed another eighteen-
pence has been declared payable on June
21. But this isn’t anything to lose your head
over. It is a lot better than the promise of
a few years ago; but there is not very much
ahead, unless the Pinnacles mine, lately
bought at a price which the directors don’t
disclose in their report, turns up trumps.
The Junction North itself has, it is esti-
mated, 192,000 tons in reserve; and there are
also on hand £40,399 (cost price) of pur-
chased slimes. Last half-year 18,872 tons of
ore and apparently £16,783 worth of the pur-
chased slimes were dealt with. That is to
say, the purchased slimes will last a little
over a year at the rate they are being used
up ; and the mill, if it worked full time, could
easily eat out the mine in two years. Nor is
there much chance of finding more of any
consequence in the mine; and prospects of
buying more slimes are almost as poor.
Junction North management must be given
credit for plunging in slimes when it did.
It happened—principally through its former
metallurgist, Owen—to know more about
slimes than most of them. But it doesn’t
know any more now: others, in fact, have
gone further than the Juncy North. If the
war and the boom in metals hadn’t hap-
pened, though, all the profit that this co.
would have made out of its purchases would
have been harmless. What it will make out
of the balance is quite unknown. In fact,
what it will make out of what it has treated
during the last half-year is only a guess,
because of 10,435 tons of zinc concentrate
produced orfily 3503 tons were despatched for
shipment. There is a guaranteed post-war
market for the vast quantity of zincs which
this and other Broken Hill cos. are accumu-
lating; but there’s never a word said about
price. In addition to the profit which can be
made out of the dumps and mine during the
next couple of years or so, and any surpluses
it may collect on stuff already produced, the
co. has £130,307 net of liquid assets, in addi-
tion to £40,592 of stores. There are 180,000
shares.
The Pinnacles are one of the most con-
spicuous features of the Barrier silver-field,
and 30-odd years ago there were people who
would have backed the Pinnacles mine
against anything under the Broken Hill hump.
A Melbourne co. was so sure about it that it
put up a smelter and refinery—one of the
first on the Barrier. But they didn’t know as
much about the metallurgy of lead ores then
as they do now: and the property was a sink
for money for 15 years. Then, the dog hav-
ing been given a thoroughly bad name, it was
abandoned—which was probably a quite un-
deserved fate. The ore-bodies are much more
irregular than in the main section of the
Broken Hill lode; but there are very big
bunches of ore, and it is quite likely that
money will be made out of them. They are
about 10 miles from Broken Hill, and there
are no engineering difficulties whatever in
the way of a tramline if mine developments
warrant it. The Junction North will issue
shares to pay for the lease and
develop it.
For weeks past the market has been
guessing- what was going to happen with
Broken Hill Prop, shares. Something, it
quite made up its mind; and there has been
big buying. The secret was let out on Tues-
day. There are at present 1,500,000 shares
of 8s. each, of which 1,181,006 are issued;
authorised capital is thus £600,000 and sub-
scribed ditto £472,402. Under the re-organi-
sation the capital will be £3,000,000, made
up this way :—•
Present 1,181,006 shares of 8s. .. ..£472,402
318,994 new 8s. shares (premium 32s.) .. 127,598
Bonus of 12s. per share on 1,500,000 shares 900,000
Bonus of 600,000 new £1 shares .. .. 600,000
Shares held in reserve .. .. .. 900,000
Total .. £3,000,000
This means (1) the right to buy at 40s. one
new share for every four old ones (or there-
abouts). The shares made up of fractional
interests will be sold and the proceeds dis-
tributed in cash. (2) One new free share for
every two at present held, or thereabouts.
Fractions will be dealt with as in the other
case. The net result will be that the co.,
while transferring to capital £1,500,000 of
reserves (its formal reserve funds were
£1,875,000 as at November 30 last), will
get in £637,988 of new capital, which will be
used to further extend the iron and steel
works at Newcastle. In addition , to the for-
mal reserve funds above men'tioned, on
November 30 last there was a I*, and L.
balance of £234,966. Besides the share capi-
tal the co. at the same date owed £901,700
on account of debentures. Its other liabili-
ties were £801,466; its assets apart from
plant and works and interests in works were
£1,456,987. The proposals for the recon-
stitution of the co. will be put before a
meeting of shareholders on June 10.
Cock’s Pioneer, Eldorado (Vic.), is dis-
tributing a shilling div. —the second this
year. Wet weather and floods cut down
Falconer’s ISth run so that he got through
only 159,000 cub. yd. against 210,000 cub.
yd. during the previous effort. But the
average is about the same, as is shown by
this table: —
Runs
a_
No 16. No. 17. No. 18.
Treated, eub. yd. .. 163,000 210,000 159,000
Yield gold, oz. .. 1,554 1,897 1,773
Yield tin oxide, tons 24 29 25
Taking the oxide at £125 the value of the
last return is about £16,500. If costs have
been running at 9d., then there should be
a nice profit.
* * * *
At last Duke Extended, Maryborough
(Vic.), has something to talk about. The
rise off the west under level has gone into
the gutter 1500ft. ahead of the faces worked
from the main reef drive. Thence about
150oz. a fortnight is coming, with only one
or two parties of men in the wash; and, of
course, some profit is flowing in. All the
same, it would not take long to get out all
the available ground if there was nothing
up the gutter, or down it to the north-east*
But the rise off the west drive may mean
a great deal. If a fair-sized gutter is shown
there, then it is .reasonable to say that the
lead should junction with the main system
where it broke off to the north of the old
main shaft. That would give a mile of
drained wash on a gutter that for the most
part has been a consistent gold getter. An-
other problem is whether to the north-east
of the present stoping-line the reef has split
again, with the gold-bearing portion going
to the north-east. Recent work seems to
indicate that it does. So Duke Extended
has a double-barrelled chance. But even
that does not mean that it can carry a high
market capitalisation.
* * * *
Only 35oz. came from the 100 tons sample
crushing from the Rising Star Extended,
Daylesford (Vic.), whereas lOOoz. was
looked for. Result: a sorrowing crowd that
had built castles on the little heap of spark-
ling specimen stone shown for days in a
big Collins-street window. Another sadly
dimmed Daylesford show trying hard to get
the clouds to roll by is Nuggetty Ajax. A
yarn was told lately that the flat make off
the No. 3 crosscut had opened up into a
jeweller’s shop. This filled the market with
joy for a day. Then there was the usual
disillusion.
* * * *
Lode Hill (N.Q.) is sluicing intermit-
tently with two nozzles, and 12,309yds. were
washed in March for 5 tons tin oxide, worth
about £1000. Only 10 men were employed,
so the average amounted to £100 per man—•
helped of course by the large outlay on
• water-races and plant. Although sluicing is
very profitable with black tin selling at £200
per ton, shareholders can’t expect whopping
dividends on 100,000 shares from the work
of 10 men. Shares have been sold at Is. in
Melbourne, notwithstanding that the co. has
been so recently on the dividend list.
* * * *
From the sec. of the Wallaroo and Moonta
Co. —
The restoration of the so-called Taxation Reserve
to the Accumulated Profits Reserve was not intended
to imply that this co. is exempt from the War-Time
Profits taxation. The transfer was made, as it was
considered inadvisable to reserve a definite amount for
taxation when it Wi.' impossible to gauge the amount
required. As a matte, of fact, this eo. is not exempt
from the operations of the War-Time Profits taxa-
tion.
No, it isn’t. But the directors of certain
Broken Hill cos., who know what Hughes’s
War-time Profits Tax means and was in-
tended to mean as well as anybody, lately
reported that they didn’t expect to have to
pay anything.
* * * *
During the half-year ended March 31,
Mount Bischoff Extended (Tas.) crushed
5943 tons ore for 79 tons concentrates, aver-
aging 71 p.c. tin, worth £14,844, or
£2 9s. lOd. per ton of crudes. Net profit
was £4026. Although the Board had an
accumulated profit equal to more than 10s.
a share, it handed out a modest shilling
(£800), and spent no less than £6000 during
the term on enlarging the plant to 20-head,
which will enable the management to handle
a much larger tonnage and reduce costs.
This co.’s future, however, depends entirely
on the behavior of the tin market, for its
lode is narrow and the grade under 1 p.c.
Tributors have got a footing on the
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.). The surface
area, excepting that occupied by plant and
buildings, has been divided into 21 blocks
and tributes let down to a depth of 100ft.
There is enough ore broken and unbroken
below that depth to keep the co.’s plant
going for some time, and until this supply is
exhausted and a little further exploration
is done no ground will be leased below 100ft.
The mine has been on the producing list for
nearly 20 years, and in that time has yielded
many tons of gold and paid nearly 1£ mil-
lions in dividends. At one time it was
worked like a rabbit warren, and had the
distinction of being the worst opened out
and most secretively run mine at Kalgoorlie.
The ore was picked in order to keep the out-
put at a considerably higher figure than it
should have been if the show had been
worked as a mine should be; and when the
crash came and the methods of working
revealed, the property was considerably
lowered in the estimation of the public.
From the poor condition in which it was
left by the gougers the mine never recovered.
It is, however, still good enough for tribu-
tcrs, and portions should provide remunera-
tive employment for small parties «of men
for years to come.
* | * * *
The expectations of Golden Butterfly
(W.A.) again seem to have been blighted.
The first trial parcel of 55 tons from its
much-talked-of Tuekabianna show yielded
only 17oz. 17dwt.,and the second of 36 tons
produced only 7|oz.; total, 91 tons for 24oz.
It looks like another case where assay values
have not been borne out by mill results.
* * * *
William Henderson, of the Mararoa
(W.A.), so likes the Light of Asia, outside
Cue, that he urges his Board to take _ a
working option. Out of the Light of Asia,
working it to 180ft., the late Ned Lloyd
hustled 25,000 tons for £74,000 of gold.
When he passed out, the Rae crowd got
possession. In Lloyd’s day there was a hot
lawsuit over an encroachment by the Queen
of the May, which ended in Lloyd getting
hold of that show, too. So now the Mararoa
has two shots in its gun—the main Asia
shoot and the Queen of the May run of
stone. The Queen is flooded at present, but
water is an asset not to be sneezed at in
those parts. The record of the two mines is
about an ounce per ton, so that if the
Mararoa proves the shoots to live below the
well-worked levels it will have got hold of a
good claim after its four years’ hunt. At
the Mararoa itself there’s nothing cheering
nowadays.
* * * *
Commodore, Meekatharra (W.A.), having
got something very like a blue duck in the
Macquarrie lease, is trying to pick up the
Ingliston shoot from next door. Trade is
not on the Board nowadays, or he might say
where all the gold in the Macquarrie has
gone. When the Adelaide crowd has tired
itself over the Ingliston shoot he may be
called in to be a guide as of old.
* * *• *
The people running Mary Mac (W.A.)
still reckon there is something to be made out
of the show. In the beginning shareholders
were to get a lot, but they were disillusioned
long ago. Last half-year’s development was
confined to looking for gold in the bottom
workings and sinking a prospecting shaft.
The manager is unable to give any estimate
of ore in sight, owing to the disturbed state
of the lode, but he hopes to run the battery
shortly on the best of what there is. Mary
Mac may swell the Westralian gold output
for a time, but on present appearances it
won’t make money for shareholders.
* * * *
From Westonia: —
The principal mines here yell for co-operation.
Apparently the Edna May believes that with extra
pumping plant everything will be all right, but
there’s no guarantee that the frequent break-downs
of the past will not occur again. Meanwhile Deeps
is menaced not because the cementing may give way,
but because other and higher lines of less resistance
may obtrude themselves, and one small leakage plight
soon become a deluge. Then if, later on, Central
works the main lode the water there would be hard
to keep out of the other mines. So that the outlook
is almost as serious for one show as for the other.
Disaster threatens the field unless the Government
steps in and compels all the cos. affected to com-
bine and keep the water down.
* * * *
Gibb Maitland, Westralian Government
Geologist, has gone on a long holiday, ana
Torrington Blatchford has temporarily
taken his place. For a time, at any
rate, the custom of sendiug field geologists
out to make extensive surveys and write
lengthy technical reports that merely puzzle
claim-holders will cease. Instead the staff is
to be sent out into the mineral-bearing dis-
tricts to search for localities likely to contain
payable gold and base-metal deposits.
("Wild Cat ” continued on page 3 4.)


C*aidYlfT*ci#«it«4*k
HEERIN6
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
* %,t a ina^ e -u Sla
ate °° t tjta« c ' a
£o v\ovi^
slaops ‘
sy dn ® y
QeOt«|? sy dn ® y
ite
ll f^ S (^«^ g ct’ t sy dncy *
100 \
?et S^Kf»^Sa«*«f on
o**?si* 9 .!sy*®Sld»ey
\VVt« ir U t .yntB
.rst
111 ° % *tt S?> ® y A B S dney
119* 1 SwVjr&K*
tf0 8 y S dney
B e *»W® ol st ” %\A-o-eS
gsxs^' w w -
Clt choO
dn f ftt „genoY
m
PAULINE et CIE
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
Georgre Street, Sydney,
Announce their AUTUMN AND WINTER SHOW
of MODEL MILLINERY on and after WEDNES-
DAY, MARCH 6. MODEL EVENING and DAY
FROCKS, COATS and SKIRTS, etc., on and
after TUESDAY, MARCH 19.
Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
The “Ritz”
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 Rooms,
comprising Private Suites, Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts.
Illustrated Prospectus and all particu-
lars forwarded on application.
Telephones: Y2llB and Y 1266.
IT’S GREAT
m
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
R. R. Russack, 377 a Elizabeth St., Syd-
ney; Philip Prankel & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Ltd., Pirie
St., Adelaide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300
G.P.0., Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto.
Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
A iAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
Sauce
“Better
than Either”
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia—
GET A BOTTLE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINRY
Sydney, May 27, 1918.
My Dear Arini, —
The Pilgrims who journeyed to the grave
of Henry Parkes on Saturday passed near
the little cottage at the entrance to Faul-
conbridge grounds in which for many years
his sister Polly lived. The old lady, blithe
and rosy-cheeked under the shade of a sun-
bonnet, spelit most of her time pottering
about in the little garden in front of her
crib. Live in the big house she would not.
But she had the devoted attention of the
kindest of women —Parkes’s first Lady, that
Clarinda whose little side-curls bobbed
round a benevolent face which had grown
many lines of care when the family lived in
the mountain home; for though Australia’s
most picturesque politician might manage
the affairs of State, he could newer make a
smooth job of his own. And on the shoulders
of his womehkind fell the burden of the
household’s tangled finance. Annie, the
clever daughter who was Dad’s right hand
.and secretary, went with him to England in
the height of his fame. Australian poli-
ticians hadn’t then learned tin* trick of
travelling with an “entourage.” But neither
she nor Lily, whose mother was Clarin-
da, appear to have joined the Pilgrims’ Pro-
gress on Saturday. They were not the only
notable absentees, though. Suspicious col-
leagues and warm admirers of the G.O.M.
stood aloof, being not too well satisfied with
the bona-fides of some at least of the pro-
moters or supporters of the expedition. You
see, there is much vacant land to sell at
Faulconbridge and thereabouts, and some
glorious views to show the visitor with a
pound or two in his pocket.
Poor Annie Parkes —the jolly vigorous
Annie of her big father’s day—is, alas! a
bent cripple now. Most of this year she
has spent in bed, nursing her rheumatism.
She had an office until then ; but of course
it had to be given up. They live together,
the two daughters; and each believes the
other the most wonderful creature in the
world.
Charles Bryant, a local man who has been
for years on the other side, has been added
to the lengthening list of “official artists.”
A brother of organist Alice Bryant, Charles
is still remembered here as a small boy with
waving locks, manfully struggling under a
big portfolio towards the studio of Lister
Lister. Going to London lie studied for 10
years with John Ilassall, then did more
work with marine-painter Olssen. had his
first picture in the Academy in 1911, and is
well and favorably known at the Paris Salon.
Bryant offered himself for military service,
but was rejected. Now lie’s going to paint
the other fellow.
At the beginning of the war young Was-
sell left Sydney as a captain with the First
Field Ambulance. Since then he has been
in most of the big things, including the
Landing. He came back a few weeks ago, a
lieut.-colonel with a D.S.O. and only 27
birthdays behind him, and made good use of
part of his leave by marrying Dorothy Burt,
recently of Stantliorpe (Q.). Wassell, sen.,
was well known in Brisbane’s earlier days
as Inspector of Police. I presume that if
the lieut.eolonel goes back it will be neces-
sary for him to re-enlist as a private. Any-
way, that is the wonderful Defence Depart-
ment’s new rule on the subject.
Mrs. Jane Foreman, wife of the. well-,
known surgeon, died last week. The : body
was taken to Adelaide for cremation, and the
ashes will come back to Sydney. Possessed
of considerable private means, Mrs. Fore-
man had an open purse for every charity.
In St. Stephen’s one fine evening last
week, Minnie White, fourth daughter of the
Henrv Whites of Whitehill station, Long-
reach (Q.), took a gold circlet from Lieut.
Johnstone. The ’groom’s father is the Rev.
J. C. Johnstone, of Caulfield (Vic.). The
bride, a beauteous young damsel, was richly
garnished in trappings of white satin and
silver tissue. White orchids .as a posy. The
’groom handed his Best Girl a diamond
bangle, and strewed the bridesmaids with
gems. Johnstone, lieut., is just home from
the war.
The goodbye evening to Captain “Car.,”
M.C., was another crush —it was all crush
in Empire week —and the Town Hall, which
hadn’t had a moment to itself, was ehoc-k-a-
block with goodwill to the departing soldier-
politician—w'ho, by the way, under the new
rule of the Defence Department, wouldn’t be
allowed to return unless he v r enlisted as a
private. J. C. L. Fitzpatr: x spoke for the
Government; Mayor Smith’s exuberant ora-
tory twined garlands, so to speak, around
Car.’s long neck; and music and song and
the presentation of a boomerang were in the
list.
Recruiting is being so shaken up by mar-
tial music, khaki speakers and parades of
troops that last week was one long rally, so
that we lost toll of dates and didn’t rightly
know whether Wednesday, Thursday or Fri-
day was May 24 and consecrated to flag-
fever. But the calendar was unmoved and
churned out the dates with cold precision.
Amongst the fixtures was a big welcome
home. But in the days when the Defence
Department moved always in mysterious
ways its blunders to perform, and any public
reference to the grievances of Billjim was
frowned upon, we got into the habit of fob-
bing him off with the second or third best.
And it is no use pretending that it’s any
different now. We talk a lot about the
best being not too good for Billjim. Beautiful
hypocrisy ! There's a boy who left his com-
fortable farm three years ago to go fighting
for us. He had a farmer-friend, a neighbor,
who didn’t go. The farmer-boy returned
lately, gassed and ill. After being nursed in
Sydney for a time he was sent off to the
good air of the farm with a pension of 15s.
a week. Hi; and his neighbor who had
stayed at home left the city together. The
neighbor had a sleeper. We sent the sick
boy back in an overcrowded second-class
carriage. Nothing’s too good for—whom?
There was the same sort of thing in connec-
tion with last week's welcome-home. Mum had
given the faces of the children a shine to
greet Dad in Martin-place about 10 a.m.
That meant, to eager hearts, hanging on the
kerbstone any time, after 9 o’clock. But the
long hours passed, and the crowd changed
from oue foot to another till the belated
train limped into Central Station. It
wasn’t till half-past 12 that the first lot got
its welcome from Sydney.
A note from a returned wanderer: —
Observing a clamor to provide “Car.s” Thousand
with a band, 1 rise in wrathful protest against this
wasteful exploitation of brass. Cook’s rooms at
Cairo and various base depots in France hold upwards
of SO bands contributed by generous but misguided
people in Australia. If anyone doubts inv statements
let him go and look for himself, and he will find
that band instruments hang there as thick as heads
in Bluebeard’s chamber. Give the boys caps,
mufflers, socks and Tommy-cookers till the cows come
home; also sweets and tobacco. But leave the brass
alone. If a patriotic citizen exists with time hang-
ing on his hands, let him go and salve a few of these
musical derelicts and put them aboard the troop-
ships. Some music would be very heartening there;
and it has been known to save a peck of trouble on
a dreary outgoing, too.
Australian born of
Italian parentage
and typically Italian
in a large and hand-
some way, Mrs. Fer-
rari-Passmore is in
the forefront of the
struggle to make
June 28 a day of
days. A passionate
patriot, her black
eyes flash when she
talks of Italian Red
Cross nurses. “They
get no pay—nothing !
In the war zone they
are provided with
two meals a day.
For breakfast, coffee
and brown bread.
Sugar they never
see. Then for a second meal there is dinner
—very light. When they are not at the
Front these devoted women must provide for
themselves. In Italy our people are taught
that Country is before all. So when war comes
you get the Italian Red Cross nurse and her
daily sacrifice. Then Italy must help the
refugees whom the Austrians —-whose devil-
ish cruelty to our women is not known here
—drive before them. They only take
prisoners those who will be useful, and —oh,
it is too horrible! Italy must feed and pro-
tect those of the rest who are spared to
live.” Yet this good woman’s labors are not
all for the Land of Song. Last year
she raised about £2OOO for other patri-
otic funds. Besides being on the executive
of the June 28 (Italy Day) committee, Mrs.
Ferrari-Passmore (she’s the widow of the
late H. Passmore, Inspector of Customs) is
lion, organiser of the Italian opera night, and
gives her spare hand to the Festa at the
Town Hall. The photo is from the Swiss
Studio.
The handsome Mitchell Library, which
faces Macquarie-street and turns its back—
which is only half hooked up, as it were —
to the inner Domain, represents Australians
at its most fascinating. David Scott Mitchell,
M.A.. to whose munificence we owe this
storehouse, died some years ago. He was, in
fact, too ill to be present when the com-
memoration-stone was laid by then Premier
Joe Carrutliers. The new wing (for the
Public Library, now over the road, but
later to be hitched on behind, is the body) is
really part of the romance of early Sydney.
In iS26 10 gentlemen met at the Sydney
Hotel to consider the formation of a reading
room and circulating library. The leading
spirit was Lieut, de la Condamine, A.D.C. to
the just-arrived Governor Darling. The late
D. S. Mitchell possessed the only copy, so
far as is known, of the ancient document
sotting forth the rules of the new library.
The donor of the treasure-trove, which has
been so worthily housed by the Government,
was born not far from the building which is
his memorial. Small Dave opened his eyes
in the medical-officer's quarters of the mili-
tary hospital which now forms part of Par-
liament House —where (whisper!) sensat-
tional things may happen within the next
three weeks.
Tlie Mitchell’s
chief librarian, Hugh
Wright, began as a
youth in the old Pub-
lic Library, and step
by step has climbed
to his present perch.
He was in Seville
when war broke out
—he had gone to
England to buy for
this State the Mac-
quarie MSS., and was
poking into other
possible sources of
information about
Australia before the
dawn. Away from
his precious books
Hugh Wright will
talk about roses and
aphis, clay soil, snails and kindred topics—
and hurry away to once more analyse the
Milky Way through his own telescope. He
is a' Fellow of the Royal Astronomical
Society and this year’s president of the N. S.
Wales Historical. Society; and Judith
Fletcher has made a capital likeness of him.
Clarence Prescott, who has been fastened
to a Military Cross, is a son of C. J. Pres-
cott, headmaster of Newington College.
Young Prescott was the crack athlete of the
college in his time, and represented it in
football, cricket, shooting and on the run-
ning track. He collected athletic and other
honors at Sydney Uni. later on. and was
articled to Sydney solicitor Iloldship when
the biggest game of all called him.
Clerical women war-workers, who do their
bit for our sojers when many more leisured
people are eating their lunch or ambling off
to evening bridge, held a bazaar in the city
the other afternoon. It opened itself about
8 p.m., and had an official re-opening
by the Cullen lady an hour later. An
eager crowd pushed its way to the
stalls, where miracles of stitchery and
mixed temptations were piled on the
stalls. Tall president Armstrong’s yellow
hair-bow waved above the field that had
come to be harvested, and hon. sec. Huxtable
helped in the patriotic reaping.
.The Phil, gave a good account of itself in
‘"the Creation.” A big audience of devotees
flocked to the Town Hall, and, generally
speaking, walked on its toes and clothed its
body from ear to ankle. President Chalmers
r nd his family got into their seats early, and
only an occasional squeak from a door-hinge
desecrated the bass’s thunderous "In the be-
ginning.” The voice belonged to Fred
Collier. Soprano Mary Conly, unrivalled
in oratorio, had much applause, and beamed
over a large fichu in reply. Phil Newbury,
with majestic music to warble, wasn’t in
top form. Conductor Bradley waved ener-
getic arms over the proceedings.
The Charles E. Waters’s garden fete for a
C. of E. hut fund—of course, it’s for the
benefit of all soldiers, regardless of creed —
was another staggering financial success.
About £7OO is likely to be counted up. Lady
Davidson opened the raid, and Justice Harvey
explained the length and breadth of the
scheme. One of the younger lady pirates
lurked inside a cretonne frock, well hooped
and entirely surrounded by pockets filled with
brown-paper parcels—a cute idea top-dressed
with a fascinating poke bonnet. The engage-
ment lasted two days.
The Soldiers’ Entertainment Fund gets a
nice cheque from the successful show in the
Town Hall on Empire Night. Massed
bands, bunting and enthusiasm were lead-
ing features. A neat drawing-room edition
of a dug-out was surrounded by pot plants.
Above it hung a huge sign, painted to look
like an old town in France. Watchmen
having passed the word along, the conductor
took the National Anthem at a gallop as
the sub-regal party appeared at a side door.
His Ex. and Lady Davidson were followed
by a long official tail. The Cullens, who
have returned from holidays in Maoriland
(his Honor’s fine fleece beautifully combed
up), Mrs. George Fuller and her usual good
looks'(her Chief Secretary in attendance),
the Earp family, Captain Glossop and Mrs.
George Lee were on adjacent chairs in the
forefront. Chaplain Eaton handed Mrs.
Earp a bouquet for her steady slogging at
the job of providing amusement for the camp
at Liverpool.
A grandson of explorer Gregory got into
the casualty-lists in France the other day.
He is Capt. A. Woodward Gregory, of the
Flying Corps, and one of the bright young-
sters (he’s not 21 yet) who have graduated
for their wings under Lieut. Stutt at the
State Aviation School at Richmond. His
mother is Mrs. G. E. Murdoch, wife of the
manager of Petty’s.
The Victoria League, founded nearly 10
years ago, fainted quietly away till some-
one loosened its corsets and gave it what you
call a snifter. I think, in 1915. The lady
was strong enough to be “at home” in the
Women’s Club the other evening. The
Davidsons, who are as good showmen as the
Rawsons were in their reign, turned up to
the tick, and Beulah Bolton read about the
Lady Victoria’s domestic affairs. There are
Philistines who describe the League as a
little bit of fluff, But it means well, and it
will never be prosecuted for omitting to sing
“Rule Britannia.”
Mrs. Herbert Nelson, who got home from
the U.S.A. the other day with only chick
Gwen, chats of N’York and ’Frisco fashions,
the Los Angeles earthquake (which they
missed by a few hours) and Auntie and
Uncle’s determined war-attitude. “Auntie,
says the Australian woman, “is as well-
dressed as ever, but in a quieter style. We
heard that clothes were an ‘awful price’ in
the States. Don’t believe it. I bought cos-
tumes in N’York at about half the price
asked in Sydney.” For over a year Gwen
Nelson climbed ladders, dived into space,
crossed into Mexico, and had a revolution
for breakfast, all for Fox Films. Now she’s
resting at the Australia with Mum and Dad.
A pretty Freneh-Australian and a gallant
young French soldier; love at first sight;
and an engagement ring. The demoiselle is
Fleurette, a daughter of Mrs. Iliginbotham,
head of the French Circle of Conversation,
and one who remembers as a terrifying
nightmare of her childhood the Siege of
Paris —1870-71. The fiance is Sergeant
Paul Estripeaut, with three years’ war ser-
vice and the Croix de Guerre to his credit.
He’s a tall and handsome young man.
The Rafalewski duet —the lady is soprano
Lili Sharp—have signed a 12 months’
engagement. Harry Friedman steers the
little co. through Japan, India, Java, Singa-
pore and China. A pupil of the Rafalewskis,
Eva Lea-Coates, with top notes that touch
the stars, goes with the party.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
LTD
JEWELLERS.
FINE WHOLE PEARL NECKLACES
OF EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY AND VALUE.
*
r
,The Company's Stock of
FINE WHOLE PEARL NECKLACES
and LOOSE PEARLS) for Improving and Lengthening: Strings,
forms a unique display from which to make a selection.
INSPECTION INVITED.
13 HUNTER ST, SYDNEY; 116-118 QUEEN ST, BRISBANE.
A MAGAZINE CAMERA
(BRITISH MADE)
HAS MANY ADVANTAGES
FOR THE BEGINNER.
m
The beginner who wishes to start with
an inexpensive camera will find his
path in photography made easy if he
uses a magazine camera, as one or two
exposures can be made, the plates taken
out and developed without disturbing the
others. If any error of exposure or
manipulation is made, it can then be cor-
rected.
The Klito No. 1 is a good camera
of this type; it holds 12 i-plates, has
adjustable Focussing Front, Focussing
Scale, Time and Instantaneous Shutter.
With Rapid Achromatic Lens. . 30/-
With Rapid Rectilinear Lens.. 37/6
Other Models, 9/-, 12/-, 21/-,
25/- to 62/6.
Call and let us show you how to use
them, or send for price-list if you live
out of town. We give free lessons in
developing and printing to all camera
purchasers. Make an exposure, bring the
camera with the plate in it, and we will
develop it and explain the process.
HARRINGTONS’ LABORATORIES
and METALLURGICAL WORKS.
The latest scientific appliances for the treatment of Residues, Sweepings and Waste
Products of Jewellers, Dentists, Process Engravers and other Metal Workers are installed
in our Laboratories, every grain of metal that is of value being extracted.
Every order is executed under the personal supervision of a qualified chemist from
Messrs. Johnson & Sons, Assayers to his Majesty’s Mint and the Bank of England, and
clients entrusting their orders to us can depend upon receiving prompt service and satisfactory
results.
NOTE THIS POINT.—In order to thoroughly protect our clients, we
reserve Reference Samples until settlement is complete.
Me collect material for treatment, in City or Suburbs, Free of Charge. Ring Citv
8690 (3 lines), and our traveller will call on you.
We can supply Fine and Sterling Silver, Electrolytic Copper, Gold Chloride, Silver
Nitrate and Silver Salts, Platinum and Platinum Alloys, at lowest market rates.
lIP
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assttyers,
386 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
Branches in all States and New Zealand.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George St. North, Sydney,
I LOOKED AT MANY
“TALKING MACHINES”
::::::
i
::::::
::::
m
m
:s::°
but did not
hear “real music”
until I heard
THE
AEOLIAN
YOCALION
My first impulse was to buy a
“■talking lriachine" for the
entertainment of the family.
We met in town, my wife and
T, to make the purchase. I
knew there were many makes,
but the first I heard seemed
good enough. To humor the
little lady Are Avent to one
place, then another, yet I
thought the next Avas as good
as the last. Then Are heard
the VOCALIOF. ...The tone
was better, more musical than
any other I had heard. A
sense of satisfaction came over
me Avhen the record stopped
automatically
T HAD BOX'(HIT IT BEFORE THE SALESMAN KNEW! A
further demonstration of the Vo’calion ; s refinements and wonderful
“Graduola” control sent me home gratified that I had brought complete
musical enjoyment to my home.
VOCALIONS PLAY ANY HAKE OF RECORD
and Cost No Hore than Ordinary Talking Machines
PRICES from £9, Cash or Terms
Descriptive Catalogue on Request
Manufactured and Sold Only by
The Pianola Company
384 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at 252 Collins Street, Melbourne;
436 Queen Street, Brisbane;
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
Send Us This Coupon
with your name and address, and we will mail an interesting
desciiptive Catalog, showing the easy terms of payment that
will place a Vocation in your home without delay.
Please send me Catalog B describing the Vocation as
advertised in Bulletin
]Name
Address


Mr. A. CARLSON (.from a photo.).
FREE SAMPLES
HAIR GROWER
and Shampoo Powders.
CJo Mrs. M. Tobin, Boarding House,
Florence Street, Port Pirie, S.A.
Mr. John Craven-Burleigh.
My Dear Sir, —I thank you for your letter and offer.
I am very pleased to state that my hair has im-
proved wonderfully since I got the last supply of
your remedy. 1 am quite satisfied it is a True Ilair
Grower. My scalp is now full of fine, silky hair,
and I still have 2* boxes left, so I won’t need any
more. 1 am recommending your True Hair Grower
to all my friends. I am sending you the last photo.
I have , as 1 sert all the others to my friends and
people, to let them see how my hair has grown. You
may publish this if you please.—Yours truly,
A. CARLSON.
Mr. Craven-Burleigh has received thousands of
unsolicited testimonials from people who have suc-
cessfully used his preparations. They are all
genuine, and open to the fullest investigation. In
order to ensure a fair test he desires everyone suffer-
ing from Hair Troubles to obtain from him a Free
Trial of his hair-growing compound. Send full
name and address, enclosing three penny stamps for
por-tave and packing to
JOHN CRAVEN-BURLEIOH (DEPT. 7a). 321 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel Sydney
(Now Fully Licensed)
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) „ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast ~ ... 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
FUEL
EFFICIENCY.
m
m
m
Burned in Suspension.
A Plant recently installed by the
Powdered Coal and Engineering Com-
pany, at the works of the River
Smelting and Refining Company,
Florence, Colorado, reduced their
fuel bill from 1350 pounds of coal
per ton of charge, to 745 pounds
of coal per ton of charge with the
Powdered Coal Carburetter.
The complete control of the two
factors, fuel and air, is the funda-
mental basis of successful use of
pulverised coal. The Pruden Coal
Carburetter provides this control.
A Demonstrating Plant is now in
course of erection in Melbourne. Par-
ticulars :
R. D. ELLIOTT, “ c H ~ e
328 Flinders Street, Melbourne.
Missing: Friends.
LIYOM DALTON, last heard of at Yam-
JL burgan, Queensland. E. C. Gallagher
seeks address. Urgent. Post Office, Mun-
gindi.
TACKA, CHARLES & HENRY—Children of Maria
J Jacka. If you communicate with the undersigned
you will hear of something greatly to vour advan-
tage. ALEXANDER GRANT & SON, Solicitors, No.
2 St. James’s Buildings, William Street, Melbourne,
Victoria.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, May 27, 1918.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Well, the Conant movie has happened.
The Auditorium was like a hill of Sassiety
ants on Thursday night. Mere rain and
sleet couldn’t keep away any who were with-
in motoring distance. ' Lady Helen had to
go to Ballarat and Governor Stanley was
helping to make Warrnambool a city, so
they couldn’t be there. The' G.-G. arrived,
however, wearing a look of extreme good-
nature and a patch of sticking-plaster on
his brow where the tree hit him. Lady
Stanley came in her gorgeous blue brocade
cloak with a little nasturtium dress under-
neath. A small Stanley child with long fair
hair fled across the balcony to sit next Sir
Ronald. Lady Doris Blackwood sat be-
tween Captains Conant and Clifford. Conant,
in civvies, nursed his shining top-hat and
looked modestly self-conscious ; Major Iverr-
Pearse sat frigidly by himself well along the
front pew, and a bevy of girls “in the play”
sat in a vivid row behind.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme banded her hair in
silver and purple and wrapped herself in
fur and brocade. Norman Bayles and his
wife were there. Tall Norman’s figure was
well braced up. He had frills on his linen
boiled shirt and perky little frills out-lining
his boiled waistcoat. His waist looked about
18 inches and his dress clothes seemed to
have been painted on to him. Down to his
creaseless patent-leather toes he was a vision.
Norton Grimwade looked bored. The Melba
Armstrongs were there to see themselves as
others see them. In fact, half the house
was occupied by intense people on the same
mission.
As it turned out, the amateurs had made
an unintentional burlesque of their job.
The house choked with laughter as each
new star appeared. Mrs. Morris Gibbs’s
large eyes had been made up with huge
black circles, and she rolled them in the first
tragic scene with coonlike effect. Sir Henry
Parker fell into the amateur movie actor’s
worst fault of mouthing his words. Dr.
Noyes Finch gave a dentist-view of his
mouth when he laughed. Villain
got a view of his own profile that he has
never seen before. Mrs. Gass, a smart
woman off stage, was made up like a dusky
belle. And some of the others were nearly
as* bad. Little Dr. Pat Croom was a con-
spicuous success. He had to go the rounds
of a hospital, and he moved naturally
through his part.
The prettiest sassiety girls pi the show
suffered a blow to their vanity. Few pretty
girls now bother about deportment, so most
of these pets progressed like skittish calves.
Worst of all, they had to sit still and watch
themselves being awkward. When the hero
chases the train (with the villain aboard)
to Dover, the screen showed the Frankston-
Nc-pean-road. And so all through. Conant
might easily have made his story local.
Still, the film' provided the heartiest laugh
that some people have had since the out-
break of war. And as a money-making
novelty for the benefit of the Red Cross it
was an inspiration.
The “Federal Wives,” amalgamated with
the other matinde-ing Red Crossers, got off
their combined show at the King’s last Tues-
day. It went like a 15in. shell. As well
as two acts of Bates Post, there were numer-
ous Naice amateur shows. Mrs. Norman
Brookes, as Cleopatra, hung with real
jewels, and Walter Kirby, as (not exactly)
Antony, did an Idyll of the East. Dorothy
Pearce; Nancy Isaacs, Alys Bridges, Mrs.
Dunne and some other girls lay about on
cushions as Cleo’s court. They wore very
few clothes and very many jewels. Nancy
Isaacs had a band of diamonds round her
brow, and the little Lucas girl danced for
the lady. Kirby, his ferocious moustachios
dyed black and his face chocolate color,
wore a turban and a cloak of pale-green bro-
cade. When he stooped over Cleopatra’s
couch to caress her the lady missed a note in
a helpless giggle, while Kirby rolled his eyes
and warbled tenor soothing-syrup.
Then Fan Dango Mackay put on an ex-
quisite dream-boat song and tableau. Fan,
in luscious drapings, sang the song and 20
girls rowed in the background. She had
Mavis Thiel, Betty O’Hara, Dulcie Cooper
and a whole lot of other maidens for choris-
ters The clothes show was magnificent.
W 1 en Prime Minister Watt came on to the
stage to speak a piece he referred humbly
to his work-a-day duds among people dressed
like Solomon at bargain-sale time.
Mrs. Charles Lyon (she was Vera Dodds',
dressed as a nurse, had some real Anzacs
as a chorus. Her nice little drawing-room
voice could hardly be heard; but the
Anzacs helped her out and she looked awfully
well. The Reps., with Gregan McMahon
leading, gave “Makeshifts.” The Kiss Trot
was a swell ballet of sassiety girls, all in
black net filmies and bright-green obis. They
had been trained to the last kick, having
practised hard for the Conant film. The
sister of the Baillieux and Heather Keep
did a turn which they called “A Simple
Melody.”
Senator Pearce and a flpek of his con-
freres refused to be boxed and were crowded
in somewhere at the last minute. The boxes
had been raffled again and again for the
Cross, and were a sort of No Man’s Land.
Mrs. Gatehouse filled liers with a changing
stream of guests. Sailors from a warship
crowded into another. Lady Helen, Doris
Blackwood and a poss 6 of aides sat in the
circle. The amalgamated Red Crossers
fused so imperfectly that they took separate
stands. The “Federal Wives” division under-
took the floor of the house, and the others,
with Mrs. George Fairbairn at their head,
roosted upstairs.
An unearthly uproar, so far only lmlf-
audible through closed doors, has been going
on inside one of Melbourne’s smaller but
most incessantly-advertised “patriotic”
bodies. Members have had several lively
foregatherings, full of sound and fury, in
which the loudest distinguishable howl has
been for a heart-to-heart statement of
accounts. Tears, challenges, blushes, denials,
clamors for legal advice, allegations of lot-
tery-fakes and sharp practice have combined
to feed a stream of public cackle, now freely
slopping over. But no blame attaches to
anybody, of course, thank goodness!
By far the funniest episode at a recent
Uni. carnival was the Ugly Man Competi-
tion. Anyone could nominate anyone else,
and votes were a penny apiece. When two
profs, were entered votes rolled in by the
hundred, and it was soon apparent that it
would be a close finish between Mortarboard
and Textbook. At last, amid enthusiasm, it
was announced: “Professor Textbook, Ugli-
est Man in the Shop.” Textbook couldn’t
appreciate the joke, and even talked of
“proceedings.” The other pundit took it
more like an Australian. But perhaps that
was because he didn’t win.
Young Jim Baillieu struts in Captain
Conant’s film. The ex-Grammar youth went
away last year with the gunners, but has
been back here for some months with nerves.
Perhaps the young man ought to thank God
that his name isn’t Jim Brown. Jim Brown
suffers from nerves, too. But I wonder if
Jim Brown is told that he can go home.
And I wonder how many of those who are
charged with cowardice, and whose names
are going to be published in the future, are
brave boys for the time being unhinged—
subjects for sympathy rather than for
censure.
Another Head who has sustained in-
juries through putting his trust in trees is
Arthur Snowden, most ancient of City
Fathers. He, was pottering about his
Abbotsford garden when a piece of tree on
which he was resting snapped and let him to
the ground. With a younger man the mis-
hap might have been a subject for mirth,
but the aged knight had to put himself under
medical care.
Menzies’ writing-room looked like the holy
of holies in an expensive chiffon store last
week when Mrs. Fred Fairbairn had her
bazaar of undies, cushions and bags. Lady
Stanley came, and Sassiety followed. Grace
Palotta did a roaring trade with a spinning-
jenny, and the usual theatrical stars sang.
The Mayoress gave an At Home on
Thursday in the precious blue-and-gold bou-
doir. It was quite a Town Hall family
party. The Mayoress, in a little purple
toque and a black dress, received everybody,
informally, over tea. Mrs. Davey, Mrs.
Arthur Westley and all the aldermanic
ladies chatted and keenly discussed the
Town Hall kiosk, which will make money
outside the portico on Red Cross Day.
Those who love old editions, rare china,
Sheffield plate and Georgian silverware will
feel a sense of loss at the passing out of Pri-
vate Harold Halewood in France. Hale-
wood was a quiet sensitive little chap who
ran antique- and book-shops in Melbourne
and lately in Sydney. He leaves a widow,
whose stand in Victoria Arcade, Sydney, is
a well-known rendezvous for lovers of the
rare and beautiful.
Mrs. Tevita Tui Vakano, wife of Tonga’s
Premier, was handed morning tea at the
Oriental on Wednesday by a party mothered
by Mrs. Scott. The visitor is a large, lan-
guid lady tinted to a delicate chocolate
cream. Her eyes are large and languid, too,
and she droops wearily into the largest
chair whenever she gets a chance. She
speaks a little liquid English—and does
that languidly as well.
A Royal Red Cross goes to Nurse Isabel
Jobson, a sister of Sydney’s Brig.-General
Alec, D. 5.0., and of Ballarat’s Jeanie, the
school-teacher whose letters to Billjim have
been so highly appreciated. Isabel, with
another beauty, Leah Rosenthal, used to run
a private hospital at Toorak. The girls had
been pals since their training days at the
Alfred. Two and a half years ago they went
to the Front, and were both recommended,
for heroism under fire at a casualty clearing-
station. But, though both deserved it
equally, there was only one Red Cross to
spare, and Isabel got it.
Mrs. Sellheim has given 15 guineas which
has been turned into a wrist-watch valued
at £2O. The exquisite thing is being raffled
for the Red Cross.
Despatch from Adelaide :—•
W. L. Davidson has received word that son Hugh,
who has been fighting in East Africa with the
8.E.F., has been invalided to Durban and “men-
tioned.” An elder son, Roy, who was on his way
to England with his wife when she died in America,
is now in France, holding a commission with the
“tanks.”
Another “missing” Australian, Capt. Patrick 11.
Anld, has turned up as a prisoner of war in Ger-
many. He got the M.C. before the Huns nabbed
him.
Six pupils of James Ashton have won honors at
the Royal Drawing Society’s Exhibition in London,
despite that the works had evidently been damaged
by sea-water in transit. This is ; not the first time
that the submarine has made a mess of Australian
art samples, and the R.D.S. has decided to keep
possession of those in its charge till the war is over.
A fOte at Woodville, opened by the State
Commandant, brought the Red Cross Society
some much-needed money for succoring Australian
prisoners of Var, and a further £lO4 was added to
the funds by a gift of cattle at the stock sales on
Monday. The soaring price of meat may not be
quite so hard to bear if you can persuade yourself
that your particular joint came off one of the Red
Cross beasts.
Hilda Felstead, the Adelaide singer whose voice
has added piles of money to local patriotic funds,
has been much lauded lately in Asia, where she has
bees touring with “The Fantastics.” At Bangalore
(India) she found time to take unto herself a hus-
band, Captain C. M. Flanders. ‘ The wedding took
place on March 7, and to celebrate it the fortunate
man rode the winner in the Open Horse Race at
the Bangalore races. 'That night the new Mrs.
Flanders lifted up hev voice in the Victoria Hall
in the presence of the Governor and Lady Pentland
and an encouraging audience. When the singer has
finished her engagement with “The Fantastics,” she
will settle down in Bangalore.
The philanthropic work of two good citizens,
George Crase, lion. sec. of the Prisoners’ Aid Society
for 28 years, and the late A. W. Hendry, of the
Royal Institution for the Blind, is to be suitably
recognised by the public.
The Stock Exchange the other day handed out good
wishes and a wedding present to K. F. Timcke, one
of its members who was in the Gallipoli Landing
and was invalided home with wounds in August,
1915. Since his discharge he has twice tried and
failed to re-enlist. Two brothers are at the Front
and a third, who is just 18, is in camp.
Kenneth Henderson, the newly-appointed chaplain
at St. Peter’s College, is a Melbourne man who did
good work as a padre with the A.I.F. before being
invalided to England. He utilised part of his fur-
lough on the staff of Winchester College. Two of
his brothers, both of them with A.1.F., were killed
in the early days of the war.
Betty Paterson has divulged her undying
affection for Bruce Pearce, an amateur geiff
champion and a lad of some consequence in
Hobart. The young man, who is wearing the
title of captain, is shortly leaving to help the
Australian Comforts Fund in France. After
a spell of that he will return to seize his
bride and hurry off again.
Australian M.C.’s are going off before the
girls this side can get a chance. One of the
latest taken out of the market is Captain
Arthur Godfrey, M.C., who next month is to
wed a Sussex damsel named Barrett Len-
nard. The young man’s dad, Charles God-
frey, is a pillar of the National Bank.
“Inserted by his loving and proud fiancee”
is the postscript to a death notice in the Mel-
bourne papers of a Victorian sergeant who
gallantly won the D.C.M. and was killed in
France on Shakspeare’s birthday. That is
the cult of Sparta, and the girl who practises
it is worthy of a soldier’s salute. The civvy
salute, on the other hand, threatens to
become a drug in the market. A brood of
Warracknabeal damsels have just notified
their boys that they must put on khaki
within the week or leave their sweethearts
for good. This is the latest aid to recruiting
—the Jilt Patriotic.
The attractive Maitland McMicking girl
pleads guilty to intending matrimony. The
man is Murray Black ; he persuades sheep
to grow wool for him near Flinders.
Major Gordon Chirnside, who went away
with the first Australians as staff-chauffeur
and got promoted to Birdwood’s staff, is
making a brief return to Australia to see his
mother and have a peep at his fiancee, Mavis
Thiel. Rumor says they will marry ere the
Major returns to t rance. You see, an offi-
cer who may engineer leave can return to
France. But one who, possibly in a job
which has earned him the V.C., has been
wounded can only get back by re-enlisting
as a private. That’ll teach ’em to earn
V.C.’s.
Echuca, which sits on the border at the
junction of the Murray and Campaspe rivers,
wants all good Echuchus home for a carni-
val week in September, and to that end has
started to send coo-ees in every direction.
It says the shade trees in the streets have
grown wonderfully, and that the Oldest
Inhabitants are lasting just as well as the
red-gum arch they put up for Governor
Loch in ’B4.
One enthusiastic correspondent, bidding
me whoop up the Echuean pilgrimage, ex-
plodes like this: —
Come back to Echuca
And see how it’s grown !
Back here in Echuca
Your triumphs are known!
The city won’t miss you
Or end in a wreck;
Echuca will kiss you
And fall on your neck.
Now, here’s your chance!
Annie Macky, wife of Dr. Stewart Macky,
and Cecilia John have started a People’s
Conservatorium at the Guild Hall, and are
offering a course of English Literature and
at a guinea a quarter for union-
ists and their children and £4 4s. a quarter
for others. A liberal system of scholarships
is being arranged, and it is hoped later to
develop schools of drawing and painting.
Artist Max Moldrum, Tarcynsky (the long-
haired, blonde male who leads the Profes-
sional Orchestra) and clever Jollie Smith,
lady barrister and Socialist, are lending a
hand.
Cahill, the Bananaland pianist, is still
touring the towns of his native State with
baritone Brookes. He writes to half-frozen
Melbourne friends about a motor tour, of IX>7
miles during which they were frizzled by dsty
and mosquito-eaten by night.
Uosslyn Vane, who used to appear in
Naice roles before the war, is now Mrs. j
Arthur Greenaway. She is fretting her
heart out for some real stage work. Her
present job is to understudy Thais Lawton.
Mrs. Gatepost, which is the vulgar version
of the American mummer’s name, did her
bit for the Empire Day celebrations by sing-
ing from a lorry crowded with Pierrots. The
lady, who was a musical-comedy star before
she married Guy, has two hobbies —hats and
dogs.
The girls of the “Bing Boys” are organ-
ising a hop at the Town Hall on June G.
The Australian Comforts Fund is the jus-
tification.
The American War-Workers for Aus-
tralian Soldiers are a small lot to carry so
much name. Not more than 30 or 40
families supply the members, but the small
crew get through much work, and already
have several laundry baskets filled with sen-
sible goods ready for Red Cross Day. Some
of them are going to be sandwich-women,
too. They will on the day dress in black,
with their hair bound tight, and each will
wear a big canvas back-and-front apron
carrying a four-guinea advertisement.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


f*
BLACK
and
m
SiflllS
:vv ,
■ ■saS
8
vf )>
Sit ■
■
V v !
"■ v" -"w
In'/'
... .
_ a
*S
fjm || ’ i| i
..■?•■
; t'J
yV r
« * ! -1/4, /*> , ]
Unpa
!
ikiflHHH
,>“ . ;
'■r^'A
~l' -J&?
'
is
:■: Y'-'"
• : fc ! VV.>. •• „ '« 8 > ■
fie- • V■'=■- ■*:■.. . .A-
;-
:
/ - -.«£ ,w ‘ r
■ .' ' ...'■:
is' I
- ; r ; rjPff
s'.
iW&>-*V v ' •. - & £SUV- V: r : :
Matei^lMw^^feaasgaiig
v '*i
: ;.Y& ’/ y :,■; y :i WSMj/^g.
i,v-.,». -- $; r. J
■j- ■ ■■ .;■■ ■ . - /■'.'l:;,^/—' £Y YY
~ ■
S,;sP! sP! V' ' i
St »Ssjr. ■?*•? »* ' . . ' -< , £
'
iSiilii
m- -i .*' ’•"
: t^: :
f ■-v’'-l. ! ;' '- r
*S,&- " . ,’« VY ' y v « £3^
. .»•«.
.
W"
fßKaßfl
/ H
“YORKSHIRE LIGHT INFANTRY.”
WHLSKY
JAMES BUCHANAN <& CO. LTD.


TO MAKE GOOD FAMILY COUGH
MIXTURE AND SAVE MUCH MONEY.
Obtain from your chemist or store a bottle of HEENZO (registered name for
I ean s Essence), and add it to a large breakfastcupful of warm water sweetened with
treacle or honey and sugar, as per easy directions printed on the label, and you will
at once have a pint of superior-quality cough and sore-throat mixture. A pint of
m f xture ’ Purchased in a lot of little bottles, would cost at least 12/-.
HEENZO chsts only 2/-. Thus each bottle used shows a clear cash saving of 10/-.
N° foiling or fussing is needed, the mixing being a matter of but a few moments.
If you experience any difficulty in obtaining HEENZO in your locality, send 2/- plus
3d. for postage, and a bottle will be sent to you per return mail by G W Hean
Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
How to Avoid Nervous Breakdown.
Insomnia” dyspepsi,?,'or sSme k other otaehmirea'aml'Sni sym'iKmfof neimStfifa
or nervous breakdown assert themselves, you should take a course of hpan’s tow'
NERVE NUTS. They effectively enrich the blood and nourish the nerves and restore
health and strength Obtainable from all leading chemists and storLs
fo“ a !7/I“ e ’ 2 /- P er box ; lar » e size, containing double quantity, 3/-, or six boxes
Martin’s Pills areisold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southam; n.— Advt.
ABSOLUTELY 'l?
‘King
QeorgelV
WHISKY
The TOPNOICH "Scotch
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“Bauragi” : “McNorth’s” yarn of the
prisoner who burned down his Papuan gaol because
it was Verminous recalls other calabooses in that land
of casuals. One white prisoner whom it was my
duty to detain m custody on a charge of murder had
to wait some months to bo tried, so it was agreed
that he should spend the day over at the storekeeper’s
and return to his dungeon at 9.30 p.m. The sergeant
was sent with a. lantern to escort him home every
night, and in the mornings he rose at his conveni-
ence and strolled over to the store, where he fared
sumptuously. One flight the pilot forgot the lantern
and both men fell off the bridge into a muddy gully.
The prisoner was Very stuffy about it next morning,
and complained so bitterly of being called away
just as he was drawing a pair to fill a full hand
that his time was extended to 11 p.m. and orders
given to the sergeant not to butt in till the Kitty
was killed. When he departed to do two years in
Samarai he left an impression on my mind that he
regarded me as a callous and brutal bureaucrat. Then
there was Mukowa. He murdered his boss with a
shotgun and was hanged. He was the cheerfullest
and most likeable prisoner I ever had the privilege
of meeting. When the missionary converted him and
asked me to stand godfather at the christening I
hadn’t the heart to refuse. Later, when, as deputy-
sheriff, I hail to superintend the send-off I was in
a position which 1 doubt if any godfather ever
occupied before me. Other notables were Vakemba,
who ate a whole prisoner while bringing him a long
journey to gaol; Tabe, who tested a magician’s
powers by sinking him all night in the river with a
stone round his neck, and got two years for the
experiment; and the seven escapees who sailed all the
way front New Caledonia in a boat of their own
building, only to be attested on landing in Papua.
They were finally reprovisioned and told to go to the
Devil, up German New Guinea way, which they did,
unrffjpicing.
'>'■ * * * *
‘•W.H.E.”: “Ivell B.’s” protest (B.
fl/o/’lfi) against the “breaking in” methods of num-
berless horse-murderers is more than justified. There
is no animal more susceptible to kindness, and none
gets less of it than the average moke undergoing the
“breaking” process. One of the pet methods of the
professional -is to run an animal into the 'stockyard
and starve it into docility for three or four days
prior to beginning its “education.” The horse is as
intelligent and apt to learn as the average schoolboy,
and the sooner the teacher adopts a tempting lolly-
stick in place of hip hide-splitting whipcord the
quicker ho will find out the wide gulf which separates
him from the true horse-master. 1 have just finished
educating our latest purchase. She was passed on
to me as incorrigible, yet hand massage and occa-
sional sweets as peace offerings have placed us on
the most intimate terms of confidence and friendship.
Whipcord? Its best use'is for restraining fools.
“Jacques” : Probably “H.M.’s” terrier bitch
who lias a habit of feeding off her tail is troubled
with worms. Next to distemper they-are the worst
scourge of the kennel. They are commonly an
accompaniment of lice. Areca-nnt is an excellent
vermifuge, and should be given fasting. A terrier-
bitch 12 months old ought to digest about as much
as will cover a threepenny-bit, in olive-oil, given in
the form of a capsule. Another good vermifuge is
about Tgr. or Bgr. of santonin every other day on an
empty stomach, followed by a dose of castor-oil. It
is quite possible, on the other hand, that the bitch
is being worried by an external parasite, such as
a tick, in which case a thorough examination should
be jiiiadn of her; if anything is discovered, equal
parts of paraffin and olive-oil should b« applied- with
a brush. Once a title-sinks his beak Into the flesh
never try to pull it off, as lie will leave behind part
of his face and the result will be a large, painful sore
* * » *
“F.Y.7”: Brumbies were .plentiful enough
anywhere in Western Queensland up to a few years
ago wherever the country was thickly timbered, and
hilly for choice. Your true brumby does not care
for open country. They were so thick in South-
Western Bunanaland in the ’Bo’s that it was thought
worth while to build big trap-yards with wings miles
long, not scantling affairs, hut high and heavy post-
und-rail, fit to hold elephants. One such in the trap
paddock on Noondoo station, in the St. George
country, was built over 30 years ago and still stands,
a fine advertisement |pr Australian timber and work-
manship.
NOT IN THE KNOW.
BILL : “Hear they're going to he married
JIM : “I was speaking to him yesterday, and he didn't say anything about it."
B ILL: “ P'raps she ain't told him yet."
“Mustard Gold’’: Gold-escorting nowadays
in Westralia has hardly any of the thrill which dis-
tinguished the despatch of metal to the banks in
bygone times. The Boulder mines send it into Kal-
goorlie mostly per lorry, with pallid, unferocious
clerks squatting on the square boxes, and nobody
would suspect that here was the precious metal in
transit by the ton but for the accompanying mounted
John behind with carbine negligently unswung. Qnlv
twice has an escort been attacked in the whole
history of the fields, and the stuff then in hand was
not the raw material, but money released from the
bank for wages. A manager going out with the
pay to a mine at Burbanks was found gagged and
bound, with the boodle gone; in the other case a
GETTING IT BOTH WAYS.
AGGRIEVED HOURSEHOLDER (surprising the early milkman) : “Here, old friend, go steady
with that water. Don't forget, I’ve got to pay for it."
masked horseman pounced on a party #hnt was carry-
ing wages along the Boulder road, and, snatching
a fair swag, vanished, and was never traced. Ex-
perience has proved that the unostentatious way is
the best way of getting the bullion to its destination
unscathed. Extraordinary' precautions aw’aken the
interest of the passing burglar. Thousands of
pound,s’ worth of gold are regularly floating in from
the mlilga to Kalgoorlie and other banks, just pitched
on to the counters by obscure individuals who
brought it along in the innocent old portmanteau
which travelled unnoticed in the train-rack or
jarhbed the entrance to the lavatory. A few years
ago a £20,000 parcel Of ingots from Morgans to
Kalgoorlie : lay unsuspected beneath the seat of a
packed train, while the youth in charge played
poker with’ wandering bagmen. Fred Merton, ere he
sold out the famous Reward to Kaufmarm, conveyed
most of his battery results —arid they were often
large—-to the bank at Malcolm, some- 20 miles dis-
tant, the'mine sulky, with a revolver lying on
the seat. A crony passing on the track was shown
glittering lumps of smelted material rolled up in a
chaff-bag at the driver’s feet. “Three thousand
ounces there,’-’ said Merton, as he jogged along the
lonely road' where any sort of ambush might have
been successful. Escorting sometimes went wrong
when some -mate in a mining enterprise, entrusted
with the job of putting the clean-up in the bank,
heaved himself aboard a convenient train and slith-
ered out of the country. Broad Arrow has a record
of a wily member of a cyanide “joint” setting out
with the approval of his three partners to dispose
of the final results extracted from an old sandheap
and getting clean away with the lot. They caught
up just in time to see the steamer breasting out into
Gage Roads from Fremantle, and the man waving
them farewell over the side was the absconding pal.
There were reasons why he wasn’t pursued to the
bitter end.
*■*■**
“Breeza”: Station men are well aware
that a dog soon learns when a sheep is needed for
the gallows, and how confidently, when he hears the
knife being sharpened, he makes tracks to round-up
the flock without waiting for orders. But this kelpie
went a bit farther. One of the hands was rubbing
up a knife on the grindstone, and Jerry woke up to
the noise. He quietly slipped away, brought up the
sheep and guarded them until, getting restless at the
delay, he singled out the meat, tipped it over and
stood by until the chap finished his job at the
grinder. Being a decent sort of bloke, the hand
killed the jumbuek rather than offend such a dog.
“Izaak Walton”: I agree with “Barcoo”
(B. 25/4/’18) that there are two species of the croco-
dile family in Australian waters. One resembles the
alligator in having a short snub, snout, while the
other takes after the .gavial with an elongated narrow
snout. The estuarine crocodile (C. Poroxus ) is the
more common. It generally, if not invariably, in-
habits the tidal portions of rivers, and may also be
seen some distance at sea. It is unknown on the
western coast of India, but is common on the east
coast and along to Southern China, and in North
Australia and the Solomon and Fiji Islands. It is the
largest of all the groups (caimans, ’gators, croco-
diles and gavials), being credited with a maximum
length of 33ft. Brutes of 26ft. are not uncommon.
This fellow seems to be the most savage Of its kind,
being powerful enough to attack cattle. The eggs
are generally; laid in a sandy spot and buried about
6i.n. beneath the surface. The infants break out of
the egg by means of a specially-shaped tooth. While
young they are able to utter buzzing grunts similar
to the sound made by the Queensland trumpeter.
Ihe harmless croc., or Johnston’s crocodile, is much
smaller than its brethren, attaining a maximum
length of six or seven feet. It has a long slender
snout, and forms the connecting link between croco-
diles and gavials. Its principal food is fish, particu-
larly freshwater catfish. Its sole habitat is the
•Northern Territory and N. Queensland. Ido not hold
that full-grown crocodiles are capable of uttering any
noise whatever/ The mangrove swamps are full of
stiange and weird sounds, especially at night, chiefly
due to the booming of the bittern. In the creeks
around Trinity Inlet (Cairns) the booming of this
bird is generally put down to the croc.
* * * *
“S.T.”: “Stinkwort,” brought into S.
Aus. about 0 years ago—said to have been intro-
duced by German settlers as a flavoring for hams
and such things—is having its usual autumn cursing.
Ihe weed flowers arid sheep die, and the two things
are said to be cause and result. Place, the State
\ r et., does not think so. It is no poison, he says, but
the flowers “do undoubtedly cause a mechanical
obstruction. ’ Given three practical precautions, the
weed can be considered harmless: (1) Have it “fed
off while quite young; (2) see that the sheep have
other feed as well; and (3) in particular give them
access to a lick of salt and lime, with a dash of
sulphur.
(Continued on page 24. )
FISHING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Waiting for the ferry, on the little pier,
Worries of the city drawing very near ;
But the flickering long line, where the’ shadows lie,
Holds each brain in thraldom, fascinutcs each eye.
Catching by the dozen fish with silver fins,
Clinging to the furthest pile with his wet, brown
shins,
Trim men, grim men, men with heavy frown,
Match the youngster catching fish, on their way to
town.
Once again the trim man is a ragged boy,
Hanging o er a muddy creek, knowing all the joy
(Reckless of to-morrow’s cane and its burning sting)
Of a truant holiday, fishing with a string.
1 ickling all the waters-still, into dimples deep
Trails the line in shadow where the small fish leap.
Grim man’s eyes are snapping: “That’s a tip-top
bait—
Giving .hem their breakfast sudden, aren’t you,
Mate?”
Frowning man is. dreaming—how the ripples spin!
Once a sun-baked youngster with a merry grin
Left the fishes biting, found his way to town,
Won a, trick from Fortune—and a heavy frown.
Linking up the city with the little pier,
Kilkily the ferry steals through the morning clear ;
But trim man, grim .man, man with heavy frown
Take a dream of silver-fins with them into town.
N.s.w.
NORA McAULIFFE.


m
A
Hand Woven by Returned Soldiers
PART from the motives of patriotism which
prompt one to buy these Homespuns, they
show that: careful weaving which means
1 mgthy, honest, solid wear. The patterns, too, are
r eat and exclusive, and Farmer’s have secured big
supplies from the Red Cross Weaving Depot. With
duch excellent material and the added careful:
tailoring of Farmer’s, an exclusive and distinctly
sijnart suit is assured.
Tailored Homespuns in Sac Styles
<THREE-PIECE SUIT to order, PRICE £7/15-
tOUSERS to order - - - „ £2-2-
tAi cored HOMESPUN OVERCOATS
dngrte or double breasted ~ PRICE £7/15/-
Special Display of these Genuine Homespuns is
made in Men’s Tailoring Department, First Floor.
Patterns will be forwarded on request.
i : 1 \ *¥. *. t* : v ". „ A - . * • y.
m
m
ez
SS?
mm
1
Maße Your Own Furniture
m
We send you the Pieces in
Em
B \t
mn
BELL AMD EBAZEK.—CopyrKbi.
7J
m.
%
is Pleasant Work Fitting them Together,
m
I_
about two-thirds cl
the freight as well
as expensive packing,
And you Win the Satisfaction
that you made it yourself.
We supply working plans and full particulars
for the making of
Artistic Furniture in Pine, flaple or Oak.
Quote Distinguishing: Letter of Article when Sending Order,
The Redi-Kut Timber Specialists,
J
0
L
u
9
ROZELLE,
N
d n


Despite of all that cynics say,
There sometimes is a perfect day;
Cloudless and dustless, calm and bright,
The day that gives us all delight;
The day that cornes to compensate
For cold, grey winter days we hate.
Those drizzling days we’d ne’er endure
Had we no Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-« COFFINS ST., MEFBOURNE.
QUEENSFAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGFE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRAFIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS* FUND BUIFDING, GREN-
FEFF STREET, ADEFAIDE.
STRENGTH, AND HOW TO GAIN IT.
INSTEAD of EXERCISES, PATENT
JOODS AND MEDICINES. TAKE
PHOSPHATE WITH YOUR MEALS.
The demand to-day is for men and women
who are strong in every sense of the word—
possessing the physical strength necessary to"
endure hardships and fatigue; the mental
strength to grapple with difficult problems;
the nervous force which endows the body with
vigor and vitality; the will power to triumph
over adversity and turn defeat into victory.
But such glorious strength is impossible so
iong as your nerves are weak and exhausted,
and therefore if you would be really strong
you must first care for your nerves. Weak,
exhausted nerves need food, and it has been
proved in numberless cases that the only food
element they can or will absorb readily and
naturally is phosphate in the well-known
torm of bßro-phosphate, which most chemists
stock in ogr. compressed tablets, so that if
you feel your strength is failing from any
cause you should get a supply of these bitro-
phosphate tablets and take one with every
meal. Practically all the minor ailments afflict-
ing mankind, as well as many of the more
serious maladies, can be traced to nervous ex-
haustion and lowered vitality, and probably
this explains why such a remarkable improve-
ment in the general health is invariably
noticeable when bitro-phosphate is taken as
directed, and the nerves are thereby revital-
ised and made strong. —Advt.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
SPEEDING HIM UP.
“I was discussing the war with your father. He said he honed the fighting would soon
he over.”
“Yes, I know he’s very much opposed to long engagements.”
“Dug-out” : How’s this for a lively scrap?
One night a red-backed spider pegged out a claim in
the corner of my stable that a wasp had comman-
deered for her building operations, and proceeded to
use part of the wasp tenement as a support for the
web. In the morning when the wasp arrived with
building materials, she was quite overcome by in-
dignation. Dropping her bundle, she surveyed the
surroundings for the offender. Red-back was soon
located sitting with his legs crossed in his new
residence picking his teeth iii a self-satisfied mood
and evidently amused at the ravings of the noisy
mud-lumper. This state of affairs was soon altered.
In about two seconds the wasp had cleared for
action, and as a preliminary sought to break the
enemy’s morale with a flow of curious shrieks and
buzzings. These it followed up with a furious
charge straight through the entanglements. The
rush in massed formation staggered the spider, who
after a few lively rounds retreated towards a dug-
out some three feet away. After hurling a few
threats into the hole in which her defeated enemy
Iminus two and a half legs) had taken refuge, the
wasp returned to her building wearing a Napoleonic
expression, and in a few minutes* business was re-
sumed as usual. Always put your money on the wasp
in these affairs.
* * * *
“Melos”: Here’s the way to prepare a
dinkum hair-restorer. Get a flask of brandy and
search around till you find a real live “jumpers’ ”
nest. Drink half the liquor, and then, standing the
flask near the ant-heap, put a straw or reed into
the neck of the bottle, bending the free end down-
ward till it comes in contact with the nest. The
junipers crawling along the straw will lose their bal-
ance and fall into the juice. When the deceased are
piled up to the bottle-neck, cork the mixture and
macerate for two weeks. Cantharides, the active
ingredient in most hair-ticklers, is a back number
compared with this home product.
“Bill”: The generally-accepted idea that
emus will not breed in captivity is exploded by a
visit to the pleasure-grounds at Oatley Bay, a
delightful little spot on George’s River, near Como
(N.S.W.), where a pair of these birds will proudly
exhibit their latest arrival. Two chicks were
hatched, but for some breach of military discipline
the old cock knocked the stuffing out of one.
* * * *
“Dug-out” : If it’s only a cure for boils
you want here’s the speediest and most reliable known
to bush science. Fill a pickle-bottle with boiling
water and let it stabd for five minutes. Then empty
and when the bottle cools slightly place the neck of
it over the tumor and hold in that position. If the
skin has not been previously broken make a small
opening with a needle before placing the glassware
in position. In 16 minutes the pus should be out
and the trouble over.
* * * *
“E.S.S.”: Some sheep-breeders have been
stating lately that the lousy starling (it is the host
of an obnoxious greyback, which it often carries
into houses) is a friend of the pastoralist, inasmuch
as it feeds on blowflies and their maggots. No evi-
dence has been produced to prove the
claim. While such a known pest is
championed by the pastoralists, it is
strange that dozens of really useful
Australian birds are either ignored or
treated with hostility. Nothing, of
course, is any good that does not come
from foreign Countries. Very few of
these stinking-fishmongers have a good
word for the crow; yet the black
scavenger feeds largely on grasshoppers
and maggots. Watch one round a dead
beast and you can soon realise how
much he does in keeping down the
blowfly pest. Yet, instead of being
treated as a friend, he is -blamed for the doings of
the raven, and up to a shilling a head is paid for
his destruction. It’s a double-barrelled extravagance.
* * * *
“Nostaw”: Tell The Bulletin corres-
pondent who was surprised at a gent, staking beer
with his porridge that, when a kid, my father, in
common with hundreds of other men from Notting-
ham (Eng.), mainly subsisted on porridge made with
beer and washed down with more beer. And he’s no
invalid now, either.
"Two S«as”: I amerga from the seclusion
of my hollow log to assure “Bad Australian” (B.
9;"S/’IS) that some rock-wallabies do climb trees, or,
rather, run up those with a slightly leaning barrel;
and that all “rookies” are decorated with furry tails.
The animal with the bristly-haired tail that “8.A.”
saw in his misspent youth was probably the
“brusher” or scrub-wallaby, whose celerity in leav-
ing a vacancy when he felt his presence was super-
fluous gave rise to the expression of the bookie with
an empty bag when he sees the wrong number go
up—“ Give ’em brusher!”
* * * *
As the prize ip a quaint competition sug-
gested for its annual show, the Vic. Agricultural
Society has been offered £3 3s. by William Kodier,
the ingenious citizen who came into prominence
some years ago through his proposition for ridding-
Australia of superfluous rabbits. Kodier’s plan, the
result of his own and some other people’s researches,
was to kill off all the females and let Brer Rabbit go
free. The State was indifferent, rabbit-suppression
having little to do with Votes, and nothing was
done. So now Rodier has written to the Agricul-
tural Society, urging that, as rabbiting has been
made an industry, it should be put on a sound com-
mercial basis by improving the breed, hi.s £8 3s.
prize to be awarded to the breeder of the best pen
of five rabbits! The sobersided society, having a sus-
picion that somebody might be pulling somebody
else’s leg, decided to “regretfully decline” the offer.
* * * #
“Jobber”: Come to Flanders if you want
to see dinkum cockying. for intense cultivation 1
give the inhabitants the biscuit. Stock kept in
stalls nearly all the year, and the bedding and
manure carted out and ploughed in. We could take
a pattern from their ploughs, too; they’re all rever-
sible, and while we are turning on the headland
Jeanne is half-wuy down the furrow. There are no
fences, only an occasional hedge, and not a square
yard of a field is idle. The horses do one’s heart
good to look at; it’s most unusual to see one low-
in condition. Tell some of the lads at home about
it, will you? They might come over—if it’s only
to see the ploughing.
* * * *
“Mrs. Lance itawson”: Re mechanical'
feet. Back in the ’Bo’s in Maryborough (Q.), Lassie,
a half-caste maiden, had a foot snapped off by
a shark. Bor some months she went about on the
stump and a stick. Then the citizens took up a
collection and got Lassie a new foot, which she wore
for- a time with some pride and a good deal of
swagger—not to say stagger during her periodical
drunk. Finally she confided to the subscribers:
“That too much nice feller foot no good wear ’em
ebry day, mine tirik. Keep it longa Sunday—him too
flash-feller longa ebry day.” Some weeks later when
I inquired for the foot she said: “Oh, that old foot!.
Him stop longa diUybag. Him no good\ longa foot.
Him very good hammer—knock ’em oyster bery good.
Close up me killein Charley Brown longa dat feller.
My word, him good lor.gu something.”
“Ida Dawson”: It will be interesting to
see if the old line “Many berries bring a cold winter”
holds good this year, for the gullies between Nimity-
belle and the McLaughlin River (N.S.W.) are a
crimson blaze with the berries of the wild briar. The
sweet-smelling but, unfortunately, noxious weed
has a heavier crop than I have ever before observed.
The poplars and aspens along the route, also, are
holding their leaves better than usual. As a rule
the leaves drop as they turn color, starting at the
top of the tree. This year the trees are still in full
foliage, and every leaf is a glorious yellow..
A CARETAKER.
S WAGGIE: “Would yer ’elp a poor old bloke
wot's doin’ ’is hit?”
MOTORIST : “And what might your hit he?”
SWAGGIE : “Oh, I’m minding the hush till the
hoys come hack.”
“Merrigal”: Though the ancient and ever
polite Samoans practised many forms of salutation,
sniffing being the commonest, family greetings were
not included. Even a husband did not salute his
missus after a long absence. Words of welcome for
early-morning and after-dinner visitors were, re-
spectively, Ua sautia (“You come with the dew on
you”), and Ua poulingia (“You come in the dark-
ness”). A visitor to make his marble good kissed
the hand of a common or garden chief, but when
the big man was Sacred ' the guest wiped his own
chivvy with the dignitary’s apron. There were
many othei interesting customs. A receiver placed
a gift on his head, in token of acknowledgment.
Admission of guilt and a plea for forgiveness were
signified by the delinquent making obeisance before
the tabernacle of the offended chief or in some
public place of the aggrieved village. A surer par-
don-producer was i the bringing in the hands of the
REA SSEEING HIM.
NEWCHUM : “Gripes! The Recruiting-Ser-
geant told me it was good sport at the
Front, hut I don't see much of it about
this lot.”
OLD HAND: “Oh, well, you’ve struck a quiet
time. It’s sure to liven up a bit next
Week.”
offender firewood and Monos, thereby presenting him-
self as a pig to be cooked and eaten. To carry an
open umbrella, past a - chief's caboose, and to cock a
log, or to throw anything over the head of another
"iff w ere grave insults. Travelling through or by a
village where a caliph was lying in state was an
offence. A war party considered a bird flying across
its path as a bad omen, and the appearance of a
1 ainbow in its rear was the office to postpone hostili-
ties. Travellers passed the time of day and made
nay for each other at meeting, and workmen downed
tools temporarily when a visitor approached. Some
Melanesian customs are also worthy of notice. A
stone wrapped in a leaf and deposited on a
New Briton’s pathway is a warning to make the
right-about. A leaf placed on the shoulder of
another is a compliment demanding a gift in return,
but if the vegetation be left where a crime has
been perpetrated it is a polite hint that the per-
petrator will be knocked endways. In some parts
of New Ireland patting the top of the head with the
hand means “Glad to meet you,” while in other parts
the citizens have a courteous method of expressing the
same thing, viz., by pinching the navel.


HIGH-CLASS CIGARETTES
.society OOi
infnor qualifies
pm
t?BS
AT MODERATE PRICES.
CIGARETTES
The Quality of State Express Cig'arettes
is exactly the same as before tbe war,
and none of tbe substitutes now so
frequently employed in inferior
brands are used in tbeir manufacture.
NEW RETAIL PRICES.
State Express No. 333 6d. per Pacßet.
Sold by all High-class Tobacconists throughout Australasia.
sole Manufacturers: Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd., London, England.


m
There is Nothing Better than
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
For COUGHS, COLDS on the CHEST,
CROUP and WEAK LUNGS
m
m&m
JS.
S V/
p\j
V
m*
fisssijj
®fe
m
lull
£
11
m
. c. tciwcngy-'iwinfrj
This Medicine can be given with PERFECT
SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE
to the YOUNGEST CHILD, as it does NOT
contain, and has NEVER contained any poison
or harmful drugs. It is very pleasant to take,
and children take it readily—even CLAMOR
for it. HEARNE’S BRONCHITIS CURE
is prepared by our MR. W. G. HEARNE
who is a REGISTERED CHEMIST
with nearly forty years’ experience.
The REMEDY with the
REPUTATION
If not obtainable locally
send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co.
Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Wellington. N.Z.
Always ask for
“HEARNE’S”
m
m
Business, Robbery, etc.
T.. 1.1).”: I started the following message
°fr to Sydney from a country P.O. per
’phone operated by a deaf postjnistress:—
Send eight-day eight-inch octagonal clock; hurry
gas fittings.
The nearest telegraph-office was operated by
a casual chap, who sent it on its journey
this way:—
Send eighty agents diagonal socks hairy gasfitters.
My agents wouldn’t accept the order; but
the sight of 80 hairy gasfitters wearing
diagonal socks would have been some com-
pensation if they had.
“Machete”: A correspondent in a recent
Bulletin praised the virtues of blackberry
wine and asked why the stuff isn’t put on
the market. It is—as a liqueur, at any rate
- —and it has been responsible for more head-
aches than even racecourse whisky. The
Greek cafe-keepers of Cairo specialise in it
as its sweet, syrupy flavor prevents detection
of all sorts of other abominations. Many a
Billjim can testify to its knock-out qualities.
***•*-
“T. 0.1.”: The Paragon Hotel, which
formed part of the Hordern estate, has been
sold for £35,000. The ground on which the
house stands is “made” or “saved” from
Sydney Cove. Built in the early ’sixties, it
was first .occupied by Catherine Brown ; the
Watson family have been in possession since
1808, when they succeeded that pioneer. The
original It. A. Watson was a leading aquatics
“sport” of his day: hence the waterside pub.
* * * *
“Solomon M.”: “In evidence before. the
Inter-State Commission several witnesses
stated that they were not able to obtain
supplies of Australian-made cloth direct
from-' the mills. They had to buy through
the Wholesalers, who made a needless profit.”
It is more than 20 years since a N.S.W.
manufacturer told the writer the same story,
and gave’these reasons: (1) The business
wasn't very large owing to high expenses
and low tariff and the carefully fostered
loathing of Australian goods, and it was
widely scattered. If he ran it direct he
would have to send out as many travellers
for his one line us the importer who had
100 lines to sell. (2) When a bagman
dumped down the card of Smith, Australian
manufacturer, his only reward in most cases
was a shudder. When he dumped down the
card of “Brown, importer,” he could pass
some of Smith’s goods in the crowd. (3)
Brown, importer, was willing to sell the
goods of Smith, manufacturer, if he got a
sufficient commission and provided Smith
pledged himself not to sell his own goods
except through the Brown fraternity. Other-
wise Smith, manufacturer of Australian
goods with Australian labor at Australian
wages, could go to perdition at the bidding
of the almighty Brown, importer.
* * * #
New but honest:—
INSOLVENTS.
Vida Ruby Margaret Goyder , of Street,
St. Kilda, spinster. Causes of insolvency—Failure
of matrimonial prospects. Liabilities, .£641 ss. 2d. ;
assets, £66; deficiency, £575 ss. 2d.
The schedule will, of course, show the money
spent on bait and fishing tackle.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” :
Mardie and Gorman’s removal from Pitt-street
after many years recalls some of the early estate
salesmen of . Sydney, though, it is only within the last
half-century that estate salesmen, pure and simple—
if they ever are simple—came into existence. Some
of the first real property sold by auction in Aus-
tralia was that of George Barrington, the historic
pickpocket; this sale was conducted by Simeon Lord
at Parramatta on January 2, 1805. James Larra,
an innkeeper, had the conduct of the sale of the
estate of Captain William Cox when that pioneer
over-speculated in land. There were 14 lots, includ-
ing the historic Brush Farm, sold on April 4, 1804.
In the ’twenties and ’thirties estate-agents became
more numerous under a license Thomas
Bodenham, one of the most 'notable, hung out in
George-street, in the saloon of the Royal Hotel (after-
wards burned down). On March 14, 1832, he offered
for sale, in allotments, Hutchinson’s paddock, identi-
fiable now by Bond-street, which ran through the
block. Bodenham, who left about 1834, was the pre-
cursor of Tom Stubbs, who was flourishing in Sydney in
the late ’thirties and early ’forties, but emigrated to
Melbourne in 1847. Sam Lyons (the Union S.S. Co. is
now building on the site of his auction room) sold
12 lots on the N.E. corner of King and George
streets in May, 1834, for £10,318, a price until
then unknown. Bodenham’s successor was Thomas
Ware Smart, who became Colonial Treasurer. Abra-
ham Polaek—a name to conjure with at one time —
was commissioned by W. C. Wentworth to sell the
earliest Vaucluse subdivision; also a great part of
the Chippendale estate passed through his hands.
In the’forties T. S-Mort was in evidence. In the mid-
’fifties his sign was in Pitt-street. He was succeeded
there in the late ’sixties by Rayner, Treeve and Co.,
about whom silence were golden. In the later ’fifties
Robert Pemberton Richardson was in business on the
corner of George and Jamieson streets. Later he
moved into Pitt-street, where he was joined by
Edward Wrench, who had been manager of the
A.J.S. Bank, and Richardson and Wrench came into
existence. Hardie and Gorman made their first
appearance in 1873.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: In earlier days in Melbourne
seme novel cases of insolvency came before
the judges. A man presented his schedule
to Judge Barry, the punctilious. The liabil-
ities were not heavy, but the assets were
returned as nil. The Judge declined to
accept this, as the insolvent had no estate
to sequestrate. “What am I to do, your
Honor?” quoth the impecunious one. “I
am not your legal adviser,” replied the Old
Man, “but I should, if I were in your case,
spend a shilling on a razor—and then seques-
trate it.” Which the insolvent did.
* * * *
“0.L.”; The tram was crowded and there
was a lot of noise, but in between cackles
and rumbles this remark stood out plain and
shrill: “Annie lost her tail inside three
months!” Ermyntrude explained, when I
asked her about it later in the evening, that
no doubt it was Annie’s ten-guinea blue-
wolfskin which had parted from its south-
ern attachment. Nowadays the demand for
furs is so incessant, it seems, that the fur-
riers don’t worry about the quality of their
work, when putting together the various
parts which go to make up a “perfect animal
skin,” as the advts. say; and Annie’s tail
was therefore like a whole lot of other expen-
sive but poorly-fashioned war-time luxuries.
**. * #
Coyne, who has just handed in the Rail-
way portfolio in Bananaland to take charge
of Lands, is another believer in the resources
of his own State. Soon after he took charge
of Railways the high cost of imported tim-
ber used for handles of heavy tools set him
thinking. Soon a plant was set up at Ipswich
workshops, and now the articles are being
turned out. The timber used is crow’s-foot
elm, spotted gum and crow’s ash, and the
workmen have assured Coyne that the
quality is right.
* * * »
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: We’ve had the
I ositive Clearance Sale” of a very old Syd-
ney carrying firm, R. Shortland and Sons.
In the fifties it was John Woods and Thomas
McDonnell, “agents for carriers,” in Camp-
bell-street. That was in the days when
carrying to country towns by bullock-teams
was a picturesque occupation. In the early
’sixties Richard Shortland was on the scene
as a proprietor; about the same time
the late “Butty” McMahon was following
the same occupation. In 1867 Woods and
Shortland, with William Adair, entered into
partnership. Next year George Fox and
Butty joined the firm. In the first
seventies the Sydney United Omnibus Co.
was started. It mopped up most of the
small proprietors. The chairman was John
Young; directors: John Woods, Richard
Shortland, W. R. Hall and Henry Hoyt.
John Woods was managing director, and long
Tom Hales, who was said to hail from Texas,
was traffic manager. The carrying business
was now in the hands of Woods, Shortland
and McMahon. In 1875 one Barber joined,
and in the following year a dissolution took
place, Shortland and Sons, Butty McMahon
and John Woods conducting separate busi-
nesses. The McMahons are the survivors;
but omnibuses are unknown, and the carry-
ing trade is confined to the city wharves,
warehouses and the railway station.
* * * *
“H.M.” : Talking about sharkskin leather,
I have seen it made from carpet and brown
sharks caught by myself. That from the
brown species was made into a pair of boots
by the tanner, and they are still going
strong after two years’ wear. This tanner,
who has had nearly 50 years at the trade,
informed me that sharkskin makes one of
the toughest leathers he has had anything
to do with, the grain being crossed. Where
the sea lawyers are plentiful the foundation
of a new industry awaits development.
* * * *
“Bad Australian” (from Argentine) :
In the good old days on the Salitre Pampa, in
the provinces of Antofagasta and Tarapaca, when
the English nitrate cos. were “stacking them on
their edges,” almost everybody walked around with
a pocket full of shinplaster and a skinful of pisco
or rye whisky. The staffs of these companies were a
mixed crowd—English, Irish, Scots, Canadians, Aus-
tralians and a few South Americans. On one of the
Ti it rate establishments the boys had been improving
the shining hour to such an extent that the boss
received a cable from the London office asking why the
output had decreased to such an alarming extent
during the last quarter. There was a hurried con-
ference between all hands and it was decided to
reply that the output of crude nitrate of soda had
been greater than ever, but that a large percentage
had been eaten up by the comenchaca. The comen-
chaca is a dense fog which occasionally blows up
from the Pacific and causes the salitre exposed to it
to sweat and run like brine. In due course the boss
received a notification from headquarters that the
explanation was considered satisfactory, and that
in order to obviate any further trouble of a like
nature the Board had despatched 3000 rat-traps to
Chile, which it trusted would be sufficient to put
a stop to the ravages of the comenchacas. The
ironmongery arrived almost as soon as the letter of
advice, and the grin on the face of the Coast was
so wide for weeks after that it got wrinkles on the
back edges of its weather-bitten ears.
THE MINE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It looms out on the common land
Beforg our cottage pane,
And I must heed its fierce command,
And seek my grave again.
I hear it growling through the night,
And ever in my bed •
Shall quake before the monster’s might,
And know it must be fed.
Its grey hair streams across the skv,
And burns against the west
The fury of its baleful eye
That drags me from my rest.
It murders peace, and ruthless kills
The joy of every scene,
And all the weary year it spills
Its vomit on the green.
I fain would walk the sunlit earth,
But with an ceric cry
It calls me from all cleanly mirth,
And, 10, its slave am I.
I fain would bathe in limpid air
The holy moon beneath,
But filters to me everywhere
The champing of its teeth.
O God, I hate this bloodless thing!
I loathe its steaming breath,
And fear its ghosts that bat-like cling
In avenues of death.
I shudder at the rending blast
A-crouch beside my truck.
A .Tonali I. The world has cast
Me overboard for luck.
More dread my woes than suffered he
Who fled the Lord in vain—•
Each day my monster swallows me,
And casts me up again!
YICTORIA,'
EDWARD DYSON.
The Inky Way .
> The death of Hugh Garland, of Adelaide'
Register staff, is. a reproach to- the system
which makes Australia, for want of enough
fresh men, send back to the trenches those
who have already done more than their
share. He was in at the end of Gallipoli; and
at Pozieres gained a commission, a D.C.M.
and several wounds. After recovering he
had a second turn in the line, and was then
sent home, but got away for a third cam-
paign in France. Of Register men, Lodge;,
Jacobs, Knowles and Steer had already been'
killed in the war; Garland makes the fifth-
as he really seemed to expect he would when
he wont back. He wrote enough good war
sketches to make a very readable book.
* * * *
In recent Australian papers appeared'
“the Official Reporter’s” tale of a stirring
encounter. “A Queensland officer” (it
would discourage recruiting to mention
names in such circumstances) was chasing
a retreating Hun, who eventually kam-
eraded and turned out to be an ex-waiter
in a London hotel. Here’s how the yarn
was cabled: “The Queensland officer
chased him, calling out, ‘Surrender, you
illegitimate!’” And in precisely those
words the faithful Argus printed it, evoking
shrieks of laughter from everyone in khaki
who read it.
* * * *
Killed in France, Lieut. John Wilson Kerr,
of the Vic. Government Printing Office. This
good fighting man, who left Australia as a
private, was a son of one of the very few
women who run Baekblock papers in Aus-
tralia —Mrs. Robert Kerr, of the Cobden
Times, which looks out on the world from a.
Victorian hamlet.
* * * *
“Chickadee”: Among the copper-catching
devices of the Melbourne Winner is the
offer of a prize to the owner of a marked
head in a group of people photographed at
a sports meeting or elsewhere. The chosen
head is encircled. At an up-country school
reading-lesson the subject was a famous
sacred picture in which every head wears a
halo. The school-marm endeavored to im-
press on the kiddies the fact that a halo was
the hall-mark of the angelic. One young-
ster entered a caveat. “Please, Miss,” he
said, “in the Winner I seen a soldier with a~
halo!”
* * * *
The Lyric Club in Adelaide has made a
surprising change of face. It has existed to
support the lighter forms of music, with
the drama as a side-line. It has a dwindling
membership, but commodious premises,
which lately attracted the journalists, who
joined in a body and are now (the last
annual report remarks) the “mainstay” of
the club. So it has changed its name to
Adelaide Press Club, and taken for its
president D. J. Gordon, who was Chief of
Staff on the Register before he took to
politics.
* * * *,
London Times, which, owing to cumula-
tive increases in the price of paper, had to
put up its own price to 3d. on March 11,
printed a list of changes since 1785: —
Jan. 1, 1785 .. 3d. Oet. 1,1861 .. 3d.
Apl. 21, 1794 . . 41d. May 5, 1913 . . 2d.
Jan. 1,1799 .. 6d. Mar. 16,1914 .. Id.
May 22, 1809 . . 61d. Nov. 20, 1916 .. lid.
Sept. 1, 1815 .. 7d. Feb. 20, 1917 .. 2d.
Sept. 15, 1836 .. sd. Mar. 11, 1918 . _ 3d.
July 1, 1855 .. 4d.
The maximum was reached in Waterloo
year; and after the awful drain of the
Napoleonic wars, that price had to be main-
tained for 21 years. Forty per cent, of
Britain’s shipping was destroyed in that
great struggle ; and shipbuilding wasn’t the
speedy business then that it is to-day.
* * * *
Norman Lilley, who used to control the
Sydney Worker’s page about books and
writers, found that culture didn’t cut much
ice with the people who kept the paoer going
in thoke days, so he pulled out and found a
job on the Argus. Now he roars gently in
the leader-writers’ pen.
AS SMITH SEES IT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was a little, bald old man, with corns upon his
feet,
And when he talked his tones approached an almost
lamblike bleat;
Ilis back was bowed, he shuffled on like some down-
trodden soul
AVho passed his days in humble toil to earn his
weekly-dole;
His pants were baggy at the knees, his hat was quite
a freak,
His whiskers wild, his weirdly-mottled necktie just
a shriek.
Beside him strode a hefty bloke with broad and
arching chest—
A bold, imposing presence, of good looks and style
possessed,
His bearing unimpeachable, his manners hard to
beat;
He wore good clothes, his faultless pants were
pressed in creases neat,
And, as they passed along the street, this paragon
inclined
His well-bred head that he might hear the other
speak his mind.
And who was that ? The tall, young man, who —oh,
the bald, old lad ?
What? Yes, oh, yes, that’s him, all right—just like
his picture, sad
And serious all day long, as though he felt that was
the way
He really ought to look, because he takes the nation’s-
pay
And has his name, throughout the year, in every
daily sheet,
While all the Truly Thoughtful strew bouquets
around his feet.
Hey, what—that big, bold, brainy chap? Lie was
the one, of course,
AA ho lifted poor old Baldy up and put him on his
horse.
He made the old boy what he seems before the
public gaze
By toiling through long, weary nights and plodding,
patient days ;
The man Who'wields a slashing pen in his far-
reaching fist
To make the little great—why, yes, John Smith, the
journalist.!
VICTORIA.
O. L.


.■
! '
' .«:■
'M
; .•
<O,
■•V- s
&?%<■: -i v
’
If
m
m
G.E. Design is the combined result of research and experience.
All panels are developed with special/ reference to the source
required. They are originated and not copied. Each device is
designed by a set of specialists. Purchasers receive the service
of a highly trained corps of switchboard engineers.
G.E. “Standard Unit” panels represent the most advanced
step in switchboard manufacture. These panels meet a great
variety of requirements. They possess the advantages of quantity
manufacture, resulting in low prices and quick shipment.
ILLUSTRATION SHOWS
DIRECT
CURRENT
SWITCHBOARD
OF LARGE CAPACITY,
MANY OF WHICH ARE
IN SUCCESSFUL OPERA-
TION IN AUSTRALIA.
C Q
o\ jm- p
0 0
0
D Q
Q 0
C ii
m
: 1 J
Cl
m
m
0 c
0 0
O 3
? a
d |?
OK
oo
Ofo
0 0
Po
o*o
05
0
mm
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, C? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS .
BRISBANE (Q.) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkins & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S A.) ; Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.
OTHER AGENTS-
NEW ZEALAND: The National^Electrical & Engineering Co., Ltd.,
Auckland, Christchurch. Dunedin and Weltingcon.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co, Ltd., Launceston; Messrs
Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


J ewellery - Desig'ns
at Pre-War Prices.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled Lever Movement, Compensation balance,
£B/10/-. Extra quality, £lO.
A. Saunders’
Pearl-set Necklace,
Set. Gold, £3.
15ct, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’
Oent.’s Oct. Gold
Ring, set Ruby or
Tourmaline, 25/-
15ct. Gold, £2.
A. Saunders’ loct. Gold Pearl-set Brooch,
€2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Bor Brooch, set
Aquamarine, 25/-
A. Saunders'
Solid Gold Wed-
dinfc Rinffs,
15ct. Gold, 25/-
18ct. Gold, 30/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Ring, 18ct.
Gold, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Cold Brooch, set Amethyst
or Garnet, 20/-
A. Saunders’ Oxidised or Nickel Keyless Lever
Watch, jewelled movement 20/-, 25/-. Lxtra-
jewelled, 80/-, £2. Solid Silver, £2, £2/10/-,
£3. Gold, £5, £5/10/-, £6/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Curb Padlock Bracelet,
plain or chased, £3.
Others, 25/-, 30/- 40/-, 50/-,
15ct. Gold, £4/10/-
m
•s
ml
*
Lv*
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Sol it. v, . . , atent Expanding Wristlet
Watch, full jewelled, Lever movement, Compensation balance,
£6. Others, £3/10/-, £4, £4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-,
£6/10/-, £7/10/
A. Saunders’ Pure Double-cut Diamond Bar
Brooch, 15ct. Gold, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Aquamarine Bar Brooch 15ct
Gold, 30/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond boat-shape
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Solid Gold Wed-
ding Rings, 9et.
Gold, 20/-. 15et.,
40/-. 18ct„ 50/-
m
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut dia-
mond Necklace,
£5/10/-
A. Saunders’
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold
Signet Ring,
20/-
15ct. Gold, 40/-
Ladv’s size,
12/6.
A Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Turquoise or all Pearls, 22/6
A. Saunders’ Solid Nickel Open-face
Keyless' Lever Watch, patent adjusted
balance, reliable timekeeper, 20/-,
35/-. Higher Grades, 30/-, 35/-,
40/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 18/6.
A. Saunders’ Oct. Solid Gold Albert, £4/10/-. Lighter, £4/5/-,
£3/10/-, S 3. Heavier, £5, £5/10/-, £6, £6/10/-.
15ct. Solid GoLO, £7/10/-. Lighter, £7, £O/10/-, £6.
Heavier, £B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-
A. Saundeis 9ct« Solid Gold Albpi t, £3/Hc&vicr) £4/5/-,
£4/10/-, £5, £5/10/-, £O/10/-. 15ct. Gold, £O/10/-.
Heavier, £7/10/-, £B/10/-, £lO, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Oct. Gold
Links, daintily en-
graved, 20/-
15ct., 35/-
A.
Jeweller, 805-815 George St, ( op St a tion way )* Sydney
A. Saunders’ Nickel-silver Hunting Key-
less Watch, full jewelled, adjusted move-
ment, 35/-, 40/-. Solid Silver,
£2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-. Gold filled,
£2/15/-, £4/4/-, £5/5/-. £6/6/-
INCORPORATED 1888 BY SPECIAL ACT OP PARLIAMENT.
The Permanent Trustee Company
OP NEW SOUTH WALES, LTD. 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
TRUSTEES, ADMINISTRATORS, ATTORNEYS, AGENTS, Etc.
Trustee and Administrative Work of Every Description.
Estates and Properties Managed. Rents and Funds Collected.
Full Details on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium ivin without
lifting a hand?
' ' « .
safeguard Your health
p? J.CoIJis Browne's
Cblorodyjtt
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Colighs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and iu tlie Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 3/-, 51-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS. »
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
OOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie Exgland, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3,
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, 1/-, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6. Love
Letters of a Priest, 1/9. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics’ Work-
shop Handybook, 1/9. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow’s Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Motor Mechanics, 2)9. Motor Manual
(latest), 3/-. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/6. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/9. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. How to Read Faces and
Heads, 1/6. Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, &c.,
1/9 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Rf.ckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of the Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/6.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan's Engine-
driver’s Guide. 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 21-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years .
DON'T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Btsu Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
sat Gordon's Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/9. Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook. 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/9. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/9.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/-.
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/9 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Wizard's Manual,
1/3. Speeches from the Dock. 2/-. Life’s
Shop Window, 1/9. Three Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, (j 7 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
Sir-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-m
. -


DELCO-LIGHT
Furnishes Electric Light for
Farms, Stations, Churches, etc.
and is so Simple a Child can Work it.
100,000 IN ACTUAL USE.
Starts and
Stops Itself.
Air-Cooled
4-Cycle
Engine.
Low Speed,
950 R.P.M.
m
c
I9M
as
m
m
mm_
mi
II
Automatic
Lubrication.
Glass Cell
Visible
Battery.
Safe and
Reliable.
RUNS ON KEROSENE.
One Gallon of KEROSENE in DELCO-LIGHT will light 32
Electric Lamps for 44 hours—or will re-charge the Battery,
which will then supply 15 Lamps for 8 hours, when Engine
is stopped.
DELCO-LIGHT
DELCO-LIGHT has 4=Cycle, low=speed Engine,
which runs on kerosene, and battery plates
are visible through the glass cells.
OTHER MAKERS
Have 2=Cycle, excessive high=speed Engines,
running only on benzine, and battery plates
are invisible.
For Further Particulars apply to
New South Wales Warburton, Franki Ltd., Sydney
Victoria & Tasmania—Warburton, Franki(Meib.) Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Smeiiie & Co. Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia Parsons & Robertson Ltd., Adelaide
West Australia Geo. Wills Co. Ltd., Perth
New Zealand A. D. Riley & Co. Ltd., Wellington
Farmers’ Co-operative Assn., Christchurch
AGENTS WANTED IN COUNTRY DISTRICTS.


Government Notices.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL BRIGADE
(Naval Guard Section).
VOLUNTEERS are invited for Naval
Guard Duty on wharves and ships
alongside same. Applicants must be British
subjects, medically fit for the work re-
quired, between 20 and 50 years of age, and
must have had previous service in the Naval
or Military Forces of Great Britain or its
Dependencies. Service will be in Australia
until the termination of the Proclamation
calling out the Citizen Forces. The rate of
pay will be ss. per day for seven days per
week to able seamen. Married men or men
the sole support of a widowed mother will be
granted separation allowance: (a) for wife,
and (6) for each child under 16 years of
age. Uniform, rations and quarters are
supplied free.
For further particulars apply to
The District Naval Officer,
Naval Staff Office,
Rushcutters Bay.
ft
m&?z
r>£c‘. r-
liiL
ggiS!
W»
em/i'
Somewhere— A Long Time Ago—
We read a pretty little story
About 'two sweethearts who
planted two acorns
Close together—
And the young people were
separated—or one died
(It’s a long time since we read
the story) ;
But the acorns became oak
trees,
Large ones, with wide, spread-
ing branches,
That twined about each other—
Like sweethearts—
And one tree could not be cut
down
Without destroying the other.
And we in the industry are like
that—■
We’re mutually interdependent.
One end of the business
Is so wrapped about the other
That its success or failure
Depends on the success or
failure of the other.
Imagine a Film industry
Without Producers and Dis-
tributors —•
Or without Exhibitors!
It couldn’t ~be.
So let’s “pull” together—
And icin together—
How else can we serve you ?
PARAMOUNT PICTURES.
ALEC LORIMORE, Managing Director, 302 Pitt Street, Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS
FORCE OF HABIT.
WILSON : “I’m right glad to see you, hoys.”
WILLIAM MORRIS, ETC. : "Before you start,
Woodrow —before you start., call your
dog off and muzzle him.”
Pearce told a questioner in the Senate
last week that it was quite true —wounded
officers returned to Australia could only get
back by re-enlisting as privates; and he re-
peated that this rule was made at the
request of General Birdwood. This paper
never wished Birdwood any harm before;
but it now longs to hear that he has got a
"Blighty,” and has been informed that, if
be wants to return to the Front, he can only
do it by enlisting as a private. What is
sauce f*»r the goose is sauce for the other
Birdie.
A fragment from the Westralian Income-
tax Bill debate (in W.A. the income-tax ex-
emption for married men is now down to
£156 p.a.) :
Mr. Collier, leader of the Opposition, maintained
that no married man earning less than £2OO a year
was in a position to pay any taxation.
It is true, and it is also true that no married
man on less than £2OO a year is in a position
t 6 owe £670 of State public debt, much of
ir unprofitable, for himself and wife and
children. But he does it. largely
because he has been living in a fool's para-
dise. and never thought of any future. Now
lie has to put up with a bill which asks no
questions and has no bowels of compassion.
A great May Day celebration was held by
the Bolsheviks in Russia to “celebrate the
victory over capitalism,” and seeing that
hams have been costing £5O each in I’etro-
grad and eggs six bob, the victory seems
fairly complete.
Australian industries keep dropping for
lack of something which we should have
learned to make ourselves. The Sydney
match factory closed recently. The glass
trade is closing by instalments. The build-
WILL-O’-THE-WISP.
ing of new railway rolling-stock is almost
defunct. The shipbuilding trade died a
while ago, though some efforts are being
made at resurrection. It is civilisation that
is passing away for want of the abundant
local product that is most essential in a
long war—industrial self-reliance. If the
war lasts three years longer it may be time
for the Australian citizen to paint himself
brown and take to the woods with “Binghi”
on his visiting-card.
Nothing better illustrates the passing out
of the old military caste in Britain than the
quiet dropping of that dear old phrase, “of
no military importance,” as applied to air
raids. Hundreds of non-combatants had
been killed by bombs from the air before the
British official reports abandoned the theory
that such things were “of no military im-
portance.” Of course they w T ere German
attacks on the morale of the enemy; and
the morale of a people at war is a matter
of the very first military importance. But
it was a dreadful admission for the British
or any other military person to have to
make —that anything the mere civilian might
do or say or think could possibly be of any
military consequence.
During the first three weeks of May the
United States launched new wooden ships
at the rate of one per day. And Australia
hardly launches one wooden leg per week.
The timber of these breathless Yankee ships
isn’t too well seasoned, and even the keels
are sometimes only Oregon pine. But the
wages of the builders are enormous even if
their hours are long; and the pay of the
crew is at record rates, because sailors are
scarce; and the freights charged for the
run from Australia go as high as £6O per
ton for some lines," so the concern may cover
its cost and more in a single voyage. One
way and another we pay the freights and we
don't get the high-priced jobs. Something
like a large,, damp, dead, invisible octopus
is deposited on the chest of our shipbuilding
industry whenever it threatens to get a good
start and make 11s independent of the great
capitalist across the sea. And the business
is done so silently that we don’t even know
for certain who deposits the octopus.
If there should be no Melbourne Cup this
year, all by reason of the borrowing and
importing craze, a number of people will
realise that politics are not the dreary,
academic subject they supposed. And it
isn't impossible: the Chief Commissioner of
X. S. Wales says the abolition of all travel-
ling for pleasure may become necessary
through sheer lack of rolling stock. Hitherto
it has been customary to import the vehicles,
or else a lot of the materials to build the
vehicles, and the loan to pay for them.
Now these imports have all practically
stopped. As the old vehicles have been care-
fully nursed and repaired, the Ma State has
only had to knock off about a, quarter of the
mileage run, but already many passengers
who used to sit comfortably are standing by
reason of the importing habit, and haven’t
the least idea why they are standing. If
the war lasts a while longer, and the coun-
try doesn't get to work very hard, the last
surviving train may not be able to carry
enough passengers to make it worth while
having a Cup, for the Victorian railways are
very little better off than Ma’s.
It is a common saying that nothing is
gained by perpetually nagging about the
awful extravagances of Australia’s past—-
that the past is dead and should be buried ;
that old follies are as little to the point as
old ancestors. Which is true enough in a
way, but it isn’t
much of a way.
The skeleton of the
dead loan has to be
kept on a chair at
the dinner-table with
its bill in its hand
as a reminder, else
the old racket will
be kept up and new
skeletons will accu-
mulate. Darius
allegedly hired a
man to shout to
him every day at
diuner that he had
an unsettled ac-
count with the
Athenians; and it
probably did
Darius good, and
prevented him put-
ting on flesh. This
country wants an
enactment that a
warning against
borrowing should
be uttered before
service at church,
before the guests
sit down at public
dinners and at the
rising of the cur-
tain at theatres.
Australia has one
Past, and it can’t afford any more Pasts like
it. Too many Pasts lead to Sheol, which is
a dead-end full of imperishable rats.
Thus the Rev. W. P. Stewart while the
Bathurst War Service Committee was lately
discussing the proposed internment of a
local German :—■
He hated Germans, but he considered it was not
Christian spirit to penalise that family. A German
had placed a convincing argument before him re-
cently, when he reminded him that, if he waivnot
to be regarded as an Australian, his naturalisation
certificate might as well be regarded as a “scrap of
paper.”
No doubt. Suppose, though, that years back a
German got a naturalisation certificate with
the intention of being a good Australian, but
changed his mind as soon as the Kaiser
called? Or suppose a German got a certifi-
cate with the set object of hiding his in-
tended treachery? In these eases would the
“ticket” be a sacred document which we
ought to honor, or merely a bit of evidence
on which to build a charge of treason?
Australia couldn’t build steel ships,
Hughes said, because it didn’t have all the
proper and necessary materials. The
U.S.A. haven’t got all the proper and neces-
sary materials for building wooden ships,
either; nevertheless they are being launched
there at the rate, recently, of one a day.
For practical purposes Australia is the only
country in the world with the ideal material
for wooden ships’ keels; hut, though iron-
bark legs are being sent away as fast as
space can he found for them on America-
bound boats, Uncle Sam is making a do with
substitutes —even going to the length of
bracing big slabs of Oregon together for
the job. What Sam thinks it is worth to
get ships built quickly may be judged by the
fact that the ironbark logs are paid for
by the cubic foot —at a price which runs up
to £6O f.o.b. for a log. Sam knows he will
get it ail back from us on the ship’s first
round trip.
Juddspierre might be a good name for the
man who seems to have collared the N. S.
Wales Labor machine. Not that Judd has
the commanding presence of Robespierre, and
he isn't dead like the “sea-green Incorrupti-
STRATEGY.
BEESWING: “Ullo, Hen, chucked out?"
HENSEGG : “No; merely retreated to a posi-
tion that Upas already prepared to re-
ceive me."
ble,” but they were both survivals in a way
and culminations of a sort. The leaders of
the French Revolution fell one by one, the
more moderate men with constructive poli-
cies being shoved out, till Robespierre re-
mained. In like manner Judd remains after
better men have got the sack, and, though he
opposed Labor candidates contrary to all
rule, now he bosses Labor meetings, and rules
the president put of order, and carries reso-
lutions, and Judds generally.
From the Gallery :
Willie Watt is showing impatience at the Opposi-
tion’s tendency to talk, talk, talk on the adjourn-
ment. But Willie well knows that half of grievance
time is now occupied by protests about the Censor-
ship ; and it is futile to merely scowl and promise
inquiry when assailed with evidence of the most
senseless suppressions. Scowls only instigate bitter-
ness and language, and the alleged inquiry usually
results in an apology without any promise of reform.
If that is all that Watt is going to do, the Opposition
oughtn’t to let Watt g'et home even for breakfast.
“0.L.”: Bert Cook, chief Parliamentary
reporter on the Melbourne Herald, has been
given the job of publicity officer in the
Prime Minister’s Department. The Federal
Government is a perfect whale on the prin-
ciple of preference to soldiers. It is pre-
pared to make three meals a day of it.
Dr. Maloney told the North Melbourne
branch of the A.L.P. that “lie knew that
bribery and corruption of the foulest kind
were taking place to-day in Australian poli-
tics, but he could not prove it in a court of
law.” As a remedy he advised the adoption
of the initiative, the referendum and the re-
call. But this paper recollects that
Malouey’s leader, in Oct., ’l4. promised a
Protective tariff and the initiative in the first
session of the new Parliament , and it has so
far discovered no evidence that either Dr.
Maloney or any other Labor member tried to
force his leader to keep his word. Labor
then had a strong majority in both Houses —
which was possibly why it wasn't keen on
passing measures that would take power
from the politicians and give it to their
employers, the people.
DECENTRALISATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Mr. Holman mentioned, too, that the National
party was particularly anxious that an effective sys-
tem of decentralisation should be carried into effect,
iff order to prevent congestion in the city. Mr.
Holman might have told his audience that' it was
the much-despised Labor party, of which he was then
a member, that was responsible for the only genuine
attempt to bring about that much-desired end.” ,
—-V.,S. IT. Labor-leader J. Storey.
Out on their claim! Would these decentralise'?
It is our job. We started long ago.
The crowded cities fostered in our eyes;
We saw the torrent life about them flow ;
We said within our hearts “Shall these things be?
Give us more ports that lead to open sea!"
Long did we toil to find the people room.
North, south and west, behold the thing we
wrought:
The wider harvests that we taught to bloom,
The crowded peoples out of bondage brought !
Imagination, striving, almost fails
To grasp the thing we did for New South Wales.
Observe those twenty cities on the coast,
The linking railways filling them with trade.
Where Sydney stood alone, their only boasr.
The single port a century had mude!
Never forget we opened ull their eyes
When thus we started to decentralise.
What’s that? You cannot find them on the map.
Sydney is still alone and growing fast.
Well, that's the folly of the other chap
Who stays in office now our chance is past.
But we began it; yes, indeed we did,
Although obscured, our triumph is not hid.
We did not build the cities? Well, not quite,
There were few votes around where they should be:
But I remember someone talked one night
Of other ports upon the outer sea.
That was the start. Some twenty years ago
1 heard his liquid Labor accents flow.
Talk’s cheap ? Make no mistake upon that score.
Talk is expensive, and expansive, too.
“Decentralise!” was a great cry of yore
As indicating what we meant to do.
If we forgot it when we came to power,
Why should the other fellow pluck our flower ?
But, really, when it comes to bedrock fact,
What is this talk of open ports about?
It makes good noise, but no one wants to act
In any sort of fashion that might flout
The Sydney crowd who, holding still the reins,
Sit tight and gather in their solid gains.
The public suffers. What is that to us ?
The State is losing force for lack of room.
Well, let it lose! Why should we make a fuss?
The smells of Ultimo are all in bloom—
Smells and a Labor vote. Still, we protest:
Decentralising, we have done the best.
X.S.W.
CURSE O’ MOSES.


m g
0
sy
CHAPPELL
Mignon Grand.
A perfect example of the
British Piano-maker’s
art. Used in the lead-
ing Conservatoria and
Musical Colleges in
Great Britain.
BEHNING
Sheraton Grand.
Possesses a remarkably
full and resonant tone
of liquid purity and
resonance, and a touch
which is* perfection
itself. Undoubtedly an
artist’s Piano.
SAMES
Boudoir Grand.
A small and compact
Grand eminently suited
for the home where
space is limited. The
Durability of this in-
strument is assured.
BRITISH MADE.
BEHNING
Boudoir Grand.
An ideal instrument for
those who appreciate
artistic excellence of
tone and responsive-
ness of touch. Superbly
finished, just the Grand
an artist would love.
CHAPPELL
Bijou Grand.
This highly artistic in-
strument is finished in
Sheraton style and is
noted for its chaste
design and pure sing-
ing-tone quality,
Touch is perfection.
Any of these glorious instruments may be purchased on our Easy Terms, if required. Catalogues free.
Your present piano taken as part payment and full value allowed .
W. H. Paling &
Ltd.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, LISMORE and NEWCASTLE.
Engineers, Farmers and Skilled Workmen should know the
OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING and CUTTING PROCESS.
The Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest addition to the engineer’s workshop and to the skilled worker’s bench,
portable, so that cutting or welding may be done at the bench, in the field or by the roadside.
It is simple of working and
CUT OUT COST OF NEW MACHINERY.
All Engineers should at onee write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remarkable variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following
nrp a fpw nf the broken and worn machinery parts our process will make new again: , „ , „ ,
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes, Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, \\ orn
Ivey wavs in Shafts. Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc. a*, „
Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaned by any othei
process.
m
4in. Steel Shaft, in head of 12001 b. Press and
frame, back of shaft-box, 14in. wide and 2in.
and 4in. thick, welded where chalk-marked.
Not possible of repair by ordinary methods.
Repaired in a few hours by our process, sav-
ing the cost of a new press and big loss of
time.
WamM
m
3B
535
4-'
PTTtF.
///f
c ■■
Oxy-Acetylene Welding applied to Pipe Work,
Ammonia Refrigerating Coils.
Farmers, do not scrap your broken parts, but get them
welded by our process at the nearest engineer’s.
tv
msi
J?oppet-head dismantled in Tasmania
to be erected in New South Wales.
Approximately 12,000 rivets were cut
out with the Oxy-Acetylene Metal-
cutter, without damage to the struc-
ture. This work was carried out by
A. L. West & Co., of Sydney.
THE COMMONWEALTH
•f
The Permanent Trustee Building',
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents MELBOURNE : Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


Those who oppose harmless raffling at
Red Cross fStes probably see more virtue in
a grim visage than in a cheerful soul, sug-
gested that soul-cheering spirit King George
IV. top-notch Scotch. — Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLtE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—•
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
681 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the
HICK-MYER
DIMMER
KEEP
“WITHIN
THE LAW”
by using
same.
A
15/- Post Paid Anywhere.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 9th May, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of a Bakery
Plant for one of H.M.A. Ships.
TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
on Tuesday, 23rd July, 1918, for the
supply of a Bakery Plant for one of H.M.A.
Ships.
Tender form",' specification and full parti-
culars may be obtained on application at
the Office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne ; the General Mana-
ger. Commonwealth Naval Dockyards.
Cockatoo Island, Sydney; and at the Naval
Staff Offices, Brisbane, Birkenhead (S.A.),
Fremantle and Hobart.
A. POYNTON,
for Minister of State for the Navy.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, Bth May, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of Machine Tools
to H.M.A. Naval Yard, Garden
Island, Sydney.
TENDERS will be received, subject to the
conditions of tendering, until 12 noon on
Tuesday, 16th July, 1918, for the supply of
Machine Tools to H.M.A. Naval Yard,
Garden Island, Sydney.
Tender form, specification and any further
particulars may be obtained on application at
the Office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; General Manager,
H.M.A. Naval Yard, Garden Island, Syd-
ney ; and at the Naval Staff Offices, Bris-
bane, Birkenhead (S.A.), Fremantle and
Hobart.
A. POYNTON,
for Minister of State for the Navy.
“I NEED A NEW HAT”
TO
YOU
• ••
FOR
15 6.
THE PURE FUR FELT HAT
that provides the wearer with supreme comfort, combined with style and quality.
Send your size, select color, remit 15/6, and you will receive HAT in
good order by return of post.
These Hats are soft and durable. Stocked in Dark Fawn, Drab, Medium or Dark Grey
Mixtures —Black Band and Bow at Side or Back.
Write for Catalog “B”
Shirts and Underwear.
WE PAY POSTAGE
IN COMMONWEALTH.
n
0r
D
<&■
e *CF
HENRY BUCK & CO.,
Swanston Street, Melbourne.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T TINKER
LET
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
The Federal Cabinet last week cut down
the number of racing days in the Commonwealth
from 2419 to 1862. In N. S. Wales 716 days will
be devoted to horse during the next 12 months. As
this is at the rate of 14 days per week and a dozen
over there ought to be enough to go round. What
the Government is trying to get at in connection
with the business is a mystery. But apart from
this the reductions made in and around Sydney are
on the right lines, though the ukase might have
gone further and done better. The non-proprietary
chibs which race at ltandwick are very properly not
interfered with. Proprietary suburban clubs will have
27 tdays instead of 31, and the pony outfits have
32'instead of 48. There will be 18 days for trotting
instead of 20 in the Metropolitan area and 48 trots
in the country. One of these days somebody will
examine this racing business with a view to getting
down to the bedrock purpose for which racing goes
on and the justification many clubs have for exist-
ence. Meanwhile the best that, can be said of the
latest curtailment is that, being devoid of any
principle, it is mostly a sham, and that where it is
not this it merely represents a fussy application of
rule-of-thumb.
» * • •
The steeplechase meeting at the end of
this week will be the last A.J.C. gathering of the
racing year; and next season Ike will do no more busi-
ness there at place or concession prices. Next
season’s licenses will be issued only for straight-out
betting. The object is, of course, to divert money
to the totalisator. There can be no doubt that
elimination of the place fielder was long overdue.
The odds he gave were shockingly cramped, and as
in the main he did business with small, nervous
punters, he could play his game with impunity. Yet
this page doubts whether the place-bettor who patron-
ises the machine instead of Ike will have any more
small change at the end of the proceedings—at any
rate, so long as the tote distribution is on the 60,
20, 20 basis. Though a rough ’un may arrive and
give him a long price now and again, the general
result of punting on this plan must be ruinous.
The concession bet is, of course, place-betting in
another form. It was open to far less objection
than the other method, and being mainly carried on
by two or three bold fielders was to some extent a
protection against the other crowd, who had to com-
pete with it. Whether its prohibition will send
much money to the machine remains to be seen,
though the writer has his doubts. The change in
both cases will mainly be to the advantage of
totalisator proprietaries'. A straight-out tote and
HAROLD BORDER
N.S.W. Rugby
League star.
another with a single place dividend would be to the
advantage of the public ; and until the public gets
it, as this paper has all along pointed out, the tote
might as well be in the air.
* * * *
The four-year-old Charlemagne 11. mare
Miss Felicia is a smart sort, but her bacjters are
wondering how long the hoodoo has arranged to
stay. A couple of months ago they saw themselves
just snuffed out at Rosehill. Then they went for a
recovery in Tattersall’s Stakes at Randwick, but
didn’t even get a start owing to Miss F. unshipping
McLachlan and refusing to face the barrier. This
left them two down and one to play at Warwick
Farm, and they came at her again for the Maiden
with solid wads. Myles Connell got her through the
slips quickly enough, but half-way up the straight
both of them went within a whisker of being tossed
over the rails through another animal quickly cross-
ing in front. That left Miss Felicia three down.
P. O’Sullivan, who did the crossing, got six months’
holiday immediately afterwards, the horse he rode
got second money, and backers thereof got second
div.—all of which seems a cock-eyed arrangement
and very lenient punishment for doing a fearfully
dangerous thing. And Miss Felicia is still a maiden.
Nine sets of “tips” were published in Syd-
ney for the Warwick Farmland, on the whole, they
were not a bad lot qf tips either. But not one of
the perpetrators gave the three-year-old gelding
Colonel Knut a hope in the Maiden. Still, this didn’t
matter to the Colonel. He took charge of the ad-
vance inside the distance and hit the line half a
dozen lengths ahead of the nearest support. Where-
upon the fielders gave three cheers for what to most
of them was a skinner, and got ready to do business
on the next. The form shown by this nag was of
the kind which should induce the great community
of punters to have a word with themselves pri-
vately, with a view to discovering how many chances
they have. Colonel Knut had run three times pre-
viously during the month. He finished sixth at a
country meeting, was almost last at Rosehill, and
was actually last in Tattersall’s Stakes at Rand-
wick. Then came Warwick Farm. He is con-
spicuously good-looking, in spite of his numerous
failures.
* * * *
When Old King Coal parted with £640
seven years ago for a Positano colt he probably had
visions' of a Derby. He christened the animal Prince
Positano, and never saw his money again. After
running astern as a two-year-old the nag was given
several years’ holiday, and then tried on registered
and unregistered courses, on the flat and over hurdles.
He did no better. Last Saturday he was given a
trip in the hurdles at Warwick Farm and ran off
after going half a mile. But he may do something
yet—there are still a few cabs left to pull.
* * * *
The V.R.C. Birthday meeting, due at
Flemington next Saturday anti Monday, will have a
hurdle and steeplechase in each day’s programme,
and some of the best of the local jumpers may be
seen out. The talkcd-of Will Comfort is entered
for the hurdle race on the first day, whilst several
of the tried performers with National pretensions are
down for both events and will certainly be tested
in one or other of them. The jumpers have only
another six weeks in which to get fully wound up
for the big events at the Flemington mid-winter
meeting. If they are not pretty nearly fit for the
Birthday meeting their chances of doing a fast
three miles in early July won’t be worth considering.
In the sprints on the flat punters will probably lean
to the English horses, and back the winner if they
spot the right one. The dull going Ought to suit
some of the imported nags that were off-color during
the summer.
* * * *
There are not many of his breed racing, but
the parentage of Dr. James, winner of the steeple-
chase at Moonee Valley last week, is respectable
enough on paper for anything. He is by Renown
from a grand-daughter of Sunrise. Renown was a
top-class racehorse in Maoriland, the best begotten
by Dreadnought for the lately-dead J. D. Ormond.
At three years old Renown took half a dozen of the
best races over yonder, including a couple of Derbies
and two Guineas. He was ridden in all his races by
F. Davis, now the trainer of Desert Gold. If this
’chaser has anything like the courage of ljis sire he
will be often heard of.
The winning of the Gctodwood Handicap
(8.A.) by the local horse Pistblarie has revived the
question whether it ought not to be “Pistolaire.”
The A.J.C. somehow misprinted it that way when
the name was sent over to Sydney for registration
in 1915; and it sounds better French. However,
Whitington, secretary of the S.A.J.C., says there’s
no French about it. A glance at the breeding, Pistol-
Marie Hall, makes it clear how the last four letters
should run.
* * * *
lii the prayer that happens in a perfunc-
tory manner at both ends of every meeting of the
House of Reps., the Lord is requested to guide hon.
members in their “consultations.” The solemn Barn-
ford has asked that the word “deliberations” shall
be substituted, as the other one “has a flavor ini
Australia not' associated with prayer,” which fact*
Bamford seems to think may stop Providence doing
its best for members.
* * * *
Recently there was some fruitless discus-
sion in the Federal Parliament on the Government’s
hypocritical dealing with Tattersall in Tasmania. The
sweep business such as Tatt. conducts is illegalised
in all the larger States of the Commonwealth, and
the Federal Government loses a considerable amount
of postal revenue by putting the concern on the
prohibited list. Thousands of individual applica-
tions that would be mailed to an unprohibited Tatt.’s
are condensed into scores of letters from' lawless
unmolested agencies which forward many applica-
tions under one cover. From this point of view
alone the Postal Department’s action against the
lottery is a sham pretence of Moral Endeavor. But
the Government has now stultified its anti-gambling
action by proposing to tax the prizes obtained from
the lottery it has declared illegal. Political hypoc-
risy, as a rule, either makes arrogant pretence of
virtue or is apologetically shamefaced, but a tax on
the Tatt. prizes collected by a Government which
refuses postal countenance to the concern, and
threatens punishment to its agents, is hypocrisy cyni-
cal and shameless. The Government might as
honestly declare horse-racing illegal in order to
impose an extra-special tax on prize-winnings.
The question naturally arises: Why does the power
which decides to profit by a private gambling
business not wipe it out and establish a Commonwealth
Lottery in its place? The want that Tatt. supplies
and derives a large income from would be better
supplied by the Federation, now that the Govern-
ment has decided to turn this “gambling evil” to
financial account. No intelligent citizen commends
the principle of State lotteries, any more than
he advocates mining speculation for sneculation’s
sake. But a duly controlled and restricted vent
for the ineradicable gambling passion is good
enough for any Government to turn an honest two-
pence by. It is an utterly dishonest farthing that
Hughes and Co. are going to turn.
* * * *
“Mujik” : Has anyone ever reckoned that
the time was ripe to make a change in the system
under which colors are worn by jockeys in Australia?
It is a confusing system, anyway. When compara-
tively few owners were racing there was no doubt a
certain convenience in allowing each one to select
a livery and stick to it. With multitudinous owners
in the game there is nothing to be said for the
system, which results in a few men monopolising
the most distinctive millinery and the others having
to adopt all sorts of queer combinations—having even
to get down to the armband, which at a dis-
tance or in a crowded finish is about as distinctive
as a postage-stamp on the animal’s tail. The whole
business should be up-ended and the colors to be
worn in every race allotted by the Club in the same
way as the weight or the place at the barrier. There
are six striking colors—white, black, red, blue,
yellow and green. Without going into any of the
variations it is possible by using these half-dozen
straight out or in combinations of contrasting hoops
and stripes for jackets, and by fixing the incidental
caps in sharp contrast, to make provision for the
largest fields capable of being started at Randwick
or Flemington. The colors could be allotted by
ballot. Owners would lose nothing. The public
would gain immensely by the greater ease with
which the race could be followed. Some of the
colors now sported—weird yells in gamboge, orange,
lilac, puce and mauve —are horribly confusing even
when inspected through a powerful field-glass. Most
people watch the riot of color in complete ignorance
of what is happening. If there is any objection to
simplifying the spectacle I want to know what it is.
* * * *
Sydney baseball has a whirlwind in it in
a hefty nine from St. George. This season they
have made mincemeat of Petersham (last year’s
premiers), scoring 20 runs to 6, and on Saturday
they showed some little men of Nippon a point or
two —11 runs to seven. The nine look more than
likely to get away with the premiership.
* * * *
The casualties at Sydney Hippodrome
where Dave Smith controls the barrage have been
numerous during the week, but recoveries have aver-
aged 100 per cent. Operating on Fred Fitzsimmons
the other evening Sid Godfrey gave a tasty demon-
stration of how to administer a substitute for chloro-
form, which in the event of supplies running short
should be handy to dentists, beauty specialists and
others. The demonstration was limited to 10 sessions,
but Godfrey had finished in the fourth. He carries
too much wallop for Fitz. An important item on
the menu for Monday was a collision between Harry
Stone and Harry Green. The local product sprang
into, the fray with great gladness and two willing
hands. But Stone is a wily old bird, and, stemming
back the devastation, totted up points which gave
him the verdict. If they renew hostilities often
enough one of them will get hurt.
* * * *
There was enough ginger in Sydney League
football on Saturday to provide heavy casualties. In
the conflict between Annandale and N. Sydney five
Annandalcs had to be sent to dock for repairs. In
the majority of other matches the clearing stations
had a busy day. Clearly tne League will have to
use its heaviest boot if the game is to be kept above
the level of a free fight. The main buzz of the
afternoon was between South Sydney and Balmain,
and over it 12,000 barraclcers howled with glee.
The Southrons won by 13 points to 2. As it was
Balmain's second defeat in two years and only the
fifth calamity in 39 matches during four years, the
episode was something to take notice of.
* * * *
Wally Messenger (Eastern Suburbs) is
keeping the family name to the front in Sydney
League football. This season he has scored all nine
goals for the club in three matches. On Saturday
lie had four goals on the score-sheet against Glebe
before he left the field for repairs.
* * * *
R. Spears, a racing bikist from N. S.
Wales, is beginning to make the followers of the
decayed sport in U.S.A. watch his movements with
interest. The other day at Newark, N.J., he won
two out of the three open events, decisively licking
Spencer, the Canadian crack and present holder of
the American Championship.
* * * *
“Wart”: Caught this eel at Longford
(Tas.) in 1908. Length, sft.; girth, 21in; weight,
341 b. You can have a look at him any time you
like when you’re in Launceston Museum.
THE PUNTING SHELLBACK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His room, is a dazzling peep-show, a sight for the
gods to see,
Plastered with sporting pictures, old prints from
the Referee.
Pasted in bunk and on bulkhead, jockeys and nags
without end,
Outshining the brush-and-comb bag, the gift of a
lady friend.
First seeing the light at Hobart, at fourteen going
to sea,
Master or mate at the whim of\ Fate, and now he is
fifty-three !
Grizzled and grey, yet holding no brief for the word
“regret,"
Smiling, he’ll say in a casual way: “I’ll laugh at
the bookies yet.”
Only last night, as we paced the bridge, I said to
the second mate
“You’ve followed the sea for a long time now —and
what do you think of Fate ?”
“Huh! Fate,” he answered, “gets blamed by
fools who’ve fell in the mire and stuck,
Rotten with funk, and lacking the spunk to struggle
and try their luck !
And ‘luck’ is the grandest word we’ve got, a word
with a hopeful lilt,
A word full true, as the Binghi knew when his first
dug-out he built.
Yes! luck's all right, if you give it a chance, by
keeping full head of steam.
For the bloke that ‘greets’ would flatten the sheets
with the wind abaft the beam.
“I’ve followed the gee-gees constant, as long as I’ve
followed the sea,
And I’m certain to make a big pot soon ; then it’s
‘go on the land’ for me;
And when that happens, in sealskin gear my missus
. I’ll sure array,
And Freddy, my youngest boy, I’ll send to college
at Jervis Bay.
I’ve only two; but the oldest lad—a brainy young
kid is Jim—-
I’Vn thinking somehow I hardly know just yet what
to do with him.
Hey! Watch your steering there, Svensen, lad!
don’t think you’re driving a plough!
You’re making a wake like a shickered snake, and —
what was I saying just now?
“Oh, Jim? Yes, Jimmy, 1 want him to graft where
brains have a chance to shine.
I'm anxious to .make him a bookie, or a nob in
the racing line.
With Navy and Turf represented, and living ashore
at my ease,
I’ll be content to cast off the lines whenever the
Lord decrees.
I stood once to win ten thousand, and not a bean
off did I lay.
A leg-in I’d got. I wanted the lot, so trusted to
luck all the way.
I’d Merriwee backed with Voyou—the Derby and
Melbourne Cup.
The double looked sweet; but Voyou was beat,
because the wrong jockey was up !
“The sea is a rotten calling. Discomfort and paltry
screw—
The owners they collar, the divvies, and it’s them
run the horses, too ;
In touch with the turf and its glamor, while we are
running their ships—
I’ve sweated for B —n and for Y —11; but neither
gave me any tips.
But I tell you my time is coming”... .He paused—
and I gave him the course,
And left him there in the cool night air to worship
his one god: Horse !
An optimist down to his toenails, he’d laugh in
the face of Fate —
A real good sort and a genuine sport, this punter,
our second mate!
His room is a dazzling peep-show. His life it is
one big bet.
He laid long odds on a sailor’s life, and the favorite’s
running yet.
Hopeful and still mojre hopeful, and generous to a
fault,
l'ou shellbacks who read these verses know the true
old Hobart salt.
Just peep in his room as you’re passing and glance
at the littered floor
Where Arrow and Tout lie scattered, with records of
races of yore.
Let’s hope that he makes his fortune — he’d punt with
his latest breath,
And “do” his shirt on the final spurt with the black
bookmaker Death !
OK THE AUSSIE COAST.
ALBATROSS.


ARE YOU ABLE TO TAKE
m
YOUR OWN PART?
Or are you dependent upon the good-nature of others to help you out of a
scrape? Surely you have sufficient self-respect to fit yourself for the battle
of life, so that you are not always brushed aside by whoever' may pick you
out as a “soft snap.” There is no excuse for you to remain crude and
inefficient: in the use of your means of defence which Nature has so richly
endowed you with. You can learn Boxing in your own room.
I TEACH BOXING BY POST,
and teach it so thoroughly and interestingly that you will make rapid
progress, and get endless enjoyment out of such health-giving exercise.
My pupils throughout the Commonwealth are now getting this excellent
tuition, and the extracts taken from these letters, picked at random,
show what you are missing. i
“I am getting on splendidly with the lessons, and
find them very easy to do. —J.0.H., Essendon, Vic.”
‘‘l think that the instructions are remarkably
explicit and, with thp aid of the diagrams and photo-
graphs, very easily understood. Another thing, if
you happen to forget a move, it is so easy to look
up the lessons and refresh your memory.—N.K.C.,
Essendon, Vic.”
Many years of experience are now at your dis-
posal, to make you a thoroughly efficient and skilful
boxer.
You ought to write for my booklet, “Scientific
Boxing in Your Home,” which gives full particulars
and cost of tuition. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement and post to me.
I’ll know what you mean. Send three penny stamps
for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The All-round Champion Athlete of
Australia.”
738 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
SH^
F,
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
USE IT-AND PROVE IT.
MMI Imperial 03 Co. Ui,
GAPILLARINE
m
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Capillarine does all that is claimed for it as
a genuine Moustache-producer. The steady
demand for this preparation by the Military
and others proves its never-failing virtues.
SEND FOE A JAB TO-DAY.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banka, Saving's Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for
£4 7 6
£8 15 0 ff ii
£43 15 O „ „
£B7 10 0 „ „
£875 0 0 ii ii
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
£1
£5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and interest is free of Income Tax.
6~ War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank op Australia. October , 1917
POWER PLUS
MOTOR
38
*
&
f *r
5^
w&i
Eff.cte
*
'•vt-
■n'O
✓i
SF
OS
-O'
INDIAN’S TRUMP CARDS
—the Winning Hand in the Motor-cycling World.
CATALOGUE “D” WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE: Rhodes Motor Cycle Co.
Pty. Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros. Ltd., 156
Castlereagh Street.
ADELAIDE: Eyes & Crowle Ltd.j 75-79
Pirie Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle & Motor
Agency Ltd., Adelaide & Creek Sts.
LAUNCESTON: John King & Sons
Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle and Mbtor
Agency, Hay Street.
m
mm
■
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bail Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
VVj ite for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
m
Marine Engines
m
For All Boats
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started,
Electric Lights
Callle 8 H.P. Unit Power Um
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
m
Caille Five
Speed Row
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7'o 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- to four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
iole
Australasian
Benson Brothers Limited
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY;
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street, MELBOURNE.
NORTH
BRITISH
m
r/;r.
*
9*
£
3
&
yy
H
- •■:
i
Hyrcs
SMITHS
JULIUS
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
wcm
“The Tyres that
are Superior''
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
New South Wales: William Crosby & Co., 20 Loftus St., Sydney
Victoria: Nortn British Tyre Agency Prop. Ltd.,
525-527 Collins St., Melbourne
Queensland:Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Adelaide St.,Brisbane
South Australia: Phoenix Motor Co., 114-122 Pirie St., Adelaide.


m
RABBIT
SKINS.
Regular
WeeKly
Audions
Winchcombe, Carson’s Skin Prices are at
the bottom of this.
Consign Rabbit Skins, Fox and all other
skins to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SYDNEY. LTD.
Salesmen only. Not buyers or dealers.
[2
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 2id.
FOURNIERS
HYGENIQUE
MIXTURE.
(FOR LADIES)
Tested and Proved for Years.
WASTE NO TIME.
Immediately you notice any disorder of
the system take Fournier’s Hygenique
Mixture. It quickly removes all suffering.
There is Nothing to EQUAL IT, nor
Anything so Widely Known.
It is justly described as the
FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD.
Be sure you get FOURNIER’S
HYGENIQUE MIXTURE.
Refuse all substitutes which are injurious
and harmful.
Sold by Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.,
and all Chemists and Stores.
MORROCKSE S HORRQCKSES' MORRQCKSES' MORRCXKSES
HORROCKSES*
FXasisieletteA
FOR
SAFETY
WEAR and
COMFORT
„ SEE
HORROCKSES"’
ON SE.LVE.DGE.
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSEV, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO anil OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment, Solo
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
GE
is the new
Sauce imported
from England.
It is made by blending to-
gether the most delicious
Oriental fruits and spices,
with Pure Malt Vinegar by a
secret process.
H.P. being thick and fruity,
does not flow all over the plate.
Buy a bottle to day.
The Bank of Australasia
(INCORPORATED BT ROYAL CHARTER, 1835.)
Paid-up Capital • ■ •• . , •• _ V,
Reserve Fund (used in the business ot the Bank)
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter
£2,000,000
2,905,000
2,000,000
£6,905,000
EIGHTY-FOBRTH ANNUAL REPORT of the Directors of the Bank of Australasia,
With the Accounts for the Half-vear to 15th October, 1917.
Presented to the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, held on Thursday, ith April, 1918.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-Sheet as at 15th October last, with the
Profit Account for the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, tor
British and Australasian rates and taxes, and after making provision for bad and doubtful debts ana
other contingencies, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £200,440 13s. 6d.
To this sum must be added £122,868 13s. 4d. brought forward from the previous half-year, making
a total of £323,309 6s. 10d., out of which the Directors have declared a dividend for the half-year
at the rate of 14 per cent, per annum, or £2 16s. per share, and a Bonus at the rate of 3 per cent,
per annum, or 12s. per share, together £3 Bs. per share, free of income tax. .
The Dividend and Bonus will absorb .£170,000, and the Directors have further appropriated
£30,000 to the Reserve Fund. There will then remain £123,309 6s. lOd. to be carried forward to the
mXt and Bonus will be payable in London and in Australasia oil the sth April.
The Directors retiring by rotation are: Horace Peel, (Esq., Tom Richard Johnson, Esq., and the
Rt. Hon. Viscount Midleton, K.P., who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Proprietors will be asked to approve the election, as a Director, of Mr. Harold Nelson, in
place of Sir E. Montague Nelson, K.C.M.G., resigned.
The Auditors, Messrs. Welton and Bond, have merged their business with that of Messrs. Deloitte,
Plender, Griffiths and Co., and the latter firm offer themselves for election as Auditors.
Since the date of the last report the agencies at Coburg (Melbourne) and Kiewa, Victoria, and
the branch at Rosedale, Victoria, have been closed.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 25th March, 1918. T. R. JOHNSON, Chairman.
PROFIT'"ACCOUNT from APRIL 16, 1917, to OCTOBER 15, 1917.
Balance brought forward from April, 1917 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £122,868 13 4
Profit for the half-year to October 15, 1917, after deducting rebate on
Bills current at Balance date (£23,943 11s. Id.), and making pro-
vision for all bad and doubtful debts and for other contingencies. . £475,076 16 7
Less:
I. Charges of Management—■
Australasia —
Salaries and allowances to the Staff, including the
Superintendent's Department and 202 branches and
agencies.. .. .. .. • • • • • • £133,307 5 5
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery,
travelling, etc. .. . . • • • • • • 25,485 17 10
London—■
Salaries.. .. .. .. •• •• •• 11,698 3 0
General expenses .. .. .. .. •• 5,069 6 9
£175,560 13 0
£50,154 16 8
48,920 13 5 99,075 10 1 274,636 3 1
11. Rates and Taxes —
Australasia .. .. •.
London ..
Total amount of net profit for the half-year to October 15, 1917 .
Transferred to Dividend and Bonus Account, April, 1918
Transferred to Reserve Fund
200,440 13 6
£323,309 6 10
..£170,000 0 0
30,000 0 0 200,000 0 O
Balance carried forward per Balance Sheet
£123,309 6 10
BALANCE-SHEET OCTOBER 15, 1»17
Dn. LIABILITIES.
Circulation . . . . • • • • £950,819 0 0
Deposits 20,891,100 12 0
Bills payable and other liabilities,
including provision for contin-
gencies .. .. .. •• 3,021,534 8 2
£24,863,454 0 2
Capital.. ..£2,000,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 2,905,000 0 0
Dividend and
bonus payable
April 5, 1918 170,000 0 0
Profit account
balance . . 123,309 6 10 5,198,309 6 10
£30,061,763 7 0
ASSETS. CR.
Specie, bullion, Government Notes,
and cash balances .. ..£0,426,727 2 <
Loans at call and at short notice. . 1,510,000 0 O
British Government Securities . . 1,142,884 7 3
Government Securities of Austral-
asia and India and other invest-
ments 737,547 2 2
Bills receivable, advances on secur-
ities and other assets . . . . 20,219,096 0 11
Bank premises in Australia, New
Zealand and London .. .. 25,508 14 1
£30,061,763 7 0
R. W. JEANS, General Manager. F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
We have examined the cash and securities in London, and the London books, and have verified the
transfers from the several branches in the Corpmonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report that,
in our opinion, the foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true
and correct view of the state of the Bank’s affairs as shown by the books. The investments were valued
at market price or under.
London, 20th March, 1918. WELTON AND BOND, Auditors.
ZINC
ELECTROLYTICALLY-
REFINED ZINC,
m
BRAND
Containing about 99.95% Metallic Zinc.
SPELTER
"BH AS}
QNVU9
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
ZINC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS:
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, limited,
“Collins House,” 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
' -Cs> S*»* * **■
WMmW'
c *in\<*■
>:'iy
Y^/i
WE
COME UP TO
THE SUHSHINE
SEASON
Barron Falls - Barron Gorge,
the wonderful hinterland
.Sunshine, Palm Trees .
Tropical Flowers. A glorious
season of soft Sunshine
and Scenic splendour
A Booklet telling all about »l
is yours for the asking
/v// in this coupon ■ —
Ah me
8.8.
Address
/i Me Director of
Intelligence & Tourist Bureau.
Brisbane. OUEENSLAND.
&z~- <
I
vaSSSs^^
'wßßb
m
m
m
m
y
ESS
“Bakes Your Cakes
an inch Higher”—
That’s what one woman said after using
Ireland’s Baking Powder. No matter how'
light and well risen your cakes, scones,
pastry, etc., have been, .
Ireland’s
Baking Powder
will make them lighter, tastier and more wholesome.
Ireland’s Baking Powder is pure and reliable, because accurately mixed to a
well-tried recipe.
We give this guarantee with every tin:—
Every tin of Ireland’s Baking Powder is guaranteed without reservation or
restriction. Should the contents for any reason not meet with the approval of the
purchaser, it may be returned to the grocer and he will refund the purchase price.
J. IRELAND LTD., Newcastle.
The IIXAWARRA AND SOUTH COAST
Steam Navigation Co. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
Mar., , 1912.. £2643 7 p.c. = £2625 £lB £93
Sept., 1912.. 2600 7 „ „ 2625 68
Mar., 1913.. 2647 7 „ „ 2625 22 90
Sept., 1913.. 2606 7 „ „ 2625 71
Mar., 1914.. 3099 8 „ „ 3000 99 170
Sept., 1914.. 2631 7 „ „ 2625 6 176
Mar., 1915.. 3344 74 „ „ 2812 532 708
Sept., 1915.. 3380 74 „ „ 2812 568 1276
Mar., 1916.. 2962 74 „ „ 2812 150 1426
Sept., 1916.. 2922 74 „ „ 2812 110 1536
Mar., 1917.. 3689 9 „ ~ 3375 314 1850
Sept., 1917.. 4390 10 „ „ 3750 640 2490
Mar., 1918.. 4492 10 „ „ 3750 742 3232
There is nothing exciting about this little
shipping co.. whose fleet serves the fertile
but drowsy South Coast. However, it has
been doing a little better of late. The profits
in the table are shown after providing for
depreciation, and whether that allowance
has been more than ample The Bulletin
has no means of ascertaining. In addition
to what has been written off property the
co. has been building up a “Repairs, public
risk and contingency account,” which has
risen like this: 1916, £3500; 1917, £0000;
ICIB, £ll,OOO. Possibly some of that £7500
earmarked in two years is not a set-off
against current wear and tear, in which case
the profits are better than the table shows.
The balance-sheet figures have been moving
much more satisfactorily during the last
few years:—
1905. 1915. 1918.
Liabilities £1,165 £11,413 £7,610
Ship property .. . . 40,393 78,950 54,950
Other property .. .. 705 1,056 1,400
Public securities, cash, etc. 42,235 1,873 29,152
Book debts 3,628 6,756 9,548
Other assets.. .. . . 1,961 4,799 5,542
At March, 1905, the co. had a cash surplus
of £44,098 over liabilities. In 1915 liabilities
exceeded liquid assets by £2784, the co. hav-
ing meantime almost doubled the book value
of its ship property. Nevertheless, with this
augmented fleet earnings were very little
more than they had been 10 years previously.
In the past three years the cash position has
improved by £33,800, and apparently the
little Ilillmeads, which had been purchased
second-hand .10 years ago, is the only vessel
disposed of. Any further comparison is
dependent on the extent to which shipping
property has depreciated.
Cronulla Hotel, Ltd. (N.S.W.) ;
To Re- Nominal
Jan., Profits. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1914.. £l6O Nil £l6O £825
Preliminary exes, written off, £144 681
1915.. 1118 5 p.c. =£723 395 1076
Preliminary exes, written off, £144 032
1916.. 748 5 p.c. = 733 15 947
1917.. 625 5 „ „ 738 834
1918.. 969 5 „ „ 740 229 1063
This little co., like the Hotel Pacific at
Manly, went into the pub business when
everything in the garden was blooming. The
seaside resort a score or so miles south of
Sydney was expanding rapidly and the holi-
day-maker with money to splash was becom-
ing more numerous every season. But the
co. had bad luck from the beginning. Early
in 1913 a cyclone hit the premises, necessi-
tating an outlay of £9OO. Next year the war
began; the following year bar-trading was
restricted by six-o’clock legislation; and all
the time the prices of foodstuffs and liquors
have been soaring. Capital is £14,791, there
is a mortgage of £6OOO. and £603 is owing
to sundry creditors. Of the assets, £19,112
represents property and goodwill. How much
of the total is goodwill The Bulletin does
not know; and certainly the intangible asset
isn’t worth much under present conditions.
Furniture, plant and odds and ends are
included at £2682; there is £1067 of stock
and £335 of cash. The present, therefore, is
not very cheerful. And the future is quite
uncertain. Profits are dependent on so many
things that it is no use even attempting to
guess.
* * 4 *
Moree Electric Lighting Co., Ltd.
(N.S.W.) :
Nominal
To Re- Re-
Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
June, 1912.. £607 71 p.c. = £337 £270 £6O
Dec., 1912.. 460 2f „ „ 112 348 408
June, 1913.. 741 10 „ ~ 450 291 699
Dec., 1913.. 643 10 ~ „ 497 146 845
June, 1914.. 606 8 „ „ 400 206 1051
Dec., 1914.. 796 8 „ „ 400 396 1447
June, 1915. . 681 8 „ „ 440 241 1688
Dec., 1915.. 729 8 „ „ 440 289 1977
June, 1916.. 679 8 „ „ 440 239 2216
Dec., 1916.. 668 8 ~ „ 440 228 2444
June, 1917.. 721 8 ~ „ 440 281 2725
Dec., 1917.. 1035 9 „ „ 585 450 3175
This little co. first switched on the current
in the. nor’-western N. S. Wales town in
1911, and though even now there are only
252 consumers it has paid divs. from the
jump. Last year the Moree summer was
made more tolerable by the installation of
a cold-storage plant, and that meant in-
creased earnings. The profits and reserves
above, by the way, include additions to
depreciation and maintenance accounts, now
totalling £2853. What is a fair thing to
allow for future replacements The Bulletin
does not know, but the directors state that
“ample provision has been made for excep-
tional expenditure.” Capital is £13.000, the
co. owes £1960, and there are liquid assets
totalling £4025.
* * * *
The Kaiser, with the help of the Free-
traders. gave S. Australia’s best revenue-
producing railway line a severe set back on
the declaration of war in 1914. For 1913,
which was the best year in the history of
Broken Hill as far as output of ore is con-
cerned. 856,000 tons were despatched. In
1914 the figures dropped to 674,000 tons, and
have been steadily falling ever since; 1915,
512.000 tons; 1916, 455,000 tons; last year,
355.000 tons. The greatest quantity ever
forwarded was in June. 1914 —over 24,000
tons. Other contributing causes for the
decline in 1916 and 1917 were strikes of a
month and six weeks respectively; but the
pinch being felt now is the dwindling amount
of shipping that is available. Thousands
of tons of ore are on wharves and paddocked
at Port Pirie, some of it there ever since
1914 —mostly parcels intended for the place
where nearly all the Broken Hill ores went
before the mad dog got off the chain.


ON TOP AS USUAL.
I
Iflf'
Mill
mill
!ll
mil
IP
r u
I
L
o
a
o
□ 0
□ □
f
B II
mr
• ti.’.. .W
QUALITY UNRIVALLED.
CATALOGUE NO. 2 MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from all Agents: Messrs. R. S. EXTON & CO., Brisbane; HARRISONS, RAMSAY PTY., LTD., Melbourne; WILLIAM
ADAMS LTD., Perth; CLARKSON LTD., Adelaide; F. W. HERITAGE & CO., Launceston & Hobart; BLAIR REED & CO., Wellington,
N. Zealand; or
M EGG ITT LT
(The Pioneer Liissed Oil and Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers of Australia),
26 KING STREET, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.


A
Every
<f\
Collar
Passes 10 Examinations
before it leaves the Pelaeo
workrooms. This exacting
care means that wherever the
name Pelaeo appears it stands
for the highest quality human
beings are capable of providing
and longer wear.
The Polo Shape
Price 9d.
(Best Quality Linen-faced, I/-)
as shown in illustration, is per-
haps the best known of collar
shapes, but all Pelaeo collars
cari’y a distinguishing name so
that men will save time and
trouble by asking for their
favorite styles.
The Polo is procurable in sizes
13$ to 19 inches.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
m
WEAR
SHIRTS& PVJAMAS
ALSO
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aunsts of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment-the Perfected New
m
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Moarc Far Phnna many times as efficient
Mears Lar r none aml po „. erfnl aB t i, e 0 m
model. Ninety-six decrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 UEOROE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Meara Ear Phone Co. 1n0.,45 West 34th St. New York
m
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 6/-
Prepare Your Dog's for the
Coursing Season
Booklet “ B, n “ Hints to Dog: Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
BROOKES
COFFEE ESSENCE
You’ll like it too!!
Constipation
Bowel and Stomach Disordeis and resulting
Nervous Affections quickly and permanently cured
by Simple Natural Home Treatment—No Medicine
How a well-known I I D ET
business man w ■ » “
himself permanently after many years of suffering,
is told in a 40 page Booklet, sent free to all who
send this advertisement, and ad. postage to
J. P. GALE, 327 COLLINS ST , MELBOURNE
For Sale.
MOTOR FOR SALE.—l75h.p. three-
phase motor, 365 r.p.m., 6000 volts,
50 cycles, with two end shield bearings, regu-
lating slip ring rotor.
The motor is in first-class order, and is
being, offered for sale owing to the installa-
tion of a larger machine.
Further 1 information will be forwarded on
application to
“MOTOR,” Box 856 G.P.0., Melbourne.
WAITING!
There is nothing so trying for a woman
these days as waiting —always waiting.
It needs a steady nerve and a strong Heart to
carry on —do the day’s work with a cheerful face,
and have a smile handy.
Give yourself a chance to do this btj keeping
fit—a tonic that really helps is
Dhosfonno
1 THE ROYAL TONIC
This is a nerve and cell food and strengthener
that is helping many folk over the worries, work
and waiting that the world is going through now.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
“Back to Echuca,”
THE CAPITAL OF THE NORTH.
ON THE NILE OF AUSTRALIA.
Celebrations will be held from 28th September to
sth October, 1918. All former residents are cordially
invited to return.
EDWIN R. REILLY,
HART HICKS,
Joint
Secretaries.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurlesi
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15H6. CURES Write for Boolf
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, TALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “Singleton's”—refuse all substitutes.
m
The Vogue
of Velvet
TOOTAL
CLOTH
The Guaranteed \elvet Fabric
PLAIN
27 inchea wide
TOOTAL
CORDED
Beautiful Color*
Marked on every yard of Selvedge.
Tootal Cloth is the fashionable economic
fabric for street and formal gowns, for
coats and wraps, and for children’s suits.
It may be had from good-class drapers,
in a wide range of fashionable shades,
also black and white.
For outdoor, and children’s wear,
Corded Tootal Cloth is exceptionally
serviceable. Tootal Cloth is not heavy,
but firm, close woven-, with a thick lustrous pile.
Drapes like silk velvet. Colors will not rub.
TARANTULLE— Ask also to see this delightful
RKOD> TRADE MARA
and economical lingerie and layette fabric. Pure and free
from dressing. Tootal Guaranteed.
Name on Selvedge. 40 inches wide. Made in three
weights, Standard, Fine and Superfine.
OTHER TOOTAL GUARANTEED LlNES:—Tobralco, Tootal Pique,
Tootal Shirting for Women, Lissue Handkerchiefs for Ladies, Pyramid
Handkerchiefs for Men, and Tootal Shirts, made of Tootal Shirting
for Men.
All communications to:—
MELBOURNE, G.P.0., BOX 103 5.
TOOTAL BROADHURST LEE CO. LTD.. MANCHESTER. ENGLAND.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
John C. Netherdale: Sorry, but don’t
believe there’s anybody in Australia who would touch
such a proposition at present. Your own Mines
Department is as likely as anybody. Bion: Not
printable. May we bring the incidents under
notice of the Heads?... .J.H.: “Philosophic” floated
uncertainly before it fell out... .E.M.E.: There’s a
sighing music in it and some nice phrasing. But
our stock of sighing music and nice phrasing is
already over-heavy... .Albion: Little man, if our
smallest office-boy didn’t know all that, we should
put him down as a Lost Kid. What this paper has
said is that, if there are not enough exports to pay
for imports and interest on our foreign debt, then
we must pay in gold, our paper money being no
good for the purpose... .J.M.: Strictly, no doubt,
“drunk,” not “drank.” But there’s never a poet
that wouldn’t break a stupid old rule of grammar
to please his ear....A.G.: Pleasing, but not enough
there... .Bill Aussie: Verse doesn't do the trick,
good as the sentiment is... .D.M.11.: Nowhere near
it C. 8.: Hopeless... .E.G.: Not for us. If you
want to earn money by writing, you must learn
to write F.G.S.: No A.McN.: Commonplace
verse with no 1ift....8r0: You have a long way to
g0....0.8.: It’s as lucid as Plato:—
It is gold, some say we are told,
That causes all sorrow and toil;
Why not strive, as of old,
Hand in hand, on our soil?
In our troubles we should stand,
Let nothing daunt us in our way,
But hang together as a band,
Then everything would be bright and gay.
T.B.: Shocking Fiesole: The yarn’s in too
much of a hurry to let us know what it’s about....
W B.: A lot of bump and a sorrowful wallow here
and there... .Alpha : No thrill in it... .F.ILM.:
After toiling through the awful script we found it
was all about nothing... .Koromika: Not our style.
Send it to a religious mag... .M.A.: Pretty, but not
strong.... E.S.M.: Poor stuff... .L.G.S.: It doesn’t
get anywhere... .T. 8.: Slight yarn; no 5ki11....
G.S.P.: Not up.. ..Seedy: No Teller: The hand-
writing’s all right, the verse isn’t... .C.C.: Too
obscure... .M.W.: “Beyond the Rail” doesn’t suit us.
....J.11.A.: How pan we tell what other people will
take?.... A.E.T.: Doesn’t strike us... .L.G.D.: Dull
stuff.. .C.T.: Fair alburn verse.. .H.G.T.: Notup...
C.M.M.: An idea, the verse doesn't carry it
E.T.T.: Verse far tcfo rugged... .Scratch: Nothing
there... .M.M.: “Little Men” and “Dark Spring”
mi55....11.C.: Very lumpy. Get to work on it....
J.H.: No, not enough punch... .A.P.L.: The makings
of a yarn, but not enough go in it for that sort of
mad lie... .F.D.C.: “A Unit” has a story in it, but
you don’t tell it....Te W.: Too slight... .F. 8.:
Neither verse nor prose... .N.A.: Hop'and bump,
with every bit of commonplace you oould think of
dragged in... .M.E.C.: Nice verse, but doesn’t grip.
. ...H.J.: “West Wind,” “Summer Day” and “Ring-
barked” far below standard... ,Le Garcon: No
hope for that sort of thing. ...Pat McK.: A bit
rough. Plane it down and sandpaper it.. . .T.A.W.:
Couldn’t handle it without bumping the regulations.
. ...P.L.: Wildest verse we’ve met lately... .F.McC.:
Too rugged... .J.V.S.: And with a theme like that
you rumble along like a dray going over boulders!
...A.G.: Thanks, but we don’t blow the trumpet...
M.M.: “Nocturne” and “Heart” both fall down in
metre; but there is freshness in them....Seebee:
Not up.... J.H.: Sorry “Dinkums” must go back.
... .W.E.8.: N 0... .C.P.H.: Not well enough done.
... .Pommy: No sign of merit... .A.H.: Not up... .
A.B.C. One held... .A.P.F.: There’s feeling in it,
but it doesn’t make a yarn... .W.J.R.: Thanks for
camouflage scheme to ensure safe arrival of Bul-
letins at the Front; but we can’t print it —for the
information of the thieves... .Kathleen C.: (1)
“Such is Life” (Tom Collins), “The Bulletin Story
Book.” (2) No; but in Jose’s “History of Australia”
there is a chapter devoted to Australian literature.
. ...F.G.: Too big a contract; but you can get the
figures from the Departments concerned.... Mentora:
Cannot acknowledge pars; but since nothing was
printed you can assume that there wasn’t space for
them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS,
A.J.: No place for it... .Dick O.: All lack interest
and finish... .V.A.W.: A non-starter... .W.R.8.:
Car’t use them even as suggestions... .C.G.: One
of the oldest of the nursery series. You can’t draw
yet....W.5.: Had the gag before. Don’t want the
drawing Miss B.: Crude stuff.
Chaplain-colonel Larry Rentoul, of Vic-
toria, is taking an earnest and active part in
the preparations for the Waacs’ official
d#but, and perhaps may himself yet be seen
driving a tramcar in order to release some
willing and able, but family-hampered, citi-
zen desirous of getting to the Front.
“Plain Australian’s” suggestion :
The proposal for a “Ryan Thousand” Suggests a
plan to encourage recruiting. Let us give to these thou-
sands, not merely the name of their politician, but
the actual carcase of him, to take away and do what
they like with. Private individuals give native
bears, and bulldogs, and monkeys, and wallabies, and
iguanas, and other varied creatures to departing
soldiers, without bothering as to whether they are
ever brought back. Let Australia rise to the occasion
and give its politicians. They certainly eat more,
are less picturesque and more noisy, but these draw-
backs could doubtless be overcome by a resourceful
am l determined soldiery. If the first one was used
up, more could be sent. The prospect of really own-
ing a share in a politician would attract both sides
of opinion, and also a lot of people who haven’t
any political opinions but only sensitive ears. The
educational effect on those politicians who came back
would be incalculable, and if they didn’t come back
they could be spared in a noble cause. When in
the trenches they could be turned on to addressing
the Hun, and the army could rush the listening
enemy as soon as he got trying to follow the argu-
ments. The character of the Kaiser could be repre-
sented to the German Army in the same way as that
of a political opponent is dealt with, and the Boche
exhorted to strike —in the best Australian sense—
for real freedom. Whilst the politicians were away
Australia would have an opportunity of getting to
business—building ships, cleaning up the six sets of
State borrowers, organising taxation and expenditure
on a reasonable basis, starting some home-grown
industries, and otherwise getting a real strangle-hold
on German influences. The price is little enough to
pay.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.-
At the War.
c
r"
/
pm
v
«*5
ft
ifi®
* '/4mm
<w^*V
✓
«*<
/
1
w
i
W/
w
A
i
m
N
28
m
m
r
//
W ■
/
\
'V"
f;
y
•s^
<3>
/T
t!
w*~-
—Y'Vp
-yC?. 'T)
* O^lf
/a
Imm
>
v™ 7
■OH
wiPil
Mm
A U
Ilf
O
aeA fr*— D^~>
“Cobra,” Sfte Boot PolisH.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Like a bolt
Falls from the blue.
When the old
Balloon’s alight,
Chund er mutters,
“Nurse, good-night!”
Then he jumps
And sails away
Over fields
And trenches grey.
Chunder, Bear and
Dog are slick
When thev work
j
This “COBRA” trick.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious "Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Catines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
lor all information regarding sailing
fares’ Second- and Third-class
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO.. Ltd..
lei. City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
4Bio! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY N
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY y
BOWEN
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Early.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, June 8.
Leaves Sydney, June 11.
MICUIOURNE
(Transhipping fot
B.A. and \V. A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, June 4.
"Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
__ Offices at all Ports.
Blinking, Public Comimiilew. Xc.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP,
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.: THOS.
WELSBY.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Oltice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,069 4 6
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edvvd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman! •
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. |
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD Oi l ICE - - . BRISBANE.
Branches—Condon, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland
Amerioa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000 000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman:
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHt!
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kin-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of [)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.
Preference Shares.
Ordinary Shares
Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
( £1,500,000)
£529,988
750,000
1,000,000
500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
m
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping Ae.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-RED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
' EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRAJtCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States. Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tour?, Returning by Any Available Line.
Next connecting Steamer for Wellington will sail from Sydney on 6th June.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,“SMBE
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
m
m
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers,
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Groups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP g CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
bank of new south
Established 18X7.
WALES,
Paid-up Capital - -
Reserve I’und .
Reserve Liability -
m
£3,904,860
£2,875,000
£3,904,860
£10,684,720
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G
M.L.C., President. .
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D,
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. JLondon Office—29 Tbreadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT.' Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager, '
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
m
Hmtralia
of
SYDNEY.
for a n ,i General Banking: Business P lr n §S*
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
Branches, and over 2750 Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific.
Interest at o°/
per annum '*/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
PROVIDE A RESERVE FUND
by banking your surplus earnings where they will
accumulate with interest at the rate of 3f per cent, per
annum, and be available when required.
Government Savings BanK of
New South Wales.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards.
Interest Limit £5OO.
132 Branches and 500 Agencies throughout the State.
No Agencies at Post Office.
The Bank that Pays 31% Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. MORIALTA, Jyne 1.
S.S. PARINGA, June 8.
S.S. RUPARA, June 15.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
V isitors are not allowed on Company’s Wharves
i nor on board Company’s Steamers.
. . ■*> • ? >
G. S. YGILiIj & CO., LTD.,
! Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne ti
■New Zealand ports and vice versa: particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
1* rom Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. Between Melbourne and Launceston three
sailings per week.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorg’e Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AME R I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
yVpply to
ISIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are 1 1 Yied in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 6s.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and ■ water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, craßseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Ilol*
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


A Machine to
take you
Anywhere.
There is practically no limit to
the journeys you can undertake
with a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle.
Without a falter this famous
machine will climb almost any
hill, while owing to the re-
markable efficiency of the B.S.A.
Countershaft Three-speed Gear,
it will take a Sidecar and
passenger with the utmost ease.
□
□
MOTOR BICYCLES
For Solo & Sidecar.
From the points of view of fuel con-
sumption and wear and tear th« B.S.A.
Motor Bicycle is extremely economical.
B.S.A. material and workmanship have
a forty years reputation, and the success
of B.S A, Motor Bicycles under the
unparalleled severity of war service
proves that B.S.A. quality is maintained.
k
B.S.A. Handbook
Free,
1). Y. RENNIE,
(representing B.S.A. C». Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
to 2
C
o 2
m 2
§
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it the finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers,
V ;
-V,;
ABBEY
SHOES!
“ABBEY” is the name that identi-
fies footwear of superior quality;
a mark that appears only on shoes
of the highest standard in materials,
fit and appearance.
We illustrate a choice Patent Ox-
ford Bal., with Dull Calf Legs.
Price - 47/6
In Highest-grade Tan Willow Calf,
same price.
All our footwear is made in half
and full sizes, and in narrow,
medium and wide fittings.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The NEW EDISON
—the finest musical
instrument of the age.
Every home can now have the world’s noblest
music so perfectly reproduced that it is
indistinguishable from the same music as
heard on the world’s greatest stages.
It was not until Mr. Edison solved the
secret of Music’s Re-creation that it has
been possible to give you by your own fireside
the identical tones of the living artists.
Order yours to-day—it’s the thing to do.
Write at once for more information regard-
ing The NEW EDISON, post free from
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
/■■■/■
* i m
7/ <
M
.....
In a “Jiffy”-
Yes! it shaves in a “jiffy”—in a quarter the
usual time. So keen is the blade, and so
finely tempered is
The “PLUM” RAZOR
that its edge remains keen for an indefinite
period. Requires but little stropping, and one
lathering of the face is usually sufficient.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
! This line makes a handsome present
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube,
Post Free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our
Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKE.N,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER SO YEARS.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HEAD OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
IRE Bla°oi. : l[ H L on d; A, Hom S 1 M J< aA De P ut V-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq. ’ ’ M -L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
. A - E . LI ; t lo 3'7’ Actuary - H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
ccumulated Funds, £38,000,000. Annual Income, £5,500,000.
.... , , DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUES EVERY YEAR.
Sig'net Ring's for Ladies
are very largely worn.
They always will be—while Crests and
Monograms can be engraved on them.
vVe make the Rings in our Workrooms.
In all Gold. In Platinum.
In Gold, with the Australian Lucky
Stone (Chiastolite).
In Gold, with Bloodstone, Onyx, or
Sardonyx.
In Gold, with Peridot or Garnet.
&
l-ady's
llct.
Gold Signet
Ring,
27/0
Lady’s Solid
18ct. Gold Sig-
net Ring, 23/-
Heavy 15ct.
Gold Lady’a
Signet Ring,
17/6.
We engrave any Crest, Coat of Arms or Mo
Stones with unexcelled finish.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.,
PLAIN FIGURES. CASH ONLY.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
The Bank of Adelaide.
FIFTY-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
TO THE SHAREHOLDERS.
T o'L? i w Cto r s submit herewith for the information of Shareholders the Balance Sheet of the Bank
date** March, 1918, also Statements of Profit and Loss Accounts and Reserve Fund on the same
The Unappropriated Balance of the Profit and Loss Account as on 26th March, 1917, is £l6 173 6 5
which it is proposed to appropriate as follows:
To Reserve Fund (making it £555,000) .. .. .. .. £15,000 0 0
„ Transfer to Profit and Loss Account for 1918.. .. . . 1|173 5 5
£16473 5 5
The Balance of Profit and Loss for the year ended 25th March, 1918, amounts to .. £71,354 9 2
out of which an Interim Dividend at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum was paid in
November last
leaving a balance now available of
from which it is proposed to pay a dividend at the rate of 10 per cent.
per annum .’ £25,000 0 0
and, subject to authority being given by the Special General Meeting of
Shareholders, to be held on Ist May, 1918, to transfer to the
Provident Fund £lO,OOO 0 0
25,000 0 0
£46,354 9 2
£35,000 0 0
which, with the Balance transferred from Profit and Loss Account on 26th March, 11,354
1917, as above.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. , _ 1 173 5 5
gives a Balance to be carried forward of .. . . .. .. ~ .. .. £l2 527 14 7
Since the last Report the agencies at Hyde Park and Willowie have been closed.
At the last meeting of Shareholders the hope was expressed that your Directors would be able to
submit to you the position of the Provident Fund, with a view to providing greater benefits to our
staff. The Directors have carefully considered the matter, and will submit proposals for your considera-
tion at a Special General Meeting to be held on Ist May.
During the past year 18 members of the bank’s staff have enlisted, making a total of 105, of whom,
we regret to say, 11 have been killed, six have been discharged as no longer fit for service five have
resigned from the Bank, leaving 83 now serving their country.
The General Annual Meeting will be held in the Board-room at the head office of the Bank King
William Street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, Ist May, 1918, at 12 noon, at which the Shareholders will be
called upon to elect two Directors in place of Howard Watson Lloyd, Esq., and James Richard Fowler
Esq., who retire by rotation, and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election. ’
The Shareholders will have to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year, and to fix the remuneration of
the retiring Auditors.
BALANCE-SHEET, MARCH 25, 1918.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital paid up £500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . 540,000 0 0
Profit and Loss. . 16,173 5 5
Profit and Loss,
1917-1918 . . 46,354 9 2
£1,102,527
Notes in Circulation . . . . 8,014
Bills in Circulation . . . . 201,949
Balances due to other Banks . . 19,465
Deposits .. . . . . . . 4,591,817
Interest accrued on Fixed Deposits
and Rebate on Bills Discounted 52,130
14 7
0 0
13 2
15 2
8 2
6 10
£5,975,904 17 11
ASSETS.
I
By Specie, Bullion,
and Cash Bal-
ances.. ..£299,459 0 1
Australian Notes 830,483 0 0
Government De-
bentures .. 511,843 16 6
Imperial Govern-
ment Treasury
Bills . . . . 705,000 0 0
Municipal Deben-
tures .. .. -2,775 0 0
Money at short
Call . . . . 210,000 0 0
Balances due from
other Banks . . 151,060 15 1
Notes of other
Banks .. . . 235 0 0
Remittances in
transitu .. 140,802 15 2
„ , „ . —£2,851,659 610
Bank Premises and Furniture .. 101,148 13 5
Wheat Advances account . . 718,517 12 2
Bills Receivable and all other
Advances 2,304,579 5 6
£5,975,904 17 11
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS.
YEAR FROM 29th MARCH, 1915, TO 27th MARCH, 1916.
To Reserve Fund, as below, Hay, 1917.. £30,000 0 0
Reduction of Bank Premises Account,
May, 1917.. 12,996 15 0
£42,996 15 0
YEAR FROM 27th MARCH,
To Dividend in May, 1917 .. .. £20,000 0 0
Balance 16,173 5 5
£36,173 5 5
YEAR FROM 26th MARCH,
To Dividend in November. 1917 .. £25,000 0 0
Balance .. .. .. .. 46,354 9 2
£71,354 9 2
By Balance 26th March, 1917
.. £42,996 15 0
£42,996 15 0
1916, TO 26th MARCH, 1917.
By Balance 26th March, 1917 ..£36,173 5 5
£36,173 5 5
1917, TO 25th MARCH, 1918.
By Net Profit for Year
from 26th March, 1917,
to 25th March, 19118,
including Recoveries,
and after making pro-
vision for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, In-
terest accrued on Fixed
Deposits and Rebate on
Bills Discounted, and
Expenses at Head
Office and 53 Branches,
including Salaries,
Rents, etc £76,244 14 10
Less Land and Income
Taxes, £4721/5/8 ;
Note Tax, £169.. 4,890 5 8
£71,354 9 2
£71,354 9 2
RESERVE FUND,
To Balance at this date
..£540,000 0 0
£540,000 0 0
By Balance 26th March, 1917 . . £510,000 0 0
„ Transfer from Profit and Loss,
May, 1917 30,000 0 0
£540,000 0 0
JOHN SHIELS, Manager.
W. P. COTTRELL, Accountant.
ARTHUR WATERHOUSE, 1
GEORGE BROOKMAN,
JAS. R. FOWLER, J-
HOWARD W. LLOYD.
A. G. RYMJLL, !
Directors.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the Books and Accounts of The Bank of Adelaide
for the Year ending 25th March, 1918, and certify that it is a correct abstract of the same. We have
counted the Cash and examined the Bills on hand at the Head Office —the Assets and Liabilities at the
Branches other than London have been taken on the certificates of the Managers and Accountants of the
respective Branches, and those of the London Branch as cabled by the London Manager.
Adelaide, 12th April, 1918*
W. L. WARE, F.C.P.A., V
WILLIAM NEILL, F.C.P.A., /
Auditor?.


Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, lijth May, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of Timber to
H.M.A. Naval Establishments at
Sydney, 1918-1919.
riIENDERS will be received, subject to the
_L conditions of tendering, until 12 noon on
Tuesday, 4tli June, 1918, for the supply of
Timber to H.M.A. Naval Establishments at
Sydney, for the period Ist July, 1918, to
30th June, 1919.
Tender forms, specifications and full parti-
culars may be obtained on application at
the Office of the Director of Navy Contracts,
Navy Office, Melbourne; the General Mana-
gers, Commonwealth Naval Dockyards,
Cockatoo Island and Garden Island, Sydney;
and at the Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane.
Birkenhead (S.A.), Fremantle and Hobart.
A. BOYNTON,
for Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy”
Melbourne, 21st May, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of Boots.
T| TENDERS will be received until noon on
JL Friday, 7th June, 1918, for the supply of
,j(!20 pairs of Half-Boots—Shore Service, to
the Royal Australian Navy.
Tender forms, specifications and full parti-
culars may be obtained on application at
the Offices of the Director of Navy Contracts.
Navy Office. Melbourne; and the Victualling
Store Officer, Royal Edward Victualling
Yard, Pyrmont, Svdney.
A. POYNTON.
for Minister of State for the Navy.
tc
THE AUSTRALIAN
SKANDIA
99
o'
m
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
■
mi
m
1
at!
'
7‘
a:-
.
.
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON § ROBERTSON, Loftus Street, Sydney.
Give Him a Send-Off
Show that you appreciate
his unselfishness. Give him
a good time, and remember
Stewart Dawson’s
for
Soldiers’ Gifts.
We offer the Largest Variety
of Suitable Military Gifts in
the Commonwealth, and ex-
tensive buying for Cash
makes possible our Splendid
Values.
s^*l
Si
m
■
■~rf
if '
LUMINOUS WRISTLET WATCH, 70/-,
POST FREE. High-grade Luminous -Watch,
with Fifteen Jewel Three-quarter Plate Gilt Move-
ment, Radium Hands and Figures; in Solid Silver
Hunting Case, with Screw Back and Fly-up Front.
An Accurate Timekeeper. Price .. .. 70/-
Other Gilts for Soldiers.
Soldier’s Unbreakable Mirror, in case.. • • 2/6
Cartridge Pencil Holders 1/6
9ct. Gold-Mounted Tobacco Pouches .. 12/6 to 17/6
Soldier’s Combination Knife, Pork and Spoon in
Leather Case .. . , .. .. .. B^6
Auto-Strop Safety Razors 22/6
Others 12/6
CALL AND INSPECT OUR STOCKS, OR
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Stewart
Dawson’s,
STRAND CORNER,
SYDNEY.
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATREL
SUPER
FEATURES
A good deal of revenue might be raised if
the Government would tax the income of the
leading villain in the drama and the picture-
show. The ill-gotten affluence of that
bounder is disgusting.
“Fax”: Margot Lester, the handsome
pupil of Florrie Green, who danced with
grace at Melbourne King’s matinee last week,
is a daughter of Edwin Lester, the character
actor. There should be a bright professional
career ahead of Miss Margot. Mrs. Green
speaks of her as one of the brainiest and
most promising of the long procession of
Melbourne girls who have graduated for the
stage at her academy. The young dancer
has a theatrical pedigree, anyhow. Her
father is son of the late Edwin Kelly, an
old-time scholarly actor who was great in
certain parts.
“Jean Sibi”: Singer Philip Newbury,
"The Scarlet Trouba-
dours,” at Sydney
Playhouse.
Courtney Ford lays
the odds.
resurrected for a
few nights at Mel-
bourne Bijou, is a
souvenir of the past
in manner and de-
livery. The little
foot drawn back,
the podgy hand
over the heart, the
lips parted in the
loveliest pianissi-
mos of pleading—
all are there to re-
mind one that there
really was a time
when vocal gallan-
tries were select,
though ragtime
makes it seem so
very long ago.
Newbury’s voice is,
little impaired in
its higher reaches,
whilst his facial
resemblance to
Walter Kirby
grows mor„e alarra-
ins, though he is still two chins short.
Died of wounds in France, John Horace
Ormiston, late of the Mines Department,
Sydney. The dead soldier’s mother was con-
nected with the Sydney stage in years gone
by; she was a sister of the better-known
Kitty Corcoran, who became the wife of the
wealthy Jack Smith, politician and racing
man.
“Pick”: Circus-proprietor Jimmy Ashton,
recently found drowned at Dubbo (N.S.NV.).
was a real Australian in putting a square
deal before everything. One wild night in
the ’seventies, at Bibbenluke (N.S.W.), the
tent was blown to ribbons and a very sparse
audience had to be sent home. The show
was billed to play at Nimitybelle the follow-
ing night, and for the next three nights at
Cooma. Having fulfilled those engagements
Ashton travelled back over 58 miles and gave
a free performance at one-horse Bibbenluke.
He had heard in Cooma that Bibbenluke
reckoned it hadn’t been treated fairly.
When the mail left London Ethel Irving
was booked to appear in “The Prime Minis-
ter,” a new play by ’All Caine.
“75” : English theatrical papers speak of
one Joy Wattle, “the Australian girl,” and
mention that she has booked return dates
until 1921. Anybody ever heard of this
blossom ?
“Mrs. Warren’s Profession,” the first pro-
duction of which in VYark resulted in police-
court proceedings and the ultimate discom-
fiture of the authorities, has just been
revived there, with some of the original cast,
and has caused scarcely a ripple of protest.
Apparently the Yankee critics were too busy
condemning a new piece, “The Squab Farm.”
The girl who was almost a star was mad-
der than Hamlet about it. “Call that a
paper!” she sneered. “They won’t even give
me four lines when I’ve been out of the show
for a week with a cold. Yet they give a
stinking boa-constrictor a two-column block
and a write-up!” Moral: Don’t be an act-
ress ; be a boa-constrictor.
“Stargazer”: Demonstrations against a
play, a set of players, or aji individual actor
are rare occurrences in Australia. But
actors and managements haven’t the same
“The Million Dollar
Girl,” at Melbourne
Tivoli.
Lord Help-us, of
Nieman and Kennedy.
compunction. When
an audience is not
up to the actor’s
expectations or the
manager’s hope, in
nine cases out of
ten the cbTdoes not
hesitate to express
its abhorrence. For
this reason 1 hate
to be one in a small
audience. It hurts
my pride till the
ache burns and
throbs to sit there
while a pest of
actors assails me,
treating me with
undisguised scorn
and loathing, act-
ing as though I
were dirt. A poor
audience almost
invariably gets a
bad performance.
Then tell me why
an audience
shouldn’t give a
show its opinion whenever retribution is dis-
tinctly called for?
The Deputy Federal Commissioner of
Taxation writes regarding the Amusement
tax:—
Departmental tickets must be used for admission
to all entertainments at prices exceeding 6d. except
in the following cases:—
(a) Cases where the proprietor of the entertain-
tainment enters into a substantial bond ;
(b) Cases where exemption is granted in view of
the entertainment being held for educational, philan-
thropic, religious or charitable purposes.
Departmental tickets are issued to proprietors of
entertainments only on written application to . the
postmasters, and they must forward the tickets to
this office within 24 hours after the close of each
entertainment. The Regulations under the Act give
full particulars as to the requirements in this regard,
and the system in vogue provides a check against
irregularities. There is also an Inspectorial Staff
on the look-out for evasions.
Proprietors under bond are not required to issue
Departmental tickets, but are permitted to remit the
tax collected at the end of each week. These pro-
prietors are required to furnish an annual statement
certified to by a public accountant, and their books
are always liable to investigation, the same as those
of other proprietors.
Where a bond is accepted, a certificate is issued to
the proprietor, and a copy of this certificate must
be exhibited at each entrance to the place of enter-
tainment.
This is in reply to various country con-
tributors who have been unable to see how
the Government was protecting itself against
tax-dodgers.
Killed in France, Lance Sheil, an English
mummer who was first seen here in “The
Scarlet Pimpernel” and remained to marry
an Australian girl and appear in sundry
shows, including “On Our Selection” and
“While the Billy Boils.” He also “produced”
Beaumont Smith’s film version of “The Way-
backs.” Sheil enlisted in Australia and was
running shows behind the lines for some
time before he was sent into the trenches.
“H. 0.”; There is a Sydney man who has
made money out of the film censorship.
When a film is banned the gaudy posters,
daybills, etc., with which it had been in-
tended to point its lofty moral are kept in
bond and in due course must be destroyed.
This is not as easy
as it sounds, as the
stuff can’t conveni-
ently be hanged by
the neck or as-
phyxiated, and even
to cart it away
and burn it means
undue expense.
Many tons had ac-
cumulated when a
man offered to buy
it at a nominal
price and destroy
it. The offer was
accepted, and the
purchaser reduced
the highly colored
bills to confetti.
On Empire Day
Melbourne alone
bought 100.000
packets of adver-
ting matter for
“Where Are My
Parents?” “The
Lilac Lust” and
similar educational
works, and pro-
ceeded to push it
down the necks of
ladies to whom it
had not been intro-
duced. What shall
it profit a wowser
that he have a film
censored if the
posters therefor are
“You’re in Lore,” at
Sydney Majesty's.
Alfred Frith as Alo-
ysius Wix, long-lost
husband of the Crass
Widow.
inserted beneath an in-no-eent girl’s camisole
by the hand of a strange male?
“Norbell”: Good old Grattan Riggs used
to perpetrate a Sinn Fein bellow-drama 25
years ago. “Shin Fane” was its phoneti-
cally-spelt label. I wonder how a revival
would go?
One of the victims of a recent London
air-raid was Mrs. Lena Guilbert Ford, who
wrote the words of the widely-chorused
“Keep the Home Fires Burning.”
“Motley”: Apropos late circus-man Ash-
ton, whose tragic exit is recorded. The first
noteworthy Australian circus was Maleom's,
in Sydney, and the first Ashton was the
earliest responsible man on the road. Hayes
was an early Melbourne manager. Then
came Noble, at the north-east top of Bourke-
street, before Parliament House was begun.
His circus was afterwards boarded up for
concerts as the Salle de Valentino. Rowe
came from San Francisco, and opened on
the corner of Lonsdale and Stephen streets,
where Coppin’s Olympic afterwards stood.
Burton’s National Circus began in 1851.
“0.K.”: Cannot’s imitation of Talleur
Andrews singing an impassioned love-song
—“You that I-er-woor-ship so”—is the best,
bit of musical mimicry staged here since
Albert Whelan imitated Henry Bracy in
“Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes.” Cannot’s
throaty effort comes easier because he bur-
lesques the Andrews manner. Whelan was
true to the impassive original in all re-
spects, and his reproduction of Bracy’s faded
tenor warble would have deceived Henry’s
own dog.
“Fax”: The pioneer musical comedies—
“A Gaiety Girl,” “In Town,”-etc. —had the
scenes laid always in England and mostly
in London. The late George Edwardes, who
discovered them, kept them there. They
had three acts, as a rule. After a while the
three were reduced to two, one of them out-
side Britain. Nowadays there are oftener
three than two, and scenery and costumes
make amends for poverty of dialogue.
“Katinka,” which is coming to Melbourne
Majesty’s next week, has three acts and
scenes at Yalta (on the Black Sea), old
Stamboul and a Turkish cafd in Paris. In
fact, “Katinka” isn’t a real blood relation
of “Our Miss Gibbs” or “The Girl from
Kay’s.” She’s a foreign connection by mar-
riage, and has even been referred to as a
comic-opera.
“B. J.” : When one comes to think of it, it
was rather clever of Shakspeare to write
“Hamlet” more or less off his own bat, see-
ing that 16 (sixteen) human intellects were
employed to concoct “The Million Dollar
Girl.” All of the distinguished authors get
tiiexr names on the Tivoli programme. W : hat
I regard as unfair is that the names of the
ushers are omitted. The XYI authors
merely manufactured the revue, whereas the
ushers, with their unbounded enthusiasm and
discriminating applause, made it.
“Chevron”: George D. Treloar, son of a
Ballarat chemist whom Alfred Dampier
called to Melbourne to play Hamlet, has
found greater fame under the star-shell
than ever the footlights could have re-
flected. His amateur days were followed by
an association with Julius Knight and Oscar
Asche. Then he became Private Treloar
of the Artists’ Rifles, and later a captain in
the Coldstream Guards. Trench-mortar
officer on the Somme, he was in despatches
for gallantry at Martinpuich, Les Boeufs
and Courcelette, the last-named action being
the first occasion on which the whole Guards
Division charged as regiments in line. He
now holds both D.S.O. and M.C. Educated
at St. Pat’s College, he was a chorister at
St. Peter’s Church in his native town. His
mother, also his aunt and uncle—Lucy and
Sydney Devine—were thespians, too.
From London:—
At last a worth-while musical frivolity that is
not of Austrian origin. “The Lilac Domino” is its
name and it comes from U.S.A. The “book” is
commonplace and most of the dialogue tripey, but
the critics agree that the music, by Charles Cuvil-
lier, is equal to anything of the kind' heard here for
years. Some extra numbers, which are well spoken
of, were composed by Howard Carr (who married
Trixie Tracy, once a Melbourne chatterer for The
Bulletin), and he also conducts in a way that has
earned him bouquets from several papers. The
Pall Mall Gazette says: “lie has proved himself
one of the very best of our theatrical conductors, to
say nothing of his talent as a composer.”
THE EXORCISM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Hand in hand we sit alone,
Breast to breast we oit-times lie,
Like a Darby and a Joan—
Care and I,
Care and I.” — Bulletin Bard.
There’s one defence for stricken men
From subtle Care, and it is laughter.
Put on thy mask of Mourns then ;
Gibe all the day; the long night after
Pursue her with thy scoffing guile! *
Though often it may sorely grieve thee,
Deceive thyself a little. Smile!
’Tis better far than all the while
Have her deceive thee.
Deride her smoke-grey eyes, her face
Of ivory, her pensive meekness.
Let her not know thy feeble case,
Thou knowest now her fatal weakness.
Accept her, and besetting thee
Her face, as in a magic prism,
Will look from every plane, more dree
Each day ; but scoff, and she will flee
Thy exorcism. .
Oh, hush! Thy mistress is untrue.
A wanton she more lewd and foxy
Than Thais, Pliryne—all the crew ;
Than Jezebel or Samson’s doxy.
She pillows ’neath her breast thy head,
But when thou turnest to thy labors
Kuns slily to another’s bed.
She is the cast-off, be it said,
Of half thy neighbors!
victoria.
EDDYSON.
PUBLICITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I have used your preparation for some time past,
and have found it a great. benefit to my voice,
especially during’ the Julius Primus season, when 1
played Pauline in ‘The Sins of our Mothers.’ ”
The kid who does the screaming takes some
“Sneezol” for her voice;
The dancer uses “lieezo” and her corns pop out
like corks;
The tall, majestic hero over hair-food must rejoice;
The villain cleans his teeth with “Bish,” his whisky’s
“Duke of York s” ;
The villainess is saved from “nerves” by Fakir’s
“Dinky Dope”;
The aged father will not drink unless it’s “Boozer's
Cin.”
This is my bread-and-butter job: to every pro. the
hope
That some will read and know at last the shows that
he was in.
N.S.W.
PRESS AGENT.


f
' HK&$&
ft ' '
,
i ".,...V* '
. . ■•::• ■ ■ ■ '
- "'> . X w*
0
. . ftvft ' ’,"
.****> rs -mm-
■■ . «~r- ; mW
■Af
e
- ■■ wn
■ ■ JRfSf
~-•4
«
nrv.
,
t.
■
y.
an
•
# : 3t> y
m w
%
' *■• j
■
■mr
r •$
y< x ,s ',
I
iii
Nothing is quite so impres-
sive as power, and noth-
ing is quite so necessary
in the Motor Car which
has to face the variable
conditions of road travel
in Australia and New
Zealand.
You must have power for
the day-long, cross-coun-
try tour —power on the
hills ; power in the deep
sand ; power for the wet
roads of winter —the mud
of Spring.
'Power to take your car
anvwhere that a car can
j
go —and ahead of the
next man’s car on the
long hard hill!
The Studebaker is the
most powerful car on the
market for its weight,
c 3 7
and the most powerful
car on the market within
hundreds of pounds of
its price.
Its power is there when
you reach for it to meet
every emergency; and
effortless power means
the lack of strain and
vibration.
You can depend upon the
Studebaker name. You
can depend upon what
your friends who have
them sav about Stude-
j
baker cars.
You can depend upon a
car good enough to
attract 300,000 owners
in all parts of the United
States, the most highly
competitive motor-car
market in the world.
Stocks of Studebaker Cars are at present held by our State distributors and by 200 Studebaker dealers throughout Aust. alia and New Zealand.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Head Office for Australia: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Leonard Corrick, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston.
South Australian Branch : 1 Currie Street, Adelaide
C. C. & M. A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Adams Limited, Tuam Street, Christchurch (N.Z.).
General Motor Co., 51 Collins St., Hobart, Tas.
A
*
&
sag
>5
%
■


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly St lections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable, and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you should
have grey hair if you do not want it. To turn
the hair back to a natural color is really a
very simple matter. One has’only*to get from
the chemist two ounces of concentrate of tam-
malite and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply to the hair with a small sponge
for a few nights and the greyness will gradu-
ally disappear. This liquid is not sticky or
greasy, and does not injure (lie hair in any
way. It has been used for generations with
most satisfactory results by those who have
known the formula.
Blackheads Fly Away.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into gen-
eral use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a stymol tablet
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full of
hot water. After the effervescence Ims sub-
sided bathe the face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large
oily pores immediately close up and efface
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at intervals of four or five days
to ensure the permanence of the result.
Emergency Complexions.
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull
or greasy can be made beautiful in a moment
by a perfectly harmless home recipe. If you
have no cleminite in the house, get about an
ounce from your chemist, and add only
enough water to dissolve it. The process de-
fies detection, and the result is an immediate
appearance of velvety, youthful “bloom”
which every woman desires. The effect will
last all day under the most trying conditions,
indoors or out. and renders powdering quite
unnecessary. This simple substance is also
very good for the skin, and no possible harm
can come from its regular use.
Effectually Killing Superfluous Hair.
Many women know how to remove ugly
growths of superfluous hair temporarily, but
few know how to remove it permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered phemlnol may be
used. Get about an ounce from your chemist
and apply a little directly to the objection-
able hair. The purpose of the recommended
treatment is not merely to remove the super-
fluous hair instantly, but also to kill the hair
roots completely in a comparatively short
time.
How Nature Makes New Complexions.
It is well known that the human skin is
constantly undergoing a tearing down and
building up process. With advancing years or
waning vitality this tissue-change lags: the
lifeless, soiled surface skin stays on so long
that its owner gets a “poor complexion.”
Commonsense tells us this dead skin cannot
be enlivened or beautified by any cosmetic,
lotion or powder. The natural thing to do is
to actually remove the offensive skin—remove
the bad complexion. It has been found that
ordinary mercolized wax completely absorbs
the devitalised skin, in minute particles, so
gently, gradually, as to cause no inconveni-
ence. Mercolized wax, which any chemist can
supply, is put on at night like cold cream,
and washed off in the morning. If vou would
have a brilliantly beautiful and youthful com-
plexion, just use this simple treatment.
How to Have Thick and Pretty Hair.
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural aflinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair bril-
liant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely, and greatly stimulates the hair-
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed quarter-pound pack-
ages. which retail at about four shillings.
However, as this is sufficient for 25 or 30
shampoos, it really works out very cheaply
in the end. [4
Superior to Marking Ink.
<b'y
THE
‘ffiecwfauj/jisos'
WOVEN NAMES;
Made in
Nay be procured
any up-to-date Mercer or Draper,
OUR NAME ON THE BOX
b gaa.ra.ntee of Qp&lj^
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
QUEEN S ARMS
HOTEL,
Corner Swanston St. & Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE
(Late CHAMPION’S).
TARIFF: —
Bed & Breakfast . . . . 67-
Lunch (Special) . . . . 1/6
Dinner 3/-
CLAUDE R. KERR, Proprietor.
REPORT OP THE DIRECTORS OF
The National Bank of Australasia Limited.
The Balance-sheet of the Bank, as on 31st March last, and the Profit and Loss Account for the Half-
year which then terminated, are now submitted to the Shareholders.
The net profit, after deduction of all expenses, including £11,323/7/5 for Income, Land and Note
Taxes, and the Bank’s contributions to War Funds, amounted to .. .. .. in
Add Balance brought forward from previous Half-year .. .. .. .. 15,745 11 lu
Leaving available .. .. .. •• •• .. .. .. •• £100,740 1 3
It is proposed to appropriate the profit for the Half-year, £84,994/9/5, as follows: —
Transfer to Reserve Fund Account (increasing it to £700,000) £25,000 0 0
Reduction of Bank Premises Account .. . . . . . . 5,000 0 0
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Preference Shares 10,762 6 0
Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum on Ordinary Shares 41,735 8 0
Leaving £2,556/15/5, which, added to £15,745/11/10 brought forward from the
previous Half-year makes the total to carry forward
£82,437 14
18,302
7 3
£100,740 1 3
The total number of the Bank’s Staff who have been accepted for Active Service with the Australian
Imperial Forces is 369, of whom 22 have joined during the Half-year. .
It is with great regret that we have to record that 58 of the Bank’s Officers have been killed in
action or died of wounds, including 16 since our last report, viz.:—
Lieut. H. H. Corney (Mil. Mdl,), Ledgerkeeper, St. Hilda.
Lieut. L. H. Gill, Teller, Wangaratta.
Lieut. D. G. Mac Kay, Accountant, Yarrawonga.
Lieut. I). Grinlington, Clerk, Perth.
Sergt. E. Harvey, Accountant, Broken Hill.
Corpl. F. T. Fisk, Ledgerkeeper, Sydney.
L.-Corpl. C. M. Cox, Teller. Stratford.
Trooper F. G. Howell, Clerk, Katanning, W.A.
Sapper J. H. Campbell, Teller, Smeaton.
Private A. A. Le Roux, Clerk, Melbourne.
Private O. L. Griffiths, Clerk, Melbourne.
Private R. Robinson, jun., Clerk, Claremont, W.A.
Private S. R. Thompson, Clerk, Perth.
Private J. C. Muir, Clerk, Tungamah.
Private L. J. E. Earles, Clerk, Melbourne.
Private J. G. Taverner, Clerk, London.
And the following additional casualties have occurred
Wounded or Invalided. —Lieutenants F. P. Berriman (M.G.) and H. V. Hitch; Sergeant. E. A.
Robinson; Corporals R. C. S. Brandon, G. S. Brennan, R. A. Shawyer, W. J. Nadebaurn ; Lance-
Corporals S. N. R. Sanders and H, A. Ashton; Trooper N. R. G. Ranking; Gunners W. G. Witham,
R. R. Neale, R. 11. Ayliffe and R. Dobson ; Signallers J. Munday and G. R. Bartley; Privates
George Smith, W. E. J. Wheeler, J. G. McDonald, F. V. Fogarty and R. F. Chambers.
Prisoner df War.—Corporal G. S. Green.
The following additional Military Distinctions have been gained:—
Lieut. F. P. Berriman, South Australia, Military Cross.
Lance-Corporal J. E. MePhee, Victoria, Military Medal.
Private S. .7. B. May, Western Australia, Military Medal.
The Ordinary General Annual Meeting will be held in the Board Room at the Bank’s Head Office..
Collins Street, Melbourne, on Wednesday, Ist May, at noon, when the Shareholders will be called upon to
elect two Directors in lieu of Sir John Grice and Edward Trenchard, Esquire, who retire by rotation,
in accordance with the Articles of Association, and are eligible for re-election. There are no other
candidates.
The Shareholders will also be called upon to elect two Auditors for the ensuing year.
By order of the Board of Directors,
The National Bank of Australasia. Limited, E. 11. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
Head Office, Melbourne, 18th April, 1918.
BALANCE-SHEET OF THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, LIMITED,
For the Half-year ended 31st March, 1918.
(Including London Office to 9th February, 1918, and Western Australian Branches to lCLth March, 1918.)
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
Dr.
To Proprietors’ Capital—
-30,578 preference
shares, paid in
money to £lO
per share,
£ 3 0 5,7 8 0 ;
238,488 ordi-
nary shares,
paid up to £5
per share,
£1,192,440 . . £1,498,220 0 0
To Reserve Fund
Account . . 675,000 0 0
To Profit & Loss
Account .. 100,740 1 3
£2,273,960 1 3
To notes in cir-
culation
To bills in cir-
culation
£32,575 10 0
1,083,443 7 9
T o Government
Deposits—
Not bearing in-
terest, £175,817
16/5; bearing
interest,
£1,631,948/16/8 1,807,766 13 1
To Other De-
posits—•
Not bearing
interest,
£6,034,360/12/8 ;
bearing inter-
est, £5,981,192
16/5 .. 12,015,553 9 1
To interest ac-
crued and rebate
on current bills 150,538 6 9
To balances due
to other banks.. 246,890 17 9
15,336,768 4 5
£17,610,728 5 8
To contingent liability, as per
contra, £643,333/18/5.
ASSETS.
3y coin, bullion,
Australian Notes,
cash at bankers,
and money at
short call in Lon-
don .. .. ;
By Government,
municipal and
other public
stocks, deben-
tures. and funds
By bills and re-
mittances in
transitu
By notes and bills
of other banks
By balances due
from other banks
3,948,293 9 3
1,405,848 15 9
1,632,671 16 0
4,453 2 0
89,241 0 5
By duty stamps
By real estate, consisting of bank
premises
By other real estate
By bills discounted and other ad-
vances, exclusive of provision
for bad and doubtful debts
£7,086,621 12 7
6,113 9 2
386,877 11 6
3,359 3 9
10,133,869 17 10
£17,610,728 5 8
By liability, In the form of a \
guarantee of certain shire and
municipal debentures (Victoria)
sold in London, and which are
being duly provided for by sink-
ing funds, in terms of the act
authorising their issue, £20,500,
and liabilities of customers and
others on letters of credit and
guarantees, £622,833/18/5, as per
contra, £643,333/18/5.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To expenses at head office, 165
branches, and 50 agencies .. £llO,BOO 'lB 3
To income, land and note taxes .. 11,323 7 5
To balance 100,740 1 3
£222,864 6 11
By balance brought forward.. .. £15,745 11 10
By gross profits, including recoveries,
less rebate on bills current, interest
paid and accrued on deposits, re-
pairs to premises, and rent .. 207,118 15 1
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To balance £675,000 0 0
£675,000 0 0
By balance last half-year .. .. £650,000 0 0
By transfer from profit and loss .. 25,000 0 0
£675,000 0 0
The customary Auditors’ Report and the Statement of the Directors and Chief Manager, to comply
with the Companies Acts (Victoria), appear on the Official Report.
E. H. WREFORD, Chief Manager.
THE.
*
«sp
-=SL
-S3-S
as
>r.
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1.498,220. Reserve Fund, £700,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: Sir JOHN GRICE, Chairman; EDWARD TRENCHARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: E. J. OSBORNE.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Blshopsgate, E.C.
“Sow-and-Pigs”: When the big U-boat
wants to have a chat with its friends it gets
out two balloons, inflates them and sends
them aloft for 1000 ft. or more on a wire
paid out by a drum driven by an electric-
motor. One of the best American wireless
engineers thinks the sea-hogs can thus throw
a message 2000 miles, and, with ideal condi-
tions, 3000 or 4000 miles.
If the war could be won by phrases the
whole thing might be left to Lloyd George.
Recently before the National Council of
Free Churches he was referring to the offer
of the Kaiser to put Germany at the head of
a League of Nations to insure the peace of
the world. “There,” said he, “you have a
dagger wrapped in the Sermon on the
Mount!”
Charged at Collingwood (Vic.) Court
lately with failing to register as an alien, a
man whose father had fought against the
■Germans long ago pleaded that he was “only
a German by accident,” his mother being on
a visit to friends in Prussia when he was
born. It recalls the plaintive song of the
unlucky man, “I was born on a Friday when
my mother wasn’t at home.”
This is another view of the Ilun for the
benefit of the peace negotiators. Bul-
garia sold its soul, which isn’t large,
and its body, which isn’t washed so often as
it might be, and the reward is coming
quickly. It has become a rather somnolent
partner, being exhausted by three wars in
quick succession, so the Hun has asked for
prompt payment of the £50,000,000 which
lie allegedly advanced to finance Bulgaria’s
end of the trouble.
Although it is generally believed that
one Australian Brigade has won “the
King’s Colors,” the Defence Department
doesn’t know anything about it. Neither
the London Gazette nor Birdwood’s
orders, it says, have contained any
mention of the honor having been
conferred. Returned men are, however,
wearing the purple patch on the back of
their tunics, and those who are still occupied
on the other side have written to relatives
announcing that the Colors have been con-
ferred upon the Brigade for having fought
back to back at Bullecourt. “There are no
such thing as King’s Colors,” say the
authorities, though special privileges are
granted from time to time to regiments which
have won particular distinction.
Another fund with too little coming in
and too much going out! This one was
created in Kalgoorlie to give assistance to
workers incapacitated by lung troubles and
other mine ailments. To date nearly £30,000
has been disbursed in direct relief, but owing
to the number of subscribers having become
considerably less and the number of bene-
ficiaries considerably more, the fund is
exhausted and the distributors are faced with
a deficit of £2OOO. The mine-owners and
miners are willing to increases their subs,
provided the Government, which is the other
contributing party, agrees to do likewise;
but in view of the rotten financial condition
or the State the Mines Minister pleads his
inability to do anything at present. Mean-
time those in receipt of relief will have to
take what they can get.
“Double Entry”: Billjim home and look-
ing for a job deserves all the help we can
give him; but some Red Tape mandarins
seem determined to offer him all the discour-
agement they can supply. Two vetenftis
recently applied for humble positions worth
£3 apiece in the clerical division of the
Federal Service. Instead of being given
pens and desks after a five-minute test, they
were set an examination. After they had
puzzled over it they took the papers to a
Sydney actuary, who agreed with a member
of the examining committee of the Austral-
asian Corporation of Public Accountants that
any man who could puzzle the answers out
would be entitled to call himself an account-
ant, and that to ask a humble £3-a-week
bookkeeper such things was preposterous.
What boiled owl of the Federal Service is
responsible for this stupidity?
“T.D.C.”: Hyett, gen. sec. of the Vic.
Railway Unions, insists that his crowd don’t
want to confiscate war loans, but only in-
terest. What’s the difference? Hyett has
£5O in the Savings Bank, where it earns him
3| per cent. He takes it out and puts it
into a war loan. Suppose it there produces
nothing. If Hyett tries to sell it he will find
nothing doing. If the bond has a currency
of 20 years he will get now just as much as
will, with interest, produce £5O 20 years
hence. In other words, if you confiscate the
interest, you confiscate half the principal
every 20 years or so. Hyett should do some
more explaining.
“X.Y.” on the migration of a clan: —
As a member of the elan, I tell you the true story
of the Maedonells who landed at Port Albert (Vic.)
in 1842. The clan Glengarry suffered very small
loss in the Battle of Culloden, the chief withdrawing
his force after the defeat without loss of officers.
The Young Pretender, with that fateful talent of the
Stuarts, had offended Glengarry on the eve of the
battle by assigning to him a subordinate place in
the order of battle, posting him in the rear or on
an unexposed flank. As the Glengarry clan ha 3
always been among the storm troops of the Scottish
armies, the effect on the mind of “the best fighting
man on earth” may be imagined. The father of
the man who landed at Port Albert saw that the old
home of his clan was doomed, and he made efforts
to establish his people in other climes. Many had
already settled in Canada before his death, though
he could still put 500 men into the field at three
days’ notice. His patrimony was heavily in debt,
most of such debt having arisen from the circum-
stance that he had to keep a large proportion of his
clansmen on a war footing during the Napoleonic
wars, and his men gave a good account of themselves
at Quatre Bras and Waterloo. When he was pre-
paring to remove his people to Australia and Maori-
land he met his death by accident. His son and
heir took up the scheme of removing his people to
Australia, and, with that object in view, came to
Victoria to spy out the ground. Having decided
upon the land he returned lo Scotland, to organise
the removal of the clan; but on his return home
he found that his wife had proved unfaithful, and
this misfortune broke his heart and he returned to
these latitudes to die in Maoriland. With his death
the direct line to the Chieftainship of Glengarry and
the Lordship of the Isles became extinct.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache imnmediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to moth^k.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Com Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price bv
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
SjeHta
HOARSENE
COUOHS
p?e<
OAT,
cum
v
COL^S
&
J 0
?
—I
m
g?>
S 3
22
Plfi
<2
<2
3*FS
£
£r
&
<22
&
ht
%
'
t*
vz
s
BraJw? OIArtBECUU(C
' (CO^r^OMTCOO
Colds will get you—
the germ is in the air.
BE as careful as you may, you’ll have a cold before the
winter is over. You can’t miss it—it’s in the air.
But why wait until a cold is on you and your throat is
sore and inflamed ? Prepare to-day, get
CD E E ELECTS
COUCH REMEDY #
Do you know that of all the
minor ailments colds are the most
dangerous? It is not the cold itself
that you need fear, but the serious
ailments it so often leads to. For that
reason every cold should be got rid
of as quickly as possible.
For this there is nothing better
than Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy.
It will loosen the cough, relieve the
lungs, aid expectoration and enable
your system to throw off the cold.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy is
good for any member of the family.
It relieves coughs of all hinds.
It is composed of things which
soothe and heal without harming the
most delicate tissues of the throat.
It acts as easily and safely on the
young as on the old.
Mothers need not hesitate to give i t
to the youngest child, for it is a safe
and ideal remedy for coughs, colds,
whooping cough and bronchitis.
O !c 70705?
BE PREPARED.
Like many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder has developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
can be summoned.
Those who have the interests of their family at heart keep a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, dysentery and
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bowels the attack may be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy.
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage. The excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains in the stomach for which
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied upon to do this.
HOP LICK’
MALTED MIL
*U>
For dispelling that tired feeling—for building up debili-
tated and depleted energies—take Horlick’s. Horlick’s
Malted Milk is the Ideal Food-Drink and is made
in a moment with the addition of water only.
(TRY IT AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN B
**TS
**
[Leslie Salt Licks
[ For all Animals
The cleanest, cheapest and best way of salting your animals is
with Leslie Salt Licks. They are guaranteed absolutely pure, and
are put up in slb. marble-hard blocks with a velvety surface that is
pleasant to the beasts’ tongues.
They lick to the last. One block lasts one animal four months.
21-
per
Block.
22/6
per
Case of One
Dozen.
Wholesale from:
BUZACOTT & CO., 7-11 Market Street.
HOLDS WORTH, MACP HEBSON & CO., 252 George Street
HOOKER CHAPMAN & CO., 188 Sussex Street.
HARRY SHELLY, 185 Clarence Street.
PASTORAL FINANCE ASSN. LTD., Phillip Street.
WATSON & NOBLE, 257 Sussex Street.
N.S.W. PRODUCE CO., 226 Sussex Street.
Retail:—
NOCK & KIRBY LTD., George Street North (near Quay).
Country Orders: Freight to he added.
LANDAIfO PA /lINC/ CO
m\
VMS 5
DENBY
MOTOR LORRIES
I=2=3 and 5
Tons
Capacities.
There are 105 replacable bushings in the 3-ton Denby, 102 in the
2-ton, and 86 in the 1-ton model.
Every part that wear will a ffect is protected by one of these bush-
ings. They can be renewed when worn at a slight cost, and the
truck is as good as ever.
They add to manufacturing cost—but they form one of the many
ways in which Denby construction saves you money.
A. lIA TRICK & COMPANY, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
'
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC oth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad, £1 10s.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney,


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE. CHILDREN’S FOOD."
Aimmemcnts.
llarry Kickariin Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
T I V O L 1 TniSAT iTk. SYDNEY
Nightly, S. Matinfe Wednesday 2.30.
Hiigh D. Melntftsh presents ESPINOSA’S Sparkling
and Exquisitely Glorious Revue of the Times, entitled
TIME, PLEASE.
Plans ®t Nicholson’s and Theatre.
T IVOL I THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents another Dazzling Revue,
THE MILLION DOLLAR GIRL,
The Rage of London and America.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-7 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
H lsK nl ** A ’* 15 STY’S. SYI>N E Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF YOU’RE IN LOVE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 1.
J. C. Williamson’s MUSICAL COMEDY CO. in
the Joyous Musical Complication,
THREE TWINS.
Box Plan at Paling's.
fin ITKRION T 11 K A T K E. SYDNEY
w Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Last Two Nights of THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
SATURDAY NEXT, JUNE 1.
MURIEL STARR
In Eugene Walter’s powerful drama,
THE EASIEST WAY.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
PA L ACE I HEAT KE. SYDNEY.
r EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
•I. AND N. TAIT present
EMELIE POLINI
AND NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY
DE LUXE ANNIE,
A Thrilling Mystery Comedy Drama.
Plans at Nschplson’s.'
DLAYHOUSE, CASTLEREAGH STREET
r ■ SYDNEY.
Sole Lessee SYDNEY JAMES.
* Direction JOHN HOPKINS.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
THE SCARLET TROUBADOURS.
THE FOLKS WHO MAKE YOU GLAD
Programme Changed Thursdays.
Plan at Paling’s and Theatre. ’Phone City 246.
Prices: 3/-, 2/-, 1/-. Saturdays 4/-, plus Tax.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
IJNION PICTURE TItE A T RES
w In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS,
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.rn.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Packing to n Mil, i, etc. General Manager.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, M E 1.150 U It .Ms
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
H
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
the “Last Word” in Revues,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
THEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 1.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
GRAHAM BROWNE
iri the Famous Military Comedy,
GENERAL POST.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT present
GUY BATES POST
(the Greatest Actor who has ever visited Australia)
in
THE MASQUERADER.
A Dramatisation of Katherine Cecil Thurston’s Novel, I
“John Chilcote, M.P.”
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
PALACE THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessees BEN & JOHN FULLER. |
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JUNE 1.
VICTOR PRINCE’S COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Charming Musical : Success,
CARMELITA. j
Prices as usual. Plan at Pianola. |
D I T O R I U M. MEL BO U R N E.
COMMENCING MONDAY, JUNE 3,
AT THE MATINEE.
FOR ONE WEEK ONLY.
SOUTHERN CROSS
FEATURE FILM CO.
Present their First Star Photoplay,
THE WOMAN SUFFERS.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
Ll OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
* 1 Also SYDNEY".
DE LUXE. BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Honrs’ Show, from
8 to 11.
OLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING. MATINEES SATURDAY 2.30.
BILLIE BURKE in
ARMS AND THE GIRL.
VIVIAN MARTIN in
GIVING BECKY A CHANCE.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
RIJOI X 11 JS A X K JE, M ELIiODR X J£.
M Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
FULLERS ALL STAR VAUDEVILLE.
McLean and Lee, Philip Newbury. Amy Murphy,
The Littles, Ley wood anil Novell, The Bonitas, Bessie
Lester, Murray Livingston, etc.
_ Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
|Y| V.lllsTlC XII HAT It E, MIiLIIOIHNE.
, COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
WOMANHOOD:
THE GLORY OF THE NATION.
MatinGes daily at 2.30. Nights at S.
Plan at Allan’s.
gItIX.VXMA TJHEATUE, MELHOUILNE
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
.Prices 3d. and Cd.
jyjj llLltA IUKAXICE, MISI.ItOL KNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WOIU.D. EOX and SEL/.NICK.
pI
sf
**C» O C 9
o
I’ve Got a
Hollow Tooth.
Away in some tiny crevice a minute
germ has found lodgment and has
been silently at work. The first you 1
know of its presence is when you are
made painfully aware of the need for
another visit to your dentist. Had
you used
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDER.
destructive germs would have received
prompt notice to quit. The oxygen
that Calox generates visits the re-
cesses and cavities where decay com-
mences. It works scientifically and
destroys bacteria that are the cause of
teeth decay.
It speaks volumes that in Britain and
America Calox has won foremost place
as the most effective dentifrice.
In Australia its value is daily becom-
ing more recognised.
Calox is procurable from
ALL CHEMISTS AND
LEADING STORES.
B. 30-5-18.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
Of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover,
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Estab. 1891.
Have Nerve, Not Nerves.
In these war times many people are living
in an unnatural condition of nervous excite-
ment. Unless something is done to correct it
the inevitable result will he a nervous break-
down, an exhaustion of nervous energy that
may take a very serious and unforeseen turn.
Neurasthenia is one such result, with its
accompaniment of worry, irritation, oversen-
sitiveness and severe headache. It means
that the patient has lost the power to recover
and store up energy. The Condition will
grow worse if not corrected.
The treatment is one of nutrition of the
nerve cells, requiring a non-alcoholic tonic.
As the nerves get their nourishment from the
blood the treatment must be directed towards
building up the blood. Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills act directly on the blood, and with pro-
per regulation of the diet have proved of the
greatest benefit in many cases of neuras-
thenia. A tendency to anaemia, or bloodless-
ness, shown by most neurasthenic patients, is
also corrected by these tonic pills.
Sufferers from nervous disorders who have
been taking treatment without benefit should
invstigate the tonic method. Write to-day
to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co., Box 594
G.P.0., Sydney, for the booklet, “Diseases
of the Nervous System.” It will be sent free
on request.— Advt.
Why Don’t You Learn
to Draw ?
“ There’s Money fn the Pen.”
Drawing is an interesting and
PROFITABLE pastime. There’s
no reason why you should not
earn good money as an artist.
But' success
CANNOT be
built up on
an unsound
f o u ndaiion.
Place your-
self under
the. tuition
of Harry J.
Weston, Aus-
tralia’s famous com-
mercial artist.
THE WESTON POSTAL
COURSE OF DRAWING
will teach you to
draw—not to COPY.
It comprises twelve
months’ tuition, dur-
ing which time you are
carried along step by
step until you have
mastered all the prin-
ciples of correct draw-
Write for our booklet,
“There’s Money in the
Pen,” which gives full
details of our methods,
fees, etc. Send three
penny stamps to cover
postage.
THE HARRY J. WESTON
POSTAL SCHOOL OF
DRAWING.
47 Waltham Buildings,
Bond Street-
-BY-NEY.
m
Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little hut they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind: they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they're
signed:—
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
A
m
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pm,
Bmall Dose,
Small Price.
miii
•fill*)
till!
“O’er hill and dale” all roads come alike
to the rider, whose saddle selection is a
BROOKS.
Your dealer knows why—ask him.
n ARE YOU
Ruptured
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Nevei mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. 'IMF. BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a CENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
m
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod's Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by nil Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
t*4
£
%
t <*•>*•
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease: In
Anaemia—or bloodlessness—
the red corpuscles are more
or le.v> deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Therefore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
—the eyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feelirg of
intense weariness penrades
the whole system. To over-
come Anaemia, the blood
supply needs recharging with
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
m
Th e Wine of Life
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘Wincarnis’
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks —
gives a sparkle to the eyes—
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
io 000 Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
'Wincarnis* is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street. Sydney. N.S.W.


Cuticura Stops
Itching At Once
Treatment:
Cleanse With
Cuticura
Soap,
Dry and Heal
With
Cuticura
Ointment
■ *'
w- 'v
For eczemas, rashes, itchings, irri-
tations, pimples, dandruff, sore
hands and baby humors, Cuti-
cura Soap and Ointment are
supremely effective as well as
ideal for toilet purposes.
Samples Each Free by Mail
Address “R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
m
SPEUAUSf
TWO
1/A/E3
Si# 5
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
m
520 GEORG E5 T SYDNEY
zc mmm § T Newcastle
EIEYi
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
k
m
%
«
■
■
1
‘ELEY Smokeless’
A Cerise Cartridge
loaded with Eley
42-grain Smoke-
less Powder and
1J oz. shot.
Millions sold
annually.
ELEY
E.B. ‘Nitro’
Cartridge Case
loaded with
Schultze or any
other Standard
Smokeless Powder.
'
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
E LE Y BROS. L? LONDON
Wl
w
/n
V/iL
m
52
V
1
p
L
<jD
V
W
t. .1* /
V « 4
5*
\N
4^y
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible —
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754. j
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS I
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,
68 Deansgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle.
For Fine Shafting:,
Machine Tools,
Mining: Machinery,
Saw Milling: and
Factory Equip-
ment, etc., etc.
m
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
R
r
a
ft-
.l
; r
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The SKF Self-aligning: Ball-bearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
GARDNER, W/ERN & CO.,
Chief Agents and Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE— BRANCHES—
Office, 354 City Road, S. Melbourne. SYDNEY . . 225 Clarence Street.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street. BRISBANE . . . 367 Queen Street.
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES—
EVERYBODY 1$ NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
1/6 ALL CHEMISTS,
Or if not easily obtained write
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO, 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward, post free.
Vs
m
K
fTIHE thing that the people should have
_L been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win withov J
lifting a hand?
THE SLACKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of all the vast army of slackers,
Among the most noisy and smug—-
King-pin of the stay-at-home Jackas—
Is Montague Marmaduke Bugg.
He s married and well over forty,
He motors and races and “goffs,”
Affects an apparel that’s sporty,
And at all young shirkers he scoffs.
He oft at the Billions Club lunches
And wags a true patriot’s chin;
All know when rich viands he munches
The war he is helping to win.
He purchases coffee and ices
For girls owned by men who have gone;
Some flapper to tea he entices,
And chortles lie’s “carrying on.”
Most futile and feeble of friskers,
Past wars found him here in his place;
His one badge of courage the whiskers
Of grey that he wears on his face.
His feet may be colder than zero,
But age gives him pluck that’s sublime,
For Montague Bugg has a hero
Become by effluxion of time!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.
Once-famous Victorian Canon Nash is
now pastor of Prahran Congregational
Church.
The late Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat,
left one son, who dutifully followed in dad’s
priestly footsteps. The Rev. Harry is chap-
lain with the British in S’Africa.
Australian labor has a sort of representa-
tive in the House of Lords —-the Earl of
Hardwicke, who once worked as a miner on
TVestralian goldfields. He now has a billet
in the office of the Minister of Labor, llis
wife was a Maoriland girl—a Russell, of
Auckland.
A Maorilander was marked for distinc-
tion recently when R. G. Robinson, of the
Forestry Department, was elected an hon.
member of the Royal Scottish Arboricultural
Society. This is as far up the tree as any
overseas forester can climb. From Maori-
land Robinson swaps timber-talk with three
continents.
“Bert R.”: Dropped into a stationer’s
shop in Perth for a book of W.A. views to
send to friends in England, but did not buy.
I couldn’t; for inght on the title page
appeared the ridiculous legend: “Printed in
England.” I refuse to advertise my coun-
try’s laziness by posting such things ovei’-
sea.
Boracie acid, so much of which is used
by the retail butcher as a “sweetener” for
his sausages, has had a bad advt. as an
article of human diet. A Melbourne woman
took a quarter-pound in one lot the other
day, and the undertaker then attended to
the matter. But the Law still allows a free
use of the adulterant on the national dinner-
table. •
“Fi-ank Bentley” : “Copabella” (8.2/5/’18)
refers to the Shire of Upper Yarra’s appeal
for an independent tribunal to inquire into
loss4s-in-transit, etc., on Vic. railways. The
request for co-operation was made to 100
shires, and of these all but five have sailed in
to help. As the matter of victimisation
was mentioned it is noteworthy that after
the circular had gone abroad the very first
consignment for the shii’e which originated
the movement was a pump, carried at
owner’s risk. It was broken on arrival at
its destination. Of course it was only a
coincidence.
“Copabella”: These effete English union-
ists don’t know the beginnings of “class
consciousness.” The following is from the
rules of the Carpet-Weavers’ Association
(Kidderminster, Eng.) :
That each firm having members in this Associa-
tion be allowed one representative to attend meet-
ings, with the right to vote on all questions.
Poor backboneless beggars, it looks as though
they actually want to live in peace with the
boss! Imagine the Melbourne wharfies in-
viting Appleton to their meetings, or the
A.W.U. giving Edmund JoWett a voice in a
strike debate! No wonder the British
Laborites persist in wanting to fight
Prussianism, pay their debts, and do other
out-of-date things.
“Viking” : How splendidly we waste ! Our
environs are littered with tins, our pai’ks with
paper. Our back yards are repositories for
woollen and cotton rags and leather “scrap.”
Our factories and workshops are cumbered
with heaps of steel, iron and (to a lesser
extent) other metals. Nor does the crime
stop at “scrap” heans. The sugar-mills
throw :.way potential millions in molasses,
which could be transformed into treacle,
syrup, rum, methylated spirits or alcohol for
traction purposes. Our woolscours yearly
waste hundreds of thousands sterling of lano-
line. And that’s only the beginning of the
catalogue. There are huge fortunes awaiting
the men who will secure options over Aus-
tralia’s “rubbish.”
In the days of the first Revolution the
Cordoliers Club was a political power in
Paris. It began with a sane, comprehensive
reform programme, like the Australian
Labor party, but it drifted into I.W.W.
ways, also like the Australian Labor party.
Then Camille Desmoulins founded the Old
Cokdeliek, a paper which appeared semi-
occasionally and oftener when possible and
ran to eight or nine issues. It was a pas-
sionate appeal for a return to the old pro-
gramme. Desmoulins was expelled and
beheaded. Our own W. M. Hughes isn’t so
picturesque a figure as Desmoulins, and he
doesn’t write as he did, and he doesn’t seem
to care very much for the old programme,
and he hasn’t been beheaded as yet, but
otherwise there is some sort of a parallel.
“A.J.G.”: The object of the raid was to
secure prisoners, and, if possible, identify
the units opposing us. One Fritz stood
throwing bombs until our boys got close,
then cleared off down the trench with a long
Bananalander after him. They hadn’t gone
far before the .Hun stopped, threw up his
hands and yelled: “Mercy, cobber!” Billjim
went straight ahead. A sergeant shouted:
“Here, what did you do that for? He had
surrendered, hadn’t he?” “That’s all right,”
replied the bloke from Dawson Creek. “But
I wasn’t going to let a cow like that
call me cobber.”


w
. '.i
IIWI
gr
\m
s&fes
««
ar
SS
ESS
::H
W&AiiA
IS
V:
Ill’ll
MB
\UVi\Vi\ii
Agreed
Architects and builders
know that in every climate
Certain-teed
Roofing
has been proved wear-proof,
water-tight and weather-
proof; that it does not blister,
creep nor crack.
Certain-teed is made in
handy rolls, unmistakably
marked, in a variety of
weights and sizes. There is
a type for every building
for every roof, whether flat
or pitched. And it is easy to
lay. A hammer and nails are
the only tools necessary.
Our heal distributor will tell you how this roofing
is made in the world’s greatest roofing factory. —
MR. C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee ltuildlngr, Sydney, N.S.W.
Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
Wunderlich, Ltd.
James Sandy & Co., Ltd.
John Dunks & Sons Pty. Ltd.
James Hardie & Co.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
\
\
TUN&JEJ -/ZTBB&n TY&ES
m
m
SSBHBM
m
ram
m
Mfm
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efficiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
i
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.B.—7°
m
m
m
m
m
5H
k
m
mmm
mmmm
m
m
mm
GUNS and RIFLES
Renowned for their Shooting Powers.
COMBINED
KNIFE, FORK & SPOQN,
all matal, very strong.
Price 2/- post free.
“SUNOL” Pocket Lighters.
Better than Matches.
Price 2/- each, post free.
v
83. Harrington and Richardson’s
D.8.8.L. Gun, 410-gauge, top lever, case-
hardened frame, 26in. barrels, both choke; weight,
about silb. Freight paid,
£5.
If troubled with Mosquitoes
USE SKEETERBANE.
10d. & 1/5 bottle, post free.
S3S®
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
830. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left, full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 7i to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7i to 7J lb. — x? a
12- or 16-gauge, with 80-inch barrels Freight paid,
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £4/5/-
SUNOL TOBACCO.
Awarded Four Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/2, post free.
m
m
833. Winchester Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
1911 Model, 12-gauge, walnut stock, pistol grip, nickel-steel
barrels, 28in., full choke, take-down system, chambered for 2Jin. shells.
Magazine holds 5 cartridges, rubber butt-plate. Weight,
731 b. Freight paid,
£ll/11/-
834. Remington Browning Automatic Repeating Shot-Gun,
12-gauge, similar description to 839 Freight paid, £H/H/~
“KOOLAH”
SHAVING STICKS.
Delightful to use.
7d. each, post free
gas
L
Owing 1 to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted only , hold
good for two weeks from date.
825. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gun, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2jin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
Weight, about 711 b Freight paid,
£B/10/-
■
V
Vi' - ■
*■—
'
818. Winchester Automatic Repeating Rifle,
1903 Model, special 22-calibre rim fire, round blued 20in.
steel barrel, detachable stock; will shoot 10 cartridges ir
3 seconds; weight, about silb. ; sighted
point blank to 100 yards; will kill at 500 Freight paid,
£7.
““SURE CATCH,
‘The Tackle that Makes
Fishing Worth While.”
m
814. Winchester Repeating Rifles, 1892
Model, 25/20-, 32-, 38-, 44-calibre, central fire,
full or half magazine, 24in. barrel; weight, about 71b.
With Round Barrel Freight paid, £5/7/6
With Octagon Barrel Freight paid, £5/10/-
With Barrel, 32-cal. only Freight paid, £5/15/-
816, Winchester Repeating Carbines, 1892 Model,
25/20-, 32-, 38- or 44-calibres, central fire, full or half magazines,
20in. round barrel, weight about s£lb Freight paid,
£5 2/6
m
828. Marlin Repeating Rifle, 1892 Model, 24in.
octagon barrel, 22-calibre rim fire; magazine takes 25 short, 20
long, or IS long rifle cartridges; weight 511 b
Freight paid, o 5/ m
m
BA. —Browning Patent Automatic Rifle,
handles eleven 22 short smokeless cartridges; walnut stock,
pistol grip, 19 J-ineh barrel; length over all, 36in.; weight, 4 Jib. ; bead front and screw rear sight,
fitted with safety bolt; barrel may be dismounted by unscrewing quarter turn.
Freight paid,
75/=
We Repair All Kinds of Guns and Rifles
Illustrated Sportsman’s Guide ( Catalogue Bl), also 1918 “Sure Catch” Anglers'
Guide ( Catalogue B 2), Post Free to any address. Write for one or both lists. They
are money savers.
fIVSTRTILm'S GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS •
AND TOBACCONISTS
m
City Sports Depot
99 King SC also at
Tletycasile d Brisbane >


Little
HERMOINE JEFFRIES
(from, a photo by
K. Stump).
m
A Bonny Little Rexona Girl.
Is Your Little Girl a Rexona Girl Too ?
Dear Sirs, —
I thoroughly believe in your delightful Rexona Soap and Ointment, and
use both in my household. * I am sending you a photograph of my little
girl Hermoine, who is just five years old. You will see for yourself that
Rexona Soap keeps her hair in absolutely perfect condition, giving a gloss
and healthy silkiness to the hair that nothing else gives. It is invaluable
for the skin—cleansing thoroughly, while leaving the texture of the
most delicate complexion unimpaired—indeed, daily improving. Rexona
Ointment is a necessity in every household.
Wishing your Rexona remedies continued success,
Yours faithfully, (Sgd.) CLAIRE JEFFRIES,
“Ravee,” Bay View Street, McMahon’s Point.
Try the REXONA Remedies for Health and Beauty.
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who values a
Pure and healthy skin. The longer you neglect your skin the harder it will he to
care for it. Delay may result in .Eczema, King-worm, Running Sores, or some of the
many and unpleasant forms that skin trouble so often assumes. Rexona the Rapid
Healer and ltexona Soap are sure preservatives for the health and skill. Rexona
Soap keeps the skin soft and pure, ami
Rexona tlie Rapid Healer will immedi-
ately eradicate any disease which may
lie apparent, for it arouses tile skin to
healthy activity, so that it quickly
recuperates.
To shampoo or xvasli the
hair lvitli Rexona Soap is an
easy task, hut the results are
startling. It leaves the hair
in such a beautiful condition,
the scalp perfectly clean and
wholesome. The hair becomes
light and fluffy, waving about
the face in abundance, as
beautiful hair should always
appear. Rexona Soap leaves
a delicate perfume, invigorat-
ing the roots of the hair,
which prevents greyness. A
fexv shampoos with Rexona
Soap effectively removes
every trace of dandruff or loose and
falling hair. Radies who use it for the
hair say that Rexona Soap is far better
than any of the so-called hair tonics.
Buy a tablet of Rexona Soap from your
Chemist or Storekeeper. It is beautifully
put up and sold at 1/- per tablet, or you
can get it in boxes, containing three tablets
in a box. Rexona is supplied only in
triangular pots at 1/6; or in larger pots,
holding nearly four times the quantity, for
3/-
Soatn.^
/Anh.l* o h< Oin*.„„. nf
Y AOsolufelv
f Hoais J Kei.Bh,-
K«r *r^T
**••> £<*
skin &
9 /r"
» refreshing soothin
MEALING ANTISEPTIC SOAP
nTeoicateo on the same principle
Rexona,
16 and 3/
Rexona
Soap, 1 1-
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England.
m
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
m
m
mm
#2^
War - work suits the super - efficient
SUNBEAM
. s
GL
to perfection. It emerges supreme from the stress
of it. Our unsurpassed experience of standardising
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
of unprecedented power and proved reliability in
such strenuous employ constitutes a guarantee alike
of our ability and intention to supply the public with
finer motor carriages than ever on the coming of peace.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - - 54-62. Oxford Street, London. England
WORKS • • • • • 0 m* Wolverhampton, England
m
5s
The Mountain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE said: “We were born ’neath the
Mountain,
My playmate and I
The stern and magnificent Mountain
That, towering on high,
Looks godlike ; a god on whose shoulders
Reposes the sky.
“When the dawn lit the brow of the Moun-
tain
We ran to behold
Its mantle of glamor and beauty,
Its roses and goiu,
AVhat time the fine mists of the morning
Gleamed spectral and cold.
“But the beauty that dwelt on the Mountain
Was mingled with awe.
In the moods that it donned through the
seasons
No softness we saw,
But the terrors of vengeance and justice-
implacable law.
“When we played at the foot of the Moun-
tain
We could not be gay,
For it seemed that the Mountain was
present,
Stern-browed at our play,
And banished the light and the laughter
Of childhood away.
“And the Mountain grew taller and vaster
When night settled down,
And stars came to sit on its shoulders
Arid rest on its crown ;
And it seemed ever more in the darkness
To mei-4tce and frown.
“We had ever great dread of the Mountain,
lts grandeur and gloom ;
For it seemed like the home of the shadows,
The birthplace of Doom,
And the fear of it entered our doorways
And shadowed each room.
“There was hate in the heart of the Moun-
tain
When, shrouded and cowled
In the garments of storm, in black anger
Above us it scowled,
Red lightnings around it, and thunders
That grumbled and growled.
“And as ever we looked on the Mountain
We said with a thrill,
That the Mountain sent Death down among
us
To silence and still;
For we felt that Death came from its
shadows,
Since Death was so chill.
“But we grew ripe for love ’neath the
Mountain,
My playmate and I,
And all in a moment rose-splendor
Fell down from the sky,
And the earth gave out scents, and on velvet
The winds whispered by.
“Yet we keep our love hid from the Moun-
tain,
As one keeps a dove
From the beak and the claws of an eagle
That hovers above;
For we know it is stern and stone-hearted,
And loves not our love.
“For the Mountain is mighty and god-like,
And massive and tall,
And great are its lights and its shadows,
And wondrous its thrall,
And we are so little and human,
And Love is so small.
“Yet we know that the Mountain shall
crumble
And perish away—
To. a mound of red earth in a desert
’Twill dwindle some day—
While Love shall endure through the ages,
Forever and aye.”
N.S.W.
RODIERIC QUINN.
The Unwritten Law.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
If you say you’ll wait, wait. This is the law
of the hush.
“TPVON’T suppose you’ll find a big mob;
[I it’s not the time of day. You ought
to manage to make the Gohanna
Hole by dark. I’ll he there waiting for you.’’
Jim Marsland nodded; and, heading his
mare in the direction of No. 1 Mill, he rode
off.
The boss, Harry Gilmore, had told
Marsland to get what sheep he could find at
the windmill that watered No. 6 paddock
and to bring them down and join him at the
big watering-place known as Gohanna Hole.
The scrub all the way to the mill and
beyond it was varied in kind but uniform in
density. Ironbark, sandalwood, pine, coola-
bah, wattle and many other varieties were
as thick as they could stand.
Jim’s four dogs, a credit to the kelpie
breed, all except one poor specimen of black
and tan, followed their master, eager for
work. They were to get their fill very
shortly.
Marsland hummed - contentedly as he
jogged along, the rein over his arm, cutting
up tobacco and putting a little in the heel
of the old pipe, as he used to say.
He was getting near the mill now, and
something caused him to draw rein and
listen. “Sounds like there’s a bit o’ mus-
terin’ goin’ on,” he muttered to himself. He
lit his pipe and broke into an easy canter.
“Get behind, Skinny.” The owner of the
name slunk back —she had bounded forward
when her master increased his pace. The
bleating of a large mob of sheep was plainly
audible.
Emerging from the thick timber at last,
Marsland came to the vicinity of the mill.
For half a mile around the scrub had been
cut down to allow of the fan-wheel receiving
the full advantage of any breeze.
Round went the great wheel; but Mars-
L.nd knew exactly why 12,000 sheep were
congregated here at this time of day. Not
a drop of water came from the pipe jutting
out over the large corrugated-iron tank.
ihe bushman crossed his arms over the
pommel of his saddle and rested his forehead
them. It was roasting hot.
“Here’s a go,” he muttered. “Every hoof
in the paddock, I’ll swear, an’ one man to
drove em!”
He §ent Skinny round the left wing. and.
dismounting, led his horse round the right
ot tho nock to tlie mill.' ’Way bnck!” ho
called to Skinny, who obeyed, keeping wide.
Ihe sheep commenced to string out slowly
into the scrub. Marsland sat on his haunches
calling his dogs behind.
The mill had ceased to turn and every-
thing was still. A young wether advanced
to the little party, bleating and indignantlv
stamping his feet. The horse hung his head,
eyes half closed, switching lazily at the
flies with his long tail. Presently a roaring
sound came from the trees in the scrub. A
whirling pillar of dust and leaves circled
toward them across the clearing; then,
changing its course, it turned into a forest
of dead pine, leaving a path as it went.
Two things Aiarsland might do: go into
No. 10 and chance seeing the boss and other
musterers and get a hand. oi\undertake the
task before him. He decided instantly—he
had to get those sheep out.
The tail had not yet commenced to move
while the lead very slowly drew out, follow-
ing down the fences. The bushman looked
around him. Everything whs very dry.
Many sheep had to be left, being already
too weak to keep on their feet. These
Marsland had to kill. It was better so than
leave the poor wretches to the mercy of the
crow, eventually to perish in all the agony
in which these black devils would surely
leave them. Several even now were a cruel
sight, blood streaming from gaping eye-
sockets.
Hard work it is droving sheep in the great
heat of summer, and in any case the mob is
allowed to spell during the drowsy hours of
midday. Scarcely, indeed, “allowed” ; really
the sheep decide this matter themselves, and
miy effort of man or dog to move them is
in vain. This was a mob of ewes and lambs,
the worst of sheep to handle.
An hour had passed, and still occasionally
the clank of the broken mill could be faintly
heard in the heated stillness. They had not
made more than half a mile, though the lead
was a good mile and a half in advance.
The symptom which Jim had dreaded now
showed itself. Little groups of two or three
tarried by shady bushes until they were
urged on. It was impossible to force the
tail, where the weakest plodded on, heads
down and mouths open. Now the whole
mob commenced to bleat, and little groups
lay down in every available shade. Jim
used every effort in his power. He was
hoarse from shouting; be whistled and
clapped to keep them moving; but the end
had come. The mob commenced to surge
round in a ring. ,
The big bushman knew that any effort
now was useless. He let them ring, and
soon 12,000 weary and exhausted mothers
and lambs sank gasping to the ground.
The drover, too, lay down. Having un-
saddled and hobbled his horse and watered
the dogs from his neck bag, he drank ahd
stretched himself out in the shade of a green
wilga, and slept, leaving the dogs to watch.
Long before it was time to make a move
he awoke, and, there being sufficient water
for tea and another drink for the dogs, he
lit a fire and boiled the billy.
The sun was still striking down unmerci-
fully as they commenced to string off once
more in the direction of Gohanna Hole.
It is often necessary when droving ewes
and lambs to put an end to the weak young
that are unable to keep up with the flock.
It happened often this day. One by one
they fell exhausted. It was only one sudden
blow, which was not felt, and all was over;
but the big bushman had a heart as big as
his body, and it hurt him. Yet what else
was left to do? To save the mob he mtist
get on as fast as possible. Leave the weak
to the crow? Marsland preferred the lesser
of two evils.
Three times he attempted to give one of
the little stragglers a drink. Dismounting
and letting fall his reins, he picked up the
almost-spent form and tried to seize a ewe,
but failed, with the result that the rest,
frightened, charged and jambed themselves
into the centre of the flock. The next time
he caught a ewe but missed the lamb, and
ended up by saving the little creature a
drink of water from the dinted felt hat.
Little things like this had won for Mars-
land the love of all who knew him.
As the day grew cooler he pushed on
with renewed effort. He was determined to
make the south-west corner by night, so that
by running a wire or two he might make use
of it for a sheep break, picketing the dogs
across the corner. There would be no moon,
he knew, so that it would be impossible to
push on without a stop ; in any case his long
experience told him that in their present
condition they would never reach the water
without a rest, though he knew that that rest
must account for a number of lives by morn-
ing. But he must take his chance.
Had it not been for his dogs, the task
so far successfully carried out must have
proved impossible. They seemed to see their
master’s plight and did their best to help
him—all but one. the black-and-tan. He
followed behind, tongue dragging and refus-
ing to work. Marsland looked back at him
in disgust as the dog dim into the cooler
earth under a bush, spreading out his limbs
so that his body rested on the cold ground.
Jim whistled—not a move; neither did the
dog prick his ears in response. A new hand
would have been deceived into believing the
dog exhausted. Marsland scowled at him.
“Your tonsrue’s as red’s a strawberry,” he
muttered : “you’re no more knocked up than
I am.” Presently the mare started as a kan-
garoo-rat leapt up from her feet. In a
moment a flash of black and tan shot through
the scrub and a dog barked and yelped in nur-
suit. As he stooped under a low limb Mars-
land broke off a heavy waddy. Had the dog
(Continued on next page.)


-
0
I
Smarting, Soreness and Painful
Cracks Soothed and Healed.
What irritation arises from raw,
chapped hands! If the skin is at
all sensitive, some peonle suffer
more or less in this way all the
year round; but with the damp,
cold and frost of winter, the hands
and wrists become a positive tor-
ture. First, the skin loses its pleasant
softness, then there is a disagreeable
roughness and redness, followed by
cracking and bleeding, particularly in
the region of the knuckles and wrists.
This distressing condition is made worse
by drying the hands or face carelessly after
washing on a raw, cold day. Neglecting chaps
or any cold sores may lead to painful' swelling
and inflammation. There Is a danger of grit
and dirt getting into the cracks of the skin,
and setting up positive torture.
Tlie trouble is utterly beyond the reach of
toilet creams and cheap salves, which possess
no medicinal value whatever, and which are
not of the least use when the tissues are thus
affected. Zam-liuk is the scientific Halm
which, in addition to allaying the inflammation and pain, and healing chaps and
roughness, also imparts a new and remarkable healthiness to the skin itself.
Smear Zam-Buk on at night, and wear an old pair of gloves till morning. The
effect of the application of Zam-Buk is delightfully soothing. Its pure essences
instantly soak into and thoroughly permeate the tissues of the skin, softening and
healing in a perfectly natural way—the unique Zam-Huk way. Keep a pot of
Zam-Buk handy, then, for your skin is sure to need its soothing and healing aid
these raw, cold days.
Zam-Buk
is
Soothing,
Healing
and
Antiseptic.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
CHILBLAINS BANISHED.
Mr. William Bacon, of Verner Street, Goul-
burn, N.S.W., says:~r“During the winter we
experience very cold, frosty weather, and nurse
the fire very closely. The inevitable result is
chilblains. I suffer considerably in this
resoect, having had chilblains on the feet,
hands and ears. I tried many ointments and
salves, but with scant success. I applied
Zatn-Buk, and the first application drove out
the irritation and soothed the chilblains.”
CHAPS AND SOKE LIPS HEALED.
Mrs. M. Boyd, 147 Toorak Road, South
Yarra, Melbourne, Vic., has suffered from
chapped hands and lips, and writes: —“I
always keep a pot of Zam-Buk by me, as I
consider it invaluable for the hands during the
cold winter weather. I suffered from chapped
hands and lips, but a few applications of
the balm soothed and healed the smarting
chaps very quickly.”
m
NATURE’ 5 OWN HEALER.
Zam -Buk is excellent for
eczema, piles, raw places,
blood-poison, chapped
hands, cold-sores, bad
legs, and heals cuts,
burns, scalds and
bruises. Of all chemists
and stores at Is. 6d. and
3s. 6d. per pot.
m
MERIT
In Fountain Pens, as in everything
else, it is merit that tells, and that is
why the “ Swan ” has for a quarter
of a century gained more users every
year. When you buy a “Swan”
you know you have a guarantee of
excellence in workmanship, perfection
of detail, and that absolute reliability
which has been the consistent keynote
of “ Swan ” manufacture for a
generation.
'SWAN'
PENS
Sold by Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6
Safety Pattern with
Screw-on Cap, from 15/-
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79-80, High Holbom, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—
(Wholesale only) 225 a, George St. London Factory—
-319-329, Weston St., S.E. Associate House—Mabie,
Todd 81 Co., Inc., New York and Chicago.
Australian Branch : J. A. BURKE. 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
m
AVON
XIL TYRES.
More Miles* for Your Money.
m
CURES
eczema.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May - 1 ’ y.
testimony to the wonderful results achieved b.
cation of Exzerma in the case of a P a P ua
sionary who was suffering severely from tezema. jj
returned to the mission-fleld quite cured.
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Kandwic ,
Sydney, 5/« and 2/6.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you
let the Ravisher of Belgium tan without
lifting a hand ?
returned before his boss’s anger had sub-
sided there is no saying what might have
happened.
The corner now lay about two miles ahead.
Marsland rode wide round the flock and
busied himself running through the wires to
block the lead. It was now sunset. He
would make the corner with the tail nicely
by dark.
When the mob was settled he hobbled his
horse and lit a fire. Again putting a little
in the heel of the old pipe he lit up. There
was one comfort at least.
It had crossed his mind to ride over to
Gohanna Hole and inform the boss of the
broken mill and get assistance. But even
with four dogs to keep guard and an im-
provised break, it was too dangerous. Mad
for want of water, the flock would put for-
ward every endeavor to return to their
habitual watering-place. Marsland had seen
sheep get out of a I>reak before. If he were
to ride to Gohanna Hole and during his
absence the flock got out, it would mean the
loss of 12,000 sheep; to save them would
be impossible. Without anything to eat or
drink, and a lump in his throat, he paced
up and down in order to keep awake.
Then there was a murmur among the
flock. Two dogs pricked their ears, sat up,
and sniffed the air. II« wondered if it
might be the boss. “No, the boss will wait
at Gohanna,” lie muttered.
“More trouble!” he thought to himself.
The howl.pf a dingo broke on his ears.
A thought struck Jim, and, walking across,
he loosed Jack, the blaek-and-tan.
“You’ve been good for nothing—we’ll give
you a try at this.”
Holding him by the scruff of the neck he
led him a little way way from the flock and
listened. A rustle sounded near the fence.
“ ’Way back !” ordered Jim. Releasing his
hold, the dog bounded into the scrub.
Not a sound followed for a long while.
Then a dog barked and yelped away through
the tall oak.
In half an hour Jack returned without a
mark, but puffing hard. “Useless to the end,”
Jim said, slipping the chain over his head.
It was a tired man who pulled out the
wires next morning. The mob strung out
along the fence through the opening as he
walked back to the tail.
Sixteen ewes were left behind and 37
lambs. Of the ewes nine were dead. Three
were able when assisted'" to their feet to fol-
low on. The other four met the inevitable.
Marsland carried one lamb with him.
Had not God been unmerciful! A cloudy
day or a shower of rain to cool the air would
have helped, but with all its awful heat the
sun baked down upon them all day. The
massacre among lambs and even ewes now
became constant. It was impossible to even
use a dog at all. Marsland walked; his
horse followed behind. He picked up one
ewe after another and put them on their
feet. He could not speak; his throat was
sore and parched, his tongue so swollen that
he nearly choked, his eyes half-blinded with
dust. At 10.30, as on the previous day, they
“ralng” and camped. He would not reach the
hole before six o’clock: could he hold out?
If any man could, it was Marsland.
He dreaded the start, knowing so well
what it meant, and he had had his fill of
killing. But it had to be done. So he poked
along in the direction of the water, losing
another 27 sheep and 45 lambs.
As he trudged behind, his eyes abnormally
large, Marsland strained his ears for a sound.
At last it came —the sound that goes up
from a mob of perishing sheep on smelling
water. Springing upon his horse. Marsland
galloped to steady the racing lead. Making
full use of his dogs, and galloping up and
down, he held them in check along a line
nearly a mile long.
He had kept up this frantic work until he
feared he had left it too late and was going
mad. Turning his mare, a lather of sweat,
he galloped to Gohanna Hole.
“Hold them back, for God’s sake, hold
them back !” he shouted, and falling from his
horse rolled to the edge and drank.
The boss, who was clearing the banks of
10,000 sheep to make room for the new-
comers, rode up to Jim, now prostrate on
the bank.
“You’ve had a rough spin, Jim.” he said.
“Twelve thousand ! Mad ! Keep them
back!” gasped Jim.
“Ted is holding them,” replied Gilmore—
“you galloped past him.”
There was a silence, then Jim spoke again.
“You waited, Boss!”
“You are twenty-six hours late, my boy,”
he returned. “But had it been fifty-six I
would have waited.”
This is the law of the bush.
SELWIN KEMPSEY.
With the Whalers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A JET of spray thrown funnel-wise'
from the oily stretch of sea. A broad
grey back broke water; with deep,
roaring snorts the rorqual filled his lungs
before he descended to the feeding-grounds.
The waves had not yet subsided. _ Foam-
flecked ripples eddied and surged in con-
fusion.
Across the sea went a lusty hail, rousing
listless whaling-hands in the for’ard galley.
“There she blows!”
They tumbled up in eager haste. _ Some-
where on that expanse of sea, within a
radius of tw r o or three miles, a whale had
been sighted, and the crew had marked him
down as theirs. Already the bo’sun had told
the cook that the rorqual -would go fifty feet,
while the cook was sure he was a blue-
noser. Nay, more than sure —lie was ready
to bet on it.
Only the look-out remained silent as he
scanned the water in every direction. The
whale had sounded half a mile off the vewnlS
bows. Shortly he would reappear, buV)jT.t>
what point the look-out could not tell. ' A
whale manoeuvres under water, frequently
doubling back on his course.
This one submerged for ten minutes, and
when his fins broke water the vessel was a
mile to leeward. , ,
“Port your helm! Gunners, stand by!
A bright, scarlet gun had been uncovered
in the bows and was run out and charged.
To the shell a ponderous harpoon had been
attached, the haft connected with a strong
hempen rope coiled for’ard.
The little vessel crept nearer, buffeting
through the swell. There was something
sinister about her approach.
In the crow’s-nest Scotty, the look-out,
cursed volubly as he noticed that the distance
between pursuer and pursued was not lessen-
ing. The w T hale was sheering off—making
out to sea. Threshing the water he raced
away, crossing in front of the vessel. He
was evidently an outlaw, vanquished in a
conflict with another of his kind and ban-
ished from the school. Thenceforth his life
had been one of storm and trouble; the life
in which the passion for fight had been
engendered. To the inexperienced his fury
was appalling. Twice he leaped, his huge
body cleaving the water and descending with
a vast upheaval of spray.
But the little ship crept on like a blood-
hound stalking the quarry.
Scotty leaned forward in the crow’s-nest
and bellowed into the mouthpiece: “South
by east a point. Keep her nose inshore.”
The vessel was running parallel with the
breakers, the whale between her and shore.
Now it was a trial of speed. The whale
still held the lead, although by no great
margin. Often he sounded and doubled back
on his course, misleading his pursuers.
The sun’s rays were slanting down behind
the bleak head of Cape Green, firing the
waves with crimson blushes. The race was
almost run.
As the tired monster relaxed his efforts
and awaited his enemy’s approach the look-
out issued a welcome command.
“Heel her over. Furl fore and aft sails!”
The clipper, now under bare poles, glided
slowly nearer.
The blue-nose awaited his enemy in seem-
ing derision. He would not flee inshore. As
an outlaw he had faced in triumph dangers
great as this. His tail flailed the water
angrily; then, as the gunner sprang his
weapon, the rorqual lowered his head and
prepared to sound. The huge flukes disap-
peared, and with a crash the weapon spoke.
“Got him! Got him!” came from every
mouth.
A cable had been attached to the harpoon-
line, and as the wounded creature submerged
it ran out slowly, checked by the galley
winch. One hundred fathoms ran by. Deep
down the whale was writhing and struggling.
His breath spent, he rose to the surface to
blow a crimson spray. Exulting, they
hoisted sail and crept nearer, coiling in the
slackened rope. It was all over. The
whale rolled on his side, flicking his tail in
impotent fury.
Not twenty yards separated them. Fifteen
yards and then ten. The steersman asked if
lunch was ready. For’ard the gunner, an
experienced whaler, reloaded his weapon in
haste. Too many times had he been in at
the death.
It all happened as he had expected. With
a final plunge the whale broke the harpoon-
rope, and then, wheeling, hurled his huge
bulk at the whaler. A gasp of alarm was
drowned by the sharp crack of the detonator.
A shower of crimson spray; a cascade of
water that seethed and eddied for a moment.
Then silence.
So they brought in their catch to the
whaling-station.
E. W. DEBENHAM.
Luna Di Miella.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BIG yellow moon that hears the old
confession.
Burning but patient swain who waits
alone;
Waits as a lover who has not possession,
Burning as coal and patient as a stone,
Great golden moon, moon of the lover wait-
ing,
Brimful of honey that shall sweeten mating.
Light that sings alto at the throne of love
(No nr'ddle range, content and close to
earth),
Tonic to dominant the song to prove,
And give to lyric love a new rebirth;
No middle range in this—no sweets that
cloy—
But high and higher, tiptoe up to joy.
Level dark brows, as she of Sicily,
Velveted eyes and delicate, proud nose;
Her face, of Tuscan flowers the memory;
Her mouth, a full voluptuous Roman rose;
And night she carries with her, scented rare,
In that fine shroud, the curtain of her hair.
Dryad and woman she, honey and wine,
Clinging as virgin, bold as any boy;
Desire of her is the desire divine
That makes love’s distaff spin its hour of joy ;
Full of strong wine of love, beyond all
reason,
Through golden hours of love’s short summer
season.
All walls yield unto steel or gold, or love
That robs not any and is fair exchange;
O honey planet that dost sweetly move,
Bring joy to lovers all within thy range!
For love is urgent as the flowers in Spring,
And, ere we know it, summer will take wing.
Wine, bread, a friend, an enemy, a kiss
Are all the gifts that life has in his giving;
Are all that life can furnish; all life is.
To die of love’s a pleasant end of living—
To die while death can come to find us
strong,
After love’s silence "and love’s undersong.
O yellow moon, deep mirrored in the river,
Be thou the moon of honey, for our loving;
The curving stream in thy full light aquiver
With futile passion for the beam that’s
moving:
Moon that drips honey, as her lips fall sweet-
ness,
tWane not, O honey month, ere our com-
pleteness !
O moon of honey! Roses bring, and wine!
Garlands to loop the temple and the bed!
Let not death be until with love we dine,
Nor funeral lilies, linen shroud, nor lead.:
Let there be trumpets, for the bell strikes
soon
To wane thy light, O golden, honeyed moon!
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


m
WESTIN GH 0 USE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
chain drives
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z, Office—93-107 Eeatherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office- 99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
TiojS
u/tzj,
< «
1
m
THE fascination of
field shooting is due to
the uncertainty of getting the
game. The interest in shooting is the
ability to reduce those uncertainties to the mini-
mum. A well trained dog, a good gun and
cartridges are among the necessary elements.
Produced by experienced makers and re-
cognized everywhere by keen sportsmen
as of unsurpassed quality, Remington
UMC cartridges will help you to com-
bine the elements which make a good
shot and which bring home
the full bag.
m
m
Catalogue postpaid
Upon request.
a
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
B-2 D* D. BRYANT. Australian Representative, Box 686, G. P. 0., Melbourne
m
STER
BULL-DOG
DIE-STOCKS
you screw pipe, do it with the least labor, bother
and complication possible. BULL-DOG DIE-
STOCKS give you the 5 big Oster features
m
plus the easy-pulling ratchet.
(1) Self-locking, adjust-
able dies; (2) Self-cen-
tring guides, lever-oper-
ated ; (3) Dies open up
after cut (to lift off pipe
without backing up), and
reset automatically to
size; (4) no loose bush-
ings to lose or mislay;
(5) no small, breakable
parts.
For details write Australasian
Representative,
05TER BULL= DOG
RATCHET DIE =■ STOCK
No. 102 R screws six sizes
of pipe—i|iti. to l%in.
Ask your dealer to show it.
CHARLES WRIGHT,
Box 251, G.P.0., Melbourne, Australia.
The Oster Mfg. Go.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A. [;!
OR £1 (is. 6a. you can have TH£
Bulletin sent regularlj to you every
k for a year to any address in Australasia,
paid. To any address abroad. £1 10s.
per annum, post free. ‘ Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street. Sydnev.
SC
-T"
d
f
x
a
:-#■ —ft
*
*r
£
C zf^^^ri
M
tr
/mi
%
*"'*--?* '"* \ *
I'D RATHER LOSE M’KILT
THAN LOSE M
f MOTORISTS! '
Are you prepared to meet the advance in your running costs when
PETROL GOES UP
by any means other than paying the extra cash?
Why not BURN MORE AIR
and thus increase your mileage per gallon by at least 10% ?
Fit to your carburetter manifold
A Hand-controlled Extra Air CocK.
Can be easily installed in a few minutes. s
Besides being A SPLENDID GASOLINE SAVER
this device can be used as an efficient air brake when coasting hills.
PRICES:
fin. Full Bore, Straight Nose, Extra-Air Cock, Brass finish. Nickel finish,
with ell Unions, Clips, &c., and 4jft.Flexible Hose 15/- 15/9 comp.
|in. ditto, ditto, ditto 18/3 19/- comp.
tin. Full Bore, Bent Nose, ditto, ditto, ditto 19/9 20/6 comp.
Robert C. Swan & Co. Ltd.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY-
&
STEEL CASTINGS— SpeciaI Good Quality
Q
&
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, S
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION.
ITABLE FOR ALL
Send your enquiries
to
I
Victoria Street,
Richmond, Victoria.


NGROYITE
LEATHER
LTI
“THERE’S NOTHING LIKE LEATHER.”
For efficiency under the most trying condi-
tions no belt has ever given better satisfac-
tion than
“MANGROVITE” RAWHIDE BELTING.
This famous power-transmitter and power-saver
is dependable under all conditions.
Made from the best hides procurable. Tanned
and Manufactured by the Mangrovite Process.
Mangrovite Belting Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowioi),
49 Wynyard Square, near G.P.0.,
SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
‘ I °LB ON * 6
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street. SIDNEY.
264 Xiatrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide. John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
.
v , ! 4, % -C
j^mjlfif
■• -tMDI .««« U' ; • >«"* ’
f r fSgJ * *
Sfr
/£fn %^‘
;«*S* «t*)i . tS#'
DICK S BALATA BELTING
(The Original and Genuine)
Prevents Power l*oss«
Every slip of the belt means money
lost—every stoppage through faulty
belting eats into your profits.
Dick’s Balata Belting will safeguard
you against such losses. It is less
susceptible to humidity, and slipping
is impossible with reasonable care.
For all transmission purposes use
Dick’s Balata Belting. It ensures
maximum service under all conditions.
It is a giant in strength and a con-
queror of power losses.
Booklet of particulars and prices sent
at your request.
Sole importers:—
JAMES HAItDIE & CO. LTD.
Cor. York and Wynyard Streets, SYDNEY.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor in our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
—their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Th' ; r strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manuiacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
We study your requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a given result, but to do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDCE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
*
And at Melbourne! Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
m
Little Monitor Petrol Engines
Specially designed for driving Separators, small Chaffcutters, etc.
Strong, simple and effective. Economic in working. Has magneto
ignition and many late advantages over others. Only one size
made, viz., Ijh.p., and the special low price is £25. packed and
delivered free on boat or rail Melbourne. Further particulars
may be had on application. Inquiries solicited.
D. 8 W. CHANDLER PTY. LTD.,
Next P. 0., Fitzroy, Melbourne.
Agents for Tomlin Incubators; Syracuse Plows, Cultivators,
etc.; Planet Jun. Implements, Kangaroo Sewing Machines,
all Poultry, Farm and Garden Requisites.
BIGGEST MAIL-ORDER HARDWARE MERCHANTS.
COUNTRY ORDERS A SPECIALTY. WRITE FOR QUOTATIONS.
m
THE BEST
SMOKE
is
BELLOW
TOBACCO
is-
c;
iaAOt ha**
o
o
V.
sP
. s 11 y
V^ofT^
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing; with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins; lib., 50/-; Sib., 25/-; 20z.. 7/6.
lib. Flux will braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
4> Soerzser Street, St. Hilda, Victoria.
m
ELECTRIC LIGHT FOR ALL
DELCO-LIGHT-
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
"OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE AGENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—
SMELLIE & CO. LTD..
'SANE.
mm
The uutfit that “Swept the Poll” in the 1917 Season.
F. D. McMASTER, Esq., Dalkeith, Cassilis, writes, under date 24th January;
“I have pleasure in stating that I have given both ol the 2 Stand Portable
Crutching Plants 1 purchased from you an exhaustive trial, and with the
utmost satisfaction. They are handy to move about, economical to run, and
the Fairbanks Morse Engine is simplicity itself. Crutching at the different
sheep-yards is, in my opinion,' a far better method than doing the work at
the woolshed, as the saving for the lambing ewes in driving alone is very
considerable.”
SCORES OF SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Order Your Plant for 1918 now to ensure getting it.
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO. LTD., 9-13 Young tt., Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Eagle St., Brisbane
rSCLP LUBRICATWO
[ BEARING
ONE PEICE SPINDLE
with long bearings
bofh ends
LEATHER FRICTION
Cone engages smoother
and silenfjy
New improvedlister" Bracket
for 2 Stand Combined Plant's
(FATCNTCO)
NOTE THE FEATURES OF THIS
LISTER BRACKET.
.m&w* m
OIL FILTERS
A Desirable Accessory at all Times,
NOW A NECESSITY.
The Williams Patent Oil Filter
embodies the following features—
Reservoir for Dirty Oil; Storage for Clean Oil.
Rapidity of Action; Simplicity of Operation.
Quality of Wcrk Done and Reasonable Price.
t £6 each f.&b. Sydney.
Send lor Booklet on Oil Filters. Post Free.
BILLETT’S PATENT TUYERE
The Hot Blast Tuyere .
Saves 25 Per Cent, on Coal Bill
Saves 30 Per Cent, on Time.
Uses No Water. Never Burns Out.
Clinker Discharged Without Disturbing Fire.
25/- to 40J-
Pull Particulars and Leaflets from
m
N. GUTHRIDGE LrTD., 350 George Street, Sydney. Works s Camperdown, N.S.W.
