

DEWAR’S —THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 lECesn/t Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in ail parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
pIIJSS
7A\v,v,y.<\
SAW
m
WWAVAV
I
We
Adv£ki\ce Moixey
ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
ON
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS and LOWEST INTEREST.
NSW MONT DE PIETE D6l C? IP?
HEAD OFFICE 74 CASTLEREAGH S' 1- SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building:.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
159 George Street West, Sydney. 40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
Telephone: City 9325.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” says:—
“The Company is very
well managed, and the
name is quite a house-
hold word in Sydney.
Its reputation is excel-
lent, and, although the
money-lender is gener-
ally regarded as a
vampire, the charge
cannot he laid at the
doors of the N.S.W.
Mont de J?iete D. & I.
Co. Limited.”
TUP
tUJf.
iY*t*K* y ]
i L-
m
-as«
/ohmuMy Hdmf
Oxidising' Sewage Disposal.
Over 400 Successful Installations in New
South Wales. Leading Doctors, Hospitals and
Convents have this Process Installed. Other
Systems easily converted to Oxidising Process.
Prices based in ratio to number of persons,
as few examples quoted: Six Persons, £4O; 50
Persons, £100; 500 Persons, £275 ; 1000 Per-
sons, £540. We take over and maintain our
installations from One Guinea per annum.
The Montgomerie-RSeiison Process,
50 Young Street (late Offices of the Education
Department), Sydney. Tel., City 8976.
ifc.
iporit Arg Ue '«*
v’l’i.i:
h
<4,
m\
3
Ik
if
NOTHINO
to Argue
About!"
tWf
Are the Best"
" Iliiiiiißi .jiiijg!!!!!- '
JF
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
lis recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating fcjr the
digestive organs.
•Junket,
HANSENS
The Bulletin
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
Not
the
same
others
as
different
Make a note of it that Malthoid Roofing is absolutely unlike and far better and superior to any other
prepared roofing.
Great endurance, resistance to all climatic conditions and fine appearance characterise Malthoid,
while the price is less than half that of galvanised iron.
Write for samples and illustrated booklet, post free.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Chains House, Sydney.
MALTHOID, a
roofing
ENGINEERING
I?
■■
VILLE,
>.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Roiling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc .
rSrfrthur
<5 (p
MACHINERY.
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
“Robey” Engines. “National” Town'i Gas and Suction Gas Engines, “National”
Oil and Petrol Eugines. Road Graders and modern Machinery for Stone-break-
ing and Screening, Pumping, Irrigating, Road Building, Earth Handling, Concrete
Mixing, Elevating and Conveying. C.-I. Malleable Pipe Fittings, etc.
N.B.—Enquiries for every description of Machinery will receive prompt attention.
WRITE, 'PHONE or WIRE.
QUEENSLAND ENQUIRIES to the AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER TUBES.
Solid Drawn Tubes—
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles—
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Enquiries solicited. Correspondence invited.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense <rf Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicaey of
the Fresh Flowers.
The Bulletin
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 39.—N0. 1984.]
[Thursday, February 21, 1918.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE
December,
1917.
A Quarterly Review of the politics of the British Empire
ARTICLES of- special interest to Australians are
Freedom and Unity ; The Genesis of the Present
Situation in India; and Canada —the Union Govern-
ment ; also sterling’ articles on The Gathering of the
Nations; America’s Part in the War; Turkey, Russia
and Islam, and contributions from the United King-
dom and the Dominions.
Price, 2/6 Per copy ; 10/- per annum.
MACMILLAN & CO., Ltd’, Russell Street, Melbourne,
The Bulletin
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR aAS ENOINEERSf,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
One of the best
The man at sea is guard-
ing you ! Do you look
alter him? Why not send
him a regular supply of
‘ Deßeszke” Cigarettes
— he's worthy of the very
best. Buy them yourself
and post the parcel with
your own hands—then
you know they must reach
him safely.
Sold Everywhere
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
MUSTDIE.
non PoiMNoio powder.
THE6RHT INSECT DESTROYER.
U15
I
Flies.
Fleas.
Bugs.
Mosquitoes.
-9!'
-
"MUSTDIE”
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecticide
or common insect powders, some of which are sold
under fancy names, for “MUSTDIE” contains
an ingredient particularly fatal to that. Common
house pest aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie,” Dept. H., Box 1520
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin, forwarded post free;
or send 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
. per tin.
The Red Page
If Christ Came?
If Christ came to England nowadays, what
would He do? According to J. C. Snaith,
whose novel. The Coming (Chatto and
Wiudus), should create a stir equal to that
of Mr. Britling, a modern Christ would
write a play. That, Snaith shows us in his
absorbing study of John Smith, “the village
idiot,” is the only way open to Him to reach
His modern audience. More, He would get
that play accepted by the leading N’York
manager and have it produced throughout
the world.
The Corning is brilliantly conceived and
written. Snaith is the chameleon of modern
English fiction: with each new r novel one
always wonders whom Snaith is going to be
next. He has been Galsworthy (Broke of
Covenden), Hewlett ( Araminta ), Compton
Mackenzie (The Principal Girl) and a lot
of others in turn; in The Sailor he improved
upon the nautical autobiographical fiction
modelled upon Masefield; in his first book,
Henry Nortlicote, lie was himself; and now
he is imitating that first minor masterpiece.
The Coming, an obvious synonym for Tlie
Advent, is simply set in rural England in
war-time. The narrow-minded Vicar is dis-
tressed by the village loafer, a man of 30,
in frail health, who when well enough to
work assists the village carpenter. This
John Smith is suspected of being a pro-
German, a pacifist, a faith-healer; and the
Vicar is convinced that Smith is also a
blasphemer and a person who should be im-
prisoned under the Defence of the Realm
Act. John’s mother is convinced that he
is the Messiah. So the Vicar considers that
the best thing to be done—and the kindest—
is to have John Smith certified as insane by
two doctors.
One character remarks: “If Jesus
appeared to-day, He would be treated as a
mischievous crank, bullied as a pacifist, and
perhaps be confined in a lunatic asylum.
Think of His reception by the yellow press.
He would find it the same devilish world he
left 2000 years ago.” But even the Vicar
thought that: “The Christ was overdue. If
civilisation, if humanity itself, was to con-
tinue, there must be Divine intervention. '
Organised and bestial hatreds were destroy-
ing the soul of the world. But an age that
had ceased to believe in miracles was now
crying out for a miracle to happen.” And
think of the tragedy if Christ came into a
world in which none should know Him?
The Vicar gains his end : John Smith is
certified insane. He goes to an admirably-
conducted private mental hospital—and he
dies there. This statement is deliberately
balej, since the reader will want to find out
for himself the amazing change that John
Smith wrought in that institution, and the
effect of this remarkable personality upon-
every individual who came in contact with
him. There are some most interesting per-
sonalities in the book. There is Murdwell,
the great inventor, who is perfecting a
development of radio-activity that will revo-
lutionise warfare, and do away with the need
of high explosives “It may become possible
to wipe out a city like London in about a
minute. It may become possible to exter-
minate organic life continent by continent.
... .A child could press a button and punch
a hole through the planet....” Murdwell
opens up delightful possibilities. With liis
committee of Allied scientists he hopes to
put the Central Empires permanently out of
business. The question is which side can
“get in” first; and if Germany harnesses up
the atomic energy first, “the first intimation
the world may have is that a small island
is missing in Europe.”
And there are the two theatrical managers.
English and American, through whose hands
John Smith’s inspired play must pass. “It
isn’t a commercial proposition,” said the
English manager, “and then f here’s tlie Cen-
sor. He’s very shy of religion as a rule;
and.... the parsons won’t like their pitch
being queered... .Yes, it’s a remarkable
play, but I’m afraid it’s pro-Boche. ...”
Dltimately the Lord Chancellor declines to
license the play unless the chief character
and two of the principal scenes are removed !
But unexpectedly the American manager
sees something in the play, though that
something isn’t money. He produces it in
his biggest New York theatre ; and immedi-
ately “a great world-religion bad found a
miraculous birth in the theatre.” It was
translated into every language, produced on
every stage—there was even the probability
of its presentation at Berlin —and the
author was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize!
Evidently John Smith knew his way about T
One wonders what would have happened if
it had come to Australia: a giggle from the
gallery?
The Coming will be discussed. It has not
the uncanny magic and the magnetism of
John Nortlicote; it is more leisurely done.
But it is a keenly interesting study of the
Christ personality, logical and human. And
its climax is not the death of this “village
idiot,” but the amazing scene in the asylum.
And throughout Snaith is reverent, though
in the final scene he just escapes bathos.
Strevjtli. another Billjim transport jour-
nal, provides the usual good fare of verse,
i fake-ads. and humor. A sample: First Pri-
j vate: “Don’t you think the Sisters seem more
reserved than when we were at the base
hospital ?” Second Private: “Sure, reserved
for the officers.”
War
Patrick Maegill is becoming staled to the
war—as who wouldn’t after three years of
it? His latest book, The Brown Brethepn
(Jenkins, per Dymock’s Library), is inter-
esting, but not so interesting as his earlier
works. The note of grimness lias become
weaker: Maegill is taking the war now as a
matter of routine. That is the way, no
doubt, for the soldier; but not for the writer.
Probably he is becoming a better soldier,
though—and his skill with a bayonet matters
more just now than his skill with the pen.
Tlie brown bretliern are a group of khaki
mates in the London Irish. Spudhole Bubb
is a delightful characterisation: the whole
British Army is Spudhole Bubb. And Mac-
gill sheds a new light on many a common*
place subject.
“Despite the distance which a regiment
may travel, tlie soldier is as circumscribed in
his area as the spoke of a limber wheel. The
space is confined, and Spudhole Bubb was no
less a prisoner on tlie march than he had
been in the guard-room. Always the same
mates in front, the same ruddy necks pressed
sturdily back, the same red-brick hands
swinging. across the khaki, the same en-
trenching tool handles waving backwards
and forwards, the same red-haired sergeant
with the tops of his ears pressing- tightly to
his head....” And here is a picture of
Christmas morning after the capture of a
mine-crater. “The rain-swept crater, the
crumbling clay, the fumes of gunpowder, the
dead bodies, tlie monotonous hum of ragtime
choruses, the shells bursting across the top.
the dirty rifles and the dirtier men who
endeavored to clean them.” That touch
about the ragtime choruses could never have
been invented. As for that strange world
apart, the trench: '“The inmates can only
claim for tlie most part a short existence ;
they have degrees of opulence and poverty,
but the former is far removed from those
who are legally heirs to it. And all tlie dwell-
ers in the trench commune share their pro-
perty in common. The word “ours” is on
all lips; save from a few relics of outside
civilisation there is nothing which a man
claims as “mine.” Food and drink and
clothing are “ours,” as also are the parcels
from home, though the men to whom they
are addressed have generally the privilege
of opening them. Money has lost all its
value: for the time being food is not sold
here, and all 'men have to work at the same
job, and they work well, for tlie safety of
their bodies depends upon the labor of their
hands. Again, in the earning times of
peace a soldier may depend upon the sweat
of others for his daily needs ; here in the
trenches he is a Socialist in the highest
sense of the much-abused word. The life of
the Commune is seldom monotonous, its un-
certainty makes it interesting, its novelty
never wanes. The trench has its history,
every dugout a legend, and the shell-riven
alleys of war are steeped in tradition.”
And Maegill can paint a picture with an
economy of strokes —a picture that remains.
As the platoon passed through a ruined
village, the only civilian in sight was a pale
thin woman of 40 who stood at the door of
a ruined estaminet.
“The men stared at the woman, saw her
bowed, head, her ragged clothes, her queer,
weedy form. In her eyes was a look such
as the men had seldom seen. The poor
creature reminded Bowdy of a. dog which he
once had seen prowling round a pond in
which its young had been drowned.
“ ‘Wot’s she doin’ standin’ out in the
street like that?’ said Bubb. ‘She’ll stop a
packet if she’s not careful.’
“ ‘Eyes right,’ came an order from an
officer in front, and the men turned their
eyes towards the woman at the door.
“ ‘Salutin’ ’er. I wonder wot for,’ said
Bubb.
“ ‘’Er four children were killed yesterday
by a shell,’ said somebody in the ranks.
“The woman raised her head and looked
stolidly at the soldiers. Her expression
did not change; perhaps feeling was dead
in her.”
In The Marne — and After (Cassell) Major
A. Corbett-Smith takes us back to an almost
forgotten epoch, ending his story with the
last battle of the “Old Contemptibles”—tlie
first battle of Ypres, when England’s regular
army sacrificed itself and saved the war.
After that momentous victory, so terrible
were the losses that practically the Regulars
may be said to have been wiped out as a
fighting force. The New Armies had to
carry on —and they’ve done it.
Those were the days before the realisation
of the meaning of Hun atrocities. Tlie war
was barely a month old : the British Army
was quite unprepared for the awful revela-
tions that met them everywhere as they
advanced after the Marne. Tlie author
speaks at first hand: he has seen the vic-
tims. When the first Hun prisoners began
to. drift past, Tommy said : “Rummy-lookin’
lot of blighters, aren’t they?” But his tone
of amused affection suddenly changed. He
knew the Hun then, and his opinion was
something like this : !”
Those were the days when the aeroplane
was a mere tentative experiment, when the
arrival of gifts from home was a surprise—
why should strangers at home send out cigar-
cues to soldiers? —when the possibility of
leave was untbought-of—officers who were
offered leave refused, preferring to stick
it out to the end; when everybody
believed the whole show would be over
and the Germans defeated by that first
Christmas: when the regular allowance
of tobacco to officers and men was a
totally unexpected extra. But those were
the days, too, when there were no motor-
ambulances, no entrenching tools—these bad
been chucked away on the retreat, no proper
trenches or dugouts; and, on our side, only,
no high-explosive, no big guns, and practi-
cally no shells for the smaller ones.
Major Corbett-Smith tells many interesting
things of the advance after the Marne: he
shows us the regular Tommy at his best; but
his hnest picture is the last stand of the Old
Army before Ypres. “At the very moment
when Germany was about to hurl the flower
of her army against the meagre British line,
when the enemy purposed to turn every
available gun of an overwhelming strength
upon the handful of men who dared to oppose
his will, there happened an. event as dramatic
and momentous, surely, as any in the war.
....On this day the order was issued that
every field gun in the force must be placed
on a daily allowance of 10 shells only ! In
.other words, a battery was allowed each clay
60 shells to fire when 700 were not sufficient.”
The author applauds the high moral courage
of French in issuing such an order at one of
the most critical moments of the world’s
history. Yet had the British batteries gone
on firing at tlie old rate for a fortnight they
would have had to cease fire altogether. The
plain fact was that there were no more shells,
either in France or in England. “It is well
that the world should hear of this, for surely
it throws another and a still stronger light
upon tlie heroism of the First Seven Divi-
sions during those fateful days. And will the
German staff ever dare to tell the German
people how their armies could not break
through even then? I think not.”
The first battle of Ypres is beginning now
to be recognised as the one of the most im-
portant of the whole war, since by the
defence of an exhausted British army against
a hostile force many times its number, North-
ern France and the Channel were saved. It
was toucli-and-go; yet that thin line held.
llow near that battle was to a defeat the
author graphically describes. After tlie
Headquarters of the Ist and 2nd Divisions,
the brain centres of the Corps, had been
shelled, and the C.O.’s put out of action and
six Staff officers killed, French and Haig
reached the spot. But there was nothing
more to be done. “You may nicture those
two men standing quietly by the great map on
the table of the battered chateau. . . .Not even
may any unit be withdrawn and thrust into
another corner of the line. If tlie breach is
made there can be no repairing. The sea-
coast and ports will be lost to us.” So the
two stood and waited for an hour and a
half. Were the men holding still? Then
came a message over the wires : the Ist and
2nd Divisions were attacking! Quickly
afterwards came messages of the 7th Divi-
sion attacking, of Glieluvelt taken, of the
German right being pushed back ! Was the
tide turning?
The -retaking of Glieluvelt set free some of
the cavalry, the Gth Brigade; and Haig
seized the chance and ordered it to advance.
The astonished brigade mounted and charged
hell-for-leather. “Clean through the wood
they go; nothing can stop that amazing
charge. Through the woods and out into the
open again. On. on!” At last they pull up
as they throw themselves into a gap in the
infantry line. By the late afternoon the
British had won back almost all of their
original positions, and before midnight “tlie
line as held in the morning had practically
been reoccupied.” And the astonishing nature
of that victory, won by a practically routed
army, is evidenced by French’s despatch. A
French cavalry brigade arrived just after the
tide had turned; and French records that
the services of the French -cavalry was dis-
pensed with! “It had been a square fight
between British and German, and the British
Commander-in-Chief was determined that
once the tide had turned the day should be to
his men alone.”
But tlie cost! The Old Regular Army had
fought its last fight, the greatest of all. Of
the 7th Division, which had sailed less than
a month before with 400 officers, only 44 re-
turned ; and of the 12.000 men only 2336
were left. And half of two cavalry divisions
were lost. But the fight was won.
S. G. Fielding writes a feeble prophecy of
Australia, a.d. 2000 (Angus and Robertson.
Sydney), in which he shows us the Federal
Capital of that date, and pictures the politi-
cal community divided into two parties, the
Materialist and the Spiritualistic—or the
Anti-Christian and the Christian. The
Materialist Prime Minister takes a refer-
endum upon the question that Christianity
should be abolished, and the Anti-Christians
win by a large majority. The speeches for
and against are quoted in full —and very dull
speeches they are. That’s about all. What-
ever S. G. Fielding may be, be is not a
prophet in his own country.
According to a writer m The Seven
Arts, a U.S. magazine. Australia possesses
a novelist of genius, hitherto unrecognised.
This is “Henry Ilandel Richardson,” whom
we learn with a tempered surprise is the
pen-name of an Australian woman. The
first novel by this author that this page
remembers meeting is The Fortunes of
Richard Mahony, published last year, re-
viewed 6/12/T7, in which this page re-
marked :
Not only does tlie author write 400 closely-printed
pages about his hero, but he has put into these pages
the minimum of action. And not only is the hero
dull, but most Of the other characters are duller.
Yet one reads on: the scene and the period are inter-
esting, and from the author's pedestrian descriptive
passages and studies of character the reader gets the
illusion of realit v and life. The theme of the story
is more than Richard Mahonv’s life; it is the growth
of Ballarat from a rude mining township to a modern
city.
And in this page’s review of the year it
was characterised as “valuable historical
work in a dull but honest volume.” This
novel is evidently the first part of a trilogy
to be called Australia Felix. But it was not
selected as the best novel of the Australian
year, two other novels being given prece-
dence. Roy Bridges’s The Immortal Dawn
and Gladys Taylor’s The Coo-ee Contingent.
On the title page of the novel two earlier
novels were mentioned, Maurice Quest
(11108) and The (letting of Wisdom (1010).
Apparently neither of these books have
drifted within this page’s ken. The Ameri-
can edition of the former is stated now to
be out of print. We learn that this novel
was met in England with unintelligent and
hostile criticism, though it was appreciated
by a few critics. . But Maurice Guest, a
failure in England’, had a great vogue on
the Continent, being translated into French,
German and Russian. The Seven Arts
critic declares it to be “one of the very great
novels.... one of the most remarkable first
novels ever written.” Apparently it has
no Australian reference, its background
being musical Leipzig of the 18110’s. Another
American critic discusses this novel as “one
of the few masterpieces of modern musical
fiction.”
The Getting of Wisdom is' set in a girls’
school in Australia. The Fortunes of
Richard Mahony received excellent but not
enthusiatic notices in a number of English
papers. And, judged solely by that novel,
since the other novels are apparently un-
procurable in Australia at this date, this
page * sees no need to revise its opinion of
Henry Handel Richardson. There is no
evidence of inspiration in Richard Mahony ,
but the thing is well done in its dull and
discursive way.
The Round Table’s quarterly review of
the Empire (Dec., 1917, 2s. 6d.) treats his-
torically of the present situation in India,
of America’s part in the war, "of Turkey,
Russia and Islam, and of the politics of the
Dominions. All that is said about Australia
is the Labor defeat and the strikes in Sydney
and in Victoria. Well, strikes and referenda
are about all that we specialise in just now.
The Book of Recipes. Formula and Processes
(Modern Printing Co., 246 Elizabeth-street, Melb.,
6d.), contains 375 scientific, chemical and household
recipes. According to the compiler the thrifty house-
wife will find the information herein of great value.
Why not make your own pimple lotion, perfume,
eyelash dye, .soap, pills, boot-polish, ink, anchovy
paste, bug-poison, putty, pickles, axle-grease and
bosom-developer at home ?
Edgar L. Stevens: A very beautiful fairy story
(R. P. 10/1 / *lB>, and one, I feel certain, will
become firmly fixed in the mind of every Australian,
young and old, who reads it, was marred by two
words. When Uncle Billjim said “My oath!” I felt
like kicking him. It spoilt the beautiful impression
of the wonderful old chap he must have been. It
may be a typical Australian expression, but in this
particular story was as out of place as the kitchen
pots would be on the drawing-room mantelpiece.
Had the story been for adults it would not have
mattered much, but because it was for the kid I
cannot but help entering a protest. Uncle Billjim
will become a hero in the eyes of the kid. And
would the writer of the story like a child of his,
say of four or five, to be exclaiming “My oath!”
on any and every occasion? There may not be much
meaning in the use of the words by adults, and
yet eveiy time that the sacred is made profane we
are lowering the standard of nobility of life. The
words we use, and the language we think in, do
mould, to a very great degree; our outlook on life.
The man who spends his time amid the greatest
writers and artists of the age, looks continuously
upon the visions of these great and noble souls,
cannot but fail to see something of that beauty in
the world about him. And this is a thousand times
more true with the children whose minds are not
yet developed. “My oath!” may be a meaningless
expletive, and yet anyone whose soul is attuned- to
the higher things in life cannot but fail to feel it
jarring upon his finer nature. I think if the author
will put himself in the place of a child reading the
story, taking in all the wonderful and fantastical
scenes and characters, he will feel the force of what
I have been endeavoring to express. I feel that the
author in his endeavor to make Uncle Billjim typi-
cally Australian stooped to use something that is
merely superficial to the true character, and in this
instance marred the painting of a masterpiece.


The Bulletin
FENCHURCH WATGHES.
\
A
/
%
s=
MAJ\
The FENCUURCH NONMAGNETIC
LEVER is .a lilGll-GRADE, Open-face
KEYLESS WATCII. and one that will
STAND HARD WEAR and ROUGH
USAGE. The FENCUURCH is an AC-
CURATE TIMEKEEPER, has Compensat-
ing Balance, is fully jewelled, and well
finished. The FENCHURCH is a SHORT-
WIND, KEYLESS WATCH in DUST-
and WATER-PROOF CASE, fitted either
with Screw Bezel and Back or Hinge and
Snap Cases.
Gun Metal Case 17/0
- Nickel Silver Case 18/0
By Registered Post, Gd. Extra.
Fenchurch Wristlet Watches
The Soldier’s Fenchurch Silver Wristlet Watch, with Luminous Dial. A perfect
timekeeper £2/12/6 to 70/-
Gent.’s Fenchurch Wristlet Lever Watches, oxidised or nickel cases, fully jewelled,
fitted with military or ordinary leather strap ••••• 22/6
Gent.’s Oxidised 15-.iewel Fenchurch Wristlet Watches, crystal glass, fitted
With military or ordinary leather strap 35/-
Ladies’ 15-jewel Oxidised Fenchurch Wristlet Lever Watches, fitted with
leather strap 36/-
RISISTO Roofing.
i
With Galvanised Iron almost unpro-
curable, and Slates or Tiles not always
suitable, a Reliable and Lasting Sub-
stitute must be used. RISISTO
ROOFING—the Last Word in Roof-
ing Material —is what is required.
RISISTO is a non-conductor of
heat, and a building roofed with
RISISTO is cool in summer and warm
in winter. It does not affect rain-
water. Being made of felt thoroughly
saturated with a scientifically-prepared
waterproof material, it will resist the
heaviest rainstorm or the fiercest rays
of the sun. Another advantage is
that it will neither crack nor rot.
RISISTO is unequalled for flat or pitched roofs. When properly applied on
a wooden roof it will almost outlast galvanised iron.
RISISTO is light in weight, low in cost, will withstand vibration, and does
not perish. It is 36 inches wide, and is sold by the yard, or in rolls 72ft. long.
1- 24/- per roll, weight 701 b., or 1/2 yard.
2- 30/- per roll, weight 881 b., or 1/5 yard.
3- 35/- per roll, weight 1091 b., or 1/8 yard.
Cement Paint and Clout Tacks for laying Supplied Free with Whole Rolls.
CHALLENGE OIL ENGINES.
The CHALLENGE OIL ENGINE has been DESIGNED to MEET the
REQUIREMENTS of the MAN on the LAND, who DEMANDS an EFFICIENT.
RELIABLE, EVEN-RUNNING ENGINE. The CHALLENGE has HIGH-
TENSION MAGNETO IGNITION, is QUICKLY started. EASILY operated,
and REMARKABLY economical in FUEL CONSUMPTION. The CHALLENGE
OIL ENGINE is neat and compact, and even the lower-powered types are capable
of performing heavy work.
■"Mil
1
eat
CHALLENGE
We Stock the CHALLENGE OIL ENGINE IN SEVEN SIZES, as follows
Cylinder, Stroke, Revs, per Weight,
Size. inches. Inches. Minute. lb. Drive,
lh.p. .. .. — — 550 200 Petrol
Price.
.. £20
2h.p.
4
450
400
Petrol . . £35
Kerosene £37
4h.p. .. .. 5i 8
400
850
f Petrol .. £57/10/-
) Kerosene . . £6O
6h.p. .. .. 6i 8
350
1150
( Petrol . . £B5
l Kerosene £B7/10/-
Bh.p. .. .. 6-f 11 300
•2200
( Petrol . . £lO5
| Kerosene • •£llO
lOh.p. .. .. 74
I2h.p. .. .. 84
13 280
13 250
3200
4000
Petrol . . £l3O
Petrol .. £l5O
THE CLEMAR
RAZOR.
The generality of men carry out their
shaving operations hurriedly, and with an
old-fashioned razor or with an inferior make
of Safety Razor it is often positive toil.
With a good Safety Razor —such as a
CLEMAK—however, shaving becomes a *
pleasure.
The great advantage possessed by a
CLEMAK over an ordinary razor is that no
stropping is required every time the razor
is used. With the 5/- CLEMAK are seven
blades—one for every day in the week—and
a few minutes at the week-end with a strop
will renew the cutting edges. The blades
are made of the best of steel. The CLEMAK
SAFETY RAZOR is so safe that shaving
may be done in a dim light—or in the dark,
if necessary.
Complete with Seven Bladen and
Stropping Handle.
The CLEMAK is also an ideal razor for the soldier on active service.
THE CLEMAK, Silver-plated, with Seven Blades and Stropping
Handle. Price
By Post, N.S.W., 3d. Extra.
PIKE MACHINE GRINDERS.
PIKE SENIOR
A PIKE MACHINE GRINDER
is an absolute necessity in the
home or workshop. By its aid
all tools can be easily and quickly
ground. PIKE GRINDERS
are fitted with corundum wheels,
the requisite speed being obtained
by means of gearing. We stock
four models > f PIIv E
GRINDERS, the SENIOR, as
shown, and the WHIRLWIND
being suitable for any class of
grinding work. PIKE
GRINDERS are reliable little
machines which should find a
place in every household.
Pike Senior 34/6
Pike Junior 26/6
Pike Whirlwind 57/6
Pike Artisan - 26/6
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY.
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is exactly what its name implies—a library for
the professional man, the business man, the student, and all lovers of literature.
There are over 700 titles to select from in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY,
embracing the works of foremost authors in the realm of Fiction, Poetry, History,
Theology, Travel, Biography and Essays of famous writers.
Each volume in EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY is uniformly bound in either
leather or cloth, and printed in large, clear type, on specially-made paper, and
many are illustrated.
aba sac
mm
Bookcase, as illustrated. 2ft. 2in. hisrh x 2ft.
wide, to hold 50 vols., 27/6.
Cloth Bound, 1/6.
Leather Bound, 3/3.
Postage, 2d. extra.
Everyman’s Bookcase.
EVERYMAN’S BOOKCASE. 2ft. 2in.
high, 2ft. wide, specially designed for
EVERYMAN’S LIBRARY EDITION,
is made in Fumed Oak, and fitted with
interlocking device to allow for extension.
We can supply each unit separately.
Write for Complete List of Titles.
Posted Free on Application.
TOP SECTION, 3 Jin. high, 8/0.
BASE UNIT, din. high,' 8/0.
BOOK SECTION, 1G A in. high, to hold 50 vols.,
10/0.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


r i
mm
mmm
■
• -V,; •
*5L i * N j
/* v '->', M\
*mNm,
HA
i
ssts
wm&&x
Sc?.:
, . -
!
jfr’V'.i
<"' i
B*®A
wemsitotm
mtm
; £>„ ■
iilafe
i '.am«
m
It makes Muddy Water
Clear in a Few Hours.
The problem of purifying and clarifying Water without the aid of expensive filtering plants
is solved by “Klaro.” “ Klaro” is simple to use, inexpensive, and absolutely sure in its effects.
It is quite harmless, and has no deleterious effects whatever on water treated.
lib. of “Klaro” will clear 3000 gallons of Turbid Water.
One Level Tablespoonful will clear 150 gallons.
One Level Dessertspoonful will clear 75 gallons.
One Level Teaspoonful will clear 37 gallons.
Klaro makes contaminated water safe for drinking. It makes discolored water crystal clear and palatable.
>Simply throw “Klaro” into the Tank or Dam
and see that the water is well stirred. All sediment, mud or fine vegetable matter will be
precipitated to the bottom in from one to two hours.
Every station, farm and country residence should secure a supply of “ Klaro.” Banish the
danger of impure water to both human beings and stock. “Klaro” will not injure boilers if
used as above.
Klaro is sold by all storekeepers in lib., 31b. and 51b. boxes, or if not stocked in your town,
post us 35/- by cheque or postal note, and we will forward a small
case containing 151 b.
Supplied to storekeepers in one-sized case only, containing 561 b. and
made up of lib., 31b. and 51b. boxes.
William Adams 8 Company Ltd.,
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street. PERTH: 33 King Street.
BRISBANE: Cor. Edward and Mary Streets. ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.
m
-
«
ft!


A Great REMEDY for
BLADDER TROUBLE.
Drinking water that is of bad quality or
too soft often causes bladder trouble. Every
sufferer tortured with the agonising burning
pains of bladder inflammation (cystitis)
should try a harmless remedy which gives
relief in ninety-nine cases out of every hun-
dred in a way that can only be described as
miraculous.
This torture and pain is caused through
germs in the bladder. De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills contain a very strong,
yet marvellously soothing antiseptic which
mmm
Kidney&BladderPills
I T/iese Pills also act on the £i yen 4
HOT GENUINE WITHOUTTHIS SIGNATURE 4
penetrates the diseased tissues, attacks aud
destroys the germs, makes the urine after a
time bright aud clean, bringing a wonderful,
quick sense of relief and ease.
If you are troubled _ with rheumatism,
gout, gravel, backach, 1 , tired feeling, dropsy,
Bright’s disease, constipation, cloudy urine,
inflammation of the bladder, or other
symptoms of urinary trouble you should
give this wonderful remedy a trial imme-
diately, because it brings quick relief, almost
every time —guaranteed—and a sure cure
follows in most cases.
To cure rheumatism or any other form'
of kidney trouble you must positively get
rid of the cause —the poisonous uric acid.
Remember to do this a real remedy must
pass through the kidneys and the bladder
and not through the bowels, as most kidney
pills do. When you see the urine change
to a muddy bluish color —a feature which
distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all
doubt that they have put their healing touch
on the right spot—the kidneys and the
bladder. A wonderful pill—straight to the
kidneys—that is why De Witt’s Pills give
such amazingly quick relief —every time.
A permanent cure follows in almost every
case. Look for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2s. 9d.
box of De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills,
which are made expressly for kidney and
bladder troubles.
DeWITTS
Kidneys Bladder Pills
Purify the Blood.
The Bulletin
Übiquity—wherever you
meet an efficient man in the
arts, professions or business
you will see in his waist-
coat pocket the marble-
green Venus—the efficient
pencil.
No grit, no breaks, smootn,
steady swift work.
Ask your Stationer or
Stores next time for
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
The Bulletin
mm
m
Mm
m
M
m
m
?Al
iU’S*A)
iSiGAM:;
<y>:%
-
m
GREY
HAIR
_ *^ r ’ ,4 lle , n s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
Melbourne.
t" i cm «’ Worando Buildings, Adelaide
• L - S>EEF * 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
NAZETHA
THE GREAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
The most effedive and
pleasing' Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/0 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
A
rf
X
tl
The Bulletin
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
The Bulletin
TO
H.M. THE KING).
SORUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
v
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL ®. CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine-Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
The Bulletin
A LL over the world, wherever rep-
jPk resentative motorists gather, for
sport or business, Firestone
Tyres predominate
Firestone has originality of design
and reliable performance, safety with
speed and economical going.
AH who demand the highest standards
of travel look for the name“ Firestone”
on tubes as well as tyres.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
& Wales.
Alexander Stair & Co., Stelbourne,
Victoria; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Caragee
Write for Illustrated Literature
firtsfoweTyres
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Joy of Life.
A dazzling dance the ripples dance,
The sunrays on them glancing;
With swaying grass and jigging leaves
And light o’ day entrancing.
Should Jack and Jill not take their fill
Of merry-footed dancing?
A time shall come when dust and heat
Shall make them tire and falter;
Who’d cry a halt to dancing feet
Deserves the hangman’s halter!
With dove and thrush in tree and bush
A-billing and a-cooing,
And butterflies upon the wing
Their light-o’-loves pursuing,
Should Jack and Jill not take their fill
Of merry-hearted wooing?
A time shall come when golden Youth
To greying Age shall alter;
Who’d cry a halt to love, in truth,
Deserves the hangman’s halter!
With minstrel birds from post and rail
Their liquid music flinging.
And every tree a gold-lit choir
With green cicadas ringing,
Should Jack and Jill not have their fill
Of merry-noted singing?
The voice, at morning, sweet and strong,
At set o r sun may falter;
Who’d cry a halt to joyous song
Deserves the hangman’s halter!
Then love ye one, and love ye all!
And shake each cobwebbed rafter
With thudding foot and rolling stave,
And let what will come after;
With Jack apd Jill, take ye your fill
Of love and life and laughter!
The golden smiles of girl and boy
Salt tears in time shall alter;
Who’d cry a halt to glorious joy
Deserves the hangman’s halter!
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Ship of Dawn.
A ship comes out of the east,
Qn a wind of promise blown—
Comes, golden out of the east,
From a realm unknown;
On a sea of the palest cream,
Like the hidden heart of rose,
Like the earliest rose of cream
That the summer shows.
With molten golden sails
Spread, wingwise, blindingly,
Near, and more near, she sails,
In her majesty;
Till the sombre bars of night
Flash warm with a sudden red,
And the flame-pierced black swan, Night,
Floats palely dead.
QUEENSLAND.
J. HOLLOWAY.
Paradise.
If ever beyond the ultimate wall of dream
Should lie a place of refuge sure for me,
A fair, safe place of stream and meads
agleam
With raptured flowers that gem eternity,
Ah, then I shall not mate with sorrow or
Weep out my soul through nights of long
distress;
You will be there with me, and I shall press
Your lips again—you, with God’s pity, for
My loneliness.
So shall we lie enclasped, and I shall kiss
Your eyes and brow (O lady full of
grace!) ;
Shall kiss the sweet limbs that encompass
me, x
And your dear mouth (how sweet a thing
it is !),
What time you, shuddering to me murmur-
ously,
Shall drive away the ghosts of old despair,
While your hands woo me and your exqui-
site hair
Is blown across my face.
N.S.W.
FRANK MORTON.
When Love Grows Stout.
His ideals were slim when she first smiled on
him,
And he noted her elegant figure;
She was slim, she was tall and she carried it
all
Like a ship newly fixed by a rigger.
So he took her for life, and an excellent wife
Was that sylph when she settled to love him;
And he judged every girl by his own precious
pearl
Whom he prized more than angels above him.
Now each year going by heard a new infant
cry
In the nest he had made for his honey,
And Ma’s figure, they say, broadened out in
a way
That her family thought was quite funny.
But the love of her life saw no change in his
wife,
Though he saw other mothers grow bigger.
To her matronly fat he was blind as a bat.
And he still bragged to friends of her figure.
What a crude thiner is Truth! When the
slimness of youth
lias departed, and all is confusion,
You are beaten and done and you’ll miss all
the fun
If vou’ve not got the gift of illusion.
Now that old lover sits throwing lover-like
fits
Round his lady who twice could enfold him.
And if some critic said: “She’s as broad as a
shed!” .. ..
It would take seven policemen to hold him.
N.S.W.
H. & K. LTD.


: . t
w.
are in general use among experienced motorists, having been adopted
because of their high quality and consequent dependability.
The excellence of their materials and the careful exactness of their
manufacture make Perdriau Tyres the best of all to stand up to hard
wear, rough roadways and uncertain weather conditions.
Their three wide ribs meet the road with a frictionless hold, and
their resilience minimises vibration, thereby adding comfort for the
passengers and reducing strain for the engine.
Obtainable through all Garages or from the Manufacturers,
Perdriau Rubber Go. Ltd ■ All States.
11
“Keep the Home Tyres Turning
a
more
than a mere trusS
The Bulletin
Many folks suffering; from rupture refrain from wearing a truss for the
same reason that others shun the dentist. They fear the cure more than
the disease. It’s terribly unwise, and sooner or later they are going to
sadly recognise it. Don’t neglect a rupture, however slight it seems.
Denyer’s Special Elastic Trusses
are something infinitely better than an ordinary truss, They give Perfect
Support with Absolute Comfort. There are no hard stepl bands to cause
irritation, discomfort or chafing, and one can tackle hard; work or vigorous
exercise with complete confidence.
All they cost is—Single, 20/-; Double, 27/6.
AVrite right away for Free Truss Pamphlet, giving valuable information,
which will be sent in closed envelope.
DENYER BROS,,
Makers of Trusses f Abdominal Belts and Artificial Limbs,
281 GEORGE STREET (Opp. Hunter Street), SYDNEY.
mini!
A
of Pleasure .
When a man “tyres” of the customary dishes,
a welcome “ brake ” can be made by serving
"REX" CAMP PIE
This is the “1918 self- ■ tarting ” food because it is cooked
ready to be eaten. It is all meat, carefully compounded,
cooked and seasoned by “ expert ” chefs, and packed
with firm, tasty jelly surrounding it.
Be sure to put on your “ sho k absorbers ” before tasting
“Rex” Camp Pie, especially if served with a salad, be-
cause you're going to be surprised by some new palate
pleasures.
When you want a “blow out,” “repair ” to t e nearest
grocer and say “ Rex ” Camp Pie.
Also put under pour “ bonnet ” this suggestion,
TRY “Rex'’ Ham Pate and
“ Rex' Veal & Tongue Pate
tor SANDWICHES.
*
All gr:cerj sell “ Rex ” Pure Food Product >\
Foggitt, Jones & Co. Ltd.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Products
Curers of “ Rex ” Hams and Bacon
■w
tiLdi
Q U
“SAFETY FIRST.”
You, Mr. Car Owner,'have a Tremendous Interest Herel
So Has Every Member of Your Family —
and Every Friend Who Rides in Your Car.
THE RESPONSIBILITY RESTS RIGHT ON YOU!
GOODRICH sends yon a Message
and Points Out a Protection—
SAFETY—
When the road is dry you won’t skid. But
Unfortunately the rain, the mud and the muck are often with us.
And with them on the job, when you make a sharp turn your Tyres
have nothing to grip; they skim over the ooze, and then comes that dizzy,
sickening slide around the corner; and if you don’t go smashing into the
kerb or piling into a ditcli you’re lucky.
The solution is obvious —STOP THE SKID!
But how ? ■ There’s the problem.
GOODRICH has solved it for you —with the GOODRICH SAFETY
TREAD.
Just take a look at those cross-bars on the tread and you’ll get the idea.
It’s simple—one row scrapes away the grease and mud and the next
has a clean, hard space to grip—and you bet it grips. Direction makes no
difference—the skid doesn’t even start.
There’s sense to the principle. It is based on scientific reasoning, and
each bar is there for a real purpose —not for ornamentation or difference.
Join the SAFETY FIRST MOVEMENT —equip with GOODRICH
SAFETY TREADS —ride care-free and safe.
THE GOODRICH SAFETY TREAD TYRE
The Cheapest Insurance You Ever Bought.
DUVAL CO.
145 Collins St., 13 Castlereagh St., 300 Adelaide St.,
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE.
Cornell Ltd., Adelaide; A. C. MacCallum, Perth; Robt. Nettlefold, Hobart.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 30. —No. 1984.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1918.
I’lilCE 6d.
“THANK GOD, THAT’S SETTLED!”
PRIME MINISTER: “Well, gentlemen, as you see, the position is desperate. The trade emissaries of our enemies will come hotfoot upon the heels of peace.
Let’s form a committee to talk about it.”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Alan.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for Tub
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
addkess in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address ahroaii, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, tetters
or Neivspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded ,as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, sinless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction—i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn-—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus. .
South Africa.- —The Central News Agency, Cape- 1
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son, 1
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others. ;
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, (
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C. '
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and 1
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency, 1
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen (
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards >
Street, Honolulu. „ <
Egypt. — lgnore Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M. }
Houng, Cairo, Egypt. ,
Hono Kong.- —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street, -
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. —lV. G. P. Per era', 16 Baillie Street, Fort !
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., Hid.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, l/oz., Id., and sd. each
additional 2oz.
'ffiuTZßxxlZdvii.
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1918.
THE WASTE-AND-BORROW-MORE
GOVERNMENT.
Conclusive evidence that Senator Pearce
is utterly unfit to be Minister for Defence is
furnished by the fact that he is unable to
see that the Commission of Inquiry is not
throwing bouquets at him. The trouble about
Mr. Pearce is simply that he is a weak, dull
man without any business training. As an
early Minister for Defence he was declared
to be a success for the worst of all possible
reasons —the Tite Barnacles of his Depart-
ment said that he was. He did what he was
told to do, and the public was therefore
assured that he was a good fellow. He had
not been three months Minister after war
was in progress when it became clear that
the Department was already in a state of
chaos; and it got rapidly worse instead of
better. Overwhelming evidence of the awful
waste that was going on was forthcoming.
And then the Censorship, which was under
Pearce’s direction, got in its fine work: it
prevented the nublic being informed of the
scandal which was costing not thousands but
millions of pounds. Does the public realise
even now that, under the control of this
Minister, the Censorship was employed for
the purpose of suppressing adverse criticism
of the administration of the Department of
which it forms part? Positively so lately as
15 months ago, on the return of Hughes
from England, The Bulletin was barred
by Mr. Pearce’s Censorship from suggest-
ing that, having been in recent conference
with the military and other heads in Great
Britain, the Prime Minister should replace
Pearce as Minister for Defence! Such
wicked misuse was made of the Censorship
that this instrument for keeping the tax-
payers in the dark and Pearce in his office
prevented The * Bulletin applying to him
and his administration such a mild adjective
as “drifting.” What could be expected from
such an administration? No more and no
less than the Commission has reported: that
the Department has been the refuge of the
ignorant and the incompetent and that
millions have been wasted, most of it in
orders for unnecessary goods.
And bad as the revelations of the Commis-
sion are, worse could be told; and worse
uiis paper tried to tell the public, until it
became tired of trying. For the Commission
l.as only before it the stocks of non-perish-
able goods: the millions of Hounds’ worth of
unprotected clothing and boots, etc. What
it has not before it is the other hundreds of
thousands of pounds’ worth of clothing that
was burned—actually burned—and the
millions of pounds’ worth of food that was
wasted. Air. Pearce in his audacious reply
talks pi the difficulties of dealing with a very
big business suddenly created. The Bue-
eetin will, for its own part, make all allow-
ances for that. But the other waste —the
wicked waste of perishables—has been pro-
ceeding within the last few months, and
attempted protests against it have been cen-
sored. Meantime soldiers have been pro-
vided with food which has been either in-
sufficient or unfit for consumption. Some of
those soldiers have been invalids on their
way back to Australia. Others have been
men under training in Australia. • Senator
Pratten, a man who has been in the food-
stuffs trade most of his life, had not returned
to Australia a fortnight before —not know-
ing that he was supposed to be silent about
such matters—he supplied the House with evi-
dence on this point. And for the mismanage-
ment of its affairs even in the earlier days of
the war the Department is not to be excused.
It is not too much to say that scores of
business men of the very highest rank offered
their services. The Red Cross had only to
say that it wanted help, and business men
were ready to go to the uttermost ends of the
earth to serve it. There is hardly a front-
rank business man in Australia whose ser-
vices were not at the disposal of the Com-
monwealth at home. Men did indeed offer
more than themselves: some of them offered,
as well, their heads of departments. Their
services were “not required.” It suited the
Department better to work with its own staff.
It did not suit certain officers to have, about
them men who knew their business. Why?
There can be only one reason. One compre-
hensive word sums it all up—Boodle! And
poor, dull Pearce, who was completely in
the hands of the men around him. let it all
go on, and probably didn’t know what was
going on. Certainly this paper hasn’t the
faintest suspicion that the poor blunderer
ever made a penny-piece himself.
* * * *
The Commission has dealt with only the
business side of the Department, and thus
far with only one branch of that. When
the whole tale is told, if it ever could be
told, even the careless public might hold its
breath —the public which has been willing
that anything at all should be done so long
as the right political party did it. The pay
office has yet to be reported upon ; and the »
pay office was not only chaos but, in the
words of a detective officer who had been at
work there in the interests of an absent sol-
dier whose pay had been stolen, one State
office was “a den of thieves.” Into that
branch a previous Committee put good work,
doing what the Minister should have done if
he had known how. What that Committee
discovered about maladministration the pub-
lic was never pennitted to know. Nor will
this Commission know what is happening at
Headquarters on the other side, though
on the evidence of returned men there
is equal mismanagement and worse than
mismanagement there also. And on the mili-
tary side it will of course be silent. But
that money has been wasted on “training”
which is not training at all, and that re-
cruiting has been discouraged because of
grievances which have never been redressed,
is as certain as that money has been wasted
on the purely business side.
* * * *
A Board has now been appointed with
George Swinburne as chairman, to re-
organise and carry on the Department’s
business activities; and Brig.-Gen. Rama-
ciotti, a citizen-soldier who formerly did good
work under difficult conditions as N. S.
Wales State Commandant, has been appointed
Administrative Inspector-General. So far
good. But is nothing else to happen? Is
Ministerial responsibility to be a myth? Is
a Alinister's almost unparalleled bungling
and the wicked misuse of the Censorship
to cover that bungling to carry no
punishment? In days before the party
machine was perfected such a report
as that which was published last Saturday,
after being withheld from the public for
nearly four months, would have been accom-
panied naturally by the resignation, if. not
of the Ministry, at any rate of the Alinister
immediately concerned. If Ministers per-
mit Air. Pearce to remain in an , office for
which he has been proved so grossly unfit,
they must share the conseouences. The
public must not hesitate to sweep them away
at the first opportunity, nor waste any
available means to press that opportunity
forward.
SOSH.
The British Revolution rolls forward pon-
derously. Red caps and shouting in the
streets are not to -be on the progrannne, nor
is throat-cutting to play a part; but there
are to be permanent changes as tremendous
as the temporary changes caused by war-
work and military necessity. One of the
latest and most typical statements in this
connection, made by Dr. Addison, Minister
for Reconstruction, is that “house-building
■will no longer be a commercial proposition.”
Before the Kaiser’s outbreak many lands'
talked a lot about Socialism, and here and
there little exhibitions of the animal were
given by States and municipalities ; but Eng-
land, on the whole, struck pretty solidly to in-
dividualism, and it looked as though it would
take a long time to convince J. Bull that
there was anything of practical value in the
preaching of that political and indifktrial
brotherhood at which the Socialist propa-
gandist worked overtime. But the war
altered things. Military needs compelled the
nation to take over many activities from
Private Enterprise; and now even the Tory
opposition to larger co-operation seems to
have waned. There are, it is true, so many
brands of the article called Socialism that
the most contradictory political faiths wear
the same label. All of them, however, have
the one feature in common that they believe
in the substitution of public for private bene-
fit. In a general way, wherever the public
steps in and assumes control of any affair
formerly run for private gain, the movement
may be regarded as Socialistic. But the doc-
trinaire preacher of brotherhood generally
goes a lot further and sees a complete regi-
mentation of the nation or of all the nations,
in which every man and woman works under
the direct command of the State for the
equal benefit of all. Towards the fulfilment
of even this dream of the communist the big
war with its closer organisation for destruc-
tion has gone a long way. If a nation can
be organised for war because by such
organisation it gets the most power out of
itself to defeat the enemy, it seems to follow
directly and logically that a similar sort of
organisation will enable it to get the best
out of itself to feed and clothe and educate
its people and bring them the comfort and
security so often denied under the system of
competitive individualism. So civilisation—
the kindlier civilisation that means good food
for the children and the abolition of physical
misery—appears to be getting forward on
the old powder-cart; and the revolution is all
the time as quiet as a rabbit, and without
one hint of the tiger claws which for drama-
tic effect it should possess.
Of communistic Socialism among civilised
peoples there have been two examples in
history, and both have ended in failure,
though not necessarily for any fault of their
own. The first of these was the experiment
somewhere about 40 a.I). of the Christians
in and about Jerusalem. These new religion-
ists, with their doctrine of brotherly love,
decided to have all things in common and to
abolish all individual rights in property. The
details of the scheme are not known ; but it
is known that the new system -was inaugu-
rated with bickerings and discontent, and
that within a very few years the Judaean
Christians had as a community sunk into
such poverty that alms for their support had
to be collected as far afield as Ephesus and
Corinth. Of an altogether different kind was
the communism under the Inca power in Peru.
There the ruling Ten Thousand of the “Chil-
dren of the Sun” were more or less individu-
alists, though their duties to the State were
tolerably well defined and very well observed ;
but the millions of the common people in the
bisr empire were on a footing of absolute
equality of service and reward. Work was
apportioned for every individual and food
and clothing supplied from the public stores.
Over a thousand miles of territory there was
not one man, woman or child, outside the
Inca nobility, whose personal description,
food and clothing for the year, dwelling
arrangements and record of labor were not
‘known to the central administration. Such
a regimentation was, of course, secured under
a despotism; but. it was a kindly despotism
that made for the greatest good of the great-
est number. The inrush of the Spaniards,
the massacre that followed, and the plunder-
ing of the shrines and cities brought the sys-
tem to a sudden and inglorious end ; but the
possibilities of the thing had been proved to
a point, and its record remains. Yet the
Inca Government does not throw much light
on the problem of communistic effort to-day.
Such a mighty organisation as rendered that
wide-spread equality of prosperity possible
is difficult to imagine under democratic
rule; and the failure of the Early Christian
Socialists warns us against the very system
which under the Incas seemed to succeed.
The theory of the thins: may be perfectly
satisfactory. The moral force of the doc-
trine of “all for each and each for all” is
beyond question. But the machine by which
the idea could be put in State-wide practice
is a complicated one to build and a difficult
one to run. Leaving out the possibility of
miracles, the only way in which a commu-
nism could come into being would be under
an iron despotism that gave place to demo-
cratic rule only when its object was accom-
plished.
But keen as the street-corner orators of
Europe are to see the vast experiment, and
impatient as they are of half-measures
which seem to retard the movement, most of
the things which the most advanced Social-
ist of the most advanced group demands
could -sbe obtained by the laying down of
certain great, broad principles that woul,d
gradually turn the world upside down with-
out shaking any of the essentials of human
society out of place. In the long run a prin-
ciple is always more than a machine; and
its very nature is such that it will create
all the machinery it requires. State ad-
vances in a Socialistic direction, as seen in
Australasia, are not such as can arouse
much enthusiasm. In any case, a universal
system by which a man might become a
mere cog in an ever turning wheel is a
depressing thought; and most men would
rather,pay the penalty of occasional hunger
and frequent anxiety for their individual
freedom than agree to it. To preserve that
individual freedom while,, extending co-opera-
tive effort in every possible direction is
something which does not seem to be beyond
the bounds of human ingenuity. Simple
systems of profit-sharing between employer
and employed have given more incentive to
effort than the big, blundering attempts of
States to conduct business enterprises. It
is impossible to leap at a bound over all
the. barriers of thought raised by long cen-
turies of practice along particular lines.
The slave still works under the whip, even
though the whip be of necessity rather than
of 'leather; and nothing is more certain than
that he will loaf if the driving force be
removed, unless reward for service takes the
place of punishment, for its neglect. Let
the scheme of reward and betterment of con-
ditions for things really done lie at the base
of the new revolution. In that direction
is safety. Equality of opportunity is not
enough. Let there be added certainty of
success if the effort is maintained. Every
country in the world is capable of a develop-
ment that will lift all its people to a level
of comfort never dreamt of in the past.
With united effort there can be produced
enough to satisfy every need. If every
family were lifted to the degree of comfort
now represented by, say, £2OOO a year, the
fact that somebody was a millionaire would
really matter nothing. That millionaire
might be curious and interesting; hut he
could not diminish the food on the breakfast
table of another, nor eat more and better
food than the poorest citizen. Ilis clothes
and his furniture might be finer than some-
one else’s in a freak way; but the poorest
citizen’s would be so good that it could not
matter. So the world’s hope lies in build-
ing up rather than in knocking down; and
if after the great era of war comes the great
era of work, the shooting may have been
worth while. Socialism will advance; but
its strength lies in getting the whole force
of the world’s possible labor thrown into
the world’s task. Equality and equal dis-
tribution of poverty would be a poor ideal
to strive for.
SOME REFLECTIONS ABOUT
CHARITY.
A familiar verse of Scripture sets up three
virtues in a row for special admiration —
faith, hope and charity, and it adds that the
greatest of these is charity. Certainly it
is the most profitable, and writes most fre-
quently to the papers. It is never quite at
a loss for a peg to hang itself on, but it has
its good times and its bad ones, and some
years are fat while others are mere skin and
bone. There are even occasions when the
professional philanthropist has to fall back
on our well-worn colored brother, who is still
supposed .to be crying out for clothes and
instruction at Borrioboola-Gha, on the left
bank of the Niger. On the other hand there
are the extra-rich happenings of drought,
inundation, lack of work, disease and, above
all, war, when the business of being good to
the afflicted flourishes exceedingly. Just
now the injured soldier, the dead soldier’s
widow, the absent soldier’s wife and the
children thereof are useful properties. Ben-
evolence of the cheaper sort pastes its adver-
tisement on their door till space gives out.
A good deal of benevolence smells doubt-
fully and ought to be sniffed at by the police.
Leaving aside a few concerns which are
above suspicion—a Lord Mayor’s Fund, for
instance, which accounts in the most public
manner for all receipts and expenditures—
there is a lamentable tail to the business.
The tail looks so like pure adventure that
the naked eye can hardly tell the difference.
And there is a debatable land between the
head and the tail of the business. Even of
the reliable movements there are perhaps
too many. One big fund is quite as good
as ten small ones of the same aggregate
amount, and the fewer funds there are the
less dazed is the brain of the community.
Among the multitude of appeals the igno-
rant citizen may too often send his little bit
to some individual who is merely raising the
price of a piano or a suburban cottage, and
that person requires discouragement. In one
way, no doubt, 10 honest funds are better
than one of the same size. They supply
limelight to good people where otherwise
there wouldn’t be enough dazzle to go round,
and no one can begrudge the bubble adver-
tisement to a well-meaning fellow creature.
The real drawback is that they raise a dust
which covers many dubiosities. There is the
impassioned promoter who specialises in
some side-line, perhaps boots for the step-
daughters of non-commissioned officers who
were gassed on the road to Jericho. lie
issues no elaborate accounts, and his audi-
tor’s certificate is scarce. Very few people
seem to have heard of him before, but it is
vaguely understood that he has gladdened
many hearts and shifted many* burdens. Also
there is an impression that an influential
committee is behind him ; possibly it is so
far behind that it has passed out of sight.
Again there is the hazy affair which looks
highly respectable and is backed by influen-
tial names. Probably a large number of the
owners of the names have dropped the busi-
ness in the rush. Possibly a number can’t
remember having ever lent their names. One
robust person is usually the whole affair to
all intents and purposes, from the roof down
to the petty cash. This enterprise may be
beyond reproach, but it is untidy. Again
there is a class who collect among their
friends and acquaintances, also among their
friends’ acquaintances. There is no office,
no recognised name and no list of officials.
Any statement of accounts is presented by
mouth when the promoter happens to meet
an inquiring patron. And there is the beam-
ing girl collector at the door—-a handmaiden
who sometimes appears to disremeffiber even
the name of her fund and calls it indiscrim-
inately the Military Trunk or the War
Loan. Her essential assets are cheek, lack
of principle, a smiling countenance, a decent
costume and a collecting-book, or, by way of
giving her the benefit of the doubt, it may
be said that these are her essential assets
unless she is more reliable than she looks.
If her intentions are good she plainly re-
quires a strenuous mother to cane her and
put her to bed for conduct calculated to
bring the family into mockery. This brand
of philanthropist ought to be sft. 3in. in
height, aged anywhere between 17 and 24,
reasonably plump in the corset region, and
armed with a sweet voice, a soft complexion
and a wealth of golden hair. Her branch of
industry doesn’t even involve the cost of a
telephone. She doesn’t offer to give her
name, and if asked for it —well, by the time
some wearily inquisitive person begins to
search the papers to see how much the
vision collected, he Inis probably forgotten
whether she w r as Brown or Smith. She
may possibly be armed with credentials from
the church —perhaps from a parson who
doesn’t exist or a priest wflio never heard of
her.
* * * *
One weary hanger-on to the cause is in a
category by himself. He seeks no money, he
isn’t taking the right way to get limelight,
and if he has an eye on possible votes at
next election he isn’t taking the right way
to get them either. He is sometimes in Par-
liament and sometimes, otherwise.' Credulity
is his strong pointhe is full of available
enthusiasms and is liable to be switched on
to any issue at short notice. If he is taking
a turn at the sectarian row he is prepared
to swear, in his excitement, that he person-


ally saw the Pope, one morning about four
o’clock, setting fire to the wooden tenemen
of a staunch Protestant at Collingwoo .
This well-meaning party is apt to take up
the cause of alleged military widows wi
are starving on 245. or £3 10s. per week,
and are also treated with gross incivility.
A haggard department spends a lot ot
trouble in proving that some of them don t
exist and that the rest are receiving £- lis.
lid. per week or something like that. J-jns
time-wasting pnilanthropist is corroborated
in his wild career by a colleague of a differ-
ent kind —one who has no delusions, and
who wouldn’t turn a hair if the Pope burned
down all Collingwood and himself to boot.
The corroborative nuisance is simply against
the Government on general principles and
against anybody in authority. Both lie and
his brother who saw the Pope committing
arson have a certain vogue; they do a little
to stimulate collections and smooth the path
of the collector by showing the urgent need
for more money. Sometimes weird and pos-
sibly quite unreliable reports are circulated
re military ladies who collect the regular
official stipend and are also on three funds
at once; but these arouse little interest. It
isn’t philanthropic to crush the poor and
the oppressed, even if they are on three
funds at once; and rumors of the sort
wouldn’t help along the collection business.
If they were widely spread and investigated
they would furnish grumpy folk with a pre-
text for saying that the administration of
the funds requires looking into, and that
perhaps the old limelighters had better re-
sign and let new people take a turn.
No reasonable person would demand that
charity should be abolished. It is about, as
henest as the average—more so than politics
and quite as much so as the liquor trade.
It supplies employment, amusement, adver-
tisement, jobs, haloes, pocket-money,
healthy exercise for fraudulent and other
collectors, and it also relieves a lot of dis-
tress. Many a woman struck by undeserved
misfortune has got a new outfit out of the
donations of the charitable, and the person
who raised the money for her has got a new
outfit also. No healthy-minded individual
with cash to spare objects to being taken in
occasionally by the holiest of human emo-
tions. But he does object bitterly to the
slipshod character of some of the devices
he meets with, and gives way to anger at
being taken for a complete ass. He says
that “Samuel Brownjoiinson, honorary
manager,” doesn’t suggest a real individual ;
that 29,726, G.P.0., Bankstown, is an un-
convincing address, and that hardly any-
thing is made public save that Samuel
wants money. It might perhaps be a good
idea to enact that every charitable movement
should be registered, that it should have a
fixed address, a license granted by the Gov-
ernment statistician, and a regular state-
ment of accounts accompanied by vouchers,
these to be supplied periodically to the
same official. The statement might be annual
or semi-annual in the case of the concern
which is above suspicion, as Cesar’s wife
ought to have been, but wasn’t, and monthly
in that of the affair which has got its per-
mit by the skin of its teeth and which is
half suspected of devising a midnight flit-
ting. This might be rough on some slipshod
Christian flappers who meant well but had
never heard of bookkeeping by double entry;
yet in every branch of industry the unfit are
liable to elimination. Probably the slip-
shod flapper would be allowed the option of
a fine for her first offence.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Troubles of Another Wordy
Welshman.
The Lloyd George Government is getting
into broken water, and unless something in
the nature of a miracle happens John Bull
will soon find himself with a large-sized poli-
tical disturbance on his premises. The Gov-
ernment has all along been an experiment.
But it has done big things; and had the
war gone according to schedule the combina-
tion might have survived until the end. The
war has, unfortunately, not gone that way.
Sharp divisions of opinion have therefore
arisen in Britain both as to the conduct of
operations in the field and as to the terms upon
which peace might be made. These, running
for the most part along the lines of party
cleavage, have damaged the foundation on
which the Ministerial outfit rested. And, as
was inevitable from the nature of the busi-
ness in hand, the general administration of
the Government has provoked many enmities.
Now, with the vast changes that have taken
place in the military situation and the in-
creasing strain put upon Britain, the
place of the Government naturally enough
becomes uncertain. The Lansdowne letter
of a few weeks ago was ominous. The
changed tone of Lloyd George’s recent
address to Berlin had a meaning that was
unmistakable. The resignation of Carson
the other day was explained in terms having
little if any point. The critical attitude of
the Liberal and Labor sections in the House
of Commons to the Prime Minister has been
more definite lately than ever. It is impossi-
ble at this distance to judare the merits of
last week’s uproar about the War Council
at A r ersailles. The issues are so heavily
obscured as to make the cabled accounts of
the controversy almost incomprehensible.
The probability is that even in the House of
Commons itself all the cards are not on the
table, and that the debate of the other day,
in which Lloyd George got a very unfriendly
hearing, was merely the camouflage covering
considerations of more vital significance than
those* touched upon. One possible construc-
tion to place upon the faint echoes of fact
contained in the news lately received from
London is that the peace movement is more
alive than it was six months ago. To the
Vatican is attributed the remark that “the
seeds are sprouting.” There are many in-
dications of this. The collapse of the Lloyd
George Government could be looked on as
confirmatory evidence of something of the
kind being in progress. The foundering of
uussia is a fact of enormous significance.
The recent speeches of Woodrow Wilson,
Count Czernin, Lloyd George and even of
the Prussian Chancellor are all suggestive of
peace hems' at least as much thought about
as slaughter. And as the Lloyd George
Ministry is solely a Win-the-War coalition,
one of the first signs of there being need to
consider something else might be seen in a
readjustment of the Ministry on new lines.
Meanwhile if anything went wrong on the
Western Front Lloyd George would prob-
ably go overboard inside half an hour.
That Blessed Word Organisation.
At Melbourne Athenaeum Prime Minister
Hughes has delivered two columns of impas-
sioned circumlocution about what should be
done to keep up this country’s end of the log
when the war of arms is over and the raising
of the blockades enables the war of trade to
resume with renewed energy. He said that
the Ministry had considered the scheme
which he outlined three months ago in Syd-
ney, and was prepared to put it into operation
at once. So alleged this breathless yet lin-
gering shipbuilder who hasn’t managed to
build one vessel in four years. His hazy
scheme is to get into motion so suddenly that
no one will see its heels for dust. Tho
matter, it seems, is one for organisation,
and this is how the organisation is to
organise:—
(1) The unit of the scheme will be the association
representing each industry—
when the industry isn’t on strike or being
eaten up by cheaper and better organised
and older established foreign rivals —
primary and secondary. This will be composed of all
the producers or manufacturers of an industry form-
ing themselves into an association.
How they . will come together, and keep
together, and what they will do when they
are together, and what power they will have
to do anything the great circumlocutionist
sayeth not.
(2) There will be a general council of commerce
and industry composed of representatives from the
various associations.
Nothing said about its authority. Appar-
ently it is simply to talk itself to death and
then attend its own burial.
(3) There will be a Department of Commerce —
Which will provide some billets —
and a Minister for Commerce and Industry—
which will mean another billet.
A first-class business man will be appointed as
permanent head of the department—
at a good salary.
There will be joined with him other experts—
at more good salaries —
representing primary and secondary industries.
Thus there will be presumably a primary
expert to represent the surplus wheat which
isn’t sent away in ships and a secondary
expert to represent the ships which don’t
carry away l the wheat. And apparently none
of these persons will have any concrete
authority whatsoever.
(4) The Science and Industry Bureau placed on a
permanent basis and thoroughly staffed —
seems like quite a lot of paid billets here —
and equipped—
equipped doubtless with all the upholstery
of the season —
will be an integral part of the organisation, and
be at the disposal of the Department of Commerce
and Industry—
but as it isn’t shown that either will have
any specific power or duty, this suggests a
wraith disposing of a shadow —
and of the various industrial associations. (5) Trade
representatives will be appointed in the principal
oversea markets.
And that should mean at least 20 billets at
£lOOO a year each —perhaps 50 billets. And
then there will be staffs and office expenses
for the trade representatives. Yet oversea
markets liat'e shown themselves ready to buy
every old thing we have to sell without the
interference of highly-paid commissioners at
Damascus or Timbuctoo, provided we could
deliver the goods. Therefore why this find-
ing of pleasant jobs for politicians and their
friends? It is a costly business to have a
Government which knows no remedy for
anything save the appointment of still
another lot of experts, secretaries, commis-
sioners, experts, clerks, office-boys, office-
cleaners, office cats, night-watchmen, door-
openers, door-bangers, travellers, agents,
advisers, surveyors, appraisers and the like,
with expensive premises for each gang, and a
powerless, high cockalorum in the principal
room, and carpets, desks, stationery, fire-
buckets, libraries full of works on bee-culture
and ancient history, also free railway passes,
coal-scuttles and instructions to get to work
and organise something or anything or
nothing like the very Devil, and then report
to a special Board. Whereupon the Chief
Paid Buzzer of the special Board expresses
his deep satisfaction, and the Stipendiary
Bumble-bee approves of what has been done,
and the matter is filed by the Tape Office and
the Sealing-wax Department. And in the
fulness of years and the long process of cir-
cumnavigation everything suddenly remains
as it was.
Arbitration in the AVorker’s Kitchen.
There is one clause in Beeby’s Arbitration
Amendment Bill now being wrangled over in
N. S. Wales Assembly which, owing to the
promise it gives of a laugh, almost reconciles
The Bulletin to the whole measure. This
is the section which provides:—
The Court shall in the month of December in each
year declare what shall be the living wage for the
succeeding year for adult male workers and female
workers respectively, and no industrial agreement
shall be entered into and no award made for wages
lower than such living wage.
No mention is made of wages fixed by pre-
vious awards or of agreements automatically
advancing to keep pace with the living wage
if it crawls up during their currency. Pre-
sumably this is left out since such a provi-
sion would be incomplete without a comple-
mentary section providing for an automatic
fall in wages if the living wage underwent
reduction, and that, of course, would be the
very devil. Nor can this paper discover any-
thing in the clause to make it incumbent
upon employers who are not working under
awards to pay the living wage laid down by
the Court before having its Christmas dinner.
Neither does the most minute search reveal
any indication of what the term “lifing
wage” is supposed to mean—whether there
is to be one datum line drawn by the Court
for all workers, or whether a living wage is
to be determined for each particular indus-
try. And if anyone connected with the
Legislature is able to find direction, formula,
hint or indication in the Bill concerning the
basis on which wages are to be fixed at 5,10.
50 or 90 per cent, above the living wage in
different industries, such person has keener
eyesight than this writer. As much because
of what is not in the clause as of what it
actually contains The Bulletin is moved to
propose three cheers; for it has long yearned
to see a Court at work fixing a hard-and-fast
living wage, which the man who works shall
consider to be the foundation of his share in
the earnings of industry—has yearned to see
the problem brought from the region of
blither to the realm of practice. One or two
attempts have been made by Arbitration
Courts to define what a living wage implies.
“That which will enable a man to keep a
wife and three children in reasonable com-
fort” is the nearest approach to a compre-
hensible definition yet recorded ; and “reason-
aole comfort” may mean £2 a week or £2O.
The truth is that as soon as you try to
interpret the term “living wage,” the stan-
dard of living is as hard to keep out of the
controversy as an eel out of the wet. This
paper has, for its own part, never been able
to understand what the cost of living has got
to do with wages. To pin men and women
down to a fixed point of income and say,
“That is a fair thing because you can live on
it,” seems to The Bulletin to be a step
towards bringing a wage-paying commercial-
ism nearer the point of slavery than ever.
The wages of a man should be governed by
the value of his labor. The margin by which
it varies from this is the measure of the pro-
ducer’s exploitation, whether his work be
manual or mental, practical or theoretical.
So far as it may prevent gross forms of
sweating, determination of the “living wage”
may be temporarily useful, in a small way.
So far as a means of helping the general
body of active wage-earners in their double
struggle against fat-headed politicians and
hungry middlemen, it is worth next to
nothing. In fact, it may be worth less.
Still,, the snectacle of the Court grappling
with the job contemplated bv Beeby will be
a joyous circumstance in days which may
otherwise be oeastly solemn.
♦
How to Pay a Dog anil Bark Yourself.
“We have only to imagine a great public agita-
tion arising, with meetings being held everywhere to
enforce and advertise a deep public conviction, and
the pressure upon the Government would become
irresistible.” —S. M. Herald, on St. Valentine’s Day
re Prime Minister Hughes's local shipbuilding drkam.
That kind of support is little less than
brutal. It implies that the Government is
merely making a hollow pretence of an
intention to build ships, and will only yield
to “irresistible pressure.” Everybody yields
to “irresistible pressure,” for nobody can do
otherwise, but it is unkind to hint that the
Australian Cabinet is hanging on by the
skin of its teeth to prevent an essential
local industry being started and our millions
of tons of decaying victuals being sent to the
hungry folks in England, and will only get
to real work when it finds itself shoved more
than half-way over the precipice, at the
bottom of which is oblivion and loss of
salary. Why should the nation pay a dog
and bark itself*? Why should it have to
leave its work that it may attend meetings
and pass resolutions and walk in processions,
and wave banners, and post up bills, all to
save its greatest agricultural industry from
being ruined to the advantage of Germany?
It can get loans, unpayable railways,
Norton-csmitii agreements, useless trade
commissioners, new departments of all sorts,
motor-cars for Ministers, luxurious trips to
England for the same and a thousand other
things without putting on all this “pressure.”
Even a new Zoo, not legally authorised by
the Works Committee, drops like the gentle
dew from Heaven without any huge national
demand, and the Sydney /,oo cost as much
as would have been required to build five
good wheat and rabbit carriers for service
on the sea. No irresistible shcve was needed
when the Prime Minister bought a few ships
in England and ordered a few in America —
but" then that was a matter of encouraging
and paying for other people’s industry, and
when it is a case of feeding the great im-
porting craze no pressure is required. In
fact, the Government couldn’t be held back
if it was tied to a kedge anchor. How much
German influence has been at work and how
much German money has been spent to
throw unaccountable obstacles in the path
of the job by which Australia could have
given more help to the Allies than by all
other jobs nut together no one can say. Per-
haps bought-and-paid-for obstacles weren’t
wanted. The Dictator of Australia could
manage without them. He is undiplomatic
except in matters of Parliamentary manage-
ment, and his capacity for blundering into one
difficulty after another with the unions has
been amazing. He is sluggish, and when it
is a matter of holding consultations and
conferences to clear up difficulties it is a
pathetically long time between drinks. He
is timid, and apparently the responsibility
of starting a cheap and simple new business
in which definite results must be promptly
shown or ignominious failure put on record,
reduces him to a cold perspiration. Likewise
he is an importer by instinct-same as the
K. M. Herald. So the easy and not expen-
sive business of running up cargo ships has
been talked about till it looms in the public
eye like something ruinous and gigantic—
something like a dangerous lunatic to be
approached with caution or an unchained
gorilla which roams around at night eating
infants.
“It All Comes Back to the Tariff.”
From Australia’s pioneer ironmaster, Wm.
Sandford -
Referring to the paragraph under the above head-
ing in The Bulletin (14/2/’18), I have been
through the United States from New York to San
Francisco, stopping at the principal cities, and
endorse Major Hay’s words: “The United States is one
of the most advanced countries in the world.” And
out of my experience I repeat The Bulletin's com-
ment: “It all comes from the tariff.” Had Aus-
tralia adopted the United States policy of High Pro-
tection when The Bulletin first advocated it, she
would not be in the backward state that she is in
to-day. Take, for instance, the shipbuilding in-
dustry. Had Australia been part of the United
States the Parramatta River would be to-day crowded
with ships in course of construction, and built from
our home-made plates and sections.
Before me is the speech made by our great man
David Buchanan, at the Victoria Theatre, in Sydney,
on March 27, 1880. In concluding it he said:
“Never let this great fact be absent from your minds
-—open ports mean work for the stranger and for-
eigner, and poverty and idleness for yourselves,
accompanied by stagnation and national decay.” It
would be easy to show that the policy of Australia
ever since Buchanan spoke has been to look after
the stranger and foreigner, and allow Australians to
go unprovided with work. Take the Year Book of
Australia (No. 10), just published: you will find it
therein stated that the import? from countries outside
of Australia for the year 1915-10 amounted to
£77,521,142. The imports for the six years ending
1916 amounted to the enormous sum of three hundred
and sixty-seven million pounds—nearly all partly
manufactured and manufactured goods. That shows
what a big market our home market is.
The proportion of imports into Australia from
U.S.A. in 1886 was 6.11 p.c. ; this was increased to
32,35 p.c. in 1915-16. But the proportion from the
United Kingdom had decreased from 73.37 p.c. in
1886 to 51.26 p.c. in 1915-16. The decrease from
Great Britain and the increase from America are
entirely owing to the advantages given to America by
its tariff.
We know how various industries have suffered in
this country for want of a scientific tariff since
David Buchanan spoke. But. what will it be when
Japan and the United States, with their scientific
plant and brains, come into full competition with
the unprotected workmen of Australia?
Building Industries by the Hot-air
Process.
Dear Bulletin, — One more drove of
public unaccountables is the Primary
Industries Development League of Syd-
ney with a president, two treasureis,
live vice-presidents, and a varied and
numerous council. It includes a special
councillor to promote meat, one to push on
wool, another to gladden- wine with a leg
up, ditto as regards fruit, cow produce, fish
and forests, and of course a man to give
wheat a real hard shove. Now there are
L 1.000.000 bags of wheat stacked up at N.
S. Wales railway stations and sidings, and
nearly 9,000,000 bags have been on hand
over a year. Unless the* most ancient sec-
tion of this mountain of grain can be shipped
to England before it festers any worse, it
might almost as well be burned. So as
vessels are not available, Arthur, M.L.A.,
suggested that the League might include
shipbuilding among its objects, but was
ruled out on the ground that the blessed
combination didn’t deal with political matters.
Why the ship should be political while its
contents are not, who can tell? Perhaps the
explanation is that any well-meaning old
party can sit around in a meeting and
“encourage” fruit or fish or trees. That is
mere theorv and windy platitudes. But when
a society starts to encourage shipbuilding
it must needs build at least a punt sooner or
later as an excuse for its existence, and that
might make the institution tired, even
breathless. Afore ships are urgent, while
more wheat isn’t; in fact, for lack of means
of carriage grain may soon be more common
than back yards and dust, and more super-
fluous than bigamy. But apparently the
half-pint of brains required to deal with the
country’s biggest want is missing. The
buyer in England is very hungry for want
of wheat, and the grower here is hungry
because the wretched and precarious dole of
4s. per bushel isn’t much to live upon. So a
crowd of city humorists get together in a
city office to fill the stomachs of both parties
with approval, moral support and applause!
They find a lame dog in creat distress and
they give it three cheers. If the thing wasn’t
so well-meaning and pathetic one might
imagine it to be a premeditated scoff at those
who are in misfortune. Incidentally, anyone
may scoff for life on payment of £lO 10s.. and
the office is located in O’Connell-street, Syd-
ney.—Henry Horsecollar.
Price Fixing as It Is but Shouldn’t Be.
From a man who ought to know: —
The contributor (B. 7/2, 1 ”18) who advocates the
adoption by the State of the proprietary-article idea
and the marketing of Government flour, beer, sugar,
corsets, etc., as a cure for the high cost of living,
denounces the present “rule-of-thumb price-fixing”
and pours derision on the “well-meaning amateurs
who run the show.” But what is being done is not
price-fixing. It is a mixture of bluff and laziness;
a sham, a delusion and a piece of leg-pulling that
costs quite £20,000 a year and is about as useful
as a ha’penny with a hole in it. Like the ship-
building “scheme” and the Bendigo pledge it is a
confidence-trick. The pity is that its calculated
uselessness will help to damn future efforts to hold
the balance fairly between buyer and seller, and
furnish hardshell Tories with additional evidence of
the lunacy of interference with the sacred law of
supply and demand.
The first serious attempt to regulate prices was
the appointment by the Holman Labor Government
of the Necessary Commodities Commission in N. S.
Wales. It did good work, but its success was ham-
pered by the artificial State boundaries which limited
the operation of its regulations. Business, on the
other hand, has no concern with these lines on the
map. The Commonwealth came on the scene in
March, 1916, when the price of flour and bread was
fixed under the War Precautions Act, and a Prices
Board (of politicians) appointed. Later, Commis-
sioners were appointed in each State ,to work under
the Board. In August the Cabinet, alarmed at the
forward policy of the Board, took the reins out of
its hands and vested full control in Assistant-Minister
Russell, who is also chairman of the Wheat and
Shipping Boards, and probably the laziest man in
Australian politics. Thereupon the Board resigned.
Ever since the stars and the politicians in their
courses and discourses have fought against any seri-
ous attempt to keep prices off the mountain-tops.
The first Conscription Referendum and the resultant
split gave Ministers other things to think about, and
during those strenuous months Russell was too busy
making speeches, offering to enlist, and finessing
with the P.L.L. to do the work he was paid to do,
with the result that the machine stopped. Then
came the haggling that preceded the Hughes-Cook


What Co-operative insurance Means to the Farmer.
The magnificent results achieved by the mutual insurance companies of Australia are widely known. Several of these mutual companies are among
the strongest and soundest of Australian financial institutions.
Farmers’ business is highly profitable. If, therefore, the farmers and pastoralists pf the Commonwealth co-operate and send their business to
their own company, nothing can prevent their company becoming a powerful financial institution.
Tfl e Farmers' & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“ s Jk!p
was established nearly three years ago. Thousands of farmers and pastoralists have already co-operated, the Company is rapidly growing, and the
future is decidedly promising.
Every Farmer and Pastoralist in Australia Should Support this Cooperative Insurance Co.
The entire profits of the business are the property of the co-operating policy-holders.
WRITE THE MANAGER FOR FULL PARTICULARS.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
fusion. The Libs, made it quite plain that the
abandonment of real price-fixing was a condition of
coalition. This was agreed to, and just so soon as
the plums were distributed, Hughes wired notice of
dismissal to the Commissioners in the States. Tnis
was in March, 1917. The Ready- Watson disclosures
precipitated a dissolution, and the knife was stayed ;
so that the Commissioners still hold their jobs,
although the sentence of death has never been re-
voked. So the farce goes on. The food riots in Mel-
bourne last year stirred Hughes into action, and he
set the Inter-State Commission on its legs to inquire
into the prices of a number of foodstuffs and com-
modities. Mark you, he did not ask the Commission
to report why the expensive organisation which
already existed to fix prices had failed, because that
would have meant the exposure of his own bungling
and maladministration. The Commission is still
inquiring.
To tell the whole of this sad story would take a
week’s Bulletin, but the public ass, who pays for
it all, may be given a few thistles to chew:—
(1) The Fusion Government has deliberately
adopted a “go-slow” policy with regard to price-
fixing.
(2) Letters and recommendations from the State
Prices Commissioners to the Minister are not even
acknowledged.
(3) In very many cases recommendations are never
considered. In other instances their gazettal is
delayed for months.
(4) No attempt is made to enforce the few prices
fixed. Everyone is chancing prosecution. Traders
know they may disregard the proclamations with im-
punity ; no organisation exists to detect breaches,
and no move has been made to secure the services of
the police for this work. Even should a Commis-
sioner wish to prosecute offenders he is not allowed
to do so, but must refer all cases to Melbourne.
(5) In February of last year a Conference of Com-
missioners held in Melbourne drew up a memoran-
dum to Minister Russell, asking him to end the
unsatisfactory conditions then, and now, existing.
The memorandum was accompanied by some dozen
recommendations giving their suggestions in detail.
The Minister has not yet even acknowledged receipt.
The remedy for all this is not the expenditure of
some millions in the establishment of State corset-
parlors and boot-factories which, presumably, would
be run by the brothers and first-cousins of “well-
meaning amateurs.” It is the establishment of a
system of responsible government—by Parliament, if
you like, but certainly not by War Precautions
Regulations. If political 1.W.W.-ism carried penalties
and defaulting politicians received the same sentence
in “years’ hard” as a defaulting clerk, we might get
along a lot better and a darned sight quicker.
When There Isn’t an Army to Fight.
When Hannibal brought his astonishing
army of hard-fighting mercenaries down from
the Alps and smashed the flower of the
Itoman armies, the big city of his enemies
lay before him. The Carthaginian could
possibly have walked in arid finished things
in one red week ; but he knew the city, knew
the sort of people it contained, and decided
to leave it alone. The Roman in the field
might be broken; the Roman citizen with
his short, ugly sword in his hand and his
back to his own front-door was another propo-
sition. Something of the same kind appears
to be happening in the case of the Kaiser
and the Russian revolution. That the Ger-
man could go ahead and smash things to his
heart’s content seems probable; but he hesi-
tates and enters into a series of long palavers
with the enemy. Trotsky’s remark that a
nation of workmen with rifles in their hands
is a serious proposition has evidently got
him thinking. While there is an opposing
army, that army can be definitely licked.
With luck it can be more than licked; it is
possible to break it up in panic-stricken frag-
ments which may run screaming across the
landscape, carrying the terror of the ap-
proaching victor wherever they go. Armed
individuals are another affair altogether; and
it is possible that the German military
authorities see a stupendous task before them
if they attempt to round up a scattered and
angry revolution which refuses to be licked
and has forgotten the meaning of victory.
The rounding-up of the few Boers left in the
field at the close of the South African calam-
ity kept the British staff awake all night and
every night; and if the Kaiser struck the
same sort of mobile opposition he would
apparently require about 10,000,000 soldiers
to really capture Russia. The Bolshevik
may be mostly talk or mainly whiskers, but
evidently Wilhelm doesn’t like the look of
him.
+
The New Loan.
The Commonwealth is sending up its plate
for a sixth helping of war loan ; and if the
money is not got that way, it will have to be
found in another. There are two innovations
in the prospectus: (1) a proposal by which
money may be lent either at 41 per cent, free
of taxation or 5 per cent, with liability to
Commonwealth tax; and (2) a conversion
scheme by which with certain limitations 4-j
per cent, stocks may be converted into the
new o per cents. So far as this is meant to
meet the objection to the removal of a vast
sum of capital from the ambit of taxation.
there is nothing in it. The effect will be to
put the greater part of the new loan in the
same, position regarding taxation as the
previous issues, which, in the judgment of
this paper, is a grave mistake, and certain
to be the cause of violent disputation later
on. Boiled down to essentials, the hesitating
step taken bv the Commonwealth amounts to
an offer of higher interest to small investors
and a perpetuation of the system which gives
the big tax-free investor a substantially
greater net return from the smaller rate.
The higher the income the greater the in-
ducement. to sternly resist accepting 5 per
the case of an investor of
x-0.000. At 5 per cent, the return would be
f 1.250 less the present tax, ftiG 10s. 10d., or
£1383 3s. 2d. net. At 41 per cent, the vield
would be £1125. In that case there seems
to be an advantage of £5B 16s. lOd. in paying
income tax.: but a rise of Id. in the tax
would blot it out and an increase of 2d. turn
the balance the other way. That the tax
will increase 2d. and more is as certain as
the multiplication table. Now, take an in-
vestor with £lOO,OOO asking himself which he
will condescend to purchase, bonds at 41
tfree) or 5 (taxable). The income at 5 per
cent, will be £5OOO, less tax £760 18s. Id.:
net return £4230 Is. lid. At 4J free there
would be £4500 to appropriate. Not much
room for doubt there! Then take the case of
a £1,000,000 investor. The taxable bonds
would show net earnings of £37.905; the
untaxed income from 41 would be £45,000.
The amended conditions thus make things a
little better for the small man; but they
leave things far too advantageous for the big
investoi.
The Minor and Major Riots in Europe.
Pending information about the coming Ger-
man push, copious details, with the innards
carefully removed, have been available lately
about a rumpus in England concerning the
War Council at Versailles and changes at
the War Office. Nobody at this distance can
do more than guess at the meaning of it all:
but one important fact is that Robertson,
the Chief of Staff, has retired from his job
after a misunderstanding or its equivalent
with Lloyd Geobge. There is an allegation
that the proceedings are “resented by the
army,” which is nonsense; for who could
ascertain in 24 hours the opinion of the
army? There is the further statement that
the retirement created a sensation in Lon-
don. This is probably true, but it was cer-
tainly not an unexpected sensation. Rob-
ertson’s retirement, if not actually expected,
had for a long while been spoken of as pro-
bable, just as Jelliooe’s had been. Appar-
ently Robertson objected to the Allied Coun-
cil of Versailles and stood for “the free
hand” and “no interference,” and all the
rest of it. On the face of it the inauguration
of a common strategy among the Allies seems
tc have been over-long delayed. It
is certain, too, that the d'emands of
highly-placed soldiers for “free hands”
can easily reach a point where the
choice is between disaster and something
else. There are limitations to “free hands.”
The conduct of a national war is first and
foremost the business of the governing
authority, whether it be a Ministry, a mon-
arch or a committee of Bolsheviks. To that
authority the military arm must always be
responsible, anu always has been—except
where the military arm becomes a dictator,
as in Germany. Whether it would have been
better to follow the Robertson system,
whatever it may be, than to go on the lines
now favored by the Allied Governments,
whatever they may be, is a point to be
decided by later events and the illumination
of past happenings; but it is certain that a
military autocracy must be resisted. Apart
from that, there cannot be much reason to
doubt that the time was pretty nearly ripe
for a change, a reflection which is not made
look any less reasonable by contemplation of
Robertson’s attitude. Unquestionably if the
most intelligent private soldier in the army
disapproved of a stupid superior’s plans,
he would find it a serious offence to lay
down his arms in the face of the enemy.
Plow Russia is getting along nowadays is a
problem as vast as the ultimate fate of the
universe. The other morning, if the cables
are to be believed, the Bear was out of the
proceedings and getting ready to take what
was coming in a humble, contrite spirit.
Next day he had decided to remobilise him-
self fall in several millions upon the
enemy. There was news early in the week
that Germany was hanging out flags of joy
at the consummation of peace. Before this
had time to soak in came information that
the Kaiser’s armies *wsre getting ready to
resume hurting Ivan. Every explanation
made of Russia and the Bolsheviks seems to
call for further explanation, and when this
is forthcoming nothing appears clear except
that it is all wrong. Next week The Bul-
letin is going to try to throw some light
into the murk by printing the nearest
approach possible to an official statement of
the Bolshevik position—the contribution of
Peter Simonoff, nominated as Consul-
General for Australia by the Bolshevik
Government.
A note from near the inside: —
The Holman Ministry last week got nearer to
being blown up by an internal explosion than any
other Government that ever lived to tell the yarn.
The shell was attached to a time-fuse, and Holman
had about the liveliest 24 hours of his life stamping
the fire out. All along there had been a loud aroma
from the wheat-silo jobs, and when Beeby discovered
that there had been omitted from the contract
entered into with Teesdale Smith certain safeguards
protecting the State against loss or excessive pay-
ments for additions, things began to happen. Beeby
wanted to know why, and handed his resignation
to Holman, with an intimation that he could accept
it at once or get the contract made straight, just as
ho pleased. David Storey, another member of the
Ministry, also went up, and a Cabinet meeting of
great vehemence supervened. The end of it all was
that Holman almost within a day had obtained from
Smith an undertaking to sign a new contract and
drop the other one down a well. Whereupon what
the S. M. Herald called an “incident” passed into
oblivion —for the time being. But it shook the
Ministry to the bluchers and acted upon its party
following in the Assembly, already as dejected as
wet hens over the- Brown coal business, very much
like an extra-strong emetic. The silence that fol-
lowed could be heard a mile away ; but anyone who
happened to be a little closer could hear a chorus
of curses in 15 dialects. Why the missing clauses
were left out and why, being left out, the contractor
affably agreed to enter into a contract less favorable
to himself than the one already signed has not been
explained—and most likely never will be. The posi-
tion of the “Nationalists” outside Parliament now
is that when anyone mentions the word contract
everybody rushes to open the window. And the
affection of the regular, dyed-in-the-wool Lib. for the
new lodgers brought in on the llolman-Wade deal
is a moving circumstance, in which humor struggles
hard with pathos.
“Fairfield” in support of “Phthisis” (B.
31/1/’lB and 14/2/T8), re the Mont Park
(Vie.) military sanatorium: —
Lt.-Colonel Tiiwaites must be blind ; if not, he is
being hoodwinked. The statement made by
“Phthisis" was mild in view of the actual facts—
facts known to every adult within the neighborhood
of Mont Park. The Progress Associations have made
representations to the military authorities in regard
to the unrestricted travelling in trains to and from
Mont Park of phthisis patients, all to no purpose.
There have been officers who tried hard to discipline
patients for their own good, and for so doing have
become unpopular and have been quietly removed.
It is quite an open boast at Mont Park: “We will
scon shift you from your possy if you start the regu-
lations stunt.” I have personally visited Mont Park
with organised amusement parties and I have first-
hand knowledge that the facts as stated by
“Phthisis" are only too true. A day—particularly
a pay-day—spent in Heidelberg (the nearest town)
will confirm (ill that has been said and justify one
in saying more.
This is supported by five other contributors.
In spite of the official statement which The
Bulletin was required to publish as an
addendum to the statement made by
“Phthisis” —himself, The Bulletin may
be permitted to say, a man with a fine record
of service—it is obvious that a thorough
inquiry is called for.
Better a week of Sydney than a cyclone
of Mackay.
The art of governing by party has been
pushed to its logical limit in South Aus.
The resignation of Styles made a vacancy
in the Coalition Ministry of Liberals and
Nationals. As he belonged to the latter, it
was agreed that they should appoint his
successor. Thereon W. H. Harvey was selected
by the National members of Parliament, and
“the decision of the meeting was immedi-
ately conveyed to the Premier,” who accepted
him as a colleague as a matter of course.
Harvey has less than three years’ Parlia
mentary experience, but has been a solid
Labor worker for a long time. He becomes
Minister of Education, with Forestry.
From the Federal Gallery:—
Bigjohn Forrest has been brained into insensi-
bility with a coronet, but Hughes has still to deal
with other aspirants for his billet. Any Cabinet
containing Cook and Watt would not allow Hughes a
monopoly in personal aggrandisement. There are no
more energetic hustlers for these two than the
honorable members for Parramatta and Balaklava,
and both believe that their efforts on behalf of the
Empire could be doubled with the reward of the
Prime Minister’s salary. Hughes, who is secretly
wearied of the pair, will have to take one or other
to England, though he would like to go alone, not
only to mortgage the reduced limelight that can be
spared for Australia, but also to keep Cook and Watt
so busy watching one another that neither would have
time to enhance his own prestige. That arrangement
would be admirable from Hughes’s point of view, but
it wouldn’t suit Joe Cook, who is willing to take
the trip even at the risk of letting Willie Watt be
Acting Prime Minister. Hughes would prefer Cook
to Watt as a fellow-traveller, for Watt has a rich
bravura speech and disconcerting ability, whereas
Cook, despite a fraudulent air of authority, is aboui
as entertaining as a sexton. Yet talcing Joseph
means leaving Watt, and that is not a fascinating
prospect for a fearfully-shaky Prime Minister who
understands Watt’s objection to a modest place.
There is a further complication in the fact that
Irvine was promised a berth with the delegation that
was expected to leave for England last year. That
promise has not been revoked ; so if Irvine suddenly
mentions that Australia’s voice would be incomplete
without his silvery tenor, the position would be very
interesting indeed. As a compagnon de voyage Cook
is bad enough ; Watt would be worse ; but the pre-
sence in London of the one man who had stood
forthright for Conscription, regardless of personal or
party interests, would make Hughes look like a
Pierrot at the Imperial Council table.
Up till the other day all advertisements,
proclamations and so on bearing the signa-
ture of the Commonwealth Treasurer finished
up with “John Forrest.” Now he signs
“Forrest.” If John gets any more attention
from George V., The Bulletin expects to
notice him going under an alias like a bishop
and announcing himself as Bunbury.
One Bell, of Fairfield, uprose lately at a
Nepean (N.S.YV.) patriotic meeting and said
that he would give half of what he possessed
to improve the lot of soldiers and their
families if the Government would make
everybody else do likewise. Well, this
writer won’t let anybody get ahead of him
in the good cause. He will give everything
l e possesses, including his clothes and boots,
to help on the war, provided the Govern-
ment makes everybody else do the same.
“The Pariah”: Add Bapinba to “D.F.’s”
list of Victorian towns whose names had a
queer origin (B. 7/2/TS). When the Bal-
larat-Colac railway was opened, the railway
bosses told the Weering people that they
would have to choose another name, as there
might be confusion with Weerite, which is
also in the Western District. The locals
invented “a euphonious aboriginal name” by
taking the first syllables of the names of the
three men who represented the riding—Ba-
pin-ba.
Excluding the month’s regime when the
officers of the old Rum Corps ran the show,
Davidson, who arrived in Sydney this week,
is the 26tli Governor appointed to N. S.
Wales since 1788. Of 25 Cocked Hats who
have come and gone Macquarie lasted the
longest—ll years. Fitzroy hung on for nine
years, Gipps for eight, Robinson and Rawson
seven ; Darling, Denison, Young and Loftus.
who kept the poultry, each six. Bligh fin-
ished up in 17 months, and Beauchamp of
the Birth Stain reckoned the time was ripe
to stop taking the cheque a fortnight before
a couple of years had passed.
Fate seemed to be giving things an ironi-
cal twist the other day over in Maoriland
when the newspapers announced the death
by drowning of Harry Bedford, Professor of
Economics and History, at Otago University.
During most of his short, useful life Bed-
ford had persistently preached the virtues of
cold water. He was the son of a journey-
man tailor, and as a kid was given a trial
at the old man’s trade, but threw that up
and sampled farming and blacksmithing, did
the same to them and then turned to law.
He was a brilliant student, and took high
honors at the University Colleges in Auck-
land and Dunedin. Also he . was a youth of
unbounded loquacity, with an unextinguish-
able yearning for politics and the capture of
Richard Seddon’s scalp. At 21 he had a shot
at the Caversham seat in a by-election, but
was defeated by Tom Sidey. In the next
year (1902) he stood at a general election
as an Independent for Dunedin City, run-
ning against the Seddonian ticket of
Millar, Arnold and Barclay, and lo! he
emerged at the top of the. poll with the
biggest vote cast for any candidate in the
Dominion. When the pink little man with a
rudimentary moustache took his seat in the
Reps, he looked like an escaped schoolboy.
He talked like a phonograph for three years,
and then was snuffed out. The rest was
mostly the practice of law and university
work and fulminations against beer. He was
only 41 at the finish.
Salvation Chaplain-Major W. McKenzie,
M.C., got back to Sydney last week after
three years of war, and the soldiers who
knew his extraordinary record made
papers crackle with his praises. A fighting,
singing Scot of enormous vitality, enthusiasm
and pluck, he won the Cross on Gallipoli,
and, what was even better, the affection of
all the Billjims he led and comforted so
naturally and easily. The men of the First
Brigade—what is left of them—swear he
went into the glorious Lone Pine charge
armed with an entrenching tool, and another
story tells he w, on a transport returning
from Gallipoli to Egypt with a thousand
brooding soldiers, an enormous voice roared
the old challenge, “Are we downhearted?”
“No!” yelled the Billjims, and, looking
round, saw it was Mac. “Then let us sing!”
he shouted, and soon “Australia Will Be
There” was rolling defiantly across the sea.


GANCIA’S
EXTRA DRY
ASTI SPARKLING SWEET
AS SUPPLIED TO THE KING OF ITALY AND ALL ROYALTIES.
f GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1900.
AWARDED (GRAND PRIX, BRUSSELS, 1910.
CIVIL SERVICE STORE AND ALL LEADING HOTELS. ASK FOR IT.
Sole Agents for Australasia: LUBRANO FERRARI, 32 O’Connell St., Sydney
ALL OTHER ITALIAN WINES KEPT IN STOCK. _______
“I’ve Struck It—
The Real Tiling in Razors. Gets through the job
in a quarter the time, and makes the business a
pleasure. The ‘PLUM’S’ the Razor for me.”
THE “PLUM” RAZOR
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM
Razor.
»
Made from the Wool you KNOW!
Peapes “Warrigal” Underwear is all-Australian—in material
and make. It is pure wool, soft in texture and non-
shrinkirig. Its price is moderate —-its value excellent.
Choose “Warrigal,” the Australian Underwear, and get good-
wearing-quality for a reasonable price.
LIGHT-WEIGHT, PURE NATURAL WOOL.
Undershirts. 34. 36. 38. 40. 42. 44.
9/- 9/6 10/- 10/6 11/- 11/6
Underpants. 10/- 10/6 11/- 11/6 12/- 12/6
Peapes pay postage. Please state chest and waist measure-
ments. New catalogue sent on request.
WARRICAL
♦
This registered Peapes
label is sewn into
every garment.
PEAPES § CO. LTD.
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 & 311 George Street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “Daddy Long Legs,
Her Majesty’s “The Bing Boys Are Here
Palace “ Pe S ° M Y lle^ rt „
Tivoli “Samples
Onion Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Dick Whittington
Royal “The Easiest Way
Princess’s “The Rajali of Shivapore ’
King’s “Aladdin
Tivoli Ada Reeve
Hoyt's Dk Luxe A on mi ia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
“The Easiest Way” will point its moral at
Melbourne Royal for another week at least.
Its morals are a good bit off, but its moral is
a warning to young women of a prevariea-
tive turn of mind. Laura applies to her pal
Elbe for advice when she is suffering from
the effects of fibs, and Elfie exhorts her to
keep on fibbing, with the result that she gets
badly left at the finish. Muriel Starr makes
spasmodic efforts to realise the possibilities
of the character, but her dressing is a con-
stant contradiction of the sort of girl Frank
Harvey alleges her to be. According to
Harvey, she has ever been the mould of neat-
ness and the glass of style. As a matter of
fact, she wears an untidy air, and her amaz-
ing morning gown in the third act seems cal-
culated to make any well-regulated “protec-
tor” get up and protest. No lawfully-married
man would consent to sit at breakfast with
such a weird, untimely garment, nor would
any tasteful profligate fail to weep if he
strolled into his lost girl’s lodgings and found
her wearing Laura’s skirt and blouse.
* * * *
In this play one perceives the deter-
mination of the ’Murikan machine drama-
tist to “can the old stuff” and intro-
duce a new line of business. The
telephone is conspicuously omitted. No-
body sits at a desk to converse with some
far-away person concerning matters of imme-
diate importance to the plot. A while ago it
was the rule for all the leading characters,
and sometimes the servants, fo talk things of
the first importance into a telephone-receiver
and impart valuable information to the aucli
ence by means of replies to a supposititious
person at the other end. The whole drama
radiated from the ’phone, as it were.
Nothing of this in “The Easiest Way.” Still,
there is a lot of conversing with persons off
the stage. In Act I both Frank Harvey
and Muriel Starr exchange words with a
Voice —the property of the never-apparent
lady who is said to be a demon for playing
bridge. In Act II the Voice of the Invisible
Lodging-house Keeper utters words that
have a direct bearing on the plot; for the
heroine’s relapse into unvirtuousness is
clearly hastened by the bawling landlady
who wants her rent. And in Act 111
naughty Elfie discloses her system of witch-
ery whilst talking in loud tones to Laura,
who is changing her dress in the next room.
The audience is tickled by the news thus
conveyed that Elfie thinks of returning to the
stage because her elderly protector has re-
sumed his old “front-row habit,” and must
oe given the gratification of pointing out his
expensive chorus-lady to his cronies, and say-
ing “That belongs to me." It isn’t probable
that even that sort of Elfie would proclaim
her policy so loudly in a place where others
beside the negro servants might overhear
her; but the dramatist scores his point, which
is to give a conversational air to what is
practically a monologue by the only charac-
ter on the stage—and this without resorting
to the old telephone dodge. The methods of
smart American playmakers seem to breathe
the national desire to have “no flies on it.”
** * *
Popular prices are a recommendation for
a musical show that has some sweetly-melo-
dious moments, and “The Rajah of Shiva-
pore,” at Melbourne Princess’s, is progress-
ing favorably. The shortcomings in the per-
formance and the fictitiousness of the plot
strike one as before, but the music improves
on acquaintance. It is strongest towards the
end. The duet and chorus number (“My
Beloved”) which immediately precedes
“Sword of Mine” is a charming accompani-
ment to Miss Myra Morrison’s dance, but
here the want of “padding” to the opera’s
meagre form is most apparent. The same
young ladies come tripping in with their
little drums who have only a few minutes
earlier been packed off to the harem of the
Rajah, that gloomy potentate who delivers
the author’s Gilbertian jokelets without the
least sense of their humorous intention. The
Rajah, the Ranee and the Emperor, disguised
as a bleating blind beggar, are a painful trio
of exalted personages. Their claim to class
distinction ought to be dismissed with costs.
His nibs with the black beard, however, has
been relieved of the job of exchanging
whacks on the shield with the tall, tuneful
hero whom Alice Bennetto mistakes for a
divinity. A nimble gladiator is now laid on
to knock Lohengrin out, and their mutual
shield-thumping is a quick and noisy episode.
Last Bulletin, by the way, followed the
printer in a strangely-erroneous spelling of
the hero impersonator’s name. He was billed
as Tristram Greene instead of John Quinlan,
so the management informs this conscien-
tious journal. It seems a pity to part with
the old delusion. Tristram Greene sounded
like a name that might become almost
immortal in comic opera. But under the
name of John Quinlan, who played the part
in Sydney, the hero can sing just as satisfac-
torily. And he will talk more gracefully
when he has mastered the gentle art ol
diction.
“Aladdin” is approaching its last lap at
Melbourne King’s. Six more nights after
Friday and Dame Bailey will cease to re-
cover the wonderful lamp in a wonderful
way. The he-lady’s method of getting it
back from the magician is to call him “dear”
and “spounce upon him.” All things con-
sidered, it is a truly womanly way. No good
to call the family cash-producer “brute” and
snort at him. Call him “dear” and spounce
upon him.
“Whittington,” at Melbourne Majesty’s,
announces nothing more definite than last
nights. The only noticeable change of late
is Constance Cayley's new song, instead of
the lamentable ditty known as “Fishing.”
The loss of that utter foolishness would have
been the panto’s gain even though Con-
stance’s new item hadn’t been a lively affair,
supported by the kiddies.
The last of Ada Keeve, at Melbourne
Tivoli, will be on Friday this week. Every-
body has seen Ada in vaudeville, and rejoiced
over her, for she is one of the few magnetic
artists who make the audience feel excep-
tionally glad. But everybody has not yet
seen her in “Winnie Brooke,” hence the
need to hurry up and grjib fleeting opportu-
nity by the tail.
* :I: * sjt
Vivian Martin repeats her fluffy futility
in a new film, “Little Miss Optimist,” at
Hoyt’s Melbourne shop this week. The
yarn is unimpeachable in tone and develop-
ment, but it has the disadvantage of having
too much Vivian. The young actress belongs
to the saccharine class that is fatal to
people with hollow teeth. Hoyt’s produce
a new headliner in Julian Eltinge, a gay
young artist who impersonates Lovely
Woman and shows an evident pleasure in
wearing her uncertain garments and acting
as if life were a birthday party. This Julian
is another Apostate, and should be sentenced
to 32 months in a manicure parlor.
That overdose .of
sentimentality,
“D addy Long
Legs,” was re-
vived at the Cri-
terion on Satur-
day, to finish out
Kathlene Mac-
donell’s present
Sydney season.
Charles Waldron
as the impeccable
benevolent million-
aire of American
fiction is as cloy-
ingly sweet as be-
fore ; and Kathlene
Macdonell instils
into the deliber-
ately pathetic part
of the waif a
charming and liv-
ing pe r s onality.
Maggie Moore’s
absence from the
cast is a distinct
loss; and though
Cyril Ritchards
does admirably in
a boyish part, he
lacks the ingenu-
“Daddy Long Legs,"
at Sydney Criterion.
Fily Maly on as
Mrs. Lippett.
ous charm of Louis Kimball.
** * *
Minnie Love continues to do several things
well in “The Bing Boys Are Here” (Her
Majesty’s, Sydney). The bewildering trans-
formations of Emma, the dishevelled, notice-
giving general who rushes to London and
becomes several varieties of high-grade
Siren, are not credible; but the Bing Boys’
visitors are expected to leave their common-
sense in the cloakroom with their umbrellas.
“Peg- o’ My Heart” comes back to Sydney
Palace on Saturday night to shock the
frigid English household with dog Michael
and “me father’s’’ Sinn Fein speeches.
“Turn to the Right” will vanish after
Friday’s performance.
“Daddy Long Legs,"
at Sydney Criterion.
Fred Camhourne as
Cyrus Wykoff, a
trustee.
The innocence of
womenkind in gen-
eral is getting
another gratuitous
advt. in “Enlighten
Thy Daughter” at
Melbourne Britan-
nia this week. On
the other hand Man
is represented as a
Casanova in dis-
guise, whereat every
callow youth who
views the picture
feels that his ter-
rible character has
been discovered. At
the Melba The
Yankee Way” is an
illuminated address
to the superiority
of Gahd’s own
people in any
human contest. Oh,
well, they have
something to talk
about. We seem
content as long as
we have something
to talk.
“The Garden of Eden”—the new special
turn dropped into the “Samples” revue at
Sydney Tivoli —is a clever animation of the
decorative kind of drawings that appear
from time to time in Vanity Fair and
similar papers. It is carried out boldly and
brilliantly in black and white, and the elabo-
rate dresses of the girl dancers fit in with
the eccentric background. The freak note
is well sustained during the dance and
pantomime, and there are a series of tab-
leaux. Jean Keith is the solo dancer, and
Nellie Leach, in white coat and black bell-
tcppor, is concerned in the pictures. The
varied show is moving easily now and busi-
ness is booming.
* * * ••!=
Julian Eltinge, one of the features on Syd-
ney screens, is showing woman that man
could be just as alluring as she if he wore
her clothes —etc. In “The Countess Charm-
ing” at Hoyt’s and the Haymarket, he does
it, and fascinates sassiety into becoming
charitable against its w*ill. At the Crystal
Palace Norma Talmadge is propounding
“The Law of Compensation,” wherein a good
wife who is tempted to abandon the washing-
up for the footlights is pulled to a full-stop
by a moral from Beeby’s new Anti-strike Act
or some other improving literature. William
Desmond is “The Sudden Gentleman” at the
Strand who sets up a whirl with a newly-
acquired fortune. O. Henry’s “I Will Repay”
is on the same bill. Beau. Smith’s “Hay-
seeds” are running a Melbourne Cup of their
own at the Grand, where also another O.
Henry story, “The Third Ingredient,” finds
a corner.
$* $ $
The Strollers, with “Aladdin” and new
burlesques, go gaily on at Sydney Playhouse
—a smart and attractive entertainment.
* * * *
The second edition of Fuller’s “Robinson
Crusoe” pantomime apparently pleases Syd-
ney Opera House audiences as well as the
first. It couldn’t please them better.
** * *
Anderson’s “Beanstalk” pantomime, at
Adelaide Tivoli, is having a third week,
which in that town means an unusually sob'd
success. At the Majestic are Clevalli with
his dog, Leeds and Posner, Tilton and West,
and a good all-round show, strongest on the
musical side. In pictures, Olive Thomas
has a Salome dance at West’s, and Theda
Bara is more vampirish than ever at the
Royal in “A Fool There Was”—Hugh
Buckler’s old play filmed. Wondergraph is
particularly strong, with the heroic House
Peters in some brisk fighting, and Mary
Pick ford taking off the boots of the Kaiser
in “The Little American,” which remarkable
play may have been a useful agent in get-
ting her countrymen to realise that it was
time to leave off being neutral and become
human.
Prime Minister Hughes still announces
that if he is an obstacle in the way of union he
will gladly throw up his job. But on Satur-
day he couldn’t resign by reason of the heat,
and it would be irreligious to retire on Sun-
day, and the spell of rain on Monday pre-
vented him going out, and then on Tuesday
there was a high wind and dust. Once,
years ago, Hughes, then Attorney-General,
was in a mixed sort of place, and was liable
to abdicate at any moment, but his cow fell
sick and diverted his attention. The poor,
retiring man has no luck.
Wilson’s Pocket Directory to Sydney and
suburban streets and lanes is in its ltith
year. A feature of it is the 90 maps which
finger-post the way to the most inaccessible
corners. It’s as handy as a policeman.
The German still talks of his partnership
with Gott. And no doubt he believes in it.
What else could he doV Thus far 14,000-
odd non-combatants have been killed as the
direct result of submarines and air and other
raids; and all the slaughter has been on the
one side. The German naturally regards
one-sidedness as the rule of Gott. He gazes
fondly at the war map and is impressed by
the apparent impotence of the Allies to
retaliate in kind; for he naturally reckons
that if Britain could drop 10,000 bombs on
Cologne she would. Ilindenburg’s promises
of heavier and unprecedented punishment of
non-combatants serves to further buck him
up. “Yen ve haf kilt fifty tousand vimmen
und children ve shall segure a goot Sherman
peace,” says the Ilun who is flourishing in
bizness under British rule —in, say, Ger-
man New Guinea, or Sydney.
Put in the fewest possible words the wise
men of Henty and Billabong (N.S.W.) offer
to lend the Government some money provided
it is • spent on an unpromising local rail-
way, and the community at large stands the
loss on working, and. they get 5 per cent,
interest on their loan. Plenty of other
people have put money into the war and
other loans without stipulating for a rail-
way, but they are not wise men from Henty
and Billabong. Brains are grown in those
parts.
Now that Agar Wynne, Vic.’s new Minis-
ter for Railways, disappointingly finds that
“the Railways Commissioners are unable to
suggest economies amounting to more than
£25.000,” he should nose around and see
what he himself can propose. For instance,
there is the department’s affable habit of
granting a free annual holiday-pass over the
railways to its employees and their wives.
Every one of these back-stair payments
ought to be abolished; and until they are
abolished the public will never know what
any particular service costs. It will only
know that, in the aggregate, the expenditure
has a horrible habit of being larger than
was expected. This country’s perks are be-
coming more intolerable than some other
countries’ tips.
“Jonah”: The old Dunmore, which re-
turned to Sydney one day lately in a
frabjious condition after a heavy bump from
John Brown’s tug Champion, seems to have
a hoodoo. First she collided with the
Ivelloe, off Botany. Good-bye, Kelloe; but
the other barge staggered into port. Then
she ran over a naval pinnace in Port Jack-
son, drowning 14 bluejackets. Next she
nosed the Captain Cook, the N. S. Wales
examining steamer in war-time, and was
beached on South Head. Although as slow
as a funeral she is the champion butter-in of
the Pacific.
As it was taught to an old lawyer:—
These are the facts of the action with regard to
the coal monopoly which the A. A. Co. attempted to
establish in N. S. Wales. In the ’forties James
Brown and Alexander Brown, the founders of the
present firm of J. and A. Brown, became entitled
to 60 acres of coal-bearing land near Maitland, the
grant of which contained the usual reservation of all
coal to the Crown. Notwithstanding this embargo,
the Brown brothers “did dig and carry away large
quantities of coal and other minerals from the said
land,” wherefore the Attorney-General of the day
fell upon them with a writ of intrusion, claiming
the coal under the said 60 acres to be lawfully in
the Queen’s possession, and that the Browns had in-
truded into such possession. The case having
been decided with damages Is. against the Browns,
they appealed, and in 1847 the appeal was heard
before the Full Court.
The chief contention by the brothers was that the
reservation was, under a Statute of James 1., a
monopoly, since the Crown, by granting the mines of
coal to one person and denying tnem to others,
might throw the trade in the article into one chan-
nel, to the exclusion of every other person. The
Court decided for the Crown, holding that there was
nothing in the intrinsic operation of the reservation
to create a monopoly, and, although it was true
that by matters extrinsic the reservation might
become an ingredient in the creation of a monopoly,
still that possibility formed no ground for adjudging
a provision void which in itself had no indication
of such consequences.
Looking at the matter calmly, after the lapse of
over half a century, it does seem that the Browns
were doubly armed in that they had their quarrel
just; for surely the arrangement between the Crown
and the A. A. Co. justified the Browns in considering
such to savor of a monopoly.
In the same year (1847) the A. A. Co. appears
to have voluntarily given up its monopoly of the
coal-n,ining; but it was not until 1850 that a Royal
Proclamation appeared here stating that her Majesty
had been graciously pleased to direct that all reser-
vation of coal should be abandoned and that the
grantees of the land in the colony then and hence-
forth should be at liberty to dig and carry away
the coal under their lands. Thus ended the early
coal monopoly.


Beauty, Ladies, Beauty!
Beauty is everywhere a right welcome gyest.
Beauty can afford to laugh at all distinctions.
As culture begets taste, taste begets beauty. Even
as music soothes the soul, so beauty soothes the
heart. ' •
The thought of bea.uty lasts long after other things
have been forgotten.
Is beauty vain because it will fade? Then are
earth’s green robes and Heaven’s light vain.
The beautiful is like sunshine to the world.
A beautiful woman is a paradise to the eyes.
Personal beauty wins almost without anything else.
We must carry the beautiful with us or we find it not.
The Lady Mary Wentworth-FitzWilliam,
The Viscountess Bridport,
The Countess of Rothes,
The Lady Sibyl Findlay,
The Dowager-Lady Barclay,
The Hon. Mrs. Errington,
Lady White,
and other ladies at Court, as well as all the leading
actresses of England, have testified to the harmless
purity and the excellence of
JOHN STRANGE WINTER'S TOILET
PREPARATIONS,
which have been awarded SIN GOLD MEDALS at
International Exhibitions in London, Paris and Rome.
You can buy them at any chemist's or depart-
mental store, viz., Farmer’s, Civil Service, David
Jones’, Horderns’, Lassetter’s, Waters’, etc., etc.
Hair Food (Oily) 3/9, (Non-Oily) 4/9, contains no
dye.
Dry Shampoo, 3/9. Lakshmi Lotion, 3/9.
Lakshml Cream, 3/9. New Face Cream, 3 <’6 and 4/-.
Powder (3 colors), 3/6. Soap, 3/6 box (3 cakes).
Dental Cream, 1/6. Carmine, 1/4.
Crchne Marquise, 2/6. Curative Ointment, 2/6.
Perspiration Powder, 2/-.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Powder (name the
tint) oi' Soap, or Dental Cream, to John Strange
Winter, 32 Dep6t, 26 Jamieson Street, Sydney; or
Taylor & Colledge, Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane;
or John Strange Winter (Vic.) Co., 375-377 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Melton i an
/ T 1 HIGH-CLASS
/specialties
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANC LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney ;
Russell St., Melbourne.
The Bulletin
E. DROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALE - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“Y.Z.”: M.y friend Wylie, motoring in
Gippsland with his wife and two children,
had the misfortune to drop one of the young-
sters overboard. The boy was a bit knocked
about, and Wylie dashed for the nearest
township and interviewed the first man he
met by the way. “Is there a good doctor in
this place?’’ he asked. “No, thank God!”
was the reply. Wylie subsequently learned
that he had hit upon the undertaker.
THE POINT OF VIEW.
“Wasn’t it disgusting, those two hoys fight-
ing in the vestibule last night!”
“ Depends, darling, whether they were fight-
ing about me or you.”
“303’’: In connection with the Japs’claim
to the Carolines, which they have been
occupying since the war started, one of
their professors announces the discovery
that his people used to hold possession in
the long ago. The cable refers to “traces”
he has found. As likely as not he has been
exploring the ruins of the mysterious forts
and other ancient buildings which are among
the little-known wonders of the Pacific.
Thousands of years back some now unknown
peopie, skilled in building fortifications, and
able to shift by sea huge masses of stone,
raised on those lovely atolls stone walls and
bastions of basalt 40 feet high. Though
overgrown with jungle, the ramparts to-
day could resist modern field-guns, and there
are one or two cellars that would be safe
even from howitzers firing h.e. shell. The
present natives of the islands know nothing
about the origin of the ruins and have no
traditions about them, so far as I was ever
able to discover; and this seems to indicate
that they were the work of other people,
who had to protect themselves against a
race as strong pernaps as themselves. It all
opens up intensely interesting speculations,
and is going to give a lot of work for the
historian some day.
“Dr. Nil” asks a few questions:—
Miss Kttie Rout, hon. sec. of the Maoriland Sol-
diers’ Medical Club at Hornchurch (Eng.), says (B.
7/2/’ 18) : “If it were possible for me to run a
properly-conducted licensed house for our troops I
would do it. It is not possible to do that at
present. In the nature of things we M.D. workers
can give only social values. The ‘other women’ give
more. I think it is my duty to see that this latter
‘giving’ is done under reasonably safe conditions.”
I would like to ask:—
(i.) Does Miss Rout really mean that she would
wish to run an aseptic “licensed house?”
(ii.) What women would she procure for this pur-
pose ?
(iii.) Does Miss Rout think it proper for women to
lend themselves to this purpose?
(iv.) Does she think it right to procure healthy
girls to minister to the sexual needs (?) of soldiers,
when “the nature of things” debars her from doing
it herself?
Also (v.) does she think that it is always the
women that infect the men, and not vice versa ?
And (vi.) why does she not take on a job that
she is willing and anxious that other healthy women
should do, and take the risk of disease herself ?
This does not exhaust the subject. For instance,
ask racing trainers whether they allow stallions to
“visit” mares during their racing careers.
* * * *
“Bill Bowyang” (Palestine) : When any-
thing ails him otlr Gippo cobber who is
throwing down a railway in the direction of
Jerusalem is the most doleful sight in the
wide world. He turns up on sick-parade
with a face as long as the time between
pays—a face never rippled bv even the ghost
of a smile. His complexion is changed from
a good chocolate to a withered yellow. There
is a look in his eye like a lizard’s just after
it has lost its tail. The face is enshrouded
in a blanket wound closely round the melan-
choly head and allowed to hang down over
the shoulders. Arms
and legs are bare,
and he shivers with
cold even though the
day be a scorcher.
He does not speak,
even in Arabic. The
weight of his afflic-
tion, whatever it may
be, presses too closely
on him for mere
speech. He moans a
little, groans a little,
presses his hands to
his stomach and looks
unutterable anguish ;
then he sits down a
picture of helpless
hopelessness. If he
is really ill he gets
sent down the lines;
if it is only a trivial
ailment he is suffer-
ing from he gets
imshied. Always a
few dozen have to be
imshied after a
Taube has paid us a
visit. The Gippos do
not like Taubes, and
on the crash of a
bomb they remember
the manifold ills
that flesh is heir
to. “Taubitis,” says
Pills, and perhaps
gives the patient
some liquorice water;
but the real remedy
is the sight of one of our own machines
soaring heavenwards.
“Bill Bowyang” digs trenches in Canaan:
In the days when war was a game we played at
Liverpool camp, under the direction of men who
never smelt it, we first pegged out the line the
trench was to take. It was a nice line, with charm-
in;? curly traverses neatly pegged with slips of wood.
Then we cut the sods, like gardeners, and dug the
trench. It was all the same width, and if anyone by
ill luck knocked a corner off a traverse, he was
strafed. Finally, after making a dug-out for each
platoon commander, we put up wire. It was
pretty wire, and beautifully thick. All the poles
were upright, all the wires regular, and festooned
from pole to pole in graceful lines. We used to go
down every morning to dust the landscape and tidy
THE SOURCE OF DANGER.
“Yeth, bithnith keepth up, but it'll all go to Sol when I’m dead, and I’m vorried about
Sol. He can’t play cardth.”
“Well, that’s all right. Why worry?”
"Yeth, but he playth cardth”
the wire, until the Brigadier came to inspect them.
I grin as I look back on those trenches now after
months in Gallipoli, the deserts and Palestine. Over
here trenches begin anywhere, go through anything
and end nowhere. They ramble on, all sorts of
shapes, through wheat-fields and orange-groves, round
mosques, through villages, across waterless wadys,
anywhere and everywhere. There is nowhere a trench
may not go. They are all shapes and sizes, all
depths and widths; they are riveted with every
imaginable material, from plaited palm-branches and
sandbags to stone from neighboring ruins. They curl
serenely on through sand, buried pottery, shale and
soil, changing every few yards. And (God bless
the text-books !) the enemy can’t do any better. The
other night I followed my C.O. to Abdul’s aban-
doned trenches near Gaza. They looked like a
municipal tip overtaken by a landslide. All schools
of wiring were presented. On the left were the
remains of the German 1914 and 1915 styles. There
was a very fine example of the 1916 manner. Finally
there were some of the very latest “concertina” and
“gooseberry” fashions. A “gooseberry” is a round,
hollow ball of wire. A “concertina” is a coil which
pulls out all right behind the lines where it is
made, but on the flat ground in Palestine generally
refuses to pull out more than half-way. Then when
everyone is well tangled up in it, a Very light goes
up, and you drop fiat, and afterwards spend a pleas-
ant couple of hours getting yourself out.
Early-closing in Victoria is providing a
harvest for the wily Chow in Little Bourke-
street. By day Ah Fat sells the banana and
the ginger and by night the bottled booze.
Night after night the lanes in the Chow area
are filled with beer-fighters who squat in
doorways and on the exit steps of the
theatres and guzzle into the morning. On
the trail of the beer-eaters comes the lady
who has slipped, and when the sun has
pushed the gloom out of the lanes and by-
ways along comes the small boy with a sack
to reap the harvest of dead-marines.
“Trallwm”: Like so many others of its
ilk the Victorian Education Act knocks off
just before it reaches the end it’s out for.
Every week truancy officers have their batch
of parents up for neglecting to send children
to school—perhaps for the 20th time of
fining. In some cases the parents are no doubt
to blame, but in others the children are un-
controllable. These the Department has no
means of handling. Where the parents are
willing that the outlaw shall be put under
discipline, the Department must go cap-in-
hand to the Salvoes, or the Methodies, or
the Brothers of St. Joseph or St. Somebody
Else and ask that the child be taken into
their private fold—a fold for the most part
that has no machinery for controlling a
really wayward boy. In fact, they can’t
even hold one. There was a queer case in
Yarraville the other day—a boy sent to
Surry Hills in charge of about 17st. of
policeman was waiting on Yarraville plat-
form to meet the bobby on his return from
taking the kid to the home! The boy had
escaped at- once and sneaked a ride home on
the same train. Thus it is that often quite
innocent parents are landed with almost
weekly fines, while neither the State nor the
child gets any benefit from the operation of
the law ; The youngsters, for their part, keep
the Children’s Courts busy ; and once con-
victed of continued crime the State provides
for the junior criminal the juvenile peniten-
tiary. But to insist on a child becoming a
criminal before the Government will take
any strong measures to reform him savors
more of Dean Swift than modern thought.
“Ato” meets tragedy :
The theatres were out. The streets were alive
with streams of people rushing' for trains and trams.
Suddenly I bumped into a tall man standing stiff
as a post in the middle of the path.
Beg pardon,” he said, without turning his head.
He woie the badge of a returned warrior and stood
as upright as though on parade.
Anything wrong?” I asked, touching his arm.
tt ,B 8 a H right, mate,” he answered cheerfully.
Ive lost my mother in the crowd. Don’t you
worry. She’ll soon spot me if I stand still.”
He spoke without turning his head, and I knew
that behind the smoked glasses there was no sight.
“Don’t worry, mate. Mum will find me.”
And two minutes before I had helped three other
men to lift into an ambulance-waggon a poorly-
clad old woman that a mol r-car had mangled.
I glanced up at the serene, smiling, expectant face
of the big blind soldier.
“It’s all right. Mum will find me.”
Then, like the coward I am, I ran away.
THE PEACE OF GOTT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
EDMUND FISHER.
“Cod now sets before the Germans the great task
of bringing peace to the world. To this end the
violent powers of Heaven must assist us.”
— Kaiser’s latest speech.
Great Gott, be with thy chosen Hun
When driven like dumb cattle;
We know Thy will is truly done
When Max is urged to battle;
His captain’s curse is Heaven’s law,
Likewise the smack on Max’s jaw,
And (though it seemeth bestial)
The colonel’s spit in Max’s face
Is but a hint of heav’nly grace,
A sort of sign celestial.
The Kaiser and the Lord are one:
Jehovah is assisting
When Max is chained to a gun.
Or belted for resisting.
The sergeant biffs him into shape,
And curbs his impulse to escape
If he would fain surrender.
. On every holy Hun—eh, what?—
The gracious and all-seeing Gott
Rains down His blessings tender.
Great Gott, let not thy servant Max
Get Bolshevikian nations ;
Keep with him when his morale’s lax
And stifle his emotions.
If he be sadly sore or sick
Uplift him with a kindly kick
(Thou know’st how well he stands it) ;
Bathe every Max in seas of blood
And bury him in crimsoned mud —
The Peace of Gott demands it.
VICTORIA.


By Special Appointment to His Excellency Lord Islington, ex-Governor of New Zealand
Nurse Ellen Everett, Medical and Electrical Masseuse, writes her opinion to Clements Tonic:—
Wellington Electrical ami Medical Institute,
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., Ait/cen Street, Wellington, ist May, iqij.
“Asa Specialist in Neurasthenia and Nerve Work I find Clements Tonic
cue ofi my best nerve foods to recommend to my patients!'
( Nurse )
The Bulletin
For the relief of Indigestion,
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
Loss of Sleep, Anaemia, Constipation, Sick Headache, Brain-fag and Debility get it to-day.
All Chemists and Stores sell it throughout the Commonwealth and New Zealand.
“Tas.”: An entry for the hard-luck stakes.
During the recent floods up our (Rockhamp-
ton) way, a man named Linden hoisted his
dog, Matilda and himself into" a tree at
Yaamba and was prisoned there for four
nights and three days before a rescue party
arrived. Linden and his belongings were cot
safely into the boat, but making down the
river the craft struck a log and overturned.
One of the men swam after the boat and
managed to bail it out with his hat. Then
he set out to rescue the other rescuer and
Linden; but though the former was found
safely perched in a tree, no trace at all
could be seen of the swaggie*
ft * * #
“Garnet” : No use telling our lot that there
isn’t anything in the superstition that it’s
unlucky for a third man to light a cig. at
a match that two cobbers have used already.
We were in the Palace Gardens (front line)
and there was an issue of fags—two packets
a man and a box of matches between two,
which meant that matches had to be made
to go as far as possible. Two boys had used a
match, and a third, who was hungry for a
smoke, was just poking his face out towards
the light, when his cobber playfully pushed
him away.; and at the very moment that he
was hitting the ground, a nosecap planted
itself where lie had been standing. If he had
been allowed to have his draw as third man
it would have been lights out for him.
(B.S. —I suppose I did it sometime. There’s
a leg of mine in England.)
SPOILS OF WAR.
“And what have you brought back for me?”
“My dear, I've brought you a German
helmet.”
“How lovely, darling! But why didn't you
make it a Paris model?”
“Dave B.”: Heard of the sixth-century
Mosaic our boys found in the Turkish trench
at Shelal, north-west of Beersheba? I was
at the digging-out. One Billjim dug away
the thin covering crust of earth with a
bayonet while his mate cleaned up the
Graeco-Syriac illustrations with a sandbag.
The Lion was reported all clear at 9 a.m
The Stork shone at 9.45. The day was a
corker, and the digger's interest was flag-
ging when the polisher, who specialised in
tombs and bones, sooled him on with the re-
mark : “Keep her jigging, Bill; we’ll get one
of Norman Lindsay’s bears directly !”
BUSINESS BRISK.
“ Er — aren't you the girl I kissed last night on the promenade ?”
“About what lime was it?”
Broken Hill (N.S.W.) is varying its usual
pastime of worrying the Law by giving the
doctors a turn. A mysterious disease —
marked “x” for identification —has the local
faculty thinking. Two deaths occurred in
the local hospital from the unclassified hor-
ror last week. One victim was a miner of
54, who had lived on the Hill since the ’SO’s.
He fell sick on Sunday, and was arrested on
a charge of insanity on Tuesday. Observa-
tion proved that he wasn’t mac! but deadly
ill. He died on Thursday. The doctors
have a dark suspicion that “x” isn’t the
newcomer he pretends to be —that, in fact,
he was responsible for many cases which
last year were ticketed septicemia or menin-
gitis. Meantime they are after him with a
leg-rope and branding-iron.
“1449”: As Billjim was leaving the mess-
table the officer of the day, accompanied by
the sergeant, was going the rounds. Jim-
bill, with a plate in one hand and a mug in
the other, was passing without the usual
salute, and was halted. “Don’t you know
when to salute?” said Saltpetre the Great.
Billjim uidn’t bat an eye. Solemnly he
crowded his utensils upon the sergeant,
wagged his wing smartly, hooked his grub
again and went his gait. Such things hap-
pen even here in Bagdad.
“T.F.M.”: As to the date of the first
settlement at Mallacoota Inlet (Vic.),
“D.F.” (B. 24/l/’IS) says it is almost cer-
tainly older than the Henty establishment
at Portland Bay. It isn’t. When the
Hentys went to Portland, in November,
1834, there was no other white settlement
on the coast between Westralia and Twofold
Bay. The Twofold Bay settlement is senior
to Portland by only three' months. I am
aware that a tradition exists that Captain
Stevenson, the pioneer of Mallacoota, went
there in 1828; but, like a good many others,
this yarn has no substantial foundation. The
present-day decendants of Stevenson, who
still reside in the locality, aver that their
ancestor quantified at Mallacoota, on what
is still known as Captain’s Point, in 1842.
He had previously been a whaling skipper
in the employ of Ben Boyd at Twofold Bay,
and Ben didn’t reach Australia till 1840.
“Kari”: I know Darwin and its China-
town, and I am wondering what is the use
of an Administrator who permits a white Aus-
tralian baby-boy to be transferred right
under his eyes to a Chinaman to be brought
up in China-town. Has Gilruth amongst
the multiplicity of ordinances no machinery
whereby a destitute white child can be
cared for? Surely a little of
the money annually slung into
the Territory could not be put
to a better use than to give a
little Australian a chance!
This is not the first case of
the kind. I recollect that a
few years ago a woman in the
N.T. was deserted by a worth-
less husband. She had a large
young family, a couple of whom
were able to scratch along for
themselves and did it very well.
Amongst them was a harem-
scarem youngster who was en-
ticed into China-town and har-
bored there by the Pongs, who
gave him ginger and cigarettes
and sam-shu and opium and
other nice things. As the ad-
ministration did nothing to put
that kid straight, the burly
R.C. padre, a Frenchman, who
claimed the family in his flock,
walked into China-town one
morning with a stick in his
hand and beat the wild colo-
nial boy out of an evil-smelling
joint. Then taking the kid by
the ear he walked him down
to the old jetty, and, putting him on
board a boat, shanghaied him over to the
mission station at Bathurst Island, whe.re
the youngster’s brother was. Later on the
good padre sent the two boys to a school in
Sydney, where they are doing well.
* * * *
From a wireless Billjim in Bagdad:—
We had a rather interesting trip down to the
ruins of Babylon the other day. There’s nothing
much to see on the way—nothing to break thi,
monotony of bare desert except an occasional sand-
hill or two, each supposed to be the remains of some
palace, village or city of a date before the Flood.
The Germans have done a lot of excavating at Baby-
lon and got away with valuable relics. Nebuchad-
nezzar’s place is the biggest ruin brought to light
so far, and even what’s left gives some idea of the
one-time splendor. The bricks are wonderfully pre-
served and the old picture-writing is still very clear.
There are also some rather well-preserved animals
wrought in the brick walls, and one very good lion
carved in solid Milestone —the first rock of any kind
I have seen in this country. The lion has lost his
head. The story goes that some years ago a
Frenchman came over to do an excavating job, and
to startle the Arabs proceeded to draw forth money
from the lion’s mouth. This set the Arabs thinking,
so back they came in the night and knocked old
Leo’s head off to get the balance of the cash.
’The more one sees of this country the more one
wonders why there isn’t a tree or two. There are,
of course, millions of palms, and along the river
and irrigation canals the Arabs grow marvellous
crops of grain. I'm beginning to read a new meaning
into that verse of Omar’s. The book of verse is easy ;
there’s plenty of sour wine; a congenial “thou”
mightn’t be hard to find; and wilderness —there’s
miles of it! But where old Omar got his “bough”
from beats me. Abdul must have wondered too, so
lie’s planted a grove of Australian gums right here in
Bagdad.
G. 11. Knibbs, Stipendiary Investigator of
Idols, now breaks the mossy superstition
that Nature tries to even-up battlefield wast-
age by producing an increased proportion of
male infants during war-time. lie finds that
the present birth ratio is about 106 males to
100 females. Taking France as a criterion,
no increase of male births was observable
from 1865 to 1876. During the first four
years of that worrisome period the excess of
male over female births averaged only 24 in
every 10,000. It dropped to 23-} during ’7O
and ’71 —the actual war era—and again
averaged 2-i from ’72 to ’76. As regards the
Commonwealth young Billjim hasn’t arrived
more frequently than usual during the past
four years.
* * * *
“Glen ll.’’: In England a precedent was
sot when a wealthy soldier who shot a rotter
with whom his wife had become infatuated
was acquitted to an accompaniment of
cheers. Now we learn by cable of a
soldier who had returned home and
shot his giddy wife being bound over in the
sum of £5 to come up for judgment when
called upon, a fatuous judge observing that
the sentence was “consonant with reasoned
public opinion.” That “reasoned public
opinion” does not view these matters as
lightly as do some judges was shown by the
disapproval expressed by a large section of
the more responsible press at the acquittal of
the accused soldier in the first of the two
cases mentioned. Owing to the present
popularity of gentlemen in khaki, right-
thinking journals, which ordinarily are great
barrackers for the lash and the gallows, will
not raise a squeak of protest when a warrior
guilty of a murder, for which some senti-
mental motive can be discovered, is dis-
charged. This sort of thing won’t do T.
Atkins any good. The last thing the civilian
soldier can afford to see weakened is the
A DISEASE OF HIS TRADE.
DOCTOR: “ Madam, your husband's distressing
symptoms are entirely due to a poor cir-
culation.”
DAME: “True, doctor; lie's a newspaper
proprietor.”
civil law. It is the bulwark that stands
between him and the despotism of his mili-
tary superiors ; and there is nobody in all the
land so interested in maintaining- it, and in
insisting upon its full application to the
soldier.
MEETING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pardon me for askin’, Miss,
Will yer take a stroll vviv me?
If ye’re on yer own, that is!
Don’t yer take the thing amiss
I suppose ye’re on the spree?
Pardon me fer askin’, Miss !
’Ow a gal wiv such a phiz
Needs a pal’s a mystery !
If ye’re on yer own, that is.
Did yer come alone like this?
Now that didn’t oughter be—
Pardon me fer askin’, Miss.
Wot’s yer name? Don't say it’s Liz 1
Crikey, Liz, an’ you’ll agree —
If ye’re on yer own, that is!
M ill yer give a bloke a kiss —
Later on, say, after tea ?
Pardon me fer askin’, Miss,
If ye’re on yer own, that is!
i.oxnox.
DION TITHERADGB.
YOUTH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
N.B.W.
Now, what is Youth? said I
The hourly what and why.
A friend, a drink, a lass?
The Spirit said: Look in the glass.
Look in the glass and see
Eternity.
JOHN BARR.


THE RETURN TO PALESTINE.
“A mixed multitude went up.” —Exodus XII, 38.


MATTER FOR CONGRATULATION.
“I think that the Government should be satisfied that the Defence Department has, in all the circumstances, done remarkably well.”
Pearce's comment on the Defence Commission's report.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or S.B., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
J
/
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
\.-Caring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
lEWIS &WMITTV
ME
■ol>rne& Sydney
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4- 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 0 „ „ £lO
£43 15 0 „ „ £5O
£B7 10 0 „ „ £lOO
£875 0 0 „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and interest is free of Income Tax.
6“ War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwxalth Bank of Australia. October , 1917
Hansen’s Rheumatic Remedy
“For .three months I suffered from chronic
Rheumatism, and was given up by doctors. Mr.
Hansen’s ‘Rheumatic Remedy’ cured me in three
weeks -” . (Signed) A. REYNOLDS.
(Witness) O. A. ROSLER, J.P.
ALL CHEMISTS, 5/-
Wholesale: ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY;
ROCKE, TOMPSITT, MELBOURNE.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRINO
CIGARETTES
By the irony of fate old Abdul the
Damned acquired inflammation of the lungs
and had a nice, dozy, don’t-care end. For
more than 40 years the absurd, bloodthirsty
creature lived in nervous dread of death by
assassination, and then, this month, he pegged
out in ji state of not-wanting-to-be worried.
Death is an eccentric potentate, with no
sense of poetic justice.
ALL BETS OFF.
JOHNNY: "The dad’s awfully keen on me en-
listing. He wants to bet me that if I
do the war will be over before I get
there.”
JENNIE: “Why don’t you be a sport and
take him up?”
JOHNNY : “I would, but the poor old chap’s
so awfully unlucky, y’know. He’s never
won a bet in his life.”
The appointment of Attorney-General
Herdman to the Supreme Court of Maoriland
in succession to John Denniston was fixed
up the other day, and Herdman now wears
the wig. There is at least one point of
identity between the records of these two men.
dissimilar in every other respect. Before
taking to law both were bank clerks, Dennis-
ton in the Union and lierdman in the
National. Denniston was 44 when he went
to the bench. He stayed there 29 years, and
though during that time he was often criti-
cised for leniency towards criminal offenders,
lie was never once charged with severity.
lierdman is 49. Most of the other Maori-
land judges are old enough to look on him as
kid. Stout the Chief is 74. Chapman (19,
Edwards 68, Hosking (>6, Stringer 62, Cooper
68, Sim 67. In another year the law will
remind Stout that it is time t--> take a
pension.
Transit’: Bigjohn of Bunbury was one
of the most reliable of the old-time surveyors
of the Groner State. The field-notes of his
surveys, effected with primitive instruments
and heavy link chains, are remarkably clear
and accurate. Of late years when the boom
in land settlement led to the employment of
hundreds of surveyors equipped with modern
instruments and light steel tapes, the result
of the linking up of the old surveys proved
disastrous to the professional reputations of
some of John
Forrest’s con-
temporaries. His
own stood the
test. As one
who was on the
job with the best
of instruments I
found that sur-
veyor Forrest’s
traverses of
tracks an d
rivers were
thoroughly re-
liable and could
be fitted in with
the most recent
work.
CAPT. (DR.)
SKETT,
A.A.M.C..
British Military
Occupation,
Rabaul.
Billjims Pitts and Choate lately escaped to
London from a German prison camp. As a
preliminary, Choate, who had been sentenced
to two years for nothing or other, learned to
speak Hunnish. Then he raised some cash
by raffling an old fiddle. For disguise they
faked something that passed muster as
ordinary workmen’s duds, and they grew
moustaches as fierce as the Kaiser’s.
Finally, they commandeered some tucker,
dodged the sentries and left. For the
behoof of the natives Choate talked col-
loquial German to his mate, who, being a
surly fellow, replied only by nods. Their
biggest bluff happened at the Dutch frontier,
where they brazenly asked a German sentry
the way to the railway station. Said Fritz :
*^ r ho are you?” “Belgian workmen,” lied
Choate. “Where are you going?” “Home!”
quoth truthful James. And they went.
Died in Melbourne last week good old
Nicholas Caire, an enthusiastic landscape
photographer whose work stared Yic. Rail-
way travellers in the face for many years.
Caire, an octogenarian when he died, used to
take views of beauty spots for the Railway
Dept. He knew all the giant trees in Gipps-
land, and could talk interestingly of their
age, height, dimensions and family history.
In his photographic way he was an explorer,
and during his sober and discreet life trav-
elled thousands of miles of rough country
with his trusty camera.
One of the Sydney’s returned boys was
asked liow he felt when his vessel went into
action against the Emden. “As if I had
swallowed an alarm-clock and it was iust
ready to go off,” he said.
A good Australian has gone west —W. F.
McNamara, father of Flight-Commander F.
11. McNamara, Y.C. ; wheat inspector, autho-
rity on Australian flora, and former Presi-
dent of the Australian Natives’ Assoc. He
passed out at Castlemaine (Vic.) a month
or two after his son came home invalided,
with a record of having flown down under
.Turkish fire and rescued a fellow-airman
whose machine was disabled and had to be
burnt. Mac., senior, was 55, and early in
life made his mark in Vic. Forestry and
Lands Departments.
Mr. Percy Brookfield. M.L.A.. the loose
talker from Broken Hill, is in luck. He has
recently had about £l5O worth of fines paid
for him by the P.L.L. Executive.
When the Hotel Australia (Sydney) was
opened, the fiist person to sign the visitors’
book was John L. Sullivan, who was then
touring as an actor. The management stood
mm tor nearly a week.
A useful citizen was G. R. Marks, just
dead in Adelaide at close on 80. lie was
with Doultons in London, and came to a
similar concern at Brunswick (Vic.), but
shortly afterwards started the Ballarat pot-
tery on his own account; then, nearly 40
years ago, he moved on to Adelaide just in
time for the start of deep drainage, and
(successfully backed his opinion—much
doubted at the time—that the very best pipes
could be made from the local day. His pot-
tery at suburban Brompton was a model.
It wasn’t long after Billjim’s arrival on
the \\ esteru Front that it struck Sergeant
Raiinall Carlisle, formerly manager of an
Australian concert co.. that all fight and no
play was no good to Bill, and in quick time
lie had the Anzac Concert Party giving two
shows nightly behind the lines-—the first at
5.d0 and the second at 7.15. Sometimes a
“special” was put on at 9.30 for the men
just out. of the trenches. One six-weeks’
takings—officers, one franc; others, 4 franc
totalled £9OO, cash going to purchase hot
coffee, bovril, etc., for the chaps in the firing-
line. The original cast has, of course, been
changed from time to time, sometimes for
unavoidable reasons, as for instance when
Anderson (pianist) and Brittlebank were
blown to bits in their dugout. Frank Dono-
va.n (Allan and Co., Melbourne) succeeded
Anderson at the piano. At latest accounts
the Anzac Coves”— which is the party’s
other name—was touring Britain in the
same old cause.
The Wares, of Adelaide, having been 50
years in occupation of the Exchange Hotel,
have just had a beano. The Exchange was
one ot the first buildings erected in the citv,
and was given its present name by George
Coppin when he had it about 1850. The
ate C. J. Ware went in in 1868, his widow
later carried on for about 26 years, and for
the last 20 the place has been owned by the
sons—A.W.,. George and “Boxer.” A.W.,
who was Mayor of Adelaide during King
George s visit, has been living in Queensland
for some years, but is now back in S.A.
again. There was a big gathering to cele-
brate the jubilee in the old place, which still
keeps the low roofing, narrow oassages and
sudden steps of an old-fashioned English inn,
and holds a collection of pictures of Coppin
and other celebrities of his day.
Of the Patersons, of Haberfield (Sydney),
nine brothers are fighting. There is a tenth,
who wanted to go, too, but couldn’t get past
the doctor.
The death of legislator Tare Parata gave
occasion for obsequies in Maoriland which
were the unqualified success the jolly brown
man himself would have desired. They re-
called the tangi of another noted Maori, when
Tare held high place among the living. On
the day of the funeral the undertaker died
suddenly. “You wouldn’t have believed wlmt
a shock it was to us,” said Tare afterwards:
! 1<: threw quite a gloom over the proceed-
ings.”
SOME CONSOLATION.
“My sister’s mad to go to France.”
“Oh, well, it ain’t a family taint, anyway,
is it?”
George Lewis, for many years’ sec. of the
N. -S. Wales Mill Employees’ Union, who
recently left the Trades Hall to run a mill
on his own account, has now taken on the
job of sec. to the Flour Mill Owners’ Defence
Assoc. He is not the first brainy union
official to change over; for company he has
Harry Mitchell, once of the Federated
Engine Drivers, but now Industrial Officer
with the Broken Hill Prop.; and assistant-
sec. Morgan, of the Southern Colliery Pro-
prietors, who used to be prominent in the
South Coast lodges some years ago.
‘“B.B.” : The Admiral Fremantle who has
just been made Deputy Chief of Staff of the
British Navy got his front name from the
capital of the Ma State. His parents’
marriage in ’66 was a sassiety sensation in
Sydney. Dad was the Hon. Edmund Robert
Fremantle, a lord’s son and the captain of
H.M.S. Eclipse, then on the Australian
THUS BON.
MR. SHOULDGO : “I always stay at a leading
hotel when, I go anywhere on business—
nothing like a good address, is there?"
THE GENTLE ONE: “N — no; but what's
wrong with 'Somewhere in France'?”
Station. He married Barbarina Rogers,
daughter of Robert Mclntosh Isaacs, Soiici-
tor-General in Jimmy Martin’s Ministry. All
sassiety rolled up to the wedding, and
when, on November 16. 1867, the first baby
(the present Admiral) was born, they called
him Sydney Robert, after the old village
and grandpa. Admirals seem to run in the
family. The Hon. Edmund became an ad-
miral. and his grandfather was a vice-
admiral under Nelson at the Battle of Copen-
hagen in 1801.
John Eaborn, one of the original pupils at
the first State school opened in Queensland,
died last week.
“The Snake”: When Kerensky whirled
into the limelight with his “blood and iron”
and “merciless punishment” speeches, I sus-
pected that he was qualifying for a season
with Bilanderson. Later he was photo-
graphed with his staff—upstage Kerensky,
wearing an English officer’s uniform, his
hand in his tunic and shoulders drooped a la
the Little Corporal. Now comes this picture:
In conversation, Kerensky laid stress on his physi-
cal weakness. He postured. At Moscow he in-
sisted on having an armchair different from the chairs
of his colleagues, and kept his military and naval
secretaries, two young and good-looking officers,
standing motionless and erect behind his chair. He
had a craze for phrases such as “I am your supreme
leader.”
In Petrograd he got the advt. he craved for
by his whim of sleeping in the Imperial
beds. So the laurel-bays prepared for him
turn to dockleaves. I am convinced that he
is really a Welshman.
Ex-M.H.R. John K. McDougall, the
Labor poet of the Wannon, has written an
Elegy to Peace (Labor Calk, 7/2/T8). He
found his divinity in Summer’s chosen
ways, with purple heath around her and
scented flow’rs ablaze,” somewhere in a West-
ern valley where “the Wannon sings to her.”
It seems that, “beside a sleeping river at
dusk her footsteps roam,” while she dozes
in the daytime among the bulloak and mallee.
It is a placid region, down Maroona way,
where McDougall grows his wheat and drives
amiably around in his farm-buggy. Yet it
used to be very much like that in parts of
Belgium, and writing non-combatant poetry
won’t really do anything to assure Peace an
abiding tenure in her present lodgings. The
mistake these peace poets make is that they
always compose their verses in their own lan-
guage for home circulation instead of in the
other fellows’ language for consumption next
door.
THE OLD PATRIOTIC ENGINE.
(DIRECTIONS FOR STARTING.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
"t or the purpose of stimulating interest in the
Lord Mayor’s Patriotic Fund, members of the
Millions Club held a luncheon at Farmer's to-day.”
If you would shove a scheme along in this round
world of bellies,
You’ve got to load the groaning board with turkeys
and with jellies;
V cu’ve got to grill, boil, roast and fry, to fricassee
and devil,
l’o show that fellowship's the note and all is on
the level.
The humble cit will fling his bob as to the tram he's
rushing,
Hut cheques must e’er be snared with food and fizzy
champagne gushing,
With walnuts and with printed ads that fill the
morning papers
And tell old Constant Reader all your patriotic
capers.
A good cigar between his teeth makes any man feel
wealthy,
And, viewed through floating mists of smoke, a small
account looks healthy ;
So hand the choice Havanas round and set the
speeches going,
t\ e’re all inflated splendidly, and cheques will soon
be flowing.
Stark fiends of grease in steamy dens the washing-up
are tackling
While we lie here well stuffed with food, and fatly,
feebly cackling.
Volcanoes of benevolence, we puff our great desires,
And wine and turkey is the stuff that feeds bur
inward fires.
N.S.W.
FOURTH COOK.


1)
« v
r
h
M.
capstan
%.
V
WHY SHE SMILED
AND
W.D.rH.O.WILLS.
A GOOD JUDGE WILL USE
400
MW1;
PIPES
•«®2E3»
y p ip eG ua ra n , ee(J
m
LMNj


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
"N COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookinan's Building.
SYDNEY: 2i> O’Connell -Street;
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Eead
Corroding Read
Antimonial Lead
Assay Read (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Eino Metal, Eitharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
buyers on a specially favorable
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade;
Sla ffs, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
Lead Drosses, etc.
BHAS"
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
Leather PIONEER Belting
FOR 60 YEARS THE LEADING POWER TRANSMITTER.
SOLF .
MAKERS
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The New Zeaeand Insurance Co. :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Nov., £ £ £ £ £
1907 91,711 10 p.c.=30,000 01,711 398,497
1908 78,619 10 ~,, 30,000 3,231 45,388 443,885
1909 41,134 10 „ „ 30,000 11,134 455,019
1910 66,745 124 „,, 37,500 157 29,088 484,107
1911 107,417 124 „„ 37,500 12,654 57,263 541,370
1912 109,986 15 ~ „ 45,000 8,932 56,054 597,424
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 447,424
1913 117,870 10 p.c.=45,000 2,773 70,097 517,521
1914 109,538 10 „ „ 45,000 64,538 582,059
1915 150,683 10 ~ ~ 45,000 34,573 71,110 653,169
1916 186,379 llj „ „ 52,500 171 133,708 786,877
Transferred to capital, £150,000 .. 636,877
1917 234,094 10 p.c.=60,000 22,236 151,858 788,735
Probably ■ out of every war that ever was
fought somebody made money; but usually
he was either a big thief who sold army sup-
plies or a little thief who robbed the sick
and the wounded and the dead, just as they
are being disgracefully robbed to-day. The
world has, however, developed credit amaz-
ingly ; and in this war the nations are taking
full advantage of that development. That
has made all the difference in the world to
the people : it lias turned war-time actually
into a boom-time : it has put silk stockings
on thousands of legs that never wore them
before, and will probably never wear them
again; it has littered womankind with gaudy
jewellery; and it has more than doubled the
profits of this highly respectable old eo. In
consequence of the development of credit
before-mentioned and the boom in wages,
aggravated by submarines, prices of most
commodities have been far higher than
usual; which, of course, has meant more
insurance premium. But not only have the
values been higher, but in marine business
especially (and this co. does a big marine
business) the rates have almost taken the
breath away. Of course there have been
losses; but if the underwriters discovered
that they were not making enough to cover
the losses, they are so well organised that
the rates would be raised within 24 hours.
Add also the heavy premiums got on the old
hulks that have been hauled out of the
world’s Rotten Rows and sent to sea. And
add to all this the very important considera-
tion that trade has been so extraordinarily
good that the moral hazard has been practi-
cally negligible-—in plain English, it hasn’t
paid anybody to either burn his premises and
stock or send his ship to sea to sink —and
this co.’s remarkable figures for the past
year are understandable.
This next table shows even more strik-
ingly how the figures have bounded ahead :
Loss Expense
Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
1895. . £267,917 £172,137 £79,203 64.2 29.6
1900.. 342,336 195,864 95,651 57.2 27.9
1905.. 425,991 273,698 111,677 64.2 26.2
1906.. 565,149 j } 129,361 111.9 22.9
1910.. 605.509 391,321 172,593 64.5 28.5
1913.. 702,968 431,709 197,252 61.4 28.0
1914.. 699,310 435,397 202,125 62.3 28.9
1915.. 740,646 423,844 208,879 57.2 28.2
1916.. 924,790 548,582 245,930 59.3 26.6
1917.-1,147,704 689,302 233,724 60.1 24.7
*General. fSan Francisco disaster.
Included with the exes, for the past year is
£40,000 appropriated for taxation; and that
is apparently in addition to the taxes actu-
ally paid during the year (£37,9351. In 1913
it cost £178,613 in commissions, salaries and
other exes, (apart from rates, taxes and fire-
brigade contriuutions, etc.) to get £702,968
of business. Last year it cost only £205,789
to get £1,147,704 —£27,176 more in exes, to
get £444,736 extra premiums. That’s where
the profit has come from, because the loss
rate has kept at just about the average.
But it has all got to be paid for. The
world doesn’t get rich by printing lOIJ's and
going on a spree with the proceeds. Things
like that only make it a very sad world
when the lOU’s have to be cashed. In this
case, unfortunately, we are cashing one
another’s lOU’s. That is to say, we shall
ourselves have to do the paying. And not
only will this co. have to cash up more or
less, but the paying-un will then stir our old
friend Moral Hazard, and ships and other
property which have lately seemed unsink-
able and incombustible will gradually become
quite different. Thus two things have to be
noted: (1) The very big increase of business
during the uast year or two may be disre-
garded ; (2) the very handsome accumula-
tiou of profit consists of the proceeds of
IOl”s which have to be paid presently. The
whole question is. Who will do the paying?
It is no use saying that the New Zealand
Ins. Co. will have to pay its share, and that
its net revenue may be no better with the
extra money than it was before without it.
We don’t know yet who will pay. It is
pretty certain that nine patriots out of 10
won’t pay a penny that they can dodge.
The co.’s present resources compared with
those at the end of the year preceding the
war are as follows:
1913. 1917.
British Government stock .. £43,560 £169,211
M.L. public securities . . . . 164,160 367,156
Australian „ ..... 73,215 80,506
African „ .. . . 24,381 8,450
U.S.A. bonds 91,627 90,909
S. American bonds . . . . 41,040 38,651
•lap. and other bonds . . . . 38,402 64,955
Mortgages 195,872 193,777
Freehold properties . . . . 332,849 409,476
Cash and agency balances, etc. . . 203,521 417,979
Total .. £1,208,627 £1,841,070
Against which there is about £453,000 of
liabilities of one kind and another, including
unadjusted losses. The highly satisfactory
feature of the table is the fine increase in
cash and public securities; apart from a
small addition to freehold property account,
practically everything that has come in dur-
ing the past four years is held in has
gone into British and Maoriland War Loan.
Interest earnings were only about £5OO short
of the dividend ; in other words, all but about
£5OO of the fine underwriting profit has been
banked for the further protection of policy-
holders.
* * * *
City of Newcastle Gas and Coke Co.
(N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1911.. 7,191 15 p.c. = 4497 2,694 89,168
Premiums on new shares . . 5.282 94,450
June, 1912.. 6,739 15 p.c. = 4894 1,845 96,295
£66,370 Reserves transferred to capital 29,925
Unexplained additions to reserves ..1,377 31,302
Dec., 1912.. 7,089 10 p.c. = 6637 452 31,754
Assets written up .. 67,801 99,555
£99,555 Reserves transferred to capital
June, 1913. . 8,377 10 p.c. = -6637 1,740 1,740
“A” & “B” “C”
Shares Shares
8 p.c. 5 3-5 p.c.
Dec.,. 1913 . . 10,160 9292 - 187 681 2,421
June, 1914 .. 9,627 9292 308 27 2,448
Dec., 1914 . . 11,111 9292 468 1351 3,799
7 p.c. 4 9-10 p.c.
June, 1915 . . 8,906 8130 551 225 4,024
Dec., 1915 ... 9.077 8130 691 256 4,280
June, 1916 . . 9,619 8130 832 657 4,937
Dec., 1916 .. 9,677 8130 972 575 5,512
June, 1917 . . 8,313 8132 1111 4,582
Dec., 1917 . . 8,807 8132 1251 4,006
This is another co. that will probably be
affected presently by the new Gas Bill. So 1
far as it has gone it looks as though 8 p.c.
will be adopted as the standard rate, and
any co. which is not making the standard
rate is entitled to go to a Judge and have the
selling price of gas put up if it can show
that costs have increased in the last
five years. Premier Holman told the
Assembly that Ministers had been ad-
vised that 8 p.c. was a fair rate.
Who advised them? Will whoever advised
the Government answer this question: “If
this Bill is passed and provision is made for
increasing the price of gas so that the Aus-
tralian Gas Light Co. can pay 8 p.c., and if
there is a new issue of shares which will get
the benefit of that provision, at what price
do you think they will stand in the market?”
An 8 n.c. dividend, guaranteed to this extent,
that the whole of any increases in wages and
the cost of materials may be passed on to the
consumer, will, this paper is satisfied, mean
a 20 to 25 p.c. premium. The gas cos. have
rather severely tried the patience of the
community, and in asking now for this 8 p.c.
standard—it is presumably their request —
they are once more seeking from the public
more than a fair thing. Palmer’s “Stock
Exchange Guide’' for December showed that
at that date Australian Gas Light Co.’s
shares were selling at a price which gave a
return of 51 p.c. The investor thought that
was a fair thing, not 8 p.c.
This Newcastle Co.'s present capital is
£28(5,789, of which, as the table shows, no
less than £105,925 was transferred from re-
serves when the Gas Bill was passed. In
that most ridiculous measure—of which the
just-returned Carmichael, by the way, was
in charge—it was actually proposed that a
co. might pay 10 p.c.! Heaven only knows
how they expected it to be done by a concern
which had just watered its capital to equal
the total value of the undertaking: but that
was the proposal. And practically it is the
same Legislature which is dealing with the
matter now. The fact is, it is, in the lump,
so utterly unversed in the financial questions
involved that any interested person, if he is
smart enough, can pull its leg indefinitely.
It may be that there ai'e men in the Parlia-
ment who are there for the purpose.
This co. is paying, though (judged by the
accounts! it is not earning, 7 p.c. on the old
capital and £4 18s. p.c. on- the new. This is
not a fair thing cither; and the co. is entitled
to relief. A co. ought not to be compelled by
law to sell its goods at a price which pro-
duces less than 5 p.c. on any share capital;
and its case for relief is all the more
unanswerable because the law itself has in-
creased the cost of manufacture since the
selling price was fixed. The only tilings that
really admit of argument are (1) the stan-
dard rate of dividend and (2) the proportion
of extra costs that a co. should be entitled
to pass on. The Bill proposes to let the co.
pass on the lot. It shouldn't. If it is
allowed to do that the cos. may regard every
demand for an increased price as a matter of
no consequence to them ; and that shouldn’t
be. It should pay every co. to make in
connection with every transaction the best
bargain it can possibly drive.
The Broken Mill Proprietary Co. :
(Loss Divi- dross Divi-
Profits. dcnds. Profits, donds.
£ £ £ £
May,’o7 331,125 240,000 May,’l2 203,710 120,000
N0v.,’07 153,599 288,000 N0v.,’12 177,594 144,000
May, ’OS 30,389 72,000 May, ’l3 132,037 120,000
Nov.,’oB 34,430 Nil Nov., ’l3 152,708 90,000
Loss. May, ’l4 105,292 113,728
May, ’O9 59,029 Nil Nov., ’l4 157,347 59,050
Profits. May, ’l5 238,312 118,101
N0v.,’09 55,990 Nil Nov., ’l5 258,380 118,101
May, ’lO 40,047 48,000 May, ’lO 286,524 118,101
Nov.,’lo 124,938 48,000 Nov., ’lO 186,599 118,101
May,’ll 155,967 48,000 May, T 7 313,166 59,050
Nov.,’ll 239,731 96,000 Nov., ’l7 292,132 118,101
There s a little difficulty about some of those
figures. Something over three years ago the
co. issued a first lot of debentures and got
permission to send out a second lot a year or
so back, the two issues making £1,000,000;
and these have to be redeemed out of a so-
called sinking fund. In the foregoing table
the amount used for this purpose is not
deducted from the profits; nor, of course, is
account taken of the redeemed debentures
put back into Profit and Loss. In other
words, the transactions in connection with
the repayment of this debenture debt are
ignored. The profits are also shown without
deducting the arbitrary amounts written off
against depreciation.
The co. was hit by strikes during the half-
year not only at the mine, but at both the
smelting works. General-manager Delprat
puts it with delightful directness:—
Iron and steel works.—Productive work was again
interrupted tics half-year through a general strike,
which lasted about three months. This time our
men had no grievances, hut ceased work in sympathy
with men employed elsewhere who considered they
had.
Broken Hill.—Work was interrupted for about
eight weeks owing to a strike brought about by the
A.M.A. in sympathy with the men on strike in
Sydney, and a considerable number of men left the
district, leaving us shorthanded when operations were
resumed.
However, the war came to the rescue; and,
though only 55,316 tons ore were mined at
Broken Hill, the co. found such a fine market
for its products and especially for the output
of the steel works at Newcastle, that, barring
the previous half, you have to go back more
than 10 years to find anything so good.
But even under normal conditions the mine
is only small potatoes nowadays compared
with the steel business. Of a total expendi-
ture last half-year of £779,454 on working
account £542,609 is charged to “Iron and
steel,” and there are probably o'ther items to
go into the heap—a portion, no doubt, of the
£46.187 paid for fuel and fluxes, timber and
water, and of the £50,100 spent on freight,
insurance and charges on products. And the
co. is only beginning its career as an iron-
master. Of £436,948 spent on construction
and charged to capital account last year no
less than £430,744 was spent on the new in-
dustry, the total outlay on which has now
exceeded £2,566,000, exclusive of the expendi-
ture on the Iron Knob tramway (S.A.),
over which the iron-ore supplies are drawn.
You never know your luck. The Broken Hill
Prop, mine had paid just over £10,000,000 in
dividends, and probably one way and another
five times that much in wages—most of it in
Australia, too, because the co. did all its
smelting here right from the start, and had
a refinery up soon after the furnaces were
blown in. The approaching exhaustion of a
mine like that didn’t seem anything to smile
aoout; yet, with a man of imagination and a
brilliant organiser like G. D. Delprat at the
head of things and a solid Board and a co.
with vast resources behind him, it was one
of the best things that have happened to Aus-
tralia. A gloomier man might have groaned
about labor troubles and stood back. Del-
prat said, in effect, as he has said all along:
“Well, it’s my business to beat labor
troubles”; and when he can’t do it by smil-
ing he does it some other way. it was
characteristic of his methods that at Broken
Hill,, when, he wanted some music for his
tennis parties (and perhaps when he didn’t),
the miners’ hand had a job. “Look here,” he
said long asm, “there’s hardly a day of my
life that I don’t want to sell somebody some-
thing for more than he will give me, or buy
something from somebody at a price
that he won’t sell it for; and when I
want to buy labor I’ll expect to now, and
then find the man wants more. There s no
reason to call him bad names for that, is
there?” Which explains the almost-cheerful
remark quoted above, a ter reporting that tin;
steel works were shut down for “about three
months”: —
This time our men had no grievances, but ceased
work in sympathy with men employed elsewhere
who considered they had.
Already there are at Newcastle a blast fur-
nace, for the production of pig-iron, and a
second is under construction; seven open-
hearth furnaces, which had last half an out-
put of 52,878 tons steel; a blooming mill,
which rolled 57,065 tons of ingots, with new
equipment for producing shipbuilding plates ;
a rail mill, which rolled 23,308 tons rails
and 11,076 tons structural steel, the rails up
to 1001 b. per yarn and the structural steel up
to 1201 b. per yard ; an 18in. merchant mill
for light rails, etc., and 12in. and Bin. mills,
to prouuce rods down to three-eighths of an
inch —with, of course, steel and iron foundries
and a coke works of 78 ovens. Now. to pro-
vide fuel for the new blast furnace and other
additions, 54 more ovens are to be put in,
which should make the lot equal to about
300,000 tons of coke a year; and the co.
won’t be living up to its reputation if before
long it isn’t producing something more there
besides coke, tar and sulphate of ammonia.
The only other plant under construction at
present is one in which Cocky will be inter-
ested—a continuous rod mill from which
fencing and other wires may be drawn.
So far as the old silver-lead-zinc mine goes
tlie co. could probably work it out, if it
wanted to, in four or five years at most.
Exploration during the last few years has
given negative results, and the co, is already
poking about for ore : it lately broke into the
old 190 b fire area. In addition to the mine
it has large dumps of zincy tailings. These
are retreated in the lead mill and after being
deleaded are sent on to the flotation plant.
The latter handled last half 92,907 tons tail-
ings and produced 21,960 tons zinc concen-
trates, a proportion of which were no doubt
sent on to the Associated Smelters’ spelter
plant under the bright arrangement which
the co. made when it sold the plant—that
the small zinc section should give priority to
this co.’s concentrates while the war lasted.
And besides the mine and the dumps and the
iron and steel works and almost inexhaustible
’supplies at Iron Knob, the co. has £821.514
of more or less liquid not reckon-
ing the outstanding debentures (£901,700) as
a liability. And, almost as valuable as any
other asset, a magnificent organisation and
the faith to go ahead without first asking
anybody whether he will strike or not. There
are now 1,181,006 shares.
* * * *
Broken I-Till South Silver Mining Co. :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1910.. £72,427 £60,000 £5,081 £98,422
June, 1911.. 77,665 60,000 5,087 111,000
Dee., 1911.. 128,134 90,000 5,301 143,833
June, 1912.. 141,639 120,000 5,684 159,788
Dec., 1912.. 217,776 170,000 5,809 201,755
June, 1913.. 119,936 160,000 5,698 155,993
Dec., 1913.. 177,091 140,000 5,561 187,523
June, 1914.. 146,756 140,000 5,597 188,682
Dec., 1914.. 95,082 Nil 6,116 277,648
June, 1915.. 136,291 30,000 12,520 371,419
Dec., 1915.. 163,869 90,000 6,900 438,388
June, 1916.. 223,110 120,000 10,294 531,204
Dec., 1916.. 243,348 120,000 16,511 638,041
June, 1917.. 249,192 120,000 15,734 751,499
Dec., 1917.. 169,685 120,000 15,005 786,179
Profits last half-year were nearly £BO,OOO
less than in the previous six months; but
owing to the strike, which lasted 11 weeks,
only 69,758 tons ore were raised as against
121,433 tons. The profit per ton of ore was
thus really a bit better —£2 Bs. Sd. as against
£2 Is. This improvement is traceable to
everything except lower costs. Values were
slightly higher in all metals; and better
markets, especially for silver, have also been
a factor. Metal recoveries were slightly
higher, too. The South has, of course, its
own lead mill for the treatment of crudes.
This recovered as a smelting concentrate
73.7 p.c. of the lead and 52.2 p.c. of the
silver. There remained in this concentrate
8.4 p.c. of the zinc. But it was a very good
smelting product, for all that, assaying only
7.1 p.c. of zinc to 67.5 p.c. lead and 22.70 z.
silver.
This lead mill makes four products:—
(1) The lead concentrate just described (16.3 p.c.
of the total tonnage) ;
(2) Zinc tailings (57.4 p.c. of the tonnage), and
containing 13.1 p.c. of the lead, 27.6 p.c. of the
silver and 72.1 p.c. of the zinc;
(3) Quartz tailings (9.9 p.c. of the tonnage),
with only 0.9 p.c. of the lead, 1.8 p.c. of the silver
and 4.4 p.c. of the zinc;
(4) Slimes (16.4 p.c. of the tonnage), containing
12.3 p.c. of the lead, 18.4 p.c. of the silver and
15.1 p.c. of the zinc.
The quartz tailings are not retreated ; they
are sent below for filling. The zinc tailings
are delivered as made to the De Bavay Co.,
which treats them on a profit-sharing basis.
As, in spite of “the solution of the metal pro-


■VE ARt BOQNTO
Fire, Marine
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
W estinghouse
Rateau Impulse Type
Steam Turbines
HIGH ECONOMY
SIMPLE DESIGN
STURDY CONSTRUCTION
As the largest builders of Steam Turbines in Great Britain, we
are in the position to give early delivery of Steam Turbines
and Turbo-Sets up to_. 20,000 Kilowatts.
fgtmpliouisf
< Manchester
Send enquiries to Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne. !}
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobet
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets* Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
biem" of which we have heard so much,
there is still a very poor market for zinc
concentrates, there is an enormous quantity
of this product in Australia unsold ; and the
South Co. may still get a considerable sum
on account of tailings not yet finally settled
for What the sum will be will depend upon
the'mice available for zinc product after the
war And that, again, will depend very
largely upon the steps taken in England to
make metallic spelter—a business hitherto
carried on almost exclusively, so far as
Europe is concerned, in Belgium, the north
of France and Germany.
The two most admirable features in the
recent metallurgical practice of the B. 11.
South are (1) the small quantity of metal
left in the nuartz tailings; (2) the excellent
recoveries by the selective flotation slime
plant. This plant, which was developed just
before the war started, consists of two sec-
tions—the lead and the zinc. The entire
slime product of the half-year was ; fed to the
lead section, which extracted no less than
51.7 p.c. of the lead and 84.8 p.c. of the
silver, and left in only 8.9 p.c of the zinc.
The zinc in this concentrate is only 7.7 p.c.,
so that it is almost as clean a product as the
concentrate from the crudes (7.1 p.c. zinc).
This deleading process leaves in the residue
91.1 p.c. of the zinc. “Experimental work on the
full-size plant in the zinc section has demon-
strated,” manager Wainwright says, “that
an excellent grade of zinc concentrates can
be obtained at reasonable cost with good
metal recoveries. Owing, however, to the
very limited market for slime-zinc concen-
trates at present, it has been decided to util-
ise this portion of the plant for treating the
old slime dump and obtaining a lead concen-
trate which can be readily disposed of.” Of
these old slimes there are 458,848 tons. It
is impossible to tell from the accounts what
profit this new slime process has added. The
two lots of lead concentrate compare as
follows
Lead, Silver, Zinc,
p.c. oz. p.c.
From crudes . . 67.5 22.7 7.1
From slimes .. 62.1 45.6 7.7
It looks as though the slime concentrate
should be worth more than the crude concen-
trate. Now, the profit all round, after de-
ducting £25,373 received for interest, and an
estimated £25,000 for zinc tailings, was
£9 6s. per ton of concentrate; and it takes
seven tons of slime to make one of slime-
lead concentrate.
The next table shows ore treated and divi-
dends paid for seven years past: —
Ore Treated. Divs. Paid.
June, 1911 .. 175,044 tons. £60,000
Dec., 1911 . . 181,790 „ 90,000
June, 1912 . . 165,532 „ 120,000
Dec., 1912 .. 180,080 ~ 170,000
June, 1913 . . 151,742 ~ 160,000
Dec., 1913 .. 168,957 „ 140,000
June, 1914 . . 172,330 „ 140,000
Dec., 1914 . . 112,750 „ Nil
June, 1915 .. 131,059 „ 30,000
Dec., 1915 . . 163,494 „ 90,000
June, 1916 .. 92,553 „ 120,000
Dec., 1916 . . 157,059 ~ 120,000
June, 1917 . . 121,433 ~ 120,000
Dec., 1917 . . 69,758 „ 120,000
2,043,581 tons. £1,480,000
That is equal, over the seven-year period, to
14s. 6d. in dividends per ton of ore mined;
and the ore in reserve is estimated at
3,500,000 tons. If this ore in the mine pays
the same dividend per ton as the mine has
averaged during the seven years, sharehold-
ers will get £2,537,500, equal to something
over £l2 10s. per share; but at the old aver-
age rate of extraction the last dividend of
this series won’t be paid for 11 years.
Whether pre-war prices are going to be post-
war prices this paper can’t tell for sixpence.
Nobody knows better than the Australian
smelting man that the German paid us more
for our smelting products than we are likely
to get with the German cut out. German
control of the metal business was a upas
tree; but Billy Hughes’s friends in the Aus-
tralian metal ring were very well content to
lie under the tree and pluck dividends from
it.
Besides the ore in the mine the B. H.
South has £630,132 net of more or less liquid
assets. The accumulation has been very
rapid:—•
Dee., ’l4. June, ’l7. Dec., ’l7.
Deposits, etc. .. £78,878 £605,985 £659,104
Sundry debtors .. 22,912 7,716 8,286
Products on hand . . 128,000 265,772 221,566
£229,790 £879,473 £888,956
Less liabilities .. 31,244 266,069 258,824
Surplus .. '.. £198,546 £613,404 £630,132
That is another £3 6s. per share. Also the
mine certainly doesn’t end at the present
bottom working level (1270 ft.) ; and even at
that level there are bodies of ore not yet
opened up. Some very fine stuff was pierced
by the drill during the half-year • and the
ore drawn from this bottom level, and still
going down, compared as follows with the
general average from the mine:—
Lead, Silver, Zinc,
p.c. oz. p.c.
Run of mine .. 14.9 7.1 i 3.7
Bottom level .. 15.5 10.0 15.8
A great mine, and well-managed.
Melbourne-owned Elsmore (N.S.W.) lost
£293 last half, No. 1 plant having to be re-
moved and No. 2 getting into unpayable
ground. No. 1 is now in pound ground, and
there is years’ work ahead; but values have
not been proved. No. 2 plant now faces a
bit of shallow ground worth 1-ilb. With any-
thing like present prices the co. ought soon
to be kicking out divs. again.
Cope’s Creek Central, Tinglia (N.S.W.),
which, after being almost three years off the
dividend list, handed out Is. to shareholders
a couple of weeks ago, has unexpectedly
come to light with a further Is. div. Nos.
2 and 3 plants are in good ground on Skele-
ton Creek, and with concentrates realising
from £lBO to £l9O a ton the co. is having a
fine run. There are £30,000 shares paid to
6s. (id. * #
Manager Giblin puts the cost of installing
new pumps at Edna Central at £7500, which
is to be raised by calling up 2s. 6d. on the
60,000 shares. A month later and then the
“little river” flowing above the dyke from
the Central to the Edna May may come
under control. Deeps so far is immune,
but Stuckey is too wise to poke out behind
the dyke with either bore or drive. Con-
solidated now bewails water and heavy
ground. With the big stopes opened the
market has been expecting trouble of the
kind, just as every dealer feels it a sacred
duty to go home with a small bear in Deeps
on the off-chance that the long-talked-of burst
may happen along like a thief in the night.
The latest yarn is that the pitch of the
Central new reef is carrying the formation
so fast into the Deeps that Stuckey may
have a second string to his fiddle, so bear-
venturing may not be such a soft snap, after
all.
* * * *
Commodore, Meekatharra (W.A.), recon-
structs on a 3d. call basis. Where Kearns,
the co.’s old co-partner in the Macquarne,
will come in isn’t obvious. As the cash pay-
ment of £lOOO for his half-share is the only
div. disbursed to anyone out of the old co., he
may not fuss over the promised paid-up
interest. The old Board goes into harness
in the new Commodore, though Brothel
Trade seems to have left. What gives Com-
modore scrip a fillip is the following-up next
door of the Ingliston reef to within a tew
feet of the Commodore boundary. A hun-
dred or two spent in crosscutting will show
if this little stranger meanders across the
line. If so the old claim has a kick left.
* * * *
Ida H. (W.A.) has been raised from the
dead. For many years this show paid regu-
lar dividends, and for its size was reckoned
one of the best English-owned mines in the
State. Then war-time costs rendered profit-
able mining impossible, and word came from
London to close down. Latterly tributors
have been taking a hand, and sufficient ore
is now in sight to enable regular gold pro-
duction to be continued for some time to
come.
* * * *
Great Fingall (W.A.) is to be let on
tribute. Work in the lower levels has ceased
and tributors will endeavor to keep the mine
going by taking out the best ore left in the
top levels. Some 70 men will be employed
instead of about 200. As Day Dawn township
has been living on the one big mine, there
will soon be another almost-deserted village.
Mount Cutlibert’s latest is to get Turner
and Brownhill to underwrite some 34,000
shares at 13s. Shareholders can get a cut
in at the rate of 14 for every 100 held.
Markejt prices stick at about 125., so it looks
as if there isn’t much in the concession for
shareholders. At 13s. the co. gets in about
£22,000. If alO p.c. com. is allowed, the co.
would have £20.000 wherewith to reduce
debts. This would go to deferred creditors,
which in August stood at £59,000. Profits
since then have eased that amount to
£44,000. With this £20,000 off and a decent
two or three months’ run, Cutlibert will get
its balance-sheet into better trim than ever
before. What narks is the constant bicker-
ing with labor. This is put down to the
I.W.W. Is there no other cause?
Mungana, near Chillagoe (Q.), is to be
resurrected once more, the Lady Jane and
Girofla being reopened with the assistance
of a Government grant. Whether the Gov-
ernment intends to have first call on the
ore mined for its State smelters enterprise
is not known. Old hands swear by the quan-
tity of ore left in these mines. The Griffiths
mine is being worked by Cleeland and party.
They have unearthed some fine slugs of
native copper, one of which turned the
scale at 1 ton ,scwt. They are raising high-
grade ore now.
The Flying Pig, Thornborough (Q.). is
to be given a trial by a local syndicate. This
once-famous Hodgkinson mine has large
dumps of ore saiu to be worth loz., besides
huge quantities of stone in the hill worth
down to half an ounce. Having no develop-
ment expenses and with a mine ready to
break stone from the syndicate reckons it
can make a good thing of the show. It is
putting in its own mill and cyanide plant.
Out of £3244 worth of tin Lode Hill (Q.)
snicked in £1350 of profits in the half-year to
December last. No. 1 face is worked out, and
now the nozzle is laid on to Knowlton’s lease,
but there isn’t enough labor to work more
than one shift.
* * * *
r. J. Iloldenson, boss of the Victoria
liyoro Electric Co., holding rights on the
Iviewa and other Victorian rivers, smites
the late Peacock Government hard. He says
he urged that crowd to view the generation
of power from the rivers as a national mat-
ter. Failing that he demanded that his co.
should be let loose on the streams. This is
all right; but what folly to form cos. and
spend cash if a title is not assured ! That
seems to be the weak spot. Still, that
doesn’t dispose of the wickedness of locking
up. potential wealth such as is stored in
rivers and brown coal while problems like
those of repatriation have to be faced.
* * * *
E. C. Dyason is as voluminous in his
monthly Bendigo Amalgamated report as
Billy Hughes is on the metal question. But
if Dyason must spread himself, why not
adopt the Yankee newspaper’s story-telling
dodge of introducing the yarn with a short
summary par. ? Here is a lead
Constellation shaft, Pyke reef: results rotten.
Tributors given a go. Londonderry shaft, Pandora
stone no good; stopped; now dodging after the
Garden Gully reef extension. Garden Gully main
shaft, better prospects ; Carlisle shaft, breaking 40ft.
of quid stone —
and end with the terse little sentence:
“Month’s profits, .” Then he can let
himself go as he does over the new reef
gotten at Extended Hustler’s at 840 ft., or
toot out the wonders of the shoot drill and
do a. crosshead splash over any special patch
of good fortune. Dyason’s earth-hunger
hasn’t been satisfied yet, as he is grabbing-
up ground on such lines as the Napoleon,
Nell Gwynne, Carshalton, Thistle and a
dozen others. J. Bromley was the pegger and
Dyason is to be the financier. Is another
emissary to go to the IJ.S.A. '!
* * * *
Tongkah Compound, Siam, ended the half-
year to September 30 last with a net profit of
£15,622, and shareholders received three six-
pennies, totalling £11,250, on their fully-paid
6s. Bd. shares. At the balance the co. had
cash totalling £13,685 and concentrates on
hand worth £1829. A further dividend and
bonus amounting to Is. was paid in Decem-
ber. During the six months 337,904 cub.
yards were treated, so net profits worked out
at just under Is. per yard. The latest re-
turn for a run of 606 hours was 27 tons of
oxide from 60,612 ■ cub. yards. Another 61
acres of ground were purchased last year:
but further acquisitions will be necessary to
prolong the co.’s life beyond three years.
There are worse mining specs, than that
being launched as the Wallace-Chiltern Val-
ley (Vic.) by A. G. D. Bernaechi. His
game is to open up the Chiltern lead within
the Rutherglen Viticultural College reserve
and take a shot at the Indigo lead. This
tributary gutter was splendid in the upper
reaches, and the main Chiltern lead carried
good gold on both sides of the reserve. Wal-
lace Consols shaft is available, and the gutter
is dry, 20 years of pumping having sucked
most of the water out of it. To get the mine
going would have been simple in the heyday
of old John Cock, but alluvial is such a poor
game just now that it takes a lot to get in
the £5OOO wanted to reach the wash. Of
60,000 shares 15,000 go as paids to A. Hen-
derson of the Chiltern Valley Co., and 25,000
at ss. are offered to the public. Henderson
also gets £l3OO cash after registration; so
the loading isn’t heavy.
Victoria has a little curse coming home to
roost on All Fools’ Day, It is an old 5 p.c.
loan of £500,000; and present holders can in
exchange get either debentures or inscribed
stock, 41 p.c. interest, with three to five
years’ currency. No cash is being asked, for
by the Treasurer: he has already provided
himself with enough to meet any of the
maturing securities which are not converted.
* * * *
Last year Westralia produced £223,372
worth of minerals other than gold—copper.
£81.857: lead, £52,618; tin, £41,438; and
coal. £29.359. Total to the end of 1917,
£4,333,069; copper and tin contributed more
than oiie-lialf.
The Thermo-Electric Ore Reduction Co.,
which has pitched camp at Wolfram (Q.),
has taken over the Mt. Carbine property and
mill from the Irvinebank Co.: £40,000 is
said to have been the price. Mount Carbine
is the biggest known thing in wolfram in
Australia, and will yield big quantities of
ore with a little development work. Mining
is cheap, too, as no timber or filling is
required. Mount Carbine and Koorboora
were the only two good things that the
Irvinebank Co. had left of its mining ven-
tures.
* * * *
The General Electric Company has developed and
standardised a mine type of Induction Motor, which
fills the demand for a motor of more rugged mechani-
cal construction than the standard line of induction
motors. These are designed for heavy-duty motor
applications. Write to the Australian General Elec-
tric Company, Sydney and Melbourne, for particu-
lars. — Advt.
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd,, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt.
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbcrt Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [5
* * * *
It has proved its worth for all purposes where
light, strong, durable pipe is required. Pioneer
Wood Pipe, the ideal pressure pipe. Send for illus-
trated catalogue, free upon application. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Company, Limited (head office),
Burns Bay Road (near Fig-Tree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Post Office Address, Box 1576 G.P.0.,
Sydney. Contractors to all State Governments.
Factories: Lane Cove River, N.S.W.; Footscray, Vic.;
and Port Adelaide, S.A. —Advt.
* * * *
Australian and Other Patents. Obtainable through
P. M. Newton, Patent Attorney, Opp. Commonwealth
Patent Office, Flinders Street, Melbourne.— Advt.'
The dream ships of William Morris Hughes, though
now not in the least likely to eventuate, have in one
direction at least borne good fruit in the establish-
ment of an entirely new Australian industry on a
large scale. Upon the idea of auxiliary schooners
being mooted. Nelson and Robertson, the Australian
agents for the “Skandia” crude oil engines, sprang
off the mark and completed arrangements with
Thompson, of Castlemaine, for the complete manu-
facture of these engines, upon the same design and
of the same materials throughout as the famous
Swedish engine. The Federal Government promptly
placed an order for a large marine set, and at
present orders on hand for larger-powered engines,
marine and industrial, total over four figures. The
engines turned out so far are declared by experts to
be even superior to the imported article, and it is
to be hoped that the enterprise exhibited by the firms
interested will meet with the success it deserves.
—Advt.
* * * »
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and llassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb. — Advt,
* * * #
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Head Office, Sydney.
Earth-handling Machinery: Road Graders, Scoops and
Ploughs. Concrete-mixing Machinery: The famous
“Austin” Cube Concrete Mixers in different sizes and
capacities. “Robc-y” Portable Steam Engines, 8,
14 and 16 nom.-h.p. “National” Gas, Oil and Petrol
Engines. “Leplastrier” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds and
Collapsible Moulds for Concrete Culverts. Queens-
land inquiries to The Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Codlison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling’s
Balances, Weights. Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. 11. B.
Selby k Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.—Advt.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 84.)


Heeringfs
Co
Cf?
en
A
a & u
0m
OHEERIIKV
ohm*
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
M*’
at eob^ ncb SHOP‘S
•A
i
a&I^SSS 5 -
f^r \
sS^SSa*^^
— — ' shoP 5 io
gd
PAULINE et CIE
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
George Street, Sydney,
Exclusive Models in Millinery, Blouses,
Robes, Ccats and Skirts etc.
BUY
WORLD-EA/TED.
NEVER GETS BITTER.
Cash Coupon on Every Packet.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
ay
wv VI
“Better
than Either”
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia
GET A BOTTLE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID JONES
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, February 18, 1918.
My Dear Abini, —
A thoughtless shipping company landed
the Davidsons on Sunday—a day before the
proposed official discovery of Australia at
Farm Cove. The Cabinet hurriedly decided
that it wouldn’t unland his Ex. just that he
might make a second invasion. Very sensi-
ble was the decision to let his Ex. get
through the hand-shakes at Government
House.
The city gets the first word when a new
Governor takes the oaths of office. Monday
morning’s ceremony at Government House
thus brought the Mayor, in his official
bearskins, to the fore. As civic parent Joyn-
ton Smith welcomed the just-arrived Cocked
Hat, and landed a few aldermen and the
Town Clerk at the sub-regal feet.
The Hall seethed with dignitaries. First
came the wigs—the Bar in its plainer horse-
hair curls with little tails behind.
The bigwigs, in their Charles 11. coif-
fures and judicial gowns, floated for-
ward beyond the red rope which hedged
in the mighty. Ministers of the
Crown, an Archbishop (the bald one), and
wives of Ministers lined the staircase;
the larger flotsam bobbed up and down like
corks around the State table. Minister
Reeby’s glasses flashed in the offing, and Chief
Secretary Fuller took a modest place on the
lee side of the documentarv evidence.
His Ex., a large kindly man with the
homely warmth of manner of one who has
lived amongst homely people, read his typed
statement; then seizing a jibbing pen he
signed his name to it. Deputy Cullen, now
plain Chief Justice again, disentangled his
fingers from his long honiton-lace ruffles, and
appended his signature. Official-Secretary
Budge read aloud the King’s Proclamation.
General Finn and hon. A.D.C. d’Apice
guarded the Davidson coat-tails.
On the stairs behind was Ladv Davidson;
and the miniature painters will soon long to
reproduce the delicate, refined face, with a
graceful top of grey hair and the pale pink
bloom of Canadian winters in the soft
cheeks. She had the Cullen dame on one
side and mrs. Holman at her left elbow.
After the new Gov. had kissed the Book
and (I suppose) sworn to tell the trut’, the
whole trut’ and nothing but the trut’, Pre-
mier Holman got his w T ord in. Easy and
graceful, it was the speech of the forenoon ,
and to address the lords and-commons cheer-
ily before lunch is a frosty task. After a
few vice-regal remarks —Sir Walter David-
son looks through plain, old-fashioned specs,
-—the meeting took to its heels. For the
circus was to begin outside, and the funeral
and other coaches usually hired for these
occasions were waiting to make a procession
round the city.
Attorney-General Dave Hall and his lady
go to Japan for a trip presently. It has been
a dreadfully explosive time lately. The
Ministry has threatened to blow up at any
moment. Somehow the two lots won’t mix
comfortably. Down south Mr. Hughes is
warning the Libs, that he won’t stand any
squeezing, and he’ll go back to the Labs, if
somebody doesn’t look out. And the Labs,
are saying they’re blessed (or something) if
he will!
Having performed the “dual duties” of
Acting-Gov. and Chief Justice, Cullen, C.J.,
has been offered another two months’ holi-
day. Of course it may not be accepted. The
dual pay may have been solace enough.
“I am singing in New York to-morrow at
11 a.m. —God help me! Yet it is pleasant
to earn £5OO before lunch.” Thus Melba,
writing in the midst of her 25th anniversary
of song in the U.S.A.
There’s an Assistant Minister for Defence.
How do I know? Because he opened Syd-
ney’s new Red Cross kitchen. It’s cheek-by-
jowl with the big warehouse area, and its
scones puff out on one corner of York-street.
His name’s Groom, and having said those
things required of him he had an opportunity
to test the cooking. Mrs. Holdship is in
charge. Having been well brought up she
didn’t mention the Sixth Division to him.
The Shellbacks had their annual outing on
Saturday, with genial old Capt. Green to
name the toast. Surgeon Scot Skirving, not
long back from the Front, was one of the
speakers. He’s an ex-seaman. And—-do
you know? —a novelist, too. Years ago he
was guilty of “Love and Longitude.” But
lie’s done lots of better things since.
I rom an Australian girl in France:—
'V e started our Y.M.C.A. in a marquee, and as it
rains all the .day every day, we used to stand for 12
hours in gum boots serving tea and cakes to the
boys. We lived a mile away down a steep hill, and
the gum boots and the walk through slush nearly
killed me. You see, we had all to be inoculated for
typhoid, and it pulled me down so much that I got
'thi’, and the horrid thing wouldn’t go. Life is drier
now, as we are in wooden huts with dry floors and
can change our shoes; also the Y.M.C.A. has
taken a villa belonging to a French countess for the
women-workers, and as it’s quite close to the camp
that everlasting walk at 10.30 is a horror of the past.
Me have no life outside our job—just one day a
fortnight off to have tea in a real town and get our
liair waved. But life is so full that we have hardly
time to mend our stockings. We wear holland over-
alls over our frocks, and our dress money goes
in heavy field boots (very expensive), wool undies,
ditto sweaters and good rubber hats which don’t spoil
in the eternal rain. The frumpish things cost twice
as much as the muslin frocks I used to wear in old
sunny Sydney. But one thing that the war has torn
from me I don’t miss—my umbrella !
Our local nobility are sorting out their
offspring to pick likely candidates for the
task of playing ladies and other games with
the infant Davidsons. “How to llomp in
Upper Circles’’—-I wonder if there’s a text-
book on the subject.
Assistant-Treasurer ,T. C. L. Fitzpatrick’s
daughter Dorothy has accepted the usual
token from her young man, Quartermaster-
Sergeant Bennett, of Woolwich.
“Australia Jane’s” line from Brisbane :
The Grange Hill convalescent home has been
opened by his Ex. Mrs. George Forrest is the hon.
matron, and six V.A.D. girls are to manage the
housekeeping and cooking. A library and billiard
table, a lounge and a piano are provided for
Biiljim’s use. Grange Hill is the old Raff home,
and has been handed over rent free.
A few months ago a little band of workers under
Mrs. Lockhart Gibson set out to give the Soldiers’
Comforts Fund a lift by making jam. So far over
5000 bottles have been sold and the fund has been
benefiting to the extent of £25 a month. A
bottle-shortage, however, is handicapping the fruit-
boilers ; and if Brisbane has any spare jars lying
about it is implored to send them to the rooms in
Adelaide-street.
Mrs. Ted Antill, the War Chest’s tireless
hon. superintendent, has been snatching odd
days on the Mountains. Mrs. Morris, a sister,
and General Christian, a cousin, have fore-
gathered in the Leura cottage. In spite of
mushroomv weather, the invalided artillery-
man has been getting up his strength, and
can poke round the golf-links once or twice
in a day.
Mrs. Bertie Willsallen and her sister, Airs.
Sheldon, had a miserable homecoming in a
recently-arrived American boat. The former
brought back her late husband’s body to be
buried in the vault on the big sheep-run out
Gunnedah way. The pastoralist and one-
time polo-olayer was told here that his case
was hopeless. Then came tales of the won-
ders achieved by a U.S.A. specialist. He
tried his luck and died.
At the age of 12
Percy Leason turned
an old piano-case
into a studio. Then
he settled down to
work. Only in the
evenings, of course.
Father had a farm
in the Victorian
Mallee, and there
was plenty of work
to do. As the studio
—it was behind the
stable—was regarded
without enthusiasm
by the family, the
artist had to solve
the lighting problem
himself. This he did
by scraping the pith
out of reeds, soaking
the fragile tapers in fat, and setting them
alight. A guttering, smellful flare was the
result; but it sufficed. There were odd days
of stolen joy when the young draughtsman
went out into the bush to lie under the trees
and try to sketch the wild birds of the
Mallee.
After school-time —school was at Kaniva
—came the cold prose of apprenticeship tj
a sign-painter and house-decorator—which
was supposed to satisfy his inclination for
art, while giving a prospect of tucker. But
that didn’t prove a success. Then Leaso.l
got to Melbourne—tried litho work, and put
his soul (pro tern.) into jam-labels. From
this billet he was abruptly pushed by his
employer, when his term was up, as a youth
who had no business instincts. A job in a
drapery store, in which he was responsible
for the price labels, came to an equally un-
timely end through a wicked habit he had of
mutilating the window cards with his draw-
ings. Then followed commercial work for
a crust, with evenings spent at the National
Gallery in art-classes under MeCubbin —a
brief episode, but all the regular teaching
that has come his way.
A young artist with the gifts of humor
and imagination, and almost incredible per-
sistence in overcoming obstacles, Lea son
came to Sydney about a year ago. Before
leaving Victoria his decorative three-color
drawing’s in “Here is Faery” gave him his
first whiff of publicity, lie is doing better
still in the black-and-white sketches for a
new volume of selected poems by Henry
Lawson. Angus and Robertson, the publish-
ers, wisely chose an artist who knows the
bush to illustrate these songs <»f the great
spaces. Shy as a mallee-hen. or even as
Henry Lawson himself, he finally faced
Judith Fletcher’s camera. The little photo
goes with this.
Lieut. Lebby Hordern is back from the
r ront on six months’ leave.
Another homing pigeon. Captain Car-
michael, looks a sun-and-wina-tanned warrior.
Leichhardt ( his strictly Labor constituency)
will probably overlook the A.D.C. he acquired
as shipmate of the new Governor. Jack
Virgo, the general sec. of the Y.M.C.A., was
also aboard. He is on one of his usual boun-
dary-ruler’s rounds.
War alters many things, and Lent is to
be no longer an “off” season as far as It.C.
weddings are concerned. A recent decree
from Rome brushes aside the old edict, and
wipes out the “black fasts” from the
Church calendar, so that even the best-
behaved religionists may indulge in butter
and its greasy relations on the days those
substances were hitherto barred.
Jack Garry, of Garryowen, Binalong, for-
ward among the forwards of inter-State foot-
le" ? ew y ears a §'°> has been measured for
khaln. He owns a very bright wife (she
was Queenie MacCauley, of Mosman) and
two kiddies, also a B.E. of Sydney Univer-
sity, and for the latter reason has booked
with our Engineers for an indefinite season
abroad—and at home, too, judged by the
experience of some busy mining men' who,
after enlisting, have been kept hanging
around Australia for nearly 12 months.
A Sydney woman whose son is attached to
a sugar plantation in Fiji had one thrill
during her visit to the sooty island. When
she found it was the custom to dispense
with locked and barred doors and windows
at night, the strongest testimonials to the
docility of the very numerous nigger failed
to reassure her, so she took the precaution
to sprinkle a packet of tacks on the floor
before turning in. She was awakened by a
crash and a shriek that also roused the
household; and when everybody rushed in
expecting any old sort of tragedy, they
found the Black Brudder who took round the
early cup of tea busy grubbing ironmongery
out of his spacious foot. The burglar-alarm
was barred for the rest of her stay.
From a Summer Hill girl at present in
Kansas, U.S.A.-
Now that the boys are going from here the “ser-
vice flag’’ is seen everywhere. It's oblong and red,
hanging downward, with white centre and a blue
star for every enlisted member of the family, firm,
etc. In the small houses a card with “A man from
this house is serving his country” on it is placed in
tlie window. In the larger houses, and outside
offices, public buildings, colleges, etc., the flag is
flown. Harvard unfurled hers the ether day with
over 700 stars, and Kansas Uni. will fly one with
many hundred stars shortly. Small service flags
are seen at the rear windows of big limousines and
small cars alike, and tinv flags are being worn l>v
the women on their coats. Such an idea would
surely be welcomed in Australia, where so many
have given their loved ones, and it should put to
shame those who are still sheltering their eligibles.
The brooch “flags,” by the way, have reached
Australia, and some American women here
are already wearing them.
Surgeon Alex. MacCormick, his wife and
two daughters are unpacking after coming
safely through the perils of tin fish.
A- E. Hughes has bought the late “Wattie”
Holdship’s red-roofed bungalow near the goff-
linlts at Leura—where, by the way, aquatic
sports would have been the only possible out-
door frolic during recent icy winds and rain-
storm. Yet the local Mountain visitor turns
out regularly to get the air. And Fido. too !
The spectacle of a consequential little dog in
a scarlet coat, hand-led by adoring humans,
is a feature of the landscape.
Captain F. S. Betts is lion. sec. of this
week’s Light Horse gym. at Menangle. A
camel race—the riders to be pressmen—and
a melon melee help the show.
The Alexandra Hospital for sick kiddies
gets another cot as the result of Walter
i horman s students’ recital a few weeks
ago.
The recent fashion-display reveals
Esquimau fur coats and immense muffs with
the beasties’ heads and tails all over the
pelt. The heat of the lady who gets inside
these Arctic wraps will be about 200° in
the shade. The furrier is apparently as busy
as ever, and the black fox is losing his skin
with all the old pre-war frequency.
From the evening
long ago in Mel-
bourne when as a
mere lad he played
the flute as a soloist,
making his metro-
politan musical debut
by chance with
Melba, no one has
been so closely asso-
ciated with her
affairs as John
Lenimontj. lie is not
only her devoted
chum, but the man-
ager to whom in Aus-
tralia the Dominant
Voice leaves her busi-
ness concerns —abso-
lutely. As the faith-
ful watcher of the
many irons the singer has in the lire, John
has lately allowed his flute to slip into
second place. Yet the Victorian is admitted
everywhere to he one of the world’s greatest
flautists. A world-tour with Amy Sherwin
years ago; then round the globe with the
great English contralto, Janet Patey ; later
with the famous Irish bass Foley (on concert
programmes Signor Foli) ; flute recitals in
London, thanks to Melba’s introductions;
appearances at the English soirees, the
fashion of that day, at which the Skylark
sang; five tours with the inimitable Adelina
Patti—-to these add various concert trips
with Melba through TJ.S.A. and Canada, and
you’ll see that Leuimong has had an experi-
ence of world travel not beaten by many
Australians.
When Lemmone returned to his native
land he was in concert management for a
while. He brought Mark Hambourg on his
second tour. Also he was responsible for
Paderewski’s visit, and .smoothed the lion’s
mane with consummate tact —even Madame
Paderewski answered to the silken cord in
John’s deft hand. Here is his smiling face
(May Moore is responsible for the photo.),
the reflex of a buoyant Australian tempera-
ment.
The solitary quill—very often from the
coat of the lady who lays the breakfast egg—
is an autumn fixture. More or less, of course ;
a high wind may shatter its foundation in the
latest toque and make it wobble like a grass-
blade.
Comforts dames are rolling up their sleeves
to tackle the refreshment-tent business at
the coming show again. Last year’s deluge
hasn’t damped their spirits.
The summer sale is making way for the
autumn hat. It is likely to be as high as
a stovepipe, and fashioned of silk plush,
mostly black or cream.
An exile in Egypt meets a bright girl
I was acting clerk at the Referendum voting, and
my first voter was a V.A.D. I asked her rank. She
said: “I wear no stars, but I bear a heavy cross.”
“Like a General,” said I ; “he wears crossed swords.”
“Yes,” said the lady, with a grin ; “I rank as
honorary general’—but I wear crossed brooms!” I
felt I’d like to see more of her.
h reak knitting is being tried by country
womenfolk just now. It is a revival of the
old way of knitting wool direct from the
greasy fleece. Judging by samples seen it
promises to be a great boon to the women out-
back who can neither buy the spun wool nor
afford a wheel. The gins of the Lachlan
tribe used to knit dilly- and other bags
straight from the ’possum fur, doing it with
two sticks, and these bags often figured as
wedding presents. One bush spinnerette
who owns a wheel has, by the way, made
very passable knitting “wool” from ’possum
fur. In the Scotch Highlands the old
wives used to collect bits of wool from
barbed-wire fences and briar-bushes and knit
it up into socks as a Christmas gift for the
meenester; but the work done locally direct
from the whole fleece is a great improvement
on theirs.
The local bobby and his pal the fireman are
throwing in their lot together for a huge
carnival for the hospitals. March 2 is the
date.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN


Hardy Brothers
%/ LTD
JEWELLERS.
SIGNET RINGS.
THE COMPANY’S KINGS ARE HAND-MADE IN
SOL.ID IBet. GOIjD, AND AKE OF HIGHEST
WORKMANSHIP THROUGHOUT.
Lady's Solid ISpt. Gold
Signet Ring,
QUOTATIONS FOR ENGRAV-
ING ON APPLICATION.
Lady’s Solid 18ct. Gold
Signet Ring,
£1 18 0
Lady’s Solid 1 Set Gold
Signet King,
£1 12 0
Lady's Bloodstone and
Solid 18ct. Gold
Signet Ring 1 ,
£1 14 0
Lady’s Solid 18ct. Gold
Signet King,
£1 12 O
Gentleman’s Bloodstone and
Solid 18ct. Gold Signet Ring,
£4 0 0
Gentleman’s Solid
18ct. Gold Signet
Ring,
A selection with a finger-
size card for measurement
sent on approval, if desired.
Gentleman s Solid
18et. Gold Signet
A COPY OF THE COMPANY’S ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
FORWARDED POST FREE ON REQUEST.
13 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY.
116-118 QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON
The Folding Klito Junior
IS AN INEXPENSIVE CAMERA
British-made For Plates.
The Folding Klito Junior is a grand example of the sterling merit which
characterises British-made goods, as, although extremely moderate in price, it is a
wonderfully efficient instrument.
sg
It is well constructed and finished, the body being
of selected, seasoned hardwood, covered waterproof
Leatherette, Leather Bellows, Reversing View Finder,
Focussing Scale, Infinity Catch, and Focussing Back.
It is made in three sizes, as under:—
No, IA, with Rapid Aplanat Lens, and Ensign-
Simplex Shutter, giving Time, Bulb and Instan-
taneous Exposure. Takes photos 3J x2J in.. . 45/-
No. 2, with Achromatic Lens, Ensign-Junior Shut-
ter, giving Time, Bulb and Instantaneous Ex-
posures. Takes photos x 3j in 30/-
No. 2P.C., same as above. Takes Postcard-size
photos 52/6
We invite your inspection of this fine camera.
If you live out of town, send for catalogue.
Don’t Waste a Grain
The elimination of waste, and conservation of every grain, should be the endeavor
of Dentists, Jewellers and other workers of precious metals, and the best method of doing
this is to have their sweepings treated at Harringtons’ Laboratories and Metallurgical
Works.
The latest appliances are used for this class' class of work, and every grain that
is of value is extracted and paid for at market rates, less a small charge for the refinement.
We specialise in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis, and buy materials
containing Gold, Silver or Platinum. We can also supply those metals and their
Alloys, in Plate, Wire or Granulated.
We invite your enquiries—a ’phone message or note addressed to any of our branches
will receive prompt attention.
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts anti Assayers,
38S George St, 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St, North, Sydney,
1
/
r
Is your Piano
“Cobwebbed”
with neglect?
Although the Piano has always been con-
sidered an essential part of the home and
represents the outlaying of a large sum of
money, still as years go by it is astonishing
how little the Piano is used.
May be your Piano has not been played
for months and the keyboard never touched
from one week's end to another. Your original
intention of infusing plenty of music into the
home life has proved a disappointment.
Why let this disappointment continue? Why
be witnout the great pleasure of good music?
THE EASILY PLAYED PIANOLA PIANO
comes to replace the hard-to-play ordinary
Piano and avoid the necessity of money lying
idle in an unused instrument. With the entree
of the PIANOLA comes all the delight and
culture that perfect music alone can bring.
Call or write and give us particulars of
your present silent Piano and we will at
once give you full information as to the allow-
ance that can be made and make available
for your selection our fine stock of PIANOLA
PIANOS in the following world-famous makes
—The Steinway, Aeolian Steck, Aeolian Stroud,
Farrand and the English-made Aeolian Weber.
Now is the time to investigate this liberal offer!
THE PIANOLA COMPANY
PTY. LTD.,
“The Centre for the World’s Greatest
Achievements in Musical Instruments.”
384 George St., Sydney.
And at
252 Collins Street, Melbourne;
436 Queen Street, Brisbane; and
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
To the PiA i\ OLA (JOM J J AN i
Please send me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos,
showing how l can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and what allowance you can make on my present piano,
which is a ...
Bought about
Name •
Address
»ffen
EE
=lllllllll


Mr. A. CARLSON (jrom
photo.).
FREE SAMPLES
HAIR GROWER
and Shampoo Powders.
CJo Mrs. M. Tobin. Boarding House,
Florence Street, Port Pirie, S.A.
Mr. John Craven-Burleigh.
My Dear Sir, —/ thank you for your letter and offer.
I am very pleased to state that my hair has im-
proved wonderfully since I got the last supnly of
your remedy. I am quite satisfied it is a True IJair
Grower. My scalp is now full of fine, silky hair,
and I still have 21 boxes left, so I won’t need any
more. I am recommending your True Hair Grower
to all my friends. 1 am sending you the last photo.
I have, as 1 serl all the others to my friends and
people, to let them see how my hair has grown. You
may publish this if you please.—Yours truly,
A. CARLSON.
Mr. Craven-Burleigh has received thousands of
unsolicited testimonials from people who have suc-
cessfully used his preparations. They are all
genuine, and open to the fullest investigation. In
order to ensure a fair test he desires everyone suffer-
ing from Hair Troubles to obtain from him a Free
Trial of his hair-growing compound. Send full
name and address, enclosing three penny stamps for
postage and packing to
JOHN CRAVEN=BURLEIGH (DEPT. 7a), 321 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) 11/6
Bed and Breakfast ~ 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
Beauty, Elegance
and
Supreme Quality
are expressed in
GAGE Hats.
On Display at the Leading
Establishments of Australia
and New Zealand.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust-Proof
Corset.
Melbourne, February 18, 1918.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Caulfield Autumn meeting began on
Saturday, and baked Melbournites flocked
out to the heath to revel in the first cool
breeze of the season. But the women seemed
too exhausted by the continuous heat to
parade in their autumn frocks. Some of
the most prominent feminine racegoers re-
fused to leave their I’ortsea retreats at all.
Leslie Stuart, wearing a blue band on his
grey hat, came alone and left his smart
missus dipping at Sorrento. The debonair
Stewart Brunton also left his frocky lady at
the seaside. Fan Dango Mackay was so
sure that their Headwind was going to win
th(it she couldn’t face the excitement.
Headwind failed, but hubby Sam Mackay
won a fortune over Desert Gold. While being
cooled off in the birdcage after the race, the
Maori-lady had a ring of overawed worship-
pers round her, gazing as if she were a
revealed goddess. Roger Thompson was there
with his Canadian wife, in a dress to match
Madame’s blue eyes. Mrs. Weston Pett was
handing round warm informal invitations to
friends to meet young soldier son Archie,
who has been finishing a long convalescence
at their country home. Squatter Wood was
down, and his lady (she was one of the
Creswick daughters) wore blue tailorings.
The Rajah wore very pale-grey clothes and
a pleased smile; his horse Ivilflinn romped
in on the last race. The Also Ranee re-
mained at the seaside.
Muriel Starr came out in a curious brown
checked flannel dress like a shirt, and topped
it with a hat of blue patchwork. Marion
Marcus Clarke wore her white linen mis-
sionary frock. Mrs. Neil Crowley was a
study in green, from her shoes to a waving
green tulle scarf. Steward Croker strolled
in solitary state with a lovely waist to his
pale-grey coat. Mrs. Clive Leonard had
sister Miss Reynolds with her, and this just-
returned girl was overwhelmed with greet-
ings. Her smart fawn London clothes were
eyed enviously. Mrs. Russell Gabb was out
in a gold-tissue hat and some mastic-grey
tailorings of cute design. Mrs. Barry
Thompson spread an acreage of dove-grey
crepe on the lawn. Some invalided Canadian
soldiers struck a new note in khaki. Their
hats were a queer shape, and behind them
they wore their battalion colors.
Melbourne and Sydney detectives went
over to Tassy to watch visiting crooks dur-
ing the Speck’s great fortnight. It was a
ripping idea and it worked out splendidly
until one Sherlock Holmes, after escorting
a suspect to the stewards’ room, found he
had collected a person of the very first
social importance.
The G.-G., Lady Helen and party are
touring the lovely North-West Coast of Tas-
mania. Their motor road runs in enchanted
semi-circles, following the outline of the
coast. The numerous bays have golden
sandy beaches below the vivid green of the
boobyallas—the native banyans—and the
rocks jut out into hundreds of little head-
lands where penguins sit and consider the
deep blue ocean. The inland side of the
wonderful road is mostly jungles of ferns
and occasional little townships nestling
below the mountain crests. Ragged red clay
cliffs and torn forests show where the tin,
silver and zinc are being hauled out by
inartistic Man.
There are murmurs and mutterings that
the Bigjohn Forrests are going “Home” —
not to the democratic West, as you might
imagine, but to the Home of Titles. The
gossips have also discovered that the Forrest
lady’s family tree has a peer somewhere in
the branches.
Niece Muriel North has arrived hurriedly
from the West to share in the glory of Uncle
Bigjohn’s peerage. Muriel is so much with
Auntie Forrest as to be practically an
adopted daughter. The Forrests have no
chick of their own.
A tall, slim goddess who appeared on the
Block one afternoon recently created a deal
of repressed excitement and drew a full
house into one of the largest afternoon-tea
depots. She had the most golden hair ever
seen on a woman’s head, and a lot of it. But
what caught the crowd was that she had
persuaded the large, ostentatious poodle she
was carrying to be exactly the same color.
Everybody wears her pearls under her
day-time blouses now. Most jewels are
stowed in safety vaults these dull days; but
pearls lose lustre and blacken if not worn,
so Paris has discovered that they look sweet
and discreet under black chiffon.
Melba and her pal Lady Susan Fitz-
Clarence spent Christmas as guests of the
G.-G. of Canada and his Duchess of Devon-
shire. Heavy falls of snow provided them
with plenty of tobogganing, sleiehing and
skiing. The time of Melba’s return to Aus-
tralia is indefinite, as she has thoughts of a
peep at Vladivostock.
The Edward Yencken girls hostessed a
young people’s frivol last week to farewell
the captain brother who has been home on
leave. The difficulty of getting suitable male
support for flapper frivols these times is
tremendous. But the modern Toorak miss
is so grateful for an invitation to any sort of
gaiety that she doesn’t ask impossibilities of
her hostess. In a social sense these are
chastening times.
Dr. McCarthy has been in Melbourne on
his way back from Tasmania to Sydney. On
Thursday they dragged him into a consulta-
tion with several Melbourne doctors, to dis-
cuss the best treatment for Basil Hart,
musician Fritz’s young son, who is still bat-
tling against the effects of his shooting
accident.
Dr. Ellis, our busy lady medico, is due
back from far places in March.
Black silk skirted gowns are the latest
splash for the water. Mrs. Buchanan (she
was Dr. Freda Gamble befoi’e she married) is
snorting the smartest of its kind at Portsea.
She can show it off, too, with acrobatic turns
on the springboard. That handsome Edin-
burgh woman, Mrs. Glenloth Peter, also dips
in black silk expensiveness; so does the
aesthetic Mrs. Robb —or did.
Mrs. Bridges came down from the Western
District last week to meet the only son of
the house, Lieut. Jack. He is over here to
help settle up his Admiral-father’s hand-
some estate before getting back to the Front.
The Parker knight, from Westralia, is shel-
tering in a South Yarra liasherie with daugh-
ters Ethel and Dolly. A flapper grand-
daughter has been deposited at a Geelong
school. The family is excited over the pros-
pective return of one of the soldier sons, who
is suffering from an overdose of shrapnel. A
previous thrill was supplied by his elder
brother Hubert, who, when convalescing in
Scotland, married his patriotic host’s younger
daughter before getting back to the trenches.
Last week a small mayoral dinner was
spread for a mixed party of guests in the
boudoir rooms reserved for the Mayoress, a: i
the pop-pop-pop reminded one of a machine-
gun at practice. Melody was laid on, for the
new city lady is intensely musical. Banana-
lander Cahill was at the piano, tenor Brookes
sang, and some naice girl amateurs also con-
tributed a warble or two. The Mayoress asked
Cahill for a dreamy nocturne, and Cahill
dreamed as requested through a length of
Chopin, pitting his music unsuccessfully
against the chattering women. The she-diners
were very much undressed and wore pints of
jewels. The loudness of their finery was
only matched by the noise that floated up
from the big hall below, where a Mannix
meeting was raging.
A somewhat damaged cat came back from
the wars the other day, and Jack Swanson,
city councillor and one of the jolly builder
brethren, parted with £lOO when it meowed
at him. When on recruiting work early in
the war he promised to each of the first
two men to volunteer a mascot, with the
sporting offer that he’d hand over £lOO on
their safe return with the mascot, which was
a cat in each case. No w r ord to date of the
fate of cat No. 2.
The managing director and shareholders
of the Gippsland and Northern Co-operative
Co. lately gave a champagne dinner to C. J.
Newton, recently their London representa-
tive, who is leaving the firm.
Cousin Adelaide’s gossip :
Some people haye freakish luck. At the end of
January one W. L. Jacques, who jumped off the
Semaphore jetty to save a drowning boy, lost a ring
while in the water. Last week a diver found the
trinket on the sea floor and returned it to its owner.
We have a new orchestra, 14 strong, composed
entirely of returned soldiers, all of them too badly
wounded to engage in heavy work. The baton will
be tapped for the first time in public at a concert in
the Queen’s Hall on Wednesday. A second appear-
ance is to be made at the Trench Comforts River
Continental on the following Saturday.
Monday night saw the launching of a Women’s
Representation League, with Mrs. T. Freebairn as
“chairman,” Mrs. J. F, Young and Miss Florence
Haycraft, B.Sc., as honorary secretaries, and Mrs.
Crawford Vaughan as a member of the committee.
The main object of the League is to encourage the
candidature of women for all elections, municipal
and Parliamentary. One of its first reps, at the
hustings will probably be Mrs. Jeanne F. Young. It
is threatened that she will be nominated for a subur-
ban (State) electorate.
The engagement is announced of Miss Crozier, only
daughter of the Elliott Croziers, of Brimbago station,
to L. Y. Langdon, second son of the E. W. Langdons,
of Millswood.
Captain F. T. Bruce, who has done excellent work
as organising secretary to the State Recruiting Com-
mittee, has resigned in favor of a returned soldier
suitable for the job. Incidentally, he has also made
three attempts to be passed for active service.
Commander Boddam Whettam, who was here with
the Challenger as a good-looking sub.-lieut. 'and since
the war has been on watch in the North Sea, has got
his D.S.O. He was married a few years ago to
pretty Mrs. Gordon Ayers.
The count of Friday’s Button Day takings showed
the usual fake coins—buttons, halfpennies wrapped in
silver paper to do duty as shillings, and bits of tin-
ware that had passed muster as half-crowns. Patriot-
ism runs in all misshapes.
Another South Australian to make his mark is
E. A. Kruss, whose aptitude for aeronautics has got
him the billet of senior flying-instructor at the San
Diego army school, the largest in the U.S.A. He is
due in France in the Spring in command of a flying
section.
Our Art Gallery has just received an astonishing
consignment of Old Masters belonging to the late
P. J. Cels, the Belgian who died in Adelaide lately
from the after-effects of gassing. He had decided to
settle in sunny S. Aus., and offered his pictures—
which he valued at £75,000 —to this State for
£40,000. The collection contains works, whose
genuineness has not so far been questioned, by Van
Dyck, Rubens, Teniers, Cuyp and the like. It would
be a marvellous acquisition Ur Adelaide Gallery,
which has a fine lot of modern work; but we can’t
think of £40,000 in war-time. Still, the pictures
are to be exhibited, so that we may have a new
thrill.
The Government has changed the location for the
Returned Soldiers’ Club. It was to be a central
building in Grenfell-street. It is to be the com-
modious old Ayers mansion on North Terrace, lately
known as Austral Gardens. The Gardens C'o, turned
one end of the land into an open-air theatre; at
the other end it built a dancing-hall. The war came
just in time to render this useless, and it is now
occupied by the Defence Department as a pay-office.
In between is the old mansion, which should make
a fine club. The Government is paying the “rent,
£5OO a year, for five years.
Mavis Thiel, one of the most decorative
girls in Melbourne and a daughter of the
striking-looking Fred Thiel pair, is to marry
Gordon Chirnside. The news of the engage-
ment has just been “released,” as the film
people say. Mavis is here to be congratu-
lated, but Gordon is in France acting as
A.D.C. to General Birdwood. The fiancS
went away with the first contingent, and is
a son of the late Robert Chirnside. His
mother is now wife of Justice Hodges. Mavis
has just received a wonderful ring, a wonder-
ful pendant and a diamond-studded watch
from her soldier.
Word came to the Harry Ilentys last week
that the son and heir, while holidaying from
the trenches, had booked himself for a wed-
ding. A postscript announced that the knot
had been tied. Letters with all particulars
about the bride will be in the next mail.
The New York papers are throwing head-
lines round the war romance of Jean Knox,
of Toorak, and Lieut. Eric Murray, who
sailed from England on the Andrania to meet
and marry his girl. A U-boat gave his ship a
knock-out blow, and the survivors travelled
almost round this troubled world before they
struck England again. Jean and her soldier
were re-united at last the other day, and
sentimental New York stood on tiptoe to see
them going to church.
Volatile Rita Kiddle changed her name to
McGeagh some weeks ago. The bridegroom
is a major in the Territorials and has a hor-
ribly rich father who hires a Kentish castle
called Hadlow. The bride is a daughter of
the one-time owner of Walbundrie station
(N.S.W.), most of which was sold some years
ago. The Kiddle estate had dwindled con-
siderably before the late owner passed out.
Brother Geoff.,.killed in action last year, left
half his share to his fiancee. This amounted
to a few hundreds a year. The other half
went to sister Rita.
Victoria must be full of young people in
quest of vocal training gratis. The latest
advt. of a scholarship offered by Theophilus
Roberts brought 211 entries, and nearly all
the aspirants came to have their voices put
to the test. Mr. Roberts found 29 of them
good enough for the final. Some were
strikingly good, and most of the singers
showed sufficient intelligence, if not the other
necessary qualifications, for a Career. The
scholarship went to a blonde, tall, youthful-
looking soprano of 16—Dorothy Home,
daughter of Rev. Stirling Home, vicar of
Buninyong.
Talking of scholarships, Adrian Holland,
who went to London on the R.A.M. award
for Australia, was lately required to turn
his dainty piano hands to military account.
But the medical test stopped him right
away. Three other doctors confirmed the
first verdict and decided that Adrian (son
of Edwin Holland, of Melbourne) was unfit
for any sort of military service whatever, on
account of an extraordinary heart —the onlv
heart of the sort, the doctors say, they e\ei
struck.
Walter Appendicitis Kirby, touring Tass.v,
put in last week “doing” Bayswater and
Sandy Bay.
Little Vera Carew has also flown over to
the Apple Island, and is singing and charm-
ing the Hobart people with her art.
Walter Kirby’s enthusiasms for rank and
fashion sometimes carry him off his feet and
on to other people’s corns. He was giving
a concert in Hobart, and though Lady Helen
was touring the little island she could not be
present. But —joy ! —the Monash lady arrived
with a party of friends. Walter rushed for-
ward, begged them to “walk this way,” and
gallantly made room for the new lady of title.
But the poor courtier could not have known
that in his exertions he half-obliterated
Lieut.-Governor Nicholls and his lady, who
were sitting in the front chairs without any
distinguishing marks of office.
“Snowy Baker” is to burst silently on
the public per medium of the screen. A
thrilling reel or two with a rescue of a
maiden from an ocean rock is one feature,
and there are also knock-out blows, I.W.W.’s
and other melodramatic items.
The Souter-Hill opera at the Princess’s
runs along on bare legs and feet. There, is
a salutary Carlyle-like revelation in seeing
chorus-girls’ extremities absolutely in the
nood. Legs and feet encased in fleshings
and silk slippers have some charm. Cut out
the slippers and stockings in the interests
of Art and you have just legs and feet again.
The ladies of “The Rajah of Shivapore”
cannot stand the severe test. One girl has
an unmistakable bunion. The fair heroine
wisely softens the bare effect with silk
anklets. Remember Nellie Stewart’s bare
feet? They were a picture—but only be-
cause Nellie had been as keen on pedicure
as on manicure for many years. For Trilby,
Nell Gwynn and a barefoot panto, boy, the
beauty had her well-kept feet massaged,
polished and henna-tipped regularly every
morning.
Little - red-thatched ex-mummer Malcolm
Laughton, of Tasmania, passed through Mel-
bourne lately, clad in khaki, to rejoin his unit
in Sydnev. Laughton took to the greasepaint
at the same time aB .Charlie Hammond, also
from Tassy, and played through the Tyrone
Power-Edith Crane season. He also did
sound work in George Musgrove’s Shaks-
pearean season, when pretty Norah Kerin
was the young star.
March 15 is the date of the big appeal by
the State War Council for money to help
wounded soldiers and their dependants. One
or' the lures of the day will be the C.T.A. sale
of surprise-packets. Herschell, of Pathe.
Frhres, has placed his services as organiser
at the disposal of the association, and 200,000
packets will be offered at a bob apiece. One
of them will be worth a block of land which
takes in a bit of Mount Dandenong. and
there are other prizes on a like magnificent
scale.
Miss de Lancy Forth is the new secretary
of the Old Newspaper Committee, at the Vic-
toria League, Collins-street, Melbourne. She
sorts out and sends newspapers to boys at the
Front, and (please note this!) she never has
too many. Send along what you can spare
and make a note of the address. It’s an easy
way of doing a great kindness to Billjim.
The stodgy old Athenaeum has so far for-
gotten itself as to build a reading-room for
our snubbed sex and appoint one of us
assistant librarian. The Athenaeum job was
secured against over 100 applicants ( mostly
males) by Alice Cooper, daughter of J. B.
Cooper, who made a hit a year or so ago
with his war novel, “Coo-00-ee,” and has just
received word that Hodder and Stoughton
have accepted a second. “Leg Bail: A Tale
of Bass Straits in the ’Thirties.”
Tours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


'
I
’•
SIS
'“k
am
u
. v
L^fS?
&£
PS.
i
II
9BE
IsHi
SF
y
•;t v
m
m
v. v
General Foch
Copyright Watson’s No. 10 Whisky.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Foch is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of M. Venizelos, Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir Douglas
Haig, General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W. Robertson, General Foch, General
Cadorna, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, Peter 1., General Sarrail, General Brussiloff, General
Russky, will be sent to any address on receipt of II- postal-note, or 12 penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
%
Jf
N? 10
WalAoriA
Scotch Jrttt*
■
m
m
m
m
y/vs,
m
m
MM
?sS//S//sMOX
yy*
YS/SSsss.


It’s Nourishment Your Nerves Need,
not Dangerous Drugs.
To use morphia to make you sleep, stimulants to drive your jaded brain and
body, or opiates to ease your headaches or other nerve pains, is about the worst
thing you can possibly do. At best they only afford temporary relief while their
reactions call for more and more drugging, till ultimately the patient becomes a
slave to the drug habit. The proper thing to do is to purify and enrich your blood
and nourish your nerves, for which purpose you cannot get anything better than
HeaN s T o nic Nerve Nuts
They are economical as well as being efficient. Boxes containing twelve days’
supply cost 3/-, or six boxes for 17/3. If not stocked by your chemist or store,
send direct to G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street’
Sydney; or Hean’s Pharmacy, Wanganui, New Zealand.
King George IV
WHnmi
The TOP-NOTCHScotcH
*3
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“F.N.”: Barcoo rot and spew are pos-
sibly due to flies and a mutton diet, in the opinion
ot “H.W.F.” (B. 24/l/’18), who asks for the experi-
ence of somebody who has been where beef is the
meat most eaten. I spent a year in the Far North,
above Cairns, where the flies are the limit. Apart
from an occasional goat, beef was the only meat
there. Vegetables were scarce. Dry-’ash (including
onions), bullock's ’eart stuffed (with onions), steak
(an’ onions) and roast or boiled beef (with boiled
onions) were the usual dishes at the leading ranches ;
but only one mild case of barcoo ever came under
my notice. Singularly enough, the party was a
non-beerer, though the beer of the Far North, unless
it comes out of a bottle, can’t, as a rule, be recom-
mended to anybody in the pursuit of health, wealth
and happiness. As for the idea of “Caveman” (B.
24/1/’]B), attributing the disorder to “the state of
the blood brought about by constant toil under a
burning sun,” 1 saw nothing in the blazing North to
bear out that opinion,
* * * *
“F.”: “I Say” touches me on a sensitive
spot when he advocates the taxation and abolition of
cats (B. 24/l/’18). I can hardly help bursting into
loud applause at the idea, though my natural fear
of ridicule prevents my joining an Anti-Cat League.
There are three large and three small cats in my
garden. They aren’t allowed in the house, for the
diphtheritic reasons stated by “I Say” ; but they
seem to be a useless crew, inside or outside. One
night last week I saw a rat sitting at my front
gate, silhouetted against the star-shiny wetness of
the ground after rain. The cats, however, were all
away in the back garden, entertaining. Mice inhabit
the place, too, as a matter of course. When a cat is
specially introduced into the house to make short
work of a sure thing, nothing happens. Puss simply
noses around, looking for an exit, so that she may
return to the pig-bucket; and every now and again
I find on the lawn the feathers of a thrush or black-
bird, which she seems to prefer to vermin.
“I Say” is a sensible bloke ; but even now I shudder
at the thought of murdering- the lot —six cats in
all! Will “I Say” act up to his principles and
come and do it for me?
“W.R.P.” : While droving from the head-
waters of the Burnett down to Dalby (Q.) some years
ago I got Barcoo rot so badly that the policeman
at one of the townships called me off because of
my .awful sores. He instructed me to burn every-
thing that I had used, so as not to pass the curse
on to others, and even offered to help me to make
arrangements with the Afghan storekeeper to get
my tucker sent to me if I would camp four miles
out in the scrub. For months before the attack
started I had lived on salt beef, pumpkin and sweet
potatoes, with occasional fresh beef, scrub or plain
turkey, and the inevitable damper, but no mutton.
I cured myself with an iron-quinine mixture internally
and a mixture of Venice turps, carbolic acid and
lard externally; stopped all meats, except an odd
pigeon, and lived on damper, fruits and vegetables.
I got rid of the scar marks by prolonged treatment
with cold cream. My theory—-simply impoverished
blood.
* * * *
“New Vagabond” : The alleged new fence
that “Dead Fence” (B. 24/l/’18) didn’t discover is
a “stud fence” in the bush glossary. The studs, of
course, are the rails. Twenty-five years ago the dad
and I put up 110 chains of this brand of barrier in
six weeks (winter time), and only used lewt. of No.
10 wire to tie the tops of the twin posts together,
the top rail resting on the wire near the head of
the posts. I cut the stringy and dad sunk the, holes
and built as fast as I could cut. Our panels ran
from four to five yards apart. The fence is still
there, and the delirious price of wire these days has
forced us on to the same kind on a new block.
Can t Australians make us decent fencing wire at a
reasonable figure?
* * * *
“Ligamudu”: For Barcoo rot try this.
Put a tablespoonful of bicarbonate of soda into a
beer bottle and fill it with water. At meal times
put on table alongside plate, and when the desire
to commune with nature manifests itself drink a
mouthful. A complaint similar to Barcoo and locally
known as nadi sickness was at one time very
prevalent during the hot months on N. and W.
coast of Viti Levu, Fiji, and the above was ai cure
for it. Am inclined to think that flies were the
cause of the trouble, helped probably by tinned meat
and scarcity of fresh vegetables. Years ago flies
were the most noticeable feature of the scenery, and
a flv-whisk was as necessary as boots, but since the
ant has added the fly egg to his menu the pest is not
so marked, and nadi has about disappeared, v ictims
to this sickness were usually attacked during or
shortly after meals, and very suddenfy.
THE DISTINCTIVE EPITHET.
THE ONE : “I hear she tore through £10,000 of old Brown’s in six months
THE OTHER : “ Ripping, isn’t she?"
“Wart”: There is a much-debated ques-
tion among- egg-collectors as to how many settings
a bird will lay if the fruit is repeatedly taken. I know
a blue crane’s nest on the banks of the Tamar (Tas.),
whence the eggs were taken four times in one season
ai fortnight intervals. On the first three occasions
there were three eggs, the last time only two, so that
chook laid 11 eggs in place of the usual three. I
know of a case, too, where a Tasmanian honey-eater’s
eggs were taken three times in one season. Curiously
enough, each time there was a pallid cuckoo’s egg
in the nest. This seems to bear out the theory that
the cuckoo does not lay an egg and leave the rest to
chance, but hangs about to see how its offspring gets
on.
* * ■# »
“Johanna”: I saw a white magpie this
year in the bush along the new road between the
Bern River and Mallacoota (Vic.). It was lily
white ; not the creamy white of the plentiful cockatoo.
This white magpie was a great dandy, excellently
groomed and of smooth, satiny plumage like his
piebald brother. Saw another example of white
Australia. A stockman at Mallacoota brought in a
baby kangaroo which was pure white. Mamma, who
disappeared in the chase, was quite white also.
Mother kangas throw baby from the pouch when
hunted. Probably they return and pick up the infant
when danger is past. Our little freak refused milk
and departed this iife. On the other hand, a young
grey ’roo, aged two weeks, flourished and became
a pet about the. house. It used to follow one of
the girls like a kitten, and was fed on bread
and milk, and presently it nibbled grass. Its chief
occupation was sucking his toe, as a human baby
sucks his thumb. He sucked all the hair off one big
toe, and when his goddess bandaged the member he
started on the other. Soon he was hopping about
with as many rags as a convalescent Billjim.
* * * *
“R.A.8.”: Re black twin lambs, I have
been 20 years Chasing jumbucks and have seen only
one pair. They are a pigeon pair, dropped last
month. I marked them last week, when they were
both well and hearty, and they can be seen with
their mamma till the end of next month, when they
will be weaned. Have only once seen an ordinary
black ewe (other than of a special black flock) with
a black lamb, and that was in 1916. In 1917 she
decided on a piebald one. Don’t know what her
intention is this year.
* * * *
“Engine”: Inform “Tom Tit,” who in-
quired for an authentic record of a pure white
magpie, that Mrs. Doyle, who kept the pub at
Girilambone (N.S.W.) thirty years ago, had one, a
splendid talker. At Cobar they had a white crow.
I think Father Curran became the owner.
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Please do not send
an old Abo. friend to the bottom of the class to
oblige “Cocky-quack,” who should henceforth omit
the front of his nom-de-nib and retain the second
half. If I have to go down I shall have to take the
famous J. A. Leach, D.Sc., and other keen birdolo-
gists with me. None of them has made any reference
to the alleged “other tune for eisteddfodau” attri-
buted to the bill-bird by “Quack.” It will be very
interesting to note what such admirable observers as
“Chink,” Edward S. Sorenson, etc., have to say
about “the high, sweet, prolonged whistle, followed
by notes descending in pitch,” with which “Quack’s”
TIME TO TAKE ACTION.
"Well, Jacky, the policeman’s going away to
the war.”
"By cripe, it time they send for him. Flurry
row gone on long enough.”
bird commences his reserve tune. Probably “Quack”
has mistaken the brush wattlebird (which has no
wattle) for the gillbird. The former has many
curious notes—even remarkable notes—but I am not
prepared to admit that the said notes are suitable
for eisteddfodau. (This last lump of a word sounds
like a Billy Hughes malediction.)
(Continued on page 24 .)
OF MANY HORSES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
New, many sing- the thoroughbred, the steed of match-
less grace,
The hero horse who always sped to victory in the
race,
But few will sing the homely horse, the patient,
plodding hack
Who gives his quiet toil to man in lonely lands out
back;
By hidden ways,
Through weary days,
In lonely lands out back.
Fields yet uncleared will gleam and glow with golden
glint of grain,
And orchards as the seasons go will fade and bloom
again ;
Rich harvests on the bushland slopes, where fern
and scrub grow now,
Will ripen o’er the hoof-prints of the horse who pulls
the plough ;
Round stumps and stone
In lands unsown
lie pulls the creaking plough.
By leagues of barren button-grass, on rotting eordu-
roy,
Where sunning lizards see him pass, and stinging
flies annoy;
Along the silent bushland ways, the dark fern-
shadowed track,
And up the spurs of mountains goes the horse who
bears the pack;
Afar he tramps
To bark-built camps,
The horse who brings the pack.
The school-house in the out-back land is white and
plain and small,
Around the little playground stand the bush trees,
straight and tall;
From scattered farms the children come to heed the
teacher’s rule,
Their old cart jolts behind the horse who takes the
kids to school;
He jogs along
To childish song
(Vnd takes the kids to school.
The teamster cracks his curling whip, the waggon
wheels go round,
They start along the bush ward trip where railways
are not found;
The wheelers strain, the leaders stress, the sweating
bodies gleam,
And up the long red roadway move the horses of the
team ;
With mighty load
They tread the road,
The horses of the team.
And when the bushland heroes go to Europe’s fields
of blood,
Where Northern stars but palely glow beyond the
ocean flood,
They marshal in the ranks of men, they stay the
hate-filled Ilun,
A HERO.
SHE: “The bloke I marry will ’ave the
Victoria Cross.”
H E: “Oh, well, ’e'll deserve it.”
And near them still his hoof-beats fall, the horse
who pulls the gun ;
Where shot and shell
Make earth a hell,
He pulls the limbered gun.
Oh, many sing the thoroughbred, the steed of match-
less grace,
The hero horse who always sped to victory in the
race;
But worthier of a nobler verse, this patient, homely
hack
Who gives his faithful toil to man in lonely lands
out back ;
And great songs scrolled
On deathless gold
Should sing the horse out back.
TASMANIA.
C.C.D.


m
!!
RRI
FARMER’S
in Mens Shirts
wm
“N
RR3
V/k*.
. sen
Rltl.—C AMB B I C SOI T-
I RONTEI) SHIRTS, soft
double cuffs, and linen neck-
bands. White grounds, Black
and Blue Stripes.
PRICE 0/ 6, 3 for 18/9
RR2. —Z EPHYR SOFT-
FRON TE I) SHIRTS, soft
double cuffs, linen neckbands.
White grounds, with Black
and Blue stripes.
Price 6/6,3 for 18/9
23
II
i
I
RR2
\
ft
- :
1
N
m
RRS
r.
RR4
RR3.—CAMBRIC TUNIC
SHIRTS, stiff cuffs and neck-
bands. White grounds, with
Black and Blue stripes 01
various designs. All sizes.
PRICE 6/6, 3 for 18/!)
RR4.— CAMBRIC TUNIC
SHIRTS, special quality, stiff
cuffs, white neckbands.
i white grounds, with Black
and Blue Stripes.
All sizes.
Price 8/6, 3 for 24/!)
%
m
m
km
RR6
RRS.—OXFORD
Clift's and white
White grounds.
TRICE
GOLF SHIRTS, soft double
neckbands. Assorted stripes on
All sizes.
7/6, 3 for 21/9
RR6.—WHITE
„ .. .. MERCERISED COTTON GOLF
SHIRT, white self stripes, soft double cuffs, linen
neckbands. PRICE •• 7/6, 8 tor 21/9
Plain soft Linen Collars, double or Peter Pan
shapes. PRICE 1/- each, 11/6 d° z -
RR7— ZEPHYR TUNIC SHIRTS, stiff cuffs,
white neckbands, White grounds with colored
stripes; also Black and Blue stripes. All sizes.
PRICE 8/6, 3 for 24/9
■m
"
U
RR7
FARMERS
we patj carriage
SYDNEY
That Intense Violet Flame
dsg
Snapping-, sizzling, scorching sparks.
—the kind you must have to get the best your motor can give.
You get them at their hottest with the four-point Stewart V-Ray Spark Plug.
Four points means four times the dependability—four times longer life.
The four points assure that intense violet flame from which this spark plug gets
its name —the Stewart V-Ray.
The petriflint core is oil-proof, heat-proof and fracture-proof. Also it is self cleaning.
The Stewart V-Ray Spark Plug will tone up your power plant to its highest
possible notch of efficiency.
The Stewart V-Ray Spark Plug is produced in the enormous VVTV'The
factories by the same manufacturing methods that are responsible fo
wonderful success of all the famous Stewart products.
Get a set next time you replace your plugs.
Other
Products.
STEWART MAGNETIC SPEEDOMETERS-used on 95% of all equipped cars.
STFWART VACUUM SYSTEM—The system insuring a positive flow of gas to the carburetter.
Used as standard equipment on 75% of all makes of cars.
STEWART V=RAY SEARCHLIGH I-The light with the mirror in the back.
STEWART Warning SignaIs—STEWART Auto Guards, and the famous new STEWART Lens.
STEWART products are obtainable through all distributors of motor accessories, stores and
S garages. If unable to get prices and full particulars locally, write us for illustrated
price list and name of nearest distributor.
COOPER ENGINEERING CO. Ltd.
134 Sussex Street, Sydney. 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.


Mai tin s I ills aie sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladicr recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southamj ' in.—Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
lIISAD OFFICE—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-380-fi COFFINS ST., MEFBOURNE.
QUEENSFAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGFE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRAFIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIFDING, GREN-
FEFF STREET, ADEFAIDE.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
“Steve Hart”: If “Mahomet” (B.
10/1/’IS) wants hard droving let him try some cross-
bred hoggets just off the shears. Lincolns will lie
down; the hoggets gallop, and they’ll find every
slack wire on the road. But for the dizzy limit of
droving try goats. 1 was a goat myself once, and
took delivery of 600 others to escort down the Bogan.
The second day, dogs, horses, the cook and myself
were knocked up, while the goats, fresh as paint,
were careering over the landscape in nine different
directions. An indignant owner has been scouring
the West Bogan scrub for them ever since. He’s
looking for me too !
* * * *
“Harrison O.”: “Eddyson’s” yarn (B.
li/l/’l7) about country families whose members do
not play speaks reminds me of a middle-aged farm-
ing couple in the Bannockburn (Vic.) district, who,
although alone in the house, used frequently to
quarrel and refuse to exchange a word for weeks.
At one time whenever I c<juld escape from the roar
and bustle of Geelong I put in a few weeks with
them as a boarder, and more often than not a war
was in progress. Mrs. Tubb used to intone weird
dirges while going about her household jobs, and by
patient investigation I succeeded in learning the
inwardness of these concert items. When her Ben
had done something so dashed exasperating that it
was only by the exercise of superb self-control that
she was able to refrain from speaking to him, Mrs.
Tubb would relieve her feelings by putting her
opinion of Tubb into song. Sometimes she would
incorporate her opinion of Ben in the Old Hundredth,
at others she would besmirch his character through
the National Anthem. Tubb, too, would burst into
song in reply, but he lacked his wife’s facility. One
night, yarning with Tubb before going to sleep (we
both had stretchers on the verandah), I endorsed
his opinion that women were all fools and vam-
pires, but ventured to suggest that, as he was
apparently loaded with his particular vampire for
life, it was just as well to make the best of her.
During the next day I saw no sign that my hints
regarding the desirability of a reconciliation were
likely to be acted on, but in the evening, while Tubb
was putting some fly-proof netting on one of the
\\ indows, 1 heard him intoning, to the tune of
Shall We Gather at the River,” an edifying sermon,
the text of which had reference to the brevity of
human existence and the foolishness of prolonged
bitterness. Later I heard Mrs. Tubb at work on
the Old Hundredth, but was not able to catch the
diift of her remarks. Still, I think it had something
to do with olive branches, because that night Tubb's
stretcher was not occupied.
Cross-cut”: Can any Abo. give this its
correct name? it is a little fellow similar to a
’possum, body covered with dark brown fur, white
bars on back, bushy tail (sparsely-haired and like a
pipe cleaner), nose sharp like a rat. It is a nocturnal
forager and got bushed in my tent; consequently I
had a good view of it. Have travelled from
Mingenew in W.A. to Burketown in Q., but this, is
the first of the family that I’ve seen.
* * * *
“Steve Ilart”: I would like to ask
Canine Lover’ (B. 17/1/’18) what the strychnine
would be doing to his dog while he hunted up five
or six eggs and beat them up ? Dog-poisoners and
strychnine-users generally give salad oil, which I
have found the best remedy of all.
* * » .
“Splodge”: After all, the Papuan native
is a nice kind old thing at times —at any rate, that
section of him that is put into a blue uniform and
made a Village Constable. I learned this when I
travelled several miles on foot with an official in
a coastal district, passing through various villages.
On entering each we were greeted by the local con-
stable, who solemnly saluted with one hand and
handed us a fresh cocoanut with the other. One
enterprising V.C. was good enough to send his aged
father two or three miles further ahead on the next
stage to present us with a newly-opened cocoanut
at a particularly exposed and hot part of the track,
where we were likely to be most thirsty. When we
were within one village of our destination heavy
rain set in. He were just considering whether to
wait for the storm to pass over or to push on and
put up with a drenching, when along came the
inevitable Hop with two umbrellas! Such unex-
pected hospitality was overwhelming, but we managed
to control our delight sufficiently to calmly, almost
disdainfully, accept the loan of the brollies as if
we were really expecting an oilskin coat and a pair
of goloshes apiece as well. The native owners of
the gamps (the V.C. had requisitioned them in the
King’s name) followed anxiously in our wake to the
next hamlet, where-,they repossessed themselves of
their treasures with visible relief. Umbrellas are
quite in vogue with civilised brown brother nowadays.
In fact, all the best people in dusky Papuan society
possess a gamp somewhere in the family.
FAIR EXCHANGE.
“Raal me got it money, Boss. You gib it rum—me gib it gin."
DEFENCE.
HAIRDRESSER : “Try a face massage, sir ?”
VICTIM: "Not for worlds. If I went home with this worried look ironed out of my face
my wife would rush me for a new gown."
Jim Carew”: Black twin lambs (B.
24/l/’18) are rare. Four years ago one of our ewes,
a merino-Border Leicester crossed to a Shropshire
ram, gave birth to three lambs, two black and one
white. One of the niggers died, but the other two
survived.
* * * *
“R. 0.”: I was riding along the Toora-
weenah road (N.S.W.) the other day when I came
upon a ragged, thirsty kelpie shooing along a fair-
sized mob of jumbucks. At the township a couple
° f miles on I found the drover at the pub. After
the usual, I remarked that his first lieutenant, back
with the mob, looked as if he could hold one down.
“Yairs, I suppose he could,” he said; “Billy, go
•down and take the sheep and tell Jack to come up
and get a drink.” A big barb crawled out from
under the sulky, cocked an experienced eye at the
dust and heat-waves and trotted off. in a few
minutes Jack came up and had a refresher. They’re
what I reckon a good pair of dogs.
* * « *
“Pick”; In the cherry seasons of 1917-18
a previously not introduced nark attacked the trees
in Southern Monaro (N.S.W.) orchards and ruined
many crops. The destroyer is a leaf-green leech-
like slug, half an inch long in maturity; it appears
in myriads among the foliage when the fruit begins
to ripen, and devours the leaves until they are but
a delicate network of ribs. The cherry trees polished
off, the pest deals with the pear trees also, and then
disappears. The vegetables, deprived of their natural
breathing apparatus, become sickly, their fruit
hardens and falls off, and the orchardist writes down
his profits to below zero. If any Abo. knows how
this infliction may be successfully strafed let him
have the floor.
* * * *
“Eddyson”; Nobody at Pinpoint thought
“Hatter” McArthur really dipped till he began to
talk about his dear wife. He had always been con-
sidered eccentric, but his shrewdness, in driving a
bargain and his marked success in handling an
01 chard made it impossible for his neighbors to
believe that he was “fair up the pole.” Then came
the missing wife delusion, and Pinpoint finally made
up its mind “Hatter” was mad. There were those
at Pinpoint who had known him for 18 years without
discovering reason to believe he was anvthing but a
confirmed bachelor, with a furtive fondness for chil-
dren and a pronounced diffidence in the presence of
women, and here he was at 54 talking about his Lily,
and walking up the Quandong road every afternoon
at four to meet her on her delayed but inevitable
return. McArthur described the missing Lily as a
tall woman of unusual beauty, fair as a lily and
with tender eyes of the greyness of ashes. To
Prince he also talked affably of his daughter Jean.
Little Jean was like her mother, he said, but Bennie
took more after his family. “Bennie’s the baby,”
McArthur explained. “He’s just four and a half, a
beautiful child.” Describing little Bennie’s playful
baby ways, he was overcome, and sat on Prince’s
grindstone and cried into his hat. “But I’ll have
to be going now,” he said presently. “They’ll be
coming down the road presently. I’ve heard from
the wife, and she’s coming home.” McArthur walked
up the Quandong road to the top of Dinnie’s Hill,
and waited there for his wife and family. Their
non-appearance did not. distress him greatly. “Some
delay, he said. “They’ll come to-morrow all right,
Lil and the three kids. I don’t suppose you’d see
anywhere in the world three finer children. I’m
proud of them, and I’m proud of my wife.” After
nearly a year of this, during which time “Hatter’s”
tenderness and devotion to the absent wife and
family increased to a kind of rapture, the people of
Pinpoint were filled with amazement on hearing that
McArthur’s wife had come home, and brought two
children with her. Prince strolled through and met
latter at his door. He had a boy of about seven
by the hand. “This is my son James,” he said. “The
dead image of me, don’t you think?” “Hatter” gave
the youngster an affectionate hug. The bov was a
very ordinary, freckled youth, with thin, ginger hair,
he, girl's lovely. She’s her mother’s daughter, my
. called the name, and a gawky, plain
gu-I. of 12 came from the kitchen door. She had
a trigntened face and advanced timidly, but “Hatter”
«Mnk a n!°S tw'V bOUt “ There ’ What do ™u
tbmk of that ? he said, and there was a tremor in
ns voice. ‘But you must meet mv wife She
b7r kn ° W 311 ™ y friends ' Come in and see
bl' o It W ° man WaS in the kitchen , whitening the
Jans' »4 t WaS ?, Smal1 ’ thi "’ Worn of Per-
haps 34 browned and dried by hard work in the
open. After McArthur had introduced her she turned
wJ" f 8 Prince noticed that the home
there nn meticul ously 'lean. “But wasn’t
riouded “R y ° m ’f t " r? ” he Sa, ' d ' McArthur’s face
dead L-e n Said ’ “ o,lr *>“**• Bennie’s
her H-? • ’ dear? The woman looked up from
her whitening. “Yes,” she said. “Bennie died ”
the wJiT Sa L Wlth titcbtened iiP s ’ s faring straight at
sted to b 'i P °° r . ttle b0 >' ! ” »id he. Prince
waited to be alone with the woman; then he said-
field ” “vl r ” yoU vi I° U W ° rked for Carter at Old-
ine- of if In w- * e ' voman ' “ What ’ s the mean-
“He°met m rn ’ " 0t my fal,lt ’” she said-
mV it? t P 6 r ° ad there ' He insisted 1 was
wantei , Wa f near dead ' 1 wanted a rest. I
said PrincS° m “T y ° U ’ re " 0t his "’ife,”
shc^answered SaW bef ° re in
HYPOCHONDRIACAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lhe silkworm is liable to 100 distinct diseases.'’
! oiks label me a hypochondriac;
To live my life I wonder how they’d care to !
f rom birth I’ve had the most unhappy knack
r 0f catching any ill that flesh is heir to!
To “feel cronk” is my hobby ; my pet wheeze is
In minor key to swank of my diseases.
I had the notion that of creatures doomed
On this mad, bad old world half-dead to hang on,
I, like a theatre-star, stood, billed and boomed—
Unique, and with a handy drum to bang on !
Rude is the shock—a crawling thing can meet me
On equal terms and at my own game beat me!
An easy mark! The thought I’d cherished long;
A prey to any epidemic going!
And now I And I’m hale and well and strong—
At ills an insect makes a better showing!
Soon worm’s-meat may I be, give up life’s riddle,'
Kor to no worm will I play second fiddle!
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


extravagance can pos-
’ sibly secure for smokers
better or purer cig'arettes tban
vState Express. Made from tbe
finest tobacco possible to
obtain by tbe cleverest
Tobacco Experts in tbe World
tbey are universally recog-
nised as tbe perfection of
cigarette quality.
cx
/
" J
d
CIGARETTES
were first introduced to supply dis-
criminating' smokers throughout the
world with cig'arettes manufactured
from pure tobacco leaf ONLY, and
to-day kState Express are recog'nised
by connoisseurs as the standard of
all that is possible of attainment in
cig'arette production.
33
6d.
Per
Packet.
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Obtainable of all Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers
Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd., London, England.
°o, 9
£*S
ff»s C'%s


There’s a LIFE-SAVING POWER about
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
That makes it NECESSARY in ACUTE Cases.
One Dose of this Wonderful Remedy will very often prove
sufficient if taKen at the commencement of a Cold; but the
class of case that HEARNE’S fairly REVELS IN is one that
the ORDINARY remedies have failed to maKe any im-
pression upon. Herein lies the REAL VALUE of HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE—a Medicine that can be given with
PERFECT SAFETY and the UTMOST CONFIDENCE to the
YOUNGEST CHILDREN and very AGED SUFFERERS, as it
does NOT contain, and has NEVER contained
any poison or harmful drugs.
»•
r4i
a
mm
rf.Z'li
pr
=S%^ >
*9!
H
■
13.
For COUGHS, CROUP,
COLDS on the CHEST
WEAK LUNGS.
From all CHEMISTS and STORES.
If not obtainable iti your
district, send direct to
W. G. Hearne & Co. Ltd.
Geelong, Victoria.
Sydney, N.S.W. Wellington, N.Z.
Business, Robbery, etc.
About John Brown’s father ;
In 1840 a young Scotchman namtkl Janies Brown
came to N. S. Wales, and, after looking round,
secured a lease of 60 acres of land at Pour Mile
Creek, near Maitland, from Arthur Charles Fitzroy
Dumaresq. At tin's time the A. A. Co. claimed
that it had from the Crown the sole right to mine
and sell coal in the colony, and could legally pre-
vent coal being mined by Brown or anyone else.
P. P. King, for the A. A. Co., laid an information
against Brown, on which the Attorney-General pro-
ceeded before Judge Dickinson and a jury of four.
August 25, 3845, was a great day for Costs. John
Hubert Plunkett (Attorney-General), W. M. Man-
ning and Mr. Broadhurst appeared for the Crown,
while Richard Windeyer (father of the late Judge)
and Robert Lowe appeared for Brown. The Crown
maintained that the grant reserved the coal to the
Crown and it could not be mined without permis-
sion. Windeyer argued that the proceedings were
instituted by the A. A. Co. for its sole benefit and
not for the Crown’s benefit. The verdict went to
the Crown with one shilling damages. Brown turned
to the Pull Court, and the appeal was heard on
June 24, 1846, with the same bar. In February,
1847-s they gave their reserved judgment against
Brown. This, however, did not stop that stubborn
Scot, who kept on mining in defiance of the judgment.
In 1850 a proclamation in the Government Gazette
cancelled the reservation of coal in all grants, and
thus ended the big threatened monopoly. From the
stormy beginning grew the wealthy J. and A. Brown
of to-day and the impressive coal contract that
needed such a lot of explanation.
* * * *
“Copra Bug” : Don’t believe those people who
talk about spontaneous combustion in copra.
How is it that fires in copra have been far
more frequent since the war began than
before? I guess that some hounds are getting
at the stacks with spontaneous matchboxes.
I’ve handled copra for 12 years, and my ex-
perience is backed up by men who have
juggled it for 20 to 30 years ; and never once
have 1 seen or heard of a case of spontane-
ous combustion. True enough, copra breeds
heat, particularly if it is bagged. But only
if it has been bagged wet or insufficiently
cooked or cured. Heat that is born of
dampness will not in itself cause fire, but
merely steam, until all the dampness is gone.
Damp bags alone (especially baled bags) will
do this.
* * * *
If whales persist in advertising their pre-
sence on the Speck’s coast, someone will be
getting after them. The 130 that recently
came ashore at Cloudy Bay by no means
exhausted the supply, for since then big
schools have been blowing off Eaglehawk
Neck and Forestier Peninsula. Long ago
there were a dozen whaling-stations in a
30-mile stretch on this part of the Speck’s
shores, but for many years the sardines have
been very scarce.
★ * * *
This picture shows the newest thing in
harvesting machines —an Australian inven-
tion, of course: it was thought out in
Westralia, and has been tested in N. S.
Wales this season. Its big feature is that
the side draught is abolished, the pull being
straight and direct from the back axle. The
inventors claim that with four horses, and
with a comb making a cut of 14ft., it will
do the work of two Bft. harvesters each
THE NEWEST THING IN HARVESTERS.
drawn by six. horses, and that, travelling 2-£
miles an hour, it can take off acres every
hour. From the beater-drum in front of the
machine the grain is conveyed by archi-
medean screws to the elevator behind the
driver’s seat; thence the system is as in
present harvesters. The steering gear is
independent of the horses, and is worked on
the same principle as on a motor-lorry. The
central idea of the invention was suggested
by F. D. Fogarty, of Westralia, and a local
co. took up the idea and, after making im-
provements suggested by recent tests, is going
to start manufacturing.
“Ivan P.”: Now that Randolph Bedford
has become a legislator he should study the
Merchant Shipping Act and the regulations
made thereunder for preventing collisions at
sea.. In his good yarn, “Predestination,
Faith and Works” (B. 81/1/’18), he writes:
“McAlister saw the masthead-light of the
Crest of the Wave.” Now, a masthead-light
is the distinguishing mark of a steamer;
and it is not to be shown by other craft.
A schooner, which he had told us the Crest
of the Wave was, must carry sidelights only.
* * * *
“McTrochas”: Mention of Cooktown
sponges (B. 18/10/’l7) recalls the attempt
to introduce the culture of the animal in
Papua during 1903. 11. A. Wickham and
Dr. Allen considered the industry could be
founded in the Conflict Islands, coral atoll
some 70 miles north-east of Samarai. Wick-
ham got the scientist to come from England to
direct the enterprise, but after a few months
the.scheme failed, like so many other under-
takings in tropical development in Papua.
Allen was, nevertheless, convinced of the com-
mercial possibilities of sponge culture, and was
impressed with the varieties of the animal
that he found in the lagoon where he pur-
posed founding his beds. In 1895-6 Cam-
bridge University had Dr. Willey dredging
the waters of Eastern Papua to discover the
spat of the nautilus shell. He lifted a tre-
mendous number of sponges, and he, too, was
impressed with the
commercial possibili-
ties of the industry.
Papua holds a lot of
undeveloped products
on her reefs and cays.
Trochas shell, beche-
de-mer, pearls and
pearlshell and turtle-
shell are combed from
the coral-barriers by
the white and discol-
ored fishers. Such pro-
fitable industries as
sponge 1 gathering,
turtle-canning, fish-
preserving, the pre-
paration of dugong oil
and meat, fish-manures
and oils and the col-
lecting of gem-coral
could be established if
assistance was rendered the ventures by a
subsidy and free entry to Australian markets.
* * * *
: A little meetin S has been held in
Melbourne to form a Scent and Essential
Oils Association. Good ! Seeing that there
is a steady Australian demand for the luxury
of perfume distilled from flowering plants,
any movement towards the perfecting of the
local industry and the securing of Protection,
even to the uttermost limit (which is prohi-
bition of foreign goods), counts as patriotic.
But the promoter of this meeting stated that
the new association would “require assist*
ance from the State and Federal Govern-
ments, and that is not good. Bottled scents
are a luxury ; and no Government would be
justified in giving the industry assistance
outside of the tariff, any more than it would
be entitled to devote public money to a busi-
ness of potting peacocks’ tongues or manu-
facturing mock pearls.
* * * *
The unprotected state of the oyster has at
last appealed to the chivalry of Melbourne
Board of Health, and Nicholas Condogianis
is 50s. 6d. the poorer in conseouence. Nicho-
las owns a restaurant in Elizabeth-street.
One day a health inspector dropped in and
ordered a dozen on the half-shell. As he
ate them he watched one of Nicholas’s aides-
de-camp combing his Hellenic locks over
plates of oysters which reposed uncovered
on the bar. The combination of hair-dress-
ing and the cuisine didn’t appeal to the
inspector, and Nicholas, in the District
Court, was fined 405., with costs. It is
probably unsafe even to hint at “the comb-
ing-out process” in Nicholas’s saloon now.
“D.F.”: Some of the country about the
Grampians (Vic.) is literally flowing with
honey just now. It is a great bee-country,
and lately the bees have been doing good
business with the tea-tree blossoms. There’s
a prejudice against the resulting honey, how-
ever, so the apiarists have been letting it out
of the frames to get a clear run for the
eucalyptus syrup.
* * * #
The tape-measure spieler is a war-time
product. Three of him successfully oper-
ated in a Melbourne hotel a few days ago.
Getting into conversation with an up-country
visitor one enthusiastically admired the
cocky’s physique and affirmed that he could
easily pass the enlistment tests. Another
of the push was doubtful and, producing
a tape-measure, proceeded to “run the rule”
over the victim —who, a little later, discov-
ered, of course, that his purse was missing.
A tough old sea-warrior is the barquentine
Ysabel, of M.L. The other day she lifted a
cargo of copra at New Caledonia or there-
abouts for the other side of the Pacific, the
longest voyage she has ever tackled, and
she’s well on in her forties now. Old man
Niccol. of Auckland, built her in the early
’seventies, of kauri, for the Melanesian Mis-
sion. For 30 years she hauled miss’onaries-
and skylarking Kanakas about the Western
Pacific, to and from the cannibal islands,
where now and again one of the reverends
went into the pot. Then Captain William
Ross bought the old waggon and made a pile
of money out of her in the Tonga trade. Now
she flies another house flag and her old feet
have still a turn of speed that may give much
trouble to a'ny of Von Buckner’s successors
in the Pacific pirate industry.
* * * »
Tasmania has shipped a cargo of native
blackwood, myrtle, lancewood, celery-top and
Huon pine to the British Air Board to be
tested in aeroplane construction. Thus far
Bananaland sillcwood is the only Australian
timber at all largely used in making aero-
’buses.
THE WHISTLING POSTMAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Victoria (and elsewhere), the post-bird is silent.
The N. S. Wales variety, on arriving at the gate or
door, gives a shrill trill like that of the white
scooter or umpire bird. —Nature note.
Oh*,, the magpie’s joyous carol is the music 1 love best
b lien I’m holidaying gaily in the wide and gracious
West;
Then the kookaburra’s cackle, is the thing to make
you sing
When the Crow of Care is roosting and the Oof Bird's
on the wing.
But the note that sends me bounding like a Scotch-
man to a thistle
Is the pretty little post-bird’s whistle.
He is blue with thin red edges, and lie has a silver
bill,
And we love to hear him coming with his sudden
note and shrill,
For he brings us grubs called letters which we’re
mostly glad to get,
And he never, never fails us though the day be wild
and wet.
So I do a haggis canter like a Scotchman to a thistle
When I hear the little post-bird’s whistle.
N.S.W.
LOVER OF SONGBIRDS.
The Inky Way.
With Arthur Mason, the organist, in Lon-
don supplying the sort of thing the Fairfaxes
want, old Henry Lucy has dropped from
the S. M. Herald, after getting prosier
and more snobbish every Saturday for 25
years. In any case, the old man is 73 now.
* * * *
The Woodhouse and Wilson partnership
in the Country Press Agency has been dis-
solved by the death of Arthur Woodhouse,
whose flaxen moustache and dapper turn-
out were very familiar on Melbourne Inky
Way.. He looked amazingly young for his
57 years, 38 of which were spent in jour-
nalism. He began on the old Melbourne
Daily Telegraph, and turned in copy to
many another paper. Besides being a
seasoned Gallery hand, he wrote two books,
“Foundations of National Greatness” and
“The Man with the Annies.” The sixth
son of Frederick Woodhouse the elder, an
animal painter of note, whose brush was
taken up by son Herbert, Arthur was in
harness until the night before he died. He
leaves a young widow.
* * * *
The Melbourne Mechanics’ Institute, alias
the Athenaeum, has awakened, stretched
itself, yawned and turned itself inside out.
The library was the- creation of John Pas-
coe Fawkner, who trod the Inkv Way as
Melbourne’s first journalist. He also
swapped many beads, toothpicks and toma-
hawks for much land around Geelong.
Several worthy journalists have controlled
the Athenaeum, the best-known being Garnet
Walch, pal of Marcus Clarke and Patchett
Martin, the biographer of Viscount Lowe.
Then J. H. B. Curtis, litterateur, reigned
for some years. The present secretary,
R. W. E. Wilmot, is a best-known journal-
ist, too, being sports-editor of the Argus
and Australasian. His alias is “Bung”
because he doesn’t resemble a cork. The
library is not nearly such a nice place to
sleep in as it was before the alterations.
* * * *
Corporal Israel, reader’s assistant on the
Age before deciding to shoot full stops at
Fritz, has been awarded a D.C.M. for mak-
ing a German major and 12 lesser Huns yell
“Kamerad!” With the bunch he brought
back a machine-gun. When last heard from
Israel was returning to Australia with rup-
tured ear-drums.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: Apropos R. D. Adams (B.
7/2/T8), Sam Bennett, Henniker Heaton
and “Dictionary of Dates.” We old fogies
who knew all the parties firmly believed
(and those living still believe) that old
“surly” Sam Bennett was the compiler of
the MS. which produced “Men of the Time”
and “Dictionary of Dates,” Heaton being
merely the foster-father. Bennett pub-
lished his “Australian History,” carefully
prepared matter, in the Empire, and later
in book form. It is a very scarce book now,
worth (say) five guineas a copy. “Aus-
tralian Men of the Time” and “Dictionary
of Dates” was the by-product of that his-
tory. Sam Bennett died June, 1S78;
Heaton’s book was published late in the
year 1879.
* * * *
“Dal” : On November 13 last an organiser
of the A.W.U.. while addressing shearers and
shed-hands at a Mitchell (Q.) station,
asserted that one of the main reasons for the
deferred issue of the Sydney Labor daily.
The World, was that certain machine parts
were on board a German ship interned in
Johannesburg. When I suggested that
there seemed to be a geographical error
in this statement, he replied that he
got the information from Labor Dailies.
Ltd. As the novelty ought to have worn off
by this time, the people of Jo'berg might
oblige by sending the curiously-overdue cargo
on to its destination. Meantime, perhaps
J. C. Watson would oblige us bushwhackers
with some information on the point.
* * * *
A. T. Saunders, Adelaide’s most prolific
press correspondent, won the Mixed Meta-
phor Championship on January 17 with a
spirited letter to the Advertiser. An
extract
But Owen Smyth upset the apple-cart; he couhl
see the hole in the ladder, and he hung on to
Bovkett like a bulldog and closed for £3B. The fat
was in the fire; the machine had slipped a cog.
Still, Saunders gets somewhere, while thou-
sands of stylists fail. If it hadn’t been for
him the chances are there would have been
no inquiry into the Vaughan Government’s
land transactions.
SYDNEY SCRIBES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They’re younger in Melbourne than we are in
Sydney. They have a Literary Society, and flower
in litcle papers like Birth and Fellowship; they
have a Socialist paper, and their I.AV.W. is not in
gaol.
Deeply respectable are we ;
Temptation’s wickedness we flee;
Enthusiasms stir no more;
Our lion’s grown too fine to roar !
We have our circles, sets and cliques,
Unbridgeable though genius speaks:
Indeed, we rather like to hear it knock,
As though less humbleness might give us shock.
We arc good copperplate, where once
Each was life’s well-beloved dunce;
Instead of olden, golden prank,
Mark of his youth and redness of his blood,
Each has a balance at the bank
To show his credit stands at “good’’!
... .Ah, w T ell!
Perhaps there’s judgment yet—and hell!
N.S.W.
M. GILMORE.
“B. Bowyang” : It looks as if Billjim in
Egypt and Palestine will soon have,to do
without his daily war news, for owing to the
rise in the price of paper the two English
rags are threatening to suspend. Paper
used to cost 14s. per ream, but owing to
high freights, insurance charges, etc., you
can’t land it in Egypt to-day for less than
about £3 5s. —an increase of nearly 500 per
cent. «


' V-
ft: i
'lit*
- -m
fw
» * ■■»;«! i «
* 'fPfiKgj
i - ...";yft.K
&r-. **rU S ■.■*.
,
■ .V' 1 *:)
fev%ei:<
"«K-.: v <." "I*
>N
%
1
;...
S-v-^WK V.,
: .
mmm
mi
■m-u h-v
*
,*». rtSSSn
-
K-s * -
X
Various types of Mine Locomotives are manufactured by
the General Electric Company, and just the correct type of
Locomotive can be secured for any specified set of haulage
conditions.
The rugged, durable character of G.E. MINE LOCOMOTIVES
is evidenced by the fact that they endure under the severe
operating conditions of mine service for many years.
For full information on this subject communicate with
▲
m
m
«
m
m
9
$
m
M
m
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, G? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS;
BRISBANE (Q.>: The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.I.
Ltd... corner Edward ami Charlotte Sireets
PERTH (W.A.I: Chas. Atkins A Co (W.a.i. Ltd.. Hay Street
ADELAIDE IS-A.): llnbehaun & Johnstone. 100 Currie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical A Engineering Co. Ltd..
Auckland. Christchurch. Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock A Co.. Ltd.. Launceston; Me6Sr». Oliver
and OUver. MacQuarle Street. Hobart.
13-TON INSIDE FRAME
LOCOMOTIVE.


A. Saunders’ Egg Frame and Spoons, A 1
quality, pure Silver-plated, highly burnished,
£l/10/-
A. Saunders’ Teapot, pure Silver-plated, highly
burnished and engraved, 31/-
A. Saunders’ Entree Dish, pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, highly burnished, 40/-
A. Saunders’ Hot Water Kettle, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, engraved Fern
design, £2/15/-
A. Saunders’ Sugar Scuttle, A 1
quality, pure Silver-plated, hand
engraved, in three designs,
22/6.
A. Saunders’ Butter Dish, “shell” design,
with lid, A 1 quality, pure Silver-plated, satin
glass lining, 30/-
A. Saunders’
Jam Spoon,
solid Silver,
richly
engraved,
12/6.
A. Saunders’
Silver-plated,
4-Branch Flower Stand, a! quality, pure
handsomely embossed Venetian Opal Tubes,
£3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Tea Stand, comprising Sugar and Cream,
Cake, Bread and Butter Tray, pure Silver-plated, fluted edges,
£6.
A. Saunders’
Bread Server,
pure Silver-
plated, Xylo-
nite handle,
5/6.
A.- Saunders’ Biscuit Box, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, hand fluted and embossed, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’ Salad Bowl and Servers, floral china
bowl, pure Silver-plated mounts, A 1 quality, 30/-
Special values.
A. Saunders’ Nut Dish and Cracks, AH. quality, pure
Silver-plated, hand burnished, embossed border,
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS, dweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
(Opposite Railway
Station).
THE PERMANENT
TRUSTEE COMPANY
of New
South Wales
Limited
Funds under Administration, Upwards of £5,000,000.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Executors, Trustees, Attorneys, Agents, etc.
Cost of Estate Administration Largely Curtailed under this Company’s Method.
AMPLE SECURITY AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT ASSURED.
Write for Full Particulars, sent Post Free.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. a. perceval Bedford, Manager.
$E
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the time fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing,
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTS ERRA T is sold by all leading Storekeepers .
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend*
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders, a rare book by Defoe, 1/3,
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/-. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, 10d., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys op Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics' Work-
shop Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/3. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler's Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners' Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3/6.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow's Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 6/- posted. Mysteries
of Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Not Guilty (Blatchford), 1/-. The Art of
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and My Neighbor,
9d. Britain and the British, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/6. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, etc.,
1/6 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/- ; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. The Doctor, Cures for All Diseases,
1/6 posted. Letter-Writer Up-to-Date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/-.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/9
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
NO MATTER WHAT BOOK YOU
WANT, I’VE GOT IT.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Established over 25 years.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bosh Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/6. Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed,
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY
STOCK CAN BE GOT FROM
THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO
DUTY. ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSE-
WHERE SENT.
Key to Ale Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/6. The AVife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price 17/6 post paid. (AVhy
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/6.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, lOd.
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Night of Temptation,
1/9. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney (only).
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.


Amusement*
Harry Rickards Tivoli Tlu-utres JL.ta.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINiOSH.
"piVOlil THEATRK, SVI> N E \
Nightly at 8. Matinees Monday, Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents (by arrangement with
Andre Chariot)
THE GAY LONDON REVUE,
SAMPLES.
T IV
OLI
THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS OF
ADA REEVE and CO.
in tiie Sparkling Musical Play,
WINNIE BROOKE, WIDOW.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-.
R 1 T E It 1 O N TII EA T R E. SYIIN EL
Direction J C. WILLIAMSON LID.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
KATIILENE MACDONELL
With CHARLES WALDRON
In the ever-delightful story of girlhood,
DADDY LONG LEGS.
Plans at Paling’s. _____
HE R MajlsS T Y ’ S, SYI>N K Y.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
MatinCcs Wednesday and Saturday.
The Brilliant Spectacular Revue,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE,
A Gorgeous Spectacle eclipsing anything hitherto
staged.
ALACK THE A T RE, BIBNE Y.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
SATURDAY NEXT.
FOR TWO WEEKS ONLY.
PEG O’ MY HEART.
SARA ALLGOOD as PEG.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTUE E THEAT R E S
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ng select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
r Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
BEN and JOHN FULLER present
THE RAJAH OF SHIVAPORE,
By DAVID SOUTER and ALFRED HILL.
Popular Prices. Plans at Pianola.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
Their Gorgeous Pantomime Extravaganza,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
Amusements.
Til HAT U IS RO V A 1,, MISIjIIOU ItN I.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR
in '
THE EASIEST WAY.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOCRN E.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
MATINEES SATURDAYS, WEDNESDAYS AND
ALL HOLIDAYS.
J. & N. TAIT AND BAILEY & GRANT’S
GORGEOUS CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ALADDIN and THE WONDERFUL
LAMP.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices: 6/- R. Stalls, 5/- D.C.,
Stalls 4/-, Gallery 2/- and 1/-. Plus Tax.
| | OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE. BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily frofn 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Everv Evening. Matinees Saturday at 2.30
FAMOUS PLAYERS-LASIvY, MAX
SENNETT, ARBUCKLE, etc.,
FEATURES.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
JULIAN ELTINGE in
COUNTESS CHARMING.
Also
VIVIAN MARTIN in
LITTLE MISS OPTIMIST.
Prices as usual.
|y| A .JEST IC THEATRE, MELIIO URN E
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
THE LONE WOLF.
Herbert Brenon’s great pieturisation of Louis Joseph
Vance’s Saturday Evening Post yarn.
Matinfes daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan now open at Allan’s.
Government Notices.
STATE OF VICTORIA.
LOAN CONVERSION.
LOAN (5%) DEBENTURES AND
INSCRIBED STOCK—£SOO,OOO
MATURING Ist APRIL, 1918.
APPLICATIONS for conversion are in-
vited on the following terms
Debentures or Inscribed Stock, bearing
date Ist April, 1918, will be issued in ex-
change for maturing securities, currency 5
years, the Government to have option of
redeeming on or after Ist April, 1921. In-
terest 4f%, payable half-yearly (April-
October).
Prospectus and forms of application can
be obtained from the Receiver and Pay-
master, Treasury, Melbourne, at whose Office
applications must be lodged on or before
the 15th March, 1918. Maturing Deben-
tures must be lodged with applications.
Members of recognised Stock Exchanges
will be allowed upon all conversions applied
for through them.
W, M. MoPHERSON, Treasurer.
AL
PATRIOTISM.
TRY
Your
Aim
Then have jShOT
at smoking
.1
Referee
Tk Australian Tobacco.
_L
1
T
sg
BULL-DOG
DIE-STOCKS
fs
WHEN you screw pipe, do it with the least labor, bother
and complication possible. BULL-DOG DIE-
STOCKS give you the 5 big Oster features
plus the easy-pulling ratchet.
(1) Self-locking, adjust-
able dies; (2) Self-cen-
tring guides, lever-oper-
ated; (3) Dies open up
after cut (to lift off pipe
without backing up), and
reset automatically to
size; (4) no loose bush-
ings to lose or mislay;
(s)’ no small, breakable
parts.
For details write Australasian
Representative,
CHARLES WRIGHT,
OSTER BULL-DOG
RATCHET DIE- STOCK
No. 102 R screws six sizes
of pipe to l^in.
Ask your dealer to show it.
Box 251, G.P.0., Melbourne, Australia.
The Oster Mfg. Go.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
[3
gRITANNIA
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices : 3d. and 6d.
|Y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’3 films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
€>
f
go hand in hand the
BROOKS
ensures perfect comfort all the while and
the pleasure follows. of all dealers.
sUM M
if
\ \\ \ \ v I I
r/7)
/ / j
World-famed
for Quality Gems
jmr Designs unique and exclusive are outstanding features of our unequalled
DIAMOND RINGS.
With eight Australian Houses, and two the largest in London, our
Diamond Purchases and our Sale of Diamond Rings are
ten times larger than those of any other Australian Firm.
Extensive buying for ready cash makes possible our
Low Prices and Splendid Values. / >
«r EMwf—sm ‘ar m -m- t
Call and Inspect or write
for Catalogue to
STEWART
DAWSON’S
SYDNEY.
Strand Corner.
Pumps for Every Purpose l
Double-acting Piston Pump, 'or Elevations up to 175 ft.
Banks’ Pump Depart-
ment is noted both for
the great selection of
makes and sizes of pumps
and the unquestionable
quality and reliability of
the goods offered. De-
spite war difficulties we
are right ready for the
farmer with just the
right pump for his par-
ticular requirements, from
the small hand pump to
the powerful Centrifugal
Pump,. or Double-acting
Piston Pump.
The maximum supply
for a minimum of power
is characteristic of all.
CENTRIFUGAL
PUMPS made by us are
favorably known for their
staunch reliability and
the long service they in-
variably give.
Write us your particu-
lar pump problem, and
we will send you full in-
formation and prices for
all necessary equipment.
Handy Oil Engines
Kerosene or
Petrol.
We have a fine selection of Efficient, Economical, Reliable Oil Engines at very
reasonable prices.
They have been selected for efficiency at minimum cost.
We have proved them under many conditions to be reliable types, economical
in fuel consumption.
Get one of these little fellows and let him do your hard work. They save
their cost in a very short time.
We have a great assortment, from a handy 1 % h.p. Petrol Engine—a won-
derful little worker at £2o—-to the lOh.p. at £l2O.
Call or write for full information.
“DANKS,”
Otherwise JOHN DANKS AND SON PTY., LTD.,
324 PITT STREET, Near Liverpool Street, Sydney.
391 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.


HOW TO NEUTRALISE DANGEROUS
STOMACH ACIDS.
. Few people besides physicians realise the
importance of keeping the food contents of
the stomach free from acid fermentation.
Healthy normal digestion cannot take place
while the delicate lining of the stomach is
being inflamed and distended by acid and
wind —the results of fermenting food in the
stomach. . To secure perfect digestion this
fermentation must be stopped and the acid
neutralised. For this purpose physicians
now rarely prescribe drugs or artificial diges-
tants: they rely instead upon a harmless
antacid and food corrective known as bisu-
rated magnesia, and obtainable of all high-
class chemists in the form of small com-
pressed tablets. Two of these tablets taken
after a meal are sufficient to quickly neu-
tralise all harmful acid, and in consequence
they prevent fermentation and wind, heart-
burn and flatulence, and all of the many dis-
agreeable symptoms which indicate indiges-
tion or dyspepsia. But only the tablets pre-
pared from bisurated magnesia will accom-
plish these happy results; and therefore
should you wish to try this remedy you
must ask your chemist very distinctly for
bisurated magnesia tablets. These are put
up in handy little flasks which you can
easily carry in your pocket, and they are
sold at a price which places them within the
easy reach of every sufferer.— Advt,
Paramount
The Premier
Entertain-
ment for
Young and
0 id.
Pictures .
mmmsm
» m? messsoamjear
M,
ffiMm
>w
Swi^t
■
&&
m
r ■
i
M
iWI
m
i
// —
susr.
Si
a
wh
Si
H
HAYMARKET THEATRE
Next Week
JULIAN ELTINGE
in
“The Countess Charming’*
and
VIVIAN MARTIN
in
“ Little Miss Optimist.”
13 ■ ■
POLITICAL
POINTS
AND NO TARIFF WALL TO STOP
THEM.
“Despite many protestations to the contrary there
are on every hand indications of colossal preparation
for the commercial struggle which will follow closely
on the heels of peace.”— W. M. Hughes.
Peace: “You might at least give me time to
get my heel out of the road. "
The Commission’s exposure of the appal-
ling misconduct of the Defence Department
was suppressed for nearly four months.
Thus presumably the Governor was in the
dark (though he shouldn’t have been) when
he recalled the responsible Ministry. And
the party was in the dark when it considered
what ought to happen to Hughes and his
colleagues. And Parliament was in the dark
when it discussed Tudor’s no-confidence
motion. And the party machine was in the
dark when it debated whether Hughes was
fit to. be its leader. Altogether it was a
most inconvenient report, and the Ministers
whom it scarified stuffed it into a
pigeon-hole until the game was over. In
a sporting club any member who introduces
loaded dice is called a spieler and kicked out.
In politics it apparently doesn’t matter.
If John Forrest was caught with a title,
what bait was used for Willie Watt?
The Governor-General ought to be asked a
few questions in connection with the scath-
ing report of the Commission on the Defence
Department handed in four months ago and
published only last week. That report,
which represents the administration of the
most important department as just about as
bad as it could be, was furnished before the
Referendum was taken, and therefore before
the resignation of the Ministry. As a reader
of the newspapers, if not otherwise, the G.-G.
must have known that a report had been pre-
sented. Did lie ask for it? If not, why
didn’t he, since it was the only guide he
could have as to the quality of the adminis-
tration in the Commonwealth’s most impor-
tant department? If he did see it, how could
he say that it was his duty to retain such an
administration and prevent an appeal to the
people? And if he didn’t see it, why did ho
neglect the one means he had of informing
hiujself? There is nobody in Australia to ask
him these questions. But beyond all doubt
the Secretary for tiie Colonies should do it.
His failure in his office at the one critical
moment he has met was as complete as that
of Pearce himself.
If the.N. S. Wales Arbitration Amend-
ment Bill gets through in its present
form the proprietor of a newspaper
which “advises, instigates, aids or abets
or _ publishes any report, advertisement,
article or paragraph encouraging” an illegal
strike will, be liable to a fine of £5OO,
If any common person by use of his mouth
aids or abets the same thing, the penalty for
him will be £2O or three months’ gaol at the
discretion of the beak. Clearly if there is to
be a fair deal all round the beak should have
the option of giving Mr. James, of the S. M.
Herald, 75 months in the cooler.
A woman’s work is never done. For the
matter of that, a politician never does his
either.
A telegram from Geneva was an impressive
item of last week’s war news. It affirmed
that th- burgomasters of the chief Rhine
towns had visited Berlin and urged the Gov-
eminent to come to an
arrangement with the
Allied Governments
before any “air re-
prisals” had come to
pass. “But the reply
was unsatisfactory
and the apprehensive
burgomasters returned
home.” Acceptingthe
telegram from Geneva
as a fair statement of
fact, the necessity for
air reprisals and
plenty of ’em is
strikingly apparent. If
the thought of what
may happen scares the
Rhine towns into
pleading for a mutual-
safety arrangement
with the enemy, the
actual happenings will
probably put them
out of conceit with
German military con-
quest. Military spirit
is in the homes of
the Huns because the
war has never been
carried over their
homes and dropped
thereon. How long
must we continue to
hear from' military and
naval authorities that
air raiding is confined
to cei'tain “important”
p o i n t s o r w o r k s,
selected by themselves?
All enemy places are important as marks for
psychological effect.
From the Federal Gallery:—
What were the “great services rendered to the
Empire” which induced the Phewsion to recommend
Bigjohn for a peerage? They ought to go on record.
When the Hughes-Pearce rump was hanging on as
a Federal Ministry by the grace of the Cookites,
proposals for a coalition were received by the
Liberals with cold disfavor. They liked neither
Hughes nor Pearce. “Let us keep them in till the
election. Then they will fall in a heap, for they
have no followers in the country,” was the view
generally expressed. It was Bigjohn who induced
the party to swallow the bolus. His argument was
this: “We can get in now and by doing so prevent
this Hughes-Pearce push from employing the
machinery of government to secure a following. If
we miss the chance it may not come again, for
three parties may spring up, and that would be plain
hell for us. The time is ripe.” Bigjohn had his
way, and the most immoral political deal in
the history of the Commonwealth was fixed
up. That was service to the Empire No.
1. When the Bendigo pledge had to be faced,
Bigjohn held the view that the time was ripe for
Hughes to commit hari-kari, and said so, leaving the
Prime Ministership open to a large man with a
red face - Most of the P art y thought so, too, and
reckoned John was the man to go up top. But Cook
MINED.
PRESIDENT WILSON: “Say, John, I guess we’d better keep to the warpath a lit longer.
This road ain't safe yet”
and Millen could not agree—and just when John
was beginning to think about smashing things, some-
one remembered his weakest spot, his vanity.
ould he be satisfied to be a Baron or something?
He would. Service to the Empire (and Wales)
No. 2.
There was another Ministerial crisis in
Sydney last week, following on the discovery
that certain safeguards, specified by Cabinet,
had been left out of a big contract let to
Teesdale Smith for building the terminal
station under the scheme for the bulk-
handling of wheat. The omissions having
been detected, the old contract was torn up ;
but it will take half a ton of iodoform to dis-
infect the premises.
Intrigue disguised as Socialism is now
endeavoring to break down Switzerland’s
home-defence system, in order that Germany
may have the run of the country for military
purposes. Calling themselves Bolsheviks,
the agitators demand the demobilisation of
the army, leaving only troops sufficient to
suppress contraband trade on the frontiers.
Doubtless a large number of dreamy Social-
ists will be carried away by the tide of agita-
tion, and Swiss trades-unions will sooner or
later go on strike, and the little country will
be ready for the executioner. Socialism is
the cat required to draw the chestnuts from
the fire for the Hunnish ape. It is Intrigue’s
pet tabby, even as Militarism is Autocracy’s
caged lion.
Prom the directors’ half-yearly report of
the Broken Hill South Mining Co.: —
Although the mine was laid idle for 11 weeks the
usual dividends have been paid, which have absorbed
£120,000. The liquid assets amount to £700,245.
After careful consideration our staff are of opinion
that it is doubtful whether the co. will be called
upon to pay anything under the War Time Profits
Tax.
As at June, 1916, the net liquid assets were
£475,124. So, notwithstanding strikes, this
co., besides paying its “usual dividend”—in
fact, it has been far more than the “usual
dividend”——has put by over £225,000 in 18
months. The Hughes Government created a
monopoly in the copper, lead, silver and zinc
trade. Now the news comes out that the cos.
will pay no war-time taxation, though they
have got richer out of the war than any other
group of capitalists in Australia. This
“Nationalist” Government has simply tossed
the public into the pig-trough to fatten the
al ready-fattest hogs in the sty.
During the discussion on the Arbitration
Bill in N. S. Wales Assembly Simon Hickey,
Labor member for Alexandria, put up a plea
for short-term apprenticeships. He pointed
out, rightly, that owing to present-day
machinery, specialisation and subdivision,
there was often barely a skilled trade left
as a residuum. To bind bright, technically-
trained boys for the usual five years to such
callings is tantamount to making the boss
a donation of two or three years’ work n t
about half wages. His leader," Storey, should
have seen a little thing like that; instead,
he burbled about the superiority of Austra-
lian mechanics, and the national necessity of
keeping them so by long-term indentures.
This is the effect of the Party crime on
the daily papers. Almost without exception
they profess to be horrified at the Defence
Department exposures. But, as a matter of
fact, they knew all about the bungling waste
two years ago, and (also almost without ex-
ception) they assisted Pearce and Hughes
back so that those two bright business
geniuses might do it some more.
Bowser proposes to give police magis-
trates power to deal with minor indictable
offences where the accused pleads guilty or
consents to jurisdiction, and to compel
accused persons who plead guilty in the
lower court to stick to their pleas when they
come before a judge and jury, unless it can
be shown that the pleas were made under an
honest misapprehension; to increase the
jurisdiction of County Court judges; to give
Courts of Petty Sessions jurisdiction in
actions for damages up to £5O (now they
can deal with cases up to that amount only
when they arise out of assault, cattle tres-
pass, offensive movements conducted by
hounds, and a few similar happenings) ; to
abolish the Full Court as an appeal tri-
bunal and permit appeals from the County
or Insolvency Courts to be made to a single
Supreme Court judge; and to enlarge the
jurisdiction of Courts of General Sessions.
If these last proposals are carried out a
reduction in the number of Supreme Court
judges should follow. At present various
crimes, such as murder, unnatural offences,
bigamy, arson and sexual offences, must be
heard by one of these expensive wigs, though
in most cases matters of fact and not of
law are involved. There is bound to be
ri against the proposal to abolish the
h ull Court as a court of appeal; but there
are too many Courts of Appeal. We have
the High Court, and that’s enough. The
multiplication of legal billets threatens to
be almost as scandalous as the multiplica-
tion of politicians.
THE POLITICIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A curious thing is this we have evolved
From out our dearest hope and direst need,
This patriot from love and faith absolved,
A thing irrelevant, an alien breed
That wrecks our State to better our condition—
The politician 1
Among the stirring herd is he alone
Of duty free, untrammelled by a vow,
Nor called to earn his loaf and mutton-bone
By sweat of that bold, hemispheric brow:
Yet he avows a saviour’s godlike mission,
The politician.
The world, in throes of fury spun about
And tearing her own breast with wolfish fangs,
Needs men to cast her hell-born devils out;
Comes frothing with inveterate harangues,
To save us with his pothouse erudition,
The politician.
He beats the air with his poor paws and screams
His platitudes, while heroes cope with doom ;
lie sees the fierce effulgent sky—it seems
Celestial limelight flaming to illume
'1 he superman in his supreme position,
The politician.
The quiet people face their common need
IVith stern austerity, at grips with fate;
With high pretence he cloaks his petty greed,
And endless boons he gathers from the State,
And all the fripperies of low ambition,
The politician.
W ith cattish spleen for preference he claws,
Though skies are split and all God’s lightning
spills ;
In party battles champs his iron jaws,
While nations break and chaos shakes the hills.
Most bold in power, most craven in submission,
The politician.
He crowns himself with fruits of others’ zeal,
The soldier’s glory and the thinker’s fame,
Cries all the elixirs that nothing heal.
And you and I impose upon the lame,
Sick body politic its quack physician,
The politician !
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


PALING’S PIANOS
Grands, Uprights, Cottage Models.
Some people judge a
Piano by its case.
But there is more to
a Piano than a fine
case. Also to a great
many people a Piano
means “just a Piano”
—tbey forget to take
into consideration
Tone, Quality and
touch; and the
materials of wbicb it
is built.
■^am'a.-aa
EASY TERMS IF DESIRED
We sell Pianos, Players Pianos, Organs, Violins,
Banjos, Cornets, Flutes, Harps, Gramophones,
and Everything Musical from a Violin String;
to a Full Set of Band Instruments. Catalogues
Free for Asking.
Place your confidence
in the House of
“PALING’S.**
We Have a magnificent
stocK of Pianos and
Player-Pianos. Deligrht-
fully-toned instru-
ments seleded by our
experts specially for
use in the Australian
climate.
Illustrated Catalogue
and particulars are
free.
Your old piano taKen
as part payment.
W. H. PALING ®. CO. LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Brisbane, Newcastle, Toowoomba and Lismore,
!u
mm
in
~7f
tl
r-'i
HOSPIfAL-
A
Men of Science
govern our wonderful
Australian Hospitals,
[iU
8080
Ulul
illiM
ifiiimj
and Mm of Science govern the manufacture of
a
SPECIAL
THREE
STAR
HOSPITAL
ga
OUR HOSPITALS all over Australia are among tlie
best equipped and the most efficiently staffed in the
world. All that science and humane energy can do is
done towards alleviating the sufferings oi‘ the afflicted
and bringing them back to robust health. Only the
very best of everything is used in these hospitals, and
that is why CHATEAU-TANUNDA BRANDY is
favored by the medical men of these institutions, and
why it is used in all of them throughout the
Commonwealth.
CHATEAU-TAXTJNDA BRANDY is a spirit of the
highest excellence, pure and wholesome, and possessing
in a marked degree all the medicinal properties that go
to make a brandy of unequalled quality. OH ATE AIT-
TAXUXDA is distilled from the choicest vintage of
highly-favorable seasons; because of this, it may claim
with all honesty to be a brandy of unusual distinction.
CHATEAU-TAXtINDA BRANDY is obtainable at all
Hotels, in Quarts, Pints, Flasks and Half-flasks.
A
7%
5®TL'
I I I
mm
IPIEPIT
1
Hi
£
tic
Buy Whole Bottles
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED—SYDNEY,
(PROPRIETORS).
N
mimm
brandy^
ATCAU TANt/N
"Mil


Although the pessimists have frequently
lost and the optimists as frequently won the
war, it is yet to, win by effort-inspiring
optimism, suggests that effort-inspiring
spirit Kiug George IV, topnotch Scotch.—
Advt.
y O FARMERS, PASTORALISTS AND SHIPPING.
Forecasts of Coming Australian Seasons.
6 years ahead, £l/1/-
12 years ahead, £2/2/-
Write to
CLEMENT WRAGGE, F.R.G.S., Etc.,
Birkenhead,
Auckland.
!#QUEpiSLAh
MiMfe
= =
S.B.
A Book of
192 Pages
C A LLE d
POCKET
QUEENSLAND’
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
Telling all abouf It*
Millions of Acres
offerhle land for
intending settlers
will besenf_you
by filling io fhe
Coupon below.
yVame. .
Address
QUEEr/SLAHD //V r£LL/C£/\C£
& TOURIST BUREAU. BWSBA/iE
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
SPECIAL MILITARY WIRELESS CLASS .
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN A TECHNICAL UNIT,
Our Instructors have arranged a. Special Class for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army,
The Tuition extends over four months —Instruction three evenings a week. The course will be made
quite practical, use being made of the installations in the school, also of an aircraft set now being
installed especiallv for this course. The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and Motor-car Stations, Aeroplane Apparatus, etc., etc.
A SPECIAL RATE OF £8 FOR THE FULL COURSE has been decided on.
All particulars on application to THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS, Dept. C, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE THE EMPIRE.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE
“B,” of Hats, Underwear.
We Pay Postage.
Exclusiveness 8 Distinction
of Design.
The TAFFETA and t.he TROPIC Shirts, both
typical of the high standard of shirts made in our
Workrooms.
TAFFETA.—Fine, pure wool, sleeve lifts, re-
inforced necks, soft double cuffs . . . . 21/--
TROPIC.—WooI weft, splendid wearing material,
comfortable and light
14/6
each
SK->m
D
A
e *CF
HENRY BUCK & GO.
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
VICTORY
ASSURED
WITH
MICK SIMMONS
GLOVES
The Oakleigh Plate day’s racing at Caul-
field has rarely been so interesting as it was last
Saturday. Blue Victor, lately from Tasmania, won
the Hurdle Race in smart style, and then the two
divisions of the Federal Stakes, for two-year-olds, fell
respectively to Palm Leaf, the grey filly from Sydney,
and Tragic Star, whose brilliant track form was; at
last put beyond all question. After which old Defence,
the son of Carbine, won the Bond Cup (12 furlongs)
by fairly 7 outstaying the opposition. All going well
with him, Defence will certainly make a good show in
the Australian Cup, despite a 71b. penalty. The
ancient gelding is at least a sticker.
Poitrina monopolised front place in the Oakieigh
sprint. The Welkin mare was there from start to
finish, and her performance was a handsome apology
for her failure last year, when Woorak was the only 7
one in it. Poitrina was the third first favorite to
win. Desert Gold was the fourth to do the trick, and
she also was ahead all the way. It had seemed more
than likely 7 that the great mare, not long arrived
from Maoriland via Sydney, might be unacclimatised
or short of condition. But her time for the nine
furlongs was a Caulfield record, and her appearance
after tire race indicated that she will do some more
things of the sort before leaving Melbourne. The
respectable effort that Cetigne made at the distance
went to confirm the general idea that Desert Gold
had shown her best form, or something very near it.
By a strange coincidence the victory of the M.L.
champion was followed by Kilfiinn’s reassertion of
her ability, Kiiflinn being credited with an unexpected
defeat of Desert Gold in their own country. She won
the concluding welter race pretty easily for the Rajah,
giving punters another reminder that now and the next
two months are the best time o’ year for mares and
fillies. Imported Elsdon started favorite for this event,
but he got badly away and never pushed near the front.
Now that she has proved herself in Melbourne the
star performer from M.L. will have a mob of fol-
lowers for the Futurity Stakes next Saturday. Her
weight (9st. 131 b.) is not prohibitive. Gladsome
carried 9st. 71b. and 9st. 131 b. on her two wirming
occasions, and Antonio and Soultline both had 9st.
81b. up. But this year there are some reputedly fast
things among the three-year-olds whose allowance
brings them down to something under 7st. Flash of
Steel, three years ago, was not a brilliant youngster,
but he was good enough to win. Yoorala and Colonel
Chutney will receive more than three stone from
Desert Gold, and either of them must beat the top
weight in order to have a good chance on paper, or
in fact, for the Newmarket flutter. The writer pre-
fers Yoorala, by Lingle out of Amata’s dam. The
filly did a great track gallop last week, on the
strength of which young Dempsey engaged to ride her
for the Futurity and Newmarket. As for Colonel
Chutney, the colt’s very outside price in the Oakleigh
Plate quotations was not consistent with his having
been one of the late entries for the Futurity.
* * * *
> Perhaps worth while remembering that
twice during the last four years the Australian Cup
has been won by horses that preceded their victories
by successes in jumpers’ flat races. Such considera-
tion will weigh in favor of Dalcross (Wallace —-Cross-
keys), who won in taking style the J.F. mile-and-a-
quarter event at Sandown Park (Vic.) the other day
with 9st. 61b. up. The gelding’s weight in the Aus-
tralian Cup is 6st. 71b.
*
Trainers from N. S. Wales in charge of
horses in work at Flemington for the V.R.C.
Autumn meeting were much disturbed by the playing
of military bands at the adjacent training-camp. So
they presented an ultimatum to someone that unless
the bands were stopped i they and the mokes would
leave for Caulfield. Whereupon the music was turned
off at the meter and the soldiers went about on
bare feet. This absurd old war can’t have everything
its own way, thank Heaven!
# * * *
Imported horses are charged with incon-
sistency, but some of them are brilliant exceptions.
The infirm Lavendo rarely ran a bad race when he
was fairly fit. Polvcrates was an honest battler, for
he beat Panacre and Colugo before he split them in
the Epsom last year, after which he ran second in the
Metropolitan. A few months later the handsome
brute won the Newmarket and ran second for the
Doncaster. Whitefield is another that has always
finished in the first half-dozen when expected to make
a show, although he certainly did get left at the
post in the Flying Stakes at the A.J.C. meeting last
April. The trouble with the imported nags is that
they are hard to train, as a rule, and apt to go off
very quickly when asked to do as much racing as an
ordinary Australian horse. But we are bound tq have
them in the boom again presently.
* * * *
Whitefield’s pretensions as a Newmarket
“fancy” are based on the theory that the bisr Erw-lish
horse is acclimatised, and therefore much improved,
since he ran fourth in the Newmarket.and third in
the Doncaster last year. Both at Flemington and
Randwiclc he has u r on a good race in commanding
style. Moreover, he is big and strong enough to carry
his weight—9st. 4lb. He had 9st. up when he made
his bold show in the mile race at Rand wick, so there
is no question of his ability to stay the course. Besides,
he is one that runs best when there isn’t a crowd to
shut out daylight ahead of him, which condition is
obtainable in the broad straight run for the New-
market. Apparently he is coming on with every
gallop, and should be forward enough by Saturday
week. The big chap is a promising place investment,
anyhow.
A colt that cost 1500 guineas last year was
a runner among- the juveniles at Warwick Farm
(Sydney) on Saturday. There were 24 of them,
including those which should have been at home,
and the 1500-guinea lot never had his tail away
from the wrong end of the procession. But that
doesn’t say he will not do better later on.
* * * *
Three years ago Scotch Artillery hopped
out in front of a Sydney Cup field, and, mainly
because the others didn’t care for the mud, stayed
there. It was one of the great flukes occasionally
heard of, and the more frequently the nag ran after-
wards the more impressive the fluke became, lor, with
the exception of a win up Newcastle way, he never
did anything worth noticing—till Saturday in the
Club Handicap at Warwick Farm. There was a
field of 11, and, starting at 12’s, the frequent disap-
pointment was soon in the lead and was there when
he struck the post, with Roman Queen and Medley
struggling to get their heads up, If the winnei
waits as iong before coming to light again he won’t
lie helping anyone to take a million in the war
loan.
* * * *
“Alec” Nicholson, Adelaide raceliorse-
owner and sportsman in general, had a sportsman’s
fitting end. He was at Tattersall s Club on Saturday
evening, in lii& best. form,-, and died suddenly and
quietly on the Sunday. In private life he was chiefly
remarkable for a generous disposition and an enor-
mous family.
* * * *
Tasmanians had been expecting the Traquir
gelding Le Noir to put up a record ever since
Tom Lvons paid £l2OO for him a couple of years
ago. He did it in the Hobart Cup. Bumping
Aristaeus he somersaulted, broke his neck, and passed
without a kick. When Camelot broke his neck at the
last fence in a steeple at Adelaide in 1908 he
behaved better. He was remounted and completed
the course before turning into meat.
* * * *
“Globe” : I was a sleeping partner in a nag
which was just beaten in an up-country race and I
always reckoned it hard luck —till after a yarn with
the owner of the winner the other day. He didn’t
know I had a share in the beaten prad. “Yes,” he
reminisced, “I remember the race well—had a good
win. But, Lord, on a dinkum go mine had no chance.
Strongarm, who was riding the other one, took three
fivers from me, and putting that with what he had
been given to dump on his own mount got away with
a hatful. He managed his part of it real well.” It
was like listening to a man explaining how he had
helped himself to my purse while I was in swimming.
By winning the Middle Park Plate at
Ch’church (M.L.) the other day with Almoner, who
annexed a tw 7 0-year-old race at Randwiclc in the
Spring, Stead * junior did something the old
man had a habit of doing. Between ’B5 and ’O6
G. G. Stead’s nomination for this race won 13 times.
Then Clifford came along and won six times in succes-
sion. G.G. had a wonderful run in some races. From
’93 to ’O2 he won, the C.J.C. Champagrie Stakes 10
times in succession!'' He started winning the C.J.C.
Derby in ’B7 with Maxim, and of the next 18 races
took 11.
* * * *
“Spreader”; What constitutes a champion
racehorse, anyhow ? I am open to put my Sunday
shirt on either Jack Rice or Greek Fire to beat
Desert Gold or Biplane over a mile provided I am
also allowed to nominate the respective weights, the
state of the weather and the track slung in. Carbine
put up a two-mile record with lOst. 51b. Machine
Gun carried a stone better and hoisted new figures
for five furlongs. These two performances proved
that the stamina was there as well as pace.. Now
without stamina racehorse breeding is foolishness.
With welter weights and nothing shorter than middle-
distance races for four-year-old horses (and over)
the selection of the fittest would be carried out on
far better lines than is at present the case.
* * * *
“Cherokee”: It is proposed in Victoria
to take, for the use of repatriated soldiers, the land
comprised in certain of the country racecourse
reserves. The sooner the better, in view of what
happened at the Drysdale course, when Lieut.
Maxwell, recruiting officer for the Corio electorate,
set out from Geelong in the forlorn hope of.finding
something that might fill a khaki suit. He and his
mate, who had already spent £1 in travelling to
the course, were refused admission unless they paid
for it. They were then told that if they attempted
to address those present the police would be in-
structed to remove them. At last Maxwell got Rave
to deliver a 10-minutes’ speech, throughout which he
was heckled by a large and mostly-eligible crowd.
And it is for lice like this that men are dying in
Palestine!
At Goulburn (N.S.W.) the weevils broke
out of the Government wheat stacks and swarmed
over the racecourse, and bit the punters, and nearly
ate up the “sport of kings.” “Eaten by weevils”
may yet be inscribed on the tomb of another
Carbine.
* * * *
“A Trooper Billjim”: The toast is, I
believe, the Australian and his Horse. Very w 7 ell.
The distances covered by our mounted troops (Aus-
tralian and M.L.) in their recent stunt in Palestine
constitute, I should think, for this war a bit of a
record. We rode from our starting point at
Marakeb (on the beach near Rafa) to Jaffa, via
Asluj and Beersheba, a distance by direct road
measurement of 160 miles; time 2-0 days. Add
another 75 to 100 miles at least for the innumer-
able scoots to and fro, and a rough idea may be
had of the actual distance covered. We left Marakeb
on October 26, and reached Asluj (40 miles) on the
night of the 28th, spelling 24 hours on the way.
On the night of the 30th we moved out against
Beersheba (80 miles), and the following night w 7 ere
in possession of the town. Two days later we went
15 miles up the Hebron-road, returning to Beersheba
on November s—a further 30 miles. We saw the
last of Beersheba on the evening of the 6th, and
moved off N.W. Midnight of the 10th found us on
the beach above Medjel, close to old Askalon, 30
miles from Beersheba and 30 miles up the coast from
our starting point at Marakeb, we having in the
interim encircled the entire Turkish position. Again
we moved on up the coast on the 13th, and at 11 a.m.
on November 16 entered Jaffa (32 miles). During
the whole of this period we were more or less
engaged with the enemy. So you get some idea of
the strenuousness of the proceedings. From the
outset our iellows Tarely had their gear off their
backs. When not engaged with the fleeing Turk we
were seeking for horse-feed and water. Times were
when the prads had no drink for periods up to 60
hours; the difficulties of obtaining it were quite
beyond any of our previous experiences. Most of the
village animals lay dead of thirst round the wells,
and the native population were in a bad way, too.
Between the Turks and ourselves they got a pretty
rough spin. The sights at some of the waterholes
beggar description. Scores of soldiers, natives (men,
women and children), horses in hundreds and dying
animals, all waiting for water which was being
raised a gallon a time in a canvas bucket. Gentle-
men, the Australian, Man and Horse 1
* * * *
There was loud laughter at daybreak when
rs ornan Ml Swamp, near Forbes
(N.S.W.), saw a girl, armed absurdly with a pea-
rifle, wander down to the water. The marksmen
with their doubie-barellcd lead-sprays thought the
girl with the little rifle the silliest sight they had
seen; but when the first big black duck tried to
whir past there \vas a light crack and a dead bird
tumbled from mid-air. The second shot missed ; but
the third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh stopped a
flying duck apiece, while the eighth pellet drew
blank. The lady gathered up her six birds, tucked
her rifle under her arm and went home to breakfast
surrounded by respectful silence. She is Miss Reid,
daughter oi a farmer at Oumbijowa, near Forbes,
and scorns to shoot a bird sitting.
* * * *
“Brigalow” : It might have been added by
“Mat” (B. 14/2/’I8), when making remarks about
the 28 alleged “sports” who bagged 1137 ducks near
Lockhart at the opening of the season for slaughter
that, as a general thing, more than half the birds
killed in this outrageous, wholesale fashion are wasted.
Some years ago about 1800 wild ducks were butchered
on the Doodle Gooma Swamp in one day, and a very
large percentage of them were left to rot or were
afterwards thrown away in a state of decomposition.
It is quite common, too, for the slaughter of ducks to
begin before the termination of the close-season. In
fact, shooting goes on practically all the year round in
some parts of the State. The writer has known of
ducks not more than eight weeks old being served up
at station homesteads for dinner long before Christmas.
In some country districts the bird and game protec-
tion law is a jest. If anyone is caught in the act it is
usually regarded as “rotten luck.” And it won’t be
anything else until the law is altered so that the
guilty person is forbidden to use firearms for one
year or three or seven, as the case may be —imprison-
ment to be the punishment for that offence. These
fellows must be branded somehow 7.
“Tupara”: “Centurion” (B. 24/1/T8)
forgot one magazine-rifle of the pre-1870 era.
Besides the original Winchester repeater, which he
mentioned, there was the Spencer. In 1869 or
thereabouts my father brought to Maoriland a fire-
arm which he reckoned w'ould be a daisy of a gun
for the defence of his home on the King Country
frontier. It was a Spencer carbine, I think eight-
shot, the latest thing out. The magazine was
in the butt; it was filled through the heel of the
butt, which was closed with a flange, and a feed-
spring contraption sent each cartridge in turn up
into the breach. The only time it ever saw “active
service” was on the butts at Te Awamutu. An old
Imperial soldier picked it up to examine its mechan-
ism, and accidentally put a bullet into a trooper.
No harm done, beyond making the recipient of the
lead do dismounted work for some weeks. But
there was a court-martial, and someone was repri-
manded or given a medal or something.
“Ranger” : While“G.L.H.”(B. 7/2/TBicon-
fines himself to his experience of wallaby-shooters
as mound shots, I listen to him. But I’ll swear that
experience doesn’t teach him that the abolition of
“sighters” and of marking between shots would be a
step towards greater efficiency. Under that theory
naval range-finding and aeroplane spotting during a
bombardment are similar to the farce that he alleges
the present system of marking to be. At long ranges,
shooters cannot manage without assistance—that is,
they must have help in determining just where then-
shots are landing. Point-blank shooting is a different
thing altogether. I w 7 ant to hammer in the fact that
rifle-clubs and mound-shooting are assets that it is
criminal for Australia to go short of. I speak from
positive experience when I say that a live rifle-club in
a district means that practically all the men in that
district learn to shoot, a large percentage of them
expertly.
• # # *
“Adelaide”: Hardly correet to say that
J. N. Crawford “stayed here” on coming first to
Australia with A. 0. Jones’s XI (B. 14/2/’18). He
went back to England and to his position in the
Surrey team; but later had an argument with the
County executive over captaincy and team-selection,
which somehow grew into a bitter personal squabble.
Just then St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, cabled him
that it had a vacancy on its staff, and he came back
to Australia as a schoolmaster, helping S. Aus. (as a
side-line) to win the Sheffield Shield, which it had
not seen for years.
* * * *
A small regatta on the Torrens, in the
middle of Adelaide, was enlivened by the gradual
sinking of a pontoon used by the officials and as a
diving-platform. There were boats all about, and
the last person to leave stepped off at the final
moment, without wetting his feet. It seemed a
humorous incident to everybody but the local Maxi,,
which preferred to regard it as averted tragedy.
* * * »
“Smokehouse”: This for the close-shave
competition. I was out after whitefish off Erub, a
Torres Strait island some 120 miles from Thirsty, in
a small sailing-dinghy. I had one line out and made
fast and was standing up to heave the second when
the first one tautened suddenly. The dinghy lurched
over and I fell into the Pacific. As I was struggling
back aboard, a 15ft. shark made a pass at my right
foot and got away with the sole of my sandshoe. The
upper was still hanging round my ankle when I
collected myself from the bottom of the dinghv and
made an inventory of the spoil—one sft. barracoota
and two badly-barked shins.
A cable from Seattle (Tj.S.A.) an JF ”, t
that Sydney’s old friend Mick King . ° tb third
Mclntyre, champion of the Faeific Coast, in
round of a sensational fight. All the other p
but Mac must have rushed off to the war.
* * * * ",
“Te Whare” : Every mail to Ills taste,
T h fhinaman f or instance, goes nap on the clam
bnown as “mutton-fish,” which he converts into good
c i lo p-stick material. AVriter has boiled these nbnoi-
niallv tough shell-fish for over two hours without
nlU eh effect but put through a sausage machine they
form the basis of a rich and savory soup, and
simply thrown in live coals and roasted (black uian s
fashion) are not to be despised. The shells, by tie
WU y, sometimes yield “off-color” pearls, but more
often “blisters,” i.e., irregularly-shaped P/’ a a
attached to the shell, while the occupan
used with advantage as bai( for snapper, g P >
morwong and other rock-haunting fishes. i na'i-
taken whole mutton-fish, denuded of the shell, fiom
the breaill)askets of captured snapper.
* * *
“H V E ” • I’ve struck two or three good
iiTrSTs:
ampitheatre which would scat on its smooin leuges
several hundred men, who might with anv luck yank
U P slla PP er - morwong and other rock-haunting fishes
from the depths. Another srtangeformationisknp
as the Church rock. ihe 1 aison, an uprignt
slab of rock, stands in his pulpit, and peiched on
this eminence black shags croak irreverent beneuic-
g3 StS.’S
/ i> a limirus edwardsi), and their empty shells, baked
red by the sin? strew the foreshores. You
y sometimes lure the ’cray to his .loom by the
I'T , TVhen the insect takes hold, jerk him qu
M 'ghty groper, blue and brown (the latter a meie
folor-variation of the blue), pass slowly through the
P°tholes and gulches at high tide in search of crabs,
crayfish and limpet. The gorgeous pigfish (another
member of the parrot-fish tribe) sometimes accorn-
P anies his bi S brother, and if in biting mood may
acce Pt a crab or flesh bait. Sergeant Baker and
Jolm Dory visit the sandy bottoms, but are not very
common. At times a school of ravenous tailer
(“skipjac”) comes sweeping into the bays and inlets,
driving mullet and garfish ahead in terror. Blue-
pointer sharks patrol the kelp-lined shores, and if
jou throw a bleeding fish into the water it is sur-
prising how quickly the grey-blue snout will appear,
If the big fellow is not within scenting range, a
wobbegong (carpet shark) will rise slowly and sltig-
-Bdsbly» swallow your offering and sink quietly to the
bottom. Great blackfish, nearly two feet in length,
browse on marine herbage, and the cute black bream
noses cautiously over the pebbly bottoms of shallow
reaches. Off Bunga Head there is a fine naniiygai
ground. During exceptionally severe gales scores of
the saucer-eyed fish, clad in splendid scarlet, are cast
up on the beaches near by, some with gills still
feebly moving. As regards leather-jacket and the
commoner class of parrot-fish, including the lilac-
banded parrot-fish (“blue belly”), white-spotted ditto
and kerring kale, I believe it would be easy to fill
a Chapman bag with these after a few hours’ fishing,
and mo st of them (including the large “blue belly”)
eat woll when salted and smo ked. Fresh, they are
somewhat soft, but the curing gives both consistency
and fl avol . to the flesh -


MR
Build up Your Strength
and Improve Your Health.
It is natural for you to be healthy—but you cannot retain jour
natural healthy state unless you aid Nature by keeping your
system thoroughly toned up.
In your daily habits there are certain groups of internal muscles
which you scarcely ever use. Nature intended you to use then), or
hey would not be there.
Unless you DO use them they'll wither and become useless.
They then cannot perform their natural functions —you have
■< chronic feeling of weariness and lack of energy and ambi-
tion.
Imagine how much better for you it is to have your weak
snots strengthened, especiallv when you can so easily and
pleasantly do it bv means of my HEALTH EXERCISES
which I TEACH BY POST.
READ THE CONVINCING PROOF
GIVEN IN THIS LETTER:—
“I have improved wonderfully in health and sjjirits
since starting your Course. I have gained nearly
half a stone in weight, and I feel better than ever.
“T.J.H., Cairns, Queensland.”
Write for my interesting booklet, entitled “HEALTH
AND STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE.” Send three
penny stamps to cover postage.
REG. E. (s«ow y > BARER,
698 Belmont Buildings. Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
“ The all-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
y&'A
Try This Dry Cell j
IF you need current to ring |
bells; to operate telephones i
or signals; light lanterns or I
portable lights—if you need cur- J
rent to run a gas engine or a j
tractor, a motor car or a motor boat— I
you should try Columbia Batteries, i
Columbia!
Batteries
are all-round utility batteries which
can be used for either heavy or light
work. Columbia Batteries have higher
voltage and amperage than wet cells.
No liquid to spill; no glass jars to break.
Designed to meet local conditions.
They are durable and dependable—
protected by moisture-proof cartons.
am
.^Mbi
LSiSifl
'•'•Uk oTv*
V.S.fi.
Packed to reach their
destination in first-class
condition.
Dealers : I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us :
National Carbon Co.
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland ’*
Samson Telephones
T 550.
T 504.
T3OO.
T3GO.—5-MAGNET BRIDGING
WALL SET. Complete... £4/5/-
T 550. —4-M AGNET PORTABLE
SET. Complete l £3/15/-
TSG4. —5-MAGNET BRIDGING
MINING SET £O/15/-
Everything for the Telephone can be obtained
from
Ramsay Sharp# Co. Ltd.
El 7 George Street, SYDNEY.
Brisbane-Sydney
Express Beaten
BV 37 M'NUTE^
Boyd Edkins does pecord
JOURNEY IN 26 UPS 3 MINS
Another Tribute to
“SHELL
BENZINE-
%
r*
r /\i
r
The Virtue of Being
“The Biggest”
INDIAN is the largest motor-cycle organisation in the world. Its Capital is
12,500,CC0 dollars. Furthermore, it is allied with vast and powerful interests
connected with the production of raw materials and essential motor-cycle equip-
ment. This bigness, this association of interests, reduces the cost of Indian
production. It provides capital for experimental work, for world-wide service
organisation, for great spare-part investments. It means that Indian offers the
inventive brains of the motor-cycle industry the highest rewards that Indian
secures the big new ideas which mark the progress of motor-cycle development.
It means that if there’s a better motor-cycle coming—it will be an Indian.
CATALOGUE WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE ; Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty.
Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd., 156 Castlereagh
, Street.
ADELAIDE : Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79 Pirie
Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
Ltd.. Adelaide & Creek Streets.
LAUNCESTON : John King & Sons Ltd.?
Charles Street*
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle & Motor Agency,
Hay Street.
PATON
6887
Wzm&SßX n
Write for Particulars and Quotations,
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery, t.
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
War-time Nervousness.
In these war times many people are liv-
ing in an unnatural condition of nervous
excitement. Unless something is done to
correct it the inevitable result will be a
nervous breakdown, an exhaustion of ner-
vous energy that may take a very serious
and unforeseen turn.
Neurasthenia is one such result, with its
accompaniment of worry, irritation, over-
sensitiveness and severe headache. It means
that the patient has lost the power to re-
cover and store up energy. The condition
will grow worse if not corrected.
The treatment is one of nutrition of the
nerve cells, requiring a non-alcoholic tonic.
As the nerves get their nourishment from
the blood the treatment must be directed
towards building up the blood. Dr. Wil-
liams’ Pink Pills act directly on the blood,
and with proper regulation of the diet have
proved of the greatest benefit in many cases
of neurasthenia. A tendency to anaunia,
or bloodlessness, shown by most neuras-
thenic patients, is also corrected by these
tonic pills.
Two useful books, “Diseases of the Ner-
vous System” and “What to Eat and How
to will be sent free by the Dr. Wil-
liams’ Medicine Co., Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney.
Your own chemist or storekeeper sells Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills at 2/9 per box; six
boxes 15/3. — Advt.
ItusinesH Notices.
GENERAL MANAGER, CENTRAL
SUGAR MILLS.
STATE OF QUEENSLAND.
A PI’LICATIONS are invited for the
position of General Manager of the
Government, Central Sugar Mills of Queens-
land.
Applicants must state their age, and fur-
nish satisfactory evidence of their technical
and administrative experience and general
qualifications.
A salary of £l2OO per annum is offered,
with an engagement extending over a period
of one year from Ist April, 1918, with an
extension of a further four years if services
are satisfactory.
The successful applicant will be respon-
sible for the good and efficient management
of the Government Central Mills now estab-
lished or to be established, and will super-
vise for the Treasurer of Queensland five
other Central Mills which have also been
established out of State funds.
Applications will be received up to 7th
March, 1918, by the Under-Secretary, the
Treasury, Brisbane, and must be endorsed
“Application for Position of General Man-
ager of Central Sugar Mills.”
G. L. BEAL, Under-Secretary.
The Treasury, Brisbane,
30th January, 1918.
NORTH
BRITISH
Tyres
m -
a
■kf.
<
K
m
SMITTI&*
JULIU*
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
y^o/F
The Tyres that
are Superior”
WHOLESALE AGENTS-
New Sooth Wales: William Crosby & Co., 20 Loltos St., Sydney
Victoria: Nortn British Tyre Agency Prop. Ltd.,
525-527 Collins St., Melbourne
Queensland: Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Adelaide St.,Brisoane
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.


y A\
A
Crown
Deal.
Government
Purchase
of
Rabbit
SKins.
Prices lOd. to 27d. lb.
Consign to
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
SYDNEY. ltd.
[2
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE , PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS.
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO an» OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY b« SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
j;s unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments'; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
BALL BEARINGS
13,300 Series
Light Type
1200 Series
Light Type
2200 Series
Wide Type
1300 Series
Medium Type
2300 Series
Wide Type
400 Series
Heavy Type
1400 Series
Large, Extra Heavy Type
GARDNER, W£RN
■ & CO. ■
Melbourne Head Office-
-384 City Road, 5. Melbourne.
Showroom: 369 Flinders Street.
Sydney: 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane : 367 Queen Street.
f \AJ
...ji mwifiau
Aft Imitation is Not a Substitute—
If it were it would Not be an Imitation
It is impossible to emphasise the mutual importance of this fact.
The Ready-roofing business has become a game of
Follow Master
with more than three hundred trailers following every move made by
RU-BER-OID, mimicking everything but the quality.
These imitations resemble the parisitie vines that sap the life of the
great oak—they try to live upon what they cannot produce.
The Manufacturers of
Iber-OID
HKS3E
COSTS MORE-WEARS LONGER
THOUGHT FIRST—ACTED FIRST. RUB-ER-OID GREW
ON ITS MERITS—IT SELLS ON ITS MERITS ENTIRELY.
“No roof roofs like RU-BER-OID roofs” is a bold claim. It
may savor of egotism, but fortunately it is just the plain,
unvarnished truth.
MAY WE SHOW YOU THE PROOF?
Send for Samples and Prices to—
Agents: A. W. SANDFORD & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
KINGLOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
“Yes! I Don't Think”
Some people will tell you that the
ordinary fountain pen nevei- leaks,
and is always ready to write,
You’ve had one and you know, and can say in the Follies’ immortal words:
“ Yes, I don’t think.”
lut there is one r>en that
-Never leaks
-Hlls itself in a flash
Writes right and shuts tight
You have heard of it —you know people who swear by it—but have you got on#
yet yourself ?
It can be obtained, price 1 4- 6 and upwards ; also ONOTQ Valveless for those who do not
want a Self-hilling' Safety Pen, It>/S upwards from all stationers, jewellers and stores.
Manufacturers : ThoS. Dk I.a Rue & Co. I.td„ 167Bunhill Row. London. E.C.
Onoto
Pen
Self-Filling - -
Safety Fountain
Managing: Agents:
Norman Baker & JL,onghurst,
Sydney.
f
Z
•s'
n
Ask fo- ONDTO INX -Bast for all Pena
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
THE ROYAL TONIC
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 6C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative
Society, Ltd. (Sydney ) :
Bonus
Net to Con- To lie- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. signors, serves, serves.
1907. . £4,352 6 p.e. = £479 £»,B?S £9OO
1908.. 8,010 0 „ „ 535 7,285 £l9O 1,090
1909.. 9,921 0 „ „ 701 9,180 34 1,124
1910.. 10,144 0 ~ ~ 865' 10,40:1
1911.. 9,221 0 „,, 946 8,244 31 31
1912.. 12,667 6 „ „ 1032 11,571 64 95
1913.. 17,718 0 ~ „ 1222 14,948 1548 1,643
1914.. 15,522 6 „,, 1446 14,056 20 1,663
1915.. 18,993 0 „ „ 1605 16,681 707 2,370
1916.. 19,557 6 „ „ 1892 18,325 1.710
1917.. 20,199 6 „ „ 2170 18,118 1,621
Sept.,
1917.. 9,538 9538 11,159
As usual after the September balance the
available profit is put by for the annual dis-
tribution in may. Nothing; much is to be
gained by the half-yearly balance; but some-
thing is gained by a half-yearly meeting
This is a movable affair; once a year there
is a roll-up-on the North Coast—at Lismore
or Grafton—and once on the South Coast,
generally at Bega. This time, however, the
meeting was at Nowra, where the baby was
horn 1< years ago. After talcing a store in
Sussex-street the infant was three weeks
before it received a butter consignment • the
turnover last year was £2,348,000. A grain
section has been added ; and now a fruit and
vegetable section. Of the latter the manager
reports:—•
We have had a very uphill fight, but the corner
has been turned. In the last three months the turn-
over has been upwards of £30,000 and the business
is now an a profit-earning 1 basis.
As bit by bit has been added to the business
bit by bit has been added to the premises ;
and premises secured like that are not gener-
ally very satisfactory. Moreover, as expan-
sion was blocked ; so the directors, reckoning
that co-operation was now well established
took a 50 years’ lease of about half an acre
of land between the Central Railway Station
and Darling Harbor. This is a move of some
consequence. Sussex-street has had a
monopoly of the produce trade. It was time
it was broken up. The people’s food ought to
be handled in the sweetest smelling and most
sanitary part of the city. Sussex-street is
in that connection most things that it
shouldn’t be. Presumably to supply funds or
part of the funds to build the big, open, two-
storey warehouse the co. has secured author-
- I r ti'n n tnrJ“CreaSe“ CreaSe itS capital from £50,000 to
Theatre Royal Proprietary Co. (Mel-
bourne) :
Writ-
n 1% . ten To Re- Re-
t-l ~ Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
Dec., 10..£1616 2, p.c. = £6OO £lOl6 £1278
June, ’ll.. 777 24 „ „ 600 177 1455
Dee-, 11.. 1709 2 „ „ 600 £706 403 1858
June, 12.. 1100 24 ~ ~ 600 350 150 2008
Dec., ’12.. 1096 24 „ „ 600 2050
•Tune, ’13.. 1580 24 „ „ 000 456 4 348
Dec., 13.. 1,75 24 „ „ 600 891 284 632
June, ,14.. 1539 24 „ „ 600 450 489 1121
Dec., 14-. 1423 24 ~ „ 600 450 37.8 1491
June, 15.. 1447 2 ~ ~ 600 450 397 1891
P eC -> I}®-.* D" H „ 900 450 449 2340
June, 16.. 131.) 3f „ „ 900 300 115 2455
Dec., 16.. 1507 3f „ „ 900 300 307 2762
’!" ne ’ ’f 72 „ 900 300 272 3034
Dee., 17.. 1548 3} ~ ~ 900 300 348 3382
The bulk of the amounts written off go into
a sinking fund to replace capital represented
b.v leasehold property. The lease has about
o() years to run ; and £31.800 of capital has
to be recovered within that period. During
tlie past seven years this progress has been
made
Dec., 1910. Dec., 1917.
Assets oilier than buildings,
freeholds, plant, etc. ..4:749 4:8850
Less liabilities .. ... 51 gH
Surplus assets .. ..4:698 4:8045
1 his looks all right. If the co. can do as
much in the next seven years, it won’t have
to drop much into its sinking-fund there-
after : put £10,500 aside at 44 p.c., and in 2.')
years it will be worth just on £48.000. the
amount of this co.’s capital. Still, there will
probably be occasional heavy exes, in the
future as there have been in the past. For
instance, the modernisation of the bouse ran
into over £lO.OOO 12 or 14 years ago.
. The Yolxg Co-operative Floor Muling
Co. (N.S.W.) :
„ Written To Re- He-
i'ana m Divid, ‘ mK oft - «m*. serves.
1908. . A 3,8, 1 20 p.e. = £3OOO £849 £528 £2O
1909.. 11,687 30 ~ „ 4500 675 0,512 26.V*,l
£15,000 transferred to capital II 781
Loss.
1910.. 2,308 5 p.e. = 1500 ft 4 4 7
1911.. 629 5 „„ 1500 313 4 ' 8 87
Profit.
o'ool ” » 2250 487 -.920 7,807
1J13" 2.300 2250 -458 7,432
U r" o’?7o it”” 22r ’° 871 2,142 9.574
3,142 l) >< » 2250 SO9 23 9.597
IQI-'' O*» i. 2250 1166 8,883
191(.. ~011 „ „ 2250 1114 3,647 12,530
t his little milling co. goes along at a steady
pace, even if the track is a bit bumpy. For
years profits have averaged
£•>800 p.a., and co-operators liave received in
divs. exactly 14 times the original capital
fhoy put into the concern. And though,
since 1910, when capital was doubled by the
tiansfer of £15.000 of reserves, the surplus
of liquid assets over liabilities has decreased
by about £4400. £9400 more has been put
into premises and plant. Owing to the Gov-
ernment restriction on stocks, the cash
position at present is particularly strong •
against liabilities of £1484 there are liquid
and semi-liquid assets totalling £22,310.
1 lie co. is a fine little example of the value
of co-operation to the primary producer;
and the retention of the milling'in the coun-
tiy. where the “offal” is badly wanted for
return to the soil, is a national service, too.
The small Launceston co. which for some:
ime has been prospecting an ochre deposit
tor paint manufacture at Beaconsfield fTas.)
is almost ready to introduce its product to
the market. A large body of pigment eon-;
raining all the primary colors has been
opened up, as well as a body of pipeclay.
lie co. is installing the necessary plant,
and reckons it can supply all the paint the
Commonwealth requires, and of a quality
equal to the best imported.


CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
-At the War.
0
WM
W.A
fl
<m
M
mSm
j
S®
w
\ fs
;y v
y
M
zA~>
A 'Mr
r\:
m
/y
a.
.. s
yM
( K> >
/,
\.r. ihKw'A
im
m ra
m
/ T'-Sfc.
•W/A#
tt* S
IF 5
*«V*h
<l/
O.V
Us*?7
I»MS
*0
\
ZVt-
Hg «
m
m
>■■/:.
wjgm*
m
m
H
Ssf^
///
1$
H
ffiasi
B
e*-
»Sh§h
0
as?
H
itfiCVS-
Hi
HI
HEQTCbUM*
8
/ >
Hf
V
ii
//
IHM
.
/T7>’
//
m
MSW
..
is
8H
</'?&*&ehwfSs
V
/
y
I £ ft
i
SM
Igllggpg
w®i&§s
»EK
i&s
£B
ott
is&i
4$
afi
Iftl
19358
Sis;
V«SH
m
W'
OT
# *4o*o*
v>s
c C
< o
«
Cobra,” £v6e Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Wins his bit
Of glory, too.
Bear and Do£ —
o
That valiant pair—
Also get their
Proper share.
Here they cone,
All fit to sing,
Decorated
By their King!
Land or sea,
In clear or mu rk,
“COBRA” does the
Brilliant work.


This is the
Flemington
Shape.
rTTTTTTrn
You will notice
how perfectly
it fits in front
without being
pulled into
shape by the
tie.
Th e “L ock
Top” does it;
when you re-
quire this
style in (olliirs ask for “Flemington”
shape and insist on
g
make. The “Flemington” comes in
the following heights—•
ljin. ljin. 2in. 2Jin. 2iin.
Sizes 13in. to 18in. Linen-faced.
Price 9(1. each.
For the same' shape, heights, and
sizes in higher-grade collars, ask for
“Talbot” shape. ]/. each.
f
WEAR
SHIRTS& PYJAMAS
ALSO
THE DEAF
HEAR! <
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing- Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
af
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mean Far Phono ,I1;U1 - V times as efficient
rllone and powerful ag the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mlears Ear Phone Co. Ino. ,45 West 34th St. New York
Toy Dog Lovers 8 Breeders.
FOR SALE.—ALL-BLACK PUG PUPS, Corrard
prize-winning stock; splendid heads, short
bodies. BLACK AND FAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE WHITE POMER-
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCHES; YOUNG
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome young PEKIN-
ESE DOG. Bargains—no reasonable offer refused.
Inspection invited.
KTRNBANK, Arthur Street, Croydon, N.S.W.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens,
BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
mm
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LIP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
*
" THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
BOILER REPAIRS and OXY-ACETYLENE
WELDING REPAIRS
We desire to announce that we have started a Boiler Repair Department in con-
junction with our Oxy-Acetylene Welding Business, and are now in a position
to undertake all classes of BOILER REPAIRS whatsoever. We also buy and
sell second-hand boilers, and undertake inspections on behalf of intending
buyers. We carry out A«jL CLASSES OF OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING
REPAIRS, so do not discard ANY BROKEN MACHINERY, WHETHER
BRASS, COPPER, CAST-IRON, CAST-STEEL, MILD-STEEL, IRON OR
ALUMINIUM, as we can repair the broken parts for a small cost compared
with the cost of buying new parts, and the repairs will then be absolutely satis-
factory. NOTHING TOO SMALL OR TOO LARGE. Portable plants and
experienced workmen sent anywhere in Australia.
NOTE ONLY ADDRESS-
ESTABLISHED 1911
A. L. WEST CO.
Tel. City
4178
Top of Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Rear of
Liverpool Street
I\INU
M m_M. Jinns
Eight-Cylinder Automobiles
In Service the World Over.
Tested by every climate and over all kinds of
roads. Built by long-established Company.
Chassis recently adopted by United States Army
and Marine Corps for armoured cars. Powerful,
durable, economical. Four luxurious body
models.
7-passenger Touring Car, $1650 7-passenger Sedan, $2300
4-passenger Foursome, $l7OO 3-passenger Roadster, $1585
PRICES F. 0.8. DETROIT. WIRE WHEELS $lOO EXTRA.
Write lor catalog and, other descriptive matter.
King Agencies are Profitable. Correspondence invited.
KING MOTOR CAR COMPANY,
Export Department,
50 Union Square, New York, U.S.A.
SJ We&r> j
frossara
W
They Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
look for
This
Trade Mark.
Missing: Friends.
SIXTH WAR LOAN (1927)
SUBSCRIPTION LIST CLOSES 10TH APRIL. 1918.
The Loan is for WAR purposes only.
CHARLES OCTAVIUS TATLOCIv, of
Sydney, last heard of in 1892, is re-
quested to communicate with ASHLEY,
TEE & SONS, Solicitors, London. England.
If dead, information as to his children will
be welcomed.
4 y 2 per Cent.
Interest on the 4A per cent. Loan will be free
of Commonwealth and State Income Tax,
and will be exempt from the operation of Wealth
Levy, if any.
On applications under the instalment system
interest amounting to £3 12s 6d on each £lOO
subscribed will be paid on 15th December, 1918.
If deposit and all instalments are paid in full on
or before 10th April. 1918, interest amounting to
£3 15s on each £lOO subscribed will be paid
on 15th December, 1918. Thereafter interest will
be paid halfyearly at the rate of 4$ per cent per
annum.
5 per Cent.
Interest on the 5 per cent. Loan will be
subject to Commonwealth Taxation, but will
be Free from State Income Tax.
On applications under the instalment system
interest amounting to £3 17s 6d on each £lOO
subscribed will be paid on 15th December 1918.
If deposit and all instalments are paid In full on
or before 10th April, 1918, interest amounting to
£4 on each £lOO subscribed will be paid
on 15th December, 1918. Thereafter interest will
be paid half-yearly at the rate of 5 per cent, per
annum.
80N0S will be issued in amounts of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £lOOO, payable to bearer,
STOCK will be inscribed in amounts of £lOO and multiples of £lO above £lOO, and transfers will
be FREE of all STAMP DUTY.
80NDS and INSCRIBED STOCK will be accepted at par in payment of Probate and Succession
Duty due to the Commonwealth. INTEREST is payahle Half-yearly on 15th June and 15th
December free of exchange at any Bank or State Savings Bank.
THE COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA is authorised on behalf of the TREASURER
OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA to receive applications for the above loan.
INSTALMENTS Payable as under:—
£lO per cent, on application £25 per cent. Ist July, 1918
£l5 „ „ Ist May, 1918 £25 „ „ Ist August, 1918
£25 „ ~ 3rd June, 1918
Any or ail instalments may be prepaid.
* CONVERSION PRIVILEGES. Holders of Stock or Bonds in the above Issues will have the
right to convert them into the 5 per cent Stock or Bonds of the present Issue (the Sixth War Loan)
provided that the amount so converted in any case shall not exceed the amount of cash subscribed to
the present Issue. Such conversion will be effected as on 15th June, 1918, at face value. free~of charge,
and will be contingent on the relative cash application being duly completed.
The holders of new 5 per cent. Bonds or Stock issued in exchange for 4i per cent. Bonds or Stock
will, on 15th December, 1918, receive £2 10s. interest on each £lOO and will receive the same amount
on every subsequent half-yearly interest date
WAR BAVINGS CERTIFICATES will be accepted at purchase price plus interest at 4£ per cent, to
10th April, 1918. in payment of Stock or Bonds in this Loan up to the full amount of 4J per cent,
loan applied for, or up to 50 per cent of 5 per cent, loan applied for.
APPLICATIONS accompanied by deposit of £lO percent., will be received at any Branch of the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia or at any Bank, State Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office, or
through any member of a recognised Stock Exchange. Instalments payable similarly.
Prospectus, Application forms, and all particulars at any Bank, State Savings
Bank or Money Order Foil Office.
18t/i February, 1918,
FORREST, Treasurer ,
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Oneuvem: You may have a ease, but you
don’t make it out. By the way, it’s no use enclosing
stamps for the return of MS. of unused pars. .. .
8.1<’.: Not up....E.G.: “Advancing” won’t d 0....
J.M.: “Drama” doesn’t get anywhere... .J.M.S.:
“Adam” makes dull reading... .Black Bonnet: Don’t
care for it W.K.: Too slight F.8.M.: “Cham-
pagne’’ doesn’t bubble. .. .A.8.C.: “Leading” not for
us. .. .M.8.J.: Doesn’t carry the thought intended... .
Nimrod: Feeble as the column that “actuated” them.
... .H.F.W.: Not vivid enough... .Khaki: Well, “cow”
isn’t a very bad swear. .. .E.L.8.: Lawson worked
that yarn years ago .J.E.: “Macghie” is an old
yarn and an unprintable one. ... J.K.8.: No use....
B. : “Grief” doesn’t thrill... .J.M. W.: Fair verse,
but not interesting; and the son#et. form is not kept.
. ...A.8.: “Willow shade” says nothing that could
move anybody. .. .Billie: They’re a long way off. ...
C. Bumps along in solemn inanity. .. .Twelvo:
N0....0.8.: Certainly; we love it:—
For Our Kino and Nation.
Now that our King has continued sitting of Parlia-
ment,
May the Civilised Nations be against unscrupulous
aggression ;
So the World will know that we are not penitent,
And to show our enemies that they are no compari-
son.
So that they will know we are not amaranthine,
That we’ll fight with all our might for country and
King;
To show we are not made of bombazine,
That we will be glorious and show our breeding.
Now may the Allies show their high constancy,
And prove to their King their determination,
That we may know no more contingency—
That may our King live to act Discrimination.
. ...A.R.: Limps as badly in thought as in manner,
and that’s saying- something. . . .A.L.H.: Not up. . . .
Fanuela: Still a long way to g0....E.5.: Very lame
stuff... .C.W.H.8.: Too slight.... Ays: Verse too
bumpy... .G.C.8.: Doesn’t quite, but go ahead....
F.R.S.: Sorry; Even the youth of the author can’t
make it g00d.... Clough: Though it doesn’t suit us,
you ought to be able to find a market for it; it
is very well done... .H.G.C.D.: It wobbles... .R.C.:
Nothing fresh, original or clever.... P.P.: Not up.
. ...R.N.0.: Horrible... .K. 8.: “Rain” is not verse.
. ...A.J.A.: Pretty solid stupidity there.... U. 8.:
N 0.... J.G.: Verses are not nearly up... .Brrundie:
You may do better. Try....N.L. (or something):
The thing beginning “John James Jones” is not a
“sonnet” nor anything in the least like 0ne....2nd
Vagabond: Poor stuff... .W.S.K.: No use sending-
weak imitations... .P.A.: No appearance of “dainty
wares.” What arrived is very common merchandise.
... .F.J.A.: That’s a brilliant opening:—
The papers that we read are not original,
Though to buy them just a penny we must pay.
They print some charming pars, about the weather,
Because that is changing every second day.
... .F.C.8.: No use ... .N.T.: “Sydney” is the poorest
sort of commonplace.... Roma: Kind of loose curse
that has failed to focus itself properly.... Soina:
Not good enough.... Stung: There are other ways
of doing it. For instance, in S’Africa, when troops
land there and the licensed pubs are closed, the
unlicensed dope-shops supply the same old wicked
poison out of non-refillable bottles by boring a hole
in the bottom, letting out the genuine stuff, filling
up with dope and sealing the orifice with plaster-of-
paris... .T.E.: Nothing there... .Rounds: Millen was
Minister for Defence when the war started. The
change of Government occurred on September 17,
1914. Pearce has been Defence Minister ever since.
....Gumsucker: Much obliged; but it’s no good
unless you tell us the name of the ship... .C.11.R.:
B cannot expect A to add exchange. If B chose to
keep his account, say, in Scandinavia, it would at
present cost A about another 40 per cent, if he bad to
add exchange.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Jas. P.: Merely cheap smartness. .. .G.M.M.H.:
Tinny little figures. Why don’t the two society
sneerers say something clever about the extraordinary
left leg of the underdressed lady ?... .8.J.D.: It’s
wrong—-but not brilliantly wrong... .Clear as Mud:
It isn’t... .J.T.G., Jr.: Some humor in them, but
they’re out of our line and too rough. .. ,L.J.: If the
idea is original there might be a copyright postcard
in it. Not suitable for us... .S.J.W.: Sketch too
crude. Study, if you’re interested.... 5.0'8.: One of
the old, obvious ideas... .D.W.M., Jr.: Where did
you get (1) the Yank dude? (2) the old Yank
farmer? (3) the Yank gag?
“Momokani”: While you’re talking of
scurvy treatment of returned wounded sol-
diers, what do you think of this? Here in
Papua, which is under Australian adminis-
tration, if a police officer gets injured on
duty, by spear or otherwise, he has to pay
his own hospital fees and doctor’s bill! If
a man in the service is killed, and any ex-
pense is incurred over his funeral, it is
charged against his estate —vide the Cura-
tor’s account of the estate of a patrol officer
who was speared to death a year or so ago.
If any further evidence were needed that
a ladical change is urgently called for in
the administration of the Defence Depart-
ment, it could be got from the relations of
John Wren, pony racer, with the ruling
powers. Wren has fought against war-time
reductions in his racing dates in more than
one of the States, and seems to be able to
win anywhere. A while ago the Department
brazenly informed the Q.T.C. that the Min-
ister had agreed to give John Wren three
/ rrwt extra . 1-at ‘i n g at Albion Park. The
Q.T.C. (which gives its profits to war funds,
whereas Wren gives his profits to himself)
objected to this new idea in war-winning,
and applied for extra dates on its own
account. And what is the reply? In the
words of The Argus :
It is surmised that it will be found that the
Uetence Department has agreed to give the Q.T.C.
two extra days if it will consent to Mr. Wren also
having two days.
That is to say, the Defence Department,
under Pearce’s control, will let the Q.T.C.
have something provided it won’t kick up a
row if the Minister lets John Wren have
something. Now. assuming that the Argus’s
surmise is true, how does John Wren, who
eaters for the slackers who won’t-win-the-
j:vvar. get such a pull over a Win-the-War
-^Ministry?


SATISFACTION
H S
r
o
V
hS
c
u
rss
*******
V 'X.
%
> \i
****
fE**r V -•
*®v-
G s^
"ft'
a
r >
4T*
/
*
L
•S
&
PMk
*4
%
Wv
£v
i
w\
Feed your stock on Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal, and judge by results.
Quality tells —one reason why maximum results are obtained from minimum expenditure by the use of MEGGITT’S LINSEED
OIL MEAL is because it contains a greater proportion of that all-essential element —protein.
Possessing 31 per cent, protein it imparts greater value to the other constituents of the daily ration.
MEGGITT’S mixes easily—THEßE IS NO WASTE.
Feed your Sheep, Horses, Cows, Calves, Pigs, Poultry, etc., on MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL.
• l
’GGIlfs
PNSEEdoilme/\|
/AECCITT II?
\ PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
HOW TO FEED SHEEP.
2oz. per head per day in specially nutted form. Can be spread on the ground without waste. For Show
Stock, double the amount.
Mr. WM. COX, Badgery’s Creek, says that he has tried Iran , boiled grain and Megyitt's Linseed, and finds Linseed Meal give's far the best
results.
Mr. LEISTER LOCKE, of Raleigh, Bellinger River, says that in his opinion Megyitt's Meal is not known sufficiently.
Mr. W. J. LINDSAA, iVlu.llixmki.mby, writesi lam well satisfied with your Meal for feeding calves, and can recommend if'for that purpose,
or, in fact, for any stock.”
PAMPHLET No. 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents:—
Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Wm. Adams Ltd., Perth; Clarkson Ltd. Adelaide; Blair Reed & Co., G.P.O. Box 941,
Wellington; R. 5. Exton & Co. Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane; F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
or
M EGG ITT LT
(The Pioneer Linseed Oil and Oil Meal Manufacturers),
26 Ring' Street, Sydney,


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Gabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246, 2 ,4, 6 Spring Street,
4Bio! Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY '
Hll I SHANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
IHINDABERG
•ROCK FIAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) L
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
OATPNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Feb. 27.
Leaves Sydney, March 2.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 6.
Leaves Sydney, March 9.
MELBOURNE ]
(Transhipping fot J-
S.A. and \V. A. ports) j
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, March 2.
'Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking, l*iil>llc Companies, &c.
TMt
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon. |
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputv Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
THYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
I trundles—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
tli rough out Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America. Canada, South Africa, China, the East. j
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital ...£2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1’,195’,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman-
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK n!
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kino-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedlc Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of Bern Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THK "ALL-RED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with tlic CANADIAN PACIFIt
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES. GREAT LAKKf
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU/* S&TBSfc-
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A lour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
\A aikilci Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
a
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH
Established 1817.
W A LILS.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
f
af
a
fa
f
£3,804,860
- £2,875,000
£3,804,860
£10, 681,720
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles li. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.0., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: AV. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Commonwealth Mk Bank ot Bnstralta
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
forVn General
Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
Minimum
Deposit
1/'
At all Branches, and over
2600 A & er >cies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at 3 0 /
per annum **/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELI., Depur.jr Governor.
June, 1916
DRNISO.V MILLER. OoTern.
Invest Your Savings
at the highest rate of interest compatible with safety. This Bank gives
undoubted security.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
The STATE Savings Institution.
HEAD OFFICE: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards. Interest at 3f per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO.
2/6 paid in weekly will amount to £2O/9/9 in 3 years.
10/- paid in weekly will amount to £B2/5/3 in 3 years.
The Bank that Pays 3f% Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. PARINGA, Feb. 23.
S.S. RUPARA, March 2.
S.S. MORIALTA, March 9.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Ollice.
C. S. YUILL & CO., LTU.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEAtiANDTA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, front Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice versa,
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
1' rom Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLTD COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AME R I C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
liegular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON Ss CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER. SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
11. .10NKS & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
L’WEED. RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS.—First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply :
ROOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST.. SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IT’S GREAT
hcnv I find I can
get r.way for my
week-end on my
0
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Philip Erankel & Co., Edward St., Bris-
bane; Eyes & Crowle Ltd., Pirie St.,
Adelaide; Geo. C. Carter, Box 300
G.P.0., Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto Sup-
plies Co. Pty., Elizabeth St., Melbourne;
R. R. Russack, 377 a., Elizabeth St.,
Sydney.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Buitjsii Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians ai - e cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hoi*
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


r
y.
'€
si
if.
<T
fa
Weakness
Every movement of the
body uses up a definite
amount of vitality. That
is why you feel tired at
the end of the day. When
you overtax yourself, or
when your vitality is
undermined by illness,
your whole system be-
comes too exhausted to
recover its lost vitality
without assistance. Your
system is like a plant that
is drooping for want of
water. And just as water
revives a drooping plant —
so ‘Wincarnis’ gives new
life and new vitality to a
weakened constitution.
Because ‘Wincarnis ’ pos-
sesses a four-fold power.
It is a Tonic, a Restora-
tive, a Blood-maker and
a nerve Food—all in one.
Therefore
\fy
1
The Wine of Life
creates new strength, new
blood, new nerve force,
and new vitality. The
benefit begins from the
first wineglassful. You
can feel it doing you
good. You can feel every
wineglassful giving you
more strength than you
had before, and surcharg-
ing your whole system
with new vitality. That
is why over 10.000 Doctors
recommend ‘Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-D4Y
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England
by COLEMAN & CO., Ltd.,
AVincarnis Works, Norwich. You
can buy ‘Wincarnis’ from all
Chemists and Stores selling
wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but if
you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole
Distributing Agents, Fassett &
Johnson, 233 Clarence Street,
Sydney, N.S.W,
trade-mark
the OXYGEn
TOOTH POWDER
n'KEttot* ißOoeiN\
a
Impaired Teeth
Mean
impaired Efficiency
p’.ey hamper the individual in hi-
‘iaily avocation—cause ill healt'
irritate when t’’° mind should
be free to deal with important
matters. A daily cleansing with
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDER.
will keep teeth sound and clean.
The oxygen that Oalox liberate 3
goes into every crevice and
destroys the bacteria which is out
of reach of the ordinary tooth-
brush. The oxygen neutralises
the acid secretions and thoroughly
refreshes and purifies the mouth.
Calox has a pleasing taste. Sold
in a handy, non-wasting container.
SEND FOR FREE SAMPLE
(Supplied anywhere in Australia).
Attach your name and address to
this advertisement and forward to
Geo._ Wills and Co., Ltd., 480
Collins St., Melbourne, or 60 York
St., Sydney, with two penny stamps
enclosed to cover postage.
y
5
C'alox is procurable
from
ALL CHEMISTS
AND LEADING
STORES.
F. 21.2.18. ]
TT , °i?r.^ Ull w. SI(JK AND WOUNDED
_l_ DU lb. when you have finished with
tj 11 ® P a P er > kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Bed Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
« ARE YOU |p*
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE. APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
340 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woj
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
I'mler Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. ELtab. 1891.
If any illustration appearing in The
Rulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C. ; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq. ; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000.
H. W. APPEIiLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write frr prospectus and full information without delay.
nmm
>
'Tk
e Modern.
\ .22 Cal.
J^Ypeating
t r Rifi,
A modern 22 caliber
repeating rifle must
combine accuracy
with convenience and
safety. The Remington
UMG Repeater has a solid
breech, is hammerless, easily
taken apart and shoots with unfailing
accuracy. Examine one at your dealer's or
send for descriptive catalogue free upon request,
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO.
D. D. BRYANT, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
0L
*W £aVO
airiocC our
o/y/o ciixJe —
A terse but e'o-
quent and verr
welcome feat ire of
Field - Marshal
H aig’s rece it
communiques.
Reaching their
objective has 1-
ways been a ds-
- feature
of AVON -
known as the tyres
that ‘‘get there.”
i
:
J
n
%
W\
#5B
"V
r
V
\
/
Tributes to th°ir many fine
qualities are continually being
received.
AVONS eliminate road de-
lays. save expense, and enable
users to always “gain their
objective.
£3
m m
Hammond & Co., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
H. C. Pannifex, 22 Market Street, Melbourne.
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Adelaide.
Queensland Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland.


THE GRESHAM,
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
Under the new management of T. M. Ahern, the
following improvements have been completed : New
Commodious Lounge, whole of Ground Floor;
New Dining-room, seat 150 persons; New Kitchen;
New Automatic Elevator; New Hot-water Sj’s-
tem throughout; New Bathrooms & Lavatories.
Government Notices.
TENDERS are invited for the purchase
of seven cow camels, with calves ; ten
cews without calves; 73 bulls for waggon
op pack; 14 bulls for packs only; and 23
bullocks for packs.
Also quantity Waggons, Harness and
Water-kegs.
Tenders will be received at the office of the
District Storekeeper, Commonwealth Rail-
ways, Port Augusta, South Australia, up
to March 9, 1918.
P. JUDE,
District Storekeeper.
Government Notices.
Department of the Nary,
Melbourne, January 31, 1918.
Examination for Appointment as Naval
Staff Clerk, Class V., under the
Naval Defence Act 1910-1912.
ATTENTION is drawn to an advertise-
ment appearing in the Commonwealth
of Australia Gazette, inviting applica-
tions from persons to sit for examination for
appointment as Naval Staff Clerk, Class V.,
in the above Department. The examination
will be held toward the end of April, 1918.
2. The following are eligible to sit for
this examination:—
(a) Males who are members of, or have
Served with satisfactory record in any
Expeditionary Force raised under the
provisions of the Defence Act 1903-
1917, and members of the Naval
Forces who have been on active service
outside Australia, or who have served
on one of H.M.A. ships since the out-
break of war, and who will not have
attained tlpsir 51st birthday on Ist
May, 1918/'
(6) Other males who will not be less
than fifteen years or age, nor have
l’eached their 26th birthday on Ist
May, 1918.
3. AH applications must be on the proper
printed forms, and must reach the Naval
Secretary, Department of the Navy, not
later than 7th March, 1918.
4. Full particulars as to subjects of
examination, rates of pay, etc., can be
obtained from the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia Gazette, or from the Naval Secre-
tary, Department of the Navy, Lonsdale
Street, Melbourne.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
\\
Ik"
annua.
»-A>
> A
O iTTm
Sit down right away and send Finney’s
an order —keep the mailman hissy bringing
you bargains from Finney’s Sale of Sales.
Working Trousers Reduced.
Men’s Hard-wearing: Cotton
Tweed Trousers, good patterns,
strongly made, side or cross
pockets; sizes 3 to 7.
Usually .. 7/6 8/11 9/6 11/6
Sale Prices 6/11 7/11 8/6 10/3
Men’s Trousers for best wear,
neat worsted designs, plain and
gauntlet bottoms; sizes 3 to 7.
Usually—
-14/6 15/6 16/6 21/- 22/6
Sale Prices—
-13/6 14/- 15/- 19/- 20/-
Flannel Shirts Reduced.
Flannel Undershirts, of soft Grey
Australian Flannel. Usually 6/6.
Sale Price ...0/D
3 for 167-
Better quality. Usually 8/6.
Sale Price 7/6
3 for 22/-
Ipswich Flannels, Grey. Usu-
ally 8/11. T/O
Finney’s Pay
the Carriage.
Riding Trousers
Reduced.
Men’s Venetian Twist Trousers,
very suitable for saddle use;
sizes 3 to 7. In Fawns, Browns
and Greys. Usually 307-
Sale Price
26/6
Men’s Cotton Garbicord Trousers
sizes 3 to 7. In Fawn and Khaki
shades. Usually 10/6.
Sale Price
9/3
WRITE TO-DAY EVERYTHING’S REDUCED
The Big Block,
BRISBANE.
FINNEY, ISLES 8 CO. LTD.,
The Drapers of
Queensland.
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES
SUPCE
ECATU[?]S
“8.J.: Bob Greig, who for some time has
counted his embonpoint as a histrjionie
asset, lias been made an associate-director of
H. Rickards’ Tivoli Theatres, Ltd., and in
future will loom in the only way he can
loom in the management of vaudeville
affairs. Many bright lads will feel sorry if
Robert’s promotion means the withdrawal
from the stage of Mrs. Robert, who behind
the footlights is winsome Beatrice Hollo-
way.
MELBOURNE TIVOLI.
“WINNIE BROOKE, WIDOW.
Charles Albert as Hercules, and Harry
Jacobs as Reggie.
Peter Dawson, whose songs are on a
million gramophones, is going to be Aus-
tralia’s singing soldier. He enlisted last
week in Brisbane, but will fulfil brief Bris-
bane and Melbourne engagements before
going into Enoggera camp. A manly singer
of manly songs, he will delight brother Bill-
jims ashore or afloat, wherever he may hap-
pen to be. Home music-lovers will miss his
ringing, rousing voice; but Billjim has more
right to Peter than the mild civilian has.
Ted Tait, now homeward bound from New
York, has secured “De Luxe Annie,” an
alleged novelty which resembles “On Trial”
in structure and contains as many surprises
as “The Seven Keys to Baldpate.” Stowed
deeper in Tait’s bag are “The Firefly,” a
new musical comedy; “Old Lady 31,” a
quaint romance of middle-aged people; and
the sticky “Mother Carey’s Chickens,” which
is another poach from the preserves of Kate
Douglas Wiggin, who wrote “Mrs. Wiggs of
the Cabbage Patch.” Those pieces, with Guy
Bates Post and “The Invisible Foe.” an H.
B. Irving production which was bought in
London, will keep the young firm busy in
1918.
“Fax”: The first night of the Japanese
fantasy in Sydney was not the only occasion
of Kathleen Macdonell’s abrupt departure
from a stage. One night in Brisbane, when
she was playing the heroine of “Outcast,”
somebody slipped over a stair in the darkness
and a gallery girl tittered. It was just as
Miss Mac was refusing the hero’s offer of
marriage and volunteering to follow him to
the uttermost end of the earth without a
ring. The titter broke the spell of illusion
for the leading lady. She shrugged her shoul-
ders and left the stage. Curtain. Then a
man put his head out from the side and
announced: “Miss Macdonell says that unless
the noise discontinues she refuses to go on
with the play.” By that time .the man had
left off slipping and the woman had ceased
tittering, so the play went on.
John Hugo, one-time of Hugo’s Minstrels,
saw the various States from behind the foot-
lights in the late ’eighties ; and then he went
back to the boot trade. After that came a
strike. John was a union official in those
days, and when the trouble was over he
found himself unpopular with every boss in
the business. So he took service with the
A. A. Co., which controls most of Mel-
bourne’s hoardings, and he has held his billet
ever since—2l years of slapping beauty’s
face with a pastebrush and watching the
wind out of the tail of his eye. Now he has
established a record as long-distance member
of the Bill-posters’ Union, and the brethmn
gave him a gold medal for it the other day.
“B. J.” : The list of operas made in Aus-
tralia which have reached the footlights is
longer than the casual rememberer might ex-
pect. Alfred Hill has two previous efforts to
his credit, “The Moorish Maid” (book b$
John Birch, a Maoriland journalist) and
“Tapu” (book by Arthur Adams). At Syd
ney Cri., in 1902, tenor Clarence Leumane
and Ernest Truman offered, under the title
of “Mathias,” an operatic version of “The
Bells,” Clarence singing the title-role. A
pioneer was Luscombe Searelle, whose
“Estrella” was presented by Nellie Stewart
and the Royal Comics, and whose “Black
Rover” (later staged in London) and “Boba-
dil” were produced by Majeroni and Wilson.
Auguste Juncker, a J.C.W. conductor, had
to be content with amateur productions of
“Zelma,” “A Romance of Corsica” and “The
Queen’s Page.” Three operas which have
been produced in Maoriland are Carmini,
Morley’s “The Two Brides,” Fred W. Jones’s
“The. Monarch of Utopia,” and Squarise’s
“Fabian.” The most ambitious of all was
Marshall Hall’s “Stella,” which was pro-
duced for two matinees at Melbourne
Majesty’s in 1912, with Rosina Buckman
in the name part.
“Harrison O.”: The trouble with “The
Rajah of Shivapore” is that David Souter
has been too busy constructing little master-
pieces round black cats and bold hussies to
have conquered the art of the librettist. The
staging of the work will do good if only it
makes composers realise that to be successful
a comic opera must have something more
than melody. Local musicians with comic-
opera aspirations mostly suffer from the delu-
sion that the “book” is a matter of secondary
importance, which it certainly is not. Operas
like the Savoy series, in which music and
libretto dovetail perfectly, happen once in
centuries, but most of the big successes of
minor artistic importance, although now
best remembered by their tunes, have been
helped by smart writing. Instances are “The
Cingalee” and “Florodora” : one had Chedda
Lhoy and the little Babu lawyer, with his
quaintly mixed metaphors; the other reached
the ribs of audiences with a Tweedlepunch
and the . crisp epigrams of the gay widow.
Our Miss Gibbs,” although its tunes were
ground out bv every hurdy-gurdy in the city,
probably made its strongest appeal by means
ot its book. ’ Hughie Pierpoint, the ama-
teur crook,” was a delightfully humorous
ft oak. and Timothy Gibbs had dozens of
lines that could not fail to win a laugh.
Although some deplorable English lyrics
were provided for “The Merry YT mow,” the
opera’s well-sustained plot gave it interest,
and its jokes attracted playgoers to whom
all music is much of a mushiness. The Aus-
tralian composer who wishes to produce a
successful comic opera must secure a well-
euuipped librettist, and regard him not as an
incidental contributor but as an equal
partner;
“0.P.”: I got “the bird” years ago at
Charters Towers (Q.). We were a bellow-
drama co. trying to earn our board with a
sacred concert on Good Friday night. The
theatre contained a gallery full of loose
wooden forms capable of accommodating
2000 miners—if they arrived. While I
waited in the wings “The Holy City,” “Ora
Pro Nobis” and other solemnities were passed
out in ominous silence. I flattered myself
on a reasonably good bass voice and felt con-
fident I could wake ’em up with the popular
Fisk Jubilee hymn, “Steal Away.” I got
safely to the third line, “Steal Away Home,”
when a beery listener from aloft rumbled
“By , I will!” and then proceeded to
keep his word, clambering over those wooden
forms with his No. 12 bluchers. It finished
the sacred concert.
“Norbell”: Touching “Bowyang’s” request
for a concert party of Australian artists to
entertain Billjim in Palestine (B. 14/2/’18),
I quote a letter just to hand from Ted Scott,
who writes from “In the Desert” (Edward
is a stranger to me) :
I am a nursing orderly attached to No. 2 Stationary
Hospital, El Arish. Well, I gave your Bulletin
poem, “W’en are yer goin’ away?” one evening, and
ever since that, every time I appear, I am called on
to do it again. Seeing that it has been done solely
for the benefit of the boys that are doing their bit
out here, I knew you wouldn’t mind, and The
Bulletin's a cobber of ours. Everywhere the piece
takes the roof off. It is difficult "to put on new
pieces; but I’m kept pretty well supplied from The
Bulletins that float into camp.”
Mrs. G. B. W.
Lewis —Rose Edouin
Lewis on the bills in
England nowadays—
is still battling on
the stage. At latest
she was touring in
“Daddy Long Legs,”
taking the part that
Maggie Moore had in
the Australian pro-
duction. She has
played 1000 parts in
her time, and per-
haps is the most
widely experienced
Shakspearean actress
living. It is getting
on for 40 years since
she and Lewis man-
aged the Bijou
Theatre—then called the Academy of Music
—in Melbourne, after she had travelled the
world as one of the Edouin family. And in
her youthful days she had been a member
of old Sam Phelps’s co., playing Puck in “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream.” She was an
experienced actress when Genevieve Ward
was still only a novice. The photo., which
the veteran sends with Christmas wishes,
shows her as Rosie in “Potash and Perl-
mutter.”
“Jwosp”: If big-voiced De Wolf Hopper
goes to Australia in Gilbert and Sullivan
stuff, it will be on a sort of trial run, Lon-
don being the goal. Hopper had a fling on
the London stage in ’99 with Sousa’s “El
Capitan” and “The Charlatan,” and was
kindly treated ; but he has never shown them
his G. and S. tricks. He is now 60 and his
stage jobs go back to “Our Boys” in ’7B.
His chief hits have been in comic opera, but
he has also' shown something beyond the
ordinary as Falstaff in “The Merry Wives.”
David in “The Rivals,” and “Mr. Pick-
wick.”
“Two Star”: The programme of Muriel
Starr’s latest starring vehicle, “The Easiest
Way,” intimates that the play concerns “a
particular phase of New York life.” After
sampling the piece it strikes me that there
was never a mob less particular about any-
thing.
T Edna_ May, London’s original Belle of
T ork ’ kas . l°st Mr husband, Oscar
Lewisohn, who died in America last month.
The pair had been married 11 years.
David Warfield, the American star,
doesn’t believe in new plays. Why should
he? He’s been doing Klein’s “The Music
Master” off and on for 12 years, and this
“ROBINSON CRUSOE ” AT SYDNEY
ADELPHI.
Victor Prince as a Fairy Queen and Nellie
Kolle as principal Boy.
year is beating the box-office records he made
when the show was new. Marie Bates, who
is in the cast, has been with Warfield 16
years and has never missed a night. That
must be near the record, surely?
THE FILM FANATIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
One time my Jane was very s.veet,
A gentle soul with smiling lips,
Who walked demurely on the street
Without a hint of ragtime hips.
She wished but for the simple life,
A quiet lot
In ivied cot
As Simon Simple’s simple wife.
My Jane for two distressing years
Has felt the living-picture lure.
Her wagging walk provokes the jeers
Of vulgar people, and I’m sure
They wouldn’t like her cigarette.
Her cheeks of rose
And powdered nose
I hate —I loathe the name Jeanette!
I must rain gold upon the poor,
And lift the fallen creature up,
As heroes do, the sick must cure,
And carry home the stranded pup.
And Jeanette when she wakes or dozes,
Or runs, or rides,
With skill provides
A choice array of picture poses.
I’m sending Jane to U.S.A.
On managers to try her schemes.
It is my pious prayer she may
Succeed beyond her wildest dreams
And be detained by fame and pelf.
’Twill best please me
Henceforth to see
The shadow of her former self!
VICTORIA.
SIMON SIMPLE.
THE CRITIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
He goes in on the free-list,
And sits in the D.C.;
The face of an idealist
Some people say has he.
Before him in arraignment.
As ’twere, those on the boards;
Never the entertainment
This blast* judge applauds.
His pose is of a critic
Omnipotent and stern ;
With gaze cute, analytic,
He’ll to the programme turn.
The hero moves him never,
The heroine in vain
Appeals. They must be clever
Who his approval gain!
At all the funny wheezes
He’ll sadly smile, and if
The house the comic pleases,
Quite audibly he’ll sniff.
He thinks the whole crowd duddy;
And surely he must know—
The young juve. understudy
Of the opposition show!
E. T.


af
«K® urn /, ' • wr.
¥■>
: i
»
ffw
lit
mm MMW
:£‘
' ' •
A
Hi
V
m
yH' 4-* ssr
Mi 1 ': li
> ■
c I
S' ' 1/ "
&
?
»
A*
a,../;
#a ■
■ ■"
>-v .
• v
e
P . ,
v v
Every experienced motorist
knows that no matter how
perfect a motor-car design
is on paper, its practical
usefulness cannot be de-
termined until it has
stood the test of actual
experience in the hands
of all kinds of owners.
There are few motorists who
can afford to experiment
with an unknown quan-
tity when as large a
money investment as the
purchase price of a motor-
car is involved.
It is obviously good judg-
ment to consider only
those cars whose real
value has been proved be-
yond question by every
known trial that could
have been given in every
country the world over,
through several seasons.
That over 300,000 Stude-
bakers are now in daily
use explains eloquently
how the public has ap-
proved Studebaker qual-
ity mechanism.
The Studebaker engine is
the most accessible en-
gine ever built into a
o
motor-car sold in large
quantities.
Its design has been prefer-
red to give the highest
degree of economy along
with an over-abundance
of power efficiency.
The tapered and adjustable
Timken roller bearings
—one located at every
friction point or where
strain or thrust occurs
—assures the greatest
element of safety,
economy and perfect
operation of movingparts.
The Studebaker rear system likewise
permits the greatest proportion of
the engine’s power to be transmitted
into driving power, another great
factor of economy and driving
satisfaction.
Last, bntnot least, the High Tension
Magneto absolves the motorist from
all fear of being stalled on the road
from that bugbear of the country
driver —batteries run down.
Full specifications of Studebaker
mechanical construction will be
gladly given by your local dealer,
who desires to show you first-hand
just how great value is offered in
a Studebaker Series 18 car.
Stocks of Studebaker Cars from which selection can be made are at present held by our various State distributers and by the 200 Studebaker
dealers throughout Australia and New Zealand. Those whose bustness brings them into touch with the shipping situation know that we are
only voicing a reasonable anxiety when we say that we are afraid our regular shipments now arriving cannot continue mdefim eiy. is is
only one reason why every intending purchaser of a car should make his choice now while a full selection is available.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
Head Office: 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
S- A. Branch at 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
Leonard Corrich, 80a Brisbane Street, Launceston.
C. C. M. & A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Adams Limited, Tuam Street, Christchurch (N.Z.).
A. Hill, 72 Collins Street, Hobart, Tasmania.
af
ESTABLISHED 1852


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing tor the English Press.
Simple and Effective iMethods .
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered pheminol may he
applied directly to the objectionable hair-
growth. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair, hut to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol. obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Removing Her Skin.
The quickest and surest way to make a
good complexion out of a bad one is to
actually remove the thin veil of faded or dis-
colored outer skin from the face. This can
he done easily, safely and privately by any
woman. The process is one of gentle absorp-
tion.
Get some pure inercqlised wax front your
chemist and apply it at niglit like cold cream,
washing it off in the morning. In a few
days tiie inercolide in the- wax will have
absorbed the disfiguring cuticle, revealing
the fresh young skin underneath; you will
have a beautiful, clear, natural complexion.
-The process is pleasant and harmless, making
the face look brilliantly attractive and youth-
ful. It also effectually removes such blem-
ishes as freckles, tan, moth patches, liver
spots, pimples, etc. Every woman should
keep a little mercolised wax on hand, as this
simple, old-fashioned remedy is the best coin-
plexioned beautifier and preserver known.
Blackheads Instantly Go.
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess is now used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores in the
skin. You have only to drop a tablet of
stymol, obtained from the chemist, into a
glass of hot water and bathe the face with
the liquid after the effervescence has sub-
sided. The blackheads will then come right
off on the towel. The enlarged pores immedi-
ately contract to normal and the greasiness
disappears, leaving the skin smooth, soft and
cool and free from blemish. But to make sure
that this desirable result is permanent it is
advisable to repeat, the treatment several
times at intervals of say about four or five
days.
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily he
changed back to a natural color in a few
days’ time merely by the application of a
simple, old-fashioned and perfectly harmless
home-made lotion. Procure from your chem-
ist two ounces of tammalite concentrate and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this to the hair a few times with a small
sponge, and you will soon have the pleasure
of seeing your grey hair gradually darkening
to the desired shade. The lotion is pleasant,
not sticky or greasy, and does not injure the
hair in any way.
Naturally Wavy Hair.
Good stallax not only makes the best possi-
ble shampoo, but has the peculiar property of
leaving the hair with a pronounced natural
“wave,” an effect presumably desired by many
ladies. A teaspoonful of the stallax granules,
dissolved in a cup of hot water, is ample for
a luxurious head wash, and leaves the hair
with a peculiar lustre and fluffiness obtainable
from nothing else as far as known. It is per-
fectly harmless, and can be obtained from
most chemists, although since it has been but
little used for this purpose it comes only in
lib. sealed original packages, enough to make
up 25 or 30 individual shampoos. [2
Neat Underwear.
<y.
THE
‘ffieatXncfiCoos'
.WOVEN NAMES,
_ jNcat
ptylish.E/^eefiUe 1
Made ir>
.Australia
PROCURED THROUGH
ANY UP-TO-DATE MERCER OR DRAPER .
OUR NAME ON THE BOX
Is a guarantee of Quality
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
The new
flavour
HP
sauce.
This new, thick, fruity sauce
from England is simply de-
licious, and such a welcome
change to the old-fashioned
sauces. -
Wouldn’t it be worth your
while to try the one and
only H.P. Sauce?
&
To suffer with fortitude is
he oic, but to suffer needlessly
is idiotic. While most sufferers
regard pain as due to the
dispensation of Providence,
doctors see in it a certain
neglect—the neglect of simple
rules of health.
all rheumatic afflictions acute lumbago is the
most painful. It arises from a gradual accumu-
lation of excess uric acid in the system ; the muscles of
the lower back become impregnated until the muscu-
lar fibres stiffen and every movement causes agony.
The simple habit of taking Kruschen Salts every
morning cleanses the system of excess uric acid, braces
the nerves and gives to the user the daily enjoyment
of natural vigorous health. Get the Kruschen habit.
a
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
fa
Australian
Price
26
per bottle
ALL. BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chersfsts, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor/;, E.GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen). Ltd.. 6B Deansgate Arcade, Manchester. England.
THE AUSTRALIAN
*
SKANDIA
</
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
ii
“Pc
a
:
-
UNLIMITED SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Eoftvis Street
SYDNEY.
Ivory Toilet
Ware.
In the most exclusive
homes Ivory Toilet Re-
quisites are largely taking
the place of Solid Silver.
It is not to be wondered
at, in view of the fact that
an Ivory-back Hairbrush
will be good after 50 years
of daily use. The Bristles,
of course, will be renewed
r
Fine African Ivory,
Ladies’ Brushes, from
£4 pair.
from time to time, but the back will always be good.
The White Ivory, with a Blue Monogram or Crest engraved on it, is in exquisite taste.
Then, too, piece after piece can be added to the table, and there is no difficulty in matching them.
We have just opened a very choice selection at our famous Cut Prices.
Plain figures.
Cash. only.
Fairfax 8 Roberts Ltd.,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
“T. 0.1.”: The grandfather of “Reggy”
Black (B. 7/2/TS) was not the only notable
shipmaster who sailed out of Sydney Harbor
for the China Seas and lost the numoer of
his mess. In the first ’forties Captain John
Bibbs, of Upper Fort-street, father of the
notable brothers J.C., Tom and George,
sailed in command of a ship owned by
Campbell of the Wharf for China, and was
not heard of again.
Young backblock Australia won’t have to
go into a camp to learn the ways of the
humped beast. The other day, for instance,
Chris Smith, a veteran of 17, arrived in
Quilpil (Q.) in charge of eight camels to
load with stores for Nocatunga. They found
the 100-mile journey in bone-dry ; but going
back the team won’t perish of thirst, if it’s
water they want.
“Myola” on art-teaching in Victoria: —
Max Meldrum is objected to by “8.J.” (B.
24/1 /’IS) as a candidate for the late Fred McCubbin’s
Melbourne National Gallery billet. He quotes
Meldruni’s coo-scientific attitude towards Art as a bar
tc his appointment. Let it be remembered that the
vacant position is that of drawing master. Much
sloppy drawing would be averted if perspective were
always taught to students as an exact science. Tf
ability to impart his enthusiasm and energy and
his instinctive feeling for mass and form count for
anything, Meldrum is the obvious drawing master,
liis portrait of his mother in the Gallery speaks
with more effect than his detractors. Although
McCubbin was the drawing instructor, lie ranked
much higher as an interpretive colorist than as a
draftsman. Conversely, Director Bernard Hall, who
takes the color classes himself, excels in the technique
of line, but usually fails in the medium of paint.
It is to be hoped that whoever is appointed will
try to obtain more comely female models than were
used last year. Some of the women depicted in
the recent exhibition of students’ work were deplor-
able. A couple of the emaciated creatures looked
fitter subjects for the Melbourne Hospital next door.
Thus is youth’s aesthetic eye offended when there are
thousands of young goddesses who might be given
some permanence in paint. Droves of them flock to
display their lovely limbs as chorus girls; I wish a
few would rush the model’s throne.
“0.K.” : What is the age of the ironical
cockneyism, “I don’t think”? It seemed quite
new to Australia when Bert Gilbert used it
in a panto, a few years ago. He and a bro-
ther low-comedian were discussing a Mrs.
Drinkwater. “Mrs. Drinkwater!” he said
sniffingly—“l don’t think.” The expression
was then coming into vogue again, and, being
a popular revival, it has stayed in. You find
it in “Pickwick Papers,” published more than
80 years ago. Sam Weller, being deputed by
Mr. Pickwick to recover the fugitive Mr.
Winkle, upbraids the nervous runaway:
“You’re a’ amiably-disposed young man, sir, I
don’t think.” Probably it was a common
form of humorous expression in the age of
Weller. Dean Swift’s “Polite Conversa-
tion,which dates back to 1736, satirised the
phrasing of the small-talk in upper-middle-
class London sassiety of that period, and
hundreds of the household proverbs and
similes in Swift’s satire are stock phrases
to-day. All things considered, it seems pro-
bable that when Eve had a few words with
-vdam at the close of the honeymoon, she
tossed her golden mane and snorted .
“Everything in the Garden’s lovelv—l don’t
think.” •
“64-Pounder”: Squatting on a shoulder of
Mt. Victoria, Wellington (M.L.), 600 ft.
above the sea, there is an ancient cannon of
the Crimean War type—a big iron muzzle-
loader weighing a couple of tons or so. The
weapon was man-hauled up there in 1574 or
1876 by a battery of artillery under Major
McCready. They took a week at the precipi-
tous job, working with block and tackle and
ways. For several years the blunderbuss
went bang at noon on Saturdays; now it.sits
dumb, and the youth of Wellington cuddles
his tartlet on its well-polished breech.
The chemist’s yarn :
Industrial depression re-acts very quickly on our
business ; when things get tight people curtail adver-
tised mixtures and stick to Epsom salts and other
cheap remedies. The same thing applies to the
luxury of having the doctor. Victorian lodge doctors
were rushed all day on January 31, and we had to
put on extra hands ; on February 1 dispensaries and
consulting-rooms were alike empty. One of the most
humorous things in the whole doctor-lodge controversv
is the burthen of the circular which most of the
friendly societies are sending out. For example:—
“Any visits to doctors except for reasons of great
urgency will not be recognised by the branch.’’
“You are. requested for the time being to seek
medical advice only in cases where it is absolutely
imperative to do so. The greater the number of visits
you pay to the doctor the more you may be levied at
the end of the quarter.”
Where you feel in doubt it is advisable that you
nrst consult your secretary.”
“Do not seek medical advice for minor and unim-
portant ailments, as each visit to the doctor will now
cost your branch 10s. fid.”
It looks as though it will be necessary for lodges
to appoint a vigilante, who will decide whether the
sick member is sick enough to risk 10s. 6d. A local
doctor whose average number of lodge patients in his
afternoon consulting hours had been 28 up to January
31 now finds he has to attend 7J. And he swears
that that is about a fair average number in any real
need of attention.
“J.C.” : About time Maoriland authorities
followed S. Australia’s example and strafed
the Hun names off the map. In the Southern
Alps there are such names as the TJnser
Iritz Waterfall, the Moltke Range and the
Ivron Prinz Rudolf Glacier, all handy to the
big 4 ranz Josef Glacier. Not far away are
the Bismarck Peaks. It would be' easy
enough to find fitting substitutes in English
or Maori. The original abo. name of the
4 ranz Josef iceflow is Waiau, which means
swirling waters,” applied to the mad little
liver that issues from a cave in the glacier
ace.. . There might be reasonable excuse for
letaimng such names as Ilochstetter and
Ilaast, and. the Mueller glacier, the last-
named, for instance, having been christened
a..ter a Government surveyor of the pioneer
rays, an old pal of Dick Seddon’s, who
escaped from Hunland early. He’s still
above ground, up Auckland way.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
vvliat we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
’ tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from tlie nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Rilev Streets, Sydnev.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oil! My! Corn-pains in every nerve I
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we wili refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages ; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—-well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price bv
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
CRN YOU TRULY
SRY
V,
A
me APPETITE
IS KEEN ? '
EKEO
N
ATURE intended YOU to enjoy
these privileges and if there is
anything wrong with your Stomach.
Liver or Bowels it is because you have
neglected them when they needed
attention.
However, it is not too late even now
and we urge you to try Chamberlain s
Tablets for the stomach and liver.
They will tone, strengthen and
invigorate the entire system, thus pre-
venting Headache. Indigestion. Sourness.
Biliousness and Costiveness.
Why not get a bottle to-day and
enjoy good health—but be sure and see
they are the genuine
THE STOMACH *
• •
)
&
THE
DIGESTION
GOOD ?'
'N/
%
Q
THE LIVEKt
ACTIVE. ?
f
Cf
THE
GEOJLWr?
(1
>4
o
a! ®
UJ Q
UZ<C
SC IU UJ
hOE
Dike many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often conies on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder has developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
can be summoned.
Those who have the interests of their family at heart Veep a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, dysentery and
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bowels the attack may be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy.
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage. The excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains in the stomach for which
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied upon to do this.
BE PREPARED
%
TH&EE'jRTBBJZn TYKES
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and -prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE:
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS , 212, MADRAS STREET.
P.C.B. —70
p
f
The Seal that
Stands for Health
in your cows, horses, sheep and other animals. If
you want the best results, highest working capacity
from your horses, full supply of rich, cream-laden
milk from your cows, and best wool output from
your sheep, give them
LESLIE SALT LICKS
They are made from pure, sterilised salt, com-
pressed into 51b., marble-hard blocks, with loop
for hanging. Guaranteed free from alum, plaster
of paris, dirt or other impurities.
2/- per Block, or 22/6 per case of 1 dozen.
At all SADDLERS, BLACKSMITHS, PRODUCE
MERCHANTS and STOREKEEPERS.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
sf
ABBEY
SHOES!
If you desire a correct and distinc-
tive style for every occasion, you
cannot do better than make a point
of wearing ABBEY SHOES.
You are assured perfection in fit,
as they are made in half- and full-
sizes, and in three fittings, narrow,
medium and wide.
We illustrate a Tan Willow Calf
Oxford Shoe, with Perforated
Yamp. Very smart and service-
able.
Price - 35|-
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between (i.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney .
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since 15»6. CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
$• GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England
Insist on “ Singleton's’’—refuse all substitutes.
Learn Drawing at Home
A Famous Artist teaches how to
turn to Guineas a Taste for Art.
Drawing is an interesting and PROFIT-
ABLE pastime. In a few months you may
be earning a solid income in your spare time,
if you join the HARRY J. WESTON POSTAL
SCHOOL OF DRAWING NOW.
Hundreds of men and women
who have a taste for drawing
are wasting their time trying
to paint old-style easel pic-
tures that no one will buy.
Yet they could easily learn, bv
studying at home, how to do
the work that’s WANTED —
that SELLS at a good price.
THE HARRY J. WESTON POSTAL
SCHOOL OF DRAWING
s
will teach you
thoroughly, and
properly, every
branch of com-
mercial art. It
comprises twelve
months’ tuition,
during which
time you will be
carried along step
by step until you
have mastered
all the principles
of correct draw-
ing.
Write for our in-
teresting booklet,
“THERE’S
MONEY IN
THE PE N,”
which gives full
details of our
methods, fees,
etc. It tells
about the possi-
bilities of draw-
ing, and explains
the difference between learning to COPY and
to DRAW.
Send us your name and address, with three
penny stamps to cover postage.
THE. HARRY J. WESTON
Postal School of Drawing,
34 Waltham Building's, 24 Bond Street, Sydney.
f
RISING
IN
ASIA
Ariel Ascendancy in Australasia
Firmly Established.
An Ariel Agent in New Zealand says:
“When things are normal again we anticipate a good demand
for Ariels. Without exception every rider we have is a
satisfied one.”
Ariel Works Ltd. f 36 Bournbrook, Birmingham, Eng,
. Agents: TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY : 363 George Street. ADELAIDE: 152 Runclle Street.
MELBOURNE : Elizabeth Street.
i
Im
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
683 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the wo r ’
Petrol
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
LETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
w.
Modern Chemistry
and the
Art of Shaving
At last Chemistry has
taken upon herself to
teach us the true art of
shaving, and to free us
from what many con-
sider a positive torture.
11 111 1
SHAVING CREAM
is the result of three years of study and experi-
ment in search of the ideal shaving medium.
This “cream” possesses the remarkable
quality of softening the toughest beard—no
hot water or “rubbing in” being necessary—the
shaving brush is sufficient to work up a thick
creamy lather that does not dry quickly, but
remains moist to permit of a leisurely shave.
zzz
i-renngns
j SHAI/INC
n CREAM
CtitniwiAa
fIfUWRKriJUM
2
Obtainable at all Leading Chemists and Stores
Go MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
Lower Cuba Street
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S. W.
t
* Trade Mark
Send penny stamped
envelope for free sample of
“MENNEN’S”
; TALCUM FOR MEN.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne
GAPILLARINE
sf
Grows
Moustaches
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO pears.
9NAS)
i^&JL
c
Vmmm
WE YOU A
hcycle Handy?
There are numerous occasions
in every home and business
place when it would be a con-
venience and a saving of valu-
able time to have a bicycle
handy. Shopping, delivering
urgent messages, business calls,
are a few of the things which
can be easily and rapidly
accomplished by cycling.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
HIIN££
“THOROUGHLY BRITISH.”
and ensure years of reliable service.
The few shillings difference between
a genuine B.S.A. and a “pattern”
machine is more than counter-balanced
by the freedom from trouble and ex-
pense which B.S.A. quality gives.
B.S.A. FITTINGS ARE GUARANTEED
INTERCHANGEABLE.
TMKMMB
' B.S.A.
B.S.A. Handbook
Free
D. Y. RENNIE
(rtf resenting B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.


That itch, burn, crack, chap, and
bleed, in a wonderfully short time in
most cases. Soak the hands on re-
s
tiring in a hot
suds of Cuticu-
ra Soap, using
plenty of the
Soap. Dry and
rub Cuticura
Ointment gently but freely into the
hands for some time. Wear old
gloves or softer bandages during
night or remove surplus Ointment
with soft tissue paper as preferred.
Free Sample Each by Mail
For free sample each address post-card:
“R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SPECMUJf
TWO
L/NES
Si# 5
WQlTf
FOP
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
11,. STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
mmm. s t Newcastle
I
1
1
CARTRIDGES,
Always Reliable
M#
1
ELEY Grand Prtx'
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
df
ELEY
450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
sf
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L° LONDON
When he
writes home
Dii'ir
The world is brighter,
hearts are happier.
And in his mind kind
smiling faces are pictured
as he writes. Oppor-
tunities for writing at the
front are fleeting. Many are lost for want
of an ever-ready pen. So a happy sug-
gestion is, send him a “Swan” Fountpen.
&WAN
s
best stands the racket of Active Service. Simp!e
and quick to use. No mechanism to wear or get
out of order. Can be “loaded with “Swan” Ink
Tablets and water when fluid ink is unobtainable.
Sold by Stationers and Jewellers Everywhere.
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern - from 15/- up.
Standard Pattern from 12/6 up.
Illustrated Catalogue free on request.
MABIE, TODD & Co., Ltd.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, Sec.
Sydney —(Wholesale only) 225 a, George Street.
London Factory —319-329, Woston St., S E.
Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New
York and Chicago.
w.
s W
>y
' 1 -r~; <
.CSX®.
>/
%
\ *=*&
'' £>B
<*LO!
fs*
V
<r
■Australian Branch: J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.!
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his own little way. He likes
and must have the best.
You cannot be too cautious in
selecting his food. Use a proved
food—a food which has been in
the front rank for many years.
Mellin’s Food is the proved most
efficacious equivalent to Mother’s
Milk, and satisfactorily fulfils all the
requirements of an artificial food.
Mellin's
Food
Set out to feed baby right. Next to breast-teed*
Ing. the Mellin's Feeding Bottle has most advan-
tages. A trial convinces you.
A Sample of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook for
Mothers. “The Care of Infants in Australia." tree.
MESSRS. GOLLIN 4t QO- PROPRIETARY, LTD.
SYDNEY
f
sf
s
THE FAMOUS
irniCAS SWIMRD FOUIKYCU DKI«
Marine Engine.
12, 16 and 20 H.P.
4 Cylinders—4 cycle—medium speed.
SIMPLE, STRONG, DURABLE, ECONOMICAL.
Kermath Engines are built with
extreme care, perfectly balanced, and
are quiet running, perfectly controlled
and extremely smooth in operation. It
is an engine which will give years of
the most thoroughly satisfactory ser-
vice, and is an extremely high-grade
engine in every respect. Good dealers
wanted in Australia.
Catalog on request.
Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich. D.S.A.
Jfquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
‘‘The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents'. —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
I
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
/
Price's
\N DLES
111
111
For all Climes
AND ALL TIMES.
PRICE'S PATENT CANDLE CO LTP
London. Liverpool\
Manchester.glasoow.
11l
The Boothby ballot and the Torrens Title
Acts, the two reforms which lifted South
Aus. into world-notice, were, by a coinci-
dence, assented to by Governor Macdonnell
on the same day—January 27, ISSB.
There’s one corner of the N. S. Wales
State Electoral Division of King that has
no further use for the recruiting-sergeant.
Lord Howe Island —400 miles east from
Sydney; population 100 —has sent along all
its eligibles. Nine; and one h-as made the
Big Sacrifice.
Sliih-Yuan Lin, who recently arrived at
Wellington (M.L.) as Consul, is a great-
grandson of the famous Commissioner Lin
Tsze-Su, who in 1839 spilled some ship-
loads of British opium into Canton Harbor.
Out of the racket that followed England got
Hongkong.
Half the trouble that has struck 8010
Pasha, whose cash and paper transactions
are now being investigated in France, would
have been avoided had he paid more atten-
tion to the hymn he ought to have learned
at his mother’s knee: “Man wants but little
here, 8010, nor wants that little long.”
From a Sydney morning daily:—
Working Man wants Lodgings, no meals, with
Englishman's or widow’s family, of laboring class,
handy to city, single room, or share only with son
or relative or landlady. Particulars and terms
(including soft washing) to . William-st.,
D’hurst.
An accommodating young man.
“Centurion”: The ban on lighting three
cigarettes at one match is much older than
the present war. I ran across it in South
Africa years ago. The superstition may
have arisen from the old one concerning
three lights in a room —in Scotland regarded
as certainly presaging sudden death to one
of those present.
A person who gets on one’s nerves is the
would-be fashionable female with a new
baby, who advertises herself as “fjee Eliza-
beth Fitzherbert.” Any woman may be
born Fitzherbert or Briggs or Sloper, but
she becomes Gladys or Gwendolen afterwards.
In the interests of the British language the
dailies should refuse Elizabeth Fitzherbert’s
ad.
“Ibsenshaw”: Russia has (or had) a
Union of Dramatic Authors, which associa-
tion is (or was) in the habit of holding an
annual open play-competition. The year
before the war the result of the contest
seemed to show that mighty Russia was
suffering badly from the blues. Comedy was
almost completely lacking in the pieces sent
in. With hardly an exception the subjects
chosen were gloomy to the last degree. The
embryo Dostoieffskys fairly out-Dostcieff-
skyed the master. Murder, suicide or mortal
disease figured in all but five of the plays.
Twenty per cent, of the writings, by the way,
were characterised by absolute illiteracy. One
wonders what a similar competition held in
this year of grace would bring forth !
From the Office Archdeacon: —
Anglicanism at ’Ome has been in convulsions —all
over the nomination of Dean Hensley Henson to bish
at Hereford (Eng.). Those Anglicans who like to
regard themselves as members of a church, not of a
State department, have squirmed for years under the
system by which bishops in the Cold Country are
appointed by the Prime Minister. One theory by
which they try to comfort themselves is that such
appointments are made, not by the Prime Minister,
but by “our most religious King,” who is Supreme
Governor of the Church and an “ecclesiastical per-
son” by virtue of the sanctified grease dabbed on him
at his coronation. This argument doesn’t convince,
because the King always “chooses” the man “recom-
mended” by the Government. The next wriggle in
which refuge is sought is that the King doesn't
“appoint” the bishops, but conveys to the “chapter”
(i.e., the dean and canons of the diocese) his “per-
mission to elect” a certain person ; and the chapter
then plays the solemn farce of “electing” his nominee.
But as the chapter never dreams of electing anyone
else, and would be subject to unknown penalties
under the Statute of Praemunire if it did, this won’t
wash either.
The two English archgaiters appointed a committee
some time ago to see how this and similar grievances
could be avoided ; and certain recommendations were
made for seeking from Parliament greater freedom
for the Church in managing its own affairs. But
these recommendations didn’t go far enough for the
Bolshevik Anglicans, and last year they formed a
revolutionary movement, with the slogan “Life and
Liberty for the Church.’:’ William Temple, who made
a lecturing tour of Australian Universities before
the war, gave up his cushy job at St. James’s, Picca-
dilly, to organise the revolt. Temple is a son of a
' former Canterbury starchbishop, and a leader of the
Anglican “intellectuals.” Official Anglicanism is
always afraid that if too much fuss about liberty is
made, Parliament will get tired and break the fetters
by disestablishing the Church and taking away its
endowments; but the Bolshevik Anglicans loudly
clamored: “If establishment stands in the way of
liberty, give us disestablishment.” “Prave words,”
thought Lloyd George, the Welsh hardshell Baptist
who as Prime Minister now appoints Anglican Bishops,
and lately disestablished the Church in Wales: “I
wonder if there’s anything in them.” So he “called”
their bluff by nominating Hensley Henson, Dean of
Durham, to wear the vacant gaiters at Hereford.
Of all ecclesiastics in England, Henson is perhaps
the most obnoxious to “Highs” and “Lows” alike;
ind so the fun began. The first move was a frenzied
appeal to the Hereford chapter to be sports and
chance the penalties of Praemunire by refusing to
elect him. But of course the docile chapter accepted
George V.’s “permission” and elected Henson. Organ-
ised labor in the vineyard then took a hand by
declaring Henson black; and the Parsons’ Trade
Protection Society (it calls itself the English Church
Union) lodged a protest against the election. The
protest was not received, probably on the ground
that the Union was bogus as not including a majority
of workers in the industry. Dr. Gore, who bishes
at Oxford, next appealed to the Canterbury arch-
gaiters to veto Henson’s election on the ground of
heresy ; but the Canterbury Primate made the vague
remarks usual with Anglican administrators in such
matters, and declined to act. So Henson is to wear
his mitre, and the “Life and Liberty” crowd will
have to show whether they meant it when they
shrieked for freedom even at the price of disestablish-
ment. The “establishment” is the only thing that
keeps the perpetually squabbling “Highs” and “Lows”
together as nominally members of the same church;,
and once disestablishment comes, Anglicanism will
inevitably split up into at least two, and perhaps
three, sects.


Edison BlueAmberol
Records for February
JCOS®j
If you obtained every one of these records there
is not one that would disappoint you.
The two Concert Records stand out—unequalled.
In the Regular List there is bound to be a great
demand for “I Hear You Calling Me” (Eliz.
Spencer and chorus); Blue Danube Waltz (Im-
perial Marimba Band); ‘‘When I Leave the World
Behind” (Glen Ellison); ‘‘Mother—Her Soldier
Boy” (G. W. Ballard); ‘‘Who Will Care for Mother
Now?” (W. Oakland and chorus); “Medley of
Southern Airs” (F. J Bacon—banjo); “They’re
Wearing ’Em Higher in Hawaii” (Premier Quar-
tet); and “Don’t Slam that Door” (Ada Jones and
Billy Murray).
Blue Amberol Concert Records.
28261 Annie Laurie, Soprano, orch. ace.
Anna Case
28264 Les Filles De Cadix, Soprano, in
French, orch ace. Alice Verlet
Blue Amberol Regular Records
2749 When I Leave the World Behind,
Baritone, oreh ace. Glen Ellison
3076 Flora Bella (March Son?), Soprano,
oreh. aec. Gladys Rice and Chorus
3091 In Dear Old Napoli, Tenor, oreh. aec.
Walter Van Brunt
3099 Love Bells, Tenor, oreh. ace.
Walter Van Brunt
3107 Everybody Loves an Irish 8011?,
Tenor, oreh. ace. John Finnegan
3113 Way Down in lowa (I’m Going to
Hide Away), Tenor, oreh. ace.
Billy Murray and Chorus
3115 Light Cavalry Overture, Xylophone,
oreh. ace. George Hamilton Green
3118 Mother —Her Soldier Boy, Tenor,
oreh. ace. George Wilton Ballard
3119 Golden Sunshine—Her Soldier Boy,
Soprano and Tenor, oreh. aec.
Betsy Lane Sheppard and George
Wilton Ballard.
3121 What Do You Want to Make Those
Eyes at Me For ? Conversational Duet,
oreh acc. Rachel Grant & Billy Murray
3122 Medley of Southern Airs, Banjo,
unaccompanied. Fred ,T. Bacon
3123 Put On Your Slippers and Fill Up
Your Pipe (You’re Not Going Bye-
Bye To-night), Comedienne, oreh.
acc. Ada Jones
3124
3125
3126
3128
3131
3132
3133
3135
3136
27096
27102
With His Hands in His Pockets, and
His Pockets in His Pants, Rube Song,
orch. acc. Byron G. Harlan
They’re Wearing ’Em Higher in
Hawaii, Male Voices, orch. acc.
Premier Quartet
Erin Is Calling, Tenor, orch. acc.
George Wilton Ballard
Who Will Care for Mother Now?
Counter-Tenor, orch acc.
Will Oakland & Chorus
Reminiscences of Ireland—No. 1.
Sodero’s Band
Reminiscences of Ireland—No. 2.
Sodero’s Band
I Hear You Calling Me, Soprano,
orch. acc.
Elizabeth Spencer & Chorus
Don’t Slam That Door, Conversa-
tional Codn Duet, orch. acc.
Ada Jones & Billy Murray
Blue Danube Waltz.
Imperial Marimba Band
Polonaise de Struensee.
Garde Republicaine (French) Band
Ballet Egvptien—Nos. 1 & 2.
Garde Republicaine (French) Band
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Used the
World Over
H
MOTOR
...CARS
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand-
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured.
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Randwick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
Here Is a Roofing
Better Than Iron
HERE is a heavy mineralized felt roof-
ing which outdoes galvanized iron. It
is known and specified the world over as
I
ata-*eed
>
SF
Ceridinieeo
uztmsism
isgagsaj
Certain-teed
Galvanized iron is harder to lay than
Certain-teed. Iron radiates heat —
Certain-teed insulates against
the passage of heat.
Prices of metal roofings have ad-
vanced tremendously— Certain-t eed
is still moderate in cost. In first cost
and cost per year of service Certain-
teed is the most economical roofing.
And it is fully guaranteed.
See our local representative soon,
and get further particulars about
Certain-teed Roofing.
Mr. C. C. McCann Perpetual Trustee*
Bldg. t Sydney, N. S. W., Representative of
Certain-teed Products
Corporation
Proprietors of: Gregg Varnish Co.
General Roofing Manufacturing Co.
Mound City Paint & Color Co. ft
Wholesale Distributors.
NEW SOUTH WALES: John Danks & Son
Lt d., Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: John Danks & Son Pty Ltd.,
_ . Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: James Campbell *t Sons Ltd., Creek Street Brisbane
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Gawler Place Adelaide
WEST AUSTRALIA: McLean Bros. & Rigg* Ltd., 104 Murray Street Perth
TASMANIA: W. Hart & Sons, Charles Street, Launceston* Tattersall Cn t t-A
Wilson Street, Burnie; T. J. Cane & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Hobart'. ’
EVERY KIND OF SPORT and
RECREATION Catered For.
a ni l
We carry Full
:: Stocks of ::
Requisites for
the Game.
Season 1318.
MEN’S BATS. each.
M.S. PRACTICE 7/6, 9/6
M.S. HAYMARKET DRIVERS.. 16/6, 22/6
M.S. Bats are the finest value obtainable.)
AYRE’S International .. 30/-, 32/6, 33/6
BARTLETT’S 21/-, 23/-
C. G. MACARTNEY’S Autograph .... 33/6
CLAPSIIAW’S cork handle 12/6
„ spiral spring 27/6
CORBETT’S Special Driver 18/-
„ Star Driver 22/-
DYE’S Champion, 17/6; Selected 20/-
» Spec. Selected 22/6
GUNN & MOORE’S Autograph 29/-
» >» ,» Cannon 22/6
NICOLL’S Automatic, 16/-, 22/6,27/-, 32/6
SHAW and SHREWSBURY’S Al,
11/-, 16/-, 22/6
SPALDING’S 21/. 25/-, 30/-
SIUART SURRIDGE, Drivers.. 10/0, 22/0
SYKE’S Yorkshire driver, ordinary ... 25/-
” » » Selected ... 28/6
WARSOP’S Conqueror, ordinary 25/-
» » Selected ..... 30/-
WILLS’ non-splitter, chrome leather face, 25/-
CRICKET BALLS. each.
DUKE’S match, 7/9; P.D.K., 8/6; best, 9/e
M.S. MATCH BALLS, Special Value,
ECLIPSE Compo., Victory .
NICHOLSON’S Black Compo
5/6, 7/6, 8/6
3/6
5/3
MEN’S GAUNTLETS. pair.
VENTILATED, very strong e /6
GOLD CAPE, ventilated & padded.. 7/6, 8/6
ALL ENGLAND, rubber palms, pad tips, 13/6
CELEBRATED LILLEY, padded tips... 17/6
lIAYMARKET, ex. spec., ex large, 17/6, 21 /-
MEN’S BATTING GLOVES. pair.
FEATHERWEIGHT, felt protection..,.. 4/9
BUFF CHAMOIS, tubular rubber.. 6/6 7/6
SURREY SHIELDS, R. or L. Hand ’ 5/6
POLISHED STUMPS.
BLACKWOOD, plain, very strong
BRASS TOP, steel shod, ash
HALF-SOLID TOP, steel shod, ash
SOLID BRASS TOP, steel shod, ash
REVOLVING TOP, steel shod, ash
set.
2/6
7/6
9/6
10/-
12/6
SPORTINC REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.-*!
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
lubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
; ;
I
■
i
xSo
BOXING
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
ana are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
_ MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 8/6
C. 8.8., napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms JO /6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 14/6 17/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 02 16/6, 20/-, 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or ’
8 oz - 24 /-
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6orB oz 25 /- 30/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” officially adopted and exclusively
used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane
Personally recommended by Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker 07 /a
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed, 6oz.V. 35/.
(Postage on One Set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.) 7
YOUTHS’ GLOVES.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed ...
„ Best napa,
„ Tan Leather,
, very superior,
, Laced,
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d
Set of 4.
6/6
7/6
B/6
■••••••• 12/6. 15/®
other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND
Tin. wide (Post 4d.) ’ 7/6 eac h
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 3/6 & 4/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3jioz. (Post 6d.)
18/6 pair
Militaiy Training Quarters and Camps supplied with All
Kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
m
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous BEACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
iveep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7jq jq
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast.... 8/6, 12/6 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
18/6, 22/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
“REACH” AR3XY* extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 4.Q j m
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling jej j_
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light ...... 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 20/- 22/6 °5/
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d. ; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 2/9, 3/9, 4/9 pr. Mitts 2/6 pr.
Punching Platforms 35/-, 50/-, 90/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 „
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/9, 4/6, 5/- „
FOR SMOKERS. ■
ZIG-ZAG CIGARETTE TOBACCO, highest-grade imported. Very mild. Will not
dry the throat. Famed tor its quality and purity. loz. packet, with book of
cigarette papers 9(1. (post free).
SUNOL TOBACCO, highest-grade Virginian, natural aroma. Awarded 4 gold medals.
Dark or light. Plug and cut. 2oz. packet, 1/. (post free) ; a pound, 7/- (post free).
Send for copies of our illustrated Sports List ( B 1) and “Sure Catch ” Anglers'
Guide ( B 2). All Sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
c
7JUSTR7ILTMS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
and TOBACCONISTS
f
City Sports Depot
119 King St also at
JYencastk l Brisbane


Sf You Have a Bad Leg
This will Interest You.
You cannot afford to take chances with a bad leg. If you have a sore on the leg, whether
it be an old one which has been troubling you for many months or years, or whether it is one
of only recent date, which refuses to heal, you should give it prompt and careful attention.
mm
Mrs. HUTCHINGS (from a photo.).
It is particularly in the treat-
ment of severe sores of this kind
that Rexona has been used with
such success.
The letter below was entirely
unsolicited, and was written to
us by Mrs. Hutchings, Main Road,
AVoonona, South Coast, N.S.AV.
Read what Mrs. Hutchings says:
“I am writing to you
expressing how grateful
I am to llexona Oint-
ment. I had read so
much about the cures it
has effected that I felt it
was my duty to try it. I
had had a bad leg for
eight years, and had been
under several doctors to
no effect, and after six
weeks’ treatment Avith
Rexona I was perfectly
cured, and that is two
years ago. I always keep
a tin of Rexona in the
house. I am writing
this for you to make
whatever use you like of
it. I am sending you a
photo of myself to pub-
lish.
‘Yours sincerely,
“(Sgd.) MRS. HUTCHIINGS.”
DON’T NEGLECT A BAD LEG.
TRY THE REXONA TREATMENT.
Try the Rexona treatment if you have a bad leg, and note the result. I* irst
carefully wash the sore with warm water and Rexona Soap, then apply. Rexona
gently over the sore, binding with a soft cloth. Repeat this treatment night and
morning. If the sore is an old one, a course of Laxo-Tonic Pills taken at the same
time is of the greatest help in producing prompt results. No one with a. bad leg
can afford not to give the Rexona treatment a trial. The price of Rexona is 1/6, or
large pots, holding nearly four times the quantity of the 1/6 size, which are sold
at 3/- Rexona Soap is 1/- per tablet, and Raxo-Tonic Pills are sold in two-
size quantities at 1/- and 2/-
o
0
o
THE RAPID HEALER
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
sd
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Works: Birmingham, Engrland
Beyond dispute, the present war is the
greatest engineering competition ever devised.
SUNBEAM
productions have always achieved distinction
in competitions. To-day Sunbeam cars and
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
are engaged in playing their parts in well-
nigh every theatre in which the Allies’ arms
are engaged, and are winning greater laurels
in this test of unprecedented proportions and
duration than any of the many conspicuous
ones they have gained in times of peace.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St. London, England
WORKS • • • • Wolverhampton, England
The Holy Piper.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
T\LACK snakes, green snakes, hear the
i J pipes and understand!
7J Long snakes, small snakes, all the
snakes in Ireland.
Holy water, holy sod,
Shamrock leaf and the cross of God
Padraig pipes below his hand
To all the snakes in Ireland.
Loudly on the summer air
Rang the chapel’s call to prayer,
Brazen notes that shook the bees
In white blossoms under trees,
While along the river bank
Danced the rushes rank on rank,
As if fairy troops rode by,
Nodding cap and winking eye-
So the bell’s vibrations went,
Making holy discontent.
Rose the people two and two,
Walking soft the green world through
To the chapel where this day
Padraig Saint would come to pray.
Rose the herdsman grey and old,
Rose th.e prince with chains of gold,
Flashed the sail across the water,
Beat the hooves on turf and grass;
And O’Brien’s fairest daughter
Heard the quiet people pass.
“All is well, all is well,”
Sang the rolling chapel bell.
“Come to prayer, come to prayer,”
Echo whispered on the air.
Would she hear or would she heed
Saint or bell or book or bead?
Surely she was very fair
With a red rose in her hair!
Down the way a man would walk
Glowed the woodbine on its stalk,
AVliere a twisted apple tree
Stood in brambles to the knee—
It was there that she would go,
Ankle-white and pink of toe.
“All is well, all is well,”
Sang the rolling chapel bell.
Surely she was very fair
With a red rose in her hair!
Bees about the briers hum
Down the way a man would come;
And a viper coiling there,
Angered, heard the call to prayer.
Ankle-white and pink of toe,
Would O'Brien’s daughter know—
She with lips a man should kiss —-
Fang and crest and warning hiss?
Death below the briers green
Struck and slipped away unseen.
Down the road a man would come
Bees were still and death was dumb;
And the bell upon the air
Ceased its rolling call to prayer.
Came the people two and two
Walking back the green world through.
Padraig Saint, with beard of snow,
Blessed them ere they turned to go.
Pale and cold and very still
Lay Aideen and slept her fill.
Curse the worm and all his brood
Over grass or under wood,
Venom creeping through the day
While the people bend to pray !
Padraig, holy saint, came by,
Saw the folk and heard their cry.
Padraig Saint below his hand
Played a pipe along the land;
Up and up the hill he went
In a holy discontent.
Snake in wood and grass and wall
Heard afar the music call.
Night fell black on tree and sod,
Shamrock leaf and cross of God.
Snake and adder must obey
words the pipes will say.
Wriggle, wriggle, twine and twist —
Adders in the mountain mist!
Fang and scale beneath the moon —
The holy piper makes the tune;
And all from Moyle to Kerry neater
'Tis wriggle and craicl to the western bay,
For the snake that bit O'Brien’s daughter
Must answer the call of Judgment Day.
Two white horns were on the moon
Looking light to aid the tune.
Up and up the hill he went
In a holy discontent.
Wriggle, wriggle, writhe and twist,
Climbed the snakes through mountain mist;
Wriggle, wriggle, twist ‘and twine
They were there at morning-shine.
Padraig Saint, upon the hill,
Stayed his hand and laughed his fill —
“Now, by holy crook and cross,
Ireland’s gain’s the Devil’s loss!
I have tunes and tunes to spare—
Make your will and say your prayer—
There’s a sup of merry sea
Calling salt and blue to me.”
Black snakes, green snakes, hear the pipes
and understand !
Long snakes, small snakes, all the snakes in
Ireland !
Holy water, holy sod,
Shamrock leaf and the cross of God —
Padraig pipes below his hand
To all the snakes in Ireland.
Looked the saint to sea and sand,
Took the road the snakes must go.
Down the hill across the land
Rocks and bushes heard him blow.
Och, the pipes were summer-sweet,
Blossoms opened round his feet,
Vipers wriggled, adders cradled.
And the music called and called
Down the land across the sea,
“Follow, follow, follow me!”
On the dancing waves afloat
Padraig found a holy boat.
In they went, and on they went,
Through the waves they coiled and bent,
Took the water, left the sand,
All the snakes of Ireland.
Wriggle, wriggle, twist and twine —
When was music made so fine?
Sure, the sea was kind and wide—
Padraig's piping turned the tide.
Now, sirs, swim—God bless deep water —
You that nipped O’Brien’s daughter!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
A Person of duality.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MACQUARIE left “his Excellency the
Captain-General and Governor-in-
Chief in and over His Majesty’s
Territory of New South Wales” outside the
door of Mrs. Macquarie’s bedroom, ana
became the very human Scottish gentleman
whom that dear lady found so much ditii
culty in dissociating from the stern and un-
bending autocrat ruling the Colony in a
fashion that no king has ever been permitted
to rule England. Not a little -to his embar-
rassment, the good woman frequently made
the mistake of assuming that his Excellency
was the same person as her dear Lachlan.
He was tired, weary and infinitely bored.
When he flung himself into a straight-backed
armchair of the fashion of the last Louis
but one, his wife turned a smiling, mischiev-
ous face to him, as she sat before her mirror
twisting her shining hair into two thick
braids, one of which, hanging over her shoul-
der, stood out darkly against the whiteness
of her nightdress. There was a sympathetic
twinkle in her deep brown eyes as she spoke
to him.
“My dear” she said, with a little laugh,
“what a man! What a terrible creature!
Dear me, what have we done to Lord
Bathurst?”
Macquarie groaned.
“Elizabeth —the fellow will be the death
of me,” he sighed so mournfully that her
laughter rippled unrestrained, and her
pretty shoulders shook with it. “He is pre-
posterous—pre-posterous!”
“ ‘The aim and object of the embryonic
state,’ ” quoted Mrs. Macquarie maliciously,
“is— ah — the — ah—improvement of its—ah—
citizens, my dc-ah Governor.’ Oh, Lachlan,
what a droll creature he is!”
“Droll, my dear! Droll? Deplorable,
unendurable —exasperating ! Hardly droll.
I find little that is amusing in Mr. Main-
waring-Coutts. Very little, I assure you.”
“And will he make a long stay, do you
think?”
“He announced his intention this evening
of remaining here until he has acquired sutti
cient material to write a book about ‘Our
Felon Dependency.’ A book, my love!
Imagine that dreary fellow’s book! Every-
one in Sydney and the several settlements
will fill him up with outrageous stories and
personal grievances. Already he has been
presented with seven or eight memorials to
Government, and at least two petitions to
the House of Commons. It is the first time
that we have been visited by a member of
Parliament, and the inhabitants, both bond
and free, positively revel in bringing the
strangest and most singular affairs beneath
his notice. They trade upon his vanity and
his insatiable curiosity. They sell him
things. Rubbish. They fill him up with the
most amazing lies.”
Mrs. Macquarie laughed merrily.
“Oh, yes, indeed, my dear. Do you know,
he showed me to-day a snuffbox he had pur-
chased from that old rogue Danny Myle-
charane, our gardener. Danny was at work
on it in the evenings all last summer, and
he often showed it me. It is certainly a
pretty little piece of carving—some of these
people are extraordinarily ingenious. Quite
artistic. And he has inlaid it with what he
calls ivory, but which are really fragments
of chicken bones that he begged from the
cook. And, do you know, the old villain sold
it to Mr. Mainwaring-Coutts as having
belonged to Bonaparte! Dannv told him
that he had himself picked it up upon the
field of Waterloo, where he was with the
Guards. The idea! Why, Danny was trans-
ported here in Mr. King’s time. Positively
—and I know I did wrong—l had not the
heart to give Danny away. Seven guineas,
no less, he asked for it. Have you ever
heard of such a thing, my dear Macquarie?”
The Governor smiled grimly. He could
bear to hear such a tale told against the
British M.P. who was perforce his guest at
Government House —though it would have
gone ill with Mr. Daniel Mylecharane had
ho been guilty of such an impudent imposition
upon one of Macquarie’s personal friends.
“Well, well,” he said, “the fool deserves
such treatment. Why, Captain Piper told
me that he had caught one of his men—one
of the crew of the Naval Officers’ gig—in a
similar transaction. The fellow had cut four
feet off the boat’s painter, and had sold it to
our guest as part of the rope used in the
first execution that ever took place in the
Territory. Two guineas. Piper made the
man hand the money over to the Orphan
Fund, and sent him back to the gaol-gang,
with an order for twenty-five lashes, but.
like yourself, he could not bring himself to
inform Mr. Mainwaring-Coutts as to the
real nature of the transaction. ‘A fool and
his folly,’ Piper said, and I entirely agreed
with him.”
“Do you think he will stay with us for all
those months? My dear Macquarie, the
prospect is simply appalling ! How can we
endure the man for so long—Lord Bathurst
or no Lord Bathurst?”
“Well, well, my love,” said Macquarie
after a little hesitation. “I have—er—taken
means this evening—hardly justifiable
means, perhaps—to discourage the admira-
tion and interest which Mr. Mainwaring-
Coutts evinces in the social life of our com-
munity. I almost fear for the results —but I
was goaded to it. You know young Calder,
of the 46th?”
“Oh, the bad Mr. Calder? Yes. Lachlan.
I know him. from rumor, as a very wicked
and depraved young man—but one for whom
I confess I cannot help feeling a little
liking. You know, your rogues always
appeal to a woman. Yes—what of him? I
was rather, glad that you had him here to
dinner to-night. I believe that there is good
in that young man. my love. I do really ”
“ '7 s ? , . most skilfully hidden. then ”
growled his Excellency. “Well, you must
know I took Colonel Molle into my confi-
dence. He is quite as well satiated with
(Continued on next pane.)


xm.
1
SSS
■v.j.
THE EVER-READY HEALER
AND PERFECT SKIN-CORE.
IN the course of her duties the nurse is
\ brought into contact with every descrip-
tion of skin disease. She is also brought
to fully realise the need for a reliable healing
balm which can be applied to diseased and
wounded skin with every confidence that
only good will result.
The fact that hundreds of nurses use
Zam-Buk in the course of their
duties is further proof, if such were
needed, that in Zam-Buk the public
is furnished with a reliable healing
balm and skin-cure, the purity and
power of which cannot be denied.
Below we quote the opinion of one of many nurses
who have written in praise of Zam-Buk.
.
%%
I
O
f
HAD TO GIVE UP NURSING.
iv U RSE OPR A Y, who recom
mends Zam-Buk to all .
WOUNDED, INFLAMED HAND
THAT WOULD NOT HEAL.
Nurse Opray, residing at 31 King Street,
Prahran, Melbourne, adds her name to the
already long list of professional practitioners
who speak in praise of Zam-Buk. “I suffered
from a terribly bad hand,” says the nurse,
‘‘which was caused through knocking it against
a door. Inflammation set in, iny hand com-
menced to swell up, and the pain was so great
I could do nothing with it. I was out nursing
at the time, but I was forced to give it up. All
the remedies I tried failed to do any good, and
at the end of three months my hand was get-
ting worse instead of better. A friend advised
me to use Zam-Buk. The benefit I derived
from the first few applications was very encour-
aging. After a while the wound was cleansed
and purified, and the healing process rapidly
set in. New healthy skin grew over the wound,
and my hand was as sound and strong as ever.
I recommend it to all.”
'amBuk
gygft V HOME NEEDS /Upp/
Zam-Buk is a
proved remedy
for eczema, boils,
sores, bruises,
cuts, blackheads,
pimples, sore
feet. etc. From
all chemists and
stores at is. 6d.
and 3s. 6d. per
pot.
4f
A safety razor at a popular price 1 \
which will fulfil the requirements 1M
of the most fastidious user. ij
This is the only safety razor selling at less than 225. 6d.
that can be stropped without removing the blade. In sim-
plicity and ingenuity of Construction it surpasses even the
most expensive safety razors. With a single touch it springs
open for stropping or cleaning —and with another touch
it snaps together into accurately adjusted shaving position
as shown in the two illustrations below.
OC
Safety Razor.
BRITISH MAKE.
Heavily silver-plated razor, complete
in handsome case, with strop in hinged
partition, and 6 finest
lancet steel blades (as
illustrated) •
12/6
p "
v -
OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE THROUGHOUT AUSTRALASIA.
Managing Agent * RALPH ABERCROMBY,
Denison House,
380-2 George Street, SYDNEY.
this noodle as I am. Mainwaring-Coutts has
the audacity to lecture him on the interior
economy of the regiment, if you please. Molle
is furious—simply fuming. You know how
he broods. Had the man not been a guest
here, he would have kicked him out of
barracks, he says.”
“Yes, yes—and what have you done? I
am all impatience, Mr. Macquarie.”
“Mr. Mainwaring-Coutts has professed
himself eager to see something of the shady
side of Sydney. As though it were not all
shade—with here and there a gleam and
promise of the light to come! He spoke of
it as we sat over our wine, after you and
the ladies had withdrawn. I noticed a
gleam of interest in the Colonel’s glance at
him. He waited until the great man had
finished—you know his insufferable verbosity
—and then he turned to young Calder. ‘Mr.
Calder,’ says he—and I distinctly saw him
wink —‘do you not think you could show
Mr. Mainwaring-Coutts something of the
night-life of the town ?’ ‘I don’t know very
much of it myself, sir,’ says that shameless
young prevaricator, ‘but I daresay I could
put Mr. Mainwaring-Coutts in the way of
seeing something of it. I know people who
are really intimately acquainted with it—
and of course I would accompany Mr. Main-
waring-Coutts to see that no harm should
come to him. Delighted, sir,’ he says, and
he had the infernal audacity to wink at
Molle. Molle remarked to me as he said
good-night, and our guest walked off to Mr.
Calder’s quarters with him: ‘I have every
confidence in Mr. Calder, your Excellency—
in this kind of thing, at any rate. He will
astonish the statesman.’ So there you are,
my _ love. It is just possible that, after
to-night, Mr. Mainwaring-Coutts, M.P., may
desire to return home at an early oppor-
tunity. The Lady Charlotte sails on the
15th. May we dare to hope?”
“Oh, I trust no hann will come to the
poor man,” laughed the Governor’s lady.
“Come to bed, Mr. Macquarie—’tis nigh to
midnight.”
,No harm will come to him, my dear
Elizabeth. We will see to that. After all,
he has his Lordship’s introduction, and he is
a Person of Quality.”
* * * *
The Person of Quality expounded his
views regarding the disreputable recreations
of Sydney by night to Ensign Patrick Calder
as the two of them walked down the hill and
across the Tank Stream on their way to Mr.
Calder’s quarters at the Barracks. He
found a polite and deferential audience in
the subaltern officer.
, A s you are doubtless aware, my dear
sir,” said Mr. Mainwaring-Coutts, “I—ah
have the honor, the distinguished honor, of
representing Great Miggleton in his Majes-
ty s—ah—faithful Commons, and I have—
ah—made it my business to become thor-
oughly intimate with social conditions in
that important borough.” (Actually, there
were 31 persons in Great Miggleton entitled
to exercise the franchise.)
“Most interesting, no doubt, sir,” mur-
mured civil Mr. Calder, who was busily
passing in review the various forms in which
enlightenment might come to the member for
Great Miggleton concerning the depravity of
Sidney. lie took it, in his simple way,
that depravity was what Mr. Mainwaring-
Coutts was after.
les, most interesting*. Social conditions
in Great Miggleton, Mr. Calder, are not so
~ah vast, or so —ah—varied as in the
Great Metropolis—but such as they are, I
have studied them with—ah—zest, sir, zest.
Both by day and by night, sir. Ah! By
night and day. So lam well qualified to
form, an opinion—ah—upon such matters in
relation ah—to the very diverse elements
of society which are to be encountered in Syd-
ney- Well qualified, sir, well qualified. Ah !”
.„ r “ey are pretty mixed here, sir, as you
will see for yourself.”
“Doubtless; doubtless. With so hetero-
geneous a population—ah—tainted so promis-
cuously with —ah—criminality and vice—
ah——it is only to be expected that social con-
ditions should be—as you so aptly put it,
Mr Calder—ah—mixed. Mixed. But we
shall see for ourselves. You have acquaint-
ance, I think I understood you to inform our
worthy friend Colonel Molle, with —ah—per-
sons who move freely in such circles as we
• —ah—desire to investigate.”
“Oh, yes. My friend Gregory Wicks, you
know, sir. A lieutenant in the Navy. He’s
pretty well up in all this business. Sailors
get to know these places and people, don’t
they ? Not quite such slaves of respecta-
bility as we are in the Army, eh?”
If Patrick Calder was a slave of respecta-
bility, his C. 0., for one, would have been
keenly interested in studying a person who
was freely and frankly a thrall of vice.
I think we’ll find Mr. Wicks in my quar-
ters, sir,” went on Mr. Calder. “He some-
times drops in on his way down to the Cove,
for a for a dish of tea, and a little improv-
ing conversation. Seafaring men have so
few opportunities for that, haven’t they?”
‘Quite so. . Quite so. I —ah —rejoice
that you find it congenial, my dear sir, con-
genial—ah—to endeavor to uplift your young
contemporaries in the—ah—sistah service.
I hey have not your opportunities, as you so
justly remark. Ah —-here we are. The
Barrack Gate, I take it.”
Mr. Gregory Wicks—him they called
“Pansy” after the Gosport girl—was shuf-
fling a pack of cards in Mr. Calder's room,
as that gentleman and his important charge
entered it from the verandah. It was
obvious that Mr. Wicks had dined and
wined without any stint. His blue eyes
were bright and merry and the deep tan of
his complexion was a little deeper for the
rosy flush of alcohol.
“Damme, Patsy, I thought ye were never
coming. Who’s y’r pot-teflied little friend?”
The small but important figure of Mr.
Mainwaring-Coutts stiffened, and he glow-
ered at the naval officer.
“Insolent!” he said. “I would have you
know, sir, that I am a member of—ah—the
House of Commons. Member for Great
Miggleton, sir.”
“Glad to meet ye, Mister Miggles—put it
there. But I don’t care to-night if ye was
a Port-Admiral. I’m feelin’ brave to-
night, Patrick.”
Mr. Wicks took the fat paw of the mem-
ber for Miggleton in a hard and vice-like
grip, and wrung it aifectionately.
“What’s it to be, Patsy? Did ye bring
him along for a little flutter with the paste-
boards—or shall we make it the dice?”
“Not to-night, Pansy my blood. Mr. Main-
waring-Coutts, Mr. Gregory Wicks. No,
this gentleman is writing a book on the
colony, and he wants you to show him Syd-
ney by night. Where do you think we ought
to go first?”
“Oh, thaPs it, is it!” Mr. Wicks con-
sidered a moment. “Grog, or girls—or cock-
fightin’?” he inquired.
“Everything. What do you say to The
Spotted Dog for a start? Things should be
moving down there by this time.”
“Well, Tim Naylan’s is a quiet house—
to some we know of. But we might go
there first. No harm in that. There’ll be
one or two people Mr. Miggleton-Scott might
like to meet —the lovely Mrs. Devine and
the sprightly Kitty Levi, eh? We could
go on, if that’s too slow, up to Black Tom
Nutting’s—The Good Intent on the Rocks.
I’ll warrant the company leaves nothing to
be desired at Black Tom’s place. How d’ye
say, Patrick?”
“I’m with you, my boy. Give Mr. Main-
wanng-Coutts a drink, Pansy, me lad, while
I change out of these regimentals. You’ll
excuse me a moment, sir? Shan’t be a jiffy.”
“Right you are, Patrick. What’s your
tipple, Mr. Scootleton? Pat Calder lias a
catholic taste in liquor. Here’s rum—the
best Navy, same as they pickled Lord Nelson
in—brandy, bottled beer and cheap Oporto.
Cheap but effective. Name your fancy, my
buck. We’ll make a night of it. I like your
face. Not so handsome as my own, perhaps
but not a bad face at all. Here’s luck to
your countenance, sir.”
* * * *
Of the events of that most torrid night in
Mr. Mainwaring-Coutts’s career it would be
interesting and edifying to tell the tale. Mr.
Calder, however, remembers nothing that
happened after 2 a.m., whilst Mr. Wicks
only has an impression of having spent an
intensely amusing early morning, and of
having rendered a great personal service to
Governor Macquarie, Colonel Molle and the
community of Sydney. Mr. Mainwaring-
Coutts has a clear and painful recollection
ot the night s proceedings, but a shuddering
distaste for their recital.
At . J\ n - V rate ; Ensign Patrick Calder, of
the 4 ( ,th was vioJently awakened at 8 o’clock
on the following morning by the hasty irrup-
tion into his sleeping apartment of his ser-
vant, Private Michael Muldoon.
Jasus > sorr, roust y’silf! Here’s
i ° rd?ly J* ist co me full gallop
down th hill wid this note f’r ye from Mac
himself, an sudden-death or-rders for to
take y e back wid him to Gov’mint House.
Gh, my God, there’s bad throuble brewin’!
wVea , D °£ AJ j ary ’ Sol ' r ’ what’ve ye done
wid th little Parlymint man?”
• Tt W £ S a matte r of some difficulty to con-
vince Mr. Calder of the imperative urgency
, T *s® vice-regal summons; but when, at
ength, Muldoon had succeeded in doing so
he lost no time in hurriedly dressing, or in
hastening with the orderly up to Govern-
naent House.
“I dunno what ’tis, y’r honor,” said the
™ aa in response to an inquiry by Mr
Calder, whose throbbing head was painfully
( J, eai ’ evidence that the nnremembered events
of the night had at least been more than
usually alcoholic. “His Ex-lency’s in th’ very
devil of a storm, axin’ y’r honor’s pardon.” ‘
it was true. Macquarie was pacing up
and down the verandah of the long cottage
on the hillside, his quaint face set in lines
of anger, and anxiety.
“Good God, sir, what have you done?” he
hotly demanded of Mr. Calder, as that
gentleman saluted him. “What devil’s work
have you been up to with Mr. Mainwaring-
Coutts? Great heavens— read that, sir!”
He thrust a crumpled and dirty piece of
paper into Mr. Calder’s hand. Mechanically
that somewhat confused and muddled young
officer read the following pitiful cry for help
from a soul in distress. It was written in
pencil m the clerkly hand of Mr. Main-
wanng-Coutts.
Mn Macquarie,—l demand instantly to be set
free iron the outrageous situation in which I am
so unfortunate as to find myself. I am aboard the
South Sea whaler Felicity, of New Bedford, Ephraim
Longbottom, master, and am like to be kidnapped m
sea unless you take steps to prevent so fearful a
contingency with the very utmost celerity. We came
down the Harbor at dawn, and are now anchored off
Bradlej s Head, whilst the ship is being searched
by a ( sergeant s guard for runaway convicts. The
captain refuses to set me ashore, asserting that he
J“. pald five , P° unds to one Thomas Nutting for
iW secured me to act as a seaman aboard
Villainous and ill-odored vessel, that he is short-
handed, and that he would not give me up even
to the President of the United States. He threatens
me with personal violence and addresses me very
ZTsvdnfv 7 ' Oh ha T Ve h bl ' ibe , d thC Pilot t 0 send thi 's
Rrif™ • + y ' 0h ’ 1 beseech you, sir, as a fellow
Those tJ? reSCUe me / rom this dr eadful situation,
hose tv>o young men have treated me disgracefully
LSiVS, ““ *° W ass ' s^ Alfred
Mr. Calder e-asped.
This is I ansy s doing. Ue’s had him
Sh »w h n ied - by To “ Nutting. Great Jupiter !”
“S,i Slr Tr l ! Macquarie.
Paid Gy , tbe „ slll P> sir?” was all Mr.
Calder could think of saying.
1,e17- h w ®i? nalled l° Heads to have her
held but tis no thanks to you and your
fnend, sir that this worthy gentleman has
not been forced into servitude at sea for a
year or more. By heavens, sir, I might
have had to send a warship to his rescue
and embroiled Great Britain in trouble with
£rs L sr d Y StateS - °° ba(,k t 0 -vour quar
Sled!'
?rS n he ha 1
Mr. Calder felt that it was Ensign Patrick
Calder who was “unfortunate.” He was
heVho!sht U L a r he Sah , ,ted and turned away,
twinkle fn th dl^ cerned « ome suspicion of a
turned Governor’s eye. Yet he re-
urned to Barracks, sore-headed sick in hi«
stoninch. and mightily apprehensive. S
j * y . dear >” said Macquarie, as he sat
fancy tha/we wffl his - lady - “ T almos t
on the 16th/® 1 1 ° m interestin S friend
J. H.M. ABBOTT.


’*■"»*«*
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum iife and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—Wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WLSTINCIIOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
Queensland Agents— HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
hot lie in the house.
Prepared only by iL G. ENG, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt* Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
safeguard You* HEalt| |
QtJ.Collis Brot)n^
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE I4EST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Co/ds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of HKONCIUTIS and
COX SUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
LIKE
ACTS
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/8, 3/-, 5/-.
Made in England.
fs
n:
of' aJl C&emists
HORLIC K’S
MALTED MILK
Horlick’s is absolutely pure
because it comes to you
pasteurised. 1 '
Horlick’s will refresh you more than anything
else you can take, and will assist nature to
build bone, nerve and muscle.
Sample will be sent on receipt
of 2d. in stamps.—Hutchinson
and Co., Ltd., 26 Jamieson Street.
Sydney. N.S.W.
c
•f
Hfrij it at
the, Soda fountain*
df
YOUR
ILLS
m
WITH
BEECHArfS PILLS
We Have just landed a large stocK of the
well-Known American Brand of
MOSLER SUPERIOR SPARKING PLUGS
suitable for the “Ford” Engine.
These Plugs are a distinctly High-grade line, and we are offering them at the low
price of 2/9 each. (Special Prices for Quantities.)
This replenishment of our stocks comes at a most oppoitune time, on account of
the great scarcity of ‘‘Ford” Plugs.
PRICES OF OTHER MAKES OF PLUGS ARE:—
“LODGE” Sparking Plugs, in Metric, x /% in., % x 18, A.L.A.M. . . 5/- each.
for “Fords,” 5/- each.
“SPHINX” Sparking Plugs, 3 point in Metric, and %in. 4/- each.
“CHAMPION” Sparking Plugs, Hy. Stone, 5/- ea.; in Metric, %in., % x 18.
, „ ~ “Reliance,” Sparks in Water .... 5/6 each.
Platinum Points 6/6 each.
“REFLEX” Sparking Plugs, No. 1, 3/-; “Giant,” 4/-; “Extended,” 3/3 each.
~ ~ No. 1, Mica, 3/9; Giant Mica 5/« each.
~ —7 7 / ' 7 '
“MOSLER,” Sparking Plugs, “Vesuvius,” for Buick, 4/6; for Metz, 4/6;
and Ordinary, 4/6 each.
Robert C. Swan & Company Limited,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STEEL C ASTINGS—Special Good Quality
Q
9
CHAS.
SIS!
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, efc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
Victoria Street,
Richmond, Victoria.


s
INANGRdvrril
Leather
df
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
•■MAS (jiliU V JLTE” liawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by .users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowicl,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel
ds
‘ULTRA CAPITAL”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Automatic Machines.
mm
EE2E
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES-
Fx3" ~'x3" fx3 f 6 i x 4"
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LIL-
f
ds
Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Chemicals
Best Prices from Stock or indent.
Soda Ash
Caustic Soda
Sulphide of Sodium
Alum
Sulphate Alumina
Borax
Hypo Soda
Naphthaline
Bicarb Soda
Bichromate Soda
Carbolic
etc., etc.
British Aniline Dyes.
JAMES HARDIE 8 CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
Little Collins Street, Melbourne. [3
SOMETHING
' ■ '
If Engineers .and Steam-plant Owners would only
realise the importance of EFFICIENTLY insulating
their Boilers, Steam Pipes, etc., more attention might
he paid to this particular matter. Great economies
can be effected in this direction, in some cases the coal
consumption being reduced as much as »>O%. But the
insulating material must be of the very best.
Carbonate of Magnesia is to-day recognised as the best
non-conductor of heat. NewaU s Coverings are com-
posed of 85% of this material, and 15% Asbestos—the
Asbestos being used for binding purposes only—and in
addition possess innumerable advantages over all other
forms of lagging. Newall’s Coverings are used, practi-
cally exclusively, by the British Admiralty, N.S.Yv.
nnd Victorian Governments, and have been used
throughout the Ultimo. White Bay, Melbourne, I erth
and Canberra Power Stations.
“NEWALL’S” MAGNESIA
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
SECTIONAL FOR PIPE, BENDS, TEES & FLANGES.
PLASTIC FOR BOILERS, HEATERS, etc.
J, WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
PERMASITE EPSOM SALTS
ARE AUSTRALIAN MADE.
Extract from a report by a well-known ANAEVSJ
“PERMASITE EPSOM SAINTS ARE*^ B 2rl J »mA PURITY DlC-
iimiwv nivtorm TO THE SEVERE STANDARDS Ui rumii A
TATEE BY BRITISH PHARMACOPtEIA CODEX, and are in every respect
EQUAL t ® a *ss j ®® B ] s; JACKSON, B.Sc., Ph.C., E.C.S., etc., Public Analyst.
“Sept., 1917.
“349 Collins Street, Melbourne.”
PERMASITE EPSQjM SALTS are sold at pre-war rates.
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.,
’Phone 4479. 9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. [4
B. A.Y. Z.
Embrace this golden opportunity of securing the two Best Oil Engines on the Market, viz.,
"FIELD W” & "BIG CHIEF”
HI
s
Over 350 “Big Chiefs” working in one
district in N.S.W.
Positively fool-proof, worry-proof—able
and willing to work whenever asked.
This is the type of Engine to suit
you.
Economical, simple and reliable at all
times.
Write for particulars. Catalogs Free.
Easiest terms ever offered in N.S.W.
The Engineers’
Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
£•
Qb-
<
•ctt*O'
o
&
5*«»$ rt«l2
£#ON $
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; Jib., 25/-; 20z.. 7/6.
11b. Flux will braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and • all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street*, st. Hilda, Vifloria.
f
IH9HODI
SO SIMPLE A CHILD
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE ACENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA
WARBURTON, FRANK! LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
m
i
m
li§ill§
dsf
is
aring Plan
The Outfit that “Swept the Poll” in the 1917 Season.
v l> McMASTER. Esq.., Dalkeith, Cassilis, writes, under date 24th January:
“i have pleasure in stating that 1 have given both of the 2 Stand Portable
Crutcliing Plants I purchased from you an exhaustive trial, and the
utmost satisfaction. They are handy to move about, economical to run, and
the Fairbanks Morse Engine is simplicity itself. Criitchmg at the different
sheep-yards is, in my opinion, a far better method than doing” the work at
the woolshed, as the saving for the lambing ewes in driving alone is very
considerable.” _
SCORES OF SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Order Your Plant for 1918 now to ensure getting it.
DANGAR,GEDYE&CO. LTD., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Eagle St., Brisbane
VoNE PEICE SPINDLE
with long bearings
LEATHER FRICTION
cone engages smoothly
arrd silentjy
both ends
New improved'Lister' Bracket
for Z Stand Combined Plants
(PATENTED)
NOTE THE FEATURES OF THIS
LISTER BRACKET.
ACCESSORIES.
u
CO
Ul
LU
s
for
BOILER BLOWOFFS,
STEAM, AIR, WATER or
CHEMICALS (special
non-corrosive metal).
SELF-CLEANING, SELF-GRINDING SEAT.
CONTINUOUS SERVICE. STRAIGHT BLOW THROUGH.
NO PACKING, NO REPAIRING. ADOPTED BY N.S.W. RAILWAYS.
Pric • uid all information from
THE WILLIAMS OIL FILTER
SIMPLE
RAPID
EFFICIENT.
Filters 5 gallons dirty oil in lO minutes.
Hundreds of satisfied users in every State.
Sent to responsible parties on approval.
Price £6 f.o.b. Sydney.
Made in Australia and sold by
Manufacturers : N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 350 George Street, Sydney. l
