

WAR’S THE SPIRIT SUPERB
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street!, Sydney,
—FOB— _
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
k.....,.
ii-yXwKwKvwXv:
vV.W.
vXwX'fe
I%\V»\NY,\\\V/XVAV.\\VA
We
Advaivce Moivey
ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
ON
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS and LOWEST
NSW- MONT DE PIETE D&I C? L TD
HEAD OF FICE 74 CASTLEREAGH S T SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
159 George Street Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Telephone: City 9325.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW” ways:—
“Tlie Company is very
well managed, and the
name is quite a house-
hold word in Sydney.
Its reputation is excel-
lent, and, although the
money-lender is gener-
ally regarded as a
vampire, the charge
cannot be laid at the
doors of the N.S.W,
Mont do Piete D. S I.
Co. Limited.”
**p*
as
Saar
-a®"
Ji^nF
Oxidising Sewage Disposal*
Over 400 Successful Installations in New
South Wales. Leading Doctors, Hospitals and
Convents have this Process Installed. Other
Systems easily converted to Oxidising Process.
Prices based in ratio to number of persons,
as few examples quoted: Six Persons, £4O; 60
Persons, £100; 500 Persons, £276; 1000 Per-
sons, £540. We take over and maintain our
installations from One Guinea per annum.
The Montgcmerie-Netlson Process,
60 Young; Street (late Offices of the Education
Department), Sydney. Tel., City 8976.
t)orit Arg lre ' ¥! * !!ii^|
£
Nothihc
to Argue
About!"
6 &h C °
Are the Best ”
jf
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN'S
I
u
gf
For INDIGESTION
anti DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 180 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
the perfect roofing 1 .
*• Not the same as others
Malthoid has received the hearty recommendation of prominent architects
and builders —for the excellent quality has been proved in every way.
Malthoid does not demand heavy framework, costs little for freight, will
never leak or crack, and is as suitable for the country homestead as for
the suburban bungalow; as suitable for the outback woolshed as for the
city flat roof.
Costs less than half the price of galvanised iron. Samples and booklet
mailed post free.
The Paraffine Paint Company (0. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Chains House, Sydney.
THE CLYDE ENGINEERING COMPANY L D
A
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL & AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL &. FARM WAGGONS. IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS. SHREDDER DISCS.
Arthur
6 Cs
MACHINERY.
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
“Robey” Engines, “National” Town’s Gas and Suction Gas Engines, “National”
Oil and Petrol Engines. Road Graders and modern Machinery for Stone-break-
ing and Screening, Pumping, Irrigating, Road Building, Earth Handling. Concrete
Mixing, Elevating and Conveying. C.-I. Malleable Pipe Fittings, ete.
N.B.—Enquiries for every description of Machinery will receive prompt attention.
WRITE, ’PHONE or WIRE.
QUEENSLAND ENQUIRIES to the AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER TUBES-
We are now in a position to quote
lowest competitive prices, covering
delivery to c.i.f., c.i.f.e, or de-
livered any main Australian port.
Shipment guaranteed within four
to six weeks after receipt of order.
Any gauge, length or width—
tinned or ontinned.
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Enquiries solicited. Correspondence invited.
<JIO IVdU
TOOTH
Gives a Sense of Clean
Pr^hn Pgg to' the Month.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
4.i— c
gfd
LAVENDER
WATFB
The Bulletin
Y01.39._N0. 1980.]
[Thursday, January 24, 1918.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


*UST
Ra U4H
QLony
H
Australian
Glory
Egyptian Cigarettes.
A Special Blend Produced by the Celebrated
Nestor Gianaclis Factory, Cairo.
■
Special
Price,
g
per 100.
\
/ Postage Paid.
Or a sample Box of 20 Cigarettes
1/10. Post Paid.
receipt of your address we will
Illustrated Booklet
£ ,
forward you your
Post Free.
copy of our
A. REBBLEWHITE, Cigar and Cigarette Importer,
“The Old Established House,” Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, Is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
FREE OFFER. Write to “Must-
die.” Dept. 11.. Box 1520, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and a trial tin will be sent post
free; or forward 9d. in stamps for a
full-size tin.
*ve/” > i v. •
immm.
kmm
m*
■■
=*=3
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
'POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE.
The Red Page
What is Poetry?
Ihe question ‘‘What is Poetry?” is raised
ana. discussed and dropped at regularly re-
curring- intervals, without usually leaving us
much the wiser, for the definition of poetry
can never be scientifically precise and aceu-
l'ate. It ! 's like-defining- beer : what is beer to
one bloke isn't beer to another, and yet beer
is always beer. J. Bt. hoe Strachey, in the
latest Enj nnuva; 11 Review, - ramblingly and
loosely discusses the vital element in poetry,
ami Ford Madox Hueffer, in a preface to his
Collected Poems (Gosclien, per Sydney Book
t ltd)) —which, in the judgment of this Page,
aren t poems—sheds a little light on the
vague .subject. Strachey„is worried why cer-
tain poems, which conform to all the literary
standards by which the critics have ordained
that poetic excellence should be measured,
are hopelessly bad owing to the lack of some
indefinable quality ; while poems, condemned
by all self-respecting cri tics on technical liter-
ary grounds, are in reality alive and life-giv-
ing, thanks to this indispensable but unana-
lysable element. lie suggests that all good
poetry contains vita mi ties— l\ recently-coined
scientific word to express those unknown
substances, minute in quantity, which must
be present, in our diet—no matter how scien-
tifically it may be arranged—before it can
support life. No matter how perfect a poem
may be. it remains unsatisfying unless it
contains these vitamines. This Page long
ago noted this fact when it designated the
perfect empty form of poetry Rolled-Gold
Poetry. The true poetry must contain real
gold—-n,o matter how basely it is alloyed.
But in bis examples Strachey hardly con-
vinces us that lie has found that gold, llis
from Pope seem stodge—though
Strachey has, of course, deliberately chosen
poems whose subject is apparently unfitted
Lur poetic treatment, and whose manner is
tiresome or bad. The presence of that inde-
finable element which gives life is not suffici-
ently apparent. Yet we agree with him that
Adam Lindsay Gordon's “How We Beat the
Favorite” has vitamines in it. “He did not
treat his subject from the heroic standpoint,
but from that of the local trainer, the gentle-
man jock, and the rural bookie. We forgive
him his jigging metre, his ramshackle epi-
thets, his go-as-you-please grammar, and his
Mid-Victorian journalese. It is all cancelled
by the effects of the unanalysable life-giving
element.” And Strachey certainly gets closer
to a definition of poetry when he points out
that tin- best proof-of the importance of the
vital element, is to be found in J:he dullness
of almost all poetic translations. “In very
few cases is the translator able to transfer
this essential element from the original to
his Own page. In .the process of translation
tiffs minute but precious substance is dissi-
pated.”
It will be remembered that another critic
once laid stress upon the difference in what
we might call the conscious and the sub-con-
scious meaning of words. Any single word
in poetry has two meanings—its obvious dic-
tionary meaning, and its individual flavor
that by its cunning association with other
words scents the whole line. Words such as
rose, youth, (/olden, dead, autumn, home,
grey, Australian —to take the first obvious
words to hand —have an added meaning, an
added poignancy and appeal to their diction-
ary meanings. It is this aura that sur-
rounds the printed word, evoking memories
or pictures or emotions, that makes of a
mere metrical line the stuff called poetry.
Keats had the trick; Leon Gellert gets it
sometimes, Lawson often —and usually in his
most careless verse.
J*
Before cross-examining Ford Madox Hu-
effer, we shall let him speak in his own
defence. lie tells us that his first book of
verse was received with extraordinary enthu-
siasm by the English press. The Times
praised it for a column; Tiie Daiiy News
for a column and a half; The Academy
gave it a page. The public bought 14 copies.
The publisher of bis second volume failed :
the press accorded it a more modest wel-
come ; the no copies at all. His
third volume received nine notices in the
press, but nobody bought a copy. He paid
for the publication of his fourth volume; it
received five press notices, and 100 copies
were purchased-—by the author for use as
Christmas presents. His fifth venture be
also subsidised and used for a similar festive
purpose. In addition two copies were sold,
and it received one press notice—a provin-
cial newspaper gave it four lines. That is
the record of Ford Madox Tlueffer, poet. He
adds: “There is no single poem in this col-
lected edition that I have not been heartily
advised by one person or another not to pub-
lish.” And then, to Ilueffer’s —and our— :
genuine surprise a publisher offers him
money -“yes, real money”—for the right to
publish this collected edition ! Hueffer imag-
ines his publisher to be mad. This Page
imagines him to be no judge of poetry—but
then what publisher ever was?
Hueffer confesses, in that interesting pre-
face of bis, that he doesn’t know how ho
writes poetry—though, of course, what lie
writes isn’t poetry. “It just comes. I hear
in my head a vague rhythm. . . .and presently
a line will present itself:
Up here, where the air's very clear.
Or else one will come from nowhere at all:
When all the little hills are hid in snow,
and the rest flows out. And I confess my-
self to being as unable to judge--the result
as I am to influence the production.”
But though Hueffer eaunot write poetry,
he can write prefaces; and he conies .rather
near a working definition of poetry. But
apparently Hueffer has never read any real
poetry. All the poetry he has seen is rolled-
gold poetry. “It is something a matter of
diction. In France a poet can write in a
language that, roughly speaking, any hatter
can use. In Germany, the poet writes
exactly as he speaks.” Well, so can a poet
in English, provided he puts poetry into his
speech. The trouble is that most of them
put mud. But Hueffer is right when lie
says that the proper job of a modern poet
is to render modern life with all its extraor-
dinary range of values. Ilueffer’s know-
ledge of poetry, however, is' so out of date
that he thinks it worth while to refute the
dictum that “poetry is written about love,
about country lanes, about the singing of
birds.” Poetry lias been, can be, written
upon these limited and trivial themes; but
modern life has a nobler diapason. Ilueffer
suggests that in the Crowd the modern poet
must find his greatest subject and his great-
est inspiration—“in the larking of amende
girls, in the shoulders of women in evening
dress, in the idealism of a pickpocket slant-
ing through a shadow and imagining himself
a hero.... Love in country lanes, the song
of birds, moonlight. .. .these seem the safe
things to sentimentalise over, and it is taken
for granted that sentimentalising is the busi-
ness of poetry. It is not, of course.” He
asks poets not to worry over the primrose
in the hedge, but to concentrate upon the
zinc dustbin in the dawn. If you wish to
sentimentalise write the* lyric of the garbage
tin. (But that poem has been written—or
will certainly be written —by “Bellerive.”)
But beside the garbage tin there are other
subjects. Hueffer mentions the Crowd emo-
tions —the flag, the monarch, patriotism.
J*
Hueffer wonders whether the portrayal
of modern life can be done in poetry. Of
course it can! The amazing thing is that
Hueffer- lias missed this clamant note in
modern poetry. He says; “It would be
better to be able to put the sentiment, ‘Life
is just one damn thing after another,’ into
lyric verse than to remake a ballad of the
sorrows of Cuclmllaiii or to paraphrase the
Book of Job... .It is better to see life in the
terms of one damn thing after another than
to render it in terms of withering gourds
and other poetic paraphernalia. It is better
to be vulgar than affected if you practise
poetry.” Kindergarten advice ! But Hueffer
confesses that he cannot read poetry at all,
and that he has never really been able to.
The reason? “The attempt to read Tenny-
son, Swinburne and Browning and Pope—in
our teens —gave me and my friends a settled
dislike to poetry that we have never since quite
got over. We seemed to get from them the
idea that all poets must of necessity write
affectedly, at great length, with many super-
fluous words —that poetry, of necessity, was
something boring and pretentious. And I
fancy that it is because the greater part of
humanity get that impression from these
poets that few modern men or women read
verse at all.”
And though subsequently they discovered
Christina Rossetti, they regarded her as
being more, of a prose-writer than a poet.
“The poets of the ’nineties— T Dwson. John-
son. Davidson and the rest—struck us as
just nuisances.” The poetry of George
Meredith and Thomas Hardy seemed to them
more like the real stuff. But about five
years ago Ilueffer woke up. lie came upon
Yeats. De la Mare, Flint, D. 11. Lawrence,
Pound. “It is the poet’s job to reflect his
own day as it appears to him ; what is wrong
with the earlier poets is their imitative
handling of matter, of words; it is then-
derivative attitude.” ,
Well, why doesn’t Hueffer wake up? Modern
poetry is all around him ; especially is it to
be found in soldier verse—possibly because
modern warfare is so strange and so new
that it cannot be rendered in the old terms
of poetry. It has to create a new instru-
ment of words, as individual as the tank, the
aeroplane or the high-explosive bomb.
J*
An admirable example of what poetry isn’t
is ,lu Annual of New Poetry, 1917 (Con-
stable). containing stuff by Gordon Bottom-
ley, W. 11. Davies, John Drinkwater.
Edward Eastaw.ay, Robert Frost, Wilfred
Wilson Gibson. T. Sturge Moore and R. C.
Trevelyn. Most of this is stodge; dull prose
in an undistinguished metre, emasculated
Masefield. These prosers certainly reflect
their own day; but it is a very foggv day
reflected in a very smudgv mirror. Each
uses words as mere blocks of wood, fitting
them carefully into the concrete to make a
straight and dismal but ouite tidy street. A
dustbin by the pavement’s brim is but a
garbage-tin to him.
I hough this Page tries to appreciate
every sort of poetry, it must confess its
preferences. So far, our definition of poetrv
runs thus: Poetry must contain vitamines";
it must have words so arranged as to nvoke
emotions greater than the mere words them-
selves can do; it must directly reflect our
modern day. 4
But to this partial definition this Pam?
must add; Poetry should be simple in lan-
guage, free from verbiage or decoration (as
decoration), and it should be restrained. All
great art should have in it not only life but
order. Pegasus must have reins, and those
reins should be firmly held. Poetry should
never say all it has to say at the first read-
ing. It should behr—nay, demand—re-
reading. It should emerge from the artist’s
hand perfect; it should not bear the mark
of the chisel, but the spectator should on
reflection feel that the chisel was responsible
lor its final beauty. The inspiration is not
the poem. That has to be beaten and shaped
and simplified to contain the inspiration— ■
and the labor of that shaping must be loving
and arduous; and always the poet should
take as much delight in his artistry as in his
inspiration. But he must leave no chisel
marks. As for the language, that, too, must
be as simple as our speech. The modern
poet must use modern language; and if
necessary lie may use modern slang. For
slang.is the embryo of our growing language ;
and it is born into our language when it
appears in great poetry.
But, after all, there is only one perfect
definition of poetry: it is indefinable.
The Dragon-fly
The Sydney scholar, R. J. Tillyard,
a hellow of the N.S.W. Linnean Society,
has, with the indelicacy peculiar to scien-
tists, pried into the private life of the
dragon-fly. In The Biology of Drug on-flies
(University Press, Cambridge), a valuable
addition to the “Cambridge Zoological
Series,” this patient and brilliant investiga-
tor has told us more about dragon-flies than
this page knows about grocers. Here every
detail of the dragon-fly’s life-history, every
portion of his anatomy, every aspect of his
domestic concerns, his courtship and the
arrival of the little stranger dragon-fly, is
exposed to the reader under the pitiless
searchlight of a scientific curiosity. It may
be permissible in the interests of knowledge;
but it seems somewhat discourteous to the
dragon-fly.
However, for those addicted to this class
of reading this volume is certified—-by the
opinion of competent dragon-flyologists— as
original and authoritative, evidencing a
patient and ingenious mind, and while sum-
ming up the contributions of other scientists
to the subject, enhancing these by a series
of patient observations, and drawing from
the labors of himself and his confreres his
own original conclusions.
Apart from the student, however, the work
has interest for the general reader, and especi-
ally the Australian reader; for almost all
the specimens studied and figured were col-
lected around Sydney. The author does not
apologise for the “very strong Australian
flavor in the book. Those who know how
rich and varied the Australian Dragon-fly
fauna is will look on this rather as an
advantage than otherwise.”
A glance at this interesting work reveals
the extraordinary complexity of the organs
of so insignificant an insect as the dragon-
fly : the author enthusiastically remarks that
“both larva and imago provide dissections
of comparative ease and unrivalled beauty!”
The dragon-fly’s sense of sight is probably
keener than that of any other insect. This
sense alone suffices for the chase and cap-
ture of prey. But the senses of smell and
of hearing are practically absent. The two
compound eyes of the dragon-fly rightly
arouse the author’s enthusiasm, so beauti-
fully complicated they are; while the insect
is also provided with three other simple eyes,
used only for near vision.
The author finds some truth in the Aus-
tralian belief that the appearance of a
swarm of dragon-flies heralds a 'drought.
The larvae of dragon-flies last longest when
a pond dries up. So- if the larvae mature
before the final drying-up of the pond, a
huge swarm of dragon-flies will emerge, and
precede the worst part of the drought. On
the other hand, if the pond dries up before
the larvae become dragon-flies, they perisli-*-
and there is no swarm.'
However, if dragon-flies were to disappear
from the earth few of us, except naturalists,
would feel their loss in the slightest. Yet
the dragon-fly is a beneficent and not a
maleficent insect. With one single recorded
exception, all the evidence is in its favor.
Tillyard believes that the dragon-fly’s services
in the destruction of other insects are great:
they certainly make war upon flies, mosqui-
toes and gnats. “I believe that a successful
checking of the mosquito pest in the orna-
mental waters of parks and gardens could
be readily obtained by the introduction of
species whose larva, as well as the. imagines,
would prey upon the nuisance. If a success"-
ful planting of a colony of dragon-flies in
such a position were to be tried, the species
selected might also be chosen for its color-
ing.” One glorious red species has now be-
come established in the Brisbane Botanical
Gardens.
Contrary to popular belief, the dragon-fly
is not harmful, and lacks a sting. Despite
its popular name, this “horse-stinger” does
not sting horses —or a’ny other animal. Yet
Tillyard states that he has been assured
“on the solemn word of various settlers in
Queensland, that gigantic dragon-flies have
not only done to death various horses and
cows, but in one instance even attached the
farmer’s wife!” Fortunately, he adds, the
dragon-fly now forms one of the stock object-
lessons in the Queensland school Nature
study curriculum, so that the legend of the
horse-stinger is likely to disappear.
The greatest service, however, that the
dragon-fly has done to mankind is its uncon-
scious provision of the natural model of the”
modern aeroplane. In 1853 a French natural-
ist suggested this idea; and one of the first
French monoplanes was called the “Deinta-
selle”—the French local name for the insect.
Later models approach the natural model
even more completely. “A study of the dif-
ferent afreets on flight of angulated and
rounded hind-wings, as well as of the
arrangements of braces and cross-pieces sug-
gested by various parts of the dragon-flv’s
wing, might well lead to further improve-
ments in our models, and might even sug-
gest a solution for ‘hovering’ on simpler
liiv's than anything yet attained.”
For sportsmen, insectolpgists and kids,
who wish to hunt the dragon-fly, many prac-
tical hints are given. In stalking the boast”
for instance, the huntsman mustn’t make
any sudden movement with his feet or hands,
mustn’t even wink, and must never wear any
striking colors, such as a white hat or a
bright tie.
A bibliography appended discloses the in-
teresting fact that Till.vard is the 2” Ist
naturalist to produce a volume concerning
the beautifully-colored horse-stinger that
doesn’t sting horses- —or even bookies.
Wanted: Australian Proverbs
I Ins Australia got any homo-grown
proverbs V If not, isn’t it about time we
manufactured a stock? Nothing, as -‘llill
Wadd ’ remarks, gives a student a more com-
prehensive view of a nation’s characteristics,
philosophy and mental outlook than a study
of its proverbs. What proverbs have we of
a genuine Australian flavor that will express
to a stranger the essence of our Aus-
tralianism?
Half a guinea will be paid for the best
genuinely Australian proverb unearthed or
manufactured and forwarded to this page.
Lntries must be Addressed to this pnge and
must reach it by March 2.
•
As substitutes for Australasia and Aus-
tralasian, R. F. Jamieson suggests grotesque
combinations of the wattle and the M.L. toi ■
Wattoia and Wattoian. What oh! Wat-
toians! “Creole” suggests Oceania, and,
presumably, Oceanian. “A Grubby Qtian-
dong,” however, makes a neater suggestion.
Lie proffers Anzalia and Anzalian. The best
to date.
“Country Ped’’ asks writers of kiddy stories to
specify the ages of the readers they write for. He
mentions the failure of one Australian story when
abridged and used .as a Supplementary Reader for
the third and fourth grades of a State school. “It
seems hard for adults to write down to a school-
child’s level of understanding. The trouble is that
children do not read books intended for them in
MS., and judge them for publication; nor do thev
review them for the newspapers. Adults do these
things, and think the books, suitable: children often
think otherwise. They read the books because they
are given fo them to read; but they do not chase
•'lltor them as they do tho penny and threepenny
weekly publications, Sexton Blake, and so on.”
“Spider ’ objects to Hugh McOrae’s nurserv rime
because it contains the words wiv for with, and
Vouse for you. He asks: “Why? Surely it would
be better for Australian babies to learn correct pro-
nunciation, rather than such wilful mutilation of
standard words? It might be claimed, perhaps, that
so many of .your readers speak the jargon, and like
to see it printed. If this be so, then the argument
would seem to be, why not print the whole paper in
jargon?”
[ “Spider’s” objection would rule out the use of
dialect and slang in every English, American or
Australian novel. If people speak that way, and we
wish to report their speech, we must use the terms
thev use.. Would “Spider” insist on an author
making his rustics, or slum-dwellers, or members of
the push speak pure and grammatical English? And,
anyway, no .matter how correctly McCrae wrote his
verse, that is how some Australian kids would sing
it.]
“John Quill” appears for the defence in the case
of the N.S.W. State School Magazine. His analysis
of the contents (too long to quote) shows a propor-
tion of Australian articles and poems; and of the
general bird articles he claims that the birds in-
volved are, for the most part, well known in Aus-
tralia, with the exception of the English goldfinch.
“There is nothing in that collection to lead one to
attack ‘the utterly un-Australian aspect, outlook and
atmosphere of the State School Mag. The ordinary
issues of this magazine are invariably Australianised
by contributions (and extracts from their contribu-
tions to other papers) of Australian writers. What
the complainants have neglected to remember is that
besides being an Australian journal the School Mag.
is also an educational one, and accordingly they have
forgotten that all history and other events did not
happen in this country, also that all famous men and
writers of classical literature were not Australians.”
TYet why should not the Australian kid be first
educated about the Australian things that matter —
and will always matter —most to him?]
• “Sliprail”: Can you advise me as to even one
good Australian national song? As an Australian
who is proud of liis country I cannot help feeling
disappointed that we have not a national song
worthy, of our glorious continent. Strolling down
Piccadilly a little while back I heard two crowds
in char-a-bancs singing in rivalry. One was beefing
out “The Maple Leaf,” which is an appropriate
Canadian song; the other, alas, was roaring out
something about “Australia” and “No, no, no, no,
no, no.” I slunk away with my brown hat under my
tunic. Surely we have sufficient groundwork in our
wonderful country and the noble deeds of its sons
and daughters to compose something suitable and'
worthy—but not a cheap, shoddy jingle that might
be just as applicable to Honolulu, Singapore or
Bermuda.


a
7
»
2.7
IVo. 127.— Linen Coat Robe, box-pleated from yoke, belted at waist, sailor collar: in
Navy, Saxe or Biscuit 14/11
No. 174.— Striped Zephyr Robe, full bodice, white Organdie Collar and Cuffs, trimmed
hemstitching 19/6
No. 1028.— Very Smart Coat Frock, in White Pique, stitched fold round hips, giving
jumper effect, sailor collar, deep revers 21/-
The Edna. Smart Coat Frock, in White Voile; bodice has deep Sailor Collar,
trimmed hemstitching, new pleated Skirt with Beading at waist 32/6
No. 763. Effective Coat Frock, of Chiffon Taffeta, in the new Wheat shade; boat-
shaped neck, bodice and pockets handsomely soutached in brown .... £4/12/6
No. 768.— Model Frock Coat, in Cream Cashmere, with bodice and long tunic of
Wool Crepe, in the new Brick shade, effectively embroidered in black.. £4/19/6
a \ '
6to
769
402.
No. 64.0.—Effective Coat Robe, in White Gabardine, Sailor Collar, square neck,
cuffs and sash of contrasting snade, linisiied cable stitching 69/6
No. 4 60.—Spotted Cambric Robe, Sailor Collar, cuffs and hip pockets of plain linen
to tone 21 /-
No. 402. — We11-cut Coat Robe, in White Linen, pleated from yoke, narrow cross-
strappings at waist 29 /6
No. 2419. — Useful Coat Robe, in W T hite Cotton Gabardine, deep Sailor Collar
satchel pockets, piped with check ; in Helio, Saxe, or Pink 27/6
No. 1496. — Smart Coat and Skirt, in AVhite Pique, belted coat, patch pockets, square
collar, skirt slightly eased 19/11
No. 820. — Smart Linen Coat Robe, Sailor Collar, patch pockets, belt and cuffs,
finished cable stitching and large pearl buttons; in Navy, Saxe, Grey, or Pink, 29/6
Fashion and Economy
at Anthony Horderns’
THE illustrations on this page represent
selections from manufacturers’ stock which
was purchased at a considerable discount
for cash. This price concession, in consonance
with our rule of business, is passed on to
patrons, enabling them to secure value that is
incomparable. The frocks are well made,
smartly finished, and reflect in every detail the
styles that now prevail. It is an opportunity to
practise economy that should not be overlooked.
\/S'»V
m u i
i \
Qf
LU
*v
7W
763
Edna
fi ' « o
* «* * «■
4.
* *
'
*
fe / * ;♦•
9
m
x-v"-:
: V
« <1
MS
* 82.0
KS-SS
* * 9 »
u- „..:
-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Is ::
W
%
m
u
lllllil
m
wmm
m
: '
Wsgs&mi
mm i
[t&M !i
H
Ilf«
MHi
Ml SMiMif
■;. ;■ ; ~. ;
H 9
■
kJ
.
S*
M
HI
■I
?
A
A.
*
A
■ WMM--M
m
r£SLL
-vs i
MMHMi
*MI s I
■■■MM*
-
■
a
. ' 4
B
a
' - •
m
/ r=%4
PI
Adamax Cuts Every Roofing Cost
It stands out conspicuously for quality, satisfaction and economy.
It is eminently suitable for every class of building—from Bungalow to
Homestead, Farm Building to Factory.
“Adamax ,, Actually Costs One-third Less than Galvanised Iron.
It also costs much less in freight or railage.
“Adamax” is light in weight, clean, sanitary and attractive. It will not
rust, rot, pinhole nor sweat. “Adamax” is a nonconductor of heat or cold,
12=14 degrees cooler than iron, and is practically sound=proof in storm.
the: GREATEST PROOF OF “ADAMAX” superiority is
ITS USE ON THESE BIG CONTRACTS.
THE N.S.W. RAILWAY COMMISSIONERS accepted the “Adamax” tender for 1917-18.
THE WEST AUSTRALIAN GOVERNMENT used “Adamax” on the big Wyndham Freezing Works.
THE MURRUMBIDGEE IRRIGATION COMMISSION are using “Adamax” on the Leeton Canning
Factories (20,000 sq. yards).
THE SOUTH AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD have recently used 42,000 sq. yards of “Adamax.”
u
U 1
■ir-c
It will pay you too to investigate
“Adamax” Roofing, as it has paid these
big institutions.
. . I
“Adamax” is supplied in rolls 72ft.
long by 3ft. wide, and in one, two and
three plies.
We will supply you direct with roofing
or put you in touch with our Agent,
should we have one in your district.
Also ask about —
“ADAMAX” DAMPCOURSE,
“ADAMAX” SARKING FELT,
“ADAMAX” BUILDING PAPER,
“ADAMAX” CEMENT SOLUTION and
“ADAMAX” ROOFING PAINT.
SEND FOR FREE BOOK.
You will be interested in “The Adamax
Series,” an interesting booklet about
“Adamax” products. Send for a copy,
also samples.
WILLIAM ADAMS
and COMPANY Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
PERTH: 33 King Street.
BRISBANE: Corner Edward and Mary Streets.
ADELAIDE: Currie Street.
dfg


Kidney Trouble
A Scientific Cure.
There is only one real scientific method of
curing kidney disease, and that is to wash
away the uric acid (the poison) right out of
the system.
The proper way for this to be done is to
drink from three to four pints of pure water
per day, and with each glass of water should
be taken some mild yet penetrating antisep-
tic. The proper one to take is contained
in De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills.
It has the wonderful property of penetra-
ting every crevice of the kidneys and blad-
der, and wherever it touches it washes away
all sediment and bad secretions, and makes
the kidneys and bladder perfectly healthy.
Any sufferer can try this experiment for him-
self by getting a box of De Witt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills at his chemist’s —all chem-
ists sell them —and you will, within a very
Poisonous pain-causing Uric Acid in the
8100d —like little bits of broken glass.
few hours, know positively that the seat of
the trouble has been touched. When you see
the muddy, blue-colored urine you know this
is true. The effect of this experiment is most
remarkable.
The quick relief which these wonderful
little pills bring is, so our readers say, noth-
ing short of marvellous. This applies equally
to rheumatism, gout, gravel, backache, tired
feeling, dropsy. Bright’s disease, constipa-
tion, cloudy urine, inflammation of the blad-
der, or other symptoms of urinary trouble.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of
kidney trouble you must positively get rid of
the cause—the poisonous uric acid. Re-
member to do this a real remedy must pass
through the kidneys and the bladder, and not
through the bowels, as most kidney pills do.
When you see the urine change to a muddy,
bluish color—a feature which distinguishes
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills from all
others—you know beyond all doubt that
they have put their healing touch on the
right spot—the kidneys and the bladder. A
wonderful pill—straight to the kidneys—-
that is why De Witt’s Pills give such amaz-
ingly quick relief —every time. A perma-
nent cure follows in almost every case. Look
for that blue-colored urine.
Don’t waste a single hour. Go to your
chemist at once and ask him for a 2/9 box of
De Witt’s Kidney tnd Bladder Pills, which
are made expressly for kidney and bladder
trouble.
“De Reszkes,” by
Jove! What luck !
Cigarettes are the only home
comfort a man can enjoy on
Active Service. Why not send
your friend a regular supply of
“De Reszkes” —he s worthy of
the very best. Buy some on
your way home. Post the parcel
with yuur own hands —
then you know they will
reach him safely.
Sold Everywhere
t
DeßtszKc
m
m
mmmzt
m
■■/;./■
: ■ I
-■ *rv
m
mm
*■■ ./
m
W
m
m
M9S&K*
'#y.
mm
S <1 Ib'A)
m
is m
tor
GREY
hAIR
Dksssn
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide
T. L. SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
OR OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES—
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
I/O ALL CHEMISTS,
Or if not easily obtained write
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO , 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward, post free.
m
m
ft
[3
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
dgd
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL (Sl CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine-Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
*
Wy
fm/
A
Consult the Specialist
TYRE equipment for motor lorries is a science re-
quiring special experience in suiting the tyre to
the work. There is a Firestone Tyre for every
need, made to exact specifications. And the Firestone
Company makes tyres for every road, load and con-
dition of service. Consult us. We will recommend
only the tyre which will keep your lorries in com-
mission and make them do most work in shortest
time at least cost. Call, telephone or write.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand,
Obtainable at all Garages
Writt for illustrated Literature
m
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Lost Arches of the Sun.
Turn the brown mare and let her amble on;
Straight is the road, and little thereupon;
East and west it goes, never knows a
hill,
Dull as a pond, or a tide that is still.
Turn the brown mare; jog along, jog!
There is mystery in shadow, and magic in
fog; .
There is wonder in the sunrise, and in the
sunset arch,
But the level road has nothing but the black
day’s march.
Turn the brown mare. No use to look behind,
Longing for the wild thing flying like the
wind!
Too late to dream of hilltops, and valleys
deep in shade,
When the road is set before and the long
choice made!
Turn the brown mare—however wistful eyed
For hopes that beckoned onward as laughter
leapt beside;
For Young Adventure calling, with his bugle
to the sun' —•
The flat road is yours: the merry days are
done.
N.S.W.
MARY GILMORE.
Sea Piece.
The sky is rosy as a shell,
A great curved shell wherein the sea
Wanders and sings till each recess
Is thronged with murmuring loveliness
Tuned to a minor key.
Vague, silvery grasses fledge the dunes
Stirred ever by the music’s flight;
’Mid those frail stems its passion wings,
Till each sea-haunted hollow rings
And shivers with delight.
Wave follows wave to smooth the sand,
Wave upon silkep wave that wells
From the soft sea that breathes and sighs,
And breaking as each impulse dies
The bubbles chime like bells.
And chiming quiver through the grass,
And floating fill the rosy sky,
Till the slow-stepping morning seems
The flushed reflex of seaborn dreams,
And a sea-creature I.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.
Grass and Star.
Happy music came to me
Down the silver-sliding ray
Of a white star’s elfin play
In the branches of a tree
Brown with dusks of memory.
All the valley mists were grey
And the world-voice far away
Like the sobbing of the sea.
Merrily the music rang,
Touched with aching of regret,
Through the leaves that faintly sighed;
And the little grass blades sang,
All with dew and longing wet,
“Stars are far, but earth is wide.”
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Children of Battles.
I dreamed that all the souls of sleeping hosts
Of babes took wing at midnight. Fading
stars
Bowed deeply as they passed, small anxious
ghosts
Who tarried not till Heaven’s golden bars
Were won. and little shining cherubim
Had let them in, for audience of God.
Great Michael stayed them not, and sera-
phim
Made place for them beside the ways
untrod
By any save His Son’s bright wounded feet
And the slow steps of Mary. Soft they
kneel.
A choir of babies round the Judgment Seat,
With chant of woes and wrongs for Him
to heal.
A wide ring round the Throne, they asked
for grace
For dear and near who die afar in pain.
For dear blood falling in a stricken place
Of heedless death. For those who die in
vain,
And those who go unshriven down the
slope
That leads to night, the kneeling children
prayed
The boon of dream that shrives us all in
hope—
The veil that covers all who. unafraid.
Go down to meet the hazard of the days.
For such as pass in fear, they raised still
eyes
To Mary, who knows well all darkened ways,
By Calvary made pitiful and wise.
And in my dream I heard the high, shrill
song
As thunder down the night; and incense
sweet,
Diffused beseeching of that infant throng,
In perfume and in prayers about His feet.
And mighty as the dawn. No word He said :
But in His smile was promised all they
sought
And greater things; and they went com-
forted,
But gravely, down the steps again; and
brought
Rapt dreams ineffable for us who slept.
Great Michael would have stayed them at
the bars,
And as they passed the-choirs of angels wept;
But they went, comforted, far down the
stars.
I dreamed the spirits of all sleeping babes
Took homing wing at midnight. ...
N.S.W.
HILARY LOFTING.


are proving the most satisfactory on Australian Roads and the most economical.
Perdriau Tyre Sales are always increasing—a sure proof that they make good.
Keep the Home Tyres Turning, and be certain that they are Perdriaus.
Obtainable through your local Garage
or from the Hanufacturers
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD. All States
fg
Save Your Stock
Just for want of the necessary little
surgical instrument you might lose an
animal which would be worth ten
times the amount it would cost you
to purchase a complete, handy little
kit.
fg
f
THE RIGHT SURGICAL INSTRUMENT
mone? * n<l trouHe - an ‘ l the
ri °f W {° r D l L nyer Bros -’ Free Book on Veterinary Instruments, Specialties
and Treatments for Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Dogs and Poultry.
Big stocks carried of Special Emasculators, Drench Bits, Mouth Gags Hypo-
dermic Syringes, Ear Markers, etc., etc. P
DENYE.R BROTHERS,
“The Veterinary House of Australia,”
281 George Street, Sydney.
tSt
tS\J
M
£
“REX” CAMP PIE
is in the Swim with
Swimmers.
The dip sharpens everyone's appetite.
Healthy bodies such as these require a
substantial meal when lunch time
comes.
Camp Pie
provides it to perfection. It is -good,
sensible, wholesome fare, fine for all
ages and all occasions.
The “Rex” chefs make it from finest
meats. It comes to you cooked, ready
to eat. Slice it thin for sandwiches, or
take the whole tin along, as you wish.
Each tin contains enough for five.
There is no waste.
Sold Everywhere.
N ©*. *« T
Try these pure whole-
some meats for your
sandwiches.
“REX”
HAM PA TE and
REX” VEAL & TONGUE PA TE.
They are packed in
perfect tins, abso-
lutely free from sol-
dering flux.
Sold everywhere.
teaafe
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products
Curers of *• Rex ” Hams and Bacon
Goodrich Full-size
Black Safety Tyres
THE MOTORIST’S PSALM OF LIFE.
Tell me not in rubber numbers
That a Tyre’s a “lovely dream,”
For the man is deep in slumbers
Who thinks Tyres are all they seem.
Troubles real—l am in earnest—
Pave the way to every goal.
Tacks! —The Chauffeur’s language burneth.
Broken glass destroys his soul.
Some enjoyment, but more sorrow,
Does assail his destined way,
With a hope to reach to-morrow
The place he should have made to-day.
The way is long—roads are not good, which
Makes his heart beat far from brave.
He sees his car NOT shod with GOODRICH
Making a beeline for his grave.
In the Motorist’s daily battle,
In the Chauffeur’s troubled life,
Be not like dumb, driven cattle,
Be a wise man in the strife.
Trust no future, howe’er pleasant.
’Less your Tyres are “SAFETY-TREAD,”
You’re in danger at the present—
Seeking friendship with the dead.
GOODRICH users all remind you,
You can make your lives sublime,
Leaving GOODRICH prints behind you,
Motoring o’er the sands of time.
Tyre-prints that perhaps another
On the bumpy road termed “main,”
A forlorn and Tyresick brother,
Seeing, may take heart again.
Listen! There is something doing,
Don’t delay till it’s too late.
Place your confidence in Goodrich,
GET THEM EARLY—DO NOT WAIT.
M. P.
DUVAL <&. CO.
145 Collins St, 13 Castlereagh St., 300 Adelaide St.,
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE.
Cornell Ltd., Adelaide; A. C. MicCallum, Perth; Robt. Nettlefold, Hobart
“Best in the Long Run.”


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Xewspaper.
Vol. 39,-No. 1980.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 1918.
Price 6d.
WHO’S BLUFFING?
“I’ll see you?”


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. bid. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
address in 'Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the consents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be . received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building. U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
llong Kong. —Breiver and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; 81oz. to 10oz., 2kd.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, )oz., Id., and sd. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 24, 1918.
IS AUSTRALIA OR PARTY TO BE
FIRST?
Viewed from-the angle of the strict partisan
the policy most profitable for Labor in
Commonwealth affairs just now is one of
contemplative detachment. The Hughes
Ministry has got itself into such a mess that
the other side might reasonably claim to
be playing the game with scrupulous atten-
tion to the rules if it sat back and watched
the calamitous Wm-the-War tricksters com-
plete their own destruction. The excuses
Labor could offer for doing this would be
many. One would be that government as
known to Australia postulates collections of
Ins and Outs, and that the system must
collapse unless these divisions are carefully
maintained. Another would be that, having
regard for the highest moral and material
interests of the nation, it was desirable to
allow a party composed of Fiji uncles to
give a further exhibition of what it was
capable of. The Hughes Government has
so muddled and blundered, lied and dodged,
that by no stretch of imagination can Labor,
interpreting its every act and word in terms
of party, be accused of impropriety if it
declines to acknowledge any obligation to
make the discredited combination look more
respectable. There is a mordant humor about
the spectacle of a huge majority in the Legis-
lature, after denouncing the minority as
traitors and infidels and apostles of anarchy,
suddenly discovering itself to be an object
of contempt and yearning for amalgamation
in some way with the minority it had
plastered with derision. And there is no
party reason why this humorous interlude
should be interrupted. If the circumstances
of the hour were different, The Bulletin
would implore all hands to keep on like this,
for there is great value in anything which
helps the public to realise what a stupendous
old fraud Party Government reallv is. But
as nlaying the frowsy game of party amid
the events of to-day is only an easy method
of playing the fool, The Bulletin is per-
suaded that Labor would serve Australia
best if the inducement to watch a tragic
farce unfold itself was taken less seriously
than the drowning cries of the aliened
Nationalists for help. The offer of Hughes
to “efface himself” need not, of course, be
listened to. No suggestion, proposal or
promise that he makes can be even con-
sidered. It is to the opinion of the country
in this business that Tuuor and others
should turn their ears; and they will be
making a great mistake if they imagine that
Australia expects nothing from them except
gibes about Hughes and confessions of their
own futility. Labor has to remember that
it is not only parties in Parliament that arc
concerned with this thing. The citizens of
Australia have a vital interest in it, and
this interest does not include an anxiety to
see Australia degraded.
* * * *
The failure of Party Government in these
days of Australia’s need has been abject.
Everybody knows it. And the failure will
be continuous and the cause of incalculable
harm to the nation if the demented circus
goes on indefinitely. It is not the fault of
Labor that two parties are in the Legis-
lature obsessed by the notion that they have
nothing better to do than snap and snarl at
each other morning, noon and night. The
disaster is part of a legacy. But it will be
Labor’s fault- —to some extent, at any rate—
if no genuine effort is made to cast off the
chains by which the people and Parliament
are hobbled. The opportunity is at hand to
get out of the old rut, putting the procedure
of Parliament upon a rational basis, and
establishing the mastery of the people’s
representatives over the Government, in-
stead of being, as they are now, the slaves of
Ministries. Why should the Labor party
because it is Out have no more to do with
the formation of public policy and the con-
trol of administration than it can accom-
plish by raising loud yells' of “No”? Why
should the Liberal because he is In have to
do nothing more than shout “Yes”? And
should a Ministry be allowed to fool and
threaten the community and hoodwink Par-
liament merely because the only admitted
alternative is a Ministry which could be
relied upon to do the same thing or worse?
The whole process is fantastic. No good
has ever come from it in Australia. None
ever will. In time of war such an arrange-
ment is more dangerous than poison gas,
for the net result of it is to put a premium
on trickery, deny to the country the service
of its best brains and exalt the party inter-
ests of the moment above the permanent
interests of the nation.
* * * «• #
Most of the current talk about a “coali-
tion” between the Labor party and the
Phewsion is mere gag. There can be no
coalition. There should be none. No one
can ask either party to merge its identity in
the other. Such a thing is, indeed, impossible.
The real parties in the State are not in
Parliament. They are in the constituencies,
and these can no more be made to coalesce
by a manoeuvre in Parliament than by hit-
ting an empty tin with a bottle. It
is not a coalition that Australia wants.
What it does want is a Ministry
composed of the different elements in
the Legislature and a Parliament apply-
ing itself to the Commonwealth’s long-
neglected business, without consideration for
the “life” of the Ministry, but with an
earnest regard for Australia. To ask the
Labor party to co-operate or join hands or
link up, or whatever else the deed may be
called, with the Ministry now in possession
is to put forward a proposal insulting to
those it is addressed to. For this is a
Ministry born in iniquity—the outcome of
frowsy bargaining for billets which disgusted
every honest man and woman in the land,
and of a general election in which the elec-
tors were cheated with a shameless impu-
dence. It is a Ministry that has forfeited
every right to existence, every claim to
respect. Wherefore the duty of the Labor
party is plain—to have nothing to do with
such a crew r , but, if it can, to help lift from
the shoulders of the people the burden of
such a disgrace. Unless it makes this effort
by some other means than noisily denouncing
Hughes, Labor will have to share the
responsibility for this Ministry. And it
cannot plead that no other method is open to
it. Half-hearted and wholly sinister invita-
tions to form a coalition have been made by
the Phewsion. The Bulletin suggests that
in reply proposals be honestly made by the
Labor party to share in the responsibilities
of administration and legislation with the
Liberals upon the condition that the indivi-
duals responsible before the public for the
happenings of the last few months are scraped
off the doorstep. There can be no forfeiture
of Labor policy in taking such a step. It
w 7 ould raise Labor to a greater dignity, give
Parliament a chance to justify its existence
and hold out to the public the chance of a
fair deal. On Labor’s own showing, Aus-
tralia must suffer serious injury by prolonga-
tion of the existing conditions. Where, then,
is the case for not making an offer which, if
rejected, would further damn the little coterie
of wirepullers now in the pantry? If the
offer is not made, The Bulletin fears that
Tudor and his colleagues may have a hard
job to prove that they are putting Australia
first. And recent and contemporary history
contains many solemn warnings that putting
party first is a mighty dangerous experiment.
THE TARIFF.
Now that the dust and smoke and roar of
the Referendum have passed away, and there
is little doing in politics save the renewed
assurance of Prime Minister Hughes that
he is willing to resign, it might be worth
while to have a look at the poor old tariff.
This suggestion is made in no wildly-aggres-
sive spirit. The Bulletin is aware that
the tariff is a large animal and dangerous
when roused. The Government that inter-
feres with it must be prepared for a fight.
It must wear out its brain devising the sort
of thing that is required, and sit long hours
to pass it through Parliament, and risk its
job, and incur animosity. The maddened
importer will fall on it, and the party will
probablv split and say that the fiscal issue
should be sunk. And a large section of
the community will remark that it isn’t
worth while, for so long as the loans come
f in things get along somehow. And yet the
tariff is coming up for revision before v’erv
long. It is a ghost that will not be laid.
Its skull is always protruding out of the
grave.
It is a fair thing to ask the weary old
Freetrader why he has never attempted to
go in for whole-hog Freetrade if he believes,
as he says he does, that it leads to pros-
perity. And it is fair to ask the person
w 7 ho accepts the present mongrel tariff in
order to save trouble if he is satisfied with
the results of the mongrel. This is a time
when there is wealth to be made out of
manufactures, and countries with big tariffs
—prohibitive tariffs of the 100 per cent,
variety—are making fortunes. For instance,
it was mentioned the other day that Canada
had orders from J. Bull for £160,000,000
of shells and other munitions, and expects
to buy itself a new fur coat of its own
manufacture with the profits. Australia
can’t supply itself with sufficient munitions
of war, and hasn’t a surplus popgun for
export. And its fur coat has become a jest.
There is an unusual sale for the article at
present, but it is mostly an imported fur
coat, and it is bought on time-payment, by
the soldier’s wife out of the separation allow-
ance which is supplied by loans. Conse-
quently her husband, who thought she was
saving the money, may possibly wallop her
on his return, and another consequence is
that many inflated females don’t buy furs
now lest they should be mistaken for the wife
of Private .Jones in Mesopotamia. Again,
Canada, with its lofty tariff, is building ships
at a great rate, and providing its own steel
plates and sundries. Australia’s condition
as regards this industry is pitiable; also it
is abject. In 1903 —the best out of 16 con-
secutive years—this great island-continent,
which depends entirely on the sea for its
communication with the outer world, built
194 vessels, including oil-motors and pon-
toons. And they represented 4506 tons net,
805 tons being pontoons and oil-motor craft.
The whole lot, if they could be lumped
together, wouldn’t represent the tonnage of
one first-class coaster. Yet 1903 was a
glorious time by comparison with those which
followed. In 1916 this land of freedom
and enterprise and blanky and wattle-bloom
poets produced four (4) new ships, the same
consisting of two (2) oil-launches and two
(2 —the compositor will please be careful
about these figures and take the “2” seri-
ously) others. The lot registered 48 tons.
Still there is balm in Gilead —a speck of
balm to a great deal of Gilead. River and
coastal vessels of less than 15 tons are not
registered save by the request of .the owners,
so the record is not unduly swelled by the
inclusion of wash-tubs, earthenware bowls,
capsized hats and other buoyant substances.
The latest available statistics (which are
not always very late, for the collection of
details is a matter of time and labor)showed
quite a crowd of Australian industries as
being on the down grade. Sawmills revealed
a big decline in the number of employees and
the value of the output. So did agricultural
implement works. Foundries, ironworks and
engineering-works supplied toil and wages for
fewer hands; likewise butter, cheese and
milk factories, bacon factories, meat-preserv-
ing works, breweries, tobacco factories, boot
factories, clothing ditto, dressmaking and
millinery jobs, and a number of others. At
the time of the latest industrial inquest the
total movement showed a loss of work and a
general sagging tendency all round. For a
country with such vast possibilities—one
which is hardly able to sleep at night through
thinking of its boundless natural resources —-
the record is not what might be looked for.
It can’t be set down to the war, for in many
cases the dry-rot commenced before the war
was heard of. And it can’t be set down to
natural disadvantages. In almost every case
the raw material of the perishing industry is
growing almost at the perishing industry’s
back door and staring in at the window. The
disadvantages are purely artificial. Taking
blucher boots as an example, the bluchers
which cost £lO to make, including allow-
ances for bad debts, repairs, interest on capi-
tal and a hundred other items, must be
worth at least' £lO in the market or the
enterprise is doomed. It can’t be saved by
strikes or indignation meetings or press
denunciation or appeals to the local member
—to all intents and purposes it is a dead
blucher. Yet the proprietor, when he wants
labor, has to compete against the wage rates
paid in stupendous Government undertak-
ings supported out of loans. While the loans
hold out—and they have been very gorgeous
of late years—it doesn’t matter if 10s. worth
of new railway costs £1 or even £lO, and the
price of a dry and useless Federal capital on
the road to nowhere is a mere incident. The
job which has no State subsidy has a poor
chance in the labor market, where rates are
expected to approximate to those paid on
jobs which are mostly State subsidy. The
foreign maker who isn’t up against this re-
markable handicap can undersell the Aus-
tralian in his own market most of the time.
And a large section of the Labor party has a
curious sympathy with the foreign maker
and the oversea sweater. When his own
countryman points out that Australian wages
and European prices don’t go together on a.
Freetrade or Low Tariff basis, he is gener-
ally told that he is a bloated oppressor, a
capitalist of the worst kind, and a grinder of
the countenance or frontispiece of the indi-
gent.
* ft * *
The collapse of the shipbuilding
is, of course, the most spectacular of all by
reason of the side issues involved. There
was at no time a duty on imported ships, so
the business led a precarious life till it died.
Now Australia, owing to war conditions,
finds itself up against the fact that if it is
to send away the surplus products of its
great natural resources it must find its ow T n
ships—and do it in haste, else the natural
resources will stink. Under a policy of low
tariff, high wages, frequent strikes, plenty of
holidays and a gladsome dependence on bor-
rowings—a policy under which even such
simple affairs as boot and cheese factories
are decaying—it is considered impossible to
start a really skilled industry without brain
fag to politicians. So fagged are
now imploring the farmer to give up growing
wheat or at least to restrict it. And if that
fails to meet the case it will possibly be
decided to shoot the farmer. There is a
streak of Chinese humor about the business,
especially as the returned soldier is being
“settled on the land.” Whoever dreamed
even five years ago that statesmen would go
about trying to club a magnificent primary
undertaking and telling the “backbone of the
country” that he and his crops are a
nuisance!
THE ETERNAL CAMOUFLAGE.
When Man the animal, with bristling tufts
of hair more in evidence than they are to-
day, stepped out into the limelight as the
boss living thing, he was already an expert
in the art of lying. There wrs nothing
very remarkable about this. All nature lied
with enthusiasm, and sought by trickery and
pretence to save its skin or preserve its din-
ner. The snake wore the colors of tropi-
cal vegetation to deceive the unwary creature
in its path ; the fiercest beasts of prey took
on a glossy beauty and a look of Sunday-
school benevolence when they went forth to
slaughter. The crocodile pretended to be a
log; the insect pretended to be a flower, and
the flower retorted by pretending to be an
insect of another type. Pools matted with
green weed over treacherous bogs lied to the
passing herd to persuade it that their sur-
face was grassy and firm ; the sea was full
of a thousand prevarications; the gentlest
birds would without a blush inform their
enemy that they had broken wings, when
they knew that their flying apparatus was
in perfect repair. Man took his place in
the front of all this mass of show and sham
by his ability to lie better than the rest. For
ages his weakness had been such that only
by lying more artistically than the others
had he been able to live at all; and at last,
as the climax of a transcendent campaign of
falsehood, he won to his place as leader, guide
and chief slaughterman of creation. Then,
having triumphed, he proceeded like other
climbers to kick down the ladders that had
served him so well, and exalted truth,
righteousness and other abstractions as the
things most greatly to be desired. But
while he exalted them he did not put them
to use. In fact, the exaltation itself was his
supreme and superlative lie. Under cover of
a belief that truth was absolute and must
prove victor over all falsehood he set himself
to lie more abundantly than ever, and has
kept steadily at his job.
Alfred, the best press-agented of royal
performers, wore the happy title of Truth-
teller ; yet the most heroic tale of his exploits
puts it on record that he went to the Danish
camp as a wandering harper, tricked his
enemies into disclosing their plans, and then
came back loaded with information to wallop
them in battle. The Truth-teller adopted
the camouflage of the simple serpent for his
purpose, and, having spent a whole drunk
evening soberly lying to his foes, returned
to kill them as a punishment for their lapse
into truth. Homer, singing on the outer
fringe of European story, lias no illusions
about such matters. His Ulysses is the
supreme liar. But, indeed, all the splendid
record of historic Greece is jewelled in every
hole with glittering falsehood. The superb
example of Themistocles at Sparta has stood
through the ages as a beacon light. Athens
had been reduced almost to a dustheap by
the Persian invasions and began to build
defences on a scale never thought of before.
Sparta, which despised walls for its own pro-
tection, objected to the northern city making
itself too strong; and while man, woman and
slave in Athens were laboring night and day
at the patriotic masonry, an Athenian depu-
tation came to Sparta to assure the citizens
of that place that there was nothing doing.
They spoke the lie with a bland friendliness
that made things feel quite pleasant until
some travellers came through who had seen
the walls of Athens going up. The Spartans
took alarm; but the deputation assured them
that the travellers were liars, and that not
one boulder had been lifted or would ever be
lifted to protect the people of Attica against
their good friends with the long spears in
the south. Sparta was doubtful; but in the
'midst of its doubting, Themistocles, Prime
Minister of Athens, himself arrived in the
wall-less city. Were the Athenians building
walls? Themistocles was hurt at the bare
suggestion. To build walls would be a breach
of faith; and everybody in Sparta knew how
simple and honest the people of Attica were,
and how they hated falsehood. The states-
man’s indignation made good. Sparta was
satisfied that Athens was merely twiddling
its thumbs and laying odds on the next
winner of the crown for the best tragic
drama. A few days later news came to
Themistocles that the walls were finished;
and with a triumphant smile he announced
the fact to the Spartans. Then the people who
had believed him believed him some more
and gnashed their teeth in acknowledgment
of the enemy’s victory; for Athens was
master of Greece, and Themistocles, openly
and unashamed, its very best liar. And so like
a crimson thread through all history runs the
sublime camouflage of humanity, with truth
dangling like a gewgaw on a string to
deceive the unwary. Napoleon, emperor of
subtlety, in his last great campaign strangely
used truth as his master-camouflage. He
said he was going through Belgium. Nobody
believed him except the one man who con-
quered him, and who, nimbly rigging the
peas and the thimble, resolved in his astute
mind that the very heart of falsehood must
be found in the most transparent truth.
Then Waterloo happened ; and the world has
been lying about it ever since.
* * * *
People who imagine that a little plain
dealing would be of value to Australia in
this war crisis are blind, then, to the real
nature of statecraft. When Ulysses
Pearce assures us that there has been prac-
tically no censorship over war news or any-
thing else, except a mild, perfunctory sort
of observation of a military custom as to
the proper dotting of i’s and the correct
turning of the tails of q’s, it is absurd to
get up and challenge him with facts. When


did statecraft ever get us a yard forward
on a plain basis of dull, stupid fact? When
Themistocles Hughes makes a camouflage
of a pledge to the Bendigo electors and gets
very soundly licked in doing it, what purpose
can there be in holding up that broken pledge
against him when he plays the game that
keeps him in the place he said he wouldn’t
sit in? What use in shouting “Liar!” in
the teeth of his triumphant smile? Properly
examined and considered, the name liar
carries no hint of reproach. It is true that
if you use it in a mere pub or at the street
corner some absurd person may get up and
hit you on the nose. But that is because
the absurd person knows no better. The
real liar, the solid, unequivocal, emotionless
perverter of ideas properly held by the race
as suitable only for perversion, is, for all
the bleeding nose, a great man. When
Hughes goes into the camp of the enemy
playing a tune on his imperial fiddle he
merely does what Alfred did ; and the fact
that after the tune was played the enemy
defeated him makes his refusal to accept
defeat only the more to be admired. What
Hughes said at Bendigo was clearly said
to deceive the enemy, just as were the recent
remarks of Pearce about the censorship;
and why shquld the enemy’s victoi'y make
the attempted deception less honorable? We
want to get these things in their proper
focus.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
When Billjim is Done With.
Dear Bulletin, —Now and then we see an
announcement of the wonderful new depart-
ment that is being built up under the name
of Repatriation. But up to the present any
practical result has been conspicuous by its
absence. No doubt there is much to be done
that will take time and careful organisation;
but there is also much that could have been
done for the immediate welfare of returned
men. The greatest disability under which
they labor follows from the lack of co-ordina-
tion between the three Government depart-
ments with which they come in touch, viz.,
Military, Pensions and Repatriation. In
England the history of a sick or wounded
man who has been declared to be unfit for
further military service is as follows
(1) He is brought to a first-grade hospital for
treatment by specially-selected physicians and sur-
geons.
(2) He is transferred to an auxiliary hospital for
continuance of treatment during his convalescence.
(3) He is returned to a first-grade hospital and
brought before a medical board, which testifies as to
his condition, the origin of his disability, etc., for
the information of the Pensions Ministry. He is
visited by representatives of the Local Committee of
the area in which the hospital is situated, and appro-
priate information regarding his condition and cir-
cumstances is conveyed to the Local Committee of the
area in which he is going to reside.
(4) When about to be discharged from hosnital to
his home he is given a card containing essential in-
formation, which he keeps ; a similar card is sent to
the Local Committee of his home area by the
hospital authorities.
(5) On his arrival home he is visited or communi-
cated with by a representative of his Local Com-
mittee and informed of arrangements which have
been made (o) for his treatment (if any) ; (b)
for his re-education (if required) ; ( c ) for his
employment (if necessary).
(6) During his period of out-patient treatment he
undergoes the process of re-education in so far as he
is physically fit, and at the termination of the treat-
ment his whole time is available for re-education.
It will thus be seen the State provides that
the maimed soldier shall be retained in hos-
pital so long as he requires in-patient treat-
ment, and that, on his discharge, a great
civil organisation shall be ready to receive
him, to continue his treatment, to re-educate
him and to provide for his employment. The
man is under no anxiety as to the well-being
of his dependants during his preparatory
period. He is not driven by necessity to
return prematurely to a calling in civil life
before his treatment is fully complete. When
he is in the hands of the great civil and mili-
tary hospitals he has the best surgical and
medical advice which the country can pro-
vide. If he lives at a distance from an appro-
priate hospital he can be brought to live in
the neighborhood of one or proceed there
daily from his home. The State maintains
him throughout all these processes. That is
the method in England. What do we find in
Australia?
(1) Men are discharged before their treatment is
complete. In some gases this is due to the men ask-
ing for their discharge in order that they may be
treated by their own doctor or for family reasons;
but it is doubtful whether the desire of many of the
men to be free from military discipline is not taken
advantage of by the authorities, men being given
their discharge before they are fit to receive it in
order to relieve the congestion in the hospitals.
(2) In few cases are arrangements made prior to
discharge for the outdoor treatment of men about to
be discharged, it being left to the men to apply for
the same themselves. This applies more strongly in
the cases of men whose homes are in the country.
(3) No attempt appears to have been made to
invite the co-operation of the great civil hospitals for
the after-treatment of the men.
(4) No Local Committees have been formed and
officially recognised whose duty it would be to look
after all matters affecting returned men in their
area.
(5) No attempt has been made to get in touch
with the men prior to their discharge with a view
to encouraging them to take a course of vocational
training to again fit them for civil life, it being left
to the men to do the best they can for themselves
after their discharge.
What is required is not so much the building
up of new departments as the co-ordination
of existing ones. As soon as a man is certi-
fied as unfit for further military service he
should finish with the military, and be then
the care of a department that would be
responsible for his hospital treatment, out-
door treatment, vocational training, pension
and employment. Then, with an efficient
central information-bureau from which all
particulars of each man’s case could be
obtained, it would be possible to establish
Local Committees throughout the country
working under a central authority on the
lines already employed in England.—A
Voluntary Worker.
-
Cannon Fodder and Kings.
It is not much use paying serious attention
to the ordinary yarn about the internal con-
ditions of Germany, mainly because the next
one is a contradiction of the one that went
before and can be depended upon to be in
equally bitter conflict with those that follow.
Nevertheless, an inspection of recent
happenings in the neighborhood of Potsdam
suggests that the mailed fist is getting into
a tight place. Changes in German Admini-
stration mean a great deal more than they
do in England or France. In Germany
Ministers aye the servants of the Crown,
responsible to the Emperor alone. There-
fore when changes are made the explanation
is that the displaced individual has failed to
retain the Imperial confidence or has objec-
tions to the policy imposed upon him by the
Throne. A very important change was made
when Hollweg, the Imperial Chancellor,
was passed out. His retirement meant
greater authority for the advocates of mere
Frightfulness. And now it is reported that
Frightfulness has triumphed again, this time
over Hertling and Kuehlmann. The
former does not matter, but the fact of a
man like Kuehlmann standing up against
the military party in opposition to annexa-
tion can be taken as a very sound reason for
suspecting that powerful elements among the
Prussian people are looking at the war with
a cold eye. Another circumstance confirma-
tory of this is the reported protestations
made by Dernburg, formerly Colonial Mini-
ster, against continuing the war for pur-
poses of Grab. The meaning of it all —the
growing power of the army leaders and the
widening breach between the Kaiser and
civilian influence —seems to he that Ger-
many is at a stage where the ambitions of
the dynasty are in danger of abrupt collision
with the national yearning for peace.
Russia, and the Matter of the
Suppression of a Paper.
From W. G. Boorman, speaking for a
Russian committee, though himself not a
Russian:—
Attached hereto is a translation, as nearly literal
as the idioms of the two languages permit, of a
notice sent out from Brisbane by the governing
committee of the Association of Russian Workmen
and its organ, Workers’ Life, in reference to the
act of the Federal authorities in suppressing the
paper.
In order that you may clearly understand the
Russian organisation in Australia I beg to explain
briefly.
As Queensland has the largest number of Russians
it was in Brisbane that the first organisation was
formed. Others followed in Sydney and Melbourne;
but these, as well as the scattered Russians through-
out the Commonwealth, looked to the Brisbane
society as headquarters. As the Brisbane members
published a paper in the Russian tongue, this paper,
known as Rabochiya Zhizn, or Workers’ Life,
became the organ of the Russian immigrants and of
their various local organisations throughout Aus-
tralia. The secretary of the Brisbane organisation,
together with the editor of the paper, became a sort
of unofficial consulate and medium of communication
for our Russian population.
As most of the Russians in Australia were either
political refugees or workmen and peasants who had
emigrated for social or economical reasons, the
association was in reality a sort of trades hall and
the paper a workingman’s paper socialistic in tone.
So when the Revolution occurred in Russia both the
organisation and the paper lined up with the Russian
soviets at home. The Revolution divided the Rus-
sians here as well as in Russia, although, of course,
in the very nature of the case, those who favored
the old rfjgime or even a capitalistic regime as
proposed by Kebensky and Kaledin were very few in
numbers. Though few they, nevertheless, were more
articulate than their uneducated countrymen and
evidently had the ear of the Government officials here.
The present Russian consulate holds over from
the Czar’s regime, and would not be recognised pro-
bably by the present Government in Russia. For
this reason alone the Brisbane organisation and the
affiliated societies elsewhere depended almost abso-
lutely on their paper as a means of intercourse and
expression.
As the paper is subject to the Censor, and could not
publish anything without permission, the present act
of suppressing it is naturally looked upon by the
Russians as an act of intended oppression against
them as Russians, and they feel that in it is a
threat of further oppressive acts against them.
Independent of the natural justice of the matter,
Russia is our ally, and any act against Russians as
Russians may be full of all kinds of unfortunate
consequences. The Russian association is practically
a soviet in all its essentials. The soviet to-day
rules Russia by the will of the Russian people.
Hostile acts of this kind will not be overlooked or
forgotten, perhaps at a time when we might wish it
otherwise.
The permission to publish the paper in English
is useless, as its readers cannot read English. It
actually throttles any expression of Russian ideas
and at one stroke renders them inarticulate.
The circular from the Association of Rus-
sian Workmen carries the matter little fur-
ther than Mr. Boorman’s letter. It makes
it clearer, perhaps, that the Russian work-
men in Australia —men, it is important to
remember, representative of the class at
present ruling Russia —are deeply incensed
at the suppression of their “official gazette”:
Comrades, Russian workingmen, you know that
this act is for us a heavy' blow. For from it can be
seen the beginning of oppression against us Russians
in exile, evidently because Russia has ceased from
fighting and demands from her allies the conclusion
of peace.
Each one of us clearly understands that this is a
crying injustice. But it will not be strange if after
this follows something else.
Why the paper in its Russian form was
suppressed we don’t know. But if there
was not very strong reason for it, and
especially if it was done, as suggested, at
the instigation of the supporters of the old
regime, it was a grave error. The people
who have control of such matters probably
don’t know, though they should, that a
struggle is now proceeding for Russian good-
will. If Germany secures it the help "that
she will be able to derive from Russia will
have a most important influence in this
war. Australia can do little, perhaps, to
secure that goodwill for the Allies. But
with characteristic dullness, the Defence
Department has contrived to make enemies
of those whose goodwill we certainly don’t
want the scheming German to gain.
-»
The Gilded Age.
A good many years ago there w T as a New
Australia built on principles of pure public
ownership, and public enterprise, and co-
operation, and elimination of the boss and
the capitalist and the landlord, and the com-
plete equality of mankind. It started the
Gilded Age in Paraguay, and it died there
after fierce recrimination. The causes of
the trouble were many, one being that every-
body was to do as much work as everybody
else, which was interpreted to mean that
nobody was to do more work than anybody.
Suspicions arose early that somebody wasn’t
doing his share, and the fact was candidly
made known to him. Then some men talked
beyond their allowance in the Gilded Age
legislature, and were suspected of aiming at
a dictatorship, and others who had some
saleable qualities beyond the average left
with scorn and took to Private Enterprise.
So the Bolsheviks of Paraguay fell away
and are now almost forgotten. Tney are
recalled in a sort of fashion by the scheme
for the reconstruction of the Empire after
the war, as propounded by the trades unions
of Britain. When Hans has ceased from
troubling and Fritz is at rest these are
some of the events which are to happen if
possible:—
A levy on private capital to pay off the National
Debt.
The elimination of private capital.
The State to annex private capital when the owner
dies except a very moderate provision for the family.
It reads like pure Bolshevik, combined with
New Australianism. Smith or Jones, who
owns £200,000 in war bonds, is to be speci-
ally taxed in order to pay him back his
£200,000 so that he may still be ,a private
capitalist. After that—or perhaps before that
—he will be eliminated, so that his £200,000
will go. And when he dies, which may be
after or before he is eliminated, practically
his whole pile will be forfeited, so his
£200,000 will again go. How he will find
the money to pay his share of the levy for
the extinction of the National Debt doesn’t
appear. He must sell lands or houses ol-
factories or ships or family jewels or some-
thing to other capitalists to raise the wind,
and as the other men are also to be specially
taxed and then eliminated and then con-
fiscated at deatli they will have no chance
or desire to do business even at Is. in the £.
The outcome, of course, is to be State owner-
ship and management of all things, though
the party has so little faith in its own pros-
pective management that it wants the State
to pay half the out-of-work benefits to
unemployed trades unionists. If the State,
being free of debts, and having possession of
all the big industries and assets, can’t pre-
vent the spectre of unemployment from
stalking through the land, the Bolsheviks
of England are men of little faith as well
as big propositions. And the idea of main-
taining trades unions to boss Parliament—
their own Bolshevik Legislature—is another
evidence of lack of belief in the Gilded Age.
When there is no capitalist for the unions
to struggle against, why struggle? Some of
the survivors of New Australia might give
valuable advice when the British unionists
get_ control of affairs after the war and
begin to reconstruct. Certainly they were
a favored crowd. They started with a big
grant of land, cash assistance from a kindly
though impoverished Government, a fine
climate, no public debt, no war wreckage to
clear away, and no oppressor to eliminate.
They were a picked community with the
light of hope shining in each eye—with a
blue sky above, fertility all around and no
frozen slush underfoot. If they failed they
might at least tell their less favored fellow
pilgrims on the road to universal hanniness
what went wrong with the Gilded Age—
what leak it sprung, and what hole it fell
into, and why it presently ceased to be on
speaking terms with itself, so that brother
yearned to throw clods at brother and sisters
scoffed at each other over the fence. The
men who know how not to do it are at least
as valuable as those who don’t know how
to do it but think they do.
Gone on the Land.
A farmer writes from a pleasant spot on
the N. S. Wales Western line, where every
prospect pleases and only w-heat is vile:—
This is the procedure:—
You take the wheat to the railway siding, where
the Government agent weighs it and gives you a
ticket with number of bags and weight.
When all the wheat is delivered you take the
tickets to the boss agent in the town. He issues
what they call an interim receipt.
In course of time the official “certificate for
surplus, ’ as it is called, arrives. On presenting
this at the bank 2s. 6d. per bushel is placed to
your credit-or was, at all events. The fact was
duly stamped on the document. When the further
advances of Gd. were declared they were also
stamped on the document.
On the 1915-1016 wheat pool 3s. has been
paid, and there is talk of 2d. or 3d. per bushel still
to come. On the 1916-1917 pool 2s. 6d. was paid
as a first advance. On August 1, 1917, another 6d.
was paid, less deductions for bad quality. The
Government called this second payment Is. and
fussed a lot, and most people were taken in, but
railway freight and handling charges reduced the
bob to 6d. or under, less deductions for quality.
The certificates of the remains of both pools can
be turned into scrip and so made negotiable. The
process takes four to six weeks. The remnant of
the 1915-16 wheat has been quoted at 2id. per
bushel, but I only got 2d., making 4s. ljd. per
bushel with previous payments. For my 1916-17
certificate I got ssd. per bushel, making 3s. llid’.
per bushel (nominal) with previous payments,
though freight and handling charges leave only
3s. sjd. These certificates have since slumped in
price, so I was fortunate.
In many places the deductions on account of
alleged inferior quality were very heavy—as high
ls. per bushel. A man who had that amount
deducted and who got only 3d. per bushel for his
certificate would have about 2s. 3d. per bushel if no
more disasters struck him.
While the wheat lingered on the railway premises
awaiting the long-delayed shipment the mice fell on
it. A lot of wheat had to be re-bagged in new
bags at something like Is. each. The men who did
the re-bagging got £1 per day and did about 5s
worth of vvork. On the other hand, the men got
horrible skin diseases, and their arms and necks
were a mass of ringworms—the result of dead mice
and other elements of decay.
The wheat as it stands in the bags now is wheat
with a large proportion of dead mice and excreta
all through it and much of it is too foul to make
flour. It will move John Bull to fury when he
sees it. I don’t think those who bought the 1916-17
certificates will get anything more, and I don’t think
the farmers who hung on to their certificates will
get any more either. That leaves them at 3s. per
bushel, less deductions for poor quality, which might
bring them down to 2s.
Prospects are rather black. The Government
promises 4s. per bushel f.o.b. Sydney, equal to 3s.
Cd. at country stations. There is to be a first pay-
ment of 35.; then 6d. later on ; and after that there
may be something. But it is hard to see where the
money will cou.e from, for we hear that the British
Government isn’t buying dead mice this year. And
if there is a hitch 75 per cent, of the wheat men
will fail to carry on, for last year was practically
a failure with a great many, and this year red rust
has cost them millions of bushels.
Of course the 3s. 6d. is subject to the usual de-
ductions because of alleged inferior quality. I know
a man who has sold 2000 bags at 2s. 6d.
There is an extra trouble this year. The Federal
Government makes the supply of bags a monopoly in
order to save us from the rapacious middleman.
The supply was very, very late in turning up. Some
farmers postponed stripping and took the chance of
storms or fire. Some stripped their crops and left
the wheat in heaps, which was also a big risk.
Some are using chaff-bags for temporary security,
the stuff to be re-bagged at great extra cost later
on. Some paid as high as 13s. per dozen for second-
hand sugar-bags—about 2s. per dozen more than
the new cornsacks are to cost when we get them.
The weevils are about finishing the old, belated
crop, but it matters very little now what animal
gets the balance of the ruins.
Good Wine Needs No Foreign Title.
Tiie objection raised by France to the use
of French names to describe wines produced
in other countries offers the Australian in-
dustry one more chance to come out of its
rut. The fact that wines which resemble
those of Europe can be grown in various
parts of the Australian continent led the
unimaginative growers to produce Hock,
Claret, Burgundy, Sherry, Port and Cliablis
on the lame supposition that the users would
be unimaginative, too, and that only under
well-known names would the stuff have a
chance of sale at all. The absurdity of such
an idea ought to have been obvious. No
matter how good a so-called “port” is, the
fact that it doesn’t come from Portugal sug-
gests its inferiority to the genuine article
which does. On the other hand, if the wine
bore some such name as Albury there would
be room for the statement among those who
could best judge that albury was better
than port, an idea which could never grow
up while it masqueraded under a borrowed
name. The same applies all along the line.
To merely prefix “Australian” is not enough ;
for the use of foreign titles for the varieties
makes the adjective only equivalent to a
declaration that the article is an imitation.
The chief constituent of wine is sunshine,
and the sunshine of Australia is as old and
good as that of any part of Eurofle," so
it is at least a fair thing to suppose that our
wines of their kind may be as good as the
others. Further, there is no reason for sup-
posing that Portugal has said the last word
in the production of a sweet red wine nor
France touched the point of perfection in
making a light, dry white one. The borrowed
names limit the endeavor after a still better
thing produced from a better grape ripening
under a brighter sun. Australia may yet
make a wine, or half a dozen wines, that will
be recognised by the whole world as of higher
quality than any of the old ones; but we are
not likely to do it until the industry is freed
from the spirit of mere imitation.
An Educated Democracy.
Two out of many letters on a lately-
broached subject:—
G. S. Curtis: When we consider that the fran-
chise is the greatest of all human powers, underlying
and creating all others, it is astonishing that more
attention has not been given to the necessity of
securing an enlightened use of it. John Stuart
Mill, in his essay on “The Suffrage,” urged strongly
the need of an educational test; he pointed out that
“the natural tendency of Representative Government,
as of modern civilisation, is toward collective medi-
ocrity, and this tendency is increased by all reduc-
tions and extensions of the franchise, their effect
being to place the principal power in the hands
of classes more and more below the highest level of
instruction in the community.” The truth of this
has been verified, I think, by our experience in
Australia. Sir Henry Maine, in his work on “Popu-
lar Government,” declared that as popular govern-
ment approached the Democratic form it would tax
to the utmost all the political sagacity and states-
manship of the world to keep it from misfortune.
It is correct, as The Bulletin says, that the general
education of the people of this country fails to
impart the necessary political knowledge. Our
national schools do not even teach the elements of
political economy. The result is that the great
majority of the people are in the dark and are
exercising the tremendous pow’er conferred upon
them by the suffrage without any conception of
how vital and important th# issues placed before
them may be. Gladstone said the strength of the
modern State lies in the representative system.
Mazzini’s definition of Democracy was: “The pro-
gress of all through all under the leadership of
the wisest and best.” Carlyle said that “this is
the essence of whatever truth there is in Democracy.”
In one of a series of lectures delivered in London in
1909 by Professor Masterman, and attended by over
a thousand members of over 200 labor organisations,
he held that “the true function of Democracy in
modern life is not so much self-government as the
wise choosing of the men who should govern, be-
cause the work of government is becoming more
and more a specialised department of life.”
Masterman also said: “In the past men have tried
an aristocracy of age and an aristocracy of birth
and an aristocracy of wealth ; we should now obtain
an aristocracy by selection.” This seems to me to
be a splendid ideal—an aristocracy of intellect
secured by the wise selection of representatives by
an educated Democracy, gradually raising the stan-
dard higher and higher. This should be attainable
by such a system as The Bulletin has suggested.
As the test of fitness for the franchise would apply
only to future applicants, it is hardly conceivable
that the proposal would meet with serious opposi-
tion. Certainly, the best interests of Australia
demand a radical reform of our present system, which
tends to place a politically educated and efficient
minority at the mercy of the politically ignorant
and inefficient majority.
Norman Robertson: A simple and effective
scheme could easily be evolved on the lines of the
N. S. Wales Education Department’s leaving certifi-
cates. Make the age for leaving school 16 years,
and apply the citizen test in such a way as to ascer-
tain the capacity for reasoning and the grasp of
essentials by examinees. But you must go further.
An educated Democracy must have representatives


IMPORTANT TO FARMERS !
Not quite three years ago a number of farmers who realised the benefits
a co-operative insurance company—•
co-operative effort in insurance could secure for the primary producer
launched
Warmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A 1
Limited
<ZZZ£Sr'* K are besiDnins t 0 realise th ' possibilities o£ - *»^-
Shareholder . It is to youl advantage in every way that you should he. Farmers are invited to write to the Manager for full particulars.
1 ice nsuiance for the Farmer is the principal object of the Company—all profits being available to co-operators.
Standard-rate Premiums for Fire, Hail, Marine, Workmen’s Compensation I nsurance, etc., etc.
ABSOLUTE SECURITY.—Co-operate and Cheapen the Cost of Your Insurances.
Dividends of SIX PER CENT, were paid to co-operators on the operations of each of the Company’s first two years.
HEAD OFFICE; 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
" * lO are even better educated. Let us then insist
that all political candidates have at least a smatter-
ing of such subjects as the history and evolution of
the rations, the psychology of public opinion, prac-
tical economics, and (last and greatest) the ethics
of a square deal to all classes. A 90 per cent, stan-
dard pass in the last of the above would finally and
absolutely give the count to Party. Freed from
this, the true original curse, we board the ’bus for
the Millennium.
«.
Freedom and Sandwiches.
“We have just reached the stage that Ger-
many reached two years ago,” is the way
Britain’s food-controller, Rhondda, explains
the situation in John Bull’s refreshment
department. Exactly how the German was
teelmg beneath the belt a couple of years
ago lias been the subject of many conflicting
stories, hut it matters very little, anyway.
The crux of the business is how London and
Manchester and elsewhere are feeling now,
and whether the inhabitants of the Cold
Country generally have reasonable expecta-
tion of acquiring enough sustenance to keep
going on. The indications seem to be that,
largely through lack of organisation, some of
them are getting pinched, and that only by
a complete system of rationing will serious
trouble be prevented. Taking it all round
the situation generally looks like becoming
one in which both sides may be depending
as much upon the result of a struggle with
starvation as upon big pushes and artillery.
Unless the German has achieved miracles in
the way of production and conservation of
food, and unless the facts concerning his
nourishment are grotesquely distorted, he
certainly is in a bad way. But it is ominous
that he has so far shown no anxiety to do
but fight on, meantime expressing
confidence in his power to hang out on the
smell of sauer-kraut or whatever it is longer
than the Allies. He may be hopelessly
wiong, but up to the present he certainly
has not commenced to think so. And believ-
ing that they have victory well within their
grasp stimulated by the happenings in
Russia, the terrible blow inflicted upon Italy
fi J lO hopes of successful resistance on
the \Y estern Front—the military leaders of
Geimany will make Fritz endure much
more yet, if need be. Looking at the thing
m its military aspect alone, putting the
question of grub aside entirely, is it any
good trying to make out that the Allies have
anywhere established an ascendancy over
the enemy which can be pointed to as good
pi oof that they are winning the war? “If
you sent peace delegations to Von Hinden-
burg >i~ would mock them,” says Lloyd
Why? Because the hard-faced old
Irussian knows he is being beaten? Not
1 i y „ ~y°u , must eith ei- go on or go
under, adds the Prime Minister. That puts
it all into simple terms. The war must go
on because to make peace now is impossible
tor the German has not yet been shown that
he is a loser.
♦
Some time ago this paper had a few further
remarks to make on the subject of the tucker
supplied on troopships, the sale of withheld
food by ships’ stewards and cooks and the
illicit trafficking in spirits. The Defence
Department very properly invited The
Bulletin to supply confidential information
on the subject, which it did. As an outcome
of this correspondence the acting-sec. of the
Department intimates that the attention of
all concerned has again been directed to the
instructions on the subject, and officers have
been “warned to be on the look-out for such
iiiegularities and to adopt drastic measures
to put a stop to such abuses. The Depart-
ment of the Navy has also been furnished
with a copy of the correspondence and asked
to co-operate to ensure that the soldiers are
provided with their proper rations in accord-
ance with Regulations.” It seems nrobable
that the stirringeup has had its effect; at
any rate, none of the old frequent com-
plaints have reached The Bulletin within
the last few weeks.
From George D. Meudell :
Why is a national Australian spirit non-existent?
This accursed apathy and indifference is not due to
lack of intelligence or education. Yet the people
are a mere mass of quarrelling atoms without ideals
and without leadership. Of the population 86 per
cent, are Australasians, 10 per cent. British and 4
Per cent, foreigners. Here is the most nearly pure-
bred community on earth. Yet all our wrangles,
our hates, our squabbles, are imported and not home-
grown. In this new land we ought to have created
a new modern group of public and private ideals,
not Utopian, not Quixotic, but Australian. Have
we done that? Have we tried to squelch bigotry,
scotch sectarianism or forbid the continuance of
old-world schisms and strife ? No; on the contrary,
under the protection of that ill-used privilege, “free-
dom of speech,” we Australians have encouraged
tiie little sectaries, the lovers of Wales, or of Scot-
land, or London, or Ireland or Rome, and all the
centuries-old squabbles attaching to these names, to
renew their bickering and their brawls on this de-
lightful, glorious, lovable continent. Where are our
leaders, or rather who are they? A Scotchman
represents us in the nest of the race; a Welshman
is our nominal leader, with an Irishman in the
running for the succession to his billet, while an
Englishman is the next most powerful man in the
Commonwealth Government. In all the 14 Parlia-
ment Houses there is not one prominent Australian,
not one leader saturated with love of country and
imbued with the knowledge that the government of
this country ought to be strictly business government
and not political. For a beginning all foreign-made
school-books and histories used in Australia should
be burnt at the stake, as being destructive of
national sentiment. We want Australian men and
women united in true love of their birthplace and
imbued with full faith in its destiny. Only by
those means can we ever hope to uproot, or blast
out, or cut down and kill all these archaic old-world
squabbles and quarrels, feuds and factions.
Hughes makes it hard work for those
friends of his who are still forlornly fighting
to persuade the public that their hero is
honest but hysterical. When the other day
he pumped the same old tears into his
throat and, addressing the Labor party,
offered to stand aside if he was the obstacle
to union, the S. M. Herald and his other
new worshippers said triumphantly “Now,
then !” For three or four days the Labor
party was flayed for not accepting the noble
offer. Then Tunon turned up Hansard,
the official record of Parliamentary speeches,
and discovered that the martyr’s offer of
self-sacrifice had been surreptitiously altered,
an utterly impossible condition being added
to the offer. That was too much for the Tele-
graph and a few others to swallow. But
the Herald isn’t so particular. The dear-
old lady’s daily prayer is understood now-
adays _ to be: “Lord, Thou knowest I and
my friends are so upright and virtuous that
we can break every Commandment with
impunity!”
The other day Haw--hawtliorn Tramway
Trust framed a new regulation, which
announced :
Motormen and conductors are hereby notified that
the familiar manner at present existing between them
and their superior officers_ must discontinue. In
future, on meeting a superior officer, motormen and
conductors must touch their caps in recognition.
Should any motorman or conductor have occasion to
speak to his superior officer he .must at all times be
addressed according to his rank.
Of course, it has been received with snorts
of indignation, especially by the numerous
returned soldiers who are employees. Only
the troglodytes who are to be found on tram-
way trusts and municipal councils would
try to introduce into Australia the habit of
touching the forelock at a time when it has
become practically a thing of the past even
in England. Men are no more likely to feel
any more real respect for their bosses by
being compelled by regulation to touch their
hats to them than they would be likely to
entertain any more genuine contempt" for,
say, aldermen, if they were obliged by law
to poke their tongues out at every alderman
who got on a tram.
How one industry breeds another :
Australia’s largest shipment of rails to date, 4000
tons, left Newcastle for South Africa very recently.
This represents about a week’s output from the
Broken Hill Prop.’s works and is one-fourth of the
oi dei. The co. is now well on with the construction
of the second blast furnace, which will double the
output of the works. It intends to turn out all
kinds of iron and steel for sale to subsidiary com-
panies (which it will assist, if necessary), to be
manufactured into galvanised iron, wire, etc. But
in many cases assistance won’t be necessary. A.
Coninan, of Goninan and Co., engineers, has just
returned from England and America after looking
at the different processes for making heavy railway
n.aterial, such as wheels, axles, etc., and the firm
intends starting works on its own account. Mean-
time Morrison and Bearby have been working quietly
"dth 'A furnace and steam-hammer making heavy
axles, etc., from scrap. They now have in working
order a 12-inch rolling mill constructed entirely by
themselves, and have turned out over 100 tons of
small bar-iron for horseshoes, etc., for which there
is a ready sale owing to the war. They are all
depending upon the good sense of Australia to give
them adequate protection by tariff when the present
protection by U boats has gone by.
Blundell, Goode and Crawford Vaughan
(by his wife, in his absence in America)
have retained Symon, K.C., and started a
libel action against A. T. Saunders, the
almost-daily writer of letters in the Adel-
aide papers on the land-deals of Vaughan’s
late Government. Also Blundell has issued a
warning to Lionel Hill, head of the Labor
party, to be careful what he says on the
same subject, to which Hill replies that he
“always endeavors to be prudent,” but “re-
fuses to be coerced by boastful swagger.”
From the Gallery :
With all its ponderous majority the Fusion does
not possess a trio of wits to compare with Anstey,
Brennan and Considine on the other side. These
three, who stand for every “ism” that has been
nurtured in tears and suffering, are the snipers in
every Opposition attack. Differing widely in their
methods, they are alike in their love for witty in-
vective. Anstey is the slickest of the squad and the
most arresting speaker in Parliament. People gasp
admiringly about the trenchancy of Hughes, but up
here we are conscious of his inferiority when we
compare his tongue with Anstey’s. Hughes never
possessed a mordancy that flames into scorching
rhetoric, nor has he Anstey’s gift of concentrating
the fury of an outraged spirit into a blistering,
blinding mot. Anstey’s recent comment, “As the
oak came from the acorn, so out of a rotten egg
they manufactured the Commonwealth Police,” is
worth miles of Willie Hughes’s daily paperese.
Anstey’s sense of satire is as deep and brooding as
Swift’s, while his flippancy seems worse because it
often sounds like a sob. Brennan is hampered by
the superiority of his weapons. He attacks the
enemy with polished paradox and chosen gibe, and
has the defect of uttering things too subtle for
instantaneous effect. Ilis jests are fitted with time-
fuses, so to speak, and explode when his dull target
has left the scene. Considine is a novice, but is
improving fast; he has a capacity for short-
range impromptus that can make stodgy opponents
feci very uncomfortable. Considering their humor
and personal decorum as well, these three are a
cruel retort to the usually unread Tory who jeers
about the ignorance and vulgarity of Labah.
While Scotland has contributed 620,000
soldiers the Irish record shows only 170,000.
The figures are startling. But to get the key
of the situation the action of British Min-
isters in the days just prior to the war
must be remembered. Armed rebels in
Ulster were not disarmed nor were they
punished. There was not the slightest indi-
cation of any sincerity on the part of those
in power where Home Rule was concerned ;
and when the war began, what was more to
be expected than that the people of Ire-
land should distrust England’s claim to
be fighting in the interests of the small
nations? Had Carson and his fellow con-
spirators been made to clearly understand,
m 1013, that a swift, sure hangman's rope
was waiting for them if they went one step
further in their campaign of treason, Irish-
men might have joined heartily in the
struggle against the Teuton. But the Brit-
ish Cabinet embraced Carson and played the
game of disunion, which is the game of
Germany; and so man-power was thrown
away.
The Mayor of Sydney's Fund is for sup-
plementing war pay, and thus relieving dis-
tress among the families of soldiers. Three
years ago it stood at £216,000; but such
have been the calls on it that it will be
worked out by the end of June. Another
£loo,ooo is. therefore being asked from the
public. This paper hopes the subscriptions
will be forthcoming. The fund is a most
useful one, well administered. The war still
rages, and the obligation to give remains as
strong as ever.
Just-dead Thomas Francis Waller, one of
the first Commissioners of Sydney Harbor
Trust, was son of a distinguished father,
John Francis Waller, LL.D., a member of
the Irish Bar, but far better known as poet
and prose-writer of the ’fifties and before.
The son came to Australia many years ago,
and was long-time a land-valuer for the
Government.
The crisis has found out the sick men in
the Federal Cabinet. John Forrest, who
has been very poorly lately, has found a
dugout in a private hospital and is getting a
few stitches in a torn pledge or something.
Watt is also unwell and could do with a box
of Green Pills for G ruesome People. As
for Hughes, he still has his old shortage of
temper and hearing and tries to keep neuras-
thenia at bay with brief spells of leave. But
homoeopathic doses of leisure are ridiculous
for a man in his state of health.
An old citizen of Orroroo (S.A.) has had
the privilege of reading a confident news-
paper announcement of his death. Ilis
daughter and her husband were on a visit
to Adelaide when the body of an old man
was found in the Torrens, and they identi-
fied it as his, and arranged to send" it home
for burial. But when the news reached
Orroroo he emulated Mark Twain in stating
that it was greatly exaggerated. On this the
police turned to a sodden letter in the pocket
of the corpse, and found the correct name,
which was that of a suburban Adelaide
resident.
“Writer”: You can always depend on the
army to put the right man in the right
place. Two of my nephews served the best
of all apprenticeships for motor-transport
work by running lorries with station stores
over the bush-tracks of Bananaland. One
nephew with a love of machinery was re-,
garded as a champion at his game. Both
enlisted last year to help motor old Billjim’s
supplies over the battlefields. The army is
now employing the better of the two in' an
English remount camp! His father (a
station-manager with lifelong experience)
comments pathetically: “And. God bless my
soul, he doesn't know which end of a horse
can kick him !”
By what official reasoning are young
fellows anxious to join the Australian Flving
Corps denied entrance except by way of the
A.1.F.? There are three war forces nowa-
days—land, water and aerial; and the two
former have, in Britain, been jealously con-
tending for domination of the third, with
the result that an independent Air Council
was at last formed. The Minister of
Defence has no say in the question of who
should or who shouldn’t join the Navy. Why,
then, should he be able to close the Austra-
lian Flying Corps against all who are not
prepared to enlist in the A.I.F. ? It isn’t
as though flying was a soft job in which a
slacker could avoid risking his skin. Aerial
lighters are the elect who will presently take
all the starch out of militarism and make it
look futile.. Why put an obstacle in the way
of daredevils who ask to be of the elect?
Sydney Telegraph groaned heavily the
other morning about the iniquity of a scheme
for buying off Hughes by making him High
Commissioner in London. This sort of thing
is an outrage on decency, the Telegraph
says. Of course it is. But we have allowed
it to become a permanent feature of our
party politics. There have been very few
recent appointments to the London repre-
sentation of States or Commonwealth which
have not been jobs. Fisher wanted a safe
place, and, with Hughes’s help, jobbed him-
self into the billet. The appointment of Wade
was part of a deal; and mcye dangerous
still was the appointment of Cann to be a
N. S. Wales Railway Commissioner. No
doubt in the end Hughes will be got rid of
in the. same way. And the people, not the
politicians, will be to blame. When did they
ever punish the politician who bought the
other one out?
Arthur Searcy, now president of the
Marine Board in S. Aus., has presented to
Adelaide Public Library a valuable book,
bound by himself. In 1895 he was Sergeant-
at-arms in the S. Aus. Assembly, and went
as private sec. with Kingston to a Premiers’
Conference in Ilobart that was to discuss
Federation. The other Premiers were Turner,
George Reid, Forrest, Braddon and Nelson.
Kingston and Turner Were to prepare a
draft for the Conference to consider, but the
former tackled it single-handed. Searcy has
thoughtfully verified by affidavit his account
of how he started to write, at Kingston’s dic-
tation at eight in the evening of January 81,
at Ha thorn’s Hotel, and sat straight on till
four in the morning, when the draft was
finished, and he took it straight to the Gov-
ernment Printer, to have proofs ready for
the Conference to consider that day. He has
the original,, the first proof with revises
in Kingston’s writing, and then the Various
revises as the Conference discussed the
clauses. It is a long way, of course, from
being the Constitution which Australia ulti-
mately adopted—that was a matter of dis-
cussion and compromise. But it was the
first complete draft for a Federal Enabling
Act.
The politician doesn’t often say less when
he might say more; but Ball, N. S. Wales
Minister for Works, has cut his language
down too fine. The other day he announced
that, as the result of an inquiry, a change
had been made at the State Timber Works
and a new manager appointed. The out-
standing features of the business were that
the man who made the report on which the
Minister acted was the man who was given
the job, while the old manager, Bacon,
wasn’t even given a chance to defend his
administration. “The inquiry had no refer-
ence to Mr. Bacon,” said the Minister. As
Bacon had the job once and hasn’t got it
now, the methods of the Department would
look a good deal better if Ball explained, as
he probably can, why the inquiry had no
reference to Bacon.
Melbourne is threatened with another
association for dealing with cow-juice, viz.,
a “body of milk distributors interested in
supplying pure, whole milk, as drawn from
the cow.” This has naturally stirred up
the Retail Dairymen’s Ass., the insinuation
being that, its members draw their fluid from
the whitewash tub or somewhere. But why
don’t municipal councils take over the whole
business of distributing milk—an article of
food which stands absolutely in a class by
itself, and which above all others shouldn’t
be liable to tricks of trade? By abolishing
unnecessary inspectors • and ' superfluous
horses, carts and milk-ohs, they could deliver
pure juice, “as drawn from the cow,” at
about half to-day’s price.
“0.L.”: As to the Talbot Milk Institute
(B. 17/1/T8), it seems worth while to men-
tion the evidence in favor of that concern
adduced by Dr. Jeffreys Wood at the recent
deputation to Health Minister Downward
and Treasurer' McPherson. Dr. Wood, who
has a wide reputation as a children’s special-
ist,, said that during the last financial year
the infant mortality of Melbourne was 18.78.
Former Health Minister McLeod had refused
to continue the subsidy for that period. For
the previous year, when the Government had
parted up a substantial sum, and there was
much more Talbot milk available, the death-
rate was only 14.73. It is a melancholy cir-
cumstance ; and all the more melancholy
when one contemplates the fact that the late
Peacock Government wasn’t economical in a
general way—only in particular instances
like the Talbot Milk Institute.


GANCIA’S
EXTRA DRY
ASTI SPARKLING
SWEET
AS SUPPLIED TO THE KING OF ITALY AND ALL ROYALTIES.
awarded /GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1900.
\ GRAND PRIX, BRUSSELS, 1910.
CIVIL SER\ICE STORE AND ALL LEADING HOTELS. ASK FOR IT.
Sole Agents for Australasia: LUBRANO CSb FERRARI, 32 O’Connell St., Sydney.
ALL OTHER ITALIAN WINES KEPT IN STOCK.
IF you went to the People you
would get a unarrmous vote
in favor of—
CHATEAII-TANBNDA
SPECIAL jfc ifc % HOSPITAL
BRANDY.
THE PEOPLE’S FAVORITE OBTAINABLE EVERYWHERE.
Tucßer (SL Co. Limited—Sydney—Proprietors.
The Correct “Brogue” Shoe
—a heavy-soled stout, all-leather shoe with leather back-
lining inside, wide rope-stitched welts and the typical
“Brogue” perforations with neatly-designed wing caps,
facing and golosh. Ideal for golf, mountain; wear and
week-ends.
Black Box Calf or Tan Willow Calf.
32|6
We pay postage. Please state size and toe-
ntting.
New catalogue, a very useful guide, sent free on
Peapess & Go. Ltd.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street, SYDNEY-
g
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion . “The Willow Tree”
Her Majesty’s “The Bing Boys Arc Here”
Palace “Turn to the Right”
Lyceum Triangle Plays
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Dick Whittington”
Royal “The Bird of Paradise”
Princess’s “The Lifeguardsman”
King’s “Aladdin”
Tivoli Ada Reeve
lloyt s I)k Luxe A Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
Auditorium Fox Films
“The Lifeguardsman,” at Melbourne
Princess’s, is one of those snobbishly roman-
tic fictions of tinpot royalty that make
democracy want to tear its hair and shriek.
Somewhere in the Gennan-Balkan world of
Anthony Hope's dreams a blessed Hereditary
Princess gets instructions from her Mini-
stry (which exists only in the dapper form
of H. W. Varna) to marry the boozer Prince
(Allan Wilkie) of a powerful neighboring
district, with a view to improvise the
finances of her feeble royalty business. But
the Prince of another impoverished township
is a bonza bachelor who serves as a gallant
Lifeguardsman because he wants the money,
and the Hereditary Princess naturally pre-
fers this struggling royalty to the capitalist
who is always calling for brandy. The two
young men motor across from their respec-
tive kingdoms, accompanied by their respec-
tive aideykongs, and come strolling promis-
cuously into the palace grounds where the
plot begins to thicken. It turns out to be
much the same old plot that you get in
melodramas of mere middle-class life. The
nice young Prince is suddenly called away
on business concerning his father, and if lie
doesn’t _ return by the midnight after next
the Princess will have to marry her pet
aversion, Prince Brandysnap. Therefore
Prime Minister Varna and the royal Brandy-
snap conspire to stop him on his travels.
The plot breaks down in a droll manner;
nevertheless the gallant chosen suitor almost
loses his Princess .through a motor-car acci-
dent. Ten minutes before midnight lie turns
up in a wrecky condition with his memory a
blank, like poor old John Stofel in “Struck
Oil.” After much wandering around and
falling down exhausted, he recovers his
memory and grabs the Princess, so the
brandy blighter is left gnashing his teeth,
and the petty kingdom of Gulf is bound, pre-
sumably, to file its schedule for want of fur-
ther capital to carry on the Court. This is
a bald statement of the case on its serious
side. The rest of the entertainment is
‘comedy relief,” which, to tell the truth,
seems somewhat lighter than author Walter
Howard’s usual make of frivolity.
* * * *
The most and the least that Wilkie and
co. can do with an absurdity of this sort is
to put some force and feeling into it. Wilkie
himself presents an alcoholised Prince whose
very breath diffuses intoxication, as it were,
and fuddles the brain of the whole drama.
Nobody could possibly mistake him for a
sober Serene Highness. Miss Marie Ney,
as the heroine, is the most promising novice
the Melbourne stage has seen since Muriel
Cumm i n g made
her first appear-
ance. She is grace-
ful and pictur-
esque, and already
she can deliver a
long conventional
address to the gal-
lery as though she
were thinking only
of the people on
the stage. Ronald
Riley, a manly,
earnest, full-toned
Lieut. Tosh. is
nearly realistic in
an utterly ficti-
tio u s character.
His convincing
style shields one
of the final scenes
from a cold blast
of ridicule. Dore
well placed;
Walter Hunt gives
a touch of human-
ity to a minor
part; Vivian
Edwards is a
fairly-effective hero
until lie meets with
his motor smash.
Other satisfactory
battlers in the
“The Lifeguardsman,”
at Melbourne
Princess's.
Henri Dore as a
Lieutenant.
banal cause are Styan, Marjorie Soper.
Mabel Russell, Scully, Inman and Dorothy
Seaconibe, a _ clever child actress who is
rapidly growing stagey in her airs of in-
genuousness.
The 17 scenes of “Whittington,” at Mel-
bourne Majesty’s, continue to be witnessed
by great masses of public eight times a week.
There has been many a panto, that gave its
patrons more jokes to remember, but few
that brought more grist to the mill.
“Aladdin” also goes on supplying a want
at Melbourne King’s. One or two new
items, including a see-saw song and scene,
have been worked into the proceedings
within tlie past fortnight, and the place
where Daisy Revette used to do her best is
now occupied by Miss De Beere. Other-
wise the adventures of Abanazar, the Won-
derful Scamp, are exactly as before.
A hint of impending dissolution appears
in the advt. of “The Bird of Paradise,” at
Melbourne Royal. One of the peculiari-
ties of The Bird is its lack of a hero.
Kimball, adored of the heroine, would have
been the hero had he lived a godly, righteous
and sober mixed-marriage, instead of lapsing
into drink and mean contemptibility. And
Harvey, who begins as a degraded drunk
and dead-beat, lost his chance of rising to
real heroism when he agreed to have a
tiddly with toper Kimball in the 2nd Act.
True, he didn’t have the drink. Just when
he was about to raise the cussed poison to
his lips, his blonde, straightlaced girl (who
is turning sour through long waiting to be
hugged) happens on the scene and exclaims
“Algernon!” in the nick of time. Harvey
then puts down the flowing bowl and never
wants to touch it again. But you can’t
give him a V.C. for that. Had the lady been
half an hour later she might have found her
convert rolling on the floor.
Ada Reeve is returning to Melbourne
Tivoli on Saturday for the purpose of per-
forming musical comedy with an augmented
co. This time she will be “Winnie Brooke,
Widow,” and the co. will support her in that
capacity. Meanwhile the passing vaudeville
bill has been strengthened by the reappear-
ance of Ruth Budd and the retirement of
the Kismet Trio.
The “continuous” customer can scan the
record of Valeska Suratt in “The Slave” at
the Melba Theatre,
Melbourne, this
week. Yaleska is
the Slave of Croesus
and the Serf of
Fashion, and the
tyrants nearly
cause a short-cir-
cuit in her nervous
system. At the
Britannia next
door Cassidy, the
famous crook and
safebreaker, has
been finding the
combination that
opens the heart of
an attorney and his
daughter. Most of
Cassidy’s adven-
tures happen in
rain, and the moist
effects are so realis-
tic that audiences
instinctively feel
for their umbrellas.
“The Lifeguardsman,”
at Melbourne
Princess's.
Allan Wilkie as the
dissolute Prince Hugo.
Commencing to-day, “The Heart of Ezra
Greer” will be searched for kindly motives.
** * *
Jack Pickford, brother of Mary, appears
in a story of school life entitled “The Var-
mint” at Hoyt’s Melbourne house this week.
Most school yarns are too cleverly contrived
in color and incident, but this one presents
the natural crudities and brutalities of the
ordinary nipper without endowing him with
a superior brain for mischief. In Hoyt’s
second spasm, “Lost in Transit,” George
Behan is an Italian rag-dealer; and Fatty
Arbuckle in “Oh, Doctor,” puts plenty of
flesh and frivolity into the middle of the
programme.
n*
The Firm has treated 11. H. Davies’s
“Outcast” rather shabbily in Sydney. This
fine realistic play, incidentally affording
Katlilene Macdonell her greatest acting
chance, was put on at the end of the “Daddy
Longlegs” season, and the season closed with
it going strong. Now it is given one week
between “Peter Pan” and “The Willow
Tree,” and the public, which does really know
what it wants better than even a theatrical
firm, is rushing the stop-gap with fervor. In
the present production, which makes way for
“The Willow Tree” next Saturday, Ivathlene
Macdonell and Charles Waldron are seen at
their best; and though Kenneth Brampton,
who takes Louis Kimball's part, lacks a little
of the youthful verve belonging to “Mr.
Manhattan,” he furnishes otherwise an ad-
mirable character-study.
“Turn to the Right,” which still finds that
reform is good business at Sydney Palace,
will score its 100th performance in Sydney
on Tuesday. Maw’s peach jam certainly is
a success.
The box-office proudly anounces the reason
of the continued success of “The Bing Boys”
at Sydney Majesty’s: “The intellectual
pressure is negligible.” That’s so. The Bill-
“BABY MINE,” AT SYDNEY TIVOLI.
Bob Greig is arrested for kidnapping.
jim Boys are over there, wondering when
their reinforcements are coming. But the
Bing Boys are here. Worry is all right for
Bill. But why should we?
* :J: *
One hundred and thirty years ago come
Saturday (26th). Captain Arthur Phillip
formally “founded” New South Wales. To
celebrate the occasion Mr. William Anderson
has decided to give the last performance of
“Jack and the Beanstalk” at the Hippo-
drome (Sydney) on that evening.
** * %
Sydney gives its usual warm welcome to
its namesake James and his Royal Strollers.
On Saturday they arrived at The Playhouse
with a new assortment of burlesques played
by the same assortment of favorite comed-
ians. Even Billy does not seem to have
aged, nor has custom staled his infinite
variety of jests. A clean and clever show.
** * *
Robert Greig, Beatrice Holloway and co.
contrive to keep “Baby Mine” alive every
evening for an hour or so at Sydney Tivoli;
but Margaret Mayo’s slight little farce about
the young husband with paternal ambitions
who becomes the father for an hour of three
borrowed infants has to be bounced at full
speed by all hands. Baritone Peter Dawson
finds it hard to escape from his audiences;
he is the big nugget of the bill. Annette
George uplifts her small soprano pleasantly
in familiar ballads, and comedienne Ethel
Vaugn of the humorous eyes “gets” the
house by pretending to be tickled to death at
her own stuff. The Skating Novaks and the
interminable Creole Fashion Plate are also
available.
• * * Si:
Poor old “Robinson Crusoe” is never
lonely nowadays. He and his big popular-
priced pantomime have settled down together
on what is apparently a permanent lease of
Sydney Grand Opera House. And —“chil-
dren see it for sixpence.”
}Js * 5 ; 5
If you’ve forgotten the delight Jack Pick-
ford gave in “Seventeen,” see “The Var-
mint.” Owen Johnson’s wholesome story of
schoolboy life. Pickford portrays with true
artistry youth merging into manhood. On
view at Sydney Hoyt’s and the Haymarket.
These houses have another winner in “Dost
in Transit.” A sick clergyman, a dance-
hall girl, some shooting-irons and a pack of
cards, are the big raisins in “Silent Scott,”
featuring Roy Stewart. A collection of mar-
vellous covers for Mrs. Vernon Castle’s slim-
ness are a feature of “The Mark of Cain,”
a murder mystery on the usual lines, but
produced remarkably well. Address The
Lyceum. The Crystal Palace is not fortu-
nate in its special. “The Regenerates.” This
deals with the problem of intermarriage, and
the necessity of crossing blood that has grown
blue and thin with the sturdy red that runs
in the butler’s daughter. It doesn’t move us:
there are so few people buttling in Australia;
besides, no real Australian aristocrat asks
his daughter’s suitor “Who was your grand-
father?” There’s a feeling that it’s much
better to let every gravestone do its own
lying.
Dear Bulletin, —I for one am filled with
modified admiration of some of the schemes
for settling returned soldiers on the land.
One of them deals with 550 acres near
Parramatta, which is to be turned into
hen-farms. Already 300 acres are being
“utilised.”. according to N.S.W.’s enthusi-
astic Minister for Lands, who recently
lunched a number of people on the strength
of the business. There are 49 farms—say
six acres each. The equipment including
house and sundries is set down at £l2OO
per farm, or £58,000, and each farm is to
have GOO laying hens (29,400 hens), and
each farm is to produce £545 worth of egg
and fowl per annum (£26,705 in all).
YV hen the other 250 acres are in working
order the quantity of hypothetical hens and
eggs and profits will be nearly doubled —all
this from the one small area that was
lunched about so cordially at Parramatta,
and it is only one area among several.
Roughly speaking, this 550-acre space is
to turn out nearly half as much value in
fowls and eggs as all Queensland, and that
despite the fact that the!* farmers aren’t all
experts. The hen is at all times just as
unreliable as any other bird or animal—
perhaps a little less so than the pheasant
and a little more so than the lion. It is
subject to as many diseases as the average,
and it suffers from vermin, thieves, crows,
rats, dogs, foxes and many sundries. When
it is run as an industry by itself and is de-
pendent wholly on purchased food, it has a
habit of outrunning the constable, and it is
a hard-working and truly Christian hen that
lays up to expectations. Moreover and
furthermore, I have grave doubts about any
lien that opens with a Ministerial lunch, and
find it hard to take the creature seriously. 1
don’t imagine that political patronage does
it any good.—Yours faithfully, James Bil-
pad. I\S. —I re-open this letter to mention
that many hens eat their eggs or any other
eggs, and bad-tempered ehooks trample on the
next chook-woman’s chickens out of pure
cussedness. Also, these birds are very com-
bustible, and if once a hennery takes fire
there is little hope. The inmates, being next
door to idiots —a fact evidenced by the re-
treating forehead and the absence of chin—
have little capacity for self-help in an emer-
gency.—J.B.
Somebody appreciates Australia’s hard-
woods, at any rate; for American buyers are
pervading N. S. Wales looking for timber for
shipbuilding. They seem to fear that Aus-
tralia may want to keep it to build her own
ships ; but they misunderstand the position—
and those who control the position. Ameri-
can and Norwegian softwoods are good
enough for us. Even the Vic. Land Settle-
ment Board still builds settlers’ houses of
the temporary, imported stuff. The Timber
Workers’ Union lately asked the Board
what its idea was, and was pleasantly in-
formed that Australian wood was used
“wherever possible.” The trouble is that so
many imported persons are in authority, and
they mostly think that the only place possi-
ble is the fireplace.
“Murrabit”: The Governments now pay
most of the cost of our Universities, and it
is time they stepped in and ended the bad
old practice of charging fees for every trivial
formality connected with, for example, enter-
ing a course and receiving degrees or dip-
lomas. It is hard on the struggling student
and often harder on his struggling parents
to be charged a guinea for simply signing
the matriculating book and getting the usual
piece of paper. When young Green-
horn has finished all his Arts exams, the
poor lad thinks he is at once entitled
to his degree or diploma. But he
isn’t. The good old guinea must have
a say. Greenhorn’s dad has to first lodge
five or seven with his boy’s University
account for the blessed privilege of appear-
ing before the Chancellor (in a bit of hired
drapery that you pay 7s. 6d. for at the lodge)
and receiving the imposing document that
marks the end of the academic journey.
“Yarriambiak” : Whatever the position may
be at Horseferry-road, I know that many of
the staff men in Australia are being blamed
for being cold-footers when they have done
their very best to get away. At Broad-
meadows the other day I saw a letter written
by a warrant-officer to the Defence Depart-
ment. He assured me that he had previously
made 17 applications to be relieved of his
duties as machine-gun instructor and sent to
the Front, and that he had every time been
turned down. In his 18th letter he guaran-
teed to provide an efficient substitute not
now in the service, and offered to pay £lO
towards the cost of the transfer. The
wooden official reply was that applicant could
not be spared from his duties as instructor.
Within a few weeks it knocked the bottom
out of its excuse for not sending this man
to the Front by taking him from the job
from which it said he could not be spared
and making him a company sergeant-major.
“S.S.S.” : Whilst there was a shortage of
potatoes and sugar in England I tried to get
my various landladies to serve rice to me as
a vegetable. I usually found it impossible.
One old dame in Surrey declared she wouldn’t
have that ’eathen muck in her house. I told
her the aristocracy frequently eat rice. I
know she didn’t believe it.
Reported that only light ales will be sold
in Canada until after the war. The Scotch
songster was gifted with second sight when
he wrote “Come an’ rue the rye.”


A Beautiful Woman is a
Paradise to the Eyes.
LADIES! Think how many years older your
face looks than skin that is unexposed. Yet the
world judges you by your face, and with the wastage
of manhood caused by war and your growing import-
ance, the world will become more critical. How
unfair then to yourself not to counteract the ill
effects of wind and weather, dust and grime—after
surfing, touring, motoring or a busy day at home—
and to have the clear, youthful, healthy and attractive
skin that is rightfully yours.
It is so easy to acquire this by care and attention.
The removal of this hidden dirt and grime takes
with it the shine and oiliness, the drawn, weary
expression, and by perseverance youthful cheeks
smile back at you, and all declare “how well you
look.”
lief use to grow old when it can be avoided. Why
cast envious eyes at another when all you need to
do, to have an equally enviable complexion, is to
pay attention to and care for your skin? Be comely
even if not beautiful.
In modern skin hygiene the aim is to cleanse and
improve the texture of the skin, develop and bring
out its latent beauty, rather than gloss over its
imperfections.
John Strange Winter’s toilet preparations offer the
modern creams, etc., for this purpose.
They are entirely free from any pastiness, and
contain not a particle of grease. They are harmless
to the skin of the merest babe. They are so dewy,
so delicate.
They are used bv Royalty, a sufficient guarantee
for you.
They have won six gold medals at London,
Paris, Rome.
Ask for them at the Civil Service, Farmer’s,
David .Tones’s, Lassetter’s, Washington H. Soul’s,
W. T. Waters’, Horderns’, McCathie’s, all chemists,
etc., etc.
Powders (8 tints), Soap, New Face Cream (2
colors) for oily skins, Lakshmi Cream and Lotion
for dry skins, Hair Foods (oily and non-oilv), Car-
mine, Dry Shampoo and Dental Cream. Send 3d.
stamp for sample of powder (name the tint), or
soap, or dental cream, and booklet, to John Strange
Winter (London, Paris, Rome), 32 Depot, 26 Jamie-
son Street, Sydney.
Meltoman
I▼ I HIGH-CLASS
jSPEfIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
fdg
E. BROWN © SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY.
THE REDEEMING FEATURE.
MRS. MALONEY : “Well, p'raps some of them
politicians 'are broke their pledge; hut,
mind ye, they can’t he so had—they
don't go an’ get real speechless.”
•‘Lifebelt”: We get used to all sorts of
freight, but the demented person is an em-
barrassment every time he turns up. There
is no suitable accommodation for him on
vessels. One was locked up in his cabin the
other day; but when the door was unlocked
in port he wasn’t there. The best guess the
chief steward could make was that he had
tried to escape to the deck by way of the
porthole and had fallen into the Pacific 10
miles from shore. Years ago the purser of
an Australian liner asked a quiet passenger
for his ticket, and was told with dignity, “I
don’t require a ticket. I am Christ.” “Glad
to meet you, sir,” said the urbane purser.
“I’ve heard a lot about you. But why didn’t
you walk like you did before?” Whereupon
to prove his bona fides he at once jumped
overboard and tried to.
' Ivaree”: After Fritz bad strategically
imshied from the Sclnvaben Redoubt, the
padre strafed us with a church parade. A
fatigue party collected a lot of disused
ration-boxes and built them into an im-
promptu pulpit, being careful to show pro-
minently an inscription to the effect that
Johnnie Walker, born 1820, was still going
strong. The padre, after squinting at it
slyly, gave out the opening hymn: "The
Church’s One Foundation.”
“B. Pestis”: Pneumonic plague in Man-
churia is holding out another warning, and
the telegraphed reports hint significantly that
it has been allowed to get ahead of the health
measures. In the present state of disorgani-
sation of all international health work, and
the merry Hell which appears to exist in
parts of China, the news is serious. Pneu-
monic plague kills in short order, and it is
spread by the fine drops of spray coughed up
from the bacilli-laden lungs of the victim.
Imagine a bad cold brought into a household
at the beginning of winter, and you have
some idea of the certainty and speed with
which it spreads. Confer on your bad cold
a death-rate of more than three out of every
four attacked, and you have a fair picture of
pneumonic plague. Fleas and rats have
little or nothing to do with the spread of this
form of plague. If our six different sets of
health-officers, with their six different sets
of laws —mostly antiquated—operating in
six strictly-limited States under six different
Ministers and about 600 vested interests,
come to be faced with pneumonic plague,
Australia will have something more than
political drivel and pony-racing to think
about.
* * * *
The public has lately had a better chance
to see what sort of animal the Censor-
ship is. Poor, dull Pearce opened the exhi-
bition by challenging his critics to produce
one case in which war news censored in
London had been expunged in Australia.
Sydney Sun, let off the chain by this chal-
lenge, instantly produced a message that
had been deleted during the last Conscrip-
tion campaign. Pearce replied that he didn’t
know whether the message had been cen-
sored or not; but “there is one reason why,
at the time the message was received, it
would not have been allowed publication
even ki England, and that is because of its
bearing on the disposition of the Australian
forces at the time.” Now, this was the
message:—
Considerable sections [of the Australians in
France] have been playing football and attending
the races and horse-shows; some have motored to
seaside resorts, the British supplying a fleet of trans-
ports for the purpose. Some football teams claim
international players and their games attract great
crowds: but soldiering is never allowed to sink into
the background.
The yarn that this was knocked out
“because of its bearing on the disposition of
the Australian forces at the time” is too silly
to be even amusing. Professor Nicholson,
the Censor in Sydney, has had to put up
with a good deal, but he couldn’t put up
with that reflection on his sanity; so lie
next came into view with a statement that
the message had not been expunged on his
initiative. What happened is, of course,
quite clear. While Hughes was drawing pic-
tures of the Australian soldiers fainting in
the trenches for lack of reinforcements, the
Sun’s correspondent thoughtlessly drew
quite another picture of some of them; and,
in spite of all the promises that there would
he no political censorship, the news that
didn’t fit in with Hughes’s story had to go.
And it went.
* * * *
Some Government departments are very
careless. A Sydney woman who found a
cigarette “bumper” in a cake she bought
refused to regard it as a New Year present,
and complained to the Health Department.
The result was a prosecution of Teague, the
pastrycook, under the Pure Food Act, and
a forced contribution towards the reduction
of Holman’s deficit. Yet no charge was laid
against him for selling tobacco without a
license. A prisoner who lately escaped from
the custody of a constable had much worse
luck: he was charged with stealing the hand-
cuffs he was wearing.
If Justice Rooth, of Westralia, knowing
nothing of motor-cars, tried to drive one and
couldn’t make it go, he would decide that (1)
motor-cars are no good, and(2)it is better to
walk. Anyway, the other day he gave his
opinion from the bench that Arbitration is no
good and that strikes are better, apparently
because (as he admitted) he didn’t know
anything about business, having been edu-
cated only in the law. If there were no
lawyers in the world, but only chauffeurs,
probably the chauffeur would find it a dread-
ful bore to settle, say, a disputed will; but
nobody would think it very brilliant if he
announced that it w T ould be much better if
the parties went out into the backyard and
settled the matter with sticks.
“Centurion”: There is a fortune waiting
for the man who can fit an efficient silencer
to the aeroplane pngine. Without it the sinis-
ter hum of the engine gives warning long
before the destroyer heaves in sight with its
load of bombs. This was a particular bless-
ing in Sinai and Palestine, where the clear,
dry air carried the warning far in advance of
the foe. As the vastly-superior enemy ’planes
laid themselves out to strafe the Light Horse
neddies, it was necessary to scatter from
the closely-packed horse lines when
the raider came over. Each squadron
had its allotted space of desert to
spread itself in, and the result was
generally satisfactory to the under-
dogs, thanks to notice given by the
engines. Only once did I see a L.H.
regiment caught on the lines. That
was when the first Turkish ’plane
came over at Romani,
soon after out arrival
there. The ’plane,
mistaken for one of
our own, was right
over us before the
scatter began. One
bomb got 50-odd
horses and 15 humans,
Iv. and W. Seven
others didn’t shift a
feather. The horses
learned the game as
soon as we did, and
the order “Stand to
your horses” never
failed to excite them
almost as much as the
“Feed up.” Owing to
their higher power,
probably, the Aviatik
engines have a much
higher and more
musical note than our
own machines, and
anyone with an ear
can soon distinguisli
one from t’other. If
there is any doubt the listener gets into a
bell-tent if one is available, and the note is
then intensified beyond all question.
* * * *
“Pons”: An R.A.M.C. captain in Egypt
stroked his moustache thoughtfully on learn-
ing that he was a father. He had left his
wife in London 307 days previously; and he
should have had an exciting cable about 273
days after leaving home. So the captain
went to a lawyer about it. He might have
saved his money. One medical witness cited
a case of pregnancy lasting 308 days; other
doctors agreed, and the lady marched out of
court with her baby and a triumphant glare.
Sometimes luck runs the other way, though.
In the Gardner peerage case (1523) the
kiddy turned up 304 days after Capt. (later
Lord) Gardner had last seen his wife. The
Committee of the Lords held adultery
proven, probably quite rightly. Still, in
1901 an American expert told the story of a
woman whose pregnancy he had watched for
323 days; and he mentioned, amongst half
a hundred others, one case lasting 348 days
—about 11 months! All the same, a French
judge coughs dubiously when-
ever a lady 300 days absent
from her lord produces off-
spring. German law takes the
same view.
TIE WASN’T SO SURE OF THE JOKE.
BILLY: “What do you think of Claude’s
funny little moustache?”
BETTY : “Ere been almost tickled to death
by it.”
“Nuki”: A sniper was worrying the end of
the trench where Honi was doing his bit.
Honi thought it out. “Te pakeha te fool,”
he confided to the hospital-orderly after-
wards. “He put up
te head to find te
sniper. He ko dead.
I put up te foot, I
ko home.”
“WAR IS HELL."
"So you and your wife are parted?”
“Yes! All on account of this demned war!
Everybody’s cutting expenses—and she
was my heaviest.”
There is a disappointed man in Melbourne
hospital who has found that suicide on the
instalment plan is a failure. At 3.15 a.m.
Robert Peter Walker rose from bed, offered
to make his wife a cup of cocoa (which she
refused), and walked into the kitchen. When
she got up three hours later she found the
door jambed with a tomahawk. It was
forced open, and Walker was discovered
unconscious over the gas-stove with a blanket
round his head. The stove was supplied by
a penny-in-the-slot meter, and Walker, being
apparently unprovided with a sufficiency of
small change, had only been able to buy
enough gas to deprive him of his senses, but
not of his life. Another penn’orth would
have done it.
* * * *
“Mookingah” : Roll a cheer along for Tiboo-
burra, in the far north-west of N. S. Wales.
It. is the furthest-out point that has been
visited by recruiting-officers, and men rallied
from 200 miles around to answer the call.
Amongst them was Lance-Corporal W. Q.
O Connor, D.C.M., who recently received
his decoration from the King. He
has since been wounded, but is now
back at the Front again. Another,
Private J. E. Callard, a signaller,
was killed in action the very day
he received congratulations from
General Bird wood for specially
meritorious work. One other item
on which Tibooburra prides itself
is the collection of £433 in one
effort for the Red Cross Society,
free of all expense to the fund.
This represents about £2 per head,
man, woman and child, and is a
record that is open to any town in
the Commonwealth to challenge.
“Gunner” : If, as seems likely, the latest
English coast-bombardment was the work of
a submarine, then the Pacific’s turn is com-
ing fast. The shell-fragments show that the
Hun .was firing Bin. stuff—the sort of death
that used to be spouted only by big cruisers
and the U-boat that can mount a gun big
enough for that must be one of the sea-going
giants that the world was warned about
some time ago. The raiding possibilities of
such a machine are enough to make any
importer fall backwards into his own bell-
topper. And the myriad U-boat hunters
with their little ships and guns will feel like
the gentlemen who set out after dinner to
harpoon whales with fish-forks. No wonder
the non-political Geddes refuses to dope the
British public with the usual patter that
“the submarine menace is ended.” It will
last as long as the war.
MY ARMYOFF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ihe army of the Revolution will consist entirely
of volunteers.”
My army, oh, my army ! That Trotski-vodski throng
That yowls through seething whiskers the Revolution
song!
It wears no crest nor colors, no epaulette nor stripe,
But Ohski! Oddski! Bodski! The crimson time is
ripe!
My army, oh, my army ! The march is but begun.
Obseive the pingoff rifle, beware the bangski gun;
But make the drumski rattle and blow the trumpoff
clear
That lalkitoff and Skiteski may straightway volun-
teer !
My army, oh, my army! The German loots the
land.
We marehski forth to conquer, but under no com-
mand.
True to the Revolution, we front the strife again
Kach free as air or boozeski to fight his own cam-
paign.
My army, oh, my army ! Behold the great advance—
The battle breaks in thunder, the fitful lightnings
glance.
Through horroroff and hellski the leaguelong
whiskers go;
Ten thousand sorts of tactics must puzzleoff the foe.
My army, oh, my army ! The trampled snow grows
hot.
The I euton charges wildly the place where we are
not.
For Trotski, Trotski, Trotski! Our road of fame
is clear.
We are and always wereski the Army of the Rear!
N.S.W.
PATOFF O'MAORISKI.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
A CLASSICAL MASTER’S LETTER to CLEMENTS TONIC
Mr. G. A. Lundie, M.A., formerly Assistant-Headmaster High School, Palmerston North, N.Z., writes of this Medicine
And recommends it to all professional people, especi-
ally to teachers in the Educational service of Aus-
tralia, who suffer from weak nerves, insomnia or
brain fag.
“Palmerston North,
“New Zealand.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.,
“I am an unsolicited witness to your remark-
able remedy.
“I suffered for years from a form of nervous
complaint, which manifested itself in profound
melancholia which I could not throw off.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
“My appetite was capricious to a degree, and
I developed ill-health, till life was a real burden.
“I was, furthermore, threatened with a com-
plete nervous breakdown. I could hardly fol-
low my duties as a high-school master, much
less give attention to serious teacher’s duties.
“I can honestly say your potent medicine
came to me as a revelation in healing, for I
regained my health completely through its con-
sistent use.
“For teachers engaged in mental strain and
arduous study, your tonic is indispensable as a
Stand-by.
“I have recommended it to dozens of other
teachers, with most beneficial results.
“I am, Sirs, your faithfully,
“G. A. LUNDIE, M.A
There are hundreds of teachers of both sexes employed in
the N.S.W. Educational Service to-daj' who suffer from weak
nerves or acute nervousness, through continuous nerve strain in
teaching and study, who never really enjoy good health. It is
as much the worry of keeping their schools up to the educa-
tional standard as the work which accounts for their feeling of
general ill-health. They should keep Clements Tonic on hand
as a “stand-by” medicine, feeling certain that in its possession
they will have a sweet soother of the nerves, a promoter of
keen appetite, and a general healer of the rundown and over-
wrought system. It makes weak people well and strong people
stronger. Get it to-day.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
From the neighborhood of Petrograd:—
The Revolution has torn up Siberia by the roots.
1 housands of political and other exiles have taken
a free train home after absences in some cases of
half a century. The size of the exodus will be
gathered from the fact that Irkutsk alone entrained
50,000 refugees. They run to all shapes and sizes
in their political ideals and range from mere in-
fants gathered up since the war on charges of
espionage to aged and tottery revolutionaries trapped
when Nihilism was first finding its teeth. One
prisoner aged 12 had been buried for some months
in a remote settlement on the mere suspicion of
having furnished military information to the Ger-
mans. A woman, a religious enthusiast, who had
done over 30 years, through ignorance of a tyrannous
ukase affecting her faith, held the awful record of
having been herded with criminals of both sexes in
138 different prisons on her original nine months’
journey to Siberia. But the strangest case is that
of a Kieff multi-millionaire who had been put away
for some comparatively frivolous offence and had
enjoyed much celebrity among his fellow-convicts.
It appears that his vvife is a sister of the famous
Madame Curie and he is the direct descendant of
the author of the Marseillaise. The former Governor
of tlie district, who learnt the latter fact, used to
allow the prisoners’ band to play the French anthem
before the exile’s hut on his birthday. Thus you
will see that the old autocratic regime sometimes
tempered its injustice with a precious humor.
* * * *
“Offsider”: He had just returned after
3!) months’ service, and was an inmate
of the Blankety Point military hospital.
At the first opportunity he got leave,
put up at his favorite pub, and started out
to have a gay time. At midnight lie was
waking all the boarders and asking to be
directed to No. 3 ward, bed 48. When the
manager found him and offered to show him
to his room, there was nearly a fight. “Room
be blowed!” shouted Billjim. “D’ye think
I’m a general to have a room to
meself?”
Pr’an (Vic.) is an essentially shop-keep-
ing suburb, which is doubtless why the
honorarium shows such a nice regard for
the “customs of the trade.” But suppose a
fruiterer picked every customer’s pocket,
would these outrageous beaks fine him 205.,
as they recently did three shopkeepers con-
victed of loading their scales in the lb.
against the purchaser? Or would it be a
case of “six mouths’ hard”?
* * * #
“Sr”: The local M.P. had been asked to
address a recruiting meeting at a Vic. coun-
try centre. As he is himself an eligible and
rather tame at such a job he called in one of
his Parliamentary pals who is a keen re-
cruiter. It was agreed that the local mem-
ber should do a graceful introductory speech
avoiding the main sub-
ject and leave the patri-
otic fireworks to the
visitor. The scheme
worked well up to a
point. The local M.P.
got through his thin-ice
job without falling in,
after which the dinlcum
recruiter started to stir
things up, and speedily
got into holts with an
old, strong-lunged citi-
zen in a front seat. The
intei'jector’s sallies were
disconcerting, but the
speaker had stung him
with a couple of neat
retorts and was about
to give him a patriotic
knock-out, when his
coat-tails were excitedly
pulled and the local
M.P. entreatingly whispered: “Let it drop,
for the Lord’s sake! That's my old man
you're getting to!”
* * * *
“A Man Who Has Nothing to Do”: As
the result of repressive regulations the
use of wireless in Australian waters has
about ceased. For the past three years, at
any rate, no good purpose has been served
by this repression. For days, sometimes
weeks, before sailing day the times of depar-
ture of coastwise vessels are advertised
loudly in the dailies. From such informa-
tion the calculation of “positions” at any
time is an easy matter. Therefore, if the
object of the regulations is to keep ships’
positions secret, they are ineffective and
farcical. A friend of mine recently pushed
a wireless to Samarai across the counter at
Sydney G.P.O. The clerk, remembering the
cwt. or so of wireless regulations, didn’t like
handling the comparatively rare radiogram
and actually put obstacles in the way of
sending it. This won’t pay for Australia’s
rostly wireless system. At the best the
annual loss is heavy. To needlessly increase
it by issuing an armful of fool regulations is
sheer futility.
REBUKED.
BILL: “Bay, mate, got a match?”
TOMMY OFFICER: “Aw, my man, d'you know to whom you are speaking?”
BILL : “ Bli'me, if you take it that way, keep yer bally match.”
From a Wireless Billjim in Bagdad:—
Wonder if it’s going to be very select in Heaven,
and if an officer’s rig will admit to the front stalls?
Seems so, for now the old Y.M.C.A. has gone back
on us and introduced the “class” business. They
have a separate room marked “Officers only,” whither
the piano has been taken from the common room,
not to mention all the best seats. We’re quite used
to the officers taking the plums out of comforts fund
issues, but we really did think the Y.M.C.A. was
going to stand by us to the end.
HER BIT.
FIRST SURF-GIRL : “The parson told me that
I did absolutely no patriotic work.”
SECOND SURF-GIRL: “Whatever did you say?”
FIRST SURF-GIRL : “Told him that if he liked
he could come and see me improve the
natural beauty of the coastline every
morning.”
From Sandy Bay (Tas.) comes the story
of another interesting study in the strange
ways of early maidenhood. A local resident
discovered a nice young girl of 13 gagged
and bound in his garden. The damsel
accounted for her distressing position by
stating that a bad man in a motor-car had
captured her whilst she was walking in
Hobart and chloroformed her, after which
she remained unconscious until she awoke
gagged and bound in the garden of her dis-
coverer, two gold bracelets and a pearl neck-
lace having been removed from her person.
After being interviewed by a medical man
and a detective, the young heroine admitted
that she had invented the bad man and the
motor-car and the chloroforming by way of
worrying her mother, who had scolded her
that morning. No harm was done, as it
happened. Even the trinkets, which she
buried in the garden, were found to be unin-
jured. These imaginative young creatures
of impulse rarely achieve any shocking
results with their hoaxes. You never hear
of them bashing out their brains with a
hammer on a barren shore, with a view to
persuading their parents that a bad man
murdered them to conceal his other crime.
The gentle hoaxers have their limits.
The German sailors of the raider See
Adler who escaped from Motiuihi Island
(M.L.), where they were interned, showed a
lot of resource in preparing for the dash.
Prisoners of war on the island are permitted
to keep fowls, and hundreds of eggs were
secretly preserved by being
broken into a spirit dis-
tilled from jam and sealed
in tins. Water was boiled
and also sealed in kerosene-
tins. Then one evening a
smartly-stolen launch slipped
away, and, as it was the only
one at the island, a bright
and intelligent guard was
left lamenting on the shore.
That was out of Auckland
Harbor. In the Bay of
Plenty a scow was sur-
prised, and the Huns turned
their backs on the coast and
headed for home. Mean-
while the alarm had been
given to Auckland, and an
armed vessel was sent in
pursuit. Fight days later,
near the Kermadec Islands,
about 600 miles away, pur-
suer and pursued came in
sight of each other. Von
Lacker, the pirate, promptly
hoisted the German naval
ensign, stood away and re-
fused to stop and have a
yarn until the chaser over-
hauled him and whanged a
shot across his bows. There
was nothing for it then but
to surrender, which the Ger-
mans did. They were put
aboard the war-vessel and the long tow of
the scow started for M.L.
* * * #
Wimmera, Victoria’s north-western Out-
back, is thick with German settlers, but they
can be good neighbors, too. At Natimuk, a
township which owns two different kinds of
Lutheran tabernacle and where almost every
other citizen is a Boehm or a Iviefel or a
llaustorfer, the local militarists got up a
working-bee the other day on behalf of Alec
Black, a soldier in the A.1.F., and took in
his 72 acres of wheat for him in his absence
at the Front. There were 200 volunteers,
with 10 harvesters, 150 draught-horses and
a bullock-team, and they cleaned up the job
in one day, delivering the bagged grain at
the railway-station by 0 p.m.
“.T.C.”: Slowbart’s aldermen don’t intend
to let the city live down its nickname. The
bulk of the municipal revenue for the first
half of January consisted of fines paid by
those breaking the quaint by-law which says
that no vehicle shall overtake a tram within
the central city area. It suits cabbies hired
by the hour to creep behind a rattling two-
storeyed ark, but it’s a bit tiring to drivers
of well-conditioned draught horses and am-
bitious undertakers who want to do more
than one funeral a day.
“Murrabit”: “Copabella’s” account (B.
10/1/T7) of what is being done at Sunshine
Technical School for Returned Soldiers is
substantially correct. But no credit is due
to Millen for the institution of the scheme,
which is but part of a big plan put before
the State War Council by the principal and
H. V. McKay. It has been a fight to get so
much, and the sympathy shown by Millen’s
Repatriation Department would freeze any
but enthusiasts. In particular Sunshine has
proved its contention, ridiculed for months,
that men could be trained in a lot under a
year to do special jobs in workshops and be
worth the full rate of pay. After 12 weeks
under a skilled man who knows the require-
ments of the factory, three men have been
placed at the Harvester works and are earn-
ing engineers’ money. Nowadays there is no
need for the majority of skilled men to know
all their trade and to serve a long appren-
ticeship. Just as the making of boots has
been specialised into about 35 distinct opera-
tions and almost that many subsidiary
“trades,” so with engineering. It is absurd
to insist that it is impossible to train men in
under three years to take their places at the
bench as skilled men. The unions may cry
out that this is dilution of labor; but if care
is taken not to overdo the supply there can
be no injury to any trade.
IN THE DIVORCE COURT.
THE BAR: “It is not always true, unfortu-
nately, that man and wife are one.”
THE BENCH: “No. Frequently it is six of
one and half a dozen of the other.”
HONI SOIT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My wife reals out the fashion chat.
“How sensible!” says she.
“Suspenders rip such ‘ladders’ that
It’s horrible to see
One’s stockings. Garters are, that's flat,
The only wear for me!”
All, Chloe, at whose feet I bowed
When I was twenty-three,
These lips shall never lift the shroud
From one fond memory—
A shy moon camouflaged in cloud,
The night 1 kissed your knee !
VICTORIA.
SATURN.


“YOU DIRTY BOY!”


Set a scooter to catch a scooter.
The Chief Secretary (Mr. Fuller) made a
statement recently respecting the ‘scooter"
nuisance. A report was being prepared, lie said,
by the Police Department.
Here you see the Police
in plain and fancy
clothes preparing
their report.
“ I recognise, however,” continued
Mr. Fuller, •• that these machines
afford a lot of pleasure to youngsters,
and while I will not permit ordinary
traffic to be endangered by their
use, I would be loth to absolutely
prohibit them if other effective
measures can be taken to prevent
their becoming objectionable and
dangerous.” v
Every scooter should be compelled to
have a license, and a number conspicu-
ously displayed on his machine.
- 4t
/>
% > 4 % <« 0
***• **. *«
% A «
*•>, % „v
+V V 4 „.
>v *’</'•*
V %V
•* V\
*tV /a
\
'o
P’raps when Fuller suppresses juvenile scooters he will take
the grown-up variety who monopolise the best-paved suburban
streets.
THE SCOOTER-IN-CHIEF.
It Is persistently rumored that Billy Hughes
will accept an urgent call to England.
THE GENTLE ART OF SCOOTING.


BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
fd
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
“ THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
gfd
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which -represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
wearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
g
&r?m
/
LEWIS&WiIITTY
<0
l&OiOt
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
Means joy
in the Home■
inn
The Edison
“AMBEROLA” 50
It will play choice music, sing fine songs and
bring the efforts of world-famed artists into
your home.
The Edison “Amberola” 50 —illustrated —is a
really fine instrument, handsome in appear-
ance and sweet and natural in tone. Ster-
ling value at price £l6 10s.
Call on the nearest Edison dealer for a
demonstration or write direct for illustrated
catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
(Wholesale only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MELACHRINO
CIGARETTES
Poor Alfred Deakin’s health has become
steadily worse. The other day he resigned
his seat on the Board of the A.M.P. Society,
thus severing practically the last link with
semi-public life. Nowadays he spends much
of his time at the buffet, which is run
by Mrs. Deakin and a band of honorary help-
ers, at the. Base Hospital. Here he performs
the functions of carpenter and “generally
useful,” well content so long as he is doing
something that helps.
Tacked a second bar to his Military Cross,
Lieut. Walter Kilroy Harris, of Mayfield
(Newcastle), an old Bulletin hand. A
few years- before the war this pushful young
man (he was a vegetarian at the time, by
the way) undertook a series of overland
trips, per horse, to have a look at the innards
THE DRAWN BLIND.
“The American State Department has issued copies
of secret telegrams sent by the German censor to the
German press last spring suggesting the publication
)f stories calculated to inspire hope and confidence.”
of tha continent, and a book resulted. Then
he set out to find the worth of his pen in the
Cold Land, and became the youngest member
of the Royal Geographical Society. He fell
in with the British Volunteer Naval Reserve
sarly in the Kaiser hunt.
Admiral Fremantle, who succeeds Admiral
Oliver as Deputy Chief-of-Staff in the Brit-
ish Navy, is a grandson of the late Robert
Mclntosh Isaacs, who was Solicitor-General
in one of Parkes’s Ministries. The jocular
Francis S. Isaacs, late Sydney Stipendiary
Magistrate, was an uncle.
A quite unusual Australian native has
died in Adelaide Hospital at 70-odd. George
Pantonie was so well educated that he wrote
the illuminated address which the black-
fellows of S. Aus. presented to the Duke of
Edinburgh half a century back. He was
one of the early officers of the Salvation
Army, and made a visit to England in con-
nection with that body. Pantonie in his
prime had a fine voice, and sang once before
Queen Victoria. He kept up his youthful-
ness and sense of fun to the end, and only
a few weeks before his death appeared as a
Scotchman at a patriotic carnival in
Adelaide.
THE BURNING QUESTION.
THE PARSON : “I heard ‘The Messiah' at the
Town Hall last night, William."
WILLIAM : "Ho —what 'ad ’E got ter say
about Billy ’Ughes?"
Emperor William of Australia has his own
bodyguard now. Percy Deane, William’s
adhesive secretary, has become P.C. 51 in
the Commonwealth Police, and is alleged to
wear a baton next his fountain-pen whenever
his Majesty takes the air. Corrigan, the
official messenger in the royal suite, likewise
adds a Hop’s duties to his other anxieties.
It is rumored that the chauffeur will also
be handed a number and a. pair of handcuffs.
This is an intimation that the small boys
who stick pins in the Imperial motah won’t
be able to repeat the crime with impunity.
Another Australian high-flier has taken
the sunset trail—Captain Johnny Bell, polo-
ist and engineer, who with his brothers
owned Wurrook South, in the favored West-
ern District of Victoria. Captain Bell, who
left as a Light Horse lieutenant with the
first bunch from Australia, was on Gallipoli,
went to England and transferred there to
the R.F.C., came down the Mediterranean
again and ’planed for the boys at El Arish
and Gaza. Then England once more, and
France. He received his death-wound in an
air-battle over a Hun position, but struggled
back to his own lines and lingered in hos-
pital for several weeks before passing over.
Father O’Dwyer, who has retired from
the rectorship of Xavier College, Ivew
(Vie.), will probably be the first principal
of Newman _ College, Melbourne University’s
first Catholic foundation. O’Dwyer’s suc-
cessor will be an Australian-born soggarth,
Father J. Sullivan. He was schooled at St.
Pat’s, East Melbourne, joined the Jesuits
in Sydney 24 years ago, and was 12 years
a master at Riverview, with an interval of
five years in Ireland, England, Italy and
Austria. A great believer in sports, Sullivan
is going to push Xavier’s teams ahead in
the playing field, besides making it mind its
book in the classroom.
Montagu Butler, whose death at Trinity
College, Cambridge, at 84, is cabled, was a
great scholar and a great leader of scholars:
to have been head of Harrow School for 26
years, and then of Cambridge’s biggest col-
lege for 31, speaks for itself. But it is safe
to say that he never caught the public eye
so much as he did when, at 55, he won the
heart of a girl who had the previous year
taken first place, over all the men, in'the
Classical Tripos. A nursery in the old resi-
dence in the Great Court of Trinity would
have been a novelty, anyhow; and "it is so
seldom that great intellects have a strong
physical attraction for each other that
students of eugenics watched the match with
great interest. It was fully justified. The
two sons matured early, and took all sorts of
distinctions.
From the Office Curate:—
“Johanna” (B. 17/1/T8) claims that the ordina-
tion of H. R. Potter in Melbourne lately supplied the
first instance of three generations of Anglican priests
in the one family, all ordained in this country. It
may be a record for Victoria; but the Australian
record in this respect was made in 1912, when Frank
Raymond Elder, now on the staff of the Anglican
mission in Papua, was ordained in Sydney. His
father, F. R. Elder, was received by Bishop Barker
in 1879; and his father, John Elder, was the first
native-born and locally-trainid Australian to reach
the Anglican priesthood, to which he was admitted
away back in 1841 by the first gaiters, Dr. Brough-
ton, then “Bishop of Australia.” John Elder’s father
went from the Cold Country to Tahiti as a mission-
ary in 1799, and was brought to Australia by Parson
Marsden shortly afterwards. There’s a strain of the
Governor King family in the Papuan missionary, too.
Robert Booth, who passed out at Leich-
hardt (N.S.W.) the other day, was an Irish
Methodist who came to Australia in 1860 as
teacher for a Wesleyan school, and after-
wards passed to the Education Department.
In his time he had held every Methody office
open to a layman. He tried politics, too,
and represented Leichhardt for one Parlia-
ment, but was outed by A. C. Carmichael.
R. J. Tillyard, author of the just-published
“Biology of Dragon-flies” (reviewed on the
Red Page of this Bulletin), is one of the
Commonwealth’s most enthusiastic bug-
hunters. Born in Norwich (Eng.) 37 years
ago, he passed from Dover College army
school to read for the mathematical tripos
at Cambridge, and later specialised in
Oriental languages and theology. At 32,
partly owing to poor health, he came south
as “maths.” at Sydney Grammar. Always
interested in natural history, he next put in
his spare time in the pursuit and study of
dragon-flies in all parts of the continent. Six
years ago_ he joined Sydney Uni. as Research
Student in Zoology, and three years later
secured his Research B.Sc. degree. In 1914
he was injured in a railway accident at
Milson’s Point, and much of his book on the
dragon-fly was prepared in ill-health and
acute pain. Incidentally, this accident has
meant two refusals at the recruiting-office.
Two years ago Tillyard became a Linnean
Macleay Fellow, and is now devoting his
energies to groups allied to the dragon-fly,
to the fossil insects of N. S. Wales and
Queensland, and to the insects of the Maw-
son Expedition. Last year he was awarded
the Crisp Medal of the London Linnean Soc.
for microscopical research, and in October
he became one of these rare birds, a Doctor
in Zoology—a degree which the Uni. Senate
cannot confer until its March meeting. The
secret of his success is an unconquerable
enthusiasm for his work and for Australia.
Monty Ansell started business in Hobart
as a pursuer of Costs, filling in spare time
oiganising for the A.N.A., the Derwent
Yacht Club and the Hobart Post Office clock
Unable to renew the energy thus expended
he drifted away in search of health, and
burdened only with
ambition hustled up
and down Australia
following a hundred
avocations. For some
time he was a free-
lance journalist; and
he lent a hand on
the first “Common-
wealth Year Book.”
Returning to the
Speck 18 months
ago as Registrar of
his old Alma Mater
he rolled up the shirt-
sleeves of his brain,
and already he has
the institution satu-
rated with his per-
petual smile.
MONTAGUE
MOSES ANSELL,
Registrar of
Tasmanian
University.
“Cherokee” goes to a funeral:—
Bob the Barber,” who for 56 years has cut
Williamstown’s hair and supplied it with ’longshore
tobacco, has reaped his last crop. There is now a
headstone above him in the local cemetery, intimat-
ing that he put away the shears at 84. He made his
saloon a gallery of old-time sporting pictures, the
pride of his heart being one of Tom Sayers facing the
Benicia Boy. Until recently, by the way, Sayers’s
daughter was a motherly barmaid in a select Collins-
street pub beloved of pressmen, and darned many a
charitable sock. “Bob the Barber” knew Dick Sed-
don as a fitter at the old loco, workshops at Spots-
wood, and it was at Bob’s house that King Dick met
his future wife. She never forgot her old friend,
either. Robert Henry Smith is the name on his
tombstone, and every ancient inhabitant of Williams-
town (one was 93) was among the mourners.
W. C. Harper—
one of the numer-
ous sons of Robert
Harper, manufac-
tur e r, politician
and sound finan-
cier—returned to
Australia lately
after four years
spent in
Canada,
whither he
went health-
hunting. He
made three
attempts to
enlist, but, failing,
gave himself up to
an organising job
for the Returned
Soldiers’ Assoc.
Besides a Califor-
nian girl he brought
home letters of
thanks from Bor-
den, the Prime
Minister, and
Whit e, the Do-
minion Minister of
Finance.
W. C. HARPER ,
lately a sort of
unofficial represen-
tative of Australia
in Canada.
.. “ B ; J ” : S°me°n e asserts (B. 10/1/’l7)
that “Max Meldrum is the obvious man” for
the billet at the National Gallery which was
held by the late Fred McCubbin. Certainly
if it is desired that students should be
taught that art is a science, very much like
algebra, “Meldrum is the obvious man”; but
the man who would seem to have the
strongest claim to the job is W. B. Mclnnes,
exceptional ability who was
McCubbin’s locum tenens.
The war is becoming a family affair. Some
time ago I red Handasyde, of Melbourne
Herald, and. his four sons enlisted, the old
man at one stage being under the com-
mand of one of the boys. They have re-
turned, but the habit is spreading. Alan
Marr, of .loorak, an old Grammar boy, has
gone to join dad at the Front; so has
.Dermot Hu Moulin Ryan, whose father, a
quartermaster, has been on service for two
years. The lad is from Brighton Grammar,
a school with a fine record, especially in
aviators.
“A.R.L.” from Belgium :
. Tal king about members of the Federal Parliament
in khaki who haven’t done much to win the war,
The Bulletin some time ago included McGrath as
one who “hasn’t paid expenses.” I believe he
hadn’t then been to the Front, and he wouldn’t have
been there now, probably, had he not as a last
resort written to General Birdwood direct and begged
to be shifted from what he reckoned was a cold-foot
job in Blighty. But it came off, and I met him
again about six weeks ago here in Belgium, and have
seen him often since. He is a warrant officer in a
supply column which is feeding the artillery of one
of our divisions. At the present moment he is in
a position which comes in for its share of Fritz’s
aerial torpedoes and bombs about four nights in the
week; that is, every night when it is not too cloudy
or windy for air manoeuvres, and he takes just what
comes like the rest of us.
Hugh Hyslop, a 14-year-old living at
Mia Mia (Vic.), which is a bush village
up in the Cobban country beyond Redes-
dale, has just done his bit on a handsome
scale. Starting out to collect something for
ills school’s soldiers’ fund, he wheedled eight
sheep Irom local farmers and trucked them
at the nearest railway-station after droving
them 11 miles. Then he went back home. At
d.dO next morning he got up, rode to the
station again, railed to Ivyneton with his
sheep, untrucked, drove them to the sale-
yards, sold them for £ 10-odd, took the train
hack and finished the expedition aboard his
nag, with the cheque all ready for teacher,
lhe Hyslops are in the farming and black-
smithing line at Mia Mia, in a region which
was infested by many hard pioneering nuts
in the days of the Mclvor diggings and the
early Bendigo rushes. Hughie is running
true to the old type.
INVITATION.
(To the Under-Parlormaid.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LONDON.
Come on up the road !
’Oo’s to know ye’re aht ?
Parlor-bell be blowed—
Come on up the road.
Come an’ ’ave a drink!
’Ow abaht some staht ?
Jest for ’arf a wink—
Come an’ ’ave a drink!
Don't go shammin’ shy—
Ain’t we met before?
I’m so bloomin’ dry ;
Don’t go shammin’ shy!
Ain’t I kissed yer yet?
Don’t yer want some more?
Come an’ ’ave a wet!
Ain’t I kissed yer yet ?
Where’s the bloomin’ joke?
Lemme ’old yer ’and !
Don’t yer kid a bloke—
Where’s the bloomin’ joke?
Gawd ! I love yer so !
Don’t yer un’erstand?
Won’t yer ever know ?
Gawd—l love yer so !
Come on up the road!
’Oo’s to know ye’re aht ?
Parlor-bell be blowed—
Come on up the road !
DION TITHERADGE.


: : :|:;
//t
a
111
i
:
M
JftS: *
\\V'\
WifO
m
WimjmM
1
L
mMM
88888
i 'j
■:-■ \
,
s ♦ %
sssssssss
M
1 s 1
»;■»:<
«“•••;
WS?
SBSSS®®
H
vXv.vX
9
fll
FATON 8401
\«»
The Men
of other
Nations
envy him
his smoke
) CUT (FLAKE or MIXTURE)
Also in Plus Form J
dfg
TOBACCO
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL SMOKE
PIPE
OF PEACE AND QUALITY
(£mn>
.very p, P e Guaraf 'N
.
SS^ BB
LMN
: : :
saggs
■


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Fort Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars. E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF— BUYERS ON A SPECIALLY FAVORABUE
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead
Assay Lead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
TARIFF of—
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
fd
Lead Drosses, etc.
> Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
“ADAMAX” Surpasses Iron!
COSTS ONE-THIRD DESS.
ONE-THIRD X.ESS TO FREIGHT.
It is a better, more lasting and cheaper
roofing.
Proof of superiority is found in its use on the lEKTOX CANNING FACTORY (Mur-
ru in bid gee Irrigation Commission). CATARACT DAM, N.S.VV. RAILWAYS, PUBLIC
WORKS. Write now for the “Adamax” Booklet and sample.
WILLIAM ADAMB & CO., LTD., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The most that could be corkscrewed out
of the Holman Government last week con-
cerning the mysterious arrangement under
which the Brown mines at Newcastle were to
supply the Victorian Government with a
million tons of coal annually for five years
was a rigmarole which omitted the innards
and contained certain alleged facts of which
the accuracy was promptly challenged. What
Holman omitted to explain and no one else
has mentioned is the character of the pre-
liminary contract between the N. S. Wales
Ministry and John Brown —why it was
entered into and why the whole business
from first to last was shrouded in secrecy.
The broad facts are that under this contract
Brown was making a remarkably good deal
for himself, that the N. S. Wales Govern-
ment was in a desperate hurry to get the
Victorian contract confirmed, and that
arrangements were afoot to spend a heap of
public money on a housing scheme in con-
nection with Brown’s mines. For some un-
explained reason Minister for Agriculture
Grahame was as busy as a beaver in con-
nection with the business. It is not usual
for Governments entering into heavy re-
sponsibilities with the owners of coal-mines
to interrupt the Minister in charge of
Cocky’s affairs. The Minister for Mines
and the Treasurer are the people who usu-
ally handle such a matter, or might be
expected to, anyhow. Grahame’s assiduous
rushing about clothed in an atmosphere of
secretiveness is an incident of this
transaction which naturally attracted notice
and has not been explained—along with
a lot of other things. In all proba-
bility the facts will never be fully known,
any more than the facts in connection with
the Norton Griffiths contract which cost the
State a few hundred thousands to escape
from. Nor will reasons be forthcoming to
show why a Government should enter into
a deal which deprived it of royalty on the
coal raised, lessened its revenue from
haulage (one of Brown’s mines is private
property and pays no royalty, and the other
is fitted with a private railway), and would
necessitate commandeering ships employed
in moving coal from other mines. There
will in all likelihood be a general agreement
that somebody misunderstood somebody
else, and that the time has arrived to imi-
tate the crayfish.
* * # *
The Queensland National Bank :
Towards
Repaying
Gross Written Private Nominal
Profits. Off. Depositors. Reserves.
Dec., 1909.. £44,432 £19,432 £20,000 £84,000
June, 1910.. 45,626 20,626 20,000 89,000
Dec, 1910.. 46,174 21,174 20,000 94,000
June, 1911.. 46,275 10,275 30.000 100,000
Dec., 1911.. 47,542 11,542 30,000 106,000
June, 1912.. 48,159 36,159 118,000
Dec., 1912.. 48,179 36,179 130,000
June, 1913.. 48,214 36,214 142,000
Dec., 1913.. 49,915 37,915 154,000
June, 1914.. 50,090 38,090 166,000
Dec-., 1914.. 50,104 38,104 178.000
June, 1915.. 51,746 39,746 190,000
Dec., 1915.. 50,536 40,536 200,000
June. 1916.. 51,398 39,398 212,000
Dec.. 19(16.. 51,458 —41,45 S
June, 1917.. 51,896 51,896 222,000
Dec., 1917.. 52,160 52,160 222,000
At the best the published accounts of this
bank don’t convey much more than a hint of
What is going on. The present is a sort of
purgatory through which for its sins the
bank is passing. Queensland had something
extra in the way of a public and private
borrowing boom and something equally extra
in the way of a smash. The bank suspended
in 1893; and in 1897, after a Government
inquiry, a new arrangement was made with
creditors by which one-fourth of the private
deposits were made repayable out of future
profits, the assumption being that that much
was not represented by assets. The share-
holders were not to receive a dividend until
this money was forthcoming. There were,
besides, Government deposits to be paid;
and this obligation kept the bank busy for
some years. Also general-manager Ralston,
looking a long way ahead, set his mind on
building up a strong bank ; and that meant
cutting out all dead wood and accumulating
visible and inner reserves.
For some years, therefore, not much was
done in the way of repaying the ss. in the
£; but whep the management felt that it had
got tilings snug, payments came more
quickly. This shows :
Current Repaid Balance
13 years Profits to in
to Appropriated. Depositors. Hand.
Dec., 1910. .£266,000 4/6 in £= £233,117 £34,883
June, 1911.. 30,000 64,883
Dec.. 1911.. 30,000 Is. in £ = 51,527 43,356
June, 1012.. 36,159 6d. in £ = 25,763 53,752
Dec., 1912.. 36,179 6d. in £ = 25.762 64,169
June, 1913.. 36,214 9d. in £ = 38.643 61,740
Nov., 1913.. Special Is. in £= 50,900
Dec., 1913.. 37,915 9d. in £ = 38.162 61,493
June, 1914.. 38,090 9d. in £ = 38,652 60,931
Dec., 1914.. 38.104 9d. in £ = 38,642 60,393
June, 1915.. 39,746 9d. in £ = 38,500 61,639
Dee., 1915.. 40,536 9d. in £ = 38,786 63,389
June, 1916. . 39.398 9d. in £ = 38.642 64,145
Nov.. 1916.. Special Is', in £1 = 50.900
Dec., 1916.. 41,458 9d. in £ = 43,269 62,334
June, 1917.. 51,896 Is. in £ = 51,527 62,703
Nov., 1917.. Special 9d. in £= 38,175
Dec., 1917.. 52,160 Is. in £ = 62,666 52,197
£815,855 17/3 in £ =*£903,633 £52,197
Some of those figures are doubtful. For in-
stance, there is no visible reason wliy Is. in
the £ should call for £02,0(30 last half-year
while in the previous half-yery- it called for
only £51,527. The explanation probably is
that there wasn’t available in the special
fund for making repayments quite enough to
provide the special 9d. in the £ paid during
the half-year, wherefore the ordinary fund
was drawn upon ; which means that during
the past half-year out of the special fund
probably £28,3.75 was actually paid, and out
of the ordinary fund £02,000. Anyhow, this
is reasonably certain: there remains only
2s. 9d. to pay, and of this Is. is in hand.
That leaves Is. 9d. to be provided ; and the
current year should see the end of the old
trouble. The shareholders may possibly get
a dividend 12 months hence; if they don’t,
unless some catastrophe happens between
now and then they are pretty sure to get
a taste in July, 1019.
And it won’t be a poor dividend either.
The paid capital is only £480,000 —$p)j000
shares of £5 paid to £8 —with 340,000 shares
unissued. Disclosed profits have been steadily
advanced for many years, which seems to be
the management’s hint that the business has
steadily become more profitable; and a 10
p.c. div. will call for only £24,000 a half-year
—less than half of what has been for some
time past divided among the old depositors.
The Commonwealth Treasury is, of course,
not encouraging new issues of capital for
banks; but it might be quite possible to get
authority to increase the capital ott the bank
agreeing to invest all the new money in War
Loan. As a matter of fact, this is a process
that might very properly be adopted by a
good many cos. which could do with a larger
guarantee fund —insurance and trustee cos.,
for instance.
How the principal balance-sheet figures
have moved the next comparison will show:
Liabilities.
Dec., 1907. June, 1914. Dec., 1917.
Interminable stock £3,116,621 £3,091,669 £3,091,669
Other old debt . . 1,033,172 86,098
Deposits .. .. 3,109,171 6,560.809 8,850,700
Other new debt .. 919,314 162,150 448,467
Liquid assets . . 2,545,038 3,791,633 6,427,860
Advances .. .. 5,595,953 6,488,057 6,372,244
Old accounts (under
realisation) .. 251,805
Premises, etc. . . 277,779 305,126 344,892
The interminable stock carries only 34 p.c.,
and represents a fine lot of very cheap pref.
capital. The large increase shown in the
deposits and in the liquid assets is partly due
to a heavy holding of Queensland Govern-
ment deposits (£236(5,370 as at December,
1917) ; but after striking that off there has
been a notable increase in the figures. The
security is beyond question. Share capital,
visible reserves and interminable stock total
£3,793,669. Deposits and other debt to the
public are only 24 times greater than that.
Put in another way, liquid assets represent
all but £2,871,307 of all debt to the public ;
and there is, against that, £6,717,136 worth
of assets which it is reasonable to believe
have been severely written down during the
years of purgatory.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney), which
began in 1905 with a deficit of £BB2 repre-
senting preliminary expenses:—
, Dividends. N
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profits. 6 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1907. . £12,891 £lO5O 6 p.c.= £4,500 £ 7,341 £11,667
1908.. 14,573 1050 7 ~„ 5,250 8,273 19,940
1909.. 14,490 1050 B*., ,f 6,375 7,065 27,005
1910.. 17,208 1050 8* „ „ 6,375 9,783 36.788
£25,000 transferred to capital. . .. 11,788
Profit on Investment, £45,600. . . . 57,388
Bonus on ord. shares (37* p.c.), £37,500 19,888
1911.. 18,465 1050 10p.c.= 10,000 7,415 27.303
Bonus on pref. shares, £4377 .. .. 22,926
£20.000 transferred to capital. . .. 2,926
1912.. 21,152 230 10p.c.= 10.000 10,922 13,848
All Shares.
1913.. 18,091 10 p.c. = 12,000 .6,091 19,939
1914.. 13,957 10 „ ~12,000 1,957 21,896
1915.. 15,615 10 ~ „ 12,000 3,615 25,511
1916.. 15,571 10 „ ~ 12,000 3,571 29,082
1917.. 15,350 10 „ „ 12,000 3,350 32,432
Hotel profits are derived from three sources
—bed, bread and beer. It hasn’t been much
of a time for any pub. during the last two
or three years, but those that have relied
most on bread and beer have probably suf-
fered most. Especially bread ; the high cost
of provisions and labor, coupled with the low
pub. and restaurant tariffs which have
become a habit in Australia, has made it
almost impossible to run this business at a
profit. Only first-class organisation can do
it; and because the Metropole Co. has this
it probably still drags a trifle out of the
dining-room. But most of its profit comes
from its large accommodation for bread-and-
breakfast lodgers; and the Metropole’s posi-
tion commands for it almost as much of this
trade as it can handle. So the co. manages
to still comfortably pay 10 p.c. on its
£120,000 of capital; and to the original in-
vestors this is worth a good deal more than
10 p.c., because of the bonus distributions of
capital.
Mainly because of the fine bargain that
was made when the premises were purchased
—which meant a small capital to pay the
dividend on—the co. soon got into a very
healthy financial condition ; and though the
liquid assets are not piling up as they used
to,, a little still dribbles on to the heap.
This was the position before the half-year’s
appropriation in each ease
1912. 1916. 1917.
Assets other than property
and plant. ..y ... . . £21,911 £45,682
Less liabilities •• •• 2,063 • 4-,476 6,249
Net liquid assets .. £19,848 £.36,083 £39,433
These “assets other than property and
plant” consist of advances on mortgage
£15,522 and the balance deposits, war loan,
etc. So you get this general result. Free-
hold, plant and machinery stand in the books
at £119,000, or only £lOOO less than the capi-
tal ; and as at December 31 there were
£39,433 net liquid assets in addition.
* # * *
Bendigo Mutual Permanent Land and
Building Society (Bendigo, Vic.) :
Added to Re-
Oct., Net Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1906.. £3527 01 p.c. =£2633 £894 £21,130
1907.. 3247 64 ~ „ 2909 338 21,468
1908.. 3&72 64 „ ~ 3160 412 21,880
1909.. 4538 6* „ „ 3356 1182 23,062
1910.. 3997 7 „ „ 3661 246 23,308
1911.. 3769 64 „ ~ 3639 130 23,438
1912.. 3901 64 „ „ 3908 23,431
1913.. 3190 6J „ „ 4061 22,560
1914.. 4986 6" „ „ 3896. 1090 23,650
1915.. 5225 6 „ „ 3904 1321 24,971
1916.. 4409 6 „ „ 3838 571 25,542
1917.. 3557 6 „ ~ 3550 7 25,549
Some of the amounts in the last line are
estimated, because the sum required to.,
pay the dividend on the"varying capital isn’t
yet known. This capital is in permanent
paid-up shares (£13,870) and investing con-
tributing shares; and the total repre-
sented by the latter has been reduced from
£51,403 to £46,578 during the past year.
Fortunately a good season and the scatter-
ing of loan and other war money have be-
tween them made it possible to realise some
of the properties in possession at a fair
price; so the society is holding more cash
than usual in spite of the withdrawal of
capital. The movements arc shown in this
comparison
1900. 1910. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Capital .. £52,064 £54,713 £66,575 £65,273 £60,448
Deposits and
other debts 79,063 80,886 79,250 73,213 75,656
Advances 138,838 138,220 150,047 142,498 136,490
Properties 14,519 16,463 16,469 16,576 16,576
Cash.. .. 1,228 7,569 8.06 S 8,677 11,979
Other assets 318 131 117 115 158
Advances, by the way, include properties in
possession; how much of the total is repre-
sented by live accounts and how much by
dead ones isn’t shown, though it ought to be.
One thing is certain: pretty steadily, year
after year, more or less of the current profit
goes to make old losses good. In the past
year, for instance, £1435 has gone into that
sink —which is the chief explanation of why
last year’s net profits show up so poorly
alongside those of the previous term. llow
much more dead-horse there is to be got rid
of this paper doesn’t know; and not knowing
that one can’t pretend to know what the
future is likely to be. This, however, is
sure; if a society with £60,000 of capital
and £25,000 of reserves, and making itself
responsible for £75,000 of borrowed money,
can’t show more than 6 p.c. it is either on a
very poor wicket or the £25,000 of reserves
don’t really exist.
* * * *
The Sydney Ice Skating Rink & Cold
Storage Co. :
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1911. . £10,149 12 p.c.= £6OOO £2024 £2125 £10,012
1912.. 10,507 12 „ „ 7323 2181 1003 11,015
1913.. 14,550 121,,,, 8125 2395 4030 15,045
1914.. 12.732 12j „ ~ 8125 3492 1115 16,160
1915.. 10,734 10 „ „ 7000 3618 116 16,276
Transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 6,276
1916.. 10,018 10 p.c.= 7500 7700 1,094
1917.. 13,513 12* „ „ 9375 4130 8 1,102
This co. had either remarkable luck or
extraordinary perspicacity. When ice-skat-
ing was talked about it leased the premises
of the derelict Cyclorama, which hadn’t paid
a dividend for over 20 years, and proceeded
to supply the very naicest people with new
opportunities for bruising themselves.
There wasn’t any money worth speaking
about in this business; but there was a lot
in the supply of cold-storage, and the eo.
set to work to develop that trade. The
premises were splendidly situated for the
purpose, and, fortunately, there was land
to be had for their extension. Also the
moving-picture boom supplied the co. with
profitable tenants for the skating-rink dur-
ing the long summer months, when the very
naicest are off the ice, so to speak. So one
way and another, though the new Glaciar-
ium would have been no more profitable than
the old Cyclorama, the co. has been able not
only to pay a good dividend throughout on
the original capital of £50,000, but also to
hand out a share bonus of £lO,OOO and pay
usually 12-1 p.c. on £15,000 of new sub-
scribed capital. Latterly, it is true, little
or nothing has been added to reserves; in-
stead, large sums have been written off
premises and plant, probably with one eye
on the income tax people. Last year there
were no additions to premises or plant worth
mentioning, so the position moved like this:
1916. 1917.
Assets other than premises anr] plant £11,427 £14,550
Liabilities (including dividend) .. 22,896 21,888
Excess liabilities .. ..£11,469 £7,338
The liabilities include £13,000 on mortgage ;
while the assets other than premises and
plant are deposits and book debts.
Sydney Exchange Co. :
Writ- To
ten He- Re-
Proflts. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1910.. 1792 6 p.c.= 900 1000 17,869
Dee., 1910.. 1740 6„ „ 900 500 340 18,209
June, 1911.. 1316 6,, „ 900 416 18,625
Dec., 1911.. 1028 6„ „ 900 128 18,753
June, 1912.. 1242 6„ „ 900 250 92 18,845
Dec., 1912.. 1854 6„ „ 900 250 704 19,549
June, 1913.. 602 6„ „ 900 250 19,001
Dec., 1913.. 2047 6„ ~ 900 750 397 19,398
June, 1914.. 1187 6,, „ 900 287 19,685
Unexplained additions to Reserves 3033 22,718
Dec., 1914.. 1592 6 p.c.= 900 300 392 23,110
June, 1915.. ' 961 6„ „ 900 —• 61 23,171
Dec., 1915.. 1731 6„ ~ 900 831 24,002
June, 1916.. 944 6„ „ 900 150 23,896
Dec., 1916.. 1655 6„ ~ 900 9000 15,651
June, 1917.. 1181 6„ „ 900 5200 10,732
Dec., 1917.. 1787 6„ „ 900 31 856 11,588
So much paper has been set afloat in Aus-
tralia during the last Si years that prices
of practically everything have advanced.
Hence it isn’t surprising to find that this
co.’s income (“subscriptions from members,
advertising boards, rents, interest, etc.”) has
moved up from £3587 as at June, 1915 —the
first full half-year of war—to £4084. At the
same time, of course, the co.’s expenses
have also gone up; and what is left over
hasn’t yet justified the directors in declaring
a higher dividend. Yet obviously 6 p.c.
isn’t the same thing as 6 p.c. was a few
years ago. If the co. paid 7 p.c. share-
holders would be no better off than they
were. Still, though this will justify an
increased dividend if the profit is available,
the co. isn’t a dividend-hunter and nothing
else. It does a public service, too, and,
having first-rate security for its capital, is
satisfied with moderate interest for the use
of its money. The Exchange buildings are
the principal asset; and the co. wouldn’t
have much difficulty in finding a buyer at a
trifle more than the £55,000 at which they
stand in the books. Yet even at that low
valuation there is 28s. of net assets for every
20s. of share capital.
* * * *
The Commercial of Australia has made an
offer of £6 15s. per share for the National
Bank of Tasmania—-a little concern with
head office at Launceston and 15 branches
mostly in the north and west of the Speck.
The. shares are £5 paid; the capital is
£195,250; the reserves as at the last balance
(November 30) were £89,006 =£2 ss. Bd. per
share. But, though the C. B. of A. offers
about £21,000 less than book value for the
assets, shareholders get £6 15s. instead of
the £5 which the market has lately valued
the shares at. The fact is that, like most
other small banks in Australia, the National
of. Tasmania hasn’t been a great money-
spinner. On capital and reserves combined
—the shareholders’ funds—the earnings have
been about 6f p.c.; and to show that much
the bank has had to make itself responsible
for over £BOO.OOO of borrowed money. If the
Tasmanian National made 1 p.c. out of the
public’s money which it risked, then it
wasn’t making 44 p.c. on its own money. The
big Australian bank isn’t an extraordinarily
profitable concern, by any means; and the
small bank is a great deal less so.
* * * *
From F. Nixon (Brisbane) :
For the life of me I cannot see why the Com-
monwealth banknotes bearing no interest could not
take the place of loans bearing a huge load of in-
terest. Of course, “if you have an excess of paper-
money you depreciate it” ; but what difference in the
security does it make, so long as the paper is issued
against value received, whether it is in current notes


The General Electric Company has developed and
standardised a mine type of Induction Motor, which
fills the demand for a motor of more rugged mechani-
cal construction than the standard line of induction
motors. These are designed for heavy-duty motor
applications. Write to the Australian General Elec-
tric Company, Sydney and Melbourne, for particu-
lars.— Aiivt.
* * * *
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter Iliver
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth.— Advt.
* * * *
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbert Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made numerous smelting
plants working in Australia at present.— Advt. [2
* * * *
It has proved its worth for all purposes where
light, strong, durable pipe is required. Pioneer
Wood Pipe, the ideal pressure pipe. Send for illus-
trated catalogue, free upon application. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Company, Limited (head office),
Burns Bay ltoad (near Fig Tree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Post Office Address, Box 1576 G.P.0.,
Sydney. Contractors to all State Governments.
Factories: Lane Cove River. N.S.W.; Footscray, Vic.;
and Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
Australian and Other Patents. Obtainable through
P. M. Newton, Patent Attorney, Opp. Commonwealth
Patent Office, Flinders Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.— Advt.
* * * *
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Head Office, Sydney.
Earth-handling Machinery: ltoad Graders, Scoops and
Ploughs. Concrete-mixing Machinery: The famous
“Austin” Cube Concrete MLxers in different sizes and
capacities. “Robey” Portable Steam Engines, 8,
14 and 16 nom.-h.p. “National” Gas, Oil and Petrol
Engines. “Leplastrier” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds and
Collapsible Moulds for Concrete Culverts. Queens-
land inquiries to The Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assav
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun's
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for. particulars. 11. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
£ AUtBOANTO
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tk 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital . .£250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. . 96,165 6 6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\Y. R. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Westinghouse
Magnetic Brakes
With improved skid-proof attachment, absolutely
prevents skidding even at the highest speeds.
gf
SPECIAL FEATURES:—
Immediate and powerful action.
The wheels cannot be skidded.
Prevents motor “flashing over.”
Reduces destructive arcing in the controller, and
materially reduces the strain on the car insu-
lation by preventing the voltage in the braking
circuit from reaching dangerously high values.
Head Office for Australia :
QUEENSLAND BUILDING, 84, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Works —Trafford Park, Manchester, England.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON g STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of-Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
or paper bearing interest? It certainly means a
great difference in the interest bill. Vou say: A
note that is backed by gold is a different proposi-
tion.” Therefore it follows that the Commonwealth
note is about a third of a proposition, since it pro-
mises on its smiling face to pay full value in gold
coin on presentation at the Treasury, which claims
to possess 15 millions in gold with which to redeem
45 million pounds value, or thereabouts, of paper-
money. Since this financial joke can be carried two-
thirds of the way with safety, why not go the whole
hog and make our notes legal tender, as the Bank
of England did soon after the war, when it issued
for the first time £1 notes?
Well, we issue :t note not redeemable in gold
in order to carry on our part of the war.
For a start, we want to pay Billjim in
France. How are we going to do it?
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —Let’s tell it to you. I
\vas going to send it to the Defence Depart-
ment; but what’s the use? It seems only
waste of time. —Yours, F. S. Thomas.
[Enclosure.]
The Minister for Defence, Melbourne. Sir,—
I beg to again refer to a letter 1 wrote you while
medical oificer in charge of Gin Gin Hospital,
apropos of the increased premium necessary to keep
in force life insurance policies in the case of a man
going on active service. As I have received no
acknowledgment of this letter I presume that I have
touched on a subject that is considered to be of no
direct concern of the Defence Department.
But it is. I find myself now free to go on active
service, but unable, because I cannot afford to pay
the increased premium necessary to keep my life
insurance policies. Besides, if I stay at home, 1
draw a decent bonus, and from every point of view
the encouragement to a married man is to stay
at home, for if lie goes and does not find a large sum
for the insurance people, one of the main pillars of
his family’s support hereafter is cut from under
their feet, and if he stays at home lie still pays the
same old premium, gets the same or increased bonus,
and gets fat at the expense of his colleague who has
gone. From every point of view his country shows
him what a fool he is to contemplate sacrificing
home, comfort, income and conscience.
Again, I ask, why should we stay-at-homes receive
a bonus? Where would our bonus be if the Germans
got this country? Why in the name of all that is
fair, decent and honorable should we be permitted to
draw bonuses while tile man who goes to do his bit
for us has literally to pay for the privilege ? Surely
Hie world is going mad. That bonus money—and if
needs be our money—-should be used to keep these
policies in force, and the Commonwealth Government
should see to it that we do it.
As a rule, this applies only to policies taken
out since the war started: practically all
policies issued prior to that date are kept in
force by payment of the old premiums,
whether the holder goes to the war or not.
But in hundreds of cases married men who,
facing death, suddenly realised that they
were under-insured, have turned back, because
they were not able to pay the heavy extra
premiums—as much as 10 p.c,—required
from soldiers taking out new policies. In
other cases men anxious to do their duty
have gone to the Front, but are denying
themselves practically everything that costs
money in order to pay up the extra pre-
miums. This is a monstrous thing. The
Bulletin knows of a mine manager, up near
the top of his profession, who threw up a job
worth a lot over £lOOO a year to enlist; he
and his wife agreed that it would be better
for most of his pay to go into a life policy
even at the war-rate, and the woman is now
living penuriously in order to keep up the
payments. It is a disgrace to the rest of us.
We should pass our bonuses over to a fund
for the payment of these extra war-rates on
men who go to the Front.
Metal Manufacturers, Ltd., a eo. formed
about 18 months ago to make copper pro-
ducts at Port Kembla, has been slow in
getting a start owing to war conditions. One
consignment of machinery was sent to the
bottom of the sea, and it has been difficult to
secure duplicate parts as well as other neces-
sary machinery. However, backed by the
Electrolytic Co., the promoters hung on, and
there is now a reasonable prospect of wheels
revolving before the end of the year. A
large quantity of machinery on hand will
be erected as soon as the concrete founda-
tions are completed, and excavations are
being made for the foundations of a wire-
rolling plant. It is intended to manufacture
sheet and wire goods of various descriptions,
the raw material being supplied by the
Electrolytic Co., whose works adjoin.
* *• * *
Mammoth Molybdenite, which has 315 of
the 375 acres held by the cos. formed or
forming to work the Yetholme (N.S.W.)
field, counts on getting down to real business
within a month, when 25 tons of ore a day
will be treated. During the past few months
the eo. has been hauling one of the most up-
to-date molybdenite treatment plants in the
world over miles of wretched road, and bad
weather and labor difficulties have held
things up. A 10-head battery is almost
ready, and three big boilers, an air com-
pressor, dynamo, rock-breaker and hauling-
gear are already in position to handle some
of the thousands of tons of stone at grass.
The water-service, which cost over £3OOO, is
now almost completed, wooden pipes having
been laid from a spring-supplied dam, on the
main Sydney-Bathurst-road, to the mine, a
distance of about four miles. The plant and
preliminary expenses have absorbed £20,000.
The co. hopes to bag a minimum of four tons
of concentrates a week by picking stun going
about 3 p.c.. A recovery as high as p.c.
has already been got, with an almost-puie
concentrate. Dalgety’s will buy direct fioin
the field on behalf of the Federal Govern-
ment, paying £5OO a ton and. meeting all
transport charges. Three shifts will be
worked daily, and given the anticipated out-
put, and with expenses at about inOO a
week, the co. counts on something like £IoUU
a week clear to commence with.
* * * •
Butler’s Tin is a Melbourne co. working
a complex show at Torrington (.N.fe.W.)
which had been idle for years. A 10-head
battery was erected in 1914, and started on
ore won by previous lessees. But it proved
unpayable, so the drills were hastened into
the old workings, while the management con-
sidered the best way of tackling the tin-
lead-wolfram puzzle. After considerable ex-
perimenting it decided on wet crushing,
table-dressing and flotation, with a magnetic
separator to get out the wolfram. The
latter plant is now ready, barring adjust-
ments. But it is still experimental—no mag-
netic concentrator is yet anything else,
though it is over 20 years since the first
was tried on Australian ores. Anyhow, the
flotation plant is a success in getting the
lead away. The trouble occurs at both
ends. First there is a big loss of metals in
the preliminary concentration at the. battery
plant. Afterwards when the lead is away
there remains the wolfram-tin mixture, and
that difficulty may or may not have been
overcome. Lately the co. has been pushing
ahead with development; and some good tin
is said to be showing in the new intermedi-
ate level below No. 2. During the past six
months 1094 tons ore were sent to the
battery for Hi tons tin-wolfram concen-
trates. Capital is £39,290, shares being
paid to 16s. 6d. Vendors received £5OOO in
cash and £15,000 in shares. The co. owes
£6963 (£2498 of that to vendors), and ore,
stores and cash total a poor £620. Work-
ing account to date has run away with
£13,260.
* * * *
Joseph Henderson is the man whose name
goes into the records as the pioneer of Aus-
tralian ferro-manganese. He bosses Lithgow
blast: furnaces, and 2\ years ago accommo-
dated the Hoskins firm by making the first
ferro in Australia. He has done it fre-
quently since, and. the Broken Hill Proprie-
tary has consumed a lot of the brittle alloy
from ifithgow.
C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.), has declared a
Is. div. = £3900. Some people expected 25.;
but in view of the time it takes to finalise
the sale of copper products the directors do
well to husband their cash resources. There
are only 40,000 paid and 38,000 eontribs., so
the co. is moderately capitalised. The big
end of the reserves appear to be basic ore
somewhat low in copper and heavily charged
with sulphur aud iron. The experiments
made by Mount Lyell on similar ore for the
recovery of sulphur will interest the C.S.A.
* * * •
The Wolfram Wonder Syndicate acquired
60 acres in the Thoko district, 18 miles from
Nimitybelle (N-.5.W.), almost a year ago,
and has been trying to find out what it’s
made of ever since. Slmfts are 70ft. down,
connected by a 150 ft. drive. By surface
trenches seven lodes have been discovered,
varying from 6in. to 12in. wide. Crude ore
has produced up to 3 p.c., equal to about
£4 10s. per ton ; and six bags of concentrates
shipped to Sydney went 66.6 p.c. Bismuth
is also showing, but with extraction costs at
about £l2 per ton, there is no profit in it.
A 5-liead battery and concentrating plant
have been installed, and the syndicate is
assuring a water supply by constructing a
dam. Quarrying being out of the question,
an adjoining lease has been secured, where
the lode will be picked up and a tunnel
driven 250 ft. under the present drive, and
stoping commenced. When this tunnelling is
completed, in about three months’ time, the
ore can be delivered bv trolly direct to the
battery. The syndicate holds options over
several other shows in the precipitous dis-
trict.
* * * *
Manager Giblin, at Edna Central, is out
of luck in his dash for fresh reserves to keep
the pot boiling till he or Edna May beats
the water. His effort east at No. 4 spent
itself when he bored into another spouter,
so the outlook is that this trouble will block
him from ranching the Consolidated shoots
until the mine has its own pumps. These
will cost a bit, and as the Board has not put
anything by, reconstruction and calls are
inevitable. Still Frank Savage smiles and
William Orr hangs on to his scrip, and they
are both knowing old birds.
* ♦ * *
From Westonia: —
An ambitious working programme is billed for
this year. Deeps has let a contract for 600 ft. of
boreholes from the 580 ft. level, and also intends to
push down the winze from that point and try to
find something' good enough to again paralyse the
bears. The Greenfinch is to be further prospected
at depth, while several outlying leases which so far
have scarcely had a pick in the ground are to be
probed a little. Edna May is still in a half-drowned
condition, and extra pumps are being installed to
try to beat the biggest flow that has yet been struck
in the mine. Meantime, the water and insufficient
labor are hampering operations a good deal. The
general outlook at Consolidated and Central is offi-
cially declared to be all right, but the market doesn’t
concur.
* * * *
“Oof Bird’’: The Oversight at Broad
Arrow (W.A.) is another instance of a party
of prospectors striking it rich after others
had got nothing. The original owmers
worked to within a few feet of a specimen
shoot of gold, and then left the show in dis-
gust. Later on, tw r o working miners, Bor-
land and Rudd, came along. They also were
just about to throw in the towel, but decided
to sink another few feet for luck. This
work revealed a gradually-widening leader,
and from this the lucky pair have since
taken several thousand pounds, mostly by
dollying.
* * # •
A hullabaloo is being raised in the West
over the taxation of mines. Here is one
man’s experience. He raised a few thou-
sand pounds, and expended it over a space
of two years in opening up a reef at 100 ft.
and erecting a 5-head mill. The third year’s
work showed a book profit of £l3OO, which
was quickly mopped up in acquiring a pump-
ing plant and driving another level. Un-
fortunately, values gave out in the deeper
ground, and thereupon operations ceased,
showing a heavy capital loss. But the law
demanded and insisted on both the State and
Federal income-taxes being paid on the third
year’s so-called profit. Recently the Cham-
ber of Mines went to court over the tax on
development, and, finally, forced the taxation
commissioner to compromise by exempting
from taxation all development work done by
companies except shaft-sinking. The indivi-
dual mine-owner, however, still has to pay,
except in cases where he hasn’t anything,
and so circumvents the stupid Act.
» * * *
Nullagine (W.A.), after getting 60oz. from
2700 cub. yards and doing 86 hours’ work
with the plant, is to close up. So ends the
dream of 598,000 cub. yards giving £52,700
of a working profit, to say nothing of the
odd diamonds that were to be washed up.
Collins House has had disappointments to
face at odd times, but few quite as dismal
as Nullagine.
* * * *
On present appearances the Harry Dodds-
Bryant combination isn’t going to get either
Duke Extended or Langi Logan South on
the divvy list yet awhile. Putting parties
into the patch of 2oz. ground at the Extended
fails to ginger up the market, for the news
has got round that a lot of shrewd-heads
flitted out at the 10s. stage, after having
the mine inspected. What is still absent
is good wash down the gutter, and without
that divs. can’t materialise. At South
Langi No. 11 rise has run into crab-holey
country. If much of that shows up the
question of stopping the main under-level
may have to bi raised. But the reason why
the market crumpled last week is - more
likely to have been the failure of a wash-up
round the 64 rise to come up to the ounce
average.
* * * *
For the past mouth Bendigo Amalgamated
got 21960 z. from 4751 tons. This looks
good enough, but a lot of the gold was from
the plates. Best yields were: Carlisle, 215
tons for an average of 965.; Nelson shaft,
611 tons for 60s. per ton; and Unity, 275
tons for 60s. —all including gold off the
plates. Such figures don’t cut ice, for what
the co. has to live on is the average grade of
the stone and not half-yearly scrapings from
the plates. There’s nothing in this latest
report that gives a hint to holders that they
are on a good wicket. The Carlisle filling
is in. so there’s a hustle to get stone from
the 1200 ft. south level. Dyason thinks that
lie has an even chance of ferreting out some
in the slab of undeveloped country between
1327 ft. and 20.14 ft., so he intends to poke
into that locality, especially to test the
faulted portion of the Garden Gully reef and
the big belt of spurry ground which is being
opened up at 1785 ft. south from the Cornish
shaft.
* * * *
East Gippsland may have a great iron
and steel industry in the days of our grand-
kids. Near Nowa Nowa, on the railway line
from Bairnsdale to Orbost, there are de-
posits of ore that are well worth attention,
with heaps of limestone handy; and as for
power, the Snowy and other rivers are not
far off.
George Buchanan’s North Nuggetty Ajax,
after shaking £160,000 out of Daylesford
reefs, has got on to poor ground and the
call list. Buchanan is letting his neighbors
do the exploration at depth, while he hunts
after flat makes at Nos. 4 and S levels. At
No. 4 ore bulged out to 6ft. thick, and even
now 2ft. of mineralised stone is showing:
but it is poor stuff. However, mine-manager
Harvey is following this with a microscope;
meanwhile with the pick he is after the con-
tinuation of the big flat make cut off at No.
(> level by the Welcome lode. If he fails a
lot of faith will be needed to keep the show
open with costs at present level.
Bowen (Q.) coal cos. are consolidating
into one co. with 125,000 shares of fl each.
Government bores have proved an extensive
area of good coal within easy distance of
the surveyed railway terminus. Situated
so near to the coast these Bowen coal-seams
should have a bright future, though quality
for some purposes lias yet to be proved.
* * * *
The slide in Bananaland’s gold produc-
tion continues. The total yield last year
was 175,2790 z. fine, worth £744,537, com-
pared with 221,8210 z., worth £942,235, for
1910. From ISS9 to 1900 the Northern
State produced well over two millions’ worth
of gold each year. Then the rot set in, pro-
duction declining during the past 11 years
at an average rate of over £140,000 p.a.
Despite last year’s poor figures. £299,000
was distributed in divs., or over £9OOO more
than in 1916.


Heelings
Est. 1818.
Cop
en
en
a & «
HEERIHG
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
Cx/^^tUeiono-*
*teoD' 1 BT^ cUb
suss “tSw'^s^r
)oS£&%Z**
4 .V>orf<* d Sydney
\? 9 bStt^’ d ,lyd^
S 6 &«*’** V
,=6 Qe° rge u \
tfect .Syd« cy \
tte« dnS °jjvetp°®' § (^jeoey
.A" 4
' shop* lo^
gfd
PAULINE et CIE
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
George Btreet, Sydney,
Announce their HALF-YEARLY SALE.
January 24—A1l Hats reduced to 25/-
January 25- „ „ „ „ 21/-
January 29- „ „ „ „ 10/6
Jfquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents: —R. E. JONES & GO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builder s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the wo'
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
auce
“Better
than Either”
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia—
GET A BOTTLE.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVEID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, January 21, 1918.
My Dear Arini, —
Tinder the presidency of Commandant Jack
Antill, Menangle Camp’s Light Horsemen last
week gave a most successful sports afternoon.
The show was on the local racecourse, just
over the line from the camp, and one of the
prettiest patches of pastoral beauty on the
southern line. The Gretna Green race—
a magnificent display of Australian horse-
manship—offered a special prize to the most
whimsical “lady’s” rigout. Trooper Hogan's
“bride” —in floral muslin, with a wild bolero
that waved like this week’s washing in a
gale—was the prize Comic Cut. Trooper
Pithers won the camel race. This means
that a very annoyed animal wasn’t permitted
to sit down in comfort, and arrived gnashing
its teeth, with a cheeky Australian bumping
about on five or six inches of its beam-end.
Major W. A. Smith was president of the
sports committee. With the big chief-artil-
leryman from Liverpool camp came Lieut.
Franklin —he who gave up the rosy billet
of headmaster of Melbourne Grammar to
enlist —and Lieut. Raleigh, of a well-known
squatting-sporting family in Victoria. They
hope to get away with the next Artillery
reinforcements. But —you never know. War
parts the best of mates.
Bathurst was so stirred by the wedding
of the Sydney’s former skipper Glossop that
its oldest families struggled like gamecocks
for standing room in All Saints’ Cathedral.
Hayseeds and mangel-wurzels drove in from
distant villages to get a look at the slim,
rather-delicate looking sailor who led the
Emden to a dance of death. Bride Alison
McPhillamy was given away by her father—
John of that ilk—and two parsons tied the
lovers’ knot. Robin Massie, a grandson of
veteran Tom Dibbs, was second-best man.
Tasmania will presently stalk the famous
Glossop—if it can. It will find him (as well
as her) bounding over the landscape to
escape publicity.
As the most dressy race-goers are cooling
their heels in the blue Pacific or sipping iced
drinks on the cool hills, Saturday’s meet at
Randwick was chiefly an outing for the con-
firmed bettor. Here and there, however, the
lady “regulars” sported their latest summer
muslins, and the tailor-built woman dug her
pencil into the scratchings, fortified by a
costume de luxe in white serge or gabardine.
Ada Reeve was a mild sensation in a won-
derful garment—brown silk under a coat
with spots the size of an orange and many-
colored as a chameleon. A sunshade, also
of the dot-and-earry-two species, shaded the
lady’s sparkling eyes, for you wouldn’t ex-
pect the belltopper hat she wore to do any-
thing so useful. Mona Daley mixed a touch
of apple-blossom pink with her Assam silk
turn out. Osborne Norris and his wife were
in their usual corner of the official stand.
Also present: Barlee Iloldship. in heliotrope •
Mrs. Jim Black, of Warialda; the usual
MeMaster contingent from up-country home-
steads ; Mrs. Val Osborne, in white, her hat
abloom with flowers ; and all the young men
who are graciously pleased to call themselves
“sports.”
Only a languid interest in summer fashions
is left in this steamy weather, so good for
mushrooms, so conducive to a raggy frame of
mind. But the large-patterned voile with a
forest or an orchard growing all over it still
grips the attention. Eve’s daughters can
pluck imaginary apples this season from their
big pockets, which are stamped with fruitery.
Miss Newdigate, eldest daughter of Tassy’s
new Cocked Hat, had a few days’ wait
here, and spent them with the Deputy-Gov.
Cullens at Leura. She’s the Beauty who’s
on her way back to England. The lucky
\nan in the case is a British officer.
Fair Mrs. (Irene Marks) Vivers has men-
tioned by cable her safe arrival in Van-
couver, where she meets her squatter, who is
on furlough. Another striking-looker, Mrs.
Ronald Forbes, is in Java by now, but her
friends say she will settle permanently in
N. S. Wales on her return. On a station,
with a squatter husband.
Dr. Edgar Stephen, one of the numerous
grandsons of the late Alfred, C.J., declares
that he is the happiest mudlark on the
French Front. He has engaged himself to
a Miss Whiteman, a Sydney girl and nurse
in the same hospital. The pair went hence
in the one transport, but they did not know
each other until they met in foreign parts.
Minister James made an official progress
round the Education Gallery the other morn-
ing and then expressed himself as “more
than delighted” with the display of school
art-work. I wonder why. As hitherto, the
show only recalls a “genuine sale” at a
country store. There are occasional excep-
tions to this hotch-potch. Parramatta High
School can take top marks for better work
and for the distinctly best-arranged corner.
Here evidences of talent are not entirely
obscured by the jumble-depot method of dis-
play. The china-painting is on the whole
excellent. It is so good that it ought to be
much better. For with here and there a
really charming design, the general rule is a
clever handling of color and a done-to-death
floral scheme. Stencil curtains hang round
the walls. They hide the walls, which is an
admirable idea. Also, they are, next to the
china-painting, the most successful “art” in
the show. Infant schools have done their best
—and worst. If love of the beautiful is really
conveyed to the Young Idea by letting it
have the free run of colored chalk and brown
paper, then Leichhardt and Camperdown
will adore Beauty presently; for they are
whacking on the blues and the greens by the
quarter-pound. But the 1918 show, in spite
of admitted patches of talent peeping through
splodges of this, that and the other, only
confirms the criticism of Julian Ashton at
the opening of the recent Society of Artists’
show. “If the child is worth teaching—in
the sense that he has a gift for art—then he
is worth teaching well.” But if he has an
inborn capacity to sketch blue moons and
mahogany waves, give him a saw or chisel.
There’s a rumor of another trip to U.S.A.
No —not Davy Hall. The Premier’s lady is
said to be contemplating the voyage.
Put to rest with naval honors, Dr. Frank
Wilson, a popular surgeon who packed his
saws and splints in Sydney and went north
to Brisbane 20 years ago. He had been a
staff naval-surgeon for some years.
After talking to a party of earnest students
of both sexes who spent their New Year
holidays “in conference” up Mittagong way,
with intervals for picnics, C. F. Andrews
lately hit this village. My dear, don’t admit
that you never heard of him. He is the
authority on Indian nationalism, and has
been having some quiet chats with Federal
Ministers lately on subjects not very in-
directly connected with White Australia.
Andrews started out in India as an Anglican
priest on the Cambridge mission at Delhi,
but later doffed his clerical collar and became
a disciple of Rabindranath Tagore, the Hindu
mystic poet whom the British Government
knighted a few years ago. A flowing beard,
the first item in the stock in trade of any
respectable Oriental mystic, marks the
change. Andrews is himself the author of
several books, one of which, “The Renascence
of India,” is a classic on modern Indian
national questions. The Young Indian party
sent him to Natal some years back to look
into their countrymen’s grievances; and he
went lately to Fiji to report on the condi-
tions of Indian indentured labor. As a
result, the C.S.R. Co. will have to get on
without our colored fellow-subjects as in-
dentured laborers for the future.
A few years before
the war, artist Ethel
Stephens pitched her
easel alongside a
friend’s at Etaples,
in France. A work-
ing knowledge of
tempora painting
was their objective.
“Not far away, just
a tram-ride,” says
the Sydney woman,
“is Le Toquet, at
that time a great re-
sort for English visi-
tors (they are there
still, but in muddy
khaki now), and
just beyond is Paris-
Plage, a fascinating
w a t e r i n g-p lace.
There is an old 12th-century church to de-
light the artist’s eye, with a short but
graceful Norman steeple, and on the beach
gaily-striped dressing-tents add to the color
scheme. Behind the church is a shallow,
stagnant pool of dirty water, with exquisite
reflections, but not likely to appeal to a
sanitary inspector. On the coastline low
pearly clouds float in those rounded masses
that Australians usually find so difficult to
paint. Well, I know I did —they hang so
low that they pass quickly out of
range. But very dear to all artists is
the long white road bordered with tall
trees on which no tiniest twig or scrap
of paper is left to blow about. A short
distance away is Montreuil-sur-Mer, a medi-
aeval walled-in town, where Sterne is sup-
posed to have written his ‘Sentimental Jour-
ney.’ But I could go on for ever almost
with reminiscences of beautiful France.
And now?”
Simple and sincere, and ever eager to lash
herself to super-efforts, Ethel Stephens is
one of Sydney’s leading women artists.
Years ago we knew her best in still-life work.
Then came the higher path that leads to
portrait-painting. Many reverends —and I
think a right reverend or two —have sat for
her facile brush, and various important com-
missions have been given to her when men of
mark were to be hung. But as good sellers
she has never produced anything to surpass the
dainty sketches that were the outcome of her
visit to that pleasant land of France —the
desired, alas! of the Hun. A daughter of
the late Professor Stephens, of our ’Varsity,
this hard-worked artist has recently paid
Nature’s toll for a too-strenuous life. But
a year’s rest —comparative rest, for Bed
Cross efforts have not been laid aside—has
braced her up to feel that she can face her
easel again. Her photo is from Cruden’s.
Mary, daughter of It. Johnston, of Felix-
haven, Cremorne, was the attractive bride of
a few weeks back when Bertram Neale pro-
vided the ring, some diamonds, a motor-car
and furs as slight tokens of liis affection. He
used to grow mutton in Maoriland, and is
now on his way to look for wings in the
Royal Flying Corps. An elder brother has
already fallen in the cause of Liberty. The
pretty bride, by the way, has a silver lining
to her vanity-box. She’s related to that
Fred Morgan who gave the big Queensland
mine its name. Bridesmaids in dove-grey
and pink, flanked by infant trainbearers who
behaved with extreme fortitude, stood behind
the new Mrs. Neale while John Ferguson
tied the knot. The wedding—or, rather, the
name of the happy man—was a surprise to
the people who think they know all about
it. The lady was recently engaged to some-
one else.
“P’int me mister!” “Wot yer gettin’
at?” “ ’Ere, come
an’ look at the cove
p’intin’.” After the
infant population of
the departing slums
had thus introduced
Syd tJre Smith to
their friends and the
family, that floating
population which
seems to be profes-
sionally unemployed
which makes them
like the lilies of the
field, in one respect,
at any rate —would
saunter up. Their
attitude was a mix-
ture of friendly curi-
osity and hostile
suspicion. Generally
it was the lady in the .group who
voiced the suspicion. Yet in spite of
occasional unfriendliness—once the artist
of “Old Sydney” was like a besieged
city, having vanished over a high cor-
rugated-iron fence while the enemy attacked
vigorously with loose metal —he contrived to
get graphic pictures of the insanitary but
often picturesque old rookeries which are
fewer every year. Greater Sydney will have
none of these breeding-spots for crime and
disease. To-day Syd Ure Smith is one of
our foremost etchers, with a wonderful mine
of subjects in those sketches that he did
while the local inhabitants waited —with a
brick or applause, as the case might be. As a
commercial artist he is half of the firm of
Smith and Julius. For the rest he is part-
editor with Bertram Stevens of Art in Aus-
tralia, a son of “Daddy” Smith who man-
ages the Australia, and a young Cornstalk
who is making his pencil felt. Here is
Judith Fletcher’s photo.
Told me by an officer’s wife, back home
in mourning:—
My Margaret and I were passing up Bond-street
in a ’bus, when we saw a lovely old lady dressed
deeply in black walking along with a little white
bag in her hand. Beside her was another lady,
younger and not so nice. Suddenly it struck me
that she was the Queen Mother. “Darling,” I said
to my little Flower, “there’s the Queen.” “Doi-in’
ta-ta,” said my friendly babe. The sweet old lady
looked up and waved her hand to Margaret, who gaily
waved back. Everyone loves the Queen Mother.
One day as we w r ere going into town in a ’bus
two ladies got in just outside Kensington Palace.
One looked very like the portraits of Queen Victoria.
The other was obviously a lady-in-waiting. They
talked together in very loud and voluble German.
I said to my neighbor, “I thought German was taboo
in England.” “Sh —it’s the Duchess of Albany,” she
said with a shrug.
The day I went to the Foreign Office for my pass-
port I suddenly realised that I was in Downing-
street, and opposite historic No. 11. It is just a
biggish, square-built house of stone, with draggled
lace curtains. I walked across to the very fine
policeman who was stationed outside. “Good morn-
ing,” I said. “Is that where the Prime Minister of
England lives?” “Yes, Miss,” he replied. “It’s
very grand inside.” Just then a very gorgeous car
drew up. I said to the driver: “Is the Prime Min-
ister coming out?” “No,” he said. “But she is.”
So I waited till “she” did. A pleasant-looking little
woman.
As I was leaving, a big round-shouldered man came
through the archway from the Foreign Office. It was
Winston Churchill. I knew him at once. He has
big, shifty, fish-grey eyes. I didn’t like him. And
then another man came along. A real man this time.
I didn’t know who he was; I had never seen his por-
trait. But I said to a soldier who was standing by:
“That man looks as though he could carry the Brit-
ish Empire on his back.” “That’s what he is
doing,” said the soldier. “He’s Sir Auckland
Geddes.”
When I think of the London policeman I glow
with being British. He’s so very something to be
proud about. He’s 60 feet (or so) on foundations like
fenders. And he is the only complete autocrat on
earth. My Margaret and I wanted to cross Victoria-
street, and we stood wavering before the stream of
traffic. One of the magnificents took us in in the
corner of his eye. He lifted my little one in his
arms, raised his spare hand aloft, and London stood
still.
For three months or so an expert has been
enjoying himself caging the H. L. White
postage-stamp collection. It’s in the Mit-
chell Library, of course. The heads there
hope that other Australian citizens will come
in with gifts to posterity. The stamps had
an official opening this mid-week.
The sculling world is interested in the
recent wedding of Fanny Kemp and Leonard
Bell at St. David’s, Haberfield. Fanny is
a daughter of one-time world’s champion
Peter, and has for some years been lady
sculling champion of Australia. Bell is
also handy with the blades, and won honors
when he stroked the Leichhardt Rowing
Club. That only used up his spare time, for
he’s a dentist in working hours. The party
was held at the shed at Abbotsford, where
many young sporting ducks have taken to
the water during the last 10 years.
Though Everybody saw it coming for
months, the wedding was the quietest the
New Year has seen. Bride Kitty Austin is
a daughter of that well-groomed veteran,
Henry Austin, brother of the late poet
Alfred, whose Laureateship made modern
literary England seethe. Only a few friends
—Mrs. Hugh Ward and Jennie Brenan were
in the small gathering—and near relatives
saw the ceremony that made Miss Austin
Mrs. Webb. Of course, the young man is
in khaki.
A correspondent the other day sent the
S. M. Herald what purported to be a
translation of an article written by Pro-
fessor Jacob Burckhardt on his return to
Germany from Australia—he was in Sydney
for the Science Congress just before the pot
boiled over. (I’m told the old lady is still
wondering whether somebody didn’t stretch
her leg.) “The young males [of Australia]
are spineless jellyfish,” the dear old prof, is
said to have written. “They only speak the
truth by accident. The only time they go to
church is when divine service is ended, and
then for the purpose of waylaying the young
maidens who for outward appearances and
respectability attend the evening devotions.
. . . .After a time we will allow the women-
folk freedom. They will soon embrace us, as
witness the number of girls, to say nothing
of married women, who are our friends. All
the same, they prove very uninteresting com-
panions, owing to lack of intellectuality.”
Dear, dear! And Professor Jacob Burck-
hardt was the guest of one of our Univer-
sity dons, too! The girls, to say nothing of
the married women, of Edgecliff and Darling
Point will know better than to gush over a
herr professor next time one drops in to
s-s-soop up the afternoon-tea.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


LTD
JEWELLERS.
FOR MEN
The Company’s stock includes a very fine
selection of High Quality English Leather
Goods at Moderate Prices,
selection forwarded on approval, if desired.
Fine Seal Leather Banknote Case, with
Silver-mounted corners. A compact and
useful style. Size when folded, 4J x 2 j
inches.
£1 12 0
Gold-mounted Soft Calfskin
Tobacco Pouch, with Disc for
engraving.
9ct. Gold, £l/13/-
Silver, 19/-
Fine Seal Leather “Mystic”
Banknote Case, with Silver-
mounted Corners.
£1 14 0
With Oct. Gold Corners,
£2 18 0
Silver-mounted Morocco Pocket Wallet, with
Pockets for Stamps, Cards, Letters <and
Banknotes.
16/-
An Illustrated Catalogue sent Post Free on Request.
13 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON
The Ensign “Popular”
Is the Lightest, (Smallest and Simplest
REFLEX CAMERA.
British-made For X-Plates.
4
of a second.
It should be the ambition of every camera worker
to possess an Ensign Popular Reflex Camera, because
of its general, all-round merit. The objection to
most Reflex Cameras is their bulk and weight, but
the “Popular” is so small and light it can be carried
on the longest walking trip without inconvenience—
its weight being under 41b., and size 6Jin. square
over all.
And the Luxury and Simplicity of its movements!
A novice can use it after a few minutes’ examination.
There are no complicated calculations to make before
making an exposure—after focussing in the brilliant
silvered mirror in which the scene is pictured clearly
and distinctly, set the revolving Time-Indicator to
the speed required, give a turn to the shutter-winding
key (at left-hand top corner in illustration), pres 3
the lever, and the exposure is made.
It is strongly constructed of seasoned hardwood,
tongued, grooved, glued and screwed, covered seal-
grained leather, Black Enamelled Fittings, Deep
Focussing Hood, Reversing Back, Self-capping Shutter,
giving exposures of l/15th, l/2.oth, l/50th, l/75th,
l/100th, l/150th, l/250th, l/500th and l/1000th part
Bulb and Time, and fitted with a Velor Anastigmat Lens, F 4.5.
For Price £l3 lOs
Treatment of Residues and Assay’s
is a Special Feature
at Harringtons* Laboratories.
Our Laboratories possess every facility for the scientific treatment of Ores, Residues,
Sweepings and Waste Products of Jewellers, Dentists, Engravers and other Metal Workers,
and all work is done under the personal supervision of a qualified Chemist and Metallurgist
from Messrs. Johnson & Sons, London, Assayers to his Majesty’s Government and the
Bank of England.
We are Specialists in Assaying, Ore Testing and Metallurgical Analysis. We buy
materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply those metals, or their
alloys, in plate or wire.
We invite your enquiries. A ’phone or letter addressed to any of our branches will
receive prompt attention.
II?
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
388 George St. & 127Bathurst St., Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney .
ENTERTAIN
YOUR
GUESTS
with the
Pianola Piano
Tii -
L,
t.
y/j
%
n
72
at
IF you take pleasure in entertaining your friends- if you love
happy people around you, you need the “PIANOLA.” You
and your guests can derive unlimited enjoyment from this
wonderful player-piano.
NO hackneyed pieces that one can hear every day —no faulty
fingering or embarrassing mistakes to mar the entertainment
you provide; the world’s best music played with perfect
technique and expression will ensure many happy hours for you, as
the player, and for them as the listeners.
TO possess a genuine “PIANOLA” is within the power of all,
for we offer you the advantages of easy payments and a
liberal allowance on your present piano. The “PIANOLA”
offers musical values and musical enjoyment impossible with any
other instrument.
IT is not a “Pianola” unless the word “PIANOLA” is actually on
it. The genuine “PIANOLA” can be obtained only in the
following world-famous pianos—The Steinway, Aeolian Steck,
Aeolian Stroud, and the English-made Aeolian Weber.
Fuller particulars gladly given.
Please ask.
To the PIANOLA COMPANY
Please send me catalog and price list of Pianola Pianos,
showing how I can purchase an instrument for cash or easy
terms, and ivhat allowance you can make on my present piano,
which is a
Bought about
Name
Address
Pianola.
Co.Pty. Ltd. 384 George St.. Sydney.
11l
Knir^
PIANOLA V-T-V ■»’
Sydney
V.
THE CENTRE
FOR THE WORLD’S
GREATEST
ACHIEVEMENTS
• O IN O «
MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS.
"Aeolian"
Rtot Trade Mark
m
m
Ew|g
252 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
311 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
58 RUNDLE STREET, ADELAIDE.


CRETONIC SOAP
(MEDICINAL and TOILET).
*
To Remove Freckles. Freckles are a discoloration of
the skin. They can’t be removed until the outer layer of the
skin itself comes off. Rub the parts affected vigorously with a
lather of Cretonic Soap. This softens the skin ; it gradually
comes off, and the new skin is in better condition. Use
Cretonic Face Cream to nourish the new skin as it forms,
and in a little time the freckles will entirely disappear.
To Relieve Sunburn. One getting sunburned should
immediately after coming in bathe the parts affected gently
with just a little Cretonic Soap and warm water. Drv'with
a very soft towel without any friction, and then ' applv
Cretonic Face Cream lightly and liberally to the parts
affected.
The result will be wonderfully grateful, quickly soothing
the burning and itching, and removing the soreness and redness.
If Cretonic Face Cream is not at hand, a liberal amount of Cretonic Face
Powder used instead will give a delightful relief, but don’t use both cream and powder.
Sold everywhere. Price 1/- Free Sample & Booklet on request.
THE CRETONIC CHEMICAL CO., 178 Castlereagh Street, Bydney.
Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) 11/6
Bed and Breakfast ~ 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
Beauty, Elegance
and
Supreme Quality
are expressed in
GAGE Hats.
On Display at the Leading
Establishments of Australia
and New Zealand.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne. January 21, 1918.
My Dear Yarrie, —
General Monash’s dame has gone to Tas-
mania, paying excess-baggage rates because
of the weight of her new title and her posi-
tion as leading-lady in the Australian Army
honors.
One of the biggest nights experienced by
Fitzroy these many moons will happen at
the local town hall on Wednesday, when
Brig.-General George Johnston, of Gallipoli
and France, is to be the piece de resistance
at a citizens’ smoke-night. Caulfield is
General Johnston’s home village, but he gets
his daily crust out of a made-in-Australia
furniture-works in Melbourne’s ancient in-
dustrial suburb.
Lieut.-Col. Herbert Embling, who was in
practice at Korong Vale when the Potsdam-
merung started, and presently joined up with
the military for transport-work, is now C.O.
at the Base Hospital, in succession to Major
Courtney, who goes on the Referee Board.
Colonel Embling in the long ago used to feel
Haw-hawthorn’s pulse; he is a brother of
that ancient pillar of Fat, the late Dr. W.
11. Embling, M.L.C. Mrs. Herbert is chief
of the Equestrian Club, a concern which
started out to Win the War, but of late has
been leading a somewhat subdued existence
owing to a lack of public interest. The Base
Hospital job isn’t the plum it used to be in
the days when nearly all the arrivals on the
sick-list were put there; but to be C.O. of
anything in the military is generally some
sort of good thing these times.
The hankering to “do a bit” runs in
families. Two Burke brothers, of St. Kilda,
both old Grammar boys, have now won Mili-
tary Crosses. Captain Harold, an Anzac, got
away as a private; his brother the major
graduated from Duntroon to the gun-pits. A
third brother, Lieut. Maurice, will be able
to tell yarns of German prison-camps when
he gets out of captivity. The fourth Burke,
who is in Dalgety’s, has had four unsuccess-
ful tries to exchange pen for rifle. Brother-
in-law Spencer, lately from England, threw
off his curate’s collar and got into fighting
rig. And Sister Lila wears a cap in a mili-
tary hospital abroad.
Bob Herring has changed Ms dark-blue
college *cap for gunner’s khaki. He is the
fourth Grammar captain to get into camp,
and the third fighting son of the Mary-
borough recruiting committee’s chairman.
Brother Jack is in France, and Captain Ted,
who carried off a Rhodes Scholarship, is
recuperating in Australia before rejoining his
battery.
The Australian Branch of the British
Red Cross (president, Lady Helen) has
been busy. In the last two months 6000
cases of specially-packed goods have gone to
England and Egypt. Prisoners-of-war
parcels have taken 30001 b. tinned meats,
20001 b. preserved fruits. 14,0001 b. biscuits,
50001 b. butter, 20,0001 b. jam, 30001 b. of drip-
ping and 13,0001 b. of rolled oats. Added to
this have been tons of Christmas cheer—
things forbidden, as a rule, because of the
conservation of cargo space. Bombay Hos-
pital and the hospital ships have had a
share.
Red Crossers are being warned of some
special wants at headquarters, Government
House: Hospital slippers, sizes 7 and 8
(must be firm and well finished) ; cotton
shirts; sheets (three yards long by two
yards wide) ; and towels of every descrip-
tion. Branches are implored to hurry up
delivery of any goods they have on hand.
The French Mothers’ Help Society, headed
in Melbourne by Mrs. Crivelli, stopped work
for only a few days at Christmas. Madame
la General Michel has written from Paris
expressing appreciation of the society’s
splendid gifts; and Melbourne girls are flat-
tered because the critical Frenchwomen
praise the exquisite needlework put into the
baby-clothes.
The State War Council is going to make
un appeal for more cash, and one of the
leading features will be Our Boys’ Carnival,
organised and run by haigh sassiety dames.
It will happen on March 15. Decorated
cars and flower-battles are in the bill. Car-
lyle Smythe is heading the arrangements,
and he riskily guarantees no minor battles
among committee dames. A lucky boome-
rang will help to bring down the shilling
that flies.
Mrs. Brigette Tuxeu, secretary to the
Foundling Hospital at East Melbourne, has
raised an earnest clamor for public atten-
tion. Hospital Sunday funds are distributed
by a committee which never gives a penny to
the babies’ life-savery, the committee’s chief
stated reason being that this hospital isn't
really a hospital at all —merely a “home.”
But, in addition to looking after the flotsam
of the doorstep, the East Melbourne concern
coddles up premature babies, as well as
others suffering from malnutrition, sending
them back to their homes when they are up
to standard—all cases which the Children’s
Hospital can’t admit —and it has to employ
trained nurses for the work. Melbourne
hasn’t an all-for-babies hospital like Sydney;
but that seems no reason why the Hospital
Sunday collections shouldn’t encourage an
establishment which aoes part of the way.
The tall hat that some of our City Fathers
persist in wearing has been practically oblit-
erated from fashionable London by the war.
The old bucks don’t wear it and the young
bloods can’t, being in khaki. Piccadilly,
abandoning the belltopper, has taken to
puffing a pipe in the street. The two things
couldn’t go together, anyhow. Nobody—or
hardly anybody—ever thought of smoking a
briar under the shadow of a stove-pipe hat,
or in the environment of a frock-coat.
The Robert Harpers are to make the
Macedon welkin ring on the night of their
golden-wedding frivol. All the nobility,
gentry and vice-royalty of the Mount have
been bidden to it, and a crowd of Harper
and Cairns relatives will train or oil up from
town.
The dear young things of the Methodist
Ladies’ College will be under the charge of
quite a youthful headmaster, with the roman-
tic name of Philip Ridgway Le Couteur!
Philip secured his M.A. at the Melbourne
“shop” and went to Oxford as a Rhodes
scholar. There he did brilliant things at
University College and in the cricket field,
his dazzling all-round play in an Oxford-
Camhridge match some years ago being the
subject of admiring mention in the cables.
When not playing, cricket the young man
gave his attention to experimental psychol-
ogy, philosophy, child psychology, pedagogics
and other light and airy subjects. Of recent
years he has been lecturer in mental and
moral philosophy at the Westralian Univer-
sity.
A year ago Dr. Clapp, formerly of the
Homoeopathic Hospital, went to lonely
Ocean Island to practise there. He took his
wife and family with him, and presumably
the tropic heat overpowered them. Any-
how, his pal, Dr. Gould (the fashionable
bachelor medico of Malvern), lately received
a wireless from Clapp asking him to come
to his relief. The good pal packed his
stethoscope and pyjamas, put his practice up
for auction and caught the next boat for the
island. The oflier adventurer is now on his
way back.
Miss Adelaide’s notes
Judge Bevan arrived on Thursday from Port Dar-
win, overland. He had been on the track since
November 19, with a 10-days’ break at Alice Springs.
For three weeks the temperature every day climbed
past 100 deg., but the Judge had the luck to dodge
the bad storms that swept the far North. He
reports plenty of dry feed in the country through
which he passed, and healthy-looking stock, but
water was at a premium.
The controversy as to who has knitted the most
pairs of socks since war broke out has brought to
light the record-breaker for the State —Miss Lucy
Nott, daughter of the late Dr. Nott, of Gawler. She
has 727 pairs to her credit, and has made up her
mind to notch the 1000 before she beats her knitting-
pins into skewers.
Graham Stewart, the Engineer-in-Chief, is to be S.
Australia’s representative on the Murray Waters
Inter-State Commission for six months from February
1, which must be disconcerting to politicals who
averred by everything hallowed that the Premier had
earmarked the position for himself. Still, you’ll
notice that the present appointment hasn’t been
made for seven years or anything like that.
P. A. Anthony, at pmsent general manager and
chief engineer of the railways in the Federated Malay
States, has been appointed to inquire into our rail-
way system. He brings to bear on the job experi-
ence gained with the Great Western Kailway in Eng-
land as well as in the Malay States.
Major Seager, M.C., who enlisted in 1914 and was
in the Landing, returned at the end of the week
after being badly wounded in France at the end of
September. When he recovers he plans to get back
to the Front again. This is his first spell from
active service.
Mount Gambier has set a memorial stone on a
knoll between the Valley and Browne’s Lakes to
mark the site of the first white man’s home in the
district. The hut's builder was S. G. Henty, who
came to the Mount with two men in ’39 and estab-
lished a cattle-run. All trace of the old building
has gone except some stones that are supposed to be
the fireplace.
We have established a new city record. For three
consecutive days at the police court there was not
a charge of “drunk and disorderly.” It’s the first
time we have been so successful in covering up our
wobbly tracks for 30 years.
lvadina has lost one of its most useful men in
C. A. E. Hall. News that his eldest son had died a
prisoner of war in Germany came within a few days
of dad’s death.
Michael P. Considine, who represents the
proletariat of Broken Hill in the House of
Reps., recently discovered the Truth in Miss
Bessie Washington, and proposes to keep it
within call for life. The young lady, who is
the daughter of an Eaglehawk Labor official,
is to share Michael’s income and intuitions
from this onward. The wedding is to be
very quiet. It is understood that there will
be a strike at Broken Hill for five minutes
as a mark of respect.
Far from being taught the value of free-
dom by the fact that a former flying mate is
now a prisoner of war with Abdul, Captain
Stan Winter-Irving no sooner reached Aus-
tralia than he submitted to the hobbles of
matrimony. The temptation was Doris Cum-
ming, daughter of the W. B. Cummings of
the big Western District station of Mount
Fyans, and they were married very quietly
at his mother’s town place. The captain,
who is a son of the late W. I. Winter-Irving,
of the House of Landlords, returned from
Palestine last month with a Military Cross
to his credit. One of his pals, Flight-Lieut.
J. S. Brasell (with whom he and Flight-
Lieut. L. W. Heatlicote, now a captive, were
photographed in Cairo), was killed in a fight
with two enemy ’planes last June.
One-time Belgian Consul Yanderkelen
sends a cooee from Paris, saying he is giving
his flapper-chick a stepmother for a New
Year’s gift. The bride is a widow, Boulanger
by name, who was known hereabouts as the
daughter of a temporary ruler at the French
Consulate—Jules Homery.
At the Scotchbyterian kirk on Thursday
Lascelles Farrington wedded a pretty Pal-
merston girl. Phyllis Munro. The bride-
groom, who has a reject badge under his
coat-lapel, is a Warrnambool boy whose
mother w r as a pioneer in the up-to-date
paying-guesterie business. Before the Naval
bosses selected Osborne House, Geelong, as
a college, the Farrington widow had it filled
with well-dollared boarders. The lady is
related to Geelong’s best families.
John Leckie, M.H.R., has added another
interjection to his history of civilisation. It
is a bright, bonnie baby and is the firstfruit
of his marriage to Hattie Knight, penwoman.
The usual level-crossing tragedy has sent
a brave soul west. Nora Brady, a frail little
lady who had minded the Kinane-street
gates, near Brighton Beach, for 14 years,
was looking after her beloved pot-plants the
other Saturday when she heard children
playing on the line and the roar of an
approaching train. Rushing out of the cot-
tage she just managed to throw the children
clear, but the engine struck her, and it was
a dying heroine who was carried back into
the little home.
People of varying political complexions
will feel sympathy for Martin Hannah, one
of the most earnest of Victorian Laborites,
whose wife died in a private hospital on
Saturday.
The well-liked Dr. Jimmy Boyd, of Ben-
digo, had a quick death. He was brother to
the popular Drs. Bill and Tom, the other
brass-plated sons of old Dr. Boyd, a great
Bendigo identity from the early days who
departed this world of pains and pills only
a year or so ago. Dr. James came down to
Melbourne to watch his wife through a severe
operation. She is recovering, but the strain
of the anxiety was too much for her husband.
There’s a pearl whose milk-and-rose
iridescence is making us all goggle-eyed out-
side a Swanston-street shop. It is claimed
to be the finest ever found in Australian
waters. It came from the Nor’-West. An
ovoid drop as big as a sparrow’s egg, it
weighs .100 grains, and the skin is suffused
with the pink glow prized by experts. A
gem of less than half the weight was sold
lately in London for £14,000 —the centre
pearl of the famous Mayer necklet, valued at
£135,000, and recovered after being stolen in
transit from Paris to London.
The sleeker sex is going to make itself
heard. The Thistle Society intends to hand
the bagpipes thrown aside by fighting Scots
to about 20 pettic-oated lassies. Men may
smoke pipes; women mean to blow ’em.
The piper-girls will all sport the kilt when
on parade.
A Melbourne girl back from the U.S.A.
tells of the “positively gorgeous” time she
was given in N’Yark by Francie Adler, now
a dazzling operatic star and wife of the
manager of the Metropolitan Opera House.
Francie has a luxurious 14-room flat in the
centre of fashionable New York, “and seven
servants, my dear.” Her bedroom, hung
with Venetian lace and with coverlets of
Flemish lace over pink satin, is “too lovely
for words” and has been photographed for
several illustrated papers. The little lady
says that she would like to see Australia
again, but the dollar harvest is too plentiful
to neglect at present. Francie has not been
spoiled by success. Only one thing was
suspected of being affectation —she had for-
gotten the existence of Collins-street!
Cacialli, the smooth, sweet basso of the
Italian Co., who sang six nights a week and
never seemed to tire, has arranged three
concerts at Melbourne Town Hall for the
last week in January. Gertrude Johnson is
engaged for the series. These will be the
first Melbourne appearances of the Austra-
lian girl in her prima donna capacity.
Stannis Leslie, who used to sing for us in
grand opera, has a busy job these days look-
ing after the front of the Tivoli. He has
a daughter who is “coming on” rapidly, and
threatens to be a star as soon as her sing-
ing-master releases her for everyday work.
“The Lifeguardsman” scored a fashion-
able first-night in the newly-decorated Prin-
cess’s ; for the Spring-street house is begin-
ning to get back the air it wore in the days
when the Broughs and Nellie Stewart made
it their pitch. The seats are covered with
neutral-tinted leather, which makes a good
background for feminine frills, and the
padded-rail trimmings and new curtain are
a gorgeous hunter’s pink.
The Arnold Westleys boxed, Mrs. Arnold
wearing transparent white chiffons. Colonel
Syd Sands occupied another box with his
wife, who is just out of hospital and wore a
pale face and an adorable amber velvet
collar to her creamy crepe de chine.
Mrs. Johnny Fuller, in black and white,
shared another pen with a curly-haired
flapper who was all dinkv blue ribbons and
white muslin. Mrs. Barry Thompson was
stalled, and sported the longest cape-collar
on record on her white gown. A flight of
young girls attended by soldier boys were in
the stalls; all the young rounded-shoulders
on view showed the bathing-gown sun-mark.
Flapperdom darts up to town from the sea
and does a theatre-party before motoring
back to the beaches. That sort of break
makes a long holiday endurable.
Sydney De Loghe, author of “The Straits
Impregnable” and “Pelican Pool,” has tried
his hand as a playwright, and is likely to be
given production under repertory auspices
as soon as Melbourne recovers sufficiently
from its present passion for pantomime to
turn its attention to less frivolous matters.
De Loghe is a good-looking young man, with
blue blood in his veins and an incurable shy-
ness in his soul, or wherever it is such
qualities are kept.
Genial Charley Wenman, the J.C.W.
associate-director and pantomime “produ-
cer,” has just come out winner of a bout
with pneumonia which lasted a fortnight.
He is now seeking some of . his lost flesh in
the hills of Macedon.
Marion Marcus Clarke put in so much
time at Honolulu that she jumped at the
chance offered her in Muriel Starr’s
Hawaiian play. Just before that the young
Australian had begun to pack her bags with
the intention of visiting a sister in America.
Grace Palotta has been up at Buffalo holi-
daying. The overwrought coachman who
plies between Bright and the Mountain has
been charging extra for any luggage that
does not fit comfortably into his limited
“boot,” and the frocky Grace was last heard
of arguing the point over a pound's-worth of
excess luggage. The “excess” was shown at
dinner-time —a cobwebby trifle weighing
about lloz.
Some Melbourne girl-artists lately stole
away into the country to do landscape work.
They chose a pretty township on the road
towards the hills, and all but one put up at
a cottage. She pitched a tent which she had
borrowed from a pal. One morning at dawn
she was disturbed by a cow trying to get in.
She arose hastily and chased Blossom off;
then, being hopelessly awake, she packed her
gear and went off to get some early-sunlight
sketches. Hours later she returned, to find
that Blossom had come back and turned the
tent into a maternity hospital. A' fine little
bull-calf with some rose madder on his nose
welcomed her at the door.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


vi
-v- %■
/j
wm<
a*
1
2*
in iivi inwin i iii JTflffmffflTrt 11 n
mm pSSSHB
itllll.U/i^i
w
nm
in,in
iii/iiiiiiiiimiiiiiiDHiiiiiniiiiiiMiMi 111111
m
!Tiiiiiii>iiiiiiiiiiiiiiininiiiiiiHniiiiiiuiiiimininiiin)iiiimiiiiuiiiiumiunnnnii)iiiiiMiii | il
1 1 ...Q.mli
muni)) lUiDiMin 1 111 ni hi nin i
=?/
m
I
m
WKM
mm.
%
mm
%
Yj 3
1
i
I
1
IP
E
m
m
i
i
3
m
r
'M,.
m
/a
IK
m
H
28
m
ft.
3
1
u
l)
m
H
1
a
1
1
I
£**
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiliiiiiiiimii
1
ili|iniiiilHtlUUlUj
mu
DEWi
imii
Am
a
a
WHIS
©I
IwasSw
Maturity Age ever did command respect. In Dewar's to-day is to be found all the experience of many
Mat sections in the arts of blending and distillation, which has for its end the production of a Whisky-always
rioelv matured-worthy of its universal designation as
THE SUPREME SPIRIT.


FOR YOUR. HEALTH’S SAKE use
HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS
THE RELIABLE HOME REMEDY FOR
Headaches, Neuralgia, Insomnia, Brain Fag, Anaemia
and other Neurasthenic Conditions.
Mr. A. D. Griffiths, Grazier, of Leamia, Curlewis, writing on November 8, 1917 said - “T
been using HEAN’S TONIC NERVE NUTS regularly since I obtained the first supply a couple of
months ago, and I must say the result has been satisfactory to me, for they have undoubtedly
improved the state of my nerves, and, what is more, since using them I have put on over two
stone weight, having increased from 12st. 3lb. to 14st. 71b. I may mention that my height is
6ft. and age 55 years. This information is given as an instance of the constitution-buildins'
properties of your preparation. Mrs. Griffiths has also received benefit from the use of hpam’l
TONIC NERVE NUTS.” b
Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts
are economical as well as being efficient. Boxes containing twelve rlnv«’
supply cost 3/-, or six boxes for 17/3. c y
Obtainable from all Chemists and Stores, or from G. AV HE AN, Chemist
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney; or Hean’s Pharmacy, AVanganui ’
New Zealand.
A Signal Success
13
King George IV
WHISKS’
The TOP-WOTCHScotcH
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Caveman”: I don’t think the Barcoo
nausea is brought about by the flies, although these
were bad when we had it on the Lachlan. Self and
brothers fell in for it badly one year in October,
all together, and while we were on the best of
tucker. The tucker was often lost when you least
expected it —perhaps when you were in the act of
stooping. At all events, the action could have
been in no way connected with the flies very often.
I found hop-tea about the best cure for little Mary’s
circus tricks, with hop-beer and Worcester-sauce in
between for variety. For the rot the local chemist
prescribed resinol, which dried up the sores in time.
Recollect while the bout was on our blood was very
thin—we would bleed like a stuck pig from the
least scratch—and all got as poor as Lazarus. I
attribute it to the state of the blood brought about
by hard and constant toil under a burning sun.
Are women and old men subject to it? Or is it
confined to young (and especially single) men?
■» * * *
“H.W.F.”: Barcoo rot and spew can be
found anywhere west of the Blue Mountains from
the Murray to Northern Queensland. I have a
notion that the rot is caused by flies and a mutton
diet. Good food and vegetables are no preventive;
in 1884 I saw the manager of Tooralie station, on
the Warrego, suffering very badly from the rot
sores, and he had very good food (I had some with
him) and no lack of vegetables. As for the spew
(induced, I think, by revulsion at the flies), I found
a glass of brandy or Worcestershire sauce and water
good after emptying the stomach. Another meal could
then be taken. In the town of Bourke I noticed
very little rot on residents’ hands; and I fancy that
an occasional feed of beef and pork instead of
perpetual mutton may have had something to do
with that. Will some Bulletin reader give his ex-
perience where beef was the meat eaten ?
“Rot”: The marks of Barcoo rot are
sometimes as permanent as those of smallpox. W. S.
McDonald, Maoriland Minister of Agriculture, can.
still show the scars on the backs of his hands. As
a lad he spent three years out in the Diamantina, and
had the rot badly, but it is nearly 40 years since he
went to M.L., and he has never had a trace of the
disease since. His theory is that it is a sort of
scurvy, due to the lack of fresh vegetables.
* * * *
“I Say”: I yell for a reduction in the
number of cats in Australia. They kill probably
millions of birds every year, almost every one of the
latter a destroyer of some pest. Are cats any use at
all? They kill rats and mice (when they cannot get
birds) and then go and play with the baby, and likely
as not transmit some such disease as tuberculosis or
infantile paralysis, of both of which, as well as many
others as bad, or worse, rats and mice are known
carriers. The cats didn’t do much to out the recent
mice plague. The National Andubon Society of
U.S.A. shows a photo, of five dead pussies, and states:
“These five cost the State of New York $lOOO in
young birds destroyed by them.” After seeing some
of the work of our lot in town and country, I think
it likely they are worse than Uncle Sam’s collection.
They are a curse in the land, and, where possible,
they should be taxed, as dogs are, and the money
spent in killing off the multitude of those that have
run wild.
* * * *
“Selector”: Know another bird’s queer
nesting-place. Lately, while mustering on a Gulf
cattle-station, my attention was attracted to some
large white object hanging on a bloodwood sapling.
It was a horse’s skull, and as I got near I was
astonished to hear a constant twittering inside. I
was placing my eye against what had been
geegee’s nose, when a very small bird darted out,
just missing my face. Away back where the jaws
join was a neat little grass nest.
“Wandi”: The crow isn’t in the same
street with the brush pheasant as an egg-thief. The
crow is easily seen, and he mostly lets you know
when he’s about ; but the brush pheasant, a sneaky,
swift-running bird, roaming through long grass and
rank growth, in which the unregulated hen loves to
plant her treasures, can have an egg-banquet every
day without its presence being suspected. It loves
the deep-grassed gullies and the neighborhood of
small tea-tree swamps. No matter how well a nest
of eggs is hidden in such localities this diligent
fossicker will find them. Consequently, whenever
one is seen near the house there is an urgent demand
for a gun. It is a pity, too, for the bird is easily
induced to abide elsewhere, and is a useful insect
destroyer.
* * * *
“Ess”: One of the spectacles of the bush
is the catching of wild bees. When the hum of a
travelling swarm is heard—and there is no mistaking
the sound—the alarm is given and an excited rush is
made for tinkettling instruments. Then the whole
family sallies forth, running to keep under the
swarm while beating a tattoo. When the bees get low-
enough water is thrown among them, and the flight is
over. They quickly bunch on a bush or low limb.
Boxing them is simple. One holds the boy under the
mass, another whacks the limb with an axe, and a
third, standing ready with a sheet, throws it over
the receptacle immediately the cluster drops into it.
I knew a corn-grower on the Richmond who made
over £lOO a year out of honey, and his apiary was
started in that way. Nearly everybody had bees
about there, but nobody ever bought any.
* * * *
“W.E.P.”: Is 82 head per hour an Aus-
tralian record for branding, earmarking, etc., calves
up to eight months old? Six men and four sets of
brands were used in the performance.
FORTUNATE FALSEHOOD.
WIFE ( excited ): That servant has been talking again—been telling the most awful lies
about our private life.”
HUSBAND (tired) : “Thank goodness she did not tell the truth.”
Some more evidence about the funeral
customs of the Tasmanian aboriginals, by R. R.
Davies, in the Tasmanian Journal, 1846:-
When a death occurs in a tribe they place the
body upright in a hollow tree, and (having no
fixed place of habitation) pursue their avocations.
When some time has passed, say a year or upwards,
they return to the place and burn" the body,' with
the exception of the skull; this they carry with
them, until they chance (for I do not think they
lose time in seeking it) to fall in with a cemetery,
in which a number of skulls are heaped together,
when they add the one with them to the number,
and cover them with earth, leaves, etc. I have
never been able to ascertain that they place either
weapons or food with the dead.
* * « *
“Jim Carew”: Before the white man’s
time the abos. had fixed battle-grounds. I know one
of these stadiums in the Narara (N.S.W. South
Coast) district, and have often there turned out
human bones while ploughing; but I never found
any skulls. I once unearthed a very peculiar weapon;
on referring it to a venerable abo. at Wallaga
Lake he pronounced it to be a chopper, and said
that it was used by the gins to finish off the badly-
wounded after a battle. It was a triangular-shaped
stone, about as long as an ordinary blackfellow’s
stone axe, about half as thick and slightly smoother.
Tied on to a handle it made a bosker weapon.
“Pick”: A word about the strenuous
yakker of the bush pit-sawyer, The best day’s saw-
dragging I know of was performed by Hopkins and
Wilder, of Hoskinstown (N.S.W.), when, for a
wager of £lO, they ripped up timber against
Williams and Ashcrofty the Jingera champions. The
lifters of the boodle that toilsome day worked off
318 feet super of hardwood: between jackass and
mopokc. They won the tenner by 37 feet.
* * * *
“Wattle”: What sort of vitality wattle-
seeds have was shown lately at Bruthen (Vic.). They
decided to do a little tree-planting there, and for a
start fenced in and thus kept stock off some land that
had been cleared for nearly 50 years. It wasn’t long
before young wattles came up all over the patch.
“Arthur R.”: On Sydney-road, Parkville,
half-way between Melbourne and Brunswick, you can
have as good a mirage as if you went west o’ Darling
to get one. Prom a little distance it looks like a
huge sheet of water right across the road, with waves
gently playing on the surface; but on approaching
closer the watery illusion melts into the stuff that
politicians trade with. If it were a vision of a huge
sheet of beer, there would be madmen raving on
Sydney-road.
“J.G.”: lie carpet-snakes. “Ses” is
wrong (B. 27/12/’l7) when he says that this big
wriggler is confined to a small strip of eastern
coast. It has been found all over Victoria, there
are a good many in the Mallee districts, and years
ago I saw one that was captured in the bush near
Ballarat—it measured nearly 20ft. in length. A
year or so back a big one was seen swallowing a
full-grown rabbit near the top of the Dividing
Range, about 30 miles north of Melbourne. I will
WISE CHILD.
THE PROSPECTIVE BRIDE : “Of course you
could paint lots of pictures for our
drawing-room. But I don't fink I'd
better marry an artist, ’cos I’m dreadful
fond of meat. So you’ll have to be a
butcher.”
admit, however, that the reptile is very rare in
Victoria. The next largest of Australian snakes,
the pretty black and white diamond, is more often
met. It is as harmless as the carpet species, and
is the variety that is mostly seen twisting about
the neck and arms of the snake “charmer.”
(Continued on page 24.)
LITTLE TOWNS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little towns are in the hills,
The little towns are on the plains,
Far back from thronging city streets,
From clanging trams and rattling trains ;
And round about their vagrant roads
The quiet bushland reigns.
The mail arrives but twice a week,
From two to five, though due at noon ;
The parson preaches once a month
On Tuesdays nearest the full moon;
The carrier comes just when he will,
But never comes too soon.
The store sells half a thousand things
From drapery to coffin nails,
Axes and picks and ladies’ hats,
And dynamite and milking-pails,
Tinned meat and jam for batching camps,
And pills for him who ails.
The paling huts, that have no paint,
Are set behind low fences grey,
Where little gardens, running wild,
In summer-time are sweet and gay;
The chimneys are not made of brick
But stones built up with clay.
Within, the furniture is plain,
But bush-wives keep it clean and bright,
And there’s a T.P. phonograph
To cheer the lonely winter’s night;
And though it is camp-oven baked,
The bread is soft and white.
Strong men go forth from dawn to dusk,
Big-armed and big of heart are they,
Some swing the axe and wield the saw,
Some clear the fern and scrub away,
While others dig and follow close
The grey lode’s tortuous lay.
IN THE INTERNMENT CAMP.
“Gott strafe dot Herr Doctor! Ven I dells
him I haf fever got, he say, ’Ah, Hans,
dot must be dot schwine fever!’”
And often in the evenings cool
They sit and smoke outside the store,
And talk of all things they have known
Or speculate what lies before,
Of who will win the chopping match.
And who will win the war.
And sometimes with hushed voices low,
Of Fred and Tom and Jim and Jack —-
The lads who went to take their chance
And never will be coming back,
For on the far-off fields of war
They found the Western Track.
A simple life of simple men
Who simply play their simple parts,
Unspoiled by weakling city ways,
Unstained by tricks of shops and marts;
With red blood pulsing in their veins
And freedom in their hearts.
The little towns are in the hills,
The little towns are on the plains ;
They know no crowded city streets,
No clanging trams and rattling trains,
For round about their vagrant roads
The quiet bushland reigns.
TASMANIA.
C. C. D.


D
I
A
i
9
ft
Trunks and
Bags illustrated
typify the superior
qualities and max-
imum values ob- 1
tamable at M
Farmef ' s M?
s' S
;
w.
Ua
w:
m
m
ns
mm-
m
.
fk
liiii
TPS
t
Wm
H
T.P
<3
CASE
SUIT
-t'jj
f.br<
cloth.
locks
TP9
Each.
JuK ribr
capped
RICES
A,
urn,
SSS
TPI
■
TPS
T.P3. /WATTING
ATTACHE CASES M
made of fine Japanese
Mattind, Leather trimmed
J*d very light in. weight:
inches : 13 15 18
PRICES.... 3/11.4/11. 5/11
T.P4 SUIT CASE
mad* on strong foundation
covered with bivwn cloth, and
fitted with two secure nickel lock
inches 22 2d 26
PRICES 2 if- &/6 25/6
made of best Selected H i de>,
on strong fame insi ae straps,
secure locks, ana all ft< corners
are capped with Leather
INCHES 2022 24 26
PRICES 50/ bbf- 60j- 65/
TP 2. WALTHAM H
SUIT CASE. 1
made of dark brown fibre- on
metal frame, each corner capped
with fibre,and two secure locks,
one si2< only 22 inches. To be ®
sold at clearance prices |g
. TRICE 38/6. -IS
TTvf&IE (s?mtort-Tra'oel «4Poll®\Y
to a great extent depends upon your confidence
in the reliability of your trunks, etc.
Farmer’s, in this department, are specialists, and
an almost unlimited variety of high-grade goods
awaits inspection in the Department, First Floor.
TPG. “Victor” Cabin Trunk, regulation size, covered
brown or green waterproof canvas, secure locks, front straps, inside
Prices 10 * 1 . 6 ", ...' • - '•1 -•• • • • 58/6 68/6
TP7, Fibre Attache Case, dark brown, made on metal
frame, secure locks, metal hinges, corners capped fibre. This case
is well made and finished, and will wear well.
, Inches 12
i Prices 10/-
I TPB.—Suit Case, made on strop
brown cloth, fitted with secure lock and two clips.
Inches 22
Prices 31/6
TP9. Vulcanised Suit Case, made of hard vulcanised fibre
on strong frame, one secure lock and two clips. Two sizes only,
at clearance prices. Inches 22 no/a
Prices 20/6 38/u
i TPIO. —Famous “Victor” Suit Case, polished hide on
two secure locks. Special
strong frame,
value. Inches
Inches
26
45/-
26
55/-
We Pay Carriage.
FARMERS SYDNEY.
This hahy phonograph will
give genuine pleasure alihe
to old and young.
PHONOGRAPH
Home will be brighter and
more cheerful after the day's
work and worry.
PLAYS ALL RECORDS.
This little machine plays records of all types and
all sizes—even the big 12-inch records are played
right through to the end with only one winding.
Its universal reproducer enables either vertical-
or lateral-cut records to be used. The repro-
duction is accurate and life-like.
A FAMILY ENTERTAINER.
Both young and old derive keen enjoyment from
the STEWART PHONOGRAPH, and it is fast
becoming a family favorite. It brightens the
evening hours and enables the very best in music
to be heard whenever desired, and at little
expense.
55
m
The STEWART PHONOGRAPH measures only 11 inches in
diameter at the base, and stands only 61 inches high, but it plays
with ease the big STANDARD 12-INCH RECORDS. Remember—
it plays all disc records—any make, any size, any price.
1918 MODEL.
A fine WORM-DRIVE MOTOR is built into
this machine, and one that will last a lifetime.
It is exceptionally quiet and easy-running, and
is a motor that would do credit to a much-
higher-priced phonograph
An automatic stop on tone arm prevents the
needle slipping across and damaging the records.
The desired time is obtained by means ot a
regulating lever.
DESIGN and CONSTRUCTION
The STEWART PHONOGRAPH is of unique
design and extremely neat in appearance. It
is an ornament in any surroundings.
Only high-grade materials are used in its con-
struction, ensuring long life and faithful service.
You can hear all kinds of
music, vocal and instru-
mental, and you will appre-
ciate the faithful, lifelike
reproduction.
Obtainable from All Music Stores and Distributors of Talking Machines.
« d “'“ -wya oftoler> ,rom
JacKson & Macdonald, Wills & Paton Pty. Ltd.,
Corner Kent & Druitt Sts., Sydney 273 Little Collins St., Melbourne
King & King' Ltd., Cornell Limited,
1 Queen Street. Brisbane. 128 Piri e Street, Adelaide.
Wills (EL Co., 7 The Quadrant, Launceston, Tas.
It's a portable phonograph
—you can take it out on to
the verandah or the lawn, or
wherever you choose.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladit: recommend them. Re sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemi: t, Southamj jn.—Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
head office —
14 MARTIN PEACE, SIDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 CORRINS ST., MERBOCRNE.
OFFENSE AND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGRE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AITSTRARIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIRDING, GREN-
FERR STREET, ADERAIDE.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
“Larrikin” ; Has any Abo.-liar ever struck
black twin lambs? I’ve been 40 years amongst
sheep and only once saw a pair. They survived and
mothered and were going strong when I left them.
“McNorth”: The wet season is beginning
up here at Cape York, and those parts of the bush
which are addicted to that kind of thing’ are covered
with wild lilies and pitcher-plants. The flowers of
the former hang with a graceful droop on top of a
rod-like arrangement that sticks straight up for a
couple of feet out of a cluster of palm-like fronds a
foot or so high. The sepals are snow-white and hang
separately and inverted, resembling somewhat a
human hand. The pitcher-plants are gaily-colored,
with their “handles” well defined. An early-morn-
ing ride through acres of this natural garden, with
the bird-voices welcoming the sun, is something to
wire home about.
» * * ft
“O. Regon”: Here! At Bendigo about
25 years ago a youth of 18 named Moagg without
assistance killed and dressed a bullock weighing I
ton (dressed) in 10 minutes. What about it?
* * * «
“H.W.F.” : When the heavy machinery for
an English mining co. was being erected at Moolort
(Vic.) some years ago, a pair of black and white
fantails built right on the end of the iron rod of
the flywheel brake. The flooring of the engine house
was nailed down a foot above the nest, and the
house built, covered and roofed with iron without
disturbing the visitors. Scores of men and tons of
material passed daily close to the sitting bird. She
hatched and reared three young, and they left the
home the day before it had to be shifted to connect
the rod with the gear above.
* * * *
“Te Whare”: I’m sorry to convict the
kookaburra, but considered as an insectivorous fowl
he is not quite a fair go. I’ve a pair of these birds
nesting as neighbors, and they’ve already accounted
for two young white-shafted fantails and a blue
wren, while they are suspected as accessories before
the fact in the murder of a young wagtail. The
singing (or mounting) lark is a rare bird in the
South Coast (N.S.W.), but sometimes it hops down
from the Monaro plains. I caught a laughing-jack
slaying one of these songsters within a few hundred
yards of the sea. The culprit had a nest near the
spot, and I think it is only when he has eggs to look
after or his own ugly chicks to feed that Jack sins in
this respect. He hasn’t time to hunt round for
legitimate grub. To these victims add a couple of
ground pigeon (spotted ground-bird) chicks, hunted
out by a bushfire and gobbled up by an alert kook.
Another occasional fraud is the nankeen kestrel.
I’ve seen this warrior carry off a tit-warbler and
dash at wood-swallows, but he, like many others of
the hawk tribe, is mainly insectivorous andalotes on
grasshopper.
“Chink”: Abo-scribes having finished
arguing over the why and wherefore of the upper
storey on the gunyah of the yellow-tailed tit-
warbler, suppose they enlighten us as to the long
tail on the nest of that cheery little Australian, the
white-shafted fantail. It’s a point that has long
been a source of conjecture among birdologists, and
the nearest they have got to a settlement (so far
as I’ve heard) is that the arrangement serves to
drain • water off the closely-matted walls. But if
that be so why doesn’t the white-shafter’s pert
cousin, the willy-wagtail, which isn’t by any means
destitute of intelligence,, adopt the same scheme?
Incidentally, I reckon the residence of the white-
shafted tumbler (sometimes disrespectfully known as
“cranky Fan”) to be among the best-hidden of the
dwellings of our more familiar birds.
“EcMyson” : Goby lived on the east bank
of the river, Tunewell on the west. Each owned
about 700 acres of wheat land, but more than 80ft.
of water flowed between, another river of bad blood
divided the two families, and a Goby never came
within the hearing of a Tunewell without being
assailed with criminal libels, and a Tunewell never
heard these things without responding in kind. But
old Goby had a gift of invective denied to “Little
Mister Tunewell,” and it was transmitted to his
children, whereas Tunewell’s family was afflicted
with papa’s verbal incapacity. Still, what a Tune-
well lacked in gifts of, speech was compensated for
with a peculiar readiness of hands and feet. A Goby
had the first word, and the last perhaps, but it
generally happened that he' had also the first punch
and the last kick. The river that divided the two
families was the source of all their enmity. Goby
had got it into his head that he owned it from the
point where it first touched upon his land to the
point of its departure, and Tunewell was just as
positive that the river was his. For five years cor-
dial detestation had festered between the Gobies and
the Tunewells. If a Goby caught a Tunewell on the
river adjacent his holding he dropped all other con-
siderations, and devoted himself to the upsetting of
the enemy. Submarine traps and tactics were em-
ployed by each party for the overturning of the
other’s craft, and one Sunday seven of the Goby
family and five of the Tunewells were floundering in
the river together, as the result of a mutual naval
attack. Then came the great, flood. The river was
TRIFLING WITH HIS AFFECTIONS.
BENNO ( enraged ): “Wot! Chucked yer job!”
LIZ: “Yer see, Benno, the doctor sea I was underminin' me ’ealth.”
BENNO: “'Eaith be 'anged! Wot d'yer mean by talkin' ter me about gettin' spliced!
Wot er we blanky well goin’ ter live on wiv you not workin'?”
“up” the first night. It was “out” next morning.
On the second night it was a sea, and Goby and his
flock were driven to take refuge on Squeaker Hill,
where Tunewel 1 and his tribe were already stranded.
The Goby party camped as far as possible from the
Tunewell family, but slowly and remorselessly the
rising tide: warped them together, until Goby and
his little lot and Tunewell and his brood were
located on a spot of dry land not 30 yards square.
Then a curious thing happened ; community of in-
terest was set up, the common safety took prece-
dence, a shelter for the women and children was
mutually erected, mutual efforts for the comfort of
all were undertaken with alacrity and cheerfulness.
When the waters started to recede they fell rapidly,
and presently Goby had his push back in the old
home, and Tunewell’s tribe Were busy cleaning river
silt from the piano. Another three days passed
before Goby and Tunewell confronted each other
across the river. For once Tunewell was the first to
speak. “Goby,” he said, “you’re right; the river’s
yours.” “Little Mister Tunewell,” retorted Goby
bitterly, “you’re a liar —and, by the holy Abraham,
the next time your damn river slops over my land
I’ll have a thousand pounds damages out of you.”
Tunewell threw a root, and missed Goby, but hit
Mrs. Goby. The status quo ante was thus restored,
with this difference: each family now insists that the
other family owns the river, and must be held
responsible for all its depredations, and the helium
is very much more so than formerly.
* * * *
“Dead Fence”: Struck a new style of
bush-fencing ip the Monaro (N.S.W.). Every few
yards you put in a couple of posts about 18in. apart
and tie them together with wire. Then you build up
the fence with logs or spars, shoving their ends
between the posts and having them rest one on the
other till it looks rather like a chock-and-log fence
without the chocks. Sometimes the thing is not so
scientific, but is just an ordinary deadwood fence with
the posts to keep it from falling to pieces.
“Larrikin” : Concerning Dan Morgan, one
of Australia’s worst bushrangers, a writer in the
Alburv Banner says that he (Morgan) shot John
Tleriott when the latter was going for a doctor
(Stitt, of Walla Walla). .Now this is the dinkum
yarn. Morgan, who was drunk, had all hands at
Round Hill station bailed up in a buggy shed. Some-
one raised a laugh amongst the crowd, and the out-
law, thinking that they were guying at him, became
enraged and fired in amongst them. The bullet
broke John Heriott’s leg. Young McLean started
off for the doctor, and Morgan, believing that he
was going for the police, followed him and shot
him dead close to where Culcairn Railway Station
now stands. A third victim to Morgan’s gun that
day was Sam Watson, the, manager of Round Hill,
who was shot through the hand.
“E.H.H.”: Here’s a nasty trick to play
on sheep-destroying dogs. Shoot a bush animal —
wallaby, Too or wombat preferred—open at once,
be sure to let the aroma from the paunch escape,
poison the intestines, and all dogs within a radius
of a mile will attend the banquet before the joint is
cold.
“Karee”: Ever met old Dan of Wailiora?
He’s the most absent-minded cove I know. Always
dreaming and talking to himself. Met him once
with a far-off look in his eyes, trudging along with
his whip at the slope, all on his lonesome. His
team had stopped a mile behind. Another time he
was droving 42 horses, and when counting them one
morning could only make out 41; so after seeing
them on the way he doubled back on his tracks and
spent a strenuous half-day looking for the missing
moke, until it suddenly dawned on him that he
was rilling it.
* * * *
“The Mopoke”: Permit me to butt in some
shearing tallies. In 1913 at the Wintou Works
(Edkins and Co.) 17 men' shore 13,940 sheep in four
days of eight hours and 40 minutes each, which
figures out at 205 per man per day. Their names
were Les Seary, “Snowy’’ Anderson, Marsh, Brown
(2), Hull, McLean, “Snowy” Logan, Jack Clarke,
Arthur Lee, Ernie Mclntosh, Geo. Cairns, Stafford
and four others whose names I can’t remember. Les
Seary topped with 208. The line team, with one
additional man, subsequently shore 11,556 sheep in
three days, or an average of 214 per man per day.
At the week-end following the Winton scramble two
pickers-up were taken to the hospital suffering from
sheer exhaustion. Two hundred sheep a day is a
common occurrence in any of the sheds that are dis-
tributed over the downs that bank the Flinders and
Barcoo rivers in North-Western Queensland. This is
where the fast shearers arc, the deadly climate
further south being no good for the profession.
“D’arcy” : Can any man, woman or clergy-
man give me the recipe for keeping turkeys alive?
Of all the birds I have met, for sheer downright
blanky give me the young turk. It dies if the
weather is cold, hot, ’dry, wet or variegated.
Around here (Quandialla, N.S.W.), setting 100 eggs
and getting 90 chicks, I consider myself lucky if I
keep 10 from pegging out until the time is ripe for
the axe. Will somebody let me remember him in
my prayers?
w * * «
“Hannibal”: A very peculiar snake was
secured recently at Sidebottom, Manning River dis-
trict, N. S. Wales North Coast, by Mr. Scott, a
surveyor. .It was mostly greyish, with lighter
grey rings along its body, but the rings presently
disappeared and the overcoat turned into a very
dark shade. The tail was very blunt, and larger
than the head. The specimen has been preserved,
but so far no local snakeologist has been able to
label it.
* * * *
“Reynard”: Will some Abo. please inform
me how to find the seed of the nardoo that Binghi
used to keep the wolf from the door with? At the
place where I am now living, near Collarenebri
(N.S.W.), there are hundreds of acres of nardoo grow-
ing in the swamps, and for the past year I have
often looked for the seed, both on the plant and at
the roots, but I have never found anything that murri
could turn into a johnny-cake.
THE BITTERNESS OF THE FED-UP.
“’ Ullo, making yerself some tea?”
“Nah. ’Ot barth.”


| qualities,- w
(**
te ß s
THE absolutely unique qualities of State Express
Cigarettes, wbicb make them the favorite
amongst discriminating' men everywhere, are
the result of the extraordinary care that is taken in
their manufacture.
S^TE^PRES
CIGARETTES
are made by experts of unrivalled
ability, and only life-long' experi-
ence bas rendered it possible to
produce tbe wonderful blends of
tobacco wbicb Have made state
Express a bousebold word
amongst smokers of culture and
taste.
6d. for lO
No. 333
STANDARD WEIGHT NOT LESS THAN lO FOR 6d.
Sold by all Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
So/e Manufacturers s
Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd., London, England.
r
L
d
1/
k
A
,
A
/,
£
£


mm.
Vlp/.
mfiOju
\ f . AN'''
•': «F.v.
s.Wt'
-wx
Q3II
RED SPOT BARGAINS
ARE MONEY SAVERS.
Desk R.
rESSRS. MURDOCH'S IN PARK ST.,
LIMITED, SYDNEY.
Please forward patterns of Red Spot Suit-
ings at with tape and self-measure-
ments form, also a sale catalogue.
Name
Address
Starts To-morrow
Friday, January 25
Dont miss this grand economy event. In spite of
adverse conditions, the reductions are as generous as
ever; consequently this is an unprecedented opportunity
to secure clothing needs at remarkably low prices.
Consider the times —then realise what Red Spot Savings
mean, and come and line your purse.
GET BUSY AMONGST THESE
RED SPOT SALE BARGAINS .
You’ll enjoy the experience and prove the money-saving power of Red
Spot reductions. Every department offers quality goods at genuine
saving prices.
R.ed Spot Revelations in
Dur Tailoring* Department.
During Red Spot Sale time we are tailoring Murdoch’s Famous Suits-
to-measure at the following pleasing reductions:
Rl®
IN PARK ST LIMITED SYDNEY
Complete Outfitters
for Men ct E>oj/s
We have a splendid range of up-to-date
Suitings—English, Scotch and Austra-
lian Tweeds. Call and make your
selection or write for a bunch of pat-
terns. Fill in the coupon now. Write
for Red Spot Catalogue.
NOTE THESE TWO HAT SPECIALS
AND REAP THE ADVANTAGE.
PURE WHITE FIBRE PANAMAS
Strong, light, durable
hat s —2}-inch brims —
cool Summer Hats —ex-
cellent values at Red Spot
Price,
S/6
Post Free.
PURE FUR SOFT FELTS
Latest shapes and popu-
lar shadings —S lat e s.
Greys, Fawns, with black
bands. Usually 9/11,
Postage Bd. extra.
NOW
7|ll
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“D.F.”: The first ground ever ploughed
in Victoria was probably a piece now in-
cluded in the area reserved for a township
at Mallacoota Inlet, near Gabo Island. A
century ago, more or less, Captain Steven-
son founded there a branch of the great
whaling establishment at Twofold Bay
(N.S.W.), and the ploughmarks of the
original cultivation are still visible. No
one seems to know the exact date of the
first settlement at Mallacoota, but it was
almost certainly older than the Hentys’
start at the other extremity of Victoria.
Anyway, at the parent settlement of Eden
the “new township” was built in 1843, as
a stone over one of the doorways testifies;
from which it looks as if the old settlement
must go back to very early in the last cen-
tury, and probably it wasn’t very long
before they worked down the coast to Malla-
coota.
“Thornburn”: When “Eloc” penned his
lines re the advantages already reaped by
Australia from Justice Higgins's pastoral
award it was his drivel day. The award in
regard to station-hands did not come into
effect until January 1. On a big Queens-
land station 25 years ago 40,900 ewes
brought with them into the shed 44,000
lambs, which seems to prove that even in
the absence of any award the ewes were
quite fertile and brought forth young
abundantly. Anyway, the award is a lovely
piece of justice. This year I paid my wool-
presser £4 a week with keep (award rate).
My neighbor paid his woolpresser £2 a
week with keep. You see, I was “cited”
and my neighbor wasn’t. Don’t -you ever
get cited.
* * * *
The South Aus. Brewing Co. is having a
general shifting and promotion of managers.
Aldersey, of the Adelaide office, goes to Port
Augusta to replace May, who moves up to
the big branch at Broken Hill. Bryant,
who has been president of the Licensed
Victuallers’ Racing Club, and generally a
prominent citizen of “the Hill” for 15 years,
moves down to Adelaide to replace A. E.
Nott, general manager of the co., who is
retiring. *
“Wart”: What must be the oldest industry
in Tasmania, the making of shell necklaces,
is still carried on at Flinders Island by the
half-caste descendants of the abos. When
the blacks were first discovered, their wear-
ing apparel consisted of a few bands of
kangaroo-skin round the arms and legs, and
a number of shell necklaces. The only differ-
ence in the necklaces made to-day is that the
shells are threaded on twine instead of
kangaroo sinew, and vinegar is used to clean
them instead of the acid smoke of a green-
wood fire. Three kinds of shells are used,
sometimes singly, sometimes in combination
—a large spiral shell called “the Mariner,”
which cleans up to most brilliant blues and
greens, a smaller shell of the same type
called “a shiny,” and a little grey and brown
one of which it ftikes incredible numbers to
make a string. When the blacks arrive on
one of their sailing crafts at Launceston
there is always a rush to buy up their handi-
work. They receive one shilling or eighteen-
pence each for a necklet a couple of yards
long. When the tourists buy the strings at
the shops they pay anything up to half a
sovereign for them. This is called trade.
“Arthur R.”: Another minor industry
forced on us by the war is the making and
rejuvenation of worn carbon copying-paper.
Owing to the high price of this necessary
commodity, instructions have been issued
in some offices to keep the discarded sheets
to be recarbonised. At present the business
is only experimental; but a recent sample
of Australian jet-black paper runs rings
round the imported stuff.
With the help of Wilhelm’s submarines,
the Australian Weaving Co., of Collingwood
(Vic.), has knocked out the foreign-trader in
record time. It was going pretty well even
before the war. Commencing in 1910 with the
manufacture of college hatbands, name
labels, military badges and the like, it soon
had the importer thinking. At that time the
local champion owned only one loom, but the
quality of his goods was talked about. In
the present year the Australian co. is in
possession of the ring, and has an output
only limited by the capacity of the factory.
Forty-eight looms attended by a party of 70
are endeavoring to satisfy an all-Australian
demand, but the needs of old customers and
the Commonwealth Government compel the
co. to decline extra work until fresh machin-
ery comes to hand. The arrival of the new
plant, which is delayed by the war, will
mean a bigger appetite for outside orders
and probably double the backache of the
postman who brings the same.
Commonwealth Government ad.: —
Tenders will be received until Tuesday, Bth Janu-
ary, 1918, for the building of two (2) 21-foot life-
boats. Delivery to be made to the Naval Depot,
Williamstown.
Isn't Cook's Naval Dockyard equal to two
pottering lifeboats now?
“NTmporte”: Of course, the imported
article is the proper thing, but if you can’t
get it you have to do the best you can. Mel-
bourne Fire Brigade found this out recently
when it set to and built itself a telescopic
escape. The cost was less and the work was
better than could have been obtained in
foreign make, but the moral effect was deplor-
able, for Sydney fire-fighters then rolled up
their sleeves and manufactured a turbine
pump for half the money previously paid for
an imported implement. Moreover, on a
trial the pump showed a capacity of 266
gallons per minute as against 180 gallons
thrown by the alien.
* * • •
“F.N.T.” : A little while ago Mrs Helen
Barton, of the Y.W.C.A.. had something to
say about Economy for Men, with particular
reference to the brute’s extravagance in
tobacco. A Bulletin writer commented at
the time on the fact that woman had a com-
panion; “vice” in the consumption of sweet-
stuff. Here is confirmation from England :
The most striking example is the war prosperity
of Maynards Ltd., big multiple-shop confectioners.
In the year before the war the company was moder-
ately prosperous, paying 10 per cent, on its ordinary
shares. In 1914-1915 the net profits were £13,700.
The following- year shareholders were given a return
of 20 per cent. The report for 1916-1917 to June
30 shows that the profit works out at £43,500. A
dividend and bonus amounting to 40 per cent, is
declared.
The confectionery trade in Australia is in
much the same booming condition. So it
seems that, when it comes to a comparison,
mere man isn’t really the selfish wretch
some people make him out to be, even though
he does insist on smoking in other places
than the toolshed.
The little John Murray, which served for
seven years as a training-ship for Victorian
lads, is now loaded up to the yardarm with
wheat for overseas. This boat, which used
to be the Loch Ryan, was hatched at Glas-
gow in 1877. The Vic. Government bought
her in 1910, and last year re-sold her to the
Commonwealth for £lO,OOO. As she rides
the billow at present, however, her cost to
the Federal Government pans out at over
£.18,000, the extra trifle having gone on
repairs, paint, new top-hamper, and so forth.
The patriotism and war-winning capacity of
the Governments concerned in the purchase
are immense, of course ; yet the dickerings
over this small transaction approached a
long-distance record for Commonwealth bar-
gaining. The expensive olu lugger should be
renamed the No Hurry, with William the
Silent to crack a bottle at the ceremony and
make another speech.
* * # *
The marble from Buchan (Vic.) may not
be good enough for some people in Australia,
but they appreciate it away up in central
China. Recently a firm at Hankow im-
ported a lot of it for a big office building
there, and they have written expressing
entire satisfaction and stating that it beats
anything previously seen in China. The
same marble ornaments the Commonwealth
offices in London.
SWEEPIN’.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh ! Leith was the place where we cut out the pace,
When we’d safely made port from the run,
With lights all aglow- down Sailortown Row,
And a lassie to welcome each one.
The coin in our belt we were burning to melt,
If divvies were big from the haul- ,
Didn’t soft arms entwine and two bonnie eyes shine
Once again when we landed the trawl!
Aye, those were the days we went trawlin’
On the swell ever risin’ and failin’,
We worked boom and gaff, with a joke and a laugh,
While the grudging sea yielded its toll.
But now we’re not trawlin’ but sweepin*
The route that’s-been put in our keepin’,
From bleak icy north to the mouth of the Forth ;
And mines are the gems of the trawl.
Van Tromp in the past lashed a broom to his mast,
But never a besom have we ;
We’ve derrick and whip, and snippers to clip
The cables to set the mines free.
From Lerwick to Nore we leave open the door ;
Sea way for the Service eve keep.
By Skagerack Butt and Cattegat Cutt,
We gather the mines in our sweep.
Aye, these are the days we go sweepin’;
In storms or through heavy fogs ereepin’.
The crack of a gun from the sub. of a Hun
Wakes you up from your hardest-earned sleep.
Then off we go dashin’ and leapin’;
Through rain deluge, sodden and steepin’,
To steer her zig-zag, because Fritz aches to bag
The hardy lads working the sweep.
We’re not much in tons, but we’re manned by the
sons
Of a race that will stick to the last.
And if, by bad luck, by a tinned fish we’re struck,
We’ll nail the old Jack to the mast.
Stormy weather or fine, without whimper or whine,
Where the Boches sow mines we’ve to reap.
It’s no work for a dunce; yet you only die once,
So eheer-0 ! we’ve no time to weep.
Aye, these are the days we go sweepin’,
With ghosts of the sea slyly peepin’.
But over the foam there’s a place we call home,
Where the map shows its color in red.
So curses on Fritz we are heapin’,
And know that old Davy is keepin’
His place down below, where he’ll frizzle and glow,
While we sweep the sea overhead.
VICTORIA.
JOHN MEIGHAN.
UTILITY AND ART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
‘‘Paper has become so precious that it behoves the
people to take all sorts of precautions against waste.
It should not be forgotten that the same paper ma
serve many purposes if a little care is taken i
handling it.”
The poet saw the monger take
A sheet to wrap his fish,
And bitterly the writer spake:
“None finer man could wish
To write a poem strong and rare.
It is a shame most odd
That paper fair which might with care
The finest thought of genius bear
Should shroud an odorous cod!”
The monger of fat trout perceived
The poet seize a sheet
Of clean white paper, and it grieved
Ilis soul. “It is not meet.
There’s precious paper thrown away
On rhymes of foolish type.
On poems fay and worthless play
The sheet that well might wrap a crav
Why waste on common tripe?”
The poet wrote his poem rare
The fair white sheet upon.
He rang his rhymes ’ nth precious care;
Abroad they soon \ ere gone.
Then in a week was met the view
Of each these scolding imps:
Still good as new the sheet came to
The fish-o, and in it he threw
A mess of salted shrimps!
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


- W
4H5
■
n
4
%
i
w*
I
i
■ &
mfrunmo
ivitni' inrrmirrTf^^
fMIV( JJUUUnL/UYB^
Various types of Mine Locomotives are manufactured by a
the General Electric Company, and just the correct type of
Locomotive can be secured for any specified set of haulage
conditions.
The rugged, durable character of G.E. MINE LOCOMOTIVES
is evidenced by the fact that they endure under the severe
operating conditions of mine service for many years.
For full information on this subject communicate with
AT
JB*-?
#™r
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, CP OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
m
m
1%
■
•'4*
4
i
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE <Q.): The Englncrnna Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.I.
Ltd.* corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
PERTH (W.A.ls Chas. Atkins A Co (W.A.t. Ltd.. Hay Street
ADELAIDE tS-A-> s Unbchaun A Johnstone, 100 Carrie Street.
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical A Engineering Co. Ltd..
Auckland. Christchurch. Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock A Co., Ltd.. Launceston: Messrs. Oliver
and Oliver. MacQuarle Street. Mobart.
13-TON INSIDE FRAME
LOCOMOTIVE.


A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Hand Mirror,
highly burnished, embossed border,
bevelled Mirror, 50/-
A. Saunders’ S'tud Box. pure Silver-
plated, engraved ribbon design; silk-
lined, U)/6.
w>
. Saunders’ Solid Silver, Military Hair
rushes and Comb, plain concave, best-
quality Bristles, in Silk-lined Case,
£2, £2/5/-
TOILET GIFTS.
A. Saunders’ Perfume
Pottle, plain solid
Silver Mount, Crystal
Cut-glass Bottle,
SB?
*UvS>-
s '
V K. *™
W
\
5
«S 5
inniiiii*
!i
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Toilet Brush Set, comprising two
Hair Brushes, Mirror, and Comb, in Silk-lined Case,
£7/7/-
A. Saunders’ Puff Jar and Tray, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, handsomely
embossed, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Jewel Casket, pure Silver-
plated, hand engraved, silk-lined.
£2/10/-
WE
PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
ORDERS.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Shaving Set, complete with Soap-holder, Shaving Brush
and good-quality Razor, in Silk-lined Case, £2/5/-
SEND
FOR
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
IT’S FREE.
A. SAUNDERS,
JEWELLER,
805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Solid Silver Hair
Brush, engraved, ribbon de-
sign, best-qtiality bristles,
17/6.
A. Saunders’ Automatic tfazor Strop, pure
Silver-plated, handsomely embossed, 21/-
A. Saunders’ Shaving Cup and Brush, pure Silver-
plated, gilt lined, engraved RiW>on design, 307-
Others, 20/-, 25/-
g
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
Reduce the Cost of Trustee Administration by appointing ..
THE PERMANENT
OF NEW SOUTH WALES,
LIMITED,
TRUSTEE COMPANY
25 O’Connell St.,
SYDNEY.
Incorporated 1888 by Special Act of Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors, Attorneys, Agents, Etc.
ESTATES, PROPERTIES, FUNDS, Etc., MANAGED EFFICIENTLY AND ECONOMICALLY.
Full Particulars on Application. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [2
Used the
World Over
a
MOTOR
...CARS
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bekrs
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis'
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured. All
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Randwick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. P.YRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL. COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. On. Lamartine's Silent Friend.
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders, a rare book by Defoe, 1/3,
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy. If-. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
l/'6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 10d., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics’ Work-
shop Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Thicks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/3. Tricks i: Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, l/o post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. Ilow to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3/6.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. Sax-
row’s Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle's Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Mysteries
of Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil -Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Not Guilty (Blatchfonl), 1/-. The Art of
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and My Neighbor,
9d. Britain and the. British, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/6. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian . Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing. Gasfitting, etc.,
1/6 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette. 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. The Doctor. Cures for All Diseases.
1/6 posted. Letter-Writer Up-to-Date. 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy. 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/-.
Self Instructor: Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. . Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/9
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/-. posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
NO MATTER WHAT BOOK YOU
WANT, I’VE GOT IT.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Established over 25 years.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife’s Handbook. 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY
STOCK CAN BE GOT FROM
THIS ADVT.
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO
DUTY. ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSE-
WHERE SENT.
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingeksoll's Works. 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wipe, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife's Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1-/6. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/6.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, 10d.’
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Night of Temptation,
1/9. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
WS-BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH,


Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSH.
JIVOLI THEATRE. SYDNEY
Nightly at 8. Matinees Monday. Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
A New Programme of the best VAUDEVILLE
and COMEDY, including Peter Dawson, Anette
George, The Creole Fashion Plate : and the delirious
Comedy in Three Acts, BABY MINE.
"|"IVOLI THEATRE, .MI-XHOIRNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 26.
ADA REEVE and CO.
in the Sparkling Musical Play,
WINNIE BROOKE, WIDOW.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-.
Clt I T E lilON T 11 EA T K E, SYDNEY.
Direction ,T. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
Last Two Nights of OUTCAST.
SATURDAY NEXT, JANUARY 26.
KATIILENE MACDONELL
With CHARLES WALDRON
In a play of rare tenderness and witchery by
Harry Benrime and Harrison Rhodes,
THE WILLOW TREE.
H E It M A .1 E S T Y ’ S, S Y D N E Y.
■ 1 Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.46.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
The Brilliant Spectacular Revue,
THE RING BOYS ARE HERE,
A Gorgeous Spectacle eclipsing anything hitherto
staged.
PALACE THEATRE. SYDNEY.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
EVENINGS AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS AT 2.
J. & N. TAIT'S NEW COMEDY COMPANY
TURN TO THE RIGHT.
Box Plans Nicholson’s.
fdg
TT 111 ANGLE PL AVS AT
1 THIS LYCEUM.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Session*: 11 a.m.
to 11 p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTCB E TIIEAT It E S
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER. J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller,. General Manager.
yy irths’
HIPPODROME
Haymarket.
THEATRE,
LAST THREE NIGHTS.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S Up-to-date, Topical, Bright
and Merriest of all Pantomimes,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK.
MABELLE MORGAN, Australia’s Own,
as PRINCIPAL BOY.
HARRY FARROW as DAME.
Prices to Suit Everybody.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
First Appearance of
ALLAN WILKIE AND CO.
in the New Romantic Modern Play from
the London Lvceum,
THE LIFEGUARDSMAN.
Popular Prices. Plans at Pianola.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
Their Gorgeous Pantomime Extravaganza,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
Til EAT RE ROY A L, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR
in
THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
KING’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
MATINEES SATURDAYS, WEDNESDAYS AND
ALL HOLIDAYS.
J. & N. TAIT AND BAILEY & GRANT’S
GORGEOUS CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ALADDIN and THE WONDERFUL
LAMP.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices: 6/- Tt. Stalls, 5/- D.C.,
Stalls 4/-, Gallery 21- and I/-. Plus Tax.
Auditorium. Melbourne.
Direction FOX FILM CORPORATION
(AUSTRALASIA) LTD.
TWICE DAILY —2.80 and 8 p.m.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, JANUARY 26.
WILLIAM FOX Presents a Spectacular Standard
Picture Thriller,
THE CONQUEROR.
SEE WILLIAM FARNUM AT HIS BEST.
Full Professional Orchestra.
Prices 2/6, 2/-, 1/- and 6d. Plans at Allan's.
tJ OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
8 to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday at 2.30.
FAMOUS PLAYERS-LASIvY. MAX
SENNETT, ARBUCKLE, etc.,
FEATURES.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
JACK PICKFORD in
THE VARMINT.
Also
GEORGE BEBAN in
LOST IN TRANSIT.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
|y| A.JESTIC TIIEATKE, MELBOCIiNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
TWO HUGE FEATURES.
THE STAINLESS BARRIER,
and
FOR FRANCE.
Matinees Daily at 2.30. Nights at S.
Plan at Allan’s.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
|y|KLBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
You Can Become a
Successful Artist.
You can learn drawing in
your own home, with Harry
,T. Weston —Australia’s famous
commercial artist —as your
teacher.
Drawing is an
inte resting
and profitable
pastime, but
success in art
cannot be
built up on
an unsound
foundation.
THE WESTON POSTAL
COURSE OF DRAWING
thoroughly teaches the
fundamental principles
of drawing, and carries
its students step by
step through every
phase of commercial
art.
So explicit and simple
are the instructions,
and so helpful and
personal Mr. Weston’s
criticisms that rapid
progress under such
able tuition is certain.
Send three penny
stamps for our booklet
‘•THERE’S MONEY
IN THE PEN.” It
tells about the possi-
bilities of drawing as
a profession and as a
pastime.
fdg
fd
gfd
THE HARRY J, WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
25 Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, Sydney.
IMPORTANT
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
ELDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free. 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE. TOMPSTTT & CO.. Melbourne
83(IA>Od HXOOL 1
W3DAXO3HJ.
mw®
gd
Try
Calox
onYour Child’s Teeth
Make a week’s test of this superior
dentifrice. Note how it removes
stains and the whiteness it imparts.
A.
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH .POWDER.
STERILISES THE MOUTH.
The oxygen which is given off when
Calox is used penetrates everywhere.
The tiniest crevice is at once ren-
dered free from decay, germs are
destroyed and destructive acids re-
moved. The oxygen in Calox will not
permit bacteria or decay germs of
any kind to remain. Calox is also
pleasing to the taste.
A Free Sample
will be forwarded to all who attach
name and address to this ad. and mail
to Geo. Wills and Co. Ltd., Melbourne
and Sydney, enclosing two penny
stamps to cover postage.
Calox is obtainable from
All Chemists and Leading Stores.
F.24-1-’IS.
©
(fIcKSE?)
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDER.
fg
THE FAMOUS
AVRKASSWtDWD FOUROOf DKlffi
Marine Engine.
12. 16 and 20 H.P.
4 Cylinders—4 cycle—medium speed.
SIMPLE, STRONG, DURABLE, ECONOMICAL.
Ivermath Engines are built with
extreme care, perfectly balanced, and
are quiet running, perfectly controlled
and extremely smooth in operation. It
is an engine which will give years of
the most thoroughly satisfactory ser-
vice, and is an extremely high-grade
engine in every respect. Good dealers
wanted in Australia.
Catalog on request.
Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mick. Ii.S.A.
| F anybody in Australasia charges you more than
* 6d. for a single copy of The Bulletin, send
£1 6s. 6d. to 214 George Street, Sydney, and it will
be posted to you for one year. To any address
abroad, £1 10s. per annum.
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ .. £5
£8 15 0 „ „ £lO
£43 15 O „ „ £5O
£B7 10 0 „ „ £lOO
£875 0 0 „ » £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6- War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates arid benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank or Australia. October, 1917
SOLDIERS’ WATCHES.
The “Fx & R” Wristlet Watch has no
equal for profound accuracy.. It goes
to within 10 seconds a month.
It has no equal for hard wear and strength.
Another shipment has just arrived. They
have plain Heavy Solid Cases, with
domes.
We supply them with Radium Dials, which
show plainly the time in the dark, or
with ordinary dials. We guarantee
every Watch for 15 years, and keep
them in order without charge for 2
years, breakages excepted.
They have 15 Jewels and every latest
improvement known to Ilorological
Science.
They are 70/- each, but no watch is better.
Nil
Gent.’s Luminous fully Jewelled Lever Fx & R Wristlet
Watch, Complete, with Regulation Leather Wristlet, 70/-
We stock them also in Solid Gold Cases.
Other Wristlet Watches from 30/-.
Plain Figures.
Strictly Cash.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.
The Oldest Jewellery
House In Bydney,
23 and 23 Hunter Street.
7
*
>y«
m
ABBEY
SHOES.
Your footwear should combine cor-
rect and distinctive style, with the
utmost comfort and SERVICE.
You get all these essentials in
Abbey Shoes.
Our footwear is made in half- and
full-sizes, and in three fittings —
narrow, medium and wide.
We illustrate a special Patent
Derby Shoe, in a very smart,
“made-to-order” style.
Price - 40|-
Also in Tan Willow Calf, same
price.
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBE Y,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
qUEENSLAM
€ Lanao
ma
S.B.
/vame.
Address,
QUEErvSLAWD //V r£LL/G£/vCE
&. QU REALS, BR/S3AHE
A Book of
192 Pages
a a i_ t_e: d
“POCKET
QUEENSLAND"
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
Telling all abouL ftx
Millions of Acres
of ftrhle land for
intending sefUens
will besenfyou
by filling ir> fhe
Co upon below.
m ARE YOU V*
Ruptu reD
Have 3011 grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? _ Do 3’ou
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but One THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.


ACID CAUSES INDIGESTION.
An unpleasant feeling of fulness after
meals, a flushed face, heartburn and wind
are all readily recognised symptoms of
indigestion and dyspepsia, but very few
people realise that the direct cause of all
these troubles is excess acid in the stomach.
To prevent food fermentation and over-
come this harmful acid there is nothing finer
than half a teaspoonful of bisurated mag-
nesia taken in a little warm or cold water
directly after each meal, and if more people
would only use this simple home remedy
instead of drugs there would soon be no more
indigestion.
Be sure, however, to get bisurated mag-
nesia, as ordinary forms are often unsuitable
for this purpose.— Advt.
***+
Y
Come, Let’s Go to a Picture Play—a Good One.
We don’t even know the title—but we don’t care—we’ll go to where
PARAMOUNT and ARTCRAFT PICTURES
are to be seen—we know a theatre that advertises under the Paramount and Artcraft trade-marks —and we know that means
famous stars, superbly directed in good human stories.
In Paramount Pictures you see Nature, sunshine, laughter, life ! You are enthralled with the story—you live it —living a romance
that makes this work-a-day old world worth while after all. You are adventuring, struggling, overcoming, avenging, forgiving,
laughing, hating, loving.
And when the story ends, you feel a good deal younger and a sight more human. That’s you, isn’t it? If not, this is a message
to you—you are missing in Paramount Pictures one of the great joys of life.
There’s a theatre somewhere in your vicinity that, if they are not doing so, will show them if you let the
manager know it’s Paramount and Artcraft Pictures you want to see.
fd
gfd
POLITICAL
Evidently with an idea at the back of his
mind that Hughes needs excusing, the G.-G.
listened to somebody who advised him to
explain why he commissioned the little man
to form a new Ministry: he thought it was
his “paramount duty,” he told Parliament,
“to avoid a situation which must lead to a
further appeal to the country.” If Munro
Ferguson’s doctor ordered him quinine, and
declared that he couldn’t and wouldn’t treat
him without quinine, and if Munro Fergu-
son’s chemist said he didn’t have any
quinine, and, anyhow, he disapproved of
quinine, presumably Munro Ferguson
would reply, “Oh, well, my paramount
duty is not to go to the doctor again—give
us three-penn’orth of peppermint.”
The State Treasurers have not only suc-
ceeded in squeezing £3,000,000 of loan money
out of the Commonwealth Treasurer for the
current ypar, but have also had their old
£18,000,0000 loan renewed —the loan they
got in' 1915-6 on the promise to repay it in
two years. N. S. Wales stands out again,
and will go into the market in com-
petition with the Commonwealth —and blow
the war! “We must borrow,” says Hol-
man ; “it is essential that production should
be maintained. If the States found them-
selves in a condition of stagnation it would
re-act on Federal finance.” During the past
seven years N. S. Wales has added nearly
£45,000,000 to the public debt; that is to
say, it has added nearly half as much as the
total debt prior to 1910, and now Holman
talks about stagnation if the riot isn’t con-
tinued. In 1910 the debt of N. S. Wales
was £56 per head. It has since been in-
creased to about £75 per head, and the
process has admittedly been so rotten that
when it’ stops there will be trouble. Of
course it will have to stop sooner or later;
but the prayer of the “National” Govern-
ment is “Not in our time, O Lord! Give us
the drunk. Let somebody else have the
headache.”
“H. 0.”: Additional force is given to The
Bulletin’s plea for an educated democracy
by the announcement that 54,923 votes cast
at the referendum were informal. When one
takes into consideration the time and cash
expended by both sides in acquainting elec-
tors with the nature of the question they
were asked and the simplicity of the job the
voter was required to perform, it becomes
evident that there are upon the rolls thou-
sands of persons with less intelligence than
an educated grasshopper’s. The tally of in-
formal votes at the recent State election in
Victoria proportionately was even larger;
11,162 electors—3.l2 of the number that
visited the booths —disfranchised themselves
by their inability to mark a ballot-paper
correctly. And it is not in industrial con-
stituencies that ignorance is most conspicu-
ous. The electorate that scored the highest
percentage of informal votes —4.81—was
Toorak; in which classy constituency also
only 39.6 per cent, of the electors mustered
up sufficient interest to motali to a—haw—
polling-booth.
The “industrial section? of the N. S.
Wales P.L.L. now form the “vigilance coun-
cil.” They are expected to justify their new
name when the next Labor selections are
being made, as the rumor is untrue that
each has undertaken not to do a Labor mem-
ber out of his Parliamentary job even when
he is found to have faithfully carried out his
contract. In any other line the “vigilants”
would call a man who would do a little thing
like that by a name that would bring a fiver
before any beak in the land.
From the Gallery :
Frank Anstey gave his experience of political
censorship to a rapt House the other evening. Anstey
piefaced his disclosures with the remark that he had
invariably found the Censors good fellows who tried
to do their duty according to the regulations. Un-
fortunately they were subject to interference from
“superior authority,” and he declared that they
had been dragged to court against men as to whom
they had recommended that there was no evidence
for a prosecution. Anstey further declared that
his telephone conversations were tapped, whilst he
had reasonable grounds for supposing that his letters
leaked en route. A system of espionage, based on
the old Kussian police methods, drove citizens to
camouflage their opinions with ciphers and codes,
with results that often made the Government look
foolish. Anstey alleged that the Government is still
puzzling over an innocent message to him which
read: “Apples arrived safely.” If the message had
mentioned eggs, the Pryminister would have known
at once that it was a plot.
TEE LIFE LINE.
Jubilation has arisen because of an assur-
ance by Professor Lefroy Maxwell that a
means has been found of slaying the existing
weevil in wheat and making it quite whole-
some again ; also the device is to prevent any
future weevil. So it is reported that the
grain may be stacked indefinitely pending
shipments. Which is very beautiful and ad-
vantageous, provided the scheme works, and
assuming the mouse can be dealt with as well
as the weevil, and taking it for granted that
no fresh insect turns up to take the weevil’s
place. But even at its best the Professor’s
alleged find doesn’t get the wheat away, and
turn it into money while the prices are high,
nor does it feed the hungry multitudes of the
Allied population. So it is a poor substi-
tute for ships and a makeshift at the best.
“Fax”: The extracts from Maximilian
Harden’s magazine article (B. 17/1/’18)
strike several notes of interrogation :
We are gratified at the success of our agents in
Australia and the power of German gold.
Our propaganda in the land of the Southern Cross
has been most successful.
Who are the German agents in Australia
who have so successfully expended German
gold? And who gets the gold? If there be
a German propaganda in the Land of the
Southern Cross —and there certainly is—
who are the propagandists? In short, when
is the Commonwealth going to be assured of
its Government’s honesty and vigilance by
the revelation of treachery in our midst?
For German agents are here right enough.
They have dupes and confederates in every
place where dupes and confederates are
worth having. The history of the world
since the war leaves no doubt on that point.
The failure of his second war referendum
makes Hughes a likely starter for the Nobel
Peace Prize.
From the Gallery :
There was great excitement last Friday. Austin
Chapman was alleged to have the ace of clubs up
his sleeve to euchre the Government in the last hand,
but the card turned out to be the deuce, and the
Cabinet won by a comfortable margin. For some
days Chapman and his cronies in the Corner had
been murmuring insurrection in hoarse undertones,
and the revolt was brought to a climax by Anstey’s
revelations about the Censorship. The yarn goes
that Chapman, Oregon-, McWilliams, Leckie, Boyd
and some others had decided to end Hughes’s tyranny
and their own equivocal position by torpedoing the
Dictator with the help of Tudor. At the last minute,
however, the party hacks got to work with threats
of a dissolution, and the rebellion temporarily fell
to pieces without restoring its elements to their old
allegiance to the Boss. The position now is that
Hughes has found a sudden increase in the race of
Brutus and is feeling very wobbly indeed. It will
peed all his political unscrupulousness, all Joe Cook’s
cunning and Willie W'att’s beguiling tongue to get
him through the most dangerous situation he has
encountered in his career.
A depressed man of the Father Gummidge
variety is Ashford, N.S.W. Minister for
Lands. He calculates that it will take a
long time to shift the surplus wheat; in fact,
six years hence Australia is to have an
unsold surplus of 300,1X10,000 bushels, and
the Government is to have raised £75,000,000
in order to pay the growers ss. per bushel,
and many more millions for silos and mouse-
proof fencing, and the interest (probably
per cent.) on all this money is to accumulate
like thunder. N.S.W. alone is to be bogged
with 100,000,000 bushels, for Ashford weeps
in large figures. And all this is based on the
assumption that the Australian can’t nail
together wooden clippers to carry the wheat
to market. How such a pessimist as Ash-
ford came to he a Minister Heaven only
knows. Undertakery is his obvious destiny,
with embalming and tombstones as side-
lines. One year’s interest on the proposed
wheat loan should build 30 good ships, and
surely they would carrv something, besides
furnishing work and wages and experience,
and being good assets after the wheat crisis
is over. Ashford is one of those who think
that sheep and cattle should be largely sub-
stituted for grain, but even the bullock can’t
swim to England and get corned on the way.
Hughes’s dramatic announcement that he
was prepared “to get out of the way” if it
would help to bring about a Labor-Phewsion
Fusion (an announcement that was made
just after he had covered himself with mud
to get into the way) reminds one of another
of the little Welshman’s histrionic outbursts :
“If they want a Royal Commission, for
God’s sake let them have one !”—after which
he voted against letting them have anything
of the sort, so that the Ready business re-
mains the insanitary circumstance it always
was.
“Rio”: Now that the second referendum
is over the Government should make a can-
did confession as to the sixth division before
more harm is done to recruiting. The papers
published lists of returning soldiers from
battalions numbered above 60, and these men
are now in Australia; the arrival of the
late Brigadier of the 17th Brigade was also
announced; military orders contained lists
of officers posted to the new formations, and
the division was freely talked of in military
circles. In the face of all this the Cabinet
at first denied point blank the existence of
the unit; but gradually various Ministers
made admissions which showed that the
division was at one time in being. This
put a powerful weapon into the hands of
the antis, which is still being used against
recruiting, and will continue to be so used
until Pearce ceases to shuffle and gives an
honest man’s explanation of the whole mat-
ter.
There is a poor sort of co-ordination
between the Australian and British Govern-
ments. Various things
which the British
Government allows to
be exported the Aus-
tralian Government
won’t allow to be im-
ported ; various things
which the British
Go v e rn m ent won’t
allow to be exported
the Australian Gov-
ernment allows to be
imported. Metal toys,
for instance, used to
be almost a German
monopoly. Soon after
the war started the
British Government
saw that here was a
chance to secure the
trade, and actually, in
taking over and fitting
up factories for
munitions, it arranged
for the industry to be
pushed on. But while
Britain is thus trying
to develop this busi-
ness, Australia pro-
hibits the importation
of the goods. Presum-
ably it doesn’t do it in
the interests of the old
German manufactur-
ers ; but that’s how it
strikes the people who
are trying to develop the British trade.
From an old Vic. politician:—
People here in Melbourne are getting into the way
of comparing William Irvine with George Higin-
botham. The comparison always exasperates me.
There is no excuse for it whatever apart from a cer-
tain quiet resolution Irvine shows in pursuit of a
definite object. Higinbotham in the same position
would have carried people with him by letting it be
seen not only that his heart was in the work, but
that the people were in his heart. Whatever Irvine’s
object may be he never for a moment gives the
impression that he is inspired by a warm-blooded,
generous affection of any sort. Can you imagine
William Irvine in the course of a big strike, with
the whole force of property, respectability, “learning”
and convention shrieking against the shamelessness
of the unions, sending a cheque and an impulsive,
friendly greeting to the workmen ? This was one of
Higinbotham’s last public acts. Higinbotham sug-
gests old wine, Irvine new vinegar.
THE SOWERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“President Wilson’s speech has been widely dis-
tributed by aeroplanes flying behind the German
lines.”
They came with bombs ; but we went lightly soaring
O’er wider fields with deadlier intent,
A crystal pathway through the cold airs boring,
Dropping white pamphlets o’er a continent.
The guns were roaring and the battle loud,
But victory hovered with us in the cloud.
Strong was the line they held in battled Flanders,
But stronger their defence on German soil;
Theirs was the blackness of the ink that panders
To wild ambition eager for the spoil.
Lacking good bread, they fed their mobs with lies
To keep them keen for Plunder’s enterprise.
We met their swords with swords, their hate with
scorning,
But something more the bitter days demand.
With outspread wings we face the winter morning
To scatter printed truth across the land —
To tell the Teuton slave in freedom’s name
Where lies the path that leads from wrong and
shame.
Broad are the furrows of our cloudy sowing.
It matters little where the seed may fall.
Those who were foes shall read and, truly knowing,
To truth that offers hope their hearts must call.
These slips of paper read beyond the Rhine
May break the thunders of a battle-line.
Lightly we soar, their vaunting war-lords shaming
In every flutter of the printed word;
A people’s wrath grows heated to the flaming
The press at last is mightier than the sword.
And on and on we bear the messages free
That liberty makes peace with liberty !
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
ADMIRAL HUGHES’S FLEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Their anchors know no harbor, their look-outs sight
no coasts,
But far at sea, ’twixt night and day, they steam like
molten ghosts;
And he who leads them ever his heart is filled with
guilt,
For well he knows the awful fact that they were never
built.
The ancient Flying Dutchman he tracks them through
the squall,
For he has company at last who knew no cheer at
all;
And though they strain their engines he’s never far
astern
And grins and hails the Admiral whose curses scald
and burn.
There's Muddle on the quarterdeck and Plunder at
the prow,
And Bo’sun Goslow begs the crew to Never Do It
Now;
But loud they laugh and long they laugh, those
phantoms bold and free,
Who man the unbuilt fleet of Hughes that never put
to sea.
N.S.W.
CAPTAIN KIDD, R.N.


s
CHAPPELL
Mignon Grand.
A perfect example of the
British Piano-maker’s
art. Used in the lead-
ing Conservatoria and
Musical Colleges in
Great Britain.
BEHNING
Sheraton Grand.
Possesses a remarkably
full and resonant tone
of liquid purity and
resonance, and a touch
which is perfection
itself. Undoubtedly an
artist’s Piano.
SAHES
Boudoir Grand.
A small and compact
Grand eminently suited
for the home where
space is limited. The
Durability of this in-
strument is assured.
BEHNING
Boudoir Grand.
An ideal instrument for
those who appreciate
artistic excellence of
tone and responsive-
nessoftouch. Superbly
finished.
CHAPPELL
Bijou Grand.
This highly artistic in-
strument is finished in
Sheraton style and is
noted for its chaste
design and pure sing-
ing-tone quality.
Any of these glorious instruments may be purchased on our Easy Terms, if required. Catalogues free.
Your present piano taken as part payment and full value allowed.
W. H. PALING ®. CO. LTD
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, LISMORE & TOOWOOMBA.
Columbia
at
Pre-War
Records
Price s
What all the Music World Should Know!
Everything is mounting up.
Freights are higher.
Raw Material is dearer.
Labor is more expensive.
Yet Columbia Records Remain at Pre-War Prices*
THE COLUMBIA GRAPHOPHONE COMPANY desires to say that their matchless records —that bring to tHie hearts and homes of the people of all
lands the world’s greatest music and greatest voices—will not be raised in price. They will remain* unchanged in a world of change, and
inexpensive in a world in which everything has become dearer. • ,
This is made possible by the enormous output of these records —an output that grows week by week and fyear by year. Ihese celebrated Column
Records include such world-famous exclusive artists as:—Mdme. Clara Butt, Mdme. Elsa Stralia, M. Hipolito* Lazaro, Sir Henry J. Wood, Sir lhoma
Beecham, M. de Pachmann, M. Pablo Casals, M. Eugen Ysaye, Mr. Hubert Eisdell, Mr. Kennerley Rumford, Mr. v W. H. Squire, etc.
BUY THESE RECORDS NOW. THEY ARE NOT DEARER
AND THEY WILL NEVER BE CHEAPER, AND THEY MAKE EVERY HOME HAPPIER.
COLUMBIA RECORDS are Obtainable at all First-class Music Stores.
SOLE
WHOLESALE
AGENTS-
SYDNEY, N.S.W.—Grafonola, Ltd., Daking House, Rawson Plaee.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo Wertheim Pty., Ltd., 178 William Street,
BRISBANE, Q.—King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 122 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A. —H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade. *
AUCKLAND, N.Z. —Arthur H. Nathan, Ltd., Customs Street. A
WELLINGTON, N.Z. —Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Streets.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons and Gofton, Ltd., The Octagon.
i-Y/i
V ’
From whom
Catalogs and
all information
may be
obtained.
■a
CORD 3
MAGIC NOTES
trade mark


The throes of the Russian rebirth may
yet produce a nation too virile to allow itself
to be swallowed by the Hun monster, sug-
gests that wise spirit King George IV. top-
notch Scotch. — Advt.
IT’S GREAT
g
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
much better health in
and am having
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Eves and Crowle I,td., Pirie St., Adel-
aide; (Jeo. C. Carter, Box 300 (J.P.0.,
Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto Supplies Co.
Pty., Elizabeth St., Melbourne; R. R.
Riissack, »~“a Elizabeth St.. Sydney;
Philip Frankel & Co.. Edward St.,
Brisbane.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
Tlie.Reili'cdy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since lr.i.fi CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT. FALLIHC EYELASHES, WEAK SIGHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
insist on ‘'Sins.'letou's"—refuse all substitutes.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
SPECIAL MILITARY WIRELESS CLASS .
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN A TECHNICAL UNIT.
Our Instructors have arranged a Special Class for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army.
The Tuition extends over four months —Instruction three evenings a week. The course will be made
quite practical, use being made of the installations in the school, also of an aircraft set now being
installed especially for this course. The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and Motor-car Stations, Aeroplane Apparatus, etc., etc.
A SPECIAL RATE OP £8 FOR THE FULL COURSE has been decided on.
All particulars on application to THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS, Dept. C, 07 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE THE EMPIRE.
fdg
AUSTRALIAN
PURE
WOOL
UNDERWEAR
Underclothing for Summer Days.
Made from PURE NATURAL WOOL of the Best Quality.
GUARANTEED AGAINST SHRINKAGE.
DELIGHTFULLY SOFT AND LIGHT.
Tropic Weight Vests-
Combinations —
WE PAY
POSTAGE.
0
a
f*CF
All-Wool Black Cashmere Half-Hose, Light
Weight, 2/9. Medium Weight, Fine, 3/6.
HENRY BUCK & CO.
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
There were 15 starters in this year s
A.J.C. Challenge Stakes run on Saturday at ltand-
wiek, and at least eight of them would have a place
among the best dozen sprinters in the State. At any
time this is a notoriously open event, and on Satur-
day, to anyone who didn’t listen to the betting, it
looked as wide ajar as the gates of Eternity. Recent
wins on suburban courses and some swallow-catching
performances on the track had made Poitrina (9st.
21b.) a solid favorite at 3’s. She opened at that on the
day and never shifted. Panaere (9st. 8lb.) was at
4’s, but moved to 9 to 2. lie had done well in
the Villiers Mile, but looked a bit on the burly side.
Some Boy (9st. 21b.) and Dame Acre (Bst. 41b.)
were in the preliminary picture at B’s, and then the
market drifted away to longer prices—Merrimce,
Rosedell, Hitachi, La Steppe, Bonnie Plume and the
rest. The people behind the two favorites were very
confident; but neither of them got within striking
distance, and one of them was conspicuously out of
the proceedings after a furlong had been covered.
They both got away well, Bonnie Plume a little
slowly. Something seemed to run across part of
the field from the outside; there was a moment or
two of scrambling, in which Panacre was knocked
right back, and Bonnie Plume, driven by Foley
through an opening at a tremendous bat, went on
and landed into the straight with four lengths to
the good. The pace for this part of the journey
must have been terrific, for nothing could get any-
where near the flying heels of the leader. Opposite
the leger Some Boy left the others and had a cut at
the job of getting up. McLachlan’s only chance was
that the mare might tire; but she didn’t. Some Boy
punctured 50 yards from the post, and Bonnie Plume
crossed the line an easy winner by a length and a
half in “3 3.” She had run them all off their legs.
An unsatisfactory sort of race, of course, mainly
provocative of argument about what would have
happened if something else had occurred on the way
round—all of which was not particularly interesting
to either Ike or the occasional citizen who cashed-in
at 20’s. Bonnie Plume, by Earlston from the Wallace
mare Bonnie Crest, was bred at Mungie Bundle by
her owner, John McDonald. Her last win was under
welter weights at the A.J.C. Spring meeting.
The Kennilwdrth colt Ivennequahair, who
seems disposed at last to live up to early promise,
didn’t make any enemies on Saturday among punters
who had backed him early for the Anniversary. lie
was a starter in the January Handicap, 1} nine,
with Bst. 61b., which seemed a fairly solid burden
to carry alongside Norbury with Bst. 21b. aboard.
Wherefore Norbury was at 2’s, with Ike showing a
strong disinclination to do business, Ivennequahair
at 4’s and Two Blues 6’s. At the distance Norbury
was looking an almost certain winner, when the
colt appeared on the scene from well back. It was
all over in a few strides. In the mile and a half next
Saturday Ivennequahair will have a quarter of a
mile further to go and 111 b. less on top of him.
There will be a better class of nag to beat, but that
hasn’t prevented him being a strong order.
The books had got a bit of their own back
when they went home after the last race on the first
day of the A.J.C. meeting. Only one favorite landed
the bacon during the afternoon, and three long-priced
winners came to light, two of them in the best
betting races of the day. Bonnie Plume left most
of the odds-merchants a heavy credit balance and
relieved most of them of anxiety about the Challenge
and Anniversary double, for which nearly everything
else had been coupled with Kennaquahair. In the
last race punters were falling over one another to
back anything but the ex-ponv performer The Tuck.
Loud yells of anxiety to lay The Tuck at 100 to 3
seemed to be a good reason for leaving the animal
alone. But he arrived right enough, and Ike shut
up his bag with great thankfulness. It wasn’t quite
what he had been expecting The Tuck to do for him.
* * * *
Three races at the A.J.C. meeting on
Saturday were won bv ex-performers at the ponies.
Basil K appropriated the hurdles; Assouan, a full-
brother to‘ that good horse First Principle, the
Trial; and The Tuck took the Welter. Another
former ponv, Some Boy, was second in the big event
of the day. It can be taken as certain that this will
be followed by a loud chorus about the result being
a justification of pony racing and an overwhelming
answer to the people who regard the pony courses
as places where weeds and third-raters are on tap.
The answer, of course, is that these horses did not
win at Randwick because they won among ponies.
They would have done it, anyhow. And if there
are one or two more like them among the hundreds
of mokes toiling to provide sport and dividends for
shareholders in pony tracks, the right place for them
is somewhere else.
* * * *
Tote turnover at Randwick on Saturday
£15,770. In the paddock 19,168 _ investments
(10s.) were recorded. In the leger (55.) and on
the flat (55.) the speculative purchases numbered
17,232 and 9513. Queer how the odds paid by the
three machines keep the same ratio or thereabouts.
In the Challenge the books offered 20 to 1. The
inside machine paid 12 to 1, the leger 111 to 1, the
flat 15 to 1. Welter: Books 33 to 1, paddock div.
24 to 1, leger 18 to 1. the flat 17’to 1. At the outside
machines the two-dividend scheme" attracts business.
In the place where there is big money it docs the
other thing. #
“Trot”; During the Christmas and New
Year racing davs in Maori land 18 clubs bad 29 days
ef gallop and trot. These clubs ranged from im-
portant to tinpot. The sum. handled at the totali-
sators was £755,918, an average over all classes of
club of £26,421, which is £ll,OOO more than went
into the machinery at Kandwiek on Challenge Stakes
day last week. And let no one run away with the
idea that the machine gets all the betting in Main-
land, either. There is a surreptitious sort of Ike
doing business all over the Dominion; £40,000 oi
£50,000 can be won on any of the leading events
there without buying tickets at the machine.
* * *
Of all the reasons given for having nothing
to do with the tote, that which alleges that there
would be an inevitable decline in the value or
young racing stock if McShortodds were abolished is
the most futile. Even if the allegation were ad-
mitted, what of it? Is it a good thing—does it serve
any rational purpose—that huge wads should be given
for youthful nags? This page favors the opinion
that'the test of the business is the quality of the
moke, not the size of anybody’s purse. The argument
that the quality of the national hoTseflesh is estab-
lished because for tliis or that crop of yearlings
excited buyers parted with hatsful of cash is childish-
ness. When anyone is told that inferior mokes will
be bred if Ike takes to work, the best thing to do is
to ask for an explanation of how much inferior
Maoriland nags are to Australian horses. How many
Desert Golds have been produced in the Common-
wealth? And if Maoriland without the assistance ot
Ike can breed a mare like that—can send over the
Tasman horses as good as Ivilhoy, Sasanof, Maniapoto,
Solution, Bobrikoff, Reputation, Cruciform, Noctui-
form and others that have raced with conspicuous
success here —wiiat reason is there for supposing it
impossible to do as well in Australia?
“W.A.C.”: The betting machine at Rand-
wick seems an improvement on the one I saw at a
bush meeting up Bananaland way. In that affair
the tickets were nailed to a tree to start with, and
dclav in paving out dividends was frequent, owing
to the tote-clerk celebrating iiis wins at the refresh-
ment booth. He usually, chanced his luck by reef-
ing a few tickets off the. right nail as the winner
passed the post. But he got into trouble over the
Farewell. This was declared no race because, when
the horses were entering the straight, a punter with
a ticket on the gee that was running last called
the judge away to keep one down. I left when the
argument started, but judging by the dials of the
judge and tote-clerk when I next saw them it
wasn’t settled by arbitration.
* * * *
“0.K.”: There was complaint in Mel-
bourne last week that the books were refusing to
pav out their s.p. liabilities on the Trafalgar Handi-
cap. In the first place those unreckless speculators
had been indisposed to take any s.p. money about
Silent Maid. They suspected a dead-bird, and the
stable commissioner, with £2OO to invest, could get
no more than £6O on in Melbourne. The books pay
on the Annus s.p. quotation. There were 12 starters
for the Trafalgar Handicap, and the betting was
returned as “2 to 1 against Fleur D’Or, 4 to 1 each
against Silent Maid, Tetrine and Footbeat, 10 to 1
against others.” Betting to those figures a book
could have got right round on the four horses
quoted, leaving himself the chance of a skinner if
one of the eight outsiders popped up. And one of
tiie eight did finish within a neck of the winner.
There was nothing to complain of in the Aegis
quotations, yet the books refused to pay-, declaring
that the Maid started at 5 to 4.
“Trot”: About a dozen tale-tellers were
pushed out of the paddock at Randwick on Saturday,
which, combined with the circumstance that some
were overlooked, is a reminder of how the guesser’s
calling continues to flourish. It seems almost in-
credible that there should still be people ready to
swallow the tale about a certainty told by a total
stranger of dubious aspect. But there it is there
are such people, a continual crop of them, and when
the yarn comes off and they get a win they go
about fatuously clinging to the idea of having at
last struck the place to get the oil from. And it is
a solemn fact that the really accomplished guesser
would far sooner make the acquaintance of a citizen
who thinks' lie knows something about the game than
one of the other sort. Of all callings in the world
that of the guesser must be the most precarious and
demand the largest measure of cheek and contempt
for the other nartv’s understanding. But if the
racing clubs did their duty they wouldn’t confine
themselves to pushing a few of the hungrier battlers
off the premises. They would deal with the other
type of guesser, who wears good clothes and is well
fed; also they might provide halters for the donkeys
who keep the' tale-spinner alive. #
“A. AY. Fairie” (Cox, one time of Broken
Hill) is again listed as leading owner of the English
turf. 11 is winnings last season totalled £11,751,
Gav Crusader being the chief money-spinner. The
colt annexed the Two Thousand Guineas, New Derby,
September Stakes, Newmarket Gold Cup, Champion
Stakes, Lowther Stakes and Limekiln Stakes, thus
making a unique record. Lucky Fairie also owns
the winning sire of the year, Bavardo, whose pro-
geny Avon stakes amounting to £12,382.
# * * *
Chief Justice Nicholls of the Speck
lately gave a decision of interest to sporting clubs. A
nag named Grey Iluon, entered for a trotting event at
Burnie, was handicapped at 240 yards behind scratch.
It passed the post first and no protest was forth-
coming within the time specified in the Club’s rules.
But a protest entered soon afterwards declared that
the horse started from the 140-yards mark. The
Club held an inquiry and disqualified the horse.
The owner appealed, first to the Club and then to
the Association, the appeal being dismissed in both
cases. He then rushed the Club to the Court of
Requests, and, losing once more, took if to the
Supreme Court. There Chief Justice Nicholls gave a
verdict for the Club, on the grounds that the plaintiff
entered into a contract to start off a certain mark
and did not dq so. During the case plaintiff's
solicitor was arguing that it would be a disgraceful
thing if the Club were allowed to ignore its own
rules. Counsel for the defence remarked that it
would be more disgraceful if plaintiff could enter
into a contract to run bis horse a certain distance
and collect the prize though lie dodged part of
the journey. At this stage the Bencli interjected
that the most disgraceful thing of all was that a
judge should be listening to such a case.
Sport and anti-wowserism in general are
to be looked after in South Aus. by a Liberty League
just formed. Bert Sayers, theatre-manager, is at its
head, supported by Auld (who sells hard drinks) and
Hall (wlio makes soft ones). The well-known Kilev
is secretary. The League claims to aim at making
life happy, free from sanctimonious interference by
the gimlet brigade. Its hardest knock so far has
come from an anonymous writer in the Adelaide
papers, who gave it a hearty welcome. Hitherto,
said this satirist, the ideals of Liberty have been
“persistently thwarted by Divorce Court proceedings,
criminal trials, police activities, royal commissions of
inquiry and other impertinent and impeding
measures” ; and he rejoiced that at last these “vex-
ing restrictions” were to be seriously attacked.
* * * *
“Charlie” Pritchard, one-time Association
umpire, is back in his old district with a sergeant’s
stripes, two gold “wound” bars and 1212 days’ mili-
tary service to his credit. He has been allotted as
recruiting-sergeant to Melbourne Ports electorate,
which includes his old umpire fields of Port, ’Seray
and ’Town. Pritchard enlisted in 1914 in the origi-
nal Sixth Battalion, took part in the Landing, and
was wounded on the Peninsula. Then, after some
time on duty in Egypt, he went to France, where he
was again wounded so severely that he was handed
his discharge.
In Sydney junior cricket on Saturday
St. Thomas's Institute crumbled in two innings for
2 and 11 against Campsie. But the score doesn't
knock over a record, there being instances in which
junior cricket collapsed for nil. The world’s lowest
first-class cricket score (12) was perpetrated by
Oxford ’Varsity against the M.C.C. (England) in ’77.
Edgar L. Waddy—
—to cobbers and bar-
rackers just “Gar”—has
had a long innings in
Australian first-class
cricket. About 20 years (
ago, when a champion
among Sydney schoolboys,
he got his “blue” with Ma
in inter-State cricket. To- .
day there is spring in his
step and the old-time
desire to bash the bowling
still liveth. Last season
Waddy was one of few
batsmen who sraot« two
centuries (193 against
Middle Harbor and 120
against Petersham). This
year he has made double-
fignies in every innings—
-57, 38, 41 and 39. E.L.
is a brother to parsons
Percy S. (on active ser-
vice) and E.F. (“Mick”)
Waddy, both of whom
have played for N.S.W.
This week-end he captains
the Inter-State XI against
the Internationals in the
We- Chest fixture at
Sydney.
EDGAR WADDY.
Another queer cricket record date's trom
’93. In that year a team from Mudgee (N.S.W.)
played Penrith. Two Mudgee men started by accu-
mulating 219, and as they were then not out they
went out to give the other side a chance. Penrith
had two smites and at the finish were struggling in
the rear. So far as this page knows they haven’t
caught up since. # #
Essendon (Vic.) has a cricketer witli a
punch in Davies. A few weeks ago he smote 100
(out of 108) against St. Hilda; in the just-ended
round he inflicted 208 not out upon South Melbourne.
Last season he knocked up three successive centuries
in second-grade.
# * * *
It was a warm quartette from Toowoomba
(Q.) which won the men’s teams match at Sydney
tennis carnival last week. In addition to the
Barbours (wirv, grey-headed George and son R.R.),
there was E. A. Gill (who has played in inter-State
matches) and A. W. Stark (one-time top-notcher of
Sydney ’Varsitv). Besides defeating Dubbo in the
filial ''(five sets to three) Toowoomba had the
record win—7 sets 42 games against rainworm's 21.
games. G. P. Barbour and Gill also won the
teachers’ open doubles against Bidwell and Chave
(6-1, 6-4). M. Raleigh (yv ag:sa ) ( another of the
veterans, had a busy day. In the country singles he
defeated L. C. Terrey (Bathurst) by two sets to one;
and, partnered with Plowman, of Duntroon Military
College, won the doubles from Perry and Logan
(4-6, 6-0, 7-5). Plowman, who showed a fine
serve, is one of many young players noticed lately
who may be heard of again.
F. W. Springfield Inst week won the
Queensland mile swimming championship in 2Gmin.
16sec. from brother E. I. Springfield (28mm. 43
2-ssee.). About the same* time sister Mabel had a
splash for the ladies’ 100yds. championship, but just
went under to Miss E. Venning, who had to cover
the distance in the Northern State record time of
lniin. 16 4-5 sec. to win.
* * * *
Five others and Fanny Duraek sprang
into the big Domain bath at Sydney together on
Saturday in pursuit of the ladies' mile swimming
championship. When Fanny climbed out again she
had the title still firmly clutched. The rest were
two laps and 25 yards astern. The winner had set
out to clip a bit off her record (26min. Bsec.) for
the distance, but didn’t do it. She was 27min. 28sec.
in the water. She steered awkwardly at first and
was tiring at the end.
“F.G.8.”: Allow me to inform “45/90”
(B. 3/l/’18) that “Mookingah” is quite correct in
stating that Riley can get from 85 to 90 ’roos for
every hundred shots and that he uses a little .22 high
power. Billy Bonnett averages a ’roo for every 11
shots. lie uses a common .32. They must be two
of the best shots in the world. Riley is a halt-
caste abo., and Billy is the son of Mrs. Bonnett,
proprietress of a pub' in Milparihka (N.S.W.).
\ * * * *
“Centurion”; Make room for me in this
magazine-rifle row between “Nimrod” and “303.
The latter is quite right. The magazine-rifle ica-s
used prior to the Frunco-Prussian war of 18i0:
it was handled in the American Civil War. The
rifle in question was the original Winchester repeater,
specimens of which may still be found in Australia.
It can be distinguished from the Winchester “18 1 2
pattern,’’ for many years the standard magazine-
rifle, by the lower side of the cartridge-carrier being-
open, showing the feed-spring and the cartridges
through tiie slot. The Colt revolver-carbine was
used in the Civil War and much earlier. My father
had one which he brought to Australia in Cl, anil
they were fairly common here then. Several breech-
loaders were in use during the American Civil War
—the Sharpe, the Terry and the Springfield. It was
the arming of the Onion cavalry with the Spring-
field rifle which at last gave them the courage to
face the previously-superior Mounted Southerners
with confidence. At least, some writers on the
cavalry tactics of that war say so. The idea of a
breech-loading rifle was mooted during the Franco-
British wars of the 18th and 19th centuries, and though
models were constructed they were turned down, prin-
cipally because the flintlock method of ignition was
not adaptable. With the muzzle-loading rifles with
which the German Legion and others of Wellington’s
regiments were armed, the bullet had to be tediously
forced down the barrel by blows from a wooden
mallet on the iron ramrod. Minie made a great
revolution when he invented a bullet smaller than
the rifle-bore. This was easily dropped down the
barrel and was expanded into the rifling by a
wooden plug in the base of the bullet, which was
forced into the hollow bullet by the explosion. This
principle was extended to such breecli-loading rifles
as the Snider and the earlier Martini-Henry. Nowa-
days we have gone back to the bullet larger than
the bore. As for other arms than rifles, 1 have a
pair of flintlock pistols that are loaded by the simple
process of unscrewing the barrels, which are divided
just above the powder chamber. Having placed the
powder in the chamber, you put the bullet on a cup
hollowed out to receive it and then screw the
remainder of the ironmongery on. The Chinese built
breech-loading cannon of this type long before our
progenitors had got beyond heaving bricks at one
another. Many of those old-time contraptions are
still in existence. #
The Murray cod is a great traveller. Last,
season N. S. W'ales Fisheries Department attached
the identification disc to 40 young cod before turning
them loose in the Murrumbidgee, near Bringagee.
The other day anglers got two of them at Narran-
dera. One had journeyed 150 miles in 41 days, and
the other 105 miles in 60 days. While the Depart-
ment is cheered at such news, it is so desirous to
quench its thirst for migration data that anglers are
asked to drop labelled fish back into the stream.
“J. Quill”: The need for fish-protection in
the rivers west of the Divide in N. S. Wales is
becoming more exigent every year. Nets, cages
and cross-lines are still in common though secret use,
and in consequence cod and catfish are being rapidly
thinned out. leaving the waters to the useless carp.
Ten- and 20-pound fish are becoming rarities, and
even medium-sized ones of 41b. or 51b. arc scarce;
indeed, catches are mostly comprised of fish under
21b. 1 have patronised the rivers constantly, and yet
my largest fish for 1917 were 221b.* 71b. and 31b.,
a miserable performance beside the catches of 10
or 12 years ago. There are a few “professional
fishermen on these Western streams who are doing
most to exterminate the fish, for, needless to say,
our fresh-water rivers are not capable of supporting
such an industrv. Probablv some of these men make
use of the net and the cage. I have my suspicions.
If the Fisheries Department does not wake up our
renowned cod and other edible fry will be practically
extinct in a decade or two.
*** * *
Mick Simmons’s Angler’s Guide burst
out again the other day for the fourteenth successive
year. The great merit about Mick's efforts in
authorship is that anyone wanting to catch a record
snapper or a shark or a prawn or something, has
only to turn up the guide for full particulars about
how and where to do it and what to do it with, and
then go and do it. Then he returns home with the
bag and Mick tells him how to cook the contents.
Shakspeare leaves all this out.
# * * *
“New Year” : In ’95 camel races were fre-
quent on the W.A. goldfields. In that year I sa "
W. R. Wilson's Lari start for Southern Cross from
Ooolgardie with a telegram to be transmitted, and
the recorded time was eight hours 53 minutes 11
seconds. Distance, 122 miles.


fdg
fdg
Deep Breathing is the
Vital Force of Life
The Passport to Good Health.«a
It is oxygen that gives the blood its sparkling redness—
the body its warmth and energy—that makes it possible
for the' food we eat to be transformed into bone, muscle
and tissue. ,
Since it is the duty of the lungs to supply the blood with
oxygen, deep breathing should be the foundation of every
system of exercise.
A great majority of people are shallow chested—sufferers
from oxygen starvation —and yet they wonder why they
are fatigued, depressed, under weight—why their vital organs
fail in their duty.
The deep-breathing exercises included in my
Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
are most modern, efficient and successful.
They build up weak chests by strengthening the lungs,
developing the muscles supporting the chest walls, broaden-
ing the shoulders, and making you breathe in a natural
way.
The exercises you receive will be those most suitable tor
your individual physique, just as the particulars you furnish
tell me you require.
I have written a book entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH
FROM SELF-CULTURE,'’ which' tells all about my methods,
fees, etc. It will be sent to your address on request. Just
Write your name and address across this advertisement and
post it to me. 1 will know what you mean. Send three
penny stamps for postage.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER,
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
689 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
A Battery
for All-
Round
Service
mm
IN
SI
COLUMBIAS are all-round utility
batteries, suited for either heavy
or light work. They have higher
voltage and amperage than wet cells.
No liquid to spill; no glass jars to break.
Dependable, uniform, and strong.
Columbia
Batteries
ring bells; operate telephones and sig-
nals; discharge blasts. And they run
engines, motor cars, motor boats and
tractors. Columbia
Batteries are designed
to give satisfactory re-
sults under all climatic
conditions. Specially
packed to reach desti-
nation in first - class
condition.
Dealers: I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us :
National Carbon
Company
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
"Carbon Cleveland"
■%Z’»
MGnTtob"
«te"Se&
TOX
Al V-ofi[
CPi
rkUKP
Samson Telephones
T 360.
T 550.
T 564.
T360.—5-MAGNET B 111 DGI N G
WALL SET. Complete... £4/5/-
T550.—4-M AGN E T PORTABLE
SET. Complete £3/15/-
T5C4.—5-MAGNET BRIDGING
MINING SET £6/15/-
Everything for the Telephone can be obtained
from
Ramsay Sharp 8 Co. Ltd.
217 George Street, SYDNEY.
THE COMFORT
OF POWER
;;; , -*
iilffftf fill
B'-f/'..l:' •/• v' ; -*y
*•• j
df
m
\ Y
Boss
of the Road”
CATALOG
WITH
PLEASURE
MELBOURNE:
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd., 109-1 13 Russell St.
SYDNEY!
Milledge Bros., 1 36 Casllereagh Street.
BRISBANE:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd,, Adelaide & Creek Sts.
ADELAIDE:
Eyes & Crowle Ltd, 73-79 Pirie Street
LAUNCESTON:
John King & Sons Ltd.. Charles Street
PERTH:
Armstrong Cycle & Motor Agency, Hay St
PATON
869 a
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD.. 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., US Clarence Street,
Sydney.
u Mr
r
REPEATING AND
AUTOLOADING
SHOT GUNS
REMINGTON UMC
.Autoloading Arms are
made under tlie famous Browning
patents which are recognized as unex-
celled. Our Repeating Shot Guns are
fast gaining favour. Send for descriptive
[catalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO.
D. D. Bryant, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
a*
A 1
Remington
@l2
&watr.
NORTH
BRITISH
i\7ri-n
Tyres
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
m
S- v \
m
c<il
m
I
SMITMV>e
JULIU?
C/f£
r
“The Tyres that
are Superior”
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
Kew South Wales: Wiiliam Crosby & Co., 20 Loftus St., Sydney
Victoria: North British Tyre Agency Prop. Ltd.,
525-527 Collins St., Melbourne
Queensland: Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Adelaide St.,Brisbane


BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSED, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO an* OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure,for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
'fWl
4>
ittMxJs&iJti,
{jCtASHKfa
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Bog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Don’t wait to
be Bilious
Keep well. Whenever your appetite begins tc
flag, or a sour stomach and
coated tongue warn you,
take Carter’s Little
Liver Pills (purely
vegetable) and the
trouble won’t
come.
Good for
man, woman
and child.
For your health’s sake stick to this old, tried
and true remedy. Purely vegetable.
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Price.
GENUINE must bear signature
g
Casters
Hansen’s Rheumatic Remedy
“For three months I suffered from chronic
Rheumatism, and was given up by doctors. Mr.
Hansen’s ‘Rheumatic Remedy’ cured me in three
weeks.” (Signed) A. REYNOLDS.
(AVitness) C. A. ROSLER, J.l\
ALL CHEMISTS, 5/-
Wholesale: ELLIOTT BROS., BYDNEY;
ROCKE, TOMPSITT, MELBOURNE.
The Ingredients-
Choicest Oriental Fruits and
Spices —Pure Malt Vinegar.
The Making-
A Secret.
The Result-
A Delicious, Thick, Fruity
Sauce —quite unique.
A
An Imitation is Not a Substitute—
If it were it would Not be an Imitation
It is impossible to emphasise the mutual importance of this fact.
The Ready-roofing' business has become a game of
Follow Master
with more than three hundred trailers following every move made by
RU-BER-OID, mimicking everything but the quality.
These imitations resemble the parisitic vines that sap the life of the
great oak—they try to live upon what they cannot produce.
The Manufacturers of
“RIP as tn RU
COSTS MORE - WEARS LONGER
THOUGHT FIRST—ACTED FIRST. RUB-ER-OID GREW
ON ITS MERITS—IT SELLS ON ITS MERITS ENTIRELY.
“No roof roofs like RU-BER-OID roofs” is a bold claim. It
may savor of egotism, but fortunately it is just the plain,
unvarnished truth.
MAY WE SHOW YOU THE PROOF?
Send for Samples and Prices to—
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
KINGLOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
ns
F
m
m
_
,-rV
CARRY AN ONOTO WITH YOU
The Onoto is the Safety Fountain Pen that fills itself in a flash,
cleans itself in the act of filling, and contains sufficient ink to
write 20,000 words,
Never leaks—always writes smoothly—and is always
ready for writing, Can be filled from any ink supply with-
out a filler' without mess or trouble, in five seconds.
Onoto
Self-filling Safety Fountain Pen.
Price 14/6 and upwards; also ONOTO
Valveless for those who do not want a Self-
Filling Safety Pen. 10/6 upwards, of all
stationers, jewellers, stores, etc.
Manufacturers;
T. D. La Rue & Co., Ltd,,
219 Bunliill Row, London, E.C.
Managing Agents ;
Norman Baker & Longhurst,
Ask for ONOTO INK-Best for all Pens.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worrij with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 6C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium, win without
lifting a hand?
Have you noticed the strong likeness this
season between early Sassiefcy girls and
prime Border Leicester sheep? The flappers
get the effect by wearing white stockings,
bunchy flared skirts knee high, and pulling
their own wool over their eyes.
Though he be a crack rifleshot, the one-
eyed Australian volunteer gets passed out
in short order unless he can bluff through
or has political pull. Still, once a soldier
gets into action, it doesn’t seem to make
much difference whether he keeps both eyes
or not. Young Heron, whose dad is general
manager of the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia, has jus*t been promoted captain after
a long term in the field. He was at the
Landing and the Evacuation, and is now
serving in France, after two spells in hos-
pital, wounded; and he has been fighting
one-eyed ever since Gallipoli.
Francis Marion Bates Fisher, one-time
part of the Maoriland Ministry, has been
commissioned to lecture through Britain
under the auspices of the Empire Producers’
Association. He is to use his supple tongue
all through the winter. Fisher married
Ethel Davies, of Christchurch, at 21, went to
the S’Afriean war soon after, jumped into
Parliament as member for Wellington City
(in which the second ballot beat him at the
last M.L. elections), and was Minister for
Customs at 33. A notable left-handed tennis
champion, he visited Victoria during Gov-
ernor Fuller’s reign, and was feted and fed
by Fuller and Toorak. A decided gift for
getting good friends has F.M.B
Three months ago Kendrick Clifton Bone
and Ronald Merton Bone, two of a kind—
the right kind—walked into the Town Hall
depot. When the recruiting-officer found that
they both measured 17 years nine months, he
told them to come back in three months with
their parents’ consent. The other day two
young men strode into the Richmond depot
and said: “We are twins, and this is our
eighteenth birthday.” “Parents’ consent?”
That was all right, and now Gemini are pre-
paring to help their elder brothef, Captain
C. A. Bone, of the Artillery. The three boys
come from East Melbourne, and except for
two pretty sisters are the entire family.
“O.K.’s” sermon on Beer:—
Upon the very day a warning was issued in
Britain that starvation was threatening the land,
the breweries were permitted an increased output of
20 per cent. They asked for meat and were given
more beer. This method of calling upon the popu-
lace for self-sacrifice strikes me as being profoundly
wrong. Britishers will never take the war seriously
until they think wisely of their chance of losing it,
and you can’t think wisely on beer. You may think
you think wisely. The young Harvard athletes who
took a nip before starting in footraces were all
pleased with themselves when they breasted the tape.
They all thought they had done well. But they
hadn’t. The liquor had deceived them both ways—
it impaired their stamina for the time being, whilst
making them optimistic. That’s what beer does for
the workers of Britain. It reduces their output and
makes them absurdly optimistic. The less beef they
get the more optimistic the beer will make them.
The stuff one drinks with a head on it is the mother
of sweet illusions everywhere.
A bunch of tdie 17 Australian army nurses
who got the Royal Red Cross as a New
Year gift were Victorian girls. Sister I.
O’Dwyer, of Bendigo and St. Kilda, can pin
the award of the first-class alongside that of
the second which she collected last June.
She went away with the first hospital ship,
and has soothed Billjim's fevered brow in
Egypt, France and Blighty. Minnie Proctor,
of St. Kilda, a Melbourne hospital trainee,
was on the raw edge of the line after Mes-
sines, and was under shellfire day and night.
A Hun airman—“a poor little kid of IS” —-
who fell near the hospital, Avas in her ward.
Other Cross-winners are Elaine Gumming
(Toorak), Peggy Anderson (Ballarat) and
E. Donaldson, E. Jobson and E. Keogh,
(rained in Melbourne. There is a fourth
E—-Nurse Davidson —but whether Ethel
of Adelaide or Ethel of Melbourne is not yet
clear. Both these girls have previously been
honored. Second-class. Red Cross Avinners
are Dorothy Newton, Alicia Kelly -and Nan
Reay. Alicia already holds the Military
Medal for bravery under fire. Nan Reay is
the second daughter of Melbourne Herald’s
lient.-col. She gave up a good practice in
Blighty to be one of the few feminine
anesthetists to relieve army doctors at the
Front. She Avas under shellfire in an ad-
vanced clearing-station last November, when
one sister Avas injured and an orderly Avas so
mangled that he died.
“Cotton-tail”: Early last year, because
bunny looked good to the exporter, Victoria’s
inspectors were told to let up on the poison-
ing regulations. lloAvever, Avith plenty of
green grass growing all round, and as a
result of one good season on top of another,
the curse has increased and multiplied so
much that any adA’antages Avhich bunny may
have had as a fat carcase have A r anished.
M ith seven rabbits eating as much as one
sheep, it is hard to undertsand Avh.v the
Lands Department ever gave way on the
poisoning question; but, even now, out of
consideration for the exporter, nevv Minister
Frank Clarke is still going to rely mostly on
trapping and digging-out. Yet long and ex-
pensive experiments conducted by the De-
partment have shown conclusively that for
the best Avork poisoning is essential —first,
the netting of the infested acres; next, the
poisoning off of the rabbits by the almost
infallible system introduced by the late
Frank Allan, the departmental expert; then
the digging-out of whatever may remain. . It
may be contended that netting isn’t practic-
able for Crown lands, which are the chief
breeding-places, and AA’hich Clarke is going
to attack. The reply is that under Allan’s
system, which recognises that rabbits herd in
mobs, it is only necessary to estimate the
size of the mob in a given region, and then
deal (jut death to the lot. The late chief-
inspector put that fact on record almost as
his last word—and he proved it over and
oyer again in practice. Trapping and dig-
gmg-out on Crown lands will only move
more money down the sink.


ii
“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
s' 1 ’fW?
S -
* y
/C 'S
NM
*32
saic
■
stwtei
mmi
Xr
:•:■i i
H
g
*r.fi
m
m
Hi
i • /; ■
r.,«i
-• > //y&
...
_> ' S
•*
-^f-.-.v.•»•'•— *'•'*’ **■»»•*« ' ”* ’'iaOCSiO^• ••*»
><«•• —,<* <X"~ ' • *'
,*jS^£gM s ’
- . •**' , ■sr.x&lS&Ys *~T* m 72
*-*£&*&’ "1
...
sjgkP?
* X -X.-.X V, jX w, //s&*'•/&'* *'
, ;(i j
"tel!*-*
. ..^ve , n«Srtiswv—.
•m-w
***r>*;
tfp*-■:•-■"'<, y
S&X'jit&'jlP \,„ { ,n»- •* •'' , .„n"o'** .j»»7W
V2?e
aw
-mmy r
v y,_ #&****.
stzg&K:
** l *en’/y f f.\.-i'-* mm|*<
SfeSgSW*
■'v’x
M?
TSsmg
&•>«
• • --^
\
f
pSe
ai
I9«S
--isSs^ss^® 5 '
s' * .*<***“ -,. -ft
S^
-v'vr'■•'.
■ --
1
SS»!S&S
/
9
%
r---
m,
warn
.
<&^r
X
SJi*
9
m
'sz^Z>.
mat®
wm.
A-S- ..;-•
.•n??'-'V*'s^?
y.~ ■'■’
:^ss
6®S
X > .«^“-
■;X
>s*^
-v.';':; ■
j '<=> t<_ /
•»\-J T>
Cobra.” Boot PolisK.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Sees the States
Across the blue.
Every U-boat
Stays below
When they see
It’s Chunder’s show.
Straight to France
The Sammies steam
To explode
The Kaiser’s dream.
“COBRA” boys and
Full of fun,
They will polish
Off the Hun!


Here We Illustrate
The “Epsom” Shape.
52>
There is a
s vi freest ion
of charac-
ter in the
square
points of the Epsom, and for that
reason it has secured distinction.
Height, ljin.
Sizes, 13}in. to 18in.
Fits snugly and permits of perfect
freedom. Linen-faced. Price 9d.
each.
For higher quality, same shape, sizes
and height, ask for the “Austin.”
Price 1/-. See that the imprint,
ĝdf
(Pronounced Pel-ak-o)
appears on every collar you buy. This
name stands for perfect fit, finish and
longer wear.
WEAR
SHIRTS& PYJAMAS
ALSO
Made in
Australia.
g
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day. —The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
fg
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
rind for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer'.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
Baby is a
Connoisseur
in his little way. He likes,
and must have, the best.
Meilin’s Food is the proved
most efficacious equivalent to
Mother’s Milk.
Satisfactory feeding is half the
battle. Then, what a boon to the
mother to use a food which re quires
no tiresome cooking or preparation.
Meliins
Food
is made in a flash —needs no cookinfl
Send for sample of Mellin’s Food and Hand*
l ook for Mothers ‘The Care of Infants’—Free
Messrs. Gollim & Co. Proprietary
Ltd., Sydney
dg
f
Distinction is a VENUS
virtue, for you cannot
mistake the comfort in
handling the smooth, polished
VENUS Pencil —you cannot
mistake its pleasing marbled-
green exterior.
Then you remark the quality
of the Venus interioi —every
inch of lead giving smoo'h
gliding service and every inch
of wood consistent in grain.
Of all Stationers, Stores,
&c„ throughout the World
gf
gfd
SKF
Self - Aligning Ball - Bearing
PLUMMER BLOCKS.
The Only Power Saver.
gfd
SAVE 50 to 90
per cent, of
Friction over
Ordinary
Journal
Plummer
Blocks.
GARDNER, W£RN
- & CO.
MELBOURNE—
Office, 384 City Rd., S. Melbourne.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street.
SYDNEY . . . 225 Clarence Street.
BRISBANE . . . 367 Queen Street.
SAVE 95 per
cent. Lubricant
over Ordinary
Journal
Plummer
Blocks.
u
N
OUBLE
\
SIDED RECORDS
—the Records the Public WILL have!
Zonophone Records are more than ever pre-eminent because
of their famous
ARTISTS. All of them successful record-makers.
TITLES Such variety—such topicality.
RECORDING Brilliant —just true to life.
WEAR 1 hirability unequalled.
FEBRUARY RECORDS ON SALE
I en-incn
double-sided
31-
Twelve-inch 5/-
Celebrities /LL
(T en-i n c h) '
Friday, January 25.
This new list introduces noteworthy records
by these popular artists: —
MISS MARY LAW (Violin).
GEORGE PARKER (Baritone).
SYDNEY COLTHAM (Tenor).
HATHERLEY CLARKE (Counter Tenor).
PETER DAWSON (Bass).
ERNEST PIKE (Ten«r).
CHARLIE COLLINS 1
JACK PLEASANTS >
NAT D. AYER
(Humorists).
PROFESSOR GRANVILLE (Accordion).
BLACK DIAMONDS BAND.
ROYAL, CREMONA ORCHESTRA.
GET “ THE BING BOYS ” HITS
ON ZONOS— the Real Thing!
Complete lists, instrument catalogue and
name of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE BRITISH ZONOPHONE CO. LTD.,
163 PITT STREET SYDNEY.
g
fdg
fdg
dfg
fd
gfd
A Smile After Shaving
Comfort during—and
after—your shave
comes with
CO LC ATE’S
StIAOINC CREAM
Its rich, softening lather helps the razor,
and leaves the face cool and refreshed.
The feeling of a clean, smooth skin is
only one reward of saying ‘ Colgate s
when you buy a shaving preparation.
Just try Colgate’s Cream for your shave
to-morrow morning.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Also Makers of the
Famous
Shaving Stick and
Rapid Shave Powder
Toy Dog Lovers 8 Breeders.
t>OR SALE—ALL-BLACK PUG PUPS, Corrard
-T prize-winning stock; splendid heads, short
bodies. BLACK AND FAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE WHITE POMER-
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCHES; YOUNG
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome young PEKIN-
ESE DOG. Bargains—no reasonable offer refused.
Inspection invited.
KTRNBANK, Arthur Street, Croydon, N.S.W.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Barcaldine: The war has done its bit
towards making Australia one thing and not six
tilings; and it is the business of this paper to do its
bit, too. When you think over it, you'll see that it
wasn’t a compliment to Queensland to devote a page
to its affairs alone. It was really a concession to its
parochialism.... W. L. Zante: Much obliged to you.
. ...O’R.: The “tall and beautiful girl had to get
down from her sulky and save her dog’s life, while a
policeman held the reins and the Australian hoodlums
used foul language and jeered at her.” Where did
it happen and when?... .P.F.: Got a headache read-
ing the difficult scrawl. Wasn’t worth it... .K.N.8.:
You had an idea there, but you made the yarn a
humorless horror. .. .D.G.McD.: Dreariness dragged
out to infinity....A Volunteer: Why add verse like
that to the other calamity ?.... A.T.A.: That cricket
parallel is on a bumpy wicket. .. .G.G.: No, the
“reckoning” is no good, and why adopt those
Americanisms? Isn’t it enough that Sydney Tele-
graph admits them to its leaders?... .W.E.8.: “Bent
Woman” yarn doesn’t hit us hard enough....
R.1.G.: Held for inquest...; J.E.C.: “Marrying
Money” seems a bit too easy... .Anon: Doesn’t thrill
to any extent... .Bipod: Not our style. ... A.G.C.K.:
Not enough in it.... James: Lamentable.... A. W.:
“Bill” must go back. .. .C.R.: Why imagine that the
whole Australian menagerie, even to the iguana, must
be dragged in for local color? E.M.8.: But
there’s no yarn there and no probability in the
broken statements. .. .E.C.: Doesn’t score... .Oliver
Twist: Too much for a very slight yarn to carry:
but a good first attempt... .E.C.D.: “Mail Day”
drags heavily... .F.P.: Not quite. .. .Feleni: All the
yarn says is that Malieta was a very nice girl, and
you didn’t object to camping in a native hut.
... .Ringer: There’s a whirling sort of humor in it:
But what does the Raspberry say
To the poet’s Ron-de-lay ?
“You have taken my life
In a world of strife,
A murderer you are branded ;
For guilty stains, and detectives’ brains,
Have captured you red handed.”
But the forgiving Raspberries assembled to decide,
And the murder charge was set aside;
For “Hanging,” said the Judge, “you don’t deserve it,
You took my life but to preserve it.”
E. 11.8.: Very lame verse... .New Vagabond : -Nothing
in that... .Ex-Soldier: Sorry, but not nearly up....
U.D.: Too flimsy... .J.H.: Get some live interest
into your work. Merely correct, uninteresting .verse
won't d0....N.T.: Too bumpy... .O.B.: It sings
itself into our hearts:—
Now may our Nation have strength and clear-
sightedness,
That it may prove worthy of our King's Blessing ;
To let him see that we must act sedateness,
So that he may see that we are beseeming.
Now it’s to be hoped our Nation will work like
navigation,
That we may all be one like a good old navigator ;
So that the World will see that we are the Nation,
That we are the Nation who as Admonitors.
. . . .Buzzsaw: Try again when you’re 20. . . .E.J.G.:
Not enough in it....5.T.: “Naka’s Tale” misses.
“Reports” rather heavy fooling... .A.H.: There’s a
subtle beauty about this: —
But when your violin softly tells
Of sweet romance and youth’s love-bloom,
And your heart responds with heaves and swells,
Love and Art are outside the tomb.
. ...J.M.: “Crews” is a bit too rugged... ~M.C. and
A.H.: Rather crude. .. .F.C.: “What Fate Decreed”
is a machine-made yarn, stiffly commonplace... .R.S.:
“Girl Who Did” didn’t do enough. .. .T.R.: The
boys will have to look a long time... .E.M.: One
sincere line: “My themes at times are dreary and my
metre often wrong.”... .R.1.8.G.: Not up....150n
G.: Insane fragment cast out... .H.M.0.: Not up.
. ...Parkes: A silo is a very expensive hole built
with loan- money. It is used to keep wheat in
while waiting for the price to go down. When the
wheat difficulty is over, the silo can be used for tea-
meetings, or it may serve as a home for snakes....
J.H.T. :.0. Henry was never in Australia; nor did
he contribute to The B Racquet: Put a wet
towel round .your head and read that family history
again... .Sarto: Fixed, as far as N.S.W. is concerned.
... .8.N.C.: Sorry ; can’t read it... .Fanuela : Doubt-
ful ; write Law Society, Sydney.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.W.: And you think that smudge is like Clabby?
. ...L.C.: Medium scrapbook stuff... .H.H.11.: Yes,
but Little Mary isn’t- well drawn... .Finey: No.
. ...Underra: It’s humorless as well as idealess....
A.G.S.: Wooden. .. .F.J.C.: Variation of a chestnut.
. ...L.O’C.: Rather clumsy, don’t you think?....
E.M.: Crude... .Queenslander: Looks like a rough-
out for an Egyptian frieze... .K.1.T.: The Prophesy-
ing Department is closed for repairs to the Office
Prophet, who got caught in the rain without an
umbrella. Study if you feel interested and are
willing to work hard... .G.D.L.: Learn and sin no
more —or at least not so frequently... .M.R. :. An
old gag illustrated with expressionless figures.... Len
C.C.: No goija'.;.: rA.A.: Just thought of a joke
about the famous Warwick Egg! What’s your hurry ?
“Wingen” Abbott resumed his pen in the
daily papers the other day. Every Referen-
dum taken during the past 17 years has been
negatived, he said, and he asked witheringly
whether this alleged phenomenon means that
the Australian people are so cowardly, or
so wanting in initiative, that they must
always vote “*Xo” to avoid responsibility.
This paper won’t trouble to point out that
every Referendum hasn’t been negatived; it
will merely record its pious hope that
“Wingen” wasn’t so cowardly as to say “No”
to the famous Six Questions, whereby the
Federal Government sought power to control
monopolies, industrial matters, etc.
The Law threw another handful of mud
at itself in Melbourne the other day when it
required a fine of 40s. from a drunk who had
been fined 293 times already. It’s a hopeful
ass that goes on giving the same medicine
after 293 doses of it have done no good.
Unfortunately in hundreds of cases the dose
seems to do actual harm. At any rate, a
very large proportion of the people who are.
in gaol for crimes of one sort and another'
got into gaol the first time or two for being;
drunk. It may be the drunk that makesl
them criminals. Or, again, it may be the’
gaol.


No Trouble When
It’s Meggitt’s.
/C
A,
a
JJNSEED OiyJ
( *
§r n
&
s
53P
tty*
r 'o
v
W />
$S
w
Jk
5
7h
k
K
ifiSv N.'
0
S 3
Meggitt’s Linseed Oil Meal Maintains Stamina and Aids Digestion
This latter qualification alone should recommend it to all Horseowners, Carriers, Farmers and others.
It contains more protein than any other Foods offering. This property builds up Bone, Muscle, etc.
Farmers, Linseed Meal will increase your butter=fat test.
Reduce your food bill immediately and increase the efficiency of your feeding.
Over 1,000,000 tons used annually in Great Britain, while American cattle=raisers and horse=owners
etc., use greater quantities.
Less Food and Greater Results obtained by the use of Mea&itt’s Linseed Oil Meal.
rlaM fJd ZVnZ JfT T? a f mV the first two hags so beneficent that I have ordered another half-ton. Undoubtedly this
- ° a “’ and 1 co " to* recommend “ ,o —*• «* «*« -« m
LEARN TO THINK MEQQITT AND YOU THINK AUSTRALIA.
Pamphlet No. 2, instructing how to feed, mailed free.
FROM ALL STORES, or full particulars from Agents—
QUEENSLAND: R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., 66 3 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Clarkson Ltd., Rundle Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA : Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd., King Street, Perth.
TASMANIA : F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND: Blair Reed & Co. Ltd., Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington.
MEGGITT LTD., 26 Ring' Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA E N GL AN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers, all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,.
4810.
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY
BIMSBANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABERG
•ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alina Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CATRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Feb. 6.
Leaves Sydney, Feb. 9.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Feb. 1 5 .
Leaves Sydney, Feb. 10.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping fot
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Feb. 2.
* Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares, Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Unliking;, Public Companies. &c.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: TIIOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFItED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputy Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Oflice: lirisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TI?A NS ACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1803.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital . . . . . . £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital . . . . . . 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
lIKAD OFFICE ... UiUSHANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £105,000
Directors: MARK SIIELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq. ; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager : C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
.Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Sank of Deui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up .. .. .. 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa. Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other ucual Banking business.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne,
Largest Hotel Accommodation &£ Australia.
Shipping Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE “ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES. GREAT LAKES.
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the ijnited States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL, SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY—PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 269 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
g
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Fivs and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
£10,681,720
Directors:
The Hon. Sir Charles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas' Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office —29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world. .
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World,
j. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
IBank o, Ztamlta
SYDNEY. I
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Town* of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all Branches) and over
2600
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Dtpatr Gorer-uor. June, 19IS DENISON' MILLER, Qortroer
Your New Year Present to the Children
may be practical and pleasing. Open an account in their name and
present them with a Savings Bank Pass Book.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
HEAD OFFICE: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Deposits received from 11- upwards.
Interest limit £5OO.
The Bank that Pays
3f%
Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. MORIALTA, Jan. 25.
S.S. PARINGA, Feb. 2.
S.S. RUPARA, Feb. 9.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can lie
ascertained on application at the Company's Otlice.
O. S. YCILIi & CO.. LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STUEET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice versa
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versaj particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
From Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street. Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Svdney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON k CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII,
McEACIIARN k CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH k CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES k CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company’s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY', or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s. ; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply;—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
CAPILLARINE
fdg
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Hub it well into the roots and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in*
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hoi-
born, London, W.C., where they can see tne
home papers, meet their friends, us . e . t ~l
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


Just a Little
Sani-Flush
sprinkled in the toilet bowl every few
days will keep it white and sanitary.
It will make a hitherto odious task
easy. No dipping of water —no
scrubbing.
Sami-Flush
is unique nothing else like it.
It is meant to clean toilet bowls only
and does it thoroughly. Make sure
of a sanitary, odorless bowl by using
Sani-Flush regularly.
Ask Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sani-Flush or can
get it quickly; or write us a card giv-
ing your dealer’s name and we will
V vwm
fd
have you
supplied.
Sani-Flush
should be
used in all
residences
and other
buildings
where there
are toilet
bowls.
Does not
injureplumb-
ing connec-
tions.
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St.,
Wellington, N. Z.
109 Pitt St.,
Sydney N. S. W.
Obtainable from
JOHN HANKS & SONS PKOP’Y Ltd.
324 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
n
'Vi
Have You Tried
aCycling Holiday?
In congenial company you can
take the most interesting and
delightful routes breaking
your journey just when and
where you desire. Cycling
will double the enjoyment
and benefit of your holiday
besides being much more
economical than the railway.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
ITJINO^
“THOROUGHLY BRITISH."
and ensure cycling under perfect
conditions. B.S.A. quality material
and workmanship is known the
world over. Every genuine B.S.A.
Fitting bears che trademark of the
three piled rifles.
B.S.A. FITTINGS ARE GUARANTEED
INTERCHA NGEA BLE.
TRADE MASS
A
B.S.A.
B.S.A. Handbook
Free
D. Y. RENNIE
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings.
MELBOURNE.
Poirol
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
LETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 Z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Blood as a Nerve Tonic.
“If people would only attend to their
blood, instead of worrying themselves ill,”
said an eminent nerve specialist, “we doctors
should not see our consulting-rooms crowded
with nervous wrecks. iYiore people suffer
from worry than from anything else.”
The sort of thing which the specialist
spoke of is the nervous run-down condition
caused by overwork and the many anxieties
of to-day. Sufferers find themselves tired,
morose, low-spirited, unable to keep their
mind on anything. Any sudden noise hurts
like a blow. They are full of groundless
fears and cannot sleep at night.
Doctoring the nerves with poisonous seda-
tives is a terrible mistake. The only real
nerve tonic is a good supply of rich blood.
Therefore the treatment for neurasthenia,
nervousness and run-down health is the new
rich blood which Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are
able to make. The revived appetite, im
proved spirits and new strength which come
after a few days’ use of the pills will deligLt
every sufferer.
Free. —The effects of modern life upon th ‘
nerves are explained in “Nervous Disorders,’’
to be had free if you send a postcard to Box
504 0.P.0., Sydney.— Auvt.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Et-tab. 1891.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUA L LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000,
H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,660,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
m
m
A
The World-famed House
for Quality Gems -
STEWART DAWSON’S
Designs unique and exclusive are outstand-
ing features of our inimitable Diamond
Rings.
The World’s Diamond Markets contribute
to the satisfaction of our World-over
Client&le.
Comparison Tells.
With eight Australian Houses, and two the largest
in London, our Diamond purchases anti our sale of
Diamond Rings are ten times larger than that of
any other Australian firm. Extensive buying for
Ready Cash makes possible our Low Prices and
Splendid Values.
All our Rings set in Platinum.
CALL AND INSPECT, OR WRITE FOR RING CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson’s
Always Reliable, World-wide Reputation,
SYDNEY.
STRAND CORNER, GEORGE STREET.
SSjek* /""*
-ovi ifoeLyo Q
m.
A terse but e'o-
quent an i very
welcome feature of
Field - Marshal
Haig’s recent
communiques.
Reaching their
objective has 1-
ways been a dis-
tinguishing feature
of AVON 5
known as the tyre*
that “g.t there.”
y
v\
1
J
n
%
m
'A
yy
h
X
t
1
W/
Tributes to their many fine
qualities are continually being
received.
AVONS eliminate road de-
lays, save expense, and enable
users to always “gain their
objective.”
Hammond & Co., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
H. C. Pannifex, 22 Market Street, Melbourne.
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Adelaide.
Queensland flotor Agency Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland.


THE GRESHAM,
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
Under the new management of T. M. Ahern, the
following improvements have been completed: New
Commodious Lounge, whole of Ground Floor;
New Dining-room, seat 150 persons ; New Kitchen ;
New Automatic Elevator; New Hot-water Sys-
tem throughout; New Bathrooms & Lavatories.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 29th October, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of a Motor-
driven Hydraulic Pump to H.M.A.
Naval Establishments, Garden
Island, Sydney.
mENDERS will be received, subject to
X. the conditions of tendering, until 12
noon on Friday, sth April, 1918, for the
supply of a Motor-driven Hydraulic Pump to
11.M.A. Naval Workshops, Garden Island,
Sydney.
Tender form, specification and any
further particulars may be obtained on ap-
plication at the Offices of the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne;
the General Manager H.M.A. Naval Estab-
lishments, Sydney; and at the Naval Staff
Office, Brisbane, Birkenhead (S.A.), Fre-
mantle and Hobart.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
wear* j
( T ossard
U CORtSJZTsS
They Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
c\
)
-■t
rS
(as Pictured)
In Plain, Cream Palm
Beach. In Cream with self
stripe. In Cream with nar-
row black lines.
SPECIAL PRICE, 59/6.
In Cream, with neat, nar-
row Grey lines.
SPECIAL PRICE, 42/-
PALM BEACH SUITS
AT FINNEY’S
—As Light as a Maiden’s Laughter!
f These Palm Beach Suits came from America —ready to
put ou and walk out in.
f They will improve your appearance and keep you as cool
as though you sat ’neath the shade of the sheltering palm.
If They will improve your appearance and give elasticity to
your “swing.”
If Ready and right for the week-end vacation or to wear
during the week while at your vocation.
If In a range of modes and sizes and color schemes to suit
all ages and all points of view, from “Dandyism” to “Daddy-
ism” ; from Youth that knows everything to Maturity which
knows better!
If Cut right—made right—finished right—price right.
SO SEND US YOUR ORDER!
(as Pictured).
In Light Fawn and Light
Grey, Palm Beach, with
white pencil stripes, | to f
inch apart.
SPECIAL PRICE, 637-
In Plain Brown, nice and
dark.
SPECIAL PRICE, 657-
In plain Cream, in Cream
with self stripes, in Cream
with narrow black lines.
SPECIAL PRICE, 55/-
gfd
2*
POVERTY
POINT
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES.
SUPED
FCATURES
“Hired Critic” : The theatre unionists are
out at last to get a few bob more for Gladys
Fewclothes, the shapely girl who, after
being more than half the show, has to man
the background on the first night while
flowers are heaped at the feet of the princi-
pals. The modern producer of froth-shows
works on the axiom that while audiences
may yawn at gagging principals who can’t
sing and are not much good at dancing, a
prancing line of well-dressed girls who can
do both and don’t gag at all will rouse the
house every time. So Gladys, who doesn’t
get anything for rehearsals, has more and
more work heaped on her powdered shoul-
ders and comes through it like a champion.
There have been big shows of recent years
at which I felt impelled to rise and call for
three cheers for the chorus girls, the anony-
mous saviours of the show. It is their
mission in art to supply interest to the prin-
cipal.
Officially the Wesleyans have never been
noted as panto, performers. But they’re
coming round. At the opening of the new
Wesley College within the University of
Sydney the merry ghost of gloomy John
Wesley leaped out and confronted Lieut.-
Gov. Cullen. “I, the shade of John Wesley,
welcome you to these my abodes,” said the
bowing imposture—and, apparently, never
got a laugh. The name of the comedian was
not given.
“0.K.”: A cloud of reminiscences arose
from the grave of Horace Conder Rogers, the
old Sydney journalist and law-reporter who
died the other week. His father, comedian
G. H. Rogers, the
gifted colleague of
George Coppin in
after years, was
raised in a military
circle which had
some family con-
nection with the
Bank of England.
His step - father,
Major Elsey, be-
came a Bank of
England identity
when he retired
from the Army, and
his sons followed
in father’s foot-
steps. George
Patterson, of the
A.M.C., is a grand-
son of G. H.
Rogers, and when
he was in London
recently he had a
long yarn with
“Jack and the Bean-
stalk,” at Sydney
Hippodrome.
George Welch in a
gallant mood.
the secretary of the old bank concerning the
Elseys he had known or heard of.
“United Fakes”: In filmland this is the
day of the Horse-Faced Hero —the strong,
stern, lonely Yank with two large revolvers,
an immense hat, a small horse and a long
lariat, but no sense of humor, because that
would spoil his act. He is filled with a
passion for sacrifice, and is so blind and
noble that when the nice girl is just bursting
to hug him he rides away sadly into the hills
where there is nothing but eternal silence
and the stars —the picture stars that draw
the salaries. And the nice mountain girl
that never did a hand’s-turn (salary SIO,UOO
a year) looks after him and his immense hat
yearningly and stretches her massaged arms
towards his mustang’s limp and dusty tail,
while two big tears (produced by the well-
known onion device) roll down her cheeks
and make furrows in the powder. These
horse-faced exhibits would be recognised for
the wowsers they are if they dressed in
proper wowser’s costume: but the noisy cow-
boy accessories mislead the simple people
who drug their minds with pictures.
“Glen 11.”: Several Melbourne houses
have been mixing concert items with their
pictures, Cappelli, Balboni and other well-
known singers being engaged for the purpose.
When moving pictures were introduced to
Austraha they were sandwiched with vaude-
ville. There are soothsayers who predict
that the end will be even as the beginning.
There are others who remark coldly that
three-fourths of the great army of picture
fiends would regard Cappelli as merely a
bore.
“Becky Sharp”: Some more theatrical
wills. Macready crossed the Styx with
£20,000 to pay the boatman, and Gus Harris
had £23.077. William Terriss left £18.257,
Sam Phelps £9OOO, Charles Warner £4428,
Herman Merivale £2532, William Farren
£3522, John Oliver Hobbes (Pearl Craigie)
£955, Willie Edouin £B2l, Kyrle Bollew
£705, Hermann Vezin £l3B. and Oscar Wilde
£lOO.
“W.F.K.” : Narrow squeaks on
the stage? Well, when Pollard’s
Opera Co. played “The Forty
Thieves” at the opening of His
Majesty’s, Perth, a block of jar-
rah fell from the gridiron during
the first act, and ricocheting on
the scenery,
aeropl a ned
for the trom-
bone-player. It
lightly brushed
his ear, banged
the concrete
a u d it o rium,
and skidded
up the aisle.
At the Royal,
Adela i d e,
when Bland
Holt, in the
“White Hea-
th e r,” was
making his
exit per
bicycle, he
steered over
the footlights
into the or-
chestra. The
t r ombone-
player was
m o m e ntarily
absent that
time, but ar-
rived to see
Bland untying
himself from
his band parts.
P.S. —I was
the trombone-
player on both
occasions.
WILLIAM ANDERSON,
of melo. and panto., watches
a rehearsal.
“Ibsensliaw”: Though it may be small
consolation to “Stargazer” (B. 10/1/Y8) to
know it, the wholesale mutilation of plays
by “producers” and others is by no means
confined to Australia. “The comedians must
be fed, you know!” The late George
Edwardes went on the stage one night before
curtain-rise, during the run of one of his
Daly’s Theatre productions, and thus
addressed his comic mimes : “For God’s sake,
boys, speak a few lines of the libretto to-
night, there’s good chaps! The author is in
front, and it’s his birthday!
“J.F.11.” : Actor-manager Sir Herbert
Tree’s £44,000 was mainly accumulated dur-
ing his last American tour, and particularly
during his stay at Los Angeles, where he did
a lot of film work. J. L. Toole’s £79,954 is
the record pile for an actor-manager. W. S.
Penley was supposed to have coined a mint
of money with “Charley’s Aunt.” but he cut
up for a comparatively meagre £10,959. He
dropped a lot in theatrical speculations.
David James, a Jew, did better out of another
long runner —“Our 80y5”—£41,594. The
figures for the Gilbert and Sullivan trio are
significant. Gilbert left £111.971 and Sul-
livan only £54,527, whereas D’Oyly Carte,
the business member of the partnership, got
together £240,817. His widow also had the
commercial instinct and passed on £117,670.
In the English variety world, Edward Moss,
of the London Hippodrome and a host of
provincial music-halls, tops the bill with
£145,000.
Paris has given a successful start to a
mixture of “Milestones” and H. G. Wells.
A Frenchman of the year 2018, tired of the
current war and of finding a younger man
much about his home, gets away by means
of an invention which takes one back through
the centuries. He drops in at the Court of
Louis XIV., then on Charles VI., then has
a look at remote Athens, and finally gets
back into the days when the monkeys were
hardly down off the trees. And in every age
he finds a war on, and in every household
an undesirable third party ; so he gets back
to his home more or less reconciled. The
title in the original means “The more it
changes the more it is the same thing.” The
story will need a lot of censoring for English
consumption.
Melbourne Tivoli.
Edward Cahill,
pianist.
“C. Ockney”:
When Oscar Asche
concludes the run
of “Chu Chin
Chow” at His
Majesty’s, London,
he will have to
seek a new home,
Tree’s palatial
playhouse having
found a new pro-
prietor. The in-
coming boss is a
Lancashire nitrate
king who dabbles
in theatricals, and
already has one
West End play-
house —the Shaftes-
b u r y—to amuse
himself with. He
has leased the
house to those
übiquitous showmen Grossmith and Lauril-
lard, who will come in when Oscar goes out.
But “Chu Chin Chow” looks like lasting as
long as the war.
I “The Oldest Inhabitant” : George Herbert
Rogers, comedian, father of recently-dead
Horace of the S. M. Herald, was son of a
physician whose widow married Major
Elsey, of the Bank of England. A family
squabble drove the youngster from home; in
a wild moment he enlisted in the 51st Regi-
ment at Chatham, and before friends could
interfere he was drafted to Van Diemen’s
Land. He rose to the rank of sergeant, and
was frequently asked to return home, but
steadily refused. In connection with private
theatricals in Hobart Town he showed
marked ability. His colonel was a patron
of the drama and allowed him every
latitude. Mrs. Clarke, lessee of the theatre
attached to the Freemasons’ Hotel, was
always eager for his services. The Colonel
was a visitor behind, the scenes, and the
lessee worked her point adroitly ; the result
being that Rogers was bought out. It is
understood that Mrs. Clarke found the
guineas, but Rogers became such a general
favorite that the debt was soon wiped out.
Rogers married a sister of the late Charles
Young, comedian, and she was the mother of
Horace. Another sister, Fanny Young, was
the wife, of the comedian George Washing-
ton Daniels. Rogers had a family of six
sons and three daughters : two of the latter
adopted the father’s profession. Mr. Rogers
died in Melbourne on February 13, 1872. and
is buried in the Melbourne cemetery. On a
stone over the grave are inscribed the lines:
There is no death ; what seems so is transition ;
This life of mortal breath
Is but a suburb of the life Elysian
Whose portal we call death.
“Theorbo”: Rosnati, the tenor, died in
Italy a few weeks ago. He came to Aus-
tralia with Cagli and Pompei’s co. Lyster
had just said he washed his hands of grand
opera; but he partnered with the newcomers.
Cagli’s was the first double co. that we had
here. Lyster and Smith had been trying to
get along with soprano Baratti, tenors Neri
and Beaumont, baritones Dondi and Contini
and contralto Chambers. Dondi was by far
the best Italian of this lot, and was taken in
with the Cagli-Pompei crowd. The only
other particularly good people in it were
Rosnati and Mrs. Coy. Rosnati sang at
times superbly, but was said to eat too much.
Cappelli is the best Italian tenor heard in
Australia. I would like critical London to
judge whether he is up to McCormack.
John’s glorious fluty voice is not backed
with more than an atom of Cappelli’s
enthusiasm.
Australian Pattie Browne, the heroine to
Cecil Ward’s Little Minister long ago, -has
moved across to London after eight years in
the U.S.A. and has at once got busy in
musical comedy, under the management of
E. Lewis Waller, son of the late Lewis.
Edward Lauri is also under the same man-
agement. “Producing” is his strong point
these times.
■ Daisy Itevette, who is the wife of Emperor
Andrew Iligginson, has dropped out of
“Aladdin,” and her part. Prince Pekoe, has
been taken by Lalla De Beare, a well-graced
Sydney girl, who for the past few years has
ornamented the chorus in Williamson and
Tait productions. Lalla made a most credit-
able first appearance as the Prince, and after
the show was treated to cheers by her pals
in the chorus.
FranV' Weston, old-time banjoist, now 76,
sends New Year greetings from the Adelaide
suburb where he lives. Frank must have
made a bit out of his Wizard Oil after he
left off strumming on the corner.
Herbert Tree left property valued at
£44,085. Half-brother Max Beerbohm is one
of the executors.
“Vic”: Concerning early Melbourne
theatres. The Victoria, Bourke-street,
housed Mr. and Mrs. Knowles, on their in-
troduction from Sydney in “Richard III.” in
1842. The Queen’s was opened by J. T.
Smith (so-called Whittington) in 1845, with
Nesbitt in “The Bear Hunters” and "Black
Eyed Susan.” Coppin brought his co. to the
theatre from Launceston three months later,
opening with “The Lady of Lyons,” and
playing “School for Scandal” the following
night. Three theatres opened in 1855 —
Royal, Olympic (with Wizard Jacobs) and
Astley’s Amphitheatre (as a circus). The
last-named was afterwards the Princess.
“Monkbarns”: Mention of Mrs. Yeamans-
Titus (B. 27/12/T7) recalls that her mother,
Mrs. Yeamans, was a Miss Griffiths, a mem-
ber of the circus that Rowe brought from
San Francisco to Melbourne. Yeamans was
clown and horse-master in a troupe which
included Tom Nunn, Young Raphael, G. B.
W. Lewis and other good performers. Lewis,
taking over Astley’s Amphitheatre, lost
£30,000, and left Melbourne with eight
shillings. He had made the money in the
Old World by a Risley act with a Lilliputian
Tom. Mrs. Yeamans, early left a widow,
deserted circus life in the United States and
became a good comedienne. Rowe, on his
second visit to Melbourne, opened a Hippo-
drome, which failed. Later, a poor man, he
returned to Australia as a circus agent.
“E.T.” : Dot Boucicault has found another
Peter Pan for this season’s production of the
Barrie classic —Fay Compton, daughter of
well-known Edward Compton, actor and
manager. Two of Australia’s friends figure
in the cast. Young Martin Lewis (of several
Julius Knight productions) is the Mr.
Darling and old George Shelton (here with
J. L. Toole) is Smee.
Bairnsfather’s “Better ’Ole” is going so
strong that touring companies are being sent
out in England. The leader of the first,
Old Bill of the walrus-like moustache, is
Ambrose Manning, a very competent member
of Wilson Barrett’s co. in Australia long
ago.
Pinero has boiled down “The Princess and
the Butterfly” to a music-hall sketch. He
calls it “Fayzuliani,” and it is to be put on
in London, with Fay Davis in the name part.
She played Zuliani in the original production
of “The Princess” at the St. James’s in ’97.
“O.B.” : Zola Terrell, the Oriental dancer
who wriggles into two scenes in the Mel-
bourne panto, of “Aladdin,” has her meatless
day seven times a week. She exists entirely
on fruit, vegetables and nuts, and proffers
her own plump contours as evidence of their
value. She alleges that an undulating
dancer can do wonders on celery, peaches
and peanuts, while a plate of rhubarb drives
one to out-Salome Salome. The emotional
stimulus of vegetables has never been thor-
oughly tested, though the effect of tomatoes
on politicians has given a hint of their
possibilities. Zola, however, ought to know
something about it. She comes from the
State of Georgia, U.S A., where vegetarian-
ism is practically compulsory, because, in
a good season, the inhabitants have to eat
water-melons in self-defence.
A LEADING PART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Tubb was billiard-marker at
The ancient Pot and Pan.
Fond histrionic hopes he’d nursed
For years. Last week this bomb he burst:
A job as leading man,
John Tubbs explained,
Up at the Queen’s he had obtained !
•
When to the show we went we found
His claim agreed with fact ;
Todd was an usher, quick, polite,
In dinner-jacket faced with white,
And after ev’ry act
With heavy paws
He led those present in applause!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


BSKS
ifiiss
- ■rr&.M fjJ
‘ ’V» !
mm
Um-
m
■
tV'S-
/ '■
31
r
r@LJ®
> . **•
m
, « ,
_JS T
<
J ,fc' :
nasal
tft
Is
, 'I w& j
' 1
k
• 1
m
* Wmmmm
WMs&+
: j
n
r «m
■ I
■s
■■
■
.
■
MHH
3-
H HR
/
r
■3'
Unquestionably the Series
18 Studebakers are the
best cars Studebaker has
ever produced.
They embody ninety dis-
tinct improvements and
refinements of mechanical
construction, convenience
and* comfort over the
Series 17.
And remember the Series
1 7 was the car that made
such a remarkable sales
record in 1916.
Studied accessibility re-
duces inspection, adjust-
ment and repair costs to
a minimum.
In ratio to weight the
Studebaker Series 18
cars are probably the
most powerful cars on
the market.
In ratio to power they are
most economical in gaso-
line consumption.
Their balance is so per-
fected that a set of tyres
frequently runs from
8000 to 10,000 miles.
The individual front seats
are form-fitting and ad-
o
justable forward and back-
ward to all leg lengths.
o o
A touch of the hand will
reverse the right-hand
front seat so that its
occupant may face the
tonneau. Think what this
adds to the sociability of
a party.
The auxiliarv armchairs in
the tonneau fold away out
j
of sight under the rear
seat when not in use,
thus converting the seven-
passenger car into a per-
fect five-passenger car.
All Studebaker equipment
is of the highest class —
o
for example, the deep
crimson tonneau carpet
is bound with leather,
the ignition lock is a real
pin-tumbler Yale lock.
The industry’s own figures
show that to equal Stude-
baker cars in all essential
points you must pay
hundreds of pounds more.
Everyone knows of the supply diffi-
culty through shortage of shipping.
We made provision during last
year for stocks arriving now at
every capital port in Australia.
But these supplies cannot continue
indefinitely—even now rumors of
still further freight congestion are
in the air.
To everyone considering the purchase
of' a car we say in all sincerity that
delays may lead to disappointment
in getting the car you want.
Studebaker dealers will gladly show
you, point by point, the convincing
proof of Studebaker value.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA
LIMITED.
Head Office : 177 Klizabeth Street, Sydney.
Turner Bros., 398 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
S- A. Branch at 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
C. C. M. & A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Adams Lftnited, Tuam Street, Christchurch (N.Z.).
ESTABLISHED 1852


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
To Kill Roots of Superfluous Hair.
Women annoyed with disfiguring growths
of superfluous hair wish to know not merely
how to temporarily remove the hair, but how
to kill the hair roots permanently. For this
purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
applied directly to the objectionable hair-
growtli. The recommended treatment is
designed not only to instantly remove the
hair, but to actually kill the roots so that
the growth will not return. About an ounce
of pheminol, obtainable from the chemist,
should be sufficient.
Removing Her Skin.
The quickest and surest way to make a
good complexion out of a bad one is to
actually remove the thin veil of faded or dis-
colored outer skin from the face. This can
be done easily, safely and privately by any
woman. The process is one of gentle absorp-
tion.
Get some pui-e mercolised wax from your
chemist and apply it at night like cold cream,
washing it off in the morning. In a few
days the mercolide in the wax will have
absorbed the disfiguring cuticle, revealing
the fresh young skin underneath; you will
have a beautiful, clear, natural complexion.
The process is pleasant and harmless, making
the face look brilliantly attractive and youth-
ful. It also effectually removes such blem-
ishes as freckles, tan, moth patches, liver
spots, pimples, etc. Every woman should
keep a little mercolised wax on hand, as this
simple, old-fashioned remedy is the best com-
plexioned beautifier and preserver known.
Blackheads Instantly Go.
A very simple, harmless and pleasant pro-
cess is now used to remove blackheads and
correct greasiness and large pores in the
skin. You have only to drop a tablet of
stymol, obtained from the chemist, into a
glass of hot water and bathe the face with
the liquid after the effervescence has sub-
sided. The blackheads will then come right
off on the towel. The enlarged pores immedi-
ately contract to normal and the greasiness
disappears, leaving the skin smooth, soft and
cool and free from blemish. But to make sure
that this desirable result is permanent it is
advisable to repeat the treatment several
times at intervals of say about four or five
days. *
Grey Hair Unnecessary.
One need not resort to the very question-
able expedient of hair dye in order not to
have grey hair. The grey hair can easily be
changed back to a natural color in a few
days’ time merely by the application of a
simple, old-fashioned and perfectly harmless
home-made lotion. Procure from your chem-
ist two ounces of tammalite concentrate and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this to the hair a few times with a small
sponge, and you will soon have the pleasure
of seeing your grey hair gradually darkening
to the desired shade. The lotion is pleasant,
not sticky or greasy, and does not injure the
hair in any way.
Naturally Wavy Hair.
Good stallax not only makes the best possi-
ble shampoo, but has the peculiar property of
leaving the hair with a pronounced natural
“wave,” an effect presumably desired by many
ladies. A teaspoonful of the stallax granules,
dissolved in a cup of hot water, is ample for
a luxurious head wash, and leaves the hair
with a peculiar lustre and fluffiness obtainable
from nothing else as far as known. It is per-
fectly harmless, and can be obtained from
most chemists, although since it has been but
little used for this purpose it comes only in
11b. sealed original packages, enough to make
up 25 or 30 individual shampoos. [2
QUEENSLAND’S HOT SPRINGS
FOR RHEUMATISM
CHRONIC INDIGESTION 8 GOUT.
Testimonials and Particulars—
LINGLEY’S HOTEL, Muckadilla.
The Most Perfect
Garment Marker
Knocks Marking-Ink Silly.
ASK your DRAPER
fK,
v/OVEN
NAMES
ACCEPT NO
SUBSTITUTES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
12 dozen, 7/6 ; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
g
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR GAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking: Botanical Gardens.
df
gdf
THE woman who tries Bostock shoes for the first
time realises, as soon as her foot slides home,
that here is something different, something
easier and more flexible, than anything she
has yet dreamed of. Then, when she steps out in
them, what an exultant feeling she has of lightness,
buoyancy and freedom. On the top of this, too, there
is that delightful confidence and assurance that come
of being well-dressed and knowing it. For Bostock
shoes are always designed with one eye on the
fashions of the day and one eye on the ultimate- sat-
isfaction of the wearer. The result is shoes so well
fitting and so easy, that they feel just like one’s best-
loved old pair, yet so dainty, so original, so
thoroughly well-made that they look and, after quite
r. continue to look the newest and smart-
est things imaginable.
Bostock No.
P 6472
831
g
fdg
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostoclc.”
On sale at all leading stores. Look
for the name “Bostock” on the soles.
1
is
i¥S
(\
rr
w
ri
Energy
The development of energy
depends on continued good
health; health depends on
the will-to-be-healthy.
Resolutely determine that
you will be healthy; the
empire”needs healthy men,
men who radiate energy, as
never before in its history
HE daily habit of taking a half teaspoonful of Kruschen
Salts in a tumbler of hot water when rising is
a healthful and invigorating practice. Not only are the
salts remedial, cleansing the system of excess of uric
acid, but they contain certain valuable tonic properties
that no other salts possess. The daily use of Kruschen
braces, invigorates and energises while keeping at bay
Rheumatism, Gout Lumbago, Sciatica and Constipation.
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
fg
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle.
ALL BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents: —
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd., 68 Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
pt J.CoHis Brotfn^fjs
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOB
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, SJ-, o/-.
Made in England.
At the Elizabeth-street P. 0., Melbourne
(the old G.P.0.), over the letter slots some
kindly linguist has pencilled Chinese trans-
lations of the labels. So Ah Fog can now
post his letters without bothering anyone
with his sad sing-song, “Which ’im Sid-lee
blox—you savee?”
American press-agents lately killed
Maciste, the gigantic Italian who played
the faithful negro in the film story of
“Cabiria,” and parts like that. He promptly
replied from the Front in Italy, that the
report was greatly exaggerated.
“Pejay”: It’s no good the Ovens and
Murray Advertiser claiming antiquity
among Victorian country newspapers (B.
27/12/’l7). The Portland Guardian,
first issued in August, 1542, was nearly in
its teens when the Beechworth rag first
flapped.
Billjim gets no less casual as the war
plods on. One of him who had been at the
Front for two years and who had not written
home for several months, broke the spell the
other day. The letter read :
Dear Mum, —
Am getting along Al. Sorry I have not written
to you, but there is nothing to write about.
Your loving son,
Still, even that little will satisfy dear old
anxious “mum”—till the next mail is men-
tioned in the papers. Then the old hunger
will start again.
When Hell broke loose in 1914 Chas. A.
Olle streaked for khaki, and having been a
corporal in S’Africa was made a sergeant
two days after going into camp. After
several months on Gallipoli, during which
lie was twice mentioned in despatches, three
times wounded and three times patched up,
he at last stopped one with his shin, which
splintered in five places. After much
trouble he sav.ed his leg and was discharged.
Then came the “No” vote; whereupon the
patchwork, despairing of the eligibles being
rooted out and sent forward, lined up again
at the recruiting depot.
It was suggested by “Hamer” (B.
3/1/TS), who is with the A.I.F. in Eng-
land, that one-third of his little lot of 145
soldiers wiil not get to France with their
unit, owing to inadequate “weeding-out”
at this end. Labor in Victoria thinks there
is too much medical interference here, how-
ever. The Labor Call of the 3rd inst.
complains that “had all the men offering
been accepted there would have been no
cause for conscription or a referendum”!
“Official” Labor not only believes in Let-
ting George Do It, but George must do it
with a game leg or a floating kidney, rather
than that healthy Arthur should be com-
pelled to go and fight for himself.
“Esina” : The military-pay authorities are
horribly slack in the matter of inquiring into
the genuineness of “wives” and other allot-
ment holders. Further, even when the facts
are pointed out to them, they are loth to
move. One man came to the writer for
advice. His wife, he had discovered, was
receiving an allotment from a single man,
with whom, in the husband’s absence, she
had been on very questionable terms. Ad-
vised to state the facts to the Department,
he did so, requesting that the allotment be
cancelled. All he got was an intimation that
as such matters were confidential no infor-
mation (none was asked for, be it noted)
could be given. At last advices the lady
was still drawing the wages of indiscretion
from her gentleman friend, though hubby
furnishes her with ample means of support.
“Half-rations”: All the English-speaking
pirates have came ashore and opened board-
ding-houses on the coast. I left Sydney in
search of sea air late in December and
marooned myself and family in a house kept
by poor but honest people. (They’re hurry-
ing out of the business this minute.) Down
the cliff road was a successful pirate board-
ing-house where strange young ladies and
gentlemen “slept out” on balconies, almost
elbow-to-elbow, and bashful blokes stayed in
beds while their female relatives and complete
strangers in kimonos used the bathroom in
turn to dress in. The sleeping-out craze is
a gold-mine for the seaside house-crammers,
for only travelling millionaires have the face
to ask for a separate apartment for their
exclusive use. Every now and then our poor,
honest and unsuccessful establishment re-
ceived shocked refugees from the pirate estab-
lishment down the road, where the visitors
were so crowded that hurried young ladies
making their toilets put their hairpins in the
mouth of the next girl instead of in their
own. The subject of seaside boardirig-dens
is one that should interest both the Board of
Health and the Amalgamated Society of
Gimlets.
“Oof Bird” (W.A.) : “Old Hand” in the
Kalgoorlie Miner calls to mind some quaint
names given to gold-mining leases in the
early days of the Coolgardie rush. He in-
stances Hobs of Hell, Bung Eye, Linger and
Die, Yellow Pup and Bird in the Hand, with
Two in a Bush close handy. But there were
ethers, such as The Death of Nelson, so
called because a prospector of that name died
while in the act of pegging it out; the
Blooming Firmament, held by a syndicate in
which the late speculative Father Duff was
head and front; Lot’s Wife, situated on the
edge of a big salt lake with a blurred mirage,
like a city in course of destruction, on the
horizon ; and the Living Skeleton, which had
a rich but strong ribbon-sized reef. Then
there* were the Found Salvation, worked by
two followers of the late General Booth;
the Co-respondent; the Middle Straight,
owned by three poker players; and the
Nark, a show with a flat reef which went
into the next holding at a very shallow
depth. Leases named after politicians, prize-
fighters and past Melbourne Cup winners
were plentiful, and executed criminals of
any standing at all had their names per-
petuated. When that supply ran out the
prospectors fell back on The Bulletin and
the Wild Cat.
UP AND DOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On wings of alcohol I fly
Until I touch the evening sky ;
Next morning, diving like the Devil,
I find myself at water-level.
N.S.W.
TANK.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical.
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day's journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried bv thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn't got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Ilandv Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bupion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
BILIOUS
ARE
YOU
odlstipated
NO matter how long you have been suffering from ailments
of the stomach and bowels you will be greatly benefited
by taking a short course of Chamberlain’s Tablets. In hundreds
of cases, probably worse than yours, this has been conclusively
proven. But be sure and start to-day as delay only makes you
suffer longer than necessary.
CHAMBERLAINSTABLETS
Jor the sToriAcn o Liver.
have proven to be a sure standby in cases of sleeplessness,
biliousness, indigestion, heartburn, bloating, headache and dis-
orders of the stomach and liver. A trial to-day will convince you
of their great merit. Sold by all chemists and medicine vendors.
Eighteenpence per box.
A months treatment. __
DIZZY
DO YOU
SUFFER
-WITH-
SLUCCISh LIVER
BE PREPARED
I/ike many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder has developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
can be summoned.
Those who have the interests of their family at heart keep a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, dysentery and
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bow els the attack may be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy.
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage. The excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains in the stomach for which
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied upon to do this.
Mitchell.
A roomy 7-passenger, six-
cylinder, 48-horsepower
motor, 127-incH wheelbase,
31 extra features, including
cantilever springing.
Two Sizes.
SiXES.
Mitchell Junior.
A s*passengcr, six-cylinder,
40-horsepower motor, 120-
inch wheelbase, 31 extra
features, including canti-
lever springing.
THE MITCHELL is a Car of Superlative Value. You Get More for Your Money.
The unique extra value of the Mitchell has been made possible for you without
extra cost by the efficiency of the Mitchell plant, now covering 45 acres. Cost of
production has been cut down and all extra values are paid for by factory savings.
Nowhere else in the world «an a car like the Mitchell be built at the Mitchell cost.
The Mitchell sells in America for less than any other car of its class, whilst
in Australia we quote you less than any other car costing the same in America.
This shows a double advantage in price alone, which, taken with the unique value
of the car itself, makes it a car-proposition which stands alone.
AGENTS.
NEW SOUTH WALES—
F. H. Gordon & Co.,
133-137 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney.
VICTORIA —
Jas. A. Munro & Co.,
493-503 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA—
Orchard Ralph & Co.,
105 King William St.,
Adelaide.
iW
m
Vs'-m : A
m
1
mi-mm
fi' <~w
\ - V * "'
<*::::»
P?
Wwmm
AGENTS.
QUEENSLAND —
Q’land Motor Agency Ltd.,
Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA—
Bradley & Williams,
853-857 Hay St.
Perth.
TASMANIA —
L. O. Hildyard,
159 Macquarie St.,
Hobart.


Amott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
IMPORTANT
</ “SKANDIA” ♦
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
Now Being Manufactured
ENTIRELY IN AUSTRALIA
BY AUSTRALIANS.
Adopted by the Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLIES OF CRUDE OIL GUARANTEED.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
nnn
mm
mzmm
s*r*
;,J., /:
r% ifi'-Kp''
- • M
mm?®* ft ■ m'ir"*
■
' '• V
■.. • '
, '-I-;/- - - - ■,"-J
.. ' .
Over
4 Gallons
per Day!
The eow whose
photo. is here
reproduced has
been yielding over
4 gallons a day
of rich, cream-
bearing milk since
LESLIE SALT LICKS
became a part of her diet. Dairy farmers and milk suppliers will
see the advantage derived from this novel form of salt. Pure
Sterilised Salt, guaranteed free from any impurities, it supersedes
rock salt, and will keep your cows up to full milk supply.
2/- per Block, or 22/6 per case of 1 dozen.
At all Blacksmiths, Saddlers, Produce Merchants and Storekeepers.
A SEASONED SHAVER.
“Many’s the Razor I have tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the big crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE, 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for Our Illustrated Price List,
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
ViJb
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
Marine Engines
gg»oi£
For All Boats
Cailte 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started*
Electric Lights
Callle 8 H. P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
df
CaiUe Five
Speed Row*
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete
line of marine
motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This em-
bodies one- to four-
cylinder designs in
standard and
heavy-duty types.
Also the most per-
fect rowboat motor
ever produced.
Catalogs giving de-
tails gladly mailed
on request. When
writing, please
state which type of
engine interests
you and advise us
of the service you
wish it to perform.
Satisfaction
Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock ;
also Spare Parts.
iSole Australasian Agents:
BENSON BROTHERS
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 71-75
Queen’s Bridge Stree
LTD
Melbourne.
\
THREE
RIBBED
TYRES
gfd
g
fdg
fd
gd
fg
dfg
df
g
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by all practical motorists.
Illustrated Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request .
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE i
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 212, MADRAS STREET.
p.c.b.— 70
fd
SBMf
gfd
g
df
gdf
g
fdf
gf
eP hii
g
<c O’er hill and dale” all roads come alike
to the rider, whose saddle selection is a
BROOKS.
Your dealer knows why-—ask him.
iiiiuii
"lIMH
tr ft, m
Ml
l%!
wjro
Z+2Z.
7k
3fct t3asy \
CL ComUrnUun fir all fSciuvy
J&abiM.
the tM&fyaW>k£LUL
04 a&wMft, j&iC'&ntintnt
g 4 ig£ SUml fiagy ZfoeU.
CO\Uc
taMum&loMiactown
26JamueUm §t, SydneyJf.SM
St
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
h
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Officesj 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.


SKIN TROUBLES
HIE
&
and Disfigure
Quickly
Healed by
CUTICURA
SOAP
and
OINTMENT
Such as eczemas, rashes,
pimples, dandruff, sore
hands and most baby
skin troubles.
Sample Each Free by Mail
With 32-p. Skin Book. Address post-
card: “K. Towns & Co., Sydney,
N. S. W.” Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SPEC/AL/Ef
rwo
E/A/ES
sKlif
WQiTE
FOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO i
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG E5 T SYDNEY
Zc /iONTER § T NEWCASTLE
df
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
ELEY “ACHILLES”
A deep-shell, dark blue gastisht
Cartiuige, loaded with ELEY
(33 g r -) Smokeless Powder and
oz. shot.
ƒ
gdf
ELEY
'320 Revolver
ELEY
’32 Automatic
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.VV.
Wholesale:
ELEY BROS., LTD., LONDON.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
This is the Pen
for Active Service
—because it stands the racket .
The “Swan,” like a rifle, is made
true and sure. The ink magazine is
ample and, at command, the pen is
ready for duty immediately. There is
no misfiring, and there are no parts liable
to derangement. When Uuid ink is un-
obtainable the magazine may be charged
with ink pellets for use with water.
Send one to your soldier friend. It will make wri-
ting easier and encourage him to send more letters.
WAN
gfd
BOLD BY STATIONERS AND JEWELLERS.
Australian Prices:
Standard Pattern with
Slip-on Cap, from 12/6
Safety Pattern with
Screw-on Cap, from 15/-
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free on Request.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—(Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston Street S.E
Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago!
Australian Branch: J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney..
g
dfg
df
gf
ca <U
SUNBEAM
experience of standardising extra-efficiency
in the guise of the increasing numbers of
UNBEAM - COATALEN
IRCRAFT ENGINES
being supplied to the British and the Allies’
Air Services, involving, as it does, perfection
of design, methods, workmanship and
materials, must inevitably exercise its
influence on our post-war production
of motor carriages for the public.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62. Oxford St.. London, England
WORKS * * • • Wolverhampton, England
g
fdg
'n I \
Prices
N DLES
M
For all'Climes
AND ALL TIMES.
PRICE'S PATENT f CAN DLE CO LT?
London. Liverpool,\
M AN CH ESTER, C LASGOW
'Msmm
>
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have Tup
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia
cost paid. To any address abroad, £1 lCs!
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Inky Way.
“Copy Boy”: Harry Moorehead is to
represent the rank and file on the newly-
appointed Board that is to deal with the
repatriation of Billjim. Moorehead was a
junior on Melbourne Argus when W. Ilohen-
zollern started pushing his mailed fist through
treaties. He was in the Landing at Gal-
lipoli, but very soon got in the way of one
of Abdul’s shells and was sent back to Aus-
tralia short of an arm and a leg. When fit
for work he accepted an offer from Mel-
bourne Herald to look after its motor page.
* * * *
“F.N.T.”: F. Anstey, one of the “live
authors” on the Drury Lane pantomime-bill
this year (B. 27/12/’l7), is a cousin of
Anstey, M.H.R. The pair talked over the
plot of “Vice Versa” years ago, and the
story owes some of its ingenious points to
the member for Bourke. Anstey, M.H.R.,
though he also can push a flowing pen and
owns to a useful knowledge of the South
Sea Islands, has never made any serious
attempt to embalm his experiences in fiction.
A short story of his, its scene laid on a
coral reef, was printed a few years ago in
a Melbourne paper; but nobody took notice
worth mentioning, so another of ’em was lost
to the world of letters.
* * * *
“Cheehaquo”: Coming from Bendigo in
the days when a press training in the city
was the open sesame to Melbourne journal-
ism, Alf Bishop, who succeeds the late “Ter-
linga” Cook as sporting editor of The
Australasian, has carried his Tommy
Corrigan moustache and keen eye for a
winner to the top of his particular tree.
As “Goodwood” he went to the Argus from
Melbourne Herald, of which he was sport-
ing editor years ago, in Sam Winter’s time,
lie has a fine reputation and is well liked
by both sports and pressmen. By the way,
cancer has of late years accounted for four
Australasian men—E. T. Flicker, editor;
Bob Dodd, agricultural editor; “Bruni”
Brown; and now “Terlinga.”
* * * *
The Government reporters of S. Aus.
have farewelled Leslie Martin, the fifth
member of the small staff to get into khaki.
Fred Johns, leader of Hansard staff,
handed over the usual wristlet watch and
good wishes.
* * * .
“Jean Sibi”: Hughes’s continuance in
office is a matter of degraded joy to David
Low, who had been worrying over the pros-
pect of losing a face in which the Almighty
has left so much for the caricaturist to
finish off. Hughes has been a godsend
to the artist—is, indeed, more valuable in
the. sustained economy of his design than
Reid in his physical abandon ever could be.
Realising this, one can understand Low’s
anguish at the threat of men like Tudor,
Watt, Forrest or Irvine coming up. Tudor
has a very likeable character, but is about
as pictoriall.v beguiling as a doughnut. He
hasn’t a. thick ear or the smallest
wart to light the eye of the artistic blood-
hound who is running him down. Watt is
more promising, but even his greatest
admirers admit that the friendliest tally of
his facial points would soon make a paper
look like a dog show. Apart from the fact
that the purple splendor of Forrest is un-
translatable into black and white, he is
practically prohibited on account of the high
cost of paper. As for Irvine, the rectangu-
lar rectitude of ’ his ground plan, the
Euclidean contours he flings you from every
angle of sight, drives the exasperated artist
to the second book of Todhunter for inspira-
tion. Only a Cubist with a large heart and
a parallel ruler could make anything of
Iceberg’s, riot of right angles. I foresee a
dismal time for Low when Hughes disap-
pears—unless Tudor and the others put
their faces under a tram, or the two parties
elect more picturesque leaders, like
Archibald and Maloney. The little doc. as
Prime Minister would be a gift to the least
competent of black-and-whiters, whilst there
is a world of undiscovered derision in the
quaint lines of the South Australian “Bun-
yip.”
* * * *
“8.J.”: Any Bulletin reader ever come
across a poem entitled “The Psalm of
Time”? In ’Enniker ’Eaton’s Dictionary
op Dates is a biography of Robert Dudley
Adams, “poet, born July 9, 1829,” who
started business in Sydney in 1851 and
wrote, among other things, “The Psalm of
Time,” “said to be the most remarkable
poem ever written in the English language.”
It sounds a tall order, but ’Enniker was not
afraid of hyperbole.
EROS AT CALLAN PARK.
(Written after reading intense verses by a virgin.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
O Night! 0 Night! O Night! 0 Night! O Night!
O Moon! O Moon ! O Moon ! O Moon! O Moon I
O Light that guides me to my love’s delight!
O Swoon! 0 Swoon! O Swoon! O Swoon! O
Swoon!
O Star ! O Star ! 0 Star ! O Star ! O Star !
O Love! O Love ! O Love ! O Love ! O Love !
Who comes to me when shuts the private bar,
And the last drunk the chucker-out shall shove.
O Sun! O Sun! 0 Sun! O Sun! O Sun!
Until love’s wings are folded up and furled
Till Bros proves himself to be The One
Stay thou below the margin of the world!
O Sea! O Sea! O Sea! 0 Sea! 0 Sea!
0 Shore! O Shore! O Shore! O Shore O Shore!
O Pish that swim to all Eternity!
O Seaweed stranded till it is no more!
Star! Night! And Sea! Sun, Shore and splendid
Light 1
Madness that ebbs and flows beneath the moon!
Safety of lovers, and the lover’s fright,
Falling from chasm to chasm; from swoon to
swoon!
Green of the wave, green of the rustling grass,
Green of the eye of poets, love-intense;
From the asylum wall I watch them pass,
The crazy poets rhyming without sense.
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


B
s
Airmen,
Soldiers,
and Home Defenders]
all want WRIGLE Y’S—the famous
War-time Sweetmeat—why?
If you have tried it yourself, you know. If
you haven’t tried it, do so NOW. Then send
some in every parcel or letter to your friend
at the Front. It sweetens the mouth, soothes
the throat, relieves hunger and thirst.
<532^
MO
gw
-VVAt
G
ESS
Best of all —
the flavour
lasts!
A packet of 5 bars
will last a long time.
It is economical as
well as beneficial.
3d.
_ ’"'"per packet of
five big bars—your
choice of two flavours.
On Sale Wherever
Confections Are Sold
Or send 3 penny stamps for sample
packet to J. C. Gambles & Coy, Sole
Australasian Agents, Commerce
House, Melbourne.
Chew it
after
every
meal ,
THE
FLAVOUR
LASTS
WADE IN AUSTRALIA
"Lucky Scout — he’s a
cargo of WRIGLEY’S
to keep him bucked up. ”
gui/wmif
'
7^
: A
m
t H
s
tltXl
59
>^in
Flat Roofs Made
Waterproof
FEW roofing materials can long
meet the requirements of a flat roof.
Absolute imperviousness to water is a hard test
to meet. If you wish to have an absolutely tight and
lasting roofing oh a flat-topped building, specify
Certain-teed
Reinforced Flat Roof
This is a superior type of built-up roof. It is built up on the job from alternate
layers of Certain-teed Roofing and Certain-teed Asphalt Cement. It has
a smooth surface, washed clean by every shower. Always sanitary. Certain-
teed Reinforced Flat Roofs are spark-proof and fire-retarding. They are
unaffected by fumes, vapors, gases or acids. No painting required. And
they are fully guaranteed.
Our local representative will be glad to show you samples of this roof
and other Certain-teed Products. Write or call.
Mr. C. C. McCann-Perpetual Trustee Bldg., Sydney, N. S. W., Representative of
Certain-teed Products Corporation
Proprietors of: General Roofing Manufacturing Co.
Gregg Varnish Co. Mound City Paint & Color Co.
Wholesale Distributors.
NEW SOUTH WALES: John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd., Pitt Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: John Danks & Son Pty. Ltd., Bourke Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND: James Campbell &' Sons Ltd., Creek Street, Brisbane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Harris Scarfe & Co., Ltd., Gawler Place, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: McLean Bros. & Rigg Ltd., 104 Murray Street, Perth.
TASMANIA: W. Hart & Sons, Charles Street, Launceston; Tattersall & Co. Ltd.,
Wilson Street, Burnie; T. J. Cane & Co. Ltd., Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
f
EVERY KIND OF SPORT and
RECREATION Catered For.
Season 1918.
We carry Full
:: Stocks of ::
Requisites for
the Game.
MEN’S BATS. each.
M.S. PRACTICE 7/6, 9/6
M.S. HAYMARKHT DRIVERS.. 16/6, 22/6
M.S. Bats are the finest value obtainable.)
AYRE’S International .. 30/-, 32/6, 33/6
BARTLETT'S 21/-, 23/-
C. G. MACARTNEY’S Autograph 33/6
CLAPSHAW’S cork handle 12/6
„ spiral spring ...... ... 27/6
CORBETT’S Special Driver .... 18/-
„ Star Driver ... . 22/-
DYE’S Champion, 17/6; Selected.... 20/-
„ „ Spec. Selected .... 22/6
GUNN & MOORE’S Autograph ... 29/-
„ ~ „ Cannon 22/6
NICOLL’S Automatic, 16/-, 22/6,27/-, 32/6
SHAW and SHREWSBURY’S Al,
11/-, 16/-, 22/6
SPALDING’S 21/, 25/-, 30/-
STUART SURRIDGE, Drivers.. 16/6, 22/6
SYKE’S Yorkshire driver, ordinary ... 25/-
~ ~ ~ Selected ... 28/6
WARSOP’S Conqueror, ordinary 25/-
„ ~ Selected .... 30/-
WILLS’ non-splitter, chrome leather face, 25/-
CitiCKET BALLS. each.
DUKE’S match, 7/9; P.D.K., 8/6; best, 9/6
M.S. MATCH BALLS, Special Value,
5/6, 7/6, 8/6
ECLIPSE Compo., ordinary 2/6
~ „ Victory 3/-
NICHOLSON’S Black Compo 5/3
MEN’S GAUNTLETS. pair.
VENTILATED, very strong 6/6
GOLD GAPE, ventilated & padded.. 7/6, 8/6
ALL ENGLAND, rubber palms, pad tips, 13/6
CELEBRATED LILLEY, padded tips... ] 7/6
HAYMARKET, ex. spec., ex large, 17/6, 21/-
MEN’S BATTING GLOV ES. pair.
FEATHERWEIGHT, felt protection • 4/9
BUFF CHAMOIS, tubular rubber.. 6/6, 7/6
SURREY SHIELDS, R. or L. Hand 5/6
POLISHED STUMPS. set.
BLACKW r OOD, plain, very strong ...... 2/6
BRASS TOP, steel shod,!ash 7/.
HALF-SOLID TOP, steel shod, ash .... 8/9
SOLID BRASS TOP, steel shod, ash 9/6
REVOLVING TOP, steel shod, ash 12/6
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
ĝf
BOXING.
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
real leather, special value ... 8/6
C. 8.8., napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms. 10/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6 or 8 oz 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, lined, 6 or
8 oz 14/6, 17/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 16/6, 20/-, 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 24 / -
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 25/-, 30/-
THE “LIGHTNING,” officially adopted and exclusively
used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Personally recommended by Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker.. 27/6
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed, 60z... 35 /-
(Postage on One Set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES. Set of 4
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed 6/6
Best napa, „ „ 7/6
Tan Leather, „ „ 8/6
very superior, „ „ 10 /q
Laced, „ „ 12/6. 15/-
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
7in. wide (Post 4d.) 7/6 each
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 3/6 & 4/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3loz. (Post 6d.)
18/6 pair
Military Training Quarters and Camps supplied with All
Kinds of Sporting and Gymnastic Requisites.
/
t
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous BEACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7/6, 10/6
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast.... 8/6, 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively—
-18/6, 22/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made 40/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 15/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21/-, 25/-, 30/-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 60/-
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 2/9, 3/9, 4/9 pr. Mitts 2/6 pr.
Punching Platforms 35/-, 50/-, 90/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6 >.
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/9, 4/6, 5/-
for smokers.
ZIG-ZAG CIGARETTE TOBACCO, hi s h f t- s r.d, import. Very mild Will not
drv the throat. Famed for its quality and purity. loz.
cigarette papers
packet, with book of
9d. (post free).
OTtvnT rrrm W CO highest-grade Virginian, natural aroma. Awarded 4 gold medals.
P"**. 1/- (K* <*») ’ » 7/. (post free).
Send for copies of our illustrated Sports List ( B 1) and Sure Catch
Guide ( B 2). All Sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
timmansM
7JUSTR7ILWS GREKTESI
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
7JND TOBACCONISTS
ƒ
City Sports Depot
IID Kind St, also a/
Newcastle £ Brisbane


m
:
Baby
ROEINSON
\)fom a
photo.).
A BONNY REXONA BABY.
“Rexona Soap is Excellent for Baby/’ says a Tasmanian Mother.
“I have been using your Rexona Soap for my baby Nancy ever since
she was born, and I think it a splendid Soap for Babies,” writes Mrs. J. H.
Robinson, Waratah, Tasmania. “It is excellent for the skin and hair, and
Baby likes it so well. She knows it, as well as I do.
“I, too, have used your Rexona Soap and think it is excellent, and
I can assure you that Baby and I will never be without it in the house. I
had Baby’s picture taken, which I am sending you and hope you will
like it.”
Bath Your Baby with Rexona Soap.
A healthy baby always enjoys a bath, and Rexona Soap makes your child a
healthy baby. It keeps her skin fresh and sweet, her scalp so clean and wholesome.
Any irritation of the skin which keeps baby awake, or makes her crdss and peevish,
Rexona Soap will quickly soothe. A refreshing bath with Rexona Soap and gentle
anointing with Rexona will cool her skin and take away all discomforts, so thab
baby and mother will sleep quietly. The pure, sweet emollients used in Rexona Soap
are suited to baby’s delicate skin and keep it in the best condition. Rexona babies
are contented babies, because they feel well cared for and comfortable. Get a tablet
of Rexona Soap from your chemist or grocer. You are sure to like it. Frice 1/-
per tablet.
ğd
The
TRESS,
reg? mark
guarantees^
caPS
Hats
AND
Of allfirst-class flatters throughout the Commonwealth
WHOLESALE OfTRESSSC9 UPIONDON ENGLAND
QugO’ty.
Finish
*lanacter
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING REPAIRS
We desire to announce that we are making a specialty of the above, and give below
a few instances showing how we can assist you, and save you money.
CONTRACTORS —Cutting girders, iron or steel structural work.
FACTORIES Boilers— corrosions, pittings, etc. All broken or worn
parts of machinery.
FARMERS Agricultural machinery parts welded.
MOTORISTS Broken or worn motor parts, cracked chassis, cracked
cylinders, gear boxes, crank cases, etc.
CARBON REMOVED FROM CYLINDERS, 2/6 per cylinder,
WHILE YOU WAIT.
EVERYBODY Broken bedsteads, mangles, sewing-machines, gas-stoves,
etc.; in fact, any broken castings or parts, whether
BRASS, COPPER, CAST-IRON OR STEEL.
QUOTATIONS GIVEN. PRICES AND WORKMANSHIP WILL BE FOUND SATISFACTORY.
PORTABLE PLANTS AND EXPERIENCED MEN SENT ANYWHERE.
NOTE ONLY ADDRESS-
ESTABLISHED 1911
A. L. WEST ®. CO.
Specialists in
Oxy-Acetylene
Welding,
TOP OP WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY.
Tel. City 4178
The Counsellors.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS I went a-walking
Through the Morning Land,
Up came Folly
And took me by the hand;
Garbed in velvet doublet,
Clad in silken hose,
Bells on his droll cap,
Bells on his clothes,
Bells on his shoulders,
Bells round his waist,
Tinkled as he shouted :
“Haste, brother, haste;
Youth’s a thing that never will be missed
Till it’s gone, gone forever, like the dew from
the rose!”
Sparkled all the waters,
Sparkled everything—-
Dew on the petal,
Dew on the wing,
Dew on the meadows,
Dew in the air,
DCw on the tall trees,
Dew everywhere,
Dew on the fine web,
Gemming each part;
Dew on the red mouth,
Dew in the heart;
Toil’s a thing that never heart will crave
In the sweet, sweet morning and the dew-
time rare.
As I walked with Folly,
Golden mile on mile,
Finding a tavern,
We would rest awhile,
Spending merry minutes
Under the vine,
Lifting silver tankards
Brimmed with wine ;
Yea, and happy moments
Otherwhere we snent,
Gaining store of kisses,
Love and ravishment;
Life’s a stream that singing softly flows,
When the sun’s just up, and the green
world’s divine.
Song and jest I gathered
Strolling up and down,
Talk o’ the tavern
And gossip of the town;
Storing in mv wallet,
Careless of the throng,
Coin of golden fancy,
Coin of silver song.
Gems of jovial friendship,
Keepsakes manifold.
Pearls that never gem-smith
Set in filmy gold.
Wealth’s a witch that loses half her lure,
When the blood runs red, and the pulse beats
strong.
As I went a-walking
Through the moonlit land,
Up came Prudence
And took me by the hand ;
Solemn was her aspect,
Sober her clothes.
Cruel her questions,
Hinting chilly woes:
“Where be you a-going?
What have you to eat?
Where’s your wood and water?
Where your bread and meat?”
Youth’s a thing that never will be missed
Till it’s gone, gone forever, like the dew from
the rose!
N.s.w.
RODERIC QUINN.
An Old Master.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MR. WILLIAM GUTTERIDGE waited,
with the patience of a cat at a
mouse-hole, outside the barriers of
Princes-bridge Railway Station.
He cut a venerable, not altogether unim-
posing figure, in a faded frock-coat of an
earlier regime; his sparse grey hair, worn
unfashionably long, escaped from beneath
the broad brim of a rusty black wide-awake
hat; his frayed trouser-ends sagged over
canvas shoes that had once been white. His
beady little eyes allowed nothing to elude
their roving, rather furtive glances.
The particular barrier beside which Mr.
Gutteridge lingered was slowly disgorging a
homogeneous crowd. Clearly a train from
some remote country district had just arrived.
Possibly Mr. Gutteridge was expecting a
friend. His look seemed to indicate as much.
Presently, a short, sturdily-built man of
early middle-age, whose features were almost
lost in an acre or so of unimproved whiskers,
collided with Mr. Gutteridge. In so
doing, he let fall an envelope that
belonged to a letter he held open in one hand,
while in his other brown and hairy fist he
gripped a carpet-bag of mid-Victorian color-
ing and design. With a swift but stealthy
movement, Mr. Gutteridge stooped and
pounced upon the envelope. He glanced
surreptitiously at the superscription thereof,
then slipped it into his breast-pocket. Close
at hand, on the kerb, the countryman
stood irresolute, deaf to the beguilements of
persuasive cabbies.
Mr. Gutteridge tapped the stranger gently
on the arm.
“Might I kindly arsk if I ’aven’t the
pleasure of addressin’ Mr. ’Amlet Kopp, of
Milton Vale?” inquired Mr. Gutteridge in-
gratiatingly.
“Hamlet Kopp—that’s my name,” retorted
the other, edging off a pace or two.
Mr. Gutteridge smiled blandly and ex-
tended a claw-like hand, which Mr. Kopp,
breathing hard, regarded with manifest dis-
favor.
“Thought as much. Why, I’d ha’ knowed
you anywhere,” declared Mr. Gutteridge.
“You an’ ’im are as like one another as two
peas. Eggstraordinary !”
“Like ’oo?” questioned Mr. Kopp, still on
the defensive.
Mr. Gutteridge hesitated, but only for an
inappreciable space.
“’Oo? Why, yer uncle, o’ course,” he said.
“Wot. my ole Uncle Joe?” replied Mr.
Kopp. He reflected a moment. “Well, yes.
I’m said to favor Uncle Joe. His last words
to me—l was on’y a nipper at the time —
was, ‘You go on being like me, ’Amlet, my
boy, and you won’t go fur wrong.’ He left a
tidy bit, too, did Uncle. Some of it come my
way, in a manner o’ speakin’.”
“And I’m sure it couldn’t be in better
’ands,” said Mr. Gutteridge impressively.
“Ah, ’Amlet! ’Amlet! if on’y I’d took more
notice of wot your Uncle Joe said to me I’d
’a’ bin a better and a ’appier man this day.”
His voice faltered a little.
Mr. Kopp’s bewliiskered features softened.
“You knew him well?” he asked.
“We was boys together,” remarked Mr.
Gutteridge simply.
“Come an’ ’ave a drink,” said Mr. Kopp,
throwing all unworthy suspicions to the
winds.
They had a drink —several drinks. Mr.
Kopp acted as paymaster-in-chief. The
bundle of notes he produced conferred upon
him a status that would have attracted a
retinue but for the ministrations of Mr.
Gutteridge, who hovered over him very like
a hen over a chicken.
“Where d’you think o’ putting up, [Amlet,
my boy?” he inquired, when at last his com-
panion, whose head seemed to be made. of
cast-iron, suggested that it was perhaps time
to make a move.
“I did think of the Imperial Coffee Palace.
I’ve ’eard say it ain’t too bad,” said Mr.
Kopp tentatively.
Mr. Gutteridge frowned.
“Shouldn’t go there, if I was you,” he
remarked disparagingly. “B’lieve it’s clean
enough and all that; but there’s bin several
cases o’ people bein’ took down by their
room-mates in the papers lately... .Stop a
minute!” He smote Mr. Kopp affectionately
on the shoulder. “Why not come an’ share
my room along o’ me, same as yer Uncle
Joe used to do whenever he run up to town
fur a few days.”
“ ’Ow much d’you by the day ?”
asked the business-like Mr. Kopp.
Mr. Gutteridge started so dramatically
that he upset a couple of fortunately-empty
glasses.
“Oh, ’Amlet! ’Amlet!” he murmured in
tones of deepest reproach. “ ’Ow can you
arst sech a question? Why, if your dear
Uncle Joe had put them unfeelin’ words to
me, I’d never ’ave spoke to ’im ag’in. He
knew ’is ole friend better.”
“Oh, well, if that’s the ticket, right you
are,” said Mr. Kopp cheerfullv.
Mr. Gutteridge, with one longing, linger-
ing look at the spectacular array of bottles
behind the bar, took his companion firmly by
the arm anc) led him out.
It took the persevering Mr. Gutteridge
three days of almost incessant persuasion,
together with innumerable allusions to the
sacred memory of Uncle Joe, before he could
prevail upon Mr. Kopp to regard him in the
light of a banker, and Mr. Kopp himself as
a depositor to the amount of nearly forty
pounds sterling.
“Think wot ’d be my feelin’s if while you
was stayin’ beneath my roof you was to be
robbed by one o’ them crooks wot’s alwiz
’angin’ ’round waitin’ to take innercent
people down. I should never fergive meself,”
declared Mr. Gutteridge, in an outburst
which seemed so genuine and unaffected that
Mr. Kopp, in an amenable moment of incipi-
ent intoxication, literally thrust thirty-seven
pounds ten in notes on his guide, philosopher
and familiar friend, only holding five pounds
in reserve.
Thus it became the problem of Mr. Gutter-
idge’s life, while accepting one incubus, to
rid himself of another, even if it were only
for an hour, a space of time which he reason-
ably considered would be quite sufficient for
him to shake the dust of Tillot Row from his
feet for ever.
But he was reckoning without Mr. Kopp.
That gentleman never left him. However
drunk Mr. Kopp went to bed at night, did
Mr. Gutteridge venture to make a midnight
move of the most stealthy description his
guest was immediately wide awake. And
during the daytime Mr. Gutteridge found it
equally impossible to shake off a hirsute
Presence that threatened to become intoler-
able. In addition to all this, the five pounds
being soon spent, Mr. Kopp sought to exercise
his legitimate right as a depositor to with-
draw certain of his effects from Mr. Gutter-
idge’s safe-keeping. Here, however, the
latter was adamant. Two-and-sixpence a
day was the amount he grudgingly disbursed
on account of incidental expenses; and .in
vain Mr. Kopp, whose thirst was perennial,
fulminated and fumed. Mr. Gutteridge re-
mained inexorable.
“I got a dooty I owes to your Uncle Joe,”
he assured Mr. Kopp. “I fancy I can see
’im now, standin’ over there in that dark
corner jest be’ind you” (Mr. Kopp started
violently), “shakin’ ’is sorrowful grey ’airs
at me. Often an’ often I wakes up o’ nights
fancyin’ I can ’ear ’is voice,” pursued Mr.
Gutteridge with unusual eloquence, “tellin’
me to watch over and guard ’is nephew from
them as ’d take ’im down soon as look at
’im as if he was my own son.”
“Damn my Uncle Joe and you, too!” re-
marked Mr. Kopp, with bitterness. “Funny
thing if a man can’t spend his own money
without ’avin' his Uncle Joe chucked in his
face every five minutes.”
It was now Mr. Gutteridge’s turn to start
violently, which he did very well indeed,
considering.
“Don’t tell me I ’eard you damn yer Uncle
Joe,” he said incredulously. “Damn me as
much as you like, ’Amlet, my boy. but as
you vally my friendship, don’t Jet the name
of your Uncle Joseph pass your lips in vain.”
“I don’t value your friendship at tuppenop-
farthing,” retorted the parsimonious Mr.
Kopp. “And all I got to say is, are you or
are you not cornin’ out along o’ me, ’cos if
not. I’m goin’ alone?”
“I am,” said Mr. Gutteridge concisely.
He knew Mr. Kopp too well to regard the
last clause of the latter’s sentence as any-
thing but a figure of speech.
Taking advantage of the lunch-hour crowd
in Collins-street Mr. Gutteridge succeeded,
after infinite pains, in giving his tenacious
companion the slip. It was a heaven-sent
opportunity. It is likely enough that Mr.
Gutteridge beat all records for men over
sixty between Collins-street and Tillot Row.
He was breathless and purple in the face
when he arrived at the one room lie had been
sharing with Mr. Kopp during the week past.
(Continued on next page.)


llllHtlHHlUlllll
303
liimi
For the Skin}
A MONG all the new methods of
** treating skin disease and injuries,
Zam-Buk stands out as universally
successful.
Zam-Buk is quite different from
ordinary ointments, and results
show that its healing virtues are
superlative.
Zam-Buk is not only a wound
cleanser and disease-destroyer, but
it isolates the inner tissues from
infection and quickens the healing
of the damaged flesh.
These unique qualities, coupled with
its handy, convenient and ever-ready
character, stamp Zam-Buk as the
indispensable “ambulance” to be
kept handy in every home.
Zam-Buk is invaluable for Outs, Bruises, Burns,
Scalds, Abrasions, Boils, Eczema, Pimples, Running
Sores, Scalp Diseases, Poisoned Wounds, Bad
Legs, Ulcers, Ringworm, Barber’s Rash, Stiff-
ness, Itch, Sore Lips and injured and dis-
eased conditions of the skin. Zam-Buk
is obtainable from all Chemists and
Stores at 1/6 per pot, and 3/6 family
size (containing nearly four times
I the 1/6 pot).
EVERY HOME NEEDS A POT.
s
m
Invaluable
for Field Service
or Shipboard
Safety Razor
Every purchaser of a “7 o clock
Safety Razor set retail is entitled to
nominate a friend who has joined
the colours, and to this friend
a set of equal value will be sent
absolutely FREE of Charge.
Ask your dealer for full particulars.
This safety razor is by far the most convenient and satis-
factory for use in Field, Camp, Barracks, or on Shipboar .
It is self-contained, even to the strop, which is hinged in the
case itself and cannot be mislaid or lost. With a single
touch it springs open for stropping or cleaning, and with
another touch it snaps together into accurately adjusted
shaving position. (See sketches at top right-hand corner.)
Sergeant L. J. VICCANS, ht D.C.L.L, writes j
“ Up to the time of first using a “7 o'clock"
Safety Razor out here shaving Was a task
to be avoided. Now it is a delight."
Price in Australia
Price in Now Zealand ...
12/6
13,6 i
O’CLOCK” STANDARD SET
Consists of heavily silver-plated stropping razor,
six finest lancet steel renewal blades in compact
blade sheath, special strop in hinged
partition as part of the case —the
whole in handsome case measuring
only 5 in. by 2 in. by If in. deep
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY
380-2 George Btreet, Sydney.
Of all high-class dealers
throughout Australasia..
f
It did not take him many minutes to deposit
his few available belongings in a small and
dilapidated handbag. Then lie removed a
loose brick from the centre of the empty fire-
place and drew from their seclusion the
thirty-five one-pound notes for which he was
still accountable to Mr. Kopp. These he put
carefully in his breast-pocket. He had just
reached the head of the stairs, and was pre-
paring, as a precautionary measure, to
descend on tiptoe, when the front door was
flung open and Mr. Kopp stood on the
threshold. Mr. Gutteridge smothered an
imprecation.
“Oh, here you are,” said the former.
“Pretty dance you’ve led me. I’ve been
lookin’ the place for you. Where’d you get
to? An’ wot you got in that blesshd bag
o’ yers?” he added suspiciously.
“If you must know, I was jist a-goin’ to
take my week’s wasliin’ round to the
laundry,” snarled the disappointed Mr. Gut-
teridge.
“You shouldn’t —not without somebody to
take care o’ you,” said Mr. Kopp reprov-
ingly. “You might ha’ lost yerself—lookin’
fur the place.”
“Funny thing,” continued Mr. Kopp, as
he seated himself on the bed and a
short black pipe from his pocket, “but ’oo
should I bump inter jest arter I missed you
but Charley Stevens.”
“’Oo’s ’e—when ’e’s at ’ome?” asked Mr.
Gutteridge disparagingly.
“He has the farm wot joins mine,” ex-
plained Mr. Kopp. “He’s ’avin’ a few days
in town, stayin’ at the Imperial, where I
oughter—meantersay, where I thought o’
stoppin’. But that ain’t all. You remem-
ber me tellin’ you of a grand art union—
tickets ’arfa crown, first prize a val’able
paintin’, said to be a Ole Master”
“You never told me nothing about it,”
interrupted Mr. Gutteridge. “And wot’s a
Ole Master, might I arsk?”
“He’s a bloke wot paints pictures,” said
Mr. Kopp confidently. “You see the letters
O.M. arter their names in the papers.”
“And wot’s that gotter do with me an’
you, ’Amlet?” inquired Mr. Gutteridge
loftily.
“It’s got this much to do with me,” re-
plied Mr. Kopp. “I was silly fool enough
to sell Charley Stevens me ticket for five
bob, and damme if he hasn’t bin and won
first prize !”
“Well, I don’t reckon the picture ’d
be worth much more than five bob, even if
you ’ad ha’ won it,” said Mr. Gutteridge
consolingly. “I knows a little place where
you can buy luverly colored pictures—big
’uns, too —in gold frames, for a couple o’
bob the pair.”
“Go on, this ain’t one o’ them sort,” said
Mr. Kopp contemptuously. “It’s a Ole
Master; and listen to this bit out of to-day’s
paper: Tt is rumored that Mr. Mac Gill, the
celebrated conno —conno —somethin’ or
other and collector, who has just returned
from a trip to America, has announced his
intention of offering the lucky winner of the
first prize in the grand Art Union the sum
of one thousand pounds for the fine example
of Van —Van —Dago bloke, can’t manage
his name —work which constitutes the prize
in question. Mr. Mac Gill states that he has
long coveted this partic’lar picture by Van
etceterer, as ’itherto ’is gallery has bin
without an example of the famous artist’s
incom—incom —incomparable work.’ There,
wodyer say to that, Bill?”
“Wot’s the use o’ sayin’ anythin’?” grunted
Mr. Gutteridge. “If you ’adn’t ha’ bin sieh
a mug as to sell yer ticket fur five bob, I
might ’ave ’ad somethin’ to say. A thou-
sand pound fur a picture! My Gawd !”
Suddenly Mr. Kopp rose from the bed
and smote his companion on the back with
such good will ths.t Mr. Gutteridge was
moved to remonstrances.
“Oh, stow it!” requested Mr. Kopp.
“listen; how’ll this do? Wot money o’
mine have you got?”
“Thirty-five quid,” said Mr. Gutteridge re-
luctantly.
“Well, continued Mr. Kopp, “get the stuff
and come along with me to the Imperial and
I’ll buy the picture off o’ Charley Stevens
for thirty-five pounds and sell it again to
Mr. Mac Gill for a clear thousand —see?”
“I don’t see where I come in,” said Mr.
Gutteridge definitely.
“Five ’undered of that thousand quid is
yours in lovin’ memory o’ Uncle Joseph,”
said Mr. Kopp in a voice that shook with
emotion.
“ ’Amlet, my boy.” said Mr. Gutteridge,
equally moved, “if I’d ha’ ’ad a son I could
’ave wished ’im to be jist like you—not a
shadder o’ difference.”
Mr. Gutteridge nodded and tapped his
breast-pocket significantly.
Upon arriving at the Imperial Coffee
Palace, Mr. Kopp requested Mr. Gutteridge
to remain in the lobby while he ascertained
if Charley Stevens was within. Presently,
after what seemed to Mr. Gutteridge an
interminable interval, he returned; and his
countenance was that of one who is the
bearer of glad tidings.
“It’s orright,” he said exultantly. “I’ve
seen him, and he’ll let me have the picture
for thirty-five quid, cash down! Come along
in with me and we’ll fix things up straight
away.”
Mr. Charles Stevens, who had been indulg-
ing in an after-dinner nap, was sitting on
the side of his bed when the two confederates
entered the room. His flaxen hair was very
much on end, and he wore no collar and no
coat. He was clean-shaven but for a bristly
growth—the aftermath of his bi-weekly
shave. His eyelids were red and inflamed.
His general appearance suggested alcohol,
very slightly diluted. He eyed Mr. Gutteridge
with a glassy stare, as Mr. Kopp murmured
a few hurried words of introduction.
“Ole friend of me Uncle .Toe,” concluded
the Master of the Ceremonies. “He’s bin
showin’ me round town. Reg’lar bird, I can
tell yer.”
Mr. Stevens yawned cavernously.
“If he’s the ’oof-bird you was tellin’ me
of, get ’im to moult a feather or two,” he
suggested.
Mr. Kopp dug his banker in the ribs.
“ ’And ’em over, Bill,” he said.
Mr. Gutteridge fumbled for the notes, and
after counting them ostentatiouslv on the
'-Gunter nano, handed the amount over to Mr.
Stevens.
“Dessay they’re orl right,” remarked the
latter. “Here, catch hold, ’Amlet! Mind
’em fur me till to-morrer mornin’, old son,
and don’t give ’em to me then unless I’m
a sight soberer than wot I am now. That
’ere’s the picture, done up in brown paper,
leanin’ against the wall. See you later, I
spose. S’loxig.”
He threw himself back on his bed, and at
once started snoring aggressively.
Mr. Gutteridge pulled reflectively at his
ragged whiskers. “ ’Adn’t you better let me
take charge o’ them notes, ’Amlet, my lad?”
he suggested.
Mr. Kopp shook his head.
“Not this time, Bill,” he said gently. “Not
arter they’ve bin give inter my charge by
pore Charley Stevens, ’oo a child might rob.
It wouldn’t be right. I shouldn’t be doin’
my bounding dooty. Wot ’d Uncle Joe say?
Arsk yerself the question, Bill.”
“I ain’t a-goin’ to arst nobody no ques-
tions,” retorted Mr. Gutteridge gloomily.
“Orright then : you catch hold o’ the pic-
ture,” said Mr. Kopp briskly, “and we’ll get
a move on. And fer the Lord’s sake don’t
let anybody hump inter yer goin’ along, or
there’s a thousand pounds busted.”
“Trust me,” replied Mr. Gutteridge, whose
whole life had been one long and usually
unavailing request to the same effect.
Immediately on arrival at Tillot Row Mr.
Kopp proceeded to collect his scattered
belongings and cram them into his cauli-
flower-patterned carpet-bag.
“Wot’s the meanin’ o’ this, ’Amlet?” in-
quired Mr. Gutteridge severely. “You wasn’t
surely never thinkin’ o’ leavin’ me?”
Mr. Kopp cleared his throat.
“ ’Fraid I . must,” he said. “I promised
Charley Stevens. Put it to yerself, Bill —
would I dare to leave ’im in the state you
saw ’im in an’ nobody to look arter ’im?
I’ll leave the picture along o’ you, and to-
morrow mornin’ I’ll be round, and we’ll take
it to Mr. Mac Gill. By to-morrow night
you’ll be five ’undered pounds richer than
wot you are now. Well, s’long, an’ many
thanks fur orl you’ve so kindly done fur
Uncle .Toe’s, I ’ope, not ungrateful nephew.”
Having delivered himself of this irre-
proachable sentiment. Mr. Kopp took a
hurried departure, urged thereto by certain
symptoms of hostility which manifested
themselves in Mr. Gutteridge’s manner.
Mr. Gutteridge had hardly been alone for
five uncomfortable minuted when the door
was flung open, and his friend Mr. Augustus
Storror bustled into the room.
“ ’Ullo, Bill !” announced Mr. Storror
cheerfully. “Wot you got done up in that
parcel—fly-papers?”
Mr. Gutteridge spat viciously into the
fireplace.
“It’s a paintin’,” he said curtly. “A Ole
Master, worth I dunno ’ow many thousands
o’ pounds.”
“The devil it is!” said Mr. Storror
incredulously. “Let’s ’ave a look at it. xup
off his overcoat, mate, an’ then you can tell
me ’oo you stole ’im from.”
Mr. Gutteridge grinned sourly, but com-
plied.
“There you are, Gus, my lad,” he said,
when the picture at last stood revealed. “A
genuine Ole” his voice tailed off and died
away.
On a large sheet of paper, secured with
brass-headed pins to a piece of deal, an
unpractised hand had scrawled a dreadful
caricature of humanity, with a nimbus of
dishevelled hair and profuse whiskers.
Beneath it was written in sprawling
characters: “Uncle Joe. In loving memory.”
“Well, I’m damned!” ejaculated the
bewildered Mr. Storror.
Mr. Gutteridge fought valiantly against
an almost overpowering emotion.
“ ’E’s a older master than wot I thought
’e was,” he said at last, in strangled tones.
LAWRENCE B. JUPP.
The Battlefield.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT seemed to him that he was buried to
his neck in a chalky trench—or per-
haps it was snow that made it so white
and cold. There was something wrong with
his eyes, and he couldn’t make out anything
distinctly. And he couldn’t remember how
he came to be buried. The only thing he
was sure about was that there were
poor devils lying out in the muddy waste of
No Man’s Land. He could see them as dark
spots writhing beyond the wire, and their
calls for help were a continual torture.
“Stretcher-bearers this way!” he called,
not for himself; for the others. Then, as
nobody answered : “God Almighty ! Won’t
somebody go over? There’s no firing now!”
“It’s all right!” said a voice he remem-
bered to have heard before and hated.
He rolled his head in rage. “It’s not all
right! Can’t you hear them 'calling?
Stretcher-bearers /”
“Oh, oh!” moaned the wounded out in tin.
gluey waste.
“Stretcher-bearers!”
“Quiet there, mate!” growled a voice.
“Isn’t any one of you game to go out and
get them in? Stretcher-bearers!”
A terrible weakness seemed to be coming
over him ; but, no—he wouldn’t give in till
he had driven some of them out. The Huns
weren’t firing—and, anyhow, why couldn’t
they take a risk and get the men in!
“Stretcher-bearers !”
“Ah, shut up !” said a voice on his left.
He felt too weak to do any more. But as
he lost consciousness he heard the wounded
calling, calling.
* * * *
As the grey light crept into the ward the
patient with head wounds raised himself on
his elbow and saw that a screen had been
drawn round the bed opposite.
“See old Stretcher Bearers has chucked in
his alley. Paralysis, wasn’t it?”
The one-legged man yawned. “Yes. poor
. But he was a damn nuisance singin’
out all day an’ night!”
“Ah, well.” sighed the head case, “I
suppose we’re all nuisances one way or
another. Wonder what he had in his nut?
D’ye know,” he added, in a burst of confi-
dence, “I was nearly askin’ the sister yester-
day to take the flypaper off the table by his
bed. Dyin’ flies make a terrible noiso.”*
KODAK.


ƒg
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi =*
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu=
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRJ
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N.
S. WALES,
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them ‘‘Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. G. END, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
p
r\
iwff/
0/
:' ’ j
&
.Your
Aim? c
Then have
1% at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco
v\
T
1
T
A
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works : Birmingham, England.
.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. -
ft
m
«*V-
?
I
K.
\
/s.
f
i
n..
n
3
V.
Ss^
SN
1:1
k
l
MBSMSPIIIS
We have just landed a. large stocK of the
welhKnown American Brand of
MOSLER SUPERIOR SPARKING PLUGS
suitable for the “Ford** Engine.
These Plugs' are a distinctly High-grade line, and we are offering them at the low-
price of 2/9 each. (Special Prices for Quantities.)
This replenishment of our stocks comes at a most opportune time, on account of
the great scarcity of’ “Ford” Plugs.
PRICES OF OTHER MAKES OF PLUGS ARE:
“LODGE” Sparking; Plugs, in Metric, 14 in., % x 18, A.L.A.M. . . 5/- each.
for “Fords,” 5/- each.
“SPHINX” Sparking Plugs, 3 point in Metric, and %in 4/- each.
“CHAMPION” Sparking Plugs, Hy. Stone, 5/- ea.; in Metric, 34in., % x 18.
„ „ “Reliance,” Sparks in water .... 5/6 each.
Platinum Points 6/6 each.
“REFLEX” Sparking Plugs, No. 1, 3/-; “Giant,” 4/-; “Extended,” 3/3 each.
No. 1, Mica, 3/9; Giant Mica 5/- each.
“MOSLER,’
*1 ~ '
Sharking Plugs, “Vesuvius,” for Buick, 4/6; for Metz, 4/6;
and Ordinary. 4/6 each.
Robert C. Swan & Company Limited,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Specia
m
9
cP
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
CHAS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.,
Victoria Street,
Richmond, Victoria.


NGROVITE
LEATHER
LTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“‘MA-N GBOV 1TE ’’ Han hide, which
differs from all other so-called llawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
if alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured onlv bv
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel
CAPITAL
“ULTRA CAPITAL”
HICH-SPEEO STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Automatic Machines.
READY FOR USE.
ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Dannemora Steel Works, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES-
Fx3" r/ x 3" f x3' f 6 'x4" }x4”
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO. LIL 37 s\^v 5 *
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
Fremantle.
John Reid & Nephews,
Kalgroorlie.
Brisbane.
Chemicals
Best Prices from Stock or Indent
Soda Ash
Caustic Soda
Sulphide of Sodium
Alum
Sulphate Alumina
Borax
Hypo Soda
Naphthaline
Bicarb Soda
Bichromate Soda
Carbolic
etc., etc.
British Aniline Dyes.
JAMES HARDIE § CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney.
Little Collins Street, Melbourne. [3
SOMETHING
BETTER!
If Engineers and .Steam-plant Owners would only
realise the importance of EFFICIENTLY insulating
their Boilers, Steam Pipes, etc., more attention might
he paid to this particular matter. Great economies
can be effected in this direction, in some cases the coal
consumption being reduced as much as 50%. But the
insulating material must be of the very best.
Carbonate of Magnesia is to-day recognised as the best
non-conductor of heat. Newali s Coverings are com-
posed of 85% of this material, and 15% Asbestos—the
Asbestos being used for binding purposes only—and in
addition possess- innumerable advantages over all other
forms of lagging. Newall’s Coverings are used, practi-
cally exclusively, by the British Admiralty, N.S.W.
and Victorian Governments, and have been used
throughout the Ultimo. White Bay, Melbourne. Perth
and Canberra Power Stations.
“NEWALL’S” MAGNESIA
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
SECTIONAL. FOR PIPE, BENDS, TEES & FLANGES.
PLASTIC FOR BOILERS, HEATERS, etc.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z>
PERMASITE
ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
PAINTS
HIGH
GRADE
’ Dry Colors
Oxides
Ochres
VARLINE
V GLUE f
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD ,
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. [2
OIL-ENGINE BUYERS!
Before placing your orders elsewhere, inquire our prices for the
most Up-to-date Oil Engines ever seen in Australia, viz.:
m
K
“Big Chief’and “Field W”
(America’s Best)
Fitted with Webster Mag-
neto. Regular Pulley and
Usual Accessories. Each
thoroughly tested.
“BEST TERMS on EARTH.”
LOWEST PRICES.
R.L.ScnittonSCo.L' 5 :
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
“ Where the Best Engines are Sold —not Kept in Stock.”
*•
k
o
HAt> H
Vs
v:
o
o
sr
&
A/
*
y-
ffcisrtfliS
(son
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lll>., 50/-; Sib.. 25/-; 20z., 7/6.
lib. Flux will braze broken casting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick —instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask jour hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Spenser Street, St. Hilda, Vi«sls»ria,
2- ft
u
■
i —3i
v~
' : T : : ■ :
K
yiBKWQ
P
J
¥
M
' S',; •; ~.
-
[on-ooi3
SO SI
OPERAT
■
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand
SOLE AGENTS:
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WAR3URTON, FRANKI LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND-
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
mm
The uutfit that “Swept the Poll” in the 1917 Season.
Mr. J. A. WALLACE, Charleville, Cadia, writes: The (Combined 2 Stand)
Portable Shearing Plant has proved to he all that was represented, and has
given satisfaction in every way. With two shearers I have put through over
3000 sheep without a single hitch. Can conscientiously recommend it to any
owners of from 3000 to 4000 sheep who wish to avoid shearing worries. With
two fair shearers, 250 PElt DAT can be put through. I used five tins fuel for
my shearing (150 shorn per gallon).
SCORES OF SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Order Your Plant for 1918 now to ensure getting it.
DANGAR, GEDYE 8 CO. Ltd., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
PIONEERS of SHEEP-SHFARING MACHINERY.
SELF LUBRICATING
BEARING
V *
LEATHER FRICTION
cone engages smoothly
and silently
'VONE PEICE SPINDLE (
wlhh long bearings
bofh ends
New improved Lister' Bracket
for Z Stand Combined Planta
(patented)
NOTE THE FEATURES OI THIS
LISTER BRACKET:
Works without Rattle or Harshness.
No other 2-Staiul Bracket compares with
it.
The EVERLASTING VALVE
SPECIAL FEATURES— (PATENTED)
Self=Cleaning and Self=G rinding Seat.
Continued and Uninterrupted Service.
SIMPLE.
EASILY
OPERATED.
ROTATING DISC.
f
ƒdfg
STRAIGHT
THROUGH BLOW
NO REPAIRING.
FACE PARTS
PROTECTED,
Every Valve Tested to 3001 b. Sent on 30 Days’ Free Trial, if desired.
The EVERLASTING VALVE is adopted by N.S.W. Railways.
Model D CARD Concentrator
EMBRACES ALL LATEST IMPROVEHENTS.
SOLIDLY CONSTRUCTED ON STEEL CHANNEL SUB=FRAME
WITH PATENT STEEL PROGRESSIVE HOTION SPRINtfS.
TWO-PLANE
DECK.
fdg
CONTINUOUS
LINO
CHANNELS.
CARD=BOSCO SIZER. PATENT GYRAL SCREEN.
AGITATORS, CLASSIFIERS, THICKENERS.
Sole Manufacturers: N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10-12 George Street, Camperdown, Sydney
