

DX>WA.R’S —THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. WA.TKINS CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 Kent Street!, Sydney*
—FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New Wales. New and Second-’hand Plants always available.
es.D
ON ALL CLASSES oT SECURITY
TRADE BIEES DISCOUNTED.
EASY TERMS £ LOWEST INTEREST
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D.&I.C? LTP
HEAD OmCE. 74 CASTLEREAGH ST SYDNEY 74
Next to “Daily Telegraph” New Building,
180 Castlereagh Street, S: dney.
159 George Street West, Sydney.
And at
29 King Street, Newcastle, N.S.W.
215-217 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Telephone: City 9325.
40 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
BUY
0
Cash Coupon
on Every Packet .
HOBART.
Hadley's
Orient Hotel.
THE BEST !
t?
m
rm
SPHj
£=2
P/iennple
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HAN SENS
Junket
fg
*»,. INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
W V?r
m
ti
The World’s Best & Cheapest Oil Engines
If you are an oil-engine buyer we offer you the Best Value on Earth in the
“Big' Chief” and “Field W” Engines.
Every Engine is self-contained on the one base; no extra tanks or pipes. Can be started in a few minutes
after its arrival on the farm. Simplest, most economical and reliable Engines on this or any other market.
CASH OR EASY TERMS IN N.S.W.
CATALOGS FREE.
CASH OR EASY TERMS IN N.S.W.
CATALOGS FREE.
!. L. SGRUTTON & GO. LTD.,
“The Engineers’ Depot,”
161 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Write to 8 Spring Street, Sydney,
for a free copy of "The Referee,” a
booklet containing much useful and
■
instructive information.
a
sv«»
fta.v* a
gvV*
XS*
$Yve® ts
Supplied to the Naval and
Military Authorities of
Great Britain and Australia.
BL WHISKY
(Bulloch Lade)
ORME, KEIGWIN OOb CO. LTD., SYDNEY Solo A^nis,
NOYES BROS.
(SYDNEY) LTD. (MELBOURNE) PROPY. LTD.
FOR EFFICIENT
Cranes, Hoists and all Handling Machinery,
ELECTRIC, STEAM OR HAND OPERATED.
OPALOID
TOOTH
PASTE
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
Vol. 39—No. 1993.]
[Thursday, April 25, 1918.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


ITtti
©
fS a Hospital Brandy of incomparable purity and medicinal excellence. It is the consistently high
I character of CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY which holds it on a pinnacle of widespread
popularity unequalled by any other Brandy in Australia to-day.
Insist on having “CHATEAU TANUNDA,” the Special Hospital Brandy. BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
TucKer &. Co., Limited Sydney Agents.
The Mouth is the Gateway for the
Entrance of Disease.
Scientists have proved conclusively that no fewer
than 38 different infections may he traced with more
or less directness to the human mouth as a focal or
starting point, the mouth being the gateway for
the entrance of disease; therefore it is here that the
fight must begin to keep the enemy out.
Hudson’s
Eumenthol Jujubes
are the most powerful, safe and pleasant Germicide
and Antiseptic known, being destructive to all
forms of bacterial life. They keep the mouth m a
sweet, healthy condition.
Sold everywhere—Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers
—in tins, price 1/6.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
m
C. Th e bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
secteS lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Hudson’s Eumenthol Jujubes contain no
Cocaine or other poisonous drug. Suited for old
and young. For Coughs, Colds, Sore _ Throats,
Bronchitis, Influenza and the Prevention of
Consumption. t 4
The Red Page
Trench Verses
War Poems and 0.V., by B. E. Vernede
(Heinemann, 3s. 6d.), is valuable since it
contains that splendid “England to the Sea”
and other graphic patriotic pieces of the
early days of the war. Like so many of
our soldier-poet’s, he has paid for his patri-
otism with his life. And his is in the strict
sense patriotic verse:; it is set in a simple
metre and deals with simple themes, the
sea, the Fleet, Nelson, “The Little Army”
—all these have the drum-beat in them.
Here is the best part of “The Day” :
How shall it break —this dawn beyond for-
getting?
Out of grey skies shall just the same rose
red
Signal a day like that which ere its setting
Gave us the seas to hold—and Nelson
dead?....
Dead is the Admiralj all the ships he won
with
Are scrapped — forgotten; and the doubt-
ers say
Though he still lived, his skill is passed and
done u:ith
And none may tell the outcome of this
day
Aye, but remember ye when doubts come
creeping
That not his seacraft only Nelson left —
Things nobler far he gave his men in keeping
That shouldl avail them though all else
were reft —
Things that Time cannot fashion and un-
fashion
The fearless faith that love of freedom
gives ....
The fire, the inextinguishable passion,
The will to die.... so only England
lives ....
Watch an ye will and pray—no prayer for-
getting —
For the brave hearts on yon dim waters
rocked;
But fear not for the end of that sun-setting —
The fire burns on —faith wins—God is
not mocked.
Rhetoric, but splendid rhetoric, perhaps the
last of its kind. The other fighting poets,
after these long years of war, seem to have
no time for rhetoric or the open expression
of patriotism: they are too near the Ileal
Thing to devote themselves to allegory;
their direct impressions are worth a library
of patriotic poems.
J*
Henry Baerlein, the author of that inter-
esting other Khayyam, The Diwan of Abu’l
Ala, has been during the war attached to
the British ambulance convoy working with
that picturesque unit of the French Army,
the Chasseurs Alpins, whose section is situ-
ated in the Eastern mountains of France,
between Belfort and Verdun. The Chas-
seurs Alpins are known as the “Diables
Blues”; even the Boche calls them blue
devils. Their uniform has always been of a
sombre blue, and they retain their tam-o’-
shanters, and are treated as a distinct type
of soldier. In a collection of delightful verse
Baerlein reproduces some of the aspects of
the war-life of the Diables Blues; and trans-
lates some pieces from the Diable au Cor,
which has won, in open contest, the distinc-
tion of being the best of all the newspapers
of the French Army. But the majority of
the poems printed in that trench paper are
hardly suitable for translation, “because they
are either too inflexibly devoted to the
greater glory of pine-trees or else are a
trifle too much in the succession of Rabelais
and Voltaire:” But Baerlein’s own poems
are sufficient. They are lightly humorous,
gently grave, emotion and sentiment and
pathos done up in neat and attractive
packets.
As He Fell.
I can remember
Very, very well
How the man of Baden
Reeled and fell,
Fell, as I killed him,
Down in the dirt,
And I was fearing
That he was hurt.
Cherry Trees.
In Metseral the cherry-trees
Are waving, leaving in the breeze.
They bend, they curtsey and they dance
Because they have been won by France.
Nor do they look unhappy when
They think about the buried men.
Vive La France.
They said that France was decadent,
That she would surely be content
With her well-ordered ease
And her old victories.
They said she was an aged queen
Who dozes in her grand demesne,
Whose idle fingers play
With jewels half the day,
And with a plaintive little sigh
Thinks sometimes of the years gone by,
When it was that she wrought
Nobly in deed and thought.
But Trance is young, so young again.
And it is irksome to restrain
Herself —she is aware
Of trumpets in the air.
She is so young that Liberty,
Equality, Fra tern it y
Seem in her retinue
For aye. If it were true!
Some people say that they have seen
How that with money she is mean,
And also-—let them grant —
With blood extravagant.
Henry Baerlein has a dainty touch, hasn’t
he? His book is titled Rimes of the Diables
Blues (Selwyn and Blount, London, 2s. 6d.).
&
Robert Graves, author of Fairies and Fusi-
liers (Heinemann, 3s. (id.), is another of
these soldier poets whose verses have been
conscripted for war-anthologies. His fairies
are as delectable as his fusiliers; but just
now we are not concerned with fairies: there
are too many fusiliers to think about. Graves
pleads disarmingly for his verse: —
When I’m killed, don’t think of me
Buried there in Cambrin Wood,
Nor as in Zion think of me
With the Intolerable flood.
And there’s one thing that I know well,
I’m damned if I’ll be damned to Bell!
So when I’m killed, don’t wait for me,
Walking the dim corridor:
In Heaven or Hell, don’t wait for me,
Or you must wait for evermore.
You’ll find me buried, living-dead
In these verses that you’ve read.
So when I’m killed, don’t mourn for me,
Shot, poor lad, so bold and young,
Killed and gone — don’t mourn for me.
On your lips my life is hung:
O friends and lovers, you can save
Your playfellow from the grave.
But his verses need no apology. Here is
his “Dead Boche” :
To yon who’d read my songs of War
And only hear of blood and fame,
I’ll say ( you’ve heard it said before)
“War’s Hell!” and if you doubt the same,
To-day I found in Mamets Wood
A certain cure for lust of blood:
Where, propped against a shattered trunk,
In a great, mess of things unclean,
Sat a dead Boche; he scowled and stunk
With clothes and face a sodden green,
Big-bellied, spectacled, crop-haired,
Dribbling black blood from nose and beard.
Passing regretfully over the best song yet
written in praise of “Strong Beer,” with its
heartfelt concluding couplet
Teach me to live that I may fear
The grave as little as my beer,
and the ghostly episode of Corporal Stare, a
fusilier (dead) and a fairy in one —and
why shouldn’t the ghost of a corporal smoke
a fag?—we end with this delicate thought;
Not Dead.
Walking through trees to cool my heat and
pain,
I know that David’s with me here again.
All that is simple, happy, strong, he is.
Caressingly I stroke
Rough bark of the friendly oak,
A brook goes bubbling by: the voice is his.
Turf burns with pleasant smoke;
I laugh at chaffinch and at primroses.
All that is simple, happy, strong, he is.
Over the whole wood in a little while
Breaks his slow smile.
The Detective Story
The war has breathed new life into the
detective yarn. The new Sherlock Holmes
has a more important and more ingenious
enemy than the criminal to hunt down: the
Hun spy is his elusive quarry. Two excel-
lent yarns, The Spy in Black, by J. Storer
Clouston (Blackwood), and The Lost Naval
Tapers, by Bennett Copplestone (Murray,
per Dymoclc’s Library), show the new war
detective at his best.
J. Storer Clouston, the humorist of The
Lunatic at Large, conceives an absorbing
plot. A brave but very Hunnish lieutenant
in the German submarine service is detailed
to land on the island in the North at which
the Grand Fleet has its base. He is modern
enough to land from the U-boat with a
motor-bicycle, and clever enough to escape
the hue-and-cry raised after him. His in-
structions are to meet a German spy at a
certain house. The methods used by the spy
in black to gain entrance to that jealously-
guarded island are highly ingenious; but one
mistake gives the plot away, and enables an
Englishman to checkmate the German. The
character of the lieutenant’s mysterious con-
federate is deftly drawn; though the wily
reader will possibly penetrate his disguise.
There is, of course, a lovely girl, also mys-
terious. The lieutenant’s one chance of
escape from the closing coils is, characteris-
tically, snatched from him by his Prussian
temperament. The fool writes thus in his
diary: ‘I am actually wondering if I can
marry her ! She must surrender : that is cer-
tain, for I have willed it, and what a German
wills with all his soul takes place. It must!
As to her heart, I feel sure that her kind-
ness means what a woman's kindness always
means —that a man lias only to persevere.
But marriage? I shall never meet another
woman like her; that is certain! Yet an
adventuress, a paid agent of the Secret Ser-
vice, marrying a Yon Belke —is it quite con-
ceivable? On the whole, I think no. But
we cau be very happy without that!”
There,is humor in the yarn; and it is no
petty prize for which the spy in black is
scheming: it is the destruction of the Grand
Fleet itself.
d*
But we come nearer to the real thing in
Secret Service work when we meet William
Dawson, the new Sherlock Daw-
son is no genius; he is an ordinary Scotland
Yard detective, supremely competent, but
working practically by rule of thumb—with,
of course, an occasional flash of inspiration.
Dawson’s character is delightfully drawn:
this complacent detective, avid for flattery,
yet so thorough in his work, is a very human
Englishman. His failings predispose us to
believe in him where a superman like Sher-
lock Holmes becomes impossible. “In his
female agents —of which he has many-—lie
favors what he calls a ‘judicious frailty.’
And this man Dawson is by religion a
Peculiar Baptist, in private life a faithful
husband and a loving father. As a man he
is good, honest and rather narrow; as a
professional detective he is base and mean,
utterly without scruple, and a Jesuit of
Jesuits.”
But an even more interesting factor than
the humanising of the detective of fiction is
the daring of the author in introducing to
us famous living Englishmen, and in dis-
closing the methods both by which the Ger-
mans obtain valuable war information and
by which our secret-service police counters
them. In most of the yarns the author con-
veys a remarkable sense of reality. We are
told, for instance, that in order to combat
the leakage of dockyard information Dawson
has police-officers enrolled in every union.
These are not policemen turned into skilled
workers, but skilled workers who are picked
out and given a course of police training.
Among the persons we are introduced to are
a First Lord of the Admiralty, and two
world-famous admirals; and the characters
of these highly-placed persons is neatly indi-
cated with many touches of sly humor. The
reader is invited to conferences at the Admi-
ralty and to a Cabinet meeting. Dawson’s
ordinary work is not confined to the preven-
tion of important information reaching Ger-
many ; a more valuable part of his job is. to
see that Germany is provided, by her.spies,
with the wrong information.
But these are mere routine jobs. Dawson
is worthy of greater things, and his author
does not hesitate to feed them to him. How
was it that the Germans had no. suspicion of
the departure of the two cruisers' to the
Falklands? These two warships had to be
docked for 48 hours before their departure.
How was information of that fact kept from
leaking out? Copplestone’s story is clever
enough to pass for secret history. How,
again, was a great munition strike pre-
vented ?
There is abundant humor in these daring
yarns; but the story of the spy, Madame Gil-
bert, is pure comedy. Bennet Copplestone
has made the utmost of his great opportu-
nity ; his Dawson is the supreme detective of
modern fiction.
War
The brave story of Six Women and the
Invasion (Macmillan, per Sydney Book
Club) is brightly told by Cabrielle and
Marguerite Yerta. These six French gentle-
women were caught in the waves of Huns
sweeping through France; and though sub-
jected to every conceivable indignity by the
invaders, they contrived to outwit them by
their bravery and their feminine ingenuity.
These born conquerors, “placid and heavy on
their placid, heavy horses,” were no match
for the quick wits of these six women; and
the fops and bullies alike. winced under their
ripostes. In their beautiful house they up-
held the honor of France with a confidence
that they knew might at any moment prove
useless before sheer brutality; yet they
escaped the final horror that was always
before their eyes. Isolated atrocities were
committed in their village; but it was not in
this district that the Huns worked their
organised vengeance upon women and chil-
dren. And, really, the reader feels sorry for
these stupid conquerors confronted by so
impudent a pretence of personal security..
The official Prussian mind was responsible
for senseless orders: the villagers were com-
manded to stop all clocks,. forbidden to let
dogs and cats go out, forbidden to let their
dogs hark! There were ever new requisi-
tions. “The mighty lords had re-established
their feudal rights. They were careful not
to forget certain prerogatives, and thought
they had a double right to the favor of all
women and girls. Accordingly a house like
ours seemed to them especially created for
the pleasure of the King of Prussia’s offi-
ceris!" At all hours of the night they in-
vaded the house, summoned all the girls,
and retired baffled. Usually drunk, they
always called in at the house on their way
home from their debauches. “It was the
reign of terror, terror, terror.” Only those
who experienced it would understand the
realisation “that you are a woman and
weak, and that a dozen brutes will seek more
than your life if they succeed in their design.
... .If the horrors that have overwhelmed
other places have been spared us, at least
we have felt their envenomed breath, and
our bodies and souls have not yet set them-
selves free from the poison.” Failing to get
their way, the officers billeted upon them
brought their prostitutes to the house—the
house of refined gentry. And the two
writers, who were ultimately repatriated,
still remember with loathing the smell of the
Prussians.
“Some maintained that they made con-
quests.... There has been talk of rapes....
but they were few, and they took place at
the beginning of the invasion.” Later on,
“there were acts of violence which were no
less terrible for being moral. In many a
village whose inhabitants suffered hunger the
children were provided with bread and soup.
Yes, but this privilege was reserved for the
children whose mothers showed themselves
complaisant towards the soldiers. And these
women accepted dishonor because they could
not bear to see their little ones pine away
and die....”
This simple and poignant narrative should
be read by all those who are willing to wait
at home and defend Australia should the
Germans invade it. Invasion means just
what these women have written: the only
difference would be that it would be our Aus-
tralian women who would, if left alive, have
those horrors to record. And, be sure, the
Hun would be more thorough if he got a
foothold in Australia. These six brave
women may conceivably come to Australia;
is it likely that they would ever vote No?
©
Next Saturday closes the competition for
the best epitaph for Billjim in the Roll of
Honor in the daily press.
“Bert R.” : For the information of “Sim-
plicity” and others: In England The Senti-
mental Bloke has become a classic. It is
read by all the very naicest people. They
bring it out on the slightest provocation, and
nothing pleases them more than hearing it
rendered in its native tongue by an Aussie
himself. They think the language typically
Australian. The directness of it appeals to
them, and, taken in conjunction with the
turned-up hats and nronzed giants they see
in the Strand, their slow imagination is
fired as it has never been fired before. This
probably accounts for London newspapers
inquiring : “Why are the Australians so good-
looking?” and publishing columns of matter
on the subject every other week or so.
The Kirchner Girl! If all the yarns told
of that piquante, slim, shy, delicious and
probably naughty girl are true, she deserves
the D.S.O. For s'he has gone into every dug-
out in the British line; she is the habitue
of every officers’ mess, and the openly adored
of every Billjim. (Many of these men are,
alack, engaged or married, but what does the
Kirchner kid care?) And now her creator,
Raphael Kirchner, is dead, at 42, of appen-
dicitis, in New York. The whole army will
mourn her; for the naughty little lady is
doomed, too. The second series of The
Kirchner Album, containing 12 varieties of
The Girl, some of them with all their clothes
on, is as entrancing as the first. (Sketch,
London, per Angus and Robertson ; Is. (id.)
An American critic asserts, as this page
has always dimly suspected, that the younger
groups of English novelists form a literary
syndicate. Anyhow, H. D. Beresford, Comp-
ton Mackenzie, Oliver Onions, W. L. George,
Hugh Walpole and Gilbert Cannan all write
alike. “They deal in the same
the same characters, the same backgrounds”
—and, we may add, at the same wearisome
length, and with the same dull discursive-
ness. “You might say that none of them
has ever read anything but the works of the
others. You cannot say that one has filched
a page from another, because there is no
telling who began it. As far as style _is
concerned, if you inserted six consecutive
pages written severally by the six of them,
in any chapter of any book, no one would
ever know the difference.” The hazy sus-
picion arises that these novelists have
formed themselves into a co-operative
“British Novelists, Ltd.” “Does Walpole
sneak off o’ nights to Beresford and offer to
do some J'acob Stahl if Beresford will take
a few chapters of Fortitude off his hands?
Does Mackenzie write a page of A Prelude
to Adventure while Walpole takes a turn at
Sinister Sheet? Who does the murders? Is
it Walpole or Onions? Which one of them
has been appointed to frequent the Empire.
Does George investigate female psychology
for the group? And what does Laurence
cover Why waste half a dozen authors
and a score of novels to tell us the same
thing in the same way?” Excellent criti-
cism ; but this page emphatically exempts
Hugh Walpole from the syndicate. The
Dark Forest is a sufficient justification. But
there are many other minor London novel-
ists who obviously own shares in “British
Novelists, Ltd.”


A.
nee
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FOR FASHION AND ECONOMY
An ideal selection from
the styles that are to pre-
vail this season is illus-
trated in
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
WINTER FASHION BOOK*
Write for a copy; we
post this interesting fash-
ion guide free on request*
It places the resources of
the New Palace Emporium
at your disposal, and is an
authoritative guide to the
modes of the moment* en-
abling ladies far distant
from shopping centres to
combine Fashion with
Economy*
Anthony Horderns’
V
■*
w
«s*
i ; !
Correct Modes
for Autumns Winter
2051
j9-19i 3
| 2061
J:S j O
9251
&J 96
212|
*£PV9 6
o-t-jsr
lIZIC
1925
96011
J:Y YO
No. 2051. — Elegant Model, of Navy Gabardine, cut high to
neck, with collar of fitch fur; lower part of bodice and caffs
in pretty cloth, trimmed bands of Black Silk Braid, £9/19/6
No. 2061. — Fine Serge Coat Frock, in Putty shade, cut
on graceful lines, square neck, panel back and front forming
pleats, sash effect at waist line; also in Dark Saxe or
Grey • £5/5/-
Similar style, Fawn Gabardine, No. 603 £4/15/-
No. 9251. —Dainty Frock, in Champagne Georgette, and
Crepe de Chine, knife-pleated from circular yoke, relieved with
pipings and strappings of Nattier Blue Georgette.. £6/19/6
No. 2121. Model Costume, in Nigger Georgette, and soft
Satin; tunic skirt and bodice being lined with White Ninon,
effectively trimmed with Marabout; also in Burgundy or Black,
£9/19/6
No. 31211. — Distinguished Model Costume, composed
"of Grey Satin and Saxe Taffeta, handsomely soutached in self
shades, finished Marabout; also in combination shades of Nigger
and Fawn, Light Saxe and Navy Grey and Fawn.. £7/7/-
No. 1925. Smart Model, in Navy fine Suiting, long bodice,
pleated skirt, belt and pockets of self-finished Oriental
Embroidery £9/9/-
No. 96011. Exclusive Model, in fine Navy Suiting, panel
front, pleated from hips, effectively trimmed Black Silk Braid,
self buttons, and Tan Cloth £7/7/-
d
| . ■ i
I ' ' V ' s %
m:%
£
J
•’ ■ •
** • ••• - •. vj-r :
H
HHH
1523
£5-19-6
1165
£6-16-6
1901 !
£5-19-6
13114
£6-6-0
5014
£6-6-0
10612
£4-19-6
12114
£6-6-0
We are Family Drapers,
Complete House Fur-
nishers, and Universal
Providers, and offer three-
quarters of a million
pounds' worth of the
World's Choicest Commo-
dities, in variety that puts
all competitive efforts in
the shade* Be wise ; pop
your orders in the post —
no end of savings will he
effected through the
agency of
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES,
*o. 1523. — C0at and Skirt Costume, in fine Serge, semi-
fitting, with shaped panels, trimmed Silk braid and buttons,
full-shaped Skirt, finished with belt, Navy only .. £5/19/6
No. 1165. Well-tailored Costume, in fine Coating Serge,
two narrow strappings at waist, trimmed fancy Silk buttons,
Black or Navy £6/16/6
No. 1901. — New Pleated Coat and Skirt of fine Serge,
Coat Silk-lined, finished with belt and Black buckles, Black
or Navy £5/19/6
No. 13114. — Up-to-date Coat and Skirt, in All-wool
Coating Serge, box-pleated from shaped yoke panel, square
collar, belted at waist, full Skirt finished narrow belt, Black
or Navy £6/6/-
Similar design, in Fawn Covert Coating (4421) ... £6/6/-
No. 12114. —We11-cut Coat and Skirt Costume, of fine
Serge, pleats from waist at back, finished narrow belt and
pockets, Black or Navy £6/6/-
No. 5014.—Distinguished Costume, carried out in Black
or Navy fine Coating Serge, the roll collar and satchel pockets
effectively relieved with Fawn Gabardine, finished narrow belt
and ball buttons £6/6/-
No. 10612. —Stylish Coat and Skirt Costume, in fine
Serge, semi-fitting with strap across back, Sailor Collar
trimmed cable stitchings, slipper pockets, Black or Navy—
£4/19/6
Similar design, with step Collar, Black or Navy (216£) —
£4/9/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Bricßfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


DELCO-LIGHT
PAYS FOR ITSELF
ELECTRIC LIGHT
For Farms, Stations, Churches
etc.
ass
(k
m
MM
m
m
mi
*T
$
| WmM
By Test the Best. Over 100,000 in AcTual Use,
t
a Child can Operate it.
So Simple
Our Claims.
Runs on Kerosene —Starts and Stops Itself—Low Speed 950 R.P.M
Air=cooled Four-cycle Engine Ball and Roller Bearings
Glass Cell Visible Batteries Safe and Reliable
Made by theWorKs which has Delco Lig'hted and Started
over One Million Motor Cars—BuicK, Dodge, Cadillac, etc.
Ash. the Man Who Owns One.
Write or Telegraph for Full Particulars to Sole Agents :
New South Wales Warburton, Franki Ltd., Sydney
Victoria & Tasmania— Warburton, Franki(Melb.) Ltd., Melbourne
Queensland Smellie & Co. Ltd., Brisbane
South Australia Parsons & Robertson Ltd., Adelaide
West Australia Geo. Wills Co. Ltd., Perth
New Zealand A. D. Riley & Co. Ltd., Wellington
Farmers’ Co-operative Assn., Christohurch
AGENTS WANTED IN COUNTRY DISTRICTS.


llflilinxmxulUiU
£7
—... . ~.w/'
T'«^
3
_ Hat by Mirette,
104, Wardour Street,
Loudon, IV.
Photo: Miss Gina Palermo,
by IVrather Sr Buys.
Al.ady writes : “I have
tried many different
kinds of so-called rain-
proof tulle which are sup-
posed to be ‘just as good ’
as ‘ Dynamo,’ but I have
never found one so crisp
and fresh in appearance or
that wears anything like
so long. The lasting
powers of ‘ Dynamo ’ are
simply wonderful.”
Only the makers of
“ Dynamo ” Rainproof
Tulle know the secret of
its wonderful durability.
If you are buying Tulle for millinery
or for use as Scarves —so fashionable
now —you should be particularly
careful to see that you get the
genuine “ Dynamo ” Rainproof Tulle.
“ Dynamo ” is better in appearance,
more pleasing in effect, and far
more economical because of its
lasting durability.
“ Dynamo ” is not only rainproof.
It is sunproof. It is colour-fast.
It is fadeless. It is free from
stickiness. When wet you simply
shake it to and fro in the air for a
few moments till it is dry, when it
will immediately regain all its
original freshness and charm.
am'
RAINPROOF
Tulle
The best Milliners always use “ Dynamo
Rainproof Tulle. The best Stores sell it by
the yard. Ask for it by name and decline
to be put off with so-called “ just-as-srood ”
kinds, which only cause annoyance and extra
expense.
36 ins. wide. In black and white and all
fashionable shades.
Sold at all Prices.
If any difficulty in obtaining send P.O.
stating quantity, colour, and price per yard
to “ Dynamo" Enquiry Dept.,
Carlton House, York Street,
"mV. Sydney,
EXZERMA
CURES ECZEMA.
Testimonials from all parts of Australia are being
daily received from Eczema sufferers who have been
cured of the dread complaint by Exzerma—an Aus-
tralian remedy. All Chemists, or from
S. Fielder, Randwick, Sydney, 5/ & 2/6.
IriOß OUR SICK AND WOUNDED
! BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
jpjji |p^s|Tct|
§ mmu
'KivSt'v; -.- jiur iff
'viAir
lit
or 8. Aujtii
WAGWUT
„ STAII
;;
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. VV. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
NAZETHA
The most effedive and
pleasing' Cure for
Head Golds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/6 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
THE GREAT GOLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
m
S
[1
-3
-TAN DA*
il
The AIL
British
LIGHT CAR
I
OVfNT«
A PROVED LIGHT CAR with a COLONIAL REPUTATION
for RELIABILITY under ANY CONDITIONS.
Make sure of getting early delivery of a Post War
Model bv handing your enquiry to our Agents —
I. PHIZACRERLEY, 169-171 Elizabeth St., Hyde Park, Sydney.
THE STANDARD MOTOR CO., Ltd., Coventry, England.
Consult the Specialist
TfRE equipment for motor lorries isa science re-
quiring special experience in suiting the tyre to
the work. There is a Firestone Tyre for every
need, made to exact specifications. And the Firestone
Company makes tyres for every road, load and con-
dition of service. Consult us. We will recommend
only the tyre which will keep your lorriesjm com-
mission and make them do most work in shortest
time at least cost. Call, telephone or write.
Crimley, Ltd., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria ; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garage*
HWft fotr .Illustrated Literature
Ttrettone
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Villanelle.
Over the cold heights of the hills to-night,
Through mist and darkness, ibis, winging,
Came close; I saw their fleet wings glimmer
white —•
Like pearls that Day dropped in her heed-
less flight,
Petulant, tearful, westward flinging—
Over the cold heights of the hills to-night.
Down through the dusk they spilled, and
vanished quite;
Then, slow from out the foot hills swinging,
Came close, I saw their fleet wings glimmer
white.
Dear Hope that lives! For in the fading
light
To me this message they are bringing
Over the cold heights of the hills to-night:
“My soul is yours, and seathless on I fight;
Though Death, behind the bullets singing,
Came close —I saw his fleet wings glimmer
white.”
Perchance I have interpreted aright;
Your thoughts, to home and love still
clinging,
Came close; I saw their fleet wings glimmer
white
Over the cold heights of the hills to-night.
QUEENSLAND.
KATHLEEN ROSE FRANCIS.
Drops of Rain.
Have clone with complaining!
That red star downward
Its rich light raining
Has looked on millions
Of souls like thine.
Who shall drink wine
From empty glasses,
Or be a lover
When beauty passes,
No more returning?
When we are sleeping
In cold clay houses,
Nor smiles nor weeping
Shall ever move us
To joy or pain.
A drop of rain,
From mist begotten
Thy life resembles;
Like that, forgotten,
To mist returning.
Though sunshine ever
The dead rain gathers
From sea and river,
To fall in showers
On earth and sea,
No drop shall be
That it recalleth,
The same to-morrow
As that which falleth
To-day, and passes.
N.S.W.
P. E. QUINN.
Suggan Boggin.
“Wfcen the poet sighed for a lodge in some vast
wilderness he did not know Suggan Boggin.”
—Argus.
Spectre-footed of the past,
Shapeless, voiceless from the Vast
On the white page. Suggan Boggin!
And the swift years roll away,
Whispering from the distance gray,
“Suggan Boggin! Suggan Boggin,
By the Black Mountain” !
House of Terror whence there came
Strange wild things without a name
Creeping down from Suggan Boggin
When the candle light went out,
Moving, moving all about,
With the feel of Suggan Boggin
By the Black Mountain !
When the tempest swept the hill
Fierce things plucked the window-sill,
Fierce things known of Suggan Boggin
Nuzzled underneath the door.
Fumbled all about the floor,
Breathing cold, like Suggan Boggin
By the Black Mountain.
Years o’ nights the lonely wind,
Picking at the window blind,
Told me tales of Suggan Boggin,
Hidden far from human ken
And the kindly feet of men.
Wild, wild tales of Suggan Boggin
By the Black Mountain.
Years o’ nights the ghostly rain
Beating at the muffled pane
Sang to me of Suggan Boggin,
Strong and terrible and strange;
Changing as the great clouds change.
And the creek moaned “Suggan Boggin
By the Black Mountain” !
Rolling down from crag and lair
With the fog roots in their hair,
Crawling down from Suggan Boggin
Like the wrack across the sky,
Things that one must see and die,
Came the hosts of Suggan Boggin
By the Black Mountain !
Spectre-footed of the past,
Shapeless, voiceless from the Vast
Ou the white page. Suggan Boggin!
And the swift years roll away
Whispering from the distance gray:
“Suggan Boggin ... .Suggan Boggin,
By the Black Mountain” !
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


&
&
c
a
rm
&
•Mod,
e
51
Perdriau Tyres
Australian Made ARE SPECIALISTS IN MILEAGE.
The Perdriau super tread overcomes Australian road difficulties and
holds first place as an all-seasons performer.
Three wide ribs and walls of sturdy seasoned Para, an inner casing
of finest quality impregnated Egyptian cotton, with Perdriau scientific
knowledge and experience, all are factors in the Perdriau mileage result.
As a motorist you will appreciate the valuable characteristics that
are embodied in the manufacture of Perdriaus.
So keep the Home Tyres Turning.
Obtainable through your local garage or from the manufacturers
txm}
a
c
□
4*
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
All
States
&
a
c
o
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
will purchase
17
£4 7
£8 15
£43 15
£B7 10
£875 0
6
6
O
0
O
0
a Certificate for £1
„ £5
£lO
£5O
£lOO
£lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax!
6“ War Savings Stamps % 6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Bave and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bask or Australia. October, 1917
&
“Delivering the Goods”
Is an American saving, meaning in effect that a man
is backing up talk bg performance.
Whatever the advertisements sag of the qualitg of
“REX
CAMP PIE
/n
m na
You will find on investigation
that it is “backed up" by the
article itself.
It takes a '‘Load” of trouble
gffbusy housewives' shoulders
because it is cooked all ready
for “ delivery” on to the table.
You should “carry" a tin or
two in your pantry.
D
“Rex" Camp Pie is in the “Van" among tinned foods, because it
is all meat and actually costs less than fresh meat.
Serve it with a Salad of Tomatoes, Beetroot, Cucumber or Let-
tuce for extra piquancy.
There’s a grocer “on your run ” who will supply you.
Say “Rex" Camp Pie and refuse substitutes.
When you “parcel up" Lunches you should use
“Rex’ Ham Pate and
“Rex” Veal and Tongue Pate
They make an appreciated change. All Grocers
Foggitt, Jones & Co., Limited,
llßlflii
iisiiima
III!
Packers of
“Rex”
Pure Food
Products
Curers o ,
"Rex”
and
f3acon
J. 177
/
yVttulT
Marine Engines
For All Boats
ĝsd
Callle 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Slartedi
Electric Lights
gds
Callle 8 H. P. Dnlt Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
gd
Callle Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most cojnplete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- t o four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed on request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock; also
Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Agents:
Benson Brothers
Limited,
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY
71-75 Queen’s Bridge Street,
MELBOURNE.
You will relish the fine distinctive
flavor of Thorne’s Whisky.
Distilled from excellent, specially-
selected malts, at the traditional
home of good Scotch Whisky—
Glenlivet —and for 80 years has
continued to gain favor.
Gall for it next time.
THORNE’S
O.H.M. “Incomparable”
WHISKY.
Martell’s is a medicinal spirit of the
highest merit. Medical men endorse its
use in hospitals.
Martel I’s
Brandy.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.-NO. 1993.
THURSDAY, APRIL 25, 1918.
PIUCE 60.
GETTING BACK TO FIRST PRINCIPLES.
“Let’s get back to first principles.”— W. M. Hughes.
Let us do something to begin with, even if we have to paint our valued Prime Minister black and set him to hard work.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
‘‘Australia for tbe White Man.”
Printed and published bv William M.jcleod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
lor x, 1 6s. Oil. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
aihjhess in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any audress abroad, Xf 1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper arc copyriyht by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the ‘‘Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of P iliti-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
Tim Bulletin will reborn all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. Tiie Bulletin desires, further, those
sending' MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
i esponsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous ■ or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — -i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawh—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions trill be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg ; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., HI Hastings Street,
Vancouver , B.C.
U.S.A.— N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.: Queen
City News Co.. Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A. ; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building. U.S.A.
Honolulu.-— Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnore Horn, Port Said, Egypt ; M.
Hoang, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon.—lP. C. P. Per era, 16 Buillie Street. Fort
Colombo.
Padua.— Whitten Bros., Samarai.
I’ostago Kates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should he enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Soz., Id.. ; Sloz. to 10oz., 2id. :
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, J/oz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
ffit^^zzlleZz/Ti.
THURSDAY, APRIL 2">. 1918.
THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
“He was born. He grew up. He floated
loans. He made many speeches about almost
everything. He wore pants. And he died.”
That is the fitting obituary on most Aus-
tralian Premiers. History can generally find
a shred of immortality for the man in high
position who is unusual —especially if he is
more than usually unusual and selects with
care the subject of his departure out of the
rut. But for the man who is just ordinary
all the year round there is no hereafter. For
him the notice on the door of the Pantheon
reads “House Full.” The notice on the gate
of Valhalla is “Free List Suspended.”
This is a time when even the comparatively
humble job of an Australian State Premier
might be glorified if the Sons of Stodge—
and Stodge was a most prolific father—were
not so numerous. Just now it isn’t the duty
of a State Premier to be patriotic during
business hours —patriotic, that is, in the
loud, oratorical, military and naval sense. It
is no part of his duty to make two speeches
grow—during business hours —where one
grew before, or to fix his mind at the top of
his voice on the Flag and the Great Tradi-
tions of the Empire. These matters, during
business hours, belong to the other fellow —
the Federal fellow. The boss State func-
tionary has, more than anybody else, the
work of conserving the national resources so
that there shall be means to support the Flag
and the Traditions. To begin with, in these
days when everybody is called on to deny
himself something, he should deny himself the
luxury of public works’ loans and revenue
deficits. As regards deficits, which are every-
where, if the hefid of the State says they
can’t be averted, then he is a slanderous liar
who declares the country bankrupt, and for
that he ought to be expelled. If he says
they arise by accident, then he is either a
short-sighted dolt who didn’t realise the obvi-
ous fact that this is a time when, as in most
other times, all manner of accidents, in parti-
cular the mishap of falling revenue, should be
foreseen; or else he is a cowardly fool who
saw the obvious trouble coming and lacked
the courage to provide for it. This isn’t a
suitable occasion for either liars or dolts, in
fact there is never any suitable occasion.
And as regards loans for public work's, all the
credit this country lias left, after half a
hundred years of riot, should be saved up for
war possibilities and other possibilities. The
country has already, in proportion to popula-
tion, more public works built out of loans
than any other on earth. If with all the old
State revenues, and the increased revenues
derived by multiplying direct taxation (this
has nothing to do with war taxes) 24-fold
inside eight years, and the splendid addi-
tional revenues which were to arise from
the reproductive works built with
£130,000.000 worth of loans inside eight
years, the States must borrow for their
drains and tramways or else burst, they may
as well burst now and get it over. The
sooner they burst the smaller the burst will
be. But unless the State rulers are traitors,
or swindlers, or the worst set of incapables
that the lunacy laws allow to be at large, or
the poorest set of cowards that ever ran
away before the battle commenced, their need
be no burst. It is unthinkable that after all
the assurances about our boundless resources
this brave glad land is a mere derelict or
pauper, without sufficient visible lawful
means of support.
The simple way to find out if the States
can do without new loans is not by holding
protracted argument or by appointing a royal
commission, but by stopping the loans and
letting the country work out its own salva-
tion. If it doesn’t work out its own salva-
tion, then it must do without the article.
There is every sign that the loans will stop
themselves very soon; the gold loans from
London, which are the only kind that are of
any use in paying for imported steel rails,
engines, railway carriages, steel plates for
making rolling-stock locally, Oregon pine, etc.,
seem to have stopped themselves already.
Therefore the aggregate State Government
can consider the alternative of being, or look-
ing like, the upstanding patriotic intelligent
hero who viewed the emergency and faced it
voluntarily, or the weeping victim of circum-
stances who says he couldn’t see what was
about to happen and didn’t dream the old
gun was loaded. This is surely the appointed
time for starting the policy of building works
out of revenue or doing without. The State
revenues last year were 66 per cent, larger
than they were 10 years before. That leaves
some margin to build works with. The State
expenditures showed about the same increase,
which leaves some margin for economy. The
fact that tin l “reproductive” loan works have
increased at least 50 per cent, in 10 years
should open out a gladdening prospect of
more and more revenue to come. The coun-
try has lately increased its annual loan ex-
penditure as much as 400 per cent, as com-
pared with the average figures of 1005-1910,
and being thus braced and invigorated it
should feel more equal than usual to doing
There is more money afloat (in-
cluding Federal paper money) than ever
before. The people are getting 5 per cent, on
their big war loans, so they have quite a heap
of good income coming in. The story is simply
full of percentages. Owing to the departure
of so many workers for the Front there is
less need of employment on public under-
takings. Owing to the demand for munitions
there is. or should be, more work apart from
public undertakings. If the State Govern-
ments,_ with no war charges to provide for.
can’t face the situation now, when do they
expect to face it V
* * * *
As already mentioned, economy would be
necessary,-and any real financier—the sort of
man who wanted to hand down a big foot-
print to posterity instead of merely being a
hearty lunclier at railway openings—-would
feel great joy in the opportunity. He would
dike off his coat and perhaps some more of
his clothes, and wade in. So far as concerns
at least four States, N. S._ Wales, Queens-
land, S.A. and Westralia, it is an easy chance
for fame. To be a war Treasurer without the
war outlay to provide for; to have the big-
gest peace expenditures per head on earth to
supply possible savings; to have the most
overgrown peace loan spectre (proportionate
to population) to attack; to be St. George
with a first-class dragon provided; to have
the eminently plausible explanation of neces-
sity based on the biggest war in history—a
financier who wants to be on a better wicket
asks too much, and one who wouldn’t see the
chance wouldn’t see the gates of Heaven if
they opened before him. There are super-
fluous departments which might be abolished
or amalgamated. There are overgrown de-
partments to be cut down. The two most
populous States haven’t had a comprehensive
overhaul of their departments since the bank-
breakage days, and in N. S. Wales affairs
have swelled so much that a whole institution
of three Commissioners and 34 subordinates
is necessary before a junior clerk can be
appointed or a messenger officially admon-
ished. This suggests the wonderful size'of
things. There is red-tape to be reduced ; red-
tape tends to accumulate like cobwebs if the
spring-cleaning is neglected. And there are
strange and costly superstitions to be sup-
pressed. It is plain that somebody has got
into an expensive and anti-Australian habit
of mind when it is possible that the use of
imported timber should be specified for a new
public building in a timber district, thereby
reducing employment, drawing on the State’s
rather scarce supply of gold to pay for the
goods, putting another strain on the scanty
shipping space, and throwing a mean, bigoted,
narrow-minded, ignorant and bumptious brick
at our “great natural resources.” A service
where such a thing is possible—and hun-
dreds of such things are said to be more than
possible—affords abundant scope for an
economist.
It isn’t absolutely necessary to get the
right man. in a moral sense, for the work of
reform. The wrong man would do if he
were the right kind of wrong man. A wily,
ambitious time-server would be admirable "if
he happened to realise that the new policy
would make him. for good or evil, the most
conspicuous politician in Australian history,
and that it represented the one absolutely
untrodden road to fame or,notoriety, A miser
would have points'about him. A bilious and
chronic misanthrope could be recommended
A George Washington of high principles or
an ex-pawnbroker who had learned finance by
charging high interest—either-of them might
produce good results. It is results that count.
CHADBAND PLAYS HAZARDS, BUT
DAMNS TWO-UP.
A deputation to Federal Treasurer Watt
at Melbourne last week expressed hatred of
any scheme to popularise War-loan sub-
scription by making a distribution of
lottery prizes. It explained for the guid-
ance of Watt and others that it would
“rather lose the war than break a moral
law.” From this it appears that the atti-
tude of these inflexible pietists is that it
would be better for the Australian people
to take whatever might be coming to them
if the German got astride the world than
that a local Ministry should fracture what
is alleged to be “a moral law.” It is a queer
state of mind to be in. And it is still more
queer to find a personal readiiless to bow
the neck to a conqueror rather than sanction
a raffle advanced as an argument to deter-
mine public policy. The pietist with lean-
ings of this kind is, as a matter of fact,
taking up a grossly immoral attitude. What
he really told Watt was that it would be
better to see the conspirators who launched
a hideously immoral war succeed in their
evil schemes than to let a citizen take those
chances on a war bond which he is permitted
to take every day of the week on a race-
course, in business and in the pair of fowls
donated to the Red Cross. The man
who says he has such preferences is either
a maniac or the proprietor of an imagina-
tion too dull to visualise the alternative
horror. There is a possibility of the war
being lost to the Allies during this European
summer. But before we heard of the white
flag going up tidings of something else would
arrive. There would be news of the German
trampling westward to the sea. liis pathway
a shambles; of the last desperate stand of
our own lads against the avalanche of fire,
and their disappearance in the murk. There
would in all likelihood be fragmentary
details of the remnants gathering them-
selves together and meeting the tide of
conquest as it flowed south and west and
engulfed France; of a dagger driven into
the heart of Italy; of Britain rushing to
repel invasion; of everything Australians
have ever hoped for vanishing in the welter.
These are the broader outlines of the things
incidental to the losing of this war. Put
into the scale against them the spectacle of
a sweep or a raffle, and, even if you dislike
tin' sweep or the raffle, which looks the more
undesirable acquaintance? These anti-
lottery zealots, armed witli machine-made
morals, • cannot see the difference between
weeping over the grave of a poodle and
over the violated body of a murdered mother.
.*' * * *
Talk also about “smirching the nation”
by encouragement of gambling if a War-
loan lottery is permitted is mere gabble.
These “moral laws” that are quoted with
such unction are not laws at all. They
merely crystallise rules of personal conduct
which certain individuals choose to follow
and believe other persons should adopt. But
they are derided by citizens with at least
equally good claims to understand the views
of Providence on the subject. Speaking in
a strictly academic .way, there is nothing to
be said for lotteries any more than there is
for living in cities or going to war. But
this is not an academic world. The job of
ditching the German is not an academic
exercise. Hie task of getting enough money
into the cashbox to pay for the proceedings
is not a fiction. Nor can it be done with
anything like success by denying the exist-
ence of Things as they Are while yearning
after Things as they Ought to Be. The
Bulletin has no great admiration in the
abstract for lotteries or sweeps or taking
5 to 2 at the ponies or anything of that sort.
But the prospect of having a flutter on
something exercises a powerful influence
over many men and women. In the majority,
ot cases it is merely trifling with words to
say that the impulse to do so springs from
immoral promptings of a debased mind.
There are without a shadow of doubt-
thousands of Australians who would con-
tribute to war loans if interest lotteries were
started, yet whose money is not now avail-
able for the purpose. The sum of their
accumulations would in all likelihood run
into several millions. The state of the cash-
box is a long way from being such that this
source of possible supply can be overlooked.
By a recognition of Things as they Are
the money can be obtained without years
of frantic talk and numerous general elec-
tions. For these reasons the loan lottery
would have a justification all its own—even
the, justification in morals that it was being
used as part of the machinery for overthrow-
ing the Devil,
* *
There are many better ways of raising
money to pay for the war than by running a
lottery. Also there are many worse ways.
Among the better ways would be placing
upon every citizen of the Commonwealth the
compulsion to hand over to the nation a large
proportion of his income towards liquidating
the debt as it is incurred. Among worse
methods is that which permits and even
encourages the private annexation of huge
gains directly from the war activities of the
nation, and then allows the conversion of
these into interest-bearing, tax-free debt for
the people to struggle with after the army
has struggled with the Hun. But this paper
can remember no occasion on which a body
of professional pietists has represented to the
federal Government its anxiety to see the
first of these courses adopted nor its disfavor
of the second. Yet some of the things that
have been done jby the money-hogs in this
war have dynamited morality into splinters.
However, the fragments can be gathered up
the day after to-morrow, especially if these
moralists will help. In the meantime the
war has to be won—by the people who want
to see more than anything on earth the arms
of Germany baulked of their prey. And not
many of these would feel particularly indig-
nant if, in order to help on the job race-
meetings were run every day in Coliins-street
<,nd the settling took place at the nearest
tabernacle. That mess could be cleaned up
afterwards. The other one has to be
attended to now or never. Groans about
gambling are at this stage of the proceedings
about as relevant as snuffling over the array
desecrating the Sabbath. The whole world
is gambling hard 24 hours a day. Life is
being gambled with. Freedom is being risked.
.Nations have their institutions, their exist-
enee and their future in the pool. They have
all gone nap—or been forced to. which is the
same thing. Wherefore objection to Ermyn-
trude 11TZSUDDS, laundress, and Barney
O’Stiggins, shearer, dropping a fiver into a
war loan, and with a crowd of others running
the annual proceeds off on a sweep instead
of taking them out to the ponies, sounds like
one bookmaker solemnly rebuking another for
“laying them” with a concession.
“THE SITUATION IS UNCHANGED.”
According to the British Press Bureau, the
situation is unchanged. Face to face the
tremendous armies of the world have stood
for years, swaying backward and forward in
death grips, filling blighted lands with graves
and hearts with unshed tears; and still
through all the turmoil and destruction and
grief the situation is unchanged. The out-
look of Australians upon the war is at this
moment one of expectant hope mingled with
some misgiving and fear; and exactly such
an outlook was ours at the crisis of the
retreat from Mons and at every moment
since. Further than this, in a very real
and bitterly impressive sense, such has been
the outlook of the white man’s world from
the hour when the Goth took Rome, and pos-
sibly for a few thousand years prior to that
calamity. Always there was the hope, the
impending struggle, the tincture of fear.
Great wars and political upheavals, with
their accompaniments of murder and misery,
have always been expected to clear the air
and make things green and growing; but
the historian, following the ruts of the guns
and the echoes of the applause, reports that
the situation is unchanged. America, torn
between democracy and class-rule, with the
contention over the freedom of the negro
adding bitterness to the argument, entered
upon a loose and long-sustained war which,
in the opinion of the prophets, was to be
the making of the nation. The fighting ended
in the victory of the North and the world-
admiration of the defeated South; and then,
with endless talk of brotherhood, the decks
were cleared for the operations of trusts,
combines and all the corruption of political
intrigue. The war-cloud was gone and the
sun of trade and industry appeared to shine
with some vigor; but iu all essentials the
situation was unchanged. The alleged pro-
gress of civilisation arrived at similar re-
sults. The great procession went by in the
imagination of the peoples, electric light took
the place of tallow dip, the daily paper held
as many words in a week’s issue as were
produced by a whole century of literary
effort 400 years previously, the ballot-
box took the place of the king’s man-
date and the number of turning wheels was
infinitely increased ; but in the view of the
person who audited the gains and losses of
the world, the situation "'as unchanged.
In Australia we have had much talk of
advance, of raiding the lines of the future
and digging-in on the frontiers of experi-
ment, but the situation, is still unchanged.
The divided and incoherent colonies, which
became the States, from decade to decade
faced the problems before them with a hope
that was tinctured with fear; but on the
coming of Federation the largeness of oppor-
tunity filled us with a kind of confidence
that was more than a hope. There
vas a momentary flash in which men saw
great visions and felt their pulses quicken
at the thought of high endeavor. Five years
later the memory of that flash was almost
gone—the situation was unchanged. It was
unchanged at the outbreak of the war and
will, on all appearances, be unchanged at
its close. Something may be done here and
there, a trifling change effected in some direc-
tion which immediate necessity compels; but
so regularly and systematically are these
minor movements met by counter-movements
of one kind or another that the statement
stands —-the situation is unchanged. The
Northern Territory was a Crown possession,
became a nursling 0 f South Australia, and
finally was passed over to the Comonwealth
to develop. Nothing worth mentioning has
la lT )e . uef l- There may be a cow more and
/ hinaman less at one census and an
Administrator more and a mining claim less
at the next; but the situation itself is
unchanged—talk is as incessant and rail-
way. communication as far off as ever.
Similarly in the political field. Twenty years
ago there was a Labor party that looked
like doing things struggling against the
weight of conservatism and inertia. To-day
there is a Labor party that can’t do things
struggling against the noise of the Hughes
whom that earlier force of Labor created.
Names have been altered, but the situation
remains unchanged.
* * * *
And still we look forward with hope
tinctured with fear. Deep down in every
heart there is a rooted belief in progress,
a belief that if we keep on doing things
we shall really get somewhere at last. Many
wars of old time were fought in the interests
of peace—in the enthusiastic belief that one
splendid charge more would really break the
heart of wrong and make the crimes and
atrocities of the battlefield impossible. The
awful carnage in France is regarded bv
both combatants to-day as the grand effort to
break through to a permanent peace and
secure for mankind all their dreams of har-
vest and harmony. On the analogy of the
past there isn’t much to be said for such a
theory of smashing things to mend them.
But always the hope remains; and just now
it is so large and enthusiastic that even
the. most cynical is moved by it. True, the
Kaiser and his war-lords have no belief in
peace. A ictory to them would only mean a
vantage point for fresh conquests; but there
can be little doubt that the sorrowing and
suffering German peoples are just as sincere
in the wish to end all bloodshed as those
who are battling for the right of mankind
to own its own soul. Peace is the one
desire; and a real peace, universal and last-
ing, might be worth the awful price paid
No examination of the make and shape of


mankind precludes the possibility of a. real
and final settlement. It is only the history
of man’s doings in the past that introduces
fear and doubt. But the past had never
anything like the present war to show, and
exactly in that statement lies the world s
great chance. Small wars —and all wars
waged before 1914 were small wars —had
left the situation unchanged. Never before
was a war of nations fought. The armies
of the nations wrangled, but the vast forces
of so-called civil life were little touched by
the wrangle and remained to destroy . the
effect of the soldier’s sacrifice. Now it is
the nations themselves that are on the
battlefield, and a different conclusion may
be looked for. Had this struggle ended in
compromise the situation would have been
unchanged. Only by the unflinching will to
see it through to a finish can humanity have
a chance. The situation is unchanged ; but
by mankind’s faith in all that is true and
good it must be changed. The fearful price
of victory is the guarantee that there will
be revolution at last—the real revolution
that will turn the world upside down and
make sure that it is the right side that is up.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Seed the Hun Sowed.
No country has invested more heavily in the
monarchical idea than Germany, and the seed
the Hun sowed—often not knowing that he
sowed it—has, in most cases, brought forth
fruit abundantly. The chance of the sowing
was in the idea—based on the other idea that
monarchs are a class wholly apart—that
royalties should only marry into royal
families or families which made a plausible
pretence of being royal. In Britain the
Royal Marriages Act, passed during the days
of Geo. 111., defined this theory. And among
the old dynasties of continental Europe pre-
cedent has it that when a man in the direct
line of descent marries a woman with a little
less pedigree, though she may have plenty of
pedigree to go on with, he forfeits his chance
of the crown. Just here the Hun came in.
There are 22 reigning families inside the Ger-
man Empire, also some more or less royal
families which don’t reign, though they may
have done so once. So when a Protestant
prince or princess wanted a partner of the
real Luther or Calvin or Knox, faith, there
was always more material available in Ger-
many than in all the rest of Europe. Also,
there was Catholic material. And when a
cheap little State just starting business
wanted a cheap little king, Germany, and no
other country, had stacks of cheap little kings
to offer. When Greece was freed from the
Turkish yoke by Britain, France and Russia
it got the king-craving. There were local
heroes like Ivolok'otrones who might have
passed muster, but they were commoners.
And there were descendants of the sturdy old
imperial Greek family of Palacologus still
alive, and seeing that the last emperor of the
family had died like a hero in the breach at
St. Romanus Gate fighting impossible hordes
of Turks, there ought to have been a sort of
halo round the name. But the Pal.eoi.ogi
had been out of the reigning business for 400
years and earning their bread like any Smith
or Thompson, and Greece wanted a nice
fresh potentate. So it hired a German, from
a family of criminal lunatics, and made a bad
bargain. When Bulgaria wanted a king to
start with, it got a. German, and on his re-
tirement it acquired another German. The
principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia
threw off the last semblance of dependence on
Turkey and became the full-blown State of
Roumania. The local rulers, Prince Ghika
and Prince Stirbey, had been good enough in
the days of separation and humility, but when
union and swelled head supervened a royal
personage was demanded, and Germany was
the only place with bags of royal personages
to give away. Belgium required a king when
it broke loose from Holland, and the inevi-
table German was forthcoming. The kingdom
ojf Albania, which lasted about a day and a
night, Avas furnished with a Hun monarch as
a matter of course—William of Wied, com-
monly known as William the Weed. The
more-than-half German Queen of the Nether-
lands married a German prince and had as
heiress a 95-per-cent.-German daughter. The
situation in Britain is remarkable, that coun-
try being the one place of importance where
the wonderful luck of the Ilun went astray.
The British royal family bases its claim to
the throne on the marriage of a Scoto-French
princess to a German some 300 years ago.
It intermarried persistently with Germans.
When Victoria assumed the crown as a mere
girl, and even before she married her German
husband her German uncle of Belgium kindly
sent her a plausible and profoundly-skilled
German diplomatist, Baron Stockmar, to be
her friend and political tutor, and for some-
where between 20 and 30 years he Avas the
power behind the throne. Victoria and
Albert were to all intents and purposes their
own joint Foreign Minister, reading all the
thousands of despatches that came from
abroad and reading and revising the thou-
sands Avhich went out-—and Stockmar ad-
vised. Even before the Crimean War a Brit-
ish Prime Minister complained bitterly of the
Prince Consort’s schemes for the formation of
a German Empire, with the King of Prussia
as emperor, so the Prince Avas 20 years or so
ahead of the times. Germans climbed to high
places—some of the highest places—in the
British army and navy- And after investing
an immense amount of his royal stock in
British securities, so to speak, very little pro-
fit came to the Hun after all. Probably when
the war is over—provided it ends the right
way—a lot of States, when they have got
their second Avind, will reverse the old order
of things and pass a new law like this: —-
AVHEREAS there are in this country many healthy,
moral, presentable, affable, well-bred and well-born
young men and women quite capable of filling royal
positions,
THEREFORE be it enacted that in future our
princes and princesses will not seek their life-partners
among first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth,
seventh, eighth, ninth or tenth-rate German families,
but shall wed among their own people.
AND any prince or princess who transgresses this
law shall be disqualified, and scratched for all engage-
ments, and warned off the course.
It Was a Glorious Loan.
li*' it was only possible for Australia to
raise a serviceable paper army at 5 per cent,
its reinforcement question would cease from
troubling. It would especially cease from
troubling if tlie paper army at 5 per cent,
could only be used for local purposes, and
the same men could be enrolled over and over
again, just like the paper money, which can’t
go out of the country, so that the note which
is subscribed to-day and goes back into local
circulation to-morrow is available to be
subscribed again the day after to-morrow.
The £40,000,000 loan which nominally
closed on April 10 must be regarded as fully
subscribed at that date, making a reason-
able allowance for outlying returns which
took some time to reach headquarters.
And the resolve to keep the subscription list
open for another 14 days, and thus take
advantage of the prevailing enthusiasm,
instead of letting the fire go out and re-
lighting it when the next loan came on the
market, was wise. Of course the success,
great as it was, had its limitations. Paper
money won’t pay freight on our reinforce-
ments going to Europe nor on our sick and
Avounded coming back, so long as they have
to be carried on ships not owned in Aus-
tralia. It won’t pay wages to our soldiers
or seamen in the fighting zone or in
European camps or hospitals. Nor will it
reduce the debt of some £50,000,000 owing
to the British Government for the back pay
of these men. It won’t pay for their arms,
ammunition and clothing, barring the small
amount that is manufactured here. Though
it would pay for ships if constructed here
out of our own materials, it won’t pay for
the fleet _of vessels which Hughes ' the
Wheat-shifter has ordered in the United
States. It won’t pay either principal or
interest on our vast debts contracted in
London, nor the salary of the High Commis-
sioner and his stall’, nor the remuneration of
the six Agents-General and their six staffs.
Nor can it pay for the stupendous excess of
imports of whisky and silk stockings and
sundries. These things and some other
things call for gold, and the big loan must
be regarded as mostly paper, good enough
to meet liabilities inside the Commonwealth
but nowhere else. All the local subscribing
in the world, even if it ran to £400,000,000
instead of £40,000,000, won’t provide gold if
gold isn’t here. Now a very large amount
of coin must be held sacred in the Federal
Treasury as a guarantee of the note issue;
if that reserve was used up for current ex-
penses the value of money would
go down with a run. So the Federal reserve
is out of the question. The stock of gold in
circulation must be less than it was for a
generation past, for most people carry notes
now instead of coin. The amount of gold
dug out of the ground is less than it has
been since the year of misery and bank
smash, 1893, and last year the stock of gold
in the banks got down lower than it had
been since 1906. At the same time the
amount of gold required to pay interest on
loans in London is far more than in any
year since the first chapter of Genesis. Now
as the country can’t default on its outside
interest payments and other liabilities with-
out shame and worse disaster; as it can’t
cease to pay its soldiers and sailors at the
Avar Front or leave them naked and un-
armed ; as it can’t get more gold out of its
mines than the Lord has put into them; as
it can’t make gold by signing cheques for
the War Loan, and as it must have gold, it
is due to make a very large saving in the
outflow that goes to pay for imported
whisky, silk stockings, feathered hats, etc.
Not a small, spasmodic, temporary, \mlun-
tary saving brought about by impassioned
appeals to the people—Australia is losing
faith in the voluntary principle—but a com-
pulsory saving—the kind that a strenuous
tariff may bring about. Something might be
done by commandeering the gold in jewellers’
shops and warehouses and in private hands,
paying for it in notes and melting it into
coin, but that could only be done once, and
the remedy that is Avanted is one that hap-
pens annually.
Imagination’s Struggle to Get Ahead
of Fact.
Fiction can only make possibility look
wildly improbable when Truth happens to be
asleep, dog tired of her eternal job of making
the incredible a commonplace. The wildest
imagination has never been much more than
live seconds ahead of what the morning sun
was going to notice. In a yarn published
last year by an American magazine a builder
of romance seemed to hit the very limit of
what was unlikely. But he made a miss.
The story turned on the adventures of a
British secret service man, wdio while cross-
ing the Atlantic by steamer was seized at
dead of night by a German spy and flung
into the ocean. Swimming in the wake of
the vanishing vessel the wretched victim of
ruthlessness was preparing for the Better
Land when he felt his feet against something
firm—and presently discovered himself
stranded on the dripping exterior of a Hun
submarine. When the crew came up from
the innards of the timely craft the half-
drowned stranger introduced himself in the
Hun lingo, was taken below to tell a weird
story about being an emissary of the
Kaiser, and had a series of hair-raising
adventures before capturing the outfit. It
read like the record of a disordered dream.
But the official story of what happened to
one Saunders, a Maorilander, while earning
the V.C. recently, shows that the American
word-spinner only just got rid of his yarn
in time. Saunders, a naval officer, was out
ip the North Sea or somewhere looking for
Hunmarines and didn’t notice the one which
torpedoed the craft he was on. He was
thrown into the sea by the explosion, and
while swimming round discovered he was
the only survivor handy and that, lie had
touched a rock. Next thing he found was
that it wasn’t a rock, and he was astride the
implement that had blown him up. It had
come from below to see what took place.
Saunders didn't think about introducing
himself. He pulled his revolver from its
waterproof casing and crawled over towards
the hatchway. Presently the narrow lid
was lifted and a figure in oilskins started to
emerge. Saunders shot the figure dead and
made, him a cipher. As the body pitched
forward half on deck and the other half
dangling downstairs he banged the lid
on it and held it that way. The result of
this mu men vre was that the Huns below
couldn’t submerge the vessel without cer-
tainty of being flooded, because the lid was
up. They couldn’t pull the dead man in
because he was a fixture. They couldn’t
climb up the ladder and give battle to the
enemy because their defunct shipmate
blocked the orifice of advance, and anyway
they didn’t know whether the enemy up
above was a new brand of sea serpent or a
regiment of amphibious cavalry. Meanwhile
the freezing Saunders sat on the ex-llun
waiting for what was going to happen next.
Eventually it was a patrolling destroyer.
The prize was towed to port and the Maori-
lander landed with three cheers. So one
more “impossibility’’ is scratched for all
engagements.
■s.
The Schmidt Who Blushes Unseen.
“0.K.” : The deluded man-in-the-street talks
of eliminating German influence from Aus-
tralian trade. He has been given to under-
stand that the War Precautions Act pro-
vides against the changing of German names
for British whilst the war is proceeding, and
he remembers to have read of traders being
prosecuted for thus camouflaging their iden-
tities. The man-in-the-street doesn’t read
Trade Circulars, otherwise he would know
that the misfortune of a German name is
as easily overcome as ever it was in the days
when nobody blushed for it. In a Trade
Circular for March 16 it appears that
Frederick Wittholz, poultry farmer, of
Seaford (Vic.), will adopt the surname of
Withall as from April 8. Also Conrad
Edmond Schmidt, a Melbourne suburban
baker, will henceforth use the surname of
Smith. One may presume, for the sake of
argument, that the changes in these cases
are associated with conversion to Aus-
tralian nationality, and that the sentiment
of Wittholz and Schmidt is pro-British,
In the one case there may be generations of
British citizenship in the family, and even
in the other case the fact that Schmidt’s
parents labelled him Conrad doesn’t prove
him to be a foreigner at heart. But on the
other hand there is no denying that the sys-
tem which permits a change of name is an
aid to the German spy and propaganda
system from which the whole civilised world
now suffers. It is a concession to the indi-
vidual without regard to the best interests
of the community. It opens a door to dan-
gerous deceit. In providing opportunity for
a thoroughly British person of remote "Ger-
man antecedents to rid himself of a label
which libels him we invite the agents of
German intrigue to disguise themselves from
suspicion. The interests of the State are
sacrificed in a measure to the interests of a
comparative handful of individuals —
butchers, brokers, bakers, etc. All the talk
of a million unreasoning friends of the 20
thousand Fritzes with whom they have hob-
nobbed for 20 years cannot alter this fact.
Germany is a burglar in its methods as well
as a bloodthirsty bully. We want all pos-
sible safeguards against burglars. In per-
mitting, these changes of pame we relinquish
a safeguard against individuals who are
probably quite harmless but are conceivably
burglarious. And that’s all about it.
♦
Cheer Up.
Dear Bulletin, this is my text: —
We hold that there is a class struggle in society
and that the struggle is caused by economic condi-
tions.
We affirm the economic condition of the producer
to be that he is exploited of the wealtli which lie
produces, being allowed to retain barely sufficient
for his elementary necessities.
We hold that the class struggle will continue until
the producer is recognised as the sole master of his
products.— From a report adopted by the Sydney
Labor Council re the proposed amalgamation of ail
unions into One Big Union.
This tone of carefully-nursed melancholy and
petted grievance is disappointing. There was a time
when there were property qualifications for voters
and for members, and the affluent voter might have
votes in many constituencies, and politicians were
unpaid, and only wealthy or fraudulent men could
afford to sit in the House, and there was no restric-
tion on election expenses so that the richest candi-
date had the best show, and there was no ballot,
so the man who voted as his employer didn’t want
him to could be blacklisted.
But now all is changed. Every citizen and
citizeness who isn’t a lunatic or in gaol can vote.
We have the ballot. Labor has as much say in the
counting of the votes as the other person. Nobody
has more votes than anybody else. Payment of
members has made it possible for very poor people
to be M’s.L.A. The Labor vote even counts for more
than its numerical value because of the capable
trades-union organisation which stands behind it.
Wherever there is a nominee Upper House, Labor,
during its frequent terms of office, has a chance to
abolish it if Labor wants to. As regards making
the artisan “the sole master of his products” Labor
Ministries have had opportunities, and will have many
more.
In N. S. Wales and Queensland, where the party
has enjoyed a long run of office and the nominee Upper
House could easily be swamped and then wiped out,
a beginning might have been made long ago with the
railways—a really enormous industry. There is
no reason why all the officials, from the Commis-
sioners downward, should not be unionists and
attached to the Trades Hall movement. If the higli
officials won’t become unionists there are plenty ot'
men to take their places. And there is nothing to
prevent the entire earnings, over and above the
inevitable interest bill, being set aside as a fund for
the payment of the employees so that they will enjoy
the whole product of their toil—no more and no less.
The same idea applies to publicly-owned tramways,
telegraphs and telephones, and to every other public
enterprise, even Are and life insurance, ship-owning,
public trusteeship, universal providery, etc., which
exists or may happen later on. As regards the
Commonwealth Bank and the Federal and State sav-
ings banks the workers —these including the deposi-
tors who furnish money to work with as well as the
people who furnish toil —already divide all the pro-
ducts, for nothing goes to outside shareholders. The
only possible complaint is that the holders of the
big appointments and many of the subordinates —
especially the best-paid subordinates —are non-
unionists. But they could either be gathered into
the Trades Hall ranks or replaced, gradually or sud-
denly, by men who are already there. It might still
be necessary to accept deposits from non-unionists,
but that matter can be left for future consideration.
There are four States where elective Upper Houses
make progress difficult, but the people have power
to transfer all public undertakings to the Common-
wealth, and there the people elect both Houses on
the widest possible franchise, and Labor has a
majority in both Houses, though the majority has
been temporarily split because the rank and file
couldn’t agree with its astute leader Hughes —a
man with an unrivalled capacity for finding and keep-
ing what a late N. S. Wales Parliamentarian used
to call “hoffis.” Still, that can’t be more than a
passing difficulty.
The central fact is that there are chances in the
present, and more in the immediate future, to put
a vast mass of industry on the exact basis which
Labor demands—the division of all the products of
an undertaking among the employees therein, which
employees will all be members of One Big Union.
For some reason, however, the party, when it is
in power, puts into, or retains in, its most lucrative
billets —those of judges, bank managers, railway,
tramway and telephone managers, heads of civil ser-
vice departments and life insurance offices, and
hundreds of minor but well-paid officials —men out-
side its own ranks. Thus Labor deliberately perpetu-
ates —in the case of new undertakings it often
creates—a sort of separate employing class, and pays
the members thereof on a scale so widely different
from artisan rates that they tend to be a capitalistic
class. It manufactures its own grievance. Mv
opinion is that the party should use the power it
has, and fearlessly accept its own programme and
Cheer Up.—Yours, etc., Henry Horsecollar.
Sticks.
“Togo” : The ever-increasing rise in price of
building material is understandable in regard
to imported timbers, but with the Australian-
grown article it is beyond comprehension.
Of course the existence of a combine is im-
possible, although it is a peculiar fact that
the price-list of retail merchants in Sydney
is similar in every detail each month, and,
I might add, the State yard is not an excep-
tion. Take the txvo leading imported tim-
bers, oregon and redwood. In February,
1917, the respective retail prices were 255.
and SSs. per hundred feet super; this month’s
price-list shows them at SSs. and 45s. —an
increase of 52 per cent, and IS! per cent,
respectively. Granting that freights have
soared sky-high, and war risks and insur-
ances have greatly risen, these charges apply
equally to the two timbers, so why the vast
difference in the relative selling prices? One
good result was to force users to turn more
attention to local products, and this ought
to remove a ridiculous prejudice, for Aus-
tralian timbers are undoubtedly much
superior to anything imported for general
utility. Naturally, the coming demand was
foreseen by the merchants, and this is what
happened in price-quotes :
February, April,
1917. 1918. Increase.
Rough hardwood.. 21/-per 100 super 26/- 24 p.c.
Bine flooring .. 32/- ~ 41/6 30 p.c.
sft. palings ~ 21/-per 100 count 26/6 26 p.c.
6ft. palings .. 23/- „ 30/- 301 p.c.
Additional charges and expenses have not
been incurred by the sellers to make these
increases necessary, and the supply is con-
siderably greater than the demand. Where-
fore the deduction is as evident as the hoof-
print of the Devil on the sands of time.
—
The Drain of Gold.
“Solomon Malaprop” writes:—
1 saw a bumptious hypocrite, wearing £l2 worth
( £j2 in gold) of imported clothes, which could have
been bought of Australian manufacture, rise up in
public and offer to lend his war-harassed country
£IOOO in paper at 5 per cent., and the whole lot of
paper wouldn’t have paid for his shiny hat in London.
I met a snufflebuster wearing £lO worth ( £lo in
gold) of murky imported raiment which could have
been purchased of Australian manufacture, and he said
that the waste of money in backing horses was a
shameful thing; the cash should have gone into the
war loan. I told him that the money which is put
on a horse comes off again in a few minutes, and is
then as handy for the war loan as ever it was, while
the price of his foolish garments went ct of the
country so that our war loan would never see it again.
Cheers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The last desperate phase of the war has come.
Russia has quitted the stricken field. Italy is beaten
to one knee; France and Britain are reeling under
the thundering blows of a recuperated enemy. That’s
how we stand to-day. (Cheers.)’’ —Report of Cak-
miciiael’s speech.
“That’s how we stand to-day.” Well, cheers
for that.
We stand sore-hammered, but we are not
down.
The patriot may jump upon his hat,
The king in sheer vexation smash his crown ;
But we, determined still, can lift our shout,
Working and longing for a clean knock-out.
New asteroids are blazing in the night,
The battle’s roaring over anguished France,
Russia’s vast armies melt from sound and
sight,
And suffering Italy is taught to dance
To an unpleasant tune the Austrians make,
Where ice-bound mountains to the chorus
shake.
Well, cheers for that. For well the Kaiser
knows
In these red days of trembling where we
stand.
He counts the risks. We arc his strongest
foes,
Wounded, but still unbroken in the land;
And, looking o’er our history's crimson track,
He knows with what persistence we came
back.
We shall come back, or our Thermopylae
Will leave a redder glory than the old,
Calling to freedom on the land and sea
Of that high faith worth death itself to hold.
Well, cheers for that. Though all our kith
and kin
Fail at the last, the foe can never win.
N.B.W.
GEORGE STREET.


vr
I
S£B
c-
T rtt\* d nd r~.
7thO>^ —
gd
The Premier Hotel of Australia.
Renovated from Roof to Basement.
SYDNEY
NEW FEATURES
Extension of Winter Gar-
den.
New Sixth Floor.
New Fireproof Flat Con-
crete Roof.
New Rooms with Private
R ths.
New Furnishinp’s.
ATTRACTIVE SPECIALTIES
Comfort and Quietness. Every
Convenience and Quick Service.
Automatic Telephones in every
Hoorn. Private Safe Deposit.
Stenographer and Private Office
for use of Guests.
Choice of Rating. Room and
Breakfast or Full Board.
Meals—a la Carte or Table d hbte.
Apply Manager. WHAT WE ADVERTISE WE SUPPLY.
ft
y> &
7 wr
m
:>■_ .
a?-
nr,*
Si
!
“'jrfusiralia"
Wfnter Garden
He said that at this crisis I shouldn’t drag in the
fiscal issue.
I listened to a woman in £4O worth of imported
fluff ( £4O in gold gone out of the country, instead of
going into the war loan) urging people to have a
breadless day once a week for patriotic motives
because they have' one in England. This when
230,000,000 bushels of wheat are rotting in stacks.
She wore at least 200 bushels of needlessly imported
wheat on her body, yet she would have had hysterics
if I. mentioned it.
I met a preacher-politician in imported boots who
said that the times were dreadful, but we must have
faith. 1 said that the Scripture put it: “Faith with-
out works is dead, and it didn’t sa,v “public works
paid for out of loans,” but just “works.” Also 1
asked him why lie didn’t have faith in the Australian
bootmaker.
And I happened against an affluent Rechabite, who
stepped out of his vehicle and opened his mouth to
speak. But before he could say anything 1 told him
that a bloke wearing Australian clothes and half full
of Australian beer was doing more for his country at
this time of stress than a teetotaller who had bought
his false teeth in London and was driving an imported
buggy. So he flicked up his steed (which might have
been hauling a gun in France) and faded out of my
acquaintance.
The Mills of God.
The last westward push of the German
carried him close to the range of hills run-
ning from Cassell to Karnmel. These are
the backbone of the northern sector. If the
enemy got astride of Karnmel—the humps
there run to about 500 ft. in height—the
Allies’ position around Ypres would be very
unhealthy. And if the line curled up there
the hold on the little bit of Flanders to the
sea would be horribly precarious. Were the
German to outflank the entire range north-
ward and push a very few’ miles further from
the westernmost point of his salient to Haze-
brcuck, events of great moment to us would
almost certainly follow. But though these
were the things the German struggled hard
to do after driving through the Portuguese,
they are what lie had failed to do when he
hauled off for a rest, lie had been hampered
by two things—much stronger resistance than
his opening punch had encountered, and lack
of elbow-room. The limited area of the
horseshoe he had bitten out of the Allies’
territory placed restrictions on the number
of men he could operate w ithin the cavity;
and the longer the battle round the rim
continued the more deeply was the ground
he was working over cluttered up with dead
men and dead horses and shell-holes and all
the wreckage of war. lie had got himself,
so to speak, into a blind lane, and that he
was finding the job of passing his exhausted
divisions and his wounded back and new’
cannon-fodder forward w r as shown by the
vigorous attempts he made to widen the
arms of the salient at Givenchv and
Bixschoote. Beaten off there, the enemy
appears to have come to the conclusion that
for the time being he must go slow in the
direction of Ilazebrouck and Karnmel; but
whether this w’as with a view to cleaning-
up the mess within the salient and starting
again in the same neighborhood can only be
guessed at. The probability is that this is
his plan; but while the untidiness is being
removed Ludendorff will assault again
lower dow’n the line, resuming the conflict
in the renovated horseshoe behind Armen-
tieres wiien he gets held up in the next
phase. Dow’n below’ he has plenty of elbow-
room. anyway, and in all likelihood has the
roads and bridges in passable condition. As
heavy reinforcements have arrived for Haig,
and as Foch has a mobile army of pooled
reserves to move about, the German should
meet with a muscular reception. That he
will go on with this campaign of his admits
of no more doubt than that he is fighting
with great courage, has so far scored some
unquestionable advantages and has many
reasons for keeping extremely busy. The
more damage he can do before Jonathan
grows to full size in Europe the better it
w’ill seem to him and the worse to us: and
morale counts for a great deal when a whole
ration is fighting. To describe what is
occurring as critical is to use the mildest
language. The position is one which with
very little alteration would be desperate.
Meanwhile the submarine is steadily taking
its toll. The danger in that quarter is just
about as sinister as it could be. There is
indeed very little to be joyful about these
days. Our soldiers have fought with unex-
ampled valor. The Allies in Europe are putting
their last ounce into the struggle. That is
just about all that we dare say. Hitherto
Australians have thought that the’ enemy’s
guns were 10,000 miles away. They are
closer than that. Our future is being deter-
mined more assuredly than even that of
Paris, though the roar of the battle thunder
reaches the very city.
♦
“Wandiunga” : I can confirm the state-
ments of ’ Pariah” (B. 28/3/’18) regard-
ing the wastefulness of the Defence Depart-
ment so far as the cadet branch is con-
cerned. His experience, how’ever, show’s me
that some doctors are a trifle more consci-
entious than others. At a certain hour on a
day previously fixed I paraded my quota of
12-year-olds—to the number of 81. The doctor
walked along the lines, here and there taking
note of a boy’s eyes, and after a few minutes
escaped to my office. Taking the Cadpt
Register, he bracketed all the names on
each page, wrote the word “Fit" by the
bracket and attached his signature. The
proceedings lasted about 15 minutes, and for
this he received £lO.
*
“B.": The farcical way in which school-
children are medically examined before being
passed as cadets under the Ilome Defence
system has a parallel in the overhaul of
N. S. Wales school-children by the depart-
mental doctors. Becoming Suspicious about
a 10-year-old boy’s eyes. I took him to a
specialist, and discovered that he was suffer-
ing from pronounced adenoids, which had im-
paired his sight. At the same time I found
that his sister, aged 12, had goitre. Both
children had been twice before the doctor at
school, yet I received no warning concerning
them. School dentistry is just as unsatis-
factory. The great danger is that parents
cast their own doubts aside when a school
doctor has found nothing wrong with a
child. The examination should be either
thorough or not made at all.
“0.K.” : This should be digested by
those who protest that Australians “would
be as well off under German rule.” A Mel-
bourne citizen, with a familiar German
name, born of Danish parents in Schleswig-
Holstein. tells of what happened to his
father after the Hun conquest of his coun-
try some 50 years ago. The old man owned
a large farm outside the range of the brief
hostilities. In due course German officials
came along to inquire re his tenure of the
property, asking whether he had a clean title
and what was his valuation of the land,
which had been in the family for generations.
He named his price and was told he could
have the land at that figure. When he pro-
tested his freehold rights the arrogant
visitors smiled. His title was a Danish one
—it now remained for him to buy a German
freehold to the property or go away. As
the former Danish holder of the estate he
was permitted first chance to purchase his
improved land from the new Government.
Now for lesson Number 2—from an old
Melbourne lady who longtime reviled the
la te Lord Palmerston as the British Prime
Minister who had declined to intervene on
Denmark’s behalf when Prussia threatened
war. Palmerston’s memoirs revealed the
fact that it was Queen Victoria who vetoed
the proposal to defend little Denmark from
the Prussian robber. Well, this lady’s
father held land on both sides of the
Schleswig-Holstein border, and after the
Prussian annexation of the province he was
offered the alternative of becoming a Prus-
sian or remaining a Dane on the Danish part
of the property. He elected to give up his
land on the new Prussian side of the frontier
and remain a Dane. The German military
authorities took him out and shot him.
Ted Colies introduces a matter for inquiry :
It was recently published that Australian soldiers
this side of the world are being married at the rate
of 800 per month. I’ve seen some of the female and
her mother; and I can only breathe a prayer that
the figure isn’t quite as high as quoted. I don’t
believe it is.
You have to remember the circumstances under
which Billjim lands in England from France. He
must have diversion ; and, unbalanced as he usually
is—remember it is not the fit man who comes over
on furlough—and with money in his pocket, he is
simply exploited by adventuresses.
This is all understandable. But, maybe with the
best of intentions, the Commonwealth Government is
positively encouraging these women, not merely to
Pursue Billjim,. but to fasten herself on to him.
The Soldiers’ Repatriation Department is visited
daily by wives and fiancees seeking voyages to Aus-
tralia with (or without) their victims; and our
amazing Government provides them with free or
assisted passages. Absorb the fact carefully. A
woman needn't be a wife, nor even a prospective
mother; she need be merely “engaged," and with
luck she can procure a passage at the Common-
wealth expense!
After seeing a few other lands, most of us have
decided that ours is morally and physically the
cleanest we’ve known, and we have developed a
higher appreciation of Australian womanhood; we
can imagine, then, what the girls at home would feel
about the business if they could see it first hand.
The Him is relying on polygamy to pro-
vide his future stocks of cannon fodder. The
following is a translated extract from a
pamphlet which is blowing about Germany.
It is entitled “The Secondary Marriage as
t 1 Means for the Rapid Creation of
a New and Powerful Army and the Purifi-
cation of Morality,” and was written bv
Carl Hermann Torges, an aged publicist of
Cologne:—
Women in all classes of society who have reached
a certain age are, in the interests of the Fatherland,
not only authorised but called upon to enter into a
secondary marriage, which is supported bv personal
inclination. Only a married man may be the object
of this inclination, and he must have the consent of
his married wife. The condition is necessary in
order to prevent the mischief which otherwise might
be surely expected.
Tiie offspring of these lawful secondary marriages
bear the name of their mother, and are handed over
to the care of the State, unless the mother assumes
responsibility for them. They are to be regarded
in every respect as fully equal members of society.
The mothers wear a narrow wedding ring as a sign
of their patriotism. The secondary marriage can
be dissolved as soon as its object has been attained.
Whilst the above and much more is provid-
ing light reading for Mrs. Fritz, her hus-
band in the trenches finds this sort of mis-
sive arriving among his letters: —
Soldiers, a grave danger assails the Fatherland
by reason of the dwindling birth-rate. The cradles
of Germany are empty to-day; it is your duty to-
day to see that they are filled.
You bachelors, when your leave comes, marry at
once the girls of your choice. Make her your wife
without delay.
You married men and your wives should put
jealousy from your minds and consider whether you
have not also a duty to the Fatherland. You
should consider whether you may not honorably
contract an alliance with one of the million of
bachelor women. See if your wife will not sanction
the relation.
Remember, all of you, the empty cradles of Ger-
many must be filled.
This literature is being tacitly supported
and even subsidised by the German Govern-
ment.
Premier Lawson threatens to bring a bill
into Victoria’s Parliament to enable munici-
pal councils to clear land of noxious weeds
at the owner’s expense. Putting aside the
fact that such councils already have the
power to order a land-owner to keep his land
clear and have him fined if he doesn’t do
so, these bodies are themselves largely to
blame for the existence of noxious weeds of
any sort. They persist in penalising the
man who improves his property by raising
the valuation to correspond, whereas if they
would rate the citizen on the unimproved
value of the land—as they have power to do
—the speculators who keep land idle and
unclean could speedily be persuaded to sell
out to someone who would use it.
Queenslander Arnold Weinholt, ex-M.L.A.,
who has been doing splendid work in East
Africa, is reported missing, and is believed
to be a prisoner. He was captured once
before, while out on scout duty, but made
his escape. Weinholt is a superb bushman
and a man of great courage. These two
qualities made him a fine intelligence officer;
and in a country like Africa that is pretty
sure to mean trouble in the erid.
Gilbert Brown, a former Vic. Secretary
for Education, who left his Government-
service job' more than a quarter of a cen-
tury ago, died at Toorak on the 19th inst.
A Londoner, Brown came to this country
as a 21-year-old and toiled in the Education
Department for 30 years. Then he spent
three years as clerk to the Executive Coun-
cil, which carried him on to the retiring age.
The rest of his life was mostly filled up
with vegetable gardening and such simple
matters, his arteries being thereby helped
to carry him on to 86.
Two of Australia’s old statisticians
reached the end of the sum almost simul-
taneously last week. One was Thornhill
Weedon, of Queensland; he was Registrar-
General and Government Statistician until
his death, aged 70. The other. 11. M. John-
ston, of Tasmania, beat him by four years;
he too was his State’s Registrar-General and
Statist. Johnston did some excellent work
for his little island ; he supplied Braddon with
the materials out of which the famous “Blot”
on the Australian Constitution was made, and
he produced the figures upon which, later on,
Tasmania was given special financial assist-
ance.
“Horse” speaks from inside knowledge :
John Lewis, M.L.C., toughest of old bushmen, told
the Inter-State Commission at Adelaide that as
the price of beef and mutton are high the public
should take to horse-flesh. What the wretched democ-
racy should nourish itself upon after the market for
moke had been rigged Lewis didn’t explain. But if
nine-tenths of the evidence given before the Com-
mission in Melbourne and Sydney was worth 2d., the
suggested change of menu shows Lewis to be the
bitter enemy of all the other graziers, dealers and
carcase butchers. Their witnesses were unanimous
that if the price of the fillet and the steak locally
consumed fell to the export level, the industry of
producing meat would perish and all graziers be
forced into bankruptcy. Yet if the community took
to fried horse with enthusiasm, the local market
would fall with a thud that would be audible even
in France.
An exchange of insults between Corser
and Considine in the House of Reps, the
other evening led to the usual “scene”
wherein the aggrieved Considine declined to
withdraw the gibe which he had hotly flung
back into the whiskers of Corser. There-
upon Chairman Chanter, who had woke up
about the middle of the conflict, “named”
the hon. member for Broken Hill, while half
the House besought that tragic comedian to
withdraw Corser from the odious society to
which he had consigned him. Considine de-
clining, Chanter solemnly divided the House
oil tile motion to suspend Broken Hill from
the service of the Committee. As he wasn’t
then sufficiently suspended and might again
wake Chanter at any moment, the unfortu-
nate Speaker had to be dragged from his
ham sandwich to get another vote—which
was only the previous vote fatuously re-
peated with the same ornate ceremony. This
vote being, of course, hostile to Considine.
that citizen then went out; and it shows
the state of absurdity into which Parlia-
mentary government has degenerated in
Australia that it took over half an hour to
reach this conclusion.
i-i ”^ oliev i s a good soldier,” declares the
federal Treasurer. “That being so,” says
Mr. Hughes, “let us hand over a regiment or
two to the portrait painters.”
From the Gallery
I 1 owler has naturally succeeded Irvine as leader
of the Other Opposition in the House of Reps. One
speech of his lately delivered was as searching as any
of Iceberg’s orations. It stirred even the complacent
ebster and brought Watt’s blood out of its retire-
ment to flood his sallow face. Fowler has all Irvine’s-
dexterity in wrapping a pitiless thought in a pen-
etrating phrase. He ■ tells the Government that it
has now qualified for the society of the Rich Uncle
from Fiji ; he describes the Nationalist party as a
collection of “incongruous elements” led by a
factional despot. Further, he has run the yard-
stick over the new honorary Ministers and shorn
them of stature that could ill be spared. His
large, comprehensive snorts are the form his grief
takes when he thinks of Conscription: he urges that
the situation calls for a hero who would dare any-
tiling to preserve our integrity and our hopes.
He knows that he is plainly asking Hughes to
kiss himself good-bye; and this is about the last
thing in the world that Hughes desires to do.
Instead, the little man, whose eccentricities grow
upon him, is struggling to get away for a more or
less restful trip and pour cataracts of language
over people who are not quite as tired of words
as the Australians are. If his visit were interrupted
he probably could not last out another three months.
All the old Labor leaders in S. Aus. hav-
ing been thrown out of Parliament on
account of their Yes views, the youthful but
eloquent new member for Adelaide, Gunn,
becomes its chief. Jelley is second in com-
mand and leader in the Leg. Council; Price
(son of a former Premier) is Whip and sec-
retary. Kirkpatrick, who is elderly and
peaceful, prefers his Council seat and less
responsibility to leadership. Gunn began by
giving the daily papers an interview in which
ho quoted Hughes—the Hughes of the-day-
before-yesterday : “Coalitions are always sub-
versive to the principles of representative
government.”
From A. W. Foster, the Vic. politician to
whom the Government declined a passport as
Australian Socialist delegate to inquire into
Bolshevism in Russia
“Lou” has twice opened his mouth abou.t me.
Each time he has put his foot in it. Permit me to
put mine in this time. He says (B. 7/3/’18) I “first
bobbed up in Nationalist circles.” The result of this
mis-statement was a bitter attack by a Labor col-
league for ratting on the Nationalists. Weil, I’ve
never been a Nationalist and never will be until
they all become Socialists. “Lou” says I was an
opponent of Socialism and that ITyett and others
debated me into a Socialist. The truth is that with
Carse (since killed in Flanders) and Connell I
debated on Socialism against Hyett, Curtin and
Swebleses. We represented the Melbourne Parlia-
mentary and Debating Club. Carse and Connell
were true-blue Liberals. I was a Laborite and
“Attorney-General” in Blackburn’s “Ministry.” Soon
afterwards I gave up the imitation business for some-
thing which meant business. “Lou” (B. 11/4/’18)
tries to correct his mistake. lie says I was a one-
time Rationalist. Wrong again. I’ve been a Ration-
alist for 15 years, half my life, and still am Vic-
torian secretary of the Rationalist Press Association
(Eng.). I object to be called a one-timer when, in
fact, I’ve been an all-the-timer.
Passed out in Melbourne, at 79, Horace
Claringbould, naval veteran of the Crimea
and Indian Mutiny. He was one of Peel’s
party at the relief of Lucknow, and received
the Lucknow medal with two bars. He was
also among the bluejackets who helped in
extinguishing the London Bridge fire in
1861. Coming to Australia he served on the
Cerberus for 23 years, and was coxswain for
Allan Brodie-Tliomas tvhen he was naval
commandant.
“Silas”: Many people of Greater Mel-
bourne realised the loss when James Patrick
Ryan, clever cure-all and bold sportsman,
passed out the other day; but thousands
more, to whom he was only a picturesque
figure with out name or place, would have
felt a pang had they ' been told that he
was the tall, trim, spare-ribbed, smart man
on the long horse, whose keen face, with its
neat, short, pointed beard, was as familiar
to city loungers as the dial of the Town Hall
clock. Dr. Ryan walked his big, sprightly
bay through the city once a day at least, no
longer in a hurry, but as erect and hand-
some a rider as any man of 25. At 70 he
might have posed for an equestrian statue.
He caught every eye, and most strangers
estimated him to be a sprightly buck of not
more than 50.


r
&
boord&son
FINEST DRY GIN
&. OLD TOM
to
Dl
Swift & Company Ltd., Australasian Agents, 26/30 Clarence St., Sydney
Insure with AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE
SOCIETY LIMITED.
Head Office : Corner Pitt
&, King Streets, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 50 Queen Street, Melbourne. 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
FIRE &. ACCIDENT INSURANCES EFFECTED.
PROMPT SETTLEMENTS. EQUITABLE DEALING.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman. G. HOWARD POPE, General Manager.
SPECIAL MILITARY WIRELESS CLASS .
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN A TECHNICAL UNIT *
Our Instructors have arranged a Special Class for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army.
The Tuition extends over four months —Instruction three evenings a week. The course will be made
quite practical, use being made of the installations in the school, also of an aircraft set now being
installed especially for this course. The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and Motor-car Stations, Aeroplane Apparatus, etc., etc.
A SPECIAL RATE OF £8 FOR THE FULL COURSE has been decided, on.
All particulars on application to THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS, Dept. C, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
' SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE THE EMPIRE.
The "Slip-on" Raincoat
Gabardine.
A good Winter coat—useful for walking or motoring; and for outings
generally when the weather is either wet or cold. It is made in the
distinctive loose-fitting Raglan style, buttoning to neck, with military
collar. The material is an Egyptian-cotton Gabardine of Fawn-green shade
with faint shot effect. The shower-proof quality of this coat and its
good appearance make it unique in value at our price of To/
AVe pay postage. Please state height and chest measurements.
New catalogue sent on request.
Men’s Outfitters,
309 and 3JJ GEORGE STREET-
-SYDNEY.
fimiM
* ,/
> i n
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “The Bird of Paradise
Her MajestY’s “Dick Whittington
p.,. rP “Do Luxe Annie
Tivoli .. “The Million Dollar Girl
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
IIOYT > s Moving Pictures
Wirths’ Hippodrome Wirths Ciicus
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOI! COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Bing Boys Are Here
royal “The Willow Tree
r ing ’ s “The Masquerader”
Bijou Fuller’s Vaudeville Co.
Tivoli “Samples”
Hoyt's Du Luxe & Olympia Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
There would be the devil to pay if Satan
looked in at the Sydney Opera House and
saw his understudy in somebody’s new ver-
sion of "The Sorrows of Satan.” George
Cross’s Satan is a genial and suburban devil,
who looks as if he has had a win at the
races and is taking it all home to the wife.
His only sorrow seems to be that lie didn’t
risk a tenner instead of half a crown on
that outsider. lie doesn’t gloat worth 2d.
He is about as fiendish and demoniac and
diabolic and Satanic as a henpecked bus-
band. But lie plays the piano quite nicely.
Gilbert Emery, as his dumb valet and ex-
fiend, achieves the diabolic that his master
misses. Lorna Forbes, as Lady Sybil Elton,
and Muriel Dale, as Mavis Clare, are wasted
in this production. They should be playing
Ibsen. The number of subconscious emotions
and suppressed feelings that they do not
express would make the fortune of a psycho-
logical playwright. Helen Fergus, in a
small old-lady part, is notably convincing;
and Diana Chesney and John Cosgrove, as
Americans, she with a pretty wit and he
with a comic asthma, provide what may be
called the polite comedy. The impolite
comedy is in the hands —or, rather, the feet
—of Harry McDona, as the sort of journalist
who never was on sea or land. Rutland
Beckett is a rather jerky hero; and Clive
Farnham makes an excellent gambler and
almost as impressive a corpse. The melo-
drama is admirably produced ; and the im-
mense audience on Saturday evening was
enthusiastic in its appreciation. Satan will
cease sorrowing on Friday week, in order
to allow “Rasputin” a look-in.
The volcano at Sydney Criterion is still
in working order, though the curtain drops
just before Muriel Starr’s swallow-dive into
its crater. The hula hula ladies are as
brown and squinny as of yore, and Frank
Harvey’s make-up as a beachcomber is as
surprising. The only realistic touch over-
looked is for Frank Harvey to comb his
beaches in the presence of the audience.
This critic has never seen even Manly beach
combed. And it called for the operation—-
shrieked, in fact, all through the surfing
season.
* * *
“The Million Dollar Girl” perishes at Syd-
ney Tivoli on Friday. She was never very
bright, poor thing,
a nd soon got
through her stage
money. Shattuck
and O’Neill and
Mason and Gwynne
have been vaude-
villing successfully
in advance of the
M.D. Girl of late.
Presumably they
will be available
for Saturday’s show
—whatever that
may be.
* * * *
“Aladdin” blows
out the panto lamp
to-night (Thurs-
day) at Sydney
Palace. E m i 1 i e
Polini, from London
and New York,
opens in “De Luxe
Annie” on Satur-
day.
* * * •-:=
“Dick Whitting-
ton,” now four
weeks old at Syd-
ney Majesty’s, is
flourishing many
pairs of shapely
legs at good houses.
Maggie Dickinson
“The Bird of Para-
dise,” at Sydney
Criterion.
Edwin Lester as Mr.
Syson by, missionary.
continues to delight with her dancing, and
the crashing “Cheer-O” ballet is one of the
high-velocity successes of the big panto.
*
Elsa Langley and Billie Wilson are the
brightest stars in “Pierrotland” at Sydney
Playhouse; but the whole sidereal system is
worth observing.
Dolores will open another series of recitals
in the Sydney Town Hall on Saturday, May
4, appearing again on May 7, 9 and 11 in
an entirely new range of programmes, for
which she" has been preparing herself since
her last appearances here over three years
ago.
si: * *
At Hoyt’s iu Sydney and at the Hay-
market Wm. S. Hart and Sylvia Bremer
stand up to the camera and don’t care a hit
who sees them in their wickedness. The
producer has called it “The Narrow Trail.”
There are holds-up and gun-fights, the moun-
tains of Nevada, a San Francisco dance hall,
a horse-race, a romantic escape and finally
regeneration —only a glutton could want
mere for sixpence. The Crystal Palace
screen oozes tragedy, with Norma Talmadge
as its queen. As Panthea she drinks deep
of the bitter cup of the wife who, for love
of her husband, surrenders to the lover who
demands her per-rice. At the Globe Emily
Stevens endures gracefully six acts of the
midnight of neglected wifehood before reach-
ing “Daybreak.” “Polly of The Circus” has
taken the animals and the kindly Vicar to
the Strand ; and numerous infants continue
to be juggled with at the Royal under the
title of “Baby Mine.”
>*:
“Baby Mine,” the Goldwyn picture-version
of Margaret Mayo’s farce, was reeled off at
Sydney Royal on Saturday, with Slapoffski’s
orchestra assisting. On Saturday the ever-
lasting Thaw story will be screened as
“Redemption,” Evelyn Thaw playing herself.
“The Rainbow” quits the sky at Melbourne
Royal after Friday, but for two more nights
Beryl Bryant, in a thin disguise of middle-
age, and Emma Temple, her alleged sister-in-
law, will have to instruct Waldron in what
is socially due to the innocence of the “young
person.” In its main point of variation from
“Mrs. Tanquera.v”
the story of “The
Rainbow” gives the
social system a dig
in the ribs, so to
speak. Whereas
Saint Ellean feels
an instinctive aver-
sion to a step-
mother who hasn’t
been Good, fair
Cynthia is at once
filled with filial
affection for a
father who has
been Naughty. The
in-no-cence of a
young person is
subject to sexual
prejudices, it seems.
She objects to a
once-giddy Paula
for being different,
even in a reformed
state. from the
Good Women of
her acquaintance,
whereas she adores
“The Bing Boys are
Here,” at Her
Majesty's, Melbourne.
Jack Cannot as
Lucifer Bing.
a still-giddy daddy for being different
from the wowsers she has met. There-
fore the misguided parent has to go
away and lose himself in the interests of
young person-hood. Finally, having washed
himself clean in the blood of some rebellious
niggers, he is qualified to assist at his daugh-
ter’s wedding. After which her innocence
becomes less of an obstacle to his paternal
relations, no doubt. The merit of Kathlene
Macdonell’s performance is that it presents
Innocence as being healthy rather than in-
quisitive. Young-lady innocents are apt to
be almost as curious as Eve. On Satur-
day the bill will be “The Willow Tree,” with
its scenes laid in Japan.
“Samples” continues to supply the public
craving for that sort of thing at Melbourne
Tivoli. Nobody can say exactly what sort of
thing “Samples” really is except that it
differs widely from Greek tragedy. Work-
man, Celia Ghiloni, Frank Greene, Nellie
Leach, Marie Eaton, Eileen Boyd, Ethel
Yaugn, Jean Keith, etc., carry on as before,
and the same kiddies walk the plank to the
strains of the Million-Dollar Smile. And
Business, the most important consideration
in the show, is still brisk.
** * *
What “The Bing Boys” needed to ensure
its_ commercial triumph at Melbourne
Majesty’s was a complaint of indecency, and
when this was duly supplied in one of the
first-night notices the show’s fortune was
made. It is vaguely understood that two
rows of chorus girls in a pleasingly-undressed
state stand for the impropriety in question,
or else it is expressed by the illustration of
Quinlan’s Fireside Fancies, which depicts the
same lot of ladies getting warmed in a burn-
ing fiery furnace, like animated chops. To
this writer’s way of thinking, the only dis-
commendable item in the revue is a trio by
Cannot, Holland and Minnie Love., in which
they deliver verses of personal reference to one
another, and are unanimous in thinking that
another little drink wouldn’t do them any
harm. This is an unlovely musical number
in all its bearings—even more deplorable
than the ordinary fatuous ditty which in-
cludes references to members of the orches-
tra, or the ballad that has no purpose in art
“THE BING BOYS ARE HERE," AT
HER MA JESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Exit Clyde Cook.
save an interruption from a hired conspira-
tor in the front stalls. For the rest there is
much that is artistic and more that is enter-
taining in “The Bing Boys.” The objection
that the entertainment has no soul applies
with equal force to its first cousin, the
panto. And Melbourne is desperately fond
of panto, because it always keeps the audi-
ence wondering what will happen next.
Handsome shows of the wild and discon-
nected kind excite twice as much curiosity
as the war in Europe.
** * *
Melbourne King’s has already cleared its
decks for the first performance of “The Mas-
queraders”—very different from “The Mas-
queraders” by H. A. Jones, which Brough
and Boucicault staged in days of old. Guy
Bates Post and several other new people
from America will come to Australian light
on Saturday ; meantime Melbourne is trying
to get used to the hard, stiff sound of the
star’s name.
* •* * *
With a dissipated Baron stalking a virtu-
ous lady in the foreground and the Russian
Secret Police lurking stealthily behind,
“Panthea,” at Melbourne Majestic, promises
a. luscious evening all round. The yarn is
from the Selznick studio, and is no less
enchanting because Lothario pursues his
designs with a politeness that doesn’t even
afford the victim the satisfaction of calling
him a brute. The second feature, “Betty
Takes a Hand,” is trite; yet Olive Thomas
in the name-part has the one touch of arch-
ness that makes the whole film glad.
The Molinaries were hoisted on to the pro-
gramme at Melbourne Bijou on Saturday.
They are an operatic couple, and only need
to follow their own voices to rise high. The
male s'de of the duet has a perfect silvery
tenor that sounds in the loftiest reaches like
a shower of threepenny-bits. De Baker’s
Models are fairly effective as statuary, but
the dim tinted lights that beat upon them
dissolve their outlines in variegated gloom.
Tilton and West, patter merchants and sing-
ers, suggest a couple of confident amateurs at
a milkman’s smoke-night; but the juvenile
Martinis are unaffected in their precocity,
and score full marks in every department of
their turn.
** # *
William S. Hart and Sylvia Bremer, the
Australian, are following “The Narrow
Trail” at Hoyt’s Melbourne shop this week.
William’s cowboy depravity has its counter-
part in Sylvia’s wickedness; and when the
pair collide in the usual Western arsenal,
they drift into an embrace that is tight and
lasting. Elsewhere Kathlyn Williams and
House Peters in “The Highway of Hope”
marry in haste and dissent at leisure.
Towards the end the match promises to end
in smash, but with some faith and finesse the
disputants smother their argument with
kisses.
** * *
It isn’t often Maoriland hears an opera
before Australia, but it happened in Welling-
ton when “Katinka” was presented by the
Royal Comics. There is no ragtime in it;
but there is a story and some delightful
orchestration. Gladys Monerieff as Katinka
sings several songs charmingly, and one
almost believes that she will some day be
able to act. Anyhow, in Turkish trousers of
a canary shade she looks fine. Phil Smith is
cheerful, and Florence Young scores heavily
in two numbers. Roberts has one of his
usual jobs and a uniform. The chorus has
not much to do, and the dressing is very
reminiscent of “Manhattan.” When Aus-
tralia sees the show it will doubtless be pro-
perly clothed and mounted, and this critic’s
idea is that it will win by the charm of its
music.
West’s Pictures in Adelaide started to
show a story called “Enlighten Thy
Daughter.” It was calculated to enlighten
her a whole lot, and the local censors, after
looking at it hard, decided that it was en-
lightening her too much, and prohibited it.
They did the thing in the wrong way. The
nature of the story—which claimed to be a
valuable moral lesson —was widely adver-
tised in advance, and the censorship should
have had its private view before the season
began, not after. That they did the right thing,
in stopping the production at all is a
matter on which all sorts of opinions can
be held. The show has been accepted else-
where as a useful lesson, if painful. But,
anyhow, there has been too much of this
going-astray drama on the stage as well as
the screen lately. Women seem to like it;
to them the sex question is always one of
dead earnest. Man prefers to treat it with
a grin, and hence the success of bright pieces
like “You’re in Love,” which is having a
great run at the Royal. Its idea is saucy
enough for anything, but is carried off by
the lightness and humor of the treatment.
Maud Fane is a charming heroine, and her
slipper scene over the stalls goes well.
** * #
Fred Bluett at Adelaide Majestic has
some highly dubious suggestions in his new
London songs, but is artist enough to get
them accepted without protest. The whole
Fuller crowd from this theatre has now
moved on to Port Adelaide, while the firm’s
“Robinson Crusoe” pantomime comes in.
At the Tivoli a lower type of melodrama
has been dropped for a week in favor of
“The Silence of Dean Maitland,” which gives
an under-rated actor, Fitzherbert, a chance
to leave his usual role of villain and play
the Dean. Wondergraph has Jack Pickford
in a story of a ghost-that-wasn’t, but its
chief attraction is a local firm of the 14,000
children on the Oval making living flags and
a map of Australia.
A man was sentenced at Richmond (Vic.)
the other day for breaking into a baker’s
store and drinking the greater part of a
small keg of ferment. The call of the yeast!
The N.S.W. part of the Australian Labor
party has announced officially that it “recog-
nises the curse of German militarism.” Just
as mildly and casually as if it had happened
to recognise a passing terrier.
The habit of blowing through brass and
wood and banging on stretched sheepskin
was always strong in the Tougher family,
and at one stage the Lithgow (N.S.W.)
Band consisted of a ring of 12 Toughers.
Now James B. of the tribe has taken up
the conductor’s baton dropped by the late
Captain Bentley, and will shake it at the
N. S. Wales State Military Band.
When the Australian Ministry was criti-
cised for spending money on “hislprical”
portraits—which seem to be almost en-
tirely its own portrait based on its own
assurance that it is “historical” —Senator
Givens, whose portrait is to be painted,
offered an explanation. lie said there was a
desire for a picture of Governor-General
Ferguson, who seems to he put in the list as
a saving clause because “he will not always
he with us.” Well, nobody will be always
with us. Is that a reason for painting
everybody at public expense?
A relic of the recent South Aus. elections:
To tiib Electors of Barossa born of German
Parents.
Remember, CONSCRIPTION IS NOT DEAD. The
Labor Party saved your boys in the last two fights.
We are ready to do so again.
The Liberals turned you down in your hour of
need. Now is your chance to wipe out the insult
and turn them down in their hour of need.
Vote for the Labor Candidates.
Authorised by the Executive of the South Aus-
tralian Branch of the Australian Labor Party.
The Bulletin wonders what would happen
to a French politician or a French political
party that made this sort of bid for sup-
port.
“E. J.M.”: Wandering along the gi’een
lanes of Dorset I came across a wayside
inn. It was 5.50 p.m., and the fresh-faced
young woman holding a baby in her arms
chatted to me in the porch until six o’clock,
the provincial time of opening. (In London
it is 6.30.) I weighed out sixpence for a
pint of bitter, the nearest approach to
respectable beer in benighted England.
Staring at me over the mantelshelf was this
legend: —
To Treat or to be treated or to lend money for
the purchase of intoxicating liquor
IS ILLEGAL.
Penalty: Six months’ imprisonment with hard labor
and £lOO fine for those who borrow, pay for, lend,
sell, give or consume contrary to this regulation.
GOD SAVE THE KING.
All the same, in the country pubs “shout-
ing” still goes on quietly. But in London,
excepting in some of the hack streets, you
have to drink strictly on your lonesome.


m
* ~
m
w
11
You Can Learn Free
I‘OW to remove every blemish in a few days. Grace Duncan,
former actress, now offers to tell women of the most remark-
able _ complexion treatment known. This great beauty marvel
has instantly produced a sensation. Stubborn cases have been
cured that baffled physicians and beauty specialists for years.
You have never used or heard of anything like it. Makes
muddy complexions, red spots, pimples, blackheads, freckles,
eruptions vanish almost like magic. No cream, lotion, enamel,
salve, plaster, bandage, mask, massage, diet or apparatus;
nothing to swallow. It doesn’t matter whether or not your
complexion is a “fright,” whether or not your face is full of
muddy spots, peppery blackheads, embarrassing pimples and
eruptions, or whether your skin is rough and “porey.” This
wonderful treatment, in just a few days, positively removes
every blemish and beautifies your skin in a marvellous way.
You look years younger. It gives the skin the bloom and
of purity of a freshly-blown rose.
ALL METHODS NOW KNOWN CAST ASIDE.
There is nothing to wear, nothing to take internally. Your
face, even arms, hands, shoulders a”o beautified beyond your
fondest dreams.. All this I will .bsolutely prove to you before
your own eyes in your mir ~i a few days. This treatment
is absolutely harmless to ;ne most delicate skin, and very
pleasant to use. No changt in your mode of living necessary.
A few minutes daily does it. To every reader of this paper
I will give full details of this really astounding treatment.
Let me show you. You risk nothing. Send me two penny
stamps and your name and address, and I will give you full
details by return mail.
GRACE DUNCAN, Dept. 52, 178 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
To meet the
demand
T.OOHEYS
have brewed a
Special Stout
Equal to Imported.
TRY IT.
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
QUITE SUPERFLUOUS.
"Do you think there should he one law for
the wife and another for the husband?”
"No, I don't —I think a husband is entitled
to all the fun he can get."
“The Carrier”; I’m a van man for a
well-known firm in Brisbane, and every week
I have to deliver several lots of kit that
belonged to departed Billjims. More than
once the widow or mother has fainted when
I have handed her the relics, and I have had to
wait till she has come round to collect a bob
delivery charge. Sometimes I have to help
bring her round. Of course it doesn’t mat-
ter, to the “heads.” But I wish they would
deliver the kits of these men who have died
for their country, and collect the miserable
shillings themselves.
‘‘Sections Right.”: Not many of us have a
good word to say for this place; but I am
stirred to say a few in praise of Palestine’s
brief and lovely Spring. Here, near the
birthplace of Delilah, there is the seemingly
endless sweep of green undulating plain
which mingles with the blue haze of the
Judaean foothills—an entrancing green world
heavily jewelled and frosted with millions
on wild flowers which dance and twinkle
beneath a sun of mellow glory. The blos-
soms grow in such profusion that one may
pick 2U different varieties without shifting
a yard. The flowers are scentless and birds
are songless in Southern Palestine. But
we are truly thankful, nevertheless,
after experiencing the scorching, blinding
days of Sinai and the bitter cold of the
Judaean hills, where the shepherds didn't
watch their flocks on the night of December
24 in the year before the year (>ne. because
they would have froze.
* * * *
"llamer”: The man who gave the military
authorities the idea for the containers that
the food to the front line deserves
IS V.O.’s. The weary soldier doing his 1M
hours’ night shift away out towards No
Man’s Land now has welcome breaks when
stew and tea, porridge and cocoa, coffee and
such things arrive hot. The liquid containers
are wooden cases which strap to the
shoulders of the carriers, the cases being
lined, and having inside the petrol-cans that
hold the refreshment.. The more solid food
goes tip in similar vehicles. These warm
meals make the front line a great deal more
like home than it used to be.
* * * *
“Bombardier”: The Australian soldier is
allowed to draw a shilling a day while on
board a transport. At the end of the trip
an inventory of what are called barrack-
room damages is made. In our case the
‘‘damages” consisted of 150 burnt-out or
broken electric bulbs, 20 wind-chutes that
a severe blow had forced from the portholes
into the sea, missing blankets (probably in
the crew’s quarters, for they could not pos-
sibly be stowed in a man’s kit-bag), knives,
forks, spoons, plates, pannikins, brooms,
dixies, scrubbing-brushes, mops, hammocks,
tarpaulins, wash-basins and a hundred and
one other items, some of which we had never
suspected were aboard. All these supposed
shortages were totalled up at a liberal price,
and each man was levied on to make good
the “damage —close on £lOO. After paying
levies for the cooks, for the ship’s paper,
ior widows of men deceased on voyage, and
a few other items not very much of our bob
was left. We were thankful the ship was
not torpedoed—we might have had to pay
for a new one.
* * » *
“Peter”: Our flying column (infantry
and artillery) was terribly short of wood.
The sun was nearly, but not quite, hot
enough to boil our dixies and give us the
tea that is the best pick-
me-up in the army, bar-
ring rum. Things looked
dismal till our guns
started to smash an Arab
fort. At once the inhabi-
tants, scattered about in
their tent villages, came
hurrying in waving all
sorts of white flags carried
on various kinds of poles,
shovels, etc. We were
sitting on our nags await-
ing anything that might
happen when along trotted
an old Arab staggering
under the weight of a
fair-sized elothes-prop.
Attached to it was his
white flag—evidently the
first thing he could grab;
one of those intimate
feminine things a respect-
able young Billjim does not see till lie’s
married. Blushingly we puckerooed the pole
and passed the flag back to the owner’s hus-
band.
“Billgent One”: It is the pleasant custom
of the various quotas due to embark in Aus-
tralia to raise Comforts Funds by means
of private subscriptions, etc., to provide little
extras, such as tinned fruits, pickles, tobacco
and chocolate for the men on the voyage.
The funds so raised are administered by a
committee selected by the men. It often
happens that the money is not all spent by
the time the men reach camp, and sometimes
the quota expects to be allowed to disburse
the balance as it may think lit. But the
military authorities have other ideas on the
subject: wherefore the men are no sooner
settled in camp than a demand is made for
the unexpended balance, which is to be paid
into some _ regimental fund. Several quotas
which arrived in England recently had bal-
ances ranging from £27 to £7O, and in each
case the O.C. was ordered by the adjutant
of the camp to furnish a balance-sheet and
hand over the surplus. One case was
brought under the notice of Headquarters,
London, the result being a reference to a
A T O HONOR AMONG THIEVES.
COHEN : "Veil, are you getting your affairs straightened oudt ?”
MISFITSKI : "Dey vos all in a tangle. Vot you fink? Dot assignee is forkin' in mit dem
greditors."
certain Army Order. Of course it is right,
since Headquarters cannot be wrong; never-
theless all Comforts Funds committees should
see to it that their money is expended before
they reach England unless they think it
right that the balance should be taken out
of their hands.
* * * *
“Duglio”; It happened the other day
while our siege battery was out having a
“spell.” No. Z Section was detailed to draw
rifles so as to keep in practice for presenting
arms, etc., after (he war. One of the din-
kum doers announced that he “wasn’t
goin' ter carry no rifle” and before leaving
the billet he planted his gnu between the
stone floor and the mattress.. When the
parade fell in he successfully hid himself
between his mates, and all went well until
the first "Slo-Panns” was given. At once
he was spotted from the sergt.-major’s
O-Pip. The martinet looked him up and
down. “Haven’t you got your rifle with
you V" he roared. “Well, to tell you the
Gorstruth. ' says the hard-doer. ”1 'are got
it with me ; but it’s in me pocketbook.”
There is a thoroughly characteristic S.
Australian touch about the confession of a
convicted burglar in Adelaide : being in grave
danger of arrest on a rather famous occasion,
be prayed hard, and so escaped. The occa-
sion was last September, when a man was
seen to enter a city warehouse, and could
not be found although the place was closely
surrounded and searched all the next day.
Having now got four years for something
else, he seems anxious—like .Toe Garson in
“Within the Law” —to get full credit for
his cleverness. He was on a shelf, 12ft. up,
behind a row of hatboxes, all the time the
search was going on, and was not spotted.
His worst moment came at 4 a.m. on the
second day, when he climbed down a spout
and saw a man on the watch. He prayed,
he claims, that the man might fall asleep,
and his prayer was answered. But he has
now been gathered in on a different charge.
Perhaps he did not pray hard enough this
time; or possibly the supplications of the
police had more punch in them.
*** % *
The frequency with which bagfuls of valu-
ables entrusted to the Post Office in Sydney
for delivery through registered post disappear
is a hilarious achievement. This paper is not
sure whether the bagful of notes and cheques
and engagement-rings vanishes every day or
only three or four times a week. Keeping
lab of the frequent disappearance and futile
pursuit long ago became a weariness. Its
idea is that, pending elucidation of the
reasons which make the larceny of regis-
tered mailbags easier than embezzlement of
a pot of beer, the departmental methods
ought to be changed. At present a letter
can be registered for 2d., and at this cheap
rate immediately placed in dire peril. The
charge for registration should at once be
increased to £175 10s. fid. All letters and
packets which are registered in spite of this
should be retained in a burglar-proof safe
until the end of the year, being counted
every hour in the meantime. Then at the
end of 12 months such as could be discovered
should be surrounded by an armed guard
and delivered in charge of an official of
blameless record, accompanied by 17 audi-
tors and the full strength of the secret
police. This might possibly prevent the
entire collection being sneaked and save
Webster a lot of worry. The craze for de-
livering valuable property for 2d. has clearly
a lot to answer for.
IN HER LINE.
"Don't you think this camouflage shirt suits
me?"
“Admirably! It attracts so much attention .”
THE HAPLESS ARMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“A soldier braving: disease and death on the battle-
field lias a seven times better chance of life than a
new-born baby. The average of deaths at the Front
is about 2 per cent, per annum. Of babies in the
l nited States 14 per cent, die before they are one
year old. The percentage of infantile mortality in
Kngland is higher.”— Baker, Secretary of I Far, t'.S.A.
The Hapless Army from t lie dark
That lies beyond creation,
Ml blinded by the solar spark,
And leaderless in lands forlorn,
Oome stumbling through the mists of morn ;
And foes in close formation,
W ith taloned fingers dripping red,
Bestrew the sodden world with dead.
The Hapless Army bears no sword ;
Fell destiny fulfilling,
It marches where the murder horde,
Amid the fair new urge of life,
With poison stream, and shot, and knife,
Make carnival of killing.
No war above black Hell's abyss
Knows evil grim and foul as this.
Jn pallid hillocks lie the slain
The callous heaven under;
Like twisted hieroglyphs of pain
They fleck earth to oblivion’s brink,
As far as human mind may think,
Accusing God with thunder
Of dreadful silence. Nought it serves—
Fate ever calls the doomed reserves !
Still with Death’s own monotony
The innocents are falling,
Like dead leaves in a forest dree;
And still the conscript armies come.
No banners theirs, no beat of drum,
No merry bugles calling!
Mad ally in the Slayers’ train,
Man slays and sorrows for the slain!
VICTOIUA.
EDWARD DYSON.


SHIRLEY
KHAKI
SHIRTS
to measure.
A lion for wear; practically untear able
and indestructible material. Just what
the man on the land needs for every-
day purposes. Made to special order
with two pockets, as picture, 9/- each;
or ONE pocket, 8,6. PATTERNS FREE.
PIKE
BROTHERS
LIMITED,
BRISBANE.
T
M
iZm'mhi
' 1!
S* I®
m
cay
s<pF9
Electric FANS.
mum ii iriwii——^—B——■—)
All Standard Types
in Stock =====
British General Electric Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY
257 Clarence Street.
MELBOURNE WELLINGTON, N.Z.
590 Bourke Street. 8 Willeston Street.
“Billjim 2207": What does it cost the
Australian Government to cover the head of
Billjim when he leaves home? Since the
war god woke, all men setting sail from the
country that I haven’t seen for three years
are issued with hat (Australian pattern)
and cap (Service). Now, the cap is dis-
carded upon arrival in England. Authority
over this side forbids us to wear any head-
gear other than the distinguishable and
distinguished “slouch.” Even if the good
soldier keeps his kit complete until leaving
for France he invariably throws the cap
away when issued with a steel helmet, lie
then has quite enough to carry, thank you.
I wouldn't mind, but I have to help to pay
for this unnecessary gift when I smell the
wattle bloom again.
“A.CV: A humble tribute to the art of
George Lambert should touch the heart of
every visitor to the Australian Loan Exhibi-
tion, now open at N.S.W. National Gallery.
In “Lottie and the Lady” Lambert has, as
incidentals in a beautiful silver-grey color
scheme, two tine dead fish lying on a kitchen
table. An artistic blowfly has tried to get
in to blow those fish, and his dead body lies
jambed between the glass and the canvas at
the other end of the picture. He died in a
good cause, which is rare with blowflies.
The Licensing Court in Adelaide is exer-
cising the power (which the (Supreme Court
denied it, but the High Court allowed) of
deciding whether there are too many hotels
in the city itself, even though the last
Local Option poll decided against any reduc-
tion. The city is a clearly-defined area,
surrounded by the park lands. Its popula-
tion was 32,000 in 1908, and is less than
that now. though the number in city and
suburbs has increased from 181,000 to
22.1.000. There are still 108 public houses
“inside the terraces,” though two lost their
licenses lately and three have voluntarily
gone out of business. The overcrowding
is mostly in the West End, the oldest part.
The Court finally gave a general opinion
that there seemed to be too many, and inti-
mated that some, at present not named,
may have to be on their defence when
licenses come up for renewal next June.
* * * . *
“C.”: I’ve only witnessed one murder in
my life and it involved me in a passionate
argument with a large, stupid detective. As
a Maori land kid 1 was sent out on a message
one moonlit evening. As I passed a lonely
A FAMILY AFFAIR.
FLOSSIE: “Does Charlie's old man know he
gave you a motor-car?'
QUEENIE : “ What's the odds? His. dad gave
me one, too."
paddock I saw what I took to be three
drunks fighting. I could hear no words,*.but
caught a sound which suggested repeated
blows on the ground with a stick. I fled
on, told the story on my return, and, a day
or so later, everybody was saying that a
man’s head had been battered in. My yarn
gradually filtered down to the police, and a
large D. arrived to collect me and my story.
The argument started on the way to the
station. I told him exactly what I had seen
and heard. “Oh, no, son,” he objected ; “it
didn’t sound like someone hitting the ground
with a stick ; it sounded like someone hit-
ting a head w r ith a stick.” I remember say-
ing I had never seen anyone hiting a head
with a stick and didn’t know wdiat it sounded
like. Then he started to bully me to try to
force me to tell my his wmy ; but I’m
proud to remember that I held out. The
man-killers were fitted with 14 years apiece
without any twist to my story, and I’ve been
sorry for police witnesses ever since.
BEFORE SHE GETS USED TO IT.
" Mummy, when I grow big won't I feel strange for a day or two."
“T. 0.1.”.: An ancient landmark in the
“Rocks” area of Sydney is doomed. This is
the brick sclioolhouse in Harrington-street,
now occupied by the Marists, but opened in
the dawning .’forties as St. Philip’s Infant
School —one of the first, if not the first, of
the kind in Australia.
* % * *
One of the first cases which came before
Chief Justice Irvine of Victoria was an
appeal against a decision of the Bendigo
magistrates. A lady
who had married her
uncle sued for main-
tenance, which the:
Petty Sessions re-
fused on the ground
that the marriage
was null and void
and that an uncle
wasn’t bound to sup-
port his niece. The
other side of the
case wasNfhat Petty
Sessions wasn’t a
Divorce Court, and
that an uncle who
had become a hus-
band ought to re-
main a husband and
pay up as one till a
competent Court de-
cided to the con-
trary. So the pro-
blem of the man who
was a husband when
it suited him and a
mere uncle when he
felt that way was sent back to . the Bendigo
magistrates for reconsideration.
* * * *
There are times when the long arm of the
Law would be the better for a little amputa-
tion. In the distant past—May, 1914, to be
exact —Arthur Beggs, of Kerang (Vic.),
collided with the Law through shooting ’pos-
sums, and was ordered to pay £5 fine, £l5
the value of the beasts’ skins and £3 costs,
in default two months’ gaol. Instead of
obeying he temporised and then went away
to shoot Huns, Turks and other pests. He
came back lately, badly damaged, and then
the Law remembered. He was about to do
the two months when a local pub sent the
cash along and a whip-round at the Kerang
saleyards recouped him. But the Law isn’t
always so remembersome. Ask the rebel-
lious labor unions that have been fined for
striking.
* * * *
That vociferous platformist, Methody-
parson Henry Worrall, of Melbourne, who
loses no opportunity to let Henry Worrall
say a few words, has come forward to con-
demn the War-Loan-encouraging scheme now
being conducted by various patriotic Aus-
tralian firms. These firms issue a num-
bered ticket with each War Bond sold
through them; and handsome cash prizes
provided at the firms’ expense will go to the
holders of the winning tickets at a subse-
quent drawing. "To crown gambling by
legal enactment is.” according to Henry,
“tremendous devilry—a mad and wicked
attempt to cast out Beelzebub by the power
of Beelzebub.” The other view is that Beel-
zebub is in possession of Belgium, Serbia
and northern France, and if these patriots in
business have devised a little Beelzebub who
will help to cast him out, let us shake that
creature friendly-like by the tail and bid him
welcome. Every brand of Christianity, like-
wise Mohammedans and Buddhists and mixed
“Pagans,” are in the fighting-line. And if
Baal and Ashtaroth and Melkarth and
Dagon (who swallowed Jonah) and Diana
of the Ephesians will carry a gun they will
be welcome. Even Chemosh won't be re-
jected if he can pass the doctor.
“Thomas Francis”: It is
becoming impossible nowadays
to purchase text-books on
Anatomy. The majority of
these are German productions,
and those which are not are
printed in Germany. The shock-
ing result of Britain’s old
dependence on the Hun is seen
in the wild rush by second-year
medical students to purchase a
well-known Atlas of Anatomy :
before the war it could be bought
for £3 or s£4, but is now worth
nearly £lO. First-hand copies
are unprocurable in Australia,
and a third-year man with one
to dispose of is the object of as
much attention as a titled heir-
ess. The shortage isn’t, of
course, confined to medical
books. A glance down the Book-
seller’s price lists suffices to
show the extent to which the
publication of technical books
had fallen into German hands.
A pathetic feature of the busi-
ness now is the fatuous com-
placence with which we regard
the prospect of obtaining pirated
editions and supplies from
America as a means of replacing an enemy
trade.
* * * *
“Publius Syrus”: Oldring, the Trawool
murderer, who was hanged in Melbourne
gaol last week, spent the interval between
hope and rope in theological study. In grati-
tude to the chaplain he offered him his few
possessions, being unable to invite the rev.
comforter to come out and see if he had a
mouth on him. The official asphyxiaters,
following the usual Victorian custom, were
disguised as something resembling tramp
cyclists of the vaudeville stage —goat-beards,
masks and red noses. Oldring admitted his
guilt to the chaplain. It made no difference.
"Sim" : When you push a letter into one
of Webster's post-office chutes these times
you never know what the future has in store
for it. Recently I agreed to deliver a lec-
ture, a date among several suggested to
be chosen by the promoters. When they had
fixed the day they posted me programmes—
that was a week in advance. Ten days later
they came safely to hand ; but meantime, of
course, I'd missed my own circus.
.** * *
A gentleman of a Syrian complexion was
up before the City Court. Melbourne, the
other day for having a fairly comprehensive
house-breaking plant in his possession. The
tools comprised skeleton-keys, cutting-pliers,
a detonator, a fully-loaded revolver, two
spare magazines for same fully charged,
two boxes of cartridges, an electric torch
and a false moustache. The ingenious one
NO SURRENDER.
THE GENERAL: " Und your tam men sur-
rendered?"
OFFICER: “ Nein, sir! His Imperial Majesty's
Tirty-second Uhlans never-r-r surren-
der! We ran, sir!"
attempted to explain away the ironmongery.
The pliers, he affirmed, he had “found” in
a drawer in his lodgings; the dynamite-caps
and keys he had “picked up” in the Fitzroy
Cardens. He bought the moustache for a
“joke” ; and he used the electric torch to
see the time in the early morning. The
assiduous collector seemed quite astonished
when the unconvinced beak remarked “six
months.” It’s an unbelieving world.
HER SACRED HAT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I etitioner said respondent developed a violent tem-
per. On one occasion he became enraged over some-
thing, and, snatching her hat from her head, trampled
it under his feet. —Divorce Court item.
Her heart had broken long before,
Her soul was scarce her own ;
Her body sick, her spirit sore,
She merely liked the clothes she wore,
For Love the house had flown.
She only felt a thrill of joy
At intervals, alas—
Twas when she quizzed, demure and coy,
Her new hat in the glass.
It sat above her careworn face,
That frail and dainty thing,
And gave her back some girlish grace
With magic wrought by straw and lace
Till she could dance and sing.
She used to “try it on" for hours
When he was far away,
And cheerful thoughts sprang up like flowers
In lonely woman’s play.
She weathered many married gales
By virtue of that tile,
For, after curses, sobs and wails,
She’d try it on with different veils,
And raise at last a smile.
But when the wily monster guessed
What kept her spirit free,
With his wild feet he did the rest,
And made it like a mad bird’s nest.
That was tljc end ; her joys went west —
She ran for a decree.
x.s. w.
KODAK.


THE BEAR OF ALL COUNTRIES.
(FOR THE BULLETI)
JT ~TPON the wallaby lie goes,
f/ Sundowner of the Everywhere;
The tracks of every land he knows,
The Ever-Wandering Native Bear.
Gallipoli his footprints saw;
hi that old cave he had his lair;
And Cocos Island felt the paw
Of our amphibious Austral Bear.
To Nimrod's country he has gone,
A goggled swaggie of the air.
He bombed the way to Babylon,
This casual, cussing Flying Bear.
lie's on this Globe's remotest hem;
Where'er you go you find him there.
He's camping at Jerusalem —
The Viceroy is an Austral Bear.
All over France he's on the tramp;
■ There’s nothing he won't do or dare.
You'll find the ashes of Iris camp,
And other debris everywhere.
N.S.W.
A. H. ADAMS.


TIME AND IMPORTUNITY.
THE BEGGAR: “Spare a trifle of information, sir! Just a hint!”


ZANETIC Penduplicating' Paper ensures perfect,
permanent copies with absolute ease. If your dealer
does not stock, send to 5.8., Zanetic Works, Leicester,
England. It’s All-British, and economical in use. [2
IT The medicine that goes hand in hand with good health—a kind of twin brother —that
brings physical confidence, strength, mental energy and clearness, is Clements Tonic,
because it possesses those specific properties that rebuild the human constitution. It
strengthens the working parts, cleanses the stomach, purifies the blood, thus creating new
conditions with good health results to the user. If any greater proof is required of the
powers of this splendid medicine, the testimonies given afford it, written by those
who can well afford by experience to judge of its merits. For the general good of
the public they are published throughout Australia, and are well worth reading.
Over 300 voluntary letters in praise of this nerve remedy have been received in the last few months, which may be seen and verified at the
offices of the Company, Clements Tronic Ltd., Rozelle. Get it from your chemist or stove to=day, and getwell. Do not wait until to-morrow.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.'W.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“Bullecourt”: At this moment the four
chief officers on Birdwood's staff are young
Queensland Generals. White still looks after
operations; Brand, for the time being, is
doing administration; the artillery is in
Coxen’s hands; Foott is chief engineer. No
finer team ever pulled a coach out of the
mud.
A MOST INCONVENIENT WAR.
SHE: “Yes. I know its winter over there
when it’s summer here, but I don’t see
why that should stop you enlisting.”
HE: “Well, you see, if I enlist at the begin-
ning of the summer I miss all the
season’s surfing, and if I go at the end
I would just about finish training in
time to go into the trenches for the bally
winter.”
Corporal Charlie Fern, Labor M.L.A. for
Cobar (N.S.W.), just gone out in the mid-
thirties to lung trouble, after years of suffer-
ing, had one of the party’s most comfortable
seats. After leaving St. Joseph’s R.C. Col-
lege, Hunter’s Hill, he took to mining, and
attracted attention at a conference at Cobar
just in time to get. a cvalk-over for Chief
Sec. Donald Macdonnel’s old preserve Avhen
that stalwart A.W.U. man Avent under seven
years ago. Those Avho knew Fern’s physical
condition Avere amazed Avhen he Avas accepted
for active service. They guessed Avfiat a
winter in France Avould do for him. Of
resonant voice and ready speech he proved
an excellent recruiter in the days Avhen a
recruiter could do something; but in the
Assembly he never really struck form,
through being too cramped by the thongs of
procedure and the chains of party.
W. A. Freeman, avlio joined up Avith Car-
michael’s Thousand in Sydney last week, Avas
the solicitor for the defence in a case Avhieh
led to Carmichael’s retirement for a while
from the N. S. Wales Government. Car-
’OT STUFF.
B ILLJIM: “By cripes, it was ’ot when we
was in Egypt—129 degrees in the
shade.”
HIS GUEST : “Y’ didn’t ’are t’ stay in the
shade all the time, didyer?”
michael wasn’t a party in the matter; but
his attitude at the time deeply impressed
the young lawyer. Freeman, though he has
never quitted the law, has for some years
devoted most of his time and tremen-
dous energy to mining, and is largely respon-
sible for the profitable attention which Aus-
tralia has given to tin-dredging in the Malay
Peninsula. He is chairman of directors of
numerous Austral-Malay cos. A younger
brother, a mining engineer, was killed on
Gallipoli. Their father is William Freeman,
formerly chairman of Land Boards in N. S.
Wales, and one of the straightest men that
ever tracked down a dummy selector.
Among the candidates for Irvine’s seat in
the House of Reps, is a young Captain S. M.
Bruce, who has brought back a limp, an
M.C. and a Croix de Guerre, and now hunts
a solace for his compulsory inactivity.
Bruce, who is related to the Melbourne soft-
goods firm of Paterson, Laing and Bruce, was
a notable oarsman a few years back, and
once took part in the struggle between
Oxford and Cambridge. Before he went to
England for some extra education he pulled
a strong oar for Melbourne Grammar. In
those days he was “Janey.”
One of Australia’s best judges of stock
went west the other day—Bob Clarke, mana-
ger of Rupert Clarke’s Belinda Vale estate.
He was not related to Australia’s old nobility
of the same name, but had served the family
from boyhood. In the Victorian financial
crash 28 years ago Bob, on reading that a
bank in which old William had a large in-
terest had gone to the pack, hurried to town
and told the old chap: “You’ve always paid
me Avell, and I’ve managed to save £5OOO.
If it’s any use, here it is,” and he planked
his cheque on the table.. That was the sort
of man Bob was, and pastoralists all over
Australia will be sorry to hear of his pass-
ing. If there are no Shorthorn cattle in the
Beyond, Robert will be a dashed unhappy
angel.
Farrington, Carter and Lynch, three old
boy-chums from Burwood (Sydney), met at
the Anzac Buffet in London the other day,
all blind. Farrington had just arrived from
Germany, a repatriated prisoner of war.
The other two are at St. Dunstan’s Hostel
for blinded soldiers and sailors.
Paddy Webb, Socialist, member for Grey
(M.L.), sentenced to two years’ gaol for
disobeying military orders after being called
up under the Conscription law, first found
his tongue in the Rutherglen (Vic.) P.L.C.,
13 years ago. He soon agitated himself out
of work in those parts. Later he bobbed up
as a union official among the coal-miners on
the West Coast of M.L., was prominent in
the first Federation of Labor over there, and
was right up in the front of the general
strike of 1913. A great mob orator, he one
day urged his men to stick out until they
could wipe the tears from their eyes with the
slack of their stomachs.
A Sydney daily lately reported the finish
of Mrs. Elizabeth Moore, allegedly 105.
She fell downstairs at the age of 104 J, and
“it is said that the mishap accelerated her
death.” Whatever inaccuracies that paper
may have on its soul, it struck a great truth
when it decided that a lady of 1041 years
isn’t benefited and recuperated by taking the
stairs in one jump.
Recently passed through Sydney, E.
Hugoniot, before the war a mining and
metallurgical engineer of much
promise; since the war military
engineer of some achievement. The
outbreak found Hugoniot in France
arranging with his people for the
erection in Ncav Caledonia of a
large electric-furnace plant for
producing ferro-nickel. He had
harnessed the falls at Tao, New
Caledonia, and treated successfully
20 to 30 tons of ore daily. The
onrush of the Ilun caused the
scheme to be put on the shelf, and
Hugoniot when next heard from
was in the trenches at Belfort. The
i French Government early realised
that a bayonet was not the right
tool for a man like this, and in
common with other technical
Frenchmen he was hauled out of
the trenches and put in his place.
He was appointed Engineer to the
Minister for War. The job in-
volved the creation and organisa-
tion of numerous munition-works
in France, and he had been on a
flying visit to New Caledonia in
connection with this business.
From “the Australian colony in New
York” :
Australians residing in New York suffered a
grievous loss on February 4 by the sudden death of
George Penboss, for many years President of the
Australian Society of America and the inspiration
of its very successful work in connection with war
relief. Mr. Penboss, who had reached the age of
50, was a native'of Newcastle (N.S.W.). His home
in this city was an open house for visiting Aus-
tralians, and his hospitality and aid unlimited to
those of his countrymen who failed to find fortune
awaiting them here. A prominent figure in the
rubber trade of the country, he had established an
enviable reputation in New York business circles.
He leaves a wife and daughter.
Little Longwood, in the “Kelly country”
of Victoria, which
produced the late
Leslie Mavgar and
Fred Tubb, V.C.’s,
and has scored a
galaxy of other war-
honors, now claims
another streak of
glory from the Bel-
gian Croix de Guerre,
won by Major Griffiths
Chomley, a son of
George Chomley of
Killeen. Major'
Chomley was a Mel-
bourne Grammar boy
who joined in the
Boer disturbance,
where he nearly pulled
off the V.C., and after-
wards settled in the
Orange Free State.
When Potsdam boiled
over he went to Eng-
land and enlisted and
is still going strong.
MAJOR BROSNAN,
D.A.A.G. and Q.M.G.,
Tasmania.
Outed in a fight with five Hun ’planes,
one of which he brought down, plucky Rene
Joubert, of the French Aviation Corps, aged
35. Rene Joubert wrote one of the most
graphic accounts of the Battle of Verdun
that was penned. He went through it
all, from the crushing of Haudromont to
the final repulse of the Hun. Originally a
corporal in the Eighth Infantry of the Line,
he had accumulated three wounds, a ser-
geant’s chevron and the Croix de Guerre
before joining the Flying Corps as a pilot.
“Mookingah’s” plain tale : —•
When Clive Conriek, of Napper Merri station,
Cowper’s Creek (Q.), got news of the outbreak of war
he saddled up and started for Adelaide, 800 miles
away. lie was rejected there, and at once took boat
PUTTING SIS WISE.
THE MAID: “What are the men rolling the
black things about for?”
SID: “Well, I’ll tell yer. They bowl those
things over the grass, yer see, to flatten
it, and, then they’re goin’ to play tennis
can’t yer see they’ve got white pants
on!”
for Hobart, where lie was again turned down. He then
sailed to Sydney, where he was accepted as a private
in the Eight Horse, and got away to Egypt. He is
now an officer. In the mess in Palestine one night
the Major, an Englishman, told a tale of his uncle
named Weir, who, travelling on Cowper’s Creek
(Q.), could not find water. Being unable to go any
farther, he wrote a note explaining his position and
gave it to his blackfellow with orders to carry on.
The black was fortunate to find water about two
miles distant, whereupon he returned to Weir and
saved his life. When the Major had finished the yarn
young Conrick remarked, “We must be cousins,
Major, as that Weir was my uncle.” Before the
Major could reply the Adjutant chipped in, “Allow
me to join the family circle. That Weir was also my
uncle.” Thus three cousins, unknown to each other,
and gathered from the ends of the earth, had met in
an officers’ mess in Palestine, and the recital of a
tale of their uncle’s hardships in Queensland was
their introduction to one another.
Captain George Hendy-Pooley, of South
Head, Sydney, who died lately at 84, owned
medals for service in the Crimea, China
(two clasps) and Jamaica. In Jamaica he
and his wife went through the insurrection
with Governor Eyre—the same Eyre who
made the journey across Australia. A naval
grandfather, Pengelly, was a middy on the
first British man-o’-war that went through
the Dardanelles; a son, Herbert, was killed
at Menin Road last September, and three
grandsons are serving in France, two' with
cuff-stars in the British regular army. One
of them has a Military Cross for special
action at Mons.
J. C. Waine, the contractor who built the
Lands Office, the biggest and about the
worst lighted and most wasteful block of
public buildings in Australia, died at Itand-
wick (N.S.W.) last week. A few years
after he had hoisted up effigies of a hundred
or so explorers, politicians, etc., into niches
on the four fronts of this building, he went
out of the business and worked overtime at
bowls and municipal politics. Once he threw
for Parliament; but after missing by only
three votes he thought better of it. He was
a major in the old St. George’s Rifles, and
had almost a regiment of boys at the Front.
The financial methods of the late King
John, who used to assure the success of his
war-loans by drawing the teeth of Isaac
and Esau until they produced their hidden
shekels to ransom the rest, have been im-
proved upon by an eight-year-old State-
school damsel at Balkamaugh South (Vic.).
Required to set out how she had earned £1
for the Young Workers’ Certificate given by
the Education Department and £1 for the
War Loan, she produced this schedule: —
Carted wood. Milked the cow.
Cleaned boots. Dug the garden.
Washed the dishes. Had my teeth pulled out.
Took lunches to the men Shut the ducks up every
at work. . nl - ht
Brought the horses in Went messages.
and led them up to Pulled weeds.
be unyoked. Washed the separator.
APRES LA GUERRE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Footmen, horsemen, artillery and camel men
Striding down the foreign roads, face to home again,
Itose in hat and helmet, song upon the lips,
Sammy, Anzac, Canuck, swinging to the ships.
From the Plains of Italy, from the fields of France,
From the banks of noisome Nile to the waiting ships,
With fife and drum a-rolling, and gaily flashing
lance,
The boys march to gather the kiss from waiting lips.
Footmen, horsemen swinging down the highways
Beaten of the ages, planned in Homan days,
Swept by Caesar’s lohorts, by Crusader sung,
Trod by every freelance Celt when the world
was young.
Silky head a-dreaming warm amid your pillows,
Kisses ripe upon your lips, sighing as they wait;
True Love, so eagerly, on the dancing billows,
Stretches wide his hungry arms to fold his melting
mate.
Khaki, Kiltie, Mist Blue and Olive Green,
Marching through the home town, lithe and
brown and lean —
Oh, his clasps and medals shining in the sun,
Who would marry Stay-at-llomes who never
fired a gun!
Broider swift the wedding veil, fleetly sew the gown,
All around the earth it is orange-blossom time,
From New York to Sydney, the Bluff to London
town,
Mendelssohn is pealing, and joy-bells are a-chime.
Footmen, horsemen, striding down the old track,
Footing it along the road, gaily marching back,
Rose in hat and helmet, songs upon the lips,
The boys who fought the long fight are swing-
ing to the ships.
N.S.AV.
NORA McAULIFFE.


Spa®;
HE appearance of a suit of clothes
when new very often belies its
worth. Hidden by the fabric,
which in itself may be of good quality, are
the details of material and workmanship
which represent the essential basis of
good tailoring and determine the life of
your suit.
In Austral Tailoring the same standard of
quality is maintained in the foundation
building of each separate garment as is
revealed by the outward smartness of the
completed Sac Suit.
With fifty years of reputation for honest service at stake we
naturally consider more than the customer’s first order, and the
consequence is that every garment we make not only looks well
but, what is of more importance, yields wear. The appearance
of an Austral Sac Suit when first worn is but the outward
expression of inward worth.
%m
m
mm
m£
lIMII
i
iM
km
m
mSSmmi
mm
Wi
HP
,*5
L\\v>
H
n
Mfimmssm
‘£k&
>vaL*-Y
i
»
a®
Bfi
«W«H
»i
KSm
mmm
Mm
mMm
■a*.
ftjtngpfl
*Vr
■feS.!'
mm
»is
iiiiiiHiiiiiiiililiiililllHlirniiliUniTllTliiiiiUiii'i
AUSTRAL Sac Suits
TO MEASURE
75/-, 85/-, 95/-, 105/-, 115/-,
128/-, 147/-, 157/8.
Men who live in the country, or whose business makes it inconvenient for
them to come and be measured in person, are offered the same advantages
of Austral Tailoring service as if they lived in town. The Austral System
of self-measurement has been so simplified by years of constant study that
by its use any man may order by post with assurance of complete success.
Further than this, we guarantee a customer's satisfaction with every order.
Send to-day for Patterns and Self-measurement Forms.
We send these post free to any address on request.
CARRIAGE PAID ON ALL COUNTRY ORDERS.
gsd
g
dg
484 to 490 George St.
3+o 17 Royal Arcade.
304- t 0306 George St, near Hunter Si


BRITISH owni;d and CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building.
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF— BUYERS OJT A SPECIALITY FAVORABLE
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead . . ..
Assay Lead (liar and Granu.ated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal „ ...
TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Read Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade*
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
BHAS
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
STEEL CASTINGS.
We make the FINEST STEEL CASTINGS obtainable
ranging in weight from a Pound or so up to
SIX or EIGHT TONS; also MANGANESE STEEL
CASTINGS of best quality.
It will be to your interest to let us have your enquiries.
Chas. Ruwolt Pty. Ltd.
Victoria Street, Richmond,
Victoria.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Paul and Gray, Ltd. (Sydney), carrying
on business as ship chandlers, etc., at Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane and elsewhere: —
Written To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1907. .£14,389 17$ p.c.=£12,020 £2,369 £4,520
Premiums on new shares .. 1,000 5,520
1905.. 9,142 10 p.c. = 7,468 1,674 7,194
Dec:,
1909.. 6,440 84 „ „ 7,468 £342 5,824
1910.. 8,387 10‘ „ „ 7,468 124 795 6,619
1911.. 7,551 10 „ „ 7,468 83 6,702
Premiums on new shares .. 1,330 8,032
1912.. 12.876 10 p.c. - 8,000 4,876 12,908
1915. . 12,747 10 „ „ 9,306 3,441 16,349
Premiums on new shares .. 122 16,471
1914.. 13,417 10 p.c. = 11,580 1,837 18,308
1915.. 21.890 15 „ „ 18,000 3,890 22,198
1916. . 25,021 15 „ ~ 18,000 7,021 29,219
1917.. 28,342 15 ~ ~ 18,000 10,342 39,561
“The amount of War Time Profits Tax
which will require to be paid is not yet
known,’’ the directors say, “but ample pro-
vision will be found for this in the balance
to be carried forward.” No doubt; but what-
ever the amount may be it will reduce the
profits and the reserves shown above.. That
a co. such as this can’t figure approximately
its liability shows what a rotten tax it is.
Heaven only knows what a country can
expect when it permits itself to be governed
by a Ministry whose one object in life is to
stick there, and for that reason lets every-
thing slide that seems likely to embarrass it.
It may be taken for granted that so long as
the Government can borrow it won’t tax, and
therefore all that it is likely to collect out of
that £28,342 will be pretty harmless.
Though shipping has been disorganised
this co. has been able to more than double its
profits since the war began; which shows
that somebody has been paying pretty big
prices—mostly out of borrowed money, of
course. There have been handfuls of it:
men who had been thinking in shillings have
suddenly been called upon to deal in thou-
sands, and a penny or two has been neither
liei-e nor there. Fortunately this co. shook
itself up in time to take advantage of its
opportunities. The' new era opened about
1909-10, when the co. established itself in
Melbourne (after a fight) and opened a buy-
ing branch in London. Since then there have
been other extensions, including the pur-
chase of the business of James Clark a year
or two ago. These things have meant the
issue of new capital, some of which has gone
into premises, but the bulk of it into stock.
The following table supplies a view of the
movements: —
1910. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Store capital . . £74,682 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Suhrtry creditors 47,911 37,348 87,534 42.809
Premises.. .. 17,775 26,825 41.375 41,504
Stock-in-trade. . 84,675 122,545 171.367 130,459
Rook debts . . 26,375 36.324 30,989 36,340
Sundries.. .. 4,245 6,713 5,987 7,153
The growth of reserves was not at all rapid
down to 1914; though the average dividend
was then only about 10 p.c., in 12 pre-war
vears the total lay-by was less than has been
put aside in the past three years when the
dividends have been 15 p.c. With better organ-
isation the co. may in future make larger
profits than it did prior to the war; at. the
same time it is a lot safer to regard the
pre-war profits as normal rather than those
of the past three years. Prior to 1915 there
never was a year when the profit was any-
thing like equal to the amount which the
15. p.c. dividend requires. Certainly in those
pre-war days the capital was less, and so
were the reserves. But even on the smaller
capital the total profits hardly ever reached
15 p.c. ‘ # #
Finney, Isles & Co.. Ltd., retail sup-
pliers of nearly everything, of Brisbane: —
To
July, Profits. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
1908. . £12.767 6 p.c. = £3,929 £8,838 £4,365
1909.. 13,898 6 „„ 3,983 9,915 14,280
1910.. 11,694 6 „ „ 4,037 7,657 21,937
1911.. 19,863 8 „ „ 6,815 13,048 34,985
Premiums on new shares.. 4,062 39,047
1912.. 16,856 8 p.c. = 13,057 3,799 42,846
1913.. 14,617 8 ~,, 12,861 1,756 44,602
1914.. 20,475 8 „ „ 12,944 7,531 52,133
1915.. 17,744 8 ~,,13,019 4,725 56,858
Jan..
1916.. 9.269 8 „ „ 6,547. 2,722 59,580
Transferred to capital, £31,299 .. 28,281
Assets written down, £3037 .. 25,244
1917.. 21014 8 p.c. = 14,923 6,091 31,335
Premiums on new shares. . 1,752 33,087
1918.. 27,126 8 p.c. = 16,888 10,238 43,325
In noting the growth of profit don’t overlook
the growth of the co.’s capital. The old
Finney Isles business wasn’t anything like
the business of to-day ; and for a few r years
the bulk of tire capital in it still belonged to
the Finney estate. As interest on this capi-
tal had to be provided, the profits shown by
the co. were correspondingly reduced. Gradu-
ally, however, the public realised that the
right men had got hold, and capital was
forthcoming not only to pay out the old in-
terests but also to provide new premises and
increase the stock to match. Meanwhile,
partly by keeping the dividend modest, the
co. went on accumulating very substantial
reserves —all the more substantial when the
very large amount put into Brisbane city
freehold is considered. What great changes
have taken place these next figures show: —
1905. 1910. 1915. 1917. 1918.
£ £ £ £ £
Capital .. 29,462 67,293 155,293 188,392 213,114
Debt to
Finney’s.. 42,704 27,458 —•—
Other liabili- _ „ „
ties .. 60,962 133,795 114,557 118,893 114,00 l
Stock . . 60,878 89,119 123,408 139,559 165,388
Real property 7,665 84,332 112,018 124,458 124,720
Book debts 25,550 45,122 70,333 67,467 74,531
Other assets 25,648 34,649 29,971 15,049 14,802
It is quite clear from these figures that Bris-
bane traders are not having so gorgeous a
fame as Sydney people in the same lines. This
co.’s average profit in 1908-9-10 was approxi-
mately 20 p.c. p.a. on the capital; in the
past three years approximately 13 p.c. p.a.
on the average capital. And if allowance is
made for the undivided profits left in the
business the shrinkage is even greater.
Which helps to explain why the invaluable
Knibbs can show that living is much cheaper
in Brisbane than in Sydney and Melbourne.
Nevertheless the shareholders have
nothing to complain about. They are getting
8 p.c.; and as one bonus share was issued for
every five in 1916-7, the actual return to the
early shareholders is nearer 10 than eight.
And still there was enough laid by last year
to show very nearly 5 p.c. on the present
capital, notwithstanding that nearly £25,000
of that capital was got in only during the last
months of the year. The result of that issue
of shares, by the way, shows what the share-
holders think of the investment they are in.
Owing to higher prices and uncertain ship-
ping the co. has to carry heavier stocks; and
to provide some of the money the directors
invited the shareholders to apply for 12,000
£1 shares at 21s. 9d. Actually 23,522 were
asked for; and, as the co. could do with the
money, the Federal Treasury allowed the
directors to allot them all. In the past eight
years the performance has thus been some-
thing like this. The shareholders have put
up £120,336 of capital and premium capital.
To show for this they have reduced their
liabilities by £47.000, put £76,000 more on
their shelves, added £40,000 to property
account, and have £lO,OOO more on their
books and in other assets. That makes them
£53,000 to the good on the eight years’
trading after payfing the 8 p.c. dividend. And
this notwithstanding that more than half
even of the present capital is in city freehold.
If they expected anything like that when the
co. started off 14 years ago with a capital of
under £30,000 they were very sanguine
people.
* * * *
Perkins and Co., Ltd., brewers (Bris-
bane )
Dividends and Added to Ite-
Feb., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. serves.
1908. . £25,223 20 p.c. = £21,000 £4,223 £85.266
1909.. 25,572 20 „ „ 21,000 4,572 89,838
1910.. 27,215 20 „ „ 21,000 6.215 96,053
1911. . 24,701 20 „ „ 21,000 3,701 99,754
1912.. 24,630 20 „ „ 21,000 3,630 103,384
Premiums on new shares . . 11.111 114,495
1913.. 22,516 lllp.c.= 14,138 8,378 122,873
1914.. 25,114 121 „ „ 17,457 7,657 130,530
1915.. 23,967 121 „ „ 17,495 6,472 137.002
£ 133,333 transferred to capital .. 3.669
1916.. 25,426 6 p.c. = 16,887 j 2 000 5 >6 69
Written off, £6,539 S
1917.. 22,630 6 p.c. = 16,797 ) _ -
Written off. £5,833 (
1918.. 24,118 7 p.c. = 19,146 ) , 000 6 699
Written off, £3972 f 1,000 _
The figures in the last line are subject to
slight amendment, the exact amount payable
as dividend tax being at the moment un-
known. The co., after paying divs. and
transferring a round sum to reserves, puts
the P. and L. balance still remaining into a
Rest Account. In three years £16,344
has gone into this recess, and whether it
has been definitely lost The Bulletin does
not know. In 1917 £2OOO was brought back
into ordinary reserves, and probably portion
of the other £14.000 may not be called for.
The co. has now been quenching thirsts for
25 years, so the directors think “the occa-
sion might be fittingly marked by suggest-
ing to the shareholders the payment of the
increased dividend.” They naively add the
hope that shareholders will approve. Inci-
dentally, shareholders might also celebrate:
(1) the re-election of the Ryan Government,
which refuses to win the war with six-o’clock
dosing; (2) the co.’s luck in not being hit
bv the recent local option poll; (3) the neat
agreement between pubs and breweries that
has permitted both to increase prices; and
(4) the continued splashing of loans, which
has kept the beer-pumps jigging. The co.
has thus, from one cause and another, been
having a good time: despite the increase in
costs, including wages, the brewing-account
surplus for the year has been exceeded only
once in the co.’s history.
Going back 20 years we get this com-
parison :
1898. 1903. 1917. 1918,
Capital . . £58,333 £lOO,OOO £266,667 £266.667
Liabilities . . 15,133 26,825 85,088 65,308
Freeholds, plant,
etc 17,505 101,132 179,302 176,265
Stocks.. .. 31,618 39,293 71,053 60,703
l oans, book debts,
etc 26,237 71,116 107,713 90,379
Cash balances. . 1,771 10,721 8,588 28,017
Of the increased capital, £33,333 was got in
by an issue of shares in 1912, with £ll,lll
of premiums thereon. The remaining
£163,889 increase in capital represents
transferred profits. In the 2U years
£125.760 has been added to properties and
plant, £29,055 to stocks, £64,142 to loans
and trade debts and £23.243 to cash. Mean-
time, liabilities have increased by £52,875.
So. in 20 years, after paying handsome divi-
dends, renewing plant, etc., the co. has
grown almost £150,000 wealthier. W hat the
holding of pub properties is now reckoned to
be worth The Bulletin does not know;
but about seven years ago they stood at
£40,000 in the books. As at February, 1911,
the conglomerate of properties, breweries,
plant, etc., stood at £116.722. Extensions
of £40,000 or so are known to have been
made since, and in 1913 one property that
was acquired cost £7BOO. Meantime £49,795
has been written off for depreciation. As
properties, plant, etc., are now set down at
£176.265, there is thus an increase of about
£60.000 unaccounted for. Some of that, no
doubt, has gone in extensions, but it looks
as though the co. had acquired still further
pubs. Before the war the co. was getting a
return of 8 p.c. from its properties in rent
alone, and in addition there was the profit
in the beer poured into these tied houses. .
The future, however, is quite uncertain.
Though Queensland Bung is not suffering
from the restrictions imposed elsewhere in
the Commonwealth, there is no guarantee
that he will be immune always. The anti-
liquor crowd is energetic, and nowadays
much better directed than it used to be, and
local option polls are always liable to pro-
duce unpleasant surprises. Also, in the cold
days ahead when we seriously begin to re-,
purchase our lOU’s, there won’t be much to
spare to fill-’em-up-again. All these uncer-
tainties of the future have given the in-
vestor in brewery shares cold feet, so Per-
kins’ 15s. shares, which fetched 345. 3d. in
the market the month before the war, can
now be had at under 11s.
Wunderlich, Ltd., manufacturers of
ceiling and roofing materials, etc. (the co.
began with a disclosed deficit, of £1737,
representing preliminary expenses) :
r Dividends. Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profits, 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
1909. .£18,452 £1924 7J p.c.= £9,069 £7,459 £5,722
Premiums on new shares .. 2,646 8,368
1910.. 21,233 1924 91 p.c.= 10,111 9,198 17,566
1911.. 22,916 2800 .9 „ „ 11,033 9,083 26,649
1912.. 30,405 2800 94,. „ 11,646 15,959 42,608
1913.. 34,071 2800 10 ~ „ 12,259 19,012 61,620
1914.. 32,877 3821 10 „ ~ 13,599 15,457 77,077
1915. . 23,635 5600 74., ~10,694 7,341 84,418
1916.. 20,450 5600 74,, ~10,694 4,156 88,574
1917.. 22,810 5600 8 „ „ 11,407 5,803 94.377
1918.. 22,931 5600 9 „ ~ 12,834 4,497 98,874
The profit for the past year is really better
than appears in the last line ; for £4328 has
been allotted to employees in bonus shares
and dividends, and that amount has not
been included. The co. is experimenting
with a profit-sharing scheme whereby a pro-
portion of the surplus profits after paying
dividends go to purchase an interest in the
business for the employees. By this means
the co. hopes to maintain harmonious rela-
tions with its workers; while the latter are
given encouragement to keep well up in the
collar, save material and turn out good work.
Whether the experiment will be a success it
is too early to tell; but part of the solution
of labor troubles seems to lie in this direc-
tion.
The Wunderlich Co. has, of course, been
suffering along with other people in the
building trade. The doubt as to the future,
together with the high cost of materials, has
nut a brake on the building boom which had
been going strong for several years. Also,
the Fair Rents Act, the wonderful piece of
legislation which was to bring rents down
with a run but failed miserably, has also
kept people from putting money into bricks
and mortar and artistic ceilings. Probably
there will be only limited construction
in the next few years. But Sydney is
rapidly outgrowing its housing accommoda-
tion, and by the time the last batch of Bill-
jims return and draw their deferred pay
and look round for their own suburban cot-
tages, something will have to be done to
satisfy the clamor. Wunderlichs is well
placed to meet the business when it does come
again. This is how the balance-sheet figures
have moved in the past six years:—
1912. 1917. 1918.
Shareholders’ capital . . £162,591 £222,591 £222,591
Employees’ capital .. 8,570 9,470
Liabilities . . . . 51,162 71,913 87,493
Freeholds .. .. 52,416 113,763 125,255
Leaseholds ~ .. 10,493 830 345
Plant, etc 34,020 56,427 65,771
Stocks 55,970 54,688 52,563
Book debts . . . . 35.965 45,044 44,543
Cash and investments. . 4,227 67,021 71,784
Other assets . . . . 5,097 2,696 2,723
Goodwill is still included among the assets
as worth £05.702, but a special reserve has
been accumulated to cover it. In the early
years of the eo. the amount of the goodwill
tvas not disclosed: hence the “nominal
reserves’’ of the first table. The actual
reserves— i.c., the excess of tangible assets
over capital and liabilities, and apart from
the employees’ holding of shares—are there-
fore £33,172. The co. has been making solid
progress. In six years £62,691 has been
added to properties, £31,751 to plant and
£70.354 to other assets. Meantime, disre-
garding the employees’ shares, there has been
an increase of £36,331 in the co.’s liabilities
to the public and £60,000 of new capital has
been got in. That is an improvement of
£68,465. In other words, over £ll,OOO of
profit a year has been left in the business
after allowing for depreciation. But if you
restrict the inquiry to the past three years
the figure isn’t quite £5OOO.
* * * *
The Greater J. D. Williams Amuse-
ment Co. (Sydney) :—•
Towards
Reduction
Dec., Profit. Dividends. of Deficit. Deficit.
1910.. £54,694
1911. . £33,210 174 p.c. = £23,503 £9707 44,987
Goodwill added (net), £11,523 .. 56,510
1912.. 13,471 7Jp.c. = 13,538 56,577
Nominal
Reserves.
Assets written up, £93,939 .. 37,362
To Reserves.
1913.. 12,390 5 p.c. = 9,025 3365 40,727
Assets written up, £9472 .. 50,199
1914.. 15,865 5 p.c. => 9,025 6840 57,039
1915.. 11,644 6| „ „ 11,282 362 57,401
Law costs written off, £4690 . . 52,711
1916.. 11,871 44 p.c. = 8,287 3584 56,295
1917.. 11,606 5 ~ „ 9,025 2581 58,876
The published P. and L. account makes the
year’s profit £11,287; and that figure is
reconciled with the amount mentioned in
the last line this way:—
Profit as per P. and L. account . . . . £11,287
Add unexplained addition to reserve fund.. 1,097
£12,384
Less old accounts paid ~ ~ .. 778
Profit as above .. .. .. ..£11,606
The co. had a queer beginning. J. D. Wil-
liams was a Yankee showman who, what-
ever else he may have been, certainly wasn't
an accountant; and tilings were tangled when
Barrington Miller was brought from Maori-
land to take hold as director and general
manager. Just at that time the picture
Combine was being formed; but for that
the co. would have been in a bad way by
now. As it was the co. was loaded with
properties which it didn’t have the money to
pay f >r and some of which still show a loss.
The share capital is £150,506, but it would
be hard to say how much of that is repre-
sented by solid substances. When the two
Combine cos. were formed Greater J. D.
Williams was allotted 97,500 shares of £1
in each ; total £195.000. Almost the whole
of that was goodwill: that is to say, the
Combine cos. started with practically no
substantial assets, and they probably
haven’t accumulated a great deal since;
for they own none of the theatres, pnd,
though the film-hiring co. has a considerable
stock, the bulk of it has been bought with
money advanced by the J. D. Williams and
other interested cos.
If. then, “shares in other cos.” are ex-
cluded, the net assets are as follows: —
Freeholds and leaseholds . . . . £34,862
Advances to Combine cos. .. .. 36,869
Furniture, etc. .. .. .. 1,4...»
Cash, etc. . . . . . . . . 6,171
Total assets other than shares.. £79,098
Loans raised on mortgage and
debenture . . . . . . 32,800
Other liabilities .. .. .. 1,904
34,704
Net assets other than shares . . . . £44,394
Not very much to go round among 180,506
shares ; and out of that lot £4513, the half-
year’s dividend, has to be taken. But in a
case of this kind one doesn’t look so much
to the assets as to the profits; which means
that this is an investment, if you like to
call it that, only for people wiio are pre-
pared to take a risk with their capital. Of
course 5 p.c. or 6 p.c. or even 7 p.c. isn’t a
fair return with the principal so poorly
secured; and there is no hope that the
return will be satisfactory in the early
future, because the co.’s capital was most
absurdly watered and watered again in its
early days. Without competition J. p.
Williams and the cos. he formed might have
done amazingly well; but it is no longer a


Wolfram, Scheelite
and Molybdenite.
We are instructed by the Commonwealth
Government to pay the following
Increased Prices at Producing Centres
MOLYBDENITE:
85 per cent, or over, 100/- per
unit MOS 2.
WOLFRAM AND SCHEELITE.
65 per cent, or over, 52/6 per
unit WO3.
Enquiries Invited relative to
LOWER GRADES of the above
Minerals.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
Commonwealth Government Agents.
The Pacific Cable Board
BEST ROUTE TO GREAT BRITAIN,
CANADA, NEW ZEALAND, etc.
A “WEEK-END” rate is now available
from Australasia to United Kingdom and
Canada, also for the United States of
America, to be posted from Canada.
WEEK-END messages are accepted up to
midnight on Saturday for delivery in Great
Britain and Canada on the following
Mondav morning.
TARIFF PER WORD “via PACIFIC.”
Daily
Ordinary. Deferred. Week-end.
Gt. Britain .. 3/-
1/6
/ Sd. (minimum
1 15/-, 20 words)
New Zealand.. 4^d.
Canada
2/4
1/2
( 7d. (minimum
i 11/S, 20 words)
U.5.A...
..2/4 to 2/8 1/2 to 2/4
/ 7d. (minimum
(11/8,20 words)
Week-end service with the United Kingdom
has been temporarily suspended.
Argentine, Brazil, Chili and Peru, West
Indies. Central America and other rates on
application. Cable forms, Deferred and
Week-end Regulations mav be obtained at
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
77 Pitt Street, Sydney. Tel. City 1346 (3 lines).
Queen’s House, Queen St., Melbourne. Tel. 2588,
J. MILWARD. Manager in tl* >
—TT 77 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. ZZZ
Negligible maintenance costs are assured if you
specify British Thomson-llouston Direct and Alter-
nating’ Current Generators for your power and
lighting supply. There are more 8.T.11. Generators
in operation in Australia than any other make. The
reason is—reliability. Write for further particu-
lars and quotations to the Australian General
Electric Co., Wentworth Avenue, Sydney.— Advt.
Centuries ago the Greek word which was equiva-
lent to our modern English word “unconquerable”
was “Adamas.” Gradually the things thought.'un-
conquerable by the ancient Greeks have one by one
been subdued, and man has experimented and planned
for his own protection, until now we have “Aduhiax"
Asphaltum Hoofing, which cannot be “conquered”
by heat, cold, acids, fumes, or any of the elements.
“Adamax” costs one-third the price of galvanised
iron, and freight charges are one-third iess. For
further particulars write to William Adams & Co.,
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Also at Mel-
bourne, Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide. — Advt.
For grinding all classes of material in Ball Mills
and Tube Mills it is necessary to have a suitable
grinding medium. The mines in West Australia,
also numerous cement plants, are using balls of forged
tyre steel, and find that they give excellent results.
These balls may be obtained in various sizes from
the Austral Otis Engineering Co. of Melbourne, who
have put in a special plant for forging them, and
can give delivery of most sizes from stock. -This
company also manufactures forged steel shoes and
dies for battery work. — Advt. .-I®
The claims of wood pipe. We claim for Pioneer
Wood Pipe that it has more points to recommend it
than any other water-supply pipe on the market in
the way of durability, large capacity, ease of installa-
tion and economy. Send for illustrated catalogue.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd. (II.O.), Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. P.O. address: Box ,15 1 6
G.P.0., Sydney. Factories: Lane Cove, N.S.W.:
Footscray, Vic.; and Port Adelaide, S.A. Contractors
to all State Governments. — Advt.
*»• » .
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
—Advt.
The manufacture of the Australian “Skandia” Crude
Oil Engine continues apace, and Nelson & Robertson
report inquiries from mining, dredging and other in-
dustries. The economy in the running cost of these
engines combined with the small amount of, labor
required appeals to all power users, and all interested
are invited to forward particulars of their require-
ments. “Skandia” engines are designed for both
industrial and marine work, and the stationary typo
is unrivalled for pumping, hauling, compressors and
all mining ar.d general work. — Advt.
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so, write
to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address: 77 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melbourne. —Advt.
Mining and assay requisites can be procured at
lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces,
and all modern scientific appliances kept in stock.
Estimates supplied for fitting laboratories. Head
office: Flinders Lane. Melbourne. — Advt.
* #■ * »
“Necessity, the mother of invention.” “Leplas-
trier” “quick-set” Australian-made pipe moulds for
making concrete pipes enables shires, municipalities
and others to manufacture easily and cheaply culvert
pipes from local material, thus replacing expensive
and unobtainable corrugated-iron. Sizes supplied:
12in., loin., ISin. 24in. inside diameter x 24in.
long. Particulars from Arthur Leplastrier and’ Co.,
Head Office, Sydney. Queensland inquiries: The Aus-
tralian Machinery Co. Ltd., Charlotte Street/ Bris-
bane. — Advt.
*** * ;
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years’ practice. • Write
us for Inventors’ Guide. — Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby k Co.. Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bnnrke Street, Melbourne.—Advt.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss ol Profits
Insure in
Tk ' 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 104,235
Paid-up Capital .. 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED,
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. R. CAVE, General Manager, •
•263 George Street, Sydney.
Mining & Sugar Mill Machinery
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY BOUGHT AND SOLD.
inspection made of Plant with a view to Purchase. Rails and Portable Tram Lines.
i. S. WALLS, Lawson House, 49 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Telephone: City 4375.
Telegraphic: Walls, Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street.
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
business which will pay dizzy dividends on
water as well as real capital, because ot
the keen competition of people who are
quite satisfied if they get a fairly moderate
return on real capital alone. The veiy
development of the picture business on
which Williams built his high hopes has
been an obstacle to such cos. as this instead
of a help, since it has meant the multipli-
cation of shows right alongside the people s
own homes. Still, if this co. is able to make
£ll,OOO in these days of war it will per-
haps make more later on; for though the
people will presently not have as much to
spend, the co. will be able to buy films on
much better terms than they can in these
days when the production of big pictures
is almost confined to the U.S.A., with the
inevitable consequences.
Maoriland’s latest war loan, £9,500,000,
falling a million short, the local scheme ot
compulsion is to be applied. The law for-
merly provided that a citizen having a tax-
able income in excess of £7OO could be called
upon to subscribe to any loan double the
amount of his land and income taxes. Scent-
ing, apparently, what was going to happen
to the loan issue then before the country,
and having discovered that the law had a
hole in it, Treasurer Ward a couple of weeks
ago produced an amendment. This seems
to have been passed, and will be the basis on
which the present shortage is to be made
good. The amendment provides that, When
compulsqry subscription is determined upon,
the Commissioner for Taxes shall report to
the Treasurer any person whom he considers
to be a shirker. As the previous scale with
reference to £7OO has been swept away, the
Commissioner is left to determine who is
and who is not a shirker. Having located
the shirker the Department may proceed to
extract from this person treble the amount
of land and income taxes he had been
assessed for, and having got that it may go
after him for “such contribution to the loan
as may be determined by the Tax Commis-
sioner.” Incidentally it was explained by
Ward (1 ) that the possession of war bonds,
purchased by the holder at a discount, would
not be considered as contributions to a
loan; and (2) that a person who sold bonds
or stock at a discount would not be allowed
to count them as his investments in war
loan for the purpose of escaping from the
schedule of shirkers. All this is interesting.
llow it works out will be worth hearing
about, particularly if the scheme operates
over any length of time. Ward’s explana-
tion of the Government's refusal to count
slock bought at a discount as war invest-
ments was that “we want new money, not
the same money turned over again.” This
would be all right if the doctrine was ex-
tended to cover transactions at par or at a
premium—but it isn’t. Why?
C.S.A., Cobar (N.S.W.), is reporting a
larger and regular output of matte from the
copper furnace. A strike in March reduced
the output to IG7 tons copper from 3893 tons
ore; but on the basis of recent returns the
output for 28 days should average from 200
to 230 tons. The present practice is to pro-
duce matte containing from 24 to 30 p.c.
« « * »
T. W. Horton has visited Tingha (N.S.W.)
over the Star Gully tin float. The Star
Gully lease has 05 acres in it, the Brickwood
54 acres. Only 20 acres have been bored, but
this block looks good. In the Star Gully 12
acres go l|lb.; in the Brickwood eight acres
average up to 2ilb. This is the promoters’
estimate of how things are to go:—
20' acres tested value, tin .. £05,184
Less costs at Is. per c. yd. .. 21,000
Estimated profit .. .. £44,184
While Horton estimates 200,000 cub. yards
in Star Gully, he says he will be disappointed
if double that quantity is not available. At
Brickwood J. H. Archibald’s boring gave
2|lb. to 60,000 cub. yards and 21b. to 160,000
cub. yards. Horton contents. himself by
writing that the ground is certainly payable,
“but some check-boring must be done before
business is finally settled.” Gravel pumps
are to be utilised, probably because they can
be bought cheap, while dredges are worth
their weight in diamonds, or thereabouts.
Horton’s benediction is accompanied by the
warning that careful management is the key-
stone of success. Tom Stringer, of Queen-
street, launched the little stranger on 20,000
shares of 205., of which 2000 paids float
respectively into the laps of vendor Archibald
and the Austral-Siamese Co., 12,000 have
been taken up at a bob, and the rest lie in
reserve.
* * * *
After all, it was premature to lament the
diminishing supply of gold in Australia.
There is enough at Mooratunka to make
everybody jolly and fat again. The mining
men who have missed Mooratunka have
overlooked a 500-acre block which, according
to the manager, as reported by the Corowa
paper (Corowa is on the Vic.-N.S.W. bor-
der), holds “enough gold to pay off the
national debt of the country.” This mint
is “over 40ft. deep” and “the value of the
gold won from every cubic yard will be
from 2s. to Bs.” At latest advices the syndi-
cate —“gentlemen from the Western District
of Victoria” —was considering whether to
put up two or three dredging plants—
apparently for £12,000. Dredging, it is
explained, is a process new to Australia,
though quite well known in more civilised
places like Peru, where the manager lias had
great experience; the ground will be lifted
and after treatment “will be left in a heap
of slag Bft. higher than the present natural
level.” The “higher” may be a misprint.
After enough gold to pay off the national
debt has been taken out the slag will natu-
rally be several feet lower than the natural
surface. Or perhaps allowance is made for
the space the busted hopes of the gentlemen
of the Western District ivill occupy. Still
Bft. seems liberal for that. You can bury
a lot of busted hopes in 500 acres without
making a mountain of it.
* * * *
Duke and Main Leads Consols (Vic.) was
able to dribble out two 6d. divs. in six
months. Shortage of labor and high mine-
supply costs mean that a lot of ground
which would pay normally has to be left
untouched. The grade of the dirt sent to
the puddlers therefore averages about
18|dwt, or £3 10s. lOd. per fathom, against
costs £3 Is. 4d. per fathom. As there is
quite 2s. a share in the plant and as
2800 ft. of the lead ahead is intact, the co.
still has a financial interest in this life.
The mine has turned out £450,000 of gold
and paid £SO,OOO in divs. Wages gobbled up
£272,089, and timber and supplies nearly
£lOO,OOO. The worker does well as long as
an alluvial mine can pull along.
O. B. Ward being back from Papua—a
very sick man, by the way—the Block 10
Misima is able to issue a report. As The
Bulletin held all through, the co. hadn’t
enough cash to carry out Ward’s programme
even with the £12,000 put into development
by Block 10 Co. under its purchase option.
The shortage means appealing to the share-
holder and Block 10 in particular to fork
out £32.000 for plant to increase the output
from 1300 tons to 5000 tons monthly. There-
fore the original working capital of £30,000
will have to be doubled owing mainly to
war costs and heavy development charges.
What justifies this is 125,000 tons of 38s.
ore proved on three sides. Mill work (the
plant cost £14,000 to erect)has so far veri-
fied 0.8.’s old estimate of values. To date
7045 tons averaged 30s. lOd. per ton. Of
that 245. Bd. has been recovered by amalga-
mation. leaving 1186 tons of slimes assay-
ing 435. per ton in hand. Costs run out at
19s. per ton, 7s. lOd. going for mining, 4s.
for milling and 3s. Old. for cyaniding and
stacking slimes. Seeing that the Block 10
Board isn’t shirking the payments on its
big holding in the co., and as O. B. Ward
has decided views that the body of ore lives
down and extends in length, there can’t be
much talk about what shareholders should
do when the call notices go out.
Cold comfort is all that N. E. Giblin
offers the Edna May Central crowd in his
half-yearly patter. Water blocked him get-
ting fresh stone at No. 4 either east or
west. Furthermore he admits to having
only three months’ ore above No. 8 level. As
his output for the half-year was 11,887
short tons, he has only 5500 tons to beat the
water w r ith. On working account a profit
of £4046 was won for the six months, but
depreciation, drainage and incidentals ate
this up and £152 as well. The wolf is not
yet at the door, as the co. has £3588 cash
and as much in stores against a debt of
£1171; but the tip is that there isn’t much
chance of the co. dodging calls if fresh pay-
dirt can’t be cut to the east. The w 7 ater
has bumped costs up from 245. 6d. to 355.
‘2M. per ton; so, w'ith only 325. 2d. coming
from the plates and 6s. 4d. from the cyanide
vats —portion of the latter being from accu-
mulated tailings, a very small margin, if
any, is left over costs. From £130 ; 297 of
gold the Central has paid but £9OOO in divs.
The only other profits are those wffiich the
early birds snapped out of market booms.
* * * *
There is to be another whip-up over that
lame duck the Empress, Mt. Magnet (W.A.).
As the reef could not be picked up from
the rise off the bottom level, although it
was sft. wide in the w'inze from the 33Sft.,
it is thought that an error in survey has
been made. Certainly with sft. of 10dwT.
stone on the loose, something more ought to
be done to try to anchor it.
* * * *
“J.E.C.”: “H. B. Perth” (B. 21/3/T8)
regrets the departure of 11. S. King from
the chair of the W.A. Mines Department. I
don’t. As Under-Secretary he was a round
peg in a square hole. It took many years in
office to give him a superficial knowledge of
the mining industry, and just as he left it
the Minister gazetted over three thousand
gold and other leases as forfeited for non-
fulfilment of labor and other conditions.
Could there be a more complete proof of official
incapacity than allowing such a vast number
of leases to be kept in the Mines office, the
land being for many years locked up from
the mining community? If that is what
“H. B. Perth” calls “business-completed-
while-you-wait methods,” then it is about
time the methods were altered. “11.8. P.”
writes that Mr. Calanchini has been the late
Under-Sec.’s “understudy” for many years.
If that is his greatest qualification then it
is up to those who have the privilege of
making the appointment to find a different
class of office! 1 . Those who are supporting
Mr. Greenward are the prospectors and the
general mining community in the Kalgoorlie,
Boulder and Outback regions ; and the Pro-
spectors and Leaseholders’ Association is
responsible for trying to stop the present
system of appointing high officials whose
main qualification is their ability to com-
mand the right sort of influence. The out-
come of a meeting called by that body with
this end in view is that applications have
been advertised for to fill the vacancy, Clos-
ing on April 30.
* tt * #
“Cue’s” Tale of Two Battlers:—
In a land where great struggles are many I don’t
know a finer one than Cherson and Heydon have put
up at the Big Bell, 18 miles from Cue (W.A.).
Before the war broke out they had sunk a shaft and
done a good deal of other prospecting, enough, they
thought, to float a co. on. Wilhelm put the extin-
guisher on that, so they decided to battle through
themselves. They got 10 head of stampers out there
somehow, and since then, though they have often
been short of water, they have crushed 13,487 tons
for £9344 of bullion and have about 3000 tons of
slimes dumped worth, say, a pound a ton.
* * # #
One day two men wdio knew something
induced a well-known Kalgoorlie mine man-
ager to try for a tribute on portion of the
Associated Northern adjoining the Kalgurli.
He succeeded and was given a third share.
That was eight months ago. Since then over
£24,000 has been taken out and lots more
is in sight. The tribute still has over 12
months to run.
* # * *
Relations are anything but cordial be-
tween the mining cos. and miners at Kal-
goorlie. The Union has resolved not to have
anything more to do with the contract and
bonus systems. The contract system has
been in operation on the field for years past,
and many miners have done so well that all
attempts to abolish it have hitherto failed.
It is doubtful if the Union will succeed now.
Another unsuccessful attempt has just
been made to unload Gwalia Centrals
(W.A.) on the English public. This time a
cable stated that 90 tons milled had realised
300 oz. gold, and added that it was a test
crushing, thus conveying the impression that
the return was an indication of the average
value of the ore in the mine. Simultaneously
a press agency tried to have it published that
a crushing of 530 tons had yielded 25000 z.,
and that the new plant would soon be in full
swing on large ore reserves. Everybody w’as
advised to get in early. An unfriendly London
paper put a heavy damper on the market by
asking the following questions: (1) What is
the value of the gold won ? (2) when
were the crusliings mentioned obtained? (3)
What new plant is being installed on the
property? (4) What is the extent of the
so-called large reserves?
When the last mail left Westralia the New
Boddington was having a dispute with its
employees over working hours. The show is
not covered by the recent Arbitration award,
but the men demand the benefits in regard to
working hours obtained thereunder. In short,
they want a 44-hour week, while the co. is
holding out for 47 hours. Meantime the mine
is idle.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) has sold plant and
mine to a second-hand machinery dealer, and
is calling shareholders together to formally
sanction the deal and agree to liquidation.
“Oof Bird”: The Melbourne-financed
Devon Co. claims in a recent half-yearly re-
port to be getting good results from its ven-
ture at Linden (W.A.), and the Board
strongly commends the manager’s advice to
continue call-paying until the mine is opened
up and the production stage reached. The
advice is all right, but, judging by official re-
ports, it looks as if the property is going to
be worked on hand-to-mouth lines and never
given a fair chance. That, in preference to
shaft-sinking, the “directors intend to deepen
a winze, then drive to a point underneath a
shaft and rise to connect with the shaft so as
to obtain crushing dirt,” does not read well
at all. It reminds one of the old Westralian
days when most mines were made subservient
to the market, with, of course, disastrous
results to sound mining and finance, and the
enrichment of insiders.
* * * *
Hampden Cloncurry has slumped heavily,
the increased cost of producing blister and
the difficulty of realising on the metal having
apparently frightened speculators. It is more
than nine months since the last div. Avas
paid, and in the interval 4300 tons blister
have been produced. It is said that the co.
is carrying £300,000 worth of copper in pro-
cess of realisation. This co. has purchased
large quantities of ore, so the difficulty of
realising on products is a serious matter.
As to the future, no doubt the Duchess is
becoming of less value; but the Trekelano
has 45,000 tons of high-grade ore above' the
400 ft. level, and developments in the Hamp-
den from No. 3 shaft at the 600 ft. level have
been gratifying.
The U.S.A. produced 1,054,464 tons of
copper in 1917, and the demand for muni-
tions and trade purposes continues so great
that an increase on the present fixed
234 cents per lb. is possible.


Under
Royal
Warrant
d
To H.M.
Georg,eV
CHAMPAGNE
ChariesHeidsieck
CHAMPAGNE
Reims
rr, -‘it r
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
a teobW^ cH Shops
~<-s B VSV\° P ' et ,
.nnKio«?“ t. sy do . ey on\
s^sgyKsss^*
43S P'V- ,f; Street. B^dingto"
122 °p.“t St«*'i S i,dr.«
11 9 \ P The Stra° d ; %dnev
N ° - Qeorge & tree ’ 1
Ret nioSto« W erpo°' ? Me0 cy
, A°“ gverl
’ Shop* 10 Jr
\
gd
g
Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE*
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) 11/6
Bed and Breakfast 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
THE PRIDE OF FRANCE—
MOET <&. CHANDON
CHAMPAGNE VINTAGE
1906.
FESQ CSb CO. LIMITED, Sydney.
Poirol
costs too much. Economise by using “GASO-
LETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
George hotel,
•St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, April 22. 1918.
My Dear Arini, —
Governor Davidson recruited six feet of
young Australia in Martin-place the other
day. At 19. young Waters,. eldest son of
Charles E., almost tips the scale at 12st.,
and is a No. 1 athlete. Instead of going to
the Uni. Engineering School he is eager
now to join the Flying Corps. But whether
he will ever get there is another matter.
The new rule is that the recruit must enlist
for “general service,” though it has been
relaxed to allow Capt. Carmichael to get a
thousand who are “to train together, embark
together and tight together.” Now, if this is
a good way for Carmichael, M.L.A. and ex-
Minister, to get recruits, as he has proved it
is, I wonder if you* can tell me why it’s not
a good way for others!
Our Best Hats crushed into the Australia
Winter Garden last Thursday afternoon.
They paid the Bed Cross fund (per Mrs. Mac
Onslow and Miss Eaditli Walker) a crown
a head for the privilege, the Australia giving
the tea and crumpets. There was the usual
bevy of bright-eyed damsels clad in white
muslins, before whom Man was but a worm
that occasionally turned when the raffler
trod too hard. Philip Wilson, who appears
to have almost given up the dull business of
earning a living in order to sing at
chatriotic shows, Minnie Everett’s pupils
(infants in hairbows performing miracles on
their toes), Eva Champion and Margaret
Chalmers were in a long programme. -Society,
as usual, made doorkeepers of its most tact-
less males.
Old friend George Reid was taken seri-
ously ill while in St. Louis, U.S.A., and it
needed three doctors to pull him through. He
had to be moved south to Florida before
he could be got fit to face the return trip
across the pond. “It put a stop to his
lecture-tour and very nearly finished the
lecturer,” says an overseas correspondent.
There’s to be a full-sized conversazione, a
thing we haven’t seen for years, in the Town
Hall on May 1. The Mayor asks us there
“to meet the State Governor.”
Amongst the Crusaders in Palestine to get
the D.S.O. is Major Featherstonehaugh, on
the land up Coonamble way in pre-war
days. He married old William Dyne’s
daughter Victoria. She is doing Red Cross
work near Port Said.
“We have just lost Mr. Penboss, the
beloved president of our Australian Society,”
a Sydney woman writes from N’York, “and
at the grave there was the saddest little
group of Australians I have seen in this
country. Marie Narelle was there, and put
all her soul into the ‘Nearer my God’ that
she sang at the grave.”
Lieut. Chamier, of the Artillery, was wed
in the Fog a few weeks ago to a Harrogate
girl named Mabel Lawson.
Dorothy, one of the strikingly handsome
Inftf-dozen daughters of J. B. L'aing, chief
of N. S. Wales Hansard stair, was married
on Saturday to Tresco Rowe, who is in the
law. Dad was that Colonel Rowe who
mixed soldiering and architecture; and
Tresco only stays at home because he can’t
crowd past the doctor. The wedding was
very quiet—Dorothy was in a tailor-made —
the Laing girls’ only brother being still
mourned for.
Sister Stella, head of the Kilburn Sisters
in N. S. Wales, a daughter of the late
Colonel Hall, died last Thursday. Princi-
pal of St. Gabriel’s Girls’ School at Waver-
ley, she had a wonderfully sweet nature
and was a woman of many accomplish-
ments; besides her English she had French
and German, and was also a trained nurse
within the Sisterhood. She served with the
Red Cross throuvli the Boer War, and prac-
tised the same gentle profession in India.
When she arrived in Sydney, about 10 years
ago, the Kilburn bonnets were sheltered in a
small house in Paddington. She started to
organise and the movement went ahead,
though it got little help from the Church
authorities.
The Riverina Falkiners, who talk sheep
and write cheques, handed in something
handsome to supplement the Light Horse
“Tit-Bits” revue profits. Less-affluent eom-
forts-funds treasurers can only feel a water-
ing of the mouth when they hear that about
£l2OO came from this two-nights show.
At Mrs. Shimizu’s party for the Red Cross
—it had unexpected sunshine after a showery
morning—Mrs. Holman had a yellow chry-
santhemum behind each ear. Lady Davidson
came along. A fortune-teller in sea-green
and ropes of pearls felt the palm for the
usual coin. Olive Godwin, not often heard
of late, was one of the hon. concert eo., and
the übiquitous raffler split the air.
Died on April 19, Mrs. Emily Burrows,
aged 73, widow of the late Henry Burrows.
One of her daughters is -Grace, head of the
Girls’ Realm. Mrs. Burrows was a sister
of the late John Thurston, one-time Gover-
nor of Fiji.
Lieut. C. B. Meyer, a son of the late
Elliott Meyer, solicitor, is back home. His
maimed body tells a story of the tender
mercies of the Hun. Captured after his leg
was shattered at Mouquet Farm two years
ago, he was taken in an ambulance to
Courcelette and left lying in loose straw
without medical aid for two days and three
nights. He was then entrained for Caudray,
where he tossed delirious for eight days on
a mattress of shavings, with his wounds
still undressed. He lived on soup, black
bread and acorn coffee, and watched his
fellow prisoners die. When he reached Ger-
many he was not allowed to write home for
two months. In 1917 he was transferred to
Switzerland, and thence, after nine happy
months, to England, hospital and home.
Said they would, at Pitt-street Congrega-
tional Church, Alfred Leonard Bennett, son
of the late Alfred, of the Evening News,
and Elsie, daughter of Anthony Brunskill,
who raises wheat and cattle at Wagga. The
bridegroom is also on the land, but his acres
are situated in the pleasant country of
Camden, though the home of the newlyweds
will be at Mosman, where the Bennett head-
quarters are.
Off to old Blighty went Frank Cridland
as War Chest Commissioner and first-aid to
Tom Henley. At the beginning of the
struggle in Europe Cridland’s 17-year-old
youngster faced his father. “You’ll have to
fix it up, Dad, with mother. It’s khaki for
me!” And dad had to tackle the business.
The new Commissioner has had lots and lots
of experience in delivering goods at the
right spot; so the Susies can splice their
main brace—in Pekoe, of course—to cele-
brate the appointment.
At Her Majesty’s Hugh Ward is Field-
Marshal of the Red Cross matinee on Fri-
day. Marie Tempest revoked her good-bye,
and hand in hand with her leading gentle-
man demanded a job on the Day.
This laughing face from May Moore’s
camera belongs to a gifted little French
musician whose
parents have been
good Australians for
some years. When
the Belgian operatic
singer Albert Goos-
sens, joined the new
Conservatorium staff,
he was so lucky as
to get the youthful
Aimee Puech as his
secretary and accom-
panist. And as few
patriotic con c e rts
have been run with-
out the help of
Goossen’s fine bari-
tone, Sydney audi-
ences have also
looked for the grace-
ful accompanist
whose rippling music
wants no help from a music score. A
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Noe Puech,
now resident in Sydney, little Aimee
was sent from Australia to France for her
education. Music was her favorite study,
a talent inherited from her mother, for-
merly of Marseilles Conservatorium. After
returning to Sydney, the young pianist
continued her study under brilliant De
Beaupuis. “In France,” muses Aimee,
“they think so much of the accompanist’s
art —always quite secondary to the singer,
yet most important in supporting the voice.
For me it would he difficult to have to think
of the music, and it is so easy to memorise.”
But. alas, poor Goossens! His ideal accom-
panist and business-like secretary has
accepted a diamond ring from a Sydney man
named Atkinson. So Aimee Puech goes no
more to the Conservatorium, and a vacuum-
cleaner will make music in her new home.
Mrs. Percy Ashton is turning the corner
after a bad bout of malaria. She’s in St.
Vincent’s Hospital. When the plucky
woman got her breath after Percy’s sudden
mention that he’d catch that day’s steamer
from the New Hebrides for Melbourne to
enlist, she packed his kit and made no fuss.
But it wasn’t so easy as it seemed. Worry
brought the island fiend into action, and she
was carried aboard the next boat for Aus-
tralia. Father-in-law Julian has had some
anxious moments since she reached Sydney.
Though Percy Ashton had a master-mariner’s
certificate he scoffed at the notion of going
on active service armed with that. “I want
to get nearer ’em. Dad !” So he’s gone as a
sapper. The plantation was beginning to
bring in cash, and the girl he left behind
means, as soon as she feels her feet again,
to go back to manage it. The nearest white
woman will be about 18 miles beyond her
cooee.
Howard Vernon has another pleasant
resurrection as Emperor of Morocco in the
Dick Whittington panto., and gets through
the off-with-his-head business in a properly-
feroeious lobster-and-green drapery. Maggie
Dickinson, the featherweight spirit of the
dance, is as light on her two toes as a pink
satin cloud trimmed with white fur. In spite
of being nearly one month old, Dick (Vera
Pearce, in jerkin and hose), Pauline Bindley
(otherwise Alice, in a demure bonnet and
crinoline) and the Butterfly ballet draw
huge houses to Her Majesty’s. Most of the
dressing is on the stage —a feast of color in
filmy drapery. The boxes and stalls are, I
suppose, the salad.
The State Premiers put their heads
together in May. Sydney is going to make
the picnic as pleasant as possible for visit-
ing legislators. The usual harbor trip and
a lunch at Government House are in the
week’s programme.
Mrs. Wesche, who made such a flutter
amongst Red Cross doves at an Edith Cavell
memorial meeting before leaving Sydney,
returns presently.
There was a big rally of the 13th and
45th Battalion dames round heavily-laden
stalls in Sargent’s Market-street rooms one
day last week. Nothing was forgotten. In
one corner (Mrs. Craig was responsible)
the Turnips and the Taties passed remarks
on the manners of their neighbors, the
Pickled Onions. Business was tiptop—
both plain and fancy. At the long tea-table
Lady Davidson (who opened the show) sat
behind a gorgeous presentation bouquet of
golden blooms. Youthful A.D.C. Saltinarshe
attended. Captain Ghest took the head of
the board, with Mrs. George Lee at his
elbow. Mrs. Barff, the Herbert Maitland
lady, Mrs. Wilkinson and other susurrant
Susans were at the same trestle
In the great effort to raise the wind, the
sedate War Chest is helping its sister the
Red Cross. Step up to the Chest’s Queen’s
Square stall on Friday and chance a shilling.
You may get an 18-carat chain, or a silver
salver.
“Rosna” digs out old friends in London: —
Mrs. Harrison, who used to be Amy Mack and
has a scientific husband away on war work in
Mespot, is doing useful work herself in the War
Office.
Southall Hospital, w'here Billjim goes to wait for
his new' leg or arm when he has carelessly lost one
in France, is getting a new canteen. And needs
it; for Southall is a sleepy outer suburb with
nothing to break the monotony for the five or six
hundred Billjims always there. Queensland pro-
vided the cash to build the canteen, and the Anzac
Buffet has agreed to run it and make it the bright-
est spot within miles. Mrs. Maepherson, who hails
from Riverina, is to be in control, and Mrs. Watson
(N.S.W.), Mrs. Cannan (wife of a Queensland brig.-
general), Mrs. Montague Robinson (Sydney), Mrs.
Harris (Melbourne), and Mrs. Lethbridge (her hus-
band is a major) will take charge one day a week
each and have a party of Australian girls to help.
R. P. Thomson, a Sydneysider who last year pub-
lished a “National History of Australia and New
Zealand,” was married here the other day to Mrs.
Pickett, who was formerly a Ferguson-Davie, some
sort of cousin to the G.-G. Fergusons and a sister
of the Bishop of Singapore. The pair leave for
Australia soon, Huns permitting.
Mrs. George Morris, who was Dora Wesley Hall
and married a son of Lord Morris of ICillanin, is
engaged again. Colonel Morris was killed in 1914
and left a baby son, who will probably succeed to
the title, as the present holder of it is a bachelor
uncle of 50 or so. His stepfather-elect is Major
Tharp, of the Rifle Brigade.
Two parsons’ lasses, Mildred Begg,
daughter of a Morpeth archdeacon, and
Margaret Radford, whose father wears lawn
sleeves in Goulburn Cathedral, took degrees
at the recent Uni. thanksgiving.
Futurist fruit is going to be a feature of
the V.A.D. stall. A futurist apple is built
of white silk. It wears a pink-velvet blush
on one cheek and blue seeds on the other.
It will spar for notice with cubist plums
and impressionist peaches in the V.A.D. rob-
bery-while-you-wait up Wynyard-square.
Mrs. Clarke —the Burradoo lady who has
been turning over to the War Chest about
£lO a month from the sale of her cretonne-
covered boxes- —has the nimble fingers of
Gladys Hay to assist. The pair will have
a Red Cross stall in Macquarie-street on The
Day. Boxes only.
Neville Mayman with his wife and only
chick are still in Maoriland. It’s a holiday
with a purpose, the energetic Mayman being
intent on inquiring into the M.L. scheme for
saving child-life.
There’s a cry from the Fruit and Cab-
bage Fund, 16 Carrington-street (Wynyard-
square), “Come and help ns!” The Rail-
way Commissioners, who lent the premises,
need them forthwith; and the Fruit and
Vegetable committee, which has 1200 soldiers'
families on its list, is hunting for a philan-
thropist who will lend it a roof.
Other one-time Sydney girls, the twins
Aileen and Doris Woods, with mamma (Maud
Fitzstubbs of years ago) in charge, have been
doing Cabaret turns on the Ghina-Japan-
Manila vaudeville track. With the hotel
dinner-gong pealing at 8 p.m. and the diners
sauntering in till 9 o’clock or so, the “East’s”
a-calling for tea and dancing from 5 to 7
p.m., with a final hop when the coffee cups
go round.
Our soldiers will have a Hospital Handi-
crafts stall in Martin Place on The Day.
In charge is the
lady whose photo by
May Moore is just
here. Ethel Harri-
son gives her ser-
vices as Director of
Handicrafts. After
facing the enemy in
the field the re-
turned wounded have
to face an enemy at
home quite as piti-
less. The long and
weary days of con-
valescence, in some
cases running into
months, eat into the
moral fibre and very
likely retard recov-
ery. Here the Hand-
icrafts come to the
rescue. As the keen and helpful organiser,
Miss Harrison throws a bouquet at those
who were the pioneers. “Amongst them,”
says the Head, “are Mary Makinson, Con-
stance Evans and Gertrude King, profes-
sionals, who have given up much of their
time in the patriotic work of teaching our
soldiers. Notably wood-carving. Later
Sybil Tooth came along and has made a
great success as an instructor in leather-
work. Anyone who buys from our stall on
Friday will get good value for his money.
The men have eagerly presented their
work for sale as their gifts to the Red Cross.
At other times, of course, they sell for
their own benefit. Lately, as part of Miss
Harrison’s organisation, commercial classes
have been added. Book-keeping is taught
by Miss Elsa Hale. Each month sees rapid
strides in this work.”
From Dalton House, the pivot of the
N.S.W. Red Cross, comes a soft hum of
appreciation of Mrs. John Toohey. “She’s
generally here,” said an hon. sec., “about
9 a.m., and though she’s more than 17 —a
good bit more —she can set the pace for
many striplings. Her present special job
is to help the country and suburban House
Badges order department. The lady is more
than a sticker at her task —she’s an
organiser with a business head that’s been
a boon in the recent rush. Nearly 200,000
of the window badges had gone out days
ago. It means busy times at Dalton House.”
On April 26 some Red Cross workers will
take turns at demonstrating the folding,
packing and other dull but necessary tasks
that fill the big depot in Warwick Chambers.
Farmer’s windows have been offered for the
show.
Queer chances of war! Violinist Leila
Doubleday and her chums Vera and Ruby
Rich, all Australians, have been giving con-
certs to internees in Switzerland.
The Engineers and Signallers’ stall is
specialising in novelties on Red Cross Day.
Look for it on the Hunter-street elbow of
Pitt-street.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Beyond All Doubt!!!
THE PROVEN SUPERIORITY
of the
fh
MR. E. F. WILKS,
General Manager.
PLAYER PIANO
THE PLAYER THAT PLAYS WITH A SOUL
Important Features —
The TRANSPOSING DEVICE
NON-FRICTION MOTOR.
. a m
mm
SOLD BY OVER 10 M RETAIL REPRESENTATIVES IN THE
UNITED STATES OF AHERICA ALONE.
T HE Duo-Concerto is unlike
other player mechanisms; the
effectiveness of the expression
devices are so radically different
and so pre-eminently simple and
superior to antiquated ideas of
construction , that it stands in a
field alone. Besides , the Duo-
Concerto can and does control
perfect Tone Color , the one thing
that was wanted to make the
player piano an artistic instrument.
With it you are a Performer, not an Operator.
TEST IT FOR YOURSELF.
<L
J>
<T
We can also convert your own Upright or Grand Piano into
the latest 88-note Player Piano by inserting this wonderful
MECHANISM
without mutilating the case or in any way interfering with the
ordinary hand-playing of the instrument. We will give you a
written guarantee with every installation, also a list of our
clients wiho have had their instruments converted.
If unable to call, send for catalogues (posted free).
CASH OK TERMS—£S DOWN AND SMALL MONTHLY PAYMENTS. OPEN FRIDAY EVENINGS.
E. F. WILKS CO. LTD
MACDONELE HOUSE, 321 PITT STREET
(Next to
Y.M.C.A.),
SYDNEY
(Two Doors from Bathurst Street).
Fadory; Corner o/“ Morg'ate and Grafton Streets, Chippendale.
Tel,: Showroom, City 10752. Music Library, 4918. Factory, Redfern 90


The Travellers' Need
“Victor T>ug
An exceptional offer in travelling rugs,
made from pure Australian Wool throughout. Size
72 inches x6O inches, 41b. in weight. These rugs have
been specially made for us and can be supplied in a
large range of patterns on Dark Grey, Brown, Blue and
Green Grounds.
SPECIAL PRICE .. 21/-
Other makes: 19/6, 28/6, 32/6, 49/6, 65/-, 75/- to 105/-
WE PAY THE CARRIAGE.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
HllBf
u um
\Aeltoman
|T 1 HIGH-CLASS
ISPEfIALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agepts—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
dg
E. BROWN @ SONS LOTS DOTS
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE • WORLD
Death.
McHUGH. —In Loving Memory of S/3690 SAPPER
ERIC McHUGH, 9th N.Z. Reinforcements, died
of wounds in Prance, 13th of March, 1917;
beloved youngest son of Fanny and the late
H. J. McHugh, and brother of Mrs. Phillips,
Harry, Willie, Archie and Duncan McHugh, all
on active service. Inserted by his loving Aunt,
M. Edwards, Wanganui, New Zealand.
CASTOR OIL, SALTS *DRUGS REPLACED
BY CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
Delicious fruit laxative cleanses
stomach, liver and bowels of
old and young folks.
A delicious remedy for constipation,
biliousness, sick headache, disordered stom-
ach, indigestion, coated tongue, sallowness—
take California Syrup of Figs—“Califig.”
For the cause of all this distress lies in a
torpid liver and sluggish bowels.
A tablespoonful to-night means all con-
stipation poison, waste matter, fermenting
food and bile gently moved out of your sys-
tem by morning without griping. Please
don’t think of California Syrup of Figs —
“Califig”—as a physic. Don’t think you
are drugging yourself or your children. This
delicious fruit laxative cannot cause injury.
Even a delicate child can take it as safely
as a robust man. It is the most harmless,
effective stomach, liver and bowel regulator
and tonic ever devised.
Ask your chemist for a bottle of “Califig’’
—California Syrup of Figs, which has full
directions for babies, children of all ages and
for grown-ups plainly printed on the bottle.
Get the genuine, made by California Fig
Syrup Company. Refuse any other kind
with contempt. “Califig”—California Syrup
of Figs—is sold by all chemists in bottles of
two sizes, Is. ljjd. and Is. 9d. 13
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, April 22, 1018.
My Dear Yarrie, —
A ripe and well-mellowed romance is just
about to burst out of its busk. The parties
have intimate connections with the Best
Moneybags. The old boy in the case gets
his crust from a rent-roll and the importa-
tion of scrumptious out-of-sighties. She
retails the same class of goods to a choice
circle.
Mrs. Jim Burns, of Sydney (originally a
Melbourne girl), is much in demand at vice-
regal house-parties. She is at present
guesting with Lady Helen. Her husband,
Captain Jim, whose dad is the shipping
Colonel, is away fighting.
Lady Stanley opened the Baby Clinic show
in the Town Hall, and, having a fine little
nursery of her own, was a sympathetic prom-
enader round the exhibits. Nurseries, baby
er&ches, kitchens and incubators were all on
view. One exhibit showed an allegedly typi-
cal “nursery” of a poor woman’s house all
reproduced in detail, even to the empty beer
bottles in the corner and the corks strewing
the floor. Alongside was a room which edu-
cated cleanliness had made comfortable. One
energetic worker showed almost every article
of furniture made out of kerosene-boxes and
kerosene-tins. Alongside swaggah chiffon
stores showed expensive exhibits for the
pampering of rich babes and the con-
fusion of poor visitors. Every day of
the week a different cr&che sent in a
contingent of babies for two hours only.
Women rushed these exhibits as if the young
of Man was a curiosity. Authorities like
Drs. Constance Ellis and Janet Greig gave
lectures and talks; and Mrs. Archie Camp-
bell sent down a ton of freshly-picked apples,
which were sold, baskets and all, to help.
Maffra gave a big reception to Lieut.
Moon, V.C., when that young man returned
there. Mrs. Mills organised the big wel-
come, which had mayoral frills. Before the
war young Moon was in a bank at Maffra.
He was shot through the jaw, but marvel-
lous surgical patching has made him quite
handsome again and given him a duck of a
dimple in his cheek.
Mrs. George Fairbairn, of Dunraven,
Toorak, and Mrs. Archie Currie, her next-
door neighbor, gave a big welcome-home
party for recently-returned soldiers last
Thursday. The G.-G. was there, smoked a
cigarette and had some tea and gossip with
the boys. Lady Helen, dressed in black
cashmere, arrived later, after the matinee
at Her Majesty’s. The Forrests also loomed
up, and Bigjohn and George Fairbairn
made speeches after his Ex. had had his say.
Dr. Weigall engineered the motor procession
which brought the boys and took them to
their homes again. A batch of girls helped
serve tea. The Howard Smiths’ niece
Lorna, a pretty niece of the Riddochs, from
Adelaide, Sybil Currie, Meg Macdonald,
Eileen Cuscaden and Estelle Boyd all had
their most fascinating party frocks on.
Weston Pett arranged a musical pro-
gramme, and Claude Hall had to sing twice
by vice-regal command. Mrs. Rolls was
there from Perth, and the Quartermans,
Clarkes and Ledinghams came in from
neighboring houses.
“Rosna’s” London bouquet of orange-
blossoms, etc.: —•
Vic.’s Rhodes scholar, G. M. Sproule, who got a
Military Cross the other day for doing perilous
things at Salonika, is in a' school of instruction at
Bedford for a bit. He’s a captain, and recently
married Eithne McGee, a pretty and clever Irish girl
who used to be one of the Abbey Theatre players.
Mrs. Bond, who was formerly Flossie Melrose, one
of the James Melrose daughters from South Aus., and
a notable horsewoman, is driving a mail-cart in
London. It’s a war job that takes a bit of nerve in
these raidy times.
Rugby School’s third volume of memoirs of old
boys killed in action lias a full-page portrait of
Sergt. Adam, A.1.F., who fell at Pozieres. The lad
was a son of Mrs. Keith Adam, one of the Westralia
Leakes, and on his father’s side a descendant of the
famous Adam who beautified old London with many
gorgeous mural decorations. Mrs. Adam is one of the
Australian Red Cross workers at Grosvenor Place, and
her two girls are in the Bank of Adelaide.
Let us remember there are home affairs
to be tended as well as Red Cross. The
Hornbrook Free Kindergarten has a jumble
sale every year, and this year it is
mighty hard up for stuff. The sale will be
at the end of April, and parcels may be
sent to the matron, 69 Rose-street, Arma-
dale. Country parcels should go to the
Toorak railway station with a warning
postcard in advance. Nothing is too old
or worn (within limits) to send, for there
are some willing, energetic women spending
hours on the renovations.
Melbourne is seeing quite a lot of Japan-
ese family parties. One Japanese grande
dame drives down Collins-street every day
in a fine motor. She invariably wears grey
garb—the latest European fashion and cut.
Out at the races during the last big meeting
a Japanese fqmily occupied the grandstand
for every event. There was papa and
mamma, three children and a Japanese
governess or nurse. The youngsters looked
as if they had been taken from a doll’s stall
—jet black eyes and jet black hair cut in
the regulation doll crop, the fringe just
topping the eyes. A Japanese connected with
shipping brought his wife and daughter to
Melbourne recently. The wife is a little
doll of about 17 years and the baby another
of about 18 inches.
Mrs. Gurner, of Toorak. won the Cana-
dian raffle car; for to her that hath shall be
given, saith the preacher.
There can’t be many taller Royal
Engineers in England (or France) than
young Colin Harper, son of Henry. Colin,
at the age of less than 21, stands six feet
five and weighs 14 stone. He studied engi-
neering at Melbourne Uni. before going to
the Engineers’ Staff College in England.
Tony Paanaaker, the curly-haired boy
who broke into the Very Naicest drawing-
rooms in Australia but couldn’t brea'k into
the Australian army, has been spreading
himself on social notes in a Los Angeles
paper. He describes the marriage of actor
Niblo and Enid Bennett —and tops the story
with a portrait of himself!
Architect Walter Butler has news that his
boy Howard has his wings in the Australian
Flying Corps. Butler left for France with
the Artillery last year.
Mrs. Lee Roberts, an Englishwoman just
arrived from London, is envied by some of
the Red Crossers here. She wears a gold
triangle badge won at munitions-making in
London.
Everything in Melbourne is over-ridden by
committees. The latest announcement brings
even Heaven into line. A committee for the
Regulation of Days of Prayer is declared to
be in the making.
Rupert Crespin has been killed in France.
He was only 18 —the youngest of several
fighting brothers. Big brother “Char”
Crespin (he was once that rarity, an Aus-
tralian A.D.C.) has just returned for a sec-
ond bout after recovering from what seemed
like hopeless wounds. Young Rupert was a
Wesley College boy and bolted off as soon as
ho was old enough.
Bachelor-squatter Robert Chirnside, of
Mount Rothwell station. Little River, died
last week after a long illness, and the dis-
trict lost a good friend who was extremely
shy of advertisement. He was a cousin to
the Chirnsides —Pursey, George, Andrew
and Mrs. Everard Browne. Dr. Mackeddie,
who helped him through phases of his illness
and was much in the district, caught many
unexpected glimpses of this Chirnside’s quiet
generosity.
The Widdis-Mills stable has been sold
because of the requirements of the will of
the departed sport. Patrobas remains in
the home paddocks at the special re-
quest of his old owner. Shepherd
King was sold for over 3000 guineas.
Partner Mills bought some of the jointly-
owned horses; but his stable is now
reduced to youngsters “coming on,” with
the aged and beloved Wishing Cap as an ex-
ception. The Gippsland partners had no
horses running during the last Sydney races.
Widdis had several daughters, but only one
son —Allan, a youngster of 12. He is to
have Nambrok, the home station, reserved
for him. That’s where Patrobas, the pet of
the family, is.
The Council Chamber at the Town Hall
housed last week the biggest collection of
metropolitan editors ever made in Aus-
tralia. The Commonwealth Government had
got them together to talk and be talked to
about the Censorship and other Defence
matters; and at the end a rebellious resolu-
tion was carried, saying that the press of
Australia was simply sick to death of
political censorship, though it was ready
not merely to put up with the naval and
military article, but to employ every effort
of which it was capable to make that brand
effective.
There was a how-d’you-do lunch to start
with at Parliament House, with Willie
Watt and Joe Cook and Pearce and most
of the pther Ministers in attendance, the
lions feeding with the lambs. “This is so
like Heaven.” sighed Willie Watt after the
oysters. “It is full of editors.” State
Premiers were in larger supply at a Men-
zies’ lunch with Hugh D. Mclntosh as
host. Editor Cunningham, of the Argus,
sat in the high chair when Pearce was
absent from the Conference, and took the
gloves off in a most inspiring way when
the time came to tell Ministers about the
conclusions.
Dr. Crivelli’s fourth son has gone off to
France to follow in the footsteps of his
elder brothers, a fighting trio from Aus-
tralia, who commenced their war-work be-
hind the French 75’s. Each of them has
won the Croix de Guerre. Nowadays Georges
flies, Louis is a doctor with a field ambu-
lance, while Rene still toils with the guns.
Marcel, the 19-year-old now at sea, will do
likewise.
Miss Adelaide’s report:—
The wind-up of the effort of the school-children
for the latest Red Cross appeal was a demonstration
that took 30,000 proud relatives to the Oval and
netted well over £l5OO.
No sooner was the Red Cross appeal over than the
Returned Soldiers took the floor, with a request for
£50,000 for their club fund. They have mapped
out a fortnight’s programme that should do a good
deal towards getting the amount. On Monday the
new premises on North Terrace (Henry Ayers’s old
home) were opened. They are held on a five years’
lease, for which the Government is footing the bill,
and at the end of that time it is the ambition of the
men to buy the place. Hence the call for the
£50,000. It is the first direct appeal the R.S. have
made on their own behalf, and it is up to the public
to respond.
Flight-lieut. J. R. Gordon, who was sergeant of
his company at the Landing, and after a few months
on the Peninsula was invalided home with enteric,
has won the M.C. for special air services on the West-
ern Front. He has been in France since January,
and he and Lieut. Stanton, another Australian who
also has his M.C., were between them responsible for
foundering six Hun aircraft in one day.
A branch of the society whose object is to provide
money and clothing for French mothers and their
babies was officially launched this week. Lady Gal-
way is patroness ; the Mayoress, Mrs. Glover, is presi-
dent ; Mrs. Arthur Waterhouse is chairwoman (not
charwoman, mind) of committees; Miss Borthwick,
secretary; and Madame Lion, who is chiefly responsi-
ble for the establishment of the branch, is to be the
State’s representative on the parent body.
Mrs, Norval Dooley, better known as Sister Olive
Haynes, is back from the Front with three and a half
years’ active service to her credit. She left with the
first contingent of S. Australian nurses.
Lady Brown and her helpers have just despatched
their 20,000 th pair of socks to the Front, to say
nothing of innumerable scarves and mittens and other
woollens. Call up the cheers, will you ?
One of the Hiram Varleys’ sons, William, who had
been in France with the R.F.A. for more than two
years,''has been killed. He left here for England with
his brother in 1915, hoping for work with the Flying
Corps, but he was too heavy for a ’plane. His
brother is still at the Front.
Another local patriot who is taking advantage of
the new age regulations, and going to England to
offer his services, is Dr. Evelyn O’Leary, of Glenelg. He
returned only a year ago from Red Cross work in
Roumania.
Frenchman's Rock has been replaced by a cement
facsimile at Kangaroo Island, and the real article
has been put in the Museum. Time and weather
were treating it so scurvily that the inscription was
almost illegible and threatened to be entirely worn
away. A second cement facsimile was made, and is
to be sent to the Geographical Society in Paris.
There is no need, I suppose, to explain that French-
man’s Rock is the stone at Hog Bay on which an
inscription was cut by the carpenter of the French
ship Le Geographe when Baudin was exploring the
coast in 1803.
Lady Galway has made a warm appeal for help for
the Home for Incurables. The expenses are mounting
rapidly, but the income is not, the excess of expen-
diture over income being £l3OO in 1917. The Home
looks after more than a hundred and thirty people.
Andrew Muecke has enlisted, and goes into camp in
early June. His medico-brother, who married Ada
Crossley, has been with the A.M.C. since the begin-
ning of the w-ar. Their father was for many years
German Consul in Adelaide. The boys were born in
Australia. In fact, Muecke, sen., arrived here 69
years ago at the age of seven.
Abe Shannon, one of Adelaide’s best-known men-
about-town, is off to London to enlist. It is not
that he has any snobbish objection to Australia’s
army; but he has twice been rejected at home as
over-age. And as he doesn’t look it he is going to
give himself a flutter somewhere else.
Alderman Frank Beaumont Moulden, of
Adelaide, who has entered into a contract
to be a father to the five Perth youngsters of
John Hackett’s widow, has married into a
family with a record. The bride’s dad was
F. S. Drake Brockman, Surveyor-General
of W.A., an early-day explorer and con-
structor of the Wyndham to Hall’s Creek
telegraph line. Her mother, once Miss
Bussell, won the title of “Grace Darling”
for her bravery when the Georgette was
wrecked off the Leeuwin in ’76. filer
brothers are Lieut.-Col. E. A. Drake Brock-
man, D. 5.0., and Companion of the Monte-
negrin Order of Danilo (or Dan Leno, as
Billjim calls it), who was in Gallipoli and
is now in France; Major Geoff., M.C., of
the Engineers, a’nd Lieut. Ralph, M.C., of
the Artillery.
All the available Taits swept down to
extend the glad hand to Guy Bates Post at
Spencer-street station last Thursday. The
Yankee star, whom Ted Tait stole from a
Broadway theatre, brought a large parcel of
fashion, which broke into glittering elements
of purple and plum when the Sydney express
slowed in. Mrs. Post, who is Adele Ritchie
in stage life, was borne along in the purple,
and the plum upholstered the stately form of
Thais Lawton, who grieves between the two
Johns in “The Masquerader.” Another mem-
ber of the company, Ruby Gordon, travelled
in a navy tailor-made, which was quite two
minutes ahead of our latest thing out. Guy
Bates Post—it is irreverence to omit the
Bates —is a springy person whose hand carves
his conversation into eloquent rashers and
then slinks into yours in a friendly manner.
He has a place in the Adirondack Moun-
tains, where he spends all of the Yankee
summer that his restless nature will let him.
According to Mrs. Post, he is the most fright-
ful worker. He crowds 48 hours into the 24
and yet complains of being idle.
Espinosa, the world-known dancer and
maitre de ballet, is decorating these parts.
This little Spaniard has trained innumerable
London limbs in the way they should move.
Productions at Daly’s, The Gaiety, His
Majesty’s, Shaftesbury, The Empire, Drury
Lane and other theatres gave him oppor-
tunity to display his gifts at ballet-produc-
ing. He lately has done work in S’Africa,
and maybe the J.C.W. firm will make use
of his experience while he is here. Though
not exactly a debutant, he is still uncannily
agile.
Manager Carlyle Smythe is very sad. All
the press notices of reciter Alexander
Watson’s doings in soldier-entertainment
have arrived at the bottom of the sea. They
were on a boat that was torpedoed, and no
one had thought to post duplicates.
Mrs. John and Mrs. Frank Tait gave a
big party at the Oriental last Friday to
welcome back sister-in-law Mrs. Charlie
from America and say good-bye to Mrs.
Deane, wife of the Prime Minister’s secre-
tary. Thais Lawton, the superb lead-
ing lady of “The Masquerader,” was
on hand dressed from little toque
to shoe-tips in wine color. Mrs. Bates
Post, small and fair, wore a big silver mar-
guerite in her hat. Miss Gordon, another
guest, is a bright girl who takes a maid’s
part in “The Masquerader.” She admitted
that she knew quite a lot about a house-
maid’s work and was at once rushed with
offers of a job. She refused them all. Mrs.
John Tait wore brown and brought a pair of
nearly-grown-up daughters. Mrs. Frank
wore a cheeky little hat of scarlet chenille
and silver bobs, and Mrs. Charlie appeared
in an importation from New York. It was
made of jersey (recalled a tricky bathing-
gown) and had a big silk handkerchief for
a collar.
Irene Lowe, who is demonstrating in the
Bacteriological School at the 'Varsity, is
the first Australian girl to become a Bache-
lor of Agricultural Science. Her knowledge
of the subject is not confined to lessons
learned at “the shop.” for she put in her time
at practical work at Dookie, including seed-
sowing, harvesting and . cleaning out the
stables. She is only 22, and yearns to
become a farmer.
Yours sincerely.
JOHNNA.


SSI
-y
&
m
■
9H
y\\
v . Vl*& 1
< * Y\V&\v&
k . '■ *•• >. ■». '
■>r- *
M2S&
IM¥I 1 1 && 0
■9
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whislcy.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
an/>
d<Jc otch li'hitM 1
Si
******* Mrfoan *f &
"'“ thjsnAi'Q “‘
■
YM.
THE above portrait of General Foch is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of M. Venizelos, Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir Douglas
Haig, General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W. Robertson, General Foch, General
Cadorna, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, Peter 1., General Sarrail, General Brussiloff, General
Russky, will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or J 2 penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO. LTD., 26 King Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


m
m
W/
At the FRONT!
Private C. V. SILLETT, 15th Reinforce-
ments, 15th Battalion, 4th Infantry Brigade,
writes to a friend :
“My OnotoFountain Pen is still in good
working order, all my tent mates have
gone ‘nap’ on it. I have now had it 13
months and it has been in constant use
all the time, and I may state that I have
never had it repaired in any way.”
Pea
Fills
Itself.
Cannot
Leak.
Proa
THE
Manufacturers, Thomasdela Rce & Co.Ltcl..Bunbl»
Managing Agents. NORMAN
BAKER & I.ONGHURST. York Street. Sydney.
t
gds
The TOP*NOTCH"ScotcK
v:>.
'
"Say WHEN /HcfffT 1
ABORIGINALITIES
CAMOUFLAGE.
JILL: “Have you really found an effective
way of dealing with the submarines?
Do tell us what it is.”
JACK: “ Well, you see, we've trained the
ship’s parrot to cry like a baby. When
the submarines hear it in their micro-
phones they rush up to torpedo the kid,
and then we get ’em.”
“Jimmie Pannikin” : Ah Wey, an old cook
on Tarwong station, Right-Outback—farther even
than that —had an amazing adventure with a kanga-
roo lately. He saw the ’roo asleep near a tank;
and, crawling up, caught hold of its tail. The ’roo
awoke, gave a leap and went off, with Ah Wey some-
times on his feet, sometimes on his abdomen, some-
times on his back, occasionally on his head. In spite
of being badly bumped he hung oh like grim death,
being too terrified to let go. When the pair had gone
about .25 of a mile, they came to a wire fence. The
’roo gave a desperate leap, and landed on the other
side; but Ah Wey stayed behind —still hanging to
the tail. Then China whipped out his knife; made
a slit in the ’roo’s tail, slipped it on to a loose wire
and made all secure. Then he went back to Govern-
ment House, and returned with a party of unbelievers,
to whom he showed and explained the Ah Wey method
of kangaroo-trapping-. He killed and skinned his
captive at his leisure. The fine price got for the hide
made him see visions of getting rich quickly, and
now he spends all his spare time looking for sleeping
kangaroos.
“Jericho”: Three thousand Gulf cattle
have just been railed through from Aramac to
Goondiwindi, the distance being about 1300 miles.
The bill from the Queensland Railway Department will
be in the vicinity of £5OOO. An intervening tick-
infested area necessitated the method of transport.
There will be a break in the journey at Gracemere,
Rockhampton, and another near Toowoomba, to allow
the herd to be dipped and at the same time give
the weary animals’ legs a lest. The trucking and
untrucking of such a large number of cattle will
require a deal of ingenuity, but cattlemen are blessed
with that commodity. The stock inspector at the
shipping end declares that it is the largest consign-
ment of Australian cattle for one individual owner
ever railed over such a long distance.
* * * *
“D.F.”: The yarn about the black snake
killing itself with its own venom goes back to George
Bass, the man who cut Tasmania off from the main-
land. When Bass put into the Derwent during the
circumnavigation of Tasmania, at the end of 1795,
he tried to capture a large black snake alive in order
to try the effect of its bite on a hawk that he had
caught. In the struggle the snake bit itself and
died in lOmin. Bass says that he skinned the devil
and found the marks of the teeth with the flesh
inflamed and discolored for some distance round them.
“Billy B.”: A brilliant young friend of
mine who, incidentally, is now editor of the most
conservative newspaper in the world was so enrap-
tured with beer that he used to have it with his
porridge. I thought that was the limit, but recently
I camped with a man who shaved with it,
“Billy T.”: Seven of the young bloods at
our boarding-house had the new lodger up in Slater’s
room the other evening. The programme was a
friendly game of cards. The new lodger had im-
pressed everybody as a simple soul. His name was
James, and he professed teetotal habits from child-
hood. The drink Slater provided was labelled “Near
Beer.” As a matter of fact it was the usual fer-
mented liquor from Carlton way, located in “Near
Beer” bottles for the benefit of Master James. James
got very fond of the beverage as the night advanced.
At eleven o’clock he fought Slater and two others,
broke a table and a mirror, and went down stairs
trailing a good deal of Slater’s bedding. In the
drawing-room he spilt a bowl of goldfish, and walked
out through a three-guinea window without noticing
it. In the street he borrowed a doctor’s motor-car,
ran it into the porch of a Wesleyan church, and got
into grips with the law. lie hurt one policeman’s
hat severely, tore the leg of another’s trousers, fought
with a dog in a pastrycook’s shop, was arrested, and
spent five days in gaol on one charge in addition
to paying damages on two others, lie came home
with the remains of a black eye and his head in a
nice, neat packing. “Look here,” he said to Slater
at dinner, “you know that drink you gave me?
Well, it seems it was beer!”
* * * »
“Tekelo”: Miss Beatrice Grimshaw’s
somewhat lofty answer to “Momokani” (B. 6/12/T7)
is not so crushing as it might appear to mainland-
ers. 1 his subject of island food is more important
than it appears on the surface. Some people in Aus-
tralia induce men to come across here for low wages
by pointing out to them how cheaply they can live.
Forget it. The average single man, living plainly,
will eat £5 of tinned stuff a month. To work and
keep well in these islands a man must eat well. I
have met the type that eats “boys' ” rice and salmon,
and tries to “live off the place,” and by doing so
reduce the tucker bill to 30s. or so a month ; but he
generally has to get out or be carried out. I know
all the yap in the books. I have pineapples,
bananas, paw-paws, limes, sweet potatoes and ether
foodstuffs in my garden, whilst in the neighboring
scrub are pigeons and pigs, and hens are in the back-
yard; It looks good. So it is for a married man
whose wife can attend to the food department; but
it is different for the single man, unless he be of the
type that neglects its job and hangs round the
house bribing the fowls to lay and fiddling about the
kitchen garden. Employers don’t like “verandah
planters.” After the first year the appetite for tropi-
cal fruits and vegtables wanes, and thereafter they are
mere adjuncts to the menu. White people are no
more vegetarians in the tropics than in colder climes.
The backbone of the menu is meat. As for bush pig,
young or old, it is tough, tasteless and damnable, and
is given to the boys. Pigeons, our best feed, are as
expensive as meat out of a tin. A boy (at Is. 6d.
per day) wastes about half a day and blazes off 6d.
of shells, and brings in two or three pigeons, just
enough for a feed. If that boy were retained at his
regular job on the plantation (and labor is scarce and
valuable these days) he would be worth about 2s. 6d.
to his boss. Apart from the money aspect, pigeons
are scarce at certain periods. Fowls! Fowls are
the biggest frauds in the Islands. They need special
attention and proper housing. Every man on his
arrival intends to “go in for fowls” and so “live
cheaply and well.” He starts off all right, but one
notices that the cases of tinned dog and fish still
drift in by each steamer.
EARLY-CLOSING.
SOAPY SAM : “Wonder trot it feels like ha[?]n' more money than yer know wot ter do
with?"
DIRTY DAN: “Why, I ’ad the sensation meself larst night”
S.S.: " Wot d’ yer mean?"
D.D.: “Bloke gimme a tanner after six o'clock.”
A\ andi”: Brumbies still browse in big
mobs on some Queensland runs. The biggest camp
of them 1 have struck was at Eurombah, on the
Dawson. While I was there 600 horses were trapped
in four nights, and over 8000 in a short summer
season. The mobs ran in dense brigalow country,
and it was only in dry summers that trapping
could be carried on successfully. When most of
their watering-places had dried up, permanent holes
were fenced off and trap-yards built. The trap
was in the form of two wings diverging far into
the bush. Near the water these wings came so
close together that only one horse could pass through
at a time. The ends of the last rails on each side
projected several feet from the post, so that they
would open out to a horse squeezing through, but
when he tried to pass back the same way the ends
closed against his ribs or chest. The" sight and
smell of the water lured the thirsty brutes in. They
came to water at night. In the morning the trap-
pers shot down all but a few of the best; these
were driven into a strongly-built paddock, to be
afterwards taken with quiet horses to the home-
stead and broken in. The slaughtered animals
were skinned, the trappers receiving about 6s. each
for the hides.
* * * *
“Penzance”: On a Saturday of last month
in Brunswick (Vic.) a discussion arose on the subject
of dog-poisoning. -I quoted the recent Bulletin
par. re giving the doped an emetic and then twirling
him round by the hind-legs till the poison was
ejected. I hadn’t tried it then, but the very next
week, within 10 yards of the scene of the debate,
my pup picked up a dose of poison and nearly be-
came an angel hound. I managed to get some salt,
and, as a last resource, tried the experiment. The
animal was down and out when the emetic was in-
troduced, and then he was swung round and round
until the poison was ejected. He at once started to
look for eats and has been right ever since.
* * * *
“Mustard Gold”: Some quaint relics are
still preserved recording the commercial transac-
tions of bush storekeepers in the early days of the
Westralian goldfields, one dog-eared book being the
faithful repository of all that transpired in the
multitudinous business of Peter Hill, whose com-
bined store and pub did a roaring trade ere the
spreading railway system drove the coaching indus-
try out of the township of Malcolm. For instance:
“The man with the one eye, a set of harness.” His
name was unknown, but the description sufficed.
“Billy from the Four Mile, bag of flour, case of
whisky. I wonder if Billy is sticking to his work.
I must keep my eye on him.” “Macklin, a ton of
cement. No more for Macklin. (Item scratched
oui.) Coin’ to start a store, is he? Ton of
cement! No.” “Pegleg, a set of harness, 2 hide
buckets. \Y ell, yes, he has always paid.” Peter,
transferred to Leonora since Malcolm mining decayed,
is perhaps the wealthiest man on the field. The
Murchison had a storekeeping celebrity named Paddy
the Flat, who drew rough pictures of items scored
up to customers. The figure of a supposed man
swinging from a supposed gallows indicated that
an account was settled. Paddy is long out of busi-
ness, and his wondrous volume rests in the Dublin
Museum, taken there by Hugh Mahon, one time
Federal Minister.
* » * *
“Orrie Cowie” : Recently on S. & T. sta-
tion (W.A.) I found coiled up alongside my water-
bag a snake which I gave a sockdollager to. Ho
measured 4ft. 2in., the belly was a bright yellow, with
two parallel red spots every two inches from the
throat to the tail; otherwise he was brown, the same
shade as a snail. He was six inches around the
girth. My three mates who were with me (inelud-
NEEDED A LARGE TARGET.
RECRUIT: “The Germans are mostly big
blokes, ain't they?”
MUSKETRY INSTRUCTOR : “Well, if they're
not I don't see it’s much blooming use
sending you over.”
ing Bill, who is an authority on snakes) say that it
is the first of its kind the} 7 have seen, though Bill
says that his father used to talk about a similar kind
of crawler being found at Wyndham (W.A.).
(Continued on page 24.)
THE SWAMP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There is a spell upon the land,
A haunting, dreamy loneliness,
For here earth’s heart incessant bleeds
In silver through the sigtong reeds,
Mourning for her distress.
And blown from where the restless sea
Sobs low along a sandy strait,
A hollow ghostly murmur brings
Breath of forlorn, disastrous things,
Horizons desolate.
Here are no lights across the dusk,
No fragrances of furrowed loam,
But furtive creatures slipping by
And, gaunt upon a fading sky,
The herons trailing home.
Soft water whispering, whispering low
From shallows where the ibis wades,
And weird, like music through a dream,
The rapt intoning of a stream
Chanting across the shades.
Far in its secret, silent depths
The melancholy beauty breeds
Flowers that break with mimic moons
The brooding stare of still lagoons,
And lush, fantastic weeds.
And writhing growths that lift to screen
Dim alleys where, like plaintive song
Afar and fey, dissolving shapes
Drift through the clinging mist that drapes
Their vistas lone and long.
There is a spell upon the land
That captive holds the hearts of men,
For they whose willing lips are hist
By the white women of the mist
Shall ne’er go free again.
But hear forever in their dreams
The water seeping, seeping slow,
And tread in fancy evermore
By the remote, unchanging shore
Where the cold lilies blow.
VICTORIA.
SYD C.


YOU NEED ONE NOW
7S\
s'
nI
1
With cooler weather prevailing and the
likelihood of falling temperatures you need
the comfort and protection of
A MURDOCH
OVERCOAT
We offer splendid Overcoat values that will
prove comfortable and serviceable during the
coming days. We quote two special values
that are sure to win your approval.
Murdoch s Special Value
Men’s Tweed Overcoats, in Light and Dark
Grey shades, with stripe, single-breasted,
with fly fronts, strap cuffs, and vent at back,
flap pockets, lined throughout with a
good-quality Italian Cloth,
able in all sizes.
Remarkable value at ....
Obtain-
25 ( '-
The “LION” Blankety
Tweed Overcoat.
A splendid Overcoat for Winter —full of warmth
and cosiness. Made from all-wool materials,
dark and medium shades, in pleasing designs.
Double-breasted, with nice wide collar
;i nd roomy patch
health with the
fn all sizes . .
pockets.
“Lion.”
Defend your
60
Call and try un your .size to-day, or send height
and chest measurements over coat to Desk R.
Murdoch’s
in Park
St. Ltd.,
Sydney
Complete Outfitters for Men and Boys.
LEVIATHAN
GOAT SWEATERS
I ■'•l.'i i
:
i l ' 5
u;:i-4
The “Trencher.'
They combine warmth with comfort, and can-
not be excelled for Seaside and Mountain,
House and Garden, Sporting and General Out-
door Wear.
V-FRONT SWEATER, ,
of soft, woollen finish, made with V-opening (as showni
by inset No. 3) ; colors, Grey or Navy; 3G and ob in.
40 and 42 in. chests.
12/6 13 / 6
COAT SWEATERS,
with “Peter Pan” collar (inset No. 4). Navy only—36 and
38 in., 13/6; 40. and 42 in., 14/6. (* ie y 0111 - v 3b d
38 in., 16/6; 40 and 42 in., 17/6.
ALE PURE-WOOL COAT SWEATERS.
These are our own special make, and have been designed
with the following distinctive features: Silesia-lined pockets,
taped seams to keep garment in shape and snug, ,
fittino- ribbed cuffs. With V-front (inset No. 3) oi Pete
Pan” collar (inset No. 4). Colors: Cream, Grey, Navy oi
Brown. Sizes, 36, 40, 44 in. chests.
Price . . w 22/6, 25/-, 28/6 each.
THE “TRENCHER” SWEATER,
„,, P „r V ,oo, Co,o,,:CV Ti£ o^N«v ya/^B,r „.
height, thus providing a snug, close-fitting muffle, cdlai ( . set if . ). 44 In _ chests .
m
Brice 25/- 27/6 31/- each.
Ladies & Gent’s SCARVES
ART SILK.
,In rich shades of Cream, Grey, Navy or Brown; also in a
number of Shot Silk effects; finely
finished with heavy fringed ends.
knitted and
Splendid
6/6
art silk, with fancy striped ends.
Exceptionally Fine Scarves in Plain White, Grey or Saxe,
finished with attractive striped ends; also in
a large variety of self colors and bold block
stripes
10/6
ART SILK.
Extra long and wide, heavy fringed ends, Fine, Rich, Silky
Knit. Colors: Cream, Navy, Vieux-Rose, Grey
or Black .
17/6
25-
Better
ends.
effects.
quality, in Soft, Elastic Knit, with fire Silky fringed
Self colors and smart bloik stripe
PURE SILK SCARVES.
An extensive variety of rich striped effects in Nigger and
Saxe, Navy and Maroon, Navy and Champagne,
Black and Grey, finished with heavy fringed
ends
32/0
I Finer quality, in Champagne and Maroon, Black
Nigger and Pink, Bottle Green and Mole, Navy
and Light Blue
and Saxe,
42/-
Order by post.
We pay carriage.
§g tajc
kEVI ATMAN
Cor. Swanston and Bourke Streets, MELBOURNE.
i
1
PROF. RANDAL WOODIIOUSE, R.J.A.M.
What Professional Singers
Use for Their Throats.
The first care of all professional singers is to guard
against the ill-effects of colds upon their lungs, bronchial
tubes and vocal chords. The means which they must
needs employ to preserve the purity and resonancy of
their voices consist of correct breathing exercises and
effective medication. In the latter regard it is note-
worthy that the most prominent singers of the day use
MISS DOROTHY DECS'TON.
gd
(Registered Name for
Hean’s Essence
THE FAMOUS MONEY-SAVING REMEDY FOR
Coughs, Colds, Croup, Catarrh
AND OTHER CHEST AND THROAT TROUBLES.
Extracts from a Few out of Many Letters Received from Well=known Vocalists.
MISS MINNIE LOVE, now
making: such a big: hit in
“The Bing: Boys”:—“I con-
sider Heenzo and Heenzo
Cough Diamonds wonderful
for the throat.”
MISS MINNIE LOVE.
MISS' DOROTHY BRUNTON, Musical Comedy Star:—“l
l.ave derived wonderful benefit to my throat from the use
of Heenzo and Heenzo Cough Diamonds.”
PROFESSOR RANDAL WOODHOUSE, R.I.A.M.: —“Hav-
ing recently contracted a nasty cold, accompanied by
hoarseness, which greatly interfered with my voice, I
decided to give Heenzo a trial. To my pleasant astonish-
ment, I found that only a few doses were needed to give
me relief. I have no hesitation in recommending the use
of Heenzo to singers and other voice-users.”
COSTS 2/- SAVES 10/-
Besides being such a good cough and sore-throat
medicine. HEENZO (Ilean’s Essence) is a great money-
saver. Each bottle makes a pint of the finest-quality
mixture. A pint of ordinary remedies would cost at
least 12s. HEENZO (Ilean’s Essence) costs only 25.,
and money cannot buy a better medicine.
HEENZO COUGH DIAMONDS
are lozenges medicated with HEENZO. They are fine
for the voice and throat. Price Is. per tin.
Sold by all Chemists &. Stores
or by post from G. W. HE AN,
Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
31 A D A M K EVELYN
SCOTNEY, the brilliant Aus-
tralian Coloratura Singer,
who is compared by Ameri-
can critics as a rival of Melba
a n d Tetrazzini: —“I can
imagine nothing better than
Heenzo for counteracting the
iii-effects of colds. I regard
it as an ideal preparation for
singers.'
MADAME EVELYN SCOTNEY.
sg
Hiss rVYLOR BURGE’S
Experience with
NS
ONIC
epveNuts
• &CG/STHOED
Miss MYLOR BURGE is a brilliant
operatic Soprano, who attracted the
attention of Madame Melba, from whom
she received valuable complimentary tui-
tion. Owing to a nervous breakdown
she was unable to accept many pressing
concert engagements. It is gratifying
to report, however, that after a judici-
ous course of HEAN’S TONIC NERVE
NUTS she has regained her health and
been enabled to resume her concert work,
having accepted an engagement for an
extensive tour of New South Wales.
No finer combination of blood-purifying
and nerve-nourishing ingredients has
ever been prepared than HEAN’S TONIC
NERVE NUTS. The way in which they
overcome aches and pains by rebuilding
the system has been a revelation to users.
Within a few days of starting their use
natients invariably begin to experience
benefit, and the improvement goes on till
normal health is re-established.
Hean’s Tonic Nerve Nuts
are economical as well as being efficient.
Boxes containing 12 days’ supply cost 35.,
or six boxes for 17s. 3d. Smaller size,
containing six days treatment, cost 3s.
per box.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL CHEMISTS
AND STORES,
Or from G. W. HEAN, Chemist,
178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.


<5
GGITTS
yMSEED OILMEAL
l *'ACTV« ef>
/AEGGSTT L TD
PARRAMATTA ML «n«
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
QUALITY TELLS.
That is why Meggitt’s
It is Australian.
It is absolutely pure.
It contains 31 per cent, protein.
h
gives results.
Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southamr.'.on. — Advt.
MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL
/S EQUALLY EFFECTIVE FOR SHOW OR SERVICE.
Commence feeding joui stock with this highly-nutritious fodder and observe improvement in your Horses, Cows, Pigs,
Poultry and Sheep.
PAMPHLET NO. 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents:—
Har K. S< s! S ES^^ S & y c^!^ , t<L^ t Q'ueeii*Street/ BrUrtiane? 1 &C ° J ***• B °* •“* WeUto * t “*
MEGGITT LTD.
The Pioneer Linseed Oil and
Linseed Oil Meal Manufacturers
of Australia
)
26 King Street, Sydney.
“Siai’’: A number of the pearl-buyers in
the Trobriand Group (Papua) maintain a private
mint as a side-line. In it is manufactured the red
shell-money known to the brown brethren as “sapi-
sapi,” which is the inner layer of a bivalve found
principally along the shores of Rossel Island, in the
Louisiade Archipelago. The sapi-sapi is very
•valuable as trade all over Papua. A sack of raw
shell is worth up to £2O; made into “money” it is
worth two or three times as much. The mint is
bossed by an old gentleman who is known as a
“breaker,” ; for it is his job to break the shells into
the proper sizes, an operation that takes a lot of
expert knowledge so as not to waste any of the
valuable red layer. The work of grinding and
polishing is done by girls, who sit all day rubbing
the shells, chewdng betel and giving the glad eye
to the haughty brown knuts. The sapi-sapi is
worked up into earrings, some 26 discs going to
each, and these sell at about 10 shillings. Brown
brother makes the discs into strings (each disc is
pierced) and will put every cent he earns into his
REFERENDUM AFTERMATH.
BILL THE BOLSHEVIK (heatedly): “Yeh, hut wot I reant ter know is—wot are the capi-
talists doin' while you and me are givin ’ our lives in the trenches?”
“bagi,” as he terms his hoard. There are legends
of bagis of immense size. One, famed all through
che Eastern Division, is the kasabai-a-tata-loi; it
was as long as the highest peak on Normandy
Island, . and down it the ancestors of the Suau
people descended to earth in the long ago. Although
the kasabai was so enormous the owner could pack
it into an empty coconut shell, but through the
evil work of mata, the snake, who lives in the sea,
he lost it.
“E.Z.”: This is the rabbit-shooting record
of three rough-and-tumble Soustralians. The Mus-
keteers went out one day with D.B. shotguns to
settle a bet as to who could get the most in 10 hours.
Final scores: Burdy, 778; Christian, 750; and
Ropie, 745.
“Melos”: Years ago I came across a god
belonging to a tribe of Clarence River (N.S.W.)
blacks. It was simply the fork of a tree about sft.
long, the laterals being approximately 18in. in cir-
cumference. No provision was made for arms ; but a
rudely-shaped head, painted with red and yellow
clays, was fashioned at the junction of the laterals
or legs. The spot where the idol was concealed
Binghi considered to be the home of the “hairyman”
or Evil One, and, probably, the budgery-fella god
was kept on the locality to counteract the influer.ee of
the bad -fella.
* * * *
“McNortli”; In a little mining township
that straddled the ranges a couple of hundred miles
south of Cape York drunks, obstreperous niggers and
others needed for future reference were chained to a
log; but eventually a regulation “cooler” was built.
Then there set in a great scarcity of law fracturers. The
innovation savored too much of convention, whereas
the log was more in accord with the primitiveness
of the times. So no one got drunk or stole gold,
and niggers called a mass corroboree and decided
against spearing prospectors’ horses. The lockup
was boycotted. There was danger of an era of
respectability setting in, when a number of miners
started a sweepstake of a shilling a week, the first
subscriber who was arrested to scoop the pool. The
winner was a burly individual who got so fighting
drunk that it took half the population to run him in.
After paying fines for drunkenness, assault, tearinme-
uniform and unfumigated language he emerged £8
to the good. There was a gaol in a Papuan settle-
ment which was a mere collection of huts surrounded
by a two-wire fence. One night a white man who
had been imprisoned for shooting niggers in the close
season thoughtfully set fire to the place and walked
away. He explained that the place was crawling
with vermin and totally unfit for a self-respecting
citizen to patronise. In another island gaol a horn
was blown at 6 p.m. to indicate that all prisoners
not inside would be locked out. The ensuing rush
was like the start of the monsoon. The lodgers were
not taking any chances with unfriendly cannibals in
the dark when there was a safe fortress to
go to. Incidentally, lots of natives regard gaol in
Papua as a boarding-house where they have to do
very little work in return for plenty of tobacco and
tucker.
THE THIRD GLASS.
“ White-pfella up your camp this morning, I see, Jaclcy !”
“Baal white-pfella that pfella. That pfella German!”
“J.N.M.”: Here are two recipes for
malaria asked for in B. 14/3/’lB. Romeo was an
Italian engine-fitter who had acquired his hideful of
malaria in West Africa, and who, when I knew him
in the Cold Country, used to get happily drunk every
night on English beer, thereby keeping the other
enemy at bay. The other remedy was' the notion of
a rivet-puncher who was at the erection of the Vic-
toria 1' alls bridge. When he felt an attack coming
on he purchased a bottle of the best brandy and a
quart bottle of champagne, went to bed and drank
the lot. Next morning he would be quite fit. He
leckoned this was cheaper than losing a week’s wages
and much more pleasant than letting the disease run
its course. I don’t recommend either recipe.
“Bad Australian” : We were talking about
record jumps when old Pat Brannigan cut in. “T’
th’ divil wid yer hoigh jumps ! Lishten here t’ me.
Id was a day iv a hunt in County Clare an’ I was
dhrawin a car iv kilp frim th’ sayshore t’ hearten’
up me pitaty patch, whin up th’ lane comes a bould
red fox wid about twinty Inglishmin an’ th’ O’Gor-
man Mahon helther skelther at th’ tail iv him.
The shtone wahl at ayther soide iv th’ lane wud be
about eight or maybe nine fut hoigh, an’ rather than
run threw me an’ me car iv saywade th’ rid divil
phwipped threw a hole in th’ wahl an’ into Jimsey
1 lynn’s whate. Thin thim Inglishmin raised th’
divil’s own hililoo, an’ whin they canned down a bit
sez them, ‘This is the ind iv our hunt this day.’ ‘ls
id,’ sez th’ O’Gorman. ‘Thin maybe I have a dif-
ferent idaya, entoirely. Paddy Brannigan,’ sez he,
‘do yeh dhraw up yeer car about six fut frim th’
wahl, an’ we’ll see what’s doin’,’ sez he. Wid
that I dhrew up as he said, an’ befure yeh cud
say Hell and th’ devils he shtud away a few yards an’
talcin’ hould iv his hunther’s head he jusht felt him
wid th’ torminthers, an’ wid tree bounds an’ a floyin’
lepp he landed on top iv me car iv saywade un’ frim
that out into Jamsey Flynn’s whate loike a great red
shtag an’ away, tally-ho, wid th’ pack. An’ be th’
same token he brought the brish home wid him. A
gieat by was th' O’Gorman. Shure, I’ve known him
t g out joolin’ iv a day an’ blow th’ sinses out iv
four or maybe foive Inglishmin jusht fer pure divar-
sion. An’ niver a wurd said about it at all.”
* * * *
“Cherokee”: The luck of it! Alec
Macdonald, a Westralian bushman, after sharing the
mixed luck of the 28th Battalion in dug-out and
filing-line, leturned to his stock-rider’s job, and was
speared to death by a Northern Territory myall.
* * * *
*‘W.A.C.”: Stand back to avoid the wood-
dust when Messrs Higgins and Harrington manipu-
late a crosscut saw. At the Sydney Show these
wood-surgeons, between moistening their hands and
drying their brows, shortened an 18-inch standing log
—time 19 } seconds; a world record.
‘Tick”: The itch that “Mac” (B.
21/3/’18) suffers from in the Gippsland scrubs is
probably due to a microscopic tick. In the jungles
and swamps of the South Coast (N.S.W.) they are
called grass-ticks, though they are generally found
roosting on the trunks of brush-trees and on reeds.
So diminutive are they that singly they can scarcely
be detected, and frequently I have heard new-chums
in the bush complain of a rash, or prickly heat,
when they were dotted from head to toe with the
irritating patches caused by the miniature nark.
When warming up in Blanket-street the irritation
becomes Hunnish; but a hot bath in fairly strong
sheep-dip will settle the ticks, and the irritation
will subside in a few days. A sulphur bath is the
next-best remedy, and dabbing with a turpentine rag
or carbolic ointment is efficacious.
“Barcoo” : Do crocodiles roar(B. 7/3/T8) ?
Of course they do; or perhaps the row would be
more aptly described as a prolonged grunt. Anyone
who has prowled and camppd round the tidal creeks
and mangrove swamps of the Gulf of Carpentaria
knows the sound well. In those parts when Binghi
hears the scaly Romeo croon to Juliet in the mid-
night hours he piles a few more waddies on his
smouldering fire. Neither the black nor the white
man in those localities takes any risks. The man-
eating horrors are found in any water deep enough,
and they travel overland for miles to take up their
quarters in some quiet lagoon well off the main
watercourses, provided it is a permanet hole. In
the Gulf tributaries there are the two species—the
man-eating and the harmless croc., the former keep-
ing well in range of tidal waters, the latter poking
up stream almost to its source.
* * •» *
“Lantana” : In answer to “John Quill” (B.
28/3/T8), re large codfish in rivers flowing east
from the Divide in N. S. Wales, emphatically “Yes.”
The oldest inhabitant of Casino, Richmond
River, will tell him about a cod which John AVal-
ton (not Izaak), amateur fisherman, caught a trifle
of 40 years ago. It was almost as big as a calf,
and furnished Good Friday’s dinner for almost all
the village. Plates of cod, steaks and roasts were
handed out to all-comers. In spite of its age and
size, I understand the flavor was prime. I remem-
ber my father telling me that when it was being
disembowelled they found a good-sized turtle in its
interior. Six- and eight-pounders and upwards are
caught in the Richmond and Clarence rivers any
day in the week.
SONG OF THE SENIOR CODFISH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It s a long 1 , long way down the old slow river,
Though you swim through the misty morns;
It’s a long, long way down the Murray River,
So I climb out and pare me corns —
Corns on me fins with the long, long swimmin’,
And a gumboil on me tail.
(This isn t a song for kids and wimmen,
Or curates out with a picnic hymnin’;
For I’m tough as an Arctic whale.)
It’s a long, long way down the dreamy river,
Though I’m five feet long or more;
It s a of a way down the Murray River,
And I’ve swum it until I’m sore.
Now on the bank with my old pipe goin’,
I feel like a fish set free,
Though the land’s dry-heat has set me glowin’,
The river’s full and the tide is flowin’,
And it seems to call to me.
It’s a long, long way down the old grey river
For a cod that’s growin’ old ;
It’s a long, long tramp down the Murray River
With water muddy and cold;
Corns on me fins with the endless swimmin’
And warts on me old grey head,
Now I’m tired and old, and me eyes are dimmin’
With the endless swimmin’, the weary swimmin’,
I wish I could walk instead!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


I
isEafelSS
IB
t,i- *
'
m
■ yt
I 'kzm
ilils
BiSSBS
1111
mm
W&MB . • ■„
BUSESy
SiW 4 •' v
yr.yy
~X*i
IS&&*
SR
fiWB
®fe»wl|PPs^S/
§SIP
SIS
ip
' *&* ..:
«
-
'.•i
-Cr.
: •■'
•yp
": '
H
• :
ipfiy
: .:
y- \ >VI
■-.? • ’
. '
■; ;'<‘;Vyi
■ y '•.-•■■•". .■ ■. -i
11
■■ .-
h
By.
”/>• ■ . ■ yy
yv§»#;i
y-uB /■’ ■
■
i ylp3£
!-:/ ;
"A::
•-' ;
St*
i&TVs
.¥•'" •
; • .;.
•y v* :
1#
. : :
■Si
i . - ,vyyßl
:s£,-, • y; > i.£l
■
Wm
11l
•:
iisSiaS
;. -y» : ‘v
,v * -‘y'Ssa
lilglligl
■'< . %.
... X >.•;•• ...
■ <
‘ , 't
■ jpssti
If
n
m
: * <' V V'I*' 1 *'
Ilf:
THERE ARE MANY ADVANTAGES
in having your Boots and Shoes soled with this “Dunlop”
wear-resisting material. It ensures long wear with comfort and
economy. Is waterproof and does not slip. Ask for “Dunlop
Kromhyd”—it's your guarantee of Satisfactory Service.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. • All States d N.Z.


The Aged and Infirm
are sometimes more susceptible to COUGHS and COLDS on the
CHEST than the young and vigorous. When an aged person gets
a Cold, it is of the utmost importance that not only is the BEST
REMEDY taken immediately, but that the Remedy is one that
does NOT cause any Heart Depression, nor in any way weaken
an already frail constitution. In such a case, HEARNE S Bronchitis
Cure is just THE proper Medicine to use, os it is the QUICKEST,
SAFEST and BEST—a Remedy that is just as effective with
YOUNG PEOPLE.
Heame’s
Bronchitis Cure
The Finest Remedy in the World
For Coughs, Croup,
Colds on the Chest
The REMEDY xvith the
REPUTATION
I C mrncUW.rVvriM.
Price 2/6 and 4/6 (double size)
From all Chemists and Stores.
If not obtainable in your
district, send direct to
W. 0. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG, VICTORIA.
Branch Offices —
Sydney, N.S.W.. Wellington, N.Z.
14,
Business, Robbery, etc.
The latest epidemic to set the Melbourne
police hoofing around is an outbreak of
magneto-snatching. The procedure is simple
and sudden —just a matter of marking down
the right car, hopping in while the town-
traveller (say) is inside a shop trying to
sell a line of darning-wool, taking a run to
the scrub beyond Brighton, scooping out the
magneto and tearing for the nearest public
vehicle with the spoil in a brief-bag. It is
a hasty job and is generally finished up long
before John Hop has his boots and brain in
action.
» » # *
Horse-flesh sis an article of diet was
recommended by squatter John Lewis,
M.L.C., while giving evidence before the
Inter-State Commission at Adelaide, and he
said rightly that it is exceedingly good food.
But old pagan prejudice—not Biblical pre-
judice—is against it. The Bible strenuously
prohibits pigs and statuary. We eat pigs
because they were the principal meat food of
our un-Christian predecessors, and we put up
statues to Albert the Good and others be-
cause the artistic Greeks and Italians would
probably have gone on worshipping Jupiter
and his crowd to this day if the Early Church
hadn’t eased up on the image prohibition.
The Scripture tacitly sanctions polygamy
and accepts it as a matter of course,- and it
doesn’t denounce horseflesh. But the Euro-
pean races were almost all monogamists
(the old Macedonians being an exception,
likewise the Prussians), and the Church
humored them in order to rope in converts.
Therefore the bigamist has to practise his
profession by stealth to this day. The
Biblical status of the horse is vague, but
some of the German tribes which conquered
England viewed the animal as haying a
streak of divinity in it, and no one likes to
eat a god, or even a half-god. The Bible
also prohibits the eating of hares and rabbits,
and permits divorce on the most liberal scale
—but this is getting far away from the
question of having a slice of cold moke for
lunch.
» * * *
Age ad.: —
Ladj- going out of business wishes to sell peram-
bulator. good condition.
Sorry!
“Brine” : The Hun's submarines are put-
ting us back to where we were 120 years
ago. In Phillip’s time there wasn’t a vessel
coming in every other day, so the settlers
just had to make things for themselves or
go without. For its first couple of years
Sydney got its salt by shaking the stuff off
the salt-horse before it was issued from the
public stores; but in May, 1790, local manu-
facture began. Two big iron boilers were
put up on the shore and the salt-water boiled
in them. The making of fishing-lines was
started at the same time: a ropemaker was
put on to spin the bark of a tree used by
the natives for the same purpose.
»• * * *
From the head of a four-generation-old
business in England :
Women stand in hundreds queued up at meat
and margarine stores as though life depended upon
getting some of these commodities, and will remain
two or three hours on the off-chance of being in time
for a few ounces before the shops are cleared out.
There is sufficient food for everyone. There are
plenty of potatoes, peas, beans, haricots, rice, lentils,
canned iSilmon, sardines, pilchards, herrings, corned
beef, oatmeal, rolled oats, packet soups. From such
a variety of foods a woman must he a poor hand who
cannot make a tasty and nutritious meal; yet she
will stand in the street half the day looking for some-
thing that is difficult to obtain while these things
can be bought in any shop.
I was allotted only 3111). of bacon to sell last
week. It has to be kept out of sight, and cut up
when the shop-door is locked; otherwise a crowd
would be in immediately. Self-raising flour is unob-
tainable, and baking powder very scarce. There is
plenty of plain flour (war-grade).
One of the rules is that you must have coffee to
offer for sale at Is. Gd. a lb. If you have none at
that price, either because you have sold out or be-
cause you cannot get any at the price, you must not
sell coffee at all, though you may have plenty at 2s.
and 2s. 6d. and people willing to pay that for it.
Rice at 4d. is obligatory. You may have plenty at
sd. and Gd.; but once you arc out of the 4d., the
better quality cannot be sold unless at 4d. As Food-
Controller Lord Rhondda has done more to upset trade
and the public than any other man. The prices of
some things lie has brought down, but he has
slopped production, and when the lower prices come
into operation shops find themselves bare of stocks.
* * * *
“Steel”: This is the condition of depen-
dence on Germany that the old Freetraders
(including the present Prime Minister) ran
us into. Most of the S. Australian rolling
stock is running on lvrupp axles. The Sil-
verton Tram Co. had a number of truck
bodies held up for months awaiting axles to
replace some ordered from Germany, but
undelivered owing to the war. Recently
two engines arrived at Broken Hill from
Sydney for the Menindie section of the Con-
dobolin line. Even these had “Krupp”
branded on their undergear.
* * * *
A prosperous Sydney business man got his
first lift this way. He had been employed
in a country store, which came to grief
owing him some wages. There was no likeli-
hood of cash, but the firm had the rights
covering a baking-powder, and for want of
anything better these were transferred. The
assistant started making the powder, and
lias never been hard-up since. Incidentally
he has been a plucky backer of many another
enterprise.
“Bouragi”: “J.F.II.’s” announcement (B.
4/4/YS) that the London Missionary Society
has just formed a co. in London to take over
and develop the district of Kwato in Papua,
is a reminder that it has been running a
similar concern in another part of Papua
for 10 years past. This is the Papuan Indus-
tries Co. presided over by one Walker, who
was once a prominent lay-brother or whatever
they call it in the L.M.S. This concern has
its sphere of influence in some of the Torres
Strait Islands, and has been doing rather
well with the aid of cheap nigger labor.
Kwato Mission Station, near Samarai, has
been carrying on a big sawmilling and boat-
building business for years, under Abel, the
boss there, who is a prime believer in the
heathen and the right of the L.M.S. to make
him work. Side-lines at Kwato were milk-
selling and laundry work for the inhabitants
of Samarai. The statement that the scheme
has received the endorsement of two Gover-
nors, Macgregor and Le Ilunte, is, I am
game to bet, wrong as regards Macgregor.
The old Scot’s chief trouble when he took
over was missionary feuds. To shut them
up he dumped each sect in its own area and
dared it to stray outside. Missionary inter-
ference in trade was a thing lie set his face
against from the first. As for Le Ilunte, he
would almost endorse The Old Gentleman
himself, provided he wore a clerical collar
and spoke like Exeter Hall. If the Com-
monwealth Government lets this sort of ex-
ploitation of cheap labor get a foothold it
will be doing serious harm to the white
settlement of Papua.
* * * *
“The Oldest Inhabitant” on some others:
The Pitt-street Labor Bazaar, of which the late
James Mullins was proprietor and the freehold of
which is understood to he in the Lane Mullins
family, was a landmark for many years on the
west side of Pitt-street, a few doors south of Market-
street. It was a building of the Macquarie type, two
storeys high, standing well hack, with the “Macquarie
eaves” hanging far over. On the northern end a shop
was projected on to the pathway, this being the
“Lombard Arms” department. On the southern end
was a fire-engine station. Adjoining this was the old
Willow Tree Inn, so named from a fine willow that
grew in front. The open space between the building
and the roadway was occupied on sale days by
goods sent in for auction. The business was estab-
lished about the year 1840 by William Gosling
Moore, who combined pawnbroking with auctioneer-
ing. Mullins had brought a letter of introduction to
the pioneer Archpriest Therrv, and after trying the
country for a while got a job as clerk with Moore.
Later he bought out W. G. Moore. In 1863 his
partner Alex. Moore died, and three years later Mul-
lins joined up with Timothy Maher, father of the late
Dr. Odillo Maher. The business prospered, and in
1878 was sold right out to Maher. In 1855 Mr.
Mullins had married a daughter of John Lane, of
Bandon, Ireland. Hence the “Lane” in the middle
of the names borne by the present generation of the
useful old family.
* # * *
“Snowy”: For many years the current of
migration set away from Victoria to the
bigger States. But lately there has been a
small current the other way, flowing across
the eastern end of the frontier between
Victoria and N. S. Wales. There is a con-
tinual filtering in of Monaro men to East
Gippsland, and especially to the fat alluvial
country along the Snowy River about Orbost.
From their remote and neglected tableland
the Monaro people come down to pick maize
or drift in for other jobs, and once they get
there many of them don’t go back. They
are hardworking and thriftier than the people
reared in the fat river-valley, and the men
are wonderful hands with cattle, so that
before long many of them are full-fledged
farmers. There’s a seasonal migration also
at the other end of the border. The Mildura
fruit-pickers come very largely from the
Lower Darling country or even from Broken
Hill. Some of them, too, shake the dust of
the plains off their feet and settle down for
good alongside the wonderful water.
* * * *
“Thomas de Kaye”: “Itan” and others
have been deploring that castor oil is not
manufactured in Australia. A few years ago
a co. put in an expensive extraction plant in
Melbourne, and thereafter imported seed
from India and Java. Now supplies have
been cut off or restricted, and the manufac-
turers are said to be looking in vain for
castor seeds in Australia. The price is about
£25 per ton. One sees the castor plant grow-
ing wild, neglected, and regarded as a weed.
Yet recent analyses of seed collected near
Perth showed 47 per cent, oil and 1 p.c. acid
—a very fair oil percentage and a very low
acid one: much lower than in most imported
seed. But I’ll wager that not one person in
10,000 ever suspected there was a market for
the vegetable. Judging by the furtive, silent
way in which some people look for things
which they want, you’d think the goods had
to be caught asleep.
* * * *
“4 x 2” : In Broome the pearling industry
is practically at a standstill for want of
diving dresses, and boats which formerly
would fetch £BOO cash are now sold for under
£lOO.
* * * *
“SURE AND HARMLESS.”
[For The Bulletin.]
When lovely woman stoops to folly
What art can wash her guilt away?
Time was she died from melancholy;
She merely cons the ads. to-day.
N.s.w. PRISCILLA PRINK.
IN A WELL-ORDERED WORLD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The magpie punched the Bundy clock and flew like
blazes up the range;
The kookaburra saw a snake and couldn’t wait to
get his change.
The what’s-its-name fell from its nest remarking,
“Gripes! I’m late again!”
The Jacky Winters chased a job, like common, early
working men.
“I’m after overtime!” cried one. “Same here!” re-
plied a flying mate.
The first lark (90 miles per hour) remarked in pass-
ing, “Am I late?”
The sparrow slammed the worms about and worked a
sweat up in the frost:
“Got five new chicks to keep last night. Another
shilling or I’m lost!”
And, viewing God's creation, he, the Yankee expert
speeder-up,
Drawled, “Now I’ve got ’em goin’, kid! These guys
must work before they sup!”
In later years this Yankee died and, flying to a higher
level,
lie systemised all Heaven, too, and drove the angels
like ';lie Devil.
N.S.W.
THE RELIGIOUS EDITOR.
The Inky Way
The Argus will be voting for the abolition
of the Upper House next. It astounded its
right-thinking readers the other day by put-
ting up the outrageous and revolutionary
heading, “The Time is Ripe.”
* * * *
“End Even” : One good feature of the sec-
tarian squabble in Melbourne about the dis-
play of Sinn Fein colors in the St. Pat’s
procession is that it has called up a clergy-
man to stand by a reporter against whom
the usual airy charge of “misreporting” was
made. A reporter’s accuracy is part of his
stock-in-trade; and the hysterical patriot
who regrets in the cold dawn the heated
phrases of the day before, and denies them
when they appear in print, should remember
that whoso impugns a reporter’s faithfulness
of transcription clouds the immediate jewel
of his soul. Herbert Brookes, of Melbourne
Chamber of Manufactures, one of the
speakers at the Town Hall meeting which
resulted in a deputation of protest to Hughes
against “disloyal” displays, was reported by
Melbourne Herald as having said : “Before
this thing will occur again, let us see Hr.
Mannix in Hell.” This sentence did not
appear (don’t ask me why) in the morning
papers’ reports, and Brookes wrote to the
Herald to “correct” its rendering of his
remarks. Ilis letter was printed, with this
footnote:—
Our reporter’s notes have been referred to. They
show that Mr. Brookes said, “Our sons and brothers
are not going to sacrifice their lives that these Sinn
Feiners may inherit Australia. If they think this,
they never made a bigger blunder in their ignorant,
narrow and vicious lives. We will see Dr. Mannix
in Hell before this thing shall occur again.” The
Rev. H. Worrall, who was on the platform at the
time, on being questioned, bore out the reporter's
notes.—-Ed. 11.
Three cheers for the editor who stood by liis
reporter! No one who knows him would
have expected less, but it is not often that a
“misreport” charge is so rebutted.
* * * *
“Copy Boy” : Ben Hoare, for many years
chief leader-writer on the Age the still sup-
plies a column or so for the Saturday issue),
is about to publish a book, “Things That
...latter,” for which those who think that Ben
matters are invited to subscribe five bob.
The volume will consist of 14 essays on the
war, strikes, democracy, God and other
absorbing subjects. Benjamin already has to
his credit (among others) an excellent book
on fiscal matters and a volume of poems.
The latter, “Figures of Fancy,” was pub-
lished years ago when he was editor of the
Geelong Times, and clearly indicated that
nature intended him to stick to leaders.
“D.F.”: The A.J.A. has been worrying
itself a bit latelv about the education of
journalists, and there was one great idea in
a scheme to that end put before the Perth
conference by Farmer Whyte, a Sydney
member. His proposal was that all theatre
managers should give members of the A.J.A.
free entry into their shows. Certainly. Any
cub reporter who can’t get a liberal educa-
tion out of the chorus-girl legs that form the
main part of present-day shows ought to go
rabbiting.
* * * *
The Bulletin welcomes another young-
ster, Barrak', “the official Camel Corps
Review.” The 12-sheeter, dated Cairo,
February 1. 1918, explains that the issue
was intended to be a Christmas number, but
“Time and Space were tno much for us.” One
quota from “Proverbs of a Private”: —
When men shout, “Leave is coming! Leave is
coming!” heed them not. For thy hopes of
Blighty are blit doomed to be blights of hone.
Which is calculated to make a person
ruminate.
* * * *
“Dob”: “Arthur R.” (B. 4/4/T8) has a
complete issue of the Victorian pioneer. The
Albion, the first issue dating December 4.
1847. I have what I believe is a complete
issue of The Omnibus and Sydney Specta-
tor, a weekly Saturday evening paper pub-
lished in the old Monitor office. Bridge-
street, Sydney. The first is dated October 2.
1841, and there are 19 issues. My exhibit is
thus six years older than his. By the way.
could any correspondent confirm my belief
that The Omnibus had only 19 issues?
“Rangan”: The Lindsay family’s streak
of genius is showing in the rising generation.
Jack Lindsay, the eldest of Norman’s boys,
has just started his University career. He
took the third University scholarship
of Bananaland with one year’s preparation
against the usual two, and his papers in
English, Greek and Latin set the University
buzzing. The examiner declared that the boy’s
English paper would have done credit to a
final honors student. He is a product of the
Brisbane Grammar School, where he was
once found amusing himself writing a Greek
tragedy.
* * * *
“X.”: ’Tisn’t often a joke originates with
the Adelaide Advertiser, but this yarn
leaked down the side steps. New office boy
of the usual brightness answered a ’phone
call for “Sir Langdon Bonython.” “Who do
you want? Who? You got the wrong num-
ber, mister. ’E don’t iconic ’ere!”
* * * *
Melbourne Argus the other day spoke of
“a shortage in the world’s fool supply.”
Dear, dear! So the circulation’s dwind-Liasr?
NEMESIS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Of all the beasts upon the earth
1 wouldn’t be a sub.;
To him your best is barely worth
The tribute of a snub:
Initials he insists upon
You thought he’d never miss,
liis voice one constant antiphon—
“ What blanky fool wrote this?”
The Editor, who sits aloof,
Blew in one busy day,
What time the Sub., from proof to proof,
Skimmed cursing on his way.
“What blanky fool wrote this?” he roared.
Then, smiling and benign,
The Editor his critic floored
With “Say, young man, that’s mine.”
VICTORIA.
CADET.


mßm.
0
' •
*
HE
/
.
I §'i
w&m
«& --v?' s*p&. *■
s&>V' x -' v ' >'
\ ;■;• v . 1 J ~
* si
s-11‘ ■ *‘^-^r3
L
__
t;-
X
m
IS
srr?i
« «
IP
It:#!
i~
mi
m,&.m
mmomm
mw^
l
) L ~S3
: is
8S
i. jj»a«SSS3M«
#=r
&:.4E^-*MBM«lifai-
Ws? fIBBBBMKft •*
%Fvv ’ .
U< 5 •;• •■
J
* i\< :
WXM&&
WSerf&w*
i" ••:■
«:
fc
■
1
""* •#
•^®s
.
mm
Wm
to
Adams*
BUSTS
;C--
T : ~w
Si #
9
■
: T.l
.
r.
P:
I
Saa;
■■■-•
MffW
HBRf 'WT# *-y^ ;f ,-;^,
gJH - i ’ s t- j* 1 -i -V*ijp v
s-l- '.
►.'assr ~<t
H
..... . ■ „„_
• '. '.' • r
;. ' »
i a
A DA MAX
*
m
dsg
ADAMAX
♦
45
Will Protect Your Property and Person.
ds
T is the twentieth=century answer to the demand for a roofing that
is economical to buy, costs little for freight, is easy to lay and is
inexpensive to maintain.
“Adamax ” is one=third the price of iron and costs two=thirds less
for freight.
Owing to a special process in its manufacture “Adamax” is unaffected by
Rust, Acids or Fumes, and does not curl or pin hole. It also resists heat and
has no effect on drinking water.
“Adamax” is made in rolls and is easier to affix. Even when laid flat it is
watertight.
The satisfaction given by “Adamax” is proved by the fact that —
THE MURRUnBIDGEE IRRIGATION TRUST are using 20,000 sq. yards on their
Leeton Factories.
The Public Works Department—after the severest tests—selected “Adamax ” for the
CORDEAUX DAH.
THE N.S.W. GOVERNITENT RAILWAYS accepted “Adamax” for 12 months from July 1,
1917, and have again accepted “Adamax” for the 12 months from July, 1918.
THE W.A. GOVERNMENT decided on “Adamax” for the Wyndham Freezing Works
for both roofing and insulation.
THE SYDNEY HARBOR TRUST is using it on their large Miller’s Point Wharf
Sheds—area of roof 3400 sq. yards.
THE SOUTH AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD ordered 44,000 sq. yards of “Adamax.”
Undoubtedly this is the roofing for your Homestead,Workshed, Dairy, Stables, Barns, Outhouses, etc.
Send for our Free Booklet, “The Adamax Series,” which supplies full particulars about “Adamax” Roofing.
ALSO ASK ABOUT
“Adamax” Dampcourse,
“Adamax” Sarking Felt,
“Adamax” Building Paper,
“Adamax” Cement Solution, and
“Adamax” Roofing Paint -
“Adamax” Roofing is sold in rolls of one. two and three ply, 72ft. long by 3ft. wide.
Nails and Cement for nailing and cementing the overlap where it joins are supplied free
of charge with each roll.
Obtainable from District Agent, or direct from
William AdamseC?.;
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: 521-3 Collins Street.
PERTH : 33 King Street.
BRISBANE: Cor. Edward & Mary Streets
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.
r.


A. Saunders’
Shaving Roll, finest-quality Sheffield Razor and
Fittings, 12/6.
USEFUL GIFTS
A. Saunders’ real Morocco Leather Motor
Bag, leather-lined, with double handles,
21/-
Wm
fell-.’
am
A. Saunders' Gent.’s Dressing Case, fitted with
every convenience, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s real Ebony Brush Set, complete with Hair Brush,
Mirror, Cloth Brush and Comb, extra-quality silver-drawn bristles,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’
Swan Fountain
Pen, 14ct. Gold
Nib, with two
9ct. Gold
Bands, 25 /-
A. Saunders’ real Ebony Gent.’s Brush Set complete
with two Hair Brushes, Cloth and Hat Brushes and
Comb, extra-quality silver-drawn bristles and Silver
Shields, 25/-
Send for Illustrated Catalogue, Post Free.
ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
A. SAUNDERS
Jeweller,
805-815 GEORGE ST. (opp. Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Ebony
Set, sterling Silver Shielc
bristles, in solid leather
Others, 22/C, 30/.
Military Brush
I, finest-quality
case, 25/-
40/-
m
- ; ' •- •
mm
e 2b
"535
KB
A. Saunders’ Pocket Wallet, real Mororeo Leather,
solid Silver Mounts and Shield, 21/“
Others, 25/-, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Safety Razor,
in leather case, 6 extra
blades, 10/6
fMITISt HA Hit
A. Saunders’ solid Nickel
Collapsible Cups, gilt-
lined, in solid leather
case, 7/6, 10/6.
A. Saunders’ Smoker’s Companion, bevelled glass base,
mounted Cigar. Cigarette, Ash and Hatch Holders, 25/
brass-
m
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF from 11/6 per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 4/-
and upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particu-
lars posted on application to
The Manager.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win icithout
lifting a hand?
IMPORTANT.—LOOK TO YOUR TEETH.
There tire no teeth like those furnished by Nature. For service, comfort and good
health, artificial teeth cannot be compared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to preserve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap and water are useful, but somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttlefish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifically prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free 1/3. Free sample posted. ROC T 'E. TOMPSIT r ” & CO.. Melbourne.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Merrie England, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6 Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders, a rare book by Defoe, 1/3,
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/'-. Up-to-date Comic- Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell's Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 10d., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics-’ Work-
shop Handybook, 1/6. QuADRrLLE Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller’s Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/3. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty’s Secrets, 1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler’s Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals), 3/6.
Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. Sax-
how’s Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Mysteries
of Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Not Guilty (Blatchford), 1/-. The Art of
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and My Neighbor,
9d. Britain and the British, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/6. Prof. Fowler’s Human S’cience,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. Metal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, etc.,
1/6 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise. 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The "White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. The Doctor, Cures for All Diseases,
1/6 posted. Letter-Writer Up-to-Date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/-.
Self Instructor: Kvery Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers' Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/.6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3, Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/9
postc-d. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
NO MATTER WHAT BOOK YOU
WANT, I’VE GOT IT.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Established over 25 years.
New" Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Busii Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon's Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1 ; 6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/6. Morgan's Freemasonry Exposed,
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY
STOCK CAN BE GOT FROM
THIS ADVT.
Write for mv
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO
DUTY. ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSE-
WHERE SENT.
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Head Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pav 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 1/6.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, lOd.
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Night of Temptation,
1/9'. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, g 69 Market Street, Sydney (only).
r«- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. "WS


Macmillan’s
—LIST.—
The prices advertised are those at which the
boohs are published in London. Prices outside
the British Isles must be fired by the importing
bookseller.
NINTH THOUSAND.
RECOLLECTIONS,
•By VISCOUNT MORLEY, 0.M..
2 Vols., 255. net.
THE DOMINIONS EDITION OF
WORKS OF
Rudyard Kipling
IN PROSE AND VERSE.
Decorated Blue Cloth. ss. per volume.
PLAIN TALES FROM THE HILLS.
THE LIGHT THAT FAILED,
LIFE’S HANDICAP.
MANY INVENTIONS.
SOLDIERS THREE, &c.
WEE WILLIE WINKIE, ho.
THE DAY’S WORK.
STALKY AND CO.
FROM SEA TO SEA, 2 vols.
KIM.
TRAFFICS AND DISCOVERIES.
ACTIONS AND REACTIONS.
REWARDS AND FAIRIES.
SONGS FROM BOOKS.
THE NAULAHKA.
By It. KIPLING & W. BALESTIER.
Sea Warfare. A Diversity of Crea-
tures.
*The Poetical Works in four volumes, uni-
form with above, are issued by Messrs. Methuen
and Co., Ltd.
THOMAS HARDY.
Moments of Vision and Miscel-
laneous Verses. By THOMAS
HARDY. Gs. net.
The Case for Compulsory Military
Service. By G. G. COULTON.
7s. 6d. net
*A volume dealing historically with this
question from the time of the Roman Republic
to the present day.
ROUND-TABLE PUBLICATIONS.
The Round Table.
.4 Quarterly Review of the Politics of
the British Empire.
2s. 6d. net. Annual Subscription,
10s. net post free.
The Problem of the Commonwealth.
L. CURTIS. The after-war relations
between Great Britain and the
Dominions. Australian Edition. 2s.
6d. and 4s.
The Commonwealth of Nations.
The historical basis of the foregoing.
Australian Edition. 6s.
While Shepherds Watched. By
RICHARD A. MAHER, Author of
“The Shepherd of the North” (11th
Thousand), etc. Fully Illustrated.
6s. net.
SIXTH THOUSAND.
Gold Must be Tried by Fire. By
RICHARD A. MAHER, author of
“The Shepherd of the North” (11th
Thousand), 4s. 6d.
Bromley Neighborhood. A Novel by
ALICE BROWN, author of “The
Prisoner” (loth Thousand), etc. 4/6.
His Family. A Novel by ERNEST
POOLE, author of “The Harbor”
(100th Thousand), etc. 4/6.
The Empty House. 4s. Gd.
This new novel tells the frank story of one
woman’s experience in marriage, and how her
refusal to have children reacted on her life
and temperament.
Orders for the above five novels to be sent
to the Melbourne Depot, 109 Russell Street.
Macmillan's
Empire Library.
ss. each.
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD.
663 The Promise of Air. By
ALGERNON BLACKWOOD, Author
of “Jimbo,” etc.
HUGH WALPOLE.
661 The Green Mirror. By HUGH
WALPOLE, Author of “Fortitude,
etc.
WINSTON CHURCHILL.
656 The Dwelling-place of Light.
By WINSTON CHURCHILL,
Author of “Richard Carvel,” etc.
“The whole novel is intensely interesting,
and will hold the reader to the last page.”
—Sphere.
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from All Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C.2
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
J
ARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the work?.
n ARE YOU
RUPTU RED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY'S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
For our sick wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. IV. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq. ,
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary.
Accumulated Funds, £30,500,000.
11. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Annual Income, £5,117.000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 .. £868,207. Total Bonuses distributed
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
.. £21,560,000
OSTER
SCREWING
TACKLE
• '-I
r
[2
FOR ECONOMY in all-round
tube-screwing use the time-
saving
OSTER
SCREWING
MACHINES
and save money over hand-
screwing. Furnished in four
sizes for belt- or motor-drive.
Dies and extra parts carried in
stock here. Ask for catalog.
Australasian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT, Box 251, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
30.) A,
Jin. to .’iin.
Scroll’s,
Tubes,
Holts,
Nipples.
THE OSTER IVIFG. CO., Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A
t-—?
o
>2
I
-Jg?
■M
Tfcr-=:
Heart of Empire Series—No. 9.
The Houses of Parliament,
on the site of the old Palace of
Westminster, were opened in 1847.
Designed by Sir Charles Barry,
R.A., in the Gothic Perpendicular
Style and noted throughout the
world for their symmetry and
beauty. The Royal or Victoria
Tower, 340 feet high, is the royal
entra ce to the House of .Lords,
a magnificently decorated chamber.
The House of Commons, 70 feet
long, is also very handsome. Big
Ben was set in place in 1860.
Westminster Hall was built by
William Rufus and has been skil-
fully incorporated in the design.
A
TYRES
The Lords &nd Commons gather in the Houses of
Parliament to deal with Empire affairs and are regarded as the
pattern of what representative government should be.
AVONS are the representative British Tyres, manufactured in the heart
of the Old Country, and acclaimed by the popular vote as the most economical
and durable, giving full value to every ounce of engine power developed.
The Policy that Pays—Fit AVONS to Your Car .
Hammond & Co., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
H. C. Pannifex, 22 Market Street, Melbourne.
Qibbs, Bright & Co., Adelaide.
Queensland Flotor Agency Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane, Queensland.


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
SOUTH AFRICA.
(Transvaal Provincial Division.)
Before Mr. Justice Bristowe in Chambers.
In the matter of —
HARRY HERBERT ROE Plaintiff
versus
HELEN ROE (born Aulton) Defendant.
Pretoria this 6th day of March 1918.
Upon hearing Counsel for the Plaintiff
and the evidence adduced in this action for
the restitution by the Defendant of conjugal
rights and in default thereof for dissolution
of the marriage,
The Court orders the Defendant to return
to or receive the Plaintiff on or before the
Ist day of August 1918 failing which to
show cause, if any, to this Court on the 15th
day of August 1918 why the bonds of marri-
age now subsisting between the Defendant
and the Plaintiff shall not be dissolved and
that service of this Order be effected by one
publication in the Union Gazette and
twice in a Sydney paper Australia.
By the Court.
(Sgd.) F. L. C. BICCARD JUTA,
Registrar.
Podlasiiuc AND Nicolson, Solicitors.
mmmgm
Bwml
►
wMmmm
»' <■'
im
■
The World’s Opinion
“Perfection.”
m
g
The motion-picture industry;
has passed the stage wherein!
the chief aim was the amuse-i
ment of the Public, and now
sets out to not only entertain, but to educate, its patrons.
With such artists as Burton Holmes, Cecil B. De Mille.
I). W. Griffith, and many others, Paramount can supply
pictures on a scale wider than any other organisation in
the world. 'With such film stars as Mary Pickford,
Marguerite . Clark, Douglas Fairbanks, Geraldine Farrar,
Wallace Reid, and dozens of'others whose names ai’e house-
hold words, it can place before the public productions, both
ip s-Wng and execution, unequalled throughout the
universe.
Paramount Pictures
POLITICAL
POINTS
So far John Bull has met the cost of war
by raising £1 in taxation for every £3 16s.
lie has borrowed. Australia has been meet-
ing the situation by raising £9 13s. 9d. on
loan for every £1 of taxation. In other
words, where John Bull borrows £3 16s.
towards the cost of silencing his creditors,
Australia borrows £9 13s. 9d. for settling
the Commonwealth bill. John Bull’s float-
ing war debt, apart from advances to Allies,
is in the vicinity of £5,000,000,000, involving
about £225,000,000 a year for interest—very
little of it free from income tax. If he had
gone on Australian principles he would be
staggering on to victory with a load of
£12,700.000,000 and struggling to pay
£570,000,000 annually to the lender. If
Australia had followed John’s methods,
Treasurer Watt, instead of having a war
debt already in his eye of £223,000.000,
eating up over £10,000,000 a year (and there
will be a lot more yet), would have a debt of
£86,000,000, carrying a charge of approxi-
mately £3,770,000.
The deputationist who staggered Treasurer
Watt on a recent day by saying that he
“would rather lose the war than break a
moral law”—the subject at issue being the
lottery system as an aid to the War Loan—
should be taken gently by the monkey-shave
whiskers, led to a quiet spot at the back
of a Sunday-school, and asked to show his
moral law. The Bible rigidly prohibits
GOOD ’ AIG.
“Yes, I 'ad a long tork with ’ Aig. In fact,
’e consulted me once!"
“Consulted you! What on earth about?”
“Oh, 'e just wanted to know when the tear
would end.”
statuary—the image of anything in Heaven
or earth or sea—and it is so solid on the
point that the matter is put among the Com-
mandments. The Bible prohibits pork. It
also tacitly forbids vegetarianism by speci-
fying the meats which may be eaten. But if
there is any Scriptural law against a “flut-
ter” the Religious Editor has missed it. And
he suspects that the monkey-shave clan
evolved the alleged moral law out of its own
gloomy innards, mistaking them in all good
faith for the Word, and doing its best accord-
ing to its liver—or its lights.
Hughes told a Bendigo audience last week-
end that lie knows what Australia thinks as
well as anybody. Then he must be as un-
comfortable as he looks.
If the G.-G.’s recruiting conference in Mel-
bourne disclosed one thing more than another
it was that the Labor party doesn’t know its
own mind about the war. There are a
thousand things in connection with the
tragedy which the public has not been per-
mitted to know ; so there is some excuse, at
any rate, for the chaos in the Labor mind.
The conference which was really wanted was
one representative of Labor —one at which
all that there is to know might be told, so
that the party might get intelligent leading.
Up to now it has only been misled, partly
by its own prejudices, largely by the result
of the referendums. The increasing No
majority has unquestionably been inisunder-
A START.
MR. SPONGER: “Making any progress
towards getting acquainted with those
wealthy people opposite?"
MRS. SPONGER: “Oh, yes—our dog had a
fight with theirs this morning."
stood, by some deliberately, by others unin-
tentionally. Had the press been permitted
to let soldiers explain why they voted No it
would at least have shown that it wasn’t
because they didn’t want to win the war. It
is not too late even now for Labor first of
all to get full information about the facts
and then decide what it ought to do upon
them. At the Melbourne conference most of
the Labor delegates backed and filled, like a
lawyer coming breathless into court, not
merely without a brief, but without even
knowing which side he was on.
The public has been assured that, what-
ever the muddle was in the Defence
Department is conducted on business lines
now. Yet even the Returned Sailors and
Soldiers’ League had to complain, only as late
as last week, that it was unable to get its
letters and telegrams so much as acknow-
ledged. On March 19 General .Jobson,
the president, wrote to the Minister
setting out what he alleged to be
a grievance of certain returned men.
Getting no reply, he wrote again on
April 9. The Minister still being silent, he
wired four days later; and, a week having
passed without an answer to that 5.0.5., he
concluded that there was no course open to
him but to appeal to the press—the press
which is muzzled, lest, of all things in the
world, it should do some damage to recruit-
ing. When the big, well-managed organisa-
tion, with a brig.-general at its head, which
speaks for the returned men, can’t* even get
an answer to its protests against the treat-
ment of certain returned men, the real
trouble of the press is that its own efforts
to get recruits are prejudiced.
If only because of the reply which the
Prime Minister gave to his ex-Treasurer in
the House of Ileps.. there ought to be an
inquiry into the whole question of certain
wool-tops contracts in which the Common-
wealth Government and the Colonial Comb-
ing. Spinning and Weaving Co. share the
profits. The reply of the Prime Minister
was: —
Mr. F. W. Hughes is a member of the [Central
Wool] Committee [which made the contracts], but
he benefits indirectly only in any profits made
from the wool-tops contracts.
Ex-Treasurer Higgs says that the list of
shareholders obtained from the Registrar
shows that, of 20,008 shares, F. W. Hughes
is the registered holder of 20,001. and that
F. W. Hughes and J. C. Watson are the
directors. Further, while the price received
for wool tops in 1913 was 2s. 4d. per lb.,
“the contracts which this co. was able to
secure with the approval of the Central
Wool Committee and the Prime Minister to
be carried out within a period of six months
amounted to £721,391,” the prices ranging
from ss. lOd. to 6s. per lb. If, as seems
to be the case, the Government’s half-share
of the profits for six months was £48,384,
which presumably was the amount also of
the co.’s share, there is enough odor about
the matter to call either for an inquiry or
(if we have got past that stage) half a
ton of disinfectants.
Some of the old-time British officials
had sounder ideas about a White
Australia than many people in
Australia itself. In 1836 there
was an agitation for the introduc-
tion of coolies, and a select but
badly-selected committee of the
Legislative Council recommended a
bounty of £6 for every male Dhan-
gar (a kind of hillman from North
India) who should be embarked on
or before December 31, 1838. In
rejecting the proposal Lord
Glenelg, Secretary for the Colonies,
said that it was much to be wished
that “the colonists should con-
tinue to prosper without introduc-
ing Indian blood into their popula-
tion or Indian habits into their
industry. Its tendency would, pro-
bably, be the permanent erection in
the colony of a distinct class of
persons, separated by origin and
habits from the rest of the laboring
population, subject to restrictions
not generally imposed and regarded
as of an inferior and servile
description.” As an irrelevant
side issue—when Australia
launched its boat on the sea of
Responsible Government, John
Bull, giving his blessing on the
shore, recommended a uniform
tariff, uniform railway gauge, no
border duties and some kind of
Federation. Three of these scraps
of advice were taken after long
delay, and this country has lost a heap of
money by neglecting the fourth.
The Age finds that Hughes is not a fair
friend any more than he is a fair opponent.
When they both were fighting for “l r es” on
the second Referendum the Age joined in
with the rest to magnify the Warwick-egg
incident into “a flagrant case of flouting the
authority of the Prime Minister and of the
Commonwealth.” It featured the trivial
affair under five black headings, and never,
of course, suggested that Hughes was most to
blame for the little that did happen. But,
instead of accepting the Age’s shrieks as
merely so much campaign literature, the
Prime Minister seized upon them to excuse or
support his appointment of a Commonwealth
police force. So to-day the unfortunate Age
finds itself wailing that “£945 per month is
being thrown away because,” it alleges now,
“two or three bucolics did not know how to
behave themselves,” but really because the
Age and others did not know how to behave
themselves on the occasion.
It’s just as well at this juncture to know
what to expect—in case. General von Lie-
bert in January last at a congress at Halle
spoke candidly thus: —
For us there is only one principle to be followed,
and we must recognise no other. We hob' that
Might is Right. We must know neither sentiment,
humanity, consideration nor compassion.
We must have Belgium and the North of France.
The curse of God is upon the French people. Let us
consider ourselves fortunate that He has separated
us from that nation, which is as ungodly as it is
infamous. The Portuguese possessions must dis-
appear. France must pay until she is bled white.
As for Australia, it has been already in-
formed that its men are not worth preserv-
ing, but that some of its women may serve
a purpose.
If Hodges, J., is right (and also if he
isn’t), the Vie. unionist has been supplied
with something else to think over. When
a few months ago the quarrying employees
struck against the award they had just got
via their wages board, the Union made a levy
on those who remained at work, for the
benefit of those who were “out.” One stub-
born old Bird who found a laboring job
near home refused to part up. The Union
took him to the Footscray court, and Cook,
P.M., gave it a verdict. Bird decided to fly
higher—up to Hodges. His solicitor urged
(1) that the Union had no power in levying
to discriminate between toilers and loafers,
whatever the ground upon which they
loafed ; (2) that the levy being for a
charitable purpose, the Union had no power
to make it; and (3) that the defendant’s tak-
ing of “outside” work constituted him a non-
worker within the meaning of the Union
minute making the levy. Hodges said No. 1
argument would do him, and gave Bird the
verdict.
A DINKUM FRIGHT.
DIGGER: “ Got the shock of me life just
now."
STEVE: “How was that?"
DIGGER: “ Thought I had lost me packet o'
fags.”
A Northern (N.S.W.) district-surveyor
recently let it be known that land forming
part of a Travelling Stock Reserve, with
other adjacent Crown land, would be cut
into blocks and thrown open to returned
soldiers. A mill-owner immediately got
busy and felled in a few days every likely
hardwood tree on the area. The timber
was mostly red-gum, eminently suitable for
fencing, and for house- and shed-building,
etc. This job was done with what is sus-
piciously like the connivance of the Forestry
Department, for the same miller, a week
later, was granted a permit to cut out every
hoop-pine on the same area on condition
that double royalty was paid. There was
not a great quantity of pine on the blocks,
but there was quite enough to let a soldier-
. settler make a few pounds, in addition to
obtaining timber for the interior of his
house.
THE OMENS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There are signs of Spring. In the midst of the
horror of war the swallows and other migrants are
arriving, and songbirds are singing.’’
Hero comes the swallow flying,
Out of the shilling South,
Where men and fields are dying
Close at the cannon’s mouth
A speckled thrush is singing
His love-note clear and strong
Where shame its bolts is flinging
And pain will mock the song.
There shall be suns for shining,
There shall be grass to spring
And happy flowers for twining
In our imagining;
The conqueror seasons moving
Will break the focman’s line,
In corn and blossom proving
That guns are not divine.
There shall be swallows flying
Out of the shining South
When dusts of scorn are lying
Across the cannon’s mouth ;
For conquering truth is moving
To break hate’s bitter line.
To all the white stars proving
' That manhood is divine !
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.


Fpa
Bauch stock
/*
AUSTRALIAN
SHILLING NOVELS
The Host Successful Fiction
Series Published in the
Commonwealth is
8331
MBARRINCTON
m
s
m
M
!U V Y ISWIDGIS
The Bookstall Series of Shilling Novels
This fiction library of over 100 shilling volumes includes most readable
stories by Australia's best authors. Over 1,500,000 volumes have already
been sold. New novels are being regularly added to the Series.
On Sale at all Bookstalls and Booksellers in the Commonwealth.
Post free from the Publishers: Is. Id. each.
Write for a Complete Catalogue.
A Few of the Most Popular Australian Novels
RANDOLPH BEDFORD:
“BILLY PAGAN—MINING ENGI-
NEER.”
“SILVER STAR.”
LOUIS BECKE:
“BULLY HAYES.”
“ADVENTURES OF LOUIS BLAKE.”
EDWARD DYSON:
“LOVES OF LANCELOT.”
“SPATS’ FACT’RY.”
-ROY BRIDGES :
“ON HIS MAJESTY’S SERVICE.”
“MR. BARRINGTON.”
STEELE RUDD’S FAMOUS SELECTION STORIES.
AMBROSE PRATT:
“WOLAROI’S CUP.”
“THE GOLDEN KANGAROO.’
M. FORREST.
“A BACHELOR’S WIFE.”
RALPH STOCK:
“THE RECIPE FOR RUBBER.”
“THE PYJAMA MAN.”
ARTHUR 11. ADAMS:
“THE KNIGHT OF THE MOTOR-
LAUNCH.”
TWO AUSTRALIAN WAR NOVELS BY ARTHUR WRIGHT.
“THE HATE OF A HUN.” “THE BREED HOLDS GOOD.”
SPORTING NOVELS:
“IN RACING SILK.”
By GERALD R. BALDWIN.
“IN THE LAST STRIDE.”
By ARTHUR WRIGHT.
HUMOROUS BOOKS:
“A CURATE IN BOHEMIA,”
By NORMAN LINDSAY.
“ABORIGINALITIES.”
From The Bulletin.
JLWSRIM
m\aw
dsg
PUBLISHED BY
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL
CO. LTD.,
476 George Street, Sydney
ROISLUP
Airinulw
pf
10=INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
3 /-each
N.Z. from 3/0
BRITISH-MADE
dsg
12-INCH
DOUBLE-SIDED
from
5/- each
N.Z. from 5/6.
SOME SPLENDID COLUMBIA RECORDS
All at Pre-war Prices.
IQ-INCH, DOUBLE-SIDED, at 3/- Each.
2789
S Pool; Butterfly ....
( For 31e anti My Gal
Geo. 11. Elliott and Chorus.
Geo. H. Elliott and Chorus.
2779
j Cohen and the Houseboat, Part 1 ; Joe Hayman.
I Cohen and the Houseboat, Part 2 Joe Haynnui.
2760
j Down Where the S wanee River Flows
( Hold Me in Your Loving Arms (Duel)
AI Jolson.
Mabel Dee & Elmer Young.
2755
j Smiles, Then Kisses, Waltz
( Sweet Delusion Waltz
Casino Orchestra.
Casino Orchestra.
2748
j The Star Spangled Banner George Alexander.
( Battle Hymn of the Republic Mixed Quartette.
3749
J Stars ami Stripes For Ever, March
| National Emblem March
National Military Band.
National Military Band.
2751
j Heroes of the Dardanelles Tliorpe Bates,
( When the Boys Come Home Thorpe Bates,
baritone.
baritone.
2738
S I.c Reve Passe, March
I Le Tout Paris, March
Garde Republicaine Band.
Garde Republicaine Band.
sg
j High Jinks: “Something Seems Tingle-lngleing” Stewart Morton.
\ High Jinks: “A Nice IJttle <iirl“ Stewart Morton.
*731
) The Trail that Leads to Home Slew;
I God Send You Back to Me
irt Morton & Quartette.
Thorpe Hates, baritone.
2712
j Hawaiian Waltzes
( Hawaiian Medley
Hawaiian Guitar Duet.
Hawaiian Guitar Duet.
2753
J Oh, How She Could Yacki
j You’re a Dangerous Girl .
... Collins & Harlan.
xVI Jolson, comedian.
:>5BO
Magpie and Parrot
Broken-hearted Sparrow
Prince’s Orchestra.
Prince’s Orchestra.
2333
( Little Grey Home in the West * E(lgar Coyle.
i Where My Caravan Has Rested Edgar Coyle.
2378
) Somewhere a Voice is Calling (Duet)
( Till May Brings Back the dowers ..
Nicol
Nicol
t Woodall
fe Woodall
2697
[ Swing Song (Violin Solo) .
Dance, Oi>. S 6 (Violin Solo)
Daisy Kennedy
Daisy Kennedy
1075
j Anvil Chorus., from “II Trovatore”
( elections from “11 Trovatore” . .
lien a Military Baud,
liemi Military Band.
3703
j 1 Hep.r a Thrush at Eve
( Sleep and the Hoses .. ..
Hughes Macklin, tenor.
Hughes Macklin, tenor.
WHOLESALE AGENTS 'FOR COLUMBIA RECORDS
SYDNEY, N.S.W. —Grafonola, Ltd., DakLngHouse, Ratvson Place.
MELBOURNE, VIC., and TASMANIA. —Messrs. Hugo YVettheim Pty.,
Ltd., 173 William Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE, Q. —King and King, Ltd., Queen Street.
ADELAIDE, S.A. —Cornell, Ltd., 133 Pirie Street.
PERTH, W.A.—H. R. Firth, Royal Arcade.
AUCKLAND, N.Z.—Arthur H. Nathan, Lid., Customs Street.
WELLINGTON, N.Z.—Bannatyne & Hunter, Ltd., Wakefield & Allen Sts.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.—Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd., 243 High Street.
DUNEDIN, N.Z. —Webley Sons & Gofton, Ltd.
From whom
Catalogs and
all Information
may be
obtained.
WORMS—THE SYMPTOMS.
The symptoms of worms are manifold,
embracing not only facial indications and
depression of the whole system, but serious
irritation and much distress.
IN VERY YOUNG CHILDREN much
of the irritability and fretfulness is often
due to the presence of worms. Restless-
ness, fitfulness, sudden starts, hardness and
fulness of the belly, irregular movement of
the bowels, and excessive secretion of saliva
from the mouth are invariably indications
of the irritation caused by worms.
IN OLDER CHILDREN the same symp-
toms are present, but more distinctly defined.
Grinding of the teeth, violent movements of
the legs and arms, and an undue flow of
saliva, which causes frequent efforts to swal-
low. When awake there is a constant desire
to pick the nose and scratch the irritated
parts. The bowels are irregular, and fre-
quently the movement of the worms causes
diarrhoea, alternating with costiveness. The
breath is usually foul, and the child is lan-
guid and peevish. The tongue preternatu-
rally red or alternately clean and covered
with a white slimy mucus. A short, dry
cough, frequently slimy stools (excretion
from the bowels), emaciation, slow fever,
irregular pulse, and sometimes convulsions.
Loss of appetite frequently alternates with
a craving for food. Indeed, the latter symp-
tom is most pronounced in many cases, and
many mothers have experienced the insatiable
appetites of their children without realising
the cause.
NEW ZEALAND CASE.
COMSTOCK’S “DEAD SHOT” WORM PELLETS
SUCCESSFUL WHEN OTHER TREATMENTS
FAILED.
“My son,” writes Mrs. E. J. Peagram, of
77 Princes Street, Woolston, Christchurch,
N.Z., “was induced to take Comstock’s ‘Dead
Shot’ Worm Pellets after trying several other
so-called remedies but to little use. He was
suffering with Thread Worms, and, after a
course of this medicine (Comstock’s Worm
Pellets) he was cured from these intestinal
parasites. I can recommend this medicine,
knowing myself that it cured my son, who is
now away at the Front fighting for the
Empire.”
Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets
are a purely vegetable medicinal preparation
for the eradication of worms in children and
adults. For sale by» all chemists and store-
keepers, price 3s. 6d. per packet, or will be
sent post paid at the same price by The
W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 23 Lang Street,
Church Hill. Sydney; or Farish Street,
Wellington, N.Z.
5 <
ESTERN
I u s
I
AUSTRALIA
ECUADOR
names
PER
<
BOLIVIA
SOUTH
V+a A
|T H AL
! AUSTRALIA
ISBA
Albury
O
(Saa®
lojTs
ds
asfa
n


The Huns capture positions by paying the
price in blood. That they may soon become
bankrupt in cannon fodder is the pious hope
of that loyal spirit King George topnotc-h
Scotch. —Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
WHAT MAKES THE WHEELS GO ROUNJd ?
rds
LEWIS fewfllTTY MAKERS
Government Notice.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 15th April, 1918.
Appointment of a Supervising Draughts-
man at the Wireless and Electrical
Workshops, Randwick, N.S.W.
APPLICATIONS are invited from per-
sons qualified for appointment as
Supervising Draughtsman at the Wireless
and Electrical Workshops, Randwick,
N.S.W. Salary to commence, £336 per
annum. The appointment is on a temporary
basis.
Candidates must be experienced in the
design of Electrical Machinery, including
Wireless Telegraphy and Electrical Appa-
ratus, and be able to supervise and take
charge of the Drawing Office at the Work-
shops.
Successful applicant will be required to
pass a medical examination as to physical
fitness before appointment, and must take
up duty at his own expense.
Applications, stating age, and accompanied
by copies of credentials, must be forwarded
to the Naval Secretary, Navy Office, Lons-
dale Street, Melbourne, so as to reach him
not later than 30th April, 1918.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 15th April, 1918.
ROYAL AUSTRALIAN NAVAL
COLLEGE.
Applications for Entry as Cadet
Midshipmen.
APPLICATIONS for entry into the Royal
Australian Naval College, Jervis Bay,
New South Wales, as Cadet Midshipmen will
be received by the Naval Secretary, Navy
Office, Melbourne, up to 30th June, 1918,
from boys born in 1905.
Forms of application and full particulars
may be obtained on application to Naval
Secretary, Navy Office, Melbourne; Com-
manding Officer, R.A.N. College, Jervis Bay,
N.S.W.; District Naval Officer, Brisbane,
Q. ; Edgecliff, N.S.W.; Port Melbourne,
Vic.; Birkenhead, S.A.; Fremantle, W.A.;
Hobart, Tas.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
©
Pw;
m
&Sr,
2SS
World
Famed
HATS
are foremost
Light, ye t
durable,
and of ex-
cellent value
MICK
SIMMONS
FOR
SPORTING
NEED
The scratching of Biplane at 9 o’clock the
night before the Awapuni Cup was run at Palmerston
.N. (M.L.) seems to have stirred up something' in the
way of an able-bodied earthquake over yonder. After
listening to the explanation of owner Greenwood and
Dielc Mason, the animal’s trainer, the stewards of the
local racing club appear to have given them a smack
that each will remember. According to the cables,
the stewards were filled with regret that they had not
authority to disqualify the colt for the meeting.
Furthermore, they* expressed the opinion that the
scratching- had grossly violated the ethics of racing,
and recommended that the Club should never again
accept nomination of a horse owned by Greenwood or
of a horse trained by Mason. Greenwood is some
pumpkins over yonder and Mason is the best-known
horsemaster in the Dominion. The stewards of the
Manawatu Club must have thought they detected a
very powerful odor before they blistered such men
like that.
A tremendous amount of interest was being taken
in this race by Maoriland and Australian racing men
on account of the w.f.a. collision that was scheduled
to occur over the mile and a quarter between Desert
Gold and Biplane. The mare had landed a week
before from her trip to the Commonwealth. Biplane
had won the Easter Challenge Stakes at Christchurch
early in the month. Desert Gold had returned in
great heart. There was evidence of Biplane being at
the top of his form ; and his trap tip to Palmerston
from the South and his name remaining on the list
of acceptors until late on the night before the race
suggested that the owner had no doubt about the
colt or his own intentions. Now, questions relating
to the relative merit of these nags have been fiercely
discussed on both sides of the Tasman, and much
cash was being wagered on the result of their meet-
ing. Biplane had won in Australia under Derby
weights. Desert Gold had performed brilliantlv at
Randwick and Flemington. If anyone had known
that Biplane would not be a runner he could have
stood to win thousands. But if an attempt was
made by a guesser or anyone else to work a ramp it
didn’t come off. The Club declared all bets cancelled.
If the Club did not suspect something, what made it
do this?
Speaking generally, the mere act of scratching a
horse very late is harmless enough. The prad has
gone wrong or lost its appetite, or something. But
unless there is some such simple explanation it is a
gross offending. It is then even worse than leaving
the nag in the race to make a betting market and
run a bye, because it may represent a meaner
form of theft. About a score of years ago there was
a fearful rumpus in Maoriland over the late scratch-
ing of a well-backed horse for an important event.
On that occasion the owner—a rich, supercilious
bounder—took up the attitude that the horse was his
property, and what he did with it was his business.
He escaped getting his nose publicly rubbed in the
mud, but earned universal contempt.
Whether Biplane and Desert Gold will ever meet
now looas doubtful. Probably Lowry would ask to be
excused. Wherefore the question as to which is the
speedier of the two will in all likelihood remain to
be wrangled over until the present crowd of racegoers
have become toothless with age. That Biplane was a
remarkably fast horse when he was in Australia every-
one knows. But so was Desert Gold. Whether the
colt could beat the mare over a middle distance w.f.a.
this page does not know; but it knows that it would
back the mare. Biplane struck Australia when there
was not a really good tliree-year-old on the premises.
Measured against a poor lot and against the watch, he
galloped like a champion. But the impression he
mu V< l *i 0 wr ’^ er was that he was a brilliant squib,
that he has anything like the quality of Desert Gold
this page will not believe—yet, anyhow. Desert Gold is
a most beautiful specimen of the thoroughbred—hand-
some to look at from any angle, docile, a splendid
mover and of great courage. Apparentlv owner
Lowry was not afraid that the mare would fail to
make Biplane argue the point. As it was, she won
without effort from four others in “7 1-5 ” „ Mean-
while It would have filled Sydney with jov to have
heard that Biplane was scratched because the hock
boots had been left behind.
* * * *
There was a lot of betting in Sydney on
the Awapum Cup as between Biplane and Desert
uolcl, with the Greenwood nag 1 favorite at 5 to 4
* * * *
Mainly because nobody knows whether
something is going to win by half a mile, the hurdle
race at a Sydney suburban meeting is usually the
most attractive item on the menu. On Saturday six
started at Warwick Farm, with Dick Wedgewood a
roaring-favorite, Two of the field collapsed at the
first jump. Later on Dick Wedgewood bashed all
the steam out of himself by colliding 1 with what he
ought to have leaped aver. Then the remainder
paddled away in front and Soldiers Point sailed in
ahead by 20 lengths. The idea of putting hurdles
on the programme is a good one, but the time seems
to be ripe for having some sort of guarantee that
the nags presented are reasonably up to the job.
It is safe to say that more than half of them ought
to be in Mesopotamia.
* * * *
She was a champion among the Sydney
sprinters last season, but since getting a ra»ar older
La Steppe has shed a bit of her dash. The last
half-furlong seems to beat her. She had every
chance in the Denman Stakes, but in the final
argument was no use. In two previous starts she
did no better. On Saturday at Warwick Farm she
was backed down to 5 to 4 on in the Flying. There
was solid cash, too, for Bonnie Plume. The two
of them had the race to themselves, and it was
La Steppe who tired first, the other beating her
home by a length and a half. A lot of money
was won with La Steppe when the world was
younger, but a fairly substantial portion thereof
must have found its "way back lately to where it
came from. Bonnie Plume beat a good field over
six furlongs at Rand wick in'►the Spring, and on
January 19 annexed the Challenge Stakes, in which
she gave Dame Acre 31b. and an out-of-place beat-
ing. Since then she seemed to have gone off badly.
But she hadn’t, and that is just where the La
Steppe supporters made an expensive mistake.
* * * *
King Ritchie, a nag that was given a
couple of runs at Randwitk recently without being
rushed in the betting, was backed like a certainty
for the Club Handicap at Warwick Farm on Satur-
day. lie duly put in an appearance at the right
cud. There were no champions behind him, and,
though handicapped at 7st. 31b., he only carried
Gst. 101 b., there being an apprentice aboard. Still
the performance and the confidence of the stable
draw attention to the fact that King Ritchie is in
the Newcastle Cup, to be run at the end of next
week, with 7st. 41b. There has not been much
betting on this event so far. Mehi King, 9st. 51b.,
has been most asked for. He seems to have plenty
to carry. Bee (Bst. 121 b.) is not friendless either;
and, sure of a start, Baltic Sea (Bst.) might appeal
to some. When Baltic Sea ran second in the
Welter Mile to Desert at Tatt.’s meeting at Rand-
wick the other day more money was lost on him
than on any other horse beaten at the meeting, lie
carried a barrow-load. This page expects to hear
of the Newcastle event being won by something
lower down the list than these.
The 1,2, 3 tote is no place for a citizen
who is backing a short-priced favorite. If the animal
wins he finds he was laying odds-on; if it gets a
place it takes him about a quarter of an hour to
retrieve half a dollar from the wreckage of a
pound. But the instrument is a useful tiling to be
doing business with on a rough ’un if it arrives in
a place. At Warwick Farm (Sydney) on Saturday
most people who went near the tote were rushing
to get .Cl 10s. for £1 Pamphlet in the Juvenile
event. A few wandered up and had an investment
on Mahgonize, owned by V.R.G. Chairman Mackin-
non. When this nag ran second they collected £l4
for 10s. in the paddock and £24 for ss. in the
Leger. Leger patrons of Pamphlet annexed 3s. The
winner Neville paid £1 Is. 6d. and 10s. In the
Farm Stakes backers of the winner drew 10s. 6d.,
of the second horse £2 3s. and of the third £2 13s.
Looking for winners seems a waste of time.
* * * *
Wallace Isinglass ran his last race when
he battled out the finish of the A.J.C. Plate with
Lanins at Randwick. The harem comes next. What
his family will do has a certain academic interest
for racing men. Wallace is a fine-looking horse,
stoutly bred (Wallace —Glass Queeu), and could gallop
with the best when lie liked. But he frequently
didn’t like. Several times he cut it cold. Other
times he ran as sour as a mule. In a big field he
was nearly always hopeless. Whether there is much
vitality in him can only be guessed at, hut the
chances look the other way. Still, Old King Coal
always thought highly of his prad, and as he has
enough cash to give the horse a chance the horse is
going to have it. At two, three and four years old
Wallace Isinglass won a race per annum. What he
did to punters in four seasons’ racing is a painful
memory.
» * * »
Adrian Knox, chairman of the A.J.C., will
not race again until the last round of the Freedom
Stakes is finished. Racing has cost him about as
much as any other owner who did it in moderation.
Three Star a couple of years ago looked like doing
things, but was a cause of much sadness. Knox gave
him to the Federal Government to use for breeding
remounts—a generous gift, for Three Star seemed
almost an ideal moke for such uses.
* * * #
Panacre seems to have parted with the
punch he was supposed to be still holding in reserve.
Started in the mild and a quarter Maitland Handicap
last week among a very ordinary lot, he could do
no better than second. Most likely he begins to
yearn for the paddock.
* * * »
An owner who patronises Sydney pony
courses sent his nag out on Saturday at Warwick
Farm to decide whether matrimony would take
place at once or be postponed. It was all up.
The nag just managed to get there in the last stride.
Whereupon the proprietor collected in a spirit of
thankfulness, and the other party to the bargain
was informed that all just cause and impediment
had been beaten by a short head.
• * * *
The Moonee Valley (Vic.) R.C. held its
first annual meeting last week. The balance-sheet
was “satisfactory.” The chairman was jubilant
over the success of the club’s first year and men-
tioned that he looked forward to substantially
improving the course —“after the war.” The treasurer
was similarly jubilant and similarly glib. “After
the war they would he able to utilise more money
for the benefit of horse-owners,” he said. Well,
racing men are proverbially ontimistic, but to con-
fidently assume that there will be money to play
with “after the war” is, at this stage of the proceed-
ings, akin to enumerating the junior chooks before
the hen that was to lay the eggs was hatched.
* * * *
“A Bit” : There was a comic-opera flavor
about the Welter Handicap at Bittern (Vic.)
lately. Four started, and backers laid odds of 6to 4
on Rose of Melbourne. The field dwelt some seconds
when the barrier rose, and the second favorite, Scotch
Kirk, was left. Rose of Melbourne’s rider, hearing
the crowd shout “No start!” pulled his moke up
when well in the lead. The race then became a
match between the two 10 to 1 outsiders, Lorn and
Pengar. The latter passed the post first, hut Lorn’s
owner lodged a protest on the ground that Pengar’s
jockey had ridden in horse events this vear at un-
registered meetings. The stewards, upholding the
protest, disqualified Pengar and said the prize was
for Lorn.
Victorian betting-tax returns look like
approaching the Treasury estimate for the year—
with a bit of luck. For the nine months ending
March 31 £60,862 was passed up by the bookies —
licenses £11,155; betting-tickets £49,707. The
estimate for the year was £82,500.
* ‘ * * *
“Glengallan”: After Herbert Brookes’s
recent fiery indictment of Archbish. Mannix at Mel-
bourne, you wouldn't expect to find them jigging
successfully to a common goal. Yet at the Wagga
races the Maiden Plate was won by a horse named
Mannix, ridden by a jock named Brookes. The
winner’s dam was Jane Harding. Jane Harding, as
you may remember, was a lady hailed in Kipling’s
Barrack-Room Ballad as “the pride of the com-
panee.” So everything comes out all right in the end.
* * •* *
“Snaflle”: “Dr. Nil's” eight miles in 20
minutes isn’t bad; but listen. In 1877, in the
Western District of Victoria, my father rode from
Merino to Casterton in something under 35 min-
utes. As far as I know, he followed the main road
and that means he covered 14 miles. Both “Dr.
Nil’s’’ time and dad’s work out at a mile in 23 min-
utes, but dad went six miles farther. He pro-
bably didn’t go much more than 9st. 71b. at the
time, and was on a horse called Mickey Free.
* * • * *
Last week-end the Sydney Metropolitan
Coursing Club opened the hare-chewing season with
a two-davs’ meeting at Liverpool. The prey ran
badly and kills were frequent. The principal event,
April Stakes, was won by King's Bounty, a black
bitch owned by Jack Bateman and Greig Kerghery.
She is by Tommy Dodd 11. (imp.)—Busybody, and
the first of her sire’s progeny to run in public. The
runner-up, Hidden Hope, a black dog owned by a
gentleman who wears a red face and grey hair above
a clerical collar, was the favorite for the stake from
the first calling of the card. He was backed down
to even money before he had won a course, and
was reported to have been very well tried. So he
was, but his connections should have known better
than to run two trials against dogs like Achieved
and Bride’s Hope on the same afternoon. Yet that
is what they did on the Saturday before the meeting.
The puppy event, Warwick Stakes, went to Little
Vera, by White Hope (imp.)—Miss Vera. She
seems a demon to work.
The National Coursing Derby and Oaks
meeting will be held at the Woodstock Enclosure,
Rooty Hill (N.S.W.); next week. S. S. Bennett, of Rooty
Hill, has this year not got a nomination in either
event. For Heaven knows how long he always had
a mortgage on one or other of the blue ribbons
year after year. To outside owners the absence of
the usual Bennett certainty is a cheerful circum-
stance.
At the Gun Club’s ground in one of the
large western towns of N. S. Wales a conspicuous
notice announces: “No Betting Aloud.” It is obeyed
literally. A mounted policeman, new to the dis-
trict, was put on duty at the ground on a day of
massacre. He made the mistake of reading the
notice “No Betting Allowed.” Within a fortnight he
was the John Hop i- another and remote district.
• * # *
The Metropolitan Ladies’ Swimming Club
(Sydney) has a promising youngster in Charlotte
Head, a stockily-built little miss in her early teens.
During the season she, displayed good form in dis-
tance events and won a cup in a point-scoring
competition in which the events are from 150yds.
to a mile. She also performed well in the diving
comoetitions. Charlotte Head should be spoken of
again.
• * * *
“Stumps”: Sydney premiership cricket
this year gave chances to the old-stagers. In indi-
vidual club averages, M. A. Noble (59.50 —the
highest among the season’s averages) headed Pad-
dington ; Hansen Carter (46.00) topped AVaverlev;
Warren Bardsley (58.75) is aloft with Glebe: R.
B. Minnett (26.00) and Dan Gee (22.29) are in the
van for Middle Harbor; Tommy Andrews (41.85)
and J. C. Barnes (31.62) head Petersham; B. J.
Folkard (36.30) takes honors for Balmain ; and K.
B. Docker (59.00) and E. L. AVaddy (31.44) did
best for Western Suburbs, All except Docker played
either inter-State or inter-colonial cricket in pre-
war days. A. Punch (who topped North Sydney
with an aggregate of 754, the highest of the sea-
son), C. S. Achureh (Sydney) and L. Best (’Varsity)
were the only youths who kept the old ’uns in their
places.
* * * *
Ossje Smith, who waa responsible for
much of Petersham’s success in the final round, has
been battling in Sydney cricket for many years. A
quarter of a century ago he was playing junior at
Parramatta. Later he got into club play with Cen-
tral Cumberland and Petersham. He is one of the
finest bats on the leg-side, and emphasised this by
making the final smack that gave Petersham the
title —a sixer in the square direction.
* * * *
Three youths from Randwick (Sydney)
Preparatory School have put up something tall in
bowling averages for schoolboys to tilt at. K.
McNamara, 79 wickets at 2.25; F. Brooke, 40 at
2.4 ; and A. Brown, 25 at 2.44. They are uncom-
monly good efforts and likely to stand for a while.
*• * * * *
J. M. Taylor, one of the most promising
of young Sydney cricketers, was wounded lately in
France. He was a Newington College boy, and for
Petershatn in 1915-16 scored three centuries —174
against ’Varsity, 154 against Sydney and 115 not out
against Glebe, and ended the season with 857 mug at
an average of 45.10. AVarren Bardslev’s 868 was the
only higher aggregate in that year. Taylor had been
in the game two years before the Hun got one past
his bat.
*■ * * *
“Charlie” Kelliek, who died recently at
Strathfield, Sydney, aged 74, was an old-time
cricketer who made many scores at . the Albert
Ground, Redfern, in the days when the Albert and
Warwick were the leading clubs. For many years he
was clerk-in-charge of the publishing department of
the Government Printing Office, retiring from the job
in 1896. James, another of the large family of
Kellicks, kept a cricket depot in King-street 30 years
ago. All were Sydnev-born.
,* ' * * #
“Copabella”: There’s a good bit of
camouflaging going on about A’ic. Association foot-
ball. One lot of people are talking at large about
“helping patriotic funds,” and another lot are saying
nasty things about the “greater game” in France
wanting players. But at bottom of it all there’s the
plain fact that the Association has to play—or die.
This year its agreement with the League peters out
by effluxion of time, an agreement whereby footballers
can only transfer from Ass. to League, or vice versa,
by permit, or after three years of standing down.
Association players this year will have stood down
the necessary time through the suspension of all Ass.
football, and will therefore be free to go over un-
tramelled to the still-living League. The Associa-
tion is trying hard to get the agreement renewed
as a “saver" ; of course, meantime, it talks only of
patriotic football. As one at least of the Associa-
tion’s clubs is in debt at the kick-off, supporters
smile a little at the divi. the war-funds are likely to
get out of the season.
K * * *
“Jacko”: Nobody knows a more concen-
trated mixture of sport and civic usefulness than S.
Yeo, of Dunedoo (N.S.W.), well known along the
Western line. His record for 120yds. is TlJsec. and
for 100yds. lOlsec. He is a crack with the rifle,
and scored 187 out of a possible 190 with Leadville
club in first-class musketry. At lie was de-
feated only by the narrow margin of 6-5, 6-5 in the_
recent country- club singles handicap in Sydney. At
cricket he has played well in many inter-district
matches. Between times Yeo has hopped, stepped
and jumped 43ft. sin., lifted himself over sft. lOin.
and thrown himself 19ft. Bin. On the other side
of affairs he is secretary of the Dunedoo P., A. and I.*
Assoc., of the local Progress Association, of the F.
and S. Association, of the P. P. Union, president of
the railway league and of the war service committee
in the township. In his spare time he issues scalp
certificates as stock inspector.
* * * *
Died lately from injuries received through
being thrown out of a sulky, one-time 6culler
Tom Clifford, aged 67. Tom had lived in the Illa-
warra district for 40 years, and latterly combined
farming and horse-doctoring.
* * * *
“O. Lord” : Some time ago reference was
made in The Bulletin to the haphazard way in
which some of Melbourne’s “patriotic” raffles are
conducted, the ease being cited of a raffleuse who
“floated” a riding-hack and had the extreme mis-
fortune to have it won by her own daughter. Lately
another little lottery was arranged. It was a well-
filled flutter, for a saddle this time, and the soldiers’
funds benefited by a sov. or two out of the gamble.
By one of those excruciating coincidences which give
everyone concerned that restless feeling, the young
thing who had won the horse was equally successful
with regard to the saddle.
» # # *
“F.N.T.” : Some of this country’s callous
she-frivollers still wear their aigrettes to the races
or the Bed Cross. Most of them don’t know exactly
what the chances are of their early appearance at
court, so it seems worth mentioning that, since
the beginning of this year, anybody buying, selling
or owning a real aigrette is liable to a fine of £5.
Even to have one in the hat cupboard is illegal.
Next hatching season, if the Law does its duty in the
meantime, there should be fewer fledglings done to a
slow and miserable death.
* * * *
“G.L.H.” : Apparently “Pick” (B. 4/4/’18)
read only half the argument before announcing that
I talk rot. No one but a fool would advocate a rifle-
man’s shots not being marked. They should be
marked when he finishes his shoot to produce accurate
shooting. He says that hundreds of expert riflemen
aim off target for elevation and windage. If he
puts up £lO I will do likewise, winnings to go to
Bed Cross, that he cannot produce the names of 20
experts in Sydney, let alone hundreds, who shoot this
way.
* * * *
“Man frae France”: It was good to read
in the cables lately that the Australian Headquarters
Staff, London, had been playing and walloping sopie
Public Schools at Itugby. The trouble is they are
all “unfit.” It’s a terrible pity.


Scientific Exercise
Good Health!
Exercise is just as necessary for the^ect^nouristanent
of the body as food. \ou canno 8 . ~ , thoroughly
the food you eat unless your stomach is able to thoroughly
aSS S at thf digestive tract is muscular but the habits of
OWj ®-,.e j \ta'p pYproise those muscles. Con
chronic sufferer. Medicine permanent
Scientific Exercise removes the CAliSE—ensures pcimane
1 THE BAKER POSTAL COURSE OF HEALTH EXERCISES
11 ! "part E o T h a m combined h^eries dl of Ct exe?cis^
rovSool because
'°Your unseen muscles are the most x ,destines
frame. Remember the Heart, Lungs, Stomach, Intestines
are muscular. And they are the organs which go vein yom
life. Now you realise how vitally necessary it is yoi
(■o keen them tuned up, ready to ward off any undue stiain,
ready 6 to repel sickness; always at your service to ensure
‘°Write d to-day" for my interesting booklet, entitled
“HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE,
which tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I should like
to send you a copy. Just write your name and address
across this advertisement and send it to> me, with three
penny stamps for postage. I will know you mean.
A
*
REG, L.csnowy’)B AKER,'
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
721 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
&
jm
Wherever
You Need
Current
c
lOLUMBIA
, Batteries
are used to
run engines and
tractors, motor
cars and motor
boats. They
ring bells; oper-
ate telephones
and signals; light
lanterns and portable lights.
Columbia
Batteries
are all-round utility batteries. They
operate as well for heavy as for light
work. They are portable, compact,
non-corrosive—easily connected in the
circuit. Dependable, uniform, strong.
Columbia Batteries sent abroad are
so constructed as to give satisfactory
results under every
climatic condition.
They are protected by
moisture-proof cartons
and carefully packed.
Dealers : I m m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from us :
National Carbon
Company
Cleveland, Ohio, (J. S. A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland"
y IGNiTOBi
Tv!*!"**' 's.'/j C 7 I
Il '■
SHELL
YftWUl/
Armoured cars of the
Allies are run on ——
SHELL
BENZINE
THE BRITISH IMPERIAL Oil CO UP.
Uncle Sam’s Choice
in war as in peace is
c r
V*
The Indian Factory
is noAV engaged on
the largest war
orders yet placed
for motor-cycles.
Catalogue with pleasure.
RHODES MOTOR
CYCLE CO. PTY. LTD.
Russell St.,
Melbourne.
THE ELECTRIC ICEMAN.
REFRIGERATORS
FOR YOUR HOME.
Fit an “ISKO” Refrigerator
in your Ice Chest.
NO ICE REQUIRED.
MAKES ITS OWN ICE.
Automatically starts and stops
itself as the temperature rises
or falls.
Efficient, Economical. Safe,
Sanitary.
Low, even temperature, no mat-
ter how hot the weather out-
side may be.
Dry cold, pure and wholesome
air circulates through the Ice
Chest.
Cheap refrigeration; adds very
little to your Electric-light bill.
Keeps Milk. Fish. Fruits or
Meats without spoiling.
Write for particulars to the Sole
Agents,
J||t§| M
: I
m :
mm
Benson Brothers Ltd.
76-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
;•
■
' ',‘^^S'
*&*?
a
S 3
«»
m;tg&
x’^v
'%cV-
agiSK
jggsj
«?
stt
Era
si
• <
: r
\ i
1
n
Ss
SM
'■«liK>? :
> •-: - 1 s'? ;Vv;s*--‘%y.
•- V" ■ . ' ’ ■ '
■ \* '•’'-•vV.vv’i-"
\r • v ;:• -. V/-. •• j
|9#ss
|ip|
.v/
■•■ 3&S
■ •
■■ > S
”i v %s
■<• • ' -: •' ■, \
.*VV«
fWSSSSS
!•.»*»• /*.
L - ?
• A S<}
■i
s®it!m
:-'.f
fore
Vf.
*&?<£**&
'•> v#
j£-<V <s r*
3g«Ay^'’-;
v«
rSrai
HYPOL
The Famous Emulsion
Chest Complaints
and
Wasting Disorders
Price 216 bottle
This is the Wearite Derby
22/6
(FREIGHT
FREE.)
r
THE BEST BOOT YOU
CAN BUY FOR WINTER
==W E AR===
saf
In spite of the ever-increasing cost of leather we are
still able to produce a hoot that in every sense of the
word is a high-grade boot, at a price that is moderate
enough to be within the compass of the ordinary purse.
In looks, capacity for comfort and service the
“Wearite” Derby, at 22/6, will meet your every demand
this winter. It is a credit to Australian materials and
Australian workmen, and can hold its own in any
footwear company.
T'v.o “Wearite” Derbv is made in fine, stout, fully-seasoned
leather-lined— with welted double sole—has smart,
S>iiiMe.' t ’ro l omy roun<l toe. It a single sole » preferred the
price is 21/-
POST
ORDER.
•YOUR
LINCOLN, STUART S CO. PTY LTD.,
“Specialists in Outfitting by Mail,"
244=254 Flinders Street, MELBOURNE.


See This Woolbale?
/-> ■ '
Carson
It contains the Best Possible Advice
to Sheepowners.
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON
WOOLBROKERS, LTD.
Sydney AND Brisbane.
[»
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
states, 2Jd.
Constipation
Bowel and Stomach Disorders and resulting
Nervous Affections quickly and permanently cured
by Simple Natural Home Treatment—No Medicine
How a well-known
business man
CURED
himself permanently after many years of suffering,
is told in a 40 page Booklet, sent free to all who
send this advertisement, and ad. postage to
J. P. GALE. 327 COLLINS ST . MELBOURNE
Grease Lubricators.
jCsJpYr
o
<v
Specify....
“DESLYN”
(Reg. Trade Mark)
GREASE CUPS
and see you get them.
Scientific, Economical,
Easily Applied.
Used by N.S.W.
Government.
AUSTRALIAN MADE by
D. F. GLYNN MFG. CO., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
(Wholesale only). ’Phone 7880.
Write for Particulars and list of Supply Houses.
FOURNIERS
HYGENIQUE
MIXTURE.
(FOR LADIES)
Tested and Proved for Years.
WASTE NO TIME.
Immediately you notice any disorder of
the system take Fournier’s Hygenique
Mixture. It quickly removes all suffering.
There iu Nothing to EQUAL IT, nor
Anything so Widely Known.
It is justly described as the
FINEST REMEDY IN THE WORLD.
Be sure you get FOURNIER’S
HYGENIQUE MIXTURE.
Refuse all substitutes which are injurious
and harmful.
Sold by Anthony Hordern & Sons, Ltd.,
and all Chemists and Stores.
QUEEN S ARMS
HOTEL,
Corner Swanston St. & Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
TARIFF: —
Bed & Breakfast . . . . 6/-
Lunch (Special) . . . . 1/6
Dinner 3/-
CJLAUDE R. KERR, Proprietor.
BROOKES
COFFEE ESSENCE
You'll like if too!?
BELLEVUE HOTEL
Opposite
-Queensland .Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking
All Balcony Rooms.
Botanical Gardens.
Tariff, 15s. per day.
cfl fKWUH c
tains
e
3
Cider
PUTS A SPARKLE V
IN YOU
Because it is made from only the purest juice
of the World Famous Tasmanian Apple. It is
not only a delicious Drink, but has a most excel-
lent tonic effect on the system. Doctors recom-
mend it for its diuretic properties. Order a
dozen from your grocer.
Victorian Agents:
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
wm
mil.
Higher Mnleaie
j olio a s labi icatirg efficiency^
Hfvff
TO THE
GALLON
THE careful motorist to-day wants
high mileage from his lubricating
oil. For high mileage is significant
in many ways.
Higher mileage from an oil means
more work, less waste.
Higher mileage results from a more
complete piston-ring seal. That means
practically eliminating oil working into
the engine cylinders. It means cutting
down the benzine waste past the piston
rings. It means scaling-in the power,
which then acts with full force on the
pistons.
And a higher mileage oil must natur-
ally be one which withstands the intense
working-heat in the cylinders.
The high mileage from Gargoyle Mobil-
oils is causing a marked reduction in
many annual oil bills. But, much more
important, it points plainly to greater
lubricating efficiency.
Note the grade of Gargoyle Mobiloil
specified for your car on the Chart.
Insist on getting it; it will lower your
oil bills.
!=!
Mobiloils
Ji grade for each type of motor
Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.
Throughout Australasia
MR 8
Correct Automobile
Lubrication.
Explanation . The four grades
of Gargoyle Mobiloiliforengine
lubricatlon> purified to remove
free carbon, are
CargoyU Mobiloil "A “
Gargoyle Mobiloil "S’ 1
CargoyU Mobiloil “BB “
CargoyU Mobiloil
In the Charr below, the letter
opposite the car Indicates the
grade of Gargoyle Mobllolls that
should be used. Forexatrtple,“A"
meant Gargoyle Mobiloil “A”;
"BB" meant Gargoyle Mobiloil
" BB,” etc,
It should be understood that we
quote here only a portion of the
Char? of Recommendations,
which Coven all models of both
pleasure and commercial motor
vehicles,
Model •# Can
Abbot Pftrolt.
Ariel..,,............
AQlllt*
Artid*JohnftuA
Aueun ill oyU.....
(total**
JtorMet
Hruofa
BU
Dale*
1‘aOUliftfi ifI oil.) ....
CfcAtHKM (Mod. 6*10|
L'WaimMvt 5u v*
ffcorrolot 7.
Uwefrent Dmird
<‘oie«bta ..
Dcimlor
Darrooq (.forced) ...
D« DlOfl. 1414.1 ....►,
L>>i ral Id.,...,
P«dj*
Dqk.
Rnytro <4 trt>......
IfcAold...
fcjr*l*k*.. .........
Pamir
F Ut
r N..1
Ford.
<U*At*
K«yz»a..............
Lp*Ol-6*l<a
llrtdiklao
Miuioon Super HU...
n<tt« b«f
H'.inmttAto
litiMrU..!
lie to
IdSrrt »*•
...I
foaoraottla
Ijmli
Maxir*)!...,
>trrr*Uf |.mi44.i.m
SlfX«M»«»cl0UO........
Mrti
Miner**. •• .....
?i»rAv
Nilltitul
OrMand.
OUtamoN)# U* cyl.J .4
Overland
r»okaKi <11 aru....
False (6*41)
y)nrrm AlfOtf*». .
£»it**ol.«•» w*»»••*•i
flambler ............
Renault." «...
It o»4. 4*
Holla R07W4...
Bnra*
laaaril *
fUxca
tret*
Mil
AfUt* .
VanthaU
VfMte...
fftMe*..
V*U*lrr
IT’S GREAT
dsgds
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
R. R. Russack, 377 a Elizabeth St., Syd-
ney; Philip Frankel & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Etd., Pirie
St., Adelaide: Geo. C. Carter, Box 300
G.P.0., Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto.
Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
CAPILLARINE
gd
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Capillarine does all that is claimed for it as
a genuine Moustache-producer. The steady
demand for this preparation by the Military
and others proves its never-failing virtues.
PRICE 10/6 JAR —POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEIM,
654 George street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
ZINC
Electrolytically-Refined Zinc, A-Z Brand,
containing 99.95% Metallic Zinc.
Spelter,
BHAS
Brand,
containing about 98.75% Metallic Zinc.
High-grade Zinc Dust, containing about 90% Metallic Zinc.
Zinc Concentrates, Various Grades.
Sole Selling Organisation for above Australian productions
Zinc Producers’ Association
Proprietary Limited,
Collins House, 300 Collins St., Melbourne
“H. 0.”: “S.T.S." and “0.K.” quote
samples of “modern" speech from Shak-
speare. To rny mind William’s finest piece
of up-to-dateness is in “Antony and Cleo-
patra," where the Queen remarks: “He
words me, girls,” in the best manner of the
sportive factory miss of to-day.
Some devoted Melbourne knitters are not'
going to be baulked by the scarcity or high
price of knitting wool. A suburban paper
proclaims their sacrifice for the Red Cross:
Thirteen pairs of beautifully knitted socks thank-
fully received from the Knitting Club; socks
made with their own wool.
And so near winter, too !
“O’Phim.”: The Methodists of Back
River, near New Norfolk (Tas.), claim that
the first white woman to step ashore in Aus-
tralia is buried in the little cemetery at their
church. She was Betty King, wife of a
sergeant of marines. They landed at Botany
Bay, and the local story is that Betty after-
wards received a grant of land at Back
River for the excellent reason that she was
the first lady in the land.
“Chickasaw": The boys of the training-
ship John Murray, who now are housed at
Tortoise Head Island, have often wondered
who John I’enfold Pasco MacKenzie was—a
child of 10 whose name is on a tombstone at
tlie island’s very apex. When the Govern-
ment bought the speck it undertook to keep
the little grave in order and give the lad’s
mother, now an old woman, an opportunity
to visit if. John was born in 1862 and died
on the island in 1872. His dad, John
MacKenzie, owned Tortoise Head years ago.
and little John’s younger brother and sister
were born there. The girl is now with Queen
Alexandra’s Nursing Service at Salonica.
r l heir mother was Miss Pasco, a daughter of
Lieut. Pasco, R.N., who died at Hongkong,
and a grand-daughter of that Admiral Pasco
who was Nelson’s flag lieutenant at
Trafalgar.
The demand of “0.K.” :
Presumably now that poor old John Forrest has
gone from the Treasury and the more virile Watt
has taken his place, the dreadful War Profits tax,
which was manipulated so as not to touch real
’ar profits, will be torn down. • Then will dis-
appear the one reasonable excuse for the woollen
manufacturers’ failure to seize this war opportunity.
Three or four hundred thousand men have been clothed
in khaki of local make ; but as regards the produc-
tion of fine serges for civilians and stylish tweeds
for young slackers, the mills are as backward as
ever. Tailors offer no equivalents for cloths which
have practically ceased to be imported. The demand
has created no local supply. The local manufacturer
was not asked to take risks in cat’ering for passing
fashions, but was m’erely besought to turn out the
stuff that is always saleable and is no longer procur-
able from abroad, not even at double the pre-war
price, and he hasn’t done it. With the abolition of
the tax which makes it not worth while to extend
old businesses we shall see who is to blame.
Home-staying patriots with bank accounts
might note that falling in love with the Red
Cross nurse is one of the extra war risks
against which young Billjims should be in-
sured. When Tom Archer, carpenter, of
Windsor, went away in 1914 to fight for Aus-
tralia he was in love with Margaret Broad-
hurst, dressmaker—2oo letters to prove it,
yTlonqr. Then, after three years’ service,
the constant letter-writer had to go to hospi-
tal, and presently his girl in Australia would
have been glad of a newspaper or draper’s
circular. She sued the nurse’s bridegroom
last week for £750 for breach of promise; but
the jury didn’t want to see the young soldier
financially lamed, and gave her a verdict for
£l5O.
“Arthur R.”: “Padjud,” “Cyril S.” and
“Seeseed" (B. 28/3/’18) all take exception
to mv forecast re the abolition of the huge
aerial masts used in wireless. “Cyril S.”
and “Seeseed” both accuse me of only con-
ducting half an experiment: as I only quoted
my receiving results they naturally thought
I had neglected the sending. Here are a
few experiments that I made with crude
home-made apparatus. Using as a sending
aerial a number of wires nine inches from
the ground and a small medical coil, I com-
municated over a distance of several hun-
dred yards. With insulated wires lying
on the ground the result was equally
good. Using no aerial at all I exchanged
readable signals with another enthusiast
three blocks away. Admitted the results
were not so remarkable as with the receiving
experiments, yet they all point to the one
fact —future wireless without masts. There
was another experiment when, one Monday
morning, I used the clothes-line as a sending
aerial, and a large three-inch spark coil for
the power. The result —well, the washer-
lady has not yet properly recovered. It had
been raining, and she made a splendid
“earth."
“Hevea Papua”: The entrance of the
Sogeri Para Rubber Co. into the list of
dividend-payers marks the arrival of a term
of prosperity to the pioneers of the industry
in Papua. The yield of rubber is as good
if not better than in the Federated Malay
States. An average of 25.820 trees tapped
on 327 days produced 69,8321 b. of dry rub-
ber, about 2.741 b. per tree. Cost of produc-
tion f.o.b. Port Moresby came to 10.97 d.
per lb., notwithstanding the increased prices
for food supplied to native labor. The
Papuan, after tuition by the Australian
manager and his staff, has proved an expert
rubber-tapper, the average of each unit
employed on this work being 325 trees per
day. The rubber produced was sold in the
Australian market at top prices, and after
carrying forward some £5OO to the reserve
fund, and wiping out the amount spent in
preliminary expenses (formation of com-
pany?). a dividend of 6d. per share was
declared, which will return the shareholders
over £SOO. The new year (July 1, 1917)
commenced with every prospect of increased
yields and better prices, so that the future
of this company can be without any anxious
thoughts for the people who put their money
into it. The plantation is situated in the
Soger.i Valley, a district within 31 miles of
Port Moresby, which with decent road facili-
ties >Y.ould become a._ centre of enormous
development. At present all' sforeslZand
rubber have to climb the 1600 ft. Hombrom
Bluff, the road being a most awful one.
Mules are used to do the carrying.


'
mm
Mii
fwttflillllii
sm
■’■:/*
" A % *tkd
v < -
WSF
'?r \ s
4'
■
SPSS®
V
a
*’ .4ft
.
* - " S- ■
iii
I */
in
iissii
v-"‘
VpStj v*’;
..
7. *
■
m
i&&P ist $?J~$
-,
'
junjf i , irn fiimir-•- • fff *' * A ‘"Tnr* i *'{
-
WSM.
'■■ Zi
->■
sgsdg
dg
A Gift for the Whole Family
The full, rich beauty of any musical composition
is perfectly revealed on a Beale Player-Piano.
With the tempo lever one may regulate
the movement at will; drop from the
merry lilt of ragtime to the slow, measured
beat of the sonata.
The expression lever affords absolute con-
trol of the tone. From crashing chords to
the whispering sigh of a dying Summer
breeze —all are right under your thumb.
r „„„ ?.»’ ;=. b * bSp**
KSfKif buiV..., >h>« .h»-.b~i».= ™~i »i •«*■ ..«"•
INFORMAL CONCERTS HELD DAILY
ASK TO HEAR A FAVORITE PIECE
Head Office and Showrooms:
772 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
L,TP
C
&
TRAFALGAR STREET,
ANNANDALE.
Ki i r- ik,~, w,,.™, Victoria: Maples in all Melbourne Suburbs.
Tasmania: Williams Bros., Hobart; Maples
Flinders Street, Townsville, Rockhampton.
i, Launceston.
Sydney Street,


Collars
JSr
are cut true to
1/32nd of an inch.
Accuracy in height and sizes
guarantees a perfect fit.
They retain their shape
under all conditions and
launder beautifully.
Ascot at 9d
Fiat at t|-
are shown in illustration.
Select whatever price meets
your need and order either
one or half a dozen by name
from your mercer. Heights
lfin., 2in. Sizes 13iin. to
18in., linen faced.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
dg
WEAR
(P^£cu>o^
SHIRTS& PYJAMAS
ALSO
I
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing : Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment— the Perfected New
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mcars Ear Phone
many times as efficient
and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees'of sound "in "eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the: finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for-all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and varticulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 CJEORdE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
*aS
i
Worm
Powders
10/- Doz.
Alterative
Mixture
2/6, 5/-
Prepare Your Dogs for the
Coursing' Season
Booklet “ B,” 11 Hints to Dogr Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOIYIE & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
[|32|7C[j3®3l3
fiou
mu
One‘BEST’Light
Gives more Light than
Six Electric Lights, or Ten
Kerosene Lamps or One
-Hundred Candles. v
Burns 90 Air iOr Gas
A beautiful, pure white, steady,
safe light. No Wick! No Urease!
No Smoke! No Odor! Hang or Set
it anywhere. Over 100 Styles*
AGENTS WANTED.
THE BEST LIGHT CO..
236 Pitt Street. Sydney.
BARCOO ROT
■AO LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS.
ABSCESSED PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS.
ECZEMA, MOSQUITO ana OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it tc be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
hy a U Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
• •
The “Bulletin”
Stock Saddle
AND
The “Bulletin”
Park Saddle.
Two of the most Popular Saddles we make.
They both have pigskin seat, the “G.S.”
panel, with leather down sides, long flaps and
girth straps. They are both fitted with
stirrups, and surcingle.
£7(O/6 Complete,
without Stirrups,
9/6/93
without Stirrups
and without Surcingle.
Freight free for cash to any port or railway station
in N. S. Wales.
RINGHEAD BRIDLE, 14/3; post, 1/-
Saddle Cloth, 6/6; post, 9d.
WRTTE TOR CATALOGUE.
WE ARE DOING A LARGE
Inter-State, New Zealand
and Foreign Business.
Write for SPECIAL FREIGHT TERMS.
State your Nearest Port or,
If In Australia, Nearest
Railway Station.
The “WINTON”
One of the Finest Saddles for
Rough Riders. —One Horsebreaker
described it as the Best Saddle
ever he threw a leg over.
It has combined flap and skirt, giving
a most comfortable ancj narrow grip,
pads high up, sagged seat, leather points
to panel, specially strong tree, and is
fitted with bevelled stirrup leathers,
folded girth and solid nickel stirrups.
£9/12/6 without Stirrups.
Stirrups, 10/6 extra.
Freight free for cash with order to any
port or railway station in N. S. Wales.
Walther 8 Stevenson
X
V
SADDLERS,
Ltd.
393 GEORGE STREET,
32 HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ebtab. 1891.
sdg
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
SAFEGUARD YOOR HealtH
ntJ.Collfe Brownes
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of BRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVERISH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Ol all Chemists. Prices in England, i/S, !/’•, SJ-.
Made in England.
awsons
THE LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE.
WORLD-FAMED FOR QUALITY GEMS.
The Best Qualities and Values are sold direct to the
Public by the 10 Stewart Dawson Establishments in
Australia and London.
Sydney,
Melbourne,
Brisbane,
Perth,
Auckland,
Wellington,
Dunedin,
Christchurch.
J 223 —Fine Dia-
mond Cluster Ring,
set in Platinum
and 18-ct. Gold,
£lO/10/-
K 79 —F in e Dia-
mond and Platinum
Cluster Ring,
£ll/10/-
73 to 81
Kegent
Street,
London.
19. 20, 21
Hatton
Garden,
London.
Superb Diamond Rings
Fashionable, Unique and Exclusive Designs in Immense Varieties.
The Finest Quality Diamonds and Skilled Workmanship are
characteristic of every Ring offered, while our Low Prices save
money to every buyer.
All our Diamonds are Platinum Set.
CALL AND INSPECT. OR WRITE FOR RING CATALOGUE.
STEWART DAWSON’S
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
J.G.8.: The “Scotch gentleman” who
says that “Australian soldiers had to be kept back
at the point of the revolver from rushing the boats
when the Southland was torpedoed” isn’t an.'.'thing of
the sort. He is a liar.... Albion: Please send local
press-cuttings to verify the statements. We can’t
follow the case beyond the remand.... Ida: That
undressed story is very old, and the ladies of whom it
was told are so ancient and uninteresting that they
have qualified to be thorough-paced principal boys.
.. . .L.F.: Neither up. .. .M.S.S.: You should be able
to place “Motherhood” with either of the Sydney
papers you mention, but it's doubtful if they’ll pay
you for the article.... Madonna: Not what we want
in that batch, but go ahead. ...A Bully Reader:
Don’t know; ask Pearce’s department. Probably it
doesn’t know either.... Miss P. B.: Well, you’ve got
one good thought:—•
Though I sometimes hope to be
No worse than some I know,
My own shortcomings bid me let
The faults of others go.
. ...Ewen H.: Can’t tell you; military men here
don't know.... One Hard Hit: You’re “not game to
sign name,” aren’t you? Right; we don’t deal with
your sort. .. .Zinnia: Yes; but would you swap the
three?. .. .G. 8.: “Visit of Condolence” gets nowhere.
. ...A.W.S.: It won’t d0....E.5.: “The Weaver”
will not weave for us... .D.1.M.: Slipshod verse with
one vile rhyme and nothing in the idea.... A.N.S.:
Brisk narrative—in fact, so brisk that we can’t keep
up and see what occurred... .J.E.: “The Fallen
Soldier” just misses. .. .H.D.V.C.: Not up... .M.E.F.:
They don’t strike us... AV.0.8.: Not quite....
C.L.G.: N0....H.A.: Easy stuff following old tracks,
and therefore of no value here. .. .L.M.C.: Can’t see
any patriotism in inflicting bad verse on your own coun-
try. If you could make the foe read it, now, the stuff
would have a munition value... .0.D.: Not our style.
... .M.L.C.: Goes weakly... .A.J.: Wobble-and-bump
verse with an obvious idea crudely expressed....
8.C.M.W.: Commonplace verse with no lift....Le
Noy: Very slight. . . .L.G.S.: No. .. .M.8.P.: “Excel-
sis” not up C.W.: Not the kind of yarn we pub-
lish. .. AV.E.D.: It isn't well enough done... .Scribe:
Shocking... .S.C.: “Aaron’s” harp swept by St.
Patrick is a novelty, but it doesn’t tingle to any
purpose... .1.A.N.: Yes ; you’ve a lot to learn....
R.S.M.: Not our style. .. .R.R.P.: Commonplace verse
and very lumpy in places.... H.W.S.: Narrative part
of “Dream” is poor. The first four stanzas and the
last two might stand without the re5t....A.8.C.:
Sorry, but they miss... .H.R.C.: No improvement....
O.B.: That sums him up neatly:—
The people in the town talk about the man on the
land ;
They say he has all the coin in hand;
So little they know of how he stands,
For they never come out to see, or to understand.
Though when he comes into town they look him up
and down,
For they know the cocky when he arrives in the
town;
With hands outstretched and smiles on their faces,
The cocky’s the man they declare while he’s kept in
the traces.
For well they know vvnen toe narvest is done
He brings his hard-earned bit of coin;
Now he’s paid out he has nothing for his son;
But only to go back his family to join.
. ...WAV.: Nothing to charm us there... .Mil jurra:
Died of wobbles in the metre and some other more
obscure diseases. . . .We Bobbie: You’ve a long way to
travel before you make good in verse... .E.W.D.:
Please don’t try to rhyme “core” and “5aw.”....
N.B’.K.: Easy verse of no special quality... .E.G.:
“Camp Song” doesn’t get us... .H.M.S.: But if “the
Devil is over it all,” how do you make sure of ven-
geance on the Jingo or anybody else?....Monogram:
Nothing in it... .C.C.H.: Commonplace verse with
little skill and no lift. .. .E.R.: “That Night” was
distinctly sultry, but we don't like your memory of
it. ...J.11.: Not strong enough in either thought or
treatment... .W. 8.: Here’s a bit of the catalogue:—
A mother kneeling beside a bed
Prays for her soldier boy ;
Amidst a garden where the flowers are dead
Two sweethearts their love destroy;
Beside a form which has fallen and bled
Kneels a murderer in secret joy.
. ...Artemus H.: “Emily Ann” trips daintily up to
the last verse and then falls over her feet....
F. Thinker: You’ve read it for 30 years, have you?
Well, you don’t seem to have read it with much
attention E.H.T.: None up E.W.D.: Thanks';
we will heave a brick at that contributor. .. .W.
Morgan: The only way is not the way that the
Hughes-Cook Government will take. .. .Constance
H. L.: No; returned—if the mailbag is not com-
mandeered. .. .One Who Knows: All right; Donald,
the journalist, shall be a Lithgow (N.S.W.) native, if
you like, and not a Victorian. .. .Collins: Comedown
a few flights. Irvine is remembered as a critic of
the Federal Government only by the obvious futility
of his criticism. He might have dealt with a dozen
scandals that called for patriotic disclosure, but he
talked of nothing but the Conscription which had
been killed by the public he was addressing. As a
reformer he didn’t amount to a row of pins. He was
a lawyer talking in a lost cause with a consistency
that didn’t matter.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Torohe: Some are old friends of ours, which
leads to the suspicion that the rest may be old
friends of other people. .. .AAV.W.: Full of detail,
but not interesting H. 8.: No humor in it....
L.C.: No value... .K.1.T.: Thin jest and a fumbling
sketch....A.C.S.: Sorry no use... .Searchlight:
Well, he’d have a long way to go. Can’t say more
than that....A.R.: Nothing done. Nothing doing.
.... S.E.: Too rough.
Apparently the successes of the Yic.
Farmers’ Union at the last State elections
have stiffened old Henry Backbone’s spine.
The union is putting up a candidate for
Flinders, the Federal seat vacated by Irvine,
C.J.; and the “Nationalists,” with some 36
candidates ready to spring into the breach,
make agonised appeals to the farmers not
to split the vote and let a Labor man secure
the seat. Gen. sec. Hall’s reply is that last
May the V.F.U. men were all withdrawn
from Federal contests, on request, leaving
the “Nationalists” a clear field. “Thus,’’
declares Hall, “the sacrifices, if any, were all
on 6ne side.”


■
Is
i
’
-
■
■
.. Ij|J |
Iftft • : '
|
$
jp-jfeftvs.- -
ft
im
i
.
i:'
1
■
ft-ft.- ft
■ - ■ ■ ■■ ... ■ . ..
ft
■
/
ft
1
* -ft., 'M
HHH ||§§§
MI
8 /. X :■'
«'
m
m
Wm
" ■
: S/
-
■
n
■ . ' ° :;
, mmr ■ • ■ '.ft m
ft-■-.
LitMsM, «v, «s i:
Ml m
■
-' ■.
I ■"
f
F
f
.ft
Stftft
lii:
■1
■
tj *
H ' ,
■
.
HBH
', '' r . .\\\‘"' v '
. ft
'
:
.ft' i-1 i-i-x r \'
msmm^ ft ■ vu ft--.■
mm
SSSZIft
mm
■
ml
■
dg
These Belts are far better than "good enou
If Klingtite Belts merely gave ordi-
nary satisfaction, they would not
now be transmitting power for every
productive industry in Australia. •
But they give more than ordinary
satisfaction.
They have enlightened belting theory
and improved belting practice, both
of which were too long contented
with the seeming “good enough.
* * *
In the transmission of power, years passed
before men grew actively dissatisfied with what
they had.
Originally some belts were made of raw-hide.
But they slipped and stretched fearfully.
So they were replaced with carefully selected
leather heavily tanned. Layers of it were
glued or riveted together as greater strength
was demanded.
Much of the original belting was made of canvas, a
number of plies being cemented together with rubber
gum.
But some of these belts were so heavy that they
wasted power through sheer weight.
Others wore out too soon because mere cement
could not hold the plies together.
All of the early belts stretched, slipped, wasted power,
and caused frequent shut-downs and delays.
Yet for a long time men thought them good enough.
# * *
The triumphs of fine steel over crude iron, of adapt-
able concrete over awkward granite, of woven cloth
over skins, of harnessed Power over horse and ox
all these are silent admonitions to surpass the “ good
enough.”
Klingtite Belts do surpass it.
They save from 8 to 20 per cent, more power in
transmission alone than was ever thought possible
with the more primitive belts.
Their friction surface grips the pulleys and cuts down
the slippage losses.
Their special weave cotton duck, extraordinary light
and tremendously strong, reduces weight to a
minimum.
Their superior friction, especially compounded,
unites the plies inseparably yet flexibly.
In consequence these belts last amazingly long and
adapt themselves to the pulley with power saving ease.
* * *
Klingtite Belts are constructed to surpass the one-
time “good enough” and they do surpass it.
Their initial price is higher than that of inferior
belting, but their service cost is lower.
In comparison to price they give longer, better, more
continuous service.
Write for price list and specifications, at same time
stating conditions under which belt is to operate.
ELDER, SMITH & CO.,
LIMITED
27-31 Currie Street,
Adelaide.
84-88 William Street,
Melbourne.
12 Martin Place,
Sydney.
334-338 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Western Australian Agents: ELDER, SHENTON & CO., LIMITED, Elder Buildings, William Street, Perth.
BFliMTlffiTlft'ilW
mamsmm
.
■HR B nB
SE ■PACKIN G-VALVES
m


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
Few and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with W ireless Telegraphy. Cabines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all
dates, and
fares,
information regarding sailing
First-, Second- and Third-class
ORIENT
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
Apply
S. N. CO., Ltd.,
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) ’ j
SYDNEY '
BRISBANE
MARYBOROUGH
OUADSTONE
BUNDABERG
"ROCKHAMPTON I
(Pt. Alina Wharf.) I
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOKTOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
STEAMER EARLY.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, May 4.
•Passengers only.
Pull Particulars re Pares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
OfTices at all Ports.
Bunking, 1*111)110 Companies. See.
THE ' ~
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E ll’
MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ; Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP
WELSBY ’ H ° n ' A ' J ' THYNNE > M L -°-! THOS.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
cj i Head Ollice: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
TEANSACIS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK
LIMITED. ’
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 4 80.000 0 0
Reserve Fund 222 000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091’c69 4 5
AU new business since 18VS specially protected.
Directors—Geo. Edwd. Banning-, Esq. (Chairman) ;
H° n - G- W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager—W. V. RALSTON
HEAD OU ICE - - . BRISBANE
Branches—l. (union, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OFCOMMERCE
. „ . , LIMITED.
Authoi lsed Capital £2,000,000
Capital laid Up iqqgtq
Reserve Fund ! £ll5 000
Wre CFOnPF IA ? K «r^ l|,: y )ON > Chairman:
ULOKCE J. SLY, Lsq., LLI) * FTIVMIC M
YARWOOD, Fsq. ; HERBERT R. LYS\GHT
Bsq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq • Mon F
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C. ' '
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HI.AD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and Kino-
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. 11. Brown
Manager: G. 11. Howell
MELBOURNE (.325 Collins Street)
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street E.C )
manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
of [)jhd Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750 000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
r- n al A d n P , 1,000,000
uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500 000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246’,595
Britain and Ireland
on Australia, New Zea-
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
transacts all other
at Interest lor
. „- 7 . fixed periods, and
usual Banking business.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
COMPANY Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE:
GEORGE S HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
CAPITAL. £500,000.
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
The “United” is an Australian Institution.
BARTIN lIAIGH, General Manager.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
the largest, newest, fastest and best-equipped steamers trading between
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
RAIIWiv J » hU ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
' ’ AcroBs Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
IHROUGH HOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
. SAILING DATES WILL EE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
TO »r. SS , s ™,xc. T » N KIROTONO ,
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED'ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.
A BENKFICIAI, SKA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A lour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
YVaikiki Leach— “The Home of Surfing."
GLORIOUS SCKNERV PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
tor illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UMON STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
II
st: ....J
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Fiva and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Groups^
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD,, 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
bank of new south
Established 1817.
WALES
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
MM
- £3,904,860
£2,875,000
£3,904,800
£10,081,730
Directors:
Ihe lion. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C M 0
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The lion. Edmund AY. Fosberv, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert E. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Head OffU',-—(Jeorge Street, Sydney. London Offie<^>9’ Threadneedle Street, E.C.
A gents a nd' "correspon d ents °t h ron ghaut 6 1 . n St " te< * Kew Z<? “ land ’ Kiji > Papua and *"*«•
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT Foreicrn Rills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
•!, RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager,
Commonwealth
dsg
of
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY.
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaui.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
« ea Jj . lte< * Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
nxea deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At all I
2600
Branches, and over
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL. D.patr Gorernor. DENISON' MILLER, Goyernor
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY
SYDNEY LIMITED
Established 1834.
Capital paid up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
- £2,000,000
- £2,000,000
- £2,000,000
£0,000,000
V
Directors:
G. J. Cohen, Esq., Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C.,
Deputy Chairman.
Hon. Henry Moses, M.L.C.
Hon. Sir Thos. Hughes, M.L.C.
T. F. Knox, Esq.
Sir Thomas A. Dibbs,
Hon. Director.
General Manager:
H. H. Massie.
HEAD OFFICE: SYDNEY, 343 GEORGE STREET.
offin» B it n p; I l S v, th T OUghoUt Xew South Wales and Queensland.
T , ln ane - Ec - London Bankers: The Bank of England - The
London County and Westminster Bank Limited.
AND AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVTLLE
CAIRNS.
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. PARINGA, April 27.
S.S. RUPARA, May 4.
S.S. MORIALTA, May 11.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
. are not allowed on Company’s Wharves
nor on board Company’s Steamers.
G - s YUII.J. ft CO.. I,TI)
_ Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
<OOO tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney Mel-
as advertise l V^ elai i d u to WeSt Austvalia »»d vice verse,
is advei tised m daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
New < ' S 7eal'n l a j Ung \ be( Aveen Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
weeks" 1 ’q'q [° llobart an d vice versa every three
weekfy] a betW< * K Melbourne
Foi* full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AME R 1 C A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
20 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply - OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw—l2,soo tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITII,
McEACIIARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
11. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
"Y"HE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company s magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COEF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination 'tickets are Issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers
there connecting with one of the Company's up-'o-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
ROBERT A, BELL, Managing Director.
A.U.S.N.Go. Ltd.
Splendid Steamship Services
To and from Queensland Ports,
Melbourne and Fiji.
T.S.S. “ LEVUKA” ... 6500 tons
T.S.S. “ WYREEMA” ... 6500 tons
S.S. “ WYANDRA” ... 4500 tons
All Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Tourists and seekers after a health trip and also
the enjoyment of beautiful scenery should travel by
the A.U.S.N. Line, as this Company's steamers possess
all up-to date arrangements for convenience and com-
I fort, making travel safe, easy and pleasant. After
[ first port of call, First and Second Saloon Tickets are
interchangeable with all Inter-State Companies, also
with the Union S.S. Co.’s steamers in the Fiji Trade;
particulars on application. For dates of sailing see
Dailv Papers.
BURNS, PHILP U COMPANY LIMITED,
Agents, II BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, Gd. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Austbalasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


9ft
9
szs
The simplest papers
for amateur
A great many amateurs like to print by sunlight rather than
by artificial light, as they can then watch the progress of the
printing. For such we strongly recommend the two papers
described here, which will be found eminently satisfactory.
“EUTONA”
f'
Self-toning Paper.
lias a delightful matt surface.
“SOLIO”
Self-toning Paper.
has a glossy surface rendering sharply all detail that is in
the negative.
With either paper uniform results may be obtained either in cold or warm tones.
Get a packet of each and try these fine papers for yourself. Also available in
postcards.
Of all Kodak dealers, and
RODAii (Australasia) LTD.,
Incorporating Baker and Rouse Prop. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne;
250-252 Queen St., Brisbane. The Valley. 37 Bundle St., Adelaide. 45 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
Kuthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. Benliam St., Rockhampton. 346 Argent
St., Broken Hill. Optical and Photo Supplies Co., Perth. “The Kodak Corner,” corner
Eambton Quay and Willis St., Wellington, N.Z.; 3 Borne St., Auckland, N.Z.; 76 Stuart St.,
Dunedin, N.Z.; and Christchurch, N.Z.
tlttlltl 11II
[JftlillltOlHt
»»»»
tlllllllMlH
f/l
3?
0?
vvW
mv
VVVNVVV
£2l~>
)
2> cP
ry^
His Masters Voice,
Reg.Tra-le MaHt.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE” MUSIC
gives speed to the hours!
A night at home—nothing to do—nothing of interest to read! What can you
do with yourselves ? Bring out the Gramophone and some good records—
Caruso sing as he sang at Covent Garden; hear Albert Chevalier in his
amusing roles; hear the hundred and one CELEBRITIES in every line of
entertainment who make “His Master’s Voice” music unique.
WHY “His Master s Voice” is Supreme .
1. The instruments and records are made in the largest
and best-equipped talking-machine factories in the world.
2. They embody special patented features that ensure
rich tone and perfect reproduction.
3. The GREAT CELEBRITIES of song and instrumental
music (Caruso, Melba, Chaliapine, Ruffo, McCormack,
Paderewski, Kubelik, Elman—all of them) record
EXCLUSIVELY with “ His Master’s Voice.”
There are imitations of “ His Master’s Voice ” and much is
claimed for all of them. Make a PRACTICAL comparison.
Hear them all and you will REALISE that “His Master’s
Voice” is incomparable.
LOOK FOR THE
DOG.
His Master's Voice
“GRAMOPHONE"
Regd. Trade Mark
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name
of nearest accredited dealer on request.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO., LTD.,
163 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.


Legal Notices.
Statutory Notice to Next of Kin.
Re THOMAS SELWYN LANG, late of
Tara, Selector and Soldier, in the State of
Queensland, deceased.
VTOTICE is hereby given that all persons
-LI claiming to be next of kin of the
above-named Thomas Selwyn Lang, late of
Tara, Selector and Soldier, in the State of
Queensland, deceased, who died on or about
the Seventh day of June, a.d. 1916, in
France, are hereby required to forward
proof of their relationship to The Public
Curator, Brisbane, on or before the Twenti-
eth day of June, 3918. And that after
the expiration of the last-mentioned date
The Public Curator will proceed to distri-
bute the assets of the said deceased amongst
the parties entitled thereto, having regard
only to the claims of which he shall then
have had notice.
Dated this Eighth day of April. 191 S.
It. J. S. BARNETT. Official Solicitor to
the Public Curator, Brisbane.
MARCUS CLARK (& CO. LIMITED,
Showroom and Garage: 162 Castlereag'h Street, SYDNEY
Telephone: City 2507.
POVERT
POINTS
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES
SUPCO
FEATURES
Marie Tempest takes with her to
S’Africa, besides Roger Barry, Ethel Morri-
son, the handsome Maorilander who has
shown her versatility by appearing with
success in a variety of work, ranging from
G. and S. opera to drawing-room comedy.
“H.C.V.”: Of all shows running in Lon-
don, “Carminetta”
appealed most to
me. The others are
mostly tripey
revues. “C armi-
netta” is a dainty
light opera with a
somewhat tragic
ending. Old friends
abound in the cast.
May Beatty lends
color with her
dr'esses and strength
with her voice.
Florence Vie is
there,_ and Roland
Cunningham, who
plays the part of
Don Jose, father
of Carminetta and
husband (ex offi-
cio) of the late
lamented Carmen,
her mamma. The
dashing toreador
of forrner days, in
fact. The whole
show whirls tune-
fully round pretty
little Carminetta.
Alice Delysia plays
the part. She is
perfect. I cannot
imagine the Firm
GUY RATES POST,
Taits’ newly-imported
star to play “The
Masquerader.”
putting on “Carminetta,” for there is surely
out one Delysia.
“F.S.”; Pirrie Bush, the young man who
used to do bright things with the Fred Niblo
co., is in America, deep in rehearsals of a
recruiting-propaganda play for the Govern-
ment. He did his level best to get into the
field before putting on the patriotic grease-
paint. The play is a composite show. Hart-
ley Manners, Cohan and several other bright
minds conceived it. The first act shows the
trench life. The second No Man’s Land.
The third is a comedy touch in a French
village.
From Cyril Monk :
“Masetto” (B. 11/4/’IS) says that, barring the
little that William Murdoch, the Quinlans, and one
or two others have done, Australia has made but
slight acquaintance with the late Claude Debussy.
I. think this rather unfair to the initiative of local
musicians. The French impressionist was first intro-
duced to Australia by the Australian Laurance
Godfrey Smith, who. played some of his delightful
piano pieces in 1909. The following year, when I
commenced the Austral String Quartet series of
concerts in Sydney, we produced his String Quartet
and repeated it several times later. The modern
French School, of which Debussy is the best-known,
was given special attention during the seven years
of our existence, and we played for the first time
here works by Franck, Debussy, Ravel, Leken,
Milhaud and Chausson. The following visiting
artists have all given us of the works of Debussy:
Berwick, Bauer, Murdoch, Elsie Hall and Merrick.
His most celebrated orchestral composition has
been twice performed by the Symphony Orchestra
under the baton of Mr. Bradley and once by the old
Amateur Orchestral Society under the conductorship
of Alfred Hill. As for Debussj'’s compositions for
piano, they are played very often by local pianists.
“Recruiter”: Found a Billjim scratching
himself outside a Sydney picture show last
week. “They drove me out at last,” he con-
fessed. “I thought I’d last it out till half-
time, but they made it too hot.” I glanced
at his left breast, and saw a ribbon. He had
won the D.C.M. against the Huns. But the
fleas beat him.
“0.K.”: The worst of a successful ditty is
that it begets so many children resembling
mother. What a prolific parent was “You
Made Me Love You”! Ragtime songs of
the same type have been happening ever
since the first lady protested that she “didn’t
want to do it.” The victim nowadays is
sometimes a man who wants to know why
his cruel enchantress persists in making
those Eyes at him if she doesn’t mean to
love him. Or we have a tall, commanding
contralto threatening a supposititious man a
future time when he will want to kiss her.
Then there was “Baby Doll,” complaining
that, although the gentleman had told her a
year ago she was very nice to know, he had
now cooled off. One of Baby Doll’s offspring
is Little Doll Girl. She in her turn is go-
ing to be “chucked,” apparently. She sings
“What will become of your little Doll Girl
when you take another in your arms?” So
we will presently have a further edition of
Baby Doll singing of how Algernon is bound
to turn up again when lie tires of the other
girl.
“Glen II.” : It is likely that Bayard Veil-
ler, perpetrator of “Within the Law.” will
accompany his wife, Margaret Wycherley,
when she comes here to play lead in Yeiller’s
“The Thirteenth Chair.” It is graciously
announced that the Yankee potboiler “may
write a play of Australian interest while he
is here, with the whole of the characters and
atmosphere typically Australian.” So far
Veiller has not even succeeded in writing
a play typical, in the broader sense, of his
own country. To talk of this maker of
jerry-built melodramas looking in at Sydney
and Melbourne and then writing a play
“with the whole of the characters and atmo-
sphere typically Australian”—a play which,
in view of its foreign origin the Firm would
probably hasten to produce—is sheer piffle,
and nauseating piffle at that.
Propelled by Melba young Stella Power
is making great strides in the Uncle Sam
States. She has been paid a fee of £lOOO
(not dollars) for warbling into a gramo-
phone, and recently collected £lOO for sing-
ing three songs at a sassiety function.
Fred Maguire had to stand out of the
opening nighr of “You’re in Love” in
Adelaide, owing to his wife’s sudden illness.
It was a chance for a South Aus. youth,
Harry Wotton, who filled the vacancy with
confidence and marked success.
“Harrison O.”: “The Madras House,”
done in Melbourne by Gregan McMahon,
strikingly exemplifies the merits and defects
of the repertory play, just as did “The
Voysey Inheritance.” Granville Barker has
a genius for drawing middle-class characters
7 —the sort of people one is always meeting
in the world but seldom in the theatre —
and he introduces us to a fine collection in
the first act of “The Madras House.” But
Mrs. Huxtable and the numerous Misses
Pluxtable disappear, and a stagey Moham-
medan and a loquacious Yankee draper with
ideas about the psychology of salesmanship
are no compensation for their loss. Upholders
of the repertory drama have some justifica-
tion in sneering at the Cayley Drummles
and Paradine Fouldeses of Pinero and
Maugham—mere puppets to spout the epi-
grams of their creators —but the characters
invented by Granville Barker to set forth his
ideas on women, clothes and other absorbing
topics are even more unreal. And their talk
—less epigrammatic though more thoughtful
than the Somerset Maugham brand—is just
as unnatural. The dialogue in the first act
of "The Madras House” is strikingly con-
vincing. The Huxtable maidens nrattle
like ordinary suburban bores, and their dul-
ness makes them amusing. But the
bloodless Philip Madras and the mounte-
bank Constantine talk like Fabian Society
debaters, and their cleverness makes them
dull.
The Twelfth-night Baddaley cake was
not cut on the stage of Drury Lane Theatre
this year for the first time, it is said, since
Robert Baddaley, an 18th century actor,
left a small fund to buy the confectionery.
The cutting is a pleasant little annual func-
tion, confined to the company and staff of the
big theatre—though Augustus Harris at one
time made a big general-invitation affair of
it. This year the Food Controller did not
approve of the feast, and the money was
given to the Actors’ Orphanage.
“DICK WHITTINGTON,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Captain Barnacle (Claude Bantock) and
the cook's son (Ernest Langford).
Freda Sternberg from New York:—
War babies are being- talked about quite loud on
the stage here; Allan Dale, a New York critic, has
got in early, and has written his “Madonna of the
Future” around one of them. The play packs the
Broadhurst when many other managers are looking-
with an anxious eye at empty stalls. Dale shows
wisdom in the placing of his baby. He does not give
it to an unmarried maid of lowly origin. He does
not introduce it into sordid surroundings. Before he
allows it to arrive from France he bribes the audi-
ence with bright—at times almost too bright—con-
versation and delightful surroundings. His Madonna
(Emily Stevens) knows how to wear elegant, up-to-
date clothes, quite as well as she knows how to be
unconventional along “refined” lines. Even when
she makes crude statements Dale is. careful that she
does so in the most effective surroundings. He calls
his play a satire in three acts.
‘‘De Oriel”: Chung Ling Soo’s death re-
calls other acts that went wrong. We were
showing at Lismore (N.S.W.), and had a
lady magician with us. She invited one of
the audience (one very thirsty preferred)
to come up on the stage. ‘A whiskery
gentleman obliged. The lady handed him a
glass, which she repeatedly filled from a
port-wine bottle, her guest rapidly swallow-
ing the contents. Suddenly she broke the
bottle, with a sharp crack, disclosing three
dirty guinea-pigs alive. Wirewhiskers went
pale, rushed over to the footlights and
1 p ’: Young A. J. Patrick, who, aftej
playing King Love in the Melbourne pro-
duction of “Everywoman,” married Clvds
Meynell’s handsome daughter Joan, has a
place in a small and select Yankee cast pre-
senting ‘"The Three Bears” under the
I rohman management. Pirrie Bush, the
Maorilander who went to the States with
Aiblo, is in ‘‘Yes or No,” now booming in
Indianapolis.
Overseas”: Taits’ newest importation,
Oiiy Bates Post, takes the dual roles oi
Loder and Chilcote in the American adapta-
tion of Mrs. Thurston’s middle-aged yarn,
“John Chilcote, M.P.” When the book was
dramatised in London George Alexandei
played Chilcote, and a remarkable double
was found in the then editor of The Smart
Set, one Thorold, who, for that occasion
only, consented to take a job as a mummer.
“S.S.”: Re the comment of Fred Collier's
friend, on hearing that his brother-actor was
married for the fifth time, “Fred, you’re a
glutton for punishment.” There is rather a
better one said to be the sotto voce comment
of Collier’s best man as the pro. slipped the
ring on the finger of his fifth : “Look at him
—-was there ever such an adept at ringing
the change!”
THE OWNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Big, bald and affiusnt John McGee
Had had some gay-dog pals to dinner;
Then went a flighty show to see,
Sat sinner cheek-by-jowl with sinner.
And sniggered at the gills who pose
In skimpy skirts and open hose.
John nudged at James. “The little one,
In purple tints, who holds the roses—
How do you like her figure, son?
Ain’t that the loveliest of poses ?
I’m glad, old bird, you think her fine,
Because, in point of fact, she's mine!‘‘
That moment on the stage this lass
To one who represented Summer:
“Get on to that plethoric ass—
The front-row stalls, third from the drummer —
He’s hairless, and he’s noi e too slim
About the girth, but I own him!"
He long imagined her to be
Entirely his. Then made confession
He wished to lose his own; but she,
Raf using to give up possession,
It cost two thousand (thereabout)
For him to buy her interest out.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.
A RHYME OF MUSIC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Unless harmony is restored the Melbourne Eight
Hours procession must either march in silence or be
played on its yay bv bandsmen who don’t belong to
the combination of their craft. Last year the
Musicians’ Union decided to expel all Germans and
Austrians, but the Trades Hall Council has not
approved of the idea.”
R-r-rmm-ti-tum undt lToch der King! Owsdralia
Vill Pe Dere!
llow heartily the woodwinds toot, how rich the trom-
bones' blare
As Fritz and Hans, ump-umping, march adown the
crowded street,
With practised fingers on the keys and drill-accus-
tomed feet!
Although a brute der Kaiser’s peen,
Britannia Rules der Submarine—
Ta-m-oom-pah! Ach, and as they play, they think
of Pill undt China
So far away amidst the fray. Der Kaiser—down mit
him l
Before, behind and in between do patriot banners
float;
Loud cheering all but drowns the shrill, non-union
eornet’a note
As Brotherhood goes cock-a-whoop along the stream-
ered way,
Bearing the symbols of the cause it celebrates to-day.
Rrrum- ti-tum ! Verboten be
All frighdfulness undt enmity
While Fritz and Hans, high-stepping where disturbers
sought to tread,
Play a bold air for union there, by thumping Her-
man led.
Bumpity-bump and toodle-doo I How do the brasses
roar,
Playing the grand old marches as they never played
before!
In each four-square, Teutonic nut kind thoughts of
everyone,
Old strafes forgot, hate hymned no more until this
job is done.
Ach, t’ree loud jeers for der Union Jag
U-ndt for our own Owsdralian flag 1
Hoch ! With a noise like pots and pans, in a martial
mob they come,
Heinrich and Hans and Fritz and Franz, following
Herman’s drum!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
the player in the night.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Somewhere a girl is playing
And the notes fall clear and cool—•
Stones by a youngster straying
Thrown into a still, deep pool.
The rings they make are laughter,
And the drops they splash are tears;
But the player who comes after
Knows naught of it down the years.
Gathered and aimed and pelted
With a youngster’s careless art,
Ere all the ripples have melted
The stones sink into my heart.
x.s.w.
BRIGHTON.


d
gds
s
Si
gpig
K
&St
Overland
A is popular the
world over among
farmers. It meets
every demand of rural
travel.
With it you save time in transporting
produce and supplies. You make neigh-
bours of your distant friends. And you
multiply your conveniences and the pleas-
ures of your family
This Overland minds not swamp nor brush, muddy
roads nor steep hills.
Large wheels insure ample clearance. Cantilever rear
springs and strong axles insure easy riding. Electric
control buttons on the steering column insure ease of opera-
tion. Power, comfort, durability—all of these identify the
“Light Four”.
You will find that this Overland gives you more for the
money than any other car of its class.
The Farmer’s Car:
Economical to purchase and maintain—
light in weight electric lights and
electric starter —completely equip-
ped — powerful, flexible, en bloc en-
gine — easy-riding cantilever rear
springs — deep, soft upholstery.
Complete Catalogue
on Request.
Motor Cans
May we demonstrate this completely equipped motor car?
Australian Distributors
GARRATT’S LTD., Sydney
KELLOW FALKtNER MOTOR CO., Melbourne
AUTO-CARS LTD., Adelaide
E. G. EAGER <& SONS LTD., Brisbane
ANDERSON & ADAMS LTD., Perth
H. G. HEATHORNE & CO. LTD., Hobart, Tasmania
The Wileys Overland Company, Toledo, Ohio.


Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the E glish Press.
Simple and Effective /Methods .
By Olga Amsdell, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Why Have Grey Hair?
Few people know that grey liair is not a
necessary feature of age—that it can be
avoided without resorting to hair dyes. A
very old, home-made remedy will turn the
hair back to a natural color in a few days.
It is only necessary to get from the chemist
two ounces of concentrate of tammalite and
mix it with three ounces of bay rum. Apply
this simple lotion to the hair for a few nights
with a small sponge and you will soon have
the pleasure of seeing the greyness disappear.
This recipe is perfectly harmless, is neither
sticky nor greasy and has given perfect satis-
faction for many generations to those in
possession of the secret. \
Blackheads, Oily Pores, etc.
The new sparkling face-bath treatment rids
the skin of blackheads, oiliness and enlarged
pores almost instantly. It is perfectly harm-
less, pleasant and immediately effective. All
you have to do is to drop a stymol tablet,
obtained from the chemist, in a glass of hot
water, and alter the resulting effervescence
lias subsided dab the affected portions of the
1 ace freely with the liquid. When you dry
the face you will find that the blackheads
come right off on the tow r el. the large pores
contract and efface themselves and the greasi-
ness is all gone, leaving the skin smooth, soft
and cool. 'lbis treatment should be repeated
a few times at intervals of several davs in
order to make sure'that the result shall be
permanent-.
The Magnetism of Beautiful Hair.
Beautiful hair adds immensely to the ner-
sonal magnetism of both men and women.
Actresses and smart women tire ever on the
look out for any harmless thing that will in-
crease the natural beauty of their hair Tim
latest method is to use pure stallax as a sham-
poo 011 account of the peculiar glossv fluffy
and wavy effect which it leaves. As stallax
Has never boon used much for this purpose it
comes to the chemist only in -]lb. sealed origi-
nal packages, enough for 25 or BO shampoos.
i T' 1 !"' . of tho Vagrant, stallax gran-
ules, dissolved in a cup of hot Water, is more
than sufficient for each shampoo. If is verv
beneficial and stimulating to the hair apart
from its beautifying effect. - 1
How to Remove a Bad Complexion
nkS-'of 1 “ ever r<f ally help a poor eom-
£.{'l ,e " J}MJy positively harmful.
Jilt sensible, rational wav is to actually re-
sPinV. I,e HV" veil of stifling,-half-dead «arf-
skln fioni the face, and give the fresh, vigor-
°hnn aU< l bountiful young skin underneath a
chance to show itself and to breathe.
lms is best done in a very simple wav bv
merely applying merc'olisod wax at night like
voi'i oream. and washing it off in the morning:
mv Jiri'" f o ' Y’ ax . «"> be obtained from
an.v well-stocked chemist. II absorbs (be dis-
figuring cuticle gradually ami harmlessly
leaving a brilliant natural complexion Of
course, this also takes with it all such facial
hlemises as red blotches, tan. moth patches
sallowness, liver spot's,..-pimples, etc. As a
freckle remover and general complexion beau-
t*®er this old-fashioned reinedv is unequalled.
The Powder Puff Passes.
. Fveiy normal woman is always interested
in any plan by which she can quickly enhance
le j beauty, provided the plan is perfectly safe
and simple. Ever since the discovery that
«mnl! ry i c emilli . te ’ such as any chemist can
jmpply, is an instantaneous and harmless
W U \V fl r U '' there as I:,een il R'lowing demand
101 \\ tiom smart w-onien everywhere. Tliev
usually get about an ounce and add iust
enough water to dissolve it. A little of this
perfectly harmless lotion gives a beautiful
complexion to any face instantly. It renders
tace pow-der quite unnecessary. Moreover its
benuHfiod ‘ b « d , etectecL The is instantly
beautified but appears perfectly natural
under the closest scrutiny. [3
Superior to Marking Ink.
7
-r-
.WOVEN NAMES,
<9r PROCURED THROUGH^
ANY UP-TO-OATE MERCER OR DRAPER,
OUR NAME ON THE BOX
b a guarantee of Quahf^
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 5/6.
Made in
.Australia
mam
.' «*BB :■;•• Hi { BI ■
SHE
3 from
has a new delicious
flavour, so different
from the old-fash-
ioned kind of sauce.
Try it for Yourself.
Of all Grocers and Stores.
England
vJk
vi
w
/)
lx
i
ft
X
m
\
k r,
\3.
V^i
re
y*
x'
-N
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible—-
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
E ye ry morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
gsd
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,
68 Deansgate Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle.
THE AUSTRALIAN
“SKANDIA”
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
o'
%
A-
PW &
-
.
::^J
Unlimited Supply
of Oil Fuel.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON, Loftus Street, Sydney.
“THEY COME AS A BOON AND A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL AND THE WAVERLEY PEN.”
A “NONESUCH" RAZOR.
‘Many’s the Razor I ha.ve tried, but there’s none
like the ‘Plum.’ ” So spoke a seasoned shaver, and
his experience is echoed by thousands of others.
Join the biff crowd who swear by
THE “PLUM” RAZOR.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 217-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
The above makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube, post free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Tried and Trusted—
The “PLUM”
Razor.
This —paper- i:®fe -atwaysr'beeh opposed to
capital punishment, and every time it reads
that one of our borrowing Governments is
going to execute more public works its
opinion grows stronger.
C. 11. Merz, the Loudon electrical-engineer
who designed the scheme for electrifying the
Melbourne suburban railways, has dropped
into another cosy job. Lord Fisher having
been jettisoned out of the British Navy to
make room for Eric Geddes, Merz has been
made chief of a new department to take
charge of all engineering contracts arising
out of war needs. Merz and Geddes were
cobbers in Newcastle (Eng.), whither Dr.
Merz, father of C. 11., migrated from Ger-
many many years ago.
Syd. Kidman, giving evidence on the price
of meat at Adelaide, was asked where his
stations are; on which he just pointed to the
map of Australia and said “Scattered all
over there.” Then he told the Commission
that he lost 75,000 cattle in the drought of
3014, after which the Queensland Govern-
ment refused to allow 37,000 cows he had
bought there to leave, and thgy are in Queens-
land yet. It caused him a loss of £40,000. Kid-
man gave, his own State a bad'character for
the handling of cattle in transit; so far as
he knows, no other railways in the world do
the thing so badly. Asked by a Labor rep.
whether he had been satisfied with his in-
terest for the last four years, Kidman cheer-
fully replied : "For the last 25.”
“Derwent”; The remarks of “Cobber” (B.
4/4/18) about the “haunted vault” at Port
Arthur (Tas.) have one hole in them. He
says the chamber was built in the early days
oi I ort Arthur for the use of high officials,
and that in 1822 an escaped murderer called
Owens made it his headquarters. But it was
nearly 10 years after 1822 before there was
any I ort Arthur. The convict settlement
there was not established till Macquarie
Harbor was abandoned in 1838. Before that
Maria Island was the only settlement in the
easl. No one, by the way, has ever spent
much time in digging up or inventing horrors
at Maria Island, probably because : they
would be too out-of-the-way for tourists to
gape at them.
‘ Felice”: Matilda Maud Ilennessev, who
was-recently appointed C.P.S. at Esk,' is the
hrst woman to hold that position in
Queensland and she is, probably, the
hrst Matilda Maud anywhere to unite
a brace of adventurers in the toils of
matrimony. As C.P.S. she has performed
the ceremony twice. She’s a native of
Mackay, and joined the staff of the C.P.S. in
l.Hlo. A woman of all-round ability, she
passed the examination for her position with
a high percentage of marks. She is a short-
hand expert, has an extensive knowledge of
the land laws of the State, and enjoys a
reputation for a fluency and aptness of
speech when a legal point is the bone of
dissension.
. iT'V L Some tinie a S° the police made a
bold effort to round up Melbourne’s profes-
sional soothsayers and wound them deeply in
their cash sensibilities. A lot of £3 0 fines
were handed around; and then Madame
Spider went back to wait in her stuffy parlor
for yet another fly with half a crown. Now
the trouble is worse than. ever. To-day the
expert dodger doesn’t claim to be such a low
and undesirable person as a spiritualist or
fortune-teller, and in her “character read-
ings she doesn’t offend against the law
unless she puts into them a bit of pep about
an absent Billjim’s doings in France or in
Heaven; and that is the police-agent’s only
present hope of roping in these mischievous
swindlers.
91/S»?aw” : . “ N(j r bell’s” trouble (B.
-i/’V 18) to locate the Government office he
was looking for reminds me of the trouble
I had to find the right Red Cross depot.
Having hoarded many good glass jars in
long- years of housekeeping, I set out to find
the most suitable place to have them sent.
h irst spot I visited the anything-but-amiable
name told me she didn’t want them there,
but suggested I visit another depot further
down the street. There a Sweet Thing kept
me m explanatory conversation, whilst
S”° tb f r bustled-up- with, “What’s she want?
Whats she want?” I told her humbly that
1 wanted to give something awav. She
became more civil at that and ordered me
o find yet another site. When I arrived at
it 1 found only a notice pasted up—“ R-
emoved. Then I breathed into the atmo-
sphere the remark that I’d sell all the bottles
and buy a War Bond.
Three Australians who have adopted South
Africa as their home continent are doing
their bit. successfully in Europe. Frank
Coeluane, son of the late John Cochrane a
squatter of the early ’sixties, left with
the Bushmens Corps and fought through
the Boer War. After that trouble
was ended he resided in the Trans-
J?? 1 ' and when the present war broke
out fought, in German West Africa
under General Royston. He then left for
I with the Natal Light Horse, with
whom he has attained the rank of major. His
schoolmate Aubrey Ventry Gayer, nephew of
Winter Cooke, fought through the same
engagements but joined up with the West
I urham Tight Infantry, is now lieutenant-
colonel (lerap.), and was last heard of in
L taly - dolman .James, brother of novelist
Winifred James, was for a while busking it
as an Aussie” stockwhip manipulator at the
halls. lie is commanding the 37th Battalion
Cameramans (Reserve), and is also stationed
in Italy.
T. 0.1.” : St. Peter’s, on Eastern Hill, is
the oldest Anglican church in Melbourne, and
the third built m the State. The first stone
by tbe Superintendent of Port
I hillip, c. J. La Trobej: on June 38, 1846.
on ground granted by the Government of
JN. S Wales. The new tabernacle was
opened for service in 1847; and when the
hist bishop—Perry—arrived next year his
letters-patent were read at St. Peter’s. ’ An
unusual church it has 4ieeii in several wavs
; For one tiring fit Ms never held a-bazaar, a
fan or any sale of gifts to increase its funds
or pay off a debt, It used to have a profes-
sional choir, maintained by Edward Wild
the Collmgwood brewer, but in the davs of
rector Handheld they were superseded bv "sur-
piiceci boys.


STEEL
All Inquiries receive attention from experts supported by a company able to supply all kind
of steel or iron. Detailed and specific inquiries bring prompt and complete quotations.
STEEL PRODUCTS
UNFINISHED STEEL STRUCTURAL STEEL
PLATES STEEL RAILS
CONCRETE RE-INFORCEMENT STEEL
STEEL DISC WITH ROLLER BEVEL
WIRE RODS WIRE AND WIRE PRODUCTS
GALVANIZED MARKET AND STONE WIRE
BAR IRON STEEL PRODUCTS
TIN PLATE AND TERNE PLATE
TUBULAR PRODUCTS
TOOL STEEL AND SPECIAL STEEL
PIG IRON COLD DRAWN STEEL
METAL PRODUCTS
ALUMINUM TIN COPPER LEAD ZINC
SPELTER ANTIMONY NICKEL PLATINUM
METAL ALLOYS
BRASS BRONZE PHOSPHOR BRONZE
GERMAN SILVER SPECIAL ALLOYS
ROD SHEET WIRE TUBING CASTINGS
FORGING AND DIE CASTING SPECIALTIES
BARE AND INSULATED WIRE
AND CABLE SCREW MACHINE PRODUCTS
STAMPING SPECIALTIES
FERRO ALLOYS
VULCAN STEEL PRODUCTS COMPANY, 120 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
FRANK B. SMITH
Australasian Representative,
4 Bridge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
i
w
rv,
mu
m
v/rrtrfzz
%
'Mmmm
m
m
m
mm
vm
m
m,
m
Va
H
32
HI
■
M
a
1
ii»i
fa
wJsMfo
m
fa
m
mm
m
m
Ss
K
I
sa
mm
m
i
i
. -
a
--
a
mvj/hsi
m,
m,A
■m
5^
fi
efs
Hi
35
K
I
is
1
sS
§i
§r
i
i
SSS
I
i
3 5
1
zm
mk
*** -w
ilmZ'ikifi KdU
* a; M
1
385*«
-
I
32
HUDSON
V SUPER/
& six A
/
fa.*'.
p
&
H
M
HUDSON
SUPER
SIX
HUDSON CLOSED CARS
The Worlds Finest.
The Hudson Motor Car Company is the largest builder of closed cars in
the world. Hudson Super-Six Limousines and Town Cars are the highest
examples of the coachbuilder’s art. In luxury of design, in color and finish
they are distinctive. Hudson closed cars have plenty of speech
The tremendous reserve power of the Hudson Super-Six motor carries them
with ease. They are the choice of those who seek superlative performance
combined with beauty.
Dalgety &, Co. Ltd., 15 Bent Street, Sydney.
Dalgety &. Co. Ltd., Elizabeth. Street, Brisbane.
Hello w-F alKiner Motor Co., 206 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Motors Ltd., 44 Flinders Street, Adelaidi
W. Johnson & Co., 851 May Street, Pertri.
Hudson Motor Car Company, Detroit, MicHigan, U.S.A.
Cable Address : HUDSONCAR—DETROIT.


Amusement*.
Ilarry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director HUG FI D. McINTOSH.
X lV ° I- 1 THEA T It IS. SYI) N E Y
Xightty, 8. Matinees Wednesday & Saturday, 2.30
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents "
FMO TRULY GREAT VAUDEVILLE ACTS
and London’s Giddy, Laughing Revue,
THE MILLION DOLLAR GIRL.
The greatest production yet seen at the Tivoli.
T ,V()I1 T,W °A * RE, MKLKOUIINIC.
TWICE DAILY.
2.30 and 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents London’s Smart
Revue Success,
SAMPLES.
A Sparkling and Dazzling Production.
H
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
E IC M ,v •> E S T Y ’ S, S Y D X E \ .
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 1.45.
.1. C. Williamson Ltd.’s Gorgeous, Spectacular
PANTOMI ME EXTRAVAGANZA,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
(V*l i KU 1 ° N * 11 15 A *’ lc B. SYDNEY
w Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8. Matinee Wednesday at 2.
MURIEL STARR
in first production in Sydney of the Hawaiian play,
THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
P-A AC IC TIIICVT It E. SYI) N iTv
COMMENCING SATURDAY NEXT AT 8
Matinees: WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS.
J. AND N. TAIT present
EMELIIC POLINI
NEW DRAMATIC COMPANY
in
DE LUXE ANNIE,
A Thrilling Mystery Comedy Drama.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
MM O N PIC TCIt IC TIIEAT It E s
I" GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
Iho Mnest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show
mg select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to I/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD
W. Baiuungton Miller, General Manager.
WIRT H S ’ NEW CIRCUS
VV WIRTHS’ HIPPODROME, lIAYMARKEL
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY & SATURDAY, 2.45.
COMPLETE NEW COMPANY <fc 25 NEW ACTS
including the Latest American Sensations.
Prices: 5/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/-, plus tux.
Children Half-price.
Soldiers in uniform Half-price to Dress Circle.
Plan at Nicholson’s.
LIEU MAJESTY’S X HEAT It E, M ELKO U Ills'lC
* ■ Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
The “Last Word” in Revues,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
'IIICA X It E It OY A 1., M El,KOI; IIN i
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 27.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
IvATHLENE MACDONELL
THE WILLOW TREE.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURN E.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, APRIL 27.
J. & N. TAIT present
GUY BATES POST
in
THE MASQUERADER.
A Dramatisation of Katherine Cecil Thurston’s Novel,
“John Chileotc, M.P.”
Prices as Usual. Plans at Allan s.
U OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
■ 1 Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to G p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matinges Saturday at 2.30
FAMOUS PI.AYERS-LASKY, MAX
SENNETT, ARBUCKI.E, etc.,
FEATURES.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
WILLIAM S. HART in
THE NARROW TRAIL.
Also
KATHLYN WILLIAMS in
THE HIGHWAY OF HOPE.
Prices as usual.
BIJOU THE A ’J’ It E, M ELBOURNU,
** Direction: BEN & JOHN FULLER.
TWICE DAILY.
FULLER’S ALL STAR VAUDEVILLE.
The Martinis, Con Moreni, Skipper Francis, Musical
Bentleys, Toni Rees, Belle Verne, Leeds and Posner,
Debaker s Models, The Molinaries, etc.
Usual Prices. Plans at Pianola.
IV! >• *TIC Til IC AT IS IC. M 151,1101 KNH
,¥B COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
Mrs. VERNON CASTLE
CONVICT 993.
A. J. BARNEY SHERRY
in
REAL FOLKS.
Matinfies Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
gRITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
|y| ELBA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATH if,
WORLD. FOX and SELZNICK.
Business Notices.
A
THE FAMOUS
AfItKCAS SIAMMRD FOUR-CYCU DKlttt
Marine Engine.
12, 16 and 20 H.P.
4 Cylinders—4 cycle—medium speed.
SIMPLE, STRONG, DURABLE, ECONOMICAL.
Kermath Engines are built with
extreme care, perfectly balanced, and
are quiet running, perfectly controlled
and extremely smooth in operation. It
is an engine which will give years of
the most thoroughly satisfactory ser-
vice, and is an extremely high-grade
engine in every respect. Good dealers
wanted in Australia..
Catalog on request.
Kermath Mfg. Co., Detroit, Mich. U.S.A.
f!ONTSERRj\f
SAUCE
MADE FROM THE
CELEBRATED
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE.
ITS PURITY
and great
DIGESTIVE
VALUE
make it die finest
Sauce procurable.
Of All Storekeepers.
Isisl
m
V '“MljyiwO*
Public
! “and~TIiAMWAY cross-
; X\j INGS.— Commonwealth Patent No.
11855, dated 14th January, 1914, for an
invention entitled IMPROVEMENTS IN
RAILWAY AND TRAMWAY CROSS-
INGS. The Governments and the Public of
the Commonwealth and Manufacturers are
hereby notified that any reasonable require-
ments in regard to permission upon royalty
or other agreement to employ the said in-
vention in Australia will be satisfied by the
undersigned on application being made as
hereunder stated.
DONALD McKAY (the patentee), in
care of COLLI SON & CO., Patent Attor-
neys, 483 Collins Street, Melbourne.
16th April, 1918.
ROSH RELALAH,
3rd Edition. Post, 2s. O‘2d.
SKINNER’S, 121 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
A Time for Strong Nerves.
War time, with its excitement and hys-
teria, is a trial to the strongest nerves. To
those whose nervous systems are run down
by overwork or worry, to those who are on
the verge of neurasthenia, it is a time of
danger.
There is no tonic for the nerves that is
not a tonic for every part of the body.
There is no form of debility that does not
rob the nerves of nourishment. The remedy
therefore for nervous breakdown is a tonic
that will build up the general health, revital-
ise the blood and enable it to carry to the
nerves the elements that they need.
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are an ideal
tonic for this condition because they are
non-alcoholic, and neurasthenic patients
should avoid alcoholic stimulants.
Sufferers from nervous disorders who
have been taking treatment without benefit
should investigate the tonic method. Write
to-day to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co.,
Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney, for the booklet,
“Diseases of the Nervous System.” It will
be sent free on request.— Advt.
Try This: Two
Generations Old
And never failed yet to keep the bowelr,
regular, the temper smooth, the liver active, the
appetite vigorous and healthy. The recipe is:
“Keep Carter’s Little
Liver Pills where you
know where to find them , "
and don’t wait to be
bilious. They’re
a pleasure to
take.” Children
prefer them.
Purely
vegetable.
g
tTTLE
IVER
mi&
Small Pill—Small Dose—Small Prlea.
GENUINE must bear signature
“Fx &, R” Wristlet Watches.
The “Fx & R” Wrist-
let Watt h is pre-
eminently the most
reliable, the strongest,
the most accurate
watch on the market.
It is not the cheapen
(when is the best th.
lowest in price?).
But it is not expensive
or high in price at
£4/4/-
It will go to within a
few seconds in a
month, stand rough
usage daily, and last a
lifetime.
It is guaranteed for 15
years, and kept in
order for two years
(breakages excepted),
without charge.
■' ;
A
Fx & R fully-jewelled, reliable lever movement, in solid Silver case
complete with pigskin military cover, 84/-
In nickel 'case, 70/.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS LTD.
Plain figures. Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House In Sydney,
23 & 25 HUNTER STREET.
dg
A Merciful Man is Merciful to His Brute'
IlMil Hiiuimhi n liiinll ol'il hi |ii||i|<
111 IIHI 111 Hl* IlnliM II|«|I III! Ihm Ii ii ill Hi
d
• .*?.*"* * m,, ‘
Hl'lllll
IMIIIM MO'tM.
s
PM
mm
LESLIE SALT LICKS
Stand on the pinnacle of Purity and Quality. For all animals.
2/- per block or 22/6 per case of 1 dozen.
At all Saddlers, Blacksmiths, Produce Merchants and Stores or
Wholesale
from
{BUZACOTI & CO.—7-11 Market St.
HOOKFR°rH?p^v P ? ERSON & co -252 George St.
& c ° —lBB Sussex St.
HARRI SHELLY— IBa Clarence St.
{v\tS FINANCE ASSOCIATION. LTD.—Phillip St.
NOBtE—2S7 Sussex St.
N.S.W. PRODUCE C 0—226 Sussex St.
Retail:
XOCK & KIRBY LlD.—George St. North (near Quay).
Country orders: Freight, to be added.
ssatnsng
gds
ABBEY
SHOES!
If you desire a correct and distinc-
tive style for every occasion, you
cannot do better than make a point
of wearing ABBEY SHOES.
You are assured perfection in tit.
as they are made in half and full
sizes, and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide.
We illustrate a Tan Willow Calf
Oxford Shoe, with Perforated
Vamp. Very smart and service-
able.
Price - 35/-
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G. P.O. and hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centurlea
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
=3»wuii;;jj.:::;i;;i—==;|; ijmifiKlggriSSSSgSsglq
sin<u' 1596. CURES Write for Book
Australian blight .falling eyelashes, weak sight.
«• GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England
Insist on “ Singleton’s ’’—refuse all substitutes.
g
*sT^v^ :
THF OyVGFM
TOOTH POWDER
T^iJL
dg
PUT DECAY ON
THE OFFENSIVE.
Let all the family prepare for action.
Decay will invade the best teeth and
grain the day before its presence is
discovered. It works secretly and
persistently and is out of reach of
toothbrush and ordinary dentifrice.
With
0,
r (gK&s>
the oxygew
TOOTH POWDER-
the seat of decay is reached in-
stantly. Nature’s great and powerful
force, Oxygen, is liberated when
Calox is moistened. This oxygen,
always on “Active Service,” pen-
etrates to every cavity and recess and
ensures a prompt destruction of all
germs or decayed food matter.
Jn addition, Calox whitens the teeth,
strengthens the gums and leaves an
all-pervading freshness in the mouth.
A Free Sample of Calox
will be posted to any address in Aus-
tralia. Send your name and address,
together with this advertisement, to
Geo. Wills and Co. Ltd., 60 York
Street, Sydney; or 480 Collins Street,
Melbourne, enclosing two penny
stamps to cover postage.
F. 25-4-18.
Calox is procurable from
ALL CHEMISTS AND
LEADING STORES. .
ds
gsd


For Two Years
Came with rash and terrible
itching. Then small pimples.
Head very much inflamed.
Hair fell out. Could almost
count hairs on head. Cuticura
Soap and Ointment Healed.
From signed statement of Mrs. J.
Stewart, 7 Railway Place, Coburg,
Vic., June 23, 1916.
Improve your complexion by using
Cuticura Soap daily and Cuticura Oint-
ment as needed to prevent pimples,
blackheads, or other eruptions. Un-
sightly complexions are often a bar to
social advancement and business suc-
cess. Nothing so ensures a clear skin
and good hair as making Cuticura your
every-day toilet preparations.
Samples Free by Post. (Soap to
cleanse, Ointment to heal.) Address :
R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
2P£CMLO£
L!N£S
I# 5
5
WQiTE
fOR
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
Zf fIONTER S' 1 NEWCASTLE
gd
EL
•CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
i
H
ELEY Grand Prfx’
Cartridge Case, loaded with
Eley Smokeless, Ballistite,
Smokeless <3> Diamond,
Schultze, or any other
standard smokeless powder.
sg
ELEY
•450
Revolver
ELEY
380
Revolver
11
dsg
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEYBROS. L° LONDON
Do All Your
Polishing and
Finishing with
II
§
TT imparts a perfectly hard, dry,
J- glasslike polish of great beauty
and durability. Protects the
original finish from dust, grime
and dampness, adding years to
its life.
A Dust-Proof Polish
Johnson’s Prepared Wax neverbecomes sticky
or tacky in the hottest weather or from
the heat of the body. It does not gather
dust or show finger prints.
There is nothing like Johnson’s Prepared
Wax for keeping dining room tables bright
and tempting. Hot dishes do not affect it in
the slightest.
Have Your Piano and Mahog-
any Furniture a Bluish,
Cloudy Appearance?
This can be easily, quickly and permanently
removed with Johnson’s Prepared Wax—
The Dust-Proof Polish.
Johnson’s Prepared Wax Is clean and easy to
use and economical. No tools or brushes
required—all you need is a soft cotton rag.
Keep a tin always on hand for polishing your
Linos.
Floors
Piano
Furniture
Woodwork
Motor Car
For sale by all good dealers or
obtainable from
S. C. JOHNSON & SON
379 Kent Street Sydney* N.S.W.
U.s.STANDARD
s' A
sn
a
sr»
i > *o
I 9 SO
sj H
era
Has
I**2
P
S 3
o
I
0 P 0 0 0 0 0 0 QOOOD OOOOQODOODO
0 0
0 0
0.0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0
0. 0
D 0 0 0 0 0
0 0
0 0
D 0 0
0 0
D 0
D 0
\y-
-0 0
0 0 0.0 Q y 0 D 0.0 0 0 0 n 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
VO
&
0 DO
•v^l
K
IZI
u
Ono'aODOPoOOOnoOPOOPOOfIOODODDOfIOo'ooODO-ooDDOOoo-DDOo'pDOD'OOOODOooDOoODODPODnPDODOOOOp'DOaDDnODDOOOODDOOOdonngg ff 0 0 0 0 0 000§j
TTr
\k\
1
'l
Js>eaui\y
i£> largely a cp**
(fi?orr\ple>dor\_.
s
PRICE
Q
SOAPS
v insure skin loveliness & add a zest to the toi/et.
PRICE’S, London. Liverpool, Manchesrer, Glasgow, Etc.
SAVINGS.
[For The Bulletin.]
There are only two creeds. One is that the
Deity made everything. The other is that every-
thing made itself.
Time is a great institution. I don't know what
we would do without it.
There are three kinds of servant girl: the one
who never comes; the one who leaves immediately;
and the one who blows up the bath-heater.
Sometimes I wonder what would have happened
if there had never been anything.
The birthrate is all right, despite lamentations to
the contrary. The woman in the next flat always
sounds as if she had 16 children.
The doctrine of immortality is a hard thing to
prove. Nobody has lived for ever up to date.
No man need find time hanging heavy on his
hands. lie can spend half of it thinking of his
debts and the other'..half in remembering what an
ass he has been.
If the tax on the next-door dog was sufficient
the animal would wipe out the public debt.
SOL M.
“Moobitta” : Gratitude! Just go to a
clearing station after a stunt if you want
to know what the word means. God, Ive
seen it in the eyes of a stricken mate when
a nurse has tenderly raised him up to her
bosom and kissed him while he was vomiting
out his life’s blood over her; gently soothing
him and reproving him as if he were a
child; bidding him go to sleep; then laying
him down with a heavy sad look in her eyes,
yearning to cry out remonstrances to a God
that only answers with another and another
and still another tragedy. Then she has
picked up the next victim of a crime for
which an eternity in Hell cannot atone —and
gone through it all again! Gratitude? You
have never seen it, such as these noble
women know.
“Mujik” : I have just been furnished with
a demand for Commonwealth income tax,
and during the next week or two my sov-
ereign State will pass up a similar request.
Presumably this form of taxation will be
greatly increased in the future. W ill there
be anything then to be said for. a contin-
uance of the practice that necessitates pay-
ment in one lump? The excuse that any
change would involve a vast system of book-
keeping is absurd. Payment in a lump im-
poses hardship on 90 per cent, of the smaller
payers. It is a poor palliative; still they
could be relieved to some extent if citizens
were able to purchase saving stamps—such
as are issued in connection with the At ar
Loan—these being accepted for payment of
tax on the due date. The cost of printing
and sale would be more than met by the
saving to the Treasury through having the
use of the money in advance.
“Lee Pore Brace”: News of the torpedo-
ing of the Commonwealth prize Conargo
reminds me of a trick played by Pate on
The Bulletin’s contributor. “Albatross.
“Albatross” was master of the Conargo for
a couple of trips, and when coming through
the Panama Canal from Atlantic to Pacific,
shortly after the opening, was so much im-
pressed with the difference between, that
route and the Horn way that he put his joy
into verse. It duly appeared in The Bul-
letin, extolling the wonders of Panama and
exulting in the defeat of “Daddy Horn.
The hoary gentleman of the South, however,
had the next laugh. On the return trip
“Albatross’s” craft was one of “ the first to
arrive at the Pacific entrance after the
Culebra Cut landslip, and when the “No
road” sign was hung out he had to push his
cart, if not actually round the Horn, at
least through the Magellan Straits.
A Billjim ofiicer revisits Egypt:—
Egypt is the same filthy, immoral hole that it
was before. The only difference is that, whereas
plain Tommy Billjim could two years ago gaze on
the edifying spectacle of half a dozen nude Gippy
women in various “dances” for one piastre (2Ad.),
he now has to pay two piastres. Of course it is
infra dig. for officers to attend, but I understand that
for five piastres they can gaze on a similar spectacle,
the only difference being that for the extra three
piastres the females wash once a month. The smell
of the various towns is as before, except that it has
been added to by the accumulation of the two more
years. The inhabitants’ clothes, except for the two
years’ additional dirt, are as usual. On a rainy day
they pick up their garments and cover their heads,
the idea being to prevent their faces being washed.
They are still buried daily in large numbers, which
isn’t to be wondered at —it must be a relief to be
defunct after a life in Egypt. The Cairo burial-
ground, known as the City of the Dead, is
sanitary. Which seems to indicate that their souls
take the odor to Heaven, in which case the Gippy
quarter of Heaven will need double rations of in-
cense and myrrh to make it worth being good for.
The first street formed in Australasia was
George-street, Parramatta, made in July,
1790, by Governor Phillip, who named it
after the reigning sovereign. A mile long, it
ran from Government House to a primitive
wharf on the river, whence the Rose Hill
Packet started for Sydney. It was designed
200 ft. wide, but has been much curtailed.
“Jacko”: “Cyril Surcingle’s” doubts and
suppositions and citation of regulations (B.
11/4/’18) concerning my illustration of the
way the obliging Defence Department hands
out cheap boots to members of the citizen
forces don’t do away with the facts. At the
“fortnight” camp mentioned in my par. no
payment of any 14s. nor any other condition
was attached to the presentation. Nor was
there any benevolence on the part of the
Q.M.S., who simply acted on instructions.
“H. 0.”: Billjim was on leave and the dam-
sel sitting opposite him in the railway car-
riage was flighty. She ostentatiously adjusted
her skirts, leaving on view about 12fin. of
stocking. Jimbill looked out of the window.
After a short interval there was a sound of
agitated lingerie, and he turned his head just
enough to ascertain that the silk stocking
visible had increased by a couple of inches.
The train sped on and the contest continued,
the lady making no attempt to camouflage her
sentiments. Although he could not resist an
occasional glance opposite, Billjames’s atten-
tion was mostly concentrated upon the land-
scape. When his station was reached he ex-
plained his position. “You have put up a
dashed good offensive, mamzell,” he informed
her; “ but my ’obby is beer!”


Edison BlueAmberol
Records for April.
'7
m
The list for this month contains some particularly fine
items, both instrumental and vocal, all of which are
decidedly up to the high Edison standard.
The ever-popular “Father O’Flynn,” sung by Arthur
Middleton, is a splendid Concert Record, as also is “La
Brabanconne” (the Belgian National Anthem), rendered
in French by Alice Yerlet.
Included in the regular list are “Perfect Day Waltz,”
for dancing (.Taudas’ Society Orchestra), Sousa’s “King
Cotton March” (New York Military Band), “Come On
Over Here, It’s a Wonderful Place” (Ada Jones),
“Caprice Viennois,” a Xylophone solo, with accompaniment
by George Hamilton Green, and “Sons of Australia,” a
march by Lithgow, the Australian composer.
Blue Amberol Concert Records
28265—Father O’Flynn. Bass, orch aec.
Arthur Middleton.
28266 —La Brabanconne (Belgian National
Anthem). Soprano, in French, oreh.
acc. Alice Verlct.
Blue Amberol Regular Records.
3153 —One, Two, Three, Four, Medley-Waltz.
Waikiki Hawaiian Orchestra.
3155 —Caprice Viennois. Xylophone, oroh.
acc. George Hamilton Green.
3150 —In the Sweet Long Ago. Tenor, orch.
acc. George Wilton Ballard & Chorus.
3161 —Ragtime Drama, Musical Sketch.
Ada Jones & Billy Murray.
3164 —Loin Du Ball.
Creatore & His Band.
3167 — Perfect Day Waltz, for Dancing.
Jaudas’ Society Orchestra.
3168 Sons of Australia, March (Lithgow).
Sodero’s Band.
3169 From Here to Shanghai. Tenor and
Baritone, orch acc.
Arthur Collins & Byron G. Harlan.
3170 Why Don’t You Come Back Home
Again (We’re Too Old to Go to You).
Tenor, orch. acc.
Manuel Romain.
3171 Whispering Flowers.
American Symphony Orchestra.
3172 In the Gloaming:. Soprano, oreh aec.
Betsy Lane Shepherd.
3173 Tho’ I’m not the First to Call You
“Sweetheart” (Please Let Me Be the
Last). Tenor, oreh. aec.
George Wilton Ballard.
3175 Songs of Other Days—No. 6, Mixed
Voices, orch. aec.
Metropolitan Mixed Chorus.
3176 Napoleon—Have a Heart. Tenor, orch.
acc - Billy Murray & Chorus.
3178—One Fleeting Hour. Soprano, orch.
acc - Gladys Bice.
3131 Kacr.a Ford Hawaiians.
3183 —Brighten the Corner Where You Are.
Male Voices, oreh acc.
Apollo Quartet.
3190 Come On Over Here, It’s a Wonderful
Place. Comedienne, orch. acc.
Ada Jones.
3191 — King Cotton March (Sousa).
New York Military Band.
3192 — Where the Black-eyed Susans Grow.
Tenor, oreh. acc. Adolph J. Hahl.
THOMAS A. EDISON LTD. (Wholesale only), 3 64-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
SAFETY TYPE,
This is the pen
you will eventually
buy. Why not now ?
ds
Three Types:
“SAFETY,"
“ LEVER POCKET
SELF-FILLING,"
“ REGULAR."
Waterman^
(Ideal)
FountarnPen
Nibs to
Suit all
hands.
Two types are illustrated, one the Safety which can be
earned in any position, the other, the Lever Pocket
Self-Filling which can be filled instantly from any ink
supply. You’ll be delighted with either.
Of Stationers and Jewellers everywhere.
L. G. Sloan, Ltd., Cheapen (Corner
London, England.
Australia: HAROLD 0. DIXON,
105 Clarence Street, Sydney.
«fs
KVER POCKET SEIPTUEHYG
T\|
Siam
**:*wZr
r-^%nA?
'©^s
3&l v
m sai*Uy ItitUijvMncritt) »
JteUic&ma&xttuCli
GbC€m£im&Qftfiralljse7iiuj
faabiM.
Meed tfupttt tfye&ihjkMll
wamM, *4 turnup, i?ic-&numtn£
#4 M& &daU fia&y ZfovU..
CO\i&
26Jamueton St, sydineyj£sX£
TUCevkUtq
F
OR £1 <js. Ud. you cuu have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week fox; a year to any address in Australasia,
cost paid. To any address abroad, £1 lCs.
P er j post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
iSS&ta,. The Manaser - 214
EVERY KIND OF SPORT and
RECREATION Catered For.
I
TENNIS
WE HAVE LONG BEEN RECOGNISED AS THE LEAD-
ING SUPPLIERS OF REQUISITES FOR THE GAME.
RACKETS.
M.S. Handicap, full size 6/-
0.8.8. Special 9/6
M.S. Champion 11/6
C. 8.8. Cork Handle .. 13/6
C. 8.8. Quadruple 15/6
C. 8.8. Double Strung 18/-
Haymarket Selected... 35/-
Haymarket Ex. Special 40/-
Ayre’s Handicap 17/6
Ayre’s A 1 19/-
Ayre’s Champion ..
Ayre’s S.N.D
Slazenger’s Renshaw
Slazenger’s Demon . .
Slazenger’s Ich Dien
Slazenger’s Whitehouse
Slazenger’s E.G.M. ..
Slazenger’s Doherty .
Slazenger’s Stadium
Prosser’s Phenomenon
27/6
50/-
21/-
26/-
30/-
36/-
46/-
50/-
55/-
55/-
(Postage on Racket —N.S.W., 9d ; other States, 1/2.)
BALLS.
Each.
Grey, Junior ... 1/-
Challenge, covered 1/6
Reach Tournament 1/9
Doz.
8/6
17/6
18/6
Each. Doz.
Dunlop Champion 2/1 24/-
Ayre’s Champion 2/2 25/-
Slazenger’s Champ. 2/2 25/-
Spalding’s Champ. 2/2 25/-
(Postage on one doz.: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
TENNIS NETS.
Full size, well made—
7/6, 13/6, 18/6, 21/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-, 40/-
TRESSES, MARKERS, TAPES & ALL SUNDRIES STOCKED.
RACKETS RE-STRUNG AND REPAIRED.
SPORTING REPAIRS A SPECIALTY.-*!
Guns, Rifles, Revolvers, Tennis Rackets, Cricket Bats, Skates, Golf
Clubs, Hockey and Lacrosse Sticks, Fishing Rods, Reels, etc., repaired
by expert Workmen. Lowest Charges.
I
1
BOXING
Our Gloves are well and faithfully made from selected materials,
and are unsurpassed for durability and effectiveness.
„„„ MEN’S GLOVES. Set of 4.
C. 8.8., real leather, special value 8/6
napa, hair-stuffed, laced palms 10/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, best tan napa, laced palms, 6or 8 0z.... ... 12/6
C. 8.8., Fighting, sup. napa, laced palms, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz 14/6, 17/6
SPECIAL FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, padded wrist,
6 or 8 oz 16/6, 20/-, 22/6
PERFECTION FIGHTING, napa, leather lined, 6 or
8 oz
HIGH-GRADE FIGHTING, napa, curled hair, laced
palms, 6 or 8 oz 25 /-
THE “LIGHTNING,” officially adopted and exclusively
used by Baker Stadiums, Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane.
Personally recommended by Mr. Reg. L. (“Snowy”) Baker
CORBETT, special napa, laced palms, hair-stuffed, 60z...
(Postage on One Set: N.S.W., 1/-; other States, 1/8.)
YOUTHS’ GLOVES.
24/-
30/-
27/6
35/-
Set of 4.
FIGHTING, napa leather, hair stuffed g/g
Best napa, „ „ 7/g
Tan Leather,
very superior,
Laced,
(Postage on one set: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
B/6
lO/6
12/6. 15/-
FIGHTER’S SUSPENSORY & BODY BAND,
Tin. wide (Post 4d.) 7/6 each
JOCK STRAPS, best quality (Post 3d.) 3/6 & 4/6 each
BOXING BOOTS, special English Leather, extra light,
weight about 3ioz. (Post 6d.)
17/6 pair
Keep your razor
keen by using—
STROPOLINE 9d
TIN
(POST FREE).
V
p
PUNCHING BALLS.
We carry a wide range, including the famous REACH
Balls. A few minutes each day at Ball Punching will
keep you in good condition.
ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, soft leather, light
make, for fast work 7/6 10/6
“REACH ARMY,” Swinging Ball, regulation size, fine
leather, stayed seams, very fast 8/6, 12/6, 16/6
“REACH” ARMY, Swinging Ball, regulation size, finest
napa leather, welted and stayed, very fast and lively-
18/6, 22/-, 25/-, 30/-, 35/-
“REACH” ARMY, extra light Professional Swinging Ball,
specially designed for fast work, guaranteed durable and
perfect shape; made of highest-quality brown mocha kid.
The finest made j m
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, rubber cord for
floor and rope for ceiling 10/6, 12/6
EXPERT, double-end Ball, regulation size, special leather,
double-stitched, very light 21 /-, 25/-, 30 /-
EXPERT, double-end Ball, medium size, best selected hide,
rubber and leather fittings 20/-, 22/6, 25/-
PORTABLE BALL, strong spiral spring, upright, heavy
iron base, leather cover and bladder, complete.. 60/-”
Above balls fitted with best-quality bladders.
(Postage on Army or Expert: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
Ball Gloves 2/9, 3/9, 4/9 pr. Mitts 2/6 pr.
Punching Platforms 35/-, 50/-, 90/- each
Ball and Socket Swivels 1/6, 2/6
Ball-bearing Swivels 3/9, 4/6, 5/-
FOR SMOKERS.
ZIG-ZAG CIGARETTE TOBACCO, highest-grade imported. Very mild. Will not
dry the throat. Famed for its quality and purity. loz. packet, with book of
cigarette papers 9 ( ]. ( pos t free).
STTNOL TOBACCO. highest-grade Virginian, natural aroma. Awarded 4 gold medals.
To be had in Plug and Cut: Dark, 7/9 lb. (post free) ; Bright, 8/3 lb. (post free).
Send for copies of “Can’t B Beat” Sportsman's Guide ( B 1) and “Sure Catch" 1918
Angler's Guide ( B 2). All Sportsmen should possess them. Post free to any address.
1C
TJUSTRTIUm GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
am TOBACCONISTS
gds
City Sports Depot
99 Kind St also at
Newcastle l Brisbane


Another True Rexona Girl
Miss Ivy Burnham ==
/
Tl
mm m
m , \
. S
i
.......
...
i WwA-Wn
l mm
Dear Sir,—
I have been using: your
Rexona and Rexona Soap for
over two years, and I think
so much of them that I want
you to add me to your list of
Rexona grirls. I think there
is simply nothing: like Rexona,
for I find that it keeps the
skin in perfect condition, pre-
vents chapping:, and at once
drives away any chilblains.
Rexona Soap is a great
favorite with me, not only
for the toilet and bath, but
as a shampoo for the hair I
find it truly delightful. The
many toilet soaps I have used
before cannot be compared
with it, as it is miles ahead
of them all, and since first
using Rexona Soap I have
never used or will ever use
any other.
My advice to all my girl
friends who wish to keep
their skin, hair and com-
plexion in the pink of condi-
tion is to use Rexona and
Rexona Soap, first, last and
always.
May I subscribe myself as
a true Rexona girl?
Yours sincerely,
(Sgd.) IVY A. V. BURNHAM,
St. John’s Road,
Forest bodge, Sydney.
(This is a photo, by K. Stump of Miss Ivy
Burnham as she appeared in the Rexona
Chris’ Fancy Costume. Miss Burnham is a
true Rexona girl. Take her advice and try
the Rexona Remedies.)
REXONA
1/6 and 3/-
REXONA
SOAP
1/-
' ,d, ‘
AftH*»phc Ointment
p y r*inaa Absolutely
*
j=»
w>
Z»
a r 3!
C 3
m
m
S 3
Try the Rexona
Remedies.
They consist of Rexona the Rapid
Healer and Rexona Skin and Facial
Soap—both universal favorites. The
wonderful healing: powers of Rexona
have made it a password in nearly
every home in Australia. Rexona
Soap is the best preservative for the
skin and hair that is obtainable,
and leaves the hair soft, fluffy and
luxuriant. Try the Rexona remedies
yourself, and prove our words.
Rexona. 1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Soap,
1/- per tablet.
Ch
w
viilB
(>i,
i
10
6
Bad fax
IfiJl
©Mlt/aJC
810 BEN
Companion Clocks
Big Ben and Baby Ben
are companion clocks in
the Westclox family of
alarms. Big Ben is loyal
to the flag of punctuality—
the emblem of good
business wherever you
go.
Baby Ben is a true - to - life
miniature of Big Ben. He’s as
popular with women as with
men. He fits easily into a port-
manteau when his master goes
travelling; or he’ll tick true time
patiently in his lady’s boudoir.
Big Ben and Baby Ben share
the family virtues of comliness,
promptness and sturdiness that
mark all Westclox alarms.
And, like all Westclox, they’re
made in the patented Westclox
way—a better method of clock
making. Needle-fine pivots of
polished steel greatly reduce
friction. That’s why these clocks
have so many friends. That’s
why folks call Westclox success-
clocks.
Big Ben is seven Inches tall. Baby Ben
is 34 inches and every inch reliable.
Both ring steadily for five minutes or
intermittently for ten. They’re at your
clock dealers: price, each, 15/-.
Western Clock Co.— makers of Westclox
La Salle, Illinois, U.S.A.
Big Ben 151-, Baby Ben 151-, America 716, Sleep-Meter 10/6, Boyproof Watch 716.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going tc
let the Ravisher of Belgium tcin without
lifting a hand?
The Judgment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Gabriel blows his judgment
horn
Across the land and sea
And eA 7 ery man of woman born
Stands forthright nakedly,
What friend of mine will face that morn
And speak a Avord for me?
Along the yellow of the street
The large accusers come
With bills of life that I must meet
(I fear the total sum
May make my bankruptcy complete)
Will all my friends be dumb?
The 'many things I did not do,
The things I did too well,
Offences old, offences new
Against my soul must tell,
When very near and very blue
Appear the flames of Hell.
But that I Avandered in the night,
Bear Avitness every star
That, doing wrong, I strove for right
And cast my thoughts afar,
With longings that Avere all as bright
As angels’ pinions are.
Bear witness, little clouds that swim
Across the front of day,
llow in large dreamings, golden-dim,
My best hours passed away,
Waiting as Avait the seraphim
My debts to God to pay.
Bear Avitness all the moving air
That heard my spoken choice—
The lispings of a thought so fair
It scarce could find a voice,
Yet sought amid a Avorld’s despair
To bid-a world rejoice.
Bear Avitness —nay, the scales are still
Against me as I stand !
The word of stream and field and hill
Meet not my sin’s demand—
I strove with dreams a cup to fill
Still empty in my hand.
What witness more? A woman speaks.
“He loved me well,” she cries;
“I thought I saw the highest peaks
Of shining paradise
Where Avonder unto Avonder seeks
Within his clouded eyes.”
The balance moves but by a hair,
For well the Judges knoAV
The tenderness that women wear
Though man should work them Avoe —
And she Avas young and very fair,
For love had told her so.
The hour of judgment passes by.
Will no voice speak for me?
A little tremor thrills the sky,
Faint but persistently ;
And, in the crowd, the Judge’s eye
Seems one small child to see.
A laughing boy with dimpled hands,
I hear him stand and call.
The Avatchers over seas and lands
Can mark the balance fall.
And the Judge hears and understands —
“He played the best of all!”
Were it of love or idleness,
When Gabriel splits the sea
And angels tread from out the press
Wine of eternity,
One romping game and long caress
Will plead to Heaven for me.
N.S.W.
GEORGE STREET.
Lola of the Chocolates.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Boy doesn’t Matter —it’s the Way he Chucks
his Money About.” — From Lola’s Autograph Album.
LOLA was a dear. Her other name does
I not matter, since she has merely got
to say “Yes” to change it at any
time she likes. She was tw r enty, startlingly
beautiful, comparatively brainless, yet with
a knowledge of life and a shrewd common-
sense that did just as well, and she earned
£2 10s. 7d. a week at a confectionery factory.
She handed over ten shillings a week to her
mother for her keep, and carried the
balance of her weekly wages upon her arro-
gant little head and iier beautiful back. On
£2 a week—which is £lOO a year—a factory-
hand can dress rather well. It must be
remembered that Lola was not a fact’ry-’and ;
she was a factory-hand with an aitch. Edu-
cated at a State school she could do intricate
arithmetic exercises in calculating overtime
or the cost of a hat, and had acquired a
grammar that was accurate without flour-
ishes. When she spoke, however, she used
an intonation so genteel that it sounded oddly
incongruous with her lazy pronunciation. And
in her unguarded moments—when not speak-
ing to males or not moving amendments at
the various committee meetings of the girls
—she was apt to relapse into the aitchless-
ness of her parents. But her mouth was so
attractive to her admirers—she had as many
among her female as among her male friends
—that it seemed that from those richly
rouged lips there could come only pearls.
Lola, assistant forewoman in the chocolate
department, knew her way about. While she
wore her working garb neatly and with due
consideration for the lines of her figure, she
didn’t go much on herself in that rig. At
lunch-time she trooped out with her pals, hat-
less but charming. Seeing her on her way—
and Lola took good care you did see her—you
could not fail to be struck by her clear com-
plexion, her neatly-coifed hair of a lustrous
brown with a roguish laugh of copper in it
and the backwash of last night’s Marcelle
wave, her slim figure with the rather boun-
teous bosom and the delicate hips, her waist
rather too tightly corseted —she paid two
guineas for them. But vou would not have
noticed these facts —meant for publication—
first. You would have been startled by her
large, long-lashed, sleepily contemplative
eyes. Thev managed to see quite a lot.
Her philosophy of life was simnle : Have a
good time all the time, only be careful: then
pick out a generous gent who “spends his
money free,” and get married. Despite her
seductive appearance, upon which she devoted
most of the Avorking-hours of her compact
little brain, Lola was not sentimental, cer-
tainly not sensual. She was never likely to
regard the whole world well lost for love.
That was all right on the pictures, but not
for Lola. Her idea of a good time was a gent
who adored her but didn’t muck her about
(she saw to that) and spent his money
generously—on Lola. By-and-bye, when she
was getting on, she would fall in love with
that sort of suitor and allow him to marry
her. But that anti-climax was still far in
the distance; the present life was altogether
too variously exciting.
Lola put the proper value upon her delight-
ful self. She kept strange gents at a distance;
and if they dared to come nearer, she dis-
posed of them. And she had no qualms about
the fact that she often deliberately lured
them on to disaster. That was part of the
game and, anyway, it was their look-out. If
a roving male met her on the street, and he
looked a gent, his openly-admiring gaze would
be met by an equally direct look from those
adorably long-lashed eyes. If, as often hap-
pened, he turned and followed her, she gave
him a sideways glance that might have
meant anything—but didn't. And then idly
she would linger by a shop-window, and
would feel through the back of her erect
little head that he was standing beside her.
If he was experienced in the game he would
seek to catch the reflection of her gaze in the
window, a plan she often adopted to study
the stranger at her leisure. But Lola was
too clever to be caught. The first time it
had happened she had been startled into a
smile. However, though at some sacrifice to
her dignity, she had disposed of him. Nowa-
days she was more careful. She would move
vaguely away, inwardly amused at the
.stranger’s diffidence and his attempts to catch
her eye ; but any effort he made to address
her she blandly ignored, giving him a cool,
impersonal, aloof stare that went straight
through him.
Yet Lola was easily accessible in the pro-
per way. For instance, you could go to
Mrs. Beberbaurn’s Select Dancing Academy.
Ladies (id. Gents. Is. Thursdays. Then
you could come up to Lola and politely ask
her to dance; and Lola would smile her
slow dazzling smile and gracefully rise. If
you danced well enough to please her exact-
ing fancy, and she otherwise approved of
you, she would allow you to take her to the
pictures. If she didn’t like your look or
your two-step she would say “Thank you!”
very nicely, go to her seat, and that was the
end of you.
Or you could join one of Mrs. Rosenhog’s
Select Excursions to one of the pleasure
grounds on the Harbor, where you /lanced
all Saturday afternoon and evening in a
hall. Lola would go to these well-run out-
ings : Mrs. Itosenhog was sufficient guaran-
tee that the girls were ladies and the gentle-
men gents. She would go with a girl chum ;
and the pair would be sure to discover a
couple of young gents, to look after them.
Lola always selected her girl-chums to show
off her beauty by contrast; but it never
occurred to her innocent mind that it was
pretty hard on the gent, she didn’t choose to
have to put up with her chum. Still, with-
out her, who knows whether any boy would
even speak to, let alone flirt with, her chum?
And usually her chum was grateful for her
chance of being a satellite to such a dazzling
and attractive luminary.
It was at one of these excursions that Lola
met Bert. Bert was a mechanic in another
factory, something to do with leather, Lola
fancied. He was rather nice-looking, especi-
ally about the hair, which was allowed to
riot picturesquely, but only just above his
pimply brow. True, he was very young,
hardly a year older than Lola. But Lola
liked him : he was so obviously overcome by
her startling beauty, so deferential to her
wit. Of course he started wrong by trying to
kiss her, and of course he bungled it. Lola
disapproved of these self-starting flirtations.
Bert was a gent, all right, even without Mrs.
Rosenhog’s implied guarantee; but she
wanted to be sure before giving herself away
that he could spend his money. She had no
time for those as didn’t.
And Lola refrained from building up any
rosy hopes in life. She had had her dis-
appointments in her time. There was that
appalling discovery, for instance, that she
had made about chocolates.
Lola had always loved lollies. Most of
all. she loved to take a box of chocolates to
bed with her and munch and munch till she
fell asleep. Some unknown dentist in another
suburb, who had never heard of Lola, used
nightly to smile in his sleep. Years after,
when Lola had grown up, he discovered why.
And it was her craving for chocolates that
was responsible both for his subsequent pros-
perity and Lola’s choice of a career. As a
school-girl she had daily to pass the confec-
tionery factory on her way to school; and
when her parents shifted to another cottage
she went the long way round merely to sniff
that delicious chocolate scent, that faint
sugary perfume.
“The girls workin’ there,” her school-mate
had informed Lola, “they can eat as many
chocolates as they like —lucky brats!”
Though Lola did not altogether believe
that, she decided, when she left school, to
work at the confectionery factory. Ouehter
be easy work, anyhow, just making lollies;
and she had noticed that the confectionery
girls kep’ themselves to themselves—not like
the girls in the boot-factory, always smelling
like new nine-an’-elevenpennies.
The first week at the factory was heavenly.
Lola lived in an atmosphere of chocolates:
she had been lucky enough to be put in the
chocolate-room. But the temptation to
handle the delicious things every hour of the
day was too great. There were so many
chocolates about that one wouldn’t be missed.
She popped a particularly luscious-looking
one swiftly into her mouth. Ooh! She
popped another!
Then the forewoman saw her. She didn’t
say anything: it wouldn't have been any use.
Lola knew, in the ceaseless roar of machin-
ery that filled the great, brilliantly-lighted
room. No use talking when you couldn’t
hear yourself speak. But, to Lola’s surprise,
the forewoman did n«t do anything. l T et
she had seen the theft, Lola was sure of that:
for as she turned away the forewoman had
smiled. Saving it up for Lola when the bell
went, no doubt.
(Continued on next page.)


ARE YOUR KIDNEYS ILL?
The kidneys are the life and strength of the back. When
they are ill the back is ill —feels weak, and aches day and
night. Sharp, cutting pains run through you. Work is
impossible; and what with headaches, dizziness, nervousness,
bladder and urinary troubles, your health is quite broken
down. A few doses of Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will
make a wonderful improvement in you, and a course of the
medicine will cure you. For Doan’s Pills reach and heal
the kidneys themselves —help them to remove from the body
all the impurities that poison the blood and cause such
diseases as rheumatism, dropsy, Bright’s disease, urinary
disorders, gravel, headache, dizziness, etc.
SERIOUS KIDNEY TROUBLE CURED.
SYDNEY MAN'S WONDERFUL RECOVERY.
•fAvi Ja “ es Higgins, 21 Terry Street, Surry Hills, Sydney, says“ Some time ago I was taken very badly
with kidney trouble. I don t know how to account for it, unless several accidents were to blame I consulted
three doctors and underwent treatment, and each one, failing to do me good, advised me to go into the hospital
for an operation. They said my case was almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only chance <i S one of
my kidneys was in a very diseased state. I took medicines of all sorts, the empty bottles alone being "worth a
considerable amount. Everything failed, and I was iu such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or
died. I had severe pains mmy back, giddiness, headaches, and scalding urine. I was completely done up and
scarcely able to lift anything. The day was appointed for the operation, when a friend P asked me if I had
tried Doans Backache Kidney Pills. He told me he knew of a man who was as bad as I was and had been
c T pl^-e y cu £& and f ° r g< ? od ’ P' these pills - 1 Postponed the operation, and commenced using Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney I ills A fortnight later I returned to work, and the men there could not believe the change they
saw in me would have ever been possible. There is no doubt it is wonderful. lam quite cured and as fit for
work as a man could be.” ’ L
Fourteen years later Mr. Higgins says“ The above statement is true, every word, and I can now add the
important facl that I am still free of every distressing symptom of kidney trouble. My lasting cure is proof
positive that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will cure serious kidney complaint.” P
Pvery
Psc/ure
PeZ/sA
Story "I
w
#
O'-
s
)))!)
V\
v \
gsd
Backache
Kidney
g
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold at 2/9
per bottle at all Chemists and Stores, or from
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Be Sure You Get “DOAN’S.”
But when at the tick of twelve the fore-
woman pressed the button, and every machine
simultaneously ceased in a silence that
seemed to Lola more thunderous than the
noise of the hundred machines, the fore-
woman beckoned to the new apprentice.
“I saw you eating the firm’s chocolates,”
she began ; ‘‘but I don’t mind. Any girl can
always take a few if she feels inclined.”
Lola was surprised. She was glad she had
entered such a generously-managed factory.
“But the other girls don’t sneak any,” she
replied.
“No,” the forewoman smiled, “they don’t
want to —and you won’t want to, long!”
So Lola took full advantage of the fore-
woman’s permission for one delightful week.
The next week she seemed, as she wonder-
ingly said, to vo off chocolates. There was a
sickly taste about them, somehow. The fol-
lowing week she was surprised to find herself
contemplating chocolates with disdain. There
wasn’t so much in chocolates as you thought.
The next week she frankly' hated the
sugary, messy things. She craved for some-
thing bitter, acid, something to get that silly,
sickly chocolate smell out of her. And at
lunch she noticed that all the girls took
vinegar, hot chutney, tomato sauce, mustard
with almost everything they ate. She felt a
craving for these things, too, and soon found
them necessary. They took the chocolate
feeling out of her; she had to have them,
hot and strong.
And now, as assistant forewoman of the
big room, a well-paid specialist in her pro-
fession, Lola smiled her superior smile every
time she saw a novice pecking at the sweets.
Life was like that - you can have too much
of a good thing.
But after meeting Bert Lola forgot this
important rule. She liked Bert’s obvious
deference to her beauty, his meek acceptance
of her whims, her palpable adoration, visible,
as Lola took jolly good care, to all her girl
friends. But when he humbly asked for the
pleasure of her company at the pictures, Lola
had another motive than the mere joy of his
pimply but curl-crested brow: she wanted to
discover whether he chucked his money
about. That was the supreme test.
“That night,” as the movies always say,
Lola, dressing in her bedroom, contemplated
her patent-leather slim shoes (Austrian last,
£2 19s. 6d.) in indecision, and then looked at
her box-calf shoes with the cloth tops. Lola
decided not to risk the patent-leathers. The
boy who took her to the pictures always
wanted to play “footies” with her when the
hero was embracing the heroine, and it
simply ruined your shoes —especially when
the total stranger on the other side of you
usually pursued the same innocent amuse-
ment. It would have to be the box-calf.
Lola permitted him to choose a back seat
—of course he bought seats for the most ex-
pensive part—-and take her hand. She
even allowed him to make tentative experi-
mental pressures upon the corn on her little
toe with his heavy boots. But she made no
response: it didn’t do to give yourself away.
All the evening Lola was delightfully
conscious of the big parcel wrapped in brown
naper that Bert had carefully placed on the
spare seat. When she had met him he had
been so nervously oblivious of its bulky ex-
istence beneath his arm that she was sure it
was a present for her. Consequently she
never even noticed it.
After the show she refused, to his surprise,
to be shouted to an ice-cream. He saw her
home in a tram, and thereby shattered one of
Lola's illusions: she had permitted herself to
fancy a taxi. Still, Bert might not have
thought of it. Bert chose a secluded portion
of the road to say his good-bye. Lola
smiled to herself when he slowed down: all
her boys had chosen that particular shaded
spot—she knew it by heart. But though
Bert showed that he meant his to be a
lingering farewell, Lola was too impatient
to know what his present was. So a dis-
appointed Bert, who had been building
high, but vague, hopes upon his good-bye,
found himself merely shaking her soft,
admirably-gloved hand, with a distinct
friendly pressure from her fingers, and
thrusting the parcel nervously into her
arms and hurriedly backing away. For one
moment he thought of raising his hat; but
he was well acquainted with the social
ethics of Alexandria, and wisely refrained.
Lola would be sure to think he was acting
the toff.
Lola let herself hurriedly in by the back-
door key in the flower-pot. She was men-
tally investigating the parcel. Heavy, yes,
too heavy and bulky for jewellery. Books,
perhaps; but Lola didn’t go much on books.
I’ °r a dreadful moment she thought it might
be a vase. Expensive, of course, but Lola
preferred No; it was one of those
cushions made of silk, with bananas and
apples and things making bumps on them
that Lola thought would be awkward to
sit on. Yes, it was just the size.
Quickly and quietly she went to her
room and lit the gas. She tore the paper
off.
How squashy it went beneath her hys-
terical feet, that gorgeous box of fancy
chocolates, the sickliest, sugariest. mushi-
est chocolates manufactured in Lola’s fac-
tory, made and decorated and packed in her
own room, price twenty-five shillings whole-
sale !
You can have too much of a good thing;
you can have too much of Bert!
HENRY JAMES JAMES.
The Drama of the Deemed Dead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Preliminary Note.—A British member of Parlia-
ment proposes that every person possessing more
than a certain amount of wealth shall be deemed
to be dead, and probate duties, etc., be collected
On his estate in order to help the war funds.
If the scheme is adopted it will furnish a new
hope for the dramatist. This play is presented in
a condensed and crude form, the author being anxious
to get in early. —The Author.
HAROLD DOBSON was aged SO. He
possessed every good quality except
picturesqueness and a sufficiency of
brains to perceive the wickedness of those
around him. lie was just rich enough to
avoid being dead. His devotion to his beau-
tiful wife, Mrs. Dobson, was almost pathetic.
She had been Ethel Maud Muriel Gwendoline
Cavendish before marriage. Her family was
noble but hard-up and degenerate. She in-
wardly scorned Dobson. Her whole heart
was given to Sir Rupert Courtenay, an im-
pecunious and rakish baronet with all the
earmarks of a villain. He scoffed at Dobson.
The trustful Dobson didn’t notice him scoff.
Dobson was called away for a month. The
baronet immediately paid into the absent
man’s account a sum of money—partly raised
by crime and partly borrowed from Gad
Manasseh, a typical money-lender who wore
hair-oil and rich jewellery—sufficient to make
him dead. The legal formalities were pushed
through with indecent haste by corrupt influ-
ences at the Registrar-General’s office, the
probate duty was paid, and Mrs. Dobson
collected her share of the estate. Without any
pretence of mourning the widow married
again.
Harold Dobson, on his return, was amazed
to find at his gate a large notice signed
“Rupert Courtenay, proprietor,” and stating
that trespassers would be prosecuted.
Hastening up the carriage-drive he found the
door locked and an evil countenance, con-
vulsed with mirth, regarding him from the
window. He went round to the servants’
entrance where the faithful cook informed
him, with tears, of his decease. She was the
one survivor of the old domestic stall’. Six
flunkeys, of an aggregate height of 37ft. 2iu.,
ejected Harold from the demesne, and refused
even to let him remove his box of clothes.
That night Sir Rupert Courtenay spanked
his wife, and for the first time she began to
have doubts. She had also a black eye.
Harold Dobson spent the night in a cow-
shed. His nature was warped, and he laid
plans for the future.
In the morning he took possession of a
furnished house that was to let in the village.
It had once been his own property, but now
belonged to the wicked baronet. When the
agent threatened proceedings he laughed a
hollow laugh, and said that no writ could be
served on a corpse. When the agent threat-
ened violence he warned him against body-
snatchine and desecration of a graveyard. In
the end he threw the agent over the fence.
The local policeman refused to interfere on
the ground that the cemetery was outside his
jurisdiction.
Harold’s faithful manservant, Daniel
Jaikes, arrived early with provisions and the
offer of the savings of a lifetime. Harold re-
fused the savings, but sent Daniel for more
provisions, and told him to hunt up some
dead men for company. Presently the society
numbered seven in various stages of decom-
position.
Thev took turns at going out to steal food.
The policeman was appealed to over and over
again, but he steadily declined to meddle with
the silent tomb. The local lawyer was
appealed to, but said he was flummoxed. The
company took turns to visit their old homes
in the evening and gibber through the win-
dows at their widows who had all married the
other fellow.
Gradually the value of property went down
owing to the depredations of the deceased.
Two of them died through drinking unpaid-
for drinks, but reinforcements came in. The
nearest local council sent the town clerk to
offer Christian burial as a peace-offering if
the dead men would only leave off; but he
returned in dismay. His proposals had been
refused and he said the language used was
defamatory and actionable
Time rolled on. Sir Rupert grew haggard
through being gibbered at by his predecessor,
and he beat his wife more frequently. The
lady became hysterical and untidy, and was
reduced to wearing false teeth.
By-and-bye Harold craved for revenge in
real earnest. With ereat reluctance he mur-
dered Rupert’s uncle, a kindly old bachelor
who devoted most of his time to Assyrian
inscriptions. The inheritance made Sir
Rupert just rich enough to be dead, so
that he lost everything. It was a close shave,
though. The baronet was beaten in the race
by just eighteenpence.
Then a very swift solicitor, who was after-
wards struck off the rolls for famine in the
trust funds, devised a new reading of the
law, and proved that Harold had come to life
arain. lie had died through being rich, but
now that lie was reduced to robbery for his
food and clothes the law couldn’t keep him
dead if lie wanted to resurrect. The lawyer
quoted eighteen passages from the Scripture
to prove that resurrection was possible—in
fact, that it was going to be universal —and
won his case. So Mr. Dobson resumed his
status and his property, and as Rupert had
dissipated enough of it to keep it well below
the speed-limit, he had no further trouble.
There were great illuminations over his re-
appearance, and an ox and a barrel of beer
were roasted whole for the villagers.
The other members of the party were still
sub jvdice. and took advantage of their state
of suspended animation to tar and feather
with impunity the six supercilious minions
who had ejected Harold and refused him his
box of clothes.
The lady who had been Mrs. Dobson and
then Lady Courtenay, and who was now Mrs.
Dobson again, was prosecuted for premature
or retrospective bigamy and sentenced to seven
years.
The wicked baronet, having nothing left
but his clothes, started on foot for the nearest
town to institute legal proceedings, but some-
body slew him on the way and made a
ghastly wreck of his top hat. Being dead he
plainly couldn’t have been murdered, so a
bewildered bucolic jury found a verdict that
some person unknown had committed suicide
by creeping up behind himself and bashing
his own head with an axe. They appended a
complicated complaint about the disorganised
state of society, the inefficiency of the police,
the bad condition of the main road, the lack
of proper medical attendance, and the neg-
lected aspect of the cemetery.
PINERO SMITH.


| .::****»
*
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN D RIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street. Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
&
m
-9
N
a
*Nerves”
Our nerves are similar to an intri-
cate network of telegraph wires.
Controlled and nourished by a
portion of the brain —known as
the nerve centres —the delicate
threadlike nerves radiate in all
directions throughout the body.
So long as the nerve centres are
capable of continually supplying
nourishment to the nerves, the
nerves will remain strong and
healthy. But directly the nerve
centres become weakened by
overwork, worry or anxiety, they
are unable to transmit the
necessary nourishment, and the
nerves become worn out and
“on edge.” Then it is that a sud-
den sound makes you “ jump ”
—you get irritable—you suffer
from neuralgia—you are rest-
less and depressed. In this con-
dition there is nothing to equal
dsg
The Wine of Life
Because, being a powerful nerve
food, ‘ Wincarnis ’ gets right to
the foot of the trouble, and, by
creating a supply of new nerve
force, stimulates and revitalises
the whole nervous system. Try
‘ Wincarnis ’ for ‘ Nerves.’ It
is wonderful. Over 10,000
Doctors recommend it.
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
‘Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CQ., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
$
Ci£€A
o
£
v,
This is the
Registered
Trade Mark
Of the best
place to get
your
Fishing Tackle,
Guns, Rifles,
Cartridges,
Tennis Goods, etc.
Mtice
jgflBBB
St., Melbourne.
jhk tX
Are you a '
Happy (Yclist?
An enormous amount of
pleasure is to be found cycling
amid the beauty spots of your
locality. Get out on a bicycle
for holidays and fine evenings
and enjoy your share of the
life and interest of the road.
Every hour so spent is adding to
your store of happy memories.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
“THOROUGHLY BRITISH.”
You will then enjoy cycling at its
best. The B.S.A. Trade Mark —the
three piled rifles —is acknowledged
the world over as a guarantee of
the highest standard attainable in
material and workmanship.
B.S.A, FITTINGS ARE GUARANTEED
INTERCHA NGEA BLE
A
B.S.A. Handbook
Free.
D. Y. RENNIE,
Irepresenting B.S.A. Co. Ltd J
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
•fi'S
m
? Ha:
QUEENSLAND
sd
A
o l_ t_ e: d
"POCKET
QUEEfISLAMD”
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
Telling all abouf rfx
■Millions of Acres
of fertile land for
intending .settlers
will besenf_you
by filling in fhe
Coupon below.
Book of
192 Pages
/Vame
sUc/ress
OC/££/V SLA/VD rrvr£LL/G£/VC£
A TOU&'ST aufj£AO.GWSaA/'f£
'
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
jlow To Keep Wealthy
Almost everybody requires at times a little medicine., that is at once
cleansing and strengthening in its action. Men and women, even of
the healthiest, occasionally need a reliable remedy which will relieve
and correct liver, stomach and bowel derangements and at the same
time, act as a general tonic. For these purposes there jis no family
medicine better than Beeeham’s Pills. So pronounced are the
benefits derived from the use of this famous preparation that many
people have come to regard Beeeham’s Pills as indispensable to the
maintenance of health. Carefully compounded from specially
selected ingredients of great medicinal value. Beeeham’s Pills may
be confidently relied upon to correct to relieve strengthen and
restore. Any disorders of digestion or run-down condition of the
system should be treated at once with
Beecban’s Pills
——
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St Helens, England.
Sold in boxes, labelled price (36 pills), 1/1J (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
Ht
melon.
VMZ °
emm
CARTRIDGES
w
y
m
\
m
z
y<a;
4a-
•" «•,'V .
2
tm
D
INCRIMINATING users
of eLot gun cartridges Lave
given tke Remington UMC
Lrand tke stamp of tkeir approv-
al. Supplied in black and smokeless pow-
der loads. All cases are waterproofed.
Ask your dealer for them or send for
descriptive catalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO./
D, D. Bryant, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
€>
<n
Saddle ease and cycling pleasure
go hand in hand the
BROOKS
ensures perfect comfort all the while and
the pleasure follows. of all dealers.
99
it
ft'-
/ each
Post Free
Thousands in Use.
(Patented)
10/-
each
Post Free
With Full Particulars
and Illustrated Circular.
Fig 6>
The simplicity, lightness and excellence of the
Dreadnought is fully maintained.
BOTH MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
MAGPIE” FLOUR SIFTER
ALL STOREKEEPERS SHOULD STOCK THEM.
NO HOUSEHOLD SHOULD BE WITHOUT ONE.
SOLE MAKERS—
Titan Manufacturing Company,
Norman by Road, SOUTH MELBOURNE .


MANGROVIT
LEATHER
LTI
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MAi\ GJIiO \ ITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
it alone, as the World’s Best Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
g Lb oh
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
are some of the most useful.
18in. x 11,
26in. x 11,
28in. x 11,
30in. x 13,
36in. x 11,
42in. x 11,
18in. x 13,
26in. x 12,
28in. x 12,
32in.,x 10,
38in. x 11,
44in. x 10,
20in. x 13,
26in. x 13,
28in. x 13,
32in. x 11,
42in. x 9,
48in. x 10.
24in. x 10.
26in. x 14.
30in. x 12.
32in. x 12.
42in. x 10.
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle g Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
, ,U4-*
" /• V
IT®*«»K IRIMAtoS^r
J£ >
x * *2* ;
«tS MS
-V
264 Ratrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
Charles Atkins & Co. Rtd., Adelaide. John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
Build Fire-Safe Homes ,
HARDIE’S
FIBROLITE W
CEMENT
is absolutely fire-resistant and its use reduces
insurance rates to 25% lower than those
charged for wooden buildings.
“FIBROLITE” is also
proof against rust, rot and
white ants.
Samples and prices—
James Hardie 8 Co. Ltd.
“Asbestos House,”
Corner York and Wynyard
Streets, SYDNEY.
’Phone 8456—4 Lines.
SSI-3 Collins St., Melbourne
Also at Brisbane & Adelaide
Defies Time’s Touch
IRA^JABK
g
Be Sure
Its
Wolfe's
Schnapps
Look For The Name !!
SCHNAPPS
r?
SCHIEDAM
V rf
IT'S
THE
Original !
/THERE IS ONLY
one
Wolfes
SCHNAPPS
sdg
Two High-class Australian-made Oil Engines.
Our stocks of the popular TANG YE Oil Engines are now low, due to Messrs.
Tangyes’ Big Works at Birmingham, England, having some time ago been taken
over by the Munition Authorities for War purposes.
We have, however, negotiated Agencies for Australian-made Engines, which are
most creditable productions, and which we offer with the same decree of
confidence.
THE “TRIUMPH.”
A vertical-type Benzine or Kerosene Engine, made
in two sizes only, viz., 35 and 5 b.h.p. (Stationary
and Portable). Has Magneto Ignition. Excellent
finish throughout.
THE “STAR.”
A portable Horizontal Kerosene Oil Engine, made
in three sizes, 6J, 8 and 10 b.h.p. Has Magneto
Ignition. It is a High-grade Portable Engine at
a very ROW Cost.
DALGETY (SI CO, LTD., Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
Buncle Cbaffoutters, Pane Milking Machines, Clayton Portable Engines. Tangye Pumps. E.E.B. Separator Engines, etc.
dsg
: "111
il H"
V
—are economical.
The Wolseley” holds the world’s record for machines sold and the number of
sheep shorn annually. Popular with the shearer, who appreciates its handiness
and easy running: the pastoralist, because he knows and can depend upon the
absolute reliability of the “Wolseley.” The best is good enough for you.
Make enquiries from
DALGETV & COMPANY LIMITED, Australasian Agents ALL BRANCHES.
Sheep Shearing machines
I
s '\
In
\CAHUwt IMOWIS
■ %' y* c '"
,o •AeowMwf..».(=»,,<rt.E
7*o •».-»; A l, O WRWI'HU,/! »
rfz&
CONSIDER THE ADVANTAGE'S
of being able to obtain instantly without the removal of a single
gear, the ENTIRE RANGE of THREADS and corresponding FEED
CHANGES on your Lathe. We invite inspection of our StocK of
MODERN HIGH-SPEED LATHES
embodying' this feature. It is essential in these days of
SPEEDING-UP, or where COST OF PRODUCTION MUST
BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT.
In Stock
also—
Milling, Shaping, Drilling, Grinding and Screwing Machines.
PARKE <& LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St., Sydney, N.S.W.
CRUSHING MACHINERY
For All Classes of Material.
\
May’s “Climax” Rock Crushers for Ores, Rock, Gravel, etc.
“Panklast * (Power & Hand)for Fine Grinding (Used by Sydney Mint).
May s Patent Geared Rolls for Ore Concentrating* Mills.
Disintegrators for Bones, Hoofs, Horns, Limestone,
Magnesite, Clays, etc.
Complete Plants for Crushing, Elevating, Bagging, etc., of Any Material Designed and Quoted for. Enquiries Solicited.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 350 George St., Sydney. Works: Camperdown,N.s.w.
No. 3y 2 Disintegrator.
