

—THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. O. WATKINS CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 JE&.exi't. Street, Sydney*
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
dvapce
fdg
on all classes of
security
Trade
TELEPHONE: CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & I. Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “ DAILY TELEGRAPH " NEW BUILDING
And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S,W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
BUST AGE BENNETT, General Manager
■ : i
£W
•r •-•
fl /tEALTAfY HOME
Oxidising Sewage Disposal.
Over 400 Successful Installations in New
South Wales. . Leading Doctors, Hospitals'and
Convents have this Process Installed. Other
Systems easily converted to Oxidising Process.
Prices based in ratio to number of persons,
as few examples quoted: Six Persons,, £4O; 60
Persons, £100; 500 Persons, £275 , 1000 Per-
sons, £540. We take over and maintain our
installations from One Guinea per annum.
The Montgomcrie-Ncilson Process,
50 Young Street (late Offices of the Education
Department), Sydney. Tel., City 8976.
FPLE
a
<r
o
Nothiwo
to Argue
i,,. Are the Best '
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HAN S E NS
L
fd
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
gdf
stands
every test.
“Not the same as others
The practical tests of time and service have proved that Malthoid is most reliable
for all roofs.
Well-known architects and builders specify and use it for city flat roofs, bungalows,
wool and other sheds, factories, balconies, verandahs, lavatories, laundries, bath-
rooms, workroom floors and so on.
Samples and illustrated booklet post free.
The Paraffine Paint Company (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Chaitis House, Sydney.
ENGINEERING
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons . Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
Arthur
s Co
MACHINERY.
Head Office,
SYJDNEY.
“ROBEY” Portable Steam Engines:—
Immediate delivery from Sydney stock can be given of the following latest models from the
English Works: —
8 Nominal h.p. (20 to 30 Brake hup.), SINGLE CYLINDER.
14 Nominal h.p. (36 to 52 Brake h.p.), DOUBLE CYLINDERS.
16 Nominal h.p. (40 to 60 Brake h.p.), DOUBLE CYLINDERS.
CANADIAN
BRASS AND COPPER
SHEETS AND TUBES.
BRASS CONDENSER TUBES.
Solid Drawn Tubes—
Brass and Copper.
Sheets and Circles—
Cold or Hot Rolled.
Tinned or Untinned,
Polished or Unpolished,
Any gauge, length or width.
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Enquiries solicited. Correspondence invited.
OPALOID
axsvd
HXOOi
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to the Mouth.
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER.
The Bulletin
V01.39.—N0. 1986.]
[Thursday, March 7, 1918.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.WAustralia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


The Perfect Pen for all who Write!
In every profession there is a glad army of ONOIO
users. They know what a true friend the ONOTO Pen
is to all who write—how swiftly and smoothly it
glides over the paper all the time.
Do you realise the merits of this wonderful pen
which fills itself in a flash and cannot leak ? If not, let
the pen itself convince you, Any dealer will let you
examine and try it, ,
Onoto
Pen
Pries 14/6 and
inwards, of ail
stationers, A
jewellers
t store/
Self-Filling
Safety Fountain
Manufacturers:
Thos. De La Rue & Co., Ltd.,
Bunbill Row, London. E.C.
Managing Agents:
Norman Baker & Lor.ghurst
Sydney.
gf
Also ONOTO Valveless
for those who do not
want a Self-Filling Safety
Pen from 10/6 each
Ask for CNOTO INK—
Best for ail Pens
KILL THE TYPHOID FLY.
“MUSTDIE”
THE NON-POISONOUS POW-
DER, Is Infallible in Destroying
all Insect Pests, but. is Abso-
lutely Harmless to Canaries,
Dogs, Poultry; in fact, all
Animals and Man.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
FREE OFFER . Write to “Must-
die,” Dept. H„ Box 1520, G.P.0.,
Sydney, and a trial tin will be sent post
free; or forward 9d. in stamps for a
full-size tin.
--.Crn
y
HOUSE
FLIES
ARE
POTENT
CARRIERS
OF
DISEASE!.
<=§!
The Red Page
What is Genius?
Thomas Sharnol tackles a subject foo big
for him, yes, but interestingly, in his work
on Originality, a popular study of the creative
mind (Laurie, 155.). His object is to show
the importance of an analysis of creative
thought, to investigate the natural history
of mind in the most inspired moments, and
to suggest how the individual may secure
the highest mental efficiency. His investi-
gation differs from the formal science of
text-book psychology : he tries to catch psy-
chology in motion —in the very act. Psy-
chology, he insists, should be practical: it
should be of use to. us. The text-books are
confined to exposition; they neglect the prac-
tical application. For instance, why
shouldn’t a politician send for a professor
of psychology to assist him in estimating the
effect of a new law on the public imagina-
tion? Or, let us say: why shouldn’t a
Prime Minister take the advice of a psy-
chology professor about the effect of violent
abuse of the other side upon the voting in a
referendum? The failure to investigate the
practical side of psychology is clearly seen
in the Germans’ thorough knowledge of book-
psychology, their analysis of the mental
engine, which failed c-olossally when applied
to the minds of the other nations.
Sharnol defines originality as the thought-
characteristic of the individual who expresses
himself and not another. He places the
thought-product of the poet and artist on a
higher level, because more creative, than that
of a discoverer in science. Darwin discov-
ered facts that were hidden, but existent:
Shakespeare created something new, new in
the sense' that it had no previous existence
and was the offspring of his own personality.
And the highest originality is always found
in the mind of genius—and Sharnol devotes
most of his book to an attempt to show how
the mind of genius works, to snapshot the
creative mind at work, to depict in action
“the operations of a highly-individualised
intelligence, covering the period of impregna-
tion, gestation and birth of the new idea.”
He would investigate the mental operations
common to the inventor on the eve of a great
achievement; the novelist approaching, with
an emotion akin to fear, the creation of a
striking plot; the poet in the ecstasy of re-
ducing a noble conception to words.
The poet’s range of consciousness is more
extensive and more intensive than that of
his fellows. “He feels what he does not com-
prehend ; he senses what he does not know ;
and sometimes he appears to recollect what
he has not experienced.” But genius is not
something added to an otherwise ordinary
brain. There is not one imagination for the
poet and one for the merchant or the inven-
tor. “If a poet forgets his umbrella he
forgets it in the same way as the ordinary-
person.” But Sharnol is speaking of Eng-
lish poets: the Australian poet couldn’t for-
get his umbrella, because he doesn’t possess
one. Shakespeare’s brain was a human
brain; so is a grocer’s. Shakespeare did not
possess Feeling, Thought, Will, and a fourth
something which we call Genius. His mind
worked according to the mental laws that
govern all minds; but his was a mind of
almost infinite compass. The average man
has consciousness: the genius has conscious-
ness to the nth degree.
Sharnol suggests that mind should be con-
ceived as a form of energy having many
analogiesvwith physical energy. This energy
is conceived as flowing. Of this “stream of
consciousness” the individual has only a par-
tial control. The subconscious mind, as we
term it," is not a separate mind. There is
only one mind in each person ; “some of its
processes are conscious, others are beyond
the fringe of consciousness; occasionally bits
of experience may in a sense be broken off
from consciousness, and, sinking into the sub-
conscious region, act prejudicially to reason
and conduct; but....a1l operations of the
mind are one.” And our mind in a real sense
is our master, and in no section is this more
apparent than in our sub-conscious life.
Further, there is a circulation of energy
between the conscious and sub-conscious
spheres. Men and women of small mental
power have no wealth of conscious life to be
passed on into the unconscious region—no in-
sight, no range, no imagination—consequently
the subconscious element is weak because it
had not been supplied with material to be
fashioned in its own way. In genius the
reaction between the two spheres must be
one wherein the interchanges are many and
continuous; all conscious knowledge in gen-
eral, and some knowledge in particular, will,
in the subconscious sphere combine into new
unities, ultimately to find a way into, the
conscious sphere in the form of inspirations.
Hence the,, thoughts that “come,” the bright
idea that “strikes” us.
A genius is merely a man in whom some
power is raised to a standard of working
far in excess of that which is found in men
of talent. But he has no “faculty” which
might be called an “extra.” Of course there
is Leonardo da Vinci, whose genius was not
in one direction, but nearly in all. Genius
is not a sort of mental sixth sense, or a
clairvoyance of intellect. But what starts
the initial impulse, what makes a genius
want to write or draw? We do not know.
But this compelling urge toward expression,
this ungovernable desire to find an outlet
for a mind’s originality, is all important.
We don’t know what starts the machine;
but the interaction between the conscious
and subconscious spheres of the mind is the
way genius works. And genius works at
incredible speed—the poem that seems to
write itself, the music that simply floats into
consciousness. But only one idea, or con-
cept, can occupy the conscious mind at any
one moment; what happens is that the con-
scious mind, while at work, calls forth ideas
from the subconscious in one continuous
stream ; and as soon as they have done their
work they fall back into the subconscious.
The genius is rich in the stored material in
his subconscious sphere: he calls forth ideas
with ease, and during that idea’s passage
from the subconscious to the conscious it is
highly probable that subtle changes take
place. “Some facts recalled for the first
time in a group, and at the same moment,
sometimes fuse together into a new unity;
and that way lies originality.” Apparently
a genius can tap his subconscious reservoir
almost at will. And a genius works with
the minimum of hard labor. His intuitions
“ —those fine leaps of the mind that reach the
truth at a bound—-are the very perfection of
intellectual effort because they are so effort-
less”-; and effort is the sign of a difficult
communication between the subconscious
and the conscious. The genius does not
work by inspiration —a new idea is not
breathed into the mind from without —but by
cerebration.
Well, what are the laws of cerebration;
but perhaps we had better use tfre old word,
inspiration? Sharnol obligingly gives us six.
Poets and inventors, attend !
(1) A period of close inquiry and reflec-
tion should be followed either by a change
of subject or a period of mental inactivity.
All geniuses mention this peculiarity of their
inspiration. It is a.curious method of going
to work, anyhow, almost as if a telephone
subscriber, failing to get the number he
wanted, deliberately rang up somebody else,
and immediately got into touch with the first
number asked for.
These sudden inspirations do not come out
of nothing ; they have their origin in a long
course of previous unconscious work ; appar-
ently one sets his conscious brain at work
on a problem, then drops the problem un-
solved, leaves the subconscious brain to
worry it out by itself, and if it succeeds it
will telephone the information through to the
consciousness—often days later _ and at an
inconvenient moment. For the will is unable
to control the more remote functions of the
mind, to bring anything from the unconscious
to the conscious. You must give your sub-
conscious brain time to do its work. The
method always is: Think of something else.
Let your brain loaf; the subconscious
brain will attend to the matter and
telephone the result through the moment
it is completed. It is idleness that gives
the subconscious mind its opportunity
—idleness after intense concentration. The
vagaries of the artistic temperament may be
merely part and parcel of their intellectual
method : “Unconsciously they obey a psycho-
logical law which demands change, leisure
and partial day-dreaming if the best results
are to be forthcoming.” But there must be
work as well as waiting. One must satu-
rate oneself through and through with one’s
subject, and then wait. When the idea
comes, then take the infinite pains of genius
in working that idea out.
(2) Inspiration is governed by the process
of Intellectual 'Rhythm. There is an ebb
and flow of inspiration—the stagnant days
and the creative. The mind has its tides.
You’ve got to catch that tide.
(B) The new idea is partly dependent for
its birth on the action of the right external
stimulus.
(4) The employment of analogy, con-
sciously or unconsciously, is a creative
method for new ideas. Analogy—the like-
ness or the unlikeness of things to one
another, is a necessary mode of all our think-
in:r. and genius is often merely another name
for the power to see similarities in pheno-
mena that have hitherto been undetected.
(5) When the mind is bent on a discovery
its energies may suddenly be side-tracked by
an entirely different idea: it may make ichat
is called a chance discovery of a totally dif-
ferent nature. But though it is true that,
apparently by chance, a genius discovers
something that he did not set out to dis-
cover. had he not been a genius he would
never have noticed the phenomena which, on
further investigation, led up to the new fact.
(6) The genius thinks for himself. It is
his own ideas, not anybody else’s, that his
subconscious mind telephones to his con-
scious mind.
These laws of inspiration are necessarily
vague, since few investigators have closely
studied the mind of genius at work.
The latter part of this interesting but
diffuse and sloppily constructed work is taken
up with a destructive analysis of the profes-
sional mind. This should be read by all
educators, members of the Army and Navy,
the Church, the Law and politics. And
Sharnol concludes with a strong plea for
the encouragement of originality in the com-
munity. The original mind is not stimulated
by our system of education ; it is frowned
upon by the professional mind ; more care is
given to the cultivation of the feeble-minded
than of the original-minded ; and there ought
to be, and are, methods by wmcn the origi-
nality in almost every mind could be culti-
vated and stimulated.
If only Sharnol had sub-edited his amor-
phous but original book into conciseness and
directness of statement he would have done
admirable service to bis generation.
• •
“Kab Cilbup”: Here’s our “weird melan-
choly” once again, this time in McDougall’s
Geography of Australia and Oceania (pub-
lished in London), used by my kiddy in his
preparatory school. The Australian kid is
informed, by these oversea pedagogues, that
bis own country “has been called the land
of Weird Melancholy” ! Follows the well-
known Marcus Clarke quotation about our
mountain forests, with its horde of adjec-
tives : funereal, secret, stern.... suilen
. . . .savage. . . .melancholy... .frowning ....
grotesque.... ghostly. Then the old Gordon
gag about the bright blossoms being
scentless and the bright birds songless. . . .
and more adjectives: fierce. .. .insatiable
.... sere.... sad.... faint. Having got
that off his chest the distant Scotch geo-
grapher unwillingly qualifies: “But this is
overdrawn,” and he even admits that Aus-
tralia is a land of bright, cheerful energy.
Later on, however, he tells us that intense
heat and drought prevail generally. We are
also still “colonials” ; a picture of a selector’s
shanty is labelled “Australian Homestead.”
Further, N. S. Wales “does not produce
enough wheat for home consumption, but
hqg to import considerable quantities.” Of
course, those overseas geographers can’t be
expected to keep up to date. But the “weird
melancholy” business is appalling. It is
perpetuating a lie, for it is being taught to
our kiddies and, presumably, to English
kiddies. If there are no other geographies
available —and this is admirably printed and
well illustrated with . photographs—-the
teacher should certainly ask his class whether
any of them had noticed the extraordinary
prevalence of the weird or the melan-
choly, or any of those other lamentable adjec-
tives, in their own sunny land. But there
are excellent made-in-Australia geographies.
“Furnley Maurice” : No man who has bumped around
the town would deny the authenticity of Dennis’s
slang, although it is a bit old-fashioned now; neither
would anyone deny credit to Dennis for his clever use
of it, nor would any man in his senses restrict an
author to “straight stuff” any more than he would
restrict Smith and Shirlow to scratching nothing
but Darling Point and Toorak mansions on their
copper, or make it a public offence to talk or paint
Collingwood.
“Syd. C.”: I hate to contradict, but must inform
“Simplicity” and her friends that, so far as Mel-
bourne is concerned, Dennis’s Sentimental Bloke .is a
vivid and faithful rendering of the habitual language
of thousands. The speech of The Sentimental Blolce
may grate on “Simplicity” and co.; but have they
ever considered that probably their speech and mode
of thought would be equally offensive to him and to'
the large class he represents ?
“W.E.”: According to “Simplicity” and a few
other Red Page readers, the slang of The Sentimental
Bloke is not spoken by Australians, blit is something
“horrible” and even “loathsome” that Dennis seem-
ingly invented himself. Well, I admit, and without
the slightest spasm of shame, that I used every
word, bar one, of The Bloke’s slang years before the
gifted pen took up the collection; and the hundreds
of Billjim shearers, tanksinkers, fencers, bulloekies,
etc., that I’ve had the honor of knowing in outback
N.S.W. did likewise. Dennis faithfully reported the
slang in use at the time from Little Lon. to South.
The slang of The Bloke and Ginger Mick may dis-
gust some people, especially the very naieest, but
their speech is not devoid of slang either, and it’s
an insipid, pointless and humorless variety that
would be quaite loathsome and horrible to Billjim’s
more cultivated taste.
“C.C.D.”: Re anthologies of Australian verse (Red
Page, 7/2/’18). What I want to see is a selection
not only of verse written by Australians, but written
about Australian things. Much of Stevens’s Anthol-
ogy, excellent as it is, might just as well have been
written in England. The odds are that the same
thing will apply to Murdoch’s volume. When will an
editor arise who will give us the best of what has
been sung about the bush and the desert and Sydney
Harbor and sawmills and droughts, and the ten
thousand other things, that belong to us? His book
will be the true Australian anthology.
“N’lmporte”: 1 submit that “Anzalia” is incom-
patible with heraldic development and historical
precedents. Whoever heard of a nation adopting its
name from that of a battle? [Anzalia is not named
from a battle: it is composed of A for Australia,
N.Z. for Maoriland, and alia, the termination of
Australia.!
The Russian
Maxim Gorki's autobiography has now
taken him to his fifteenth year. The second
instalment is entitled In the World (Laurie,,
per Sydney Book Club) —the first was My
Childhood. These reminiscences are valu-
able, since Gorki unintentionally helps the
Australian reader to understand the Bolshe-
vik. These years of Gorki’s youth were hard.
First he became a much-abused shop-boy at
a fashionable boot shop' then he returned
home, to that grandmother whose attractive
personality is so marvellously described; he
spent a happy summer in the forest, snaring
birds; then he' was sent to another situa-
tion. From this house of toil and ill-will
he ran away, to become an overworked
“washer-up” on a, river boat. A spell in a
shop where ikons were made, another with
an architect —so he wandered about, always
badly paid, always, as it were, pursued by a
malignant fate.
But he was only a boy, bewildered by life,
and lacking the key to its meaning. But
already he had a vague glimmering of the
simple truth that “no harm could come to me,
that I should not be punished without fault
of my own, that it was not the law of life
that the innocent -should suffer, and that I
was not responsible for the faults of others.”
And “the earth was full of sound and spaci-
ous- and I had been living like a mouse in
a trap.” The way out from the incessant
miseries of life he at last discovered: it w r as
literature. He became a voracious reader.
Ignorant of all standards of literature, he
read every book he could lay his hands on.
He was enraptured by this wonderful life
so unexpectedly opened to him, that existed
only on paper. But he had to read by
stealth: he was kept too hard at work all
day to read, and he was not allowed to have
a light; hut he collected the tallow from
the candlesticks and made a lamp with a
sardine-tin and some thread for a wick.
This new world of literature opened - the lad’s
eyes to a significant'fact: Russia was not
the world ; in other countries other, and bet-
ter, standards of living prevailed. “It
seemed to me that life abroad, as it appeared
in books, was more interesting, easier, better
than the life I knew. Abroad, people did
not behave so brutally, they never jeered at
other human creatures so cruelly, or prayed
to God so importunately... .There was
method in the cruelty of these bookish vil-
lains, one could almost always understand
why they were cruel; but the Cruelty which
I witnessed was aimless, senseless, an amuse-
ment from which no one expected to gain
any advantage. With every book that I read
this dissimilarity between Russian life and
that of other countries stood out more
clearly.” Then he read Russian books, and
was amazed at their truth and simplicity.
Yet always he lived in a dense fog. Life
was suffocating qnd oppressive to this imag-
inative and gifted child of the gutter; “but
how could I live a different life ?” He did
not drink vodka, and he had nothing to do
with girls—-though women were the main
topic of his comrades, and bestial acts and
obscene conversations were always going on
all around him. He gives many instances of the
Russian habit of cruelty for its own sake, of
the delight the peasant gets from another’s
misfortunes. “Why do I relate these abomi-
nations? So that you may know, dear sirs,
that is not all past and done with.... I
know of genuine horrors, everyday terrors,
and I have an undeniable right .to excite you
unpleasantly by telling you about them in
order that you may remember how we live,
and under what circumstances. A low and
unclean life it is, ours.”
Well, here we have exposed in all its re-
volting nakedness the Bolshevik soul. The
Russians, so Gorki insists, are not the sim-
ple saints that Stephen Graham paints for
us, but half-civilised creatures, with no joy
in their hearts, no gaiety in their lives, in
love with a dreamy sadness, aloofly cruel and
malicious, and liable at any moment to
break out into the most fiendish excesses.
That is the picture that remains from a
reading of In the World; though here and
there there emerge a few characters, like
Gorki’s grandmother and Natalia, the capa-
ble laundress, who show the noble simplicity
and candor of soul that serenely lies
encrusted beneath so much filth.
•
Congratulations to our esteemed contem-
porary, The Wipers Times, a facsimile
reprint of which is published at 6s. by
Jenkins, London. Of the first number 100
copies were issued, and these are unprocur-
able now- even at £lO a copy. This issue is
dated Feb. 12, 1916; and the conditions
under which this gay rag was produced were
almost indescribable horrible. The discovery
of an old printing press at Wipers and the
recovery of some type scattered by German
shells all over the country-side, plus the skill
of a sergeant who had once been a printer,
and the enthusiasm of a little group, made
the issue possible. Subsequently the paper
took other names —it depended on the dis-
trict in which it was printed, till finally it
became the B.E.F. Times. Readers of this
delightful war publication are requested by
the editor to remember that the hilarity was
often more hysterical than natural. The
contents include serials, fashion notes,
answers to correspondents, various verse and
delightful fake ads.


a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for EV
MEN’S SUMMER WEAR.
In THESE days, when EXPENDI-
TURE should be scrutinised, when INDI-
VIDUAL ECONOMY is ESSENTIAL,
the smart READY-TO-WEAR SUITS
enumerated below offer OPPORTUNI-
TIES for PRACTICAL REDUCTIONS
in EXPENDITURE on NECESSITIES
through the agency of ANTHONY
HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
ORDER that NEW SUIT TO-DAY; it
will reduce expenditure on future outlay.
MEN’S VESTS.
These Vests are cut in the latest styles and
incorporate the new ideas. The make and
finish leave nothing to be desired. They can
be had in all sizes, and are the class of Vests
worn by dressers who require distinctiveness.
SILK MIXTURE .. 12/6, 13/6, 14/6
BLACK SICILIAN 10/6, 11/6
LIGHT FANCY WASHING VESTS,
7/6, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6
WHITE PIQUE 8/6
WHITE MARCELLA AND PIQUE, stripe and
spot designs 10/6, 11/6
MEN’S TROUSERS.
Made in our own workrooms, of reliable
materials, thoroughly shrunk, the Men’s Trousers
mentioned below offer value which it is impos-
sible to duplicate.
MANCHESTER TWEED .. 6/6, 8/6, 10/-
ALL-WOOL COLONIAL TWEED,
11/6, 12/6, 13/6
STRIPED WORSTEDS 14/6, 16/-
STRONG TWEED Med. and Dk. Greys,
11/6, 12/6, 13/6
DARK STRIPED WEST OF ENGLAND,
15/6, 18/6, 20/-
STRIPED WEST OF ENGLAND WORSTED.
14/6, 16/6, 18/6, 21/-, 22/6
MARITIME SERGE 16/6, 18/6
FINE WEST SERGE .. 18/6, 20/-, 22/6
HEAVY TWILL SERGE 18/6, 20/-, 22/6
MEN’S SUMMER TROUSERS.
We have a large selection of MEN’S TROUS-
ERS suitable for SUMMER WEAR, in CRASH,
DUCK, GABARDINE, KHAKI, TUSSORE SILK,
and CREAM SERGE. The Trousers have side
or cross pockets, loops for belt, hip pocket, and
permanent turn-up if desired.
STRIPED CRASH, 3 to 7,4 J to 91, 9/6, 10/-
PLAIN CRASH, 3 to 7, 41 to 9J, 11/6, 12/6
WHITE DUCK, 3 to 7 7/6
WHITE GABARDINE, 3 to 7 8/6
KHAKI TROUSERS, 3 to 7, 41 to 91, 8/6, 9/-
TUSSORE SILK, 4 to 7, 41 to 91, 14/6, 15/6
CREAM SERGE, 4to 7, 41 to 71, 26/-, 27/-
MEN’S SAC COATS.
SAC COATS in SICILIAN and TUSSORE
SILK, with plain back or with vent. Smartly-cut
Coats, suitable for WEEK-END and HOLIDAY
wear.
COLORED SICILIAN, sizes 3 to 7,4 l to 91,
18/6, 20/-, 22/t
BLACK SICILIAN, sizes 3 to 7 20/«
BLACK SICILIAN, 5* to 6J 21/-
BLACK SICILIAN, 41 to 9f .. 20/-, 21/-
BLACK SICILIAN, extra out sizes .... 25 /-
TUSSORE SILK, 3 to 7 30/-
WHITE SACS, step or patrol collars, 3 to 7,
8/6, 10/6
SUMMER SUITS.
Smartly-cut Two-piece Suits, consisting of Sac
Coat and Trousers.
STRIPED CRASH, 4 to 7, 41 to 91,
22/6, 24/-, 25/-
PLAIN CRASH, 3 to 7, 41 to 91, 30/-, 32/6
WHITE DRILL, 4 to 7,4 l to 71 21/-
BENGAL TWEED, 4 to 7 27/6
KHAKI, 3 to 7, 41 to 9-1 18/6, 20/-
TUSSORE SILK, 3 to 7, 41 to 71 45/.
SUMMER SPORTS SUITS.
TUSSORE SILK, 3 to 7, 41 to 91, 57/6, 60/-
GREY TWEED, 3 to 7 60/-
DARK GREY TWEED, 3 to 7 60/-
DARK GREY WORSTED, 3 to 7 63/-
GREY AND BROWN TWEED, 41 to 71, 60/-
GREY FLANNEL, 3 to 7 63/-
LAWN AND DRAB GABARDINE, 3 to 7, 60/-
LOUNGE COATS.
STRIPE® FLANNEL TENNIS SACS, 3 to 7,
18/6, 22/6
NAt Y LOUNGE COATS, edges piped cord, 3 to
7 21/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ Departmental PRICE LISTS place the vast
resources of AUSTRALIA’S MAMMOTH STORE at the command of
EVERYONE IN AUSTRALIA. Write for copies of anything you want
(posted free on request), and reap the full benefit of our unique system
of Spot Cash Trading 1 .
CUSTOMERS ORDERING BY POST are treated in the same way as
THOSE BUYING AT THE COUNTER. The same prices are charged,
selections are made from the same stocks, and everything sent to
the country is carefully packed by experienced men.
Silverplate Satisfaction.
llow to combine excellence, utility and
economy in Silver-plated Ware is not a
difficult matter if the selection is made
from the immense variety at ANTHONY
HORDERNS’. Here are three examples:
CXB9.—BUTTER DISH, Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, with Crystal Glass, very effective
design . . 12/6
CX7I.—ENTREE DISH, Silver-plated on Nickel
Silver, size lOin 50 j _
CXISG.—TEA SPOONS AND TONGS, in case,
Silver-plated, assorted designs—
-13/6, 15/-, 15/6, 17/6, 21/-
ECONOMY IN LAMPS.
People who live outside the range of
gas or electric light supply will experi-
ence no difficulty in obtaining an efficient
and economical lighting service if lamps
such as are here enumerated are used.
They come from makers of repute, and
can be relied on to produce a brilliant.
steady light, with a low oil consumption.
Here are some suggestions:—
jwJ 5
No. 1 JUNO TABLE
LAMP (as illustrated),
Nickel or Oxidised, Cop-
per finish, 35 Candle-
power ; height to top
of burner, lOJin. ;
holds 1 quart oil,
burns 9 hours; fitted
with No. 1 (2-inch)
Miller chimney and
wick and 7-inch opal
shade, 15/-
No. 228.—NICKEL-
PLATED 60 Candle-
power SUSPENSION
LAMP (as illustrated).
Holds 3 pints oil,
burns 9 hours, 30in.
long, takes No. 2
Miller (2fin.) chim-
ney and wick, with
15in. tin reflector.
With 14in. Opal Shade in place of tin re-
flector 21/-
No. 2 JUNO TABLE LAMP, CO Candle-power, all
plain 18/-
LIBRARY LAMP
(No. 08507) to
hang from ceiling;
Decorated Floral
Vase and 14in.
Shade to match,
remainder polished
Brass, 00 Candle-
power ; takes No.
2 (2§in.) Miller
chimney and wick ;
length closed,
38in. ; extended
74in.—■
With prisms,
57/6
Without prisms,
52/6
gf
VALUE IN CUTLERY.
r kW xrm U^ TT l?T,2r9sJ?? F URTHBR to INCREASE in PRICE, therefore PRU-
DENT HOUSEWIVES are WELL ADVISED to REPLENISH their STOCKS
before the INEVITABLE RISE in COST occurs. The SERVICEABILITY of thc-
® n “ merated can be DEPENDED UPON, and COMING UNDER the
MONEY-SAVING INFLUENCE of
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
‘hey OFFER VALUE that it is IMPOSSIBLE to DUPLICATE ELSEWHERE.
JOSEPH RODGERS’ CUTLERY.
SPOONS AND PORKS,
BEST SHEFFIELD, ELECTRO-SILVER
PLATED.
Old English and Fiddle
Patterns.
PAPER ahi ENVELOPES.
PRICES of WRITING PAPER and
ENVELOPES are LIKELY to SOAR
HIGHER, therefore the WISDOM of
PURCHASING NOW for PRESENT
and FUTURE REQUIREMENTS is
APPARENT. The STOCKS of WRIT-
ING MATERIALS at THE NEW
PALACE EMPORIUM are so VARIED
that NO DIFFICULTY will be EX-
PERIENCED in FILLING ORDERS.
WRITING PADS.
RULED FEINT AND MARGIN.
ALBERT SIZE, 6tin. x Bin.
SAN REMO, Azure Linen Bank Paper, 100
•sheets, 10(1. each, 9/3 dozen.
THE CONQUEROR, extra fine, cream wove paper,
70 sheets, 9(1. each, 8/4 dozen.
QUARTO SIZE, lOin. x Bin.
THE ACORN, Bank Paper, 50 sheets, 6(1. each,
5/7 dozen.
THE CRABBLE MILL, extra strong- Bank Paper,
60 sheets, 9(1. each, 8/4 dozen. .
SAN REMO, Azure Linen Bank Paper, 80 sheets,
1/- each, 11/2 dozen.
THE ALDGATE, 1011 Linen Bank Paper, 90
sheets, 1/- each, 11/2 dozen.
THE PEERLESS, Pure White Linen Paper, 100
sheets, 1/- each, 11/2 dozen.
THE CONQUEROR, ExtTa Fine Cream Wove
Paper, s 6O sheets, 1/. each, 11/2 dozen.
THE CONQUEROR, Extra Strong Bank Paper,
90 sheets, 1/2 each. 13/- dozen.
THE PALACE, Extra Strong Bank Paper, 100
sheets, 1/3 each, 13/11 dozen.
THE BURLINGTON, Azure Linen Paper, 100
sheets, famous pictures by Old Masters on
cover in Sepia, 1/6 each, 16/8 dozen.
THE CONQUEROR, Extra Fine Cream Wove
Paper, mill finish, 90 sheets, 1/6 each,
16/8 dozen.
THE OAK, Special Extra Strong Bank Paper,
100 sheets, 2/- each, 22/4 dozen.
MOURNING WRITING PADS.
THE NEW SMOOTH IVORY, Cream Laid Paper,
ruled right across middle border, 7 Jin. x
9Jin., 50 sheets, \/. each, 11/2 dozen.
THE CYPRESS, Linen Bank Paper for foreign
correspondence, ruled right across middle
border, 71 in. x 0 A in., 50 sheets, 1/. each,
11/2 dozen.
THE LAUREL, Cream Laid Paper, ruled with
margin, middle and broad borders, lOin. x
Sin., 100 sheets, 2/- each, 22/4 dozen.
MOURNING SERVICE NOTELETS, Paper and
Envelope combined, unruled, containing 50,
1/6 each, 16/8 dozen.
INVICTA NOTELETS, Society’s favorite, paper
and envelope combined, ruled, containing 50,
1/- each, 11/2 dozen.
THE CAMBRIC PADS, in boxes with envelopes,
Cambric Linen Paper, containing 30 sheets
paper and envelopes, unruled, narrow and
broad borders, 6in. x 9in., 1/9 each.
BASILDON BOND PADS, in boxes with envelopes,
Azure Bond Paper, unruled, with guide line,
containing 34 sheets paper and envelopes,
medium and broad borders, 9in. x 7in., 1/9
each.
UNITY BANK PADS, in boxes, with envelopes,
Linen Bank Paper, unruled, containing 40
sheets paper and opaque envelopes, narrow,
medium and broad borders, lOin. x Bin., 2/-
each.
UNITY BANK PADS, in boxes, with envelopes,
Linen Bank Paper, ruled, containing 40
sheets paper and opaque envelopes, narrow
border, lOin. x Bin., 2/- each.
THE LORRAINE PADS, in boxes, with envelopes,
Cream Parchment Paper, unruled, containing-
-48 sheets paper and envelopes, middle border,
7in. x 9in., 2/6 each.
ENVELOPES.
SMALL COMMERCIAL.
6’s. Size 3jin. x sjin.
THE CHELMSFORD, superfine, 1/6 250, 5/6
1000.
THE WYNYARD, Cream Laid, 2/ 9 250, 10/-
1000.
LARGE COMMERCIAL.
11 8., 3Jin. x sJin.
SUPERFINE, tinted, Blue, Buff, Green, 1/9
250, 6/- 1000.
THE NATIONAL, superfine, 1/9 250, 6/9
1000.
SATIN FINISH, Cream Laid, 2/ 9 250, 10/-
1000.
NAVY LINEN, Azure Wove, 2/ 9 250, 10/-
1000.
THE CENTURY, Cream Wove, 3/- 250, H/.
1000.
TREASURY, Extra Superfine, 3/9 250, 14/-
1000.
SQUARE ENVELOPES.
ALBERT SIZE, 3Jin. x 4Rn.
THE NORMAN, Superfine Burnished, 2/- 250,
7/- 1000.
THE CRESSIDA, Burnished, 2/3 250, 7/6
1000.
NEW SMOOTH IVORY, Unglazed, 2/6 250,
8/6 1000.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


gfd
ft
gd
m
fg
fdg
fg
fdg
\
fdg
fd
Will Protect Your Property and Person.
sx>
T is the twentieth=century answer to the demand for a roofing that
is economical to buy, costs little for freight, is easy to lay and is
inexpensive to maintain.
“Adamax ” is one=third the price of iron and costs two=thirds less
for freight.
Owing to a special process in its manufacture “Adamax” is unaffected by
Rust, Acids or Fumes, and does not curl or pin hole. It also resists heat and
has no effect on drinking water.
“Adamax” is made in rolls and is easier to affix. Even when laid flat it is
watertight.
The satisfaction given by “Adamax” is proved by the fact that —
THE MURRUriBIDGEE IRRIGATION TRUST are using 20,000 sq. yards on their
Leeton Factories.
The Public Works Department—after the severest tests—selected “Adamax” for the
CORDEAUX DAIT
THE N.S.W. GOVERNfIENT RAILWAYS accepted “Adamax” for 12 months from July 1,
1917, and have again accepted “Adamax” for the 12 months from July, 1918.
THE W.A. GOVERNMENT decided on “Adamax” for the Wyndham Freezing Works
for both roofing and insulation.
THE SYDNEY HARBOR TRUST is using it on their large Miller’s Point Wharf
Sheds-—area of roof 3400 sq. yards.
THE SOUSTH AUSTRALIAN WHEAT BOARD ordered 44,000 sq. yards of “Adamax.”
Undoubtedly this is the roofing for your Homestead,Workshed, Dairy, Stables, Barns, Outhouses, etc.
Send for our Free Booklet, “The Adamax Series,” which supplies full particulars about “Adamax” Roofing.
ig? I ■
m
Wm
Sdamß
MUST
V
ALSO ASK ABOUT
“Adamax” Dampcourse,
“Adamax” Sarking Felt,
“Adamax” Building Paper,
“Adamax” Cement Solution, and
“Adamax” Roofing Paint.
“Adamax” Hoofing is sold in rolls of one. two and three ply, 72ft. long by 3ft. wide.
Nails and Cement for nailing and cementing the overlap where it joins are supplied free
of charge with each roll.
Obtainable from District Agent, or direct from
William AdamseC?,;
175 Clarence Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE: 521=3 Collins Street.
PERTH : 33 King Street.
BRISBANE: Cor. Edward & Mary Streets.
ADELAIDE: 96 Currie Street.
m


You need not
shake the bottle
JSfP
sauce
is the same all through
—the last drop is
as delicious as
the first.
Nothing contributes
more to secure happy
temper in a child
than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby
is as happy as the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with
the youngest babe, is light, easily
digested, safe. Besides, “Mellin's"
is a no-worry food—hot water and
fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready.
Meilin’s
Food
Baby’s Feeder Is important. Mellin's Feeding
Bottle is unique; hygienic,efficient,easily cleaned.
A Sample Bottle of Mellin's Food, with Handbook
fo,r Mothers, "The Care of Infants." sent Free.
Messrs. Gollin & Co. Proprietary, Ltd.
Sydney
gfd
gfd
Economy is determined by
the value you obtain for
the price you pay. When
you buy a Venus Pencil
you’re buying something
more than a stick of lead
in a wooden jacket.
You’re buying efficient and
all-enduring pencil service.
Of all Stationers, Stores,
&c., throughout the World
g
fdg
&&Wi\cmQ %\‘i&v*. I mmm*
testers
ii&tr
df
or B. Allen's
gfd
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDiN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide.
T. L. SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
FOR HEAD COLDS, NASAL CATARRH,
COUGHS, BRONCHITIS and ALL CHEST and
THROAT TROUBLES—
EVERYBODY IS NOW USING
Nazetha
THE GREAT COLD CURE
IN THE LITTLE BOTTLE.
I/O ALL CHEMISTS,
Or if not easily obtained write
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney.
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO, 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart,
who will forward, post free.
m is
m
%
m.
[3
gd
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
fg
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
dg
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL <a CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturer's of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine-Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
fdg
dfg
f
Match the Record of
Tfr*stonc
Tyres
With Any Other Mileage From Any Other Tyres
'T'HE RESULT will be in favor of
* Firestone Tyres. We are sure of it.
The tough, resilient tread with its
gripping Non-Skid letters is built to
stand rough roads and trying cli-
mates. Built to save wear and tear of
hard going, both for you and the car.
Firestone Tubes are dependable. They
stand up under strain of rough wear and
hottest climates.
Griniley, £td., Sydney, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing 00.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealand.
Obtainable at all Garages Write for Illustrated Literature
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Virgin Soul.
Body yours? Perhaps it is, fettered by some
strange convention
That has labelled me and numbered me, who
never should be labelled !
Soul and mind so much my own —I laugh to
see them jaunting,
Baggage-free, along the paths where the
lilies flaunting
Burn the morn with tiger spots; and with
pollen showers
Merrily go Fancy’s steeds who never have
been stabled,
Trampling all the privet hedge and browsing
on the flowers!
Body yours if thus your will, by Man’s queer
invention
Of a law to bind a love which never could
be bound.
Do you kiss a corpse and find a semblance to
the living?
Outraged spirit in my bosom such a travesty
forgiving,
Just because I fear to hurt you by the bitter
truth revealing,
When you seem to be contented with the
flaccid thing you’ve found—
P’ornlle husks left in your keeping, while the
rebel soul is stealing
Through your fingers and away to its own,
its unwalled places,
Rising on the flights of birds and dipping
lightly to the valleys,
Drinking at the fount of fragrance, one with
plumy waving grasses,
One with those soft splendid shadows where
the wind-blown cloud-pack passes
Down to gardens where the moon-flower
checks the white hours of her leasing,
And the sun-flower on her petals keeps the
warm day’s gilded tallies,
Moon and Sun’s devoted minions, with a
rivalry unceasing!
Men can seek a hand’s caressing, or the
touch of women’s faces,
And the bargain may assuage them—if this
be the thing they need !
Only in my outer garden may you stand with
lustrshod feet;
I have kept the inner chamber for another,
cool and sweet;
And a flaming sword shall guard it, tireless
till that other come.
Take my hand and lips and slake you ; so I
keep the word and deed;
But my soul is always mateless till that other
soul come home!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
The Survival of the Fairest.
Carthaginian merchantmen
Walking gravely in Kildare,
Making with a reedy pen
Notes of Punic stock and share,
Great your traffic overseas,
Growing to your heart’s desire —
Silver lace and draperies,
Purple bargain-sales from Tyre.
Merchantmen from Carthage, pass;
All your fame is under grass.
Norman knights in gilded show,
For the easy triumph met,
Clanking down the green world go
Led by Hal Plantagenet.
Great your honor, high your pride,
Kingdoms tremble at your name;
There are long, still roads to ride
Down the way the merchants came.
Conquerors, salute and pass—
Green and greener grows the grass.
Singing somewhere in a glen
Little voices came and went,
Breathed across the souls of men
Melody and merriment.
Fairy ring and fairy mound
Heard a rain of falling tears,
As the yellow suns went round
Ripening the larger years.
Sorrows, bow your heads and pass;
Joy is still above the grass.
Carthaginian merchantmen
Talking much of stock and share,
Yellow field and mossy glen
Cannot find you anywhere.
Normans, wrapped in steel and stone,
Vaunting all that men may do.
Scarce your works with ivy grown
Bear a memory of you.
But the Little People pass
Trippingly through youngest grass.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Sleeping Out.
All above me, dipping and dimpling.
A thousand stars in the dusky sky;
The white moon rises and, whipping and
wimpling.
The cloud waves break as her keel slips by :
Ripples of pearl in her wake are lifting.
Trailed foam-white o’er the glimmering
deep.
I catch at her silver cables drifting
And float far out on a tide of sleep.
Dreams about me. breaking and beaming;
A thousand seraphim flash into sight."
Their star-tipped pinions, swaying and
streaming.
Aflame and afire through the awed, still
night.
And I, lying out those great wings under.
Shimmering, moon-misted and glimmering
with dew,
Turn my eyes from the night’s white wonder
And nestle close to a thought of you.
N.S.W.
ENNIS MOORE


m %
f f.
iiss
fell
r
v
To Save the Garden
After this cool, wet summer our
gardens are green and blooming and still
lovely, but the plants are soft through
much moisture, and a dry spell without
watering would prove disastrous.
Take full advantage of the late good
rains and water well with
gdf
gd
fg
WATERSHED (Reftd.),
the good Red Hose, guaranteed
perfect.
PROSPECT (Regd.),
Black Hose—the best value
low-priced Black Hose.
Ask your storekeeper to show you the registered brand on the coil.
From all stores or from the manufacturers: —
Perdriao Rubber Co. Ltd.
All States.
dg
GOOD STOCK
Deserve Good Treatment
and, conversely. Good Treatment
Makes for Good Stock.
Every farmer ought to have on hand
a small kit of simple, handy instru-
ments and appliances for the humane
and safe treatment of his stock.
I
Denyer’s is the noted house for
Veterinary Specialties of Quality
at reasonable prices. Tell us your wants; we’ll send you catalogue and advise
you correctly as to the selection and use of the proper instruments and appliances.
We are manufacturers and importers of the Best and most highly-
recommended specialties, including: Emasculators, Mouth Gag'S, Drench
Bits. Speculums, Tooth Rasps, Accident Outfits, etc., etc.
Write to-day for Free Booklet. SAVE A LIFE —BUY WAR LOAN BONDS,
DENYE.R BROTHERS,
‘‘The Veterinary Instrument and Specialty House,”
281 George Street, Sydney.
M
'S:
m
m
m.
“Reinforce ”
His Nerve with
Good Food.
The worker who has to
“ tackle ” a job of this kind
must have substantial
nourishment.
“REX” ;
CAMP PIE
m
will enable you
to vary the meals
for him and make
them one successive
“chain’ of delights
“Rex” Camp Pie
“lowers” the cost of
living because it is cheaper than fresh meat yet it is
all meat in a practically pre-digested form.
Only the choicest morsels of meat are made Into
Camp Pie. It is seasoned, cooked and packed ready to be
eaten. Serve it with a salad or slice thin for sandwiches.
All arocers sell it.
“Rex’ Ham Pate and “Rex Veal
and Tongue Pate
petising delicacy. Try them. Sold by all grocers.
Foggitt, Jones & (§., Ltd.,
PACKERS OF “REX” PURE FOOD PRODUCTS.
CURERS OF “REX” HAMS AND BACON.
Jets
AS
WM
h:
fik
l
illl
HI
w
m
mmm
GOODRICH Black
Safety Tread Tyres
Stick to the Surface
No chance of the cat skidding,
And there is no more chance of
skidding with Goodrich.
What is more —the Black Rubber
wears almost as long as the
cat’s paws.
DUVAL CO.
13 Castlereagb Street, Sydney
145 Collins Street, Melbourne
300 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
kv


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39.—N0. 1980.
THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1918.
Price 6d.
THE BEAR HE WAS, AND THE BEAR HE IS. AND THE BEAR
HE YET MAY BE.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have The
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
ADDKESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., ivhich should be crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the form of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 3000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — -i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Mil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City Nervs Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu.— Home Neivs Agency, ~6S Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Ilovng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder Street,
Hong Kong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. — Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; 81oz. to 10oz., 2id.;
lOoz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, f/oz., Id., and sd. each
additional 2oz.
EETtßtzlleiztfi.
THURSDAY, MARCH 7, 1918.
THE TURNING-POINT: SUPPOSE IT
SHOULD TURN THE WRONG WAY.
In every big war there is a definite turning-
point, though it is seldom identified at the
moment. The second-rate scrap at Maloyaro-
slavatz didn’t look much at the time, and
Napoleon's fortunes had many ups and
downs after that frantic struggle for a small
bi’idge over a disreputable stream in a two-
penny village—but the downs always pre-
dominated. The American civil war
wasn’t near its ending on the last day of
Gettysburg, yet thereafter the star of Jef-
ferson Davis and his league of Freetraders
and cheap-nigger laborites sloped steadily to-
wards the west. There is every reason to
believe that the turning-point of the present
war isn’t far off. Reasons for haste exist
on both sides. The strain on money and
food and humanity has reached among the
European Allies the highest point yet at-
tained, and it can’t increase indefinitely
without something breaking. Such stupen-
dous efforts have been made to call up men
that neither side is likely to grow much
stronger through delay, unless it is a long
delay; then the advantage lies with the Allies,
for tlie United States is only clearing the
decks for action. On the other hand, the posi-
tion at sea, which is of more import-
ance to the Allies than to the Huns, shows
no improvement, and the Hun submarine
campaign looks altogether too healthy. The
Huns have no such prospects of human re-
inforcement as the Allies, for they have no
United States on their side, and they have
got about to the end of certain material
x-einforcements, for there is nothing much left
to steal in Serbia, Belgium and Northern
France, and the contents of the occupied
part of Russia are hardly worth stealing.
There is little apparent chance that time
alone will fight on the side of the Bxitcher
Empires by bringing about another big de-
fection among their enemies.. Finally, armies
gi-ow stale through long waiting and loafing
—thi'ough hoping amid the. mud and mono-
tony, and keeping up faith in an atmosphei-e
of suspense and on a diet which includes
too much tinned food. Putting aside the
almost incredible idea that Armageddon may
be a drawn battle, there is a great Some-
thing in view, and apparently not far off,
which will tip the scale one way or another.
Somebody’s star will begin to slope visibly
towards the west.
* * * *
Suppose it is the wrong star! Suppose
the turning is the wrong way! It is a
thankless job to be a war prophet, but it is
interesting to consider possibilities. Should
the scale tip up the way the liun desires,
one can imagine him making reckless efforts
to buy off some of his big enemies before
Uncle Sam’s legions are sufficiently strong
to have a chance of tipping it down again.
He might propound terms to France and
Italy—both much battered—that all the
sacrifice asked of them would be the sur-
render of their good submarines and air-
craft and their best war vessels. In return
they might be offered handsome donations of
territory—Alsace and Lorraine for France,
and something liberal in Belgium; the Tren-
tino for Italy, and some of its lost territory
on the other side of the Adriatic, and the
run of its teeth in the Italian-speaking part
of Switzerland if it felt Jk.hunger that way.
There would be no cash indemnity, and the
Hun would hold out the bloodstained hand
of friendship. The cost would be nothing,
for all these concessions could be taken baeic
with interest in the new war when the other
members of the present alliance had been
disposed of. It is an interesting dream ; it
would be a thrilling one if it happened to
materialise, and no scruple of the Hun con-
science would stand in the way. The two
Allies would have to be grievously dispirited
if they listened to any such propositions, but
they might do so. Almost anything is
possible when Huns and Bolsheviks are
possible.
The position of Uncle Sam would be re-
markable. He couldn’t well keep on sending
troops to join his French allies if he had
none to join. Whether he and John Bull
would maintain a two-man fight in Belgium,
or whether Bull would retire'to his islands
and prepare for th&- biggest- defensive war
in is a-fnatte'f -for speculation. He
and his trade from Washington could cer-
tainly puF'up a lofty scrap at sea even
against the reinforced and strengthened Hun
fleets, but in Britain the question of food
supply, which is bad enough now, would be
terrible. No great nation in the world has
been so accustomed to depend on imported
victuals ; consequently no great nation would
be so lihble to be starved out. Even the
indomitable Briton can’t live on air; if he
could there would have been no surrender
to the unspeakable Turk at Kut-el-Amara.
The idea of all England and Scotland becom-
ing another Kut-el-Amara is disquieting.
Britain is the one great State to which the
Hun would offer no terms short of practical
obliteration, for it is the one with big desir-
able oversea dependencies to give away, and
the Hun wants colonies above all other
things. This nightmare is based, as already
mentioned, on the proposition that France
and Italy might be partly driven and partly
bribed out of the league, should the Battle of
the Turning-Point turn very badly the wrong
way. But even if France keeps the three-
colored flag aloft after worse disaster than
has yet happened, it must be weakening. It
started the fight before Britain or Russia or
Italy or the United States. It has made the
biggest effort in proportion to its jesources,
and it has been grievously crippled by the
loss of its best mineral and manufacturing
districts —a calamity which Britain, Italy
and the U.S. have escaped. There is a pic-
turesque saying about robbing the cradle and
the grave to save the country, but the cradle
isn’t organised, and the grave has no gun.
* * * *
Late in the century before last Britain
surrendered the best part of its colonial
empire through sheer war-weariness. If
there came about a far bigger catastrophe
through weariness of a war compared with
which the Geobge Washington disturbance
was a mere nursery squabble, with an in-
credible war bill thrown in and hunger on
top of all—if Kut-el-Amara was repeated
with a besieged nation in place of a besieged
town —many things would happen. Canada
would be fairly safe, for Ufficle Sam’s men
and dollars are many and his pork and beans
are like the sands of the shore for multitude,
and he couldn’t afford to let the Hun settle
along his borders. India would possibly be
wanted; it might be more valuable to Ger-
many than to Britain, for the Hun has no
scruples about killing off the mere nigger to
make room for white settlement. The Afri-
can possessions would doubtless be among the
loot. But Australia and Maoriland would
be wanted first and foremost. They are
large and valuable. They are far from any
friends. They have no negro problem. Their
population is crammed into unfortified
coastal cities, and the capture of Sydney,
Adelaide and Melbourne would practically
paralyse the railway systems of the conti-
nent, and make tnem the property of the in-
vader when he .chose to take them. Also
that capture would give him practically all
our manufactures and commerce. There are
no great inland centres for a flying popula-
tion to retreat to. There is no navy worth
mentioning, no well-trained citizen army, and
hardly any facilities for the supply of arms.
There is a great congestion of people on two
or three coastal spots, a great debt, and a
great many legislatures and trades-unions and
strikes; but these are not assets in war-time.
If Australia tried to put up a protest against
annexation it would do so with a grievous
lack of clothes, boots, arms, interior rail-
ways and all other necessaries. The result
would be blank massacre with gruesome
trimmings and wholesale confiscation. In
fact, these things would be likely to happen
whether there was resistance or not. Alsace
and Lorraine have endured 4G years of degra-
dation and misery since the Hun took them,
yet. they fell to the’ comparatively mild and
civilised German of 1871—a German who
didn t destroy towns and cathedrals for pure
love of the business, who didn’t lay the whole
country quite desolate, and steal everything
of value that was portable and burn the rest
if it was combustible: He didn’t shoot men
in general merely because they existed, and
he only outraged women on occasion and
flogged them rarely. The cannibalistic Hun
of to-day —our Ilun if the war goes amiss—
is quite a different creature.
One can pass an interval at the opera
looking at the pretty girls and women in
the expensive seats, and speculating as to
which of them, if things go wrong, will be
the prey of the German officer, to be passed
along to the common soldier later on ; and
which will become compulsorily the common
soldier’s'drab from the beginning; and which
will be publicly flogged on suspicion of lack
of enthusiasm for the new regime, as hap-
pened to so many of the women of Serbia.
Then there is the question as to which of
the affluent-looking elderly men, if he should
survive, will be seen later on looking for
his supper in an ash-barrel, and which
barrel he will patronise, when his cash and
securities have gone towards the indemnity,
and his lands are wanted for German set-
tlers. Of course he may be shot against a
wall (which wall, one wonders) or hanged
(on which tree is a question not worth pur-
suing) for not looking glad enough at the
sight of his new masters, and then there will
be less competition round the ash-barrel.
There will be little trades unionism in
the days that may be coming, for the Hun
will do any necessary fixing of hours and
wages (in marks), and he will supply all
tlie arbitration that is wanted. Very few
people will then write to the xnuch-less-
numerous paper about the encouragement of
the birth-rate, for the Hun will have no use
for a birth-rate except among his own
people; any other kind might mean a multi-
plication of malcontents. He is an ungrate-
ful person and will rain alike upon the
person who voted “No” at the national de-
fence x'eferendum and on the one who voted
“Yes.” Premier Ryan of Queensland,
despite his strenuous efforts to prevent the
compulsory raising of reinforcements, will
stand just the same chance of being disem-
bowelled as any other Premiei\ And Prime
Minister Hughes has just as little show of
being offered the title of Count von Slump
because he didn’t build the ships about which
he clattered so much, as he would have if
he built them and loaded them to the Plim-
soll fhark with wheat to feed the hungry
Allies. Nor will anybody say as much as
“Hoch” to Senator Pearce for his brilliant
and serviceable muddle of the War Depart-
ment. There will probably be a wholesale
stoppage of pensions and a writing down of
the public debt and very many other hap-
penings may be looked for if the battle
which is to be a landmark and a finger-post
in history goes the wrong way. Far more
than this easy, happy, sportive bird-of-
paradise community seems to have realised
hangs on the issue.
AUSTRALIA OR RUSSIA—WHICH IS
THE HEALTHIER?
The Bolshevik speaks and acts in the name
of the Revolution, not in the name of the
Russian republic. Whatever the faults or
virtues of Lenin, Trotsky and their Red
Guards, their conception of the position
seems to be the right one. Russian affairs
are in a state of flux and may easily remain
so for the next half century. It is common
to speak and think of a revolution as the
affair of a week, and to imagine that society
can be turned upside down in one wild yell
with a little accompaniment of shooting and
thx-oat-slitting. In the popular idea of the
thing, somebody makes a loud speech; some-
body else sticks a knife into somebody; the
population feverishly builds barricades in
the streets; the soldiers bump heavily into
the mob and suffer defeat; and then a new
social order begins with a new Government
cleaning up the wreckage and asserting law-
and-order in a new way. But revolutions
don’t happen like that; these things are
merely a surface flicker of a vastly greater
movement which must re-make the people of
a nation before it achieves its purpose. The
blood and tumult are only accidental;
in point of fact, they are no necessary part
of the show at all. The Russian Revolution
is a star piece of melodrama ; but it is pro-
bably less significant than the equally real
revolution in Britain, which began in 1914
and will roll on to its goal in spite of Wil-
helm and peace and rationing and the
Northcliffe press and every other obstacle.
For revolution is not, as so many people
seem to think, an exact science that moves
with mathematical certainty to the estab-
lishment of some cleai’ly defined system ; it
is a gi-eat natural process that sweeps as
erratically as a cyclone, bringing both devas-
tation and healing rain, but altogether be-
yond the mental control of those who first
started it. England since the Norman Con-
quest had two revolutions. One began with
the absurd and pictui’esque Wars of
the Roses; broke the Feudal System;
swept the wreckage into the current
of a new age of commercialism; and,
blustering through the vaunted religious
Reformation, came to a pause in the stately
days of great Elizabeth. The other broke
out under Charles I.; swirled into angry
piety; chopped off a king’s head; fixed
righteousness upon the nation by thrust of
pike; sagged into drunken riot under the
Restoration; staggered through many plots
and a serious rebellion; got sense, and
brought in a hard-fighting Dutch prince who
knew how to rule without much lying; and
flopped down at last sick of itself, into the
Constitutional Government of the eighteenth
century. In both these revolutions the
bigger movements were quite free from
street fighting and uproar, and the ultimate
goal reached was altogether unlike anything
the original revolutionaries had thought of.
Similarly, the great French Revolution was
rolling for a full century and nfay not have
come to a stop even now. So the Russian
who shoulders the. Revolution is standing
for a fair thing, even if he has only the most
shadowy notion of the point to xvhicli the
general disturbance is tending.
*■*-*#
Looked at fairly and squarely, there is no
reason at all w*hy- things should be other-
wise. A revolution which could definitely
and exactly state all its aims and objects
would be a poor affair. Some student of all
the past, gathering together its lessons in
a fine pipe-dream, may outline the course
which he thinks the big reforms should take :
but he has a very decent chance of being
wrong in his conclusions, through an over-
weight of scholarship that ignores the dif-
ferent makes of mankind from the ears up-
ward. On the other hand, he may be quite
right; but his rightness doesn’t help the
man in the ’bus or the underdog in the in-
dustrial mess of old systems tor see what he
sees. The revolution feels its way, learns
as it goes along, becomes alternately drunk
with hope and sober with a sense of its own
futility, and at last, with luck, gets some-
where. That is the best that can be hoped
for. To fetter a revolution with a narrow
creed is to put venom into it that only the
bitterest sort of countei’-revolution can at
last remove. The general cry of “Liberty,
brotherhood, equality,” which stood as the
watchword of the great Fi’ench up-
heaval, was wide enough and elastic
enough for practical xxse. It was not
thrown out of gear even by the masterful
leadership of Napoleon and all his dreams
of universal empire. The big soldier rose,
conquered, fell and became merely an inci-
dent in the Revolution ; but the watchword
remained as strong and as useful as ever.
What the Frenchmen who stormed the Bas-
tille saw as an ultimate goal would be very
small potatoes to the bulk of French republi-
cans to day, while the dreams of the men
who followed Napoleon to success and de-
feat would be utterly repudiated as unworthy
and undesirable if somebody tried to re-
awaken them now in Paris. But the
revolutionary spirit did not fail because of
the change of outlook even while the nation
played in turn at empire, constitutional
monarchy and republic. The fact is that
what we call revolution is merely an attempt
to hasten the natural process of evolution by
putting force and thought and honesty of
purpose into the national business of politics.
To stand for the revolution is to stand for
progress or the hope of progress, to be willing
to receive the full breath of new ideas and
to hold in solid contempt the timidity which
will not venture into fresh paths for the
poor reason that they are hitherto untried.
Viewed in this light, revolution is the natural
condition of a State that wants to get some-
where and to escape from the stagnation of
fixed and unalterable political notions. Every
real State ought to be always in revolution;
and evei’y true citizen should regai'd it as
his first business to defend the Revolution.
The Australian Revolution which started at
the end of last century looks at times as if
it had come to a permanent slump without
achieving any of its objects. It is
true that nobody called Federation a revolu-
tion ; but judged by comparison with other
things which rightly bear that name, it was
quite the genuine article. By ci’eating an
Australian Commonwealth, which included a
whole continent, the thought of the people
seemed in a fair way to be revolutionised.
The parish outlook and narrow views of those
who had been accustomed to the petty rival-
ries of the original “colonies” were to be
subverted, and Australian men and women
were henceforth to think in terms that were
continent-wide. The Revolution’s start had
all the thrill of a great movement. There
was no fighting except with tongues and
votes, but the objects outlined wei’e tremen-
dous ; and every citizen felt that there were
other and gi’ander objects and aims that
would come into view as each new vantage
point was gained. But when the throb and
emotion of the time had been crystallised into
a Constitution, there it stayed and faltered
and Hopped, down into nothingness. Many
of the things then regarded as desirable are
still dear to the hearts of Australians, but
nothing is being done about them. The war
has been made an excuse for inactivity in a
dozen important directions which, war or no
war. were vital to Australia’s future; and
the very name of the Federation, which
stood for all good things, is falling more and
more into disrepute among our own citizens.
One party mouths a sti’ange wordy vague-
ness of imperialism; another wages a class
war which is as nari'ow in its scope, as the
old States spites. The sad truth is that
Australia has not been true to the Revolution,
that the grand impulses of 20 years ago have
been smothered under a mass of political
inanity, and that it is necessai’y to begin
all over again. For Australia needs her
Revolution and is a poor proposition without
it. The Russian tangle may appear as
dangerous as a whole zoo of tigers, but it is
richer in hope than the dull, flaccid endur-
ance of a meaningless struggle between office-
seekers and office-holders which makes the
present citizen life of Australia. It is not
so much where we think we are going that
matters; it is the fact that w r e are going
somewhere and that we ai - e genuinely eager
to get there. From the strategic points
gained our Revolution will see other strategic
points to be gained, and one real advance
will mean a hundred to follow. What we
need more than anything else is a simple
rallying idea of force and movement to which
the most slothful of Win-the-War politicians
must make his actions conform. In a word,
we want to be true to the Revolution, and
keep things going whether Wilhelm is
standing on our chest or sti’ung up to the
palace chimney at Potsdam.
AUSTRALIAN AND “EASTERN”
TRADE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Those countries immediately to the north of
Australia are from a geographical viewpoint
her trading area. A line might be taken
from Papua to British North Borneo, across
the north of Federated Malay States, to the
northern part of Sumatra. Countries far-
ther afield are, for the greater part, better
served from other sources. The trade advan-
tages between a and non-tropical
country lie in the uissimilarity of their pro-
ducts, and, despite the watchful eyes of
America and Japan, there is every chance of
Australia securing and holding trade within
the suggested line, provided good goods are
supplied and steady prices maintained. Soar-
ing prices, on the other hand, are an open


invitation to other countries to come in.
Australia, in her infancy as an expoitei o
most tinned and other goods, has every-
thing to learn, though, unfortunately, her
merchants are often inclined to view then
position as that of dictators-in-chief to the
rest of the world. Trade must be established
by following definite lines. England holds
lier supremacy by honest work, goods sup-
plied according to sample and a definite in-
terest in discovering the needs of the coun-
try. reliability has meant, and always will
mean, big things to the people who follow
that principle in their dealings with these
Asiatic nations.
The possibilities of Australian trade in the
Dutch East Indies alone are immense. There
are something like 40,000,000 people in
Java, and Java is only one island. The
Archipelago has always been a source of
interest to traders. Those oldest of merchants,
the Chinese, were doing business here when
the fabled wolf on the Tiber acted as foster-
mother to Romulus and Remus. The In-
dians came, and the Arabs found the value
of spices, and their trading is recorded in
the “Arabian Nights Dreams.” The Portu-
guese were probably the first Europeans to
gain a footing, though maybe the Spaniards
share the honor. The Dutch drove out the
Portuguese some hundreds of years ago, and
vied with the English in exploiting the
wealth of these countries. Surely Aus-
tralians and Maorilanders, as close blood-
relations of the English and cousins of the
Dutch, can find a way of obtaining the
goodwill of both, and so do some pioneering
in these islands. Trade, though, is trade,
and no help can be expected from English or
Dutch who have their own interests to look
after. Australia must place her own goods
and not leave them to people who are only
interested in handling lines in demand, which
produce money without exertion.
Banking institutions and insurance com-
panies are needed to follow the business
already in progress. “Australia for the Aus-
tralians,” no doubt; but once away from
home it must be ‘‘Australians for Australia”
—they must pull together, and as much as
possible put business with their own people.
We are a nation, and gaining an individu-
ality which we must sustain wherever we
are.
Viewing an earlier paragraph, the question
arises as to what goods can become per-
manent trade-lines. These pre-eminently:
jams; canned, fresh and dried fruits; flour,
butter, cheese; canned meats; wines, bran-
dies, beers; meat by-products; biscuits;
sauces; grains; soap; leathers, leather
goods ; and certain manufactured lines. But
given the commodities named, the question
of knowing the market is most important.
Some German houses studied conditions as
long as 10 years before attempting business.
A peculiarity here is that people judge
things by the sight, and are much more im-
pressed by tbe get-up of an article than the
average Australian. Quality is a thing that
should never vary ; one bad shipment leaves
an everlasting bad impression. Natives
rarely read English, so in packing jams,
biscuits and the like the outside of the
packet should illustrate the contents.
Excepting one or two firms that stand out
prominently, Australian exporters have no
idea of packing. As a rule, their cases
arrive with from 15 p.c. to 20 p.c. of the
contents damaged. One p.c. would be a fair
average with American or English packers.
And proper as well as careful packing is
essential. A leading soap-manufacturer
in Australia recently shipped 2000 cases of
bar soap in second-hand fruit cases. He
did not even trouble to clean the boxes, with
the result that much of the contents was
soiled with dirt. An Australian manufac-
turer provided a good sample of soap, and
then shipped rubbish in fulfilling the order.
This firm is not alone in such practices, and
with others equally culpable is giving to Aus-
tralian goods an unenviable reputation. A
manufacturer of sauce first supplied his goods
in nice clear bottles; a little Inter in beer-
bottles ; then in whisky-flasks. This does not
lead to permanent business. An experienced
merchant says to me: “No wonder the Aus-
tralians insist on money before shipment!”
With a lack of good faith substantial busi-
ness is well-nigh impossible. The present
keenness for business causes firms in Aus-
tralia to accept any orders obtainable—
which they execute so long as they do not
get a better price elsewhere! Over and over
again have firms had orders confirmed in
writing which the acceptors have repudiated
with frivolous excuses, knowing that
People here cannot go to the expense of com-
pelling them to deliver. Several firms, ex-
pecting goods, have made large losses through
no other cause than the bad faith of Aus-
tralian merchants.
It would be sound business to appoint an
Australian trade commissioner not to get
orders, but to check dishonest practices and
establish a reputable name. This matter is
urgent. The disposition of traders to treat
“the East” as some new mining field or as a
place inhabited by poor, ignorant niggers, to
whom any rubbish may be sent, is most
damaging to Australian prospects. Often, in
response to protests, some childish excuse or
piece of impudent bluff is the only satisfac-
tion _ received. Unfortunately the oldest
trading centres in the world are not in the
least satisfied or deceived by this treatment.
SINGAPORE.
BROUGHTON RICHMOND.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Party Riot in Bananaland.
The Ryan Government having decided to
rush all hands to the ballot-box this month,
the atmosphere of Bananaland is being frac :
tured by the loud shouts of heated partisans.
Ryan is roaring that if the democracy sends
for the other crowd all will be lost. The
Courier announces that if the proletariat
stands Ryan any more Bananaland will
perish, even as Nineveh and Tyre, and the
local cocky will become like unto the
Bedouin of Arabia. Nominally, of course,
the conflict is between the policy of Labor
and something else. Actually the struggle is
between Ins and Outs, with both sides inter-
preting questions of the moment in terms of
votes and relying upon yells rather than
principles. In llyan’s speeches it is im-
possible to find even a hint of consideration
for any other thing on earth than remaining
in office. His policy speech was plastered
from beginning to end with sordid appeals
for authority to continue living from hand to
mouth on borrowed money. There was not
a single sentence in the whole of it to show
that he or anyone associated with him has
mental apprehension of the national and
financial dangers confronting Australia to-
day. The Bulletin would be doing Ryan
an injustice if it suggested that he is with-
out the vision to see the perils encompassing
his country. But it is passing no unjust
verdict upon him to say that he prefers to
limit his outlook to the circumstances of the
moment and let the State take a gambler’s
chance. The cynical forecast of a weary
French king as to what was going to happen
when he had gone has by a queer twist in
political evolution come to reflect the atti-
tude of mind of many an Australian calling
himself a democrat. In the State and
Federal arenas the same hunger for “domi-
nation” to-day and fatalistic disregard of
to-morrow colors the thought and determines
the action of practically every man in public
life. Ryan even goes to the extent of urging
as the first reason why his Ministry should
be returned that the members thereof opposed
Conscription, and that one of the soundest
guarantees against compulsory service is to
keep him in office. His other reasons are
mostly expressed in intentions to “vigorously
develop our resources” by starting various
enterprises with the old p.n. Ryan may get
back to office. The hurry-up of the election
in order to collar the Anti-Conscription vote
and take advantage of the Warwick egg will
give Ministerial stocks a lift, anyway. But
a Ryan victory would give Labor very little
real justification for cackling over anything
beyond a party win, and Labor in Australia
has learned that party wins have often been
the measure of party demoralisation. A
State party that tries to live by issuing the
p.n., increasing the public debt, blithering
about “developing our resources,” promoting
shamfights with Dodder, and struggling to
revive the howls of provincialism is a poor
sort of object, whether it calls itself Labor
or something else. The worst of the calami-
tous business is that the other crowd is just
as bad, and that Party roosts on the public
chest like a herd of elephants.
*
Prophets of Pleasant Things.
On a recent day the two Sydney morning
papers, with a desire to give the war loan a
lift, and to show Australia (without tread-
ing on the tail of their own rotten fiscal
theories) that it is quite able to subscribe
many war loans, broke out into simulta-
neous applause. Some extracts from the
applause follow. This is the Herald wav-
ing its hat: —
That the money is available there is no doubt
whatever. Despite the war this country is waxing
fat. It has enjoyed prolific seasons and extraordi-
nary prices for its chief products. The deals which
the Minister succeeded in effecting with the British
Government have been entirely favorable to the
great producing interests. .. .Anyone who has studied
the hanking averages knows how prosperous the
country is. Anyone who visits our leading retail
emporiums sees evidence of that prosperity.... Mer-
chants are experiencing wonderfully little difficulty
in getting people to pay prices....
The Telegraph, waving its hat and its
boots and everything except its undercloth-
ing, dealt mostly in figures:—
Little short of sensational has been the saving
among the workers of Australia during the war.
£8,756,000 £7,206,000 £560,000
£5,072,000 £3,709,000 £8,781,000
£10,377,000 £3,548,000 £13,925,000. In
other words, during the first three years of the war
Australians put by in the savings banks and in in-
vestments in war loans up to £lOO the huge sum of
£30,472,000. .. .These staggering figures....
So the natural inference is that war pays,
and perhaps we should hurry up and get
another war so that the profit might be
larger. We might even advertise :
Campaign Wanted. —■ Address “Blood,” Herald
Office. N.B. —Highest price paid for Second-hand
Battles.
But it is foolishness, and everyone except a
Bolshevik dreamer should know it. Statis-
tics are apt to be belated these days,
but some are available. During the
first three years of the war the Common-
wealth raised about £48,000,000 in London.
This was inevitable, but it wasn’t wealth.
In the same period the States, which have
no war expenses, borrowed £12,000,000 or
more in London —the accounts require a
great deal of sorting out yet—which wasn’t
wealth either, though it was criminal lunacy.
The Commonwealth incidentally borrowed
£7,000,000 for the States in London. It
lent them £18,000,000 out of the reserve
held against the Federal note issue,
which diminished the security of the
note issue, while it set a lot of money free
to keep the boom going. Also the States
borrowed a vast amount of money locally
and spent it locally, which added a great
deal of a kind of currency to the country’s
apparent resources. Furthermore, £30,000,000
has been added to the issue of Federal paper
money since the war began. That is a
handy and most valuable medium of ex-
change, but it isn’t wealth; it is only our
lOIJ given by ourselves to ourselves and it
is not available for paying our debts abroad
or for buying goods abroad. The people
deposit much paper money in the banks, and
they subscribe to the war loans and public
works loans largely with paper. As a side
issue Australia received a very large sum
of money from the British Government for
goods—including weevils —not delivered. All
the increase of bank deposits of which the
Herald and Telegraph rave as evidence
of prosperity was paper at the bottom—all
and more than all. During the first three
years of the war the banks’ stock of gold
and other coin—gold being the coin that is
good all the world over—diminished by about
£13,500,000. But the stock of paper, the
currency which is "only good inside the Com-
monwealth and there only good for its face
value while the Government remains solvent,
and not solvent on paper by the issue of more
paper but sound in reality—this currency
increased by nearly £20,000,000. There is
nothing at all alarming in the banking posi-
tion, but it is disgraceful that Foreign-trade
journals should use all this paper as evi-
dence that Australia is booming—that the
rotten tariff is sound, that the muddled
wheat dealings of the Government aren’t
moth-eaten, and that everything in the gar-
den is lovely.
-v
Crabbed Age and “a Brood of
Criminals.”
While the N. S. Wales Leg. Council was
boggling over the Judges’ Retirement Bill,
granting their Honors a holiday and a pen-
sion at 70, this paper’s old friend Docker
(cetat 76) furnished an unanswerable argu-
ment for passing the measure promptly.
Sitting in Quarter Sessions appeal, he had
before him the case of a woman convicted
of shop-lifting and sentenced to six months’
imprisonment by a suburban police court.
The appeal was for a review of the sen-
tence. The woman had five children and is
going to have another; wherefore it was
suggested that she should be dealt with in
some other way than by imprisonment.
“This woman has been convicted three
times,” said Docker. “The appeal is dis-
missed.” Then he glared balefully round
the premises and proceeded
It is a great pity that such persons should be
allowed to breed children at all, to bring up a
brood of criminals. Of course, the children will
become like their mother.
To which Tiie Bulletin adds that it is also
a great pity to see the judicial Bench
brought into discredit by such outbursts of
malevolence. On the record it was clear that
the experiments previously made by the law
with this woman had been a failure. What
reason was there to suppose that the old
device of sticking her in gaol would this
time be any more than an act of futile
vengeance. And if Docker was concerned
about the children, what sort of chance was
he giving them by branding them and the
mother in this way? But apparently his
Honor was no more concerned about them
than a litter of kittens. They were a mere
“brood of criminals,” whom possibly he
would prefer to drown. The administration
of the criminal law in this spirit is mon-
strously out of alignment with social thought
and judicial practice everywhere in the
world; and this being so, and the social
responsibility for those five children and the
next being incomparably greater than the
necessity for allowing Docker to give imita-
tions of Herod, The Bulletin puts it to
the Ministry that his Honor should be
promptly shifted to another billet and the
case of this wretched woman and her family
looked at from a different angle.
The Retreat of the Ten Thousand.
The admission that 10,000 Australian
troops, trained for foreign service, have been
sent back without rendering any aid to the
Allied arms because they were physically
unfit to bear the strain of war conditions,
makes another chapter of sorrowful reading.
The ship space occupied by these men, the
cost of providing for them and the bitter
shame of disappointing the soldiers themselves
combine to make a sum of muddle which
might well wreck any Ministry responsible
for it; and it might well be questioned
whether any of the political sections abused
by W. M. Hughes as pro-German have
earned anything like as much right to the
title as the people responsible for such mis-
management. Were 10,000 Australian troops
suddenly lost at sea, the awful fact
would make every Australian citizen think
his hardest; but from the actual point of
view of smashing the German power, the
thing that has occurred is worse. Not only
has it deceived us as to the weight of our
own blow, but the unfit, by standing in the
road of the fit, have greatly retarded the
delivery of what punch we have. The trouble
was not an unavoidable one, nor one into
which it was easy for the Department to
stumble. It was due to bad management
and nothing else. The standards of fitness
overseas were different from those adopted
in Australia, and even now there is no proof
that an adjustment has been made. The one
thing that stands out in the whole wretched
business is that the person who did this thing
should not be allowed the chance of doing
other things like it. He is distinctly dan-
gerous to ns and useful to the Kaiser.
The Matunga and the Censorship.
The Matunga story being now common
property, it is up to the Defence Depart-
ment to explain the purpose of the Censor-
ship in this case. The German raider
which captured the vessel had information
that could come only from Australia ; there-
fore the fact of the capture was further evi-
dence of the existence of an enemy-spy
system in Australia, and that is the very
soul of the German menace. Now the spy
system flourishes on the unsuspiciousness of
the public; and a Censorship that kept the
fate of the Matunga from public knowledge
month after month was encouraging the
public to be unsuspicious. On the other
hand, an official announcement of the enemy’s
well-informed activities in Australian waters
would have tended to put dull people on the
alert for evidence of espionage and treachery
ashore. This country has been the fool’s
paradise where the object of the Censorship
has been, apparently, to prevent the fool from
ever doubting that everything in the garden
was lovely. Truly, the enemy aliens in Aus-
tralia have good cause to treat us as silly,
stupid Pritishers. Here Boloism has a free
run. Except when an election or a referen-
dum is pending, the Government does nothing
against enemies of the State. Its manner
of Winning-the-War is to keep everybody
uninformed as to the workings of local
German intrigue, while that intrigue is
patiently and doggedly serving the enemy.
The Urgent Need of a Settled Fiscal
Policy.
This from a man in the trade: —
Is the Commonwealth Government sincere in its
efforts to help Australian manufacturers?
About three months ago the Minister in charge
placed an embargo on the importation of motor-cars
complete with bodies, but permitted chassis to be
imported, thus creating a demand for local bodies
and making possible an industry which has hitherto
been very little supported.
The importers, who naturally were prepared to ex-
haust every effort to defeat this object, thereupon sent
special representatives to Melbourne to interview
the Minister, with the result that the embargo was
modified to a great extent. Nevertheless local manu-
facturers at once prepared to meet the demand which
they expected to arise. Existing firms commenced
building new premises or enlarging their existing
ones. Several firms which had hitherto not done this
class of work made arrangements to commence
operations at the earliest moment. Raw materials
were cabled for to enable the work to be proceeded
with. Manufacturers of bodybuilders’ accessories also
made arrangements to meet the increased demand
for their goods. And now !
The importers, not being satisfied with the privi-
leges already granted them by the Minister, are
asking for the embargo to be lifted and for the
unrestricted importation of complete cars, or else
that the embargo be further modified, and the Min-
ister is now “considering the matter.”
Is it the Minister’s idea of encouraging loeai
manufacturers to review decisions every few months?
Are local manufacturers to continuously live in fear
that their plant will be thrown idle and their stocks
of raw material become useless by the action of the
Minister ? If local enterprise is to be encouraged
the Minister must adopt a settled policy, so as to
give the necessary guarantee to both capital and
labor.
♦
The Australian’s Prejudice Against
the Australian.
“Nom,” discussing George D. Meudei.l
B. 24/1/T8) and “Jimmie Pannikin” (B.
14/2/TS) :
It was the calico jimmyism of York-street and
Flinders-lane that prevented the growth of an Aus-
tralian spirit right up through the mid-Victorian era.
Those were the days when an indent agent with a
twenty-five bob clerk could book orders any year for
£50,000 worth of shoddy to cover Australian backs.
And with what zest did the mean-minded little
middlemen who retailed these wares write above their
door “Importer” ! But have Meudepl and “Pannikin”
noticed that this craven word is now generally
painted out ? Why ? Because of the tariff that
came with Federation. Presently we can get the
tariff to do a little more. There is nothing like giv-
ing a sentiment a good commercial foundation. Well
do I remember 20 years ago when two of the best
workmen I ever met made a start for themselves.
Their goods were praised, but they were told that
the “Home” market was the warehouse’s market;
and after four months’ superhuman effort they had
turned over £lO. But soon the Federal duty gave
them a chance, and to-day that business is carrying
£35,000 of Australian capital!
The Australian is neither ashamed nor apologetic,
as “Pannikin” appears to think; but he’s as slow
as a traction bullock at waking up to a fact. For
instance, it took a world-war to give the Australian
confidence that he could do all sorts of things for
himself. The Australian believes in his country all
right, but doesn’t go much on himself. Fill every
big job to-morrow with outsiders, and you won’t get
a kick out of him. At the recent N. S. Wales elec-
tions two Englishmen, mere boys, scarcely long
enough in the country to vote, were elected to Par-
liament ! There are 10,000 young Australians who
could be found more capable. What other country
would do this ?
“Harrison O.” : It is easy for “Dr. Nil”
to question Miss Ettie Bout from a hostile
standpoint, but the queries he puts (B.
21/2/T8) do not go any distance towards
discrediting the lady’s idea of running “a
properly-conducted licensed house” for Maori-
land troops in England. “Dr. Nil” asks: —-
Does Miss Rout think it right to procure healthy
girls to minister to the sexual needs of soldiers?
AVhy does she not take on a job that she is willing
and anxious that other healthy women should do, and
take the risk of disease herself? Does she think it
proper for women to lend themselves to this pur-
pose? What women would she procure?
The last question seems particularly unneces-
sary’. There can be no reason for supposing
that Miss Rout wishes to recruit amateurs
for her purpose. If “Dr. Nil” wanted the
services of a nurse he would seek among pro-
fessional nurses, and Miss Rout, were she
able to start the sort of place she has in
mind, would doubtless secure as her em-
ployees recognised practitioners, demanding
always that they be aseptic and well-con-
ducted. To ask why Miss Rout does not run
a risk that she is willing that others should
run is to raise an ethical problem that is no
more disconcerting than it would be to in-
The Count.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The British Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. A.
J. Balfour, has stated that it is the intention of the
British Government that the final fate of the Russian
provinces, and of Roumania and Armenia, shall be
settled in the final peace, irrespective of any peace
now forced upon Russia and Roumania.”
Not by the words you make your victim
write,
Holding a pistol close before his eyes,
Shall stand your final claim in all men’s
sight
When battered truth as victor shall arise
Above the wreck of war and death and pain
To lead the nations into light again.
The order changes. In the battle wind
The old, cold lies are wholly blown away.
The broken peoples stand, no longer blind,
But in the full and flooding sun of day
Measuring their future’s wide imaginings
By larger scales than the dull thoughts of
kings.
Survey the bounds! Put up a slave or two
With a gold hat to reign for half a year!
Bid your loud cannon make his title true,
And write his royalty in terms of fear!
But when, at last, peace puts the guns to
sleep,
If bread be dear, crowns shall at least be
cheap.
Oh, little tinkers of dynastic pots,
Mending the holes that years of thought have
made
With some poor solder that the war-blood
rots,
By no such toil the ruin may be stayed !
Your vaunting fails and thinner grows your
shout —-
The count is “nine” and the next word is
“Out”!
N.S.W.
GEOBGE STREET.


WHAT CO-OPERATION HAS DONE—
There is evidence on every hand of the splendid results of loyal co-operative effort. Where a body of men engaged in similar businesses have created theii own
organisation to handle their products, etc., there is invariably a considerably greater profit to be reaped under good management. Further, co-operative organisa ion
mean strength, giving co-operators a powerful voice in all matters that concern them.
In no other business can the co-operative principle be so easily and successfully applied as in insurance. And nowhere are such fine opportunities offering as in the
insurance of farming and pastoral properties.
T he Farmers’ & Settlers’Co-operative Insurance Co. of A us jlii!‘ a
was established by a group of enthusiastic believers in co-operation with solely one object;—to cheapen the cost of farmers’ and pastoralists’ insurance.
The Company is under expert and tried management, and though it has been in existence not quite three years results have been most gratifying.
Place Your Business with Your Own Insurance Company.
Absolute Protection at Current Rates, and all the profits being available for distribution among co-operators.
FULL PARTICULARS SUPPLIED ON REQUEST.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOOTH AUSTRALIA,
quire why John Brown, of Newcastle, should
ask men to take risks in his mines that he
cannot or will not take himself, or why “Dr.
Nil” should merely pay rates and allow
others to do dirty and unhealthy work in
sewers. Ethics apart, it is obvious that the
risks run by girls at an aseptic house such
as Miss Rout wants would be considerably
less than those they are now taking nightly
in the ordinary way of business. As
for the inquiry whether it is “proper” for
women to lend themselves for this purpose,
there need be no hesitation in answering
“No.” Yet the fact remains that hundreds of
thousands of women all over the world do so
lend themselves, and have been doing so since
before the birth of history when time was in
swaddling clothes, and will continue doing
so long after “Nil,” Miss Rout, the present
writer and other eminent citizens have been
forgotten by an ungrateful posterity. If the
British and Australian Governments did their
duty in this matter there would be no need
for Miss Rout or anybody else to render
themselves liable to foolish questioning and
misunderstanding.
♦
The Iceberg that’s Got Adrift.
Irvine is in danger of getting just as much
tangled up in words as Hughes. He is on
sound enough ground in scoffing at the dis-
reputable evasion of the pledge to stand or
fall. Even the supporters of that calamitous
performance are as ashamed of it as they
would be to go sheep-stealing. And when
Irvine emphasises the desperately serious
nature of the war and the perils confronting
Australia he might go a long way further
and yet remain well within the boundaries
of truth. But when he calls upon the
Federal Parliament to arise and awake, toss
all other considerations into the garbage-tin,
and for the preservation of public honor pass
a compulsory service law he is merely throw-
ing phrases about. There is a practical side
to suggestions of this or any kind —or there
ought to be. Every member of Parliament
except Irvine —and even in his case some
qualification is needed—was elected on a
solemn pledge to the people not to introduce
Conscription unless authorised by the popu-
lar vote. That cannot be disregarded. What
Irvine must realise if he wants to play a
useful part in national affairs is that
the Commonwealth has a Parliament incom-
petent to serve the nation, and that per-
petuation of this scandal is a mockery of
our system of government and may yet bring
the country to disaster. From whatever
angle this Parliament is contemplated it
looks a fraud. One responsibility after
another has been shirked by it with an
audacity that is shameless. To expect a
Parliament with such a genesis and history
to pass Conscription now is equivalent to
yearning that it shall become even more
immoral. The plain duty of that Parlia-
ment is to go through the crucible of a gen-
eral election in order that it may gain some
semblance of authority and some vestige of
decency. And at the election it should be
the business of Australian citizens to pro-
tect themselves and their Legislature from
the Fiji-uncle trickery they were the victims
of last time. If Irvine orated on these
lines he would be doing more service to his
country than by advocating what at the best
would be a trick more outrageous than any
of the others.
«
Mostly the Bear.
There is no news from Russia nowadays.
There never has been any—since the war
began, anyhow. The stuff that came through
' for three years or so was a queer mixture
of poison and perjury, masquerading as
truth. Indeed, not three months ago this
paper was seriously threatened with dread-
ful consequences by Pearce’s Department of
Pretence for warning its readers not to form
definite conclusions, as news from Russia
was being even more severely censored than
ever. What has arrived latterly has been
quaintly reminiscent of rumors about the
sea-serpent which suddenly flicked six fur-
longs of tail before the astonished gaze of
a lonely fisherman, and then disappeared
in pursuit of a prawn. Beyond conveying
an impression that chaos was raging from
Vladivostock to Poland the available mes-
sages have mainly served to hide everything
that mattered and keep the why and the
wherefore surrounded by gloom. For some
obscure reason Britain and Australia have
been encouraged to believe that Russia
would in all probability “recover,” that the
army would be “reorganised,” that the mass
of the people were “overwhelmingly in favor
of the Allies,” that a separate peace was
outside the region of possibility. Really
the mass of the Russian peoples know no
more about the Allies than Australians know
of the Puderipkins. From the day it
scuttled out of the trenches the Russian
army has been for all practical purposes non-
existent. The country and population have
simply fallen in a disordered heap and are
there to be sorted out into something like
order by the first person who arrives—and
the name of that person is Fritz. Meantime
Russia’s friendliness with Berlin opens new
and far-reaching problems for the Allies,
some going back to the very beginning of
things and others relating to the changed
aspect of the landscape. To Japan the latter
is of immediate importance, and that Japan-
ese armies will soon be heard from putting
a lock on the back door over beyond Man-
churia is almost certain. Along the Western
Front movements preliminary to copious
bloodshed are going on. The ensuing battles
will in all likelihood decide the basis of a
general peace; for though pourparlers have
not actually commenced, the feelers are
becoming more definite from all sides than
at any time since 1914.
“Quill” : The theory promulgated by
“A.IJ.A.” (B. 2S/2/T8) that it is a medi-
cal man’s business to prevent his patients
getting ill is no good. As a matter of cold
fact the average of health among medical
men is substantially poorer than among
rabbiters, and their wives and children die
just as frequently as other people. The
basic problem raised by consideration of
medicine and surgery in their relation to
society is whether it is for the common good
that they should be carried on as commer-
cial enterprises or lifted to greater dignity
and usefulness. Among medical men there
is a large volume of opinion in favor of the
latter course. The trouble is that behind
most of the unconstructive jabber about
nationalising medicine there lurks merely an
ambition to get something or other at cheap
rates. Loose talk about making medical
men “civil servants” begins nowhere and
ends in the same place. In their widest
sense the problems of medicine and surgery
are the problems of society—of the slum, of
heredity, of prostitution, of poverty, of in-
dustrial strain, of personal hygiene in all
its phases, of racial stamina, of nerve
deterioration and so on. Now, you have
not even touched the fringe of all this by
producing a plan which will give the poorest
citizen a chance to discover with reasonable
promptitude what the meaning of that pallor
is on his child’s face or the significance of
a small swelling on his own neck. The best
that plan will do will be to dope the com-
munity in general and postpone the headache
which comes of hard thinking. And- when
you think hard enough about this vital ques-
tion you generally get to the point of pro-
nouncing the time to be ripe for the con-
structive Socialist to take a hand at the job
of laying the foundations of the Socialist
State—and when you go out to look for him
he is found, as a rule, toiling with his coat
mf to strengthen the Capitalist State and
obsessed with a delusion that he is doing
something else. The spectacle of a Social-
ist quarrelling with a surgeon about the size
of his fee is enough to make the wooden
statue of Yon Hindenburg at Potsdam
weep.
«, .
The astute leaders of the alleged National
party in Bananaland, whose policy is Win-
the-War because as State politicians they
have no means of doing it and it is
a lot easier to do nothing than something,
have enthusiastically nobbled a few young
returned soldiers to run against Labor men.
The youngsters, who in some cases know
less than nothing about general politics, are
flattered by being made candidates and
spout fluently of “empire” and other mat-
ters which they conceive to be necessary to
the. annoyance of the Kaiser. The idea is,
of course, that they will catch a large sympa-
thetic vote—particularly a woman’s vote —
and that if they succeed in getting elected
they will be easily handled by the party and
become an additional bulwark for the Fat
person. Had a number of young soldiers
come forward as soldiers’ representatives
and condemned party altogether, there could
have been nothing but cheers for the move-
ment ; but that these boys should be used
by the old and crafty politician to serve
the small, mean ends of the disreputable
party fight is over the odds. Somebody who
really wants to win the war ought to
restrain such exploiters on the ground of
treason or other infamy.
For the best of a fortnight N. S. Wales
Assembly has been wrestling with an Arbi-
tration Amendment Bill. The measure has
undergone no material alteration and will
probably pass into law without much change.
Viewed as an experimental effort_ to hold
the arbitration system up on its tired legs,
there is nothing much to be said against the
Bill —except that it goes a long way round
in the struggle to arrive somewhere. What
is reasonably certain is that if the labor
unions persist in entertaining the same views
about strikes and arbitration as prevailed
up till last week, the new methods of pro-
cedure will burst with the same violent re-
port as the other lot. But the really inter-
esting aspect of the wrangle is the childlike
faith of the Legislature that it is building
a monument more enduring than brass. In
point of act it is building a house of cards
on sand. Nearly all of the legislation passed
in Australia for the settlement of labor dis-
putes has rested upon the crazy .foundation of
a loan-promoted boom and has contemplated
the permanent establishment of conditions
that are as evanescent as the froth on the
morning beer. So long as there were hats-
ful of borrowed money to toss round, and so
long as when we were a million or two short
on the bill for cigars and canned asparagus
it was only necessary to bite Cohen’s ear,
there was nothing easier than to monkey
with industry on Utopian or other prin-
ciples. But there is nothing more certain on
this earth than that those days are passing.
Hence, compared with the useful work that
might be done by cutting away all tbe ex-
pensive lumber that burdens the State, the
performances around this Bill represent a
waste of time. If a certain lunatic Roman
Emperor had been born without a musical
ear, he would probably have been overtaken
by the flames while he was drafting a new
edict about what should be done with the
ashes.
From the Gallery :
Hughes nowadays spends half his time in devising
means to stifle the ambitions of some of his col-
leagues and in satisfying the avarice of others.
Forrest has been disposed of with a coronet. Cook
is temporarily comforted with a promised trip ’Ome.
Watt is to be Acting-Prime Minister. Jensen is
permitted to doze in a new motor-car, and Pearce is
content so long as he is left in office. And so the
business of placating individuals and healing breaches
runs the whole gamut of political indecency, even to
the proposed job of providing a Defence secretary-
ship for little Lyt. Groom. Groom has no qualifica-
tions for the part whatever. In a post where one
needs a face like a bluestone building, he would be
disqualified at once by his intense affability and a
congenital irresolution which would make him the
victim of every wirepuller. I have seen him flush
and stammer under criticism, and I have known him
to be driven to tears by a fractious Opposition. In
character he is a diluted Pearce. Yet, to preserve
Cabinet solidarity, such a man is to be made
Parliamentary Secretary for Defence unless the vol J
cano erupts and the whole immoral business is
blown up before Hughes escapes to England.
The Federal Government’s new recruiting
idea may or may not produce any recruits,
the general impression among those who are
experienced in the business being that it
won’t; but even if it doesn’t add one man to
the army in khaki, it will add a million or
two to Australia’s liabilities. That is the one
certain thing about it. Meantime has any-
body heard anything about economy any-
where?
There is an opening for a Royal Com-
mission to ascertain: —
(1) Is Prime Minister Hughes's Hysterical Police
force still in existence—the one he appointed when
the egg was thrown at him at Warwick?
(2) How many Hysterical Bobbies are there now?
(3) How much have they cost (wages, forage,
quarters, allowances, damage to uniform while
arresting bloodthirsty traitors, etc.) ?
(4) How many arrests have they made?
(5) How many malefactors have they in view and
how close are they on the track of each malefactor?
The Peacock Government’s Venereal
Diseases Act has done nothing except em-
phasise its own inadequacy and the magni-
tude of the scourge. For instance, the
authorities cannot take action against a
woman who is spreading disease unless one
of her victims makes a statutory declaration
regarding the source of his infection; and
although 1650 cases were reported during
the first two months of the Act’s existence,
in only two instances was a declaration made.
The military authorities have every reason
for supposing that 37 soldiers were infected
at one house in Fitzroy, while two houses
in Carlton spread the contagion to 75
others, yet nothing can be done —even
though it is known that in one house there
are five girls, all diseased !
Toryism has a filthy habit of using the
war to stifle all discussion that might result
in damage to some of its idols. In a leading
article _(1/<VT8) the Akgtjs alleges that
those who advocate Australian State Gov-
ernors “during the war” cause a suspicion
to arise “as to whether their principal de-
sire is not to injure Britain and help Ger-
many rather than to advance the interests
of Australia.” This plea that criticism
should not be indulged in during the war
has even been put forward by theatrical
managements, which reckon that any revival,
however badly done, should be treated kindly
these times. Also it is the sheet anchor of
the Censorship, which (no doubt under in-
structions) holds that anyone who points
to waste and mismanagement and other
scandals in the War Department is playing
Germany’s game. Exactly what encourage-
ment the Hun would derive from the fact
(if he was aware of it) that bazaars in
Victoria were being opened by John Madden
instead of Arthur Stanley it is difficult to
imagine, and it isn’t easy to see how the
Allies would suffer if William Cullen were
to lay the foundation stone of the new
School of Arts at Bunnywarra, instead of
Sir Pansy Davison. Prendergast has just
introduced a Bill into the Vic. Leg. Ass.
for the abolition of aldermen, and this
paper is waiting to hear the Argus remark
severely that such action at this crisis in
the Empire’s history brands Prendergast as
a Bolshevik.
Charles T. Lucas came into Gippsland
from Sydney via Omeo in 1544, only five
years after Angus MacMillan’s pioneer jour-
ney from the Monaro country through to
Corner Inlet, and had lived there ever since
till he went west the other day at Strad-
broke, aged 9G. He was a grandson of
Nathaniel Lucas, who arrived with Governor
Phillip as superintendent of Government
works, and was born in 1822 in Tasmania,
where the Lucases are still a strong clan.
“X.Y.” : I hasten to protest. In the daily
press recently it was stated that the ships
built in America for the Commonwealth were
to have native Australian names, and a list
was given. They were selected from the
dialects of the several States, and “Koolka,”
reputed to have a Westralian origin, is the
one to which I object. What it signifies in
Westralia I do not know; but in the dialect
of the North Coast of N. S. Wales it has a
shockingly indecent meaning.
A second and, it is said, a third report by
the Commission which is considering the
criminal waste and muddle of the Army
Department are ready. But Pearce can’t
really say when the public will be allowed to
see them —the first instalment he smothered
for four months. This man with the brow
of brass and the hide that is as thick as a
piano has all the earmarks of an old Vene-
tian Council of Ten, with his idea that the
people who pay the bill shouldn’t know about
Pearce’s misdoings until Pearce is quite
willing.
A Tasmanian holder of the Parliamentary
gold pass nearly dropped dead on a return
trip from W.A. recently, because the officials
on the East-West railway demanded £7 ss.
as fare and gave a stony eye to his “stiff.”
As he refused to pay he was hauled up at
Adelaide and ordered to pay, with costs.
Demurring and explaining that he had done
the forward journey on the nod he was
promptly ordered to hand out for that run
also. The Speck’s Government is now
threatening that unless a reimbursement is
made Federal members will be debarred from
free rides on its switchbacks. No doubt an
apology and a cheque will be forthcoming,
for the grand old traditions of perks must
not be treated lightly.
Melbourne Trades Hall has had a lot of
bad luck with its union secretaries. In the
latest case, husband, wife and 3-year-old
child left this life in one dreadful shambles,
fleeing from the wrath of the avenging audi-
tor. It is not so long since another sec., after
having lest his private house in a wild
struggle to live on the prospects* of his
struggling union, had to be put under re-
straint. Then there was the case of the late
Jim Munn, who succeeded Steve Barker for
a brief period as sec. to the Trades Hall
Council. The nerve-wracking job soon broke
him down, and his body was presently found
in the bay. Fact is, the eight-hour princi-
ple doesn’t really apply to the union sec.’s
job, no matter how desperately he may fight
to get it adhered to for his employer who
carps or plasts or plumbs for a crust. As
for a living wage !
The most hopeful feature of the Peake
Government’s announced policy for the com-
ing year is the bucking-up of Victor Harbor,
the old port outside the mouth of the Murray,
of which so much was expected in the past,
when some vessels actually ran direct to it
from England. Railway and breakwater
gave it a chance in the progressive Boucaut
era ; then a railway to Morgan from Adelaide
tapped the river trade, Murray Bridge lower
down came into existence, and the harbor
—which is not one of the very best by nature
—gradually became little more than the
popular seaside resort which it now is. Since
then the new mallee lands on the east of the
Murray have been opened up, and the burden
of carrying everything over the Mount Lofty
Ranges to Port Adelaide has become so ex-
treme that even the strong city influence
meets with a check. There is room for
discussion of details. Ths. Murray mouth is
practically impassable. It must be altered
completely at great expense, or a canal must
be made from Goolwa (inside the mouth) to
the harbor, or railway handling must make
the transfer. The Peake scheme favors an
improvement of the railway, but the other
plans have their supporters, though in the
cause of decentralisation it is to be hoped
that everybody will realise that the only way
to get the thing done is to do it. Discussion
won’t shift a bag of wheat or a bale of wool.


GAN CIA’S
EXTRA DRY
ASTI SPARKLING
SWEET
AS SUPPLIED TO THE KING OF ITALY AND ALL ROYALTIES.
_/GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1900.
AWARDED | GRAND PRIX, RRUSSELS, 1910.
CIVIL SERVICE STORE AND ALL LEADING HOTELS. ASK FOR IT.
Sole Agents for Australasia: LUBRANO (Si FERRARI, 32 O’Connell St., Sydney.
ALL OTHER ITALIAN WINES KEPT IN STOCK.
df
IS a Hospital Brandy of incomparable purity and medicinal excellence,
character of CHATEAU-TANUNDA BRANDY which holds it on
popularity unequalled by any other Brandy in Australia to-day.
Insist on having “CHATEAU-TANUNDA,” the Special Hospital Brandy.
TucKer &. Co., Limited Sydney
It is the consistently high
a pinnacle of widespread
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
-Proprietors.
g
fg
The "WARRIGAL” Rug - 30/-
—an excellent Australian maKe.
For those who will travel at Easter time this quotation is particu-
larly opportune —and interesting'. It is a rare value in rugs, which
have risen so much in prices that this value stands as something
unique. An all-wool Rug—the wool grown and woven in Australia.
Warm, soft, neat in design. Reversible checks of Brown, Grey,
Red or Green. Fringed ends. Buy early for the earning Winter —
the supply is limited this year.
30/-
PEAPES PAY POSTAGE.
New catalogue sent on request.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “Mrs. Dot”
Her Majesty’s “The Bing Boys Are Here
Palace “AlaCidin
Tivoli “Samples”
Union Tiieatiii s Moving; Pictures
Hoyt's Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “You’re in Love”
Royal “Within the Law”
King's . “Turn to the Right”
TrvoLi “Jack and the Beanstalk”
ilovr’s Dk Leak Si Ulviuua Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
At Melbourne King’s last Saturday a
crowded house for the revival of “Turn to
the Right,” and a ready welcome for the
three young men from Sing-Sing prison,
offered no encouragement to advocates of the
Higher Morality. There is nothing of that sort
about this mushy comic melodrama, though
the sentiment is sweeter than you get iu
“Wallingford,” its ’Murkan prototype. In
both plays a sparkling stream of roguery is
turned into the channel of virtue by the unex-
pected ability of a human chump who is pre-
pared to place the goods, the providential
chump being, in the one case, Eddie, who gets
orders for carpet tacks; and, in the other,
Sam, who can sell jam by the ton. Neverthe-
less, the uplifting influence of Joe’s angel
mother seems more humanly natural than the
miraculous effects of The Lodger in “The
Third Floor Back,” who used to cure the
sinful hoarders by Christian Science. Even
the sudden softening of Callahan, the detec-
tive, when confronted with angel mother,
is comparatively reasonable. The one hope-
lessly unaccountable fact in the play is the
hard greed of old man Tillinger. He per-
sists in his wicked design on Mrs. Bascom’s
peach orchard despite her infectious good-
ness. Everybody else’s heart is touched by
the lady’s propitiative voice and celestial
smile, yet Tillinger, her habitual grocer and
rent collector, doesn’t get twopen’orth of
spiritual uplift from their business rela-
tions. That must be because he’s a deacon.
The only sort of character on earth which
declines reformation with a scowl is a
deacon in American drama. The author, to
he sure, endeavors to whitewash Tillinger in
the last act. But the present writer is
not deceived. The grocer’s belated amia-
bility can’t be due to the radiating goodness
of Joe’s angel ma. lie practically strokes
the hands lie would formerly have bitten
for the simple reason that they can now
write cheques for heavy grocery accounts.
Tillinger thinks of Mrs. Bascom, not as a
Good Woman, but as a Good Customer.
The men who played their parts effectively
enough in the first production of “Turn to
the Right” are still there, and their playing
is all the better for long practice. Gill.v
is most distinctly better for having cleaned
himself up a bit and toned the extrava-
gance of his comic relief, without unduly
accentuating his lapses into sentimentality.
Also Gaston Mervale, who used to walk
through his small, unthankful part in his
most staccato-villainous manner, is now as
colorless as he can contrive to make himself.
Mrs. Bascom, too, is a shade less assertively
angelic, and the suggestion that she per-
sonally communicates abnormal delicacy of
perfume and flavor to her preserves is less
marked than it was. You get an impres-
sion that the peach jam will be almost as
good when the factory girls make it. But
her appearance is rather younger than ever.
Nothing in this drama is a finer advertise-
ment for virtue than the face of Mrs. Bas-
eorn. It argues that the kitchen of a sinless
widow is better than a beauty parlor, and
unremitting piety and kindness more effi-
cacious than a course of face massage.
Lizette Parkes is a charming Betty, as
before; a new Elsie (Esther Mitcheil) is
winsome, and a fresh Jessie (Alma Rock
Phillips) fills the bill. The other peaches,
however, have lost some of their early
bloom, and one of the trees was rather out
of plumb on Saturday night.
** * *
Melbourne Royal abandons “The Easiest
Way” and reverts to “Within the Law”
this coming Saturday. With the exception
of Muriel Starr and Morrison the company
will be considerably different from what it
was aforetime.
** * *
At Melbourne Majesty’s the panto has
done its brilliant dash, and “You’re in Love”
will take up the running this (Thursday)
evening. A word of reference to Maud
Fane’s slippers and other important items
of the show will appear next week.
“Jack and the Beanstalk,” the successful
Anderson panto from Sydney and elsewhere,
is about to put in a couple of weeks at
Melbourne Tivoli. It will be played twice
daily during that period. Meanwhile Peter
Dawson is singing at the Tiv. and vaudeville
holds the floor.
* * *
Pretty Hazel Dawn was in front at Mel-
bourne Britannia on Monday in the burg-
larious topic, “The Lone Wolf.” To day
(Thursday) brings Alma Rubens and Walt
Whitman into notice in a terrific onslaught
upon inter-marriage. For the first half of
the week Billie Burke was the star at the
Melba in the Triangle story of “Peggy.”
To-day Mrs. Vernon Castle emerges in
“Stranded in Arcady,” and incidentally
makes a great leap from a cliff without
thought of the possible consequences to her
beauty.
* * * :!:
Billie Burke is “The Mysterious Miss
Terry” at Hoyt’s Melbourne house this week.
Billie is trying to find an antidote to an over-
dose of income by living in a cheap hash-
house and earning her own living. But the
pursuit of poverty is not very successful,
and she succumbs to the thrall of her
millions, feeling that her complaint is practi-
cally incurable. A good follow-on is pro-
vided by “A Roadside Impresario,” in which
a remarkable educated bear puts his “pro-
ducer,” George Beban, back into the infant
class of entertainers.
** * *
The Easter cow is on the way to Sydney,
and something may happen presently to the
everlasting Bing Boys at Her Majesty’s. But
the “last nights” trumpet has not been blown
yet. The big show is now in its tenth week.
“Peg o’ My Heart” hurries out of Sydney
Palace on Friday night, and makes way for
the “Aladdin” panto, team, headed by Barry
Lupino and Bert Bailey. It’s a swollen
entertainment, but the little Palace will have
to hold it somehow.
Marie Tempest and Graham Browne’s
first presentation to Sydney of “Mrs. Dot”
was happening at the Criterion while the
printer was spoiling this very expensive
paper by smudging it with ink. Next week
The Bulletin will ask its most benignant
critic to consider the new arrival.
This week sees the end of “Robinson
Crusoe” at Sydney Opera House.
“Samples” is still crowding Sydney Tivoli
showroom. The best friend a frothy show
like this can have is the plain-clothes wow-
ser who goes about amongst the right people
declaring that some of the revue girls have
as little on as the tasteful lingerie ads. in
mother’s pattern-books. These honorary pub-
licity agents (there are several of them
about) have no idea of the value of their
work.
“THE BING BOYS” MELODRAMA
BURLESQUE AT SYDNEY MAJESTY’S.
Jack Gonsalez Cannot endeavors to ex-
tract his trusty blade from his rival, Sir
Herbert Ralston.
Filling Sydney Playhouse nightly, the
Royal Strollers dispense merriment and
music that are clean and kindly, with
changes of programme every Thursday.
This week a burlesque on “Peg o’ My Heart”
is starred, with a speech by Peg’s father.
On March 16 Sydney James will present a
new company of Pierrots and threatens a
novel setting.
* * * *
At Sydney Strand there are five acts all
about a wonderful dress, “The Gown of
Destiny,”' and how it helped Billy Hughes
and George Frostier Pearce to Win-the-
War. The frock is the production of a
young French designer, who is unfit for ser-
vice. When Alma Rubens wears it slackers
become heroes at sight of it, and finally
it so dazzles a Hun officer that it saves the
designer’s father from being shot. But
there is ho Croix de Guerre for dress-de-
signers. Billie Burke, as “The Mysterious
Miss Terry,” heads a good three-feature pro-
gramme at Hoyt’s. At the Haymarket
George Beban, of Italy, is “A Roadside Im-
presario,” with a clever performing bear.
The humor of Fatty Arbuckle is the other
principal item. And the Crystal PalGli is
exposing “Empty Pockets,” from Rupert
Hughes’s novel—a murder mystery full of
red-haired beauties, thrills and revolver
shots.
** * *
The “English Pierrots” have been moved
out of the Exhibition Garden, and are spend-
ing their last Adelaide week at the Austral
Garden, across North Terrace. Adelaide took
“TURN TO THE RIGHT,” AT
MELBOURNE KING'S.
Sammy (Vincent J. Dennis ) and Muggs
(John Junior)’ talk business regarding
the peach crop.
to the old St. Kilda favorites rather slowly,
but will be sorry to lose them. The Tivoli
has the good old “Never Too Late to Mend”;
and, among the pictures, Evelyn Nesbit-Thaw
is at the Royal, and Olga Petrova and Lou
Tellegen at Wondergraph; West’s has the
delightful “Stranded in Arcady” (showing
a dressy lady with no chance to dress), and
the very popular Harold Lockwood is at the
Pav. _ Also the Grand has come out into the
limelight with fine under-sea pictures, into
which is worked the old “Twenty Thousand
Leagues” story.
The news arrived the day after the
announcement that the N. S. Wales conver-
sion loan had been triumphantly under-
subscribed :—•
A regiment of Hebrews has been formed and joined
the army in France.
Der Bridish Jewsiliers.
Frederick William Heclit, returning-officer
for the N. S. Wales State electorate of
Alexandria, was born in Schleswig-Holstein
just in time to escape being a German. His
name, however, brought him a lot of annoy-
ance from local flag-flappers. Tom ’Enley in
Parliament started shaking things up, but
at the moment when ’e seemed likely to suc-
ceed ’e left the country on a non-combatant
billet, and Ilecht escaped. The other day
the Holman Cabinet, tired of the whole thing,
resolved on asking the returning-officer for
his resignation, but just before the letter
reached him Hecht had escaped again—this
time by dying. Leaving his race and
nationality to be settled by another authority
now, it can be said that Hecht for 40 years
was a good Australian, and bought nothing
which was imported if he could get the
home-grown goods.
Chaplain James Green, N. S. Wales
Methodist Conference’s new president, was
born 53 years ago in England, where he was
a school-teacher for awhile. He came to Aus-
tralia 30 years back, and became a Metho-
dist parson. In S’Africa he was with the
First Bushman’s Contingent during the big
scrap with De la Rey at Elands River. In
the present war he went with the First Divi-
sion to Egypt and Gallipoli; back to Egypt
to organise hospitals; then to Lemnos
and next to France; and lately to adminis-
trative Headquarters (London). Between
whiles he scribbled “News from No-Man’s
Land,” wherein his own particular 14th
Brigade gets the good word. Padre Green
was made a C.M.G. last January, but he
has done so much good work that no one is
likely to give him the glassy eye on that
account.
“303”: “L.A.G.” (B. 28/2/’18) has doubts
about the unsinkability of flour-laden ships
because he read in the Saturday Evening
Post of the sinking of four ships said to
answer this description. Now, as those ships
were bound for the Persian Gulf through the
Straits of Gibraltar and Suez Canal they
would certainly be steamers and not sailing-
ships. I never imagined that a cargo of
flour would support engines, boilers and a
thousand tons or so of b-unker-coal. Again,
it is highly improbable that the shipments
were complete cargoes. On the contrary, as
opportunities for shipment of war-material
are not too frequent, we may be quite sure
that, in addition to the flour, the vessels were
carrying a varied assortment of heavy war
ironmongery—probably thousands of tons of
such deadweight. “L.A.G.” surely would
not expect a torpedoed ship to float if so
loaded! If “L.A.G.” will take a biscuit-tin,
a sack or a wooden box, fill it with flour,
knock holes in it with a pick-axe, or fire
expanding bullets through it, and then throw
it into the nearest waterliole, he will find
it will float and will remain afloat for some
days. The experiment is simple enough to
be tackled by anybody barring the Defence
Department. The latter ignored the matter
until attention was drawn to it in The
Bulletin, and so far I am not aware that
one complete cargo of flour has left these
shores since the war began. However, I
had assurances late last year from the
French Director of Scientific Studies that
experiments were being made, and it is
quite likely that the large orders since placed
for wooden sailing-ships are the result. Also
note that Canada has been invited to grist all
the wheat she can. As for Australia—well,
apparently, through the mismanagement of
our affairs, we have been counted out.
“C. Sec.”: Now that Jerusalem is in
British hands, and the railway which has
been pushed across the Sinai desert from the
Suez Canal is joined up with the Constanti-
nople-Jerusalem line, the longest steel
track in the world is complete. Disregard-
ing the half-mile or so of water at the Golden
Horn, the line links up three continents and
makes a direct run from Calais to Cairo.
And, a little later on, it will stretch from
Calais to the Cape.
Adelaide has lost at last James
Chittleborough, close-on 87. He was one of
the few remaining “Buffalo” arrivals of
1836, and was left on board with the other
kids while Governor Ilindmarsh landed at
Glenelg and “proclaimed” the province under
a now-historic gum. A little later he was at
a school run by the wife of Governor Gawler,
and chased after the funeral of Colonel Light
to the solitary grave in the middle of Light
Square. Chittleborough, like most men of
his day, had a shot at the Victorian gold-
diggings. In later life he was well known as
secretary to the Licensed Victuallers’ Asso-
ciation, and a regular responder to the
“Pioneers” toast at the 28th December
celebration each year at Glenelg.
“Somebody”: I can tell “Myola” (B.
21/2/T8) why “young goddesses display
their lovely limbs as chorus girls” instead
of rushing the model’s throne. Who’s going
to rush a throne or anything else at a bob
an hour? When I was a “young goddess” I
was much flattered to receive an invitation
to “sit” for a prominent artist. For my
face only, I insisted. Afterwards many
others begged to paint my limbs. Not
understanding “art circles,” and being a
very modest youngster, I promptly refused,
but promised to rent my face for classes at
the usual humble shilling an hour. I reckon
it is worth a shilling a minute to sit or
stand still hour after hour listening to per-
sonal and (sometimes) unkind remarks from
the mannerless females of the class, until one
grows emaciated from nerve-strain. I know
I lost more than half my good looks in one
year of sittings. It isn’t healthy work for
young goddesses. I’ll sit for any artist, at
any time, without any fee, but Heaven pre-
serve me from classes!
“Arthur R.”: The huge aerial masts used
in wireless telegraphy will disappear soon.
Before I was compelled by the Defence
Department to dismantle my experimental
station I had great success with low
aerials, and, listening from Melbourne, have
frequently heard Sydney radio station, using
as my aerial the door-bell circuit, about 30ft.
long and at no point higher than four feet
from the ground. Balsillie, when wireless
expert for the Commonwealth, succeeded in
communicating from Melbourne to Hobart
without any aerial wires at all, using, in-
stead, wires buried in the earth; but some
people thought that the two submarine cables
between Victoria and Tasmania largely
helped that experiment by induction.
“J.H.M.A.”: With respect to the discus-
sion as to the ill-luck attendant upon the
lighting of three cigarettes with a single
match, W. J. Locke gives another version in
“The Wonderful Year” :
With something of the grand manner he held a
lighted match to Corinna’s cigarette and to Martin’s.
Then he blew it out and lit another for his own.
“A superstition,” said he, by way of apology. “It
arises out of the Russian funeral ritual in which the
three altar candles are lit by the same taper. To
apply the same method of illumination to three
worldly things like cigars or cigarettes is regarded
as an act of impiety, and hence as unlucky. For two
people to dip their hands together in the same basin
without making the sign of the cross in the water is
unlucky on account of the central incident in the
Last Supper, and to spill the salt, as you are absent-
mindedly doing, Corinna, is a violation of the sacred
symbol of sworn friendship.”


LADIES! GOLD MEDALS
SPEAK LOUDER THAN WORDS.
\NU I AH
PC
m
ZA LAC
OMNIA
LABOR
VINCIT
jpohft
TOILET PREPARATIONS
HAVE WON SIX GOLD MEDALS.
New lace Cream (for oily skins): Pink 4/-, White 3/6 per jar-
Lakslimi Cream (for dry skins) 3/9 per jar: Powder (Cream
White, Pink) 3/6; Soap 3/6 box of 3 cakes; Dental Cream 1/6-
Perspiration Powder 2/-; Curative Ointment 2/6; Hair Foods :
Oily 3/9; Non-Oily 4/9; Dry Shampoo 3/9.
THE BEST THE WORLD HAS PRODUCED.
Obtainable at all the leading Chemists; also stocked by Farmer’s
The Civil Service, David Jones’, Horderns’, W. T. Waters’’
Lassetter’s, &c., &c. e ’
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Powder (name the tint), or Soap or
Dental Cream and Booklet, to John Strange Winter (London
Paris, Rome), 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney 375
Collins Street, Melbourne; and Messrs. Taylor & Colledge Ltd
Charlotte Street, Brisbane. ' ’ "’
,V\e It on i a n
lV \ HIGH-CLASS
ISPEfIALTBES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL RINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
<S
E. DROWN (§> SONS LOISDO^
AGENCIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director.
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
“The Snake”: Man is his own secret;
woman is the other man’s.
INVULNERABLE.
HE: “That’s all very well, but tee can’t all
be — er—bally heroes, wounded at the
tear, and all that, y’ know.”
SHE (after vain efforts to snub): “No, it
seems some can’t even be wounded at
home.”
Some time ago when it was officially
known that several Australian traders, over-
due for many months, had been captured by
a German raider, the steamers’ agents were
instructed to notify the nearest relatives of
passengers held as prisoners. One woman
who tripped into a shipping office in response
to an urgent summons received the glad
tidings with a stare of blank astonishment.
“You don't seem pleased,” remarked the har-
binger. “Look here, Mister,” answered the
caller, “I don’t know what to do with him.
I was married again last week.”
* * * *
“Mirrool” : For the champion bad smell I’d
nominate the old P.H. gas helmet which was
in use until the early months of 1917. It
was a heavy fabric headpiece dipped in a
mixture of chemicals, with two circular glass
eyepieces and a rubber beak. Through this
latter a man emptied his lungs. But he
couldn’t inhale that way ; the air he breathed
had to come through the saturated fabric.
What soldier didn’t hail with delight the ad-
vent of the small box respirator, which is
neither smelly nor uncomfortable ! This life-
saver consists of two parts, the facepiece and
the container. The facepiece is of rubberised
silk and is connected with the container by a
rubber tube. The container, which is car-
ried in a canvas haversack and strapped
round the chest, is filled with chemicals,
which purify the gas-laden air before it
reaches the lungs. The German gas mask
is much more compact and lighter than our
own. The chemical container and face-
piece are all in one, the container being
attached to the mask just below the glass
eyepiece. For safety and convenience I’d
much rather have ours.
* * * *
“Hamer” : The Australian may not be the
keenest souvenir-hunter in the world, but
he is the most venturesome. Certainly, it
was not only the souvenirs that caused the
firing-zone to be proclaimed out of bounds to
troops other than those actively engaged
there; Billjim had discovered that lost and
abandoned provisions were often to be
picked up in the forefront of the battle.
Another characteristic of Billjim is illus-
trated by the hospital order which announced
that all places outside the hospital are at
all times out of bounds to inmates classed as
bed-patients.
* * * *
“T.A.F.” : In one of the big pushes abaft
Ypres, an Australian private captured a
German officer of the best rattle-the-
sword type. The Hun waved Billjim aside.
“Surrender to you, a private? Never! Take
me to your colonel.” The Aussy whipped
out his jack-knife and removed the pretties.
“Now, Fritzie,” he said, “you’re reduced to
the ranks. Come along.”
* * * *
“Spook Sampler”: Sydney has been catch-
ing the fortune-tellers with a police sister
who drifts into the dens of mystery and
bunkum and emerges with a
peggy-bag full of evidence. It’s
all very slick, but I doubt
whether it is worth while. The
other morning I couldn’t read
the account of one case for
the chitter-cliatter of three
kittens on the same seat. The
third kitten was speaking as
I got the drift of their conver-
sation : “And, you know, I’m
sure something dreadful is
going to happen, because none
of us girls can ever get any-
thing out of them. They talk
the Most Awful Hot!” It re-
minded me of how the wash-
ing came to be burnt. A plain
little expert arrived to do a
short day’s tubbing for five
shillings. Just when she had
her useful job fairly under way
one of the married lady-
boarders discovered that Mrs.
Buggins did fortune-telling.
There was a sort of stampede
to the wash-house, and within
an hour Mrs. Buggins, by
strict neglect of her legitimate
business, had made 17s. 6d.
She was earning the eighth
half-crown by foretelling a
dark man across the water to
a woman whose husband was
bald when a smell of clothes
burning broke up the stance.
But Mrs. Buggins doesn’t
worry about washing now.
Scented and jewelled, she sits
all day in a “parlor” selling
thistles to she-asses. In this
matter women won’t be re-
formed and they can’t be
educated.
“Copabella”: A little-noticed pronounce-
ment by the Anglican Archbish. of Melbourne
is of more than church interest. His Gaiters
hinted at the early foundation of Anglican
teaching sisterhoods, somewhat on the lines
of the Iloman teaching-orders of nuns, as a
means of counteracting the strength the con-
vents are gaining by the excellent —and
AN OPPORTUNITY LOST.
“Hoo are ye, DonaV —but ye are lookin’ doon!”
“Ay, mon! Can ye wonder? Here’s a mon sellin ’ medicine cheap, an there’s nothin'
wrang wi’ me.”
cheap—education they are supplying not only
to their own faith, but to hundreds of
Protestant children. Lowther Clarke doesn’t
see how an education of the convent stan-
dard at the convent price can be given
except with the help of unpaid or part-paid
labor. The sight of soldiers’ institutes,
buffets and clubs, and comforts funds and
workrooms, all run voluntarily and effici-
ently by more or less leisured women, many
of them of his own persuasion, has, however,
given the shrewd old gentleman an idea, and
he has flown his little kite so that this
unpaid labor need not go a-begging when the
V.A.D.’s and other patriotic workers are dis-
banded. It is well known that the English
Church in Australia will have in the near
future a bob or two to burn. If it can get
hold of a big parcel of free labor as well, it
ought to cut some ice in the most far-reach-
ing side of religio-social activity, the educa-
tional. It makes one wonder what that Car-
penter of Nazareth would think if he dropped
in on a scheming synod of one of the great
religious bodies to-day.
‘Tons” : God knows war’s wounds are
cruel; but give me wounds before shell-
shock. Its victims may be dumb, or they
may be chattering lunatics. Some are stone
deaf. Others are keen-eared as hounds:
to these a clock-tick is unimagined torture.
Let a noise recall the battlefield, and —well,
one boy told me (he was quite shamefaced
about it, bless him!) that a motor-cycle
“backfire” had sent him trembling'down an
alley. And now a poor chap from Pozieres
comes to my rooms and tells me he can't
stick his new job—too much bang and smash
for the raw, quivering nerves. It’s in a
cordial factory. And we are sending dozens
of these men back into civil life as though
there was nothing amiss with them. Pilate
Populus washes his hands. Then we wonder
why recruiting is difficult.
* * * *
From “a man who has been dealing with
the young rascals for 10 years” :
The increase in juvenile crime is not caused by
picture-shows. Experience has shown that the sys-
tem of dealing with youthful offenders is at fault, and
errs on the side of leniency. Over half the crime
reported is committed by youths under the age of 18
years, and how could it be otherwise when the Law
treats these hard cases like a trembling Aunt Emily?
Young Billo, who reckons himself a man, burgles
a shop or a house and is caught. The arresting John
Hop must spirit him into a room, well away from
the awful precincts of the court, where the elderly
“special” magistrates are surrounded by a flock of
clergymen, Christian Endeavor ladies and relations
of “the offender.” (He must not be called “the
accused.”) Billo is handed out a fortnight’s proba-
tion, and his push at once makes him the hero for
the week until some other tough kid does something
bigger. It is the knowledge of the freedom, from
punishment, coupled with the lack of parental con-
trol, that is the cause of the increase in juvenile
crime. Of course no one with any sense wants to
restore the, old system whereby a window-breaker
stood beside the bludger to be dealt with. But, under
the present flabby system, a person under 17 charged
with murder could, and no doubt would, be fined 2s.
and allowed two weeks to pay. Stiffen up the chil-
dren’s courts ar.d reduce the age of offenders dealt
with there from 17 to 15 years; then you’d see the
figures tumble. ,
PREPAREDNESS.
THE GIRL: “ Learning French, eh? Going to
the Front?”
THE BOY: “No; ma has a new French maid
and it might come in handy.”
THE BLOSSOM OF SPRING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“There are ever-increasing indications that the
German attack is imminent.”
Now breaks the crocus through the wintry sod,
The first warm wind comes creeping from the west;
Soon will the northern springtime walk abroad,
Green at her feet and blossom at her breast.
Along the line the great guns hold their breath
Waiting to load the milder airs with death.
Soon will the violet ope a dewy eye,
The daffodil go swaying on the wind,
The white clouds tuft with down the happy sky,
And the first pansies lift their faces kind ;
And then, ah, then, with clash of steel on steel,
Terrific force will make its dread appeal.
There shall be apple-blossom in the land,
And crude red blood upon the growing grass ;
Green buds shall wake upon the willow wand
And tortures keen of liquid fire and gas;
And when the roses break upon the hill,
There shall be fifty thousand graves to fill.
Sap in the branch and hate within the heart,
Blossom and bee and murder all the day;
Growing and dying earth shall bear her part,
And mix her perfumes subtly with decay.
It is the Spring ; and now, if all goes well,
There shall be leagues of horror and of hell.
Give us good weather for the coming fight!
The season’s tingling change finds us prepared.
The shells are eager for their singing flight,
The trenches nicely garnished, swept and aired.
Lo, here they come! Dense waves along the hill
Call us to kill and kill and kill and kill.
This is the Spring’s great blossom fierce and red.
Its flaming petals open to the day ;
And all the mingled blood of all the dead
Shall drench its roots beneath the fiery spray.
Yet let it grow and blaze if that increase
Of horror give us everlasting peace.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


While the Huns continue in their devil’s
path of unabashed frightfulness and oppres-
sion the Allies cannot hesitate at method in
their defence of justice, opineth that just
spirit King George IV. topnotch Scotch.
# —Advt.
A Letter of Interest to all Pastoralists and Farmers throughout Australia.
Mr.T. I. Campbell, Gen. Sec. Farmers & Settlers’ Association, N.S.W., gives this testimony to Clements Tonic
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD Farmers & Settlers’ Association of N.S.W.
. ' 7 O'Connell Street, Sydney, 27/7/’l6.
Knowing the value of Clements Tonic from personal use and experience, I do not hesitate to give you my
opinion of it, simply putting into words what I have so often spoken.
“I believe it to be a very fine nerve and blood tonic. I know that it has benefited me greatly. At various
periods my duties are exceptionally heavy, involving great mental and nervous strain, and I have always found
your medicine of the greatest value to me, having singularly invigorating and recuperative properties. * -
“I make a point of recommending Clements Tonic.to many of my friends, as I feel desirous of enabling
others to benefit by my personal experience. “I am, Sirs, yours sincerely,
“T. I. CAMPBELL,
“General Secretary.”
It is questionable whether there is any
man better or more widely known than the
secretary of this far-reaching Associa-
tion, whose members scattered far and
wide amongst the farming and pastoral
community number thousands. Mr.
Campbell’s testimony will be read wild
interest, because of its sincerity and its
lucid explanation of the value of Clements
Tonic and its 1 neficial effect upon his
health. There is no better medicine for
the man on the land. It is a mistake for
you to be without it. Keep it at home.
GET CLEMENTS TONIC TO-DAY AND GET WELL. ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle, N.S.W.
Quite seriously it is announced that the
Australian birth-rate shows a decline and
that the position is “unsatisfactory.” Con-
sidering the very large number of men who
are away, saying nothing of the large num-
ber who are only recently returned, what
else could be expected? The soldier who has
been a year or more at the Front can’t be
expected to telegraph a baby from Flanders
or forward twins on a postcard.
From an M.C. in France:—
On this ground the German began his advance in
1914. He had the big Prussians on the front. I
suppose our machine-guns got him, for in places we
dug up hundreds of men lying in lines as they fell.
Of course their clothing was gone, but money and
brasswork were found. I unearthed one of those
Prussian helmets with the spike on top, like you see
Hindenburg wearing in his pictures.
On the other front we witnessed a splendid spec-
tacle. Two of our little ’planes attacked a big
Gotha. After a short fight the German ’bus began
to burn at the tail. When the Hun saw this he
turned and flew for home, with the devil creeping
up to him. As he neared us the flame was about
20ft. long, and hid the tail part altogether. It looked
fine to see our two ’planes following up whilst Fritz
tore for his own lines. But he couldn’t manage it:
when just above us the Gotha popped and broke
into many pieces. I saw the men and engine
fall from a great height into a shell-torn
village in Fritz’s lines. The tail and one
tremendous wing sailed into No-Man’s Land qn our
front. That night we crawled out and cut the big
black cross from the wings and sent, it to our vic-
torious airman as a souvenir.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin, —I am thinking of bring-
ing out a small, cheap
and handy book, in the
primer series, to be called
‘‘The Habits, Manners,
Customs and General
Demeanor of Harlots; or
The Flapper’s Friend.”
So much time and money
are spent by parents
and guardians, and by
the flappers themselves,
in acquiring this form of
knowledge at the cinema
shows and in certain
literary publications (but
especially the former),
that I think Miss Rout’s
fc.udable intentions as to
rendering harlotry in-
nocuous might well be
backed up by an effort
to educate the flapper
class in this direction,
and thus produce suffi-
cient “clinical material”
for future use when that
lady’s scheme gets going.
Half-grown children and
maids and youths are
doing fairly well, as it
is, with the cinemato-
graph; but my plan is cheaper, and in any
case the two might be used in conjunction.—
Yours, Dr. Nil.
* * *
Adelaide’s women police—who are steadily
growing in number —have confided that there
is an embarrassing side to their duties ;
loitering about in public places, as they are
bound .to do, they are constantly being mis-
taken in the dusk for ladies of quite another
class,, and find perfect strangers confidently
claiming their acquaintance. Also the Girl
from the Country, if brought up on white-
slave literature, has a tendency to yell for
help when approached by a pleasant-spoken
woman-stranger. The only remedy in both
cases is to flash the star of office, like an
American detective on the film. The police-
women, by the way, say that they merely
hand over a young girl found in dubious
company to her mother. On a second offence
they hand her over to her father; but this
awful penalty is seldom called for. So evi-
dently dad is still boss of the household", in
spite of much literature to the contrary.
“Ex-Prisoner”: J. 11. M. Abbott, in
“Botany Bay” (B. 14/2/’l7), claims that
the prisons of N. S. Wales are worked under
the “best system in the British Empire, if
not in the whole world.” One
may visit a military encampment
and examine all arrangements, yet
understand very little of the iife
of a soldier or the system of
training. It is the same
with prisons. Surely
Mr. Abbott’s is too high
praise for a system
under which boys of 1(5
years and upwards are
sent from place to place
in handcuffs and chains.
And I cannot conceive of
a system being worthy of
praise that provides for
174 hours’ solitude a day
for its victims. On
Saturday it -is 104 hours
and on Sunday 22 hours—the
prisoner being all that time locked
in a cell alone. The cells are built
in such a manner that the sky is
never seen, and the sun never
shines into them. It is a system
under which even a whisper is
prohibited in many classes and
everything is subjected to the
scrutiny of warders who (to put
it mildly) are often ignorant and
brutal. No —lots of improvement
will have to be made before the
system will- even be humane. And
in this matter reform is apt to be
very slow, because those who have
had personal experience of the
defects are not, as a rule, willing
to come out into the open or even
communicate their views in this
way to the press. Yet it surely is their
duty.
* * * «
“N.A.R.Iv.” wants to start a Revolution:
An outstanding defect of the Commonwealth Con-
stitution is the lack of any apparatus to prise a
politician out of his job. Politeness won’t
do it. Though Pearce has been asked—nay,
urged—to depart from his two million sur-
plus Billjim boots, he coyly declines. Though
all the newspapers in the Commonwealth join in
imploring him to go back to carpentering, he merely
evades the subject. A deputation of leading or mis-
leading citizens suggesting that he should commit
hari-kari among his surplus waggons would meet
THE HOMCEOPATH.
MENDICANT GENT.: “Sir, I am suffering
from indigestion .”
PROSPEROUS GENT.: “Well, what the, devil's
the good of telling me?"
M.G.: “Sir, you might shout me something
to digest."
with a spurn. It is not likely, either, that the
Won-the-War Cabinet would accept the suggestion
to hold another referendum on the subject of Pearce's
political extinction: there would be the lurking fear
that the voters might also hoof out others as well.
Thus, as all the possible public methods would
certainly fail, all that we can do is to form a
League of Narks. These estimable persons would be
recruited from the vast body who take their politics
seriously. The objective of the League of Narks
would be to get rid of Pearce by countermining.
Each Nark would swear to annoy Pearce. On his
walk to his office Pearce would, one morning, And every-
thin! person amusedly gazing at his Ministerial boots.
By the time he arrived among his other 2,000,000 boots
he would be convinced that something awful had
QUITE A DIFFERENT MATTER.
“Vot is it vorth?”
“Vot do you vant?”
happened to his hoof-gear. That worry would be
aggravated by his mail, which would consist almost
wholly of postcards, urgent wires, official-looking
envelopes, all asking the same question: “Why don’t
you resign?” He would wake up that evening to
find a herd of goats in his backyard; and in the
morning he would find his residence white-washed.
Rude posters would stare at him from the hoardings,
asking the eternal question. The barber who cut his
hair would be the disguised Vice-President of the
Narks; and Pearce would know he was no barber
by the time his hair was cut. The children of
prominent Narks would earn pocket-money every
time they ran over him on their scooters; strange,
camouflaged cows would browse on Pearce’s asters;
his milk-jug would be found full of ink; and all
his breakfast eggs would be Warwicks. Though, of
course, he mightn’t resign, after all, I’m sure the
League of Narks would enjoy itself.
The protest against imported Governors
made by Minister Fihelly of Queensland was
open to only one objection—it was ill-timed.
At the present high prices of food bis Ex.
can’t carry much money out of the country.
He may not carry any. If be is a rich man
he may even leave some of his own money
behind him. He helps to eat up some of our
accumulated wheat. If he is fond of stew
he may be a humble and limited influence in
the way of keeping down rabbits, and he
should be encouraged to e'at rabbit stew. His
presence here mitigates the almost unbear-
able strain on the British food supply. He is
bound to speak strenuously (but often very
badly) in favor of recruiting. As he comes
and goes he is a sort of well-advertised
barometer of the seas, for if he gets here
without being blown up it shows that the
German marine menace isn’t so bad as it
might be, and if he gets back at the end of
his term without being blown up it suggests
that the menace might be worse. Still im-
ported Excellencies are passing away. A
handsome, affable, intelligent bachelor Excel-
lency who married an Australian girl and
went on the land at the finish of his term
might galvanise the fading institution for a
while, but nothing can make it what it was.
On the night that the news came through
about the German raider Wolf’s return to a
home port after cleaning up two or three
oceans a bright lad at a naval “Smoke-o” in
Sydney sang “Asleep on the Deep.” He
hasn't collected all his fragments yet.
♦ * * *
“Young Master Mariner”: It has been
reported that the Federal Government is
likely to get members of the League of
Ancient Mariners to bring out the first of
our American-built ships. The excuse is
that Australia is now short of officers.
Nothing of the sort! There are many young
men available, with the necessary qualifica-
tions, and fully competent to command these
vessels. They have been struggling through
the various grades for years, in the hope of
attaining the coveted position of master; but
when an opportunity such as this occurs
they find themselves likely to be passed
over in favor of men who have had their day
and are comfortably anchored. Were Lhe
Prime Minister to give more publicity to this
matter, stating his requirements, he would
find no lack of qualified and certificated men.
As it is, save for a newspaper paragraph or
two, we are kept in ignorance, not only of
the requirements, but also as to how and
where to make application for these posts.
Giving all due credit to the Ancient Mariners
for the patriotic motives which prompt them
to offer their services, I think some considera-
tion is due to the Modern Mariners, who,
moreover, are better fitted to cope with the
heavy strain of war-time navigation.
* * * *
Pearce’s Defence Department proves that
it isn’t quite dead by inventing a new mis-
take every day. The brass “A” pinned above
the battalion colors has hitherto been the
distinguishing mark of the dinkurn Anzac —
the Billjim who actually got to Gallipoli.
Now Pearce or some minor muddler pro-
poses to give it to men who stayed in Egypt.
The badge should never have been issued.
That blunder having been made, it is natu-
rally difficult to resist the claim of the men
who were eating their hearts out to get away
from the base and the horses, and were not
allowed to. Yet once you give them the
“A” the public will know that the badge is
also worn by hundreds of pointers who
dodged the Peninsula—and have since man-
aged to dodge most other things except free
beer.
* * * *
By “Henry Horsecollar”: —
Cablegrammed that the U.S. people, who really
know something about the subject, expect to launch
133,000 tons of wooden ships during the present
quarter, while the output of iron and steel craft
goes on at the rate of about two per week. As the
Allies reckon their supply of sea-carriers as 7 i
million tons below urgent requirements (the loss of
12 million tons of shipping since the war opened is
the cause), every contribution helps now, even if the
timber is rather green and the tub that is built with
it isn’t good for quite a century. Our Chief Pro-
crastinator has, however, announced without offering
any reasons that his Government “doesn’t propose to
build wooden ships.” Yet even a lame duck of the
ocean could surely crawl as far as South Africa,
where 10s. per bushel can be realised for wheat these
days. A common theory is that Hughes and Cook
hardly even know whether a ship is solid or hollow ;
that they instinctively dread steel ships lest they
should expose their ignorance, and still more dread
the wooden sort which might expose their ignorance
CATASTROPHE.
“ What's the matter?”
“Fred!”
“Killed? Wounded? Prisoner? Gassed?”
“No! Coming back!”
sooner. A certain resemblance has been noticed by
unreliable and ill-informed persons between the faces
of the Prime Minister and the Emperor Honorius,
the man who kept on feeding his pet hens in his
palace at Ravenna while the Goths besieged and
captured Rome. The burning desire in this country
to put returned soldiers on to hen farms also recalls
Honorius, more or less. Hens and history both
repeat themselves.
INCREDIBLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
John Olliver, the story goes,
Was motoring' where softly flows
The water of a distant bay.
The sun was dying, and the day
Was draped in trailing robes of grey.
John drove a thousand-guinea ear,
And by him, shining like a star,
There sat a plump and comely dame.
She was a “bird,” they said. The same
John Olliver was fond of game.
He sped his car the ti-tree through.
Another car was speeding', t 00... .
They found John Olliver the rash,
The lady, and the car, a hash
Of irrecoverable smash.
Poor John was pieced and put to bed.
The lady had a damaged head.
Hut shrewd and worldly fellows bore
Her swiftly to another door—-
They’d seen such accidents before.
The story has been widely blown,
And everywhere the truth is known.
The puzzled speculation rife
Will surely follow John for life—
It seems the woman was his wife t
VICTORIA.
BILLY T.


THERE" wJAS ONCE" A POOR ROssiaN OF RIGA,
vJko
QfttRZV HiS H^ND
<0 (\ TIGEK.
they Went tor, *
““ Woa, _
With imf op ’*he' tigEX
A LIMERICK OF UNTIMELY FRIENDLINESS.


THE BEAST OF WAR.
THE LITTLE ONES: “Why do you want to hurt us?”


TRY MAGNESIA FOR YOUR STOMACH
TROUBLE.
IT NEUTRALISES ACIDITY AND
PREYENTS FERMENTATION.
Before giving up hope and deciding that
you are a chronic dyspeptic, ju-st try the
effect of a little magnesia—not the ordinary
carbonates, oxides or citrates, but bisurated
magnesia, which you can obtain from practi-
cally any chemist, in either powder or tablet
form. Take half a teaspoonful of the pow-
der or two compressed tablets with a little
water after your next meal. It will neutral-
ise the harmful acid in your stomach, dispel
the wind, soothe and heal your inflamed
stomach, and quickly relieve your indiges-
tion. Many hundreds of sufferers have
gained relief from this simple remedy,
amongst them Mr. I*. V. Anderson, of Coo-
ray, Queensland, who says: “I had suffered
from indigestion for about five years and had
tried all sorts of treatment without success,
when a friend advised me to give bisurated
magnesia a trial. I am very glad I did so,
for I experienced immediate relief, and am
now completely cured of my trouble.” Did
space permit, many identical experiences
might be quoted, all tending to prove that, if
you keep your stomach free from harmful
acids by taking bisurated magnesia after
meals, you need never fear any serious form
of digestive or stomach trouble. But, of
course, it must be bisurated magnesia—other
forms might do more harm than good.
A DVT.
fdg
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
scaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
df
w
/
LEWIS &
whirry.
MAKERS!
SH
Q
mS£
War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Baving;s Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 0 „ „ £lO
£43 15 0 „ „ £5O
£B7 lO 0 „ „ £lOO
£875 0 0 „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6° War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank or Australia. October, 1917
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Melachrino
Cigarettes
Lord Brassey admitted to cronies that his
trip to Australia had not been wholly vain,
since it had served to introduce him to
‘‘colonial beer.” Ilis Ex.’s appreciation of
it was candid and enthusiastic, lie even
went so far to confess to a medical friend
that he had no actual liking for the bicycle.
THE OLD PROGRAMME.
“It is trustworthily reported that the Germans
entered Pskoff at 7 o’clock on Sunday evening.”—
Cable.
THE HUN: “Ach, so ve have come to Pskoff.”
CIVILISATION : “Fes, and I suppose you will
remain to prey.”
True, he was met propelling a machine almost
as unwieldy as a lawn-roller in most out-of-
the-way places. “But I go cycling,” said
Lord Tom, “because it gives a man such
an appetite for a glass of beer.” Brassey
was the only Governor Australia ever had
who was game to leave his bike leaning on
the pub front while he went into the 3d. bar.
“Briner”: Old Tom Brassey, just dead,
fell into things and off things and over
things because his wife was ever so much
younger than he, and, out of consideration
for her, he didn’t want to draw attention to
his age, and therefore (amongst other
things) wouldn't wear specs, and would
attempt things he should have avoided.
Really, after all, a bigger man than he was
generally thought. What a Jubilee Juggins
he might have been, with the two millions
left him by his father! Yet he wrought as
hard as any Grub-street journalist on his
“Annual,” and was the fist swell yachts-
man to win a master’s certificate. Others
were only impostors, who had to keep a
real seaman aboard. Tom was a first-rate
skipper—plenty of evidence in the first
Brassey lady’s charming books. As a
booster of the Navy he was thorough, too,
and of the highest service to England.
Herbert Nicliolls was born at Ballarat
half a century ago and Grenville College
educated him. His dad was editor of the
Ballarat Star until ’8(1, when lie took a
similar job on the Hobart Mercury, and
went across with his family. Receiving a
clerkship in the Postal Department the
youngster devoured law by candle-light and
was admitted to the
Bar in 1892. In 1900
he sat in the Assem-
bly as rep. for Central
Hobart, and was
Attorney-General for
the Propsting crowd
in 1903-4. An extreme
democrat, as most
postal people are,
somehow, he was
always up against
dad’s Mercury when
seeking election. Act-
ing as Deputy-Gover-
nor is his pot pas-
time now, but aqua-
tics, tennis and rifle-
shooting still get a
place. His writings
include “A History of
the Tasmanian Con-
stitution” and “A
Treatise on the Hare
System of Voting.”
HERBERT
RIG ROLLS, Chief
Justice of
Tasmania.
Following on the sale of the Faulcon-
bridge estate, which has been in the hands
of the mortgagees for a generation, Henry
Parkes’s old Mountain home is to be torn
down and the material—there is some fine
timber in it—used up in cottages to be built
oh the land. Alongside is a tree planted,
so the local story runs, by George, now a
grey-bearded monarch, when he visited
Parkes as a youngster; and though a bush
fire has been over it there is still some life
in the wreck.
Stapley, Melbourne’s new cockalorum, has
so far failed to make much of a noise in
turtle-soup circles —which is as it should be,
of course, since a mayor who is largely fuss
and fur isn’t likely to do much for anybody
but himself. In some directions the new
man may be a very valuable reformer. One
of his ideas is to have a northern railway-
station to relieve the congestion at Flin-
ders-street —the dreadful scrambling and
battling which happens there, morning and
evening, six days every week* and Agar
Wynne may see in this a chance to prove
himself a far-seeing Railways Minister.
The Ma State’s new Cocked Hat isn’t the
first Walter Davidson N. S. Wales has met.
The first visitor of the name came with
Macarthur in 1805 with a grant in his
pocket for 2000 acres. Macarthur had much
difficulty in getting the 5000 acres he wanted ;
but young Davidson had no difficulty at all
in getting his slice, although he had not been
in the small settlement or done anything for
it. But then his uncle was Physician to
the King, his cousin was in good repute for
a successful piece of freebooting in India,
and a near relative of his was private secre-
tary to Camden.
For the first time in its history the med-
ical staff at Melbourne Hospital is under
the command of a woman. Dr. Isabella
Phillips is acting-Medical Superintendent
during the absence of Doc. McMeekin on
holiday.
Alf Foster, who after being selected as
Socialist delegate to Russia was refused a
passport, is the young Brighton f Vic.) bar-
rister who at the last election buzzed in at
the final minute and won the Labor ballot
for the right to be licked by Willie Watt at
Balaclava. He first bobbed up in National-
ist circles, and was an opponent of Social-
ism; but after debating with Hyett and
others he came over, and has been one of
the party’s best fighters ever since. Foster is
not as academic as some, but is all the better
for that. He writes a bit, and was the
author of the “Proclamation Illegal” leaflet
that fluttered out on an astonished poDulace
at the time of the first Conscription vote.
Of the N. S. Wales Soudan Contingent
eight members are lending a hand in France
and many others are represented in the great
war zones by sons. John and “Bill” Dailey,
the only surviving sons of the Minister who
was responsible for the offer of the Contin-
gent, have both been in the firing-line. “Bill”
was invalided home after two years’ service.
John is still in France. Colonel Bennett,
D. 5.0., has returned to the lines for the
third time. Fifty-one other of the veterans
met in Sydney last week to celebrate the
33rd anniversary of the sailing of the picnic
party in 1885.
Thomas Irons, who passed out the other
day, was a good Australian who did his
darnedest for Australian industries. Born
in Sydney 08 years ago, he served his time
with I\ N. liussell (who endowed the engi-
neering school at Sydney Uni.), and after-
wards put in a spell at sea as engineer.
Rater, he became a director of the Atlas
works at Woolwich (N.S.W.) ; and a little
over a quarter of a century ago he took on
the uphill job of pulling tilings together at
the big Clyde Works, near Sydney—then
owned by Hudson Bros., and slowly drown-
ing under the inrush of imports with which
the Freetrade lunacy was flooding the Ma
State. Irons and some others who believed
in Australia bought the concern and formed
the Clyde Engineering Co., of which he
became managing-director. Railway loco-
motives “couldn’t be made in Australia”
when Irons took charge; but for some years
before his death he had ridden to work daily
in trains of which not only the cars but also
the engines had come out of his own factory.
One son is an architect in the U.S.A., and
another —an engineering graduate of Sydney
’Varsity—has his wings with the Flying
Corps in France, and lately married the
daughter of a British peer, whose ancestors
were probably somethin** in the iron line
also, as the family name is Smith.
Roseworthy Agricultural College (S.A.),
the first founded in Australia, has good
reason to be proud of its achievements. The
Principal, W. ,T. Colebatch, is an “old boy.”
A. E. V. Richardson, Superintendent of
Agriculture in Victoria; T. E. Yelland,
secretary of the South Aus. Farmers’ Co-
operative Union; 11. E. Laffer, lately ap-
pointed Viticultural Expert for N. S. Wales ;
A. T. Jefferis, chemist to the Queensland
Department of Agriculture (on active ser-
vice) ; F. K. Watson, agricultural engineer
(on active service) ; R. 11. F. Maclndoe,
Assistant Government Veterinary Surgeon
(on active service) ; and W. 11. Birks, Agri-
cultural Inspector in N. S. Wales (on active
service) are amongst the others. About 180
former students have joined the colors. Capt.
J. S. Malpas, gold-medallist in 1909. has
won a Military Cross, and Captain .T. L.
Sandford has a similar decoration. And all
the time the younger students are watch-
ing the clock for the hour when they
will be of military age. The Principal, by
the way, had to be told by the Government
.that his services to the State were too valu-
able to permit of liis enlisting.
A GUIDE TO THE TOWER OF
LONDON.
STEVE (from Gienrowan) : “Aw! Never
mind about ‘the soot on yer left, and the
’elmets to yer right’ — what’s yer little
book gotter say about Ned Kelly's bit o’
ironmong’ry?”
To-morrow, March S, will be the Slst
anniversary of the christening of Melbourne
by Governor Bourke.
A battlefield coincidence. A young Aus-
tralian soldier named Dearie, returning from
a stunt on the Flanders Front, got separated
from his trench mate. After casting round
for some time he heard his mate’s voice call-
ing “Is that you, Dearie?” A Scotch voice
CAUSE AND EFFECT.
THE PARSON : “What! Still no work! How
do you, account for it?"
THE SEXTON: “Well, sir, ain’t you 'eard of
the doctors’ strike?”
answered “Yes,” and a Scotch Tommy came
up. “You’re joking!” said Dearie’s mate.
“Oh, no,” rejoined the other. “I’m Dearie.”
“Well, you’re not the one I’m looking for,”
said the Aussie; “I’m after the Australian
one.” Then Dearie from Australia came up
and there was inquiry and explanation. The
Scotch Dearie proved to be a first cousin of
the Australian—a cousin he had never
seen, but had often heard of, though neither
knew the other was in khaki.
Made his last landfall, at Sydney, aged
75, ex-Navy Petty-officer Ilenry Head. He
served in the Crimean, Maori and China
wars, in the last with good old Viking Raw-
son. After leaving the navy he put in 30
years as shipping clerk with Wunderliehs.
In his younger days he helped to push along
the N. S. Wales League of Wheelmen, and
latterly was president of the United Im-
perial Naval and Army Veterans’ Associa-
tion.
Passed out recently at SO, Peter Gay, one
of the pioneers of mining in N. S. Wales.
Originally a sailor, he went to Drake over
50 years ago, and worked on the Timbarra
and McLeod’s Creek fields. He was one of
the original prospectors of Lunatic Reef, a
rich find near Drake, and in ’79 was at
Boorook when silver was discovered there.
This was really the birth of silver-mining in
the Ma State, and led on to Sunny Corner
and Broken Hill.
THE NEW KNIGHTHOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’iVuy back by Sydney’s smiling bays,
Where sings the sea by shining sands,
And Peace still in her gladness stays,
My sweetheart waits with folded hands ;
For her dear heart is here with me,
So many miles across the sea.
Her husband held his treasure cheap
(Methinks a careless churl is he;
The love-lights in her eyes so deep
Seem of such priceless worth to me!) ;
Yet, still, for him her kind heart stirs,
A constancy so fine is hers !
O'cynic world, that docs not deem
A wife should hold a lover still,
When years have dulled love’s youthful dream!
In our love is no thought of ill;
The lover here across the sea,
Is that churl-spouse that used to be!
She moved me with no coward’s plea
When I would sail o’er danger’s seas;
But there with patience waits for me,
Her children gathered round her knees ;
And, as their prayers for me arise,
A warm, sweet love is in her eyes.
No holy cause of ancient days
Drew knight with warmer zeal aflame
Than now 1 feel to win her bays
And make a glory for her name.
Towards Honor’s lists I proudly move
To prove me worthy of her love.
How sweet she was I did not know.
For her would 1 be back again
To tell her that I love her so.
And, yet, for her shall I remain
To do for honor’s cause my part,
Her love a favor in my heart.
ON FOREIGN SERVICE.
HAROLD MERCER.


CHAMPION
\ kou your own ugareiie
from
Champion Tine Cui
Rich &Full Flavoured
j<)xyo&jxr7/ije Mr tlcafr
L TieX't tc
| 'V&ry
Cta,
ofr-ct;
&e '
\t, ;•; % f|§
onr own \sk
. from ;. >, ;;
■?;' \ J
in 2 ozuTins.
PIPE & CIGARETTE
TOBACCO


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S W
BRANCH OFFICES— '
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’s Building
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street. funding.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pigr Dead
Corroding: Dead
Antimonial Dead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Fithargre,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
buyers on a specially favorable
tariff of—
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade,
etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
BHAS
Lead Drosses, etc.
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
Leather PION EER Belting
FOR 60 YEARS THE LEADING POWER TRANSMITTER.
SOLE .
MAKERS
J. C. LUDOWICI <a SON LTD.,
U 7 YORK STREET. SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The North Shore Gas Co. (Sydney) :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1909.. £5,195 8 p.c.= £6,300 £35,676
Loss.
June, 1910.. 4,225 8 „„ 6,300 25,151
Profit.
Dec., 1910.. 12,716 8 „„ 6,646 £6,070 31,221
June, 1911.. 13,536 8 „ „ 7,196 6,340 37,561
Premiums on new shares .. 49 37,610
Dec., 1911.. 14,393 10p.c.= 9,371 5,022 42,632
June, 1912.. 14,237 10 „ „ 9,683 4,554 47,186
{Assets written up. Reserves trans-
ferred to capita], £82,687.
28,611 10 p.c. = 11,989 16,622 63,808
Reserves transferred to capital, £63,000 808
June, 1913.. 12,885 7p.c.= 12,848 37 845
Dec., 1913.. 13,652 7 „ „ 13,876 621
Dec., 1914.. 28,229 64 „ „ 26,596 1,633 2,254
, —Shares.—.,
“A” “B” Total.
Dec., 1915.. 31,164 61%6%29,912 1,252 3,506
Dec., 1916.. 32,178 64 „ 6 ~32,320 3,364
Dec., 1917.. 24,962 5',, 5 ~26,283 2,043
Notice, first, that the co. now issues its
ficcounts but once a year, so, though the
figures in the last few lines look fat, actu-
ally the net profits for the past 12 months
were less than those for 1911. But your
net profits are dependent upon what you
have snipped off the gross; and in this case
the snip was a good deal larger last year
than in 1914. This shows that aspect of the
matter:—
1914. 1915. 1916. 1917.
Gross receipts . .£132,571 £149,461 £159,166 £169,045
Total outgoings. . 92,453 93,714 104,496 118,918
Gross profit.. £40,118 £55,747 £54,670 £50,127
Less Interest . . 356 6,995 7,355 7,812
Depreciation.. 11,533 17,588 15,137 17,353
Net profit .. £28,229 £31,164 £32,178 £24,962
Total outgoings, apart from interest, have
thus increased by 29 p.c., while gross re-
ceipts are 28 p.c. more. This suggests that
the co. hasn’t been treated badly by the
authorities which govern these gas cos.
Under the Act of 1912 the standard price
was fixed at 3s. 6d. per thousand feet; and
that price ruled until Aug. 28, 1914, when,
owing to the increased wages-cost of pro-
duction, the price was raised to 3s. 10d., the
Act allowing of that if the co. was not able
to pay 10 p.c. on old capital and 7 p.c. on
new. As soon, however, as the price was
put up, the Necessary Commodities Com-
mission, a war-time creation, got to work
and on September 17 ordered the rate to be
reduced to the old figure, but recommended
the Government to increase the gazetted
price to 3s. lOd. This recommendation was
adopted on November 14. Thus in 1914,
when the net* profit was £28,229, the price
was 3s. 6d. for about nine months and
3s. lOd. for three months. It remained at
3s. lOd. throughout 1915 and 1916; then by
the Hughes Government’s brilliant settle-
ment of the coal-miners’ strike the price of
coal was jumped up, and this co. was given
the right to charge 4s. lid. from March
to December, 1917, and thereafter 4s. Id.
At 4s. Id. it seems highly probable that the
revenue will show a larger percentage in-
crease than the outgoings compared with
1914.
The gas management’s strong point in
asking for a higher selling rate is that the
1912 Act contemplated a p.c. dividend
on old and 7 p.c. on new‘capital. If the
capital had been left where it was this might
have been all right; but the cos. were
allowed to water their capital, making it
equal to the full value of the assets; and
that, of course, put a 10 p.c. return quite
out of the question. This co., for instance,
was in 1910 paying S p.c. p.a. on £157.500.
Two years later, after getting in more capi-
tal (and new capital is supposed to be able
to earn only 7 p.c.), it wrote up its assets by
£145,000; and the Act contemplated a 10
p.c. return on the lot. Anyway, if it didn’t
contemplate a 10 p.c. return it made that
the standard rate of dividend, and if that
rate wasn’t realised the co. was entitled in
certain circumstances to put up the price.
The amending bill, now going through Par-
liament, will, in effect, reduce the standard
rate of dividend, but allow the co. to pay it
by increasing the price if costs have been
advanced, not only in wages, but in other
directions. And it is in these other direc-
tions that costs have taken the longest leaps.
Look at these figures:—
1914. 1917. Increase.
Coals, oils, etc. .. £42,083 £57,616 37 p.c.
Wages (works) . . 15,859 19,228 21 „
Other works exes. (ine.
repairs) . . . . 11,017 14,057 27 „
That shows how valuable’the new measure
is going to be to these c-os. It also show's
what a maze you get into when you start
price-fixing.
The fact that the co. pays only 5 p.c. for
the year needn’t alarm shareholders. Apart
from the good that the new' measure will do
them, there are other things to consider. In
particular, a very large amount of capital
put into the new' Oyster Cove w'orks w'as
unproductive most of the year (“the whole
of the plant at these works,” the directors
say, “w'as used for the first time on Novem-
ber 21”), and £140,925 was borrowed money
carrying interest at the end of the year.
Also the big strike, wdiile it x'educed the
earnings, no doubt added a bit to some of
the exes.
* * * *
The Standard Fire anb Marine Insur-
ance Co. (Maoriland) :
To Re- Re-
Dcc., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1904. . £12,715 10 p.c. =£7,500 £5,215 £72,666
1905.. 12,953 10 „ „ 7,500 5,453 78,119
1906.. 11,570 10 „ „ 7,500 4,070 82,189
1 907. . 12,697 10 „„ 7,500 5,197 87,386
1908.. 8,180 10 „ „ 7,500 680 88,066
1909.. 12,573 10 „,, 7,500 5,073 93,139
1910.. 20,610 Hi ~ „ 8,312 12,298 105,437
1911.. 18,512 llj „ „ 8,500 10,012 115,449
1912.. 19,801 12 „„ 9,000 10,801 126,250
1913.. 23,176 13 „ „ 9,750 13,426 139,676
1914.. 18,425 13 „ „ 9,750 8,675 148,351
1915.. 34,508 134 „ „ 10,000 24,508 172,859
1916.. 11,834 13J „ „ 10,000 1,834 174,693
1917.. 23,170 13J „ „ 10,000) -„ 17 „
Written off property, £lOOO J IBt>,Boo
The published accounts for the year give the
balance available as £22,850; and you can
reconcile that with the foregoing £23,170
this way:—
Balance as per directors’ report . . £22,850
Less transferred to guarantee and
provident fund . . . . . . 1,200
£21,650
Add transfer to current risks reserve . . 1,500
Accretion of securities depreciation
fund .. .. . . .. .. 20
Total profit . . £23,170
The profit has been very erratic during the
war years. In 1915 the co. had exception-
ally good luck; but in 1916 Wilhelm’s sub-
marines had their turn, and a long string of
Maoriland traders went under. Last year
the co. had the luck again, though, as the
next table shows, its premium income shrank
a little:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £49,004 £32,600 £15,033 66.5 p.c. 30.7 p.cl
1900.. 55,475 29,830 15,285 53.8 „ 27.6 „
1905.. 54,246 29,399 18,011 54.2 „ 33.2 „
1910.. 73,370 36,593 23,760 49.9 „ 32.4 „
1912.. 90,441 47,792 31,476 52.8 „ 34.8 „
1913.. 100,663 50,777 36,123 50.4 „ 35.8 „
1914.. 112,056 62,928 39,283 56.1 „ 34.9 „
1915.. 127,081 56,947 43,675 44.8 „ 34.3 „
1916.. 128,581 77,661 50,175 60.4 „ 39.0 „
1917.. 125,502 61,926 50,521 49.3 „ 40.2 „
The principal exports from Maoriland, in a
larger degree even than from Australia, are
commandeered by the Government for the
Allies’ use; and the marine insurance on
these commodities is lost to this and other
“colonial” cos. However, probably five-
sixths of the solid little Standard’s pre-
mium income comes from fire and other
shore risks; and the experience in this sec-
tion was last year exceptionally good—the
I.W.W. fire-bugs were quiet and the hail
risks which gave many an Australian man-
ager some bad hours in 1916 were normal
or better than normal. But exes, continued
to grow, and over a good deal of the increase
the management has no control whatever.
For instance, Government taxes:—
1914.. ..£2154 I 1916.. ..£6935
1915.. .. 4282 I 1917., ~ 7121
And the end hasn’t been reached yet.
The head-office is in Dunedin, and new
fashions, especially in finance, are not
rushed in the cold Scotch city of the South.
So, though the formal reserve fund has
grown from £15,000 to £128,500 in 20 years,
the directors are still content to leave the
paid capital at the £75,000 at which it stood
in 1898. Of course it really doesn’t matter,
except that,, when shareholders by self-sac-
rifice have piled up a big reserve, a high rate
of dividend on a small capital is misleading
and calculated to provoke attacks in and out
of Parliament. So. far as the policy-holder
is concerned it matters very little whether
the guarantee fund is in capital or reserves.
He is concerned about three things:—
(1) The proportion of funds to risks.—An average
British figure is £l6O of funds to every £lOO of
the year’s premiums. The Standard is much stronger,
with 209 p.c.
(2) Whether funds are being strengthened and at
what rate. —Last year’s interest earnings were
£11,291. The dividend was £lO,OOO. In no year
since 1913 has the dividend amounted to as much as
the earnings from investments. For four years, then,
all the underwriting profit and more has gone to
strengthen the funds.
(3) The quality of the assets.—The Bulletin
doesn’t profess to like the directors’ policy with
regard to investments. But they are coming our
way. In 1913 they had £113,680 in mortgages, and
though about £50,000 has since been added to funds
these advances are now down to £107,040. Mean-
time what were formerly lumped as “Debentures”
have moved from £58,719 to £129,719.
A little more information than hitherto is
given about "Debentures - ’; they are now sub-
divided into “Debentures,” £64,719. and
Dominion and Commonwealth War Loans,
£65,000. There is really no reason why a
complete schedule shouldn’t be furnished,
seeing that almost all are iirst-class goods—-
mostly Maoriland municipal advances, such
as Dunedin and Christchurch municipal
(tramways) loans.
Amalgamated Wireless (Austral-
asia), Ltd.:—
Nomi-
Written To lie- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
T , & £ £ £ £
June, ’14.. 8016 2* p.c.= 5600 3000 16 16
Dec., ’14.. 7812 5 „ „ 3500 4312 4328
June, ’15.. 4611 7 „ „ 4900 2938 1101
Dec., ’15.. 2230 Nil 2230 3331
June, ’l6. . 6235 10 p.c. = 7000 1543 1023
Dec., ’16.. 6150 Nil 1610 4540 5563
June, ’17.. 4623 10 p.c. = 7000 2709 477
Dec., ’17.. 5422 5 „ „ 3500 1825 97 574
For the last couple of years the practice has
been to pay a dividend only after the June
balance; so the dividend has actually been
o p.c. p.a.—the same as the directors pay
for the past half-year. The payment of the
dividend half-yearly instead of yearly has
probably been one of the results of a change
in management. 11. R. Denison, for some
time managing director, has gone off the
Board ; and simultaneously this item has left
the assets: “Investments in other cos.—
shares, £3000; advances, £20,500.” Twelve
months ago it was reported that the Board
had decided to temporarily “utilise a portion
of the spare funds in the acquisition of a con-
trolling interest in a local co. which holds an
important agency for the sale of Chevrolet
motor-cars in N. S. Wales and Queensland” ;
and six months later it was reported that,
though the investment had been paying 6 p.c.,
the directors had “considered the advisability
of releasing the capital thus invested and are
pleased to report that satisfactory arrange-
ments have been made in this connection.”
It looks as though the high-toned Marconi
interest in London didn’t like the association
of this co. with a motor-garage business and
had more or less bought out the managing
director on condition that he relieved the co.
of the outside investment. The capital thus
released has gone partly into the wireless
business and as to £10,537 into War Loan.
Also as at Dec. 31, £6759 was employed in
advances against Amalgamated Wireless
(Australasia) shares being transferred from
the Public Trustee to intending shareholders.”
These shares were no doubt some of those
issued to people interested in the Telefunken
system, for which one of the two original cos.
held the Australian rights. The sale to the
new shareholders has been completed and
since Dec. 31 “the co. has been reimbursed.”
The co. carries a heavy load of goodwill
capital, £90,000 of the total of £140,000
being represented by patent rights. Against
this, however, there is _ £23,325 of reserves
“for patents, depreciation and marine in-
surance.” The amounts transferred to those
accounts —£1825 for the past half-year—are
exhibited in the table as written off. This
comparison shows how things stand if the
intangible patents asset is disregarded :
Dec.,’ls. Dec.,’l7.
Assets other than patents. . £73,553 £91,111
Liabilities 6,110 13,712
Surplus .. ..£67,443 £77,399
Meantime the shareholders have had 5 p.c.
p.a. Early in the war business was seri-
ously affected, and owing to restrictions,
which are obviously necessary, private radio-
telegram business is still dead; on the other
hand, the installation business has naturally
been brisk. The factory has been “fully
occupied with work of a highly important
nature. .. .A large number of complete wire-
less telegraph stations have been manufac-
tured during the past 12 months and the
factory is still particularly engaged in that
class of work.” But this must be regarded
as chiefly war-work. When peace comes the
co. will have to rely more largely upon its
small cut out of radio messages; and there
is always the possibility of the Common-
wealth coming in and taking a larger interest
in this business.
Daily Telegraph Newspaper Co. (Syd-
ney) :
Bonus to
Net Dividend. Shareholders
Dec., Profit. (124 p.c.) (in Reserves.
1907. . £40,885 £16,900 £63,433
1908.. 36,946 18,750 15,000 66,629
1909.. 44,074 20,625 16,500 73,578
1910.. 50,374 22,687 18,150 83,115
1911.. 55,256 24,958 19,970 93,445
1912.. 56,892 27,452 30,380 92,505
1913.. 49,795 31,250 16,666 94,384
1914.. 41,828 33,334 102,878
1915.. 40,002 33,334 —• 109,546
1916.. 40,019 33,334 116 231
1917.. 37,637 33,334 120,534
The year’s harvest is a lot better than the
general manager expected when in February,
1917, he told the Federal Arbitration Court
that “we _ are going to earn nothing—less
than nothing by thousands of pounds”—and
“there does not seem to be the ghost of a chance
of a dividend this year or next.” The gen
eral manager was just then thinking only
of the extra money he had to pay out.
Paper had more than doubled in price; and
that looked like more than wiping out the
profit. But other things were possible; and
that they have been discovered and done, so
that the old profit has been almost main-
tained, shows how very much better a man-
ager Watkin Wynne is than he thought he
was.
All the same, a good many fingers have
been burned over Daily Telegraph shares.
The same bad thing happened here as in
connection with Sydney Ferries, only more
so. Year after year, in addition to the cash
dividend, the shareholders got a share bonus.
This shows how that process piled up the
capital:—
1897.. .. £50,000 1906.. ..£120,000
1898.. .. 57,500 1907.. .. 133,100
1899.. .. 60,100 1908.. .. 150,000
1900.. .. 66,100 1909.. .. 165,000
1901.. .. 66,100 1910.. .. 181,500
1902.. .. 75,000 1911.. .. 199,650
1903.. .. 85,000 1912.. .. 219,620
1904.. .. 100,000 1913.. .. 250,000
1905.. .. 110,000 j 1914.. .. 266,666
And then there was a bump and a dead stop.
In 1904 a p.c. div. took £12,500; in 1914
it demanded £33,334. So the profit that was
formerly available to pay for the bonus
shares was, as the years went on, in greater
and still greater measure required to pay the
dividend. Nevertheless shares were valued
on the assumption that bonus and dividend
could continue indefinitely. Of course there
were a few people who had a good time.
They dropped to it and sold the bonus
shares as they were issued —sold them for
years at £O5. For some time the bonus was
one share in 10, and so long as these people
could sell a bonus share for £65 they were
making 10 p.c. apart from the dividend. It
was this issue and sale of bonus shares that
kept up the price at such a ridiculous level
that, on the dividend alone, the return was
under 2 p.c. When the bonuses stopped of
course the market smashed. “What made
the shares drop from £7O to £28?” the Judge
asked during that Arbitration case before
referred to. “The falling off of the earn-
ings resulting from the war largely. Most
stocks have fallen a good deal, and ours
more than any of them, because it is known
that we are faced with these heavy charges
for paper.” That was quite right; but it
isn’t _ really the “paper” Mr. Wynne was
alluding to that costs the money. It is the
paper issued as scrip, which costs so much
in dividend that there isn’t now anything
left for the bonus that caused practically all
the old Inflation.
Capital is £266,670, with £233,330 un-
issued. There is no item of goodwill in the
accounts; but everything that one pays over
and above £l4 10s. for these shares he pays
for goodwill. (The shares are £lO and the
reserves are equal to another £4 10s., or
thereabouts.) Funds are' as to £185,901
invested in the King-street property and
£50,629 is in plant; the -balance (£129,009
net) is in stock and liquid assets. The cash
position is really excellent; notwithstanding
that the co. has but just built and equipped
its new premises, it has over £75,000 of
deposits and war loan and other like securi-
ties.
The Castlemaine Brewery, Ltd. (Fre-
mantle, W.A.) :
Nominal
Dividend Written To Re- Re-
Profits. and Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June,T2. .£5626 lOp.c. = £3150 £BO6 £1670 £17,941
Dec.,’l2.. 5420 10 „ „ 3150 849 1421 19,362
June,’l3. . 6131 10 „ ~ 3150 854 2127 21,489
Dec.,’l3.. 6224 10 „ „ 3150 904 2170 23,659
June,’l4.. 4954 10 „ „ 3675 873 406 24,065
Dec.,’l4.. 5476 10 „ „ 3675 855 946 25,011
June,’ls.. 4748 7| „ „ 2756 845 1147 26,153
Dec.,’ls.. 4525 5 „ „ 1837 846 1842 28,000
June,’l6.. 3737 5 „,, 1750* 825 1162 29,162
Dec.,’l6.. 4016 5 „ „ 1750* 826 1440 30,602
June,’l7.. 3448 5 „,, 1750* 772 926 31,528
Dec.,’l7.. 4472 Nil 745 3727 35,255
*Exclusive of dividend tax.
This brewery’s faith in the future of the
Bung industry passeth all understanding. A
Fremantle pub, the Commercial, was on the
market lately, and the directors considered
that “in the best interests of the brewery the
co. should purchase it.... The purchase was
made and your directors think that no divi-
dend should be paid this half-year.” In
view of the world-wide kick administered
to Booze —total prohibition throughout
some nations and severe restrictions in
others—they’re a plucky crowd at East
Fremantle, to saj the least of it. Though
the trade in the West has not been affected
to the same extent as in the Eastern States
(profit from trading is practically what it
was before the war), increased costs and tax-
ation have robbed brewery and hotel profits
of some of their old glitter. Net profits for
the December half-years have drifted this
way:—
1912.. ..£4571 1915.. ..£3679
1913.. .. 5320 1916.. .. 3190
1914.. .. 4621 1917.. .. 3727
The average for the last three Dec. half-
years has been equal to not quite 7 p.c. p.a.


The British Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd.
Everything Electrical
whether for the production, distribution or application of electricity
for power and lighting purposes is manufactured by the British
Westinghouse Electric & Mfg. Co., Ltd. They offer the advantage
of undivided responsibility for power and lighting equipments.
Their productions include; —Steam Turbines; Turbo-Generators;
Blowers and Compressors; Condensers; Gas, Oil and Diesel Engines;
A.C. and D.C. Generators and Motors; Electric Tramway and Railway
Equipments; Transformers and Converters ; Switch and Control Gear ;
Meters and Instruments; Lamps, Fans, and all Electrical Accessories.
mm
m
Manchestet
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works—Tr afford Park, Manchester, England.
Every engineer should be a subscriber to the
General Electric Review. It is a monthly .maga-
zine containing descriptions of the latest develop-
ments and practical applications of electricity in
every sphere. No library is complete without it, as
the contents are original, instructive and complete in
every detail, being contributed by the leading engi-
neers of the world. The subscription is only ten
shillings (10s.) per year, so subscribe now, or write
to the Australian General Electric Co., Wentworth
Avenue, Sydney, for a free sample copy.— Advt.
Since the time when the first man sheltered under
a tree to obtain protection from rain, the world has
evolved. Immediately the individual of the . 20th
century obtains any property to protect he builds
himself a house, and, if he seeks the best roof, covers
it with “Adanrax” Asphaltum Roofing. It is almost
proverbial that “Adamax” costs abodt one-third the
price of the almost unprocurable galvaniscd-iron. It
also costs about two-thirds less to carry it to the
point where it is wanted. “Adamax” Roofing has
been selected for many public works, which fact
alone stamps it as being of superior quality. For
further information, samples, booklet, etc., write to
William Adams etc Co. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Perth and Adelaide. —Advt.
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise inall
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
Pioneer Wood Pipe does not rust or corrode.' Made
in sizes from 2in. upwards. Send for our illus-
trated catalogue, which gives full particulars. The
Australian Wood Pipe Company Ltd. (H.0.),' Burns
Bay Road, Lane Cove, N.S.W. Telephone ,12213.
Contractors to all State Governments. Works: Lane
Cove, N.S.W.; Footseray, Vic. ; and Port Adelaide,
S.A.— Advt.
Australian and Other Patents. Obtainable through
P. M. Newton, Patent Attorney, Opp. Commonwealth
Patent Office, Flinders Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
The manufacture of the Australian “Skandia” Crude
Oil Engine continues a)'ace, and Nelson & Robertson
report inquiries from mining, dredging and other in-
dustries. The economy in the running cost of these
engines combined with the small amount of - labor
required appeals to all power users, and all interested
are invited to forward particulars of their require-
ments. “Skandia” engines are designed for both
industrial and marine work, and the static nary type
is unrivalled for pumping, hauling, compressors and
all mining and general work.— Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Ilassel, legistered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.— Advt.
Kingston Oil Wells Co. will pay £lOOO for positivi
evidence of a seepage of petroleum in any Australia!
State. George D. Meudell, Chairman, 9 Scotts Court
Collins Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
“Robey” Portable Steam Engines. Latest model:
from English works. Immediate delivery from Syd
ney . stock of 8 nominal h.p. (20 to 30 brake h.p.)
single cylinder; 14 nominal h.p. (36 to 52 brala
h.p.), double cylinders; 16 nominal h.p. (40 to 6(
brake h.p.), double cylinders. Catalogues, speeifica
tions and further information from Arthur Leplas
trier & Co., Circular Quay (East), Sydney. Queens
land inquiries to The Australian Machinery Co., Ltd.
Charlotte Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Cbllins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertli'ng's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles. Braun’s
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. If. B.
Selby ti Co., Ltd., 8 O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street. Melhniirnp —A nn
sareßoanto
i turn Bcnuia
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
Tk ‘ 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital .. .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
\V. 11. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street. Svd
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
on the average of the shareholders’ money in
the business; for the three previous terms
it averaged almost 11 p.c. p.a..
At Dec., 1913, the co. owed the bank
£6387 and sundry creditors £3499; at the
end of last year the overdraft stood at
£20,756 and £7893 was owing to sundry
creditors. That is an increased debt of
£18,763 in four years. Meantime, more or
less liquid assets have increased from
£17,040 to £22,433. So since six months
before the war started the cash position
has weakened by £13,370. This is due
almost entirely to the directors’ policy of
extending the co.’s interest in new proper-
ties. As at December, 1913, “freehold and
leasehold properties, plant and machinery,
rolling stock, goodwill, water-supply, etc.,”
stood at £108,069, with a depreciation
reserve of £15,471. That unfathomable mix-
ture is now valued at £136,268, with a depre-
ciation reserve of £22,033. So, providing
the allowance for depreciation is ample, there
is £21,637 more in properties, etc., than
there was three years ago. Of that, how-
ever, £lO,OOO represents new capital got in
during 1914. Whether the directors have
acted wisely in weakening the cash position
in these parlous times in order to go deeper
into the pub business only the future can
tell. Maybe the purchase of the Commercial
Ilotel was a snap. Or perhaps they have
inside information as to the Westralian
politicians’ attitude towards the liquor ques-
tion. Still, during the past few years there
have been many surprises; and even politi-
cians’ attitudes haven’t been always trust-
worthy,
* * * *
“Old ’Un”: Melbourne didn’t go nap on
the yarn sprung by Sydney that Broken Hill
Prop, intends to float the Newcastle iron and
steel business into a separate co. The shorts
in Sydney sent orders chasing one another
to Adelaide and Melbourne and got potted
up to £4. On secretary Dickenson’s denial
that any float of the kind was in the air,
there came the usual flurry to slide out. Still,
the market didn’t collapse, because it has the
idea, that Bowes Kelly was not allowed to
tell all he knows about the shekels flowing in
from iron and steel for fear a hornet’s nest
would be stirred up over the question of war
profits. As it is, Kills are being talked as
good for a fiver. The latest yarn concerns
the sale of reserve shares, or some scheme
of reconstruction. Last year the gossip went
round that it wouldn’t be a bad game to
capitalise the million and a half balance at
the credit of Profit and Loss. ■ Since then
most of that has been put to reserve. What
will be the next yarnV There is one tiling
worth remembering. At present' any issue
of bonus shares or other capital would be
heavily penalised in England, where there
are about 800,000 shares; so even though
the clever Australian mining crowd has so
badly beaten poor little Hughes that it is
practically exempt from war-time taxation,
consideration for the English shareholders
may lead to any contemplated action being
deferred.
* * * *
The bright hopes awakened in daily-paper
readers by the gold find at Dark Corner
(N.S. W.) have gone where so many similar
hopes have gone before, and the field has
lapsed into its former pleasant somnolency.
The original holders are attempting to prove
that the Verdun mine is a mine, but, except
for a few ancient battlers, mining activity has
died out, another instance of the fact that
one dab, even if good, won’t make a field.
The extraordinary prevalence of “magnifi-
cent gold discoveries” in Sydney papers
offers a vivid contrast to the paucity of
good gold-mines and yields, and seems to
suggest that any country correspondent is
allowed to be a mining expert in *a Sydney
daily paper.
* * * *
New Burragorang. Yerranderie (N.S.W.),
for 12 months to Nov. 30 last made a pro-
fit of £2166 after £266 had been written off
for depreciation, £446 for development and
£7l for preliminary exes. This little concern
made a practice of carrying forward a large
credit balance in cash against contingencies,
and at the commencement of the financial
year it had £2300, which with the net profit
of £2166 made £4466 available. The Board
splashed up £3750 during the financial year
in five threepennies, reducing the credit
balance to £716. The output in 12 months
was 598 tons firsts and SOS tons seconds. In
its palmy days Yerranderie produced over
5000 tons a year, averaging 22 p.c. lead and
lOOoz. silver.
From Wolfram Camp (N.Q.) :
The Thermo Electric Ore Reduction Co. is hustling
here. Of the claims acquired by the co. there is,
however, only one at present producing high-grade
ore, and that is Pepper’s mine. Development, which
included the introduction of machines, was being-
pushed ahead in the other claims until the wet
season came along and upset plans. The co. has
great hopes of the Hillside turning up trumps; but
while it is showing plenty of “spotted dog” spar,
its metal values are none too good. Of course a
bonanza pocket might be struck at any time in these
shows. At present the Hillside is being developed
with the hope of turning out plenty of good milling
stone. Leisener’s Block mine has had its shaft
skidded, and from here it is intended to work
the Larkin and Wade. To keep down costs an aerial
ropeway is being installed to take the place of the
costly horse and dray. The foundations of a 30-hd.
stamper mill were got ready, but the wet prevented
the co. carting the machinery from the railroad 14
miles away. It will be very interesting to watch
events when the co. gets into its stride towards the
end of the year. If cheap transportation and stop-
page of hand picking of the ore can assist, working
costs should be reduced ; but the main difficulty will
be to keep up metal values in the ore.
Private claims outside of the T.E.O. Co.’s inter-
ests have lately given most of the field’s rare-metal
output. Two of these shows are bonanzas. Welsby’s
Victory followed its pipe down from a pencil mark
in width until at 90ft. there was a body that opened
out to 30ft. by 20ft. by 25ft. and produced £2600
worth of hand-picked metal in 1917, and in addition
turned out a dump of milling dirt of 150 tons carry-
ing 20 p.c. of mixed metals. This is the result of
four men’s work underground one shift daily. The
Harp of Erin, owned by another local syndicate, is
also producing big metal. It has got a nice dump
worth anything up to 15 p.c. for metals, and, be-
sides, has turned out three tons of hand-picked
metal monthly. Other shows looking well at present
are the Tim Martin and Mt. MacGuire. The only
fly in the ointment for the small claimholders is
that they have to wait the convenience of the
T.E.O. Co. to get their stone milled, and this is
only done when the co. has none of its own stone
available. There are at present about 900 tons of
high-grade stone awaiting the before-mentioned “con-
venience.” The small men are thus severely handi-
capped, and the only way out is for them to get
their own mill.
* * * *
Evolution of the Childe Harold, Laverton
(W.A.), is slow. Already £4770 has gone
into plant, the application money has been
mopped up, and £2OOO of calls has dis-
appeared. No wonder the Board recalled
Bob Ditchburn to Queen-street to have a
chat over things. However, he stuck to his
inspection story that the mine is a big 80s.
proposition capable of being worked on exten-
sive lines very cheaply. He has returned
west and will get the water out and open
up the lode sufficiently to keep the mill going
three shifts on Berringa lines. Ditchburn
allows himself three months to do or die.
* * * *
Homeward bound to Perth, Tom Duff
paused in Adelaide to inject bull juice into
the Westonia Deeps market. He spoke of
the “extraordinarily favorable swing” of the
reef at 56(*>ft. away from the Edna Central
boundary line.” This is the fat bulge that
Stuckey has made so much of in recent
mine reports. Duff says he is out to push
development “at the greatest speed possible,”
and lie winds the bears by letting out that
March is to be a merry month, as the new
level is to be rushed ahead then. So Duff’s
congregation has become “highly optimistic”
again. This prop saved things when the
Edna May pumps cracked up. The water
came in so badly that Mick Williams, as a
measure of safety, lifted his electric gear
from 385 ft. This chivvied Stuckey out of
his lair with a wire that the water trouble
was exaggerated. His bulkhead door is
standing, so it doesn’t matter.
From Westonia-
During the past few weeks the life of the Edna
May group has been hanging on a slender thread.
For this period 14 million gallons of water per day
have been coursing along the Edna May 385 ft. level,
and seven pumps have proved just sufficient to pre-
vent the flood rising. Edna May and Central are
procuring additional pumps, and these will relieve
the strain and enable the two mines to work their
bottom levels. This news is pleasing to none so
much as Deeps, for when Edna May is clear of water
at its bottom level Deeps can work continuously;
but when the water rises to a certain height in Edna
May the Inspector of Mines will for a certainty
order Deeps miners out of the workings. Talk of
litigation concerning the water question is common;
but if once this subject gets so far as the law
courts the prospects of further dividends from
Westonia will be prejudiced, as the lawyers will
have the choicest morsel to pick that has come
their way for some time. Meanwhile Deeps has
struck in the winze at 45ft. below the 566 ft. level
the dyke that has had such an important and un-
favorable influence on the Edna May reef. The dyke is
underlying rapidly towards Central ground, and
Deeps is following it down with the winze as
graciously as possible. In this direction prospects
grow duller. True, the north drive has struck an
ore body of fine appearance near the north-east face
on the footwall; but it must be very close to the
Central boundary.
* ■* * #
From a Westralian engineer:—
Par. from Westonia (B. 14/2/’18) raises question
of ore reserves between the 480 ft. and 566 ft. levels
in Edna May Deeps. This is the sum: —
Sq. ft.
Reef at 480 ft., 117 ft. x 13ft. = 1521
(Report 30/11/’16.)
Reef at 566 ft., 180 ft. x 15ft. =t 2700
Mean area of reef . . 2110
The distance between the levels is 86ft. Cubic con-
tents are therefore 2110 x. 86 cub. ft., and allowing
12 cubic feet per ton this gives a total of 15,122
tons. But it is stated that the stope is up 25ft., and
that 30ft. has to be left to dam back the Edna May
water. Therefore available ore is not, as stated in
the directors’ report (19,500 tons), but 5455 tons.
If this is of the value stated it means something like
£20,000 over mining and treatment costs. But it is
persistently rumored that the rich shoot has been
gutted as high as the danger zone of the water, and
if this is so the available profit may be absolutely
nil. Another rumor that should be denied by the
management is that the north winze in the rich
shoot is being taken down so big that it is practi-
cally an underhand stope.
In view of the proximity of the workings to the
Central boundary and the statement that the reef is
making further into Deeps ground, a plan might be
reassuring to shareholders and a longitudinal section
to show the stoping would dissipate possibly ground-
less fears. To further clear up the position, the
directors might have the following questions
answered:—
(1) How was the estimate of 10,000 tons of ore
worth £30,000 above 480 ft. level arrived at on
30/11/’ 16 ? Do you still believe this estimate to be
true? If so, why, when the finances of the company
were in a desperate condition, did you only treat
1760 tons for £3BOO during the succeeding half-
year? If not, why did you not advise your share-
holders? Why, when your mill was running at only
half its capacity, did you not treat more than 520
tons from this level during the half-year ending
30/11/’l7 ?
(2) How was the estimate given in last report of
ore above 480 ft. level (14,480 tons worth £23,960)
calculated? Do you believe it to be a correct esti-
mate? If not, why do you put it in your report?
(3) Is it not a fact that the stoping at 566 ft.
level, apart from the ore removed for timbering pur-
poses, is confined to a length of 60ft. and a height
of 40ft. on the rich shoot?
(4) Is it correct that the Inspector of Mines has
ordered you to leave a water pillar below the 480 ft.
level? Have you allowed for this in your estimate
of ore available over the 566 ft. level?
(5) What is the average size of the winze being
sunk in rich ore below 566 ft. level? Has any
stoping or stripping been done off this winze?
A lot of supporters of mining lost their money biy
buying Black Range Pinnacles shares up to 19s. on
reports and estimates showing large profits in sight.
One director at least is common to the Boards of the
Pinnacles and Edna May Deeps, and it is possible
that the estimates in one ease are just as far wrong
as they were in the other. The methods of arriving
at estimates and advising monthly returns and ex-
penses must be brought into line with decent modern
practice before the public can safely come into this
market.
* * * *
A Melbourne eo. holding an option over
the Turn of the Tide, Kunanalling (W.A.),
lately obtained £OOO from 150 tons sands and
£230 from 28 tons ore. The next crushing is
expected to give a higher return, “as the
stone being broken is better than anything
yet obtained in the mine.” The venture may
turn out all right, but the district has been
the ruin of many.
* * * #
The 44-hour week for underground men
has arrived at Kalgoorlie. The rates of
wages there now are 11s. 3d. per shift for
mulloekers, truckers, shovellers and under-
ground laborers; the machine miner, unless
working alone, is paid 12s. 9d. a shift in-
stead of the old 13s. 4d. The award pro-
vides for lesser wages for certain surface
labor, but unless the 44-hour week under-
ground bumps up working costs the mine-
owners do not intend to take advantage of
these reductions.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) has got rid
of more underground hands, and little new
ground is now being opened up. The man-
agement states there is a year’s work ahead
raising and treating the broken ore in the
stopes. After that the co. will probably let
tributors have a go.
* • * •
Luck has turned with Working Miners,
Ivevington, near Wood’s Point (Vic.). They
had broken country in Nos. 1 and 2 levels,
but yields were good enough to open up No.
3 and sink a winze thence. Prom the floor
of the level prospects kept good, and now
over 4ft. of stone in the dyke is almost speci-
men stuff. That is the fun of mining in
the Mountains: when you strike it rich it’s
a legacy from a rich uncle. As one winze in
a shoot of stone doesn’t make a mine, the
Working Miners point out that there is
enough gold-bearing, stone going underfoot in
the level to make the property more than a
prospect. Another shoot exists away to the
north, so the programme is to belt ahead
No. 4 adit to prove that at depth, and at
the same time join up with the winze in the
southern make of gold.
# * * #
Only five countries in the world produce
platinum in quantities worth recording, and
Australia is one. But the output fell from
12480 z. in 1915 to 2220 z. in 1917, shooting
Australia down from third place to fourth.
Russia’s output fell in the same period from
241,2000 z. to 63,900; but Colombia pushed
her figures up from 17.500 to 25.000. TJ.S.A.
produced 7500 z. in 1917 and Canada 60.
“Machete”: The Bulletin’s mention of
the rise in the price of osmiridium reminds
me that this stuff was found in the creek-
beds of the Yodda (Papua) goldfield some
years ago. A market for it was hard to find
then, though the late Max Herman, a well-
known Papuan prospector of those days,
told me he could get rid of all he found at
£G per oz. If there are any fossickers
left on the old Yodda the present rise should
give them a chance of picking up a little
baksheesh, especially up Finnegan’s or out
Prospect way.
(“Wild Cat” continued on page 3Jf.)


CtidVljrtbisH'* l *
HEERING®
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
A
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
obta Branch S^P s
MISS B\Stt° P A reet ,
TooS^el'S^Pomt
438 PjJ* Street- B0 add . logt on
W S° rd , StrS. OarUo?" ttrS
**L o%s° r< * tr t Svd^ e >
»<.<S'nr
Bo" d } B^ o Bouse, w<w t. SV 4 -
oetn' I '6 , -.verp oo ' *
Sh °^orb 0 rb-
fdg
PAULINE et CIE
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers.
George Street, Sydney,
Announce their AUTUMN AND WINTER SHOW
of MODEL MILLINERY on and after WEDNES-
DAY, MARCH 6. MODEL EVENING and DAY
FROCKS, COATS and SKIRTS, etc., on and
after TUESDAY, MARCH 19.
BUY
WORLD-FA/TED.
NEVER QETS BITTER.
Cash Coupon on Every Packet.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
Sauce
“Better
than Either”
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia
GET A BOTTLE.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, March 4,191 S.
My Dear Arini, —
A few weeks ago I told you that the
C -S.lt. Co. would have to rub along without
our colored fellow-subject from India’s coral
strand as a result of C. F. Andrews’s
inquiries into the conditions of indentured
labor in Fiji. Andrews, who was sent to
f’ C 1 liy the Indian Nationalists, was a parson
once; and bis. report has set the parsons
talking. Missionary Copland King, from
I apua, dropped a word or two on the sub-
ject to the select congregation at St. James’s
the other day, on the off-chance that some
C.S.It. Co.’s shareholders might be in the
comfortable pews. lie wants to know what
these shareholders are going to do about it,
and also why Sydney people weep over Bel-
gium but are cold to what goes on in Fiji.
Incidentally, he gave Australia’s only tropi-
cal dependency a good testimonial by wit-
nessing to “the extreme care of the Papuan
Government for the prevention of abuses of
this kind.” A test question has been put
to the C.S.R. Co. by the Indian Nationalists:
“Will the company supply matrons to
attend Indian women in hospital V” The co.
says it won’t, on the ground that “the men
in. charge of these hospitals are sober, staid,
middle-aged men.” Somehow it reminds me
of “Drying Room’s” recent Bulletin yarn
about the “grave and mature” proprietor of
a Turkish bath in Westralia who offered to
attend to the lady patrons of his establish-
ment because “sex was nothing at all to
him.” And there are things in Andrews’s
report that smell a good deal worse than this
matter of hospital attendance.
At the annual meeting of the Benevolent
Society there was a huge marquee on the
lawn in front of the Women’s Hospital—the
Paddington one, which this society main-
tains. The Elect, who were called to sit
on the right (or even the left) hand of
Greatness, put on their best bibs and pend-
ants. But the sacrifice was not necessary.
Lady. Davidson has the knack of dressing
well in the simplest garments. She was in
a black frock with a foam of white lace to
touch up the corsage, and a tiny posy of
silver flowers was the only fancy garniture
in her plain black millinery. His Ex. told
the company that his wife was a woman who
could get her way when she set her mind to
it. She did set her mind on a maternity-
home in one of their abiding-places, and it
turned out such a success that one in five
of the infant population availed themselves
of the right to open their eyes for the first
time under its roof. In the speech-making
Dr. Maud Sydney Jones, one of the Benevo-
lent Society’s medical officers since 1913, got
a pat or two on the back for her work.
A i-eturned Light Horseman sends me this :
“Though the Palestine Front seems to be
regarded as a side-show in the great war,
I’ve been there, and I assure you that it’s
not. all sherbet and cakes. But there is an
oasis here and there in the thirsty land.
A.L.H. and Tommies on their way to and
from the chase for the Turk have the Ivan-
tara Rest Hut to be thankful for. That’s
where two N. S. Wales ladies, Mrs. Chisholm
and Miss McPhillamy, have put up a record
for dinkum hard toil. They are out in that
dreariness on their own. Ask any returned
A.L.H. what that means!”
It took more than a quart of afternoon
tea to wash down the announcement at the
Sydney Hospital annual meeting the other
afternoon that there was an overdraft of
£37,000. The new Governor, who is having
a dizzying round of such meetings, was one
of the congregation to whom the sad tidings
were given.
Glen Innes girls missed the wedding of
Maud Ogilvie of II Parran, for the ceremony
was housed in St. Mark’s, Darling Point.
Two bridesmaidens, sister Katherine and
Grace M'enzie, tripped up the aisle behind the
leading lady’s snow-white plumage—Geor-
gette, the flimsy material of the moment, with
a pale pink blush where the long train turned
over. Ernest D. White, the ’groom—he hails
from Bluff Downs, Queensland —goes into the
firing-line at an early date. A tea party at
the Queen’s Club was the prelude to a brief
’moon on the South Coast, just now as green
as a new billiard cloth.
Eating the leek having gone out of fashion,
the Welsh-Australian sniffs a flowering bulb,
and mingles a Chopin nocturne (Frank
Mowat Carter at the fiddle) with its annual
thanksgiving. The Welsh Choral Society
kept up St. David’s Day with an evening
concert in the Conservatorium. Conductor
Jones, who has an English accent, has been
waving a baton over various societies in this
State with considerable success during the
past few years. To him the infant Cam-
brian Society has confided its musical destiny.
The first performance brough forth “Men
of Harlech”; and Welsh songs in the
language that tumbles over its own feet were
interlarded with the more easily digested
“Hymn of Praise” (Mendelssohn).
The Davidsons flit to Sutton Forest this
week. Only for a short spell; then back to
Maccjuarie-street. Meanwhile their two sol-
dier gentlemen-helps, the official staff from
the other side, are convalescing from their
war damages on the high seas. Probably
the Sydney girl will be able to purr over
them by April 1.
The aim of the forthcoming Loan Exhibi-
tion in the National Gallery is to show
what the Australian brush-man has achieved
since the bad, dark days when he was eyed
askance as something necessarily inferior.
The catalogue will range back from the
drawings of David Low—the newest star of
the modern school—to the paintings of
Charles Conder, George Lambert and John
Longstaff. Some one person had to shoulder
the heavy work that the rummaging and the
raking involved. Reams of correspondence,
an instinctive finger on the right spot, and a
steady flame of enthusiasm—all these things
helped. But the man who has been behind
all the effort chats evasively of what the
other fellows have done.
He is that G. V.
F. Mann whom the
Gallery has the good
fortune to have as
Director. An archi-
tect by profession,
he won long ago the
first (and only) gold
medal given by the
then president of the
N. S. Wales Insti-
tute of Architects.
An artist by in-
stinct, he worked
and sketched in his
off-time with Con-
der, Streeton, Julian
Ashton, Frank
Mahony and others
who now rank
amongst Australian
celebrities. Mann was in Europe when war
broke out. Hence his projected trip with
Longstaff to Berlin and Vienna—buying pic-
tures was the mission—abruptly ended in
Paris.
Director of the National Gallery since
1905, Mr. Mann is probably the least photo-
graphed man in this city, and owns to having
faced the camera willingly only in the days
of his swaddling clothes—quite a few years
ago. But at last he has been brought to bay,
and Judith Fletcher’s lens secured this ex-
cellent result.
After a record slump in February—even
weddings have been scarce —local Society
will put on its best hat for an early Easter.
The Munro Fairgusons get into residence at
Admiralty House in a few days, and war-
diluted festivity will get back the ghost of
its old autumn form.
The patriotic dance has already clicked its
satin heels. The Voluntary Workers’ Cafe
gets new saucepans and other necessities of
life with the cash from its hop in the Oxford
Hall a few nights back.
The Camel Corps Comforts Fund is the
baby of the lot, for it dates only from
August, 1917. Young and impecunious, it
craves your notice when the Easter show
comes round. This year the patriotic re-
freshment booths have to be in groups of
five, and the Camel ladies don’t want to be
forgotten when you order tea for two. Miss
A. Hislop is hon. sec., and has hon. treas.
Miss D. Clark and president Mrs. Rowntree
to back her efforts.
Though Strathsaye, Stanmore, the new
C. of E. hostel for women students, can’t
house more than two- or three-and-twenty
for a start, the urn will hiss from March 18.
Peter Board has given it his blessing as the
lodging-house the bursary girl from the
bush is looking for. Miss Maearthur Onslow
has been a kind godma to the new establish-
ment, and Bishop Stone-Wigg wears his
gaiters on the committee.
George Cann, M.L.A., has passed on to
a Red Cross meeting some of his impres-
sions of its good deeds on the other side.
He saw the working of the machine in Erg-
land. and got as far as Etaples—the place
wuich ,sed to hum with artists’ chatter —
when pneumonia, a thing you could get with-
out crossing the sea, knocked him over.
After that he had a personal experience of
King George’s big hospital in London.
Mrs. Jopp, the handsome lady who has
been a pillar to the Sock Fund, is seriously
ill. The Moore-street depot is taking a
few weeks off the purl and plain in conse-
quence.
Bobby and his pal the Fireman had their
big carnival to help the hospitals on the
Show Ground on Saturday. The new Cocked
Hat and his lady attended, and they were
at the lunch, liis Ex., by the way, is on
lemonade —till after the war anyhow.
About 140 teas were served at Leura Goff
House on Saturday afternoon. Government
land-valuator Sievers was on the green. A
local veteran of 70 summers or so got round
nimbly with the tools. The A. E. Hughes
party had Mrs. W. F. Brennan at their table.
The Nettleton girls (of Wahroonga) motored
mother down from Medlow. Timber-man
Langdon, who has a house on the crest of
the hill, was in the throng. And secretary
John Portus beamed over all.
Various Red Cross panjandrums have led
Lady Davidson like a lamb to their different
depots since she stepped ashore. After in-
specting everything from basements where
the spring onion sprouts for the cause to the
hand-made tweed looms, the visitor sighed
her satisfaction. Three years and a half of
war have put a polish on the great organisa-
tion for the wounded. They have also eaten
up a huge hole in Australia Day Fund.
But April will bring another big chance to
drop your ultimate shilling in the box.
The Women’s Horticultural Society, no
longer a sickly seedling, will count its assets
at a forthcoming meeting. There’s a new
shop, this time in George-street, to back up
the flourishing concern in Victoria Arcade.
Over 300 members now answer the roll-call.
Women who never sold a caraway-seed
before the war are taking to trade with
such success that some of them are eager to
stay behind their own counter after patriotic
and other calls are over. That sounds like
the Millennium.
The Red Cross paper depot in Wynyard
Square asks me to tell you that it’s hungry
for Bulletins. Really, paper is too expen-
sive these times to waste. When you can’t
find another thing in your Bulletin to
growl at, will you send it to Wynyard
Square, whence it will be sent on to Billjim
in hospital and at the Front?
Twenty-one years ago, when this State
was keeping all right-thinking persons awake
o’ nights by taking its first timid steps in
“labor” legislation, it looked round for a
woman inspector to see that the provisions
of the newly-passed Factories Act for the
protection of women workers were observed.
Miss Annie Duncan, a pioneer of the
women’s movement in the Cold Country, who
had made her name in London anti-sweating
campaigns, happened to be in Australia at
the time, visiting her sister, Mrs. Champion,
whose husband then was headmaster of the
old King’s School at Parramatta ; and Miss
Duncan got the job. There was nothing
“cushy” about it, for the average employer
looked on her as rather less welcome than
Beelzebub, and in early days she rarely got
the glad hand when she dropped in at a
factory to see how things were going. Be-
sides, the original Act and Regulations were
crude and incomplete; but she battled
steadily for improvements, and it is largely
through her that the factory girl of 1918
(who mostly wasn’t born when Miss Duncan
took charge) has so much better times than
her mother of 1897. Some of Miss Duncan’s
reports on airy subjects like “Lead Poisoning
in the Manufacture of White Lead” and
“The Use of White or Yellow Phosphorus in
Matchmaking” are classics in the Labor
Department, and are trotted out as ex-
amples to every newly-fledged official. With
the growth of “experimental legislation” she
became also an inspector under Early Clos-
ing Acts, Arbitration Acts, Wages Boards
and half a dozen other things; and in later
years she has had a staff of women inspectors
to help her—among them Belle Golding, one
of the famous political sisters, and eloquent
Grace Scobie. Now she reckons it is up to
someone else. At the Labor Department the
other day Minister Beeby handed her a gold
wristlet watch and the usual address on her
retirement, and Under-Sec. Holme and a
dozen or so of male and female colleagues
said nice things.
The other afternoon Marjorie, fourth
daughter of Captain and Mrs. Forsythe-
Cheffins, was married to a Sydney man
named Cliff. Eskell. The knot was tied at
St. John’s, Croydon—where cottages have
lately been piling themselves on paddocks
that for years had been sacred to a few
affluent people’s cows. Bride Marjorie, one
of Chatswood’s smartest frockers, chose a
vieux-rose tailor-built suit, with a white
toque on her graceful head. Eileen Tucker,
in cream, attended to her bridesmaidenly
duties, with Sergeant-major Doulet as
second-best man. A guard of honor (a com-
pliment to the heroine’s father) formed out-
side the church for the bridal pair to duck
their heads under. The cake was pecked in
the Cheffins nest, Waikare.
Before the war,
the genesis of so
many virile Austra-
lian reputations, a
slim young man
rapidly taking short-
hand notes of dull
meetings, or showing
a keen interest in our
play-soldiering (the
Easter encampment,
for instance) was
Oliver Hogue, then
on the scribbling
team of S. M.
llekald. The war
call was promptly
answered by the
young man. As
“Trooper Bluegum,”
the author of many
first-chop articles, lie has been equally
ready with his pen. He’s with the
Camel Corps in the great Jerusalem-
Jericho round-up. Of General Allenby he
writes with enthusiasm. “A great soldier,
I take leave to say. Our boys swear by
him.” Here is Hogue’s photo. His father
is “Jimmy” Hogue, who used to be Minister
for Education. Tien Hogue, who has done
some bright work behind the footlights in
Australia, is a sister.
the Concord Red Cross Carnival the
welkin shook when the cornets and trom-
bones got busy. Three competitors struggled
to an eyelash for the Champion of Cham-
pions Cup. W. Ryder, formerly with the
Besses o’ the Barn Band, snatched the trophy
by a couple of points.
A bit of this on to a bit of that, with as
much fur as the times permit—that’s the
autumn frock. The return of the ancient
vogue of a very wide piece of silk-plush
round the hem of the skirt is possibly only
a fleeting notion. But plush, once the craze,
seems to be bobbing up again this season.
According to experts you can put it any-
where but on the back of your easy chair.
The Flying Corps Comforts Fund has
secured a shop at 305 George-street. Con-
tributions are urgently needed. Address
them to the head depot, 59a Wentworth-
avenue.
Ada Dwyer, who played “Mrs. Wiggs” and
other parts through Australia some years
ago, enthuses about our wattle. “It is,”
she declares, “one of the most beautiful
blooms I have ever seen.” She even goes
so far as to say that as a blossom it equals
America’s best. That takes your breath
away.
Mrs. Lyster Ormsby, as usual, mothered
the Sunshine Camp at Deewhy, and gave
the kiddies who were gathered from the
streets that are a disgrace to the City Coun-
cil the time of their lives. The youngsters
are carried off, just as they stand —not much
as a rule —-and the camp mother has the
time, of her life begging, borrowing or
making the extra duds necessary when
Tommy’s only pants are on the line.
Who could have imagined a few years ago
woollen evening gowns and day dresses inter-
lined with cotton wool? Yet London dress-
makers, who go, as in pre-war days, to Paris
each year, have discovered them on the high
tide of fashion. “Coal and hot water,” writes
an overseas correspondent, “are rare luxuries
in the once gay city, so comfort, rather than
‘cut,’ must be considered. The evening
frocks made of Shetland wool in delicate
tints, and day dresses that would almost
stand alone (they are quilted throughout),
represented some of the Paris styles at
Christmas.”
The 13th and 45th Battalion Comforts
Fund hold high jinks in Sargent’s Market-
street rooms about the second week in April.
As a preliminary, there’s a Cheero Girls’
revel on March 18. St. James’s Hall.
From “Australia Jane” in Brisbane:—
Kailway Commissioner Evans’s son was made a
quartermaster-sergeant after some good work at
Bagdad ; now he is a lieut. in the Supply and Trans-
port Corps of the Indian Army. Another son, who
was invalided home recently, is in the Military
Hospital at Kangaroo Point, seriously ill.
More good work by Cupid. Lieut. A. C. Cox has
obtained the necessary promise from Dora Larsen,
daughter of Lieut.-Col. Larsen, V.D., of Coorparoo.
The four baby clinics which the Government has
promised us will be ready early in March. Mrs.
Ryan is to open the first, and the other three will
be opened by Mesdames Theodore, Iluxham and
Fihelly in turn.
Yours affectionately.
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
*/ LTD
JEWELLERS.
Wristlet Watches
for Men.
f<M
'V,
m
w.
m
Reliable Silver Watch, with keyless Lever movement, fitted
on Pigskin Leather Strap with Silver Buckle,
ft 3 10 0
Reliable 9ct. Gold Watch, with khaki-colored Dial and Luminous
Hands and Figures, with high-grade S'wiss Lever movement, fitted
on Pigskin Leather Strap with Gold Buckle,
£5 5
ALL, WATCHES GUARANTEED BY HARDY BROS. LTD.
An Illustrated Catalogue sent Post
Free on application.
Five per cent, discount allowed ott
all cash transactions.
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY; 116-118 QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON.
Concentrated Efficiency
Is Embodied in the British-made
ENSIGNETTE
(•Smallest of all Vest-PocKet Cameras).
ws
No. 1
30/-
No. 2
37/6.
ph h otos Ve afd' P^ C h k SSSjfl?'Sn'ole f °“ a ’ *»** bright, clear
minutes’ demonstration. ’ ‘ a easy a beginner can use it after a few
through when 1 dosed—'justThe^^^ize^of^Va^j'v’^^ Bllll "" f in ’ wide x 2in - deep > and
° r Thfbodv Of the a r ady ’ S . ha,ldba s;> without SSS5 S Sr nd can be tattried in the vest
Bellows and Nickel Fittingsf °a firemens 1 of* 611 ' I ? UEt ‘ pro . of Metal, with Leather
giving Time and Instantaneous Exposures ° f ff °° d P° wer * and Shutter
s°* i’’ t f kes photos 2Min. X 1 Min.
Ao. 2 (Slightly larger in size), takes photos Sin. x 2in.' . . ‘ l?/' 6
The use of ° ar ™ Case ’ with Bp ok of Instructions.' 1 ' ' 7
Don’t Waste a Grain
of Dentists, Jewellers and"other woii-pi^rf/'^' 00 ev . er ,' " raill should be the endeavor
this is to have their r T f IQ us metals, and the best method of doing
M orks. 1 D eated at Harringtons Laboratories and Metallurgical
value is ' S c ,^ ass °f "'ork, and every grain that is of
He specialise in Aravina Ore Testis A, Sma - !1 f har; ’ f ‘ for >lf e refinement,
containing Gold, Silver Mr^Plat.inum*^w.” d Metallurgical Analysis, and buy materials
Alloys in Plate, Wire or Granulated ' e an also supply these metals and their
will receive prompt attentionT” 1 pb ° ne ™ essa " e or note addressed to any of our branches
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
38S GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
—actories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney >
A
"m
Vv^\vv*
i l
. J¥©
LONGER,
ANY USE FOFt
THE
TALKINGMACHINE%
There is a very good reason why in many homes 1
the old-fashioned talking machine, so numerous
a few ye n .rs ago, is now found dismembered per-
haps in the play room or in some out-of-the-way
corner. It is no longer of any use except to
contrast with the new
Aeolian Vocation
t, The Instrument of To-day that supersedes the Gramophone of
Yesterday.” #
This splendid musical instrument is an extraordinary improve-
ment giving unlimited pleasure and entertainment. Appreciation
intensifying the more the VOCALION is heard, now replaces
the ready tiring of the indifferent music coming from the ordinary
talking machine. You have a constant delight if the VOCA-
LION is in your home. All ages, both sexes, are ever eager
to sit and enjoy the excellent entertainment it provides.
Easily played—and this is the only instrument with the patent
tone-controlling AEOLIAN GRADUOLA DEVICE. Accept
our invitation to write or call and become acquainted with
the instrument itself. Only 20/- monthly are the easy
terms that can be arranged for purchase.
Si- 'c.n Id Assert' ent of New Records arc always in slock
THE PIANOLA COMPANY l™!
The Centre for the World’s Greatest
Achievements in Musical Instruments
384 Georgs Street, Sydney.
252 Collins Street, Melbourne.
436 Queen Street, Brisbane.
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
A S
D £ F
G H I
K L
n n o
p o.«
W V
V z
Send Us This Coupon
with your name and address, and we will mail an interesting
descriptive Catalog, showing the easy terms of payment that
will place a 1 ocalion in your home without delay.
Please send me Catalog B describing the Vocation as
advertised in Bulletin
Name
Address


■■l
ilmii
Mr. /I. CARLSON {jrorn a photo.).
FREE SAMPLES
HAIR GROWER
and Shampoo Powders.
CJo Mrs. M. Tobin , Boarding House,
Florence Street, Port Pirie, S.A.
Mr. John, Craven-Burleigh.
My Dear Sir, —I thank you for your letter and offer.
I am very pleased to state that my hair has im-
proved wonderfully since I got the last supply of
your remedy. I am quite satisfied it is a True Hair
Grower. My scalp is now full of fine, silky hair,
and 1 still have 2J boxes left , so I won’t need any
more. I am recommending your True Hair Grower
to all my friends. I am sending you the last photo.
/ have, as I sert all the others to my friends and
people, to let them see how my hair has grown. You
may publish this if you please.—Yours truly.
~. „ „ ~ , A. CARLSON.
i- Craven-Biirleigh has received thousands of
unsolicited testimonials from people who have suc-
cessfully used his preparations. Thev are all
genuine, and open to the fullest investigation In
order to ensure a fair test he desires everyone suffer-
Hff Hair Troubles to obtain from him a Free
inal ot his hail-growing compound. Send full
name and address, enclosing three penny stamps for
postage and packing to 1
JOHN CRAVEN-BURLEIQH (DEPT. 7a), 321 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE.
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF :
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/6
„ (Daily) „ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ ... 6/6
Management—E. T. CHEESEMAN.
Beauty, Elegance
and
Supreme Quality
are expressed in
GAGE Hats*
On Display at the Leading
Establishments of Australia
and New Zealand*
JLestal Notices.
IN the Estate of VINCENT HARRING-
TON DERRETT, late of Sydney, in the
State of New South Wales, and the Aus-
tralian Imperial Force—deceased intestate.
Will the Widow of the abovenamed
deceased communicate with the undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT. Public Trustee.
Culwulla Chambers. 67 Castlereagh Street
Sydney. 16/2/1918.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
Rust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, March 4,191 S.
My Dear Yarrie, —
The Newmarket opened the Flemington
autumn gallops on Saturday. A still, hot
day tempted women out in flimsy clothes,
and even the most cautious people left their
overcoats at home. The usual cyclonic
thunderstorm attended later, with torrents
of rain. The big field for the Newmarket
started on a crack of thunder, and (as the
grandstand punsters remarked) directly
after the race was run the rain Cetigne.
After that, to the end of the meeting, the
grandstand was crowded with chattering
women, all chirping like weatherbound
sparrows. Men dived off to do some shower-
bath betting, and the flat got out of hand,
dozens of men and boys vaulting the half-
dozen barriers between themselves and stand
shelter. Several macintoshed mounted-
police galloped madly about, only to endure
the laughter of the grandstand as their
quarry slipped past.
Sydney folk were exulting over Cetigne’s
win. Owner Stirton slipped away early
from the course and was discovered stroking
his neat grey moustache on the steps of a
Collins-street club when the first cars
streamed home through the rain. When
owner Lowry scratched Desert Gold, the
multitude, with its money on the pretty
mare, howled dismally in the rain. Lowry
himself was somewhere in the wet mob. His
wife, muffled in ermine, huddled on the
stand. She is a sister of racing-man E. J.
Watt. The Rajah was out. His Ranee
dashed for her motor‘in a duck of a Dutch-
blue cloth cape, a straight-hanging thing of
perfect cut.
Squatter Frank Lavender wore several
sheets of newspaper round his shoulders.
Merson Cooper was present sporting a
lovely purple tie, and congratulated himself
on only losing on his own horse. Mrs.
Cooper wore grey duds with some marvellous
embroidery on the tailored lapels. Mrs.
Barry Thompson shivered in two strips of
mauve and pink ribbon and some fine net.
Genthelp Conant in mufti accompanied one
of the Fairbairns. Muriel Starr caught the
rain in a Welsh high silk hat. The Pah
King Wintons, down from Bananaland,
watched the gallops; so did the Cloncurry
Motts. Mrs. Mott wore cute tailorings of
wine color and a bonnety black velvet hat.
Jack Anning was Bananalander;
he is back from the war and has shed his
khaki.
Willie Baillieu, son of Billy Baillieu, was
a khaki figure on short furlough enjoying
every minute of familiar Flemington. A
big bunch of his handsome relations were
there. ' Mrs. Jack Sternberg got into all-
brown—a compliment to Autumn. Or was
she just a plagiarist?
The hotel managers are rubbing their
hands with glee over the unexpected rush of
visitors from the sister States. Amongst the
well-known ones is Tlieo Marks, who seems
to have solved the problem of how to punt
and stay rich. Philip Morton, accompanied
by his beard, has come to see Bronzetti run,
whilst Sydney sporting medico McKay, whose
hospitalities are almost Roman in their mag-
nificence, has brought a party with him.
Harry Chisholm, who sells as many head of
stock as a draper does pins, is on hand ; also
Sam Hordern, genial and cherubic. Barney
Allen’s daughter Baroness de la Riviere ha-s
brought over her Italian lord; and Mrs.
Hugh Gordon, Yal Osborne’s pretty wife,
and Mrs. Stanley Wilkinson, of the
Osborne clan, show out amongst the best-
dressed.
Queenscliff, which was a scene of frothy
sassiety revels in December and January, is
lead in February. The fashionable bathing
flapper in gaudy undress has flitted, and
there is an influx of the backbone of the
country. Unless visitors can talk stock and
oats and wheat-pool they might as well go
fishing. The flapper may put on her bath-
ing shoes anywhere and nobody turns a hair ;
but the town was moved to suppressed merri-
ment when a leisurely cocky strolled out of
his hotel before breakfast and sat on the
kerb to put his boots on.
Colonel and Mrs. Vance crossed to Tas-
mania for the party at Bushy Park when
ex-Premier Philip Fysh had an anniversary.
Eighty-three.
Mrs. Leslie Stuart, of Logan Lodge, is
breaking out into a fox-trot party this
week. The excuse is to say bon voyage to
Major Crespin and Lieut. Baillieu, who are
off to the war again.
There is to be a “patriotic” dinner and
dance at the Francatelli on the night of
March 15 (Our Boys’ Day), and sassiety
will feed and leap to help the soldiers.
A large consignment of Bed Indian work,
ranging from canoes to moccasins, is coming
forward from Canada for Our Boys’ Day,
on March 15. It will make an interesting
display on the Canadian kiosk, fronting the
Equitable Building in Collins-street.
Lady Helen has had a stirring time in the
loyal Apple Island. The islanders appear
to have followed her about to all her odd
jobs. Her Ex. opened the French Bed
Cross Fail 1 in llobart on Monday, and after-
wards addressed the Hobart Bed Crossers.
The visitor shook hands with all ; even the
most modest failed to escape. On Tuesday
the National Council claimed her, on Wednes-
day she was captured by the brolly-carry-
ing Victoria League, and on Thursday she
was absorbed iu the Hobart Infant Clinic.
The Fergusons’ niece, Lady Doris, wear-
ing sable draperies for her late marquis dad,
went to Sydney last week with the Tom
Knox family, who have been visiting here.
She will shelter for a few weeks under Mrs.
Tom’s motherly wing.
The Gaud Mayor and his wife are think-
ing out receptions for young Lieut. Moon,
V.C., who arrived on Sunday. The young-
ster is 24 and a nephew of Mrs. Stapley.
Arthur Moon, of the National Bank, is his
proud dad.
Gunner Noel Williamson, once one of the
best-liked dancing men in Toorak, has died
of enemy gas. The lengthy young man was
the youngest of the late squatter James Wil-
liamson’s family. He was in anything but
robust health, but tried like a good sport for
the fighting-line—and got there. By bad luck
he swallowed a mouthful of Fritz’s new
lethal gas; and the man who has to struggle
with that needs a sound constitution and a
cheerful habit of mind.
There’s a great clearing out of officers,
new and old. Some who have been hanging
around, it seems for years, have at last, in
consequence of a vigorous shaking-up, got
their sailing ticket. Even at the last
moment some of them couldn’t help pulling
strings to get on to this or that favored ves-
sel. It would be so interesting if some hon.
member obtained a plain, unvarnished list of
commissioned officers and sergeants who have
either left during the past month or are still
in camp and the time that has elapsed since
they enlisted.
Mistress Adelaide interrupts:—
The Trench Comforts F6te, on Torrens Lake on
Saturday, was the biggest patriotic effort this State
has made, excepting, of course, the successive Aus-
tralia Day carnivals. The central committee, which
is purely feminine, called in the services of the Regi-
mental Club and Unit Trench Comforts committees,
and these managed refreshment-stalls while a men’s
committee ran the “attractions”—processions of
decorated and illuminated boats, a decorated parasols
parade, swimming races, a regatta, a naval demon-
stration, children’s dances and a jungle of side-show.
The takings ran to over £l7OO.
In opening this fete the Governor found an omen
in Allenby’s name. Tradition (I don’t know whose
tradition) says that only by the sword of Allah will
Palestine *be recovered to the Jews, and the Arabic
of “sword of Allah” is “Allah en bai,” which is
quite near enough to “Allenby” to hang an omen on.
Speaker Holder’s widow, who is paying the price
of too much war and philanthropic work, and has
been gravely ill, is at fast on the road to recovery.
The Sturt-street State School is putting up a roll
of honor to 700 ex-scholars who have enlisted.
Artist James Ashton, who has spent a good deal
of the summer at Port Elliot, had a special show at
the beginning of the week of the canvases he beauti-
fied at that picturesque spot.
After a December and January that were records
for heat, and a blazing hot day, the mercury sud-
denly slumped to 45.5 the other morning, and gave
us the coldest February snap for 62 years.
Miss Simpson, who is putting in a few weeks in
Victoria, looked in at the Aviation School at Point
Cook to see the battleplane given to the Common-
wealth Government by her father, A. M. Simpson,
not very long before his death. She was given a
3000 ft. lift in it, and was the first feminine visitor
to the camp to make an ascent.
The City Council has renewed war on unprotected
hatpins. Which means that the police court will get
some extra work for a week or two, and then the
malignant enthusiasm will lapse as it did before.
Someone protested against flapping veils also, but
as one honest Bumble pointed out: “Some people
like being tickled.”
Amongst the Matunga’s passengers were Colonel
Strangman and Major Flood, both South Australians.
The former, who is a specialist in tropic diseases,
had been in charge of Rabaul’s medical services since
1914, prior to which he had put in some years" as
principal medieal-oflicer at Darwin. Captain Flood
is also a medico, and likewise went to Rabaul in
1914.
Two more returned soldiers are in the field for the
State elections—Sergeant Stevens, who is to stand
for Adelaide; and Sergeant Gully, who was once a
guard on the Port line, and *was one of the first
men to enlist.
There is a manly Christian lost to S. Aus. in
Alfred Metters, senior-chaplain, and a cobber of every
man almost who has passed through Mitcham camp.
He circulated the plate in a Baptist tabernacle, but
military work was his hobby. He was only 54 at
the finish.
Eighty last week, L. P. Lawrence, one of the
earliest tobacco manufacturers in Australia —long
ago ’in the wholesale trade in Victoria and Brisbane,
but for the last 40 years in Adelaide, where his
philanthropic work is well known. His family came
from nearly every State to celebrate. “Keep your
pecker up, and don’t drop your bundle,’’ he prescribed
for a long, healthy life—“and avoid politics.” Yet
Philip Fysh, of Tasmania, who was almost at the
same moment having the same sort of party, is 83,
and he started sitting in the Speck’s Leg. Council
well over half a century ago.
Adelaide police court has made a start towards
putting down the really filthy language which is
now becoming common, and compared with which
old-time profanity was merely playful. A two-
months sentence was handed out as a discouraging
start.
Miss Amy Barnes has said “Yes” to Pri-
vate Frank Higgins, of Melbourne. The
bride-elect conies from Penguin, an arcadian
little township set on the edge of the ocean
on the NAY. Coast of Tasmania.
Francie Whitehead is wearing the dia-
mond ring for Harold Jennings. The fiance
is a brother of the Geelong Grammar Prep,
“head” who wrote a volume of schoolboy
yarns entitled “Told in the Dormitory.” The
Whiteheads hail from Warrnambool.
The Western District Turner Shaw pair
came down from their run last week to hand
younger chick Kitty to squatter Lachlan
Fitzpatrick. The two were yoked in the
Scotsbyterian kirk on Thursday evening in
the correct war-blighted way. Just a hand-
ful of relatives and best pals stepped across
to the Oriental for a bit of cheese and a
biscuit.
After 50 years amongst Melbourne wigs
and documents, B. G. Harpur Brown went
to his rest at Kew last week, aged 75. He
began long ago in the office of the late
Billing, Q.C. —a name unfamiliar to this
generation. Then he was barrister’s clerk to
the late Archibald Michie, G. H. F. Webb,
John Madden, Higgins, Hodges, Hood,
Eagleson, Wasley and many others. A long
string of lawyers saw the old identity home.
Frank Nixon collapsed and died suddenly
while bathing in the Brodribb River last
week. He was one* of the most powerful
men in Gippsland, and though only 37 was
already one of the cattle-kings of the Snowy
River. The Nixons are descendants of an
old Snowy River pioneer, one of the men
who used to swim their cattle across the
mouths of the Snowy and Brodribb to the
tossing cattle-boat outside the Schnapper
Rip. The grandchildren of this fine old
man are legion. Frank Nixon, his son, had
several brothers and sisters. One sister is
Mrs. Widdis, the widow of the racing man
who died after an operation three weeks ago.
Percy Grainger is now leading a band in
America for the Red Cross. He has his
golden mop of hair cropped short and wears
khaki and a serious look. Mother follows
wherever she can, and gets glimpses of her
darling boy in various towns.
Walter Kirby is nearly bursting with im-
portance. In the Apple Island he and Vera
Carew have been despatched in the State
Touring Car on special x'ecruiting work.
They travel about in the Government’s ex-
travagance and give recruiting concerts in
country districts.
Melba is thinking of visiting Japan on
her way home from America. She is begging
for the loan of Mary Campbell from the
Con. for a longer period. Director Fritz
Hart comments, “We can hardly do without
her, but what Melba wills —we must!”
The Melbourne Music Club got together
for the first time this year at the Galleries.
Howard Hadley, the English pianist, gave a
recital of Beethoven, Brahms, Chopin and
bits of Cesar Franck to top off with. Howard
is a very well-brushed young man with a
perfect complexion, and his music, like his
apixearance, was careful and academic, with
no wild flights. Tommy Brentnall and his
pretty daughter, Mrs. Dunne, Repertory
Theatre girleen Isabel Handley, singer Mrs.
Vogrich-Rees, the Herman-Lawrence and
Mctlarg flappers, Maldon Robb and his
pianist wife, Mrs. Ernest Scott and Mrs.
Wren, the E. S. and A. banker’s wife, were
amongst the listeners.
Melba “brought out” Stella Power in
Philadelphia to a tremendous house, and
Stella got a rousing reception. Melba made
a fine speech to introduce the nervous girl,
and told the Philadelphians that Stella was
an Australian trained exclusively at an Aus-
tralian conservatorium. A conservatorium
in Australia —they believed her with diffi-
culty !
On Wednesday evening the Repertory Club
listened while Enid Derham discoursed on
Oliver Goldsmith and his works. Enid is
as charming a blue stocking as ever conned
the classics. Professor AV. A. Osborne,
Gregan McMahon and Percival Serle threw
in some pleasant remarks and hurled verbal
bouquets at the lecturess. Mrs. Emily Scott,
Lynn Teare, Outhwaites, Curtins and other
liepertorians decorated the auditorium. The
next outbreak in the Rep. world will be
Granville Barker’s “Madras House,” at the
Playhouse.
While putting up his fight against the
minions of the bold, bad monarch in the last
act of “The Rajah of Sliivapore” the other
night, tenor John Quinlan caught Alice Ben-
netto a nasty clout on the forehead with his
sword, which is not a mere property weapon.
Alice managed to keep smiling for the few
minutes until the curtain fell; then she
exercised her undoubted privilege and
fainted.
The Greenroom Club with its wife and
best girl went to Frankston by motor on
Sunday and indulged in sports in the wet
and dinner and mixed oratory in a hotel.
The most conspicuous feature was the
absence of members of the profession. It is
hoped to make the outing an annual affair,
the committee feeling confident that it will
yet suceed in inducing a stray actor to
attend.
Actor Atholwood is proud of his daughter.
She is an agile youngster with a vivid ex-
pression, and is dancing in “Aladdin” panto.
Muriel Starr’s mumming pals discovered
that she was due for a birthday. So they
got together and launched a surprise-party
attack on her the other night at her Toorak
dugout. The self-invited guests arrived in
kiddies’ garb and a hilarious evening was
squandered. Louis Kimball and his spouse,
Bertha Ballenger, Frank Harvey, Cousin
Norma Mitchell, the dancing couple Sidney
and Daisy Yates, and others of the profesh
aided and abetted.
Miss Butler George has sent nine of her
sister’s miniatures to the Loan Exhibition
in the Sydney Art Gallery. Artiste Butler
George has been in England since the war,
combining war work with commissions for
soldiers’ portraits.
Kenneth Buchanan, the blue-eyed gent-
help who was a captain when on the Talbot
staff, and married the Grey-Egerton lady’s
sister Muriel, has since gone up the military
ladder at top speed. After wearing a
colonel’s trappings and picking up a D. 5.0.,
lie was made a general at 37. Nothing like
staff appointments for getting on.
At Easter the Equestri-lien Club is going
to assist the Allied ipovement towards Ber-
lin by taking part in a carnival at Bendigo.
The ladies are to have a real camp of their
own, under canvas, and will avoid all un-
necessary hotel-bills and frills by looking
after their own nags and bedding themselves
down in their own blue blankets. The
management has come to this decision after
intense soul-searching, and after having seen
its club-members stung rather badly on pre-
vious occasions for bait, bed and brekky at
out-of-town pubberies. The rural loose-
boxer and ham-and-egger was generally
quite fierce in his attacks on the concern’s
cashbox.
Yours sincerely,
JOHANNA.


m
\\
&
m
m &
mm
ms
: ;
111
J
M
111
si
■X
esMm U
f\sn
i „« |l
r, //
e-
r, .. f
j m
:/
|
I
1
Copyright Watson's No. 10 Whislcy.
f^a^>crriA>
Scotch 7vni^
i 'pT/alncm <f C°
"*" Ou.'ruipe
m
m
ty/fty.
A NEW SERIES OF HISTORY MAKERS.
THE above portrait of General Sir W. Robertson is one of a new series of drawings specially
executed for us by W. Jardine. Reproduced on the finest of art paper, and being entirely
free from advertising matter, they make, when framed, a charming acquisition to the home.
The complete set, consisting of M. Venizelos, Admiral Sir D. Beatty, General Sir Douglas
Haig, General Sir W. Birdwood, General Sir W. Robertson, General Foch, General
Cadorna, Vice-Admiral Sir F. C. D. Sturdee, Peter 1,, General Sarrail, General Brussiloff, General
Russky, will be sent to any address on receipt of M- postal-note, or \2 penny (Commonwealth)
stamps. As the production is limited, we advise you to write and secure a set immediately to
JAMES WATSON & CO, LTD., 26 King 1 Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
\A/A T SO AJ’S AT 010


fdg
MISS DELLA CHISHOLM says:
“Your HBAN’S TOXIC NERVE NUTS
have (lone me a wonderful amount of good
Some time ago T was feeling run down, so
I used your remedy. By the time I had
used two boxes I was ouite well, and had
once more gained the feeling that it was
good to be alive.”
MEAN’S TONIC
NERVE NUTS
arc the reliable Home Remedy for
i'eadache, Insomnia, Neuralgia, Anaemia
and other Neurasthenic Conditions.
Boxes containing twelve days’ supply
COST 3/“ at all CHEMISTS and STORES^
o
Kind
<, (jeorge IV
> WHnsior
JheTOP'NOTCHScoteh
ass^lotisyW
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
Devonia” : There are three different kinds
of insects commonly called locusts by Australians,
and each has its own life story. They are the song-
ocust, more properly the cicada ; the common plague-
locust; and the true locust, or green grasshopper.
The second-mentioned lays its eggs in the ground
while _ the song-locust’s better-half lays about 500
eggs in slits in the bark of trees, and having thus
nobly done her duty gives up the ghost. Her babies
are hatched in a couple of weeks and look like fleas.
They hop to the ground and burrow down (much
deeper than the cricket), and stay there for a num-
ber of years, variously estimated from three to 17
undergoing various changes. When the term of im-
prisonment is complete the insects And their way to
ie daylight and then climb the nearest tree or post
and shed their skins. Helms, of N.S.W. Agricultural
epartment, wrote that in March the female plague-
locust makes holes in the ground wherein she lays
60 eggs, which are hatched out the following Spring.
The great plains of Australia seem to be a perfect
breeding place for the plague or migratory locust.
I r _ C . r ® 11 ' nests are Packed close together, about
oO to the square foot, and each nest has its 60 eggs.
87 . If there is any way of moving a
camel when he goes on strike we haven’t been told
it yet. Fire is no good. In the Camel Corps here
when the animal has “barracked” and refused to’
rise again, we have made a fire under him, and even
though his hide has resembled a half-cooked chop he
has held out. Someone recently suggested throwing
sand in his mouth. But a couple of pounds of desert
merely stops his disagreeable habit of grinding his
teeth. When a camel driven by a Gippo or his
cobber the Bedouin goes on strike, the helpless
human unrolls liis blankets and falls to sleep until
the animal thinks it is time to get a move on. It’s
a sensible idea, but the military brass hats won’t
hear of it. They never drove camels.
* * * *
“Shepherd”: Allow me to give “Te
Whare” (B. 31/1/’18) a lecture on ibis nests. He
says that they are built in swamp gums and other
small timber. This is not so; they are built in
swamps, the reeds being trampled down for a floor
* * * •
Moonie : This blots out any record I
know in the dingo high-jump. Between Coomoonie
station, Miles (Q.), and the next selection is a 6ft.-
high rabbit- and dog-proof netting fence, with a barb
on top. The manager next door is sudden-death on
dingoes, foxes and other vermin, and has traps set.
Biding the fence together after the rains, we found
dingo tracks running up to a trap, which was miss-
ing. The tracks, easily followed in the mud, led
straight to and over the fence. Following for’ two
miles we came upon a slut with the trap on her
broken hind leg at a hollow log in which were seven
pups. On examination mamma was found to have
all the toes on one front foot missing from some
previous argument with a trap.
THE GLAD HAND.
TRAFFIC COP : “ 'Ere, didn't yer see me wave me 'and to yer?"
FLIPPANT FLAPPER: "Well, didn't you see me wave mine back, you naughty man?"
“Gone Bush”: Where is “inside”? About
Richmond (North Queensland) the settler refers to
the Towers as inside; but, then, a resident of the
Duchess is sure that Richmond is an ultra-civilised
place, whereas Oamooweal regards the Duchess as a
far-east city, and people about Brunette go for
annual drunks to Camooweal. Boorooloola, on the
Territory coast, has four mails a year, and is not
inside of .anywhere. The Ord River on the W.A.
border yearns for the rum of Boorooloola. And yet
N. S. Wales men think that Back o’ Bathurst is the
dinkum Bush.
“Te Whare”: Most South Coast (N.S.W.)
full-blooded aboriginals believe in the existence of
a wild man covered with hair whom they call douli-
gah. This party is said to inhabit mountain ranges,
but he used to come down at night to the camps
below. One hoary abo. recounts a
youthful experience with a douligah.
He was helping two white men split
posts on a spur of the coast range.
They went off into the nearest town
for a spree and left him in charge of
the hut. That night about nine lie
heard a douligah coming down from
the mountain, crashing through the
wattle and peppermint scrub towards
the hut. The black’s hair stood on
end. He was in a blue funk, but he
grabbed an axe and an accordion and
climbed on the roof. The douligah
got within about 20 yards and stopped
dead. Binghi was working the accor-
dion for all he was worth, grinding
out every tune he knew, and the
douligah kept still and listened. Just
before daybreak the party broke up.
The douligah went home and Binghi
flung the accordion down and made tracks for the
township. He told the soberest of the two white
men that he would never go back again.
* * * »
Binnong”: Here’s a beef-eater’s experi-
ence of Barcoo spew and rot. During 1899 in West-
raha while living on a diet of beef (principally
frozen) and vegetables of various kinds, I had a bad
attack of the spew. I eventually beat it by taking
a dessert-spoonful of Worcester sauce before meals
and by eating as much fruit as procurable. In my
case I found that hot roast-beef would augment the
trouble. Anything in the form of curry, pickles and
sauce will assist in keeping the disease away. I
i ecoromend the spew as the champion weight-
reducer.
* * #
‘•lda D.” : “Caveman” (B. 24/l/’18) was
asking if women and old men are subject to Barcoo.
they are; but women seem to suffer more from the
sickness than from the spots. I have seen whole
households affected. In the Pilliga (N.S.W.) district
it was said that the outbreak was most apt to occur
after the heavy rains, when the grass was lush and
gieen; but like other Alios. I have seen the attacks
come on at all seasons of the year, with good, bad
and indifferent tucker.
“Barcoo”: Sandringham, owned by Kid-
man, the so-called Cattle lving, struck a 44-million-
gallon (daily) artesian-water supply recently. The
property is on the Mulligan River, on the border of
S. Aus., in that part of Central Aus. noted for
parallel lines of red magnetic sandhills. The old
homestead years ago was protected from wild sand-
storms by a palisade of brushwood Bft. or 9ft. high.
As the nature of the soil does not lend itself to the
reticulation of the flow in bore drains, the water is
being conducted to a natural reservoir five miles
away. Some time after this station had been
deserted, years ago, Kidman took over the lease at
a nominal rent on condition that he prospected for
artesian water. The country is fine grazing land,
especially on the flats between the sandhills.
SEEKING LIQUID MELODY.
“That man Smith, he simply goes from bar
to bar. He must be an awful drunkard!"
My dear, probably he’s a musician!”
Country Bed”: During the mice plague
many farmers secured cats and put them into their
barns and chaff-houses. After the plague had ceased
the pussies became thin, and within the last three
months most of them in our district have died sud-
denly, usually at night. Old hands say that they
noticed the same thing happen after previous plagues
of mice, and they can’t solve the mystery.
(Continued on page 24J
LEONORA BROOKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They tell the story at Piker’s pub away on the Sunset
Side,
A tale of sorrow and shame perhaps, but ever a tale
of pride.
It was given to me by Murdering Mick, and, strange
though it be to say,
lhe tear that he wiped from a bleary eye was a
real tear wiped away.
•loe Kane had finished a month-old spree when the
devils duly came,
An’ speakin’ to Lignum Bill one night he bubbled a
woman’s name.
Now a woman’s name from a waster’s lips is a usual
sort of thing—
I.specially out at Piker’s pub, where the bottled
vipers sting.
But suddenly Lignum’s eyes grew bright: “Repeat
that name,” he roared.
Repeat it, Kane, or, by the gods, this moment you’ll
be floored !”
Leonora Brooks, Leonora Brooks!” the name came
loud an’ plain,
An the look, that spread on old Lignum’s face may
X never see again.
Leonora Brooks, Leonora Brooks-—what made you
look so queer ?
Would you like to gaze on her photograph, for I
have it with rne here?”
An then from a shabby leather pouch, with a
strange, exultant laugh,
Joe Kane produced for us all to see—well, an angel’s
photograph.
Now, I’ve seen in the days when I dreamed my
dreams some faces sweetly fair;
1 guess I’ve seen some glorious eyes in the days an’
the nights that were;
I guess I’ve seen some tresses shine like satin lit by
stars
Before I came to this lone lost land an’ its Hell-
born shanty bars.
HE OUGHT TO BE GRATEFUL.
JOB: "Besides, it's so bloomin’ unlucky
sendin’ a bloke back after bein’ wounded
a, dozen times.”
THE COMFORTHER: “Gam, what are you
growlin’ at? You’re used to it—not like
us poor beggars who haven’t been broke
in.”
I guess I’ve seen the sort of lips that, pressed against
mine own,
Would have sent me mad—stark, starin’ mad, though
my heart was a heart of stone.
But though I might for a thousand years those
glorious girls recall,
I swear by the hump on the camel’s back Leonora
beats them all!
For a moment Lignum stared, just stared, like the
Sphinx might stare an’ stare,
An’ then from a pair of quivering lips, came the key-
note of despair.
ITe grasped at the woman’s photograph—on his
features joy an’ pain ;
But even what time his fingers closed, so closed the
hand of Kane.
I've seen some men in the horrors grip at snakes
none else could see,
But never a grip like those men gripped had mv
eyes vouchsafed to me.
Oh, take two fiends from the throes of Hell, who long
for vengeance sought,
An let them loose, an’ you'll see the hate those
straining sinners thought.
Plain murder shone in their bleary eyes—yes, if ever
a dark deed showed
In the eyes of men it showed that night, all reckless
of creed or code.
An' still they gripped, an’ still they tugged like
Titans, toe to toe;
But never a word from either came, just a measured
breath an' slow.
We stood around, an’ we watched the pair,' too much
surprised to speak,
Puzzled too much to guess the why, or the whence
and the whither seek.
An then with a fierce an’ sudden twist an’ a sound
that thrilled us through,
The photograph was torn across, an’ halved by
the silent two.
An each man hid his half away like some great
wondrous prize;
An’ each man turned, yet eacii looked back with
murder in his eyes.
Xext morn we looked for Lignum Bill, an’ we looked
for the missin’ Kane;
\\ e looked as far as the eye could reach, but ever
we looked in vain.
But out on the edge of the mulga belt, on a patch
of trampled ground,
dhat afternoon a shearer chap two bloodstained
corpses found.
An’ pressed to the heart of each of them was a torn
an’ a tattered half
Of what the shearer who found ’em said was an
angel’s photograph.
Leonora Brooks! Leonora Brooks! The name still
comes to me—
A strange, sweet torment from the past, an’ it will
not let me be!
Leonora Brooks! Leonora Brooks!—an’ it haunts
me so becos
IV e never knew, an’ we’ll never know, who the hell
Leonora was!
SUNSET LAND.
R. J. CASSIDY.


A
m
M
w*
.
KR4B.
'W
RR49.
RRSO.
A
RRSI.
irr*
□
a
The first keen winds of Autumn are
just round the corner. With their
advent a slip-on Sweater for complete
motoring comfort is indispensable.
Farmer’s are ready. We picture here
four styles for your selection —many
others in Men’s Mercery Department,
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
RR4B. —Men’s Cashmere Coat
Sweaters, fasten down front, “V” shaped
collar, Scotch make; colors Grey and Navy.
Very warm, smooth and comfortable. Sizes
34, 36, 38, 40, 42, 45 inches.
PRICE 42/-
RR49. —Men’s Pure Wool Coat
Sweaters, to button down front; colors
Navy, Green, Brown, White. “V” shape
collar.
34 36 38 40 42 45 in.
15/6 16/6 17/6 17/6 19/6 21/-
Also better quality, in Navy, Grev and Brown.
22/6 25/- 27/6 30/- 32/6, 35/-
FARMER’S PAY CARRIAGE.
1
SYDNEY
m
Style in Motoring and Golf Sweaters
seems carrying it a little too far until
you remember that a shapeless, baggy
thing will be viewed by your confr&res
and give you constant annoyance by
its bulkiness. Farmer’s All-wool
Sweaters are made to fit the figure
perfectly.
(RRso.—Coat Sweaters, pure wool,
with collar attached, to button down front;
colors Navy, Grey and Brown.
34 36 38 40 42 45 in.
15/6 16/6 17/6 17/6 19/6 21/-
Also better quality, in Navy, Grey and Brown.
22/6 25/- 27/6 30/- 32/6 35/-
RRsl.—Rest-Quality Camel Hair
Golf Coat Sweaters, pockets attached,
“V” siiaped collar, assorted dark shades and
heather designs, exclusive colorings, very soft
and light in weight, and finished in best
style. Sizes 36, 38, 40, 42, 45 inches.
PRICE 85/-
STATE SIZE WHEN ORDERING.
fdg
The Machines that are Settling
the Shearing Question
throughout the World.
The No. 9 Ball Bear-
ing Hand Operated
Machine above is a
great favorite for
shearing small flpcks
of one or two hundred
sheep. The price,
complete with four
combs and four cut-
ters, is only £4/15/-
The Little Wonder 2-stand Portable Plant needs
no introduction. It has never been equalled
either for construction, efficiency or price. It
can be used anywhere. The price, complete
with two machines, engine, grinder and all
extras, is £57/10/- Stationary, or £67/10/-
Portable (as illustrated).
At side we illustrate our Cooper Silent Belt Driven Overhead Gear,
erected in the shed. This machine is a marvel of simplicity and
strength. It runs smooth and quiet, loses no power and never gets
out of order. A postcard will bring you full particulars and price of
any number of stands erected in the shed, complete, ready for work.
IN every country where wool is grown Cooper Machines stand supreme for their
efficiency, long life and low cost of upkeep. There is a machine made for every
size flock, and every machine is the product of an organisation that has spent more
than a quarter of a century studying the science of machine shearing.
Every owner of one hundred or more sheep should have a shearing outfit. The
increased wool you will obtain with the machines as against blade shears, at the
present price of wool, will practically pay for the plant this year.
Now is the time to order. If immediate shipment is not desired the plant can be
reserved until required. Let us send you catalogue and full particulars.
«¥»
wa
.
■jf-ty.
mm
Cooper Engineering Co* Ltd.,
134 Sussex Street, Sydney,
488 Collins St., Melbourne.
CLARK & FAUSET, Brisbane. W. HART & SONS, Launceston, Tasmania. SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO., Rockhampton, Queensland.
GEO. P. HARRIS SCARFE & CO, Perth, W.A. AUSTRALASIAN I. & H. F. CO, Adelaide, S.A.
NEW ZEALAND LOAN & M. A. CO. LTD, Rockhampton, Townsville and Hughenden, Queensland.


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southami ' m. —Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
hesd office—
-14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH —
360-6 CORRINS ST., MERBOVRNE.
QITEENSRAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGRE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRARIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIRDING, GREN-
FERR STREET, ADERAIDE.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
-i : Tde locust »” or cicada (B.
01/X/ IS), lays its eggs, about 300, on the branches of
trees, scratching small grooves for the purpose with
an apparatus called the ovipositor. When the job is
compieted the depositor dies. The young cicada when
hatched drops to the ground, and works its way down
among the tree-roots. Its history there is much of a
mystery. According to Fabre, the French naturalist,
it remains below for four years, feeding on the sap
of the roots, and meantime undergoes several moults.
On emerging from the ground, in the hot summer,
the grubby miner climbs a few feet up the nearest
tiee or post, and very soon the dirty overcoat is
split down the back, and the perfect insect emerges
to enjoy a few days in the sunlight before its life
ends. One American species is said to live 17 years
underground. The period appears to depend a lot on
climate, being shorter in the tropics. There are
about 120 species in Australia ; England has only one.
Popular members with every young Australian are
the double-drummer, green Monday, red eye, the
fiddler, squeaker and the floury baker. Only the male
cicada sings, or squeaks. An old Greek poet puts it
this way:—
Happy the cicadas’ lives,
Since they all have voiceless wives.
They are not pests ; nor are they locusts. The locust
properly is a grasshopper, and does not belong to the
same order as the cicada.
* * * *
“J. A. Fletcher”: On the cliffs here at
Boat Harbor (Tas.) there’s an old cave and “kitchen”
where Black Brother sheltered in past ages. It is
semi-dark, 20ft. high, with a tiny stream flowing
through, and is about 150 ft. above sea level. Many
a weary slog must Mrs. Binghi have had up the
steep ascent, judging by the depth of the midden-
heap, composed mainly of Haliotis or car-shells,
which she had to drag up for the boss’s dinner. One
corner of the midden is composed entirely of peri-
winkle shells. Evidently _ this was the piccaninny
corner of the family table, well away from dad.
Judging by the animal bones in the heap Black Bro-
ther had poor luck in hunting. Hazarding a guess
from the depth of the midden and the preservation of
the top layer of shells I would say that the cave-
must have been a resort for a couple of hundred
years.
“Bonragi”: “Tropicus’s” (B. 7/2/’18)
description of the Strickland River native’s habit of
wearing a hat to signify that he has killed a man
has parallels in other parts of New Guinea. Among
many tribes the big curved mandible of the horn-
bill is the equivalent of the Iron Cross, while in
ethers cassowary feathers are used. Certain peculiar
tattoo markings carry the same meaning with other
clans. The pattern and position on the body tell
the tale. The young lady of Hula, near Port
Moresby, is tattooed when she reaches marriageable
age and is willing to chance a husband. Though
she be as beautiful as the morning no buck will
even consider her case unless she is duly stamped
by the Meat Inspector, so to speak. As to the
pattern and position of the sign I must refer the
ethnologist to the British New Guinea Government
Report for 1899.
PROOF OF DEVOTION.
“That young feller’s a hit struck on Sis, isn’t
he?”
“My word, he is. He sits for hours watch-
ing her.”
“Roz”: To inquirers about onion grass.
As far as Victoria is concerned it was imported in
1870 by the late James Robertson, of Abergeldie,
Essendon, as an experiment. He thought it might
do for feeding sheep. It was a decided failure. Sheep
would eat it readily in the early Spring, but after-
wards it would get too tough and not only affected
them in the stomach but also impaired their
molars. I found it a pest, and not only in the
garden. The poultry would partake of it and it
formed a ball in the crop. I operated on one fowl
ami obtained a wad as large and as hard as a
cricket ball. I found that cultivation is the only
way to eradicate it. It has spread all over Victoria
from the three acres sown by the gentleman referred
to.
THE PLEASURES OF THE HASH-HOUSE LIFE.
MADAME: “ You're sure these eggs are quite fresh, Matilda?"
MATILDA: "Quite, mum! I put all the ones I wasn't sure of in the pudding."
“Mark Lane”: Regarding carpet-snakes in
Victoria. Seme years ago H, F. Watson, manager of
fintadra station, Upper Murray, caught a ten-footer
in one of the paddocks. He presented the reptile
to the local postmaster, who used to send telegrams,
deliver mails, sell stamps, pay pensions, etc., wearing
the crawler as a necktie, mu;ch to the terror of
nervous ladies and juveniles. The p.m. kept the
cravat for about three weeks, but it refused to eat
or drink anything, and died from starvation. Then
the owner had a gaudy snake-skin belt made. This
is the only carpet-snake that ever came across the
Upper Murray, so far as I know. Two or three death-
adders have been killed there, and thousands of other
kinds of reptiles are dispatched every year, including
numerous tigers. A cattle-dog of mine (Queens-
lander) had a go at a death-adder, and killed it on
Horse Tank, Tintadra. Then the dog raced into the
creek, and although he was under first-rate com-
mand would not come out, but stayed there all day,
lying down and drinking the water, which was
mineralised freely. He was as good as new after-
wards, and I never understood whether he was bitten
or not, but it seemed like it.
“P.Q.F.”: In the matter of Barcoo rot,
it’s well to know that a good blood-purifier in the
bush is nettle-f>ea sweetened with honey. It dries up
the sores. For the spew I found a nobbier of whisky
or brandy beneficial.
* * * *
“Winchester”: Allow me to tell “Mopoke”
that if Les Seary shore 268 sheep in a day at the
Winton works (Edkins and Co.) the jumbucks must
have been bare-bellied and open-collar necked. All
shearers can put up a tally when the animals are
light and open-wooled. One of the best barbers that
ever handled a pair of blades was Ned Howell. In
1885 at Edgeroi he undressed 185 clients in six
hours and a half. The best shearer in the Moree
district (N.S.W.) about 20 years ago was Billy
Kensell, who weighed under 10 stone. He used to
ring the Burley shed every year. The guns from
Outback kept away from Burley on account of the
sheep being big and heavy-fleeced, but Kensell used
to shear from 160 to 180 every day under a strict
boss named Cameron, who would stand no second
cuts or tomahawking on the famed merinos.
“Sister Adelaide” : Stories of feline hom-
ing instinct can be put on the shelf. A horse stabled
at Southwark and sold to a man at Port Pirie was
duly taken the 200 miles to the northern seaport and
handed over to its new owner. Not long afterwards
it turned up again at Southwark, having found its
way over the whole distance in the midst of record
heat. The poor brute was dying on the roadside
when it was found.
“Nin”; Why not encourage among the
little Australians the idea of bird troughs and minia-
ture sanctuaries ? A number of bush schools place
troughs in the playgrounds, and all manner of
feathered friends visit them to fill the water-bag
and have a bath. If every kid had a trough set up
in a tree, or on a post in the back yard, there would
be less loss of bird life. In this regard the Gould
League is doing a power of good.
“Sliprail”: The suggestion of “Hard Up,
Esq.” (B. 31/1/’18) to conserve all green timber
within a three-mile radius of water is received with
shouts of derision in the Central West of N. S.
Wales where springs are found. To ensure a perma-
nent water supply we find that we must kill all
timber in the locality. When that is done the
improvement in these springs is astonishing, and
other springs whose existence was previously unsus-
pected ooze up. They remain, too, long after the
creeks and tanks are dry.
* * * *
“Yannatherra”: Do crocodiles roar, bel-
low, scream, moo or otherwise give an imitation of
Billy Hughes winning the war? The opinions of
settlers, sundowners, parsons, surveyors, bugologists
and fantod zoologists are as contradictory as Pearce’s
enlistment figures. In many of the Northern rivers
my attentions with gun, rifle and shout (dry) have
never produced anything vocal from the saurians. 1
have carefully observed them, asleep, bathing,
making love, fighting and dead, and their lack of
vocabulary would make a mute appear deafening by
comparison. Yet at night-camps about their haunts
weird roars are often heard. I have rushed towards
the sounds, only to observe, at best, a few yards of
future travelling-bag slithering silently under the
slush. One old abo. that I questioned answered:
“My oath; budgery.” A younger blood didn’t think
so, but knew that the debil-debil, or bunyip, did.
Does nobody know?
* * * *
“Mustard Gold”: Talking about one thing
and another brings to mind a coffin that may still be
in the skillion of a Westralian bush pub. Jim Doyle
started that pub at Widgiemooltha in the early Cool-
gardie boom, when there was no railway passing the
door, as it does now, to Norseman, and you had to
order goods well ahead owing to the slow-moving
team. Mrs. Doyle was dangerously sick, appearing
to be beyond hope of recovery, and Jim, anticipating
the worst, made a pilgrimage to Coolgardie, 80 miles
away, to order a coffin. Wet roads delayed the
return, but-Jim duly hove in sight, of the pub, where
Mrs. Doyle, fully recovered, awaited an explanation
of the old man’s mysterious disappearance. “I had to ga
in about a lease,” said he, after carefully planting the
funereal object in the mulga out of view of the missus.
Then the box became an interminable nightmare. The
shifts to conceal it —Jim having some superstitious
dread of destroying the ghoulish item —told even or.
a giant, frame and awakened anxiety in the home.
Towards dusk one day Mrs. Doyle came right on ths
culprit in the act Of jambing the thing in the hollow
of an old gum, and the murder was out. They
carried the darksome corpse-case home between them ;
and for many years it was the leading wash-tub of tin
establishment, an object of curiosity to every traveller
happening into the Widgie pub.
* * » *
“Steve Hart” : Have never when short oi
water in the dry West known an owl (of am
species) to fail me. Wherever you hear one there’s
water within half a mile.
HAVING A LITTLE DIVARSION EITHER WAP.
THE O'REGAN: “ And is it runnin’ down the Holy Land av Oireland ye are?"
MILD STRANGER: “A-not at all. 1 never mentioned Ireland .”
THE O'REGAN : “Sure, the Holy Land av oireland isn't good enough for yez to run down,
isn't it? Come on, thin!"


cutely
00/
</0
infheir qualities
s Uff
V
THE absolutely unique qualities of State Express
Cigarettes, wbicb make them tbe favorite
amongst discriminating men everywhere, are
tbe result of the extraordinary care that is taKen in
their manufacture.
CIGARETTES
are made by experts of unrivalled
ability, and only life-long' experi-
ence bas rendered it possible to
produce tbe wonderful blends of
tobacco wbicb bave made State
Express a household word
among'st smokers of culture and
taste.
fd
Per
Packet
STANDARD WEIGHT.
Sold by all Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
So/e Manufacturers i
Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd., London, England.
r
▼
i
hi,
k
7a
7
A
s,
y
£
L


Another Triumph
for Wonderful
Pills
Kidney & Bladder
When the old is made young again and the
weak is made strong—that is indeed a triumph.
When a man is so long and so seriously ill that he, his friends
ind his doctors all give up hope of him eve/ getting well again,
•ind then he is, after all, completely cured, it may easily and
truly be described as remarkable —a great triumph.
“I am over 60 years of age, and for over 40 years suffered
with what I was told was chronic Bright’s Disease. While in the
early days I was able to do a little work, now for the last 20
years I have not been able to work, except at very distant intervals,
and then not more than two or three days at a time; in fact, I
have had to keep my bed for four or five months at a stretch.
“I have had many illnesses, each in itself very serious. Once
I was so bad that I was given only five hours to live by my
medical man, but just pulled through more dead than alive. I
was so bad that even after I was supposed to have recovered my
friends tried to get me into a hospital, but I was refused admit-
tance as ‘lncurable.’
“Last March I was taken very seriously ill, this time with
rheumatic fever. Here now, it was thought, was truly the end of
things; there was little hope.ever entertained of my recovering. I
was rapidly and surely dying.
“While I was so ill my son-in-law, hearing such remarkable
reports about the cures effected by De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills, bought a box for me to try. I commenced to take them,
and, to put it very mildly, was amazed to find in two days’ time
that all symptoms of fever had left me. In a week from first
commencing the pills I was able to get up, and I gradually got
stronger. It was not very long before I was able to resume work,
and since I once started I have not lost a single day from work.
Surely this is wonderful after my past experience of years of
unfitness.
“I am getting to be an old man, therefore I consider this case
most remarkable. My name, Arthur Jarvis, is well known in the
district of Battersea, and if anyone should doubt the truth of my
statement and should write or call on me at 32 Frances Street,
S.W., I will give them convincing proof of the truth of my
statement. De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills have given me
a strength that I can truthfully say I have never before
experienced at any time of life.
“They have given me a real pleasure in life, such as I have
not experienced for 40 years.”
The above statement was made in July, 1912. It might well
be wondered whether such a cure could remain permanent. Two
years afterwards Mr. Jarvis said: “Although getting on in years
—I am now 65 years of age—l am going along wonderfully well.
I have been able to keep going all the year round, and have not
missed a single day from work. I have only got De W’itt’s Kidney
and Bladder Pills to thank for this marvellous cure, and I
MR. A. JARVIS (from photo).
Forty Years a Hopeless
Invalid.
Now Never Misses a Day
from Work.
strongly recommend them to all those I come in contact with who
are suffering in any way with the kidneys or bladder, because I
feel that these wonderful little pills cannot become too well known.”
Nearly everyone knows that thousands of people die every year
from deadly kidney disease, but only a few are aware that this
terrible mortality is the result of sheer neglect.
When people are attacked by the first symptoms of kidney
disease, such as aches and pains in the various parts of the body,
puffiness under the eyes, cloudy urine, nasty taste in the mouth
first thing in the morning, they take no notice whatever. This is
where a terrible mistake is made, for kidney disease will not cure
itself. Neglect means that these symptoms turn into specific com-
plaints such as rheumatism, lumbago, gout, sciatica, cystitis, gravel,
stone, etc., which are the forerunners of deadly Bright’s Disease.
. Just a little exposure to cold or damp and you have got a
pain in the back. Agony to bend or move any way, bad headache,
puffiness under the eyes; these mean for certain that you have
kidney trouble. Then you should look out for deadly Bright’s
Disease, which creeps on unawares.
. It is positively dangerous to trifle or play with the most
simple form of kidney disease.
If you have such symptoms as a nasty taste in the mouth first
thing in the morning, constipation, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, aches and pains in the muscles or joints, puffiness
under the eyes or bad headache, you certainly need De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills.
. P r if you suffer from lumbago, backache, rheumatism, gout,
sciatica, stone, gravel, or pains in the bladder, muscles and joints,
you are foolish to yourself if you do not commence to use these
wonder-workers immediately.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of kidney trouble you
must positively get rid of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember, to do this a real remedy must pass through the
kidneys and the bladder, and not through the bowels, as most
kidney pills do. When you see the urine change to a muddy bluish
color —a feature which distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder
Pills from all others —you know beyond all doubt they have put
their healing touch on the right spot—the kidneys and the bladder.
A wonderful pill straight to the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s
Pills give such amazingly quick relief —every time. A permanent
cure follows in almost every case. Look out for that blue-colored
urine. It means so much.
Many remedies claim to cure, and do without doubt give
relief for a time, but the one remedy which will give you quick
relief, and most probably a permanent cure, is De Witt’s Kidne 1 ’
and Bladder Pills, for when once cured by these wonderful lip
pills, our readers say they are cured for ever, just as Mr. Jan
was.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills are
size—most advantageous. TRIAL BOX
with the blue seal on the cork —send
S pRKTT n^S i ts - Storekeepers everywhere, 2/9 and 5/6 per box. Large size contains two-and-a-half times as many as the 2/9
vnnr mnnoT. «- P n t? c “ J ou sen< * stamps for postage, etc. If you have any difficulty in getting genuine De Witt’s Pills—■
jour money to E. C. De Witt & Co., Ltd., 42-44 Pitt Street, Sydney, who will gladly supply by return.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Kopai”: The opportunity came my way
this week to see how we are winning the w r ar
by diluting labor and promoting efficiency
(with a capital If). I had to go to the
Commonwealth Bank to cable a few pounds
to a Billjim getting London leave. The cable
staff consisted of five female flappers in the
hair-bow and pocket-mirror stage and tw r o
boy flappers in hot socks and pimples. They
were killing time until pay-day under the
supervision of a young-old liarassed-looking
man wearing the expression you see in the
face of the matron of a cr&che. He took the
money and the responsibility, and it was tell-
ing on him. Two pairs of flappers were
playing handies in the background; a rather
maturer flappereen was sitting on the type-
writer table watching them; two other girls
were saying “Well?” or “U-h-h?” in a blast;
way to the mob of soldiers’ friends clamor-
ing at the counter. In rooms adjoining
there seemed to be another young ladies’
college, winning the war similarly. The wire
cost me 12s. INI v only wonder is that it
didn’t cost £l2. Somebody is certainly pay-
ing.
* * * *
“Chickasaw” : Melbourne Board of Health
is, at least in part, bitten with the craze for
goods from Abrawd. At a recent meeting
members confessed that they had been
“deluded” by the labelling of a certain brand
of soft drinks. “Indeed,” said one member,
who hitherto apparently had no fault to
find with the quality of the drink, “I’ve
always bought it under the impression that
it was imported.” Now that he knows that
the stuff was made by mere Australians, it
will probably turn sour in his innards. The
firm v 7 ill probably be fined, and serve it
right for its hypocrisy; but how far is that
hypocrisy due to people like the above, to
whom the squish only tasted right so long as
they were convinced that it was Impawted?
“Pom”: The Hobart Mercury has been
trying to find out from the apple-fanciers of
the Speck what they reckon is the best kind
of apple. Not very many bothered about it, but
more of those who did plumped for the good
old Stunner than for any other kind. It
got 54 votes, and Jonathans were next wfith
51.
* * * *
“Ranji” : Farmers don’t know where they
are. again. Speculators are going round
whispering .to them that, though they have
been paid 3s. for this season’s wheat and
have been guaranteed 4s. f.o.b. Sydney, they
are to be charged interest on the 35.; and as
there is no telling when the wheat w 7 ill be
sold, or how long the interest will have to
be paid, some cockies are being enticed to
dispose of their rights for 2d. or 3d. Some-
body who knows what the Government’s
intentions are ought to tell the Cocky popu-
lation before any more of them are rooked
in this way.
From a Billjim at Dar es Salaam, East
Africa:—
Talking about boots (we here are supplied with a
good Scotch make, by the way), ever tried motor-car
tyre-covers? It’s the common thing in this rough
country. The Motor Transport Section may not be
much use for motor transport work; but its used-up
tyres are in demand. Just tack on a strip of tyre-
cover to the leather sole; trim off, and there you are.
“Bad Australian’s” yarn from S. America:
The mining sharp has sold S. America more than
one wildcat since the famous San Juan de Oro
swindle, and he was close-up to another big scoop in
Magallanes Territory (Chile) recently. A syndicate
had got a concession to bore for oil at Lena Dura,
and after drilling about 2300 ft. struck a heavy flow
of waiter and oil. A number of experts visited the
show, and came away quite satisfied that something
exceptional had been discovered. Then the Govern-
ment sat up and took notice, and other experts went
down to watch her spout and take a few barrels
back to Santiago. The few barrels had been run off
and the experts were just getting ready to leave the
penguin rookery, when somebody noticed that the
water carried ns more oil. This led to investigation
and the discovery of a pipe from the bore connected
with an oil tank in the boss’s humpy on the adjacent
ridge. The thing was simplicity itself—-when the
bore-valve was opened one of the smart crowd in the
humpy opened his little valve as well. For obvious
reasons the sharps had only provided a limited quan-
tity of salting oil, and when the supply was exhausted
the show’ went to pieces and Capital fled out of Magal-
lanes with an indignant snort, w'hile the owners of
the cat lit out for parts unknown. And here endeth
the 9!)9th lesson.
* * * *
“87” : Cobbers have told about the lasting
qualities of Billjim’s boots and tunic. Let
me put in a word for the hats that were
issued in the early days of the war. Mine
was borrowed from a dead chap at Suvla
Bay in August, ’l5. Since then it has been
in England, and is still doing its job in
1 alestme. John Bull issued felt hats to the
Tommies in Egypt last year, but they were
disreputable after a couple of months, and
no self-respecting Atkins neglects to steal
one of ours whenever he gets a chance.
* * * *
“8.J.”; In Melbourne lately attempts have
been made to arrive at the inwardness of cer-
tain “Wanted to Sell” ads. in which offers
are made to “sacrifice” furniture for a mere
ditty, mostly because “Owner is leaving
State” or “giving up housekeeping.” Several
of these ads. in which intending purchasers
were invited to address letters to suburban
post-offices were investigated, and in each in-
stance the sticks were in the same house.
Further, when any of the stuff was bought
the purchaser was supplied, not with what he
had inspected, but with replicas from a fac-
tory. The bluff of a forced private sale in-
duces many a mug to believe that he is being
practically given the goods for which he is
really paying full market price. The Law,
having smelt the business all round, decided
that a prosecution for false pretences would
probably fail, but it is going to try to pot the
dealer on two charges under the Factories
Act; (a) failing to have the furniture
stamped with the maker’s name, and (b)
carrying on a business in a private house not
registered under the Act.
“Globe” : The great abuse of section 95 by
Government departments (especially in
Bananaland) leads to long delays in tele-
graphic business and much profanity. Sec-
tion 95 gives Government offices (State and
Commonwealth) liberty to send urgent tele-
grams at ordinary rates. So when W. Jones,
of Thargomiudah, is advised that his letter
will receive consideration, it is done by sec-
tion 95. The telegraphist on that line must
interrupt his dinkiun work with other
stations until Jones’s idiotic "urgent” is
cleared. Hundreds of these daily make a big
difference. But the best thing I’ve seen in
p.o. management was in a Victorian country
office. The I\M. wanted to buy a ninepenn.v
spanner for his mechanic and £2 3s. 4d.
worth of sec. 95 messages passed before the
necessary permission was given by Mel-
bourne.
“Sub”: The cheering information that
several Melbourne firms are making axe and
tool handles (B. 14/2 y ’18) leads me to ask
if the much easier job of cutting butchers’
skewers couldn’t be incorporated as a side-
line. Our Mr. Lambchops informs me that
he has no recollection of ever jabbing a
locally-made skewer into a round of beef.
America and Japan are now supplying us —
at a fearful price, of course. Can’t we even
sharpen our own sticks?
* * * *
“Flying Jib’s” apparition:—
Yesterday in a Maorilaud port I made inspection
of the ugliest contraption in the sailing-vessel line
that I’d ever seen. She —no, it —was once the Yank
steamer City of Panama, trading from ’Frisco down
to the lands of yellow fever and week-end revolu-
tions. The owners were about to send it to the
knacker’s yard when the war-time ship-shortage set
in, and anything that could crawl across the briny
without getting full of it was packed with cargo,
given a slap on its aged stern and hustled out to
earn currency. The ancient liner was gutted of engines
and rigged as a five-masted schooner; no top-masts,
just a stiff rakeless line of pole masts, “bald-headed
schooner’’ style; above the straight bows a stumpy
bowsprit was rigged out. ’The result was a narrow,
black box of a ship with huge fore-and-aft sails, a
sea-going hybrid, with a new name as ugly as itself
—the Crawley. Yet the transformed venerable wave-
puncher is no crawler under sail. She —let’s give
hei back her sea-gender—is reputed to sail like a
bird close-hauled and to do her steady 10 knots
a.i hour day after day in the south-east trades.
“Loco”: “Glug” (B. 14/2/T8) wouldn’t
have to scratch off dirt to find Krupp’s
brand if he called at our Vic. loco depot.
As well as riding on Krupp wheels a lot of
cur engines are propelled by Krupp crank-
shafts upon Krupp rails. The “heads” of
the ’Bo’s were whales on “Made in Ger-
many” goods. Some of their sons have just
as little sense.
■#•***
W. H. Bruce, who started a small fancy-
goods business in the Central Market.
Adelaide, under 20 years ago, has just
floated his affairs —manifolded now —into
Bruce Limited, with a capital of £150.000.
The co. takes over his branches in Sydney
and Melbourne and all over N. S. Wales and
Victoria. Bruce remains managing director,
and promises to make over the profits of
5000 of the shares to old employees.
THE MORALIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ihree other soldier blokes ’n’ me packed ’ome from
foreign lands;
Bit into each the God of Battles’ everlastin’ brands.
They limped in time, ’n’ coughed in tune, ’n’ one
was short an ear,
’N’ one was short a tier of ribs, ’n’ all was short of
beer.
I speaks up like a temp’rance gent,
But ever since the sky was bent
The thirst of man ’as never yet bin squenced with
argument.
Bill’s skull was welded all across, Jim ’ad an eye
in soak,
Sam obbled on a patent leg, ’n’ every man was
broke;
Ihey sang a song of “Mother” with their faces tilted
up.
Says Bill-o: “ ’Ere’s yer ’eroes, sling the bloomin’
votive cun !
We got no beer, the soup was bad —
Now oo will stand the soldier lad
The swag of honest liquor that for vears he hasn’t
’ad ?”
■Sez I: “Respeck yer uniform! Remember oo you
are 1”
They’d pinched a wicker barrer, ’art a pram ’n’ ’arf
a car.
In this ole Bill-o nestled ’neath a blanket, on his
face
A. someone’s darlin’ sorter look, a touch iv boy’ood’s
grace.
The gentle ladies stopped to ’ear,
’N’ dropped a symperthetic tear,
A dollar or a deener for the pore hafflicted dear.
Ihe others trucked the wounded to a lientrance up
a lane.
I sez: “Sich conduck’s shameful!” Bill-o took to
ease his pain
One long ’un and another. The conductor picked
his brand ;
The gripman lent his countenance to wot he ’ad in
’and.
And when they moved their stand ’twas Sam
Lay pale ’n’ peaceful in the pram,
’N’ twenty flappers stroked his paw, ’n’ said he was
a lamb.
They gathered in the tokens and they blooed ’em as
above,
While Jim-o done the hinvalid ’oom Sammy had to
shove.
Sez 1: “No noble ’eroes what’s bin fightin' for their
king
Should smirch theirselves by doin’ this dis’onerable
thing.”
But fine ole gents ’n’ donahs prim
They stopped ’n’ slid the beans to Jim.
You betcher life I let ’im hear just what I thought
of ’im.
Nine g.m., at St. Kilder, saw the finish of the prowl.
Each ’ad his full-’n’-plenty, and was blowin’ in the
tow’l.
As neither bloke c-ud stand alone, they leaned ’n’
argufied
Which was the patient sufi'rer oo’s turn it was to
ride.
Each ’eld a san’wich and a can.
Sez I: “This shouldn’t ’nve began—
’Tain’t conduck wot is worthy of a soldier and a
man.”
1 cud ’a ! cried with injured pride. Afore a push
the three
Got scrappin’, vague ’n’ foolish, which the cripple
boy should be.
Sam slips his scientific leg, ’n’ flings it in the drain —
“I’ll auto ’ome,” he sez, “or never see me ’ome
again.”
But I am thinkin’ ’ard oo he
Tucked ’elpless in the pram might be.
Comes sudden reckerlection. Great Gohanners, it is
me >
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


cveLy' is tfiQ Sksies£
ULTccyr
The splendid operating records of G.E Motors are used
as a basis for repeat orders when extensions are planned
which require dependable heavy duty motors.
TYPE R.G
DIRECT CURRENT
COMMUTATING
POLE MOTORS
SHUNT OR COMPOUND
WOUND
i to 75 Horse Power Capacity
115 - 230 - 550 Volts.
Type R.C. Motors meet the
most exacting demands of the
most discriminating users.
“Riveted” Frames aro
used up to 2 H.P.
—Steel Frames on all
larger sizes
o^°
M,
\VO
g*
\\V« T
JOP
. o'
%
%
-V
\
/ X/
<
m
m
m
m
<
a
/\
/V
MILLED SLOTS en-
sure correct alignments.
Forward or reverse mo-
tion through single screw
%
eft.
C \cfdv\
C'|,„
trap
Strong and accurately
balanced paper pulleys
prevent belt-slip.
Riveted frames —light,
rigid, compact, substantial.
Large bearing.
Heavy shafts.
Generous oil wells.
Self-aligning,
adjustable
sliding base.
J
m
Windings effec-
tively protected by
sturdy end shields.
Small
Polyphase Motors
RIVETED FRAME DESIGN
We stock Riveted frame motors for
415 volt, 3 phase, 50 cycle circuits.
Sizes—so cycles
i - 1 - 2 - 3 - 5- 7.5 - 10 - 15 h.p.
LARGER SIZES ARE STOCKED IN OUR
POPULAR SKELETON FRAME DESIGN.
General Electric-O
Wentworth Ay Sydney, O? of Queen c Little Collins St Melbourne.
» OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co.
_ a Ohristchnrch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock & Co., Ltd.. Launceston; Messrs,
and Oliver. MacQuarie Street. Hobart.
Ltd..
Oliver
BRISBANE <Q.) :
Ltd., corner
PERTH ( %V.A.) :
ADBUIOE <S.A
OTHER ACENTS:
The Enffineerms Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.).
Edward and Charlotte Streets
Chas Atkins & Co (W.a.>. I.td.. Hay Street.
.). Cnbchaun & Johnstone. 10ft Currie Street.


A. Saunders’ /[Dessert Knives and Forks, pure Silver-plated, A 1
quality, hand-engraved blades, pearl handles, patent silk-lined case,
- £3/5/-
A. Saunders’ Fish Servers, pufe Silver-plated, AX quality, richly
engraved blades, embossed handles, in silk-lined case, 207-
Real Staghorn handles, 407-
A. Saunders’ Afternoon Teas and Tongs, pure
Silver-plated, A 1 quality, engraved handles,
12/6.
A. Saunders’ Cake Forks and Server, in velvet-lined case,
25/-
■
A. Saunders’ Soup Spoons, pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, hand
burnished, velvet-lined Morocco Case. 25/-
■
A. Saunders’ Meat Carvers, Carving Knive, Fork and Steel,
finest Sheffield Steel, Xylonite handles, 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Nut Cracks and Picks, hand
engraved, in case, 30/-
Send for
Latest
Catalogue.
It’s Post
Free.
A. Saunders’ Presentation Foundation Trowel, pure Silver-plated Nickel
A 1 quality, hand-engraved blade, carved handle, in silk-lined Case, £3/10/-
A. Saunders’
plated, glass
Salt Cellars and Spoons, pure Silver-
linings, silk- and velvet lined case,
20/-
A. SAUNDERS, Jeweller, 805-815 George Street, Sydney
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
y
*• i * • » ,* , .
\ .\\\; !/ // y
Lime Juice
Brings to your lips the juice of
the lime fruit.
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing*
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
gfd
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS! FOR EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR. BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ' ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Mekrie Enoland, lOd. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly’s Art op Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders, a rare book by Defoe, 1/3,
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/'-. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
l/'6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/1. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 4/9 posted. Riddle op the Uni-
verse, 10d., and all the Rational Press Re-
prints (send for list). Joys of Life, 1/6.
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 1/6. Mechanics' Work-
shop Handybook, 1/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/2. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/3. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, .1/6 post free. Maria Monk,
1/6. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler's Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners' Guide (simple tests for minerals), 8/6.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. San-
dow's Book of Strength, posted 3/6. Car-
lisle’s Freemasonry, 5/- posted. Mysteries
of Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/-.
Not Guilty (Blatchford), 1/-. The Art of
Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and 1/6. God and My Neighbor,
9d. Britain and the British, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/6. How to Train
for All Sports, 1/3. Diseases of Horses, 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, l/'2. New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 1/6. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/3. M.etal-Working for
Amateurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gasfitting, etc.,
1/6 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/6. That Rascal Gustave, 1/-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle's
Card Gaaies (Rule 3 for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/6. Man from Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Man His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. The Doctor, Cures for All Diseases,
1/6 'posted. Letter-Writer Up‘to-Date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public Speaking
Made Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 5/-.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own School-
master, 1/6 posted. Cabinetmakers’ Handy-
book, 1/6. Complete Bookkeeping, 2/6. Life
of Deeming, illustrated, 1/1. How McDougall
Topped the Score, and Other Verses, 1/3.
French Self Taught, 1/3. Wannan’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio, Heptameron, and many others, all at
3/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 1/9
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
All these prices Post Paid.
NO MATTER WHAT BOOK YOU
WANT, I’VE GOT IT.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and save
your cash. Established over 25 years.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford’s Midwife’s Handbook, 92 practical
illustrations, 2/9. Aristotle, 4/6. Adam Lind-
say Gordon’s Poems, complete, 1/9. Practical
Palmistry, 1/6. Guide to Auctioneering, 2/6.
Lovers’ Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 1/6. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
ONLY A SMALL IDEA OF MY
STOCK CAN BE GOT FROM
THIS ADVT.
Write for mv
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO
DUTY. ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSE-
WHERE SENT.
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/6 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/- posted. Tokology,
8/6 posted. Ingersoll’s Works, 10d., 2/-. How
to Read Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/6 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/6 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers’ Assist-
ant, 1/6. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/2 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readi-ngs, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster’s Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price 17/6 post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 1/6. Dynamos‘and Electric Motors, 1/6.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, 1/- posted. 200
Old-Time Songs, (words and music complete),
1/6 posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine, lOd.
posted. Adventures of John Johns, 1/6 posted.
One Day, 1/3 posted. The Night of Temptation,
1/9. Life’s Shop Window, 1/9.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book sroRE, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney (only).
Sm~BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH. ~»i


James Barnes Ltd.
Pure
Linseed Oil Meal
In Genuine Tons.
PART VIEW OF THE MILL'S CAKE-BREAKING MACHINERY.
XT
•t
'■
.
mm.
m.
VART VIEW OF THE MILL'S VUE SSI NO MACHINERY.
If your local storekeeper does not stock Barnes’s Linseed Oil Meal post your order
to Harold Meggitt, “Daily Telegraph” Buildings, Sydney, and it will be. promptly
attended to.
gSSS
WM
mSM
T"1
m.
I
LINSEEOOjLMit||
I
' V
:
jf&*. ■■
• . • *«r - . . .' -- • *•■' . ”;V7 e • ’■■
m
m t
i |
H
*• V 1
LINSEED OIL MILL OF JAMES BARNES LTD., ALEXANDRIA
James Barnes Genuine Linseed Oil — Raw &, Boiled
IS crushed from tbe Finest Bold Calcutta Seed.
IS being manufactured in large quantities.
WILL- BE thoroughly matured and available by tbe first week in April, 1918.
All Enquiries to
Tel. City 9552.
HAROLD MEGGITT, “Daily Telegraph” Buildings, Sydney.


PARAMOUNT PICTURES
The pictures that are known throughout the
world as the best and cleanest in every respect.
The pictures that you wouldn’t hesitate to let your
children see; rather would you send them that they
may be better for the education contained in them.
ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable conies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soilel oririnals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [i
m
■ ssl
M
POLITICAL
POINTS
“FATHER, WHAT DID YOU DO IN THE
GREAT WAR?"
not State Money Recruiting as well
4? tat i 6 Man fruiting Councils? None
or the loans so far have been taken up bv
the general public; and there is great need to
get into personal touch with the individual
with savings and convince him that if he
cannot go to the war his money ought to go.
In only the third of the five Australian
dld on e in 50 of the population sub-
scnbe. In. Uncle Sam’s first big Liberty
J-oan one person in every 10 did so
The Win-the-War Government is doing
splendidly. Unable to organise the Defence
Department it appointed a Royal Commis-
sion. Unable to carry out the Commission’s
plans it appointed a Board* Unable to get
recruits it proposed compulsory service.
Unable to carry compulsory service it let
things slide—until there was a row. Unable
then to suggest anything except bribery it
invited the public to supply a few ideas and
’W in the War. Was there ever a more help-
less lot of bluffers?
According to Ryan the job
before Bananaland is to meet the
war with a “bold policy of
development”—on p.n. principles.
Up to date one of the results of
meeting peace with the same
policy is a public debt of
£01,000.000. Over £40,000.000
has been put into railways, which
are so short of traffic because
they have got ahead of develop-
ment that the taxpayer had to
provide £744,334 last year to pay
the bill and £505,255 during the
year before. In the last six years
1000 additional miles of railway
have been opened. They earned
an extra £5OO 000. but to get that
much an additional £1,000.000
had to be passed out of the pay-
window. The general loan expen-
diture since 1010 has been
£.18,000,000. Direct taxation has
increased SO per cent. The gen-
eral revenue has gone up about
50 per cent., the expenditure 00
per cent. There was a surplus
annually for 12 years until last
year, when a deficit of £253,000
was produced. And the popula-
tion since 1910 has leaped up-
wards by fully 100.000, which is
less than the number of births
registered for nine years. When
** this borrowing going to start
showing the magnificent results
that are always claimed for it?
when is the “bold policy of
development —with a p,n.—going to develop
something bcs.des extra taxation to meet the
deficit?
The report of the select committee
appointed by Y'ic. Leg. Council to inquire
regarding the nationality of A. O. Saehse’s
father states:—
Such evidence as is available points to the con-
clusion that Dr. F. 0. Sachse was born in 1812 at
llaJle, which was then part of the Kingdom of
Saxony, and was annexed to Prussia in 1815.
The adoption of the report was moved bv
chairman Manifold, who “empha-
sisecl the statement
that Dr. Sachse’s birth-
place had nothing to
do with Prussia at
the time of his birth.”
In fact, the father of
A. O. Sachse was a
Saxon during the three
years when lie was too
young to know it, and
a Prussian from the
time when lie was old
enough to understand.
But that is the point
that Manifold, M.L.C.,
doesn’t want to em-
phasise. In any case
father Sachse doesn’t
matter. What does
matter as regards son
Sachse’s appointment
to be Chairman of
Committees in the
Leg. Council is
whether he gave proof
that he retained the
Germanism of his
parentage by marrying
into a German family,
and brought German
sympathies—and goods
—into the Vic. Rail-
way Department when
he was Minister of
Railways. Rees, who
caused the select com-
mittee to be born, is
accused of spitefulness
—he is said to want
Sachse’s billet. Which
merely sus-gests that
personal feeling may
inspire a very desir-
able public inquiry.
A sum in compound proportion:—
If the Cornstalk State Government in year IV of
the war tried to raise a renewal loan of £12,648,477
at 5} per cent, and the amount offered was
£1,921,715 short, how much will the amount
offered be short when, in the year V of the war, an
attempt has to be made to raise a renewal loan of
£11,233,995 possibly at 6 per cent.?
The loan curse lias come home to roost at a
very bad time. The States have among them
to borrow 244 millions for renewals this year,
3.) 3 millions in 1919, UU millions in 1920,
12i millions in 1921, 14 millions in 1922,
174 millions in 1923, and nearly 32 millions
in 1924. This country once paid 8 per cent,
for its loans, and if that happens again the
oldest inhabitant will say that it is just
like the times when he was a boy.
At the Wellington North (M.L.) by-elec-
tion last week the Labor candidate polled 3G
per cent, of the votes, Independents 21 per
cent, and the Ministerial nominee, who man-
aged to sneak in through the openings left by
a bad electoral system, 43 per cent. At the
general election in 1911 the Laborite (it was
A PLEA TO BE LEFT ALOEE—FOR A
HUNDRED YEARS.
“The Minister for Defence (Mr. Pearce) said
to-day that he did not propose to traverse, the per-
sonal attacks directed against him. He would leave
it to the historian of the future."
THE OWNER: “It's about time toe bad a
special audit.”
THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT : “What, in
war-time! Postpone it for a hundred
years, and I won’t be afraid of the most
searching inquiry.”
Elijah Carey, since killed in France) annexed
15 per cent, of the votes, and in 1914 Labor’s
simporters numbered 20 per cent. As this
constituency has always been solid for Fat
or its equivalent, the figures look as if the
Devil was writing on the wall.
One of those men who make the world
weary spoke to the Wheat Commission at
Adelaide. He had invented a weevil exter-
minator, to cost £3OO, which would de-insect-
iso 1000 bushels of grain in eight hours, and
lie wore his boots off going from
one official to another in a vain
attempt to get it officially locked
at. Well, why didn’t he know
better? He should have gone
to England and become a pro-
fessor—of botany, or physio-
logy, or philology, or dead lan-
guages, or anything. Then if he
had offered his machine he would
have received a cordial invita-
tion and all expenses paid. A
mere Australian inventor re-
quires a lot of boots wffiile doing
the,,weary round from Barnacle
to Stiltstalking, and from
Boodle to Coodle.
The Argentine Republic has
done another deal in wheat. It
undertakes to supply Britain
between now and November 18
with 2,500,000 tons, and is to
get a minimum of 121 dollars
per 100 kilos. Presumably that
means silver dollars —not de-
preciated paper—and if so the
Argentine person is to get about
12s. per bushel. Even allowing
a liberal margin for charges the
price is _ enough to make
farmer Billjim’s mouth water
John Bull is ready to hand out
money with a shovel for prompt
delivery; and though at
delivering speeches the Argentine can’t hold
a candle to us, it. seems to. have a better
deliverer of wheat than we have.
Attorney-General Ilerdman having climbed
on to the Maoriland Bench, there was a bv-
election the other day for Wellington North,
and the population sat up and watched the
proceedings with interest. The local Mavor
John Luke, went into the fray as ‘the
selected” nominee of Premier Massey, who
announced that he would regard the poll as
an indication of whether there should be
a general election. At the finish there was
nothing for Farmer Rill to rejoice about, for
though his man emerged on top of the three
other triers with a majority of 420 over
llarry Holland, the Labor candidate, who
came next, he polled a minority of 1116 of
the votes cast. Herdman used ‘to poll more
than all the others put together. So far
Massey hasn't explained what sort of vote
ot confidence he thinks it is when, in that
. /?, electorate, 2986 support the “offi-
cial man and 4102 vote against him.
It may yet be the world’s tragedy that some
of the motley legions on which so much de-
pends are not better fed. Some of them,
according to accounts, have not very much
to complain of, but some have to face the
crisis— our crisis—with far less inward
tuinishment than a good soldier should have
it he is to kill sufficient Germans. And
some of the armies draw their recruits from
tarnished countries, which doesn’t make them
any better recruits. If they had a chance,
before they shoulder the gun, to be anything
like as well fed as the youths who haunt
the pony courses of Australian cities it
would be bettor for them and much safer
for us. It was a common saying in Ger-
many that if German influences could keep
Australia’s wheat from reaching the Allies
it would make just enough difference to give
the Hun the victory. Well, German or
other influences have done the trick prettv
well.
Being unable to get recruits, the Govern-
ment. invites suggestions from the public.
But in making suggestions the public might
just as well remember that it is still a
criminal offence to mention most of the
reasons why the Government can't get re-
cruits. Three recruiters have recently
attempted to say something in The Bui'
letin ; and their attempts have been in
each case suppressed. With sublime impu
dence the Departmental explanation has
every time been that the matter was “preju-
dicial to recruiting.” This fool-department
hasn t yet been able to realise that it isn’t
the statement of grievances that is preju-
dicial to recruiting, but the existence of
grievances.
Before the subject is buried somebody
might find out how many of the dozen or lb
shiploads of men who have been sent back
from Egypt and England as medically unfit
without getting near the fighting front have
been inoculated, how many times they have-
been inoculated, what they have been inocu
lated for, and what visible effect (if any)
it has had upon them. There may be a lot
of connection between the Australian mili-
tary heads’ craze for inoculation and the
large number of Australians who a few
months later are mysteriously found to be
under-standard. In England some time ago
it was held that not even the military
authorities had a right to inoculate a soldier
against his will; but in Australia the
Attorney-General, whose name is Hughes,
decided that the Defence Dept, can legally
pump what it pleases into the recruit.
AUSTRALIA’S RIP VAN NIGHTMARE.
"It is part of the Government’s proclaimed
policy to stimulate new industries.” — Milieu,
Minister for Repatriation. Yes, it is pro-
claimed all right.
HYMN OF DISSOLUTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. Excellency the Governor has received the
resignation of the Honorable Randolph Bedford from
the Legislative Council owing to his nomination as
candidate for Carnarvon in the Assembly.”
Stoic am I, and yet mine eyes grow dim
To think that 1 may never see thee more!
Jo think that Death, the cowardly and grim,
Just as we’d learned to mutually adore,
May part us ever, deaf to sob or sigh—-
Good-bye, gold pass, good-bye!
Gone are the glories of the House, and spent
As dreams of youth, or as a moon at dawn!
The dead, dissolved, forgotten Parliament
Goes forth to take its pledges out of pawn ;
And from the House of Zifs I come to die—
Good-bye, gold pass, good-bye 1
I was a traveller when I paid my fare,
I sailed the seas, and flashed across the land ;
Now I’ve a pass 1 go not anywhere—
I have not time to walk by hill or strand.
I thought to travel with thee ere I die—
Good-bye, gold pass, good-bye 1
J he cool stone house of Romanesque design
I shall not know till I be born again ;
For now my leather throne do I resign,
My gold pass and myself catch the last train.
Until I live again constituent-/^
Good-bye, gold pass, good-bye!
I kiss thee on thy crazy unicorn !
I kiss thee on thy humorous British lion !
I even kiss thy crown, and do not mourn,
though I have writ my speech and am a-dyin’ ;
A speech that is a swan-song (gather nigh!)—
Good-bye, gold pass, good-bye!
But I shall rise again, and in a new
And fairer world we two again shall meet;
In the Assembly I shall find a pew,
A Heaven where thou and I shall be complete.
’Tis for a rarer, fairer life I die—
Good-bye, gold pass, good-bye!
QUEENSLAND.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


Give the dear children a surprise for Easter.
Buy them one of
Palingfs Player Pianos.
«a
HE, Instrument that ail the family
can play and enjoy; the music
rolls make this quite easy.
No Knowledge of music is necessary
to play PALING’S PLAYER PIANOS,
and they are so easy to play—a great
feature in PALING’S PLAYER
PIANOS.
Buy one and bring into your borne tbe
world’s best music by means of Paling’s
Music Rolls. We bave many thousands
to select from: Sacred, Classical,
Operatic and Popular.
Easy Terms if desired.
Illustrated Catalogue and Particulars free.
P/ease write for them .
We are Sole Agents
for
CHAPPELL,
BEHNING,
ESTEY,
LAFFARGUEand
VICTOR
Player Pianos.
W. H. PALING & CO. LTD
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.
Engineers, Farmers and Skilled Workmen should know the
OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING and CDTTING PROCESS.
The Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest addition to the engineer’s workshop and to the skilled worker’s bench. It is simple of working and
portable, so that cutting or welding may be done at the bench, in the field or by the roadside.
CUT OUT COST OF NEW MACHINERY.
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remarkable variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following
are a few of the broken and worn machinery parts our process will make new again :
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes, Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes, Worn
Keyways in Shafts. Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other
process.
m
mm
'•
tin. Steel Sliaft, in head of 12001 b. Press and
frame, back of shaft-box, 14in. wide and 2in.
and tin. thick, welded where chalk-marked.
?sot possible of repair by ordinary methods.
Repaired in a few hours by our process, sav-
ing the cost of a new press and big loss of
time.
v" mm.
sr
ktamemus
W rw
.
k
m
'm
M
? HTTP
///
-■
Oxy-Acetylene Welding- applied to Pipe Work,
Ammonia Refrigerating Coils.
Farmers, do not scrap your broken parts, but get them
welded by our process at the nearest engineer's.
Poppet-head dismantled in Tasmania
to be erected in New South Wales.
Approximately 12,000 rivets were cut
out with the Oxy-Acetylene Metal-
cutter, without damage to the struc-
ture. This work was carried out by
A. L. W'est & Co., of Sydney.
THE COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN CO. LTD.
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
Agents-—MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingrain & Co.. Wyatt Street.
BERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


The AMBEROLA-
a charming instrument.
Here is a beautiful instrument, created by
that great genius Thomas A. Edison, and
constructed on principles set down by him,
offered at a price that most people can afford
to pay easily enough.
There are many Edison “Amberolas,” but
Model No. 30, illustrated, is the lowest in
price, being only £9 10s. It has a sweet,
natural tone and pleasing appearance. Inspect
it at the nearest Edison dealer’s or write
direct for illustrated catalog, post free.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD. (Wholesale Only),
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
-Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
SPECIAL MILITARY WIRELESS CLASS.
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN A TECHNICAL UNIT.
Our Instructors have arranged a Special Class for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army.
The Tuition extends over four months—lnstruction three evenings a week. The course will be made
quite practical, use being made of the installations in the school, also of an aircraft set now being
installed especially for this course. The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and Motor-car Stations, Aeroplane Apparatus, etc., etc.
A SPECIAL RATE OF £8 FOR THE FULL COURSE has been decided on.
All particulars on application to THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS, Dept. C, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE THE EMPIRE.
fdg
JUST AS BEFORE
Quality is the Important FacStor To-day.
AEGE
jßnePure Wool
UNDERWEAR
For the COMING WINTER
The name J AEGEK has been prominently identified with the manufacture
of HIGH-GRADE WOOL UNDERWEAR for more than thirty years.
GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS.
At a time when the conservation of wool is of vital importance, it is gratifying
to be able to offer our Clients this Season the famous Jaeger Underwear.
REMEMBER, the durabilitv and comfort equals more than double the life of
the cheaper grades of underwear.
We Pay
Postage.
yurt
Oa
Q
A
CF
STOCKED IN
Light, Medium and Heavy Weights.
Write for Illustrated Catalog.
HENRY BUCK & CO.
MELBOURNE.
SPORTING
Three events were disposed of at Fleming-
ton last Saturday before the rain poured down in
its best race-day manner and damped the proceed-
ings. The Leger, coming second on the bill, was an
interesting struggle. Prince Viridis, backed at slight
odds-on, made a moderately slow pace, with Thrice
as his most prominent pursuer, until they hail fairly
rounded the home turn. Then the hope of Victoria
grew weary, and whilst he was losing ground in a
perfectly straightforward way Bronzetti chased
Viridis down the centre of the course. Both horses
hung out, Bronzetti seeming to draw the other with
him. For a moment, after passing the distance, the
Caulfield Cup winner had the advantage, but by the
time they had got close to the rails under the judge’s
box Prince Viridis had his nose in front again.
Meanwhile Broken Glass had outstayed Thrice on the
far side of the course, four lengths behind the lead-
ers. A protest against the winner was not seriously
entertained by the watchers in the grandstand, for
there had been no apparent contact between the two
tired battlers. Viridis got the stake, and local
punters were left to ruminate over the evident
superiority of N.S.W. horseflesh these times. Scobie’s
stable had tipped Thrice as a real good thing for the
Leger, but neither he nor Broken Glass ever made a
pretence of winning.
Perhaps it was because local faith in local form
had been badly shaken that Cetigne started first
favorite for the Newmarket. Of all the Sydney
horses on the job Cetigne had the most distinguished
past, and 9st. was not too much for an animal of his
class to carry in a field of mostly second-raters. The
objection to him was that he had not been much
tested for sprinting purposes in public. It. was re-
membered that Lavendo had been backed heavily for
the same race last year on the strength of his
“quality,” and had never got fairly going. There
was the fear that Cetigne might lose his great chance
in the first stage of the flutter. As a matter of fact,
the brilliant A.J.C. Derby winner was soon going as
fast as anything. The Newmarket Handicap is a
bad race from the spectators’ point of view, unless
everybody can see that one particular something is
bound to win if lie stays the course. A runaway
race is at least a definite spectacle. This year there
was no runaway; moreover the darkness of an
approaching storm was over the land. The crowd’s
first distinct impression was the black and green of
Petracia leading in the centre of the course. At 54
furlongs Petracia had tiie race won, but she failed on
the pinch, as she did last year. Cetigne, Wedge and
Poitrina, pretty dose together on the near side of
the track, were outlasting the squibby mare.
Wedge seemed to be troubled in the run home, and
Poitrina finished between him and Cetigne. The
third horse was not a length behind the winner’s
tail ; Petracia finished fourth and Whitefield fifth.
Last year they were each a notch nearer the winner.
Pah King was the only other animal ever dangerous
among 29 starters, so but for the fine performance
of luckless Wedge (9st. 71b.) the “class” of the
Victorian candidates would have looked poor indeed.
Torrentious rain intensified the woes of the book-
makers after this. They dreamed that the heavy
going might stop Palm Leaf for the Sires’ Produce
Stakes, but the grey filly from Sydney liked the
mud, and led all the way. Then came the Essendon
Stakes, bringing with it a hope that Desert Gold
might give the plungers a bad turn. But (this was
after some of the books had laid 4 to 1 Wallace
Isinglass) the owner of the M.L. mare decided not
to run her, whereupon Isinglass shortened to 6 to 4
and won handsomely from Lanius and Lingle. Lingle
was known to have been checked in his- work
lately, and the racing condition of Lanius was as
much a matter of uncertainty as when he won his
first race in the Spring. If this gallop in the mud
did the big English horse a power of good he may
win a race before the end of the meeting. Cetigne’s
record as a 3-year-old was brilliant; but until he
was a 5-year-old he never won a race in Vic. Then
he captured the Melbourne Stakes on Derby Day,
which was just what Lavendo had done before he
was backed to win last year’s Newmarket at 6 to 1.
When the bookmaker who sold Cetigne at
the end of last season handed the horse over to the
new man, he probably thought he had seen the best
of the nag. What he actually did was to get rid of
one of the most brilliant gallopers Australia has
known for many years without recognising how good
the horse really was. Cetigne started seven times
as a two-year-old, winning thrice and being only
twice unplaced. At three years he won the A.J.C.
Derby, Clibborn Stakes, Rawson Stakes, Rous Handi-
cap and Hawkesbury Guineas and a Randwick Handi-
cap ; was second in the Linlithgow Stakes to Tra-
quette and in the same place behind Carlita in the
C. B. Fisher Plate, the A.J.C., St. Leger and V.R.C.
Derby, being only twice unplaced. At four years he
won once (at Rosehill), was third in Quinologist’s
Metropolitan, was plficed in four other races and ran
unplaced half a dozen times. He was sometimes
ridden without conspicuous ability, and the placing
of the horse seldom showed genius. Then he was
sold—and for the next owner (Stirton) this year he
won the Rosehill Spring Stakes, the Villiers and
the Newmarket, and landed what some men would
consider a very respectable fortune.
* » * *
An imported horse that managed to win a
race at Newmarket (Eng.) before changing his
address didn’t have much trouble in showing the way
to the line in his first run here. This is Graves,
a 4-year-old by Trendennis, who captured the Flying
jt Moorefield on Saturday. Certainly he beat only
an ordinary lot, but he may do big things when in
better racing trim. He looked fairly burly on
Saturday, and someone or other was backing" him
like a certainty.
Nags sent across from Maoriland having
collared the A.J.C. Derby in two successive years,
W. Stead is going to give Almoner, winner of the
Breeders’ Plate at Randwick in the Spring, another
trip and a chance to do the hat-trick. Remembering
also Desert Gold, the time seems ripe to hear some
more about the ruination of the horse in M.L. by the
totalisator.
It transpires that the A.J.C. intends to
run the existing totalisators at Randwick on the
1,2, 3 basis of 60, 20 and 20 per cent. This form
of betting will be the only method available apart
from the books. It means a fool system of place-
betting as a substitute for the rational method
which was the only justification for bringing in the
machine. So far as this page is concerned, all that
now remains for it to do, as perhaps the oldest and
most persistent barracker for the tote in Australia,
is to disavow the bogus arrangement called totalisa-
tor-betting foisted on to N. S. Wales courses, and to
express the view that it would matter less than 2d.
if the whole outfit of buildings and plant was wheeled
over to Manly and flung into the surf with three
jeers. Meanwhile the squeaks that are being heard
in Israel about Ikey having reached the end of the
section and the 1,2, 3 being a permanent arrival
are cheerful circumstances in an otherwise gloomy
world. MacShortodds and Co. are not worrying; they
can carry on business now at the old address with
complete confidence that they will get the trade.
„ * * *
“Cobber”: Tutt.’s winners keep the
Federal taxation people thinking. A sliding-scale,
which was to hit big winners hard and tapered off
for the smaller ones, was created. It didn’t pay. So
many prizewinners had taken the precaution to add
“and syndicate” after their names that when the tax-
gatherer demanded the high percentage he was in-
variably supplied with a whole directory of alleged
participants. That brought each man’s prize under
the minimum scale, and Bigjohn of Bunbury was left
again.
“ Jneko” : John Skillicorn, whose ride on
horseback from Bathurst to Sydney (121 i miles) in
less than 20 hours during the ’OO’s was recently
mentioned in The Bulletin, was only one of a num-
ber of endurance-performers in thfl saddle in the
Bathurst district in the early days. The lately-
deceased Pierce Field, senior, of Carrowobbity sta-
tion, covered over 200 miles in two stages in an
aggregate of 40 hours. After taking a team from
C'adou station to Old Warroo, 11 miles, he doubled
back in response to a message about family sickness
at Hartley. Hiring a saddle-horse he made for Bun-
daburra, 40 miles off, where he transferred to his
brother’s Tomboy, afterwards a fair goer on the
course. At 4 o’clock Field started for Canowindra, 50
miles, and landed at Bathurst about noon, after
covering a further 66, with the mount going strong.
Coal Pit Vale (now Hartley), 40 more miles on, was
reached a little after dark. So that Field piloted a
team 22 miles, rode 40 miles in 12 hours, and then
covered another 162 in 28 hours, the last big stretch
on the one nag. Another decent performance was
that of Jimmy Frost, who, on his Colonel, moved
from Dubbo to Orange, 96 miles, in 15 hours. This
was for a wager.
“J.B.C.V: “Jibber” Wilson, who could
stick to a horse tighter than any other rider in
Tassy, was recently engaged by the Remount depot
to convert a dozen young outlaws into Christians.
Arriving at his new job after dark, he was picking
his way through the paddocks when, jumping over a
fence, iie lobbed on to a colt which was down resting.
Rising, the terrified youngster galloped to the
boundary fence and leaped on to the main road.
Wilson retained his seat until the animal collided
with a motor and was killed. “Jibber” handled
the remaining youngsters the following day and had
them like Mary’s little lamb within a month. His
next job was to ride an old donkey across the stage
in an amateur comedy. Refusing to make its entry
on the cue, one of the hands pricked the donk, with
the result that it ran over the footlights. Wilson
died next day from concussion. There’s the luck of it.
“S.P.C.C.”: I would advise “Shepherd”
(B. 14/2/’18) to keep quiet about the Robinson kidlet
of 11 who appeared as a jockey at Kelly’s Gully
(N.S.W.). At Lithgow on February 13 a boy of 14
was engaged as a jockey. The Law proceeded against
the employer and fined him a fiver and costs, and
then turning on the father fined him £5 also. Per-
haps Kelly’s Gully doesn’t know the Law. Perhaps
the Law never heard of Kelly’s Gully.
* * * *
“Llib”: The local sports in a West Queens-
land town, having decided on footracing, called for
nominations. A half-caste, who evidently knew most
about horseracing, sent in particulars of himself as
follows: “Performances, Nil. Pedigree, by Dan out
of Lily.”
* * * *
Rash American motorist Ralph de Palma
recently clipped a bit off the world’s motor record
for an hour’s run on a track. Driving a 12-c.vlinder
Pac-khard on the Sheepshead Bay Speedway, near
New York, he did 109 miles, beating J. Chassayne’s
previous best by over a mile. At one stage of his
journey De Palma was moving at such a pace that
he overlapped his shadow three times. The highest
speed reached was 115 m.p.h.
* * « *
Kramer, the ex-American bike champion,
is still capable of rapid movement. In an Amurkan
competition the other day he put a half-mile behind
him in the record time of 53sec.
* * * *
George Border, who defeated A. J. Davies
—the speediest of recently-discovered Sydney pedal-
lers —in a five-mile scratch race on Saturday, is an
old-timer aboard a wheel. Back in ’O6 he put up
the Australian unpaced half-mile standing-start record
of 55 l-ssec. f> and his 10-mile unpaced road record
(21min. 50sec.) in ’l4 still leads the world. H. H.
Horder, a son of the veteran, took the open-mile
handicap (from 175 yards) on Saturday, and added
to the family’s cheerfulness.
* * * »
Popular Adelaide cyclist and motorist
Murray Aunger has had the unpleasant experience of
standing trial on the elastic charge of conspiracy.
He was one of the first to see the possibilities of the
motor in S. Aus., and eventually became manager of
a company bearing his name. Last year the co.
suddenly changed its name, and it became knows
that there had been a quarrel. Aunger has now
been charged, in companionship with two smaller
men connected with the co., with making a private
profit out of the sale of a car. The first magistrate
before whom the ease came said there was no evi-
dence against Aunger, at any rate; but the charge was
pressed. The Criminal Court has now, after nearly
a week's sitting, found all three not guilty.
* * * *
On a pitch that is doing its bit Jack
O’Connor (Waverlev) is the most dangerous bowler
in Svdney premiership cricket. After standing down
for three matches, the left-hander skittled Glebe on
Saturday, helping himself to 5 for 51—the best effort
of the day. O’Connor’s other flashes this season were
10 for 84 against ’Varsity, and 6 for 77 against
Sydney. His bag for five matches is 22 for 313.
John was a tripper with M. A. Noble’s team of 1909.
* * * *
W. G. Brown, of Newington College (Syd-
ney), is the star all-rounder in Sydney schools
cricket. Awhile back he smote 215 (out of 363) and
took five wickets for 53 against King’s School: last
week he rattled up 130 (out of 337) ami took six
for 31 against St. Ignatius. In vacation-days Brown
played with Balmain in Sydney premiership cricket
for" a change, and piled up 112 runs, averaging 28.0,
with 44 against Middle Harbor as the best eifort.
A memorial to Ned Trickett went up at
Uralla (N.S.W.) the other day—the town from which
the great Australian went west. Ned was a much-
loved sportsman, and a 10ft. Gin. marble monument
embellished with crossed sculls on top will tell the
kid to come of the straight-goer who first brought the
world’s sculling championship to Australia.
“Rio”: “Ranger” and others are getting
away from the point in the rifle-shooting argument.
The Government subsidises rifle clubs in order that
J. N. CRAWFORD,
of Maoriland. ex-
Surrey and S. Aus-
tralian cricketer.
the skill developed may
be available in war.
But it is not. Over
80,000 riflemen (80
p.c. of the lot) have
not enlisted. These
80,000 may have good
reasons for not going
to the Front. If so, they
have also excellent
reasons for not taking
Government money Sat-
urday after Saturday.
Australia would have
found the 20,000 rifle-
men it has sent with-
out any rifle-club sys-
tem at all. Our ene-
mies do so, anyhow.
Football develops mili-
tary qualities. But
footballers do not stav
at home and follow
their sport at Govern-
ment expense and call
themselves patriots for
doing so. They en-
list.
“M.P.A.”: Wrestler Frank Gotch, just
passed out, was a comparatively unknown quantity
here until he met and beat George Hackensehmidt at
their first meeting in the U.S.A. As a matter of
fact, Gotch did not meet the real Hackey, the man
who stood all Europe on its head. It was a patched-
up Hack, that went down before the all-in tactics
of the quick, rough-up Gotch. George King Morgan,
for years associated with Hackensehmidt as stage-
manager and adviser, did his best to dissuade his
principal from making the trip, but the big monetary
cert, win, lose or draw, pulled the Russian to the
U.S.A. At the time he had two patehed-up elbows
and a pair of shoddy knees, and had already let
desires get the better of his judgment. Even then
Gotch had to claw and strike and put in all the
dirty tricks to get a decision, and the referee was
as deaf as a post. After the scramble the Russian
was compelled to keep his room for days because
his face was so torn. In these games the Yank
athletic has perfected the dirty points of the game.
Nigel Barker, the ex-Sydney ’Varsity ped., was
robbed of a world’s championship at Athens by just
such tactics: he was hit in the wind as he made his
run. The toe-hold was Goteh’s specialty, and the
toe-hold is just as foul in catch-as-catch-can as a
hand-break or strangle-hold; such levers are essen-
tially jiu-jitsu grips. Frank Talbot and Eb Baker
tried very hard to bring Gotch to Australia to
meet Hackey here, but the artful dodger sidestepped
them. Australian wrestling enthusiasts would have
lynched him had he tried the gouge game in these
parts.
* * * *
Most of them die early. Terry McGovern
is the latest to follow the fashion. He was only 38
when he took the count the other day. Old-time
Yankees say he was one of the greatest featherweights
ever seen in the ring. That was when he was 20 or
so and dealing out stoush to performers like Dixon
and Gans. Since then he had been more or less daft.
* * * *
“Manuka”: The two bushwhackers were
engaged in mortal stoush outside the Marine Arms,
and John Maori as part of an interested audience
was cheering wildly at each strategic bash. Sud-
denly John Hop materialised and garnered in the
two belligerents. “Werra, by cripe, if that ain’t
hard luck,” said Honi. “Christmit time, too. Why
te herra te bobby not ret ’em fight it out in peace?”
* * * *
“Spreader”: The “crap” game, by which
McGoorty is said to have made £4OO on the way
home to U.S.A., comes easy to a hazard player, but
is seldom tried in Australia. The thrower takes two
large-sized ordinary dice in his hand, and all bets
are set before the spin. If he throws seven or 11
first pop he wins. If 12, two or three show up it's a
“crap,” and the “out” backers collect. If four, five
six, eight, nine or 10 appear first throw it becomes
a main, as at hazards, and the thrower has to do it
again to win. The seven on this occasion counts
“out.” The throw is generally from the hand, along
the ground.
* * *
“Bill B.”: Moascar, where convalescent
Billjim rests before returning to the firing-line, is
a mighty place for biff and bash these days. Billjim
generally holds his own, although a Jack Tar trom
one of' Bull’s fleet scored a points decision over
Pendergast, the A.I.F. champion, the other night.
“Battling Costa” has just arrived from “down under
and threatens to do things shortly. Strange that the
Maorilanders never put a man into the ring, although
they always turn up with their five piastres to see
the fun. . # •
“Spot”: The wordy battle which raged for
weeks between the Victorian Amateur Athletic Assoc.,
the St. Pat.’s Day sports committee and a number
of the runners was settled last week, when, after
heated argument, the three A’s decided by one vote
to relax its rules in regard to open racing. Previ-
ously only military misfits, returned soldiers, those
under military age and such as cared to go before a
tribunal of assoc, officials and explain why they were
not wearing khaki, were allowed to compete in open
competitions. Several athletes, including champions
who have returned from active service, objected to
members of the assoc, urging men to go and take
part in the big scrap when they themselves had never
even thought of wandering into the recruiting depot
and waking the medical-officers up. Amateur peds.
can now compete at the Hibernian sports and prevent
another injustice being done to Oireland without loss
of status.
• * * *
“Tirana” : I know a chap and his mate who
can give points to all the gun-men. When they go
after quail one takes a couple of dogs and the other
a stockwhip. One dog working on his own does the
retriever act. The other catches the birds on the
wing and brings them to the bag. Ilis mate with
the whip kills on the rise from about 20ft. —and
rarely misses. The pair have a standing offer to
forfeit £5 if anyone can prove the escape of 10 per
cent, of the poultry.
# # * *
“The Hum”: The practice with careful
shooters who travel long distances to bombard ducks
is to engage an offsider who “draws” the birds as
shot and places a few pieces of charcoal or a sprinkle
of boracic inside. This keeps them fresh until they
reach a cook. “Mat” is right when he says (B.
14/2/’18) that the birds do not reach the market.
The trouble with the shooter is to get a big enough
bag to go around his circle of friends. But “Briga-
low” (B. 21/2/’18) should be fined for perjury. No
shooting has been allowed on Doodle Cooma swamp
for upwards of 15 years. Probably the Walla Walla
swamp, some 20 miles further on, was meant, where
big shooting takes place every year since the wet
seasons came in again. On the opening of the season
it is common for over 100 guns to assassinate the
poultry on this water, but the percentage of wasted
duck is very small.
* * » *
“Curra”: The last time I met Joseph
Bond, of Wando Vale (Vic.), he had just returned
from Westralia, where, he told me, he and .Jack Skip-
worth, both old Queensland hunters, had once shot
over 300 kangaroos in a day. Bond’s tally was 130-
odd ; Skipworth’s over 170. At the time of the
Westralian trip they were very nearly 60 years old.
Skipworth was a wonderful shot with either rifle or
shotgun. Although he had lost his right eye through
a gun-burst he still shot from the right shoulder,
with the stock hollowed out to allow of sighting with
the left eye. He put in one winter pigeon-shooting
in Melbourne and got out with £4OO. He died'a
few years ago at his native Mount Gambier (S.A.).
“Gasbag” : What is “J. Quill” giving us
(B. 24/l/’18) about the “apathy” of the N.S.W.
Fisheries Department with regard to fish in the
Western rivers? If he “pati'onises the rivers fre-
quently” he should be aware of the precautions taken.
For instance, there are heavy penalties for using
nets and cages and also more than one hook on a
line. Then, again, the rivers are closed for several
months during breeding season every year. What
more does “J. Quill” want?


After You Get a Sound
ĝf
Thrashing:
you will learn to box —you’ll then realise how necessary such a knowledge
is. But why wait for this? Why run the risk of being an easy prey for
the first “bully” that crosses your path?
Why take the chance of losing your prestige—your manliness in the eyes
of your fellows —through your inability to assert your rights when the
occasion occurs ?
Why not learn to defend yourself, and become a REAL man —a man
always to be reckoned with —-looked up to —and respected ?
I Teach Boxing by Post
—teach you how to take your part—how to stand
up and deliver good hard punishment to any fellow
who dares to insult or belittle you.
I unfold to you my wide knowledge of the manly
art of self-defence, teach you every “hit,” “move”
and “stop” known to the world’s leading boxers.
My instructions are very simple to follow, and you
will find my lessons both interesting and beneficial.
You will be pleased and surprised at the rapid
progress you will make under my personal guidance.
Write to-dav for my interesting booklet, “SCIEN-
TIFIC BOXING IN YOUR HOME,” which describes
my methods, terms, etc. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement, and send it to
me, with three penny stamps for postage. I will
know what you mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER, 703
BELMONT BUILDINGS,
SYDNEY.
Brisbane-Sydney
Express Beaten
BV 37 MINUTE?
Boyd Edk/ns doespecopd
JOUPNEY IN 26 HRS 3 MINS
Another Tribute to
SHELL
BENZINE-
r
Samson Telephones
ƒg
T 364.
Long-distance Bridging
Set, with 5-magnet Gen-
erator, 1000 ohm
Ringer, “Ericsson” type
Hand Combination and
2 Dry Cells.
Price £5/10/=
We also stock Table, Portable and
Mining ’Phones, Switchboards and all
accessories.
Ramsay Sharp 8 Co. Ltd.
217 George Street, SYDNEY.
TRADEMARK
THE OXYGEm
TOOTH POWDER
Your Dentifrice
Should Sterilise
In every mouth there are numer-
ous crevices which harbor decom-
posed food-particles, where decay
germs commence their deadly work
out of reach of ordinary dentifrice
and toothbrush.
(fWKIjP
the oxygen
TOOTH POWDER-
as soon as it enters the mouth,
liberates the great active power-
ful force oxygen, which of its own
accord penetrates to the cavities
and recesses. The oxygen purifies
wherever it goes—destroys germs,
neutralises the acid secretions, and
leaves the mouth refreshed and
clean.
Calox is the most charming,
efficacious dentifrice.
A FREE SAMPLE
will be sent anywhere in Aus-
tralia to all who mail this ad.
with name and address attached
to Geo. Wills and Co. Ltd., 480
Collins Street, Melbourne; or 60
York Street, Sydney, enclosing 2
penny stamps to cover postage.
Calox is procurable
from
ALL CHEMISTS
AND LEADING
STORES.
F.7/3/’lB.
f
r\
j
"U
oi
%
The Virtue of Being
“The Biggest”
INDIAN is the largest motor-cycle organisation in the world. Its capital is
12,500,000 dollars. Turlhermore, it is allied with vast and powerful interests
connected with the production of raw materials and essential motor-cycle equip-
ment. This bigness, this association of interests, reduces the cost of Indian
production. It provides capital for experimental work, for world-wide service
organisation, for great spare-part investments. It means that Indian offers the
inventive brains of the motor-cycle industry the highest rewards —that Indian
secures the big new ideas which mark the progress of motor-cycle development.
It means that if there’s a better motor-cycle coming—it will be an Indian.
CATALOGUE WITH PLEASURE.
MELBOURNE ; Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty.
Ltd., 109-113 Russell Street.
SYDNEY : Milledge Bros. Ltd., 156 Castlereagh
Street.
ADELAIDE : Eyes & Crowle Ltd., 75-79 Pirie
Street.
BRISBANE : Canada Cycle & Motor Agency
Ltd., Adelaide & Creek Streets.
LAUNCESTON : John King & Sons Ltd.,
Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle & Motor Agency,
Hay Street.
EDGAR ALLEN & C- L’
*rtP«fisAC s**£t
SHEFFIELD
British-Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Bail Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations,
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
THE ELECTRIC ICEMAN
REFRIGERATORS FOR YOUR HOME.
Householders, Squatters, Tanners, Hotelkeepers, Boarding-
house-keepers, in fact everybody who has Electric
Current available,
Fit_ an ISKO Refrigerator in Your Ice Chest
Automatically starts and stops itself as the temperature rises or falls.
Efficient, Economical, Safe, Sanitary.
Low, even temperature, no matter how hot the weather outside may
be.
Dry, cold, pure and wholesome air circulates throughout the Ice Chest.
Cheap refrigeration ; adds very little to your Electric-light bill.
Keeps Milk, Fish, Vegetables, Fruits or Meats without spoiling.
Write for particulars to the Sole Agents,
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
70-78 Liverpool Street, SYDNEY.
NORTH
BRITISH
Tyres
as
£
■
w.
r.
iiX-8:
m
? 'J :*
.
sMrm%
JULIUS
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
fdg
“The Tyres that
are Superior”
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
New South Wales: William Crosby & Co., 20 Loftus St., Sydney
Victoria: North British Tyre Agency Prop. Ltd.,
525-527 Collins St., Melbourne
Queensland: Howard Motor & Cycle Co. Ltd., Adelaide St., Brisbane


ft
r?' -- '-• '
ini
P
BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSE , PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS,
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO ani OTHER INSECT
BITES MAV be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments ; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores and Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
BALL BEARINGS.
If I)
13,300 Series
Light Type
1200 Series
Light Type
2200 Series
Wide Type
1300 Series
Medium Type
2300 Series
Wide Type
400 Series
Heavy Type
1400 Series
Large, Extra Heavy Type
GARDNER, W£RN
& CO,
Melbourne Head Office-
-384 City Road, 5. Melbourne.
Showroom : 369 Flinders Street.
Sydney: 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane : 367 Queen Street.
PUTS A SPARKLE
Because it is made from only the purest juice
of the World Famous Tasmanian Apple. It is
not only a delicious Drink, but has a most excel-
lent tonic effect on the system. Doctors recom-
mend it for its diuretic properties. Order a
dozen from your grocer.
Victorian Agents :
E. ROWLANDS PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
--
ESS
An Imitation is Not a Substitute—
If it were it would Not be an Imitation
It is impossible to emphasise the mutual importance of this fact.
The Ready-roofing business has become a game of
‘ ‘ Folldw Master
with more than three hundred trailers following every move made by
RU-BER-OID, mimicking everything but the quality.
These imitations resemble the parisitic vines that sap the life of the
great oak—they try to live upon what they cannot produce.
The Manufacturers of
Ry-BER-Olfl
COSTS MORE - WEARS LONGER
THOUGHT FIRST—ACTED FIRST. RUB-ER-OID GREW
ON ITS MERITS—IT SELLS ON ITS MERITS ENTIRELY.
“No roof roofs like RU-BER-OID roofs” is a bold claim. It
may savor of egotism, but fortunately it is just the plain,
unvarnished truth.
MAY AYE SHOW YOU THE PROOF?
Send for Samples and Prices to—
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
KINGLOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
FELT
ASK FOR A
H AT
U N R I VA Ul-E D
>
i
O'
for
Sfyle & Finish.
* °4PS OF ALL UP 0
MAKERS:-
fRESS 6c C° U?
LONDON, ENGLAND.
Wholesale Agenfs:—
cox & MAILER.
MELBOURNE & SYDNEY.
THE
K
K
West
W/Nil.'x
4*??- s. i-
—i z-js-
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1.498.220. Reserve Fund, £675,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: Sir JOHN GRICE, Chairman; EDWARD TRENCH ARD, Esq., Vice-Chairman;
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq. ; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. AVREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St, City Office, 350 George St,.
Manager: R. S. GREGSON. Accountant: E. J. OSBORNE.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 C ishopsgate, E.C.
The Launceston Gas Co. (.Tasmania) :
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1910. .£1377 4 p.c. =£loso £2OO £127 £9,183
June. 1911.. 1471 4 „ „ 1050 300 121 9,304
Dec., 1911.. 1564 4 „ ~ 1050 200 314 9,618
June, 1912.. 1496 4 „ „ 1050 300 146 9,764
Dec., 1912.. 1543 4 ~ „ 1050 400 93 9,857
June, 1913.. 1312 4 „,, 1050 200 62 9,919
Dec., 1913.. 1640 4 ~ „ 1050 450 140 10,059
June, 1914.. 1385 4 „ „ 1050 200 135 10,194
Dec., 1914.. 1670 4 „ „ 1050 500 120 10,314
June, 1915.. 1378 4 „ „ 1050 250 78 10,392
Dec., 1915.. 1786 4 ~ „ 1050 500 236 10.62 S
June, 1916.. 1547 4 „ „ 1050 250 247 10,875
Dec., 1916.. ISOB 4 ~ „ 1050 500 258 11,133
June, 1917.. 917 4 „ „ 1050 11,000
Dec., 1917.. 1863 4 „ „ 1050 550 263 11,263
Early in 1017 this co. was hit by a retro-
spective wages award: hence the small pro-
fit for the June half-year. As from July 1
the co. set out to even things up a bit by
increasing the price of gas, and the record
profit shown for the past half year is the
result. However, the competition of the
municipal hydro-electric enterprise will pre-
vent this co. ever growing fat. In 10 years
gas production has increased only from
19,609,000 to 24,148,600 cub. feet. Mean-
time these unexciting changes have taken
place in the balance-sheet: —
Dec.,’o7. Dec.,’l6. Dec.,’l7.
Liabilities £39,434 £33,430 £33,470
Assets other than fixed assets 10,124 12,522 12,450
Excess liabilities . . £23,310 £20,908 £21,020
That is an improvement of £2290 in 10
years, after providing for renewals, repairs
and minor extensions. Capital is £so,uw
in 5000 fully-paid £lO shares; and there is
£2o,i id of debenture debt on which in-
terest has to be paid before shareholders get
their poor 4 p.c.
Goulrukn Gas Co. (Goulburn, N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
I’rofits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1910.. £412 15 p.c. = £750 £10,855
June, 1911.. 1081 15 „ „ 750 £331 11,180
Dec., 1911.. 851 15 „„ 760 101 11,287
June, 1912.. 1174 15 „„ 750 424 11,711
Reserves disappeared (apparently
distributed), £7982. . .. 3,729
Dec., 1912.. 509 8 p.c. = 400 109 3,838
June, 1913.. 734 8 „ „ 400 334 4,172
Dec., 1913.. 754 8 „ „ 400 354 4,526
June, 1914.. 1139 8 „ „ 400 739 5,205
Dec., 1914.. 611 S „ ~ 400 211 5,476
June, 1915.. 627 8 ~ „ 400 227 5,703
Dec., 1915.. 763 8 ~ „ 400 363 6,066
June, 1910.. 551 8 „ „ 400 151 6,217
Dec., 1916.. 1003 8 „ „ 400 603 6,820
June, 1917.. 486 8 „ „ 400 86 6,900
Dec., 1917.. 582 8 „ „ 400 182 7,088
Three years ago the Goulburn Municipal
Council established an electrical department,
and gas sales have suffered in this way:
1914, £7696; 1915, £6868; 1916, £6976;
1917, £6404. Tile profit shown above for the
past half-year includes £ISO transferred to
a plant renewal reserve, and if that was a
reasonable allowance for wear and tear not
otherwise provided for, the net profit was
only a couple of pounds in excess of the
dividend. “No increase,” say the directors,
“has so far been made in the price of gas,
but the continued increasing costs of wages,
freights, etc., and increased taxation may
make it necessary.” The surplus of assets
other than fixed assets over liabilities as at
December, 1913, was £2401; at December,
1917, it was £5159 —an improvement of
£2758 in four years. But most of that may
be an accumulation to pay presently for
plant renewals. The co. is now in its fortieth
year and is fairly comfortable : there are no
debts outside current accounts. But the
immediate future is quite unexciting, and
shareholders will be lucky if 8 p.c. can be
maintained.
* ■* * *
The accounts of the mostly London-owned
Menzies Consolidated (W.A.) for the last
financial year show a profit of £5914, which
wasn’t sufficient to provide the sixpenny div.
The ore crushed was 25,650 tons and the
gold obtained 13,785cz. Developments have
kept pace with the mill, ore reserves being
109,344 tons of 365. 7d. ore, compared with
103,625 tons averaging 38s. 2d. a year ago.
The co. owns a group of gold-mining leases
about three miles from Menzies, acquired in
1895, but it was not until 1914, by which
time a great deal of capital had been ex-
pended. that it was able to declare a divi-
dend. It then paid 2-J per cent, and has done
the same thing every year since.
“Good Australian”: New Morning Star,
Wood's Point (Vic.), is one of those ancient
quartz mines so rich on the surface as to
have become a will o’ the wisp to the
gold-thirsty speculator. During six months
poor gold-bearing stone was chased for 152 ft.
at the 400 ft. level. Another sink of 100 ft.
to 500 ft. is in progress with the idea of
crosscutting through the dyke. On the £
for £ basis, the Mines -Department has ad-
vanced the co. £8712. Surely there are bet-
ter channels for developing mining than
this! There are known deposits of talc
(soapstone), phosphatic rock, gypsum, wol-
fram, molybdenite, scheelite, marble and in- i
fusorial earth in Victoria in the hands of
prospectors, and eight subsidies of £lOOO
each would have sufficed to open up these
valuable mineral shows sufficiently to
attract private capital. But no, the palaeo-
zoic Mining Department staff is obsessed
with the idea that help should only be given
to gold-mining.
Westralia’s gold yield for January was
the lowest for many years. Yet nothing is
being done to break the fall. lake the Edna
May Battler, which was recently billed
£BO for treating 50 tons of ore, small lease-
holders are charged exorbitant amounts for
water to crush their ore; prospectors are
barred from working idle areas by the Minis-
terial head granting exemptions after the
wardens have point-blank refused ; fresh bur-
dens are continually being heaned on those
engaged in the industry, and all requests for
relief are frowned on. There is some talk of
forming an association, representative of
all interested in mining, to stir things
up. That, of course, should have been done
20 years ago. If the Government had made
the industry then pay a decent thing, it
wouldn’t now have to charge an indecent
thing for water, etc.


GGITT’S
*
%
%
'I.
$
n
\
H
4**
HEGGJXj'c
«0.
\\l
i*
m*
m
i
*
I
/£
r
i
0
\\
?<j>
3v
V
•V
1
<*o*.
is t
S
%
v
$
7
/
r
C
ki
-£
\
v*
> k
u
7
\
x
>
K
Horses Judiciously Fed with MEGGITT’S
will Condition Cheaper and Better.
It contains 31 per cent, of that all essential element —protein; whereas bran
has only 11 per cent.
It is all food, palatable and all digestible.
IGGITT’S
LINSEED oiiMgy
m
/AEGGITT U?
PARRAMATTA
The Boy on the Bag
guarantees quality.
Reduce your food bill and increase the
efficiency of your feeding' by including;
PAMPHLET No. 2, INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED, MAILED FREE.
Full particulars from Agents:
Harrisons, Ramsay Pty., Ltd., Melbourne; Wni. Adams Ltd., Perth; Clarkson Ltd. Adelaide; Blair Reed & Co., G.P.O. Box 941
Wellington; R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane ; F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
or
MEGGITT LTD
(The Pioneer Linseed OH and Oil Meal Manufacturers),
26 King' Street, Sydney.


THe New
ASCOT Shape
Has “Caught On.”
Men have been quick to appre- I
ciate the comfort, dignity and -
all-round smartness of this new I
When ordering insist on j
style.
(Pronounced Pel
make—it is your guarantee of
superior quality. The “ASCOT”
is procurable in sizes 1,31 to 18
inches. Heights Ifin. and 2in„
at all the best retailers, 9(1. each.
Also made in better qualities,
same shape, sizes, heights,
“FIAT.” Price 1/- each.
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
fd
s
WEAR
(7^g£cuzo~>
SHI RTS & PVJAMAS
ALSO
THE DEAF
HEAR!
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lead-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing: Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
g
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Moarv Far Phono man - v times as efficient
Ldl riIOIUJ and powerful as the old
model. Ninety-six degrees of sound in eight
adjustments, instantly changed by a touch of
the finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Call and test it free, or write for illustrated
booldet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET,
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. 1nc.,45 West 34th St. New York
Toy Dog Lovers 8 Breeders.
FOU SALE.—ALL-BLACK PUG PUPS, Corrard
prize-winning stock; splendid heads, short
bodies. BLACK AND FAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE WHITE POMER-
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCHES; YOUNG
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome young PEKIN-
ESE DOG. Bargains—no reasonable offer refused.
Inspection invited.
KTRNBANK. Arthur Street. Croydon. N.S.W.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens,
fdgf
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR GAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Alterative
Mixture
Splendid Tonic. Will pre-
vent DISTEMPER, which
is so prevalent.
Price 2/6, 5/-
mi
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. VV. BEDDOME & CO.,
Dog Medicine Specialists,
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Also obtainable from
JOHN BRUSH LTD., 371 George St., Sydney.
dg
PRICES
dfg
PRICES
exp° rT
N| ght lights
( 95 AWARDS )
for safety
and health.
The sensible light
for Bedroom & Nursery.
Price’s patent candle company ltd.
London, Liverpool. Manchester, Glasgow.
THE Investment.
If you have inherited money,
made money or saved money
LEND IT TO YOUR COUNTRY.
Do you now desire an investment where your money is absolutely secure,
and which will be repaid on 15th December, 1927—pound for pound
—while meantime you draw a dividend of 4 % or 5 per cent, per
annum, paid half-yearly?
Such an opportunity is now presented in the Commonwealth of Australia
Sixth War Loan.
The Commonwealth Government guarantees repayment in full and interest
half-yearly.
YOUR SECURITY IS AUSTRALIA, and ALL THE WEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Could any investment be more secure—more worthy of support?
Market fluctuations need not trouble Investors.
Buy War Loan Bonds \
Buy More Bonds - - /
Buy them NOW.
Prospectus and all information at any Bank, State Savings Bank, or Money Order
Post Office.
7th March, 1918. FORREST, Treasurer.
BOILER REPAIRS and OXY-ACETYLENE
WELDING REPAIRS
We desire to announce that we have started a Boiler Repair Department in con-
junction with our Oxy-Acetylene Welding Business, and are now in a position
to undertake all classes of BOILER REPAIRS whatsoever. We also buy and
sell second-hand boilers, and undertake inspections on behalf of intending
buyers. We carry out CLASSES OF OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING
REPAIRS, so do not discard ANY BROKEN MACHINERY, WHETHER
BRASS, COPPER, CAST-IRON, CAST-STEEL, MILD-STEEL, IRON OR
ALUMINIUM, as we can repair the broken parts for a small cost compared
with the cost of buying new parts, and the repairs will then be absolutely satis-
factory. NOTHING TOO SMALL OR TOO LARGE. Portable plants and
experienced workmen sent anywhere in Australia.
NOTE ONLY ADDRESS— ESTABLISHED 1911
A. L. WEST ®. CO.,
Tel. City
4178
Top of Wentworth Avenue, SYDNEY.
Rear of
Liverpool Street.
df
Oneofthebest
Do you send your soldier
or sailor friend a regular
} supply of Cigarettes? If not,
I may he not think you have
forgotten him. Buy some
“De Reszkes ” to-day—
he’s zvorthy of the very best.
Post the parcel with your
own hands. Then you know
they are bound to reach
him safely.
Sold Everywh^-*i
g
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
Over 30 years ago the late Lord Beaconsfield
testified to the benefits he received from Him-
rod’s Asthma Powder, and every post brings
similar letters to day.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Best Remedy for Asthma, Hay Fever, Rose
Cold, or ordinary Cough.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout A ustralasia.
mm
■ /// m'.
’rJ&
In a “Jiffy”—
Yes ! it shaves in a “jiffy”—in a quarter the
usual time. So keen is the blade, and so
finely tempered is
The “PLUM” RAZOR
that its edge remains keen for an indefinite
period. Requires but little stropping, and one
lathering of the face is usually sufficient.
PRICE 10/6 —POST FREE.
We keep it in order for two years, free of
charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle,
10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-
This line makes a handsome present.
“Plum” Strop Dressing, 1/2 Tube,
Post Free.
All the above Post Free. Send for our
Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character ) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped,
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Gazer: Doubt whether your law is sound.
A man in Sydney sued another for damages wrought
to his property by flying sheets of iron blown from
the defendant’s premises, and got a verdict.... Sheep-
dip : But who guarantees that the Macquarie-street
man was right ? There are some awful frauds in that
line there... .8.L.5.: Thanks. By the way, what did
your friend object to ?.... Te Whare: Don’t crowd
your writing... .A. J. Mitchell: Can’t you approxi-
mate the date?... .Tarwhine: You’d like to know
how to tan a tent-fly, using ironbark instead of
wattle-bark? Somebody oblige ?... .O.B.: You catch
the spirit of it every time: —
Now the struggle has reached a critical time,
It's for our Nations to unite their energies;
To let them see for all time, to settle their crime,
And dare not let them call for emergencies.
Now may our Nations never fall, but listen to our
King s call,
Fight for which is right, and with all our might,
And teach them to crawl, unless we should fall,
That we will be able to write of this cursed fight.
... .A.C.J.: Sorry, but it doesn’t g 0... .T.F.L.: Don’t
care for “Liz.”. .. . J.H.: “Matrimonial” moves
pleasantly, but has bad rhymes; “Folly” misses....
Zodiac: No joy there... .C.S.: We don’t approve....
Sundowner: Mild little curse.... RiG.: Pretty tame
sort of tribute... .It.E.: We can find excuses for a
first attempt, but none for such handwriting... .
J.M.A.: No yarn. .. .F.C.M.: Neither man nor girl
seems worth it. .. .E.F.H.: Dreary.... Starlight: Not
for us F.J.F.: “Dying Race” hasn’t enough in it.
. ...A.R.: Doesn’t strike us. Why load an Aus-
tralian story with phrases made in America?....
E.J.L.: You use about 16 words where one would do,
and you don’t choose them with 5ki11.... A.S.: “Re-
membering” begins poorly and ends only fairly.
Make the first and last stanzas as good as the middle
one and send it back. . . .M.8.P.: Not up..E.A.D.:
Weak verse on a worn theme. .. .E.M.: Done to
death. You can’t make savage murder heroic. .. .
W.J.: Nothing there. .. .8.R.: Merely a bad smell.
. ...1.0.G.: Put in the right number of rhymes and
a little forceful thought, and then try. .. .Coriline:
Words, words. The cheapest thing in the w0r1d....
J.F.H.: “Sammy” wants more 5ki11.... Roma: It is
worth more care. .. . J.M.E.: “Scaling the Rattler”
goes a bit ponderously... .R.8.J.: A sermon with
plenty of point, but hardly fair. .. . J.M.: “Light is
the Song”; but what are “elfins” ?... .L.W.G.: Verse
not up. Inquiry being made. . . .W. 8.: Very heavy
fooling. .. .H.8.W.: Nothing in it.... Dirk: They are
rather tame. Get something real to write about and
let yourself go. .. . A.W.V.K.: Not enough story....
G.J.D.: Doesn’t attract, .. .J.E.: Ditto... .11.A.C.:
You, too. . . .G.E.L.: Pleasing, but doesn’t carry the
reader with it. . . .E.J.G.: Lumpy verse with no lift.
. ...J.W.D.: Idiotic yarn; returned. .. .G.H.: “Re-
demption” is miles below standard. ...R.8.8.: Fair
verse, but it doesn’t state the case. . . .1.0. G.: “Morn-
ing Time’ trips nicely, but has just the fault of
saying nothing. ... G.D.C.: As they stand they don’t
mean anything at a 11.... J.H.: Too long for its in-
terest. .. .J.K.: Bald narrative of meeting two nice
girls. .. .N.D.: “Passer-by” pleasant verse, but not
enough in it. . . .A.T.: Try the Australian language
for a change. . . .B.H. and E.C.J: We don’t reprint.
.. . .W.R.M.: Rough stuff. . . .Beginner: As a first
attempt it is good ; but the theme is 01d....D.W.:
“Memory” fair verse, but not interesting. .. .M.A.:
You’re too rough and violent. They should have kept
you out. .. .Ben: Not up. .. .0. McKhayyam: Nothing
in that. . . .M.M.: Certainly n0t....K.R.: Not much
thrill in so bald a narration. . . .H.G.: Poor stuff. .. .
Paul Cupid: The yarn doesn’t convince. Australian
women don’t speak that dialect. .. .M.M.: “Smile” is
pretty clumsy verse. .. .8.F.: “Criminal” doesn’t
work. .. .D.L.D.: Feeble trickle of rhyme....S.E.D.:
Thanks; but J.F.D. doesn’t exactly shine in the
verses sent. .. .L.P.J.: Can’t find the laugh.... S.L.:
A “Raid on Germany” strikes the last note -in
patriotic simplicity:—
Over the lines the airmen flew
Into the heart of Germany ;
Loaded with bombs and explosives too,
Ready to blow Hans to eternity.
Thuddity thud they fell on the rooves,
Blowing them to bits, in holes and grooves ;
Out fled the Huns, the Gretchens and Fraus,
Out the children, the soldiers, the cows!
Shrieking and yelling. “How do you like air
Raids?” queried the airman as he sailed aloft.
A big fat Hun tried to swear,
But he could only splutter and cough.
“Mein Gott! Stop the war,” cried the Huns in fright.
“If you don’t we’ll die, because we can’t sleep at
night!”
. .. .F. F. Gibson: (1) Any book mentioned in the
Red Page can be procured by ordering from your
nearest, or any, bookseller. (2) £1 6s. 6d.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
Fred F.: No use sending full pages. Your work is
very crude.. . .S.W.: Very old gags —very new draw-
ings. .. .G.M.E.: Why has the horseman got a forked
tail sticking out of his mouth ? Has he
swallowed a devil?... .A.8.C.: It won’t hatch out
here.... Ada C.: Willing to consider anything—any-
thing in reison, that i5....5.T.: Your grandfather
chuckled over it. .. .Florence S. : The art-sampler had
to examine them with a magnifying-glass. Public
won’t see them at a 11... .L.W.8.: You’ve got miles to
go yet.... Dorothy P.: Sorry. Bert Thomas did
“’Arf a Mo, Kaiser,” first. .. .Will M.: Senile decay
is the gag’s complaint... .Johnnie N.: Keep your
job until you learn something about the art job.
It’s a long one... .N.E.H.: His Reverence isn’t look-
ing at the drunk he is addressing and the drunk isn’t
looking at him.... 11. P.: Old and badly drawn....
J.C.: The gag awakes the echoes of Pharaoh’s tomb.
Drawing shaky... .P.G.: First sketches are often in-
-1 teresting, but rarely publishable. .. .L.R.T.: Very
rough exhibit. .. .M.K.: Cobwebs on the idea....
A.M.O’H.: The gentleman who is proposing seems
to be applauding. Or is he beating time to one of
those Hawaiian songs ?.... J.A.L.: You use up a lot
of purple ink to no purpose. .. .Woodicus: Struggle
on and look for brighter gags... .F.W.F.: Sorry, out
of our line.... Lou T.: Passed outwards.
Another of the German firms which built
up a great name and a vast international
business under Protection, and then estab-
lished themselves in England, has been
Anglicised. The Siemens-Halske firm in
Berlin controlled the British co.—Siemens
Bros., Ltd.—and the Siemens family took
about 60 p.c. of the £35,000 a year paid in
divs. Recently, however, C. H. Crisp and
Co.—a very old all-British firm —bought the
German interests right out.


“CHUNDER” TAKES A TRIP HOME
At the w "”
r.a
V, f~' f,
**:•*££• >'• • K'
Vmwmw"
IM
hJ*K
11%#!
tea- h It
JA^
||« ! L’
poTrto
(m£^ 7
W
JK **«'-
gp%glK?”‘ . tg
I CT7 /&£«• \,
vW
was
re a
A
0
w,
>*7
* »:v
yA'V^
-W
£*&
? <*>*
§mr%
i j c. ''•////
mWf/J v
m
yj
A
/
- /
ji
H--
\ 1
1/
V
t *
~y
8S
V,
•V ■ ■ \
wmun
V"
sv
•*7
>•'
$
*fg
>■
rtS
I
7/
r i
#52
y s.
SOW
SS?
e«:/
SR
3%S
m;\i
Jf
»«
fSSs*
&g
4*
f^-
V*
7
A
y/
,>•
!■» NE C I * PJ A
/
r7>
(I
Cobra,” Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Nabs the sly
Food-hoarder too.
When he counts
His treasures o’er
In the dark
Behind the-door,
Chunder, Bear and
Dog, all three,
Come like shadows,
Silently.
Then the greedy
Secret’s out!
“COBRA’S” bright
There is no doubt!


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Caiwes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4247,
4810.
2,4, G Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting):—
SYDNEY '
BIiISHANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
BUNDABKRG
•ROCKHAMPTON |
(Pt. Alma Wharf.) I
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 20
Leaves Sydney, March 23.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, March 27
Leaves Sydney, March 30.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping foi
S.A. and W.A. ports)
SOUTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, March 16.
•Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Hanking, Public Companies, jfcc.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman); The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, Kt. (Deputv Chairman) ;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
lion. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, K.C.M.G. ; Hon. A. J.
TIIYNNE, M.L.C.
Genu iial Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 Ceorge Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund . . . . .. . . 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new. business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors— Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
11 ISAI) OFFICE - - - BRISBANE.
Brunches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, .Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £115,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANIC N.
YARWOOI), Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT, I
Esq.; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq.; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector lor
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted, j
Bank of Ren Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares (£1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital .. .. .. 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea
land, Fiji, Samoa. Greai
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
G
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Australia.
Shipping &c.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
IHE “ALL-liED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACHIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) ANI)
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the Yl orid and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
The Paradise
of the Pacific.”
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
£
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers,
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send for further particulars to
BURNS, PHILP g CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,904,860
£2,875,000
£3,904,860
" £10,684,720
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, Iv.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. B. Laidlev, Esq.
Head Office—George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
costs too much. Economise by using- “GASO-
JjETTE.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Miliars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.AV.
Branches in all parts of the worM.
Invest Your Saving's
at the highest rate of interest compatible with safety. This Bank gives
undoubted" security.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
The STATE Savings Institution.
HEAD OFFICE: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Deposits accepted from 1/- upwards. Interest at 3f per cent, on every
complete £ up to £5OO.
2/6 paid in weekly will amount to £2O/9/9 in 3 years.
10/- paid in weekly will amount to £B2/5/3 in 3 years.
The Bank that Pays
3|%
Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. MORIALTA, March 9.
S.S. PARINGA, March IG.
S.S. RUPARA, March 23.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Fort of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Ollice.
G. S. YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice versa
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
1 rom Sydney to Hobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLID COMFORT
. and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & 'CO.,' Brisbane ; MoILWUAITII,
McEACIIARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
“THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads—steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
IT’S GREAT
fdg
how I find I can
get away fur my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
Geo. C. Carter, Box 300 G.P.0., Perth,
W.A.; Darby Auto Supplies Co. Pty.,
Elizabeth St., Melbourne; R. R. Rus-
sack, 377 a Elizabeth St., Sydney;
Philip Frankel & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Etd., Pirie
St., Adelaide.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the British Australasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High llol-
born. London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use the
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.


Excessive Meat Eating*
Most people who are tspubled with flatu-
lency eat more meat than is good for them.
Flatulency is wind on the stomach. Excess-
ive meat eating, or defective nerve toice is
responsible in most cases.
Cutting down the amount of meat in your
diet and taking a course of treatment with
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to strengthen the
weak nerves that control the digestive pro-
cesses is well worth trying if you have wind
on the stomach, sour risings in the throat,
a feeling of weakness in the stomach, and
palpitation of the heart. Dr. Williams
Pink Pills are recommended for thin blood
and weak nerves, whatever the cause.
Send to-day to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine
Co., Sydney, for the diet book “What to Eat
and How 'to Eat.” It gives information
regarding the tonic treatment for many
forms of stomach trouble. There cannot be
perfect digestion without a sufficient supply
of red blood, and there is nothing better than
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to enrich the blood
and tone up the stomach.
Your own chemist or storekeeper sells Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills, or they will be mailed,
post paid, on receipt of price, 2/9 per box,
six boxes 15/3, by the Dr. Williams’ Medi-
cine Co., Box 594 G.P.0., Sydney.— Advt.
GAP3LLARINE
fd
Grows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Hundreds who have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
grower. Rub it well into the roots, and note
its quick results. Send for a Jar to-day.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
Rare you n
UPTU RED
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIK CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vic.
IS
IK
em
Anaemia
Our blood is composed of
red and white corpuscles
the red to nourish the body,
the white to fight disease. In
Anaemia —or bloodlessness—
the red corpuscles are more
or less deficient. Thus the
blood cannot provide suffi-
cient nourishment for the
body. Therefore the face
becomes white and “ pasty ”
—the eyes become dull and
“heavy”—and a feelirg of
intense weariness pervades
the whole system. To over-
come Anaemia, the blood
supply needs recharging with
red corpuscles. And it is
here that
gfd
The Wine of Life
possesses such wonderful
power. Because, being a
blood - maker, ‘Wincarnis’
creates a wealth of new rich,
red blood, which brings the
roses back to the cheeks —
gives a sparkle to the eyes—
and surcharges the whole
body with new vitality and
new life. That is why over
io.ooo Doctors recommend
‘ Wincarnis.’
Begin to get well
TO-DAY.
•Wincarnis’ is made in England by
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis
Works, Norwich. You can buy ‘Win-
carnis’ from all Chemists and Stores
selling wines, prices 4/3 and 7/-, but
if you experience any difficulty in
obtaining it, write direct to Sole Dis-
tributing Agents, Fassett & Johnson,
233 Clarence Street. Sydney. N.S.W.
V,
THE BEST
JSMOKE
is
Yellow
.ASTER
5* TOBACCO
■Sixth War Loan
Serve your Country by Subscribing
It is your duty as a Citizen,
If you have not the money on
hand the Commonwealth Bank
will make liberal advances to
enable you to subscribe.
Bonds held in safe custody free of charge
For all particulars apply to any Branch of the
Commonwealth Barth of Hustralla
February, 1918. DENISON MILLER, Governor.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN TIIE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teeee, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPEIILY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £36,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 . . £868,207. Total. Bonuses distributed . . £21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
Write for prospectus and full information without delay.
mz
-4T:
&
g
REPEATING AND
AUTOLOADING
SHOT GUNS
•DEMINGTON UMG
Arms are
made under tlie famous Browning
patents wliicli are recognized as unex-
celled. Our Repeating Shot Guns are
.fast gaining favour. Send for descriptive
Jcatalogue, free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO.
D. D. Bryant, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
A 1
gemjnpon,
Uu
12
I
And when it comes to the Saddle
say-BROOKS
Thus will you insure the first essentials to
your cycling
pleas u r e—
comfort and
durability.
ASK YOUR DEALER.
Stud Hereford Bull Calves of Distinction
THREE FOR SALE.
That well-known New Zealand Breeder of Stud Herefords, FRANK
MOORE, BUSHY PARK, KAI IWI, WANGANUI, is exhibiting three
splendid Stud Hereford Bull Calves at the
SYDNEY ROYAL SHOW.
These animals will be sold at the Auction Sales which are held
during Show Week. Messrs. HARRISON, JONES & DEVLIN, Sydney,
will act as Auctioneers.
All three Calves are by the Great Imported Bull “Rufus.” He
is a Bull of magnificent quality, being a grand handler, and having a
rich coat and a great wealth of flesh all over. Among his strong points
are Constitution and wonderful Boiie and Size. These he has trans-
mitted to his progeny.
“Rufus” as a calf realised the highest price at Mr. A. P. Turner’s
Great Dispersal Sale in England. There has been a strong demand for
his Calves, wh'ch are limited in number. On their dam’s side these three
Calves are all descended from the famous “Amethyst” strain, which
has been so phenomenally successful in New Zealand. They are equiva-
lent to imported animals, tracing back as they do to “Amethyst”
(imported). Breeders should not miss this opportunity of securing a
Bushy Park Bull.
Used the
World Over
fdg
fd
MOTOR
...CARS
The Standard Remedy which has outlived’the Centuries,
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
Used since CURES Write for Boole
AUSTRALIAN BLICHT, FALLING EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London, England
Insist on “ Singleton's "—ref use all substitutes.
Buyers of Good Diamonds
are on a safe wicket always if they buy at reasonable prices.
WHY ?
Because they can always realise on them in any civilised country.
Because when wearing them they proclaim their superlative qualities.
Because the variations in prices have been small during- the last
forty years, and practically always upwards. We exclude the
war period as being abnormal. The war rise equals 25% to
60%.
So far we have not raised the price of any of our diamonds. We
have a two-years’ Supply, bought when diamonds slumped in
the first months of the war. We are selling at much less than
London prices.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
Plain figures.
Cash only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 HUNTER STREET.
Fine Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum,
choicelv eased,
£ll/10/-
Choice Dia-
monds, set in
Platinum, with
fine Gold Neck
Chain,
£lO/10/-


WRITE MOTION PICTURE PLAYS;
$5O cash. Experience unnecessary.
Details free to beginners. Producers’ League,
1109 Wainwright, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Some Beautiful Members of the Rexona Club
m
w
T left R to X rilt C !hL° "2? st W Rexona tfrb are beautiful girls, for Rexona and Beauty go together. Reading from
left to right these Rexona Girls are. Madge Elliott, Daisy Revette, Jean Robertson, Dorothy Gardiner, Daisy Jerome, Nellie Nolle, Ethel Dane, Ivy Shilling.
REXONA SOAP for Health and Beauty,
Why not be a Rexona Girl, too? .Rexona and Rexona Soap ensure that clear,
fresh skin and beautiful hair which go so far to give any girl that natural charm and
beauty which is her rightful heritage.
To shampoo or wash the hair with Rexona Soap is an easy task, but the results
are startling. It leaves the hair in such a beautiful condition, the scalp perfectly
clean and wholesome. The hair becomes light and fluffy, waving about the face in
abundance, as beautiful hair should always appear. Rexona Soap leaves a delicate
perfume, invigorating the roots of the hair, which prevents greyness. A few shampoos
with Rexona Soap effectively removes every trace of dandruff or loose and falling hair
Ladies who use it for the hair say that Rexona Soap Is far better than any of the
so-called hair tonics.
TRY THE REXONA TREATMENT.
Rexona Soap and Ointment are universal favorites with everyone who values a
pure and healthy skin. The longer you neglect your skin the harder it will be to care
for it. Delay may result in Eczema, Ringworm, Running Sores, or some of the
many and unpleasant forms that skin trouble so often assumes. Rexona, the Rapid
Healer and Rexona Soap are sure preservatives for the health and skin. Rexona
Soap keeps the skin soft and pure, and Rexona, the Rapid Healer, will immediately
eradicate any disease which may be apparent, for it arouses the skin to healthy
activity, so that it quickly recuperates.
Buy a tablet of Rexona Soap from your Chemist or Storekeeper. It is beautifully
put up and sold at 1/- per tablet, or you can get it in boxes, containing three tablets
in a box. Rexona is supplied only in triangular pots, at 1/6, or in larger pots, holding
nearly four times the quantity, at 3/-
POVERTY
POINTS
TRIANGLE
PLAYS
AT ALL THE
LEADING
THEATRES
SUPCE
FLATURES
“75”: Ernest Scott, Professor of History
at Melbourne Uni., has discovered that the
first Australian play was produced, not in
Australia, but in Paris. “Les Emigres aux
Terres Australes” was its title, one Citizen
Gamas its author, and November 24, 1792,
the date. The piece, which ran for about a
fortnight, was a one-act curtain-raiser. The
Revolution was then approaching a violent
phase, the National Convention having begun
its work, and Louis XVI. and Marie Antoi-
nette being prisoners. Despite these thrills
there was a good deal of interest in France
regarding the fate of LapOrouse. The play,
obviously intended to win the laughter anrl
applause of Jacobins, pictures a group of
priests and aristocrats transported to the
wilds of the Terres Austraßs, clad in the
trappings of office and set down amongst a
collection of savages whose ruler is named
Oziambo. Scott has the full text of the play,
laboriously copied in handwriting from a
volume in the National Library in Paris.
Advts. of its performances can be traced in
the Gazette Nationale, but the papers,
which are full of good meaty stuff about the
Revolution, did not waste space on a critique.
“0.K.” : A programme of the “Dick Whit-
tington” panto., played at the Anzac
Coves’ theatre in France at Christmas, is
a worthy souvenir of a wonderful event. The
announcement that it was to be “Produced
for the First Time on Any Battlefield” was
no distortion of fact, for the neat, electric-
lit theatre where “Whittington,” “Written,
Sneaked and Cribbed by Frank Crossley,” was
staged stood within four miles of the German
guns, and the printing shed where Crossley
published the programme was actually
pierced by shell-splinters whilst the docu-
ment was in the press. Also these serio-
comic hints were given to the audience: —
We would ask all the gentlemen to have their top
hats adjacent. When we say top hats we mean gas
respirators.
If any stray shells should hit anyone in the middle
of the show, don’t shout out. It upsets the actors.
Frank Crossley himself played Martha
Mixit, a cook, and a well-known Australian
circus name that figured in the cast was Alec
St. Leon. All the performers had “done
their bit, and several were on Gallipoli,” said
the programme. Dresses and scenic appoint-
ments had been sent from London, where the
show was afterwards staged at a West End
theatre, not to mention Buckingham Palace.
Evidently Crossley did the thing very re-
spectably, and got much credit for his auda-
cious suggestion of a panto, under shellfire—
a suggestion, by the way, which exemplifies
the foolishness of British character from a
German point of view, and the strength of
it from a British point of view. There is
talent and vim in the Crossley family. Frank’s
eldest daughter, Iza, was a clever child-
performer in Andersonian drama a few years
ago. and as the result of her being required
to figure in a “tank act” she took so kindly
to Ruby Boobier’s tuition that she is now, in
her sweet eigliteens, a star member of the
Port Melbourne Ladies’ Swimming Club.
Dion Titheradge, some of whose very
artistic verses The Bulletin has been
printing lately, lias written a three-act play,
“Benjamin Oddington, V.C.,” which is to be
produced by the Liverpool (Eng.), Reper-
tory Co. in April. Dion may or may not
get leave to see the show. He left England
for the French Front early in January.
“S.”; According to woman’s standard,
there is not one good woman in “The Easi-
est Way.” But there is not one man in it
who is not good, according to man’s. How
easy man has made it for himself! And
(here you see the great difference between
the sexes) how hard woman has made it
for the other woman !
“Bill B.”: There’s one picture house in
Cairo which puts on a respectable pro-
gramme of films and the performance fin-
ishes at 10 p.m., when Billjim who's in
camp around Cairo finds it wiser to go
“home” than argue the point with the mili-
tary police. At 10 tjie house puts on a
second programme, and here we find Bill
who is down from the desert with an all-
night pass. The films are mostly French,
and there’s heaps of legs, frills, lace and
other things on view. Before the perform-
ance is finished Bill is thinking about the
real goods. She doesn’t take much finding.
Of course she subsidises the appetiser.
“S.S.”: I prefer “The Easiest Way” to
“Camille,” with all the former’s faults, and
those faults are so wanton that one wonders
at men capable of writing so good a play
allowing them to remain for a moment. “The
Easiest Way” sounds just like the effort of
a gifted cynic to drag his talent right down
to the managerial standard, which, by the
way, passes for the standard of public taste.
“The Easiest Way” is much truer to the
life of our time than the Dumas hospital
comedy, although possibly “Camille” was
true-to-life at a time when putrid sentimen-
tality went linked with a vivid abandonment
of morals. “The Easiest Way” is often
cheap and flash, but the cheapness and flash-
ness could be eliminated in 10 minutes, and
the result would be an honest study of a char-
acteristic feature of our age. Alas ! manage-
ments never take it upon themselves to elim-
inate cheapness and flashness.
“B. J.”: The death in Victoria of Billy
Saunders recalls nigger minstrels of the dis-
tant past. The first in these parts were
Rainer’s Serenaders. Then came the Backus
Minstrels, who put on a show in Melbourne
at Coppin's Olympic. Coppin later brought
out the Nubian Minstrels, who met with an
unexampled lack of enthusiasm. The
Christys, who opened in 1800 at the Royal,
included Tom Rainford, Stewart, Steele,
Melbourne Tivoli.
Fred Bluett singing
“’Ad a Shave.”
Melv y n, Wash
Norton and Joe
Brown. Two years
later another crowd
showed at the
Hay market, with
Abecco and Her-
berte as tenors and
Nick La Feuillade,
the fiddler. The
Weston and Hussey
Min s t r els came
after, with Harry
Kelly and Charley
Holly in the co.
Emerson brought
three consign-
ments: Sutton,
Scott and Rocke-
feller were in the
lrst; Walsh and
King, Stanley and
Pixley, Dan Tracey
(expert clog-
dancer, afterwards
manager of Mel-
bourne Gaiety) and
the Cogills figured
in the second;
while the third
time Emerson had with him Wood,
“the Somewhat Different Comedian.” His-
cocks and Batchelder’s, the two Georgia
troupes (with the first of which came Billy
Saunders), McAdoo’s, and more recently
Hugo’s, were other popular combinations.
Australian burnt-cork performers who have
won approval include Buckley, Kohlman, Cal
Gay, Johnny Cowan, Horace Bent (who
hailed from Geelong, and after meeting with
success in Australia did well in the U.S.A.),
and Dave, George and Johnny Gardner.
Females who have applied burnt-cork to their
faces are Nellie Hosrner and Fanny Wise-
fnan ; and Arthur Elliott’s wife, Maud Fan-
ning, had a rare success as a corner-woman.
“S.T.”: Anstey’s “Man from Blankley’s”
seems to be taking the place of Sheridan’s
“Critic” and Lytton’s “Money” as a vehicle
for getting the greatest possible number of
noted players on a stage,- with a fat, even
though small, part for each. A recent per-
formance for the Actors’ Pension Fund at
His Majesty’s in London had the now
elderly Charles Ilawtrey in his original part
as the hero. Gladys Cooper was the
heroine, and the more or less eccentric
dinner-party guests were played by Weedon
Grossmith, Du Maurier, H. B. Irving, old
Lottie Yenne, Irene Vanbrugh, Sydney
Fairbrother and other favorites.
“Magog”: Annette Kellerman, who has
been at work for the “Queen of the Sea”
picture, writes that she has come to the sur-
face again after a few weeks under water.
The camera used was an improved edition
of the one that photographed “Twenty
Thousand Leagues Under the Sea,” and the
United States Fish Commission was fairy
godmother to the submarine proceedings. It
lent the boats that transported the company,
as well as the guides who pointed out the
Regions where Annette’s sport among the
sponges would be undisturbed by sharks.
“Ibsenshaw”: A Poverty. Point par.
(21/2/’18_) remarks that a recent J. and N.
Tait acquisition contains as many surprises
as “The Seven Keys to Baldpate.”
Americans seem to like this kind of fare:
“The Strollers,” at
Sydney Playhouse.
Sydney James con-
ducts an oratorio.
fhey are certainly
working the idea to
death. One would
have thought 'that
with “Cheating
Cheaters” the limit
had been reached
in faked drama.
For my own part,
I think our audi-
ences prefer a
s t r a ightforward
piece with no
“sell” at the finish.
The comic surprise
of an O. Henry
yarn is most ac-
ceptable in the
reading, but when
one is following
the fortunes of
people on the stage
one resents the
“See-—you guessed
wrong!” climax.
And, anyhow, one
can’t guess wrong after a first ‘visit. So
what is the value of the “surprise”?
“Ho”: The seeming newness of “The
Easiest Way” is due to the fact that it is 10
years old, and the telephone trick and others
now beloved of the Yankee dramatist were
not so overworked in 1908.
“Glen Huntly”.: “B.J.’s” par. anent made-
in-Australia operas (B. 21/2/’lB)set tongues
wagging on Poverty Point, and some produc-
tions overlooked 6y him were brought to
light. Two notable Melbourne shows, both
at the Princess’s, were Alf Moulton’s “Lela-
mine” (libretto by Harry Temple) and “The
American Girl.” The tenor part in “Lela-
mine” was sung by the Earl of Shaftesbury.
The show ran a week. “An American Girl”
went on just before “The Belle of New
York.” Johnny Wallace was producer, and
the cast included Charles Rose (a tenor
from the Carl Rosa co., who on the first night
got a bad time from the gallery, but was
subsequently approved), Bert Bailey, Fanny
Liddiard and the Yankees Belman and Moore.
Three of Luscombe Searelle’s operas are
mentioned by “8.J.,” but there was a fourth,
“Isidora,” which was presented by a cast
that included Gracie Plaisted, Lester,
Wentworth. Chas. Harding. George Leopold,
Edwin Kelly and Oily Deering. Searelle
was his own conductor and librettist. Then
there was “Predatoros,” by Governor W. C.
F. Robinson, which was put on at the Prin-
cess’s for three nights and a matinCe in 1894,
and had previously been done in W.A. Wal-
lace Brownlow, Lauri, Syd Deane, Joe Tap-
ley, Nellie Stewart, Flo Young and Elsie
Cameron had parts, and Leon Caron con-
ducted. “The Lady Typist,” a musical play
written in Maoriland, was done at Auck-
land Opera House, with Fred Graham as
producer. Lardelli provided the music and
Marjorie Brown the libretto for “Kather-
ine,” which was given at Sydney Town Hall.
Probably there are others. Yet some press
critics have said that only one or two origi-
nal comic operas were heard in these parts
prior to “The Rajah of Shivapore.”
“The Strollers,” at
Sydney Playhouse.
Geo. Graystone in
action.
Died in Eng-
land, in her 31st
year, Gertrude
Robins, known to
Melbourne Reper-
tory audiences as
author of the
delightful one-acter,
“Makeshifts,” which
has been done sev-
eral times by
Gregan McMahon.
Miss Robins wrote
several other cap-
ital plays and was
an actress. She
made a start with
Wilson Barrett in
“Lucky Durham,”
afterwards joining
James Welch and
Scoring a hit in
“W hen Knights
Were Bold.”
“Glen II.” : Two of the three principals in
“The Law of Compensation,” which is being
filmed in Melbourne, are Australians. Oue
is Baby Lorna Volare and the other Fred
Esmelton, brother of Mrs. Horatio Webb, a
prominent Austral Salonite. Fred did stage-
work liere in the long-ago, making a start in
small parts with Sara Bernhardt, and later
was with George Rignold, Dampler and
Maggie Moore. It was as a member of
Maggie’s company that he first called on
Unc. Sam.
“Row A.” : Some of the best modern songs
are the old ones trimmed up. The cheeriest
little lilt I know is “Another Little Drink
Wouldn’t Do Us Any Harm,” sung as a trio
in “Bing Boys Are Here.” Well, in Mar-
ryat’s “The Dog Fiend” English sailors in a
pub kill time by roaring a song whose chorus
ends up, “A little more grog will do us no
harm.”
“Snell” : Hands up those who want to see
a fat, semi-nude parti-colored person of the
male gender doing Hula Hula movements on
an Australian stage! One puts up with
this sort of thing when slim and graceful
girls are swaggering their contours in bar-
baric circles; one may then even extend
measured appreciation' of the act. But
when a fat he-performer dressed in bathing
trunks that do not nearly meet the regula-
tions, and a bone ear-ring that hardly sup-
plies the remaining need, begins to show off
the blubbery pitches and heaves of the
Hula to a mixed audience of civilised people
who are supposed to have some respect for
the reticences of polite society, the gorge
is adversely affected. I believe nine out of
10 people simply hate it. What is wanted
is a common movement to induce the man-
agement to take the item off on a shovel.
Possibly the movement that keeps so many
people on the other side of the doors may
be effective in due course.
“Stargazer” : Now how does a thing like
“Winnie Brooke, Widow,” get itself on to
the stage and become a property to be
hawked from one continent to another? Not
by virtue of any qualities of its own, but
solely, I should say, because a favorite like
Ada Reeve saves it from being intolerable by
lugging in all her old-time popular items,
while the rest of the characters sit round
the stage in attitudes piteously suggestive
of Wordsworth’s “party in a parlor, all
silent and all damned.”
“Becky Sharp”: The long silence of Brit-
ish dramatists has given the Americans a
big chance in London. The Apollo is show-
ing “Inside the Lines,” the war drama which
was a blank cartridge here; the Duke of
York’s has “The Thirteenth Chair”; “The
Willow Tree” is at the Globe; “Romance”
at the Lyric: “Brewster’s Millions” at the
Queen’s; and at the Savoy “Nothing but the
Truth,” with H. B. Irving in Willie Collier’s
old part. Three more, “The Bird of Para-
dise,” “Fair and Warmer” and “Nobody’s
Widow,” are down for early production.
“THE EASIEST WAY."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Impelled by notices I’d read,
I went to see “The Easiest Way.”
I know it now from A to Z.
You write a drama, grave or gay,
And, finding it inclined to nod
In any part, you have a fay
With airiest emotion say:
“By G—d!”
To get effect, that is to-day
t The easy way.
You may use Providence, in fact,
In that emphatic, friendly strain
Three times or four in any act.
If stuck for- novelty again
Don’t worry after epigram,
But let the lady of the play—
The gentler one, not quite astray—
Cry “D —n !”
That is, as no one can gainsay,
The easier way.
You will, no doubt, find troubles flock
In Act 3 of your clever play.
The need of yet another shock
Pursues you. You need not essay
With thoughts your little lines to swell.
The heroine without delay
' Uplift in rage, and have her bray:
“To h —l! ”
That is, as Yankee shows betray,
The easiest way.
VICTORIA.
STARGAZER.


its
am ■ « a
■
na
.:*
• V
* -
. •
BUI
I
SL -
' :
xj
mm
B
X:
" J *X
W. *'
x.: ;; ;
;
*
r . m
M
0
1
\ V-.
.
• v -V-.
-
■
gggg
>.
i
•». . - t
sms
,
V'». '■••■." i.’
■ 1
HH
W, '
HK._, ' .»• *•
WSSMm
•m -.:
■bhhhhss
iwlii
■■
i»lI8B
X:
■H
the StudebaKer £7OOO
Gold Car at Sydney during'
Easter Show Week.
This year Studebaker will exhibit the
World-famous Gold Car.
Every visitor to Sydney during the
Easter Show and Race Week should
see this unique masterpiece of modern
car construction while they can.
It is a Series 18 6-Cylinder 7-Passenger
Studebaker finished in pure white enamel
with over 400 ounces of pure gold plated
on to every metal part of chassis, engine
and body work.
The top is one of the new Gipsy Hoods
made of fine grain white kid, the lining
of dove-colored silk.
As it stands on show it is worth well over
sterling.
Besides this beautiful and costly exhibit
we will display other new Model de Luxe
cars finished in Maroon, Royal Blue and
Dark Green.
A limited number of 4- and 6-Cylinder
Series 18 Studebaker Cars in Touring
Models are still available and will be on
exhibition.
Those who have not yet selected their
1918 Cars should do so at once, as present
stocks are going fast.
The Studebaßer Corporation of Australasia Ltd.
177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agencies in All Principal Cities
Over 173 Dealers in Australia


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdf.ll, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
There are plenty of .reasons why grey hair
is not 5 pleuty of reasons why
hair dyes sjiould hot be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you should
have grey hair if you do not want it. To-turn
the hair back to a natural color is really a
very simple matter. One has only to get from
the chemist two ounces of concentrate of t.am-
malite and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply to the hair with a small sponge
for a few nights and the gfeyness will gradu-
ally disappear. This liquid is not sticky or
greasy, and does not injure the hair in any
way. It has been used for generations with
most satisfactory results by those who have
known the formula.
Blackheads Fly Away.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skills and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into gen-
eral use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a stymol tablet
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full of
hot water. After the effervescence has sub-
sided bathe the face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large
oily pores immediately close up and efface
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at intervals of four or live days
to ensure the permanence of the result,
Emergency Complexions.
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull
or greasy can be made beautiful in a moment
by a perfectly harmless home recipe. If you
have no cleminite in the house, get about an
ounce from your chemist, and add only
enough water to dissolve it. The process de-
fies detection, and the result is an immediate
appearance of velvety, youthful “bloom”
which every woman desires. The effect will
last all day under the most trying conditions,
indoors or out, and renders powdering quite
unnecessary. This simple substance is also
very good for the skin, arid no possible harm
can come from its regular use.
Effectually Killing Superfluous Hair.
Many women know how to remove ugly
growths of superfluous hair temporarily, but
few know how to remove it permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
used. Get about an ounce from your chemist
and apply a little directly to the objection-
able hair. The purpose of the recommended
treatment is not merely to remove the super-
fluous hair instantly, but also to kill the hair
roots completely in a comparatively short
time.
How Nature Makes New Complexions.
It is well known that the human skin is
constantly undergoing a tearing down and
building up process. With advancing vears or
waning vitality this tissue-change lags: the
lifeless, soiled surface skin stays on so long
that its owner gets a “poor complexion.”
Commonsense tells ns this dead skin cannot
be enlivened or beautified by any cosmetic,
lotion or powder. The natural thing to do is
to actually remove the offensive skin—remove
the bad complexion It has been found that
ordinary mercolized wax completely absorbs
the devitalised skin, in minute particles, so
gently, gradually, as to cause no inconveni-
ence. Mercolized wax, which any chemist can
supply, is put on at night like cold cream,
and washed off in the morning. If vou would
have a brilliantly beautiful and youthful com-
plexion, just use this simple treatment.
How to Have Thick and Pretty Hair.
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural affinity
for the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair bril-
liant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely, and greatly stimulates the hair-
gfOwth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed quarter-pound pack-
ages, which retail at about four shillings.
However, as this is sufficient for 25 or 30
shampoos, it really works out very cheaply
in the end. [4
Neat Underwear.
.WOYENmMES,
: Made in
# iea£
tyhsb,E^<eetvJe : H
May be procured through^
4 NY UP-TO-DATE MERCER OR DRAPER.
n OUR NAME ON THE BOX
Is a guarantee of Quality
12 dozen, 7/6; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
AVON
A, TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
Jfquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
‘‘The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold bv all Chemists.
Distributing Agents'. —R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
At a recent picnic of the Australian W eav-
ing Co. in Melbourne there were present a
great-grandfather, a grandfather, father and
children, all experts from Coventry.
When the Defence Department has finished
overhauling its service to find what eligibles
are employed on work that returned men
might do, the Y.M.C.A.’s Army Department
might use the same comb.
“Mirrool”: Yes, our chaps are picking up
languages all right. Coming back, at Cape
Town, I heard one of ours pack three into
one sentence that he hurled at a persistent
beggar: “Imshi, you cow, comprez!”
“O’Phimerty”: The R.C.’s of Richmond
(Tas.) claim that their church is the oldest
tabernacle of their faith in the Common-
wealth. It was built when last century was
in its teens and is still in constant use, a
fine piece of masonry without a visible
crack. It has a life-size picture of the
Madonna and Child which thrills even the
untutored and is said by experts to be the
real thing. When and whence the picture
arrived nobody knows now. Larger congre-
gations have sometimes suggested moving it,
but the natives won’t listen.
At Onehunga, a suburb of Auckland
(MX:) a lion recently escaped from the
Zoo and headed for a paddock where Straw-
berry was busy turning clover into milk.
Presently the gentle creature looked up and
her jaw dropped at sight of the appa-
rition. Then with a snort she charged
with tail skyward; and when the Zoo
party presently arrived they found the
escapee lying in a heap in the paddock
hedge, looking as if he wished he’d never been
born.
“B.B.”: One London paper-making firm
has become interested in lalang grass, of
which millions of tons grow in Queensland.
It is stated that esparto makes the best pulp
known, and that lalang -grass comes within
10 per cent, of it. Three crops a year can De
cut in Bananaland. Now comes word that a
company has been formed in Norway to turn
Zululand papyrus into pulp. But none of
the wretched things will make unsinkable
ships that can be put together in a week;
and that’s the biggest trouble at present.
“O.K.”: Among the things that puzzle
me are the strange discrepancies between
the British and German reports of air-fight-
mg. Two or three times a week Haig gives
figures which represent our side as having
all the best of the deal. We bring down
about seven aeroplanes and three balloons,
and four other German planes are “driven
down” —whatever that may mean. And not
more than two of ours are missing. But
every month comes a German statement that
the Allies lost about 99 balloons and 199
aeroplanes as against a loss of 49 balloons
and 69 aeroplanes on the German side. Yet
there’s never a contradiction of the German
figures. After watching this conflict of state-
ments for many weary months I am wonder-
ing whether we are still kids who are not
to be trusted with the truth.
Here are a couple of weekly ration scales:
Bread—
Ordinary toilers
Sedentary workers
Meat and fish . .
Margarine
Sugar
Cereals . .
No. 1. No. 2.
lb. oz. lb. oz.
7 0 5 11
4 8' —
2 0 3 2
0 10 0 7
0 7 0 7
0 12 3 8
Add to No. 2 allowances of tea, coffee,
potatoes and other vegetables a week),
jam (ilb.) and cheese (14oz.), and you have
the rations handed out to German prisoners
of war in England. No. 1 scale is merely
the diet the ordinary British citizen has been
politely requested to voluntarily restrict him-
self to. Almost as a matter of course he is
refusing to do it, and is asking in a nasty
way whether British nrisoners in Germany
get the benefit of the same scale as German
prisoners in England.
“A Returnee” sums up the men who live
on the uniform :—
“Potjostler’s” remarks (B. 14/2/’18) about the
unpopularity of the Australian soldier in public places
in England are true; but, unfortunately, there’s a
reason for it. There are from 1500 to 2000 of
the A.I.F. who have broken away from the various
training-camps and are drifting about England. They
are quite content to strut around in Australian khaki,
levying blackmail on the small refreshment shop-
keepers. They regarded embarkation as an outrage
and were a curse aboard. Also, some of them were
patriots who dodged gaol by enlisting, until the
judges shut down on this undesirable type of soldier.
These drifters are giving the Australian army a rot-
ten advertisement. As a rule, their deportment,
language and conduct, especially in feeding places,
is ruffianly. That peculiar affair, the military
machine, soon gets the soldier who doffs his uniform ;
but beyond docking the pay and leave of these
shirkers, so long as they wear khaki they are not
regarded as deserters. Consequently they are free
to swank around slouching the Australian hat and
reputation as it never was slouched before. Though
unpaid, they apparently live well by becoming the
scourge alike of the newly-arrived trainee and dinkum
Aussy on short leave from Europe. In the trenches
they are spoken of as “the C.B. Brigade”—cadgers
and bludgers. Occasionally one of them strikes
trouble with the civil or military police; then he
plays up to the gallery. Result is a hysterical par in
some evening paper about a patriotic crowd resent-
ing rough treatment of an “Australian soldier.” It
costs the Commonwealth £1 a head for every deserter
roped in. It would pay Australia to put on £50
a head and clear this lot out of England. Their
shirking is one of the potent reasons why recruiting
is at a low ebb. When their dependants in Australia
find their allotment of Bill’s pay stopped, they natu-
rally, not knowing the reason, become dead-set against
the soldiering business, and proclaim their woes
aloud. Then when Bill drifts back, proudly wearing
the colors of his battalion until discharged, and
after that the returned soldiers’ badge, he lies man-
fully in many places about the tardiness of the Com-
monwealth in paying him his deferred pay.
As Bill’s balance-sheet is not on view he has all the
sympathy, and his scurvy treatment is quoted in
many a workshop as a reason why men should not
enlist. Pearce, or whoever incited that feeble Min-
ister to discontinue publishing lists of men returned
for disciplinary reasons, has helped these wasters to
use the bad-treatment lie to no end. Further, all
discharges rate alike. The skunk who has shirked
and smudged his country’s good name is handed a
discharge without records of conduct. The soldier
who has done his best is surely entitled to something
better than that.
<3
srortV
Ufrjr
■n
iji
n.
The man who has learned how and
when to take risks, banks on his
superior nerve to pull him through.
And if by daily habit and by simple
precautions he has kept his body fit
and vigorous always, you may be sure
his nerve will not fail him in any crisis.
Such men succeed where others dare
not even try to succeed.
| HE habit of taking
* a half teaspoon-
ful of Kruschen Salts
in a tumbler of hot
water every morning
before rising clears the
head, invigorates and
cleanses the system
and promotes daily good health. You sleep
better —and rise refreshed ; you eat better —and
assimilate all the nourishment that food can give;
you work better —and enjoy your work. You
can tax your energies to the uttermost and take
pleasure in the effort if only you keep your body fit
while your brain works. The Kruschen habit makes you fit and
keeos you fit —good health becomes an unconscious habit of life.
g
Australian
Priie
26
per bcttl3
dfg
Australian
Price
2/6
per bottle
ALU BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS.
Of all good chemists, grocers and stores throughout Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents:—
Messrs. H. &. W. GREAR, 287-289, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,6B Deansgate Arcade, Manchester, England.
NEURALGIA!
It is so easy to catch those debilitat-
ing Colds, Influenza, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, etc. Help yourself to
avoid these by taking
THE ROYAL TONIC
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
]/. - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton 8C Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
safeguard your health
QtJ.ColliS Broods
CWorodywe
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE TOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
ami ia the Cough of BRONCHITIS au<l
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COLIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Oj all Chemists. Prices in England, IJS, SI-, 5/-.
Made in England.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After Hindi thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve the tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet known it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn't got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Rilev Streets, Svdnev.
Try This Corn Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
''t
Oh! My! Corn-pains in every nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold by retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
fef?E YOU
FEELING DULL
-TIRED OUT-
RUN DOWN?
ITS YUUR
. J
yrr
/
YOU cannot keep well unless the liver is active and the bowels
regular. Neglect of this rule of health invites half the sickness
from which we suffer
Keep the liver active: otherwise waste matter and poisons
which should pass out of the body, find their way into the blood and
penetrate the whole system. Don’t wait until the bowels are con-
stipated and your health impaired : take
CIIAMBERLAINSTABLETS
Jor the Stomach o Livep.
They are the finest natural laxative in the world--gentle. safe,
prompt and thorough.
They regulate your bowels-stimulate your liver-relieve head-
ache--indigestion and constipation. Take them as occasion may
require. They will help you to keep in good health*
BE PREPARED.
Like many other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder has developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
can be summoned.
Those who have the interests of their family at heart keep a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, dysentery and
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bowels the attack may be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy.
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in your luggage. The excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains in the stomach for which
speedy relief must be obtained and Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always be relied upon to do this.
THE AUSTRALIAN
«/ “SKANDIA” *
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines
i vj k J
5
•-"Mr c
i
mmm.
UNLIMITED SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD,
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY^
df
g
COMBINATION
SCREWING MACHINES
Built in
four
sires.
For Pipe,
Nippies and
Boits.
fdgfd
No. 306 B.
to 6in.
Also built
for belt-
drive.
COMBINE your pipe, bolt
and nipple screwing on
one simple, compact
machine, and save time,
money and muscle. Backed
by more than a quarter cen-
tury of specialised study and
experience. For details write
Charles Wright, Box 251, G.P.0.,
I Melbourne, Victoria, Australasian
■ Representative.
THE OSTER
IV!FG. CO.,
Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
[4


Amott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
AniUNemenla.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Tlientrea Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINTOSH.
I*l VO 1,1 THEATRE, SYIIS'KT
Nightly at 8. Matinees Monday, Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
Hugh D. Mclntosh presents (by arrangement with
Andre Chariot)
THE GAY LONDON REVUE,
SAMPLES.
'IVOM
THEATRE,
MUI.miC KN 15.
NEXT SATURDAY, MARCH 9.
WILLIAM ANDERSON presents, hv arrangement
with HUGH D. McINTOSH, the Up-to-date Panto-
mime,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK.
H
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
1? R MAJESTY’S, SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
The Brilliant Spectacular Revue,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE,
A Gorgeous Spectacle eclipsing anything hitherto
staged.
OIIITERION T HEAT ICE. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
MISS MARIE TEMPEST
together with
Mr. GRAHAM BROWNE.
In Somerset Maugham’s delightful Three-act Comedy,
MRS. DOT.
Plans at Paling’s.
D ALACK TH E A T It E. SYDNEY.
■ Direction J. & N. TAIT.
LAST TWO NIGHTS
of
PEG O’ MY HEART.
SARA ALLGOOD AS “PEG.”
Plans at Nicholson’s.
pAL ACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
COMMENCING SATURDAY, MARCH 9.
J. & N. TAIT & BAILEY & GRANT’S
Gorgeous Pantomime Extravaganza,
ALADDIN
And the Wonderful Lamp.
First-nighters’ seats from J. & N. Tait, Banking
House, Pitt Street.
Box Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world's best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
H
Elt MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
TO-NIGHT, THURSDAY, MARCH 7.
Reappearance of the NEW ENGLISH MUSICAL
COMEDY CO. in
YOU’RE IN LOVE.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
I IfEA T R E ROYAL,, .MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, MARCH 9.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR
in
WITHIN THE LAW.
HOYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE, BOURKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
S to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday at 2.30.
FAMOUS PLAYERS-LASIvY, MAX
SENNETT, ARBUCKLE, etc.,
FEATURES.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
BILLIE BURKE in
THE MYSTERIOUS MISS TERRY.
Also
GEORGE BEBAN in
A ROADSIDE IMPRESARIO.
Prices as usual.
ING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. & N. TAIT’S
Brilliant New Comedy Co. in
TURN TO THE RIGHT,
A MASTER PLAY OF MIRTH.
Prices as Usual.
Plans at Allan’s.
M
AJESTIC THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
HERBERT BRENON
presents his second Masterpiece,
EMPTY POCKETS,
By RUPERT HUGHES.
Plan Now Open ot Allan’s.
► RITANNIA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and fid.
STEWART DAWSON S
12
10
ALWAYS RELIABLE
A HANDSOME PRESENT
Costing Much Less
at Stewart Dawson’s
The reason beinp that when we first took
up the sale of this Watch, it held such a
hifirh place in our judgment that we re-
served a substantial stock to carry us
over.
We are, therefore, still able to offer them at THE OLD PRICE, viz., £5, and it is a
fact that if these Watches had to be manufactured to• day they would cost well-nigh
double.
THIS HANDSOME 15-JEWELLED LEVER WATCH BRACELET
haa strong Set. Gold Case, expanding Gold Bracelet, High-grade finish, Perfect Movement.
Accurate Timekeeper.
CALL AND INSPECT OUR STOCKS, OR WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Stewart Dawson’s
STRAND SYDNEY
CORNER,
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VItfAGRAPH, PATHE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
by Merit.
Here is the Motor Bicycle to
take you anywhere in comfort.
By sheer merit the B.S.A.
Motor Bicycle has proved
itself the ideal solo and sidecar
machine. For business and
pleasure, town or country, the
B.S.A. will not only give you
reliable service but will also
prove most economical.
MOTOR BICYCLES
For Solo & Sidecar.
For over 40 years B.S.A. produc-
tions have maintained one high
standard of quality, and the material
and workmans.hip embodied in
B.S.A. Motor Bicycles are of this
famous B.S.A. quality. Every part
of a B.S.A. Motor Bicycle has to
pass the most severe testing and is
guaranteed interchangeable.
1
B.S.A. Motor List
Free .
D. Y. RENNIE,
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings,
MELBOURNE.
Missing friends.
HARLES OCTAVIUS TATLOCK, of
Sydney, last heard of in .1892, is re-
quested to communicate with ASHLEY,
TEE & SONS, Solicitors, London, England.
If dead, information as to his children will
be welcomed.
TT ENRY HARRISON.—If Henry Harrison, or his
representatives, who lived in Parramatta in 1907
or 1908, will communicate with
MACNAMARA & SMITH, Solicitors,
Belmont Building, 15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
they will hear something to their advantage.
I EES, RICHARD A. Write your sister
J Emily, Harcourt Road, Payneham,
S.A.
Be a Successful Artist.
“ There’s Money in the Pen.”
You can learn drawing in
your own home, with Harry
J. Weston as your teacher.
In a few months you may be
earning good money in your
spare, time, if you start, study-
ing the Weston Postal Course
of Drawing NOW.
The Weston
Course carries
students through
every phase of
Commercial Art,
and so thorough
and explicit are
the instructions,
so helpful and
personal Mr.
Weston’s criti-
cisms, that rapid
progress under
such able tuition
is certain.
“THERE’S MONEY
IN THE PEN."
The above is the
title of the book-
let which de-
scribes in full
the W e st o n
Postal School of
Drawing, and
tells about the
possibilities o f
Drawing both as 1
a profession and
as a pastime. We
g
should like you to have a copy. Send us your
name and address, including three penny
stamps to cover postage.
The HARRY J.WESTON
Postal School of Drawing
35 Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne
MORPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- per Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free.
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CEAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. EUah. 1891.
fdg
ABBEY
SHOES!
Men who realise that a smart and
correctly addressed appearance is
an ASSET should wear ABBEY
SHOES.
They are made in all the latest
models, and their long service
makes them economical, as well as
distinctive.
Being made in half- and full-sizes,
and in three fittings—narrow,
medium and wide, we are able to
guarantee a perfect fit.
We illustrate a choice Tan Willow
Calf Bal. PRICE 37/6
Also in Patent Coltskin, with dull
Calf Legs PRICE 37/6
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
A BBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Q7V
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK
SEE THAT YOURS GETS IT-
You will be rewarded by the way
in which he (or she) responds to
its strengthening qualities,
Delicious. Palatable. Easily Digested.
Made in a Moment. No Cooking.
Full particulars and sample sent on
receipt of 2d. in stamps by
Hutchinson & Co., Ltd.,
26, Jamieson St., Sydney.
* \
•at


WHY SUFFER
SKIN TORTURES
fd
When a post-
card will bring
free samples
CUTIGURA
SOAP
and Ointment
which give
1 quick relief
and point to
speedy heal-
ment. Then
whynotmake
, these sweet,
i pure, super-
creamy em-
ollients your every-day toilet prepara-
tions and prevent little skin troubles
becoming serious.
For free sample each address post-card:
“Jt. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.” Sold
throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SKCML/se
TWO
L /A/£\S
s
l#
l# s
WQiTF.
FOP
CATALOGUE:
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
'TP
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
>f J'lMh|M
444-*-*
, #># s
■
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
&T HOmHR g, T NEWCASTLE
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Always Reliable
m
m
m
m
ELEV .410 “Fourten"
Loaded with ELEY Smokeless Powder
ELEY .22 Long Rifle
“E” Brand
Eley .22 Rim
Black or Smokeless
ELEY Single Rise
Expert Trap
ELEY Targets
for Trap
Shooting
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELEY BROS.L~ LONDON
K=
Sold by
Stationers and
Jewellers
Everywhere.
Australian Prices;
Safety Pattern
with slip • on
cap from 15/-
Standard Pat-
ternwith slip-on
cap from 12/6
I llustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a “Swan” that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using.
Every person’s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing. After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
WAN
MW
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen—a writing
instrument peculiarly your own.
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester; Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney— (Wholesale only),
225 a, Ge <rge Street. London Factory—3l9-329, Weston
Street, S.E. Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co-
lne., New York and Chicago.
gfd
Australian Branch:
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings. 255 a George Street, Sjdney.
Hansen’s Rheumatic R e J£!4i
“For three months I suffered from chronic
Rheumatism, and was given up by doctors. Mr.
Hans'en’s ‘Rheumatic Remedy’ cured me in three
weeks.” (Signed) A. REYNOLDS.
(Witness) C. A. HOSLER, J.P.
ALL CHEMISTS, 5/-
Wholesale: ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY;
ROCKE, TOIVIPBITT, MELBOURNE.
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.IL, of Rand-
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured. All
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Randwick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/fi.
PELACO LTD. Registered Office: Gipps Street, Richmond.
EDWARD C. Esq., Chairman.
GEORGE H. DAY, Esq. tlmel ?' C Esa^'
WILLIAM H. CUMING, Esq. L- G ’ LAW ’ Eq '
DIRECTORS’ REPORT.
Your directors herewith submit their report and financial statement as at the 31st December, 1 .
During the past 12 months, in order to meet the expanding trade of Pea son Law Limited that com
pany was reconstructed under the name of Pelaco Limited, with a capital asiset forthl in the hnan
dal statement, making available £50,000 further capital for the purposes of the company The of
Pearson Law Limited was taken over as from the Ist January 1917, and accounts are there o
given for a full period of 12 months, in order to ensure continuity of information The net profit o
the 12 months ending December 31, 1917, are £10,416 4s. Id., as compared with £B2iO Is.■ sd. to ‘
the previous 12 months. In order that the company’s future expansion may take place aknig the most
efficient lines, Mr. Law, one of our managing directors, has recently paid a viat to the U.8.A., ''here
he has made a close study of the manufacturing methods employed in that country. While much
valuable information has been gained, it is satisfactory to record that in Mr. Law s statement the
company’s methods and the capacity and services of the staff and employees compare favorably with
those of any enterprise studied by him. The balance at credit of Profit and Loss Account is £5199
17s. Bd., which the directors recommend allocating as follows:--
7 per cent, dividend on “A” preference shares from the 20th September to o Ist
9 percent’ dividend on “B” preference shares for the same period as above
10 per cent, dividend on the ordinary shares for the same period . .
Write off plant, machinery, fixtures, fittings, motor-car and rolling stock
Write off underwriting commission and brokerage
Write off preliminary expenses
Leaving a balance to be carried forward of
£5199 17 8
One of your directors, Mr. W. H. Cuming, retires, but, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
The auditor, Mr. A. Capper Moore, F.C.P.A., retires, but, being eligible, offers himself tor re-election.
For and on behalf of the Board, nYASON Chairman
W. BUCKLEY. Secretary. E - DYASrtMN, Chairman.
£5Bl 13
301 16
1117 16
957 13
800 0
234 12
1206 6
8
BALANCE-SHEET,
31st DECEMBER, 1917.
- ~ LIABILITIES.
To Capital Account —
29,736 A prefer-
ence shares at
£1 each .. £29,736 0 0
50,000 B prefer-
ence shares at
£1 each .. 50,000 0 0
340,528 ordinary
shares at 10s.
each .. .. 170,264 0 0
£250,000 0 0
To Less Unissued —
2000 B prefer-
ence shares, £2OOO ;
260,528 ordinary
shares,-£130,264 132,264 0 0
Balance December,
1916 .. .. £2,853 12 7
Net profits Decem-
ber, 1917 .. 10,416 4 1
£13,269 16 8
Less —-
Dividends paid
30/6/’l7 and
20/9/’l7. . . . 8,069 19 0
5,199 17 8
£149,097 9 6
ASSETS
£149.097 9 6
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To salaries, directors’ fees and general
trading expenses
„ balance
£24.361 0 7
13.239 16 8
£37,630 17 3
Bv balance December, 1916 . •
„ gross profits December, 1917
.. £2,853 12 7
.. 34,777 4 8
£37,630 17 3
We, ,T. K. Pearson and ,T. L. G. Law, being two of the directors of Pelaco Limited, do
that, in our opinion, the before-mentioned balance-sheet is drawn up so as to exhibit a C °pfryßSON
the company’s affairs, . J. K.
J. L. G. LAW.
AUDITOR’S REPORT. T • i, .
1 hereby report that 1 have audited the books and accounts of the Pelaco Company Liim ct 01 •
rear ended 31st December, 1917; that I have obtained all the information and explanat ,
required, and that, in my opinion, the balance-sheet is properly drawn up, and exhibits a t .
view of the state of the company’s affairs, according to the best of my information and t -I
given me, and as shown bv the books of the company.
Dated at Melbourne this 18th day of February, 1918. cAprm MO OKK, F.C.P.A., Auditor.
The Inky Way.
“Hamer”: The Australian military man-
darins in England, for reasons which are
no doubt deemed good by the people who
benefit, seem wedded to the Anzac Bulletin
as a means of officially conveying to the
Commonwealth troops such news as is con-
sidered good for them. The publication is
looked upon by the soldiers themselves as a
dismal jest, and a real Anzac paper would
have been started long ago but for cold-
shouldering. One proposition reached some-
thing like shape, but the hint that the paper
could expect “no official sanction” seemed
so like a threat that the idea was dropped.
No paper is wanted if it isn’t too dull to
laugh at the military heads and too obsequi-
ous to stand upright in their presence.
* * * *
“P.X.” : Hodder and Stoughton are going
to publish the autobiography of A. G. Hales,
“Australian native, journalist, gold-miner,
jockey, actor, lecturer and war correspond-
ent,” and producer of 23 novels in his spare
time. It is to be called “Some Leaves from
My Life.” Hales starts with the candid
confession that he was the bad boy of the
family and was “kicked clean out of doors”
by an enraged and disgusted father. He
certainly wasn’t kicked very far. “Smiler ’
got into press work through writing “poems”
for one of those “literary societies” which
are sprinkled all over S. Aus. —Jack Virgo,
gen. sec. of the Y.M.C.A., is another of their
products. Hales had half-learned to be a
carpenter; and it was as a half-baked trades-
man that he went to the Barrier before
Broken Hill was found. He worked for a
while with Tom Tait, nowadays partner in
some of Syd Kidman’s enterprises and owner
ol' a few good horses. Then he fell into
regular press-work at Broken Hill. They
wanted meat; and it was of no consequence
that Hales, in supplying the meat, supplied
it in the most amazing spelling that man
ever saw. But he had the gift of vivid lan-
guage ; and if the truth was dull, he never
hesitated to improve it with fiction. He
won’t in “Some Leaves from My Life”
either.
• * * *
Hobart Daily Post is still battling for
its life. Having exhausted all available local
capital, the directors have sent Editor
Dwyer Grey and Manager Ben Watkins to
Sydney to invite help from tne people who
were behind the suspended Globe.
* * * *
“T. 0.1.”: William Sidman, who died
lately at Camden (N.S.W.), wore his feet
sore'on the Inky Way. Before coming south
he was connected with the press in Devon-
shire and Yorkshire. Later he started a
journal in Paris, but his type was com-
mandeered to make bullets in the Franco-
Prussian war. Returning to England he
started in London The Anglo-New
Zealander, which he gave up at the request
of the late Henniker Heaton, who offered
him the post of manager of the Evening
News and T. and C. Journal. This job
he held for seven years. Then, 22 years ago,
he purchased the Camden News, and owned
it until his death.
* * * *
“Copy Boy” : While absent on active ser-
vice Fred Whitehead has been appointed
chief sub-editor of Melbourne Herald in
succession to E. D. Hoben, deceased, After
doing time as a public-school sports-master
Whitehead took to the mky way, and did
well in a variety of jobs. He was chief-of-
stafiE of Adelaide Daily Herald, and later
was on the Federal gallery staff of the
Argus. About seven years ago he was
secured by the Herald, who lent him to
Hughes for the first Conscription campaign,
and when that was over he enlisted.
* * * *
“Mellish Iteef” : Randolph Bedford, in his
yarn, “Predestination. Faith and Works”
(B. 31/1/’18), showed a masthead-light
on liis schooner; and “Ivan P.” tells
him that a masthead-light is the dis-
tinguishing brand of a steamer. Bedford
is not necessarily wrong, because the mast-
head-light is also proper for a schooner when
she is using an oil engine, as scores of
island schooners do. Even if Bedford’s
Crest of the Wave was under sail alone, it
might not stop her irresponsible native crew
from hoisting the masthead-light. For in-
s'vnce, down in the Solomon Islands our
native’ watchman would never dream of
taking in the anchor lights after the. ship
had got und r weigh unless chased round
with a handspike.
UNWRITTEN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The handle of my tardy pen is made of the wood of
trees.
And I know the way that their boughs will reck in
the lap of the lazy breeze,
Till blossom and leaf are half-asleep and the sceptre
is the Sun’s,
And every river and every road to the Land of the
Dreamer runs.
The nib of my pen is made of steel, and out of the
jealous earth
The ore was freed by the miner’s pick, to make for
a later birth;
And I think of the brown and naked arms and the
strong stroke cleanly sent
Across the vein of an ivonstone rock in the heart of
a continent.
And the thought of the freed, the potent, things must
bring ever an ache for you,
As the gleam of a stretch of shadowy grass with a
sun-splash breaking through
Will beat at the doors of my restless mind, and carry
my will away
From all that I somehow fail to write, to all that I
fain would say.
If you brought me a quill of a dottrel’s wing, a
sheet of the ti-tree bark,
A vine leaf filled with the brimming juice where the
vines hang stripped and stark,
The things which cry of the greenwood gods that are
yet unspoiled hy men,
I might tell you all that you wait to hear, in the
dip of that fairy pen!
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.


qP\ILAkITY
w An
?
%
'risi'M 0
ASIAJ
Ariel Ascendancy in Australasia
Firmly Established.
An Ariel Agent in New Zealand says:
“When things are normal again we anticipate a good demand
for Ariels. Without exception every rider we have is a
satisfied one.”
Ariel Works Ltd. f 36 Bournbrook, Birmingham, Eng.
Agents: TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY: 363 George Street. ADELAIDE: 152 Rundle Street.
MELBOURNE : Elizabeth Street.
m
m
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast otat. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
THREE-RTBBE& TYRES
i
Spencer - Moulton tyres are gaining
laurels all over the world for their
remarkable efticiency and long life.
The tropics, with their flinty and
crudely engineered roads, make
no impression on the hard rubber
ribs of a “ Spencer-Moulton,” and
the lesson of the tropics is one
that should be taken to heart
by ali practical motorists.
Illustrated. Catalogue
and prices will be
mailed on request.
G. SPENCER, MOULTON & CO., Ltd.,
77-79, Cannon St., London, England,
Stockists:
MELBOURNE :
MOLLOY & CO., 129, KING STREET.
CHRISTCHURCH, N.Z.:
COTTON BROS., 2x2, MADRAS STREET.
p.c.b.— 7o
htL
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing.
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
gfd
Owing to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date.
830. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gull, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. barrels,
r 'Sht modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
solid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2sin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7}lb Freight paid’
£7/15/-
BMP
m
in,.///
831. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock pistol
SK& IS • *» »<«» ■«-*» ; <■***. .
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels
Freight paid,
£4lO/-
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels
Freight paid, £4/15/-
Buy War Loan Bonds and Help Win the War
“SWEET CROP”
Cigarettes, really
delightful. 6d.
pkt., post free.
10 pkts. 5/-, post
free.
g
UlB. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-inch steel barrels,
extension rib, left choke, cross bolt, D. & E. fore-end, pistol grip, wal-
nut stock ; weight about 71b Freight paid,
£.9191-
s§B
wm
sss
Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/-, Post Free.
826. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or
16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12-gauge about
711 b.; of 16-gauge, about 6£lb Freight paid,
£7/7/.
S 8
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
830. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, case-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 71 to 8 lb., 16-gauge 71 to 71 lb. —-
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,
£.3/101
Freight paid, £3/15/-
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels
fdg
dfg
GUNS AND RIFLES
REPAIRED.
832. “The Cert” D.8.8.L. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel
extension rib, rebounding locks, left choke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about 71b Freight paid,
barrels,
60/-
Harrington and
Richardson’s
S.B.B.L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action.
df
solid case-liardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about Gilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
bi-Non-Ejector, 32/6; 82-Auto-Ejector, 37/6
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
4/8 Inter-State.
ac
AUSTRALTA3 GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS'
AND TOBACCONISTS
gfd
City Sports Depot
99 Kind St also at
Newcastle l Brisbane ,


Peg' o* My Heart Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
1
m
m
■ m\
* ' >; ##i
;
-**
MISS SARA ALLGOOD ( from, a photo by the Swiss Studios).
Miss Sara Allgood as “Peg
o’ My Heart” has endeared
herself in a unique way to
play-lovers. She is so fresh,
so human, so kind and clever
and alive that jaded theatre-
goers find it good merely to
enjoy her laugh. This witty
Irish girl is a favorite second
to none. Miss Sara Allgood
says a good word for another
public favorite:—
Dear Sir,—
I have never
before had occasion
to recommend a
Proprietary Medl-
ci n e —i n fact, I
always had an idea
that they were not
all they should be;
but I suppose there
is an exception to
every rule, and cer-
tainly Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery is
an exception.
I have used it
with excellent re-
sults, and it com-
pletely broke up my
cold. I have great
faith in it now, and
already recom-
mend it to my
friends. You have
a remedy in a
thousand, and I am
sure that everyone
who tries it will
think likewise.
t Yours very truly,
(Sgd.)
SABA APXGOOD.
STOPS COUGHS
BANISHES COLDS
Men, Women and Children all over the country use and know the worth of Dr. Sheldon s
New Discovery. Are you one of them? If not, don’t delay, butlbuy a bottle at once, and be
ready to pounce on to the first cold that makes its appearande. Don’t forget, Dr. Sheldon's
Now Discovery is the ever-ready friend that should be in every ..household to protect you from
all coughs aifd colds. Price 1/6 and 3/
gfd
g
A
D
fdg
w/i
//////
'A
©
©
©
'm\ »
»
fjo
J
Guard Against Substitution
The “ VALET ” Blade, as enclosed with each Auto Strop
Safety Razor, is the only Genuine Blade for the Auto Strop
Safety Razor.
A Warning to the Public
There are many cheap, insidious substitutes of imitation
blades being foisted on to the public for the genuine
Auto Strop Valet Blade. The Auto Strop Safety Razor Co.
Ltd. asks you to refuse them and to use only Auto Strop
“VALET” Blades in the famous Auto Strop Safety Razors.
Price in the Commonwealth, 3/- packet.
Price in New Zealand, - - 3/0 packet.
Obtainable everywhere throughout the Commonwealth
and New Zealand.
Managing Agent for Australasia:
RALPH ABERCROMBY, Denison House,
380 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO BLADE SO KEEN
NO SHAVE SO CLEAN.
The Judgment.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
U'l OUL of the secret places, sense of the
hidden things,
' jjy heart is a wounded bird winging
wearily home to die,
Blind with the whirl of suns in the brazen
bowl of the sky,
Fain for the whispering darkness to fondle
and fold her wings.
Crags where the wheeling falcon the sap-
phire ether breaks,
llofns of the Himalaya where the blue
young winds are born
That fan the flitting red feet of the poppy
tires in the corn
Fre the temple bells are calling or the first
pale lotus wakes.
From the dark of dreams ye called me to the
world of wind and sun,
To the twofold path of the spirit and the
way the flesh-feet take,
In the cloud-wake of the eagle, in the sun-
track of the snake,
I have loved and served and suffered—let
the Wise Ones’ will be done!
I-lope, of the gods beloved; Faith, that was
more than prayer,
For a rose in a far green valley, for an
upland white with rye,
Three in one have we travailled, but the
pledge of the noon goes by.
And who shall be judge of Wisdom or lord
of the gift he bare?
There’s a wind that wakes at sunset and sobs
in the deodars,
A strong kind wind that carries the heaviest-
laden home,
Drowsed with the scent of pine and the
breath of the honeycomb,
To the halls of eternal twilight beyond the
surge of the stars!
So it was writ forever in the Book of gods
and men.
One shall follow a far wind and compass his
soul’s decree,
One shall be slain for a king’s whim, and
one shall die on the Tree.
But who shall measure the mercies, or
quibble with “Why?” or “When?”
The bulbul’s song is ended, the desert well is
dry,
The last of the lilacs withers unwept in the
garden close,
The young wheat droops in the furrow, and
far is Kashmiri’s rose,
My heart is a wounded bird winging wearily
home to die!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E.J. PITT.
Squaring Accounts.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
UATA poised the heavy spear as for
throwing, and laughed gaily.
“Yes, Uabi,” he said. “Perhaps I
shall come across a young pig to add to our
wedding feast, which the old women are pre-
paring. But two suns more and I carry you
to the mats in my own new-built house.”
The brown girl smiled back at the slender,
laughing young man. The priceless strings
of porpoise-teeth hanging from his neck down
on his chest rattled softly as he moved. The
girl glanced appreciatively at the muscles
rippling under the dark-brown skin, and her
mouth gleamed a response to her betrothed’s
joyous humor.
Suddenly he drew her almost nude body
to him. She clung to him prettily as he
whispered of the good time to come. Quickly
ho, pressed the flattened tip of his nose
against her’s, released her, waved a hand in
graceful farewell, and walked with steps of
springy youth down the half-choked jungle
trail. His pleasant young voice pealed out in
song as he swung along:
Teikanai are ko ta
Arekota ana nai i row.
Steps of booted feet crunched on grass and
twigs on the path, and the girl turned
quickly. Nobody was in sight, but she
stepped softly behind a bush and waited. The
steps came nearer, and in a minute stopped
beside the bush, and a face, white but for its
bronze, peered laughingly around the foli-
age. The soft black eyes looked at the
handsome, clean-shaven young planter in
pretty perplexity.
“I saw you and Uata; but as you are to
be married, I didn’t intrude —two’s com-
pany three’s a crowd, you know,” he chaffed
as he slipped his arm caressingly over her
shoulders.
“You must not do that any more, laki;
all that foolishness is finished,” she said
gently.
The young man did not rdply. He turned
his head and listened with a half-smile on
his face to the snatches of Uata’s song
carried on the wind through the foliage, now
very distinct, now the gentlest w'hisper,
according to the whim of the wind.
Uabi covertly eyed the clear-cut profile, so
different from her native betrothed’s flat-
tened features. The longing glance took in
the powerful figure, from the milk-white
skin showing through the unbuttoned shirt-
collar under the chin, down to the brown
lace-up boots pressing the ground. She
sighed softly. Yes. laki was very handsome.
Compared with him, Uata, the handsomest
youth in the village, was but a poor pigmy.
The smile on Jack’s face deepened as he
turned his head and faced the girl. He
noted the glow in the black eyes and laughed
as his arm stiffened and pulled the slightly-
resisting form to him.
“laki! You must not. I”
The smile did not leave the man’s face, nor
did the gentle force of his arm relax.
“Ah. Uabi, don’t be silly. Uata need
never know.”
“But. laki, I don’t like it; it isn’t fair.”
The man, full of the passions of youth,
felt no sense of fairness in love, least of all
in Kanaka love. He was not to blame, per-
haps. He knew what the faith and trust of
Kanaka lovers is worth.
“See what I brought you.” He placed an
imitation pearl necklet, a small bottle _of
cheap perfumery and a silver-mounted pipe
in her hand. The girl’s face lit up.
“Oh, laki!” she gasped delightedly. “Is
all that for me?” Then, slowly: “No, of
course; Uata need not know.”
Jack slid his arm from rounded shoulder
to supple waist. Her plump right arm,
with the two slender parallel lines of tattoo-
ing running up the inside of it, found its way
to his waist. , „ „
Slowly they strolled over the fallen leaves,
the singing, pig-hunting Uata forgotten, into
the space completely enveloped by dense,
shoulder-high scrub overshadowed by a
lofty palm, its branches rustling and whis-
pering far overhead in the breeze; and Uabi
carefully rearranged the leaves and twigs
over the aperture giving them admission.
Suddenly man and girl started violently.
The man half-rose to his knees, with hand
on the butt of his revolver; but the girl’s re-
straining hand and barely audible “Hush !”
kept him motionless. The crashing and
grunting swept past, seemingly shying vio-
lently at their unexpected presence, and
became fainter in the distance.
“Some pig, straying through the jungle,
scenting us became frightened and made off
again,” said Jack.
The girl replaced her hands under the
back of her shapely head; then, suddenly
again, she put a restraining hand on her lover’s
arm. He laughed softly, recollecting, and
put away the cigar and.matclies he had taken
out. Once more he stretched luxuriously,
resting his head on the brown bosom of the
girl, whose left hand rumpled the blonde
hair.
A convulsive shudder set her body quiver-
ing and trembling, sending him with the sur-
prise of it into a sitting posture. She stared
incredulously at the top of the bush ram-
part, eyes and every feature expressing
apprehension.
“What is it, Uabi?” _ .
“Uata!” she whispered, wide-eyed with
Consternation. “I saw his face above the
bushes —just a moment.”
Jack swore with annoyance. He might have
known it. The pig which had crashed past had
been disturbed by the meat-hunting savage,
who in his turn had followed the track, and,
hearing voices, had seen Presently he
grinned. Uata was only a nigger, anyhow,
and was bound to have hunted on other men's
preserves. All Kanakas did, so what did it
matter —only getting paid back sort of
indirectly!
“Oh, don’t worry, Uabi. There is no
harm done. Uata wrnn’t mind. And if he
does, I’ll square him.”
He noted that the girl’s brown face had
gone grey with fear. She did not reply, but
dropped her head on her arms and began
softly sobbing. Perplexedly Jack stood look-
ing at her a moment. Then he brushed aside
the foliage over the opening, and with a
sinuous motion of the body stepped out.
Uabi neither heard nor looked after him.
Presently her arms fell from her face and
her eyes, dry, though she still sobbed, looked
around the hiding place in a startled way, as
if not conscious until then that she was
alone. She dropped on hands and knees and
slowly crawled oyer the sweet-scented litter
of herbs to the opening. There she paused,
hesitating; then as slowly crawled out.
Mechanically she felt the imitation pearl
necklace on her bosom, then became conscious
of the perfume and the pipe, carried one in
each pierced ear-lobe. For some moments
she stood in dazed thought, the wind tug-
ging and whisking the strands in her pan-
dana-leaf loin covering. Finally she came to
a decision. Sinking down on one knee one
arm pushed open the aperture and the other
hand gently deposited the precious presents
on the herb bedding. She lingered as if
unable to part from them, but finally she
arose and listlessly strolled down the nar-
row winding jungle path, away from the
village. Once she stopped, an alert look
flashing back into the haunted, fear-glowing
eyes. Reassured, she resumed, to again stop
with wildly-beating heart beside a shiny,
wax-leaved shrub, covered with a glory of
pink, climbing orchid. As she strained her
eyes to pierce the gloom of the thickets
opposite, a hand, coming, apparently, from
out of the mass of orchids, fell in the glossy
hair flowing over her shoulders. Uabi
swiftly turned her head. Then she shrieked
in terror.
* # * *
Without a backward glance the young
planter sauntered slowly the way he had
come. Where the jungle-path branched
toward his plantation, he paused and took
out the cigar Uabi had prevented him from
lighting. Thoughtfully he licked the triangle
of outer leaf that had come loose, and plas-
tered it into place again. He scratched at
the box with the match several times before
becoming aware that he was using the wrong
end of the match. He lit the cigar.
“Nothing to worry about,” he said aloud.
“They don’t feel things of that kind the way
we do. A bit rough on Uabi, but she’ll get
over it. So will lie. Confounded nuisance
it’d have to happen just now. Anyhow, I’ll
send for him to-morrow and square him.”
The track to the plantation, not having
much use, was rough and vegetation-grown.
A good deal of litter lay on the path itself,
and he stumbled frequently—he always did
on that track. The resentment against Uata
was passing as he realised an obvious way
out of the little mishap. He sucked vigor-
ously at the cigar.
“Yes,” he repeated ; “thev don’t feel it like
we do, and. anyhow. I’ll square” His
foot caught in something, evidently a creeper.
He could not be sure—he could just feel the
resistance. Even as he tried to think he
shrieked and dropped on his knees.
The sweat poured from his forehead as
his horrified eyes saw the shaft of the spear
that had pierced his abdomen. Gingerly he
felt the ebony blackwood, hardened over
many a fire, up to his shirt. He knew with-
out feeling with his hand that the multi-
barbed point protruded beyond his back, and
(Continued on next page.)


THE WORKER S FRIEND
Keeps Zam-Buk Always in his
Camp Outfit.
MEDICINE chest is a downright necessity in
thousands of Australasian homes, espeei-
ally those out in the Backblocks, far away
from town and medical facilities, and no medicine
chest is complete without its pot of Zam-Buk,
the healing balm that is always ready for use
when a cut, bruise, sprain, burn or scald calls for
instant treatment. Mr. I). Moore, Chapel Street,
Marrickville, Sydney, writes:—“My experiences
with Zam-Buk have been varied and highly success-
ful. In camp, I carry a medical chest for treating
various mishaps, etc., and Zam-Buk has a promi-
nent place in my ‘first-aid’ outfit. Whilst two
of my chums were wrestling one fell with his
thigh on a tree stump, which inflicted a great
gash some inches long and necessitated several
stitches. After these had been put in I dressed
the wound with Zam-Buk, which proved soothing
and beneficial. Before long the man was able to
resume work and the wound was completely healed.
“My son, who works in an engineering shop,
often gets the skin taken off his hands. Dirt
MR. MOORE (from a (
photo), who speaks in 5
praise oj Zam-Buk. <
getting into the sores sets up festering, but he always applies Zam-Buk,.
which subdues the inflammation and restores his hands to perfect
condition.
“One day, when using a tomahawk, I chopped the top of my thumb to
the bone, severing the nail. I thought I should lose the tip of my thumb,
but it was marvellous how quickly Zam-Buk healed the injury and how
splendidly it took the pain away. We, therefore, use Zam-Buk for all our
injuries.”
Every Home Needs Zam-Buk
Zam-Buk, the ever-ready healing balm, is invaluable for eczema, ringworm, bad
legs, festering wounds, rash, piles, as well as a quick healer of cuts, burns, gashes,
etc. Sold by all chemists and stores, at Is. 6d. and 3s. Gd. per pot. (The 3s. 6d. pot
contains nearly four times the Is. Gd.)
fd
r RUB
IT IN
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens
Seuen
Prize Medals.
g
Works i Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
dra.\ n to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
SCIENCE & EXPERIENCE
mutt precede progress to attain per-
manent success. The scientific and
experimental work undertaken by the
SUNBEAM
Company has been continuous and is reflected
in the present productions, and also in the
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
which has earned for it the title
Supreme on land and in the air.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT . 54-62, Oxford St., London, England
WORKS * • • • - » Wolverhampton, England
that to pull it out against the barbs was
as impossible as to pull the shaft through.
He might cut through the shaft and pull the
stump out by gripping the barbs, but that,
too, he knew was worse than useless. In
either case he was booked, and by express
train. Only by leaving the spear in could
the passage be prolonged—a little. It was
hurting—could anything else ever hurt so
much! Why prolong it? He had to go.
There was no getting away from that; so
why prolong the agony? End it while he
had the strength ! His eyes opened wide in
horror at the prospect. He might live like
this for hours—perhaps a whole day. His
hand wandered to his revolver. He would
count up to a hundred ; then
“Why,” he asked himself, “must a damned
nigger go and plant his pig-sliooting bow and
spear on this particular patch?”
His eyes, bulging, stared at the end of the
spear, ”hnd all anger left him. Whimsically
he smiled through tears of agony. So it had
to be paid for, after all! The price was
high: too high, he decided, but what could
he do? Uata, the creditor, was exacting
payment; there could be no question about
that —the neat fishbone design carved on the
end of the spear-shaft was unmistakable. It
was Uata’s trade-mark. The spring bow and
spear had never been set for any pig: it
struck too high for that.
Reasoning convinced him that somewhere,
close by, the savage was watching. If he
could only tempt him out from where he
lurked ! The thought almost conquered the
insufferable agony. With ears acock he
listened as he never listened before to catch
a sound from the surrounding tangle of vege-
tation. Involuntarily, he groaned aloud with
the pain. The twinge changed to a glow of
joy: he felt sure that he heard a stealthy
movement. His head sagged forward on his
chest, and, presently, his straining ear made
sure of the cautious movements of human
feet. He pretended to lift his hands, and,
unable to do so, drop them to the ground,
and his chin sank deeper on his chest. At
last it came, a loud whisper:
“laki!”
The alert eyes of the stricken man saw'
the joyous features of Uata protruding from
behind the bole of a giant tree. Jack groaned
audibly.
“Uata,” he said in the vernacular, “some
pig-hunter’s spear has gone off and pierced
me. Come and help me pull it out. and I’ll
give you a Snider and twenty rounds of
ammunition. Be quick—l can’t lift my
hands!” In support of his assertion Jack
tried to lift his hands, but let them fall, im-
potently, and his chin again sank on his
chest. The savage, without reply, looked at
him speculatively.
“laid!”
Again the planter looked, and saw the
brown man stand clearly revealed within ten
steps. Sure of attention, Uata lifted some-
thing he carried in his right hand, and the
man looked into the glassy eyes in the head
of Uabi, held by the raven hair ! Even when
Uata lifted it, smiling, towards him, Jack
felt no surprise. Somehow it was only what
he had expected.
From the jungle came a sound made by
some living thing, and instinctively Uata
turned his head that way. The motion
was but momentary, but when his head
turned back his eyes looked into the
long barrel of the dreaded Colt, with the
planter’s eye, strong and purposeful, gleam-
ing along its shimmering barrel. Before the
jump of Uata’s sinew's and muscles could
follow the brain’s prompting to flight the
weapon spoke. The bullet ploughed
through the lower part of the savage’s
jaw. pitching him on the path. his
spasmodically-grasping hands flinging Uabi’s
head. Again he staggered to his feet. The
Colt cracked once more, and Uata fell with
his left knee shot away, a crippled, wriggling
heap.
“The price is paid, the discount collected,”
said the planter, aloud.
The muzzle of the Colt lifted slowly but
steadfastly till it pressed above the heart.
TE BABARANTIKO.
Aiyoni.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A GREAT white moon is creeping
majestically over the Divide, lighting
up the blackness of the valley below,
and revealing in all their stark unloveliness
the five iron buildings that comprise the
Magisterial Station of Nepa.
It is the most inland station in Papua, and
was established some years ago when chasers
of the elusive ’weight came thick and fast to
the Lakekamu. To-day the field supports
less than a dozen men, and soon even these
few will be forced to abandon the marred
and distorted creeks to the forces that made
them. Nepa itself has been described, with
a certain amount of accuracy, as a hole in
the bush.
Drifting like lost spirits across the station
clearing are wreaths of mist, bound south-
wards to their nightly resting place on the
vast sago marshes of the Williams River.
There is not a breath of wind, yet there is a
force impelling them onwards.
Seated on an improvised seat near the
old flagstaff is the District Magistrate. Deep
in thought, as lonely men are apt to be,
he does not notice the little groups of dark
figures coming down the track from the
mountains to the north of the station. Still
his surprise is scarcely perceptible when he
sees them a few yards away—ten, fifteen,
eighteen all told ; black, grim-looking figures
enveloped in long hooded cloaks reaching just
past the knees.
The white man knows exactly what those
cloaks conceal, and thinks of his revolver
lying under his pillow.
Of the sixteen native police allowed him,
fifteen are away with his assistant on patrol:
his orderly and cook are probably asleep.
His nocturnal friends stand silently before
him, their faces partly concealed in their
strange coverings. After a few seconds of
absolute inaction, one of them starts to
talk. A dumb man could understand it or
part of it, for it is all signs.
Standing on a rise silhouetted on the
moon, the “speaker” resembles a big black
bird flapping its wings. His cloak spreads
and falls with each gesticulation of his arm.
Behind, and a little below him, like black-
birds in a row, stand the other seventeen.
To emphasise a point now and again one
will flap a wing; but the dumb spell re-
mains unbroken.
The wing-flapping over, the white man
lises and plays his part. He tells them he
would rather have welcomed them in the day
when their wants could have received atten-
tion. He acknowledges their offer to do a
little work for him, and endeavors to show
that the offer is very acceptable. They could
certainly have the rest-house to sleep in, and
on the morrow they could help themselves
to food from the station gardens.
They nod their understanding and follow
him across the compound to the rest-house,
eighteen fantastic pigeon-toed shapes, throw-
ing still more fantastic shadows on ground
and houses alike.
The White man wishes he was behind them,
but he would rather not show either fear
or distrust; still, he watches their shadows
on the grass, and is thankful when he eau
face them again.
Cradling his head in his arm he bids them
sleep, and is about to turn away, when,
much to his surprise, a hooded figure address-
ing him utters one word: “ Aiyoni!”
The others turn on the speaker in anger,
and growl something quite unintelligible to
the magistrate. He knows as much as any
man about this weird tribe of mountaii.
dwellers, but “Aiyoni” conveys nothing to
his mind. It is a musical sound and hr
repeats it continually on his way to the
house. He would have said it was “Good
night!” but for the anger the word invoked
To-morrow he might be able to discover its
meaning.
It is part of his duty to bring this isolated
mountain tribe under the control of the Gov
eminent, and this visit and request for work
is possibly advancement in the right direc-
tion. The wish is father to the thought.
Before turning-in he has a final look at j
the rest-house. Passing mists blot it out for I
a moment, then reveal it again. The dark
scrub-covered hills encircling the station are
full of shadows, and he shivers involuntarily
as the first night-wind blows across from the
sombre-looking peak of Lawson, standing on
the Anglo-German border, like a huge sen-
tinel looking down on the lonely little out-
post.
The users of stone clubs and axes have
apparently gone to sleep, so the magistrate
turns in. “Aiyoni, aiyoni ,” he mutters.
“What on God’s earth does it mean?”
* * * *
The room is full of white mists, in which
a black, hooded figure takes shape. It
creeps towards the bed, stone tomahawk in
hand, a terrible figure in the dim uncertain
light, and is standing poised for the blow,
when the sleeper turns and cries “Aiyoni.
aiyoni”—and awakens.
He is bathed in perspiration, and curses
himself for a fool. Uneasy, though, he gets
up and looks out. It is nearly dawn, and in
the coming light he sees the door of the store
lying on the ground.
Returning for his revolver he investigates.
There is not a knife, tomahawk or axe left
on the shelves. The rest-house, too, is
empty. His friends have flown; likewise
every bit of steel in the place.
“Aiyoni, aiyoni” is in his mind. “Steel,
steel!” he echoes aloud. “Another new word
for the vocabulary; put it down, put it
down.
“A step in the right direction,” he ironi-
cally remarks, turning in again.
RICHARD HUMPHRIES.
The Robin.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THERE is a little ghost that walks at
noon,
Making a piping on two simple straws
As with the faltering of a faded tune
A heart-ache from the yellow light he draws:
And all that I have know T n and still forget
Comes near me as the music rises shrill.
Something of old desire and new regret
And long days cool and still —
A hungry robin forty years ago came to my
window-sill.
That fainting melody I cannot catch
However long I strain my heart and ear.
Sometimes it seems my hand is on the latch
Of an old door that leads to rooms too dear;
And could that piper find one lost, far note
The rusted hinge would turn again to show
Kind, homely things, so near yet so remote,
Out of the long ago—
The robin had a song when paths were white
with falling cherry-snow.
O little ghost, come with me where the green
Of happy leaves may flutter round your
song!
The street is grey, the passing thoughts too
mean,
The many voices set your music wrong;
But where the waters sparkle in the light
And all the little grass is very kind
TV e too shall sit from shining noon till night
Seeking that strain to find—
Oh, robin, singing forty years ago down wavs
grown leafy-blind!
But you shall find the song, O little ghost,
And I shall hear the music as it draws
The happy things I have forgotten most
hrom the shrill hollow of two twittering
straws; “
And I shall walk again in other ways
And hear a fuller music rise and sweep
Out of the hidden heart of faded days
Grown fresh from memory’s sleep—-
A happy robin forty years ago sang notes
too full and deep!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


&'W.:
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
H.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
_yjctorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
We have just landed a large stocK of tbe
well-Known American Brand of
MOSLER SUPERIOR SPARKING PLUGS
suitable for the “Ford” Engine.
These Plugs are a distinctly High-grade line, and we are offering them at the low
price of 2/9 each. (Special Prices for Quantities.)
This replenishment of our stocks comes at a most opportune time, on account of
the great scarcity of “Ford” Plugs.
PRICES OF OTHER MAKES OF PLUGS ARE:
“LODGE” Sparking Plugs, in Metric, }£in., % x 18, A.L.A.M. . . 5/- each.
for “Fords/’ 5/- each.
“SPHINX” Sparking Plugs, 3 point in Metric, and %in 4/. each.
“CHAMPION” Sparking Plugs, Hy. Stone, 5/- ea.; in Metric, % in., '% x 18.
*» »i »* “Reliance,” Sparks in water .... 5/6 each.
Platinum Points 6/6 each.
“REFLEX” Sparking Plugs, No. 1, 3/-; “Giant,” 4/-; “Extended,” 3/3 each.
m m m No. 1, Mica, 3/9; Giant Mica 5/. each.
“MOSLER,” Sparking-Plugs, “Vesuvius,” for Buick, 4/6; for Metz, 4/6;
and Ordinary, 4/6 each.
Robert C. Swan & Company Limited,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
rjIHE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
‘ that WE MAY GET A L
may get a licking. Are you gomg U
the Ravisher of Belgium win withov
g a hand?
A
wJ//,
/
x
-i? —«
/3
i
Xc >'T—•:
-jy
N
/
a.
Nt-
tfi
I’D RATHER LOSE M’KILT
THAN LOSE M’
Beecham’s
Pius”
i
“J^SSxjsi,
\ '. \ = n t I
f-J
3SIUJOJ
usna
VKW3I.no
A Book of
192 Papes
GALLtD
“POCKET
QUEENSLAND'
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
Telling all about rfx
Millions of Acres
of fitrhle land for
intending settlers
will
by filling 10 fbe
Coupon below.
/Vame. .
/!cfcfre&.%
QL/Ee.nSLA/SD /rvreLL/G£r*C£
<5. TOU&/ST BUREAU &WSBA/VE
The BARRETT
Multi-T rucß
Reduces cost of handling goods by eliminating useless
loading and unloading of Trucks. Material is handled on
Platforms, and entire load and Platform moved in ONE
operation in ONE instant by ONE man, who with a Barrett=
Multi=Truck replaces
five men with ordi=
nary. Trucks.
Prices and full particulars on
application to the undernoted:
:
»:-> >: -
*?r-
-■ ■
-
saafe
MELBOURNE: THE MODERN PRINTING CO. PROP. LTD., Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
BRISBANE: BOX 200 G.P.0., Brisbane.
ADELAIDE: HENRY SAVAGE, 1 Gawler Place, Adelaide.
PERTH : T. F. CHRISTIE, Hay Street, Perth,
SYDNEY: THE SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS, Box 1612 G.P.0., Sydney.
STEEL CASTINGS—SpeciaI Good Quality
h'-.
a
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
-p_
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. Send your enquiries to us.
AS. RUWOLT PTY. LTD.
Victoria


MAN CROVITE!
LEATHER
SELTINC
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUALITY.
“MANGKO\ lTJb]” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called liaw'liide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
>t alone, as the World's Rest Belting.
Manufactured only by
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
c Le ON N 6
CIRCULAR SAWS
MANUFACTURED from our WORLD-RENOWNED CRUCIBLE CAST-STEEL PLATES.
We have many other sizes and gauges in stock, but below
fg
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
579 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
M^ SLS, *k- '
i,J ' : --i-
-2r *f* j
£ F F
%**
*W§-nj&
264 Fatrobe Street, Melbourne. Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide. John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
DICK’S BALATA BELTING.
The “DICKBELT”
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17 :
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists' time.
Sole Agents: —-
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide.
PAUL & Qi<AY LTD., Newcastle. [1
SOMETHING
If Engineers and Steam-plant Owners would only
realise the importance of EFFICIENTLY insulating
their Boilers, Steam Pipes, etc., more attention might
be paid to this particular matter. Great economies
can be effected in this direction, in some cases the coal
consumption being reduced as much as 50%. But the
insulating material must be of the very best.
Carbonate of Magnesia is to-day recognised as the best
non-conductor of heat. NewaU s Coverings are com-
posed of 85% of this material, and 15% Asbestos—the
Asbestos being used for binding purposes only—and in
addition possess innumerable advantages over all other
forms of lagging. Newall’s Coverings are used, practi-
cally exclusively, by the British Admiralty, N.S.W.
and Victorian Governments, and have been used
throughout the Ultimo. White Bay. Melbourne. Perth
and Canberra Power Stations.
“NEWALL'S” MAGNESIA
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
SECTIONAL FOR PIPE, BENDS, TEES & FLANGES.
PLASTIC FOR BOILERS, HEATERS, etc.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And a.t Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, ft .Z
PERMASITE
FLOORINGS (GRANOLITHIC & SPECIAL PERMASITE.)
PLATE-WALLS & PARTITIONS,
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.,
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. [5
B. A. Y. Z.
Embrace this golden opportunity of securing the <wo Best Oil Engines on the Market, viz.,
“FIELD W” & “BIG CHIEF”
W - V: -
m
m
Over 350 “Big Chiefs” working in one
district in N.S.W.
Positively fool-proof, worry-proof —able
and willing to work whenever asked.
This is the type of Engine to suit
you.
Economical, simple and reliable at all
times.
Write for particulars. Catalogs Free.
Easiest terms ever offered in N.S. W. v
R.L.Scnitton§Co.L td :
The Engineers’ Depot,
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
p
O
o
o
V,
&
fV
(s r t '
<$OHV>
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
of
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys east-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., SO/-; Jib., 25/-; 20z.. 7/6.
lib. Flux will braze broken casting; ,15 feet long; by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
( Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN CASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
4-5 Spenser Street, St, Hilda, Vidaria,
ar
r "f
~T
'
m
*
'
--‘ V ’;
M
ELECTRIC LIGHT FOR ALL
df
SO SIMPLE A CHILD CAN
OPERATE IT.
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE AGENTS :
N.S.W. and VICTORIA—
WARBURTON, FRANK! LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND -
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
v."- :
[isfe3 2-Stand Shearing Plant
The Outfit that “Swept the Poll” in the 1917 Season.
F. D. McMASTER, Esq., Dalkeith, Cassilis, writes, under date 24th January:
“I have pleasure in statins that I have given both of the 2 Stand Portable
Cruteliing Plants I purchased from you an exhaustive trial, and with the
utmost satisfaction. They are handy to move about, economical to run, and
the Fairbanks Morse Engine is simplicity itself. Cruteliing at the different
sheep-yards is, in my opinion, a far better method than doing the work at
the woolshed, as the saving for the lambing ewes in driving alone is very
considerable.”
SCORES OF SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Order Your Plant for 1018 now to ensure ffettino- it.
DANGAR.CEDYE & CO. LTD., 9-13 Young St., Sydney
WINCHCOMBE, CARSON LTD., Eagle St., Brisbane
mm
r 5
ELF LUBRICATING
BEARING
LEATHER FRICTION
cone engages smoothly
anti silently
VONE PEICE SPINDLE £
wlEh long bearings
bofh ends
for 2 Stand Combined Piartfs
(PATENTED)
NOTE THE FEATURES OF THIS
LISTER BRACKET.
DORR APPLIANCES FOR FLOTATION.
Every Plant in Broken Hill has them. Why?
Because of .
Enormous Cap-
acity, Negligible
Upkeep, Close
Recovery, Water
Economy, Power
Economy.
Let us advise you.
m
ISSB?
dischah&s
Write us for Complete Data. We are Sole Representatives.
CARD CONCENTRATORS
Model D, the last word in Reciprocating
Tables.
3SSP
All Steel Under-frame. Cantilever Springs give it a truly parallel
progressive motion, free from vibration; hence its large capacity.
We build also Roughing Tables at much lower cost. Write for
details.
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTO., Machinery Merchants &. Manufacturers, 350 George Street, Sydney.
