

OLD SCOTCH WHISKY
Kent Street:, SyOLne
Machinery Merchants, 107
—FOB—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining R,
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants alwa
Mining
inis it e s
s available.
mmm
WMm
m
m
We Advance Money
ON ALL CLASSES of SECURITY
TRADE BILLS DISCOUNTED.
f/ISK TERMS and LOWEST INTEREST„
NSW MONT DE PIETE D tIC? 11°
HEAD OF FICE 7 A CASTLEREAGH S T SYDNEY 74
*xt to “Daily Telegraph” New Building. And at 29 Klng stre et, Newcastle, N.S.W. Telephone: City 9325.
186 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. 215-2FS Swansion Street,. Melbourne.
159 George Street West, Sydney. 40 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THE “AUSTRALIAN
REVIEW’ says:—
“The Company is very
well managed, ami the
name is Quite a house-
hold word in Sydney.
Its reputation Is excel-
lent, and, although the
money-lender is gener-
ally regarded as a
vampire, the charge
cannot be laid at the
doors of the N.S.W.
Mont de Piete D. & I.
Co. Limited.”
A City Sewage System
for Modern Homes.
you simply cannot afford to take chances
with the disposal of your sewage. For
the sake of your own and your children's
health, study the merits of the
Montgomerie-Neilson
Sewage Disposal System
This modern system does away with the
old-fashioned cesspool or tin-pan style of
W.C.— - the greatest sources of disease the
country knows.
The sewage is treated so perfectly that
absolutely no odor arises even on the
hottest (lavs,
Over 600 are in use in N. S. Wales
alone, and the system has the O.K. of
experts the world over.
Send for free booklet, which gives facts
in detail.
MONTGOMERIE - NEILS ON
Oxidising Sewage Disposal,
50 Young Street, SYDNEY.
’Phone City 8976.
! - Y)ontArgue"
9
ffle
a
$
Nothing
to Arguc
About!'
"Are the Best
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSENS
T
Junket
dfa
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
AVON
XTL TYRES.
More Miles for Your Money.
There can be only one best.
'
1' Malthoid has made a record
that entitles it to that distinction.
Efficiency and economy demand the use of
a.
m
“Not the same as others."
The Paraffine Companies Inc. (F. M. Prince, Australasian Manager), Challis House, Martin Place, % Sydney.
O:
yj
UJ
timm
«
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, AGRICULTURAL, MINING AND GENERAL ENGINEERS.
Railway Rolling Stock of all Descriptions. Road Metal and Farm Waggons. Portable Steam Engines.
Sugar Mill Machinery. Heavy Iron & Malleable Castings. Cast-iron Porcelain-Enamelled Baths, Sinks, etc.
6
7 MACHINERY.
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
for Building Good Roads.
MAKING FIRE -BREAKS* J£ RTH ROADS ’ CLEANIX( ’ OUT WATER TABLES,
AVi; carry large stocks of the best procurable and most up-to-date Machines
DIFFERENT SIZES STOCKED TO BE WORKED BY 2 4 or 8
HORSES OK TRACTION-ENGINE POWER.
CATALOGUES ANI) FULL PARTICULARS UPON APPLICATION.
_The Australian Machinery Co. Ltd,, Mary Street, Brisbane.
We now have large stocKs of the famous
A.W. BRAND OF HIGH-SPEED TOOL STEEL
covering' all sizes in rounds, squares and flats.
Manufactured by Sir W. G. Armstrong, Whitworth & Co. Ltd.
— - I 111,111
Sole Australian Representatives -
GILBERT LODGE & GO.,
115 Pitt Street, Sydney.
115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
GIVE YOUR OWN
COUNTRY A SHOW!
TRY OPALOID
TOOTH PASTE.
AUSTRALIA'S BEST.
The Bulletin
Vol. 39.—N0. 2028. j
[Thursday, December 26, 1918.
WAR-TIME PRICE, Bd,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


m&zm
Hat by Mirette,
104, Wardour Street, London, W. r
Photo: Mile. Paulette del Kaye,
by Bertram Pam,
Dyn^inb
* RAINPROOF
Tulle
as soon as rain comes into
contact with ordinary Tulle
—it is ruined. But rain
cannot destroy the qualities
of “ Dynamo ” Tulle —
because it is Waterproof.
For all millinery and neck
wear purpo-es, “Dynamo”
Rainproof Tulle is the best
t) use. It is not only the
most durable, but by far
the most economical.
Home milliners always pre-
fer “ Dynamo ” because of
its freedom from stickiness.
36 ins. wide. In Black White,
and all fashionable shades.
AT ALL PRICES.
If any difficulty in obtaining,
send P. 0., stating quantity and
colour desired, to
“DYNAMO”
(Enquiry Dept.),
Cariton House,
York Street,
SYDNEY.
f.
///1
s
•o
°-sii
r
Soft as
and fragrant os a flower , it
imparts a delicate bloom to the Complexion
TETLOW’S
FACE POWDER
v Sold In Piv Tints.-
*. White. Creatn. PinV. Fiesh aod Brunet*?.
] by all Stores , Chemists and Perfumers.
« *• Per i
4 *O.
ENGLISH jf-jr PRICE
box
*0 »0.Q...0
Wholesale DisfribuMng AgeHte>
Messrs. ELLIOTT BROS., LTD.,
Sydney.
Messrs. WASHINGTON H. SOUL,
PATTINSON & CO., Sydney.
Messrs. ANTHONY HORDERN AND
SONS LTD., Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO..
Sydney.
V/INtJON WHOLESALE AGENTS'.
HENRY C. QUELC-H & CO.,
4 8c 5. Ludg&te Sq.. London. Eng.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used hy Army and JSavy men.
iiioiMia&w-.Kss
SIsf RALIAN S BL(ShT, FAuSf EL } SHE L S 0 ’ Il £ / ' K EnS
S. GREEN 210. Lambeth Road. London, England
Insist’on “Singleton’s”—refuse all substitutes.
BEFORE THE MIRROR
By “JEANNETTE.'’
These are, undoubtedly, days of exceptional nervous strain for one and
all of us. Anxiety, with its beauty-destroying influence, is casting its shadow
over the lives of many of us women, and while perhaps a few —the more
stoical among us —can avoid worrying over past or prospective events, we
may all, with a little care and forethought, succeed in preventing the result
of worry from being noticeable in our appearance. To these fortunate
few this little chat will, however, be as interesting and instructive as to
those who stand in real need of help in toilet mattersj and may .be the
means of bringing to their notice some hitherto unknown method of retain-
ing or regaining that beauty of face and iigure which is the birthright of
every! woman. Some of the ingredients mentioned below are, at present, not
generally knownsto the public, but any good chemist will usually be found to
have a small quantity in stock.
Freckles and How to Cure Them.—lt is always
those with the finest and fairiest skins who
freckle most easily, but this knowledge is poor
comfort when the face is disfigured with these
ugly little blemishes. To prevent the forma-
tion of freckles a wash should be applied to
the face which will form a shield from the
rays of the sun. A simple and inexpensive one
can be made up at home by dissolving an
ounce of cleminite in four tablespoonfuls of
hot water. Shake the bottle, and when cold
apply to the face and allow to dry on 'the
skin. If this is 'done every day. renewing the
application whenever the face is washed, and
a little mercolised wax rubbed into the skin
every night, freckles will not make their
appearance, no matter how hot the sun. To
remove freckles which have already formed,
apply the wax every night, rub it well into
the skin of the face and neck and leave it on
till the morning. Then wash off, using Pilenta
soap and warm water.
To Reduce a Double Chin.—To reduce a double
chin, give hard, firm massage every night with
mercolised wax, stroking the flesh firmly back-
wards from the chin towards the lower por-
tion of the neck. Do this every night, and in
the morning bathe with cold water and rub
into the skin a little parsidium jelly. This
treatment will strengthen the flabby tissues
and restore the contour of the face. Occasion-
ally a double chin Is due to stooping over
books or work, but generally It Is the result
of putting on weight. When the latter is the
case a-few clynol berries, eaten regularly every
day, will greatly assist in reducing the super-
fluons flesh. A glass of hot water should he*
sipped after each meal.
The Hair—To Increase the Growth.—To arrest
an undue falling of the hair and increase the
growth, scalp-massage and the application of
a good tonic is absolutely necessary. Part the
hair in the centre, and. starting at the fore-
head. massage for at least ten minutes. Then
apply a tonic. A simple and inexpensive one
can be made up at home by mixing one ounce
of boraniuni (which can he bought at the
chemist’s! with a quarter of a pint; of bay
rum. Add the boranlum to the bay rum. allow
to stand for half an hour, then strain aud add
sufficient water to make half a pint. Dal)
amongst the roots of the hair with a soft
sponge.
Superfluous Hair.—Dark-complexioned women
are far more frequently troubled with a
growth of superfluous hair than those with
fair skins, and at the first sign of these objec-
tionable hairs steps should he taken to remove
them, or they will develop into a strong growth
which will take a very long time to destroy.
A little powdered pbeminoi applied to this
growth will remove the unsightly blemish,
destroying it permanently If the hairs be but
few. Two or more applications may be neces-
sary, if the growth bo unusually strong, but
about one ounce of pbeminoi should he suffici-
ent for tiie most stubborn case. Pbeminoi can
be obtained at the chemist’s, and a little
powdered alum Rhould he obtained at. the
same time for dusting the skin before applying
the pbeminoi.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
TO DARKEN THE EYEBROWS (L.M.). —
There is no dye which I could recommend as
“safe,” but if you rub a little mennaline into'
the eyebrows and at the roots of the eyelashes
regularly every night it will darken them
naturally, and will also increase the growth
of the eyelashes.
TO REDUCE WEIGHT (SADIE).—Yes, your
weight and measurements are certainly more
than they should be for your height, and I
quite agree that being so Stout makes you look
old. I am pleased to be able to tell you of a
quick, easy and pleasant way, to reduce both.
Get a small quantity of clynol berries from
(he chemist’s and take one after each meal,
three times a day. Weigh yourself after one
month’s treatment, and you will be delighted
with the result.
TO KEEP THE' HAIR PAIR (DORIS).—If
you shampoo your hair regularly wdth stallax
granules it will prevent it from turning dark.
One teaspoon of stallax is sufficient for a
shampoo, and an original packet will make
from 25 to 30 shampoos. Stallax keeps
indefinitely. [4
TO IMPROVE A DUEL, MUDDY COM
PLEXION (D.B.J.— Your complexion is dull
and muddy-looking because it needs thorough
cleansing and renewing of the outer cuticle.
To do this get a tin of inercolised wax, and
with the tips of the fingers rub a little gently
into the skin, going over the entire face and
neck. Leave the wax on all night and in the
morning wash it off with a good soap (you
will find Pilenta excellent). In a month’s time
you will notice a most surprising improve-
ment. (2) Liquid pergol will prevent the
excessive perspiration of winch you complain.
Nothing can be done.
TO ARREST GRLYNESS (FLO).— You are
indeed far too young to go grey yet. Get
about two ounces of concentrate of tamma-
lite and mix it with three ounces of hay rum.
Dab this on the hair and amongst the roots.
It will soon make matters all right,
TO WHITEN A BROWN NECK (W.K.).—To
whiten .your neck use jettaline. Get a tube of
this from the chemist’s and rub a little well
into the skin of the neck; leave it on till next
morning. Do this regularly every night for
three or four weeks and you will find that the
skin will become beautifully clear and white.
The Very Thing for Christmas.
You need no longer worry about what to give your friends
—Give them all Onoto Pens. lAn Onoto is a gift that is sure to
please. It is the fountain pen that fills itself, never leaks, and
never scratches. It is a model of simplicity. IT The Onoto is
British made and is guaranteed by its makers.
, Onoto Pen ,
'"-ice 17/-, And in a variety of more elaborate styles for
presentation purposes, of all Stationers, Jewellers, and
Stores. Manufacturers—THOS. DE LA RUE
& CO., Ltd., Bunhill Row. London, E. C.
Australasian Managing Agents— Norman
Baker & Longhurst, York Street,
• s >’ dn «y-
17
toward*
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Comply
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
NOT A GERMAN
MUSTDIE
St
S-:*
Pd. A TIN, AT CHEMISTS,
GROCERS and STORES.
THE GREAT INSECT DESTROYER.
KILLS ALL INSECTS.
FREE TRIAL.
Write to “Mustdie” Dept. H,
Box 1520 G.P.0., Sydney, and
sample tin will be sent post
free; or forward 9d. in stamps
for full-size tin.
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne, Agents.
EI
The Red Page
War Pabulum for Writers
Well, the war’s over ; and now let us see
what use it has been to literature. Because
if it hasn't done anything for the poets and
the storytellers we’ll have to abolish wars
as mere haphazard murderers of embryo
Lawsons and Bellerives. Among the millipns
of young men wiped out there must have
been thousands of Kiplings and several Leon
Gellerts. There remains the compensation
in the thought of the battalions of future
Hall Caines and Charles Garbages who were
destroyed before they had a chance to become
virulent; and among them there must have
been •hundreds of potential fathers of Ella
Wheeler Wilcoxes. And it is probable that
the number of future Australian poets
destroved is equalled by the number pf news-
papers editors who, if they had survived,
would have had to read their verses. So on
the destructive side the war holds the balance
even. Nature knows what she is about.
On the war’s credit side must be placed,
first, the restoration of romance. Early in
1914 it was recognised that mankind suf-
fered from a world-shortage of story plots
and movie-scenarios. The huge increase in
the output of paper, pens, ink, erasers, car-
bon-ribbons and blotting-pads had outrun the
supply of stories and poems. The world
was rapidly running out of plots. All plots
based on wars had been used up, and then
used over again. The American Civil War
had been so pawed over by novelists and
photo-playwriters that it was beginning to
fray at the edges. The Franco-Prussian War
was full of holes, out of which plots had been
stolen. The Balkan Wars were too confus-
ing for anybody to write or read about. And
so novelists were forced to invent wars of
their own in Ruritania and Xcnda ; and 11.
jpr. Wells had to fight all his campaigns in
the future. The Boer War proved merely a
bore. Kipling, finding no new wars to write
about, smashed his'fountain-pen.
To this plotless world the war came as a
welcome gift. This war was different to all
other wars ; and it affofded chances of plots
that had never been conceived of before. It
just wanted a few changes in background
and uniforms, and all the American Civil
Wars could be used over again. At first the
novelists feared that scientific warfare would
upset all the old sentimentalities on which
fiction is built; but they needn’t have
worried. The war killed one sort of
romance; but it invented another. At first
sight there wasn’t much chance of individual
heroes in that war of masses, and the stag-
nation of trench-life seemed fatal to heroics.
Yet even trench-warfare brought forth the
old pirate-chief and Red-Indian motif that
will never die. The trench raid revived the
Red Indian on the warpath. It caused more
exciting moments and reached a more crash-
ing climax than the best yarn ever written
about baseball.
If only for the spy yarn and the detective
story the war was worth while. The Ger-
man secret service and the German female
spy, such as Mata-llari, will yet make a
dozen best-sellers. Rasputin’s heirs would
draw fabulous royalties from playwrights
and film-carpenters if there was a copyright
law in Bolshevik-land. And the war con-
ferred its greatest gift upon future genera-
tions of English novelists by inventing' the
Anzac. And for Australian writers there is
the supreme discovery of Billjim. He ought
to be good for a thousand years yet as hero
and bloke.
Though there were thousands of individual
“stunts,” worth at least a one-reel scenario
or a short-story, there were several environ-
ments that seemed to breed sensational plots
and romances. When Russia broke up into
chaos there were romances and heroisms
that exceed any novelist’s invention. One
such needs to be documented some day. Its
plain facts, as told to me by a casual Fmzed,
out-Zenda Zenda. He was with a British
force in Russia when the big smash came.
His C.O. summoned him one day, introduced
him to an American girl who was stranded
in Russia, and ordered him to get her out
of Russia. That was all. He managed, after
adventures that Thomas Griffiths would pay
huge royalties for, to get that girl to Vladi-
vostoc-k across a seething continent. And he
didn’t fall in love with her, nor she with
him ; though their track across Siberia was
marked with dead men shot by the Maori-
lander to save her life.
Escape by English and Australian prison-
ers of war from German prisons to Holland
forms another fertile depot of sensational
plots. A series of these incredible adven-
tures is running in Blackwood: and no
best-seller or American drama could touch
them for thrills and climaxes. And there are
more thrills to come; for the authors could
not give details of the way they managed to
get out of German gaols without implicating
others or giving the show away to the Huns.
Now these details, the most interesting
parts of these true stories, will be printed,
and the Hun gaolers will kick themselves in
the same places once again.
Another department for the provision of
thrills for the tired business man is in the
new methods of scientific war. Into the
sensational novelist’s lap falls aeroplanes,
submarines, tanks. Nothing that any novel-
ist from Job to Oliver Onions ever invented
could be more exciting than the play-outs of
these “mystery V.C.’s.” And for pure ber-
sG'kism there are points about the Zeebrugge
show.
But all these themes for novels will need,
digesting. The important fact is that they
are there, ready to be dug up out of official
documents and worked over when they are
needed for their real purposes, to enable a
poet or novelist of the future to earn a crust.
Already, however, the war shows some
results; it is beginning to pay dividends to
literature. The most important credit item
is Henri Barbusse’s TJnder Fire. That
masterpiece alone justifies the war. It is a
terrible thought that if the war hadn’t hap-
pened along, Under Fire would never have
existed. Let us give thanks that the ways
of mysterious Providence are so wise. It
sent the war to inspire Henri Barbusse.
Other important items to set off against
the war-debt of the world are Phillip Gibb’s
(Continued on page 26.)


A
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for NEW YEAR GIFTS.
** ■' . ' V. i • 1 - - * • ' ■ •
No. 16.—Lady’s Solid Gold Keyless
Expanding Watch Bracelet, f-plate, Com-
pensation Balance, fully Jewelled. Set with
Circle of first-quality double-cut Diamonds —
From £42/10/-
207
No. 205. —Gold Fetter and 3-Link Double
Albert, 9et 55/ -
Extra heavy 63/-, 70/-, 80/-, 00/-, £5
15et. Gold £5/10/- to £lO
No. 207. —Gold Open Curb Double Albert, 9ot.—
60/-
Extra Heavy 67/6, 75/-, 87/6, £5
15ct. Gold £5/15/- to £lO
209
No 209.-—Gold Curb Pattern Double Albert, 9ct.
very neat in appearance and long-wearing ... 52/C
Extra heavy 60/-, 65/-, 70/-, 87/6, £5
lsct. Gold £5/15/-, £6/10/- to £lO
No. 213.—G01d Double Albert, 9ct 00/-
Extra heavy . .. 70/-, 80/-, 87/6, £5/10/-
15ct. Gold—
£s/5/-, £6, £6/15/-, £B/10/-, £9/10/-
No. 36.—15 ct. Gold
Watch, Lever move-
ment, Luminous Dial,
perfect timepiece—
15ct. Gold, with Strap—
£9
9ct. Gold, with Strap—
£s/15/-
No. 32. —15ct. Gold
Watch, Lever move-
ment, complete with
Strap—•
£B/8/-, £lO/10/-
9et. Gold, with Strap—
£s/10/-, £6/15/-
CX97. — Jam Dish, Silver-plated on
Nickel Silver Stand, with Ruby Glass —
20/-
m
CXl23.
Flower Vase,
Silver-plated o
Nickel Silver,
15/-
Country Customers who order Jewellery and Silverplate
from Anthony Horderns’ do so with the knowledge
that the quality is always beyond reproach, and that
the prices are the lowest in the land.
We pay carriage on Jewellery and E.P. Ware to any
part of N.S.W., and on Inter-State and Island orders
to the nearest port.
No. 18.—Lady’s Solid Gold,
panding Watch Bracelet,
sation Balance, fully Jewelled,
able
Keyless Ex-
ii-plate, Compen-
absolutelv reli-
• •• £ll/10/-
No. 21.—Lady’s Gold Wristlet Watch, fully
Jewelled, Compensation Balance, excellent, timekeepers,
with strap—
9et 75/-, £5, £6
Isct £6, £7/7/-, £9, £lO
No. 34.—A Very
Neat Watch, fully
Jewelled, with narrow
15et. Bangle £9
9et. Gold.. £6/15/-
No. 35. Fully-
jewelled Lever
Watch, with medium
width 15ct. Gold Bri-
tannic Bangle—
£lo/15/-
9ct. Gold .. £7/15/-
15ct. Gold, with Strap—
£7/10/-
9ct. Gold, with Strap—
£s/10/-
niiiiiiiiiniiiiii'iihiuir'ii
11 111 Illlllllllllllllll'SrS
= i i-
iS' fes a i c - - 1
tak
CXIS6. —Tea Spoons and Tongs, in case,
Silver-plated, assorted designs— ;
13/6, 14/6, 15/6, 16/6, 18/6, 21/-
No. 23.—Lady’s Solid Gold Keyless Ex-
panding Watch Bracelet, 2-plate, Open
Face,, with Lever movement ... 95/-
No. 214.—G01d Link and 1-Double Albert, 9et.,
with running bar 00/-
Ext.ra heavy 67/6, 80/-. 02/6, £5/10/-, £6
15ct. Gold £5/10/- to £B/15/-
No. 210. —Gold Double Albert, 9ct 60/-
Extra heavy .. 70/-, 85/-, 07/6, £5/5/-, £5/10/-
15ct. Gold £5/10/- to £O/10/-
208
No. 211.—Gold Double Albert, 15ct., with running
bar 60/-
Extra heavy 70/-, 80/-, 02/6, £5, £5/10/-
15ct - Gold £5/5/-, £5/17/6, to £lO
No. 208.—Gold Double Albert, Set 60/-
Extra heavy 70/-, 80/-, 90/-, £5, £5/10/-
15ct - Gold £5/17/6 to £9
No. 25.—15-Jewelled
“Rolex” Lever
Wristlet Watch,
Silver Case, in perfect
adjustment .... 70/-
Gunmetal Case, “Fen-
church” Lever.. 42/0
No. 27. Silver
Wristlet Watch,
fully Jewelled “Rolex”
Lever, Compensation
Balance, "thoroughly re-
liable for general "
63/-
CXI 18. —
Flower Vases,
in great variety,
newest designs, as
illustration, 9/6
CX9O. —Butter Dish.
plated on Nickel Silver,
Glass
, Silver-
Engraved
. 22/6
TD
Only Universal Providers,
New Pal ace Emporium,
& ■%
h;
b
k
t
e
ir
i e
d
s
r\ ev.
v


■Si,* w
r_ 7“~ " ■ '
•• ■ •
ZM£ Pp
«■ * 7 •-■
.4'
tv..
M
.ix l
£■l
m
«’j> *TV
v
'. • * j
■
W.' ■ '■
"1
■ , .|V?
i ■
. .
■
.' v
■
v:\>•'-
w ■ -y
MV;
»• m
■ I ' :
i w
=
% .'; './iy
A
,
-■■■* « «■ * »--■ *
/ ; 1...
It ?9
« «
* a
>. V
I M
f I
■fM! l
m*
w,- ? ' m
' ■£.://■;(; 6i:J*
»F*
A
*1; ■■
A'A* *
. : r*
ffift
"B
-
|
law
31 i
.;■•-■
*
■
•'•: a
1
Adamax Roofing: “The Best
Roofing Money Can Buy.”
J udged by users all over Australia it has proved itself the
best roofing for Australia’s climatic conditions, and the
best quality roofing of its type. On Factories, Bungalows,
Garages, Mine Buildings, Farm Buildings, Wool and
Grain Sheds—everywhere it has made a name for its
unfailing quality.
j ASPHALTUM ROOFING
is most economical in every way. First cost is only one-tliird tliUt of
galvanised-iron with a similar saving in freightthe cost of laying it is very
small, as any handy man can do the job. Adamax upkeep cost is practically nil.
Adamax is element proof—a retardant to fire —rust and rot-proof —clean,
attractive and serviceable. It is not affected by acids, gases or chemical
fumes. It is the roofing that stands for Real Bconomy —the roofing that
stands the test of time.
Sold in rolls covering 22 square yards allowing 2in. overlap —in 1-ply (thin),
2-ply (medium), and 3-ply (thick).
Free booklet, “The Adamax Series,” gives full and practical information.
William Adams Co. Ltd.
175 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
HELBOURNE: 521-523 Collins Street. PERTH : 33 King Street.
ADELAIDE : 96 Currie Street, BRISBANE: Cr. Edward & Mary Streets.


BRITISH
AND BEST
YELLOW
METAL
PEN
GOLDEN
WATTLE
■8
MADE BY
- MACNIVEN & -
CAMERON LTP
BIRMINGHAM & EDINBURGH
£
" THEY COME AS A BOON & A BLESSING TO MEN,
THE PICKWICK, THE OWL & THE WAVERLEY PEN."
You wonder
why
HP
sauce
is so delicious.
If you could see the choice
oriental fruits and spices
being blended with Pure
Malt Vinegar to make H.P.
you would know.
Just a few drops of
H.P. —it makes the
meal so enjoyable.
I
if
iiiiuiiitiuiiiiimiiinniiiiti iiiiini iiuiitKiiiiiiiiiiiKii
MADE FROM LEMONS ONLY
BROOKE S
r tenon squash
LARGEST SALE IN THE WORLD
Jfquaperia
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents :—R. E. JONES & CO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMIVAL, Limited, at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
llif Tati
Jjfg&rs::-I '
|Jlf iAr
or b. Auxil
fd
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
The Largest and Most Successful Mutual Life Office in the British Empire.
HE4 D OFFICE .. 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors: —Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman; Hon. R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. uir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., lv.C., C.iS.G.; Samuel
Hordern, Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. W. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £38,000,000. Annual Income, £5,500,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Although nearly £1,000,000 was paid during 1917 in war claims alone, the Cash Bonus divided for the
year 1917, including Interim Bonuses, was £585,397. Total Bonuses distributed, £22,138,000.
The. Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
THE GREAT ANXIETY
Everyone is feeling anxious these days, either
directly over the War, or through conditions
due to the War. The best way to overcome
the feeling is by being tuned up to full pitch.
Keep your nervous system in tone by taking
A few drops in water, night and morning of this
wonderful nerve tonic will enable you to tackle
work and worry with a strong heart.
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton & Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
FOR RHEUMATISM AND GOUTY
AFFECTIONS AND OTHER
LOCAL PAINS USE
wfeilSlißeP
af s»BSilsiKic»
Trade Marfr Registered
Camphorated
Petroleum Jelly
For sale at all chemists and general stores, in glass
bottles and tin tubes. Refuse substitutes.
Chesebrough Manufacturing Go.
(Consolidated)
17 State Street, New York, U. S. A.
London Montreal Moscow
319 A
Placed First
in order of merit by doctors, nurses, and mothers, through-
out the world ; prescribed by British doctors for 35 years;
used in all great hospitals, and convalescent homes ; ordered
by the Australian Red Cross for the Anzac hospitals.
This is the record of
Food
For Infants, Invalids, and the Aged.
Different from other foods and most highly nutritive.
Invaluable for backward and ailing children, in illness and
convalescence, and for aged persons.
Benger’s is a most interesting food to prepare. The changes it undergoes teach a lesson
in human digestion. It is all explained in our book, post free. Every mother should read it.
Booklet and full particulars post free from :
BENGER’S FOOD LTD., MANCHESTER, Ens’and.
BRA N C H OFFICE: 11 7, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
And at New York (U S.A.) 50, Beckman St. Depflts throughout Canada.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Song of the Dial.
“Horas non numero nisi serenas.”
The Dial faced the summer sun,
The garden blossomed all around ;
If happiness could bless a scene
I felt that here was holy ground ;
Afar I heard the chime of bells
And caught a glimpse of gleaming towers
And all the while the Dial sang
Until the dell with echoes rang:
“I only count the shining hours.”
The. roses nodding gaily nigh
Would wave and wave and call to me;
The jasmine blooms above my head
Would nid and nod in careless glee;
Was not a speck in all the sky
Save one white cloud above the bowers,
And all the while the Dial sang
Till all my soul with music rang:
“I only count the shining hours!”
And flashing out and flashing in
Amid wisteria blossoms gay,
Would glance at times the golden locks
Of one sweet girl at joyous play ;
And when one whispered “Time the swift
Is Lord of Youth and all the Powers,”
A burst of silv’ry laughter rang:
“I sing the song the Dial sang—
‘l only count the shining hours.’ ”
And as the years go fleeting by
And locks of brown are flecked with gray,
And shadows loom across the rim
Of what was once a Perfect Day,
There swings a cadence through my brain,
A cadence born of sun and flowers
When all the dell enchanted rang
With that dear song the Dial sang:
“I only count the shining hours.”
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
Rendezvous.
This is the hour of fulfilment; the time and
place of our meeting,
Roses red in the garden, sunset red in the
west;
Sit by my side, old friend, and give me your
hand in greeting,
Here where the journey is ending, old ways
and old friends are best.
This was the pact we made when the bells
of youth were ringing
Down in the fragrant meadows a-shine with
the cape-flower’s gold ;
You said: “I will wander away and wake
the world with my singing!”
I said: “I will make a garden to rest in
when we grow old!”
You have won to the far-off heights, your
songs are a living story,
Wafted o’er shining waters, blown round the
world as a flame;
They have wakened men to love, or led
them to deathless glory,
And the little children lisp them, and earth
is glad at your name.
And I—l have made the garden and decked it
for your returning;
Year after year the roses have blazoned and
died away,
And the tall gums gazed to seaward where the
sunset fires were burning,
Waving their arms in greeting to you who
would come one day.
Babes have grown with the blossoms, and
played in the scented clover;
Age has found calm and solace and rest as
the long years pass;
And there where the jasmine clusters, many
a lass and lover
Have marked the bright hours fleeting by the
sundial set in the grass.
But all was fashioned for you, for the time
and place of our meeting
(See, how the gold grows silver from the
moonrise over the hill!)
So sit by my side, old friend, and give me
your hand in greeting,
For here is the peace of evening and the
tides of the world are still.
London.
A. M. BOWYER-ROSMAN.
Mater Dolorosa.
In the field of death I sought him. Oh, the
curse on him was sore!
Sweat of blood and tears my portion, but
his?....to die....to die!
O bruised reed waiting for the wind to reap
as it blew by;
O smoking flax awaiting to be quenched for
evermore!
In the field of death I sought him, I all sad
and sorrow-shod;
Before my eyes a vision, and within my heart
a flame;
And the smoking flax was quickened, and the
broken reed became
The Miracle—the mystery of Aaron’s bud-
ding rod.
In the field of life I found him! Oh, very
joy of breath!
On my eternal wheel the potter’s clay of his
desire
I have graved with cunning purpose, I have
moulded as with fire.
I have shapen to Divinity, and conquest over
Death !
VICTOBIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.


v S
V ■
fa
Pure Seasoned Para Rubber-
Finest Egyptian Cotton Fabric—
Knowledge of Australian Road and Climatic Conditions —
Long Experience in the Manufacture of Rubber Goods, and
The Earnest Endeavour to produce tbe Perfect Australian Tyre—
These have all helped to make Perdriaus to-day the best of all tyres for Australian Roads.
PERDRIAU Tyres
are better now than the Perdriaus of a few years ago, and if, some time hence, there
are going to be better tyres than the Perdriaus of to-day, then it is Perdriau who
will make them.
So, keep the Home Tyres Turning, and let them always be Perdriaus.
Obtainable through all Garages or from the Manufacturers—
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
All
States
Don’t Trifle with Rupture!
©
It is dangerous to trifle with rupture. A make-
shift appliance often docs more harm than good,
and an efficient safeguard has to be obtained in
the end.
If you are ruptured get DENYER’S ELASTIC
TRUSS without delay. It is a comfortable,
efficient, trustworthy Trusrf, and is worn with
keen appreciation by thousands of ruptured per-
sons to-day.
The splendid advantages of DENYER’S ELASTIC
TRUSS lie in its scientific construction, which
means efficiency, reliability and safety.
Single 20/-, Double 27/6
Get our Private Truss Pamphlet, posted in plain
sealed envelope free.
Makers of Trusses, Abdom-
inal Belts & Artificial Limbs.
DENYER BROS
281 George Street, SYDNEY.
When You’ve Seen
the Sights
When you’ve had a brisk drive through the
country, the car is pulled up at some quiet spot and
out comes the lunch basket.
There is
“REX"
CAMP PIE
of course, for no picnic lunch is complete without this
wholesome meat delicacy. It fits in with outdoor
appetites and the requirements of picnic fare. No
cooking required, “Rex” Camp Pie is ready to eat as
it comes from the tin. Serve it with Salad or slice
thin for Sandwiches.
Sold by Grocers everywhere.
FOGGITT, JONES & CO., LTD.
Packers of “Rex” Pure Food Pr oducts
Curers of “Rex” Hams and Bacon
J. 79
&
mim*
ugmi
cf
BlhmmiiiimiiTifliTT
rD
m
m
mill 1
m
IN
TS
HAM
bacon
VlAl
No
• ONQJJ6
m
Sv N
*
eft
W
z^we. y v
Sv
GOODRICH
Black Safety
Tread Tyres.
THEIR matchless quality enables us
to promise you full service value —
utmost satisfaction. And back of
our promise is the determination of
Duval and Company that there shall be
no unredeemed flaw in any Goodrich
Product. Goodrich quality “in the long
run” is your economy.
“ BEST IN THE LONG RUN.”
DUVAL CO.
145 Colics St, 13 Castlereagh St, 300 Adelaide St,
MELBOURNE. SYDNEY. BRISBANE.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 39. -No. 2028.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1918.
War-time Price, Sd.
THE BEST OF ALL CHRISTMAS BOXES—BIG BROTHER BILL COMES HOME!


IMPORTANT NOTICE TO AGENTS.
AGENTS please note that the issue of
“The Bulletin” dated 2nd January,
1919, will be despatehed on Tuesday,
the 31st inst.
The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, tor The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.SAV., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l Advance, Only.)
For Ml 10s. per annum you can have The Bulletin
sent regularly to you every week for a year, to any
ADDRESS IN AUSTRALASIA, post paid.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should he crossed, and
all Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright, by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents >f this number is hereby
expressly reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the "Correspondence” column
all contributions submitted, whether in the form of
Political, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales
or Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects,
and, not exceeding two columns in length, or, say,
3000 tvords, arc specially acceptable), Paragraphs,
Lutters or Newspaper Clippings. All communications
will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. , will be returned or preserved unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stamps for return it will be understood that
the ropy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
■illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn—will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Ludgale Circus.
South Africa) —The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. —-Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver ,
11. C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Iffil Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco; Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.; Queen
City News Co., Randolph and Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building, U.S.A.
Honolulu. —Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
liming, Cairo, Egypt.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder 3ei,
Hong Kong.
Oeylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fa'. ;
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Rates.
Single copies of The Bulletin (registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Howe Islands,
10oz., 1d,.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
l\d. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., lid.; Sioz. to 10oz., 3d.;
JOoz. to 120 z., 31 d.; elsewhere, 1/oz., lid., and Id. each
additional 2oz.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 2G, 1918.
CHRISTMAS, 1918.
A couple of thousand years ago a section
of the human race—the palest section, which
was also the most restless and most ambi-
tious —wanted many things, but three in
particular. The three were a new means
of preserving and diffusing knowledge (the
printing-press) ; a new force (steam and its
brother, electricity) to multiply power a
thousandfold; and a new and more precise
faith to fill in the blank at the end of life.
It didn’t know that it had wanted these
things till it got them; then it knew. The
faith came first, for the manufacture of
creeds was an old industry; and it held its
own for various reasons, one being that it
was fairly definite, while previous religions
were hazy. It promised, though not so posi-
tively as one might wish, a brilliant and
eternal future life which all men could
attain to, while its rivals either promised
nothing or promised very little. And it
wasn’t required to prove its theory of life
after death by results, as the steam-engine
and the printing-press had to do. The pro-
mise that existed at Christmas 33 exists at
Christmas, 1918, and in all that time no
dead person has come back to report whether
the assurance rests on any basis. If any-
body said he was the returned traveller
with the report he wouldn’t be believed ex-
cept by the very foolish, just as happened
to Dowie, who said he was Elijah. Chris-
tianity threw a vast amount of deck cargo
overboard as premature and unsuited to the
times before it had fairly got the anchor up.
Its doctrine of non-resistance went early,
and it became (he first real fighting faith,
spreading itself by the sword; offering the
heathen the choice of sincere belief or death
with Sheol to follow after ; and smiting with
(he strong arm and the high hand all people
who didn’t part the hair of their orthodoxy
exactly in the middle. In fact, it invented
heresy—the mild Greek and Rofuan fMgtms
knew neither' the nit me hor tne* idea : and it
invented the thing as early as eight years
after the Crucifixion. Thus it provided a
fresh excuse for war. as if there weren't
excuses enough before. The idea of human
equality was exchanged for complete sub-
servience to kings and prelates, who
wouldn't lend their power for the spread of
the gospel of equality on any other terms.
The eternal life which was to be attained
by righteousness was replaced by one that
could be acquired by formulas and cash, and
by subservience to the Church and its part-
ner the monarch. Hence arose almost every-
thing, including the first Pope and the last
Hohenzollern. also the Council of Trent,
the Solemn League and Covenant, Brigham
Young and the Augsburg Confession. The
ship that was launched was a humble un-
armed craft painted white, but the one that
actually got out of the harbor was a dread-
nought with a heavily-armed crew, and a
grudge against everybody save itself.
The new faith had a driving force of its
own. The happy-go-lucky myths of the
nations with whom it first came in contact
had no ambition to spread over the earth.
Many of them hadn't even an ambition to
spread over their own country. Jupiter
was the official god of Rome, but he was
content to be ollicial until his existence was
threatened, and clods and insults were
aimed at him. The Hebrews, who might
have been in the race, almost regarded the
conversion of outsiders as the sharing of a
rich spiritual property with undeserving
strangers. So when a small creed came
along with a fixed resolve to save everybody
even if it lost itself in the process—a creed
with the new big gun of eternal damnation
to shoot with —it was like Cortez with his
ironclad army of two men and a horse fall-
ing on nude Mexico. The unorganised reli-
gionists who didn’t care went down before
the organised ones that cared a great deal,
especially when monarchy began to realise
that the organised church was a good stand-
ing army and began to use it as such. Later
the Mohammedan took a leaf out of the
Christian’s book, so there were two mission-
ary creeds, missioning in similar style. The
printing-press and steam power helped to
decide the issue. The Christian races hap-
pened also to ho the mechanical races.
There is no Buddhist, Mohammedan or Con-
fncian press that can turn out religious and
other literature at a fraction of the pace
which in leading Christian countries is a
matter of course, and the blank idolaters
have no press. Also, thanks to steam and
electricity, the Christian can get about
faster than the Mohammedan, and can do
ten miles to the pagan’s one—and speed
counts.
* * * ft
The faith passed its infant days amid a
maze of difficulties. It tried, in a vague
sort of way, to be a continuation or develop-
ment of Hebrewism, but the Hebrew re-
fused to be continued or developed save by
his own consent. It endeavored to annex
the Old Testament, which was the history,
poetry, legend, moral code and water and
sewerage regulation of a small particularist
people, written in a difficult local language,
the idea being to use it as a preface to a
book in a different language, which taught a
widely-different code, had a cosmopolitan out-
look, and had no vestige of the old intense
local patriotism. With few exceptions, the
owners of the old book furiously declined to
be a preface. They said many things—
among others, that they were the men on the
spot and could swear that the miracles
never happened. They refused to lend the
line of brief little kings of which they were
so inordinately proud to make a lineage for
any unorthodox prophet. They denied the
Saviour’s descent from David, the Hebrew
emperor: and He, being a pure democrat with
a soul above any craving for relationship
with the bloodstained emperor, made no
claim to royal descent. He might have been
more popular if He had acted otherwise;
blank indifference to the important David
was unpardonable. Even the patchwork
chroniclers who tried after His passing to
tie together two stories that wouldn’t assimi-
late —a tuft-hunting folk who couldn’t get
away from monarchical traditions —weak-
ened on this business, and ended the alleged
pedigree with Joseph of Nazareth, a mere
stepfather of the Redeemer. It remains so
to this day, so that Ruth the Moabitess,
David, Solomon and all the other persons
enumerated have no more to do with the case
than if they were a list of Druids or ruins.
The New Testament creed was so utterly
rejected in the place where all its evidences
were said to lie that when a bustling, feverish
theologian, who had apparently never even
met the Founder of the Faith, became the
biggest contributor to the New Testament he
wrote in a European language and mostly to
European peoples. Letters were addressed
by him to Rome and Corinth and Salonika
and to Greek cities in Asia Minor, but not
even a postcard to Jerusalem, though there
were a few words to Hebrews in general.
Rome began to be the . centre of the Church
even in Paul’s day. But any fight to a
finish between the case for the Old Testa-
ment and that for the New was prevented by
outside interference. An army which wor-
shipped Jupiter and sundries levelled the
Old Testament fortress-city and dispersed
the synagogue into far countries. Thereby
Jupiter destroyed a possible ally of value,
and, it may be, committed suicide.
* ft ft *
The breakage of the Jews left no strong
organised spiritual force to argue with the
Church in the Mediterranean countries—
only hulking, good-matured myths, which?
objected to it on account of its language,;'
its politics and its table manners. JbaflQicffc
in any serious spirit. This smoothed' Tspi&F
difficulties, but there were plenty left.' The
Church wasn’t really founded on the New
Testament. as many people suppose. IF
founded itself on personal recollections,
hearsay, rumor and common or uncommon
report—possibly to some extent on
lime's persons ~WhT> ; ' didn't use
shorthand. It wrote its own book of guid-
ance as it went along, and it was none too
well served by its writers. The four Evan-
gelists didn’t even profess to have been pre-
sent at any of the events they described.
They didn’t speak with conviction in the
first: person, and they gave neither authori-
.MM r H
Acts is a scrappy record of visits to
churches already founded. The Epistles are
mostly letters to churches already in exist-
ence. They are sermons of varying degrees
of merit selected presumably out of multi-
tudes of sermons, and based on truths which
the Founder of the Faith set forth much
better. Still they are fairly coherent, while
the Evangelists lack order and conviction
and, above all. corroboration.
Thus in their word-picture we see Pilate
as a small bureaucrat, a cog in a vast Gov-
ernment machine, the emperor’s plodding
deputy (at least he plods in the mind’s eye),
dominating a little province, presumably
taking note of things and reporting, like
any other bureaucrat, to headquarters. Also
we see Herod, known as a man of brains
and character, higher in the scale than
Pilate the plodder, and a definite figure in
history where Pontius is rather doubtful.
In their narrow domain, under their very
eyes, a Prophet is said to have ranged for
six years, preaching a perfectly new faith,
raising the dead (a quite unusual thing),
giving sight to the blind, healing innumer-
able sick folk and cripples, distributing an
infallible cure for leprosy, allaying storms
and feeding multitudes with improvised vic-
tuals. Yet. when lie was brought before
them they give the impression of having
never heard of Him, and Pilate enters on
the case as if it were part of the ordinary
day's work. The amazing reports which
the office-holder should have sent to Rome
about the splitting open of graves on the
first Good Friday, and the rising of dead
men, who walked past the very windows of
Government House, haven’t left a spot of ink
on the records of the time. When Paul
went to Athens —a restless, refined, in-
quisitive afternoon-tea and la’te-hour city
of art and letters and dandies and fashions
and gossip-hunters—it was much the
same. Apparently no Greek in all Greek-
speaking Lesser Asia had written to his
brother PYGMALION at home about the rais-
ing of the dead, so that he might read the
letter to Cynisca and Galatea over the
breakfast egg and coffee. Paul, in fact,
had to carry the belated information himself.
The wonderful and very upsetting device of
Augustus, by which everybody, even a
woman on the verge of maternity, plodded
by slow locomotion to his or her native
town, however remote, to pay his or her
income-tax can’t, be traced in the records
of the mean, suspicious potentate with the
home-made clothes and the perpetual
snuffles. Yet it should have been almost as
disturbing as a Crusade, and it should have
brought about the prompt assassination of a
potentate with an even worse cold in his
head than Augustus. The special and won-
derful darkness which is said to have fallen
on all the world for three forenoon hours
on Crucifixion day hasn’t been found in any
secular writings, though it should have
attracted the eye of Petronius Arbiter
and his friends. It has been explained even
by clerics as a common or garden eclipse.
And the story of the days after the Resur-
rection is a tale of a few sporadic appear-
ances by a Figure which no one recognised
at sight, and which even a devoted friend
took for that of a gardener.
All this, and much more, have failed to
kill the idea at the root of Christianity. It
has survived even its worst friends and its
worst chroniclers. Its basis is the teaching
of the truest gentleman and most unselfish
reformer of whom the world has record—an
older and greater Bayard, without fear and
without reproach. It is not the creed that is
amiss, but the ballast and encumbrances it
has to carry. The Old Testament should,
perhaps, be sent adrift by the cutting of that
connecting link or towline—the pedigree
which has Adam of the Euphrates at the
beginning, and David of Jerusalem in the
middle, and which professes to end. but
doesn’t, with Jesus of Nazareth. The Old
Testament is quite capable of floating on its
own merits as the remarkable Sacred Book
of the most virile and progressive of all non-
Christian races. Christianity needn’t lose
the previous volume, but it needn't tow it
behind any more than it need shove the sub-
sequent Koran in front. A large section of
the New Testament should be marked as
open to criticism, especially the four quasi-
historical books written by men who don’t
even profess to be first-hand witnesses. They
tried to cut the garment of Christianity out
of the old _ cloth of Hebrewism, and caused
bitter recrimination between the large new
wine that couldn’t fit into the tight old bottle
and the proud old bottle which said the new
wine wrns an upstart and “no class.” They
decked their narrative with strange fancies
such as might be expected of an imaginative
community which, because of paper shortage
and other things, was accustomed to rely on
village gossip, old wives’ tales, and the recol-
lections of the venerable inhabitant. But
the words of the Teacher himself are so
lofty, impressive and imperishable that even
this literary ballast doesn’t sink them. They
may be impracticable so far as the world has
got—it has been said that any State which
based its Government upon the Sermon on
the Mount wouldn't last an hour after the
adjacent Powers had assured themselves that
it wasn’t really trying to beguile them within
reach of a new explosive. But that doesn’t
make the Sermon any less!'a priceless ifleal.
And there is always a hope that it may some
day be more than an idea!.-.\The foundation
is there, andjthgfacJ that nrilliom-mnVl mil-.
Hops 6f h’i'gh;.?pl'adesjpnd : ld*v.'
places haven, t managed f 0 'destroy 'the Mi®
Y,
PORTABLE CIVILISATION.
mi Mt yv'i"} the
'brought tniim}, r/aVigiihon far cmnm<’h-i,il
purposes hht*n ffaijipkMi Ofar a Jmii rart
of the eiyft'Fsod civilised ip theory. at
least, tbottglr much r/f'lt' 'flidii y(f
such—the-'ftlifal carrier was
on sight. Moreover, every machine of y'lJue
was wanted for war purposes.
very beginning of peace the old -ambit urns
are reviving. The Hun, even with the
enemy and sundry alleged revolutions in his
country, has started mail and j»assenger_ ser-
•SJ£<M a ©fiWpfeSiSM® l b &iM
cities, a vessel to ny across the Atlantic
with 100 passengers is nearly completed.
Arrangements ai - e being made—not by tin
wonderful and .corrupt loan Governments
which regard every enterprise as a device foi
buying the goodwill of electors with easy anc
well-paid employment, but by private effort—
for inaugurating an air service between Aus-
tralia and England. The object in this cast
is to fly, and that alone—not to fly as a fifth
consideration, while the first, second, third
and fourth considerations are to organise the
Human Birds’ T’nion with a special Court t(
settle wages, hours, and conditions; and tc
influence the next election, and to send a
loafing Minister on a six-months’ trip that
he may welcome the pioneer machine with a
speech on arrival, and to find places foi
faded political hacks on the Board of Winds
and Sky-Pilotage. The vast fleets' of bis
machines built for combatant purposes haven’t
yet begun to be diverted to peace uses, yof
things are happening. Therefore it is up to
Australia to attempt Something out of its
ordinary rut—not the purchase of mone
billiard-tables for postal employees, oi
another huge consignment of flower-pots for
the gardens at. Canberra, or another public
wheat farm at Tottenham, where loaf-
material was produced at the rate of about
Is. Gd. per loaf, but some plain business.
A point to be considered is that if Aus-
tralia is railroaded in the same degree as is
considered necessary in the United States it
will have about 250,000 miles of line. As
the U.S. has 26,410 miles of river navigable
for large vessels, while Australia certainly
hasn’t, this country is even more dependent
than Uncle Sam’s land on dry means of
transit. Australia has 22,000 miles of rail-
way built, so if affairs proceed in the old
way it has 228,000 to build. Therefore it
has 228,000 possible mistakes to avoid by
finding out early whether the iron way is the
carrier of the future, or is spoil to be a
superannuated encumbrance. (This is taking
no account of the fact that 17,000 miles of
line require to he reconstructed on account of
the break-of-gauge blunder.) Australia has
spent some £220,000,000 which may require
to be written oil' as lost, but there is time to
save the other £2,280,000,000 which might
be lost (saying nothing of all the millions
for reconstruction) but which isn’t gone yet.
Countries like England, France, Holland,
Denmark and tin' United States have no
special need for haste or wakefulness over
this matter. If the old locomotive device is
going to be a failure after a bare century
of superiority they have by this time made
about all the failure and all the bad debts
that they can make. But Australia is little
more than beginning a career which is
already a very doubtful kind of career. It
has a chance to think provided it thinks
promptly and scientifically and doesn’t begin
by appointing its seven Premiers’ rag-tag
and bobtail acquaintances as a committee.
* * * *
Air service means having a movable or
portable civilisation instead of one that is
chained down like a convict during a life-
sentence. Therefore a country which can
practically begin under such a system—and
Australia is only beginning—will have a
new outlook. Hitherto man has made a
settlement for good or inferior reasons, and
the making of the caravan track, and still
more the solid road, and most of all the
railway, has clamped it down and clamped
him down also. To change his mind is
ruinous. A city like Melbourne is anchored
by many million pounds’-worth of railway.
No rival can get a fair start even if it has
greater natural advantages unless it also gets
many million pounds’-worth of railway, and
that is a great deal to gamble on a new ven-
ture. If the new rival succeeds, its competi-
tion may depreciate the old congestion of
railway, and in so doing depreciate the ridi-
lous land values which are caused by the
congestion of people brought about by the
congestion of railway. Land of very little
agricultural value was recently sold in Mel-
bourne for £IOOO per foot, which is a case
in point. That is to say, the location of the
railways brings the people; the people create
the £IOOO per foot, which does them no good;
they are afraid to move lest they snouid
spoil the £IOOO per foot; they couldn’t move
in any great numbers unless similar railway
facilities w r ere provided somewhere else; and
people are afflicted with a stodgy terror lest
the provision, at great cost, of a similar con-
gestion of railways somewhere else should
diminish the value of the old congestion. Sup-
posing the Black Hole of Calcutta had been
a permanent affair, people would also have
reckoned they couldn’t afford to leave it. If
population wasn’t directed to one place by
roads and railways while it was absolutely
prohibited at another by the want of these
things, there would be a wonderful change in
congested and vested rights and values. Pro-
bably a sale price of £IOOO per foot repre-
sents £lO for the value of the foot and £OOO
for the difficulty of getting away to any other
foot owing to the way things are nailed down.
*....* * *
In a civilisation constructed on air-service
principles there would almost certainly be no
£IOOO-per-foot town blocks and probably no
£2OO ones either, The cost of creating a city
would sinrp.lv ( be the cost of creating the
oily, The: {)ill f(!»r means of access would be
nil. y vStreets 'would be -wanted, but nothing
o.utsidc. Melbourne is certainly a place of
site, I ;'tbat is, otherwise the stuff
'sometimes sold at £IOOO a foot, for a
bulTd|h^ , ,ihMelbourne is worth no more than
•rt ' building in the next place. But
-owing' to. f.tio; cYiwt of/surface transit as much
jwv^rfbmit on the means of bringing
peppl jei place as the place is worth
when /th||jM'Jot there. The cost of bringing
/oople same scale to a rival location
(creates the exorbitant values. If people can
imp to a spot for nothing —that is to say. for
'frothing in the way of fixed works—spots will
/Be cheap. Also, the world will be full of
spots. When any co-operative body that has
bought a bit of waste land can begin a city
without cutting down forests, draining
swamps, making cuttings and tunnels and
bridges and viaducts and embankments and
stations, also without blasting rocks and
nailing to the bosom of the globe a million
tons of ironmongery and paying for the dirt
to nail it on. the city won’t have any fan-
JastS) 0 fading,frfrfijatiofe pjjfff. puts on to-
muclT exclusiveness in the way of valuing


itself at many pounds per foot anybody can
it ut a rival show. A bit of land on Kanga-
J Islmrd or King Island or the Great
Barrier Reef will do as well as any othei
so far as accessibility goes. The Cential
Australian oasis will do when it can be
reached without paving the intermediate
desert with steel and other costly substances.
The new civilisation won’t be wholly port-
able, but it will be nearly as pfertable as a
bird' and quite as much so as an Arab with
his tent. # , .
The question of cheap movable “Kultur
reruns high-priced fixed "Kultur is in the
balance, and Australia has an easy choice
not being seriously committed yet to the old
rut. Therefore air navigation is the most
urgent question we have on hand. Yet no
Government has even sent a decayed party
hack to Abyssinia to inquire into it. though
Abyssinia is as good as any other place
when a hack wants a holiday.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Temperance in Tassie.
According to figures presented to the
Hobart Licensing Court the other day, there
were 147 grog-shops in that village in 1870,
118 in 1889, 107 in 1902. while this year
the number of places where a man may con-
venient] v see another man about the same
old dog' has dwindled down to a miserable
90 or less. Roughly, in half a century the
number of pubs has decreased by 40 per
emit., while the population has increased
by 100 per cent. In 1870 there was one
licensed house to every 180 of the popula-
tion; told ay it takes many a pub all its
time to dodge the bailiff, though authorised
to quench the thirst of an average of over
400 people. The Speck is not furiously
given to booze nowadays. The consumption
of alcoholic beverages per head and con-
victions for drunkenness compare more than
favorably with most of the mainland States.
Of course it is a cool climate, which partly
accounts for the fact that the rush for loug-
sleevers in Hobart is not nearly so prevalent
as in, say, Bourke, or Hay, or Cairns, or
Coolgardie, or Broken Hill, or even Pyrmont
and Footscray. And it does not appear from
the figures that the local abstemiousness
from summer drinking is counterbalanced,
as against the other States, by excessive in-
dulgence in winter tipples. This may be
accounted for by the lower rate of wages
and salaries still ruling in the Speck, and
partly, perhaps, by the fact that the Tas-
manian winters are so cold that people pre-
fer to stay by their own firesides at night
rather than risk frostbite by travelling to
and from the pub. Besides, with six o’clock
(•losing there are other than frostbite risks,
for you never know when the police are
likely to descend upon the temperance bars
with a rush, and sniff with large hairy noses
and an air of cruel suspicion at a half-
emptied glass of dandelion-ale and lemonade.
But even in the old days and nights, when
the pubs were open from 6 a.m. till half-
past 11 p m., there was not much whisky-
drinking in the towns or the settled districts :
though the west coast mining towns, where
Ihe winter is severe and the population
largely consists of unattached males, used
to get away with a sufficient quantity of
“hard stuff’’ to make pub-keeping in those
blizzard-breeding localities a pretty lucrative
business. Of course, in Tasmania, as in all
the States, every reduction in the drink bill
and every closed-up bar is claimed by the
temperance party as a triumphant vindica-
tion of its own special brand of prayer and
propaganda and politics, and is used by the
bleating bell-wethers of the party as a war-
slogan to encourage the valiant soldiers of
Cold Tea to still bigger efforts against the
demon of strong der-rink. But it is at least
a little doubtful whether the apostles of . the
official anti-grog party are in any way re-
sponsible for the increasing to
sobriety in Australia. As a matter of plain
everyday experience, it may be said that
the routings and ravings and tactics
generally of the apostles help to retard
liquor reform more than they advance it. In
Tasmania the other day Premier Lee intro-
duced a Bill for a referendum on State Pro-
hibition. Happy in the approval of the
official anti-liquor party, Mr. Lee appears
to have entered upon his crusade with all
the cocksureness of a leader who sees vic-
tory waiting for him just round the corner.
Egged on by a number of solemn ladies of
irreproachable character of both sexes, the
Premier firmly rejected suggested amend-
ments which aimed at including in the bal-
lot-paper, questions dealing with nationalisa-
tion, compensation, etc. He also declined
to accept a proposal to substitute for Pro-
hibition a reduction of licensed houses by 25
pet cent, with compensation to be provided
by the “trade.” He would have a Prohibi-
tion referendum or nothing. He got nothing,
for the Assembly, by a six to four majority,
declined to have anything to do with the one-
eyed measure.
A Land of Small Industries.
Victoria has always been well in front as
the manufacturing State of the Common-
wealth, especially in those lines that are not
local manufactures by necessity and stand
quite apart from tariffs. (Gas-making,
quarrying, baking, flour-milling for local
purposes, watch-repairing, newspaper print-
ing, the making of clothes to measure, cane-
crushing, boot-patching, ship-mending, etc.,
etc., etc., are local by necessity.) The
latest return (year to June, 191 S) shows
that the factories and workshops of the
State produced goods to the value of
£67,066.735, and after paying for raw
materials, wages, fuel and light and making
the ordinary allowance for the repair
and replacement of machinery, there was
£31,182.292 left (in theory) for the manu-
facturer. This of course was mere theory,
for out of it had to come interest on bor-
rowed money, bad debts and discounts.
(There is a habit of knocking 21. per cent,
or so off the account when it is paid in cash,
or else paying by p.n.. which costs quite a*
much for discount at the bank : and, if this
habit becomes general. 21 per cent, on
£67,000.000 is £1.675.000. which makes a
hole in £11,000.000 profit.) Also, the
wages item doesn’t include wages of working
proprietors. Out of .the 5627 factories 1828
employ four hands or less, and 3638 employ
less than 10 hands. In almost all these
cases the proprietor is a workman —some-
times he is the only workman—-and often he
toils much harder than the average, because
his scrap of capital is at stake. Sometimes
the whole staff consists of two or three work-
ing owners. If payment for the toil of 3638
small proprietors, at say £3 per week, was
included in the wages the paper profit would
be reduced to £10,614,764, and even that
makes no allowance for the fact that the
proprietor is a worker in almost every case,
large or small, except where a company owns
the show, and that there may be several of
him. Anyhow, taking £10,614,704 as the
standard, the profit is on the average ot
£lBB6 for the year for each establishment,
less, as already hinted, interest. State
and Federal land-tax and income-tax,
war-profits tax, if any, local rates,
water rates, discounts, bad debts, dona-
tions to charity (an occasional item
which some of the bigger concerns can
hardly avoid), advertising, embezzlements
and* sundries. In the case of big industiies
these may absorb half the takings, among
the small men, of course, the _ amount is
microscopic. They are uncertain items. I lie
£lBB6, of course, isn’t the profit per owner;
the number of owners who have to divide it
may vary from two to 200 or more. In the
case of Melbourne Gas Co. they are numer-
ous. The steady increase is among the
small men. Factories which employed four
or less hands were 714 more in 1918 than in
1904, while the bigger places were only (On
more. And the small industries are possibly
five or six times as numerous as they appear,
for no place is a factory under Victorian
law unless it employs machinery worked by
steam, gas, electricity, water or horse, or in
some way other than by hand. Bringing all
things into account, the “taking over of the
workshops.” as proposed by the One Big
Union, doesn’t suggest grazing in a very rich
paddock. A slight slackening of energy or
efficiency among, the horde of working pio-
prietors when they ceased to have a direct
interest in the business and became the paid
servants of a Soviet would make the margin
of profit very small, if it left any margin at
all. If the Soviet reduced working hours
and put in its brother or the chief local
enthusiast to manage, there might even be a
stoppage, (las companies might survive by
doubling the price of gas, but the price ot
cheap pants can’t be doubled under the exist-
ing tariff.
The Women’s Industry.
From a factory work-table: —
One of the first jobs the lately-created N. S.
Wales Board of Trade had to grapple with was
incidental to fixing the minimum pay for the adult,
self-supporting woman by discovering the cost to
such a woman 'of living. The Board (wages £l2
to £2O a week) has fixed on the sum of 30s. The
result is that this automatically becomes the mini-
mum at which any adult woman engaged in industry
coming within the scope of the Arbitration Act may
he employed. In that respect the step taken by
legislation represents a forward movement of quite
half an inch. It was all very well to explain to
women workers that they were to be protected
against receiving less than the wage of subsistence.
For that they had reason, Gon knows, to be thank-
ful. But to follow it up with this pronouncement of
five whole shillings per day seems something new
in the way of an anti-climax. A Wage bf 30s. next
week is equivalent in commercial usefulness to an
income of 17s. 3d. per week four years ago. If this
is not the case, the calculations of Knibbb are open
to grave suspicion, and the common experience of the
working herd has been a delusion. And just as it
would take some stretch of imagination by anyone
on the outside to believe that a woman, earning
2s. 9d. short of a sovereign before the war got a
reasonably decent wage should require a big mental
effort in the same place to believe that 30s, is a
genuine living wage now. It is unfortunate that the
Board should have accompanied its 30s. verdict with
a long rigmarole about the relative significance of
marriage ‘and industry to the female worker and a
vast silence about the arithmetic. A living wage is
a matter of tuppences, not of sermons about some-
thing else; and until this writer sees the Board of
Trade manner of handling the tuppences involved in
305., he is not going to move that a lot of words
about matrimony are a satisfying substitute. Of
course, a woman can live on 30s. weekly. But the
present writer is prepared to make a solemn affidavit
that the life she will lead can be no better than a
miserably penurious existence.# She will be ill-housed
and shabby and addicted to a diet of bread and jam
and tea, with nothing between her and destitution but
a rapidly-waning vitality, and morally more distant
from the finer things of life than if she lived
in a humpy at Coorabangawong. A woman who
can sew and fry an egg over a gaslight in her bed-
room or practice any of the numerous miracles of
economy the poor are accustomed to perform, will
live right en;ough on the 30s. So, too, could a man.
If the Board of Trade calculated a living wage for
a male upon the basis of the individual who manu-
factured his own shirts and patched his boots and
grew vegetables and went fishing on Sundays, it
could, in all probability, come to a point where
things for the male would be cut fairly fine. This
is what the Board has done with the woman —and
with the greatest respect to everybody concerned, it
may be remarked that the decision is a scandal.
Still, there is not much to be surprised at.
The idea behind it all is to pin the worker
down to specially-selected diets and allow-
ances of Is. 7Ad. a week 'for raiment
and 2d. for newspapers and haircuts twice per
annum-—to give, on the strength of the testimony
of various “experts,” a multitude of bureaucrats
the right to lay down rules of life for different
classes of citizefis, such rules being the foundation
of “wages.” It is monstrous that a mere
hod-carrier who can be kept in physical condi-
tion on food purchasable at 12s. 6d. should be devour-
ing nourishment at a cc#t of 13s. 4d.—and outrageous
that his children should spend 4s. 2d. on clothing when
equallv-serviceable material might be acquired for
2s. 9d. if the mother wore out Is. 6d. worth of
shoe-leather looking for it. The 305.-a-week-for-
women finding goes on exactly these lines. If the
woman hires a room at 7s. 6d. a week and doesn’t
eat too much or too frequently; if she doesn’t,
patronise the “pictures” with excessive regularity
and takes walking exercise instead of tram-rides; if
she wears tw'o blouses at 6s. lid. per season instead
of three at 6s. 6d. and omits to buy the latest
volume of verse, and so :on, she can subsist according
to her “station in life.” This way of seeking indus-
trial health and happiness, or whatever it
may be, will not work, and he is an absurdly
unintelligent employer who thinks it will. Woman’s
place in industry is a difficult matter. But if
employers of female labor and Parliaments and
Boards of Trade are going to persist in regarding
the woman worker merely as something to be used
as an ill-paid, indifferently-nourished drudge between
the time she leaves school and gets married to live
in a slum, the difficulties (social and industrial) are
not likely to grow any less. One of the 'root
troubles is, of* female wbrUsr'T£ho s livej[ a
parasitic- fccfcMw? living pa™)''on Tier iow-grade
earnings and partly on the earnings of a fathei 01
brothers or other relatives. Everywhere the self-
supporting woman lias to compete agains ns >at x
legism and battle against the male workers who
sanction it. In Sydney the Board ot Trade will
secure women the advantage ot going on \vi 1 u
battle on the basis of a minimum wage which, on
pre-war wages, would have been scoffed at as the
dole of a sweater.
The Amalgamated Sloths.
The Amalgamated Engineers have given 14
days’ notice, as required by law, of their
intention to strike unless wages are advanced
20 per cent. —the 10 per cent, recently
awarded by the Court and the other 10 per
cent, which wasn’t awarded by the Court.
And the Amalgamated Engineers didn t serve
notice on their party in Parliament to seciua!
even 1 per cent, increase in the tariff, so
that the employers could pay the extra wage
without being overwhelmed by toe competi-
tion of imports from countries which don t.
pav the wages that prevailed here even
before the award. The ’.‘Metals and
Machinery” tariff is divided into 102 sec-
tions, with as many as a quarter ot a hun-
dred items in a section —in fact some maj
run to more than that, being simply things
“not elsewhere included.” Of these 102 sec-
tions 06 are “free”; seven are 10 per cent.;
two are 124 per cent. ; eight are lo per cent..
and 12 are 20 per cent. Considering that the
local people want 20 per cent, increase m
one act—this in addition to other increases
since the foolish ass of a tariii was con-
structed —it doesn’t look much of a tariff,
but a good deal of an ass. In addition to the
f'o low-percentage items (out of lo 2) men-
tioned above there are specific duties of a
few “bob” per ton which are equally depress-
ing. Things are bad, but they’re going to
he worse, for thousands of Amalgamated or
disunited or “scab” engineers who have been
engaged in war-work —the kind that wasn t
done here—at war wages are going back to
their old jobs at peace wages, and hundreds
of vessels which, by reason of the war, were
not available to carry Amalgamated imports
are getting back into their stride. The result
is that Australia, as a place that makes
things, as distinct from a place that patches
and repairs or puts together things, is pretty
dead, and is likely to be more dead unless the
tariff goes up or wages come down. Appa-
rently the Amalgamated sloths are content.
I l there are among the returned soldiers some
engineers for whom there is no work the
hours can be shortened at the lengthened
pay to make the work spread round. Other-
wise they can “go on the land" with Gov-
ernment loan money. It is all very good save
that when the war-time loans of over
£100,000.000 a year can no longer he floated
the supply of imported engineering goods
may run short for lack of money to pay for
them. That won’t cause new industries to
start, for no one will risk everything he pos-
sesses on a business that may perish as soon
as some more loans arrive. It will only
bring the country up against the alternative
of a higher tariff, or cheaper and less som-
nolent Amalgamated engineers, or the need
for some engineers who aren’t so badly
Amalgamated.
—» •
W. H. Holman, Financier, etc.
Holman is a politician with a beaming way
about him and an aspect of childlike convic-
tion. In a letter to the S. M. Herald
(3/12/’18) he professed to dissipate the
suspicion that there was anything incon-
gruous about the spending of £9,126,000
loan money in one year, he being at the
same time solemnly pledged to reduce bor-
rowing instead of increasing it 400 per
cent. He said that £4.190,000 of the amount
was spent by those good business men the
N. S. Wales Railway Commissioners, and
£977,000 by the Harbor Trust and Water
and Sewerage Board. Over these bodies, he
alleged, he has no control. Like Pilate
washing his hands, of a conjurer producing
a rabbit out of bis left ear to prove his inno-
cence, he asked the public to observe that
there was no deception. Regarding which
these comments may be in order
(1) The bodies Holman mentioned wouldn’t have
spent the money unless he supplied it. He has that
much control, and it is enough. No doubt some of the
appalling £9,126,000 was spent by the Railway Com-
missioners, and some by the Water and Sewerage
Board, and some by the Harbor Trust, and some by
the Education Department, and some by the Lands,
and some by the office boy, and perhaps some by the
Devil. The fact is that it was spent.
(2) Holman said the £5,167,000 expended by the
people he mentions was handed to them because it
was required. Holiian, as an allegedly sane
citizen, must know that money is always being re-
quired. If the fact of it being required
means, in his opinion, that it must be bar-
rowed, then he is a most impossible person. He
pledged himself to find money required and yet keep
down borrowing—it had got down below £2,000,000
before he took office. And seeing that the revenue this
year promises to be nearly double what it was when
he took office he should manage something in this line,
unless he is the last possible muddler.
(3) Having alleged that £5,167,000 was spent by
certain responsible authorities in a certain year,
because it was really needed, Holman omits to say
whether the other £3,959,000 was or was not fooled
away by irresponsible parties though it wasn’t needed.
It. is a lot of money.
(4) He omits all explanation about the almost
equally ridiculous amounts he spent in a number of
other years.
(5) Also, while speaking with impassioned plausi-
bility about the Railway Commissioners’ demands for
rolling stock, He neglected to point out that railways
were being built, wholesale and for the building of
them the Commissioners were not responsible. But as
business-men, groaning under the burden of political
fraud and foolishness and incapacity, they had to ask
foi moie lolling stock, as the lines expanded whether
thev thought, file investment good or bad or rotten.
In an} case, the} didn t ask for loan money—only
for money. " ‘ v
Mr. Holman, being in an explanatory!
mood, might then have switched off to the?
appointment. of his caucus friend Burgess,!
rejected of the people, to the amazing job off
Commissioner for Review and Adjustment!
of Tiatelling Stock and Camping Reserves’’ 1
AAtji B th | objections uf the gnblicj
|Sirvfpep(Miii. ; fcdinM-U'tWb <Bbf lime:
he didn t.
Mothers of Men.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Out of Bethlehem and Balmain—
Fill the pipe with sweeter breath ! —
Sydney calls to Nazareth :
And the' King, the King shall reign !
We hare fought with Doom and Death
And the glory conics again!
Mary, Mother of Sons,
Fee, At other of All!
How the praise runs
From (garden to stall!
By the old stars above
Ye have borne us for lore —
Christ and Cain,
Of your pain,
For the hope of world-good.
Lo, the faith that withstood
All of ill that, might fall!
Lo, the smiles that ye wore
In your great motherhood
We bend and adore!
O ye holiest Ones.
Eve, Mother of All,
Alary, Mother of Sons!
We march with the plough and the loom
Over broad hills to the sea,
Where the great waves blanch and boom,
Shouting of things to be.
With hoisting of white sails
We follow a good star
Till a fair dawn pales
On new hills and far.
And the match of the plough and the loom
Ever begins anew,
With a strange flower in bloom
And an old thing to do.
Always our hearts are strong
By plain and valley and glen ;
For we have the marching song—
The song of the Mothers of Men.
Be sure the wonder of her face
T Vas in the loneliest land of all;
And with her tears in that far place
She cleansed us all, she cleansed us all.
But we have marched with sword and drum
And filled a war-horn with our breath ;
And in the darkness we have come
To look into the eyes of death.
Our loom we set to weaving pain.
Our plough made furrows bloody red ;
And we have toiled till we were fain
To look with envy on the dead.
The world we burned with leaping fire ;
It scorched and wasted us in youth
That we might win our soul’s desire
And crush the foeman into truth.
And while we grappled with the strong
And darkly perished one to ten,
We heard again the marching song
Of soldier mothers bearing men.
Be sure, for all her tears that fell,
Her courage shamed her fighting sons;
For she could, die —ice knew it well —
Before the guns, before the guns.
There is a little hollow
Behind a. bushy hill
Where the long shadows follow
The sun’s hot will.
This way they point at breaking
Of the first morning light.
And that at the leave taking
Of day before the night.
And always one long finger
From east or west
Seems a while to linger
On a small grave’s breast.
On a grave where one is lying
These twenty years and more,
With the night wind sighing
The long grasses o’er.
When the breeze comes crisper
Listen, listen then !
“Here lies.” it seems to whisper,
“A Mother of Men”....
And the men she bore are sleeping
Far and far away—
Oh. earth is wide for weeping \
From here to Suvla Bay !
Be sure she spoke the quiet, word
That made them strong and very wise
When, valor flaming like a sword.
They looked at death with mocking eyes.
O Mary, Eve and mother mine.
The world is crying at the door:
And he would quaff of deeds as wine.
The little child you loved and bore.
Not straight his path nor strong his arm,
Yet something in his blood will leap.
And something save his soul from harm
Because you sang him once to sleep.
And there are bugles blowing shrill
And voices calling like the sea
Because the world in heart and will
Draws nearer mother-victory.
For this shall be the final tryst
Of Truth and Love on earth’s green sod,
When every Mary bears a Christ
And every Christ is Man-in-Goi).
Out of Bethlehem and Balmain —
Fill the pipe 'with sweeter breath! —
Sydney calls to Nazareth;
And the Queen, the Queen shall reign!
She has vanquished Doom and Death
And her glory shall remain!
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


T h ? Farmers’ & Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A“ stralia
Limited
The Workmen’s Compensation Act imposes heavy liabilities on Farmers and
Graziers.
The Farmers’ and Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of Australia Limited
will accept their liability for a small premium.
It is to the best interests of the Man on the Land to support this co-operative
company.
Write immediately for particulars.
Head Office: 129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH
The Insolence of Censorship.
Last week partly-Prime Minister Watt
was busy assuring the House of Heps., and,
incidentally, the Australian people, that
under no circumstances would the censorship
established under the War Precautions Act
be used for political purposes. Almost simul-
taneously Administrator Gilruth was
attacked at Port Darwin by a rabble who
wanted to deport him. The facts about the
proceedings were, at the moment of writing,
in a rather disordered condition; but there
seemed no doubt that there had been some-
thing in the way of a riot, that Gilruth’s
premises had been invaded, and that he had
been ottered personal violence. When official-
dom got wind of the affair the Censor promptly
ukased that the newspapers must be dumb—
that references to Port Darwin and Gil-
rutii and the rabble were forbidden. The
Bulletin is not going to cnarge Watt with
direct complicity with this outrageous abuse
of the censorship; but it i s going to politely
remind him that the incident transpired at a
moment which imparted to it the strongest
possible justification for the charge that the
censorship is a dangerous and ignorant in-
stitution. An attempt to show that, unless
the public s liberty to know what is happen-
ing in its own back yard lias vanished, the
effort to put the lid on the happenings at
Darwin was scandalous would be waste of
both words and of time. It must be obvious,
too, that for the community to bo taxed to
pay salaries to the gang ' of bureaucrats
vested by Ministerial Regulation with
authority to issue prohibitions and regula-
tions of this kind is an ugly injustice. Aus-
tralia will not be making any mistake if it
remembers that this Darwin episode repre-
sents only one of tin* very minor offences
uerpetrated by the same blundering crowd.
The thing has its comic aspects, of course.
It inav be a fact that the censorship thinks
the war is still raging, and that precautions
must be taken to win it. There i s the dis-
tinct possibility of Holdfast. Barnacle and
Busybody Ltd. being persuaded that if news
of Gilkutii being chased round the land-
scape at Darwin by a crowd of truculent
slaughtermen penetrated to Europe the re-
sult would be to bring Huoiies into dis-
repute and light the torch of anarchy at
Monte Carlo. But, after all, these considera-
tions are only further reasons why Watt
should rid Australia of a wrongful institution
—of one that seems determined to bring the
whole community into ridicule.
The Territory and Gilruth’s Nose.
It is a matter of opinion whether, if the
butchers at the Port Darwin freezing works
took charge of the Territory and ran the
show with a cleaver, they would make a
much more elaborate mess of the job than
has been perpetrated by successive political
cliques gathered at Melbourne and running
the proceedings by the grace of hot-air. There
is certainly this to be said by the advocates
of Butcherism: That the man with a job in
sight and a cleaver in his hand probably
understands what he has to do, and if his
implement is sharp and heavy enough he can
be relied upon to begin at the right place.
And it seems incontrovertible that the man
who is several thousand miles away from
a job, and has been too lazy to build a rail-
way to get to it, and has no mental com-
prehension _ either of the size of the contract
or the ineffectiveness of blither, can
be relied upon to do nothing but pro-
dime _ muddle. It becomes a serious
question of whether Butcherism may
not be the handmaiden of Democracy, and,
while the latter is fumbling along in the
darkness created by Party, drag the Territory
and everything connected therewith into the
dawn of a new and better day. To date,
Australia’s policy regarding the Territory
has produced nothing—unless it is a
railway which doesn’t exist, a vast debit in
the cashbox, voluminous forgotten promises,
innumerable illustrations of shirk, and the
spectacle of an outraged Gilruth wiping
blood off his nose and sending out S.O.S. sig-
nals to Red Tape in Melbourne. When the
deputy of the Democracy is detected with a
damaged nose and the proletariat from the
neighboring slaughter-house threatens to tear
officialdom up by the roots the time seems
to be nearly ripe for bringing out the hearse
for something. Gilrutii’s gore may repre-
sent the climax of the Commonwealth’s great-
est administrative and political achievement
in dodging the issue. The Bulletin awaits
further information with hope.
«
Too Late.
The story of the Hughes Government’s
wooden ships appears to be, in the main, the
story of everything plain and useful that
that feckless body ever attempted. People
who believe in reincarnation might set the
Prime Minister down as the second coming
of Etiielred the Unready, who did some
extraordinary things a millennium ago in the
locality where Hughes’s people come from,
and may have left a moral influence there-
abouts, but the other Unready is reputed to
have been a tall man of imposing stomach
area, and that s_poils the parallel.
Early in the war the Ministry decided
that wooden ships, being in its opinion, very
temporary and experimental affairs, were
not on its programme. Much later, when
the war was obviously much nearer its end
unless it proposed to live for ever, they were
put on the programme, because no progress
worth speaking of was being made with
steel ships. (This was partly because the
big company which wanted to build steel
ships was warned off, the thing being a Gov-
ernment job.) The policy then was obvi-
ously to construct in red-iiot haste, for the
need was urgent and freights were enormous.
They were so high that ships were paying
for their cost in periods varying from seven
to 12 months. Any sort of vessel which
could be built in a month and was good for
three years was liable to earn a fortune.
Rut there was no haste except of the com-
parative sort about the Ministry. It was
like the mills of Goo which grind very
slowly, only it had the slowness without the
grind. There was the usual drawing of
plans, the building of wooden ships being
presumably a new and rare and dangerous
animal to be approached with caution. Then
followed the consideration of plans, the elab-
oration of plans, the arrival of a new func-
tionary from England, no functionary being
any good unless freshly imported, the re-
consideration of plans, the debate about
building sites, the debate about wages and
conditions, and the trouble because almost
everything except the timber and build-
ing sites had to be imported. It was decided
that everything was to be of the best; even
the iittings of the officers’ quarters
were to be high-class and long-winded
works of upholstery. The end of the
war came without a single wooden
ship being, ready. Now, apparently, the
brief day of very slow timber-craft is
over—these ones were to be six-knot affairs
lest their velocity should put the other
arrangements to shame. Work, however, is
being done, when it is too late, at the rate
of £lOOO per day, and as this sort of thing
looks foolish the decision will probably be
to stop short, and throw the debris of the
scheme overboard, and hand down the loss
to posterity. Posterity will find a wonder-
ful lot of things bequeathed to him when the
will is read after the funeral.
Hospitals, Homicide, etc.
Something special in the way of gall and
bitterness, intermingled, after a' fashion, with
town-planning, happened in N. S. Wales last
week. In the first place State Solicitor-
General Garland declaimed about the “in-
credible folly” and the incapacity and such-
like of the Australian Government at Mel-
bourne in having Sydney’s Quarantine Sta-
tion * adjacent to the city. Now, it
was the State Government which invented
the idea of a quarantine station on Sydney
Harbor, and Garland has been an orna-
ment of more than one State Government.
N. S. Wales ran the insane idea for over
100 years—whereas the Federal authori-
ties have only been in charge for 10 years.
The bubonic plague didn’t get the State
Government into motion, nor did the earlier
smallpox epidemic. The latter belonged to
the time when the Faraway was used as a
floating hospital, and after the scare and the
madness and the bungle were over, dead,
swollen, decayed people who couldn’t be
accounted for were found in odd corners of
the Faraway. They were patients who had
been rushed on board by the Garland kind
of Government and overlooked, so that they
were neither fed, doctored nor nursed. xYnd
it really seems as if the State Government
of which Garland is one of the top blossoms
is much the same to-day. It is hard to say
whether the yarn related of Newcastle hospi-
tal comes under the head of town-planning
or homicide. It is alleged that the old isola-
tion wards were pulled down ; that new ones
(much too small) were illegally planted
close to the general hospital; and that, with-
out any influenza epidemic to contend with
there were lately 12 patients, male and
female, in a single small room and others in
passages and casual places. Also, it is said
that one child was killed by the conditions;
it suffered merely from mumps, but having
to be squeezed in with diphtheria cases it
caught the disease and died. Perhaps being
only Newcastle, and not Svdney, this sort of
thing doesn’t matter. Still. Solicitor-General
Garland might consider the story, for it is
his < business, and the Quarantine Station
isn t. And the row about Newcastle Hospi-
tal has been going on longer than the epi-
demic at the quarantine place.
Wanted—A Bloated and Congested
Garden.
Sydney Water and Sewerage Board is being
reproached as usual about the scarcity of
water. It seldom gets anything but re-
proach, and contumely is its" regular break-
fast diet, and it goes to bed in scorn and
wakes in ignominy. In defence, it says that
it is a metropolitan water supply—not an
irrigation scheme. To which the S. M.
Herald replies by asking: “Are we, then,
to be a metropolis without gardens?’’ It is
a serious question. The ambition of all
town-planners is to abjure the tenement
house and the flat, described as “a glorified
slum,” and let every inhabitant have a fresh,
nicely-watered playground, with flowers and
a bit of grass and room for a dog. a cat and
possibly the mollifying and refining influence
of a hen and a poll-parrot. At the
same time the idea i s that, so far as possible,
the factories, workshops, warehouses, ship-
yards, wharves and Government offices of a
State larger than the late German Empire
should be in Sydney. Also, at the same time,
that everybody should live conveniently close
to his work. The area of Sydney and
suburbs is 95,259 acres (or, if some outlying
districts are included, as they usually are.
118,409 acres) for, say, 770.000 people,' while
in the county of London 4,500,000 people are
put on 74.816 acres. And Sydney’s area
requires a vast deal of irrigation at times,
while London's is mostly watered by the
gentle or beastly fog from Heaven. Yet even
big Sydney has its slums, where people live
six in three or perhaps two rooms, and
untidy women converse easily from the top
window with dishevelled women at the oppo-
site top window. If the whole place was
laid out on ideal town-planning principles
and a few more industries grew up, it would
presumably be much bigger than it is.
Already it is 25 times the size of the Hay
Irrigation Area, and nine times the size of
the Curlwaa Irrigation Area, and about one-
third the size of the boasted Yanco Irrigation
Area with its wonderful Burrinjuelt reser-
voir, only a fraction of which has been
settled yet at a loss of well over £500,000.
It is far bigger than the occupied part of
Yanco, and is more than twice the size
even of Mildura, the most famous artificially-
watered settlement in Australia and the
model for all that came after it. So Sydney,
having more than two-fifths of the popula-
tion of the State congested within its limits
would be, even if it was only settled in an
agricultural way, the biggest'irrigation pro-
blem in N. S. Wales, reckoning only the
settled and not the theoretical part of Yanco;
and almost the biggest in Australia. With
770,000 people to he washed and drinked and
laundered and churwomnned, it would be,
considering the climate, the biggest irriga-
tion problem in the world, assuming that it
was laid out on ideal town-planning prin-
ciples. That is to say, if, instead of piling its
families four on a common landing and six
layers of families on top of each other —in
old Edinburgh there are, or used to be. as
many as eight or 10 layers—with a small
common yard, each family has its nicely-
watered playground, with flowers and a yard
or two of grass, and room for a cat and a
Towzer and possibly two fowls and a fowl’s
husband. Among the eight Australian capi-
tals only Darwin has a better rainfall than
Sydney so far as regards the actual city, but
that has no bearing on the case, for tin*
local thunderstorm that floods George-street
isn’t drinkable. No community has solved
the problem of a great, bloated eongested
garden city which the idealists of Sydney are
iip against, and some communities were con-
sidering that problem before Sydney was
born.
—
No Minister seems to open his mouth about
the Federal capital without putting both
boots into it. Thus Watt, being prodded
recently on the subject by Catts and an-
noyed by Higgs, said he was favorable to
the place, but the finances couldn’t stand
the strain at present. Canberra must wait
“till the war-debt presses less heavily on the
people.” Always the place is described as
a perpetual pauper, which must be kept up
by a subsidy. Yet the ordinary town or
city, built where a town or city might rea-
sonably be, is generally considered an asset.
Ballarat and Goulburn, or even much hum-
bler places like Kelly’s Plains and Moolap,
don’t get subsidies. They are expected to
make their own way and contribute to the
general revenue as well. It isn’t considered
necessary to suspend Toowoomba or to close
up Gambier “till the war-debt presses less
heavily on the people.” And these places
haven’t the adventitious aid of being capital
cities, where the gathering of public officials
should provide a ready-made crowd of rate-
payers and customers in addition to the
crowd that any town naturally has by rea-
son of its own industries. Canberra, perhaps
by reason of its thirst and its lack of minerals
and its bad situation, is always the spot
that can’t be expected to pay for its keep,
even with great special advantages—the sort
of advantages that Tamworth and Sale have
to totter along without.
Vice-Chancellor Mitchell, of Adelaide Uni-
versity, mentioned at the Commemoration
that a Melbourne professor, who left his
family and enlisted when conscription was
lost, wrote that he had “two good and suffi-
cient reasons for so doing—one, what the
Germans had done to Belgium; the other,
what they had done to Shakspeare.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOB COMING WEEK.
p™ MA,Ji:STV ’ S “Hello, Everybody !”
Criterion “Friendly Enemies”
p"fi “Oh, Oh, Delphine!”
t * “De Luxe Annie”
I vmv 1 T ‘.,V “Everybody’s Doing It’
„ J, 0 * Theatres Moving Pictures
U(m s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Goody Two Shoes”
i, AL “Nothing but the Truth”
“Bubbly”
, ING « “Jack and Jill”
llovr s De Luxe k Lyceum Moving Pictures
Majestic Moving Pictures
aielba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
I- clues, St. Kilda .. .John N. McCallum’s Courtiers
“Friendly Enemies,” at the Criterion
(Sydney), is not afflicted with many
literary merits. Still, it lias many good
points. It is simple. It is direct in
action and in purpose. It makes no
“ Everybody's Doing
It,” at Sydney Tivoli.
Jose Baptiste,
eccentric violinist.
breach with proba-
bility. It has a
strong h u m a n
appeal. And it is
as clean as the
dawn. Having said
that much it is
difficult to avoid
the reflection that
absence of the mere
literary quality in
a play is, after all,
very often a mat-
ter having quite
minor influence on
the proceedings.
The friendly
enemies here are a
pair of German-
born Americans—
Henry Block and
Karl Pfeiffer. They
migrated from the
Fatherland in early
manhood, passed
the Statue of Lib-
erty, and prospered.
Block became a
good Yank in
speech, in conduct
and in thought, al-
ways ready to
thank the Provi-
dence which guided
him to a land of
freedom, and pre-
pared to confess
his gratitude for the
privileges of
American citizenship. Pfeiffer, his mate in
the steerage trip across the Atlantic, became
a good American, too, but half his heart was
somewhere near the Rhine. He insisted on
being known as Karl. Block persisted in
calling him Charley. Pfeiffer called his son
Wilhelm. Block always breezily greeted the
hoy as Billy—to the great resentment of
father Karl. Then came the war—Block
sturdily denunciatory in his attitude towards
Berlin; the other apologetic, resentful of
THE GREATEST PLAY.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A girl and ,1 man and the shade of a tree;
I hat is the scene that appeals to me,
With a Christmas sun in the bend of the sky
And wings of green where the small birds fly;
tor the world’s a stage and its people play
With a change of bill for every day.
Speaking of bills—how the villain cold
Stealthily stalks to look for gold !
Still from the darkness his papers leap
Shrieking of debts that refuse to sleep ;
And the threats that lie uses might well destroy
The middle and head and front of joy.
Observe where the heaviest fathers go,
Fifty thousand in one long row,
I hough the happy arrangement of set and scene
Puts gardens and walls and towns between-
Ah, how often is love kicked out by the roots
At the lifting of fifty thousand boots!
Here is a banquet of beauty spread
When the moon climbs up and the dusk is sped ;
And through half the casements of all the world
She peeps to see how the hair is curled
Over sleepy foreheads and shoulders white
Of the girls in the ballet of Dream-b.v-Night.
And now the pantomime giant wakes
And his “Fee-fo-fum” the firmament shakes,
W hile the milkeans rattle along the way
And the breakfast-smells proclaim the day—
Oh, a million legs show pink and bare
To the shivering blush of the morning air!
It’s well worth watching the angels play,
The long-drawn drama of Night and Day;
But a girl and a man and the shade of a tree—
That is th? scene that appeals to me.
The tragedy turns I can scarcely heed
While I play my part as a juvenile lead !
N.S.W.
CORSE O’ MOSES.


ABBOTS
LAGER
Sffießeer without
a "Rival
rYade from
yyo/f#j/ops
ONLY
JJftC
m
The Icy-Hot Vacuum Bottle
for Holiday Outings and Travel.
An “Icy-Hot” Vacuum Bottle occupies but little space in the basket or
bag, and it dispenses with the necessity of making fires and carrying a
“billy.” Motorists, train travellers, nurses on night duty, yachtsmen and
innumerable others use this guaranteed bottle under all conditions and find
it a great convenience.
The “Icv-Hot” is a real VACUUM bottle, made on the scientific principle
and made well. Keeps hot liquids steaming hot 24 hours; cold liquids
icy cold for three days. It is beautifully fiiu.atu n. Wu...
Pints 25/-. Quarts 35/-
Peapes’ Pay Postage.
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
Men’s Outfitters,
309 & 311 George Street,
SYDNEY
the charges of inhumanity brought against
‘the Geiman soldier,-, confident otv,cM.-yta
Von Hindenburg. Ihe pau wrangle
unceasingly. “Hindenburg will ne\ei be
Sen” says Pfeiffer, and triumphantly
demonstrates the strategical position on the
Western Front with the soup tureen and
£f«n.r and vinegar dottle on the dinner
table “Bah!” yells Block, I tell jou
there' goes the German front”—and a pile of
plates are swept to fragments. On the atti-
tude of these two the play turns on the
growing ferocity of Block as an American,
on Pfeiffer’s eventual recognition ot the jus-
tice of Uncle Sam’s case, on the enlistment
of son Billv in the Army of Liberation, and
the unmasking of the necessary spy who
secured money
from Karl by false
pretence. “Friendly
Enemies” is a
United States “pro-
paganda drama” —
that is, the ration-
ale of it is to be
found in the appli-
cation of the dra-
matic method to the
formation of public
opinion on a great
national issue.
From this point of
view only it must
lie judged, and The
Bulletin is pre-
pared to say that
the writers of the
drama achieved a
very remarkable
success. In con-
structing a play
having a powerful
patriotic mot i v e
they avoided the
temptation to pad
it out with rant
and brass bands
and flags. There is
no rant in “Friendly
“Jack and Jill ” Panto.,
at Melbourne King's.
Barry Lupino as
Dame Durden.
Enemies” —scarcely any rhetoric. #
Nick Adams and James Waters, the
Potash and Perl mutter of a previous day,
are the friendly enemies. They have brought
the art of stage squabbling very nearly to
the point of perfection. As the American-
German with*a yearning for the hatherlaud,
N. Adams has the more difficult part. On
the whole he handles it well. >T. Wateis
has an easier passage, so to speak, and
makes the most of it. Incidentally, dis-
guised as Henry Block, he has an uncanny
resemblance to a well-remembered musician.
But it is doing nobody an injustice to say
that the star performance in this production
is that of Miss Maggie Moore asMarie Pfeiffer,
the German-born wife of Karl and mother
of U.S. soldier Bill. It seems almost in-
credible that this should be so: but
there it is. The part is played with the
finish, intelligence and restraint of an artis-
try that is very real. Of the others Miss
Lizette Parlies, daughter of Henry Block
and sweetheart of soldier Bill, is, of course,
a grateful apparition. And Rawdon Bland-
ford as Bill is—well, Bill was just a big,
awkward lcid anyway, and faults are often
conspicuous virtues. The rascally emissary
of the Wilhelmstrasse, disguised in a silk hat
and a cynical expression, is made to look and
talk and bear himself just as a German spy
ought to look, even if he didn’t. In private
life this spy is that good actor Gaston Mer-
vale, who gets bowled out with a fine dig-
nity. The enemies will be friendly when
they are not threatening one another with
homicide or something until further notice.
That is the Sundry Showman’s trombone
solo to celebrate the re-birth of the Royal
(Sydney) after a subdued existence as a
darkened picture cave. The Royal Comics,
lately at Her Majesty’s, are drawing their
share of the Christmas crowds to the house
in Castlereagh-street with “Oh! Oh! Del-
phine!”
At the Opera House (Sydney) “The
Babes in the Wood” are telling the story of
their young lives with the assistance of
gorgeous ballets, fine backcloths, tuneful re-
frains, the fun of Stiffv and Mo, and the
alluring grace of Dame Daisy Merritt. The
story is not exactly the one we read at
mother’s knee, but the babes are caught sight
of every now and again, and at the end the
conspirators in this happy adventure catch
them up and hand them over to the safe
keeping of Paradise, Queen of the Fairies.
Horace Mann, as the wicked uncle, is aided
and abetted by King Caterpillar (Cliff
O’Keeffe) and the Witch of Sherwood
(Caddie Franks), two fearsome figures spit-
ting wickedness as a siphon spits soda.
Queen Paradise (Belle Pollard) very tune-
fully proclaims herself on the side of the
youngsters (Stella and Myee Lamond), and
invokes the aid of Robin Hood, whose doub-
let and hose are worn jauntily by the grace-
ful limbs of Queenie Paul, who in the inter-
tils of wooing Mayflower (Rita Starr) does
her work well. A special word is due to
the dancing of Lydia Carne and Dot O’Dea,
and to those two serious-faced mites Jack
and Zenda, who won great applause in a
dance where the small boy swings the
smaller girl across his shoulders in
the most advanced acrobatic style. Vince
Courtney, as Idle Jack, helps the fun along.
Rita and Stella Starr, Peter Brooks, Walter
Jackson, Paulasto and Dan Dunbar add
their talent to a good show.
The first evening performance of John
Galsworthy’s “The Pigeon” at the Palace
(Sydney) last week attracted a big house.
The repertory cast was at its best. Gregan
McMahon excelled his previous acting in
his vivid portrayal of the vagabond French-
man. So finely was the characterisation
wrought that the philosophic loafer seemed
a reality rather than a mere product of
stagecraft and actor-study. In fact, some-
thing of the same kind may be said about
all the members of the cast; for the reper-
tory spirit makes for a naturalism which is
in delightful contrast with much of the work
of the current theatre. Actors whom we
have known and appreciated for years rise in
these plays to the height of their art. The
result is honest and unforced emotion and
laughter with the genuine sparkle in it. If
“The Pigeon” has no very profound thought
it has at least a view of gentle satire which
makes it a pleasure.
The noisy humor of 1 Shaw’s “How He
Lied to Her Husband” filled a useful place
as a curtain-raiser to “The Pigeon.” It
stands about midway between the old one-act
farce and the modern comedy of social life;
and it is distinctly refreshing without any
element of nastiness. To say that the actors
got a lot more out of it than Shaw put
there is the best praise. The J. and N. Tait
Repertory season has gripped the ordinary
theatre patron in Sydney as well as the
enthusiast for literary drama. The next
show will be looked for with keen interest.
“De Luxe Annie,” with Emelie Polini in
the star role, is to be the Christmas season
attraction at the Palace, starting with the
matinee on Thursday, December 26. The
Bulletin will attend to it next week—with
the permission of the Censor.
“Hello, Everybody!” hits Sydney this
week, at Her Majesty’s. The managerial
“Jack and Jill ” Panto.,
at Melbourne King's.
Bert Bailey as Ginger.
a d.-w r i t e r can
hardly find words
to describe the
materia) splendor
a n d intellectual
brilliancy of the
big revue. During
the week The
Bulletin critic
will light a candle
and go down into
the cellar of Web-
ster’s Dictionary to
see if there are any
adjectives left over.
The result will be
announced in next
i~jue.
The Tivoli (Syd-
ney) keeps the
Christmas pot boil-
ing with “Every-
body’s Doing It!”
The sketch, “Oh, You
Reach!” where a
poor but devoted
bridegroom scorns
offers of cheap
oranges and free
oranges, and fin-
ally commits
assault and robbery to secure the only
peaches in town for his Eve because she de-
sired that particular fruit, recalls a good
O. Henry story. The stage-sketch and the
story have the same climax ; the girl, offered
the hard-won peaches, says she would rather
have had oranges. Which is very like a girl.
Fayette Perry makes the maddening remark
in the present Tivoli rendering.
* * *
At the Lyceum (Sydney) Madge Kennedy
occupies the screen in “The Danger Game.”
At the same house Francis X. Bushman and
Beverly Bayne are “Under Suspicion.” Olga
Petrova keeps the Crystal Palace and the
Strand in dividends, wearing “The Life
Mask” every day of the week except the
25th. The mask worn by Miss Petrova has
not the faintest resemblance to the influenza
mask. The interminable Charlie Chaplin is
repeated at the Lyric, Empress, Globe and
Grand.
Adelaide Repertory Theatre has revived
for one evening a former success —Arnold
Bennett’s “Great Adventure.” The play
already shows signs of age. Also, it has the
usual weaknesses of a play made out of a
novel; a jumpy succession of scenes —prac-
tically eight short acts! But it is a brisk,
unusual and witty story, and a safe success.
Wilfred Neill and Ivy Stacey were just as
good as before —she as the sensible house-
keeping woman, he as the shy genius (in
whom, by the way, our own Hilder claimed
to see his own faithful portrait). Good
character-studies were given by Muriel
Craigie, Ethelwyn Robin, and George
Clarke; and in the last act Basil Harford.
“That’s why I love him, d—n him,” said
Block about Pfeiffer; and it might be taken
as the central motto of “Friendly Enemies,”
the Shipman and Hoffman comedy produced
at the Royal (Adelaide). This is an old-
fashioned sentimental comedy with a newer
plot. Particularly moving is old Pfeiffer
when he begs his son not to join the Ameri-
can army. “German atrocities! Nonsense.!
All British lies. Would I do such things?
Would your Aunt Anna in Hamburg do such
things? Very well, then! Why do you want
to go and kill your cousins?” But the moral
is thoroughly rammed home at the last.
Color, comedy, music and spectacle are all
well blended in “.Tack and Jill” at the
King’s (Melb.). The big features are spec-
tacular, and the joint managements (the
Tails and Bailey and Grant) have contrived
one or two scenes which attain the maximum
of pictorial splendor. The Spanish Bal-
let in the second act, scintillating with
toreadors and their fancy girls, surges into
a picture wherein scarlet and yellow are the
main color-note. The Flower Ballet is beauti-
ful, and the rich Bagdad finale to the
first act, with its swaying Oriental multi-
tude against a background of minarets and
cobalt sky, throws one back to the atmo-
sphere of “Kismet” or “Chu Chin Chow.”
The concluding march, representing Aus-
tralian products, furnishes the usual spread
of contours. The discipline and quality of
the ballet are to be credited to the wisdom
of the ballet-master, Espinosa. Lupino is
again producer and M.O. of innumerable
small diversions. lie is premier danseur in
the Spanish Ballet, instigator of revelry in
a comic chemist-shop and hairdressing-
saloon, as well as playing a dame de-
pressed by the careers of eight tumultuous
husbands. He exercises his folly without riot
or mannerism. Bert Bailey, with his
flaming thatch and grotesque wardrobe
and make-up, is a happily-resurrected
Guy Fawkes. His droll and incisive
humor is seconded by Joseph Brennan.
Hassan, the donkey impersonator, is
quietly inserted into the joyous proceedings.
Dorothy Leigh, with a nice voice and many
personal graces, is temporary principal-boy
until the imported specialist for the part,
Virginia Roche, a passenger on the Makura,
emerges from quarantine. Violet Collinson
is a songful Princess. Ida Newton (Jack)
and Grade Dorran (Jill) carry the thin
thread of the nursery legend up the hill and
down again, Fred Macdonald is Ihe Demon
of the Well. The dancing and the dressing
of the show are herewith awarded special
prizes, and a vote of thanks is due to scene-
painters Clint and Rowell. They have some
fine imaginative cloths.
“Goody Two Shoes,” at Her Majesty’s
(Melb.), is made eminent by several warlike
allusions. In the first place there is a lis-
some army in khaki lending the weight of
their young voices to a couple of soldier-
songs, and in one instance the girls perform
some striking evolutions after appearing
from an ingeniously improvised tent in the
middle of the stage. Later on the damsels
furnish an awkward squad for Private Toby
Claude when she vows her readiness to slay
the bugler—a wretch who arouses her too
early in the morning. There is a dockyard
scene with a swelling anvil chorus by
shapely munitioneers; but the strongest
stimulant to patriotic sentiment is provided
bv a series of cleverly-framed tableaux, end-
ing a huge and impressive picture in which
the Allies’ recent victory is celebrated by a
symbolical group. The Firm hasn’t neglected
to exercise its spectacular craft. The march
of the playing-cards and the final array, re-
presenting the courses of an expensive din-
ner, are very attractive, and there are
other charming impressions in which the
efforts of Maggie Dickinson deserve a special
medal.
* * * *
The scenic-artists have put their best
brush forward in some fine designs, and
the cast works hard to make up a good show.
Arthur Stigant starts another season of
droll achievement as the Dame, and there is
nothing more recuperative to melancholy
minds than Arthur in a vein of reminiscent
fancy, assisted by an inglorious milliner who
borrows a cannon and a kettle as models for
hats. May de Sousa, the new “boy,” is a slim
contrast to the plump and pretty Madeleine
Harrison, who is not overtaxed by the part
of the principal girl. Both ladies have
pleasant voices, but May reveals the greater
range and cultivation. Toby Claude, re-
appearing after a long interval. is. the same
volatile midget with a more embellished style
of facial mannerism and a less assertive
’vocal outfit. Fred Walton is a brilliant
intrusion in the disguise of a toy soldier who
makes himself eloquent by a wealth of pan-
tomimic gesture. Maude Gray, another new-
comer, is dedicated to light duties as a con-
ventional fairy, and the same might be said
of Dorothy Hastings, Fioie Allan, Stanley
Odgers and Lou Vernon. Con Moreni is an
eccentric character, and though Herbert
Walton chatters effusively he never outstays
his welcome. Ernest Langford,_ as a long
and angular reservoir of patter, is partnered
by a duchess (Rene Tanswell) in one or two
dialogue contests, and Kelso Henderson is
Maggie Dickinson’s accomplished presenta-
tion. The expected “specialties,” Jewel's
marionette circus and Ivenna Brothers’
aeroplane act, had not arrived when this
notice went to press. These people were on
the Makura and have evidently been post-
poned by reason of quarantine.
“Bubbly,” at the Tivoli (Melb.), has a
wider range of episode than previous revues,
but even its best scenes are deficient in body
and soul, so to speak. The scene in the in-
terior of a prehistoric cave has no bite,
and the burglarious item where Hugh
Steyne robs a safe with the assistance
of Billy Rego is rather a feeble bit of merri-
ment. Most of the stuff is of the quality of “a
few powder-puffs” wherein Noel Geddes is the
prettiest puff in sight, but this sort of elegant
futility palls after a time, and one begins to
demand something more substantial. Hugh
Steyne is again the leading comedian, lie
is supported by the quaint Rego, who makes
a special appeal as a baby bear. John
Junior prattles, and Leslie Gaze has a song
or two. Charles Albert is conspicuous
in .a couple of happenings, and Herbert
Leigh and Lawrence Ilardinge are “generally
usefuls.” The ladies prominent in the show
are Beatrice Holloway, Clarice Hardwicke,
Ethel Bennetto, Marie Eaton and Noel
Geddes, and of the lot only Marie. Eaton has
a voice of any sizeable dimensions. The
ballet, about a dozen graceful girleens, occa-
sionally hits the eye as decorations of the
season. The scenery by the Clints, Waite
and Grist is picturesque enough.
According to Labor Senator Gardiner’s
view, the trouble about the Shaw wireless,
which annoyed Laborite Jensen and Labor-
ite Long, was really a capitalistic con-
spiracy. “Powerful companies in Australia
commanded the press, and that was why
the press described the purchase as a scan-
dal.” Still, wireless companies are very few
—they could be counted on the fingers of
one hand and still leave some room for
closer settlement —and they are not notori-
ously rich. Also, the press is numerous
enough to take a lot of controlling. Will
Gardiner get down to details and say exactly
which wireless company controls which
paper, including affluent rags like the Age
and S. M. Herald and Adelaide Adver-
tiser. The idea of a little factory in a
side street being rich enough to control the
Herald is 1 umorous. Yet it is in keeping
with the vulgar idea that any two-man or
ten-man Australian industry that does some-
thing more intricate than sawmilling is a
hotbed of political intrigue, and requires
watching.
LIGHTS UP AT SYDNEY ROYAL.
Thp shadows are gone and the ghosts are laid—
The ghosts that streamed from the lantern’s heart;
The singers are doing a roaring trade,
The comedy-man plays his red-nosed part;
The bandsmen fiddle and blow with art
And stagehands sweat for their union wage
Where silent photographs used to start
And end the night on a vacant stage.
Color comes back to the Royal once more;
Dressing-room chatter and scandal flies;
The dancers cluster about the door,
The greasepaint thick on their cheeks and eyes;
That hectic flush is a flush that dies
When all is done and it’s time to go.
The Peace dove wings through the summer skies
So the oid Royal’s holding a speaking show.
“Gallery” : Jens Jensen had a packed
house for his “explanation” in the Reps, last
week. For three hours he equalled a
matinge idol in drawing powers, and the
horde that clung to every point of vantage
allowable by the staff were not denied a
little entertainment. The immense Jensen,
striding up and down at the foot of the table
with his voice rising to a scream of anguish
or descending to a half-sob of self-commiser-
ation, showered theatricalisms on an assem-
blage that had never been highly endowed
with tragedians. I calculated that he walked
several miles during his three hours of
tirade, triviality and counter accusation, and
when he let go charges of prejudice against
the Commission that judged him, and
disposed of hostile witnesses, the air seemed
to swirl with the swaying of his gestures.
Much of his speech was pure hysteria, much
of it quotation for the confusion of alleged
enemies; but every word of it was plain with
the pain of his injured pride. That his
administration should be questioned seemed
t<> hurt him more than the inquiry into his
private integrity, and he cited special cases
to prove that his administrative genius was
something more than a personal superstition.
Altogether it was a scene made more poig-
nant by the non-committal silence on both
sides of the House.


Man mr HirMS^j
He >sa ma^Ter-^iece.
oj- CVesrTTon buT
Vke. SolletTn
pfonT/ op- room
>or" improve -
foenl .
"f^ r c«e_
hake **
"'Jeet
One ooold catch "The sea bnse^e
.j, -Hie nose woer'e on Idp>
-fhe head . "Then asain *
Co
one could Weejp _ones~j
on and lt\ie M
vn
better
One- ( (
natural
Scooten - joof
uoould be much
rnone and speedy
fhan ibe usual pair ojf <rolterp
\
THE CA33HL
PROSIFY 50LVED
his ovjorj,
illumination
i *
Consider "ttje popple
Glad Eye Man
duTgii'led ooiTt? tile,
elastic eye o| the
or den
n<s /<
sna v I . ( J <
•" r , ,'V croaked, broken I/,
I love Yov ■
h(o^" 3| h ' s b^'2|^ a^~ s^=
ro^d
'/
&<e, \&e.
tfoT
(AjdVi ft\e \
liquor
stor^p
Ca- A
P*
ac-
M
Y
o| the
Camels
?
Fill up -the hump on
Monday morning |i| e {5 one
lons -(§>* ooda or die
uueek .
It
would
a iof o| trouble.
, -j'ur coatl,
on "tVie
£x|pen 5 i\i<-_
s^\
Detachable
oJould be oy
irwaluable assistance.
\n tire detection
crime |
rf.
MAKING A BETTER MAN OF US.


LEAD
British Owned and Controlled.
SILVER
The Broßen fiill Associated Smelters Pty. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
Smelting Works : Port Pirie, S.A. Coke Works : Bellambi, N.S.W.
Branch Offices:
LONDON : 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman's Building:. SYDNEY :25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Dead Corroding Lead
Antimonial Lead Chemical Lead
Assay Lead (liar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (liar and Granulated)
Linotype Metal, Litharge,
Antifriction Metal
BUYERS OX A SPECIALLY
FAVORABLE TARIFF OF
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade?
Slags, etc., containing silver or lead
Lead Drosses, Zinc Drosses.
Registered
EH AS
Brand.
LITHARGE
All Enquiries to
be addressed to
• the Secretary.
ANTIFRICTION
LINOTYPE
METALS
"PIONEER" Leather Belting
The most efficient and economical power transmitter.
J. C. ludowici son ltd.,
PIONEER WORKS, 117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck W T heels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Australasian Temperance and
General Mutual Life Assurance Soci-
ety (Ltd.) :
Ordinary Like Dkpaktment.~
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Fonds.
1906 .. £98,666 £21,026£38,925 £88,715 £410,265
1907 .. 108,447 21,451 39,010 47,380 463,643
190 S .. 130,384 29,470 44,751 56,163 u'J9,806
1909 .. 100,910 44,733 49,412 06,801 086,607
1910 .. 177,578 40,810 53,058 83,110 609,717
1911 .. 189,794 31,230 52,071 100,487 i 70,204
1912 .. 203,467 32,286 03,938 107,243 883,447
1913 . 224,252 33,752 75,588 114,912 998,359
1914 . 242,979 36,281 71,858 134,840 1,133,199
1915 .. 209,690 37,747 95,302 136,047 1,209,846
1910 .. 298,902 41,098 120,583 137,281 1,407,127
1917 325,647 50,500 100,589 114,552 1,521.679
1918 .. 355,583 55,053 159,812 140,11 S 1,661,797
Industrial Life Department.
Added to Total
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
1900 . . £118,433 £58,833 £10,444 £43,156 £147,526
1907 124,703 52,289 16,129 50,285 203,811
1908 .. 134,723 04,402 22,320 48,001 251,812
1909 . . 145,757 64,954 34,189 46,614 298,426
1910 .. 155,333 59,359 40,129 55,845 354,271
1911 .. 170,358 01,002 50,537 58,819 413,090
1912 .. 194,650 71,308 56,505 00,837 479,927
1913 . . 234.405 84,420 104,245 45,800 525,727
Taken over from Accident Dept.. . 338 526,065
1914 .. 273,216 105,227 104,846 63,143 589,208
1915 .. 306,949 111,375 89,567 100.007 695,215
1910 .. 360,880 129,745 89,896 147,239 842,454
1917 .. 445,852 157,779 115,708 172,395 1,014,849
1918 .. 535,667 180,980 133,701 214,920 1,229,769
The T. and G. continues to grow with won-
derful rapidity. During the past live years
the income in the Ordinary department has
expanded by over 58 p.e., while in the In-
dustrial department the income lias almost
doubled in four years. Go back to the first,
lines in the two tables, and the growth of the
figures is even more remarkable. In 1906
tli6 Society had been in business for exactly
80 years. Its total premium income for that
year was'£l93,Bls; during the next 12 years
it had grown to £755.887. Combined funds
in 1906 amounted to £568,789; at September
80 last they totalled £2,891,566. In the
meantime the income from interest and rents
has increased from £2.8.287 to £185,868. The
war has, of course, affected the loss rate
lately, and during the past four years the
Society has paid 2044 war claims. No
doubt the average of these claims is not
high—in the Ordinary department the aver-
age sum assured on 57.646 policies in force
at September 80 was £l2l. Nevertheless,
must of the claims represent the loss of
young policy-holders from whom the Society
had received comparatively little in premi-
ums. Here is a comparison of the claims
ratio for the past two years compared with
1914:
Ordinary.
Premium Claims
Income. Claims. Ratio.
1914 .. £193,696 £71.858 37 p.c.
1917 .. 254,258 160,589 63 „
1918. .. 276,195 159,812 5S ~
I \ DUST It I A Ij.
Premium Claims
Income. Claims. Ratio.
1914 .. £247.431 £104,846 42 p.e.
1917 .. 400.611 115,708 29 „
1918 .. 479,692 133,761 28 „
However, despite the war losses, the T. and
G. has been able to maintain its bonus dis-
tributions. At September 30 the Ordinary
department funds amounted to £1,661,797,
and the actuary estimated the liability at
£1,618,454. Of this surplus of £48.343 all
but £5lO is being distributed, equal to about
17 p.c. of the premium income. In the In-
dustrial department the surplus was esti-
mated at £37.191. slightly less than half of
which is being distributed.
But though the Society has'suffered heavy
losses lately, the conditions created by the
war have provided some compensation. Note
the growth of interest earnings on average
funds: —
Interest Earnings p.c. of Average Funds.
1910 ..£4 10 6 p.c. I 1915 ..£4 13 0 p.c.
1912 .. 411 0 „ 1916 .. 4 14 7 „
1913 ..4116,, I 1917 . . 4 17 6 „
1914 .. 412 6 „ I 1918 .. 419 9 „
Thus the funds are now earning 7s. 3d. p.c.
more than they did in the year before the
war; and 7s. 3d. p.c. on the present funds is
equal to £10,482 additional interest earnings
per annum. The increased interest earnings
are likely to be maintained for some time,
too.
The expense rate nowadays is much more
satisfactory than it used to be:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
Sept Ordinary. Industrial.
1905 .. £2l 1 lp.c. £52 18 2 p.c.
1910 .. 22 19 7 „ 38 4 4 „
1914, . . 14 18 8 „ 38 10 3 ~
1915 . . 13 911 ~ 36 5 8,.
1916 .. 13 14 11 .. 35 7 3,,
1917 .. 15 10 2,. 35 7 9,,
1918 . . 15 13 0 34 18 I,>
The T. and G. sot in a record lot of new
business last year—l 2.244 Ordinary policies
assuring £1,846,401. Assuming that the re-
newal business cost 7 p.c., then the new busi-
ness cost £40.541, equal to 76 p.c. of the
first year premiums paid. This is good, though
not quite so good as in other recent years.
Another point about this new business, by
the way, is that the average sum assured by
the new policies is £l5O each —much higher
than the average of the old business. The
reduction of the expense rate in the Indus-
trial department is another feature of the
year's operations.
The disposition of the funds has improved
considerablv during the past five years:—
1913. 1918.
Government and municipal securities 36.0 p.c. 53.3 p.c.
Loans . . . . . . • ■ ■ • 49.2 „ 31,0 „
Freeholds . . . . . . • • 12.3 ~ 12.0 ~
Cash and sundries .. .. • • 2.5 ~ 3.7 ~
Apparently over half a million has gone into
War Loan during the past 12 months. The
result has been that the holding of public
securities has increased from 42. S p.c. in
1 Di 7 to 53.3 p.c. at September 30 last; and in
five years the figures have climbed from
£570.741 to £1,694,253.
* * * *
The National Insurance Company of
New Zealand :
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Sept., £ £ £ £ £
1906.. 43,626 15 p.c.= 15,000 28,626 238,243
1907.. 26,096 15 ~,,15,000 11,096 249,339
1908.-30,591 15 ~ ~15,000 15,591 264,930
1909.. 33,666 15 ~,,15,000 3234 15,432 280,302
1910.. 40,030 17J „ „ 17,500 22,536 302,898
1911.. 38,390 20 ~ ~20,000 18,390 321,288
1912.. 43,412 25 ~ ~25,000 —• 18,412 339,700
1913.. 52,209 25 ~ ~ 25,000 27,209 366,909
1914 35 664 25 ~ ~25,000 10,664 377,573
1915.. 42,347 25 ~,, 25,000 17,347 394,920
1916.. 48,511 25 ~,,25,000 28,511 418,431
Transferred to Capital, £lOO,OOO .. 318,431
191,7. . 57,633 121 p.c.- 25,000 32,633 351,064
1918.. 56,710 15 ~,,30,000 26.710 377.771
That last line probably does not show the
actual results for the past year. Though
all current taxes have apparently been
charged to the P. and L. account, a further
£lO,OOO has been appropriated for taxes in
the directors’ report. Maoriland taxation is
now very solid, as the amounts paid out by
this co.'show: 1913, £5931; 1914, £6429;
1916. £7962; 1917, £11,827; 1918, £11,079.
This heavy taxation has come to stay; and
since it is very unlikely that the insurance
Cos. will do nearly as well in the next few
years as they have during the war, the
cautious Dunedin directors have probably
taken advantage of a record 12 months to
provide something towards future taxation
calls. If the £lO,OOO appropriated for tax-
ation be included with the figures in the
table the profit was £60,710 —equal to one-
tl ird of the paid-up capital.
A further view of the year’s operations is
given in this comparison :• —
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895. . £82,935 £49,052 £26,560 59.2 p.c. 32.0 p.c.
1900.. 102,264 54,991 29.950 53.8 ~ 29.4 „
1905.. 107,648 58,996 36,402 54.8 ~ '33.8 ~
1910.. 126,602 60,682 44.157 47.8 ~ 34.9 „
1914.. 148,242 78,496 55,709 52.9 „ 37.5 „
1915.. 153,598 78,262 55.034 50.9 ~ 80.4 „
1916.. 161,932 79,333 59,052 49.0 36.5
1917.. 157.455 65,065 01,392 41.3 ~ 39.0 „
19187. 167,817 64,695 63,765 38.5 „ 37.9 „
Like practically every other insurance co.
whose accounts have been published . re-
cently the National of Maoriland shows a
record small loss rate for the year, while the
increased premium income has resulted in a
reduction of the expense rate. The marine
business has been extremely profitable; but
it might easily have been otherwise. For the
wonderfully small loss rates for the past
couple of years the British Navy deserves at
least a vote of thanks from insurance co.
shareholders. Wilhelm boasted that he was
going to sweep the seas of Allied ships; and
the insurance cos. for a while were not too
sure that Wilhelm was a false prophet. In
the dark days this marine business was a
risky gamble; nobody knew exactly what
were the limits of the Huns’ much-vaunted
TJ-boats. But when the insurance cos. backed
the British Navy they fortunately backed a
winner. Some amazing profits have been
made out of this marine business; for in-
stance there is the case of the six-years old
West Australian Insurance Co., which
plunged heavily into the business and last
year showed a surplus of premium income
over losses of over one-quarter of a million,
compared with £274.1 in 1914!
From the policy-holders’ point of view the
National of Maoriland is unusually strong.
Capital and reserves total £577.774 —suffici-
ent to cover more than twice the aggregate
losses of the past four war-years. And since
all but £2147 of the 15 p.c. div. for the past
year was met by interest earnings, practi-
cally the whole of the underwriting profit is
available for further strengthening the co.’s
position. A very satisfactory feature of the
latest balance-sheet is the improvement in
the investment of the funds. Go back only
three years:—
r — A \ i
1915. p.c. 1918. p.c.
Mortgages ..£371,365 69.7 £269,384 43.0
Debentures . . 49,400 9.3 52,999 8.4
Cash & War Loan 102,121 19.1 294,078 47.0
Premises. . . . 9,800 1.9 9,800 1.6
£532,686 100.0 £626,261 100.0
Thus there is now £102,000 less in mortgages
than three years ago, while £164,950 lias
been put into War Loan. Capital is 200,000
shares of £5 paid-up to £l, 10s. of it repre-
senting reserves capitalised two years ago.
Harrison, Jones and Devlin, Ltd.,
woolbrokers, etc. (Sydney)
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1906. .£14,805 7p.c.= £7,000 £5OOO £2,805 £25,231
1907.. 17,767 7 „ „ 7,000 5000 5,767 30,998
1908. . 13,568 7 ~ „ 7,000 3000 3,568 34,566
1909:. 17,721 8 ~,, 8,000 9,721 44,287
1910.. 23,295 10 „ „ 10,000 13,295 57,582
1911.. 20,074 10 ~ „ 10,000 10,074 67,650
1912.. 18,019 10 „ „ 10,000 8,019 75,675
1913.. 18,559 10 „ „ 10,000 8,559 84,234
1914.. 15,198 10 „,, 10,000 5,198 89,432
1915.. 13,181 10 „., 10,000 3,181 92,613
1916.. 14,154 10 ~ „ 10,000 4,154 96,767
1917.. 15,619 10 ~ „ 10,000 -- 5,619 102,386
1918.. 18,496 10 „., 10,000 8,496 110,882
The highjy-satisfactory arrangement made
for the purchase of wool by the British
Government has helped this co. High prices
mean larger commission earnings, so
although handling costs have soared profits
show a good recovery. But iu the
recent comparatively dull years the co. has
improved its position, for there has always
been a very satisfactory margin between
profits and dividends. Even in the very
good years shareholders have not been
greedy. Since 1908 £98,000 has been dis-
tributed among shareholders, while visible
reserves have been strengthened by £76,316,
equal to over three-quarters of the paid-up
capital.
The following table shows the balance-
sheet movements: —
1900. 1914. 1917. 1918.
Mortgages . . £78,000 £45,000 £45,000 £45,000
Other debts .. 115,605 66,900 48,980 106,413
Freeholds .. 153,500 143,113 143,113 146,113
Leaseholds . . 10,486 8,786 12,186
Advances, etc.. . 173,082 153,733 135,467 184,034
War Loan . . 15,000 26,962
The advances, etc., are shown in the balance-
sheet as “amounts due to the co.” Exactly
how that item is made up is not shown, but
apparently owing fo the abnormal conditions
ruling the co. has had to increase its
advances to clients to the extent of about
£50,000. The result has been that lia-
bilities, apart from the mortgage on pro-
perty. are now more than double what they
were 12 months ago. Owing to the scarcity
of shipping the co. lias had to increase its
storage accommodation, and is laying out
£16,000 on these extensions. The result of
the policy of keeping a lot of the profits in the
business is shown by comparing last year’s
balance-sheet figures with those for 1900.
Though there is now £ll,OOO more out in
advances, etc., the co. owes £42.192 less, and
holds £25,962 of War Loan. Meantime it
has purchased £14,113 of new property and
written £21.500 off for depreciation ; and
goodwill, which stood in the books at
£40,000 18 years ago, has been written off
out of surplus profits. Whether substantial
inner reserves have been created to meet
contingencies The Bulletin does, not
know ; but in view of the directors’ conser-
vative policy in the matter of dividend dis-
tributions it is not unlikely that they have
put something aside to protect advances.
At any rate,, the past experience of all pas-
toral-finance cos. illustrates the wisdom of
making provision for bad seasons. How-
ever, with reserves of £110,882 accumulated
capital should be absolutely safe under all
circumstances. The size of the reserves, by
the way, draws attention to another point:
the present 10 p.c. div. is equivalent to
under 5 p.c. on shareholders’ total funds. If
anything like the past year’s profits can be
maintained shareholders might reasonably
hope for something better later on.
The Australian Mont de Piete Loan
and Deposit Co. (Melbourne) :
To Re- Re-
Oet., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1908.. £1421 10 p.c. = £1292 £129 £5,200
1909.. 420 9 „ „ 1162 4,458
1910.. 1261 8 ~ ~ 1032 229 4.687
1911.. 1938 10 „ „ 1292 646 5,333
1912.. 1333 10 „ ~ 1292 , 41 5,374
1913.. 1698 10 ~ ~ 1292 406 5,780
1914.. 2199 10 „ .. 1292 907 6,687
1915.. 2067 'lO „ „ 1292 775 7.462
1916.. 2276 10 „ ~ 1292 984 -8,440
1917.. 2942 10 „ ~ 1292 1660 10,096
1918.. 4005 121 „ „ 1614 2391 12,487
The war has not hurt Uncle; on the other
hand he has, in these dear money times, fol-
lowed the fashion and been able to ask a
little more. So. though this co. has
now only £2OOO more in pledges and stock
compared with five years ago, the income
from interest on pledges, profit on sales and
rents has increased from £10,798 to £14,472.
On the book value of the pledges and stock
last year’s income represented a return of
41.4 p.c., compared with 82.0 p.c. five years
ago. There are a couple of thousands in
property, which are no doubt earning their
bit, but those percentages give some idea
of how much more profitable business has
become. During the year two new branches
were opened in Melbourne suburbs, and the
Collingwood business in particular has
proved very sweet. Paid capital is £12.911 ;
17 years ago it was £21,579, but employees
robbed the co. of £14,000 or so and capital
had to be written down to cover the losses, lie-
sides the capital and the reserves (now
almost equal to the capital), the co. depends
on £lB.BBl of deposits to finance its busi-
ness. The future looks so promising that
the directors have taken up a city property
at a cost of £37.000, and have gone into
debt to the extent of £Ol,-150 to acquire it.
Mo.sgiel Woollen Factory Co. i I tun-
ed in. M.L.) : —•
Written To lie- Be-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
190(i. . £2,483 2‘lj p.c. = £ 208(1 £552 £17,152
1907.. 5,093 1 ~ ~ 3338 1095 £6O 17,212
1908.. 7,073 5 „ ~ 4173 2740 154 17,360
1909 .V 7.230 5 A ~ 4590 2500 140 17,506
1910.. 9,845 O' „ „ 5007 4500 338 17,844
1911.. 8,'400 6 .. ~ 5007 3000 459 18,303
1912.. 1 1,827 7 „ „ 5842 5500 485 18,788
1918.. 10,428 7 „ ~ 5842 4500 80 18,874
1914.. 9,450 7 ~ ~ 5842 4000 - 18,482
1915.. 12,937 7 ~ ~ 5842 5000 2095 J 0,577
1916.. 24,607 9 „ 7511 7510 9586 30,163
1917.. 10,012 9 „ ~ 7511 0500 20,104
1918.. 22,828 10 „ ~ 5340 6719 7763 33,927
Last year was easily a record one for the co. ;
but, to appreciate the position hotter, look
at these figures
Manufactur- Charges (in-
ing Profit. eluding taxes)
1914 .. £ 21,72.3 C 5,084
1915 . . 25,932 5,482
191.0 .. 40,300 5,918
1917 .. 36,542 10,959
1918 . . 56,185 19,113
Taxation has taken a big bite out of profits,
but the results since the war have been glit-
tering compared with the co.’s previous per-
formances. For the past four years to Oct..
1014, the net profit was £23,171; for the
four years since then, after providing liber-
ally for depreciation, replacements, etc., and
for taxation, the net profit lias amounted to
£44,655. In the former period, after paying
a dividend averaging just under 7 p.c. p.a.,
only £6BB was added to reserves. Though
during the past four years tin total net profit
has been equal to 53 p.c. of the paid-up capi-
tal, the directors have paid dividends averag-
ing not quite 0 p.c. p.a., so reserves have
been strengthened to the extent of £15,445.
The result of this wise policy is shown in
this comparison
1910. 1914. 1918.
Liabilities .. ~ 1217,453 .£12.719 £17.990
Plant and fixed property 71,6.39 6(1. .391 51,447
Goods .. .. .. 14,809 44,407 50.918
Book debts, etc. .. 8,813 10,70.5 23.528
Cash and investments . . -- -- 17.797
Capital has remained stationary at £83,457
for many years. To finance the business
in 1910 the co. was depending on a loan of
£13,000 and a bank overdraft of £3189. Now
the co. is working entirely on its own funds,
the increased liabilities being due to provi-
sion for heavy taxation arid the growth of
business. And whereas in 1910 there were
no cash assets, there is now a bank balance
of £7047 in addition to £lO.OOO in War
Loan.
* *.*,*
The Sydney Ice Skating Link '& Cold
Storage Co. :
... Written To Be- Be-
Oct.. Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1911 • . £10,149 12 p'.c.= £6OOO £2024 £2125 £10,012
1912.. 10,507 12 „ „ 7323 2181 1003 11,015
1913.. 14,650 12.1 „ ~ 8125 2395 4030 15,045
1914.. 12,732 121,,,, 8125 3492 1115 10.160
1.915.. 10,734 10 „., 7000 3618 116 16.276
Transferred to capital, £lO,OOO .. 6,276
1910.. 10,018 10 p.c.= 7500 7700 , 1 094
1917.. 13,513 124 „ „ 9375 4130 8 1.102
1918.. 13,486 124,, ~ 9375 4105 6 1,108
This co. mixes frozen meat, ice-skating and
movies—and does very well for shareholders.
It set out to popularise the ice-sport and at
the same time utilise its plant for refrig- r-
ating. When skating is “off.” the hall is
leased to picture-show people. The table
shows that after paying the 124 p.c. div.
practically nothing has been added to re-
serves lately; in fact reserves have shrunk
owing to the large amounts written off
plant arid buildings during the past thr»e
years. Nevertheless, the co. has considerably
improved its position since 1916: —
. .1916. 1917. 1918.
Assets other than pre-
mises and plant.. £11,427 £14,550 £8,289
Liabilities (including
dividend).. .. 22,896 21,888 12,05.5
Excess liabilities .. £11,469 £7,338 £3.746
At October 31 last year the co. owed £13,0(1(1
on mortgage and had £8144 in cash (though
all but £2519 was absorbed by the div. nil I


Particular attention is called to the comprehen-
siveness of the 1919 line of G.E. electric fans. The
features of construction, the operating efficiency,
the effectiveness of air delivery, the quietness nt
operation, and the attractive appearance combine
to make G.E. electric fans the choice of discriminat-
ing buyers. Come in and select your fan. We
stock all sizes. Australian General Electric Com-
pany, Wentworth Avenue, Sydney; and comer of
Queen and Little Collins Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
Make the water supply_ for your stock safe. Use
Aluminoferric in the proportion of lib. to 2000
to 3000 gallons of the most turbid water. In about
3 hours all the sediment, mud or fine vegetable mat-
ter will be precipitated to the bottom, leaving the
water crystal clear and pure. Aluminoferric is
quite harmless, and has no deleterious effect on the
water whatever. William Adams & Co. Ltd., 175
Clarence Street, Sydney. Melbourne: 521-3 Collins
Street. Adelaide: 96 Currie Street. Brisbane: Corner
Edward and Mary Streets. Perth: 33 King .Street.
2] —Advt.
* * * *
The latest copper-smelting plant to be erected in
Australia is that of the Mount Cuthbcrt Company
in North Queensland. It consists of buildings, power-
plant with boilers, generating sets and blowers,
blast furnace, copper converters and converter re-
fining plant, blister gathering and cleaning shed,
also steel bins for ore and coke. Wherever possible
the plant is electrically driven. The whole of the
plant was supplied by the Austral Otis Engineering
Co. of Melbourne, who have made 'numerous smelting
plants working iji Australia at present.— Advt. (2
• * * •
Above or below ground Pioneer Wood Stave Pipe
is the most satisfactory conduit. No fluid can harm
it, neither can it taint any fluid. As a pressure pipe
it is unexcelled, We also manufacture bore casing.
Send for illustrated catalogue. The Australian Wood
Pipe Co., Ltd. (H. 0.), Burns Bay, Lane Cove, N.9.W.
P.O. Add,: Box 1576 G.P.0., Sydney. Factories:
Lane Cove, N.S.W. ; Footseray, Vic; and Pt. Adelaide,
S.A. Contractors to all State Governments.— Advt.
Australian PATENTS from P. M. NEWTON, Patent
Attorney, Fink’s Bids., Melbourne, op. Patent Office.
# # —Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hasscl, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlercagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb.— Advt.
* * * #
Not to teach, not to preach, but to serve you,
come Lottoid Hard Wall Plaster Sheets for ceilings
and inner walls. They are time-defiant, fire-
resisting, weather-proof and vermin-proof. Lottoid
does not shrink, swell, crack, twist or rot—once in
place it stays “put” indefinitely. It combines per-
manency with economy. It saves time, labor and
expense, and answers every requirement in carrying
out artistic, charmingly refined, panelled effects.
Made m 21 different sizes, to avoid waste. Write
for free booklet to Spriggs’ Asbestolite Co., 338 Pitt
Street, Sydney.— Advt.
The manufacture of “Skandia” Crude Oil Engines
in Australia, both marine and industrial types, is
receiving the recognition that the enterprise deserves.
The Federal Government has placed an order for a
laige marine set, and their example has been followed
by several of the largest trading firms in Australia,
lasmania, the Pacific Islands and Dutch East Indies.
The workmanship of the Australian “Skandia” com-
pare B with any imported engine on the market.
Write Nelson & Robertson, Loftus Street, Sydnev.—
Advt.
Road-graders for building good roads, for mak-
grading* earth roads, cleaning out water-
tallies, making fire-breaks, etc. We carrv large
stocks of the best-procurable and most-up-to-date
machines. Several different sizes stocked, to be
worked by 2, 4 or 8 horses or traction-engine-power.
Catalogues and full particulars upon application
Arthur Leplastrier & Co.; Circular Quav East,’
Sydney. Queensland enquiries: The Australian
Machinery Co., Mary Street, Brisbane.— Advt.
IDEAS.—Commonwealth and Foreign Patent
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel
bourne, and Adelaide. - Thirtv vears’ practice. Writ
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Ad'vt.
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assa
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling
Balances, Weights, Morgan’s Crucibles, Braun
Sample Crushers, Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at lowe-
„^ all ° r wnte for particulars. 11. 11. S'elbv &Co
Ltd. 265 George Street (between Hunter anil Bon
Streets), Sydney ; and 443 Bourke Street, Melb.— Adv
v£arißornt<
- UftaßeMUO*.
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Loss of Profits
Insure in
Tkc 1.0. A.
The INSURANCE OFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-up Capital 96,291
Income (Cross) 1917 .. 249,000
Established 1010.
ACENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. It. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
•••pq™»So3"WHn»Oßinu«^""pu«'"ispJSai3"'asndiiWiisaM"M®l»PiH"'®MX'
Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
etc. Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the features
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts of the world.
Ask for
literature from
m
fsnn
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
imiimilliiuiliiiuiiiiiiiimimiiuiiiiuii mim mi "■••■iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiuiMiiiiiiiMini
Works: Trafford Park, Manchester. England.
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire•
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE—7S King William Street
SYDNEY-25 O’Connell Street
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
bonus). During the past year the mortgage
matured and the co. decided to work on a
bank overdraft. That accounts for the
shrinkage_of the balance-sheet figures. Capi-
tal is £75.000 in £1 shares fully-paid; but
£lO,OOO of that total represents reserves
capitalised three years ago.
Harper, of the X. S. Wales Mines Dept.,
has put together a long yarn about the old
Hill End goldfield which makes interesting
reading. If the examination of the con-
tribution is restricted to the dizzy figures
of the yields of the ’seventies, the outlook is
nothing but gold ; but if the results of the
operations since the big revival scheme was
launched with the formation of the Amal-
gamated Co. in 1911 are taken into con-
sideration the enthusiasm fizzles out. Har-
per 1 reckons that if there are any more
chunks of pure metal they are likely to be
found at levels lower than the present work-
ings. The saddle-reef formation is pretty
well exploded, Harper barracking strongly
for the bedded variety. He thinks a lot of
the regions about the contact of the Ordo-
vician and Devonian makes, and so far his
deductions have certainly worked out well.
The developments, however, have been local!
Nothing deep down will be proceeded with in
earnest until the water has been got rid of
by the completion of the tunnel traversing
the field.
Shareholders in the Amalgamated have re-
ceived very little information regarding the
reasons for the non-appearance of the big
makes of gold that were so optimistically
forecasted. Geologist Harper now ex-
plains that the repairing of Carver’s
tunnel and the pushing of the main drive
about 1000 ft. north, in addition to cross-
cutting and driving on various veins, pro-
duced only a little' auriferous quartz. Several
of the old shafts, put down in the? ’seventies,
were at a greater depth than the tunnel. The
IS-head battery at the mouth of the tunnel
was kept going largely in crushing the old
dumps without payable returns. “This is
hardly to be wondered at,” observes Harper,
“for the dumps had been picked over and
over again by the individual miners, and
only the valueless stone was left.” Again,
after the co. had driven the new Consolidated
tunnel below Carver’s someone discovered
that Carrol and Beard’s vertical shaft, also
an early-day work, had been sunk 290 ft.
below the tunnel level. The cash, Harper
points out, could have been more sensibly
absorbed in bailing out the old Carrol and
Beard shaft and in continuing the crosscut
east to intersect the main veins, some 300 ft.
below. The co. spent over £52,000 during
its existence, nearly £40,000 of which was
paid from capital and the rest from gold won.
The interests are now held by the Marshall’s
Hill End Co., with a capital of £15,000 in
75,000 shares, the Amalgamated retaining a
two-years’ tribute to work the Star of Peace
and Mica vein series below the Amalga-
nated tunnel level. Tributors have lately
opened up a nice make of ore by a winze on
the Mica vein, the vein varying in width
from a mere thread to 9in.; but as the gold
is also in the adjoining slates the full 3ft.
between the walls is being taken out. The
interesting point is that the high values are
still going down.
* * * *
Archie McKellar, who recently landed on
the two big reefs a little west of Mount
Dudley (N.S.W.) has sold the shows to a
Sydney crowd, who are taking steps to open
the makes. In each case there are good
indications on the free outcrop on the ridges,
and values are said to be immediately
assured. The consistency of the loom in the
neighborhood is a good sign, but nothing but
solid sinking will prove whether the stuff
exists with depth.
* * * *
Yerranderie silver (N.S.W.) is still able
to hand out an occasional sixpenny on
30,000 shares, and has put up a smart record
of 102 dividends in 20 years. A net profit
of £1589 was made during the year ended
Oct. 31 from silver-lead ore that realised
£7927. Shareholders received two sixpenny
divs. Of course the rich upper levels are
depleted.
* * * *
The N.S.W. Cement, Lime and Coal Co.,
which has put about £300,000 into its Kan-
dos proposition, is making a big hole in the
face of its mammoth limestone deposit. The
quarrying work is cutting across the deposit,
which is a couple of hundred yards wide at
that particular point, and runs several miles
north-west. Carne, Government Geologist,
has figured out about 15,000,000 tons in the
show. A method of displacement novel to
such workings in Australia is being tried.
Four 6in. drillings are being put down from
the surface to the deposit bed, these being a
few feet from the edge of the 120 ft. face.
The few cwt. of dynamite introduced will
heave about 5000 tons of stone at one go.
The process is relatively cheap with drilling
at the rate of from sft. to 7ft. a day. The
feature of this particular formation is its
uniformity of contents. It is only two and a
half years since the co. started manufacturing,
and it has to date turned out about 75.000
tons of cement.
* * * *
No plums are in the Christmas pudding
o f Edna May (W.A.). The crushing of
36,593 tons during the past six months
brings reserves down to the following
figures:—-
Tons. Value per ton.
Above 300 ft. .. 2,559 21s. 3d.
„ 383 ft. . . 4,641 755. 6d.
„ 480 ft. . . 14,500 675. Od.
This makes 21,700 tons averaging 635. 5c1.,
so that the mine has proved stone containing
gold worth roughly £69.000. Costs in the
six months were 335. lid.; so if it be taken
that a complete extraction were got the
profit would work out on that basis at about
30s. per ton. On 21,700 tons that would
bring in, say, £33,000 to be divided among
43,000 shares. But the complete extraction
never happens. Therefore it looks as if. as
usual, the market hasn’t been wandering
in the dark when writing prices down. Of
course the disappointment is the bottom level,
where the shoot shortened and where the
grade fell off. Further, holders didn’t keep
in mind the working out of the accumulated
slimes, though the bears did. Mick Williams
is on the hunt in the western ground for a
fresh shoot, but his is a forlorn hope. lie
still murmurs about water and the need for
another pump unit, as the bottom stopes go
forward. What price the othed mines
directly Edna May blows off steam, as it
will do within the next nine months unless
the unexpected happens? But what a little
treasure Edna May has been? Out of the
treatment of 108,000 tons it has put divs.
amounting to £7 ss. per share into the
pockets of the Tricks party.
# # * •
By tk» end of this year Westralia will
have produced approximately £137,000,000
worth of gold and paid somewhere about
£27,000,000 in dividends. Beginning with
£ll4B in 1886, the value of the annual output
increased in six years to £115,182. Then
with the advent of Coolgardie, Kalgoorlie and
other new finds, it soared until 11 years later
in 3903 it reached £8,770.919. Since then it
has, with the exception of a temporary check
in 1913. steadily declined. This year its
value will be about £3,500,000. To date the
biggest producers have been: Gt. Boulder,
£11,664,822: Golden Horseshoe, £11,227,004;
Ivaiihoe. £9,431.084; Boulder Perseverance,
£6.780.752; Gt. Fingall, £5,020,087; Oroya
Brownhill, £4,930,498; Sons of Gwalia,
£4,866.960 : Lake View Consols. £4,321,718;
Kalgurli, £4.348,221; Associated, £4,190,530.
The search for minerals other than gold has
never been so determined as. it has during the
past 12 months, and a largely increased out-
put is expected next year.
Lake View and Star (W.A.) expects to do
better after peace has been declared. Re-
striction of development and selective mining
of a limited tonnage of ore has, on account of
war-time costs, been the policy of the co. for
some time past, but directly more favorable
working conditions permit the Board pro-
poses to expand operations. Ore reserves
were estimated a few months ago at 305,000
tons, worth 265. Sd. per ton, which at the
old rate of consumption is equal to about 18
months’ supply. But then there is a big ton-
nage of partially developed ore to be taken
into consideration.
Lake View and Oroya’s accounts for the
last financial year show a profit of about
£21.000, out of which shareholders have been
paid a 9d. dividend. Apart from its West-
ralian interests, which include 571,844 Lake
View and Stars, 169,000 Yuanmi shares, a
big wad of Oroya Link scrip and the whole
of that in the broken-down Queen of the
Hills, the co. holds nearly £600,000 worth of
shares in the Burma Silver Lead Corpora-
tion and Zinc Corporation, etc. Then there
are some bundles of Great Fitzroys, North,
South and Central American mining stocks,
Russian oil shares, and other bad and doubt-
ful securities.
* * * *
This is one of the many ways that labor
conditions are evaded by gold-mining lease-
holders in the West. The apparently shep-
herded holdings of an apparently indolent co.
were jumped and forfeiture was applied for.
Instead of taking the ground away from the
offender the Warden imposed a small fine for
each block on which the labor conditions had
not been observed, and the Minister after-
wards reduced the penalty. But in the
meantime three months had been allowed
to lapse before labor covenants were
again obligatory, and during that period the
co. hadn’t to pay out a cent. Had the Court
ordered the leases to be manned during the
three months over £3OO would have been paid
in wages. As it was the co. was able to hold
the ground for that time on payment of a
small fine. It has always been easy to
shepherd gold-mining areas in Westralia, but
never so easy as it is now.
* 4 * *
Mining taxation is again being discussed
in the West, and a lot is being heard of the
argument used in S’Africa that any mine
which, without any direct or indirect taxa-
tion, could make revenue cover its cost,
should be enabled to continue operating. A
number of workers would, it is contended,
thereby earn a direct living, and the money
put into circulation by them a still
greater number of other persons to do likewise.
The Rand is quoted as the best example of
this. Its mines give direct employ to some-
thing under 30,000 whites and a little over
200,000 niggers; but the whole population
of 250,000 whites and 300,000 colored are
directly or indirectly kept going in addition
to large numbers of white, black and brindle
elsewhere in the country. A strong point is
also made of the indirect benefit derived by
the State from mining. In the case of the
Rand it is calculated that the direct and in-
direct revenue to the Government from the
mines amounts to over 9s. per ton.
Because union officials are angry over
Justice Powers allowing contract work
in alluvial mining, neither of the Langi Logan
(Vic.) shows can get a tender for work in
wash. This forces attention to pumping and
development. The first eats up money,
though the expense is not all waste, for the
better drained the gutter the cheaper is the
extraction of wash and the easier the open-
ing up of the ground ahead of the pauellers.
According to Bill Toole the New Langi has
5000 fathoms developed and dry off No. 2
shaft on the Cathcart gutter and 10,000
fathoms available down the main lead from
No. 1 shaft. The all-round valuation is
about 11 oz. gold per fathom, giving over
£90,000 of gold in sight—if the estimate can
be relied on. Taking Bryant’s statement
that 20 p.c. profit ought to come out of such
ground, then something like £20,000 should
be available for shareholders out of the areas
of wash. But the problem is whether the
dirt will sluice out the 055. So much work
has been done on the Cathcart lead as to give
data as to what may be expected there, but
there isn’t the same experience to go on over
Langi gutter wash. If it runs up to the oz.
it should pay under pre-war conditions if
Labor will only cease sulking, and Bryant
and Toole can be made to offer some bait to
allure crowds into the mine. It has cost
£122,000 to put New Langi where it is
to-day, and with £20,000 showing in profits
tin- drift in prices to a modest crown
shows that the market isn’t taking risks over
financing scrip. Toole will have got his
No. 2 shaft linked up with the No. 1 work-
ings in a few weeks. That will put the mine
in the strongest position it has yet occupied,
because water from the gutter can be shunted
up to the No. 1 shaft pumps. This will ease
the pressure in the Langi gutter below the
Cathcart junction, and it is there the co.
ought to have its best prospects if the tribu-
tary has shed a fair run of gold into the
main stream.
Duke and Main Lead Consols, Mary-
borough (Vic.), has had its final cleanup;
so rails will be pulled up and the machinery
man given a chance to pick up bargains.
Jimmy McCrorey was at his best when, with
Dr. Miller, he floated off this block on the
Duke lead, next door to the Duke United.
In those days North Duke was outputting
gold on a good scale, and George
Bryant was paying divs. from the Main
lead almost down to its junction with the
Duke gutter. Right through Duke and Main
Leads was well handled. No extravagance
on plant, and as the mine was not costly to
open it paid divs. like a toff almost up to
the time Jimmie McCrorey handed in his
checks. As the co. got down the gutter and
away from the junction with the Main lead,
the value of the wash tailed off and the runs
of gold narrowed. So. although the claim is
not worked out, the high cost of supplies and
labor put the extinguisher on the last of
the big productive alluvial mines of Victoria.
The only giants in size left are the two
Langi shows and that bob-tailed concern, the
Duke Extended.
* * * *
Dalmayne Colliery (Tas.) is to go the
way barrister Morley wants. He says that
the Board cannot ask shareholders to wipe
out £45,000 of debentures and pay another
£3OOO of debts. So he recommends plant-
ing the whole property m o the bond-holders’
back-yard to let them shape out a new r co.,
into which the men who have given consider-
ation for shares shall be admitted. The
rearrangement shuts out promoters, ven-
dors, the com. man and such others, in con-
sequence of which there is much groaning.
There also is to be an investigation into
the doings of sundry old-timers. However,
the leek had to be eaten if liquidation was
to be voluntary. The bond-holder is now
assured that he won’t have to bid against any
coal baron or shipping ringer if such want to
venture into the broad waste of waters off
Pickannie Pcint. He also knows that he
sits safe from calls till the shareholders put
up another five shillings.
* * * ♦
The high price of tin gave Briseis (Tas.)
a profit of £11,500 for the Sept, quarter. For
the first nine months of 1918 the yield was
181 tons of a net value of £61.093, which
gives an average of £330 per ton. The price
for the corresponding period of 1917 was
only £224 per ton. Briseis is giving a pro-
perty acquired under option at Gulgong
(N.S.W.) a trial.


This method has been con
sidered effective, provided
there is an expert handy to
tie the sack
A pair of scissors might do
it, with the aid of a balloon
and a parachute, and a drop
of, say, 2000 feet.
Jumping off a high building
attached to a rope has points
in its favor.
Lesser men than the All
Highest have succeeded by
even such a simple process
as this.
Even an amateur could
hardly bungle this method.
To a versatile person like
William, a very little prac-
tice in this style might be
calculated to be successful.
Playing with a lion has been known to bring about
the happy despatch.
As b last resource, what about William returning to
his beloved people ?
SOME SUGGESTIONS FROM “THE BULLETIN’S” SUICIDE EXPERT.
“The Kaiser has unsuccessfully attempted suicide.” — Cable.


Sydney's Premier
Private Hotel.
Cremorne,
On the Harbor Front.
Delightful 8 minutes’ Ferry Trip
from Circular Quay. 140 Rooms,
comprising Private Suites, Open-Air
Sunny Lounges. Billiard Room,
Tennis Court, Electric Light and
Lifts, Bathing, Roof Garden.
Illustrated Prospectus and all particu-
lars forwarded on application.
Telephones; Y2llB and Y 1266.
F.H.FAUt-DIKOiCO
PERTH AND LONDON
Use a genuine, high-grade
Australian Product in
FAULDING’S
Medicinal
EPSOM SALTS.
SPECIALLY REFINED AND
GUARANTEED PURE.
Sold in loz. Packets, lib. Cartons, and Bulk
in lcwt. cases.
LOOK FOR THE BLUE LABEL.
Manufactured and refined in Australia by
F. H. FAULDING & CO.,
Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and London.
k
WHY
BE
DEAF?
Without good hearing you stand on an un-
equal footing with other people, and the fact
is brought home to you every day. The
ACOUSTICON
10 Days’
FREE TRIAL
will safely and surely enable vou to hear.
Over 330,000 users. No matter what you have
tried in the past write for 10 Days’ Free
Trial of an “Acousticon.” No deposit, no
obligation. You alone decide. Convince your-
self at our expense, and DON’T STAY DEAF !
I anunn store f« 102 Dakingr House, SYDNEY.
L/ailloUlig erv j ce l<(7., oiderfleet, Collins St.,MELB.
N. Z. : John Procter, 200 High Street, CHRIST-
CHURCH.
IV.A. ; 11. Little & Co., S6l Hay Street, PERTH.
“A GEM OF A PIE
tr
\
\ i'io
AUS7
is what you will say when you taste the
pastry in which
IRELAND’S
BAKING POWDER
has been used. It will be the connoisseur’s
pastry—pastry that fairly melts in your
mouth. It will be the commencement of a
new era in pastry-baking once the housewife
commences to use it, for all the bakings will be of the same uniformly high
standard—the crust will be light and flaky and the pastry perfectly
cooked and easily digested.
And the same good results obtained in Pastry are yours also in
Scones, Cakes, Biscuits, etc., while you stick to Ireland’s. '
Insist on your grocer bringing it to you. Sold everywhere.
J. Ireland Ltd.
Newcastle.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
BARNES
LINSEED
OIL
The late Major Quilter —here with G.-G.
Dudley and a greyt favorite with all who
knew him —was killed early in the. war. He
has one beautiful memorial in Australia,
lie presented a sundial to Melba, also some
heavy flagstones for a rose-path which lie
designed for the garden at Coornbe Cottage.
The long path is now rose-lined and the
sundial is in position with its motto, “Count
Only the Bright Hours.” Melba lias a
quaint i\f gate leading from the Quilter
Walk into a kitchen garden, which is flanked
by sunflowers and hollyhocks.
“Mustard Gold”: Cancer, whiph kills a
lot of people in W.A., accounted for John
Forrest and for ex-Premier Frank Wilson,
at 59, after many years of desperate effort
to beat the dread disease. Perhaps the
haunting knowledge that lie was in the toils
of an incurable malady produced the some-
what cynical bitterness which characterised
the close of Wilson’s Parliamentary days,
alienated much valuable support and caused
bis defeat for Sussex at the last general
elections. Another victim recently was
George Whitten, who cut no political ice
nor, indeed, sought the public limelight in
any shape or form, but was kindly known
ARCHDEACON
WHITINGTON,
Hobart.
throughout t li e
goldfields as the
accountant of the
Palace Hotel, Ival-
goorlie, a position
held by him with-
out a break for over
20 years. Walking
slighty lame, the
result of a boyhood
accident, Whitten
wa s a familiar
figure moving
about that noted
rendezvous, th e
Palace corner. He
wa s a generous
sou 1. helpful t o
almost any suppli-
cant who could spin
a reasonable tale,
and backing the
prospector persist-
e n t 1 y without
showing much in
return for his
steady faith in the
mining industry.
_ When the late E. W. Cole was one of a
vice-regal party on the Murray, about two
years ago, he claimed to have been an early
navigator on his own account, having built
a boat himself at Echuca in 1860 and voy-
aged down-stream in it.
John English, Sydney’s new Gaud Mayor,
is one of the few public men who success-
fully defied the Labor machine. In 1909
he was a leading spirit of the Belmore
(N.S.W.) Labor League. On the death of
E. W. O’Sullivan, who held the electorate
as a Caucus member a few months before
he went west, there was a miniature Donny-
brook when boot-manufacturer P. J. Mina-
han, then a vice-president of the P.L.L. Execu-
tive, secured the Labor endorsement and
romped home. English was not at all satis-
fied, so two rival branch Labor-leagues
sprang into being in the electorate and a
battle for the official selection for the 1910
election resulted. By this time Minahan
was Lord High Executioner of the Labor
Executive, and finally emerged with the de-
sired endorsement. Supported by a host
of angry workers, English opposed Minahan
as an independent Laborite, and despite -a
declaration by the executive that English’s
Labor-league was “bogus,” he got within a
few votes of Minahan. At the 1913 general
election English again stood as an indepen-
dent ; but on being beaten by more than a
thousand votes he stood from under. Mean-
time he had retained his seat in the City
Council as an alderman for Belmore Ward.
He then made several attempts to re-enter
tbe Labor movement; but there was nothing
doing until early in 1917 when lie was
admitted to membership of the Municipal
Labor caucus. At the municipal contests
last month he was endorsed by the Aus-
tralian Labor Party as an “official candi-
date” and won in.
NO VACANCIES.
Switzerland has refused to allow ex-Emperor Karl
to reside in the Confederation
HANS SWITZER: "Hi! You! Do a bunk!
Buz off! Skedaddle! Go-to-eil-out-of-
it!”
Major Thomas Cherry, A.A.M.C., who left
Melbourne some time ago in pursuit of fur-
ther knowledge relating to the “bilhamosis"
disease, introduced to this country by sol-
diers who inid been stationed along the Suez
Canal, is now in England, after a variety of
experiences. Cherry, * whose eldest son was
killed in France not long since, began his ser-
vice with the A.I.F. as a hospital research
man. Bilharziosis was then just beginning
to make its appearance. An old friend of
Cherry’s happened one day to be talking with
lum about the symptoms of the disease, and
recalled the fact that a man at Pinjarrah
(W.A.) had suffered from a complaint with
similar symptoms. Cherry posted across to
the West and found that the case there had
come from S’Africa, the patient having
served in the Boer War, and it proved to be
the only case of the kind yet recorded prior
to the recent introduction from the Suez
Canal region. After his Westralian inquiries
Cherry went over to Egypt and did some
mere nosing around ; and at last, feeling the
need of a change, he went off to carry on
with the boys in Palestine. The latest news
is that he has “recovered”—though whether
this is from wounds or sickness is not known
to his family.
Edwin 11. Bayfield, who died at Nairne
(South Aiis.) on December 9, was born in
Adelaide in 1845. When a young man he
left with the overland telegraph workers for
the Northern Territory, and went through
to Darwin. He saw the first cablegram
come through from England. On the Gym-
pie goldfields in Queensland Bavfield was
fairly successful, and on his return to South
Aus. made a hobby of hotel keeping. lie
retired to consider the results about eight
years ago.
“Melb” : Pastor Kent, the adventist, from
Sydney, having- made good with a long series
of Sunday addresses in that expensive place
the Auditorium, which- the rich Collins-street
Baptist congregation is nervous in hiring
occasionally, has moved to a big tent in
Flinders-street East, a pitch once occupied
by Wirths’ Circus. G. V. Brooke, the
tragedian, lived in a brick villa at the rear
of this and fronting Flinders-lane. The
approach to Kent’s tent is made in a pic-
turesque way through a hole cut in a big
hoarding plastered with theatrical posters.
All this is deliciously romantic to the steady-
going religious folk, so Kent’s show is
crowded. He draws more people than Arch-
bishop Clarke’s nice, warm, comfortable
cathedral. Close by is Strong’s very fine
Australian Church, reached laboriously up
22 steep stone steps—a timber-yard of empty
pews, with a preacher perched on a distant
iceberg called a pulpit.
Just dead in Tassie, .T. H. Hodgson, well
known for years past to seafarers who have
called at Hobart. He was diver to the Hobart
Marine 'Board, and laid the underwater
foundations of most of the lights in the
Iluon lliver and D’Entrecasteaux Channel.
He built the Oil Butts light from 70ft. below
the surface, and was instrumental in refloat-
ing several sunken ships. A son put up a
good record in France and recently returned
wounded.
When Wilson, who died a few days ago,
was Premier of Westralia. he came to Mel-
bourne in the summer of 1916 to attend a
Premiers’ Conference,, mainly to screw as
much loan money as lie could out of the
Commonwealth fon “urgent” local public
works. Hughes told the States’ delegates
that their demands were impos-
sible of fulfilment and to cut
tjiem down by half or nearly
so. The temperature was over
lOOdeg. in the shade, and the
conference-room at State Par-
liament House was stifling. Wil-
son. who Was not a lean man,
had taken off his coat and vest,
and while lie argued for more
money he stood in front of the
large electric fan waving his
hands and distributing the cool
air about his head and shoulders
—going through the same move-
ments, in fact, as a youngster
splashing himself in a shallow
creek or a Chinese at; worship.
“Look at him!” said’ Hughes,
pointing to Wilson, “lie’s calling
on his joss to come to his aid in
getting the extra coin he wants ”
Lieut. .T. Basil Minehin, M.C.,
D. 5.0., at the age of 20 enlisted
as a private in Westralia, in
September, 1914, and embarked
two months' afterwards. lie
took part in the Landing and
then went to France. In Sep-
tember. 1917, he was awarded
the M.C., and in July. ’lB, the
D.S.O. Through all his en-
gagements he did not sustain
even a scratch or suffer a day’s illness. He’s
a Westralian of the third generation. His
brother. Lieut. ,J. 11. Minehin, who served
in the Boer War, was killed at Noreuil in
1917.
*\ Radio-Commander Cresswell (no relation
of the Bear-Admiral), the Commonwealth
Government wireless expert figuring in the
Navy Office sensation, is a young man in
the thirties. Intellectual looking and pre-
maturely grey, he has the typ’e of tall spare
frame that suits the sea uniform. He started
his career in the mechanical department of
Melbourne Telephone Exchange, later on
joining the Australia as wireless officer. Ilis
ability in research work brought him to his
present rank. Dad was Anglican parson at
Camberwell (Vie. ) for about a quarter of a
century. Late Commander Colquhoun, of
the erstwhile \ ictorian Naval Forces, was
one of the clan.
“Mookingah,” about one of the old hands:
John Conrick, of Napper Merri station, on Cow-
per’s Creek, Bananaland, in the year 1880, trans-
ported the first gold from the Mt. Browne gold-
fields near Milparinka to the Melbourne Mint. He
look up Napper Merri (for a while known as
Burke’s Depot) just 11 years after the first explorer’s
visit. In those days Wilcannia was the nearest
town, a little over 500 miles distant, with very few
residents any closer. In 1880 he left Napper Merri
for the Melbourne races, and, having heard of the
Mt. Browne rush, decided to go that way. To
reach there he crossed 300 miles of virgin unin-
habited country with no permanent water, and one
dry stage of 70 miles. At Mt. Browne 3000 men
were on the field, some with tents, but mostly the
blue sky was their roof. On a hill, where the
town of Milparinka now stands, the Commercial
Bank had a tent with a box for a counter and a
water-bag. Layton, now of Sydney, was the mana-
ger, staff and office boy! He asked Conrick to take
80 ounces of gold for the bank to the Melbourne
Mint, and the treasure was placed in a saddle-bag
aboard one of Cobb and Co.’s coaches, the over-
lander going as passenger. Four inches of rain
held the coach up at the Bunker, and Conrick, carry-
ing the specie, walked the last 60 miles to Wilcannia,
eventually landing his load safely at the Mint.
Just passed, at Hobart, aged 70, George
Gerresford Franklin, the Speck’s best-known
old-time detectiveL Franklin’s fine up-
standing figure and strikingly handsome
appearance, combined with his popularity
in sporting circles, handicapped him profes-
sionally, and some of the big fellow’s-
attempts to disguise himself are still the
subject of joy among survivors of the old
regime. But he was all there when he
sighted the man he wanted—no weapon
■would stop him. Since he retired from the
force some years ago. the ex-detective had
worked as a farrier. ■
In Chambers, Melbourne, Irvine is talked
of as Griffith’s successor as C.J. of the High
Court. It is
hardly likely
that as Vie.
C.J. he would
give up his
present office,
which carries
the right to a
pension and the
Lieutenant-Gov-
ernorship, for
anything less
than the first
position in the
High Court. If
Irvine is trans-
ferred it is
scarcely pos-
sible that Cus-
sen tvill again
be passed over
ior th c Vic.
Chief Justice-
ship.
CORBOY . the
21-year-old
successor of
Bigjohn Forrent
in the House of
Representatives.
“RR.” reports some hard-doers J
My sympathy is with the writer uutl artist in the
filing-line every time, (,'tune across Norman Wilkin-
son doing his water-color sketches of Anzae one
morning as we were returning from “Hill 00.” The
dust and flies made sketching almost impossible and
several times Wilkinson almost gave up the job in
disgust. After 10 weeks in a London hospital I
crossed over to France. We had entered a French
village some miles behind the firing-line, and seated
in a small restaurant, writing as if he was on piece-
work, 1 met rifleman Pat McGill. Beside biin was
a pile of copy covered With neat handwriting, lie
was dressed in the usual dust-stained Tommy uni-
form with the Ii.A.M.C. badge on his arm. He
had been in the firing-line since the commencement
of the -fighting in France; had been wounded, once
•seriously, and had written “The lied Horizon”
wholly in the fifing-lipe under the greatest difficul-
ties. The first chapters; were written at Richenbourg.
Here McGill’s billet was shelled by the enemy and
he had to seek shelter .in a cellar. The walls fell
in and the author had to be dug out. The copy for
his book was destroyed. Two weeks later he re-wrote
the previously-last chapters and added a few more.
While helping to resfcue a wounded man he left his
pack containing the MSS. on a parapet and when
he returned Hater the parapet and. pack were gone!
He used all kinds of copy-paper from tea-wrappers
to cigarette packets. Back in Palestine I came
across artist George Lambert doing official sketches
in the Jordan Valley and taking little notice of the
shells from a Turkish gun cleverly concealed in
the hills of Moab. Lambert was very popular with
our mounted men, and several of them treasure
sketches which he presented to them. When the
Huns tried to break through to Jerusalem last
August a motor-car dashed furiously along the
ancient Jerieho-road. Once or twice it nearly
skidded over a cliff, and I was on the verge of taking
notes for an obituary par when I was informed that
the occupants were war-correspondents Gullett and
Massey, hurrying to see Billjim wipe the floor with
the Kaiser’s picked infantry from the Russian front.
DIGGER.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A writer protests in the press against certain
civilians cheapening, by misuse, the sacred name of
Digger.
“Comrade” and “Fellow-worker,” “Brother men" —.
Such names are cheap on Sunday down the Doni.,
Mouthed and remouthed and shouted yet again,
With red-rag tags and sure-salvation tips;
Who cares what grinning jaws and writhing lips
Of ranting knaves he takes such titles from?
All meaning is gone out of them long since—
Dead husks that stir on every idle breath.
But “Digger,” aye, that makes the dinkum wince—
Living and dead that sacred name enrolls—•
They wrought it: on the anvil of their souls,
Red War for hammer, at the forge of Death.
“Digger”—that name’s his own by all that’s true;
As epic-worthy as his old felt hat,
Whose roof was all the homo his wandering knew—
It suits all wasters as some jewelled crown
Suits the patched fustian of a thievish clown.
Let spineless dawdlers keep their tongues from
that!
“Cobber” and “pal” and “mate” —there’s good and
bad,
In spite of Shakspeare's tilt at names, then,
For you might hang a dog with “Kamcrad” ;
But names like Digger can’t be cadged or bought
Like titles. ’Tis for those who fell or fought,
Battered and splendid—men’s own name for men l
N.S.W.
PEANUT.


CHAMPION Tobacco
Plug
Cut Mixture.
f
v
h m
m
Wh.
m
-Vfr. •: ■
**•’ '.St-.,v; '■ V'J
V K,
- ■**" aii"' v&fcm?
wmm.
•iiNMx
m.
v
Something Like a Christmas Goose.
SmoKers can find no better Tobacco- —
bight or DarK; Plug' or Cut.
“CHAMPION” meets every desire.
Many liKe to cut the Plug' themselves.
“CHAMPION” 4oz. PLUG, LIGHT and DARK.
“Champion” Cut includes
CUT FLAKE, LIGHT and DARK.
CHAMPION DE LUXE MIXTURE.
LMN
400
PIPES
DO NOT CRACK OR BURN.
NWI
?
&
m
P 99
3Qi(j


LADIES!
AFTER WAR COMES PEACE.
Let your XMAS GIFTS be useful.
The Summer is here. The Australian climate is a severe one. Surfing, motor-
ing, picnicking will absorb much of your friend’s time. Prepare her for the
burning sun, and a dry, tender and chapped skin.
inters
trangc
TOILET PREPARATIONS WILL HELP
Harmless to the most
delicate skin.
* Strait?*7 if!
LAKSHfII
CREAM
USED BY ROYALTY, A SUFFICIENT GUARANTEE.
Ask for them at all Departmental Stores and Chemists.
Powders (3 tints), New Face Creaip (2 colors), Lakshmi Cream and
Lotion, Soap, Hair Foods (Oily and Non-Oily), Carmine, Dry Shampoo,
ap,d Dental Cream.
Send 3d. stamp for sample of Soap, or Dental Cream, or Powder (name
the tint), or Face Creams, and Booklet, to .John Strange Winter (Lon-
don, Paris, Rome), Sydney Offices: 32 Depot, 26-30 Jamieson Street.
\Aeltonian
iSPEfIALTIES
Creams
?rd
I astes
for
Cleaning 8 Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents-.
WARREN & STRANG LTD.
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. DROWN d» SONS LONDON
AGENCIES • ALL • OVER • THE * WORLD
f
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
Managing Director-
SOCIETY
MINCHINBURY
HIS IDOL.
MRS. NAGGE : "Are you drunk, sir, taking
your boots off at the front door?"
MR. N.: “ Nota-tall, in' dear—gorrer new
religion. Mush take boots off entering
place o' worship—worship you, y’
know, dearshest."
The Commonwealth is 18 years old and
already it has paid for the portraits of 19
imperishable statesmen at an average of
£229—19 men whose absence from the
nation’s gallery would make posterity the
poorer. Five more immortals are in pro-
gress, including the overwhelming personali-
ties of Senator Givens and Speaker John-
son. No country can turn out great men at
such a rate without exhausting the soil by
excessive cropping. Also, the rush 'and
pressure exhaust the public memory, arid
some of the marvels of intellect are already
forgotten—in fact, some were born that way.
The pace increases as time goes on, for the
Hughes Government is fast at everything
except work, and its order for five Fathers
or Old Dads of the Country (including
Givens) all at once is a record. There is
only space for four more in the Queen’s
Hail, so the fifth (possibly Givens) may
have to be hung in the street as a horse-
frightener. The show is almost entirely of
politicians who appraise their own immor-
tality and indispensableness, and the indis-
pensables are a poor lot nowadays. In fact
the stream is running dry. At tne beginning
of the Commonwealth there were a few men,
such as Barton, Kingston, Forrest and
Turner, who had a claim to be put on canvas.
They were all constitution-builders, which
might be an accident, but then Washipgton’s
job as a constitution-builder was also an
accident based on the fact that he happened
to be there. Anyhow three of the four had
served many years in State politics with
some success, and had climbed to the, top of
affairs over the heads „pf many weaker con-
temporaries in the process of creating their
claim to be remembered in the Federal
sphere. It took something like 50 years to
grow that little original crop, and a similar
crop can’t be raised every day. After the
first half-dozen pictures at most—perhaps a
quarter Vlozen would have sufficed—tnere
should have been a dozen or 20 years’ rest.
Then perhaps John Monash, who is a rare
personality, might have come in. As it is,
the cheap men of the ruck are inflicting their
heads and necks and shoulders, also their stiff
collars, at the public expense on a public
whose sons . won’t know them from tick-
inspectors.
* * * *
Solicitor-General Arthur Robinson, of Vic-
toria, who used to attend Scotch College as
a lad, has been fluting about the war-record
of his school as being unapproached by any
other in Australia. This raising of tactless
joy-paeans about one’s own connections in
the war is an unprofitable and irritating
business. Senator Blowhard, rising on the
public platform at a welcome-home to re-
turned soldiers, casually mentions : that his
own son Bill has been wounded seven-times;
and in one of the back seats there sits an
inarticulate widow who has lost both her
sons and has nothing to say about it—can’t
say it and wouldn’t if she could.
Much excitement was created in
a section of Little Bourke-street,
Melbourne, at abont six o’clock
one evening recently by the eccen-
tric conduct of a somewhat
elevated square-head, in sailor garb,
who had taken to a shop-front and
was swarming up it with the seem-
ing ease of a judicious tarantula
from the house-wife’s
slipper. The ridiculous person
went up over the verandah, and
negotiated two storeys after that
via the front-window* ledges, while
Ihe crowd accumulated, gasped and
shouted in the street below, every
man-jack of the assembled multi-
tude satisfied that he was on the
eve of witnessing a hair-lifting
tragedy. But the sailor gained the
top and went over, and then was
reported galloping a north-easterly
course across the roofs. The crowd
followed as best it could, getting
an occasional blood-thrilling
glimpse of the infatuated tar
■sprawling up cne side of a gable
or slithering down another, or tak-
ing the space- between buildings
in a flying leap. At length he was
intercepted and collared on the
tiles of an establishment by an
intrepid John Hop, who had gone
up on his errand of mercy through
a skylight. The mariner offered no
resistance, was brought to earth
and severely interrogated. He was
a Swede, he said. “Eet ees all ride,
I tolt you,” jje protested. “I vos
poart by dot poartink-haowse in
Nigolson-sdreed. unt I half take
der short cut home.”
“Gouger”: a scorching, burning beat
rose from the desert sand all through the
never-ending day of the Bir-el-Abd battle.
All along the far-stretched line the one
thought was water. Could it not bp got
from somewhere? Surely there must be
some little oasis close by where a man could
make a sudden dash with the troop’s water-
bottles. But the Turks suddenly attacked
in great force. Our rifle and Maxim fire
swelled to a quickening roar, and all chance
of a long cool drink was finished. The bar-
rels of our rifles, already burning hot from
the sun, quickly got hotter from the rapid
fire, until it was almost beyond human en-
durance to hold a weapon. The attack was
finally beaten down, the firing steadied to
independent firing, with sudden outbursts of
machine-gun fire, and the never-ceasing,
long-drawn whine and crash of bursting
shells. It was then I began to notice,
dully, the man lying behind a sandhill on my
THE EVENING'S ENTERTAINMENT.
HUSBAND: “I wish to Heaven you'd -turn off that infernal thing! The neighbors are
sure to think we're having another row."
WIFE: "Well, why spoil their enjoyment?"
left. He was continually turning his head
and looking behind him, then facing forward
again, for all the World as if he hated to look
Behind but must. I thought he was trying
to stop himself from making up his mind
to rush back across the desert for water.
Suddenly he did jump up and run/ back. I
looked over my shoulder as he ran, for
I thought he might know of some well',
quite close. But he ran back only 50 yards
to his,, fa lien horse. We had galloped into
action? under shrapnel fire, and scattered
horses, with here and there a tumbled form
of a man, testified to thfe accuracy of the
Turkish batteries. Their shrapnel bullets
were still biting the sand, searching for our
led horses some little distance away. The
-trooper standing by his horse half raised his
rifle and slowly lowered it again. The poor
beast, wounded three hours before, was still
feebly writhing. Its mouth was open, and
the long, black swollen tongue had dropped
between the jaws and was lying helpless in
the burning sand. Slowly the man took his
water-bottle, pulled out the cork, and
emptied the precious contents down, the
horse’s throat. And I had thought not a
man in the line had a drop left! His great
act of charity done, that splendid sportsman
suddenly took off his hat and laid it .--across
his charger’s eyes. .Then, holding the
muzzle of his. rifle steadily for a second in
his mate’s ear he pulled the trigger. Then
he ran back bareheaded to his place in the
line.
* * * *
The University of Adelaide annual public
examinations indicate that the German lan-
guage has fallen into disfavor "with South
Aus. students since the war. In 1913 the
number of candidates who sat for German
in the junior, senior, higher and commercial
examinations was 264, and at the same
period there were 553 for French. This year
only 68 students took German as a subject,
and the number of those examined in French
was 661. A comparison shows that the pro-
portion of two to one five years ago has
changed to 10 to one at the present time.
However, there is a lot to be said for getting
familiar with the language of a rival, and if
Australians can see any prospective enemies
about they had better commence learning
that tongue. The time seems ripe for find-
ing out what the alien is up to, whether in
the dumping of his goods or men.
Tasmania is trying to give the rest of
Australia a lead in the treatment of its men-
tally-defieient citizens. The Government of
the Speck has imported, for the occasion,
Prof. Richard Berry, of the Mejfe University
A.natomical School, to offer some expert
advice on the matter. Any such sign of
awakening interest is a welcome indication
A RECORD DRY-UP.
JONES ( reminiscently ): “Last Christmas was
the thirstiest Christmas I ever remember
having spent. Up in Bunnjerapanda we
only had three bottles of whisky and a
case of stout between two of us. The
rest teas nothin' but beer!"
of progress. Too many disagreeable asylum-
happenings make it only too plain that this
country still applies to some of its unhappy
souls the insufferable methods of the Middle
Ages.
(Continued on page 18.)
THE MILESTONES.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Christmas by the Pyramids, bivouacked in sand,
Destined as deliverers of the Holy Land;
Men of Jordan's shell-ploughed vale, Gaza’s gate of
woe,
Troopers of the toilsome trail down to Jericho.
Christmas in the Lemnos mud, craving home-sent
(Sheer,
Men the world had learned to know,-and the foe to
fear; •'
Tried; campaigners (in their teens) of the Great
Mistake,
Boys who won in half a year more than time can
take.
Christmas at .the Flanders front, pressed, but-making
good;
Bitter billets at Xaours, back from Ginchy Wood.
Fireless, stinted, comfortless, all undaunted they,
In that white despair of frost keeping Christmas Day.
A
Cristinas, at the old, old game, set-back and
advance;
’Sevfr.n'en and up the line, hanging on in France;
Talking it be coming f)p>'>ng that must sep us win,
Planning, when the rations fail, dinners—at Berlin.
Christmas and the dying year, with the end insight,
Wliei’e a weary world revolts from the rule of might;
With the whple world's, fate to shape, and the Peace
to sign—•
Cl-ristraiis of, the Armistice-—Christmas on the Rhine.
x.s.w.
ELLA McFADYEN.


BARNET GLASS
BOOMERANG
▼ ▼
THERE & BACK
V v
0
o _____
TXRES
o
More Wearing Depth
than on any other maKe-
and Ab/ofute iafety
from /kid Accident.
J*RC
BARNET GLASJ RUBBER CO. LTD
All States and New*Zealand
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALASIA .


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent peneopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetie
Works, Leicester, England. * [1
m
I
WM
as
A Former Chamber Magistrate, Clerk of Petty Sessions and Deputy Clerk of
the Peace speaks highly of Clements Tonic to those subjected to nerve strain.
Here is a copy of Staff-Sergeant Mac Nevin’s letter, written from his home:
v 82 Surry Street, Darlinghurst,
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD. N - s - Wales > 23/6/*iB.
I was so much a martyr to ill-health and bad nerves that I used to “jump out of my skin” at the least shock or
noise. This condition continued until I used your Clements Tonic, and now I have a different tale to tell.
Where I could not eat or sleep, I now enjoy my sleep and meals.
When I was C.P.S. and Chamber Magistrate, Registrar of District Court, and Deputy Clerk of the Peace, under two
of the leading Judges of N.S.W. in various country towns, for many years I relied a great deal on your tonic for mental
and physical energy during the exhaustive trials at the Criminal Sessions when I had to act as Deputy Clerk of the Peace.
After leaving the service in 1893, and following commercial pursuits for eight years, I still looked upon the tonic as
a fine standard medicine. lam now in my 53rd year and am Sergeant in the A.Q.M.G. Home Service Staff.
I nermit you to use this letter as a token of my thanks for the great benefit
received from'it, and my recommendation of it to others. (Signed)
If vou have any regard for your health keep this medicine beside you in winter or
summer. It is invaluable in cases of Brain-fag, Insomnia, Debility, Poor Appetite, Weak
Nerves andiFacial Neuralgia. Get it and try it, as thousands of others have done.
Clements Tonic Ltd., Rozelle. N.s.w. All Chemists and Stores sell it
V
Staff-Sergeant,
“G.Iv.D.” from Suva :
Influenza has stopped this town dead. Banks
closed, shops open only in forenoon with few hands,
no deliveries, provisions giving out, banana trade
murdered. The Medical Department is muddling
along, and the Government Offices are closed, the
staffs either being down sick or out helping. Every-
body, white, black or brindle, lias had the curse, got
it or getting it. We lost 40,000 Fijians in the
big nieaslo outbreak years ago. The natives
won’t eat and haven’t the first idea of caring
for themselves- —just lie in draughts or near water
and die. In Suva wc have soup and sago cooking in
cauldrons, and distribute it with medicine; but it
has to be forced down their throats. The
Chief Medical-Officer and others arc running rival
organisations, and every boss is dictating and order-
ing—with the best intentions, no doubt, but not
always 'with the best results. The long-suffering
understrappers are doing what they can—including
the dangerous work near the sick. There
are a few heroes. IV. 11. Terry is nursing 00
single-handed. Charlie Holmes lias his house full of
sick Cable men, so as to give the well men in the
Cable quartets a chance. Half the staff is down, and
the other half is working double and treble shifts.
There are some 18-carat men among these boys.
There are crowds in the hospital, drill-hall, Gram-
mar school and other places. Australia is the only
country which has kept it out so far, and if the Aust
tralians are wise they'll keep on guard. If it gets
into Australia, here’s the treatment. (1) Go to bed
at first symptom, and stoj) there'; (2) take opening-
medicine and your favorite influenza mixture, arid get
to sweating at once ; (8) keep it up and stop in bed,
and stop in bed, arid stop in bed. That’s the whole
cure. I’ve seen it, experienced it, and I know. Inci-
dentally this crisis has driven it home to me that
colored labor is rotten. I have seen our Town
Clerk with double, treble arid quadruple wages in
one hand and prayers and entreaties in the other,
trying to get the niggers to stick to necessary sanitary
work. But the maddening answer is: “Nalii, sahib.”
* * * *
This is how a Chinese herbalist in Ballarat
introduces his goods to the public:—
These oil is made with great experiences. It heals
stomachache, intermittent fever, indigestion, getting
drunk, toothache and many other diseases.
Notwithstanding this, the Victorian Friendly
Societies still find the white medico a neces-
sity.
* » » *
The great art and mystery of passing on
the blame or the responsibility:—
The Kaiser says that Bethmann-Hollweg and Von
Jagow dragged him helplessly into the war.
The Crown Prince says that the General Staff
spoiled his excellent plans at Verdun.
Prince Rupprecht of Bavaria says that Ludendorff’s
orders wrecked his scheme for breaking through to
Calais.
Max of Bavaria says he was always against the war
BIDING HIS TIME.
THE FIANCE : “And, I suppose, you kissed
the bride!”
THE AFFIANCED: “Oh, no! I am 'waiting till
they return from the honeymoon and
settle down!”
CHANCE TO KEEP HIS HAND IN.
THE HORO: “I wonder if I shall be able to settle down to the peaceful home life after
four years of the horrors of war?"
HIS FIANCEE : “Of course we can have dear mother for a day or two at any time.”
—in fact, it seems that it was wholly caused by a
corporal or stretcher-bearer, all the people above
them having disclaimed everything.
Holman, of N. S. Wales, reckons that the extrava-
gance of the Civil Service is wholly the fault of the
three poor old Commissioners.
He is also of opinion that it was the Railwav Com-
missioners and the W. and S. Board which'rushed
into the great loan expenditure.
Pontius Pilate, with more dignitv, simply washed
his hands.
Eve, hanging round with very little on, said it
was wholly owing to the serpent.
In Federal politics it seems that it is impossible
to find out who is accountable for anything till
Hughes comes back, and Hughes’s comparative silence
seems wholly unaccduntable, unless his voice has
given out.
These mysteries are open to competition.
* * * *
An unusual touch of romantic pathos has
been added to the story of the tragic death
of the chauffeur, Harold Jaques, of Adelaide,
who, it is suspected, was most
foully murdered somewhere near
Port Pirie. While detectives
were scouring the country in
search of the missing man, Mrs.
Jaques, two days before her hus-
band’s body was found, gave
birth to a son. She anxiously
perused the daily papers every
morning to see if anything had
been found out about the fate of
I' M- husband, but when the facts
of death were discovered she
was very weak, and the doctor
thought it would possibly be too
great a shock for her if she read
the full account of the tragedy.
In order to save the unfortu-
nate woman, the proprietary of
the Advertiser did something
which hasn’t very often been
done in newspaper publishing.
The house printed a special copy
of the paper, first having with-
drawn the story of what had
happened, and this was supplied
to Mrs. .Taques. Later, of course, the news
was gently broken.
* * * #
“Sergt.” : I stopped the digger and asked
him what he was cursing about. “S’truth,”
said he, “I’ve just been handed 14 days
C. 8.” “What for?” “Fer bein’ in No Man’s
Land.” “Cut it now, dig.,” I said; “there
isn’t such a place about here?” “Cripes,
isn’t there,” was the answer. “They’d soon
tell y’ there was if they caught yer where
they found me.” “Where was that, son?”
“In the Waacs’ camp.”
In 1911, 171 persons out of every 10,000
in the Commonwealth were old-age pension-
ers ; in 1918 the number was 193 out of
every 10,000. The old-age pensions bill was
£1,871.240 in 1911 and £3,793,037, or more
than double, in 1918. That is nothing to
grieve about, even though some £4,500,000 a
year of war pensions have also been added
and the insatiable baby-bonus grows out of
proportion to the visible supply of babies.
But production, which has to pay the bill in
the end, doesn't grow in anything like the
same proportion as pensions, and it isn’t
given to everybody to be a disabled soldier
or a patriarch or a baby.
According to the Mayor of Adelaide that
town is either the healthiest in the world,
or it is the city of model mothers,
or both, because last year, he an-
nounces, it had the smallest in-
fantile mortality of any city in
the world. During the year end-
ing September 30, 1918, the death-
rate of children under 12 months
of age was only 41 in 1000 births,
which was less than half of the
preceding 10 years’ average of
84.3. Home was
supposed to
have possessed
the previous
best of 56 in
1000 in 1915,
although another
list places
Maoriland o n
top, with 50 in
the same year..
Since the pre-
s e n t Health
Act came into
operation infantile mortality in Adelaide
has dwindled from about 150 per 1000 to
its present low level.
A Westralian newspaper editor, who was
for a year or more in the hands of the Huns,
doesn’t think much of the morals of the
German peasant women. “It was not un-
common,” he says, “for a cynical prisoner,
sent to work on farms, to take the place in
eiery Tespect of the husband away at the
Front. Some of the girls and women had
little above the manners of a cow and the
morals of a barn-door fowl, and to hear and
see them eating was to be forcibly reminded
ox a pig trough.” Hardened Tommies —and
some of them can give granite a start —have
put it on record that the jests and conversa-
tion of these women gave them the sea-sick
feeling. There’s a quaint custom in some
villages of “billing the town” with the
names of erring matrons and maids for the
edification of the liock. The liunness is a
fit mate for the Hun !
* * » .
A band of 10 returned soldiers recently
apnroached the Collingwood municipal coun-
cil, asking permission to play music in the
streets and take up a collection. The
request was refused. Perhaps this may not
he the most satisfactory way for a soldier to
earn a crust: nevertheless, for regular
wages, numbers of self-respecting citizens
thump pianos or sound the loud timbrel to
entertain the public; and there doesn’t seem
much to choose between a discharged soldier
playing on the; strand and a-musical unionist
pull-and-pusbing the trombone in a theatre
orchestra. Anyhow, for fully 20 years before
the war started a German band tootled con-
tinually up and down the streets of Mel-
bourne and suburbs, soliciting contributions
without hindrance: and they kept on doing it
right iq) fib the day war was declared.
They have started to expand an old indus-
try at Ballarat —the importation of young
parsons for the local vineyard of the Church
of England. The new Bishop Maxwell-
Gumbleton proposes to catch them young,
train them in Melbourne and Ballarat, and
give them billets in the big centres. The
Australian clergymen being inured to the
hardships arid dangers of the Australian
bush will be given charge of remote parishes
in the Malice and further out. By ecclesi-
astical law the Anglican Church must bring
its bishops from England, so the. best-paid
jobs in the church in the Commonwealth are
denied to the home-made sky-pilot. “All’s
good Ivor’s English ; all wot isn’t ain’t,” seems
THE INTRUDER.
MOTHER OF FIVE: “I wish I could remember
where I picked you up.”
to apply. Yet Christian ministers ought not
to be placed in the same category with
boots, hats, tinned fish and whisky—at least
they have no claim to be.
THE BLACK INFLUENZA.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Pains traverse through me in a casual way ;
Flooding along like some impetuous river,
Ceasing suddenly where heat-waves quiver.
The wild deliriums dance and fevers play.
Ilv past was purple, but my future’s grey.
My reason rocks and reels ; my bones all shiver;
Microbes carouse within my heart and liver;
And altogether there is Hell to pay.
Send for a parson, quick, before 1 croak !
Deatli leans against the bedpost beckoning me.
The stranger seems to think it quite a joke
To rock there like some boozer in a bar,
While just outside the flaming window, see!
Satan is waiting in Iris big red ear.
MAORILAND.
BARTLETT ADAMSON.
A CHRISTMAS CAROL.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I am a Christian orthodox
Now gurgling o’er each Christmas-box.
From ninon frills to ivory fan
My heart' exults “Good-will to Man 1”
That soap, Parisian in make, .
Is priced at ten and. six a cake.
A motor-hood in softest tan
Thrills my glad soul—“ Good-will to Man!”
A gauzy scarf for one he tore
Bert sends, and from that old Brown bore
A chain purse comes —each link I scan—■;
Silver right through -“Good-will to Man!”
I am a Christian Orthodox,
in silken hose with 'broidered clocks,
The flames; of Charity I fan.
All men I love. “Good-will to Man!”
JC.S.W.
FLOSSIE FLUFFYTOP.


m
mm *
*
m
C—
'
u.
* smith * .■■
juUUS
M
' '
:■■■ ' % ; '
p'*#***.
# A
* > y*
m
f 4
m
:i\
w
»A
?:****£
#<**»•• ”*!*•**
They are cheaper—hy
aot less than 30 per cent.
—than imported licks.
FARMERS, GRAZIERS, HORSE-OWNERS
Your stock should be given a regular rating of Salt Licks.
To-day no fewer than 700,000 cases of Salt Licks are being used in Australia.
Are you one of the purchasers ? If not, order from your storekeeper a case of
BONDO Salt LicKs
THEY ARE MADE IN AUSTRALIA. They are CHEAPER.
Every storekeeper, saddler and blacksmith should at once get in touch with our
agents to handle this universal line. It is better, cheaper, and gives larger profits.
Wholesale Distributing Agents BROWN & DUREAU, King Street, Sydney.
South Australia: SOUTH AUSTRALIAN FARMERS’ UNION.
Woct Australia - FOTHRRQILL & CO. LTD., Fremantle.
IiOND MANUFACTURING CO.,
72 and 74 Lonsdale Street, MELBOURNE..


WARATAH
Fencing Wire
MADE IN AUSTRALIA BY
The Austral Nail
Co Pty. Ltd.,
SOUTH MELBOURNE.
A WIRE SUPERIOR
TO ANY IMPORTED.
Support Home Industries
This man is con-
versing jvith an
executive at, the
other end of a large building
—through the wonderful “Dicto-
graph.” The “Dictograph” is not a
phonograph. No mouthpiece, earpiece;
or anything to hold. Talk to it up to" 20 feet away
And the DICTOGRAPH answers with human intelligence!
Confer with any connected employee, and while conversing be free to
refer to letters, flies, etc., in any part of your private office. Dictate
direct to your typist. Listen to a meeting in another room (and take
part in the discussion). Consult your associates without their leaving
their desks. Prevent eavesdropping or blitting in. Signal for personal
attendance of employees by merely pressing a key. Save time, interrup-
tions and wasted footsteps.
Let us give you a demonstration of the “Dictograph”
in your office. Fix your own time.
LamsonslrtceCo.
Queen Street, SYDNEY
Olderfleet, MELBOURNE
TV TUR/HE.T? |
Dictograph
J/H'T ER CO/IVEff©/1G SIKTEM
r^D
sf
GREGORY NORTH RABBIT BOARD.
Applications for Superintendent of
Works.
APPLICATIONS are invited until Tues-
day, 17th March. 1919. for the posi-
tion of Superintendent of Works.
Applicants to state age and general experi-
ence in the construction and maintenance of
rabbit-proof fencing and rabbit destruction.
Salary four hundred pounds (£400) per
annum. Camel outfit provided in dry coun-
try, applicant to find necessary horses and
plant for the other portions of the district.
Applications, together with copies of testi-
monials, to be addressed to the Chairman,
Gregory North Rabbit Board, Roulia.
Queensland, and endorsed “Application for
Superintendent of Works.”
For any other particulars apply to the
Clerk of the Gregory North Rabbit Board,
Boulia, Queensland.
E. S. SCHOLEFIELD,
_ . Chairman.
Boulia, 3rd December, 1918.
Sydney’s Hotel de Luxe-
Clifton Gardens
This beaut,ifully-situated RESIDENTIAL
HOTEL is unique in the Southern Hemi-
sphere, beinar RIGHT ON THE HARBOR
FRONT, with its own secluded BEACH AND
GROUNDS and AMPHITHEATRE SWIM-
MING BATHS, the whole surrounded by
natural Bush.
25 Fine New Bedrooms have just
been erected, built over the water,
every room looking out to the Heads.
Daily service of Steamers, including Theatre
Boat, to and from No. I Jetty, Circular
Quay.
A Delightful Ferry Trip.
Finest Cuisine. Hot and Cold Baths.
Apply Manager,
CLIFTON GARDENS HOTEL,
Telephones: Y3OOl. MOSMAN, N.S.W.
Y 3002.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Thomas Joseph Ryan of Queensland is an
unadulterated Lajior Premier, and is sup-
posed to be a man of new ideas. Yet when
he appeared on a recent day before a
Domain audience in Sydney the tunes he
played were rather ancient. He said that
we must wake up to the necessity for edu-
cating the people, so that Australia might go
forward by “leaps and bounds.” Education
is certainly very backward in Australia,
but perhaps not the kind that Ryan, the ex-
teacher of classics, or Ryan, the student of
books about the reorganisation of society,
is accustomed to deal in. The proportion of
people who know how to make a watch or
a locomotive or an airship or any bit of
intricate machinery is so small as to amount
to illiteracy. But no man who is a success
in a long race —and the race of civilisation
is as long as the human race itself—pro-
gresses by leaps or bounds or starts or sud-
den jerks or even by convulsions. Ryan
also stated that money must be found so
that “the vast resources of Australia might
be developed.” “Develop” is a much-used
word and “vast resources” are two of the
same sort.
Mention of Mclver, Victoria’s Secretary
for Lands and Chairman of the Closer Set-
tlement Board, as an eligible for the vacant
Auditor-Generalship suggests that things
cannot be running too smoothly under the
new settlement organisation. Mclver has
heaps of courage and is probably standing
up to Clarke, his political chief, who also
likes a bit of his own way. While climbing
the departmental ladder, Mclver became a
certificated auditor and accountant. He con-
ceived and worked out bold schemes of de-
partmental policy, learned how to handle
men, and championed the claims of diligent
juniors. If Mclver becomes a candidate for
the Auditor-Generalship, Weldon, Norris
and Agg will find in him a formidable rival.
The big battle at the forthcoming
Easter Labor Conference is likely to be on
the question of abolishing selection ballots.
For years the Labor Party has been the
happy hunting-ground of underground en-
gineers and wire-pullers, ' particularly in
those electorates regarded as “pocket con-
stituencies.” With the advent of propor-
tional representation and five- and three-
member electorates, it is argued that al
aspiring candidates should be allowed to
fight it out in the open at the ballot-box,
thus widening the choice of supporters. This
will do away with the bitterness following
all selection ballots. At least one Labor
Electorate Council has sent along a motion
urging that selection ballots be scrapped. It
will be considered by the annual conference,
and on the decision arrived at will probably
depend the difference between defeat and
victory in 1920.
Dear Bulletin. —My theory is that poli-
tics fall into these five categories:—
(1) Brains and honesty. (.So rare as hardly to
be worth mentioning.)
(2) Brains without honesty. (A thing to be cul-
tivated if the owner of the brains is willing to be
dishonest in moderation.)
(3) Foolishness with honesty. (The drawback is
that the foolishness often lasts longer than the
rectitude.)
(4) Foolishness with something that looks like
honesty within the strict meaning of the Act, but
also seems to be rather a strain on the Act. (This
is the sort of thing that leads to Nortongriffithism
and is very expensive.)
(6) Plain, crude fraud. (Costs the country little,
for the practitioner’s career is short.)
I think these about fill the list. —Yours, etc.,
Henry Horsecollar.
In recent debates on the Soldiers Settle-
ment Bill in the Victorian Leg. Ass. strong
complaints tvere made by Laborites because
the Minister for Lands (Frank Clarke)
was situated in the House of Fatrv As
long as the absurd Upper House exists a
proportion of the Cabinet must belong to
it, but whatever portfolios are given to mem-
bers of the Council there are bound to be
complaints. The trouble is made more acute
by reason of the fact that the bulk of the
Liberal party’s talent is in tlio propputy
chamber. Ilagelthorn, the strongest man in
Peacock’s team, was an M.L.C., and so is
Robinson (Minister for Public Works), who
is about the best of the Lawson bunch.
Lawson himself —a plain country lawyer, with
a commonplace mind and equitable tamper
and a fairly strong strain of wowserism—
stands above the members of his party in the
Assembly, but in the mausoleum across the
way he has at least four equals, if not
superiors, in Robinson, Baillieu. Hagelthorn
and .Adamson, all of whfun are strong anti-
Laborites —not fervent Lawsonian*-
UNDER THE WAR PRECAUTIONS
SHADOW.
THE COP: “Yes my child, with my constant
care and attention and a few strokes of
me baton occasionally you will gradu-
ally come to realise the delights of free-
dom."
“H.”: The Maoriland idea of depriving
military defaulters of the vote for 10 years,
with disqualification from Parliamentary
membership and public office generally, is
one very commonly adopted in many pro-
gressive countries and applied to many
offences. It goes on the logical principle
that the right of a certain kind of person
to vote is of no account compared with the
right of other people not to be outvoted by
that sort of person, or to be ruled by him,
or to be ruled by the soft of person that sort
of person would naturally select. It isn’t a
punishment, but a reasonable precaution,
like the isolation of lepers.
When the Electoral Amendment Bill was
before the N. S. Wales Assembly a rash repre-
sentative proposed the reduction of members
from 90 to 60. No colder blast ever blew
out of an ice-chest than the one that fell
upon him, but Chairman of Committees
Levy corked up the vitals of vituperation by
ruling the proposal out of order. The sub-
ject would be a good one for a referendum
which could be taken along with the Liquor
vote, but the referendum is like the Hague
Arbitration tribunal—nobody
wants to take the risk. Thus
Hushes, when he was a Sydney
member (before he felt that
Victoria was less likely to
break a cracked plate) and one
of the plausible gang which
engineered the disastrous Can-
berra metropolis at Sydney’s
back door, declared that the
selection of an Australian capi-
tal was not a matter that the
common herd could be trusted
to vote on. And in like man-
ner when a referendum was
taken on the N. S. Wales Par-
liamentary membership ques-
tion. the right of the people to
express an opinion was strictly
limited. In 1891, under
Parkes’s law, there were 141
members, and as they increased
automatically according t o
population there might have
been 200 by now. So for
shame’s sake, the number was
limited to 125. When half
the work was taken over by the
Commonwealth in 1901 it was
uurdly possible to avoid another
limitation, so in 1903 the people
were allowed to vote for eon-
tinuance or reduction, but nut fur reduc-
tion to less than ()'0 members. The figure 9(i
was voted so enthusiastically that it looked
as if people wanted 80 or 70 or even GO.
But the common herd was muzzled lest it
should show its ignorance.
Business firms in Adelaide have been con-
siderably perturbed by a request from the
S.A. Commissioner of Taxes that returns be
ti.rflished by them of all business done with
representatives of firms without branches
permanently established in the State. It
was pointed out to the Commissioner that it
would be very difficult, if not impossible, to
furnish such returns. He admitted the
strength of the arguments, and told the objec-
tors to return the form with a statement
that they were unable to supply the informa-
tion sought. A. E. Allnutt, president of the
Adelaide Chamber of Commerce, drew
attention to the Maoriland method of dealing
with such trades for taxation purposes. The
Act over there requires the representative or
agent of a foreign principal upon entering
the Dominion to declare himself and deposit
with the authorities a definite sum of money.
\\ hen leaving the country the agent has to
give a statement of the business done, on
which, he is assessed for income at 5 percent.
Any difference on the amount of his deposit
is then adjusted. It is suggested that the
Government ought to follow that procedure.
Bjit what about taxing- foreign agents at
25 per cent, on their business?
In the thoughtless, untidy scramble at the
close of the session Vic. State Parliament
enacted that returned soldiers may be
allowed to take-up forest lands —the State to
hand over to the Forest Department a simi-
lar amount of land, probably quite bare of
timber, to keep the timber supply going.
A returned soldier, not being a builder or
saw-miller, has seldom any use for giant
trees on his small allotment, though he
might burn them to clear the ground for
potatoes. But a group of soldiers might be
useful dummies for speculators with money
enough to go into the business, and even a
warrior who has lost half of himself may
be a whole dummy.
There is still a possibility that President
Wilson may receive cabled notice of his
deposition. The Republican party, which
always held that he and his Democrats were
too slow off the mark in the war business,
has captured both Houses of Congress. It
m annoyed a little that the President took
only members of his own party to
Europe. It isn’t wholly pleased with his
“freedom of the seas” pronouncement. A
theory has always prevailed that a President
who left U.S. territory forfeited his job,
and became null and void, and the 'Wilson
party hasn’t disproved that contention —
merely ignored it. The precedent' of Taft,
vho went to Panama without forfeiting his
billet is quoted to death, but it is no prece-
dent, for Taft stuck to U.S. territory. A
strip of Panama on each side of the canal
was annexed before he went there. If some
stickler for rule and line asks the Supreme
Court for a decision on this point Europe
may be astonished to find that it has been
burning fireworks for a visitor who isn’t even
a member of Congress.
“H.” : ‘‘The solution of soldier-settlement,*’
according to Lands Ministef Frank Clarke,
of Victoria, “lies in arranging that no man
shall hold more land than will provide him
with a reasonable living.” Clarke is hereby
earnestly advised to get busy with his solv-
ing. The last list of properties bought by
THE CHRISTMAS WISH.
THE BOY : "Santa, for the love of Mike,
briny me something that is made in
Australia."
the Vic. Closer Settlement Board for soldier-
settlement totalled 17711 acres, and the price
paid was at the average rate of £ll 12s. 9d.
per acre. The average for the total area
thus far acquired by the State for the same
purpose (65,649 acres) is £l2 13s. Bd. per
acre, so the quality of the purchased land
is evidently going down. _ Either that Or the
State is getting a keener selise of values,
which seems too much to hope for. With
a land bill for repatriation purposes which
has already reached over £BOO,OOO, while
only 664 soldiers have as yet been settled
in the State out of an anticipated total of
more than 15,000, it is small wonder that
Clarke looks with patriotically-covetous eyes
on the great estates, so many of which still
lie almost unexploited. Of course, there
must inevitably be a tremendous difference
between the price of land sold to the State,
either voluntarily or under Closer Settle-
ment Act conditions on a valuation deter-
mined by the existing machinery, and the
rate paid under a law* providing that nobody
shall hold “more land than will provide him
with a reasonable living.’’ Is Clarke game
*o mention a definite proposal in this latter
direction to his colleagues in the Cabinet, and
back the same with his influence in the
House of Stout Landlords?
JANE’S VOTE.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“An astonishing feature of the English elections
was the eagerness of women to vote. The propor-
tion of women to men in one London division was
100 to 1, while it is asserted that the proportion at
Hammersmith was 50 to I.”— Cable.
An age has passed; another age begins.
All that we counted ours is blown away.
The moral values alter; brand-new sins
Shall wait the newer code of Judgment Day.
In polities there are new tunes to play.
Parties re-shuffle, Progress seeks new goals.
Observe the British women at the polls 1
When Prussian Bill set out to break the world,
With Hell’s death-factories in fullest blast,
lie did not mark the female’s flag unfurled
Nor note her colors nailed upon the mast.
Wildly she screamed ; but how should these things
last
When murder's" red hysteria came to call
And thrones and nations tottered to their fall?
She put on trousers with an easy grace,
Ploughed the long furrows, drove the clanging
tram.
Her brothers fought; she kept a steady face
And clung to truth against the show and sham.
In fact she really did not care a damn
For all the menace of the German horde,
Hut proved her hatpin keener than the sword.
That hatpin was her weapon long ago;
And large policemen knew it to their pain.
She fought with zeal the Ancient British show ;
She made her meaning very clear and plain.
From each defeat she proudly rose again.
Her war was war. She did not mean to lose it;
And so she got her vote and starts to use it.
What of the future? Statesmen’s hearts grow faint.
It was not thus in any ancient day.
What of the tinsel trappings and the paint
That helped the parties in their pose and play ?
Must every grand tradition pass away ?
Well, hardly. Though it isn’t safe to bet,
I’ll risk the guess that England’s England yet. •
Australia walked this path some years ago.
Our women trotted to the poll and stayed.
The garments, cut for change, were there to sew;
And politicians called to dame and maid.
But do we tremble ? Are our souls afraid ?
Not much. The vote Jane casts she never misses;
But oh, her lips, her lips are red for kisses 1
N.S.W.
PAT O’MAORI.


2K
ID
WHERE THE CRITICS AGREE in matters
affecting Art, there is frequently the widest
difference of opinion among the authorities.
Following a concert the newspaper criticisms often
contradict each other diametrically. It is therefore the
more remarkable in the case of an instrument like the
Pianola that critical opinion should be practically
unanimous.
All Musical Authorities prefer
PIANOLA
PIANO !
There is practically not one musician of note who has
lived during the past decade who has not publicly
expressed a favorable opinion of the Pianola.
Of even greater significance is the
fact that these great musicians, while
endorsing the Pianola, have been
careful to make, a sharp distinction
between the Pianola and so-called
“player-pianos” that seek to imitate it.
The Metrostyle.
"First amongst the devices which are exclusive features of the Pianola Piano . is _ the
Metrostyle. This is the only device ever invented which enables the novice tq inter P‘ t *;
music with the perception and feeling of a trained musician, and to actually repioduce
the composer’s own intentions in the matter of expression.
Likewise in the THEMODIST, THE GRADUATED ACCOMPANIMENT . control, responsive
easy action and many other exclusive PIANOLA advantages is soon found adequate reason
for the unchallengeable leadership of the reliable PIANOLA PIANO.
The PIANOLA can only be obtained from the_PI_AN^LA_COMPANY_ Im and in the following
noted Pianos:—THE STEINWAY , AEOLIAN STECK, AEOLIAN STROUD, F Alt RAND, AND
ITIE ENGLISH-MADE AEOLIAN WE HER.
I. J. PADEREWSKI:
“The Pianola is the best:
unsurpassable, supreme.”
JOSEF HOFMANN:
“I unhesitatingly pro-
nounce the Pianola the
best.”
MORIZ ROSENTHAL:
“The Pianola is vastly
superior to all others.”
HAROLD BAUER:
“I consider the Fianola
superior in every way.”
MARK HAMBOURG:
“The Pianola is in a musi-
cal position far ahead.”
FRITZ KREISLER:
“The Pianola is far
superior.”
SEND THIS COUPON to the PIANOLA COMPANY.
Please send me catalog and price-list of Pianola
Pianos, showing how 1 can purchase an instrument
for cash or easy terms, and what allowance you can
male on my present Piano, which is a
Bought about v
Name
Address
ThePIANOLA
Company Pty. Ltd.
384 George Street, Sydney.
252 Collins Street, Melbourne.
436 Queen Street, Brisbane.
58 Rundle Street, Adelaide.
m
S 3
<


Shaving with an old-fashioned
razor is nothing but a habit.
Once try a Gillette and you
would not go back to the old
style for ten times its cost. The
:
££ZZ2ZZZXnZ3
NO STROPPING NO HONINO
makes shaving easier, more ,
comfortable ajid cheaper.
Sold everywhere.
British made. Write free Booklet.
Agents for Australasia :
S. Hoffnung & Co., Ltd., Pitt Street.
Sydney.
Gillette Safety Razor Ltd,, London, Eng.
TRADE
K«9WH THI
( ; WlfUe
LBtD
Water Lifted 500 ft.,
Pumped a Mile,
at a cost of about id. per hour.
OUR FARM PUMP
‘ ENGINE will dp this as
well as cut chaff, saw
wood, work shearing-
machines, etc.. It can be
attached to a windmill of
almost any pump in three
minutes. Needs no mechanic
to fix or operate, and
works all day without
attention. Hundreds 'sold
and giving satisfaction.
£lO DOWN, BALANCE VERY EASY.
If interested in water supply or irrigation
state your working conditions and we will
quote. We stock Steam, Kerosene, Petrol
and Hot Air Engines, Centrifugal Pumps
and “Myers,” “Gould’s” and “Deming's”
Pumps for all services. Mackie’s Rock
and Water Borer, Working Heads and
Plants for deep well and bore pumping a
specialty. Immense stocks Challenge
Windmills and Water Supply accessories.
We erect plant if required and give easy
terms. Catalogues and expert advice free.
Langwiil Bros. 8 Davies Pty. Ltd.
110-tU Sturt Street, SOUTH MELBOURNE,
Near Princes Bridge.
King George IV
I UIW M WHI SKY
a
the TOP NOTCH"scotoi
A SAFE PROTECTOR
ABORIGINALITIES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA
BARNES LINSEED OIL
“G.H.”: llow does this strike you as a
sample of love’s labos, lost ? Recently saw a copy
of the New Testament that had been translated into
*abo. language. It is the fruit of about 19. years’
solid labor by an ex-German missionary, who in his
great work was confronted by the quadruple tasks
of first learning English ; second, learning the blacks'
lingo, then translating the book, and latterly teach-
ing the discolored brother to read it. It is very neatly
written by hand, and with the exception of proper
names, which, of course, remain the same, it is the
most incomprehensive turnout imaginable. Unfor-
tunately niggers from adjacent tribes, only three
•or four miles away, don’t understand a word of it;
and as the blacks of that tribe as well as almost of
every other have dwindled down to a mere handful
of filthy, germ-carrying derelicts, this man’s life
work has gone for nought or its equivalent.
* * # *
“Paul Cupid”: Of all the beasts, birds,
reptiles and mugs that man skins in this country
the hardest to separate from his whipping is the
wombat. The koala is a tough enough proposition,
especially that portion of him in the vicinity of
where his tail ought to be; but peeling a bear is
as easy as peeling a fiver off a roll of notes compared
with the process of undressing a wombat. The skin
seems glued to the carcase nearly all over; but
when you get to the part of him that he uses when
lie sits down, as in the case of the koala, you really
don’t know whether you ought to get a cleaver, a
pit-saw or a maul and wedges to separate the beast’s
pelt from his posterior. The only reason I can
attribute this circumstance to is because of these
animals spending such a lot of their time in a sit-
ting posture. I’m real glad I haven’t got to skin
politicians for- a living.
HE WAS RIGHT.
P ILOT: “Well, my little man, can you tell me
what is an infidel?”
SAM SALTBUSH : “ Please, sir, a person who
doesn’t believe in Sandy Claws?"
A TIMELY PRECAUTION.
LECTURER ON FIRST AID: “Now, supposing the snake hit me on the ear?”
FLAPPER: “Oh, we’d put the ligature round your neck.”
“Condorrie”: “Mrs. Lance Rawson” (B.
28/11 /’IS) must be in error in saying that warqiah
seeds will not germinate until fire has passed over
them, or else there must be some exceptions to the
rule. I have grown the seeds myself by simply
taking them from the pod and planting them, and
I’ll bet my hatband there was never any fire near
them. Have also grown them in the same way in
country where waratahs never grew before.
“Camelero” : I’d like to write a dainty
Christmas booklet entitled “The Charm of the Camel.”
Its lips hang luringly down, smacking each other,
and sometimes allowing a corner to droop down
just as if it were going to say something confiden-
tial. It is only one of the animal’s habits to beguile
the rider into thinking he is as harmless as a babe.
All the grace and charm of the brute, however, is
• seen at its best when it is
either getting up or lying
down. The process of settling
down begins with unearthly
guttural noises and screeches
on the part of the rider and
a tugging at the rope attached
to its mouth. The programme
the camel itself carries out
never varies. At first it makes
a show of protest with many
grunts and deep-throated
noises; then it sinks gradu-
ally on its front knees and re-
mains there for a while till
it has suitably voiced it 3
opinion of the whole matter.
Once it lias come to the con-
clusion that after all it might
be. more comfortably off lying
on the sand than standing, it
arranges its legs some more
and finally sinks down on its
stomach With its limbs half-
buried in the sand. The re-
verse process is equally-intri-
cate, and it takes some little
time before the camel makes
up its minu, then it lurches
backward and forward with a
suddenness w'hich makes the
rider long for the calm of a
hatter would feign to throw the beast a lump of
gristle or fat. and would laugh uproariously as the
go’s sharp-cut head darted out to catch the expected
morsel. “Thought yon had it that time, Spots, didn’t
you?’’ would say the ancient; “but you didn’t.
Never think you’ve got a tiling till you’ve got it.
And never trust a human critter. They’re the
worst critters alive. They’ll give you nothing but
hard blows, then cut your throat for your socks.
Good thing you and me don’t never wear socks,
ain't it, Spots?’’ The old bloke put a lump of
fat with other pieces close beside him. Presently a
big March fly, with a great hum, sailed through the
open door. A sleek little brown lizard by the fire-
place darted his head about quickly in search q£
the noise. The insect hovered a moment, tlio
settled on the old man’s big toe. It took a full
minute for its boring apparatus to perforate the
leathery skin, then suddenly the owner’s mouth
jambed on a lump of half-chewed beef, his one
eye, now beginning to open wide with the sharp
sting, searched out the still puzzled brown lizard.
Lifting his foot gently, the hatter eocked his toe
suddenly straight up. .Instantly the lizard jumped,
a quick thrust of the little head and the big
fly was gone where he would do most good.
Then the old man’s pent-up feelings burst. “Why
the flamin’ blazes weren’t you quicker?” h 1
yelled. “Couldn’t you see the d—d fly eatin’ me
ton off? You’re gettin’ your inside too well lined,
that’s what you are. You’re that darned fat and
lazy you won’t look after a man’s interests at all.
You _ oughter go an’ live with a hemperor, you
ought.” He glared at the small lizard, while it
stared back with bright, beady eyes that never
blinked. “You’re too d —d stuck up even to answer
a man back when he speaks to you,” growled the
hatter. “Anyway, Spots gets your breakfast this
mornin’ as well as his own. A bit of a starve’ll
do you good. Here, Spots.” The big gohanna
caught the scraps thrown one by one. The
aged hermit pulled out an old pipe and began
filling it with the dried leaf of the wild tobacco-
plant that grew on the creek near by. He threw
another angered look at the little lizard. “Oughter
live with a hemperor, you ought,” he' mumbled.
* * * »
“J.Q.”: “Rarawai” (B. 21/11/’18) must
have come upon a most unusual animal if his horse
won’t deflate himself after a little walk or a short
wait, which expedients have always proved success-
ful with all prads of ordinary lung-power that I’ve
ever been knocked down to. Horses addicted to
the habit have been severely galled at some time or
other by a tight girth, or a girth improperly
adjusted. For the life of me I can’t see why riders
must have the girth tight. It’s a cruel and entirely
unnecessary. Most bushmen with any regard for
their mounts will agree to ride over any country
with the girth so loose that you can easily pass
your hand between it and the body. For my part,
give me a crupper and I’m ready to discard the
girth altogether.
Bight passage. Billjim, of the Camel Corps, was
not long in finding out that the animal’s most deli-
cate spot was the tender portion of its abdomen,
and a vigorous back-heeler from an army boot was
always sufficient to set the brute’s lifting machinery
going at full speed.
* * * *
“Gouger”: The old hatter chewed his
tough corned meat and tougher damper systematic-
ally and with/ pleasure. Time was nothing to him.
He knew but very little of the far-away, great
hurrying world, and cared less. Close by his bare feet
was a big four-foot gohanna, a handsome grey fel-
low with bright yellow spots. Occasionally the
(Continued on page 24.)
A FAIR COW.
[ OR THE BULLETIN.]
The finest bullock-team Outback
Belonged to Jack.
It. was his language, not his whip,
That made them skip.
Hts curses were his country’s pride,
Famed far and wide.
Uninterrupted was his wit,
Except to spit.
And when Jack volunteered one day
His team did not rejoice;
His bullocks seemed to pine away;
They missed their master’s voice.
Jack feared that he would get no chance
To curse in France.
Without his bullocks he’d get slack
And lose his knack.
lie hoped to come back with each curse
No whit the worse,
And worried lest liis language might
Become polite.
Imagine his delight when he
In charge of mules was set!
He learnt a new vocabulary
Of muline epithet!
With care he mastered all the rules
For slanging mules.
When he came back —so went his dream—.
Upon his team
He’d try them out, those insults cool
That nark a mule.
•lack’s fame so far and wide was spread,
A major said:
“This cursing mules docs little good,
No proper practice gives;
This man upon a camel should
Unloose his adjectives!”
So Jack became in deserts drear
A camel ier.
And he could stand an hour or so,
And let it go,
And still find stinging epithets
For these sweet pets.
But when the camels merely yawned,
On Jack it dawned
That words that would a bullock pain,
And make a mule feel wild,
Upon a camel fell in vain—
Jack merely spat and smiled.
They heard with bland, unruffled brows
These words, “You cows!”
But Jack translated every terse
And bitter curse.
In Gippo language curses seem
More like a scream;
And when he their own language spoke
Their great hearts broke.
And C.O.’s said admiringly,
“Not in the universe
Is there a man so skilled as he
At insult, damn and curse!”
But then the mean and spite/ul Turk
Spoiled all Jack’s work.
And Jack became, in Galilee,
A casualty.
And when he woke and saw a nurse
He didn’t curse.
He thought he’d take his curses home,
No more to roam.
“Shell-shock!” the doctor sadly said,
“But he will not succumb!”
Jack tried to speak, and shook liis head.
Shell-shock had left him dumb!
When he came home they handed back
To silent Jack
His now lethargic bullock team —-
His cherished dream !
But no, they wouldn’t move to dumb
Opprobrium.
When on his fingers deft and terse
He hurled a curse,
They never stirred. The whip plied he.
They gazed in mild surprise.
And Jack, the teamster, wept to see
Mute anguish in their eyes!
Jack waved to each poor, suffering brute
A farewell mute.
For his dad’s farm he took the track,
And so came back.
And all those words within his head,
Not to be said !
fit didn’t matter much to Mum
That he was dumb!)
Though he had still his strong right arm,
Jack wasn’t much good now,
Except at mooching round the farm
Or bailing up the cow.
One evening Jack went round the ..plot
To bail up Spot.
She was in a contrary mood —-
In fact, qnite rude.
And when a piebald cow gets thus
Cantankerous,
The things to say would almost choke
A wowser bloke;
knd, thinking of Fate’s last affront,
Jack wiped his fevered brow;
You know the words a chap would want
In bailing up a cow!
The hundred clods he hurled at Spot
Availed him not.
He called her, inwardly, a fool,
A blessed mule,
A camel; and he conned each word
That he had heard.
He even thought that Spot wasVnow
A fair blank cow !
Then as her flank he vainly kicked
He saw a sheet of flame;
And in his thorax something clicked—
The dammed-up torrent came!
Upon that most astonished cow
Descended now
The words that made a bullock leap
And C.O.’s weep,
Invectives that made proud mules blink
And camels shrink,
In one hot blistering lava-flow
He let it go!
IJis adjectives, all flaming hot,
The cow’s composure spoiled;
So shell-shocked was astonished Spot
The milk she gave was boiled !
N.s.w.
LOLA LINGLE.


THE BEHNJNG PLAYER PIANO
Makes Home-life Happier. America’s
most artistic Player. Exquisite tone
duality and touch.
THE ESTEY PIANO. Model 3.
Specially .recommended for liot climates.
Stands in tune for very long periods.
THE WONDERFUL VICTOR.
Academy Model.
Renowned throughout Australia for its
remarkable durability.
GRAMOPHONES
Buy one of
Paling’s Pianos
for 1919.
Are you looking lor a thoroughly reliable Piano
or Player Piano? If so, then commence the New
Year well.
Place your confidence in PALING’S —the house of
Piano experts who give you an absolute guarantee.
These illustrations are but a few examples of the
beautiful Player Pianos and Pianos sold by us.
In tone-quality and durability, in finish and sound
construction each instrument can be thoroughly
relied upon.
We sell on Time Payment, and will take your
present Piano in exchange, allowing you full honest
value. Piano Catologue and printed price list are
free. Please write for them.
PALING’S
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, NEWCASTLE
and LISMORE.
the behning player piano.
SHUT —In position to be played by
hand.
THE VICTOR PLAYER PIANO.
The banisher of lonely moments. A
most delightful instrument,
everyone can play.
which
THE PLAYOTONE.
A very fine Player indeed, at a most
moderate price. Ask for particulars.
ESTEY ORGANS.
The Famous
No-Glare Lens
SPLENDID NEW SHIPMENTS HAVE JUST ARRIVED
and all you “motorists” who have been waiting for
the Stewart Lens can NOW secure them from your
motor =accessories dealer.
The New Shipment Contains Improvements
i i t pn? DOUBLY popular. The small coil spring
bun W- h„, i.
frosted to eliminate every last, glaring light lay.
Ti,e Stewart Lens isa briftmft f
both rite of the road and straight ahead.
MEETS ALL LEGAL REQUIREMENTS
»- p— a feAwtsr best “ of thc “- ight proWem —"
I The Stewart does not give
“SIM dea'r te fioSt glass -ilen.
Fits all cars. Can be attached instantly.
Made in one size only.
Every motorist should have a pair of these Stewart No-Glare Lens .
Any Wholesale or Retail motor Accessories House in Australia can supply you .
COOPER
ENGINEERING CO. LTD., 129 Sussex
(Manufacturers of Cooper=Stewart Products, Proprietors.)
Street, Sydney
Price 15 - P a * r -


Martin’s Pills are sold.by all chemists and
stores. Cadies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton. —Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock.
AGENTS WANTED.
HEAD OFFICE—
-129 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH—
-360-6 COFFINS ST., MEFBOURNE.
QUEENSFAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGFE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRAFIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUIFDING, GREN-
FEFF STREET, ADEFAIDE.
ABSOLUTELY PURE AND SOLUBLE.
(Manufactured in Australia from the finest selected Beans.
(i
99
Obtainable all Leading Grocers throughout the Commonwealth and N.Z.
Wholesale only from McINTYRE BROS., Sole Proprietors, Melbourne, Vic.
Agents: Mr.
Mr.
I*• WILSON, Brisbane.
DAVID BtASHKI, Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Messrs.
Mr. W.
MADDOX & LAWRENCE, PERTH
R. LAXGSFORD, ADELAIDE.
“jjor’-West”: “Loo Lear” (B. 12/9/T8),
writing about different building linbit.s of Austra-
lian birds, mentions the swallow as a master mason*
The swallow is certainly a mason, but by no means
a master. The master mason of the swallow family
is the little fairy martin, which builds a bottle-
shaped nest of mud beautifully put together, while
the swallows humpy is rather a slovenly contrap-
tion that falls to pieces almost at a touch. The
fairy martin likes to build in a railway culvert,
road tunnel, under an overhanging bank or under
the huge knobs of our river gum-trees. Some of
our very neatest nest constructors are missing from
“Leo Lear's” list, notably the flycatcher tribe, of
which the white-shafted fantail’s and wagtail’s nests
are models of dainty construction. The fanlail’s
nest, cup shaped, has a chimney at the wrong end
and is constructed of soft bark, hair and wool
covered outside with cobwebs. Willie Wagtail’s
dainty little residence is put together on the same
lines minus the chimney. Mrs. Willie is a non-
chalant and confiding little customer, and places
her nest at times in some peculiar situations. I
found one placed in the hollow top of a corner-post
right in the main street of a N.S.AV. village; another
in the fork of a root some distance down an old
shaft; while another Mrs. Willy perched her humpy
on the intersection of two acetylene-gas pipes under
the verandah of a pretty big Western village store,
where she raised two broods in one year.
“Thomas”: Now that the reptile season is
here the following advice in the event of a snake
tearing into you should be useful. It comes from
!’’• A. be Souef, Director of the Perth Zoo. First,
says he, ligature if possible above the part, then
open the wounds made by the fangs with a sharp
pocket-knife or lance and promote bleeding by all
possible means. Sucking is not to be recommended
as a rule, and never if one has a sore mouth. The
atest investigations on snake venom have shown
that permanganate of potash (Condy’s crystals)
haie a destructive action on the poison, and in case
of a bite from a poisonous snake, after ligaturing
and scarifying or cutting out the wound, dry per-
manganate of potash should be applied freely right
to the bottom of the wound, as it will destroy all
the poison with which it comes into contact. After
a snake lias bitten the marks should be examined,
and if two small punctures are visible it is safe
to assume that the snake is venomous. If three
or more marks are seen on each side, the snake is
not poisonous. To tell a venomous snake from the
non-venomous one, open the mouth with two small
pieces of stick, after killing it, and if there is only
one large fang on each side of the top jaw
the snake is poisonous, but if there are a number
of. small teeth of the same size the snake is not
poisonous. The ordinary carpet and the green
snake are not poisonous, but sometimes these names
are applied to poisonous species. Now, you know
what to do.
* * * *
“Jacko”: I’ll gamble in favor of Reg
Norris, a western (N.S.W.) railway worker, as a
record-breaker in the way of wheat loading. At
Grenfell the other day he amused himself by loading
two 40-ton trucks and one 15-ton truck with full
hags of grain, and to fill in time for the remainder
of the eight hours he slung on eight tons of chaff.
The wheat was actually carried from the stack to
the truck and placed in position, while the chaff
was lifted directly from a waggon on to the line.
And all this with the thermometer about 102 deg.
in the water-bag.
\\ cri'imee : It is not all beer and
skittles being a rouseabouts' cook at shearing-sheds,
for when the rouseabouts are “found” by the
station the cook has to please them and please the
squatter too—and they are two bosses with opposite
views of the tucker question. It is customary at
both shearers and rouseabouts' huts to feed and give
rations to all “travellers” who call. This adds
to the mess account. Pastoralists are not unani-
mously in favor of it, and the cook, however de-
sirous he is of pleasing his conjoint boss, is never on
firm ground. When he applies for the position of
shearers’ cook he is judged by his table- and his
hoard-rate; and in the other hut the rouseabouts,
when “found,” consider only the table, whilst the
sqn.itlei, ns a rule, looks seriously at his previous
mess accounts. In slack times there are more trav-
ellers than usual, and the eopk finds it impossible
to keep down expenses, (t is sought to distribute
the callers fairly between the two huts; but it
otten happens that one hut gets more than its
share, and then the cook in that, hut says nasty
things about his brother over the way. The
shearers’ cook does well, and he can drive from shed
to shed with his buggy and pair, but his rough
hoarding-house requires good management and
causes him a good deal of worry.
* * * #
“Border Fence”: Is 22 ounces of gall fat
previously the property of a gjohanna a fair parcel
to obtain from one of the ordinary species, allowing
that it had a day’s drying in the sun before being
weighed ?
THE INDISTINCT FUTURE.
PHIPLANTHROPIC PERSON: “Have you never striven, my friends, to attain a higher life?"
MUNDANE MARMADUKE : “Well, Mister, me ain’t got past corn-beef an' beer yet, but
whether well ever reach champagne and chicken I can't bloomin' well say.”
URGENT.
“Hi, Billo, wait for me!”
“I can't! I’m in such a hurry I can ’[?]dly wait for meself
“Melaleuca” : Birdologists have been argu-
ing for years over the little penguin that is to be
found round the coasts of Australia and Tas-
mania. Some authorities who are not authori-
ties contended that there were two species,
the “little penguin’’ and the “fairy penguin.’’
Others who thought they knew better said that
there was only one species. The argument appears
to be drawing to a close. After the murder of
many of the “vicebills” (I’ve been bitten by ’em),
the taking of innumerable measurements and even
a report by a well-known sawbones on their Wood-
heat, the decision appears to be that the penguin
tribe is in the midst of a transitional period, and
that probably in years to come two distinct clans
will be discernible. At present, at any rate, they'
can be classed as one.
* * * *
“Silas Snell”: This is a hard-luck story,
the true tale of an old fellow named Walk-right, a
veteran miner who, half-beaten by phthisis, was living
alone in a hut a few miles out of Eaglehawk.
Charity provided his main support, but after summer
rains the ancient contrived to gather a little gold
specking along the creek. His eyesight was not too
good, and the sunlight had to be keen after a shower
to enable him to pick out the shining atoms. He
became a familiar object in the district, with an old
sack over his head, a ball of clay in on e hand and a
knife-blade in the other, peering into the clay-bank
of the creek through broken spectacles for the
particles of gold washed clean by the tains. One
morning, while Walkright was thus engaged, the life
was almost driven out of his feeble body by the glare
of clean gold from an exposed surface as large as half
a crown. The old man’s knife-blade snapped when he
tried to move the treasure. Digging wildly with a
stick, Walkright unearthed a magnificent nugget,
SOoz. if a grain. Almost mad with excite-
ment, the fossieker hid his find in his shirt and
carried it to his hut. That day he hobbled into
Eaglehawk and laid his wonderful nugget on the
table before a local bank-manager, offering it for
sale. The banker examined the gold and then spoke
to a clerk, and while the story of the find was being
told a constable entered and dropped the claw of the
law on Walkrighfs shoulder. Walkright had dreamed
of final days of comparative ease on the strength of
the £3OO his nugget was to bring him. He got two
teais gaol, a trifling- allowance for his offence, but
the Judge was merciful to old age, however recreant.
Walkrighfs nugget, stained with iron, thin clay
washed into its interstices, was realistic enough to
deceive any ingenuous observer who did not seek to
pry into it; but it was not gold. It was nothing but
a hunk of lead carefully veneered with two or three
layers of foil. Walkright had served seven months
when the story of his “crime” reached the ears of an
ex-resident of the district, who remembered tipping
the bogus nugget, with other rubbish, down the bank
of the creek when on the eve of moving from the
locality. This corroboration gave strength to what
had been regarded as a puerile and impudent defence,
and Fate played another dirty trick on old Walkright.
She liberated him from gaol, a little demented, and
he spent th e last few months of his life, finding half-
bricks in Yellow Creek and hobbling off to Bendigc
banks with them, demanding four pounds and half a
crown an ounce for his lovely nuggets.
Ragar : There’s a small black hornet up
-Sfiih ( he s about half an inch long) who carries in
his business-end the concentrated venom of the Devil’s
divorced wife. The nest is about the size of a two-shilling
piece, umbrella-shaped and grey in color. I barged
into one the other day while going through the bush,
and the occupier buzzed out and injected some
essence of lfell that made me do a record mile. I’ve
only once struck anything more convincing in
Die hornet line, and that was in Zululand.
lnle scouting with three other mounted men we
dislodged a grey-colored arrangement like a young
balloon. Black hornets, two inches long, came out
or '* in a r; l°ud. We were all punctured before the
nest reached the ground, and did a record get-away,
our mounts being terrified by the stings and language’.
I was stung on the trigger-finger as I held my arm
across my face for protection, and it was over a
week before that finger was down enough to crook
inside the trigger-guard again.
Hay': Those unaccountable footprints
described by “Myall” (B. 14/3 l/’l 8) in the St.
George district of Bananaland were probably the
work of a black nature-faker, if Binghi is still
about there and has the same characteristics as his
Gem rah ah brother. These blacks are very expert
and spend many an hour squatting on the ground
imitating the tracks of all sorts of live things from
a lizard to a kangaroo. Two or three dabs with
fingers or palm, and perhaps a finishing touch with
a bit of stick, and an impression of a footprint is
presented that .would deceive a practised tracker.
In this pastime, as well as in his other art work,
Binghi was apt to draw on his imagination for
grotesque exaggeration, and a six-toed emu track'
would be quite enough to raise a roar of laughter
from the audience.
DUE TO-DAY.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The little den Jim called his own
M ith roses round the window-sill
Is furbished up, an’ Mum alone
Has been allowed his vase to fill
With mignonette and white fox glove—
The flowers that he Used to love.
An’ in the oven apple-pie,
With quaint dough-flowers round the rim,
Is bakin’, an’ I chanced to spy
Mum makin’ almond-rock for him—
He’s coinin’ to us from the war.
The train is due at half-past four.
An’ ere we help him climb the stairs
A shy bush girl, as a surprise,
W ill run unto him unawares
An' kiss him right before our eyes,
Foretellin , what he’s ’fraid to guess,
Her answer, when he asks, is “Yes!”
An’ dear oid Dad —a bunch of nerves—•
AVill drive him from the station, for
lie is a hero, too, who serves
At home, and does his bit to score
Success for lads who’ve been away
Like our Anzac who’s due to-day.
Though Jim is maimed we know that he
AVill ne’er regret his fighting days,
An’ through the peaceful years he’ll see
That love can spread its warming rays,
And all that joy and life can bring
Are his for happy squandering.
VICTORIA.
RITA SUN-YA-SEE.


mw w>y
m
i
J
■ ■
I Mini b e|p g’Jalities-jj' ®
sr^T-
TIES
wra
\G£
£ess
Cigarettes of the fiig'hest Class
at Moderate Prices.
CIGARETTES
The demand for State Express is ever
increasing because the quality is never
allowed to decrease. Compressed into
each little cylinder is the best tobacco,
blended under perfect scientific conditions.
The Famous Red Packet
No. 333 Per Packet 6^’
STANDARD WEIGHT.
.Obtainable of all High-class Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Sole Manufacturers: ARDATH TOBACCO CO. LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND
u
WMWi
m
w
X
1
W*
w
m
m
ks
mz
m,
mL


From the Youngest to the Oldest
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
is the Safest and Surest Remedy in the World for
Coughs, Colds, Croup,
Sore Chests
This Medicine can be given with Perfect
Safety and the Utmost Confidence to the
Youngest Children and most Aged Sufferers,
as it does NOT contain, and has NEVER
contained any Poison or Harmful Drugs.
The Reputation of and the Demand for
HEARNE’S Bronchitis Cur® are
Bigger now than ever.
Delightfully
Soothing
s
-■3
ss
m,v-^
>,. I ft
?-<•
i.c K.'~cv-'r s~>
& '
! fe* 1 1
16.
I
■
luum
Price: 2/6 and 4/6
The Best is always the Cheapest in the end.
If not obtainable in your District, send
direct to
W. G. HEARNE & Co. Ltd.
GEELONG. VICTORIA.
Breaches at Sydney. N.S.W. & Wellington, N.Z.
The Soul of the War, John Masefield's Gal-
lipoli, Walpole’s The Dark Forest, Sydney
De Loghe’s The Straits Impregnable, the
purely war poems of Leon Gellert—the two
latter having chiefly an Australian interest;
and many excellent short-stories and poems.
The Russian Revolution, it is now clear,
was arranged and executed solely for the
benefit of the Russian novelists. Since Dos-
toevski’s death things have been very slow
for the Russian novelist. Tchekov showed
that in his plays and stories; but now that
chaos has come again to Russia the Russian
literary renaissance will arrive. It is a
saddening reflection to make that the sole
use of the Bolsheviks is to supply the plot
and background for another immortal The
Brothers Karamazov. Lenin and Trotsky
aren’t real at all; they seem suspiciously
like the heroes invented by Dostoevski.
There is still to be mentioned the most
important credit result of the war. That is
the Billjim yarn. It sets a new standard in
humor; and, thanks to Billjim’s popularity
overseas, it threatens to set a new standard
of humor for' the world. Some day—we may
not see it, but our children’s children will —-
a dinkum Bill jim yarn will get into London
Punch.
So the war will be worth while, after all.
SACKE[?]TT WHOM.
The Hilder Book
.T. J. Ililder died young, but left a deep
and lasting impression on Australian Art.
This fine book is his memorial; and to say
that it is an adequate memorial is high
praise indeed. There arc twenty-nine col-
ored plates, in addition to the decorations
of Dorothea Maekellar’s poem, “My Coun-
try,” and the volume is further enriched by
fifteen pcn-and-pencil drawings and a few
good photographs. The color-printing re-
presents the high-water mark of such effort
in Australia, and is probably equal to any-
thing done overseas; in fact, if in the rapid
increase of book prices, this work were to
go to five times its present selling value it
would still be well worth the money. Ililder
has many lovers, but the number is bound to
increase wherever this collection of plates
goes. It is a whole Ililder gallery bound
up with such reading matter as gives a
clear and vivid picture of his personality.
Julian Ashton contributes the introduction;
but the brief and interesting biography is
from the pen of Bertram Stevens, who, with
Sydney TJre Smith, is responsible for com-
piling and editing the book. The artist’s
life story was short and without much that
was striking or unusual; but the biographer
has done well with the material at hand;
while the short notices of the man as he
appeared to his brother artists, by Harry
Julius and Sydney Ure Smith, make him
live in the pages. A full list of the Ililder
paintings, with their dates of production, is
given at the end of the volume. There is
an introductory scrap of verse by Ernest
O’Ferrall, very simple, tuneful and like the
artist’s own water-colors in its effect. Of
the pictures themselves it is unnecessary to
speak. No modern artist is sure of his
place until time gives its perspective; but
the general effect of the work of the-young
Australian is well summed up in a letter
from a friend which Julian Ashton quotes:—
Often, in a. disturbed mood, wrapt in black
thoughts, I go to our National Gallery and sit in
front of the “Holder’s,” and by and -bye 1 come
away filled with peace.
The editors and publishers are to be con-
gratulated greatly on the appearance of the
book. It is a far step forward in art pub-
lication ; and it would be hard to discover a
blemish. (The Art of J. J. Hildcr. Angus
and Robertson, Sydney.)
Art in Australia
The fifth number of Art in Australia is
well up to the high standard set by the four
preceding numbers. It is a pleasure to
handle these books and to reflect that, wher-
ever they may go, they must awaken or re-
vive an interest in and respect for Aus-
tralian art and artists. As art publications
they will command attention anywhere. The
editors’ taste is as sure as the craftmanship
of the block-makers and printers, and the
contributors, knowing their subject, always
contrive to be interesting and informative.
The present issue contains 21 illustrations
(14 of them in color) and 11 articles. The
artists represented are L. Bernard Hall,
E. GruneV, Rupert Bunny, W. Hardy Wil-
son, 11. Van Itaalte, M. J. MacNally, E.
Phillips Fox and Hugh Ramsay. Norman
Lindsay signs an appreciation of Gruner’s
cool little masterpiece, “Morning Light,”
now fortunately in N. S. Wales National
Gallery. The accompanying production of
the picture fairly transmits the bright
morning shimmer that the observant painter
got on to canvas at last after many cold
hours at his country hermitage. Lindsay
illustrates Gruner’s tireless watch on Nature
with this story
Seeing Gruner away on a railway trip once, I
said to him: “What about something to read on the
way?” “No, thanks,” said he. “I prefer to watch
the sky.” There you have the creed of the landscape
painter, and of a religious fervor deeper than any
formula of a belief in Heayen.
Lionel Lindsay, always a bright commen-
tator on art matters, contributes an article
on L. Bernard Hall, Director of Melbourne
National Gallery, and another on H. Van
Raalte, A.R.E., an etcher of note, who re-
cently settled in Western Australia. Norman
Carter supplies the note on Bunny’s work,
L. Bernard Hall writes of the Connell Col-
lection in the Melbourne Gallery, and car-
toonist Harry Julius naturally goes for the
character note in celebrating M. J. MacNally,
water-colorist and good fellow. Bertram
Stevens writes on Hayley Lever, Will
Ashton and while C- Lloyd
Jones has a note on art and the war. But
perhaps the pleasantest thing in the issue
is W. Hardy Wilson’s description of an
artist’s day entitled “On Richmond Bridge.”
The essay is accompanied by reproductions
of two of his own water-colors, and gives
the impression of having’ been done as care-
fully as a Hardy Wilson picture—and that
is very carefully indeed. The quiet charm
of it will entice the reader back before he
puts No. 5 on the bookshelf alongside its
four elder brothers —or as many of them as
he is lucky enough to possess. (Our copy
from Angus and Robertson.)
The Inky Way
THE CRITICS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
I had five placid critics once
Whq would not treat my books
As if I were a hopeless dunce,
And one of these was Brooks.
We fell out over old-time scenes—
The churches’ tricks
With heretics —
And now he gives my novels beans.
Biggs was a critic who was kind,
But foolishly one day
I hinted that his splendid mind
Had gone a bit astray.
I said Grid had a mental squint,
And now these twain
With great disdain
Treat anything I dare to print.
Still were a couple left who found
Some virtue in my page.
By chance I put Smith’s horse in pound—
He left me in a rage.
And Boland treats my volumes fine
With bitter hate.
It seems of late
His wife has fallen out with mine.
At length whate’er my book may be
These critics fine and fit
Will seize on it most greedily,
And box my ears with it.
Yet I am not extremely pained;
Five friends I’ve lost
At little cost,
Five constant readers I have gained !
John McLaren, a frequent contributor to
The Bulletin under the pen-name of
“McNorth," lately descended from his cocoa-
nut plantation at Cape York (Q.) with a
couple of tropical novels included in his
luggage. The first of them, entitled '‘Red
Mountain.” which was completed in 20 days,
was wrenched from the nervous author by
the N. S. Wales Bookstall Co. The second
yarn, which is larger in size and achieve-
ment, is now in the hands of Cassell’s, and
will probably be published as soon as the
price of paper makes the proceeding profit-
able. Somewhat encouraged by these suc-
Jcesses, McLaren has concealed himself in
Melbourne to release another romance im-
prisoned in his brain.
“Jaeko”: The mention of Bendigo Inde-
pendent in the “Inky Way” (B. 5/12/T8)
recalls that the sheet came out in improved
form on September 15, 1862, with the cry
that it was the first morning paper in Aus-
tralia published at a penny. I have a bound
bundle of the 1862 numbers, and novice that
the imprint makes Thomas Wilton responsi-
ble for any accidents, with service accept-
able at the Commercial Printing Office,
Williamson-street, Sandhurst, “in the colony
of Victoria.” For that time the Indepen-
dent was a decent-sized journal, having five
10-inch 13-em columns with a copious supply
of “quacks” and a standing “house” column.
The reptile Advektisek seemed to provide
most of the argument for the editorial effer-
vescence.
A Satchel of Books
Long Live the King, by Mary Roberts Rinehart
(John* Murray, London). The king is 10 years old,
with very strong leanings to democracy and some
inclination to piracy. There is a good plot, with
Court intrigues and other matters mixed up in it;
and the small-boy monarch is good enough and
human enough to deserve release from his royal
bondage.
From the Australian Front, Christmas, 19FI (Cas-
sell and Co., London). This is a particularly fine
volume of war pictures and photographs. There is a
brief introduction by General Birdwood, dated France,
September, 1917 ; and the whole book breathes the
real spirit of the wav as Australians saw it. The
photographs are reproduced from official negatives
taken by Capt. F. Hurley, Lieut. E. Brooks. Lieut.
H. F. Baldwin and Lieut. G. 11. Wilkins. Will Dyson
contributes a couple of fine pictures, “Cook” and
“One of the Old Platoon,” and Daryl Lindsay, I.
Picking, Stuart Shaw, S. Perks, Alf Saville and John
P. Davis supply drawings of varying merit, but all
redolent of the great game. But the photographs,
even more than the work of the artists, keep a pei -
manent memorial of the days before the German
resistance broke. They are better than anything the
picture-shows have brought us for vivid detail. The
cover-design is by Fred Leist. A book to get hold
of before the supply gives out. The sales are for the
patriotic funds.
Gudrid the Fair, by Maurice Hewlett (Constable
and Co., London). This is a rather slight yarn of
the discovery of America by the Norsemen. It is
based on the old Saga; and, as far as it goes, has
some value as history. A few pictures are well
enough painted to remain in the memory; but the
people and their doings are not particularly inter-
esting.
Dogs and Men, by W. J. Carroll (Ross’s Book
Service, Melbourne). Some very poor little essays
that make an heroic effort after humor, and some
surprising drawings that are much more humorous
than the artist meant them to be.
An Australian in the R.F.A., being Letters and
Diary of Adrian Consett Stephen (Angus and
Robertson, Sydney). One of the most brilliant young
Australians of his generation, a man of fine literary
and social gifts fought with the British army in the
great war and died after winning the Military Cross
and the Croix de Guerre avec palme. The book
records some of his experiences—mostly the lighter
and more entertaining ones. It is a good war book
of its kind, altogether apart from its intense per-
sonal interest; for the author had the eye to see and
the heart to understand. The jottings wer e not in-
tended for publication, but they have been gathered
lovingly together as a memorial of the young life
Austraiia lost in paying the price of victory. If we
had nothing but this record we might from it alone
form some estimate of the extent of that loss.
Soldier Songs from Palestine, by the late Private
W. M. McDonald (Edward A. Tidier, Melbourne).
There is promise in these verses and a hint more
than promise. The man who wrote them paid the
price of his devotion to the great cause. His photo-
graph shows a fine, manly trooper of the Australian
Camel Corps, There is a man’s ring in the work.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Oscar Seppelt, the g. Aus. wine-maker,
explains that the (is. excise duty state's
for fortifying wine has killed the States
export trade. The duty was jump
from Is. “We could manage to live ana
retain our export business with the .
States, even at 3s. a proof gallon, but the
existing duty makes the position linpo • •
The increase of the duty on grape spirit ro
the level of imported brandy is a haid
at a flourishing little local product. »epP e rc
declares that unless the old differential <-
is re-established “we may expect to se®
total eclipse of the whole Australian bra
industry.” But, thank merciful Heaven and
the tariff-grafters, we can import supplies.
Yet another use has been found for the
eucalyptus. Banknotes, owing to the ouf-
break of Spanish influenza and the need to
germ-proofing, are nowadays parcelled uD|in
a liberal enclosure of gum-leaves when roi-
warded from bank to bank by inter-btate
mail. .
* * *
“Hawk”: If you try to figure out how the
man over the way balances accounts, you
are bunkered, as thus: —Income per week.
Dad, rag-juggler, £3 10s.; son, skipper of
fountain-pen, £2; daughter, carbon puncher,
15s. Total, £6 ss. Expenditure : Bent, zls.
fid.; tucker for parents and six buds at
10s. = £4 ; train, tram or ferry for six workers,
10s.; clothes, two suits at £fi each for Dad
and son, ditto dresses and hats for Main
and Mary, 205.; boots, two pairs at 205.,
for parents and two elder nippers, same tor
four■ juveniles at 12s. fid.; repairing boots,
total for boots per week, 7s. Pause here
and take a refresher. We have already
spent on paper 14s. fid. per week more than
the Brown income, and have not mentioned
clothing for the children, underclothing for
family, house linen, lodge, beer, tobacco and
cigarette money, time-payment on furniture,
firing, lighting, daily paper, entrance to pic-
ture show, pocket money, to
Sunday plate and daily war-cause boxes.
Mother and daughter must have a number
of dress items not here mentioned ; and Dad
with no financial fuf lire must splash a crown
now and then in Tatt.’s. Now you can t
squeeze the family expenditure to much less
than £lO a week, not if you sit on it.
The more you consider this problem the
more certain you are that the Browns are
on the financial rocks, and that the bailiff
must be waiting to take immediate posses-
sion ; yet he never appears. How is it done,
in not one, but thousands of instances, and
that by families neither thrifty nor provident?
I have lived with such people, worked with
them and had drinks with them; by all
means known to me I have tried to surprise
their wondrous secret and failed. When I
prove that the Browns’ financial smash can
only be a question of days, Mrs. _ Brown
appears in a new hat that my missus is
positive cost at least 40s. ; or the family
lias a new piano on the hire-system; or a
party to entertain Mary’s new boy.
* vr * *
South Australia, which had hardly any
rain at all in September or November, is
making up its mind to a wheat harvest of
something under 10 bushels, instead of over
12 as last season, with a total yield of 20
millions as against 2S. The record for the
State was the year before, with 164 and
454. The area sown with wheat is slightly
but steadily decreasing, owing to the double
uncertainty of getting the labor for harvest-
ing, or a proper market for the grain when
harvested; also, sheep are becoming more
popular with the small farmer. Thus the
acres under wheat have come down from
about 3i millions in 1915-6 to 24 this
season, and a lot of those are cut for hay.
* * * *
“Melos”: Timber-getters made big cheques
on the Richmond River in the early days.
In 1855 cedar was worth from 10s. to 12s.
per 100 ft. and a “raft” anything from £5OO
to £l5OO (exceptionally fine ones, of course,
realised many hundreds of pounds more).
The work of felling and rafting to the mouth
of the river, where schooners received the
logs for shipment to Sydney, occupied a few
months ordinarily. Rafters, men who spe-
cialised in this sort of work, linked the logs
together by driving into each an iron “dog”
and attaching thereto a long chain or rope,
and sometimes even lawyer-vines. Long
poles were used for propelling and guiding
the raft down stream. Sometimes a flood
would hasten matters, and take the precious
floatage out to sea. There was an element of
danger in the business, and many hardships.
The flood waters, besides jeopardising the
work of months, often cut off the lines of
communication, thus creating a shortage in
the cutters’ tucker-bags and demijohns—-
especially demijohns. Rum, “Black Charlie”
(tobacco), salt beef, flour, tea and sugar
constituted the necessaries of life. The
greatest drawback to the industry was the
difficulty in shipping the timber. For many
years the bar at the mouth of the river was
a veritable death-trap; in one year eight
vessels were wrecked whilst endeavoring to
negotiate it.
* * * *
“Azac”: Late in 1917 the Canadian De-
partment of Trade and Commerce made
arrangements for sending a trial shipment of
wheat in bulk from Vancouver through the
Panama Canal to the United Kingdom, and
the results have now been published in the
form of a bulletin. It was generally thought
in Canada that the heat of the tropics would
be too severe, and that the grain would be-
come too heated, but the trial proved satis-
factory. The conclusions arrived at were: —
(1) Only sound wheat should be shipped by this
route, and should not contain a moisture content oi
more than ID per cent.; (2) temperatures against
the false bulkhead, and near the engine-room and
stokehold are evidently too high for safety, and
therefore thoroughly ventilated air spaces should he
kept in these places; (3) excepting near the bulk-
head stokehold the only damage done was due to
“sweat,” or admission of water; (4) the shipment
was a very fair trial indeed, seeing that tiie boat
was 3| months on the voyage altogether. Slow ships
are no good for the purpose of transporting grain in
bulk.
In conclusion it -was stated that there
should be no trouble experienced in the bulk
shipment of wheat by this route, provided
that the abovementioned precautions were
taken.


„ .;';.' S ""f *
&
• ••' -■*»&
1
-
_ T*'* - j
■
4.
d
zz. C
mi
BAM
“■ ;
iF
V.
■
■
■ ;
m
■:■
'• ..
i‘>-
V ' V %&>
T>=
,-••?
s
p
s
■*'—
mm
FAB ROIL GEARS
are as Silent as the Sphinx
They are silent in operation—strong'—not
affedted by heat, cold, dryness, dampness,
oil, or attacks of vermin, and can be stored
for years without deteriorating' or varying' in
the slightest degree.
It costs but little to try one and be convinced
of their wonderful construction and durability
for all drives.
WRITE US TO-DAY.
fsmsmamm
lectric
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY. O? OF QUEEN & LITTLE COLLINS STMELBOURNE.
OTHER AGENTS
BRISBANE (Q ) : The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.),
Ltd., corner Edward and Charlotte Streets.
PERTH (W.A.) : Chas. Atkina & Co. (W.A.), Ltd., Hay Street.
ADELAIDE (S.A.) : Unbehaun & Johnstone, 100 Currie Street.,
OTHER AGENTS:
NEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical & Engineering Co.,
Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA:’ Lindsay Tullock & Co.. Ltd., Launceston; Messrs.
Oliver & Oliver, MacQuarie Street, Hobart.


A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold plain,
half-round Bracelet, with Safety
Chain, £2. Narrower, 25 /- 30 /-
Wider, £2/10/., £3, £3/10/- ’
A. ouu.iuera’
Lady’s 9ct. Gold
Tablet Ring,
A. Saunders’ Boomerang and
Battalion Brooch, any Battalion
Colors supplied,
9ct. Gold, 8/6.
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold Necklet,
set Aquamarines, Tourmalines
or Peridots, 32/6.
15ct., 50/-
af
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Bar Brooch,
set Pearls and Red or Blue Stones or
Turquoise, 15/-
&
t 7
A. Saunders’ 15ct. Gold Moral Spray
Brooch, set pure Pearls, £2/15/«
A. Saunders’ Solid
Gold Wedding
Rings, 15et. Gold,
15/- ISct, 20/-
A. Saunders' 15et.
Gold Ring, set
Red Stone,
£2/10/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Patent Expanding
Wristlet Watch, full jewelled movement, £5.
Others, £4, £4/10/-, £6, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£lO, £l2/10/-
A. Saunders' 9ct.
Gold Photo King,
showing cover
open, 30/-
Lady’s size, 25/-
Ladv’s size, Pearl-
set Lid, 30/-
ARTISTIC DESIGNS.
A. Saunders’
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, ISct.
Gold, £2/10/-
Larger Diamonds,
£3, £3/10/-
A. Snupders’ pure
d* .;ble-cut Dia-
mond Cluster
Ring, 18et. Gold,
£l2/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9et. Gold
Necklet, set Pearls and
Aquamarines or
Tourmalines,
£2/10/-
15ct., set Diamonds
and Aquamarines or
Tourmalines,
£5/15/-
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Ring, IBet.
Gold, £lO.
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £l5,
£2O.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Crossover
Ring, 18ct. Gold,
£3/15/-
A. Saunders’ Presentation
Heturned Soldier’s Medal, 9ct.
'Gold, 80/-; Heavier, 35/-,
40/-. 15ct. Gold, £3,
£3/10/-, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct.
Gold Battalion
Color Ring, 25 /«
Lady’s size, 21 /-
Any color supplied.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jewslleri
805-815 George Street, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station^
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Nellie Stewart Secret Snap
and Joint Braclet, £2; Heavier, £2/10/-
15et., £3/10/-; Heavier, £4/10/-
A. Saunders’ 9ct. Gold Battalion Color
Brooch, any Battalion Colors supplied,
8/6.
A. Saunders’' 9ct. Gold Brooch, set
Pearls and Red Stones, 22/6.
A. Saunders’ Solid Gold Brooch, set Pearls
or Pearls and Turquoise, 25/-
A. Saunders’ Lady’s
9ct. Gold Signet
King, 12/6.
A. Suiiudci's’ Oct.
Gold Necklet, set
Aquamariries,
Tourmalir.es, or
Peridots, £2.
A. Saunders’ pure
double-cut Dia-
mond Rins> IBct.
Gold, £2O,
Smaller Diamonds,
£lO, £l5.
A. Saumlevs;’ Solid
Gold Wedding
Rings, 9ct. Gold,
20/-
15ct.. 40/-
IBct., 50/-
rail
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Gold Wristlet Watch,
. jewelled movement, £3. Extra jewelled Lever move-
.,ment, £3/10/-, £4/10/-. IScts, £5/10/-.
■ £O/10/-, £7/10/-. Solid Silver, £2, £2/10/-
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanjan Hard*
wood Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Build e r s’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
. Branches in all parts of the wo’-’
For our sick and wounded
BOYS. —When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Red Cross Book
Depot, Wynyard Street, Sydney.
sA fecuaro your health
D? J.Coltis Browne'S
CWorodyne
The Original and Only Genuine.
TUB BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colc/s, Asthma,
uiul ill tlie Cough of BUONCiIITIS anil
CONSUMPTION.
Checks FEVEIUSH-
NESS and fjffectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
rnr m
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE, RHEUMATISM.
ACTS LIKE A CHARM IN
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
01 all Chemists. Prices in England, IJ3, 3/-, o/-.
Made in England.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD
Seil WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I
The surest, quickest remedy for
Catarrh, Ordinary Colds and
Asthmatic troubles. The Stand-
ard remedy for , over 40 years.
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
throughout Australasia.
It any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will guote you price for it.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS!
EVERYBODY!
The Book of Nature
A FULL AND EXPLICIT EXPLANATION
OF ALL THAT CAN OR OUGHT TO BE
KNOWN BY
MAN and WOMAN,
INTENDED ESPECIALLY FOR
THE MARRIED, OR THOSE IN-
TENDING TO MARRY.
By L. M. BYRN, M.D.
A PRACTICAL COMPLETE
FAMILY DOCTOR.
No such Complete Panorama of the Mysteries
of Human Reproduction has ever before been
given to the world.
DR BYRN’S ILLUSTRATED EDITION
(1917 ISSUE) IS THE ONLY GENUINE
BOOK. ASK FOR IT, AND TAKE NO
OTHER. PRICE:
TWO SHILLINGS & SIXPENCE.
POST FREE.
Live and Learn, 2/-. How to Get Rich,
1/6 posted. Dr. Lamartine's Silent Friend,
1/6. Ned Donnelly's Art of Boxing, new en-
larged edition, 40 engravings, 1/6. How to
Dance, 1/6 posted. How to Wrestle, 1/6.
Moll Flanders (a rare book by Defoe), 1/3
posted. Thurston's Card Tricks, 1/3. All
Zola's including Nana. 2/- each posted.
Educating the Horse, 1/3. Ventriloquism
Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-date Comic Reciter,
1/6 posted. How to Strengthen the
Memory, 1/3. Bell’s Standard Elocutionist,
latest edition, 5/3 posted. Riddle of the Uni-
verse, 1/3, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(send for list). Joys of Life, 2/-. How
to Make Your Will, 1/3. Window Ticket
Writing Explained, 2/3. Career of Beauty
Darling, 2/6. Quadrille Call Book,
2/-. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/6. For-
tune-Telling by Cards, 1/6. Miller's Sport-
ing Pamphlet, 1/7. The Yoke, by Hubert Wales,
1/6. Tricks & Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/6.
Beauty's Secrets, 1/6 post free. Night of Temp-
tation, 1/9. How to Make Love, 1/6 post free.
Fowler's Science of Life, 12/6. Australian
Miners' Guide (simple tests for minerals), 4/-.
Mahomet's Fortune-Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1/-, posted 1/3.
How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/3. Will
Power (Personal Magnetism), posted 1/-. Sax-
dow's Book of Strength posted, 4,'-. Car-
lisle's Fjieemasonry, 6/3 posted. Daughters
of Ismael, 2/6. History of the Rod Flagella-
tions and the Flagellant: (scarce), 12/-.
Practical Gas and Oil Engine Handbook, 5/6.
Motor Mechanics, 3/3. Motor Manual,
(latest), 3/6. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d.
and 1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. How
to Read Faces, 1/9. How to Train for
All Sports, 2/-. Colonial Horse Doctor, 2/-.
French Polishing and Staining, 2/3. Photog-
raphy Self-taught, 1/6. How to Make
Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/91 New Tricks
with Coins, 1/3 posted. House Painting and
Papering, 2/3. Prof. Fowler's Human Science,
12/6. Australian Pastrycooks' Guide, 1/6.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, etc., with full direc-
tions, 1/6 posted. Gamblers' Secrets and How
to Win at Cards, 1/6. How to Read Faces
and Heads, 1/9. Soldering, Brazing, etc.,
2/3 posted. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,
1/9. That Rascal Gustave, IJ-; 1/3 posted.
Camille, 1/6 posted. Piano Tuning and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Modern Etiquette, 1/3. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), 1/6. How
to Mesmerise, 1/9. Man prom Snowy River,
4/-. Poultry Keeping, 1/3 posted. Parlor
Magic, 1/3 posted. The White Slave Traffic,
1/3. Every Max His Own Carpenter, 1/6.
Ready Reckoner and Lightning Calculator,
1/1. Secret History of tiie Court of Eng-
land, 2/-. Letter-Writer Up-to-date, 1/6
posted. Speeches and .Toasts, Public Speaking
Made. Easy, 1/6 posted. Kelly Gang of Bush-
rangers, illustrations and portraits, 1/-; 1/2
posted. Electricity Made Simple (new), 6/'-.
The Confectioner’s Handbook, 1/6. Sexual
Knowledge for Everybody (with plates), 6/6
posted. How to Shine in Society, 1/6.
Cabinetmakers’ Haxdybook, 2/-. Complete
2/6. Life of Deexiing, illus-
trated, 1/1. How McDougall Topped the
Score, and Other Verses, 1/3. French
Self Taught, 1/3. Wannax’s Engine-
driver’s Guide, 6/- posted. Decameron of Boc-
caccio. Heptamerox, and many others, all at
4/6 each, posted. Lee’s Priceless Recipes, 2/-
posted. Women’s Secrets, 1/- posted. Gay Life
in Melbourne, 1/- posted.
AH These Prices Post Paid.
Established 30 Years.
DON’T BE FOOLED
INTO PA YING MORE.
New Tricks with Cards, 1/6. Sappho, genu-
ine, 1/3. Old Bush Songs, 1/3 posted. Dr.
Milford's Midwife's Handbook. 92 practical
illustrations, 3/-. Aristotle, 5/-. Adam Lind-
Write for my
BIG ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT ANYWHERE
FOR THE ASKING.
say Gordon's Poems, 1/9. Practical Palm-
istry, 2/-. Guide to Auctioneering, 3/6.
Lovers' Letter-writer, 1/6. All About Incu-
bators, 2/3. Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed,
Key to All Degrees, New Edition, 1/9 posted.
Vest-pocket Dictionary, 1/6 posted. Tokology,
lb/6 posted. Ingersoll's Works, 1/3, 2/-. How
to Head Heads (Jas. Coates), 1/9 posted.
Chevasse’s Advice to a Wife, 3/9 posted. Bread
and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-boilers' Assist-
ant, 1/9. The Wife’s Handbook, 1/3 posted.
Fruits of Philosophy, 1/- posted. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, 1/3. Nervousness
and its Cure, 1/2 posted. Webster's Large
Unabridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus.,
leather bound, my price, 20s. post paid. (Why
pay 3 and 4 guineas?). Bootmaking and Repair-
ing, 2/3. Dynamos and Electric Motors, 2/3.
Moore’s Universal Assistant and Complete
Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth bound, 12/6 posted.
The Secrets of Clairvoyance, If- posted.
Henry Lawson's Humorous Verses. 1/3. The
Age of Reason, by Paine, 1/3 posted. Damaged
Goods. 1/6. One Day, 1/3 posted. The
Wizard’s Manual, 1/3. Speeches from the
Dock, 2/-. Life's Shop Window, 1/9. Three
Weeks, 2/- posted.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, the big book store, 67 869 Market Street, Sydney (only).
ipr* BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMON WE A L TH.


“ CHUNDER ” TAKES A TRIP HOME.
At the War.
u I c - 1 R
I s r in jo r s 'ity
* •<-,
; 'H H 4
‘X/
S6e * s^s2SS
•*»nCj'.:! k ! ; Mip‘/pi m w®S,
te'p-i
■Cvl
'••if' \ ■? .; :'•• *-
s*- j x..' ..• ;; - .?j
! fMfii
S**" ! ™X~r | Apii ‘J> llf
/;
p/ i "*'
'V "A
P
nx
! *
i
mJ
./jzzvs tgi?
o<*
x * t
S '•■;
is
/ ytfj-
it' if ,
B:i ffl
1* !
Y-;Ss> -v
: ;;r -nfil 3. S'
*• s?'
t-'V'*, y
II
r,'
j i II :
X If :• “'v -
fj f -., <- ■ J
/ -v'/ V'X
<x>v.
/•I
/ c
/p , r
• ..>■? </e ■ ;
:• /.
\A
\ < r yt%
>
• 'X, '
' r*;
iu-j
r .Vi
"V >
4~d*P
irv't
f -L ,rv-'- / /
A
>• JIX ,•- { ,
>*-
t\ ‘ <-/
‘ ,f% N > '
r
I #, tytyy/i
Jg f I ' i /
?i
7X-
; «- ,i
V
r- •.'. /
'e/-#
‘'"N
■Jfh
, I f
m
vy? v\ y 7 S
i J rv.m~ s v
«***■
>3^s
0A S \
0
>\
rff-L
a
g
ri
sty
//V
ffi
‘X
'V : 9
m
fm
f Cf. >
\
Jill
m
an
m
%
| |M u *:• . , }
• >*£• j ~ -Ai’y
/«
iKT
?
S&
pp-'
y^sSM
ZZ**
’su**’
S V- v
a
J>
c> •—*
**
*a#
“Cobra,” 57? e Boot PolisK.
Ch under Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Helps with France’s
Triumph too.
Chunder, Dog and
Bear are there
With their shining
Coach and pair.
How the people
Shout and sing
When the President
And K ing-
o
Drive past slowly,
Stage by stage !
So begins the
“COBRA” Age.


Government Notices.
QUEENSLAND GOVERNMENT.
Applications for the position of
INSPECTOR and INVESTIGATOR
in the Queensland Forestry Service will be
received up to Ist January, 1919.
Salary £4OO per annum and quarters
valued at £5O per annum.
Applicants should he qualified foresters,
with some_ experience in forest administra-
tion. Applications should be addressed to the
Under-Secpetary, Department of Public
Lands, Brisbane.
W. GORDON GRAHAM, Under-Secretary.
Department of Public Lands.
Brisbane, sth July. 191 S.
k
4,
k MSrA
A Specially Good Riding Boot—
THE STOCKMAN, 17/6
POST
FREE.
This is not only the best Riding Boot on the market, but the best value, too. It’s a solid Tweed Seam-
less Emperor, light in weight, but exceedingly strong. Note the patent strip on elastic. This is a
special feature, and ensures a double life for the elastic where it wears out so quickly in the ordinary
riding boot. Has standard screwed soles.
Special Price, 17(6 Post Free.
MAIL YOUR ORDER FOR A PAIR TO-DAY I
FINNEY, ISLES & CO. Ltd.
QUEEN & ADELAIDE STREETS, BRISBANE. The Drapers of Queensland—since 1864.
POVERTY
POINT
CHARLIE
CHAPLIN'S
MILLION
DOLLAR
COMEDIES.
SUPER
FEATURES
“Halta”: The clever and artistic one-act
play, “Kitty Nobody,” the best thing in the
Tivoli revue, “Iloni Suit,” was not im-
ported—it was written by two Mnorilanders,
Hampden Booth and John Patrick. Both
these young men belong to Christchurch
(uI.JL.) and have been regular contribu-
tors to Tiie Bulletin. They wrote
“Kitty Nobody” with their eyes on the U.S.
market; but the tense little drama chanced
to be shown to Bob Creig, who reckoned it
would make a hit in these parts. It proved
to be the plum of “Iloni Suit,” and the great
success scored in it by Beatrice Holloway
and John Junior showed that Greig's judg-
ment was alert.
“S.”: Never was an undeserving Object
treated with such generosity as that the Mel-
bourne critics brought to bear upon Fritz
Hart’s attempt at comic opera. I saw the
section of “Malvolio” produced by little
Fritz at the Playhouse, and it- suggested
Wagner in a burst of mental aberration
sounding the loud timbrel in the kitchen.
Fritz has taken the Sliakspearean “Twelfth
Night” in its noisiest moments and added
more noise, and the impression conveyed is
one of two people laughing uproariously over
nothing, while two others are intensely grave
over inconceivable things, and a fifth (Sir
Toby) wallows round and trumpets like an
agitated elephant at fixed intervals. No con-,
ception of the Sliakspearean joke is con-
veyed. Melba’s faith in Fritz Hart has
become Melbourne’s faith, a faith justified
neither by his pupils’ handling of Gluck’s
“Orpheus” nor by his “Malvolio.”
An admirable work of reference, “The
Dictionary of the Drama,” was projected and
partially realised by the late W. H. Daven-
port Adams, of England. The first volume,
covering the ground from A to G, was pub-
lished and is an exceedingly valuable collec-
tion of facts and biographical information re-
lating to the theatre not only in the British
Isles, but also in America, Australia, Maori-
land and elsewhere. But for some reason or
other the second volume concluding the work,
although repeatedly promised, has not yet
been brought out, though it is known that
Adams had finished the manuscript before his
death. Another “positive assurance” has
been given that it will soon see the light.
It is now in the hands of John Parker, the
editor and compiler of that useful annual,
“Who’s Who on the Stage.” lie is just the
man for the job—a walking cyclopaedia of
stage lore and theatrical history.'
“Ticket Snatcher”: Anent “0.K.” and
Dickens on the stage (B. 12/12/T8). At
least two other plays besides “The Only
Way” have been produced in Australia in the
past 30 years. J. L. Toole did “Dot,” a
dramatisation of “The Cricket on the
Hearth” by, Dion Boucicault. at Melbourne
Princess’s in 1890; and D’Orsay Ogden
put on “Oliver Twist” at the old St. George's
Hall, Melbourne, in the early 'nineties.
From London: —
The gorgeous historical pageant at Drury Lane,
organised to celebrate 21 years of continuous man-
agement by Arthur Collins, crowded that most
famous of London theatres to overflowing and yielded
a five-figure cheque for distribution amongst ibe
theatrical charities. Australia loomed large in the
ler.gthv and diversified proceedings of a memorable
afternoon. Marie Lohr was “great” as Lady
Teazle in the screen scene from “The School
for Scandal,” receiving admirable support from
Matheson Lang, Henry Yibart and Holman Clark.
Madge Titheradge made a powerful impression by
her earnest and emotional intensity in the drugging
scene from “The Best of Luck.” The veteran octo-
genarian Genevieve Ward received an ovation at
the close of her wonderfully vigorous and im-
pressive impersonation of Lady Macbeth, and she
received the unusual tribute of an enthusiastic kiss
from tlie notability of the occasion, manager Arthur
Collins. Lillah McCarthy was seen in a selection
from “The Humorous Lieutenant,” by Beaumont and
Fletcher, the piece with which Drury Lane started
its career on May 7, 1063, under the Royal patent
and patronage of King Charles 11. The humor of
three centuries ago is not particularly laughable
nowadays. Ivy Shilling was associated with the
veteran K. W. Iloyee, who toured Australia with the
Gaiety co. of the; ’eighties, in a scene illustrative of
pantomime as it was played at Drury Lane in the
period of the most celebrated of Christmas clowns,
Grimaldi. Royce, who is now nearing 80, gave a
remarkably realistic and appealing impersonation of
Grimaldi, Ivy CQ-operating as a nimble and delight-
ful Columbine. Fred Wright was a vivacious Harle-
quin. This interlude was one of the most pronounced
successes of the afternoon. It was on the stage of
Drury Lane that the most perennially popular of ail
British operas, Balfe’s “Bohemian Girl,” was first
produced, and three of its well-known airs—“l
Dreamt I Dwelt in Marble Halls,” “When Other
Lips” arid “The Heart Bowed Down”—were sung
b.v Miriam Licette, Frank Mailings and Fred Rara-
low. Garrick, Kemble, Mrs. Siddons and other
illustrious players of bygone centuries who had
strutted and fretted on the boards of old Drury were
impersonated at intervals, and at the close of a
long programme homage was paid to a bust
of Henry Irving, whose farewell season was
played on the same historic stJige. At the end all
concerned in the afternoon's variegated doings
HIS PLACE AT THE SHOW.
“And what theatre of war were you at?”
“The one where there's no blaaky dress-
circle.”
gathered around Arthur Collins, to whom due
tribute of praise and admiration was paid by
Henry Ainley, Collins confessing that never before
in his 21 years of uninterrupted management had
he made a speech from the stage. He thanked all
who had co-operated in paying him the “enormous
compliment,” specially singling out Louis N. Parker
and Austin Hrereton (formerly of Sydney) “without
whose untiring energy and organising ability that
wonderful performance could not have taken place.”
“M.C.-T.”: In Sydney there has been
strong moral support for Verbrugghen's
plea that the Conservatorium orchestra, a
collection whiolf is certainly not excelled
in Australia for its musical standard, should
not be allowed to drift apart. It is one of
the iinest educative factors we have. To
country students w r ho have the luck to be
present at a Conservatorium orchestral con-
cert it is a lift up from the dead level of
the ordinary species of musical educa-
tion. It is almost certain that the necessary,
money to keep the orchestra together wall
materialise. Sydney is a music-lovng com-
munity. The Minister for Education is—or
was —thinking out the monetary side of the
problem. Private Enterprise may also offer
its cheques to stem the threatened break-
away. Since the signing of the armistice
many prominent members of this magnifi-
cent orchestra have been “approached” with
the prospect of remunerative engagements.
Verbrugghen suggests giving his staff a re-
taining fee to hold them. Anyway the
orchestra should be held together.
"P.”: “Bluebeard” in panto form has long
been an absentee from the Australian boards.
Fuller revives it more or less at the
Majestic (Sydney). The last big “Blue-
beard” production was done by George Rig-
nold at Her Majesty’s, Sydney, in 1892-93.
Maggie Moore was principal boy; Nellie
Napier. Fatima; George Walton. Bluebeard:
and Lionel Rignold, the dame. Jimmy Ilaz-
litt, now at the Criterion (Sydney), was
stage-manager. Joe Tola no (now a Woolloo-
mooloo publican) was pantaloon; and Cyril
Keightley was the policeman.
Here’s a chance for somebody, offered
through Melbourne Age:—
Phonograph, Edison Standard, with If coords ; also
Mule, splendid songster. After 1 o’clock, >
W. Brunswick.
"T. I). Emdee”: Many will disagree with
the dictum of “0.K.” (B. 12/12/T8) that
much of the popularity of Dickens is due to
the stage. In that respect Charles D. differs
from Shakspeare, who is understood much
better when acted. Anyone may read
Dickens and appreciate his fine character
studies. It needs quite a different brain to
grip “The Tempest,” for instance. “0.K.”
overlooked one important Dickens play pro-
duced in Australia within the last 30 years—
“ Oliver Twist,” which Nance O’Neil and
McKee Rankin put on at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, on
May 19, 1900. Josephine
Thynne was Oliver ; Nance
O’Neil played Nancy;
Thomas Kingston, Fagin;
McKee Rankin. Sikes;
and J. B. Athol wood the
Artful Dodger. The play
was chiefly a horrible'mur-
der b.v Sikes, so realisti-
cally done “off” that many
folks’ gore rose qt the
spectacle of the battered
and bloody Nance crawl-
ing across the stage. King-
ston’s Fagin c-ame as a
pleasant artistic surprise,
but the success of the pro-
duction v r as Atholwood’s
Dodger. Rankin played
Bill Sikes like the bold,
bad baron of burlesque.
Thomas Kingston was the
original Sydney Carton in
Australia in the adapta-
tion of “A Tale of Two
Cities” called “The Only
Way,” and done by Mar-
tin Harvey in London.
That was in the early part
of his career and prior to
his .replacing Clay Clem-
ent as Nance O’Neil’s
leading man. So far as I
can recollect Linda Ray-
mond was Lucie Manette
Carton was the character
which Kingston regarded
as his best. In recalling
old Dickens memories one
should not forget Jenny Lee
as Jo in an adaptation of
“Bleak House,” in which
she and her husband, J.
P. Burnett (Inspector
Bucket), toured Australia.
The last time I saw her in
the play was at the old Opera House in
King-street in ’B4.
“E.”: The actor-manager entertained me
with his idea of the most casual Australian.
“He was an old pro. His name would still
be remembered by Australian playgoers who
have passed the meridian. He took life so
easily that he appeared as well content when
giving recitations in hotel billiard-rooms for
a bare living as when taking down a fair
salary during a long run for which his
undoubted talent was in some measure
responsible. He was a member of a com-
pany with which I was connected for over
two years, during which time we went to
and fro a good deal together. One day the
co. was well on its way to Sydney when Dick
suddenly jumped up and clapped his head
"There, dammitall!’ he cried. ‘I knew
there was something. I meant to marry Ann
this trip !’ Ann was the proprietress of the
small establishment at which Dick always
lodged, when he could afford to lodge any-
where. We parted a few- months later, and
I did not see Dick for over a year. When
we met again I said : ‘Well, old man, did
you marry Ann?’ He looked at me in some
stupefaction for a moment. ‘G —d’s truth
It was Ann, then?’ he said. ‘And I’ve been
and married the other one.’ He had married
the woman at his Sydney lodgings.”
The prize competition among amateur and
aspiring conjurers organised by London's
“Oh, Oh, Del phiner!"
at Sydney Royal.
Comedian Phil
Smith as Bouchotte.
premier magician
J. N. Maskel.vne,
of St. George’s
Hall, did not dis-
c-lost' any super-
abundant genius in'
that line. Thirty
candidates ’ came
forward. one of
them a girl. The
winner was found
in a youngster of
14 from the great
public school of
Eton, who per
formed with sur-
prising case and
self-possession. It
turned out that he
was the son of a
professional con-
jurer. Reviewing
the competition,
Maskel.vne deplored
tin; lack of origi-
nality not only in
regard to the tricks
performed but also
the patter. “Origi-
rality is the last note that amateurs
attempt to strike,” was Maskelyne’s sum-
ming up.
“L.11.P.” : “0.K.” (B. 12/12/’18) says he
does not. remember any performance of a
Dickens play in Australia in 30 years, ex-
cept “The Only Way.” Besides Nance
O'Neil’s too-realistic performance of Nance
in a version of “Oliver Twist” at Sydney
Majesty’s in 1900-01, Charles Holloway
staged "Bleak House” at Sydney Criterion in
1906, with daughter Beatrice as Jo, Johnny
O’Neill as Chadband. Wilton Welch as
Guppy, Bob Inman as Tulkinghorn, and
Rosa Conroy as Lady Deadlock. Frank
Thornton, in 1890, played John Hol-
lingsbead’s sketch, “Bardell v. Pickwick”
from “Pickwick Papers.” Thornton’s Ser-
geant Buzfuz was a joy, while E. C. Cnrlesse
as Pickwick looked as if lie had stepped out
of a Cruikshank plate. The operatic ver-
sion of “Pickwick” (music h>y Solomon, of
“Vicar of Bray” and “Billee Taylor” celeb-
rity, and libretto by Frank Burnand, for
years editor of London Punch) was fre-
quently given all over Australia in the ’9o’s
by Billy D’Ensem, stage-manager at Sydney
Tivoli in 1894-5-0.
“L.H.P.”: Next time you go to a picture-
show take your opera-glasses with you, no
matter in what part of the house you may
sit. You will discover that a motion-picture-
seen through opera-glasses takes on enough
added depth to give it the third dimensional
effect produced by the stereoscope. The
realism of any picture taken out of doors is
particularly enhanced by an opera-glass, and
with eyes focussed on the screen the specta-
tor gets the impression of being actually at
the spot where the action is taking place.
At the age of 43, Frank Gray, who a
While back was a lieutenant, A.1.F., has
discovered that his voice is worth £2O a
week. For nearly 20 years prior to enlist-
ing he sang regularly at Melbourne concerts,
but it was when, as an invalid in Blighty, he-
warbled at a soldiers’ function that he was
"discovered.” The result was a three-years’
contract at the price mentioned. At present
he is appearing in London with Arthur Bour-
chier’s co. in Bairnsfather’s “The Better
’Ole, ' and his song, “Some Day when I
Come Home,” is one of the hits of that
success.
MIS BUKIED PAST
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
With Jimmie Hogan yesterday
In town I chanced to meet—
• Jim Hogan who could make a play
With two sticks and a sheet.
And act it too. An artist who
Contrived to live, as could but few,
On air and that strange trustfulness
Which rural publicans possess.
lie was a genius of worth,
Evasive, pleasing, slim;
There never was a man on earth
Could duck a bill with him.
That chap could stay or get away,
Just as he pleased, and never pay.
His style with duns appealed to me
As sublimated sophistry.
Alas! he’s spoiled for good, I fear.
Some fifteen months ago
Poor Jim inherited per year
Twelve hundred pounds or so,
And nowaday, where’er he stay,
Whate’er he do, our James can pay.
Possessing money all the while
He has no use for subtle guile.
’Twould break your heart to see poor Jim;
He’s bored and much too stout.
And when the cash they ask of him
lie simply forks it out.
He need not flee nor fake a plea.
“I lived for nothing once,” said he.
“Ah! if those times would come again—
One something had to live for then.”
BILLY T.


INFLUENZA.
“Aft Ounce of Prevention Worth a Pound of Cure.”
/
. / . -v '
It has been truly stated that “an ounce
of prevention is worth a pound of cure.”
The Australian public are face to face
with the possibility of an Influenza
epidemic similar to that which has been
raging elsewhere. It has already devas-
tated New Zealand ■ and is at the very doors of the
Commonwealth. At such a time It stands each individual
in hand to keep a close watch on themselves and maintain
their usual standard of health.
A dose of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills two or three times a week or one
or two pills each night is advised. It would also be advisable to take from
5 to 10 grains of ASPIRIN two or three times daily if feeling out of sorts,
or 10 grains of QUININE on retiring at night at the same time the pills
are taken. A common cold can usually be broken up if either QUININt
or ASPIRIN is taken with Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as directed on
the first indication. Petroleum Oils, Salts, Tonics and other so-called
remedies are of little use to cleanse the system and keep these germs in
check; in fact they will have a tendency to aggravate an already deranged
gastric condition. Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a searching, cleans-
ing remedy, and will drive these germs out of the system.
Should, however, an attack of Influenza develop, lose no time in sending
for the family doctor, and go to bed at once. This is the best advice that
can be given. Don’t try and doctor yourself. If you have the real Influenza
your digestion will be a wreck, your head, legs and back will ache, your
heart action will be affected, and you will have a temperature. These con-
ditions need the attention of a skilled medical attendant. He may con-
tinue the treatment indicated above or he may not, but it will only be safe
for the person affected to at once go to bed when the first definite
Influenza systoms appear, and place yourself wholly and unreservedly in
the doctor's care.


The Same toYou
And many of them.
Winchcombe, Carson Ltd.
offer everyone their heartiest
best wishes for a Bright and
Merry Christmas, and Prosperous
Times during the coming year.
es ?
HWIO^
/ />
w
s
°mp AN¥
h °tor oa s
UD
WttOta
101,
NMIONAL
MOTOR OHS
-For the Motor Car
-For the Motor Cycle
-For the Motor Trticß.
-For the Motor Boat
-For the Aerial Engine
lubrication with National Motor Oils is the
greatest safeguard against loss of power and
wear and tear. Their protective quality
never varies.
Obtainable all Storekeepers and Carages
in 1-gallon tins, 4-gallon tins and barrels.
Ask also for National Motor Greases.
NATIONAL OIL CO., LTD.,
1 Bridge Street. Sydney.
JAMES AVARDLE & CO.,
Adelaide.
“THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN."
oo?
fy-
&
m*rM
The above
is the tills;
of our book-
let, which
tells about
the possibilities
of Drawing—both
as a profession and
as a pastime. it
describes in detail
the Drawing Course
bv HARRY J.
WESTON, Austra-
lia’s famous artist.
It explains the
difference between
learning to COPY
and to DRAW.
It points out the
pitfalls to be
avoided by the
beginner. Tt ex-
plainS, in clear,
concise language
what the Weston
Course is, and why
Weston tuition is
the most success-
ful.
Send three
penny stamps
to-day for a
copy of this
booklet—
THERE’S
MONEY
IN
THE
PEN.”
THE HARRY J. WESTON
Postal -School of Drawing',
93 Waltham Buildings, 24 Bond St., SYDNEY.
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
All Balcony Rooms. Tariff, 15s. per day.
What do YOU know
about WIRELESS?
Wireless is revolutionising the cbm-
munications of the world. It is still in
its "infancy, and those who take up the
work now will be ready for the demand
j
which must soon arise throughout the
world.
Commence your studies now —under
the direction of experienced men,
/equipped with modern apparatus —at:
THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS
97 Clarence Street, Sydney,
and
422«424 Cittle Collins Street, Melbourne
m
\%
1 to 5 Tons
Capacities.
Growing Demand fa Federak
There is a logical reason for the immense patronage
given the Federal Motor Lorries.
Federals are always equal to the work expected of
them. They give. a certainty of performance and a
marked economy in daily, costs.
Read what they do and save in Traffic News, a Monthly Magazine sent
on request. Write for full price-list and discounts.
I Ton, $l9OO
Ton, $2350
2 Ton, $2600
3*4 Ton, $3350
S Ton, $4400
FEDERAL MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY
Factory—Detriot, Mich., U.S.A. Foreign Dept., 18 Broadway, N.Y.
ri
Diamonds as Xmas Gifts
Jfo other Gift in the whole list of Valuable Things has such
Personal Appeal as a Diamond King.
Ms
K 83.—£13/10.
K79.—£11/10/-
K. 1013. —Diamond
and 3 Emei-alds,
£lO/10/-
AI.L OCR DIAMONDS
ARE SET IN
PIKE PLATINUM
AND 18et. GOLD.
<8 A
K923.—£35.
a
K73-I.—Diamond
and Emerald
Cluster, £55.
w
JlO4O. —£17/10/-
£lO/10/-
G93.—£10.
CALL AND INSPECT, or WRITE FOR OCR NEW CATALOGUE
OF CHRISTMAS GIFTS.
STEWART DAWSONS,
LARGEST JEWELLERS OF THE EMPIRE,
STRAND CORNER, SYDNEY.
On Dampier’s Track.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DAMPIER'S Archipelago, encircling the
nor'-west coast of Australia, perpetu-
ates the name of the famous buccaneer
who roamed tue southern seas some two
hundred years ago, when this continent was
almost a terra incognita to' the world. It is
an interesting cluster of islands, in some
places so closely packed together that north-
ern-bound vessels venturing sometimes (only
by daylight) to make the narrow and intri-
cate passages between them, boiling with a
multitude of currents, require the best steer-
ing skill to guide them into the open waters
beyond. One can picture the bold adven-
turer of the Main threading his way among
these islets in his frail ship, the Roebuck, the
first to enter the now flourishing port of
Nor'-West named after his vessel. Many?
spots are made attractive by Hampier’s asso-
ciation with the locality, even if there had
, been none of the great pearling trade which
subsequently brought it world-wide celebrity.
At Roebuck Bay, on whose low-lying shores
stands the town of Broome, are fascinating
reminders of the famous sailor’s sojourn.
Buccaneer Rock is a dark, outstanding mass
situated in the heart of an inlet; there is
also the creek where the pirate sought further
refuge from the fierce blows which periodically
sweeo over and devastate this hurricane
region of Australian waters. Arid putting
out from the foreshore of the town is a
causeway, obviously not the work of Nature,
but considered by local historians to have
been built by Bampier and his men to facili-
tate loading and unloading when the Roebuck
came into port.
Tradition says, as it always says when
referring to the obscure anchorages of the
old piratical days, that somewhere in
the sand adjacent to the causeway Bampier
buried treasure; but, so far, the secret of the
covered-up hoard, if there be any, has hot
been solved.
Curiously enough, in none of Hampier’s
chronicles is there any mention of pearls; -
indeed, even now, on the spot, you only hear
of them in a vague, general sort of way, and
few people are privileged to handle the big
gems that come from the deep. The Broome
pearler loves to surround his discoveries with
i lie cloak of mystery. Occasionally, how-
ever. Robinson and Norman, the'leading local
merchants, wnose luggers are numerous on
the grounds, permit the stranger a view of
some prize brought in. One, an oval-shaped
gem of scintillating loveliness, lay embedded
in the heel of a shell, awaiting the critical J
operation of release to decide either a flawless ■
pearl of great value or mere baroque. “If it
comes out unscathed,” murmured Norman, “It
will be worth £2000.” Subsequently he
was, able to announce the successful
deliverance of a gem eagerly bought for
the London market at tin? figure men-
tioned. Broome waters have given up
pearls of much higher price, and there is a
story of one, found about six years ago in
si allow depths by a swimming diyer (a
black), which brought the phenomena! sum
of £16,000. The famed “Southern Cross,”
lifted at Cossack in 1874, was a remark-
able amalgamation of nine pearls, two of
them disposed laterally forming the arms of
the cross, and was sold for £lO,OOO. That
there was no doubt of the beautiful and
complex combination of brilliants being of
nature’s arrangement was clearly demonstra-
ted by the manner in which the gems fitted
into one another by reciprocal concave and
convex surfaces, though sceptics still attrib-
ute the pearl cross to cunning artificers.
Then there was the pearl presented to a well-
known Westralian scribe which he hugged to
his bosom until, under the moistening atmo-
sphere of a Broome summer day. it melted
away. He had been treasuring a prominent
brand of pill put up on him by an unfeeling
leg-puller.
Notwithstanding the war, the pearling in-
dustry at Bi'borne has continued fairly
robust, the value of shell produced for
one year of the conflict (1916-1917) reach-
ins: £158.597; while 360 vessels, employing
2064 adults, searched the Ninety-Mile Beach
and other favored spots of the Nor’-West
coast for their submerged wealth.
MUSTARD GOLD.
“Silas Snell” : All Yabby knew there was
trouble up at Biggie’s. Higgle showed it in
his countenance, Mrs. Higgle made it plain
in her fiery rebellion, the little Higgles
manifested it' in their unusual unkempt-
ness and their preference for any place
other than home. The neighbors were con-
sumed with curiosity. Higgle had not taken
to drink, he held his billet, and, to all
appearances, was the steady, reliable house-
father lie had been right through the family’s
eight years’ stay at Yabby. Mrs. Higgle had
not been seen “running the rabbit” to any
noticeable extent, but her stormy interviews
with Higgle drove him out of the house and
stirred the township from end to end. Yabby
was indignant, hurt, not so much over poor
Diggle’s trouble as at the lack of confidence
Mrs. Higgle displayed in keeping the cir-
cumstances of her case from the neighbors.
Higgle explained the situation to me. He
wanted such legal advice as I was capable
of giving. “Yiv heard . how the missus is
playin’ up?” he said. “She’s makin' a
feller’s life not worth livin' with her whims
’n’ fancies, ’n I bin ez good a husband to
that woman as there is livin’. Is there'a
soberer husband than me in all Yabby? Is
there a harder-workin’ husband than I am?
Ain’t I a true husband ’n’ a kind husband?”
I admitted be was. “Wimmin’s never satis-
fied.” said Higgle. “Here am I, her faithful
husband for nine years, ’n’ look how she’s
goin’ on!” “What is it she wants?” I
asked in some perplexity. “She wants me
to marry her!” said Higgle.
“Trooper Bluegum”: Hamascus could be
made a beautiful city. Many sparkling
streams gush out from the sides of the sur-
rounding hills and go rippling through the
narrow defiles of the town. And bordering
the rivulets are towering poplars, also wal-
nut-trees, peach and pear, pomegranate and
fig, with grape-vines in rich profusion. The
Australians mopped up about 20)000 prison-
ers in Hamascus, and then took it easy for
a week, camped in the Wadi Barada samp
ling the walnuts and wine.


<s>
□
M,
n
n
o
<§>
B
□
o
U
n
□
cs
0
sS^dshß
(prepared)
y>y.<‘
m
fffz
m Pi
IpM:
m
r
a
L
t
ft
s
2^
fV
>gr'SF~
X
Kv
w\
D
<c*
dftb
PAINT
to protect and beautify!
Every day and every night DECAY is at work eating
into unpainted property. Owners who wisely insure
against the chance of fire, too often forget to insure
against the certainty of decay. Paint is as neces-
sary for a house as clothes are for the body.
You must pay for paint, or pay for repairs. Save after-
expense by using the best paint first-BERGER’S!
< ' )V ■ •
Use this guaranteed paint
Every tin of “ 8.P.” (Prepared)
bears a signed guarantee that the
paint will spread, look, and wear
better than any other paint.
Rerger’s is AUSTRALIAN-made.
Manufacturers:
LEWIS BERGER & SONS, (AUSTO, LTD.,
Works ; Rhodes, near Sydney.
Offices: 16-18 Younjr Street, Sydney.
INTERSTATE:
MELBOURNE : H. J. Corder Pty.. Ltd.
John Danks & Sons Pty. Ltd.
BRISBANE :
Jas. Campbell & Sons, Ltd.
ADELAIDE :
W. & T. Rhodes Ltd.
PERTH:
McLean Bros., & Rigg.
HOBART:
T, J. Cane & Co., Ltd.
WELLINGTON:
Robt. Martin Ltd.
AUCKLAND:
Pliillipps & Imoev Ltd.
Mr. Berger


r 2
finite
Ji>3fl Sl er v
CPE Cl A LIZ ED
y methods in desi£n-
in& and knitting pro-
duce in Luxite Hosiery
a closely woven tex-
ture of remarkable
durability and re-
splendent beauty un-
surpassed / for the
money by any other
hosiery in the world.
Don’t accept substitutes and think
you have “Luxite.” Insist upon
; the genuine. If your dealer is
unable to supply you, write us.
, Walter Cathro Pty.Ltd.
York Street, SYDNEY.
Nothings contributes
more to secure happy
temper in a child
than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby
is as happy as the day is long.
Mellin's Food is adapted for use with
the youngest babe, is light, easily
digested, safe. Besides, “Mellin’s”
is a no-worry food hot water and
fresh cow's milk, and it's ready.
Mellin’s
Food
Baby's Feeder Is important. Mellin's Feeding
Bottle is unique; hygienic,efficient,easily cleaned.
A Sample Bottle of Mellin's Food, with Handbook
for Mothers, “The Care of Infants," sent Free.
Messrs. Gollin & Co. Proprietary, Ltd.
Sydney
DRAWS FROM THE BLOOD
THE POISONS
which cause Bad Legs, Sore Feet, Car-
buncles, Boils,Varicose Ulcers, Bunions,
Eczema, Piles, etc., and those arising from
Insect and Mosquito Bites.
1 he Proprietors of Grasshopper Ointment
have an absolute confidence in its unsur-
passed merits. They know it to be a safe
and perfect cure for all skin and blood ail-
ments; and the va c t number of testimonials
received prove it to be. Grasshopper Oint-
ment positivelydraws the poisons which pro-
duce these maladies out of the system As
an aperient, liver medicine and blood purifier,
the Grasshopper Pills are equally effective,
and should b° taken in conjunction with the
Ointment. Sold by all Drug Stores and
Chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
■HUNTS
MOSQUITOES
A Marvellous
discovery.
Gives absolute
PROTECTION
FROM THE PEST.
Nothing else
LIKE IT.
■3
i*;
m
Id better
get „
sormz.
1 76
Per bottle, all Chemists
and Stores or
2K Posted to anu part
/ of Australia
/to m H.C.PQIC&
Ch&rswood (I.S.W.
R.I.P.
ALL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the Bkitish Austkal-
A.3XAN, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
and at home. Australians are cordially in-
vited to visit the BhiTisii Austbalasian
Reading Room at the Offices, 115 High Hol-
born, London, W.C., where they can see the
home papers, meet their friends, use tha
telephone, and obtain information without
charge.
ZINC
HIGH-GRADE ZINC DUST
Containing about 00% Metallic Zinc.
ELECTROLYTIC ZINC
sdf
BRAND
Containing about 99.95-% Metallic Zinc
(99.9% guaranteed).
SPELTER
sd
BRAND
Containing about 95.7 o c /c Metallic Zinc
7 .INC CONCENTRATES
Various grades.
SOLE SELLING ORGANISATION for above AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS;
Zinc Producers’ Association Proprietary, Limited,
“Collins House," 360 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Ask for
%
Gomplexion
Powder-
Fragrant and Clinging
Ask your Chemist.
1A PerTul
w
Cl eanTeeth Never Decay
The Daily Use o*CRETONIC
Will Save Many a Pam or Ache.
Delightfully Refreshing to the Mouth .
TOOTH
PASTE
SYDNEY’S LEADING SEASIDE HOTEL
Spacious BALCONIES Overlooking the Ocean.
CRONULLA BEACH HOTEL.
First-class ACCOMMODATION, with SURFING front of Hotel.
Direction—The Cronulla Hotel Ltd. J. A. GRANT, Manager.
Super Fx & R Watches
Xo other make of Watch equals them
For profound accuracy,
For hard bush wear,
For absolute reliance.
They are 63/- each, in Metal Cases, but they last a
lifetime and give daily reliance.
Fairfax and Roberts Ltd.,
Plain Figures.
'Cash Only,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 and 25 Hunter Street.
s
n
Gent.’s Full-size Open-face
Oxidised Steel Super Fx & R
Watch, 03/-
The
HUNTS’
Cody.
t'
r-
■
Making something-different,
and at the same time smart
and within the limit of good
form, has always been the
work of HUNTS’ setting
the pace in Hat styles.
The Cody is an illustration
of this.
R. Hunt 8 Co.
314 George Street,
Sydney.
f
ABBEY
SHOES
will give you the greatest satis-
faction in COMFORT, LONG
SERVICE and SMART APPEAR-
ANCE.
You are assured perfection of fit,
because our shoes are made in half
and full sizes, and in three fittings
—narrow, medium and wide.
We illustrate a Special Golf Shoe
in Choice Tan Willow Calf.
Heavy Soles, 42 -
Light Soles, 40/-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Here’s a true yarn from the North Sea
mists. One night it was discovered that
the wife of a famous admiral, who had beer,
aboard in the afternoon, had left her hand-
bag on a battle-cruiser. A boat, in charge
of a midshipman, was despatched witu it
about 11 pan. In the darkness, however,
the boy found himself with his boat on the
mud. He had orders to deliver the purse
personally, but it was impossible to get otl
the bank. After a minute’s consideration
he made some sort of a raft, undressed, put
his clothes on the raft, paddled ashore,
dressed, delivered the bag, returned to
the beach, undressed and swam back to
ttie stranded boat. Conditions for the event:
North Sea temperatures, 11.30 on a murky
night, fair tide running.
“Leonore Gillies” (from London > : 1
strike some amusing incidents in my inter-
viewing job in the Repatriation Dept., Aus-
tralia House. The Australian soldier, with-
out exception, seems to have a store of
humor within him. A digger was in the
other day, and in the middle of a serious
discussion as to how we would arrange for
his wife to proceed to Australia, he re-
moved his turned-up hat and remarked, “Do
you see anything wrong with this?” “Yes,”
I replied ; “it’s brick color.” “That’s what is
known by us as a 14-days’ hat,” he ex-
plained. "We’re issued with these hats when
we arrive in^London on leave, and at the
end of oui - leave (14 days) they’ve changed
color. That’s a put-up job by the military
police to nab unfortunate diggers who want
tj have another look round.”
This happened at one of our best hotels,
the night the news came through that Bill
Ilohenzollern had skied the towel. Most of
the regular staff had gone out to celebrate,
and the management had enlisted some re-
turned Billjims for further active service.
At one of the tables the Duchess of Toorak
sat with her party. Above the din her
wail was heard asking, for the fiftieth time,
“the wnitah to bring her a glass of watah.”
The understudy finally got. fed up and replied
with much petulance: “Oh, ’ave er bit er
patience, old dear, an’ I’ll bring you the
blinkin’ Yafra.” Resuscitation took fully an
hour.
Among the collection of old books from
the Sunreme Court library which lately
came into the possession of the Red Cross
, committee for pulping purposes, were note-
books belonging to former judges, including
lliginbotham, Cope and Kerford. These
were duly sold to paper-mills for 30s. a ton.
In another drayload of books which has just
been delivered some of Redmond Barry’s
notebooks have been found, including his
complete notes of the evidence given at the
Kelly trial. The Red Cross people intend
holding these books for a while, in the hope
of some collector making an offer that will
save them from pulping.
“R.B. J.”: “G. Arden Hill’s” yarn (B.
5/12/T8) about the telegraphist's efforts to
signal the district inspector’s whereabouts,
reminds me that country school-teachers
used to do the same thing, though the word
did not always travel by wire. In a timber
district, where there are still bullocks and
high-level blasphemy, Jones of Gidgee was,
without warning of any kind, met on his
school step one fine morning by a strange
inspector who knew not Jones. There was
a gap somewhere in the spv circuit. Blinkitt,
at the Two-Mile, must surely have got drunk
or dropped dead not to have flashed the
news. But his own misfortune did not
allow Jones to forget that Forby, up at
Rodd’s Creek, must be warned somehow or
other. Both schools faced the same road
along which a mutually friendly bullocky was
just then driving, and it was to him that
Jones entrusted the doleful tidings. Some
time later, when Forby had likewise re-
ceived the shock of his life at seeing the
inspectorial buggy approach unheralded, he
had slipped out with a wild idea of get-
ting word away to Bronson over at Beck-
ville. Presently the inspector looked up from
the. copybooks to listen to the snorts, rattles,
whipcraeks and blisterings exhortations
which denoted the arrival of Bill and his
team : “Whoa—er! Whoa, Ginger ! Woo !”
Bill walked in and reported: “Jonesy down
the crick's in a fair perish, runnin’ round
like somethin’ with its throat cut. Sez to
tell you to 'look for a wire-whiskered little
—— in a buggy any time ter-day. Sez he
give him a hell of a time. Sez you’d know
who. So-long.” He was a good sport that
inspector. He never said a word.
Corboy, the new M.H.R. for Swan(W.A.),
holds an official discharge from the Aus-
tralian 6th Division. Though the Division
never reached France and was broken up
for reinforcements some time after its estab-
lishment, it was almost high treason 12
months ago to suggest that the unit had
ever existed. Indeed the Censor fell furi-
ously on everybody who remotely alluded to
the subject, and some of those who felt the
Censor’s heavy hand held proof of their con-
tention in Government black and white.
“0.L.” : I met an old pal of mine in Mel-
bourne to-day—a lately-discharged Billjim,
returned from overseas. He left Australia
as a husky, big-chested 40-year-old, anxious
to do his bit as near the front line as possi-
ble ; and he has come back a bent, somewhat
downcast, gently-polite shadow of his old
self, with a new plaintive manner that is
difficult to get used to. He hadn’t seen a
day under gunfire across-Channel, but bore
all the marks of a man who had been
through a dozen first-class battles. I heard
afterwards that he had been in London for
some time and had seen the results of an
air-raid just after it happened—children
mostly.
The Commonwealth owns three railways
—the western transcontinental, the unfin-
ished northern transcontinental (the two
ends of it, the middle being still lacking),
and the Canberra capital affair. The two
first are absolutely necessary for defence
purposes; the last is a frill which is only
required to give access to a dead loss and a
sink of political corruption. None of them
pay expenses as. yet, let alone interest; but
the. Federal Capital concern is in a category
by itself, seeing that it doesn’t pay half the
working expenses.


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cabtnes-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads a
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Booms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding _ sailing
dates, and First-, Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apply i
ORIENT S. N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.— City 4246, 2,4, 6 Spring Street,
ml: Sydney.
Sydney to England
via
the Allied Route,
By way of
South Sea Islands,
Honolulu—San Francisco,
Yosemite Valley—Niagara Falls,
(dr eat Lakes—Great Cities.
NEXT SAILING. JANUARY 1.
VENTURA.
10,000 Tons, 17 Knots, Twin-screw.
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
Telephone: City 2282. 44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Dunking. Public Companies, Ac.
THE,
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000,000.
Directors: The Hon. Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY,
Kt. (Chairman) ; WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H.
MACARTNEY, M.L.A.; Hon. Sir ROBERT PIIILP, j
K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J. TIIYNNE, M.L.C.; THOS.
WELSBY.
General Manager: .T. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Ollice: Brisbane.
Sydney Ollice: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Ofliee: 41 Queen Street.
London Ollice: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS.
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK,
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government o{ Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital .. .. .. 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0-
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 &■
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Bunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C. ; James Love, Esq.;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; W. 11. Hart, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
HEAD Ot'i'TClS --- BRISBANE.
Brunches—London. Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
Amerloa, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED. •
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £130,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGIIT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager: C. M. C. Shannon.
Chief Inspector: J. S. Marks.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets), Manager : E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. 11. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 139 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the World.
Every Description of Banking Business 'Transacted.
Bank of Now Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GEORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS.
Guaranteed Stock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Shares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up .. . . . . 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . . . . . 500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,345,702
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
MACDONALD,
HAMILTON 8 CO.
Managing Agents for
Australasian'United Steam Navigation C“w.
Central Queensland Meat Export Co. Ltd.
Fitzroy Estates Ltd.
Blackheath Collieries Limited.
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Shipping, etc.
Canadian - Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST. NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
THE "ALL-RED” ROUTE TO ENGLAND, In conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES
NIAGARA FALLS. Etc.
SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN, UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
NEXT SAILINGS FROM SYDNEY:
R.M.S. MAKURA, December; to be followed by R.M.S. NIAGARA, January.
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RAROTONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Hookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacific Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
EXCURSION to HONOLUL
“ The Paradise
of the Pacific.
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
SAILINGS ON APPLICATION.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY — PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
sa
ISLAND TOURS.
Now is the Time to Visit the PACIFIC ISLANDS.
DELIGHTFUL TOURS to
NORFOLK ISLAND and NEW HEBRIDES.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
PAPUA and RABAUL.
Trips of Four, Five and Seven Weeks’ Duration.
BURNS, PHILP 8 CO. LTD., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
ANK OF NEW SOUTH.
Established 1817.
WA LES.
Paid-up Capita!
Iteftervo Fund -
Iteserve Liability
i
Directors:
£3,904,860
£3,035,000
£3,904,860
£10,834,730
The Hon. Sir (Jharles Iv. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.,
M.L.C., President.
F. B. S. Falkiner, Esq., M.H.R.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie, Esq.
Robert L. Paithfull, Esq., M.D.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
A uditors ; S. E. Laidley, Esq. ; A. G. Milson, Esq. General Manager : Sir John Russell French, K.B.E.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
336 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
Commonwealth
HEAD OFFICE
fd
3M ot 3Mralfo
Open
for all
General Banking Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Warminster (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchange Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Minimum
Deposit
1/-
Savings Bank Department
At all
Branches, and over 2750 Agencies at
Post Offices in Australia, Papua, Solomon
Islands, New Britain, and The Pacific,
Interest at o<y
per annum '*/o
up to £3OO
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL, Deputy Governor 1918 DENISON MILLER, Governor
HAVE YOU A SAVINGS ACCOUNT?
This Bank offers you every facility for Banking your Savings.
Deposits received
from 1/- upwards.
132 Branches and
500 Agencies
throughout the
State.
Vi
Zr
5$
3
3
Or
03
4
U-l
INTEREST
C 3
ON
c?
DEPOSITS
4*
s
N
Interest paid at 3%
per cent, per annum
on every £ up to
£5OO.
No Agencies at Post
Offices.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Head Office: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Shipping.
Sydney Inter-State
Sub-Committee.
Interstate Passenger
Sailings
(■Circumstances Permitting).
FOR MELBOURNE.
FOR BRISBANE AND OTHER QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
Huddart Parker Lis?
Magnificent
Fast Passenger
Steamships.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.—ReguIar sail-
ing? between Sydney arid Melbourne to New Zealand
ports and vice versa; particulars to be obtained on
application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.—From Sydney to
Hobart and vice versa every tliree weeks. Between
Melbourne and Launceston three sailings per week.
For full particulars apply HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; George Street,Sydney.
Federal & Shire Lines
llegular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers,
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
I,urge airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
fob' FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
■ lURT Si CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES Si CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
1 Navigation Co. Ltd.
Tiie Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larlv to: —
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are iOued in conjunction witli
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company’s up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
FOR SEA
& TRAIN SICKNESS
MOTHERSILL’S has received the
unqualified endorsement of the leading
papers of the world, and the finest testi-
monials from the world's greatest men,
women, and institutions. Among these are
Bishop Taylor-Smith (C haplain General
of the British Forces), Doctors, Bankers,
Polytechnic Tours, Salvation Army, etc.
SICKNESS
%
Sold Under a Positive Guarantee to
Prevent and Cure Sea or Train
Sickness or Money Returned.
MOTHERSILL’S is guaranteed not to contain
Cocaine. Morphine, Opium, Chloral, or any of
the coal-tar products.
NO BAD AFTER EFFECT&
All Chemists, in Large and Small Boxes.
MOTHERSILL REMEDY CO., LTD.,
Corner Clarence & Market Sts., Sydney.


CHARLES
NEIDSIECKS
Vintage 1906
(JfflMffl
WE PLUS ULTRA
<r>r.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
Australasian Agrents—
SWIFT & COMPANY LIMITED, Sydney.
A'vss bv?
„« ov.«i»*'> sw*
mTStt°* > ’ avdne^
' BTai"--
S> dn f
flGe°t*« t S .UyA°* S
8 point
“ Vvtt St-J f MU* 0 " ;
ss^t^sS"
B !^fganey
SgsSSET^
(ITie^
*ts cno J!
f
PAULINE et CIE
announce
GREAT REDUCTIONS
in their exclusive stock of Model Millinery.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers
George Street, SYDNEY.
FOR BAD COUGHS USE TAR SYRUP.
HOW TO MAKE IT.
Coughs, colds, catarrh and bronchial
troubles yield quickly to the concentrated
healing properties of pine as found in
bitrate of tar. The most effective way in
which to use it is to add two ounces of
bitrate of taf to a syrup made by dis-
solving half a pound of sugar in half "a pint
of hot water. Stir thoroughly and pour into
a pint bottle. One or two teaspoonsful of
this tar syrup will quickly stop tickling
coughs, and taken regularly two or three
times a day will soon relieve a most stub-
born cough, cold or case of catarrh. It is
also of special value in all cases of throat
and bronchial trouble arising from exposure
to the damp and cold. Care should be used
to get the bitrate instead of other forms of
tar, which are frequently useless for this
purpose. All high-class chemists stock it.
—Advt.
In tho Heart oP
—handy to everywhere—sums up the position
of the Queen’s Arms Hotel. You can choose
no better hotel for YOUR stay in Melbourne.
The Queen’s Arms offers modem, homely
accommodation and excellent cuisine.
Tariff, by the day. 10/6. Write now.
QUEEN’S ARMS
HOTEL
Proprietor.
C? SWANSTON ST
& FLINDERS
LANE / »ff*
' Will
MM •m
Claud R. Kerr 9
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
rearing qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's.
Imat!
' /
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
DAVID
JONES
FOR
SMART
MILLINERY
Lacly Edeline—Strickland's death at the
\ ilia Bologna. Malta, was cabled' last week.
On the morning the message reached Sydney
a friend received a letter from her, Christ-
mas cards and a second epistle from our re-
cent Governor’s eldest daughter, Mary.
This coincidence brought the invalid very
near the thoughts of those who had seen her
daily struggle, borne with remarkable
courage, in the grip of a slow, relentless
malady that partially paralysed her limbs
and had almost destroyed her speech as
ordinary women understand that inestimable
feminine weapon. Her insistence on attempt-
ing to preside at innumerable charity and
patriotic gatherings had tangible results.
These meetings, for obvious reasons, bad to
b * held at Government House. And —such
is life!—it was easy to whip up a big
assembly of Best Hats (and lay the train
for subscriptions) under the vice-regal roof
for even the most “unfashionable” cause.
One asset remained to this suffering invalid.
To the last, as shown by letters that reached
Sydney a few days ago, Lady Edeline was
an accomplished correspondent. Stricken
in speech, she could express in the most
fluent and easy style all her thoughts on
paper. These turned so affectionately to
Australia that, while the cable mentioned
her death, her just-opened letters were full
of urgent inquiries re women’s work in Syd-
ney. She died in the beautiful hillside villa
two and a half hours’ drive from Valetta,
which was part of her husband’s estate in
Malta. Sir Gerald and his daughters go on
presently to England, to make Sizergh
Castle, the historic Strickland home of many
centuries, and one of the oldest feudal
castles in Britain, their headquarters.
Papua’s athletic Lieut.-Governor Murray,
who has for some time administered his scat-
tered kingdom by boot —often walking 20
miles a day in all sorts of sweltering heat—
is now able to take some of his official trips
by boat. The new Government craft is
adversely criticised in two ways, first (by
some commentators) as “cheap and nasty, a
shoddy craft”; secondly, as a “palatial
yacht.” One recent visitor to Moresby re-
marks: “It can’t be both ‘palatial’ and
‘cheap and nasty,’ but I suppose everything
depends on the point of yiew. Papua
is so accustomed to seeing its tall Adminis-
trator set off cheerfully on foot, like a swag-
man, that it mildly wonders at the alleged
luxury of the little launch.”
Details have oozed through the delayed
English mails of the wedding of Lieut.-
Oommander Darley. R.N.. eldest son of the
Cecil Dnrleys (long resident on the other
side) and a nephew of the late Frederick,
the one time G-T. of N. S. Wales. The bride
was the widow of Captain Anthony Brown,
M.C., R.F.A., and a daughter of the late
Henry Holdship, of the Sydney timber clan.
Maggie McCann’s visit early this year to
Australia vfras to see a sister who died soon
after she arrived. In private life the singer
who made the Sydney Town Hall ring with
“Caller Herrin ” on January 1 is Mrs. Col-
quhoun Thompson. Worse news awaited
her arrival in England—the word that her
husband was dead in London.
Judge Backhouse, so long chairman of the
Anniversary Day Regatta committee, is re-
viving Sydney’s most historic sport—boat-
ing. On January 26 the resumed famous
regatta will be a notable feature of the New
Year.
Mrs. Claude Macdonald, whose frocking
ixsed to be the joy of race-week parades
(Flemington and Randwick), has been
wearing the white starched linen of V.A.D.
work in London. She has been recently
alluded to as “in charge of a hospital.”
Hubby swung a baton with the special
police in England.
The Governor-General unveiled Wahroon-
ga’s Honor Roll last week. About 200 names
will be the total, and two-thirds of that num-
ber are already inscribed. Dr. Antill Pock-
ley’s son, Dr. Brian Pockley, was actually
the first Australian, so far as we know at
present, killed in the recent war. His grave is
in New Guinea. Since then the Wahroonga
man has had another son killed in France.
It was natural that he should speak
feelingly of the spirited past that gar-
den suburb had played. In fairness,
however, to more congested areas,-it must be
remembered that Wahroonga, way up on the
North Sydney highlands, is essentially the
home of the well-to-do. There was no har-
rowing argument in the minds of its males as
to whether the “missus and the kids” might
go short of rations if Dad went to the war.
A Newcastle (X.S.W.) girl, Queenie
Goninan. was lately married at Wolferee,
North Britain, to Captain Palliser Hudson,
of that town. The' Australian bride was
beautifully garbed in a foam of white, em-
broidered with seed pearls and silver motifs.
White heather was tucked in amongst the
orange-blossoms on a wreath that garlanded
the tulle veil and held it in place. The
’groom gave his best girl a glittering pendant
of diamonds. The Palliser Hudsons are
going to make their home in Wolferee
(X. 8.). For about three years the Corn-
stalk maiden was’honorary see. of Newcastle
Red Cross. Since, she took up V.A.D. work
in England.
The winter-garden of the Wentworth
Hostel—where a former memorable gathering
of the 13th and 45th took place to welcome
Colonel Burnage (of the 13th) —glittered
under swinging electric bulbs the other night.
The Christmas greeting was not so complete
as it might have been. Some of the just-
home warriors of the old Gallipoli regiments
were impatiently gazing at the moon from
the Quarantine Station. Colonel Burnage,
in charge of the official side of the party,
handed * to Mrs. Laseron, from her
sister Susies, a beautiful wristlet watch.
Mrs. Laseron has been a tireless honorary
secretary of the Comforts section, and any-
one who has tried the billet for a few weeks
understands what it means when the work
is continued through years.
Ex-Ited Cross Commissioner Murdoch, re-
cently home in Sydney after doing good
work abroad (re-organising comforts’ dis-
tribution to our wounded) gave a picnic at
Clontarf last week. Ilis guests were about
500 members of the business firm of Mur-
doch’s, Ltd.
May Moore, the artistic photographer,
who hails from Maoriland, has had a mes-
sage from Auckland of the deatli of her
mother and brother. A young sister was
lying at the point of death at the same time.
The horror that is chained to North Head
was the evil agent.
The French-Australian League takes off
its aprons till the end of January—and no
band of Sydney wbmen-workers have earned
a breathing space with more magnificent re-
sults this,year. Miss Soubeiran, who depre-
cates the frequent; “When are you going
away?” hurled at her from every quarter,
will return to France shortly. She gave a
farewell address to a crowded depot, the
other afternoon and enlarged on the grati-
tude of the French for what Australia has
already done. Miss Soubeiran, an ardent
patriot of the country wffiich had the Hun
on its soil for long "years of tragedy and
destruction, voiced the hope that Australians
might see their way to keep on helping
battered France. In this respect, she
pointed to Pozieres. All that remains of
that historic town is a signpost: “This was
Pozierfes .” That spot was the scene of much
heroic fighting by our own men, and Miss
Soubeiran suggests that Australia should
rebuild or help to rebuild the town as an
imperishable monument to the glory of Aus-
fralia’s soldiers.
Neville W. Cayley,
only son of the late
Neville Cayley, the
artist who did so
much to make Aus--
tralia’s birds so
popular, is begin-
ning to find his
course. Overshadowed
by his father’s fame,
he never seriously
thought of his skill
ay a bread-and-but-
ter line till after his
dad’s death in 1903.
Then, to keep the
home fires burning,
he got to work, and
he is finding a good
market for land-
scapes, birds and
wild-flower studies. Water-color is the
medium in which his best work is done. This
Christmas finds another of his books on the
city counters —from studies of Australian
flora —a valuable addition to the lore of the
bush.
Mrs. Joseph Playoust, a French woman
whose indefatigable service to the cause of
her country, through the work done by the
French-Australian League’s headquarters in
Sydney, is to get the Medaille d’Honneur.
The French Government is sending this
decoration, which is rarely given to women,
very shortly. To Mrs. Jewett, a slender
Australian woman who has been twin hon.
sec. with Miss Soubeiran and for a long
time alone in the arduous job, comes the
French Medaille de la Reconnaissance. Miss
Gurney, hon. superintendent of the depQt,
gets a similar recognition.
Gertie Purcell, a slim w’isp of a girl with
a big voice, is going to Italy to study grand
opera and all the trills that experts put into
the business. A pupil of de Alba here, she
sang before a big audience in the King’s Hall
the other night.
Music, to w’hich
the older poets tenta-
tively alluded as “the
language of the
spheres,” is appa-
rently the favorite
medium ■by which
Australians think
aloud. The extra-
ordinary success with
which our girls, es-
pecially, compete for
scholarships, prizes
and medals against
all comers, in Lon-
don or elsew'here,
has been a matter of
world-wide comment
A young Sydney stu-
dent (pupil of
Madame Ada Baker)
has just Collected the gold medal, at the
recent exams, by the Associated Board
of the Royal Academy of Music and
Royal College of Music, London. She
is a youthful songbird, Dorothy Gill, whose
photo is by Judith Fletcher. The girl’s
local achievements are emphasised by gold
medals from Eisteddfod competitions in piano
and singing. At the precocious age of 13
Dorothy passed the L.L. College of Music
exam for the piano. In 1916 she added
the medal for senior pass, London Col-
lege of Music. This accomplished young stu-
dent is on the doorstep of a “career.”
Curator Baker, of the Tech. Museum in-
dustry, Ultimo, had the joy of showing the
French Mission, then in its last lap, what
fine furniture grows in Australian forests.
Made into cabinets, chairs, sideboards, tables,
etc., designed and put together by local
craftsmen, this exhibition (still on view
in the Museum) ought to attract a
stream of visitors. Australian hardwoods are
entitled to a front place in the world’s tim-
ber-yards. The Governor-General, who is
an enthusiastic collector of Commonwealth
woods, will probably move off this bit of the
man some time next year. When he goes he
will do ns the service of being, via his
pet hobby, one of our best advertisers.
Black bean, silky oak —a satirfy wood in its
beautifully polished grain—blackbutt, cedar,
hoop-pine, Tasmanian myrtle. Queensland
maple, etc.—samples of all these and more
have been ma<Je into books at his Ex.’s order.
A unique library of 50 apparently calf-
bound. volumes have been standing, almost
unnoticed in the cabinets at this ex-
hibition. They were so exactly like the
handsome tomes the dux of the school piles
under his arm on prize day that their secret
remains unseen. They are, as stated in
each volume, mode of wood —two score and
ten of then!. When some Scotch neighbor
looks in to have a crack with Fairguson in
his homeland the timber Collector .will pull
down, some of his “library.” and Australian
wood, in this fancy dress, will make Cal-
edonian forestry men have button-eyes.
The American-Australian League of Help
(Mrs. Brittain, president! has temporarily
gone into recess till over the holidays. Before
pulline- innumerable pots, of sweets and can-
dies off the stove the depot brought forth
the old Glory Cook Book. Proceeds for Aus-
tralian Billjim.
Major Norman Clowes, D. 5.0.. M.C., of
Warwick (Bannnaland), was married a few
weeks ago at Weymouth (Eng.),-to a nice
girl named (take a long breath) Vera Eliza-
beth Inglehy Pengilly, of Lostwithiel Lodge,
Weymouth. The bride made the day seem
brighter in her georgette finery. Major E.
A. H. Randall (A.1.F.) w r as second-best
man.
An illustrated travel talk, by Paul Mont-
gomery, late' official camera man wdio fol-
lowed the Y.M.C.A. war-work caravan in
the “East,” was full of marrow. The ancient
towns of Mesopotamia (the lecturer joyfully
announced that their dirt could not be repro-
duced on the screen) and the desert which
has blossomed like the full-blown cabbage
under British occupation, were fully
described iu the King’s Hall. Any romantic
young person in the audience wdio imagined a
coast or “marsh” Arab as a dashing person
mounted on a snow-white steed and clad in
silken robes must have had a shock when
a cunning, unclean face of Fagin type,
attached to still more unclean shoulders. ivns
sprung on the screen. Cullen, C.J., presided,
but he wms not responsible for the Arabs.
The raffle of Early Egyptian furniture
heavily carved and inlaid with mother o’ pearl,
got a brisk push ahead last week. Anyone who
has glued an innuiring nose to the Challis
House window during the past 10 days has
probably yearned to add it to their" front
parlor’s decorations, and Florence Young’s
beguiling “Won’t you take a ticket?“on the
adjacent pavement has weakened the desire to
shun temptation. The depot is be-
hind the goods (given by merchant Mock-
bell) and the War Chest gets a thick wa<:
of the profits.
The Kindergarten Training College had
an evening out in St James's Hall in the
dawn of last week. Peter Board, Under-
Sc eretary for Education, held down the
chair. Diplomas and other certificates of
mtrit to students were handed over to the
lawful owners while musical items drowned
the blushes of the successful maidens.
The Apollo Club had a packed audience to
listen to its Christmas carols in the Conser-
vatorium. The Apollos, greatly depleted
during the war, are getting back to their old
form. Alfred Hill points the way. King
Olaf’s Christmas —with Harry Ferguson and
Ernest Williams as the soloists —was a can-
tata that breathed of “wastes of snows,’ -
while Sydney mopped its perspiring brow.
The choir was notably strong in this item,
but one soloist added too quavering a tone
to strengthen the theme. Alfred Hill’s set-
ting of Tennyson's “Crossing the Bar” —as
a part-song—wasn’t equal to some of the
best-known compositions of this musician-
composer. Henry Penn was a forceful inter-
lude at the piano. Elsy Treweek, a Mel-
bourne songster who is a prime favorite with
Sydney audiences, floated in from the artists’
den entirely surrounded by a cloud of cream
tulle. Her contributions were gratefully
accepted. Balboni, whose vogue iu opera is
not quite sustained on the colder concert
platform, was also on the programme. The
tempestuous tenor needs the orchestra and
scene-shifter to give him big histrionic
chances.
Since the break-up of training-camps, the
Soldiers’ Club has iiad a steady influx of
over 1000 men in and out per day. To give
the boys a rousing Christmas treat the
numerous circles of voluntary girl workers
who help to keep the club’s pots a-boiling
organised various successful raids on their
friends. The Victoria Circle chose last
Thursday evening on which to extract the
uttermost toll for Jinvbill’s Christmas tree.
“Rosnn,” from London :
That pluck# and adventurous Sydney girl, Olive
Kelso King, has been on leave in London from the
Serbian front. She wears the uniform of a Serbian
sergeant, and any number of decorations as a tribute
to three years’ fine work among a most unfor-
tunate people. She says the Serbs had a great hope
that, the Aiissies would be sent to save them, and
were always asking: “When will the Australians
come?”
This summer's white frocks are not
appreciably narrower than those of last
December. But the lines are perpendicular
pleats, flat insertions and long sash ends
heavily tasselled that they may not hit th<’
hat in windy weather. And how it blows
of late! March should.* if its present sar-
torial threat is carried out. see the last-
minute froekor painfully hobbling along in
silk or gabardine bolsters. Narrow— that’s
the idea.
There’s a cry from the Alexandra
pital for sick kiddies- —“Como and help us !”
Like every other haven for healing it’s had
a subscription drought: since the war calls
were so urgent. Anyone who feels that the
world is better and brighter than- it was a
few short weeks ago should send a peace
offering this Christmas to help the sick
children—our own sick children.


Gem-Set Jewellery
The Company’s Jewellery, with its charm of design,
artistic setting, and specially-selected gems, appeals to the
cultured taste.
Diamond and all
Platinum Fancy Ring,
£B5 0 0
Diamond and Sapphire
Fancy Ring,
£25 0 0
Fine Diamond and
Platinum Bow
Brooch, in Case,
£215 0 0
Diamond and all
riatinum Fancy Ring,
£125 0 0
Diamond anil fino-
qualit.v Emerald
Cluster Ring,
£9O 0 0
A selection of goods will be sent on approval at the
Company’s risk, and copy of their illustrated catalogue
forwarded upon request.
FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT ON ALL CASH
PURCHASES.
Hardy Brothers
JEWE LLERS
13 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
298 Collins Street, Melbourne.
116-118 Queen Street, Brisbane.
And LONDON.
lEQ
Have Your Xmas Snapshots
Developed and Printed
at HARRINGTONS’
We Will Do Them Better and Quicker.
There will be a great number of snapshots taken of memorable and
happy re-unions and picnic parties this Christmas and New Year Season,
which will.be valued in years to come. You cannot take the risk of
spoiling those that YOU took. Bring them in to us. We will develop
and print them, giving the best possible results frcAn every exposure.
Our workrooms are equipped with every modern appliance for the
successful execution of all classes of photographic work, and every order,
large and small, receives expert attention, so that clients can depend upon
getting the very best results possible from each exposure.
Size of
Negative.
If x ijin.
2 x Kin.
24: x l|in.
24 x 24in.
34 x 24in.
2| x 4.|in.
34 x 34in.
3| x 4 Jin.
5 x 4in.
25 x 4|jn.
54 x 34in.
64 x 4§in.
8| x 6iin.
G 5
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George Street, Sydney. 266 Collins Street, Melbourne.
93-95 Queen Street, Brisbane. 43 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
144 Queen Street, Auckland. 42 Willis Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Laboratories and Works: 57-59 George Street North, Sydney.
- -
f*
xs
y-w.
Is
;vv.
mm
«
KBr
&
t 4
Czt
IpiM
;g»fes
$3
s*i
.*,7,..
[*•%
'M;
fe=GL»L
: :v
-r-Wv
m
m
\A
SSB
iS'-
vjw
ass
m
»‘r
SK
?iS
ft
3*
«■»;
iii*N
J+t
There’s NO Shortage of Good Sheep Dip
A denial of the rumor about shortage of sheep dip must be made at once—NOW—for
Australasia has never been better placed in the availability of the right quality dip, no matter
how great the demand.
m
a
a
c
y
LU
n
POWDER
SHEEP DIP
settles “once and for all” any possibility of a dip famine, because it cuts out all necessity for imported dips, no matter what t ieir c aims.
“Vallo” Dip is an Arsenical Dip of the Highest Possible Quality, manufactured in Australia, and proven to be chemically and physically equa
to the best dip imported. “Vallo” combines all the essential features necessary to an effective dipping compound, in that it exter-
minates Ticks and Lice, minimises Ply Strike, and renders Flocks impervious to contagion from “dipping” to next shearing.
“Vallo” Dipped Flocks produce a BETTER and BIGGER Wool YieId—INCREASED Weight of Meat—and bring BETTER prices at the Sale
Yards. Of all dips, *‘¥3llo” Powder Sheep Dip. is the longest-lasting in its destructive action against sheep-.nfcsting vermin.
Manufactured by A. Victor Leggo &. Co., Melbourne,
who own their own Arsenic Mines, and themselves prep are the whole of the ingredients used.
af
Agents for New South Wales:
DANGAR, GEDYE & CO.
LTD.,
9, 11, 13 Young Street, SYDNEY.
Agents for Northern Queensland:
CUMMINS & CAMPBELL,
LTD.,
TOWNSVILEE.
Agents for Central Queensland:
WALTER REJD & CO. LTD.,
ROCKHAMPTON.
Agents for Southern Queensland:
BRABANT & CO.,
BRISBANE.
Agents for New Zealand:
The FARMERS’ CO-OPERA-
TIVE WHOLESALE
FEDERATION (N.Z.),LTD„
CHRISTCHURCH.
Distributors for Victoria and
Tasmania:
A. VICTOR EEGGO & CO.,
MELBOURNE.
Agents for South Australia:
JAMES WARDLE & CO.,
ADELAIDE.
Agents for West Australia:
MALLOCH BROS.,
PERTH.
Procurable All Stores.
cQV.
&
>3
O'*
t&
I£mi
/?•&.':*£*s t* ‘W/,


rrirpi
/in
!‘ M I
/ I
!!•) 0(1 01
ff.i'U j
If
Dai
Gifts.
as .
of
vliolesu
3fll
VC
Far
box
iff
The dainty
and deliffht.
Special ■ Pink,
of choicest
ocolat.es anil
PR 9
Far
Mgu,v
ade
purest!
ta
ribbon.
5/6,
Beautiful Round
Box, with' pretty floral de-
sign, •is • generously filled with <
the - finest ,‘laSorted' Chocolates. ’
Rarticularly suitable for pre-
sentation .9/6
u-rti 'yin.-a
FRll.—“L a cl v Margaret”
and Black
with Goiden
!01iocolates-,>' ; alMoiid, nut and
nougat centres 5/-
Garriagb 'paid to extent oh
"" * purchase prifv ofly.
FARMER’S, SYDNEY.
/
V
■ CM
rui-VAade
mii*m
ms
/
-3?
FRII
m
wywm
Wfr
"ti
TRIO
(W« ?*
The Chateau Napier,
Leura,
Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
THIS modern Residential Hotel is unique
in its situation on the highest point in
Leura, commanding extensive views for over
60 miles.
A new wing has just been added, furnished
in the most modern and luxurious manner.
House heated with American ideal heating
system.
A new smoke-room with sunny open bal-
cony has been added.
Electric light throughout.
Tennis-court. Billiard-room. Motor-garage.
Golf Links and Bowling Green right handy.
Private Sitting-rooms.
Tel. 121 Katoomba
After reading, will you please send this ..paper to
the Red Cross Book, Magazine and Newspaper Depot.
5 Wynyard Street, Sydney, or place it in one of the
receptacles provided for the purpose. All copies thus
received are divided equally between the Rod Cross
Society and the War Chest Fund, and are posted
weekly to our soldiers abroad.
BOSTOCK’S DRV CLEANER
FOR
Wbitc & Colored Sugde&CaiWaS SljoeS.
THE SIGN OF
PERFECTION
It never fails to give entire satisfaction, being easily applied, does not
rub off, and is unequalled in every way.
COLORS:—White, Black, Light Grey, Dark Grey,
Champagne.
Bo&tock’S Violo Polishes, Ltd.,
sypney.
MELOURNE
CHATTER
Warners
Rust Proof
corsets
. "> tile
To ,\ i I birr”tJnie? "Tiesdiy might. The
ho a i had been booked for weeks a-head
an 1 eyerjP 'j;; <Jt .occupied.
Go v Vnor tfi lol* iijf llifejialcony
wi 1 her L'QMfmlwe °j| thHji^young
fa l y, including the eldest daughter with
loi rastreaming fair hail- and young Pamela
wi IJ her Jlffe WBM'JJfO’h'i; jl|!fijgeir| jaiecu-
pi«l a patch of cliairsmlownstairs. and the
Mfi it Schank Clarkes had a full muster.
Tile decoifiCtfe tolßicnnui looked icprij. jin-;q.;sea-
gJ'ge i gowdV Alavjs /i'hju(, wjfli jjqr iqtlier
aim mother, had lew fair hair bound
tljf tl ly with ruses and grapes. Pairbairns.
Ai ii i’tagefl'-')?ii(l McKiriiu'ins vfere (Ire-
se |t in their liASd-Hwoks/D tSoougfe, A rmstrong
wi s in the stalls with Mrs. George wrapped
in ase-phife onlpc ■ I’j.nMHbq had
pejl'i mall.v hmJißjl,
111 1 hall. TVqcje" was written across the
fo t iglitsTi waier-lify 'buds, and hydrangeas
fr ii Coombe were I> In i>m i fig • ' ori f.l u>Ls t j i go;
I'll ere were two baskets and
OI • real vegetable.-.lolm basket among the
ci ii iliiiientary., Nftjgstablos. Lipe jvas filled
wll yellow gorgeousi etVefb Melba
wli i ivory weighted wifhldiainonds.
As >ig rope off. pearls lniugg ijoriml her,
nr • . Her hair was swashed and.
pi i ed with Uyooltwinond copjbsOfijt the side.
SI e was generous; with enppr<os\,S!and sang
in i v svvi ;>( FriSJidh songs. •'Uie Son of
li*l i,” a languoitoQs cheap-lftbor. pliant, had
to i* repeated. 8i! w
J elba’s big 1 (micrtainment' at .the Town
Hi last wet'k idmiarted ctmsidfei J ably from
o d nary con^brtrWnnalities.’• Nil one was'
n ,i ■ defiant of academic decorum than the
h i ing lady, who skipped mi to the platform
li ( a chamois, waved her hantls with
ii . i Latin’s effei'vescencjt and even
t.l e sacred
tl i affair Melba
d jlinto view to receive tmrHbwMa—thfi ancienu
a: ( valuable violin which had
h i by its generous owner. W. L. Baillieu
Kitle
*d only a
■taiit, they , served lo coyer, the.
F^ l Wi i i'pfms’ ’ AUtw t'lid'^wrie'orie'
fr itbe yWtfee;ff bfifirattieir
lost-pu. most. aqdHinco
have been let loose in a spirit
ity, or wma mm ■ might ’-lravt'-
eo*'
peace after a tumultuous evening.
SpinudLi of' Chri atm-its
■esirlcd over, by Governors, and
- trying than in former years!
G4h®'>'*nol*'fnow, f..'T'£orffiiriidy ;.ririy- ; '
, Hable-
• y paw on the pill'd jhfeild of the
nelfre’St fMall boy rifid; jii -dilgp, y£\i,
cli “Here wh Quniwb|
m(|rii” f Timid and prolonged Hicei's;j_ ;That;
pater is ioffi The fejiiiutry ! kpnms
lit le mm# ou-( of the umbi'cllii-s'lii)]). or the
otl out of th e JmmfejJand fin
chapel. ’M more likely, to grab ;a ’portfolio
and bang on to it: than the aloof person who
went through the liigh-schobL and* University
11,5
.SpJfndi.d, liiiancinl rally enables the
Sqptcli College to assure its removal to
)i<|iutifnl - Hawthorn Glen, a home of the
foriijer iTollihs-street music-seller Glen,, at
G ‘.nferrie. between Haw thorn and Toorak.'
Tie old college at East:Alelbotirne is likely
to She bought li\ (he Commonwealth Govern-
offices ■>
The memory of the late Rosa Lascelles,
m years Brackle^
Preparatoy Grammar and at Gotdong Gram-
iitfar—which-'' t pl'OTlffe ’ 1 Cipjffia 1 DJJdffu ind
Mi
won his decoration at Zeebrugge, is a son of
a former Australian pastoralisf. The big-
gest shock he ever got was one day when lie
happened to be in his
Canada as a brace of Canud nSit spldjei s v e
impressed, and sqid so to
They “guessed heLhfttl tlirrfe’ a mis-
pressed half a
as they climbed out Billyartl-Tjealfe, WfiC
Park in. Middlesex, with 700,
acres of land and accommodation for 1000
patients, to the Australian military authori-
ties.
Unitarian-parson Wyndham Heathcote,
having been offered the pulpit of the Uni-
tarian Church at Adelaide, has given up his
job at the Eastern Hill tabernacle. Heath-
cote is an independent sort of soul expert.
He used to belong to the Anglican establish-
ment, but got into hot water for taking
sides iu polities. It happened to be the
pre-war Labor party which Heathcote
backed, and he found himself heavily frowned
upon by the Best Pews in consequence. How-
ever, the Melbourne Unitarians were glad
to get him and are sorry to lose him.
Colonel Wanliss goes to Tasmania almost
immediately to succeed Colonel Clark as com-
mandant. Clark has been military chief of
the Speck since June, 3912, and is now up
against the age limit.
Mi’s. Archie Currie gave a 10-table bridge-
party on Tuesday of last week. All the
Very Best players assembled, and the losers
were consoled by the subsequent supper. Mrs.
Fred Ivnight was booked for another spread,
but a cold has laid the hostess low. so that
i s off.
Mrs. Mcßeau arid Mrs. Ciirse joined
forces for their Christmas rejoicings and
fed a huge party at Highbury, South Yarra.
Returning to Australia as adjutant on an
approaching transport, Lieut. Jim Borrow-
man, who long ago retired iuto private life
with the loss of an arm. Bqrrowman managed
to get back into the game again, after a time,
in spite of his disability, and was on the job
to the end.
King Cole, of tin l Book Arcade, died on
Monday, December 16, just short of his 87th
birthday. Cole, curiously enough, arrived
in Melbourne by the
same boat and on
the same day as
George Robertson
and George Mullen,
and all three be-
came leading book-
sellers, after many
vicissitudes, Cole
’went to the Vie.
goldfields, save d
some money and
built shop property
in Castlemaine. He
went into business
there, and during a
later land depres-
sion, failed. He
took up carpenter-
ing and photography
but did no good with
oitueft* 1 Eventually he began bookselling in
A.W in Bourke-street. After that things
iv-'cjfgct ,up for the versatile young battler.
Coleh* Book Arcade, with the great rainbow
■ftign, became one of the notable places in
; Melbouiupi. The man behind the sign wrote
(icoks as sold them. Up to the time
;»f !us (tea(li he was busy writing. Seven years
ril'd'fife lufS a paralytic stroke. In his quiet
,J;aui;& after that he always had a secretary
hi—ulinnuiim him or taking notes from dicta-
tion. He had a hobby for books of clippings,
of which lie published numbers. “Home,”
“War,” “Truth,” “Hap-
piness” wore the titles of a few. Everything
that -.hit his fancy on any of these subjects
‘‘VviusvsidiSSftiied and filed. When he died he
JSSK?’ ITBSy 1 "on a volume about Peace.
The old man lived liis last years in
mis garden. He was a botanist of
.note. In his young days lie rowed
1500 miles down the Murray from Eehuca
to the mouth, taking photographs and col-
lecting botanic specimens. This collection
lie presented to Baron von Mueller, then
curator of Melbourne Botanic Gardens. The
.portrait is a characteristic one taken by
■Spericor Slileiv's
Ma uy , Mel bo urn e boys who are now grown
agjpjif will; always; remember the late E. W.
Cole graffefiilly. Tie had the uncommercial
spirit of the true bookseller and, one imag-
ines. would have deiighted E. V. Lucas,
frwtftor of the ' Helightful bookshop story,
“Over Bemeftoifs." In the early ’nineties,
when Melbourne was doing a slow recovery
’front there were few pennies
to spake, the big, rambling Book Arcade was
.always open to small boys greedy for a read.
ftlpsOfers in the - second-hand galleries were
®abte®’JEkewnftvm Jtog’s-eared boys’ litera-
ture jlttJll m so long as the free
reader didn’t msi|# a nuisance of himself or
become q permanent impediment to business,
KtocnAmijbe ifSSMiarit.4v were very tolerant.
Few kids of ftlmt period ever ventured into
Where other
booksellers were trim traders, old Cole was
a sort of jolly host who invited all hands in
to enjoy themselves. J£he great shop, with
cosy s<Hs and genial atmos-
jppmewhere nSar the book-lover’s
fdSLUTt Jftfees mot'e tlvrip a mere tradesman
rslll Major-Gen. Stan-
l|y#s wJjb #a ; s' the Defends
<i s®fvrc(?‘*s'bfnK'' tmffU ago owing to advancing
years,, and presently got into harness again
as a transport-officer, is due to arrive in
Melbourne shortly as O.C. of troops aboard
a homing transport.
Mrs. Robinson, the young wife of Captain
Jack Robinson, M.C., has died of influenza
in England. She was the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. T. Garnett, of Waddow Hall,
(Titheroe, Lancashire, and was a great
favorite among the young people she met in
Melbourne. She came to Australia to visit
sister Mrs. Geoffrey Syme before the war.
Sheep-farmer Inglis and his wife are in
great distress. Their schoolboy son has been
missing from Trinity Grammar, Kew, since
November 30. Anyone having news of the
boy should communicate with L. W. Inglis,
Monegetta South. Victoria. The lad is 14
years of age, sft. Oin. in height, medium
build, very fair, and has a white mark on
the pupil of his right eye. He was wearing
a rough Norfolk suit at the time of his
disappearance. /
The Y.M.C.A. Red Triangle allegorical
procession was a most amazing turn-out. >
bunch of beauties from ITer Majesty’s
Theatre was borne along upon one lorry, a
sort of plum-pudding of the globe, stuck all
round with plums of loveliness. What it
symbolised nobody knew or cared—it was
good to look at. Similar tableaux of Aus-
tralia, America, Canada, Belgium, England,
France, Greece, India, South Africa and
Italy were fixed up by the ardent Y.MiC.A.
The war has brought this live organisation
l<> the front. The young man of years ago
distrusted it, fearing it was a nest of wow-
serism about to thrust a hymn-book at him.
The young man of to-day sees loads of
beauty passing by and wonders why his elder
brother was so scared.
Theological students from the University
Colleges of Trinity, Ormond and Queen’s
who have been at the war claim that their
years of service in the field must be reckoned
as student years. But Rentoul differs.
However, pastorates become vacant in the
course of nature, 'and as the colleges have
only been half full, half the future pastors
must necessarily be short of dry theology
and full of practical Christianity. No black
hats can be got from abroad. Incidentally,
what easy times the professors, like Beeper,
Rentoul, Picken and Sugden. must have
been enjoying of late. ,
Alberto Zelman, when he invited several
hundreds of school-children to the rehearsal
of his orchestral concert, made a very
enlightening speech. He gave his young
audience a simple explanation about toue and
the meanings of the works about to be
played. The dainty Nutcracker Suin' was
a great success with the small people. Zel-
man is very keen on improving music in the
schools.
Dr. Frank Keone (lie’s an Anzac captain)
is just engaged to Vera Newman, a niece of
Dr. Frank Newman, and one of the gilded
Newmans, of the Castlemaine Brewery.
The Russian Dr. Klatchko, who was the
sensation of Collins-street for months, has
been sending invitations to his Melbourne
friends to attend bis Russian wedding in
Petrograd. Klatchko married “Billy”
Duckett, daughter of the big iron merchant,
at the Independent Church, Melbourne. The
Russian ceremony is to eventuate in a Petro-
grad church, if the Bolsheviki hasn’t burned
it down. The Ivlatchkos have just reached
the scene after a stay in Japan and Vladivo-
stock.
Jack Sommers, poet and painter, has a
little show of delightful pictures in the
Arts arid Crafts
Room, Clyde House.
Jack, who has a
good fighter’s chin,
did his share on Gal-
lipoli, in the Sahara
and in France. From
time to time, The
Bulletin has pub-
lished some of his
verse, written in the
field. He is the son
of an artist. His
father, now 75 years
old, has mostly
given up painting.
Instead he plays
bowls. Dad was a
notable figure in art
affairs of the early
days. Artist Tom
Humphries, one of
his earliest proteges, has some fine examples
of the veteran’s work clone when he belonged
to a V.A.S. sketching club of the early days.
Alice Mills Humphries is responsible for this
photograph.
Former Sister Bett, sometime of the Pres-
byterian Inland Mission, headquartered at
Oodnadatta, is on her way back from the
Front as Mrs. W. P. Boland. Her hus-
band, to whom she was married recently at
the Marylebone Presbyterian Church, Lon-
don, is Lieut. Boland, M.C. and bar. Both
of them saw more than four years’ service.
Hubby is an AnzaC, and won his M.C. at
Pozieres.
Alice McCulloch, daughter of Colin
McCulloch, _ of North Woodlands, who
was married the other week to Sandy
Laidlaw, of Hamilton, will have a well-
gilded battalion of relatives on hubby’s
side as well as on her father’s. Sandy is a
son of Tom Laidlaw. who has been stock-
and-stationing at Hamilton these many
years. The elder Laidlaw married a daugh-
ter of the late .James Thomson, of Monivae,
and a Learmonth and an Armstrong each
picked one from the same flock. Thomson,
of Monivae, by the way. was one ot the
State’s all-wool pioneers. He used to be a
shepherd in Sutherlandshire, Scotland, be-
fore adventuring to these parts, and bis
knowledge of sheep helped him to gather in
four squattages before he died Monivae,
Pirricul, Crawford and Lake Condah, in
that order—and he held them all to the last
gasp. The La id laws are also deeply rooted
in the soil of the Western District.
The golden wedding of biscuit manufac-
turer C. D. Haywood, recently celebrated in
Hobart, looks like a sort of record. At
the breakfast the best man and bridesmaid
of 50 years ago occupied their old places.
The cleric who tied the knot is still going
strong. Haywood is a good Australian who,
starting in a small way, has built up one
of the finest businesses of its kind in the
Commonwealth. He has also been Mayor
of but nobody’s bringing that up
-■'Thinst him.
Two Australian writers around whom the
war circled without touching them, although
they did their best to get into it, are the
James Lindo-Webbs, of Majorca, Spain.
ITubby had a flutter along London’s Inky
Way after leaving Australia, and presently
took a iob as editor of a paper at Mombasa.
British Fast Africa. There he went down
with malaria, and the pair had to leave for
England again. British specialists said it was
a matter of the right climate for James, so
the partnership settled down in Majorca,
remaining there ever since. When the war
began both of them tried to join up in.one
capacity or another, but. the authorities
willed otherwise.
“Bungalook Basketry” is the catcli-
name of a cleverly-written and practical
book dealing with stringy-bark (“bungalook ’
in aborigines!*)—the latest and therefore
fashionable substitute for rafia, tin* price of
which these days is prohibitive. The author
is Mrs. Henrietta C. Walker, who explains
how to utilise this easily obtainable fabric
for the making of baskets, floor-mats, bags
and hampers of endless variety. She recom-
mends this new industry for the physically
handicapped.
In the Emerald Hills the air must have
some special intellectual tang in it. One
quaint; bush cottage in the district lias the
distinction of housing in turn three Vic-
torian women who have made their mark.
Number one was Mrs. Louis Esson, for-
merly Dr. Hilda Bull, a graduate of Mel-
bourne University, and a clever amateur
actress whose performances at the Univer-
sity Dramatic Club arid Melbourne Reper-
tory Theatre attracted much notice. The
second tenant was Mrs. Vance Calmer, for-
merly Nettie Higgins, who lived there with
her author husband. Nettie is a keenly-
observant writer, whose chats on books
appeared, weekly in .Melbourne a few months
ago. The latest and most widely-known
dweller on the hill is Katharine S. Prichard,
author of poems in the Engltstt Bevikw
and the prize novel, “Pioneers.”
Carlyle Smythe, long absent from Collins-
street, his favorite haunt, writes from Maori-
land: “Real bliss is not possible more than
10 miles from the G.P.0., Melbourne.” The
showman is at present in a state of gloom.
The influenza in Maoriland caused all shows
to be shut down —including Alexander \Vat-
stm’s recitals. Alexander promptly departed
on the same oversea boat that carried Mar-
garet Wycherley.
Fur coats are now obtainable in Mel-
bourne for 2d. each or thereabouts. They
represent spoils of war that were not pur-
chased out of separation allowances, and are
being freely yielded as peace offerings to
avoid possibly awkward explanations when
the wearers’ hard-ups return. The furs have
served the purpose of keeping Susie, warm,
and she is anxious to get rid of them lest
they should make things unpleasantly hot.


DEWARS
»»
WHISKY
Kv
Good Whisky induces
CHEERFULNESS and
CONTENTMENT.
Cheerfulness is the good Fairy in
the pantomime of life. Those who
play the part draw an immense salary
in the most valuable of all coin—the
appreciation of others. There is always
a need for players. Dewar’s Whisky
helps you fill the role naturally!
Contentment means the ability to
enjoy things that are present without
sacrificing ambition for the future. It is
a stock in Life that never depreciates
in value. Contentment is the gate of
happiness to which there are but few
keys
DEWAR'S WHISKY
is one of them!


President Wilson’s tour of. inspection through the
devastated areas of France and Belgium will reveal
to him the grim realities of Hun fiendishness. To
fit the punishment to the crime needs inspiration of
highest quality, to he found in King George IV.
Whisky—the whisky of the wise.—Advt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLOARDIE.
Harvey’s Special whisky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LIftiTED, Redfern, Sydney.
SYDNEY.
s
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOC
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H, Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Postage to United
States, 3d.
df
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
m
TO
H-M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/3 PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBS & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA,
w
SPORTING
NOTIONS
DON'T LET TINKER
MICK SIMMONS
DO THE JOB
PROPERLY
What a good, honest horse the English-
man, Rebus, is. There may have been a
better one or two handicapped at Randwick,
but if there ever were, this writer couldn’t
mention them. In the Epsom Rebus with
9st. aboard put up a wonderful performance.
In the Villiers Mile, at the opening of the A.J.U.
Summer meeting on Saturday, he did the same
thing again, with the exception of carrying 9st. 101 b.
Not a conspicuously good beginner, he drew No. 1
marble and promptly moved back in the betting
from B’s to 10’s. There were 10 starters, at least
half of which were good-quality horses. Badly
served at the start, Rebus was nine nags back at
six furlongs. Then he started moving steadily
through. lie was seven back at the turn, Syd-
ney Damsel at this stage being well out, with
Ardrossan and Panacre and King Ritchie. When
they hit the straight Rebus began to unwind mm-
self, and electrified the crowd, by running clean from
the leaders at the last furlong. It was a con-
spicuously brilliant performance. Rebus ran the
mile in “37#.” The course helped a, bit; hut a
horse that wins a Sydney Cup, then takes an
Epsom and annexes the next Villiers with 9st. 101 b,
in time like that, is even better than the watch
makes him. Rebus, as a handy, reliable moke, is
going to be remembered a long time. Trainer Jack
Murray was very confident on Saturday. So, too,
was owner Joe Lemon. Lemon has won a fortune
with this prad within nine months.
The Villiers was an exceptionally open
betting race. It was 8 to 1 the field, 10 to 1
bar four. Nobody could want anything better than
that. There seemed to be most money for the im-
ported mare Irritation, trained by W. Booth, winner
of a six-furlong event at Randwick in the autumn.
It was alleged that Dame Acre had been pulled out
in her favor. This page suspects the allegation to
have been a rumor invented by some irresponsible
comedian. Irritation was the conspicuous failure in
the race. She was not particularly well favored at
the beginning, but still not badly. At six furlongs
Bracken had her up in the first flight and kept her
in a good winning position to the turn. Then she
turned on the reverse gear and fell back to the
tail of the procession. She pulled up absolutely last.
Wedding Day put up a great struggle, and so did
Sydney Damsel. The Doncaster winner took second
money safely enough. But Sydney Damsel, who, with-
out a doubt was entitled to third money, got nothing,
the judge bestowing the affluence upon Par.acre.
Panacre really finished third last. It was pretty
rough on the little Damsel who had made a gallant
race of it and pretty tough luck for the tote
bettors. Nor was it the only mistake made on the
day. This writer simply refuses to take the third
placing in the Nursery, allotted to Nautch Girl,
seriously.
If Saturday's running in the Holiday Handicap
threw any light on the Summer Cup the illumina-
tion did not show that Greg, a well-backed candi-
date, would have a walk-over or anything of that
sort. Tie was made a red-hot favorite, and never had
a hope. Garibaldi, the improving and useful brother
to Prince Bardolph, won all the way.
* * * *
Owner-of-Oetigne Tom Stirton has
acquired Biplane. All he is waiting for now is the
evaporation of the ’flu’ and a ship to bring the prad
from Maoriland. Then Biplane goes into Scully’s
hands, and we shall see what we shall see. The price
Stirton paid for Biplane has not been mentioned with
precision. There are allegations of “about 3000
guineas.” If Biplane will stand a preparation that
sum was not over the horse’s value. As Biplane
would not stand a preparation last Spring 3000
guineas shows that Stirton is ready to take a fairly-
substantial risk. When at his best, Biplane was, of
course, a wonderfully fast horse. What his value as
a sire would be in the event of him not training on
is a matter of mere speculation, but judging from the
prevalence of the imported sire and the certainty of
the over-sea animal being still more frequent in
future the value of the locally-produced article
scarcely seems to be in danger of going up all at
once.
“Mujik” : This business of the N. S. Wales
Government appropriating large helpings of cash
from the totalisator and iiorses racing for miserable
stakes is a gross scandal. And what is more it is a
complete inversion of the only possible argument by
which the introduction of the totalisator could he
defended. Bringing the machine into the game to
act as a State revenue-collecting agency, and main-
taining all the old-established outfit of Ike and pro-
prietary clubs and paltry stake money for owners,
only makes putrid what was rotten before. Can
Premier Holman name a single individual or paper
which advocated the introduction of the totalisator
into N. S. Wales that asked for this or anything
like it ? The case for the machine all along rested
upon the contention that it provided a rational
substitute for Ike and that from the proceeds stakes
could be materially increased instead of the money
left behind by the public going into Jerusalem.
There was the argument, it is true, that the machine
could be made a source of public revenue, and so
it should, but no one was ever mad enough to yell
for the Government to make that the first and
only consideration, and leave all the others go hang.
In M.L. the local Ike carries on precariously in a
d'ugou’t. There the division of the cash between
racing and the State is on the reverse scale to
that insisted on in Sydney. And there the stakes
of tinpot clubs are incomparably greater than is
given in N. S. Wales, except by the A.J.C. Perhaps
it doesn't matter. The scandalous conditions inci-
dental to “sport” on most of the tracks around
Sydney must inevitably be cleaned up some day, and
those outfits which escape getting hurt are going to
be very lucky. But to see the Government using
the machine to become a financial partner in these
proceedings is enough to drive old-time advocates
of the tote to emetics.
The V.R.C. lias changed the autumn menu
for two-year-olds by moving the items about. Instead
of having three races for young ’uns on the second
day one of the events has been adjourned till the
fourth afternoon, thus having two on each occasion.
The result of this will, of course, be to give more
juveniles opportunity for exertion as even the most
rabid advocate of winding them up early has some
doubts about starting a young horse more than once
per day. So those which couldn’t ■ run more than
once on the second day of the V.R.C. proceedings
will have a chance to hurry up on the fourth day in
a race they might not have joined in if it had tran-
spired earlier. A splendid thing for the Australian
horse to be kept busy as a baby. It gives a lot of
him a chance to get a stern view of the imported
quadruped’s action later on.
“Jaeko”: The mention of the string of
gallopers bred from time to time by the Lees in the
Bathurst district brings to mind the family of The
Gardener’s mare, all of which did well on the course.
The lady got her name through the fact that she was
brought to Woodlands, Tom Lee’s home, by a gardener
who had been in a job at Lithgow. When the
plant-man left he did not regard the mare as being
worth overmuch, and gave her to Lee, who made her
the foundation of his stud. Something more about
the Lees has been told by Arthur Battye, who, in
his 75th year, never tires of recalling the Boer War
exploits. When a youngster, turning ost., he mounted
a champion pony and accompanied Lee on a tour
of the Lachlan stations, starting from Bathurst.
Lee mounted at list, on an imported stallion, ami
made the pace so hot throughout that Battye was
always in tow. Which indicates the work they put
into the neddies those days. Lord Roberts was per-
sonally intissted in the old man during the South
African campaign and invited him to stay with him,
remarking, “Seven of the brave Battyes died in ,
march with me to Kandahar.”
Died recently in South Africa, Edward Sel-
wyn Smith, better known as Ted Smith. An old
King’s School boy and footballer, he played for
N. S. Wales in the ’nineties, and found ins way
over yonder with the first N. S. Wales Contingent
in 1900. After the war lie settled down as a trainer
of millionaires’ horses, winning some good races, on
the Rand and at Durban', where his stable wagjtwell
known. Influenza beat him. Ted was 45 at the
finish—a good fellow and a sound judge of a horse.
* * * *•
“Camelcro”: Don’t judge the racing abili-
ties of the camel by the torpid specimens seen in zoos
and elsewhere. The brutes can travel all right.
When the Imperial Camel Corps was formed in
Egypt most of the camels came from the Soudan.
They were tall, wiry-looltfng beasts, and Billjim
on his horse scratched his head when he first saw
his camelier cobber racing past him as if pursued
by seven devils. Later on, camels were imported
from India, but they did not possess the speed of
the Soudan beast. I was a spectator at a carneliers’
race meeting at El Arish, and the latter animal
beat the heavier but stronger species from India
in every race. Although somewhat afraid of camels
when the Corps was first formed, Billjim soon proved
himself a much superior rider and all-round camel-
man than Arabs and Indians who had ridden the
beasts for years. Remember on one occasion when
we were near the Tripoli border one of our patrols
failed to return to time, and six men with picked
camels covered 40 miles of desert sand in two
hours. It takes an Arab some time to get used
to the hump, and during the first week’s riding an
illness, somewhat similar to seasickness, worried
him ; but it did not trouble Billjim. Our camelier,
with singlet, shorts and minus puttees or leggings,
was a terrifying spectacle as he raced madly across
the desert with water-tanks, cooking-pots and fire-
wood swinging from his livestock.
* * * *
“Fleurbaix” : Talking about these betting
systems. A well-known racing man mysteriously
inquired if I was B——, a mathematician. “Yes,” I
replied. Thereupon he informed me of a system of
making money in bucketsful, bound me over to
secrecy and then handed to me two blue books which
he had obtained after great difficulty. “Study
them,” he said,, “and you will agree with
me that it is wonderful.” I studied them.
It was wonderful. Also, it was pure bosh.
You had to spell each horse’s name phoneti-
cally and to each sound was given a numerical value.
After adding them together you added a value which
you called the “planetary period.” This latter value
was got by observing the planets. If, then, the total
agreed with the fixed value of the planet Mars, or any
ether planet whose birthday was that day, then you
had the winner. The author gave instance after in-
sance of his success. He guaranteed 75 p.c. winners.
I observed that the whole secret lay in the phonetic
spelling. If you didn’t get it one way, then you
spelt it another, and so you had the winner. When
I explained to Ike that it was punk he seemed quite
hurt. Anyhow, he went to the races the following
Saturday, and, using the planetary periods, only got
five winners. Now, how many would he have got if
he had spelt the horses’ names phonetically ?
* * * »
Seth E’erry, still popularly known as “The
Master,” from having been leader of the Adelaide
Hunt Club many years ago, has been set reminiscing
by the death Ciust cabled from London) of Charles
Wentworth Dilke, son of his better-known politician
father. C.W.D. was a horn sportsman, and when
he came to Australia for “colonial experience,” just
after leaving school, he got busy on the turf at once.
Phil Glenister introduced him to the Adelaide Cup
meeting of 1896 and to Ferry, who then always had
a few jumpers in training. The visitor, being told
that Simulator and Banjo had a good chance for a
coming hurdle and steeple, launched out on the
double, won £12,000 or so on it, and (says Ferry)
presented £4BOO to the owner and stable.
Australia’s main temple of hill will soon
resound to the wallop and the solemn count
which beginneth at “One” and endeth at “Out!” The
Stadium directorate has, with an eye to business,
already various importations on its books, and, in
view of a few past experiences, it may be piouslv
hoped that tiie sampling at the other end is a bit
more discriminating than it occasionally happened to
be before. Jack Mu liro, for a long 'time at the
Stadium as Snowy Baker's brigadier, now becomes
the serang. Baker's energies seoin to have shifted to
the “movies.”
No matter what other sideshows go to
the serapheap, the world’s sculling championship is
likely to survive. Last week Ernest Barry
(.England), who holds the title, sent a reminder to
burly Jim Paddon, of Evans Head (N.S.W.), that,
having got over his wound, he is prepared to defend
his right to the title sometime in 1919. Doubtless
Barry will ask for the event on the Thames; but if
he will shift to Australia for a change there’s a
syndicate prepared to supply the cash. As ages go,
Paddon (J 2) and Barry (37) have yet many years
ahead of them. Paddon holds the Australian cham-
pionship, won from Dick Arnst, in ’l3. Anyway,
there’s a ton of money for the match in Australia.
10. A McDonald, who is labelled to provide
the whirlwind for Vic.’s XI. in the inter-State dust-
up this week, is easily the fastest trundler in Aus-
tralian cricket nowadays. lie has the unpleasant
habit of tearing the earth into lumps if the wicket
happens to he damp. With Fitzroy this season Mac
lias skittled 28 wickets, averaging 8.32. Against
North Melbourne in the last round he took 11 wickets
for 91 runs. A few weeks ago he crashed through
Melbourne in a single-innings effort of eight for 49.
Melbourne made mincemeat of the Sydney
boys in the revived Inter-State Grammar School
match last week. The affair was over in two days,
and the southern youths won with eight wickets to
spare. Melbourne was successful in the' previous
lixture in ’l4 by 53 runs. Of 30 matches played Syd-
ney has won 22, Melbourne 13 and one ended in the
novelty of a “tie.” The star of the proceedings last
week was Lemann (Melb.), who smote 94 (top-score
of the match) and 45. Against Scots’ recently,
Lemann batted four hours, scoring 284 (out of 074).
All-rounder J. Cuming (Melb.) also knocked up,. 57
and took 12 wickets. Earlier in the season, Cuming
took ( for 74 against South Melbourne. In this year’s
\ lctonan Public Schools’ athletic championship
Cuming won the 220 yards (24 l-ssee.) and 140
yards (53 4-ssec.). Wooleott, who smote 52 (in-
cluding a sixer) and 33, top-scored for N. S. Wales,
did his bit to bring home the bacon—but without
avail.
11. G. I’ratten (Western Suburbs), who is
doing big tilings in Sydney grade-cricket, shouldered
khaki in France. Me was chosen for a. place in
N. S. Wales XI. this week, but dropped out, and
Another “Digger, * Austin Diamond, takes his place.
Prat ten s two years of war did his cricket no harm.
Already this season he has banged the trundlers with
great heartiness, accumulating 288 runs at an aver-
age of 44. J, E. Pratten (a younger limb of the
family), is also busy in all-round efforts for Sydney
Grammar School. This year lie averaged 52.fi with
the bat and has taken 20 wickets worth 19.0 apiece.
With the S.G.S. XI in Melbourne last u’eek he
knocked together 102 (retired) out of 270 against
the M.C.C. Dad, the Senator, is reasonably proud.
* * * •*
“Adelovl”: Consider the question, dear
brethren, from a player’s viewpoint. Cricketers can
pay their own expenses of preparation of wickets, after-
noon-teas, beer, etc., and play for the sake of the game
only if they want to. Cricket, as I understand it, is
an outdoor pastime devised for healthy physical
exercise. When a man goes to the wickets lie is
provided with a piece of willow fashioned for hitting
the ball about the landscape. When he deliberately
reverses the idea of the game and merely allows the
ball to hit the bat, the batsman himself and all
others on the field (excepting the bowler) might as
well be playing poker in a pub for all the exercise
they get. Even the scorer gets done out of his job.
Obviously the game does not serve its purpose unless
either runs are being made rapidly or the fieldsmen
kept busy. Writing as a player, give me the man who
keeps the proceedings lively. Then even the umpire
has to be on the qui vive for fear of stopping one.
Even after a hard day’s fielding a man is more
satisfied than after watching a bloke hold a bat for a
trundler to bowl at. “J.Q.” (B. 12/12/’18) praises
the blocker who annoys the bowler. If that is his
idea of sport, I wouldn’t let him play marbles with
my kid. The proper cricketing way to discourage a
bowler is to give cheek by smacking 4’s off him. If
mere annoyance is the object of cricket, why not
heave the bat at him ? Of course, that would be no
more like cricket than the stodgy wav of the blocker
happens to be like it.
* * * *
“G.N.”: The castigation of “J.Q.” (B.
12/12/’18) for talking through his whiskers was well-
deserved. Eight balls to the over is a move in the
right direction, and a couple more useful moves could
be made by altering the l.b.w. ruling and framing
a precaution to make off-theory bowling an offence.
Nothing in the whole game causes the spectators to
become more sleepy seeing a batsman (taking advan-
tage of the former rule as it applies at present)
jumping in front of the wicket to a leg-break bowler
and playing the ball with his pads. Great somno-
lence also supervenes when watching trundlers wheel
up over after over without the batsmen making any
attempt to play one of them. Such proceedings are
merely tests of patience between bowler and batsman j
also between the two combined and the spectators!
Ihe latter s supply of the commodity necessary for
full enjoyment of these solemn happenings has nearly
run out.
“J.Q.” : Didn’t The Bulletin notice that
I described the love of “wild slogging,” not the love
of smart scoring,” as a display of bad taste? Also,
that 1 did not stigmatise Trumper as of less import-
ance than a stonewaller, but that I reckoned the
latter better than the flukey smiter? Now, public
interest in cricket has waned greatly, but it is wrong
to attribute this to a decline of batting. I
have watched big: cricket in Australia for upwards of
20 years, and have failed to detect any of the
alleged falling-off in batting displays. We' have had
during the past decade a crop of batsmen just as
brilliant as any representative crop of batsmen known
at any other period of the game in Australia. But
there has been a rise of other attractions appealing
more to the mob. Where once the girls decorated
their premises with photos of current cricketing stars,
they now get the decorative effects with pictures of
movie stars. Where Doreen finds diversion on Satur-
ciays there will the sentimental bloke find diversion,
too. It is unfortunate that Doreen’s fancy leads her
no longer to the cricket ground. It is obvious from
this, then, that if “Adelovl’s” scheme (B. 12/12, 18)
is to succeed, it must make sensational hitters of
the players. If it doesn’t do this it fails. 1
have no doubt that a team of C titters would
draw crowds of spectators, but the batting display
given by such a team would not be good cricket.
Trumper gave examples of smart scoring with grace-
ful play. Cotter gave examples of sensational hit-
ting. But was his cricket any more graceful and
scientific than would be the performance of a hippo-
potamus doing the highland fling? The crowd, as a
rule, is no more discriminating in cricket than it is
in literature.
And once more is this page moved to interrupt
“J.Q.” with disapproval of his logic. His growl
seems to be (1) that when the public rushed eagerly
to the cricket match and wrangled at great length
over averages and the “hill” got struck on Jones’s
rockin’ ’em in, it was a discriminating crowd, and
culture was in the ascendant. (2) That when the
crowd wearied about averages and became tired
watching Chunipkin dig himself in for 3i hours, it
was an asinine crowd, dead to the finer things of
life. It’s a queer rigmarole. What in Sheol lias
discrimination on literature got to do with smacking
’em to leg and hoisting Maryann Noble over the
boundary ? It would be as reasonable to accuse the
crowd which refused to flock in thousands to watch a
couple of elderly barristers strolling round the golf-
links with a load of ironmongery with having no
discrimination in music or steak or muffins. Anyway,
cricket is either a game to watch with interest or a
game to play with great intensity. The time has
passed when able-bodied Australians would get
wildly excited over bewildering arithmetic. Of
all the dreary twaddle prepared for human consump-
tion the miles of cricket arithmetic compiled in this
suffering continent takes first prize for futile and
pointless pomposity.
* * * *
Wilfred Loveridge, drowned unaccount-
ably in the Onkaparinga (S.A.) at a motor-picnic,
was one of a family of brothers who have done good
service for the strong East Torrens crick*t team, of
Adelaide. They have mostly been useful bowlers,
not quite up to inter-State form, but Wilfred lately
made a century and was one of the batch of players
practising for the coming Victorian match.
N. S. Wales bowlers almost heaved their
dilapidated headgear, skywards lately. Four rinks
(captained by J. F. Cox, F. Gartrell, W. Alderson
and Dr. Burge) had tripped to Victoria and brought
back the rubber by winning two games to one.
Still feeling fit, the same captains lined up against
Bananaland last week, but the victims of an awful
climate outed them by two games to one, and kept
a grip on the title they won in days before the world
went to war. In rinks, honors were even ; but the
Bananaliraders had a 'majority in points—3o3 against
280.
Quick changes are going to take place in
the aeroplane records m a day or two. An American
military flier registered new height figures the other
day—2B,9ooft. above sea-level. That means over 51
miles. It must be mighty cold up there. The
furthest previous advance towards the moon stopped
at 20,258 ft. If the next man to fracture the record
goes 8000 ft. better, it may be nearer to drop in to
Mars for refreshments than to bother about coming
home.
A pigeon-fancier tit Katanning (West
Australia), 11. V. Mead, has a black chequer homer
lien which disappeared from its owner’s loft at
Katanning, where it was rearing young, and made a
trip to its old loft at Mount Lawley. The distance,
of this flight, a mere matter of 225 miles, is nothing
to boast about, but the pigeon is now three years
old and had not been out of a loft since it left its
first owner as a “squeaker” six months old, yet it
made a direct flight home although it had a rough
passage anil arrived in poor condition. A journey
like that with such handicaps is a remarkable exhi-
bition of a pigeon’s homing instinct and flying
capabilities, and shows what wonderful birds these
are. There are instances where they have saved
many lives during the war through carrying mes-
sages advising where prompt assistance was required.
P-S. —I’ve seen “sports” getting their amusement by
murdering homers in pigeon-matches, when the
ammunition could have been used to advantage on
rabbits or Germans.
* * * *
“Pick’' : It is all very well for “Nimrod'’
(B. 27/11 /’ 18) to hee-haw at my-statement that the
6in. bull is sometimes used at 400 yards. To anyone
who cannot be made to believe that a pipe-bowl may
be hit at 100 yards this would naturally appear
improbable. But many clubs, whose members regard
the regulation 20in. bull at that distance as practice
only for kids, use the third-class targets instead.
Before the war, in the annual prize shoot at Central
1 ilba, a continuous match at 500 ya-rds was always
on the programme, in which the 6in. bull was used.
Incidentally, let me explain that spread of shots from
a fixed rifle is due, not to the mechanism—which, in
theory, should throw every bullet alike—but to barrel
‘Ouuhg and variations of atmosphere. The mug fires
all his shots without sight adjustments, and spreads
his hits all over the plate. The expert, after every
shot, makes allowances for fouling, expansion and
atmospheric pressure, and thus beats the rifle itself
ip grouping hits. The main thing is to become reallv
expert. Then you can do things which people who
are not experts consider impossible.
* * * *
For the someteenth time Lipton is throw-
ing challenges across the Atlantic and going in nur-
of the America Cup. Geo. R. Sims once told
the whole incidental tale in two words: “Lipton’s


There is a WAY to
Perfedt Health.
That way is open to you. Will you travel it?
The only way' to improve Nature is through NATURAL
methods.
Drugs and apparatus usually show no results and are otten
injurious. Under my r method 15 minutes each day in. your
own room is sufficient. I have thousands of students in all
parts of Australia and New Zealand who are now enjoying
good health. Previously a great number of these people
were sufferers from indigestion, constipation and other dis-
orders which are the direct result of the internal muscles
being much below normal.
My exercises pay particular attention to the muscles that
govern the action of the stomach, liver and bowels, and
quickly bring them back to a healthy state again.
Surely you want to enjoy the best of health? Then why
not write to-day for full particulars of my
Postal Course of Health and Strength Culture ?
This is proof of what I say:—
“Dear Sir, —I have practised the third set of exercises,
together with the other sets, and feel stronger than ever.
I have increased 91b. in weight.
“Yours faithfully,
“(Signed) H. F , Gemalla.”
Many hundreds of letters from pupils throughout Australia
and New Zealand are in the same strain.
I should like you to have mv booklet, “HEALTH AND
STRENGTH FROM SELF-CULTURE,” which tells about my
methods, fees, etc. Just write your name across this advt.
and send it to me, with three penny stamps for postage. Jf
(‘Snowy’)
BAKER.
“The All-round
Champion Athlete
of Australia,”
833 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
"N
4^
The Dog Medicines!
Beware of
Substitutes.
sd
BEDDOME’B
external
STIMULATOR.
Indispensable for Rac-
ing Greyhounds, to
alleviate stiffness and
fatigue. Used by the
leading Breeders.
Price, 3/6.
ALTERATIVE
MIXTURE.
Splendid tonic, creates
an appetite, gives a
fine gloss to the coat,
keeps the dog in per-
fect health, prevents
distemper.
Price, 2/6, 5/-
Booklet “ B,” “ Hints to Dog: Owners,”
Price 6d., post free.
R. W. BEDDOME & CO.,
THE DOG MEDICINE SPECIALISTS, .
254 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
Obtainable from JOHN BRUSH LTD.,
George Street, Sydney. [1
‘SHELL’ BENZINE
ENSURES EVEN
VAPORISATION UNDER
ALL CONDITIONS
USE IT AND PROVE IT.
Imperial Oil Co. Ltd
ri£l>
&nz ,n
?ini?
The Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. Ltd.
SECOND-HAND MACHINERY FOR SALE
SUITABLE FOR
MINING. MILLING, etc.
INCLUDING
STEAM ENGINES of all descriptions, BLOWERS,
AIR COMPRESSORS, ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES,
STEAM SHOVEL, PUMPS, DRILL SHARPENERS,
AND NUMEROUS OTHER ITEMS.
PRICED CATALOGUES NOW READY
AND WILL BE POSTED UPON APPLICATION TO
THE SECRETARY,
Box 229 G.P.0.,
MELBOURNE.
THE GENERAL MANAGER,
MOUNT MORGAN,
QUEENSLAND.
THE SECRETARY,
Box 220 G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
/
£137/10/-
COMPLETE
Economical
to Run
The Biggest Value on the Road.
MODEL W 18
ofndim Powerplus
MOTOR CYCLE AND SIDE CAR.
IT has power almost unbelievable in a single-cylinder machine —power
to take a side-car, rider and passenger anywhere. It has carried
these plus heavy luggage over the Black Spur and on a host of
other power-testing runs.
Then its single-cylinder engine is simplicity itself—much easier to
handle, to eare for and to clean than the big twin, whilst with 50 less
engine wearing parts it is wonderfully reliable.
Its lower power and lower weight mean more miles per gallon
and per set of tyres—its economy is quite extraordinary.
The outfit Complete with Latest Model Side-car ..
■lOllLtl‘s
Write for Detailed Specification to
MELBOURNE Rhodes Motor-
Cycle Co. Pty.) Ltd., 109-113
Russell Street.
SYDNEY: Milledge Bros., Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE: Canada Cycle and
Motor Agency, Ltd., Adelaide
and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE: Eyes and Crowle,
Ltd., 75-7 SJ Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON: John King &
Sons, Ltd., Charles Street.
PERTH: Armstrong Cycle &
Motor Agency, Hay Street.
Remjnpcn,.
f
REVOLVER-'PISTOL
CARTRIDGES
Remington umc cartridges
are made and tested for every
standard make of pistol and revolver.'
Their uniform accuracy and absolute
reliability make them the favourites
among shooters of this class of fire-
arm, whether used by the expert marks-
man or by the casual purchaser for
self-defence and safety.
(Write for special booklet
free upon request.
REMINGTON ARMS UMC COMPANY
D. D. BRYANT, Australian Representative
Box 686, G. P. 0.. MELBOURNE
B-!
d
fd
Marine Engines
r&m
af
For All Boats
*gr
Caille 14 H. P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started'
Electric Lights
f
Callle 8 H.P. On!t Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
af
Callle Five
Speed Row*
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
A most complete line of
marine motors from 2 to
30 h.p. This embodies
one- to four-cylinder
designs in standard and
heavy-duty types. Also
the most perfect rowboat
motor ever produced.
Catalogs giving details
gladly mailed 6n request.
When writing, please
state which type of
engine interests you and
advise us of the service
you wish it to perform.
Satisfaction Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole
Australasian
Agents—
Benson Brothers Limited
7 0-78 LIVERPOOL STREET, SYDNEY.
71-75 QUEEN’S BRIDGE STREET, MELBOURNE.
138 CURRIE STREET, ADELAIDE.
Motor mechanics wanted.
Good wages to capable, sober men.
Fare refunded after six months’ satisfactory
service. LONG REACH MOTOR CO.,
LTD., Longreach, Central Queensland.
APPLICATIONS are invited for position
Matron, Atherton District Hospital, at
salary £125 per annum. Applications, stating
certificates held, to be in hands of under-
signed by January 6, 1919; successful appli-
cants to take up duties no later than Febru-
ary 1, 1919. Fare one way refunded on 12
months’ satisfactory services.
E. PAWSEY, Secretary. Atherton.
Missintr Friends.
SUNDERLAND.— If George Melbourne
Sunderland, brother of late Mary Balgue
Sunderland, communicates with The Equity
Trustees Go. Ltd., 85 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne. he will hear of something to his
advantage.
AMELIA GILLESPIE, last heard of
about 1889, then about to get married.
Brother inquires. Information Bulletin
Office.
HAROLD CHORLEY WOOD, write or
cable home. MOTHER, Elms.
Palmer Cord Tyres give |
- greater speed, mileage, and
wear-resistance, and save petrol
because of their friction-free Palmer Cord
foundation, and their wonderful tough
rubber Tread. Actual scientifically-adjusted
tests show their greater mileage per gallon
of petrol. Day-in-day-out, hardy-country tests
prove that their superb tough three-ribbed tread
is ideal for Colonial conditions.
Palmer Cord Tyres, for Light and
Heavy Motor Cars, Cycle Cars,
Motor Cycles, and Aeroplanes.
Palmer Fabric Tyres,
for Motor Cycles,
Cycles, and Autowheels
Enquiries for Cycle,
Motor-cycle and
Motor Tyres to
India Rubber,
Gutta Pereha and
Telegraph Works
Co. Ltd.,
279 George Street,
Sydney;
21-23 Elizabeth
Street, Melbourne.
fa
THE PALMER TYRE LTD.
Chief Office* and Showrooms :
119/123, Shaftesbury Avenue,
London, W.C. England.
D/B(|>


You
are c
airv
to get Qu<
orvj
remember
ask for
ty,
m IS
0
IRTS
C
LLARS
and
JAMAS
P
7het/.
(Sdl
ush&ftan r/ade
I all AAercejrs
■jt
' ;
c ■ <
•<’ A O E,
Perfection
PINK RUBBER
POWER BOOKS.
Business Power, £1 Is.
Power of Will, £i Is.
Power for Success, £3 3s.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM
HAMILTON # CO., 34 Pitt Street, Sydney.
TASMANIAN GOVERNMENT
TOURIST BUREAU, HOBART.
NX:
dtp.
TASMANIA
Australia’s Playground.
All information from Tasmania's mainland
offices -
Sydney: 262 George Street.
Melbourne: 59 William Street.
Brisbane:-41 Queen Street.
Perth: 50 William Street.
Send 9d. for’ illustrated guidebook and
accommodation list. Other literature posted
free.
Tickets issued at Melbourne and Sydney
offices -to any part of Tasmania. Special coupon
issued .at Sydney for a Fortnight’s Holiday in
Tasmania, £l3 10s., including fares, accom-
modation and local trips.
Accommodation arranged through' mainland
offices.
The Hobart and Launceston bureaux book
for all local .trips and to all parts of Tas-
mania. Have your correspondence addressed
to our care.
E. T. EMMETT, Director.
Q
r
-t-
-n
i*
1
(C>
V
<yy2
ft
soC
AMONG Danks’ variety of Mantelpieces will
/A be seen many splendid examples of smart
designing and skilful workmanship.
Every one is constructed of Fine Furniture
Timbers, thoroughly seasoned to ensure the
maximum of durability and the elimination of
the danger of warping or opening at the joints.
An inspection will reveal a splendid assort-
ment of beautiful, high-grade Mantelpieces in
a variety of styles suitable for any home.
“DANKS”
Otherwise John DanKs & Son Pty., Ltd.
324 Pitt Sydney,
and 391 Bourke Street, Melbourne
She a smoker? Then, for him, there
could be no gift more appropriate
than a
the ideal pipe-gift for a man.
The G.B.D. Matured Briarwood, the
clean-cut shapes, the perfection of the
mounting and the finish all denote
“Presentation-quality.”
MANY POPULAR SHAPES.
Sold by Leading Tobacconists Everywhere.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. ho
, liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
unless stamps accompany.
Surgeon : Well, this is how it appears:
The disastrous hookworm disease, now . very prevalent
in Queensland, is to be dealt with. The Federal
Government gives 135,000 provided that the Queens-
land Government does the same; and the Rockefeller
Institute subscribes £30,000. It isn’t very dignified
to accept charitable aid from abroad to deal with a
mere worm, but the borrowing disease is in the
vitals of Australia... .0.5.: Has been pointed out
many times. . . . AY.C.A. (London) : You shouldn’t need
any suggestions. Glad to read whatever you write.
. ...M.8.: We don’t reprint.... F.C.: Yes: thanks.
.. . .It.C. (New York) : Thanks. . . .Geo. !!.: AA hat’s
the point of it?. . . .O’Phimerty: Not enough in
“Calling.”... .Chaplain-Major , McKenzie: (C) Cer-
tainly; (2) thanks. .. .F.M.: Not up Vnti-Llun :
No use at all W.. 1.8.: Won’t do 0.11.: There’s
a tender wistfulness about, it: —
Oh ! May our soldiers’ graves be ever kept, bright.
With a tombstone that will shine for ever :
That they will ever be bright as a starry night.
So as their names will never die, no, never.
To keep their names in freshness, in mind,
That their names will live for evermore;
Those that’s gone and left all behind.
To keep their graves bright that we adore.
Woodicus: Not even the gentlest wowser could
swallow that. . . .J. 8.: Even a “Black Dust Storm"
can’t swirl in verse as useless... .C. 8.: “Two
Letters” not up. In easy verse like 1 that y'ou
shouldn’t have to shirk proper quota of rhymes....
R.M.8.: “Morning,” “Noon” and “Evening" have
been sung once or twice before. The verse has no
fault except that it amounts to nothing. ... L.L.:
l’OOrly handled.... M.M. : If you're really going
to drown yourself do it to a livelier tune.
There’s no need to hump the metre on the rocks like
that.... .College Green: Very poor stuff. ... R.C.D.:
Goat yarns seem all made on a pattern. mirth
is derived from stink and bump. . . .11.D.P.: If you’re
waiting and she’s waiting, each at a corner, can't
you agree to do the melancholy act at the same corner
without making a dirge about it? V.R.X.: Beef
may make a fighter ; hut the Spartans did (heir big
work mostly on onions without the steak. It is also
on record that Irish rebels broke cavalry and took
guns with their bare lists on si diet of potatoes....
C.J.W.: That long wriggle at the end of the stanza
is full of charm :
Our childhood passed, we went to school,
I fell in. many scrapes,
From breaking every golden rule
To stealing farmers' grapes.
Though often 1 .was shunned by some
And nearly once was sent. ,
To prison, Mary would then come
Believing I was innocent.
.. . R.C.: Verses stagger slightly A.H.P.: Rejected
on sanitary grounds A.N.: Blank verse is not a
mere splurge of words in any metre or in none. It
is a definite measure in strict, form. Don't try to use
•it for another 50 • vents or. so. After that perhaps
you'll be forgotten... .J.C.D.: “The rose is still a
rose, and thou art thou.” • What did you expect
them to he?. . . .E.M.E.: That ghost notion ends in a *
bad rhyme and amounts to tinkling J.A.AV.: One
bit is unusual :
Now justly as the gorgbous sun went sinking out o’
sight.
Betwixt -the tree's an awful veil there wafted such a
fright.
For lengthy years T’d never had a. bagman (quick as
sound)
Ad-dealted me a murd’rous blow, which hurled me
to the ground!
• •■•A.B.: “Greeting” is verse vyjth no force nor
distinction. .. .M.H.S.: Don’t care for it.., .G.ELM.:
The “atmosphere” is strained and unreal... .M.K.:
Not bad verse, but not good enough. (P.S.: If it
was bad enough it would be good enough.)....
IMV.F.: It's a very old subject heavily handled....
MS.: Bath yarn too straggly: “Victims’’ nearly....
8.M.K.: “Christian Scientist” verse jiggles and tags
itself out painfully... .Bellerive: Farmyard item is
seasonable :
The fowls did loudly cackle.
The d'ogs did bark and prance,
The eat did leap upon a fence
Prepared to take know chance,
The billy-goat did butt and kick,
The g'eese did hiss and fly
In terror from the demon sow
Who'd broke loose from her sty.
The owner, Paddy Flinnigan,
Did hollow to he’s son.
Andy catch that cursed sow,
Or shoot her with your gun.
Into their neighbor Peterson
Did rush the beast of pork,
Where Peterson, in grim alarm,
Did flourish a pitchfork.
A rifle-shot did rend the air,
Which missed the demon sow,
And cost Flinnigan a teflner
For the murder of a cow.
F.W.: Very poor verse. ... A.B. O.: Yes ; it has
the mark of the first attempt... .Grec: Too thin. .. .
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
T.1.M.: Your country gentleman is a flat atrocity
and the radiant belltopper is too small for him....
AV.D.: It’s low-grade ore. —R.W.: The shopwalker’s
grin is annoying, and the lady obviously hasn’t been
married 12 years. She is just a goggle-eyed flapper.
... .H.F.: You dressed Mercury in Boodle’s unshrink-
able underwear for gents. Now put Psyche into cor-
sets and go out of business... .R.M.G.: Why invent
more stodgy, undersized people? Aren’t there enough
of them walking about already ?... .K.T.: You’re too
slow off the mark. That subject has long grey-
whiskers on it now. ...G.R.: No brimstone wanted
from y0u.... A.W.O’H.: You’ll have to improve a
lot G.R.E.S.: Drawing shot to pieces at George-
Str'eet North.... .T.W.: Two flappers with withered
hands and thick ankles. Don’t want ’em.
Y Adelaide University lately had two addi-
tions to its endowments. (It has always
been fortunate in this respect.) The sum of
£5OO has been presented by Mrs. A. M.
Sufipson to found a library of aeronautics
in memory of her late husband, and Peter
Waite has endowed the institution with
SSBO shares in Elder, Smith and Co., worth
a;- the present date over £60,000. which is
in addition to his magnificent gifts of his
Urrbrae estate and adjacent lands for the
study of agriculture and allied subjects.
These benefactions of Peter Waite’s will be
of immense benefit to S. Aus, in years to
come, and entitles him to share with his old
partner, the late Thomas Elder, the honor
of being one of the two greatest patrons of
education the State has had.


Stop Torturing
Stopain Toothache Gum
Instantly Ends The Ache
And Helps Save The Tooth.
Don’t put up with toothache a minute. You
don’t have to. Just put a little piece of Stopain
Toothache Gum in the cavity, or around the
tooth and all pain is gone as if by magic.
%
U
Let STOPAIN Stop That Boring Pain.
It fills up the cavity, excluding the air, and
stopping the mouth acids from acting on the
frantic, jumping nerve; hardens quickly, and
forms a serviceable filling that will last for a
long time—until you are ready to have a per-
manent filling put in.
Why punish yourself ? Why endure the
agony of toothache when a shilling box of
Stopain Toothache Gum will quickly restore
your peace of mind ?
Keep it on hand for emergencies.
Stopain Toothache Gum is sold by most
medicine vendors at a shilling a box, or sent
direct upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
520-528' Riley Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Drives Away
Corns Quickly.
At last a real ‘ does what it says ’ Corn Cure;
nothing like it or just as good has ever been
known.
Every man or woman who has corns, warts
or bunions ought to try Handy. Corn Cure at
once and see how marvellously it works. Quit
shaving your corn with a razor. You may draw
blood and cause blood-poisoning.
m
a
Handy Core Cure will get rid of every corn
you have <sot without pain or discomfort.
Handy Corn Cure is remarkable because it
never irritates or turns the true flesh sore or
raw. It can’t—it’s that antiseptic, safe and
harmless. The corn shrivels up and comes out.
1/- Per Box everywhere. Posted free by
Sunset Drug Co., 520-528 Riley-st., Sydney.
«zA£r
is
l
as
B 9
Queensland:
THE KEY TO
PROSPERITY.
QUEENSLAND
opens the door to
prosperity tor those
requiring land
Particulars ot the
millions of acres ol
Crown Land
now available will be
sent you at once,
also Booklets on the
State's resources—
FREE
Name
lalellijeace and Tourist Bureau
r .dTil .rfiiipAyNE vIQIfll
Used the
World Over
£2
MOTOR
...CARS
If any illustration appearing in 'xiie
Bulletin takes your fancy, .wwite to. the
Manager, wfteHvill Wpipte-iy^u'price for it.
S 3
18
A
/
MJJ7
crass
IllfgSl:!
a
m
■>s
wmii
I
m
■ ; >r:
11l
If,
mmmm
ft
* s 23
!ssssiiSiLi::^
f jrj x w'ty3 bs rzg t&WJl***
I^*J**'%'* % *****t»l
mz.
mt
i/m
,h-.
You may think it*s kidney trouble every time you have a backache,
but most likely it is your digestion which is wrong. It is probably your
stomach trying to put part of its work on your kidneys, and they refuse.
The proper thing is to make your stomach do its share of the work,
which can easily be done by taking Chamberlain s Tablets for the stomach
and liver—a medicine for over worked kidneys, stomach, liver and bowels.
They cleanse your bowels of all impurities, thus relieving your kidneys
by natural methods which never fail to restore you to perfect health. For
headache, biliousness, indigestion and constipation there is nothing equal to
Chamberlain’s Tablets.
No matter how long you have been a sufferer from these ailments you
will be benefited by a course of
The Stomach o Livep
Diarrhoea.
Diarrhoea attacks all ages, and is equally
fatal to young and old. The great danger in
this disease is due to the frequent lack of
proper treatment in the first stages. Chamber-
lain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy is a reliable
and effective medicine, and if given in time
will prevent serious results. It never fails, and
is pleasant to take. Every household should
have a bottle on hand. Get it today. Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy taken at
the first unusual looseness of the bowels will
save suffering and anxiety—-and loss of both
ime and money.
Take It With You.
The importance of having a bottle of Cham-
berlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy with
them is realised by experienced travellers, as
this medicine cannot be bought on the train or
steamship. Change of water and diet often
deranges the stomach and bowels and produces
diarrhoea. As Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy is the most reliable medicine
in use for these ailments, care should be taken
to have a bottle always on hand. Attacks of
bowel trouble nearly always come on suddenly
and when this remedy is at hand all danger
nsay be avoided.
"Be Firm.
When you ask for a brittle of Chamberlain’s
Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy, do not be per-
suaded to take anything else. Be firm in your
conviction that there is nothing so good. This
medicine has been tested in the most severe
cases of cramp, colic, dysentery and diarrhoea,
and has never been known to fail. “ Can be
depended upon” is an expression always used
in connection with Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy. One bottle goes a long
way towards relieving suffering humanity. It
never fails to give immediate, and permanent
relief!
©
*****
' This is a Food-Drink (Milk,
Wheat, and Malt) which should
find a place in every home. It
has incomparable qualities,
is an idea! Standby in the outly-
ing districts where shops are
distant. It keeps for years, is
made in a moment, no
and is always satisfactory,
HOBLICK'S
MALTED MILK
IXp Shortage. Ample Supplies.
GAFILLARINE
4
Grows
.Oe
Moustaches
Quickly!
have used it testify to its
genuineness and efficacy as a moustache-
igOAver. Rub it well 'iiTKiHie roots, and note
its quick results. Sentß a Jar to-day.
FREE
PRICE,O OXTAR—^POS
_ - /'J
CRAMS & AITKEN,
654 SYDNfe.Y. \
Established] ovef &6~bears. r --<
A Gift Worth Having.
Itf . Vctjf cannot imagine a more acceptable Gift for the,.
tejfo shaves than
iEV“PLUM M R.
keen vedge long** t ) lan a dy
W year,*; ' veal ~ "
w
77 rp
CRAIG &
SO/CESTRE«JVoteY?
over 30 ;|f(i
)A
r.f *ly
Razor
J,p|,v-W
fid Trusted Friend
Hundreds of Shavers.
Public Notice.
SOLDIERS’ DIARIES.
THE Mitchell Library is desirous of pur-
chasing for the State Archives original
diaries of Australian Soldigrs taking part
the \ afrits will u *
be
MitcheU
t L*l>r.ai;y,
,or>nv rio:?.JßoK"--tke);-®«B»lB»Bnzp r
\Aivn :z /W.TRrJIIFOIJLD,
\ w '-"' r '' aiid'^kitretary.
.ovioo t
Vo■■!/..-■.;;;i m
ij -iotXiibfi-1 snl/.a ,nohqv?-orimdT- a; OV'UOOD
[Til
BORGE
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
.orrmodloK ~020-..03 & YTHDAiAI
MSSffrr
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Jiole Propr.
PRICE 3/3 pet;/1ldy;“(vr: A a Course of
8 Boxes £i jrosjfine Free.
Undei ,; Plain Coyer.
On Sale at all fedir®/ DMggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers Hhfpnjrhout the States.
I CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDENC* PILES. iEstab. 1891.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
Peanut”: The patriotic scheme was in
full blast, and the large and prominent citizen
on the platform was giving of his windy
best. He called upon every citizen in that
great crowd to make sacrifices as he had
done for our. brave boys. As I was admiring
the freshness of his style, I found a returned
man in “civvies” at my elbow. “Hear him,”
he said wearily. “It sounds well, doesn’t it?
Makes people glad that the poor dear sol-
diers have such nice, generous friends. Well.
I’ll tell you what he did for me. When I
got my discharge I put my little bit into a
car, and started in to run a passenger trip.
I used to charge 30 shillings. It was a 25-
shilling run before the big rise in petrol,
but 30 shillings was only a fair paying
thing, and the accepted figure when I
started in. I had hopes <j>f picking up a
living, for people will always patronise a
returned man while he gives them as much
or a bit more than the other fellow. Then
this big brother of Billjim started to run
me off. Ran 'his cars at £1 the trip. It
wasn’t paying him, of course. lie did it
at a dpad loss; but he hadn’t heen working
for five shillings a da„v for three years past,
as I had, and lie could stand it. ’ I couldn’t
get a fare at my old price, and I couldn’t
keep body and soul together at his. So I
had to sell out and look for a job. Then
when he d choked me oil lit* tmt his price up
to 30 shillings again. But lie’s a good
sprinker—l will say that for him.”
Missing Friends.
Notice—lnformation Wanted.
I AMES BATTISON. formerly of Napier, Ilawkes
Ba Y> New Zealand, son of deceased WALTER
BATTISON, sometime farmer, East Kilbride, Parish
of Row, Dunbarton, Scotland. Will the above-men-
tioned James Batt'ison, or anyone knowing his address,
or having information regarding him, kindly com-
mom cate promptly with Messrs. BLAKE & ItIGGALL
Solicitors, 120 William Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
Amusements.
Harry Uickurds Tivoli Tlientres Ltd.
Governing Director HUGH D. McINTOSII.
JIVOLI THEATK K, STDKKt
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday at 2.30.
NEW REVUE,
EVERYBODY’S DOING IT.
Plan at Nicholson’s and the Tivoli.
Amusements.
-|“IVOM XKJATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
hugh d. Mclntosh presents the latest
AND GREATEST LONDON REVUE SUCCESS,
BUBBLY.
Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-, plus tax.
It I TIC It I O N TII IC A T It E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SYDNEY.
FRIENDLY ENEMIES.
The great propaganda play that succeeded in con-
solidating American opinion in regard to the war.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at Callose’s.
g_J E It M A .) E STY’S, S Y I> N E Y.
*• Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
COMMENCING AT THE MATINEE TO-DAY.
THE LIMIT IN REVUE SPECTACLES.
HELLO, EVERYBODY!
A revelation in the art of stage-production.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Day Sales at White Rose.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
IN A NEW MUSICAL COMEDY.
OH, OH, DELPHINE!
Plans at Paling’s.
PALAC E TIIE A T RE. SYDN E Y.
Direction J. & N. TAIT.
GRAND CHRISTMAS ATTRACTION.
COMMENCING AT THE MATINEE TO-DAY.
EMILIE POLINIE,
the famous English Star, in
DE LUXE ANNIiC.
Plans at Nicholson’s.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION I’ICT Ult E TIIEA T R E S
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
Amusements.
Hit MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. PRESENT THE
TREMENDOUS PANTOMIME EXTRAVAGANZA.
GOODY TWO SHOES.
Plans at Allan's. Prices as usual.
Tit KAT It E KOY A L, M KLBOUItNK.
Direction .1. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
TO-DAY (BOXING DAY), AT MATINEE,
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present the Famous
American Comedian,
M. B. FIGMAN, in
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH.
KING’S THEATRE. MELItOU It N E.
Losses, BAILEY & GRANT.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. & N. TAIT and BAILEY & GRANT present
THE MERRY CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
JACK AND JILL.
Prices as usual. Plans at Allan’s.
|y|AJK.STIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
ALMA RUBENS in
THE GHOST FLOWER.
MatinGes Daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Plan at Allan’s.
HOYT’S TIIEATItIES, MELBOURNE
Also SYDNEY.
DE LUXE. BOTJRKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Every Evening Three Hours’ Show from 8 to 11.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
WILLIAM FARNUM in
ROUGH AND READY.
MARGUERITE CLARK in
SEVEN SWANS.
LYCEUM (Over Princes Bridge).
Every Evening. Matinees Saturday 2.30.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURE:
GERALDINE FARRAR in
THE DEVIL STONE.
Prices as usual.
Amusements.
COLLIES THEATRE. ST HILDA.
■ MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
JOHN N. McCALLUM’S
INCOMPARABLE COURTIERS.
THE ENTERTAINMENT OF THE MOMENT.
THE ACME OF REFINEMENT.
|y| EI.BA THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, includin''
the productions of CHAPLIN, VIT AGRA PII, PATIIE,
WORLD, FOX and SEL7.NICK. _____
kTta nn ia theatre. Melbourne.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and Od.
As Good as a Holiday.
The main object of a holiday is to gain
renewed energy for another year’s work, so
that one may return with sound nerves and
a clear brain, full of vigor and ready for
work again. Unfortunately that object is
not always attained.
It till depends on the state of your blood.
If your blood has become impoverished or
impure the holiday is probably too brief for
you to obtain proper benefit; and very few
people can claim to be free from the dregs
of some ailment which lias drained the blood
of its natural strength. That is why they
feel fugged out. brain-weary and incapable
Of much exertion.
If you cannot take a holiday, begin now
to build up your blood with a true tonic,
and so invigorate and refresh your system.
Nothing is more valuable for this purpose
than Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Over and ovc
again they have been proved to be as good
as a holiday to jaded men and women. Their
value to both sexes is made evident by the
fact that these pills make good the waste
caused by illness and the wear and tear of
life.
Do not put off finding relief a single day.
Get a box of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to-dio
and begin the treatment at once. Price 2/9
per box, six boxes 15/3.
Free.—A useful booklet, “Diseases of the
Blood,” will be sent on application to Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Box 594 G.P.O.
Sydney.-— Advt.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
New Hupmobile car.
THE COMFORT CAR.
IN building the Hupmobile the builders have ever in mind the driver’s point of view. Hup-
mobile owners are proud of the appearance, comfort, performance, sturdiness and economy
of operation of their cars. Ask the first Hupmobile owner you see about this.
Specifications.
BODY TYPES—Five-passenger, two- or three-passenger single seater.
WHEELBASE—II 2 inches.
CYLINDERS —Four, east, e.n bloc, removable head —82 mm. bore x 140 mm. stroke.
STARTING —Two unit system Automatic release.
IGNITION—Dixie high-tension magneto.
CARBURETTER —Special Strcmberg, with two adjustments.
PETROL SYSTEM —Stewart-Warner vacuum feed. 13 Imperial gallon tank —two gallon
reserve.
LUBRICATION —Pressure system. Gear pump driven from cam shaft.
COOLING —Thermo-syphon, extra radiator capacity.
CLUTCH—Dry-disc type. Seven steel plates faced with asbestos fabric. Fully housed.
REAR AXLE—Floating type. Spiral bevel gears.
TYRES—BIS x 105 mm. clincher type. Plain in front, all-weather tread on rear.
UPHOLSTERY —Genuine leather, stuffed with real curled hair.
TOP—Neverleek, khaki.
Rain-vision windshield; head, tail and instrument-board lights; petrol gauge; motor-
driven horn; ammeter; foot and robe rails; tyre carrier; extra rim; side curtains;
tonneau carpet; hood cover; pump, jack, full set of tools and tyre-repair outfit.
Write for complete illustrated manual and prices.
DEALERS.
I. PHIZACKERLEY, Sydney.
EVERS MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.
Brisbane.
DALGETY & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
PHOENIX MOTOR COMPANY, LTD.
Adelaide.
SKIPPER BATLEY MOTOR CO.
LTD., Perth.
Hbpaobile
The Comfort Car .
V
&
N_ \
CJ
r s
\»
q
LJ
'v3
r* 9 a 8 B
n
. Q
Q
V
v/
V
> »
DEALERS,
TASMANIAN MOTOR SERVICE.
LTD., Hobart.
A. HATRICK & CO., LTD., Wan-
ganui, New Zealand.
THE NEW ZEALAND FARMERS’
CO-OPERATIVE ASSOCIATION
OF CANTERBURY, LTD.,
Cashel Street, Christchurch,
New Zealand.
Itonmnonc
The Comfort Car.


/
Teach Children to
Use Cuticura Soap
Because it is best for their tender
skins. Help it now and then with
touches of Cuticura Ointment applied
to first signs of redness, roughness,
pimples or dandruff. If mothers
would only use these super-creamy
emollients for every-day toilet pur-
poses how much suffering might be
avoided by preventing little skin and
scalp troubles becoming serious.
Soap to cleanse and Ointment to heal.
“R. Town* & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.'* Sold
by dealers throughout the world.
CHRISTIE’S
spzcMuse
TWO
L /A/E S
s |# s
u^ 5
woire
FOR
CATALOGUE;
PATTERNS 0 /
MATERIALS
The STRAND
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
Zf /iO/MTER § T NEWCASTLE
* » »-
Uf
t
EttkWEEMtfttHEl
HORROCKSES'
fd
WILL
OUTWEAR mt HEAVIER MAKES
OFFERED A 3 SUBSTITUTES,
„ SEE
HORROCKSES""
ON SELVEDGE.
1791
f
Columbia
Hot Shot J}afferies
are universally used for ignition purposes.
Being moisture-proof, they are especially adapt-
able for motor boat use.
Columbia Hot Shot Batteries eliminate the
necessity of connecting up individual cells. No
trouble from loose connections only two con-
nections to make in placing the battery in service.
The individual cells are already connected m
series and multiples-series to give the desired
voltage and current. Columbia Hot Shot
Batteries are made in various sizes to give volt-
ages of from 3 to 9 volts.
Satisfaction is guaranteed when you purchase
Columbias. They are backed by more than
a quarter of a century’s knowledge of battery
manufacture. _
The Fahnestock Spring Clip Binding Post,
shown in the illustration, is a Columbia fea»
ture that sells bat-
teries. With this
Binding Post it is
dimply a matter of
pressing down the
spring and inserting
the wire—and the
connection is made.
Dealers-Immediate
deliveries can be
HOTSHOT
BATTERY
a
'PRESS
DOWN
HERB ,
made.
Write,
for cat-
alogue
and de-
tails
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY. Inci
Export Department
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Cable Address;
" Carbon Cleveland"
=—JB
HpHE only practical way to
A reform a bad correspondent
is to give him a “Swan Pen.
It takes away every excuse. It
will make him like to writCo
The “Swan” Pen is wonderfully
durable. It will write for many
years without showing any signs
of wear. The longer it is used,
the better it seems to become. It
is a joy to have.
OF ALL STATIONERS AND IMPORTERS.
AUSTRALIAN PRICES:
From 12/6 upwards.
Illustrated Catalogue Post Free.
11l
MABIE, TODD & Co, Ltd., 79 & 80, High Holborn, London, England.
Manchester, Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney (wholesale only)-255a, George
Street. London Factory—3i9-3 2 9> Weston Street, Associate House
Mabie, Todd & Co., Inc., New York and Chicago
n
; Made throughout in the
Empire from Australasian Wool by
Leicester Workpeople
4S
gtSm
fd
Get Jason guaranteed
unshrinkable Under-
wear for every member
of your family. Your dealer
will supply you.
Underwear
New '"‘Olympic 0 * Brand
Owing to the high prices of the yarns from which Jason All-wool goods are made,
i the manufacturers have introduced temporarily lower lines containing a
\ percentage of cotton—bearing the same guarantee of quality as the regular
L\ lines. Sole manufacturers
JASON
UNDERWEAR
CO.
Ab
68.
LEICESTER.
ENG.
/2\
W
' > <' x '
.A--' *
1
X
IS
'local
PATRIOTISM
Your
AIMp C
Then have a JHOT
Pfc at smoking
Referee
The Australian Tobacco.
SPANISH INFLUENZA.
The best precautionary measure advised by Australia’s leading medical
men is an antiseptic condition of NOSE AND THROAT.
EVERYONE IS RECOMMENDED TO CARRY A BON OF
NAZETHA PASTILLES
THE VERY BEST NOSE AND THROAT ANTISEPTIC.
By their use the curative, fumes are searchingly carried to all the breath-
ing passages.
1/6
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM ALL CHEMISTS
1/6
A. P. MILLER &. SON, Chemists, Hobart.
[2
The Untamable.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE was a beautiful horse, without fault
or blemish, as all that had got c ose
enough to see him admitted—a
thoroughbred that had got away with the
brumbies when a yearling—a big blacK
animal standing sixteen hands in height. \\ ith
a notable pedigree and the racing blood of his
sire and dam hot in his veins, lie had b.d 101
a free, unfettered life among the hills. He
was lord of the mob he had fought for and
won from the brumby stallion. A despeiate
fight, a struggle for victory before which the
mares grouped in fear and wonder. Sudden y
the black thoroughbred, with Ins velvet eoat
and tine silken mane bearing marks ot the
battle, reared back, leaving his opponent with
a great ugly tear in his throat, through which
his life-blood was rushing out. Wheeling
the mob, the thoroughbred drove them before
him, his ears laid back and head low on the
ground. He made a beautiful picture. Ihus
he lived for three years in the shelter ot
the hills with his harem. , ,
One day the mob, with the blood-horse
galloping in the lead, was seen by the station-
hands, and, on their excited report, they
were told to get the runaway. Many times
they “ran” him, starting out at dawn to
come on the mob feeding in the dew-wet grass
on the plains. But, fleet-footed as the deer,
the black would lead the mares to the scrub
and then to the hills. .
The black horse never seemed tired
after these flights. He would trot
round the mob, in a restless manner, with
quivering nostrils expanded—always on the
alert. The disappointed men would turn to
look at him far away scaling the rocky
heights or gazing out on a panorama of
purple hills and green, waving plains, that
seemed to stretch west and for ever west to
the dipping sun —standing as though all he
surveyed were his by the law of nature.
Finding that the mob could not be
taken by running them, the station-hands re-
solved to build a trap-yard around the
spring at which the brumbies watered. Soon
a tail strong yard was built, with wide-
swinging gates and late one evening the
men were to be seen sitting on limbs of high
trees waiting for the horses to come for
their drink. A great round moon shone from
a clear sky, illuming the thickly-wooded
bush. Kangaroos—blue, red, and grey—came
in mobs, followed by the timid rock-wallaby,
but these bounded off in fright at seeing the
water surrounded by logs. Dingoes emerged
from the scrub, trotting along the dusty
cattle-pads, to suddenly stand and sniff the
air tainted with the presence of man. And
they would disappear, and a weird, dismal
howl would be taken up by others and
answered far away in the distance.
At last, when all was still, the brumbies
came to water. Through the wide gates they
passed, led by their king. As they took their
fill, wading out into the cool liquid, splash- ,
ing it up with their fore-feet, they heard a j
noise behind them that caused them to rush j
up the bank terrified, with wildly-beating
hearts. What they heard was the gates
crashing to. And now they found a great
log fence surrounding them —a fence fully
seven feet in height. As they rushed about
madly to escape, the men came eagerly for-
ward to see the thoroughbred that had so
long baffled them. In that moonlit yard the
lustre of his fine black coat shone like satin.
He turned about and faced his enemies,
whistling defiantly as if daring them to
approach. The men were struck dumb with
amazement, wondering if his limbs worked
with electricity. As they gazed upon him he
raced at the fence and cleared it in his leap
as a bird might fly.
That night he wandered far away from
where •he had lost his mob. Two days
passed and no water did he find. It was on
the third day that the hunters ran him again,
and noticed a great difference in him. He
was gaunt and hollow ; his sides were drawn
up; but, with fire flying from the flint, he
beat them again to the ranges. When the
pangs of thirst drove him down in search of
water, he saw something far off shimmering
in the heat. It was a boundary-rider’s hut,
and there he smelt water. He discovered
it first in a well below his reach, but he
traced it a!6o to a tank, where nectar was
slowly dripping from its tap. With the mad-
ness of his great thirst he pawed and struck
at the tank, lashed it with his heels again
and again until a stream of water rushed
from its torn side.
He travelled back in a few days to where
he had left the mares—a lonely and desolate
object, as dark as the moonless night on
which he came forth in search of his mates.
He called for them, whinnying loudly and
listening with ears pricked to hear the
answer that would never come again to
him, for they were safe in the homestead
paddock.
All night he wandered about restlessly, and
all the following day he haunted the scrub
and scanned the plains. That night
big drops of rain fell, wetting the
parched earth. With the first twitter-
ing call of the birds at dawn a band
of horsemen came on him drinking from
a rock well. Again he fled, and they, with
the ironstone ringing under their horses’
hoofs, followed at break-neck pace. They
rushed him to the brink of a cliff that had a
sheer fall of one hundred feet, and here he
halted just in time. For him there was -no
escape now. The relentless men were be-
hind, and before him the cliff. He stood
trembling in every limb. A lather of sweat
broke out on him. A man approached, speak-
ing to him, trying to soothe his fear. In his
hand he held the coils of a long rope that
he was about to swing in the air to curl and
ring down over the beautiful animal’s head.
But like an outlaw that would not be taken
that untamable spirit seemed to lift the body
back from human touch. For a moment he
poised on the rim of the precipice, and then
' fell with a crash below. The stockmen,
climbing down, expected to see him smashed
to pieces, but he was not dead. He lay
there with his legs , nd back broken,' biting
the earth and stones in his agony.
They cut a vein in the thoroughbred’s
neck, and with light still flashing in his
eyes the wild thing’s life went out.
A. A. C.


ODD
yT
m
usat
‘ To Cover Your Building
With Certain-teed is
Three-fold Economy
Certain-teed is economical to buy. It
costs no more than many other types of roof-
ing material of inferior quality.
Certain-teed can be laid in less time than
any other type of roofing, by anyone who will
follow the simple directions in the center of
each roll. No experience is required.
Certain-teed endures. It is immune to
sparks and the corroding effect of fumes or
salt air. It does not melt under the hottest
rays of the sun, is water-tight and fire re-
tarding. Cerlain-teed is made and guaran-
teed by the world’s largest manufacturer of
roll roofing. Use it on warehouse, factory,
hotel, store, barn and outhouse. Ask us
more about it.
Australian Representative—C. C. McCANN,
Perpetual Trustee ltulldingr, Sydney, N.S.W.
SYDNEY AGENTS:
John Banks & Son Pty. Ltd. Wunderlich, Ltd.
James Hardie & Co. Ltd. James Sandy & Co., Ltd.
,Manufactured by
CERTAIN-TEED PRODUCTS CORPORATION
World’s Largest Manufacturer of Roll Roofing
Certain
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its action is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt’ Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
MOTOR LORRIES
The light tonnage Denby lorries
combined speed with the ability to go
anywhere needed without trouble or
undue strain*
The heavy tonnage models are
constructed to work continuously
under the hardest conditions of loads
and roads.
. A. HATRICK & COMPANY, SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.
Cable Address: “DENTRUX.”
Cable Codes: Western Union and ABC sth Edition.
DENBY MOTOR TRUCK COMPANY, Detroit, U.S.A.
jßhb-
l B tfr tTif
ran
•—l'
Capacities
1,2, 3J, 5
Tons
[3
Auto Pistols and Revolvers.
Absolutely Accurate, Dependable and Reliable.
f
WALMAN
AUTO.
PISTOL.
We Repair
all kinds
of Guns,
Rifles and
Revolvers.
d
COLT
AUTO.
PISTOL,
25, 32 or 38 cal.
Walman Automatic ristol, 7.65 (32) cal., 7 sliot, automatic safety.
Length over all, 6in.; weight, 230 z. Blued Delivered,
CO/-
Colt’s Automatic Hammerless Pistol, 380 cal., 7 shot. Length of barrel,
3}in.; over all, Clin.; weight, 230 z Delivered,
&5
Colt’s Baby Automatic Hammerless Pistol, 25 or 6.35 cal., 7 shot. Length
over all, 4iin.; weight, 13oz Delivered,
£4/10/-
Colt’s Automatic Pistol, 38 cal., blued, 7 shot, automatic safety. Length
over all, 7Un. ; weight, 31oz Delivered,
*5/15/-
5
H. & R
AUTO.,
32 cal.
-35
Vv
Prices here
quoted are
subject to
change
without
notice.
Harrington & Richardson’s Automatic Pistol, 32 cal., 8 shot. Length
over all, 64in..; weight, 220 z Delivered.
*4
Smith & Wesson Revolvers, 32 cal.,
barrel; weight, 130 z.; blued ...
double action, auto, ejector, 3Jln.
Delivered,
£.4/10!
Smith & Wesson Hammerless Revolver, new departure model, 32 cal.,
auto ejector, 4in. barrel; weight, about 17i0z.; blued.. Delivered,
& 5/5/ -
Smith & Wesson Regulation Police Revolver, 32 cal., auto, side ejector,
4|in. barrel; weight, about ljlb.; blued Delivered,
£5/10/-
IURHAM)! UPLEX)
RAZOR
SHAVE
WITH A
SMILE
DURHAM Demonstrator
RAZOR and HAIR TRIMMER.
This Demonstrator is a Working Model of the famous Durham
Duplex Domino Razor. It comprises handle, with safety
guard and blade. Full instructions with each one.
Price
1/6,
Post Free. Extra Blades, 5 in packet, 2
Post Free.
M
-W:
J
IVOR
JOHNSON,
22 cal.
fd
H. & R.
H’LESS.
Ivor Johnson Revolver, 22 cal., rim fire, 7 shot, 3in. barrel; weight, 130 z.; blued.. 42/6
Ivor Johnson Haminerless Revolver, 22 cal., 7 shot, small frame, automatic ejector, rim
fire, 3in. barrel; weight, 17oz Nickel, 42/6; Blued, 45/-
Harrington & Richardson’s Premier Revolvers, 22 cal., 4-inch barrel Nickel, 29/-
Harrington & Richardson’s Hammerless Revolvers, 32 cal., small frame, automatic
ejector—
-- barrel, weight 13oz Nickel, 32/6; Blued, 33/6
4- barrel, weight 14oz Nickel, 33/6; Blued, 34/6
Harrington & Richardson’s Hammerless Revolvers, 38 cal., central fire, small frame,
automatic ejector, 4-inch barrel, weight, 18oz Nickel, 33/6; Blued, 34/6
Harrington & Richardson’s Police Revolvers, 32 or 38 cal., central fire, safety hammer,
double action, automatic ejector, 5 shot —
31-inch barrel, weight looz Nickel, 27/6; Blued, 28/6
4-inch barrel, weight 16oz Nickel, 28/6; Blued, 29/6
(Postage on above I. .T. and H. & R. revolvers: N.S.W., 9d.; other States, 1/2.)
fdf
AUTO.
PISTOL
HOLSTER.
a>
Smoke
Sunol
Tobacco.
Awarded Four
Gold Medals.
YOUNG
AMERICA,
32 cal.
Young America Double-action Revolvers, 22 cal., R.F., 7 shot, with ljin. or 2in. barrel.
Nickel, 207-
Young America Double-Action Revolvers, 32 cal., central fire, 5 shot, barrel;
weight, about Boz Nickel, 18/6; Blued, 21/-
(Postage on one Young America Revolver, 6d. extra.)
Bushman’s or
Motorist’s Pipe
with Safety Cover.
Made of genuine French
briar, heavy mount, solid
rubber mouthpiece.
Price 4/0 P° st free *
fdf
For full particulars of Firearms, Ammunition and all Sporting Requisites see
copy of our Illustrated Sportsman’s Guide. Post free to any address.
1C
»immonsM
AUSTRALIAS GREATEST
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
AND TOBMCCOTfISTS
af
City Sports Depot
99 King St, also at
Newcastle t Brisbane


*
m
m
miss
BERYL
FERGUSON
(from a photo
bp Monte Luke .)
Rexona for Surfers
Beautiful Miss Beryl Ferguson is one of
the brightest members of the J. C. Wil-
liamson Co., Ltd., and is a favorite with
all theatre-goers. Miss Ferguson loves
surfing, and writes us the following letter
in praise of Rexona:
I want you to know that I am a Rexona
Surfing Girl. I simply love surfing, and
am so fond of it that I often go in when
the sun is strongest, but I never have any
bad effects from surfing, for I always use
Rexona before going in. I rub some on my
face and hands, and I never get sunburnt
nor my skin affected in any way. After
my surf is over I always have a cake of
Rexona Soap, which I use in the shower,
on my hair and skin, and I find by
the use of Rexona and Rexona
Soap any girl can keep herself
auite as fresh and dainty when
surfing as she could by missing all
this fun and always thinking of
her complexion.
Amongst my girl friends I find
more and more of them using
Rexona every day, and I am glad
to write and tell you what excel-
lent things Rexona and Rexona
Soap are for surfers.
Delightedly yours,
(Sgd.) BERYL FERGUSON.
Try the
Rexona Remedies
To minimise the after-effects of sunburn, anointing with Rexona the Kapil?
Healer is all that is necessary, anil the skin, soothed anil cooled with its wonderful
influence, will quickly regain its normal temperature and comfortable coolness.
Rexona Skin and Racial Soap will be found excellent in combination with Rexona
the Rapid Healer, and unequalled for all skin troubles and as a shampoo for the
hair after your dip. Rexona the Rapid Healer, 1/6 and
3/-; Rexona Soap, 1/- per tablet.
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medal&i
fdf
af
sfd
Works s Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. '
V
VS
ďsf
<n <
SUNBEAM
experience of standardising extra-efficiency
in the guise of the increasing numbers of
UNBEAM-COATALEN
IRCRAFT ENGINES
being supplied to the British and the Allies’
Air Services, involving, as it does, perfection
of design, methods, workmanship and
materials, must inevitably exercise its
influence on our post-war production
of motor carriages for the public.
THE SUNBEAM MOTOR CAR CO., LTD.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St.. London, England
WORKS . • • * Wolverhampton, England
d
A
The Cockney Soul.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FROM Woolwich and Brentford and
Stamford Hill, from Richmond into
the Strand,
Oh, the Cockney soul is a silent soul as 1
is in every land ! ,
But out on the sand with a broken band it s
sarcasm spurs them through;
And, with never a laugh, in a gale and a
half, ’tis the Cockney cheers the crew.
Oh, send them a tune from the music-halls
with a chorus to shake the sky .
Oh, give them a deep-sea chanty now and a
star to steer them by !
Now this a song of the great untrained, a
song of the Unprepared,
Who had never the brains to plead unfit, or
think of the things they dared ;
Of the grocer-souled and the draper-souled,
and the clerks of the four o’clock,
Who stood for London and died for home in
the nineteen-fourteen shock.
Oh, this is a pork-shop warrior's chant
come back from it, maimed and blind,
To a little old counter in Grey’s Inn-road
and a tiny parlor behind ;
And the bedroom above, where the wife and
he go silently mourning yet
For a son-in-law who shall never come back
and a dead son's room “To Let.”
(But they have a boy “in the fried-fish line”
in a shop across the “wye,”
Who will take them “aht” and “abalit” to-
night and cheer their old eyes dry.)
And this is a song of the draper's clerk
(what have you all to say?)
He’d a tall top-hat and a walking-coat in the
city every day—•
He wears no flesh on his broken bones that
lie in the shell-churned loam ;
For he went over the top and struck with his
cheating yard-wand—home.
(Oh, touch your hat to the tailor-made
before you are aware,
And lilt us a lay of Bank-holiday and the
lights of Leicester-square!)
Hats off to the dowager lady at home in her
house in Itussell-square!
Like the pork-shop back and the Brixton flat,
they are silently mourning there ;
For one lay out ahead of the rest in the
slush ’neath a darkening sky,
With the blood of a hundred earls congealed
and his eye-glass to his eye.
(He gave me a cheque in an envelope on a
distant gloomy day;
He gave me his hand at the mansion door
and he said: “Good-luck! Good-bai!”}
N.s.w.
Henry Lawson.
The Commandant’s Lady.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN.]
«"1I dear Sophronia,” said the Com-
jWl mandant, in a voice that vibrated
between annoyance and apprehen-
sion. “I beg you to remember that Wallis’
Plains are not London.”
His gaze wandered through the open
French window of his office out across the
green levels that stretched beyond the river
to intensely blue ranges of mountains slum-
bering in the afternoon heat-haze of a sum-
mer day.
“You are not, my dear, in London,” he
repeated, and the tall lady, gloved and coal-
scuttle bonneted, who was seated on the plain
wooden chair beside his table, found the re-
mark so irritating as to cause her to bring
her clenched hand down upon the table with
a little emphatic bang, and to look at her
husband with an expression of stifled fury
that made her pretty pink and white face
hard and angry. Her dark eyes gleamed
malevolently out of the arching frame of the
ugly head-dress tied with a bow of pink rib-
bons under a shapely and determined little
chin. She was a tall young woman, well
figured and well dressed. Dark auburn ring-
lets strayed from under the “coal-scuttle,”
and the coolness of her muslin contrasted
with the heat of her expression.
“Damn!” she said, as though she spat at
him, “You are a fool, Anthony.”
Captain Plaskett’s frown deepened.
“No tantrums, I beg of you. No tantrums
now.”
For a moment she was silent. Then she
broke out into a quick torrent of speech.
“I want to go to Newcastle. I must go to
Newcastle. Why do you sit there talking
silly nonsense about this place not being Lon-
don? I wish to God it was London. You
wouldn’t dare flout me like this if I were
near my family. Not London, indeed. Why
do you say that?”
“.Simply, my dear,” he said mildly, smiling
a little, “because you appear to be under an
impression that you can have your own way
here, as you have been used to having it at
home. You wish to go to Newcastle because
Smail brings up word that the Government
schooner is in from Sydney and there’s a box
from England for you. The box will arrive
here in due course. You’ll see all your finery
in good time. I cannot go with you myself
and cannot spare an escort. The woods be-
tween here and the sea are infested with run-
away prisoners. I cannot send you in the
boat, because I am sending it up the Paterson
to-night—there has been a murder on the
river.”
“Wliat do I care for your disgusting mur-
ders? The murder will keep. I want to go
to Newcastle. Will you give me the boat?”
“No, my love. I”
“Damn!” she said again. She stood up
with a withering look at him, picked up her
shawl from the table and sailed out of the
room.
Captain Plaskett sighed. He had be-
come bitterly aware of the foolish situation
of a poor officer who has a wife who ought
to be rich. With her beside him there was
little chance of forgetting it. He was too
jealous of her to allow her a separate estab-
lishment in Sydney, even if he could afford
it, which w T as doubtful. She was a lady who
took every opportunity of making her hus-
band jealous. Fortunately, up here she had
few chances. But if she was even gracious
to a prisoner the Commandant could find
something suspicious in her graciousness.
While the Commandant was deep in these
distressing reflections a shadow darkened the
open doorway, and he was aroused from them
by a rasping voice which suddenly exclaimed :
' “Sir.”
Captain Plaskett looked up and beheld the
erect and soldierly form of “Drumstick”
Smith, his efficient, automatic and entirely
dependable head-constable.
“Yes; what is it, Smith?” he asked, a little
wearily.
“We've got him, y'r Honor. Got him in
th’ swamps.”
“Who? Who've you got?”
“Cartwright, y’r Honor. Me men came ou
him asleep be til’ big swamp early this morn-
ing. He’s here now.”
The Commandant immediately manifested
a renewed interest in the affairs of his office,
lie sat up in his chair and was almost enthu-
siastic in the welcome he accorded the head-
constable’s announcement.
“Good. Oh, very good. Oh, excellent.
Bring him in at once, Smith. We’ll deal
with the scoundrel immediately. Let me
see—how many times has he absconded,
Smith?”
“ ’Tis th’ fourth time, y’r Honor. A habit
he’s makin’ of it. This time, as y’r Honor
knows, he beat Clancy, th’ overseer of his
gang, black and blue.”
“Yes. by Gad. A violent ruffian. We’ll
steady him this time. Bring him in, Smith.
Bring him in.”
Handcuffed, and between two constables,
the absconder was ushered into the room,
lie was a splendid type of young man —tall,
athletic, not bad looking. His sunburnt face
had a straggling beard. His dilapidated
clothing, old and torn and ragged, could not
take off anything from his appearance. He
looked at the great man who was the arbiter
of his destiny with a hard and defiant blue
eye.
“Ah!” said that gentleman, slowly and
with an air of enjoyment; “so you’ve come
back to us, Cartwright, eh? Well, you’re very
welcome, I’m sure. What have you to say?”
The manacled captive said nothing. He
merely stared at the Commandant with a |
sort of stoical indifference. This roused the
ire of “Drumstick” Smith. He jolted the I
prisoner in the ribs with a “half-arm.”
“Find y’r tongue, me man. His Honor’s
speakin’ to ye.”
The prisoner made no acknowledgment of
this attention beyond a swift glance at the
head-constable. He continued to stare stonily
at the Commandant.
“Insolent, eh?” said that gentleman, tak-
ing up a pen and scribbling on a sheet of
paper in front of him. “Insolent. We’ll
charge him with insolence, Smith. A contu-
macious villain.”
“Yessir,” said Mr. Smith.
“You are charged with absconding, Cart-
wright. Tbe fourth time. It’s growing on
you, this habit of scuttling into the bush.
You are also charged with assaulting Over-
seer Clancy. And insolence. That’s three
charges. Did he take anything with him,
Smith ?”
“Took his rations, sir. Bread and meat.”
“Ah; stealing Government property. Four.
Ouite a little list, Cartwright, my man. It
all adds up, you know. Er—was he quite
sober when he assaulted the overseer,
Smith ?”
“No, sir,” the head-constable lied readily.
“Drunk, sir. Fighting drunk.”
“Oh, that’s five. Five separate charges,
my man. Drunkenness, assault, larceny, ab-
sconding and insolence. Well, well. Nothing
to say? Pleads guilty, evidently. Then it
only remains to apportion the punishment,
which, of course, must be deterrent. H’m.”
The Commandant paused to consider his
sentence. In the momentary silence the pris-
oner raised his manacled hands and wiped his
face with a rag he clenched in one of them.
One of the constables snatched the rag
from the prisoner and held it up to the Com-
mandant’s inquiring gaze. It was a little,
laced, woman’s handkerchief, very soiled.
The Commandant started when he saw what
it was. He dropped his pen with a sudden
oath.
“Damme!” he said. “Let me see it.”
It was handed to him. He spread it out
on the table. A black scowl came over his
face as he recognised a handkerchief of his
wife’s. There was a large embroidered “S”
in a corner.
“Where did you get this?”
No answer.
“By the Lord, I’ll make you speak, my
man. Further insolence, you dog.”
He took up his pen again and wrote for
half a minute or more. The man said no-
thing. Presently the Commandant addressed
the head-constable.
“Listen, Smith. For drunkenness he’ll have
twenty-five. For stealing, fifty. For assault,
one hundred. For absconding, one hundred.
For one charge of insolence, twenty-five,
ior the second one he’ll have another
twenty-five—and as many more as will make
him say where he got this property of my
wife s. In the morning. Lock him up.”
As the constables passed out on to the
verandah with their prisoner he called to
their chief.
‘ Smith a moment. Throw three or four
buckets of water over the floor of the lockup
before you put him in. Ha-ha. It may want
cleaning, you know. We’ll do him out of liis
night s rest, at any rate. And no rations,
(Continued on next page,)


Q
HAVE YOUR POT of ZAM-BUK HANDY
Many a mishap might mar your enjoyment without Zam-Buk, whereas
with this pure first-aid you can obtain speedy relief from smarting paiu
and ward off poisoning.
Sore faces, sore feet, sunburnt skins and rough hands are sure to be
prevalent, too, and anointing with Zam-Buk should be a nightly measure
with all who value comfort and a clear, healthy skin. Zam-Buk is wonder-
fully soothing for sore, aching or tender feet, and invaluable for mosquito
bites and insect stings.
Zam-Buk is a healing, soothing, antiseptic and germicidal skin-dress-
ing, neatly packed and ready for use, and as handy as it is reliable.
NAIL IN FOOT WHILST
PLAYING on the SANDS.
Mrs. H. Brown, of 70 Egan Street,
Richmond, Melbourne, says: “When we
were at the seaside my little boy, while
playing on the sands, stood on some broken
timber, and a rusty nail ran into his foot,
making a very nasty wound. Although I tried
various ointments, the wound festered and
became more painful.
“A friend gave me a supply of Zam-Buk, and
I at once applied it to the wounds, and soon the
wound was healed.”
THROWN FROM HIS BICYCLE.
Mrs, Taylor, 5 Yui'ong Street, Hyde Park,
Sydney, says: “While on holidays my husband
met with a bicycle accident. Tlis wheel caught
in a rut and he was thrown heavily. He was
bruised and his head badly cut. I dressed his
wounds with Zam-Buk. llis side was quite red
with the congealed blood, but Zam-Buk
speedily took the Soreness away. Zam-Buk
likewise healed the gash on his
forehead, which was about an
inch long.”
Zam-Buk relieves all
those nasty skintroubles
so prevalent in Summer,
as Pimples, Boils, Irrita-
tion, Rashes and other
eruptions ; and is excel-
lent for Cuts, Bruises,
Burns, Scads,
Ringworm,
Barber’s Rash
and injured con.
dltions of the
skir. Obtainable
from all chemists
and stores at 1/6
per pot, or 3/6
family size.
f
d
Bilk
am
The O.C.S. Automatic
OR FREE RUNNING MATERIALS.
Weighing Machine
NO POWER
Manufacturers and Im-
porters of—
Roller Flour Mill
Machinery
Oatmeal Mill Machinery
Brewers’ and Malsters’
Machinery
Superphosphate
Machinery
Elevators of various
designs
Apron Conveyors,
Gravity Conveyors
Adjustable Feeders
and Mixers
Flour and Bran Packers
Grinding Mills for all
Classes of Materials
Bottle-filling Machines
for Piccalilli, etc.
Size F 4.
F a r m e r s’
Cleaners
Grain
Link Belting
Sprocket Wheels
Elevator Buckets
Complete Grinding: and
Dressing Plants for
Sugar, Spices, Starch,
Paint, etc.
Package Elevators
Bag Holders
Disc Grinding Hills
Malt Roller Mills
MADE IN AUSTRALIA. SUPPORT OUR OWN INDUSTRIES.
Schumacher Mill Furnishing Works Pty. Ltd
PORT MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
[1
For Fine Shafting,
Machine Tools,
Mining Machinery,
Saw Milling, and
Factory Equip-
inent, etc., etc.
SiCF
A
Ball-Bearings
are the very last word in
m
k-
IS\
VI
i
1.1
.1
■«^sl
H ft
TA
B
Bearings.
Ball-Bearings
of all Sizes
for
Automobiles.
Steel Balls
of all
Sizes.
The . SKF Self-aligning: Ball-hearing Plummer Block saves 50 to 90 per cent, of
frictional resistance over the ordinary Journal bearing, and practically eliminates
lubricating and maintenance costs.
Thousands of factories throughout the Commonwealth are now wholly equipped with
this bearing, saving our producers many thousands in hard cash per annum.
HEAVY STOCKS NOW LANDING.
GARDNER, WAERN & CO.,
Chief Agents and Ball-Bearing Specialists,
MELBOURNE —- BRANCHES—
Office, 384 City Road, S. Melbourne. SYDNEY . . . 225 Clarence Street.
Showroom, 369 Flinders Street. BRISBANE . . . 367 Queen Street.
Smith; not even water. I'll cure this clog.
I 11 make him open his mouth.”
T t 7 G ,?- vernm ®nt headquarters in the district of
Wallis’ Plains were situated, in 1821, on the
rising ground where now stands the town of
Past Maitland, not far from the position of
the present court-house and gaol. An exten-
sive and beautiful view spreads out to the
north and to the west. A century ago the
place was almost the limit of established
authority, and the outlook over which Cap-
tain Plaskett paused for a moment to feast
his eyes, as he walked down to the lockup,
bore little evidence of tbe occupation of the
white man. The bark roof of an infrequent
farm-house on the river-flats, and the rising
smoke from clearing operations in the distant
timbered country toward the hills, was all
that was to be seen of it, besides an occa-
sional log-fenced square of cultivation greener
than the plains.
It was nearly eight o’clock, on a glorious
blue morning, and the world was full of sun-
shine. That was more than could be said of
the Commandant’s mental processes. Mrs.
I laskett was in the sullen stage. She had
locked her bedroom door last night. She had
made no appearance at breakfast. He had
had no opportunity of questioning her about
her handkerchief. So he was more than sav-
agely determined to extract some information
on the subject from the convict Cartwright.
It was characteristic of Anthony Plaskett
that lie could even suspect his beautiful wife
m. intrigue with a prisoner. Why not? lie
had himself carried on such with female pris-
oners, both before and after his marriage.
They already had the prisoner spread out
on the triangle when the Commandant
entered the lockup yard.
Why the Hell don't you get on with it?”
lie heard the man say as he came into the
place.
Dr. Bailey was walking up and down, with
ins hands behind his back, smoking a cigar.
De nodded “Good morning.”
Cartwright was a magnificent man. As
lie stood with legs spread out and arms ex-
tended—crucified upon the framework of
flagellation—his broad shoulders white
below the line of sunburn about his neck,
his swelling forearms brown like old leather,
the great muscles of his back tense and
strong beneath the skin that was scored with
previous castigations—the very grandeur of
lus manhood might have appealed against
this defilement of it. But there was no
jl o li a thing in the minds of any
°- those who witnessed his martyrdom that
morning. A flogging was a commonplace in
New South Wales in 1821. Its most hideous
outrages were only “necessary corporal pun-
ishment.” Its results were neither under-
stood nor considered.
Is lrn all right, Bailey?” inquired the
Commandant perfunctorily of the medical
officer.
w u f e , s : foil Id stand a thousand.
Wish I had his constitution.”
“Very well. You may begin, Cassidy.”
One of the. flagella tors, a burly, brutal-
'ookuisr fellow, stooped forward, the cat in
his right hand. lie placed himself to the
It/-*' illK * ;l behind, the prisoner.
With his heel he ground a hole in the earth
of the yard. This was to be the pivotal
point of his exertions.
~ ’A 1 minits, y’r Honor?” he inquired of
Captain Plaskett.
Yes. Spin it out. I want to make the
brute talk. See here, Cartwright, my man
"A 11 sa y where you got that handker-
chief?”
to grunted the prisoner.
All right, Cassidy,” said Plaskett. “He’ll
speak up before we finish with him.”
Cassidy raised his right arm, and drew
back his right foot, swinging on his left heel,
the tails of the cat hanging behind his
shoulder. Suddenly, with a hiss of his
breath, he spun round rapidly and forcibly
bringing the lashes with a swishing blow
across liis victim’s back.
“One,” counted the chief-constable.
Mr. Cassidy dropped his hand and rested
while thirty seconds went by. Then he
struck again. The pause was a devilish
device by which the agony of the scourging
was prolonged. Cartwright’s 300 would be
spread over two and a half hours.
It was a cruel business, a hideous night-
mare of a business, but to no one in the
yard—not even the victim of it—was it any-
thing but ordinary. Nearly every day they
saw it, or did it, or endured it. Three times
had it happened to Cartwright before. When
Cassidy ivas relieved by bis understudy the
man’s sback was like a piece of raw beef
Throughout the terrible ordeal Cartwright
made no murmur, though sometimes his head
sank down between his shoulders and his
weight hung on his lashed wrists through a
few strokes of the cat. After one of these
lapses ,he would pull himself together and
turn his head to look at the Commandant,
lie grinned horribly always by the twitching
contraction of his facial muscles.
T^ e 1 / 1 ? inutes lengthened into half-hours,
the half-hours went on into the hours. Dr.
Bailey offered the Commandant a cigar
which he took and lit. The flies were be-
coming a nuisance, and smoking kept them
otf.
“Drumstick” Smith counted out:
Ihree liun’red.”
They went to cast the fainting man loose
and two constables stood by to support him,’
one holding his tattered shirt ready to throw
over the blood-dripping torso, which already
the flies swarmed about, unhindered bv the
swishing of the cat.
“Hold on a minute.” said Captain Plas-
kett. “He hasn’t spoken yet. What about
that handkerchief, Cartwright? Will you
say how you came by it? I’ll flog you till
you do. Come, speak up. We can’t stav
here a}l day.” J
. No answer; nothing but a feeble, defiant
jerk of the chin indicated that the terribly-
sufFering man had heard.
“Go on, Cassidy,” commanded the Com-
mandant.
But the doctor interposed. With his
fingers on the man’s pulse, he shook his
head.
. “No, no, sir. He’s had enough this morn-
ing. Another time. He’s all but played-
out. Wonderful endurance,” he muttered
“Never saw anything like it. Not a whim-
per. Heart of 'a lion.”
“Nonsenser Doctor,” angrily snorted Plas-
kett. ‘A few more won’t hurt him. He’ll
tel] in a few minutes —after this spell. Go
on. flogger.”
But the doctor was peremptory.
“No, sir. He’s nearly clone. Recollect
young Kermody. I’ll not be answerable if
you__ give him another lash.”
Kermody was an ill-conditioned young
gentleman who had died on the triangles
six months before, and the mere mention of
him was unpleasant to the Commandant.
He had prided himself that he knew exactly
when to stop flogging, and Kermody’s inso-
lence had made a fool of him.
“Oh, very well, then,” he agreed with an
ill grace. “Cast him off, Smith. But you’ll
have it later, you swine,” he growled to the
almost unconscious man.
They untied his ankles and wrists and
supported him under the shoulders. He took
an uncertain step forward —and fell down
dead,
“Oh, damn,” said the Commandant when
the doctor gave his verdict. “I’ll never
know now, blast his soul.”
* * * *
Captain Anthony Plaskett went out of
that comfortable hostelry in George-street,
the Australian Inn, after dark had fallen
upon Sydney, and bent his steps towards
the southern end of Castlereagh-street, to-
wards a house of considerable ill-fame on
the outskirts of the town. He came to the
garden gate of Piccadilly Lizzie’s well-known
establishment just as the nine o’clock gun
boomed out, faintly and far away, from Fort
Macquarie.
Officially and domestically the affairs of
Captain Plaskett were in dismal jeopardy.
He had been summoned' to Sydney by the
new Governor, Sir Thomas Brisbane, to
make explanation of the unpleasant fact
that, for tlie second time, a prisoner had
died under punishment during his term of
office as Commandant at Wallis’ Plains.
The matter of Cartwright might easily
have been hushed up, as young Kermody’s
death under the lash had been, were it not
lor the very disagreeable reason that Mrs.
Plaskett had run away to Sydney and her-
self seen the Governor about it. This act
ot. unwifely treachery had been followed by
a most terrible, amazing and harrowing per-
formance on Mrs. Plaskett’s part. Incred-
ible as it may seem, she, a lady by birth,
education and the position of his wife, had
east herself utterly away. She had not run
oil with some lover, but had actually become
an inmate of the bagnio conducted by that
abandoned but business-like creature, Picca-
dilly Lizzie.
Piccadilly Lizzie’s neat cottage was situ-
ated just opposite to the gallows which for
some time occupied, about those years, a
position where the Barley Mow hotel stands
to-day a three-legged structure with a
triangular set of beams.
That somewhat faded siren, Lizzie Baker,
w;is not unknown to Captain Plaskett. She
called him “dearie,” after the time-honored
fashion ot her sort, invited him to take
refreshment at his own exorbitant expense,
a h. lrn whether she’d call the girls in.
No,” said Plaskett. “I only want one
ot them. Have you one who calls herself
Sophroma, by any chance?”
“Oh, Sophy—yes, dearie. A real swell—
like I useter be. Ye’ll like her well, I pro-
mise ye. .Test a minit; I’ll go fetch her.”
Captain Plaskett shuddered.
When the door opened and she came in
clad in a loose and gaudily-flowered satin
wrapper, with her magnificent hair half un-
bound and loose over her shoulder, he rose
to his feet and took an angry step forward
as though he meant to strike her. Instantly
she produced a horse-pistol from behind her
back and covered him with it.
“Sit'down, Anthony. Sit over there,” she
commanded. 1 lie cold hatred in her magni-
ficent eyes frightened him.
“I’ll kill you if you move,” she said
quietly.
Captain Plaskett gripped the arms of the
chair, his face white and scared. “In God’s
name, what duos this moan? You ” he
gasped.
"Mean? What does it mean, ’Tony. Why
it means I’m what you just said. That’s
what it means. A pretty scandal, isn’t it?”
... Hard and terrible was the way she said
this, there was tragedy and hatred in her
every aspect. She leaned forward across
the table and pointed at him, laughing in a
half-mad way that was yet horridly sane and
earnest.
,“H?-. ha ; ha! The bold autocrat of Wal-
! 1S -The brave fellow who flogs men
to death I lour reputation up there will be
a fine one, won’t it? Listen, you brute.
I ve hated you ever since mamma made me
marry you. I’ve hated yon m o>-e ppd more
since I’ve been with you in New South Wales^
U ve longed for some way to hurt you, and
by God, Ive found it. But I’d not have
done this but for one thing. You killed my
bi other Charley. Oh, yes, the man you
logged to death —Cartwright—was my
brother Charley, who ran away to sea when
he was a boy. I found it out by chance,
and 1 tried to help him escape. There you
have it, you murderer. And you’re
going to do another murder.”
She rose to her feet, the pistol in her right
hand, and came slowly round the table. The
glitter of her eyes fascinated the cowering
man in the chair, paralysed him.
A moment she stood before him. Then
the wretched man screamed with pain as
she struck him across the face with the
heavy hexagonal barrel of the pistol. She
struck him again. He could not see. but the
sudden pain restored his energies. He sprang
to his feet as she fired the weapon into her
own breast.
. Half a minute afterwards Piccadilly Lizzie,
in the open doorway with one of the girls of
the house, saw Captain Plaskett standing
above the huddled body of the woman Sophy,
a pistol in his hand. It was his own
weapon with his initials inlaid on the butt.
Chat was they story at the trial.
The Court held that there was no possible
doubt about it. But there had been provo-
cation. A man might naturally kill his wife
rather than leave her to such a life as Mrs.
I laskett had adopted. So. for the next five
years, until they buried him in the little
cemetery at Norfolk Island, behind Emilv
Bay, Anthony Plaskett studied the “System”
he had administered at Wallis’ Plains, and
found it truly amazing.
J. H. M. ABBOTT.


• KW'iX
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN D RIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
cienc)'.
Chains in stflck—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINGHOUSE BRAKE CO. OF AUSTRALASIA LTD.,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CONCORD WEST, N. S. WALES.
3 anidn
nOA BMW
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses Jo you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAI'
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent •
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is.
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling'steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The price is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST .DAY’S USE.
It is suitable -far- and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHJEtIEOSTED FREE.
the Winslow'^.,
tllO Vir.
Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little but they’re good: they’re gentle
and they're kind: they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they're
signed:—
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
fd
Carte®
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera*
tions.
Smell Pin,
Small Dose,
Small Price,
f
i
mrrm
i
T
&
4
as
icl
:
t?
life
IRB
long-lasting
sweetmeat
now has 6
bars in each
1 packet for
3d.
It aids appetite and
helps digestion, keeps
teeth clean, quenches
thirst.
A delicious refreshment
and the most economical
sweetmeat you can buy.
Get It at Chemists, Confectioners,
Tobacco Shops and Stores. Be
sure to ask for WRIGLEV’S and
get the 6 bars.
J. C. Gambles & Coy.
Sole Australasian Agents
Rosebery, Svdney.
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
Sealed Tight
Kept Right
The
Flavour
| Lasts
4SM?a£
all*
4
fm
lIIHUM
*i
im
’i
ZV////SMU 1 1
&
m
m
w
as
us*.
m\
m
fife
i a?.^2®ijto£
2&fofrSßftS
j*K
1
a
mm
rmm \
!
K
in
K
SI
i
1
»>»
min
1
»
at:
1
K
L. w
sw
vm/h
m
»
At?
0
9
msmm
I
HjlL % v
Bli
P)>»*»l
HR
WM
y^/Av.^ii
iHHiI/ntiK\\VC
m
1
f
4
I
sa
m
4>j
s.
0
§
m
I
&
'■*er.
~z
Ml
IS
i
1
y/h
m
■
November-
-
December
fdf
Two fine concert records head the new list—a French
number, delightfully rendered, and the popular “Road
to Mandalay,” sung by Henry Scott—an interpretation
that will win many admirers.
The bill of fare provided by the regular list is varied
and excellent. “Poor Butterfly,” from the “Big Show,”
and sung by the incomparable Elizabeth Spencer, will
be bound to have an enormous following. Others which
will be specially in demand are “As We Part” (Gladys
Rice), “Whose Little Heart are You Breaking Now?”
(Grace Woods and Arthur Fields), and the special
Christmas items. “Star of Bethlehem” (Vernon Dal-
hart), “Christmas Memories” (Robert Gayler), and
“Gethsemane” (Robert E. Clark).
Make up your order early from this list: —
Am!
2.8274 —Pardonne, et ne sois pas faches—Le
Coeur et la Main, Soprano and
Baritone, orch ace.
Odette Le Fontenay and Orphee Langevin
28275—0 n the Road to Mandalay (Oley
Speaks ), Bass, orch. aec. Henry Scott
Blue Amberol
ular Record
3039 —Poor Butterfly—New York Hippodrome
—“The Big Show,” orch. ace.
Elizabeth Spencei
3265 —Down in Lily Land, Contralto anc
Tenor, orch ace.
Marion Evelyn Cox and John Young
•*27l—lnvincible Eagle March (Sousa)
New York Military Banc
32 I—Myona-—Hawaiian Waltz
Waikiki Hawaiian Orchestra
328t—-Hungarian Lustspiel Overture, Xylo-
phone, orch. acc.
George Hamilton Green
3283 —Gethsemane, Baritone, orch. acc.
Robert E. Clark
3308 —As We Part, Soprano, orch. acc.
Gladys Rice
3319- —I May Be Gone for a Long, Long Time,
Male voices, orch. acc. Shannon Quartet
3329 —Bill's Dog Towser, Coon Vaudeville
Sketch with Banjo
Billy Golden and Billy Heins
3330—Christmas Memories (Fantasie on well-
known Christmas Hymns) Celesta
Robert Gayler
3333 — Star of Bethlehem (Stephen Adams),
Tenor, orth. acc. A r ernon Dalhart
3334 — If I Had all the World and Its Gold,
Tenor, orch. acc. Manuel Romain
3335 — Mammy Blossum’s ’Possum Party,
Baritone and Tenor, orch. acc.
Arthur Collins and Byron G. Harlan
3341 —Kiss Waltz —Her Soldier Boy—for
Dancing 1 Jaudas’ Society Orchestra
3343 Wee Deoch and Doris. Scotch S-eig,
orch. acc. Glen Ellison
3344 — March of the Toys—Babes in Toyland,
American Symphony Orchestra
3350 —Whose Little Heart are You Breaking
Now (Irving Berlin), Contralto and
Baritone, orch acc.
Grace Woods and Arthur Fields
3353 —Call Again Mr. Calligan, Tenor, orch.
acc. George McFadden
•.Coup A' g ‘?oo.T}g pio>r
sis-m- • (.iiuo op?saioq,\v;) axa Nosiaa y svroh;l


af
IMamgrovitel
LEATHER
m
POWER TRANSMISSION
depends i<.>• its efficiency on the belting
which is used.
F«T AEMGROVITE LEATHER AND
RAWHIDE BELTING
(rives maximum power under the most severe
conditions. Hundreds of plant owners have
proved it. Have you? Investigate. Write
fvr information.
Belting' Ltd.
(Successors to Charles Ludowici),
49 Wynyard Square (near G. P. o.),Sydney,N.S. W.
Western Australia: Gi-Jha, 3rigrht& Co., Perth
S’th Australia: John Reid & Sons Ltd., Adelaide
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
379 Kent Street,
Sydney.
Paul & Gray Ltd., Newcastle.
Jonn .Keici t* nepire»B> miauan^..
KNIVES FOR
WOODWORKING MACHINES
HIGH-QUALITY STEEL-CUTTING EDGES, with Iron Hacks, made to your order
from our own material.
When ordering state size on ent, depth, thickness, length and width of slots;
whether for Fixed Heads or Movable Bolts. If Fixed Heads Template absolutely
necessary. ' •
Merit
Will Win
and Dick’s Balata
Belting has won On
its merits. The belt is
tremendously strong—
yet flexible; fit for the
heaviest duty in power
transmission. It slips
lesa than any other
belting.
Dick’s Balata Belting
Before ordering your belting see our
booklet. Get it NOW.
Sole importers
JAMES HARDIE &. CO.
“Asbestos House,”
Cor. Wynyard & York Sts., SYDNEY.
phone 8456 (4 lines).
581>3 Little Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
Also at Adelaide and Brisbane.
Newcastle Agents—Paul & Cray Ltd.
REFRIGERATING AND
ICE-MAKING MACHINERY.
While the Greatest Selling factor inr our machines is probably
their ECONOMY IN RUNNING —which is pertinent to the times
-their DEPENDABILITY counts a great deal for their
popularity. Even under the most severe conditions they'can be
relied upon to give “CONSISTENT SERVICE.” Their strong
construction, and the great care taken in their manufacture is
the reason for this. Machines installed 25 years ago are still
at work to-day, giving the same service as when first installed.
AVe study vour requirements and design the layout of your
plant, not only to accomplish a-given result, but to „do so with
an initial expenditure and maintenance cost. Our extensive
experience, we place at your service.
All
Refrigerating
Requisites
Stocked.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR LTD., Alliance Building, 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
*
L.A. Rowboat Motors
MAGNETO TYPE.
Horse-power 2; Bore of Cylinder 2 5-8
inches; Stroke of Piston 2% inches;
Weight 621 b.
A light, durable motor, made expressly for attach-
ing to fishing-boats, pleasure-boats, oanoes, etc.
Develops a speed from 6 to 8 miles per hour. \
Special price, packed and delivered Free
on Boat, or Rails, £25.
Cofrespondehce invited.
D. § W. Chandler Pty. Ltd.,
Ironmongers and
Hardware Merchants,
Brunswick Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
PBMPS-Good Pumps Only
CHS
We manufacture wliat is probably the most extensive and
varied line of Pumps listed by any Australian Manufacturer, and
can at the present time deliver all Standard Heavy Lines listed.
We illustrate Heavy Side Bolt or Well Pumps. These are made
with valves as shown, ball valves or special valves to any specifi-
cation; they are supplied in all sizes, and are regularly listed
from to Bin. in diameter, by any stroke required. Other Pumps
manufactured include: —
BORE PUMPS, all sizes and strokes, any specification,
DOWNING’S Patent FOOLPROOF Artesian Deep Well
Cylinders.
BALL Valve ARTESIAN DEEP WELL Cylinders.
PUMP CATALOGUE ON REQUEST.
CONTRA CT WORK—Send Specifications
ALDERDICE LTD., Warrnambool
-
0
Y.
®fc»sTt«i2
&ON
$
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing with aid
ot
Patent Lava Flux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; lib., Soz., 7/6.
lib. Flux will braze broken pasting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian |9Kitk. Departments aiid all over
Commonwealth'. Asjryom 1 hardware flr"" or apply to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN OASTS. NO EXf&RT mf ft REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRACING «£oS (Reg.)
45 Spenser Streets sti '’fCilcia, Vidtoria.
DELGO-LIGHT
A complete Electric Light Power
Plant, suitable for Suburban and
Country Houses, Stations, Stores
Hospitals, Schools of Arts, etc.
1 ' -
Rum on
Kerosene
Safe.
Rdk
One Gallon of Kerosene
will light 32 Lamps for 4]/ 2 hoars.
FULL PARTICULARS FROM SOLE AGENTS—
N.S.W. & Victoria: WARBURTON, FRANKI LTD.,
309 Kent Street, Sydney; 380 Bourke Street,
& CO. LTD., Brisbane.
Melbourne
FAIRBANKS
MORSE
rvi
i-Diesei Marine Engines
DIRECT REVERSING ELECTRIC STARTING DEVICE
IMPROVED CYLINDER HEAD CONSTRUCTION.
The photo, inset is the
well-known “Albatross,”
now converted to a motor
schooner and fitted with
twin 60-h.p. Fairbanks
Morse Type “Co” Semi-
Diesel Engines.
The owners express the
highest satisfaction with
the work of these Engines
and say that, despite ab-
normally rough weather
on a recent trip, she aver-
aged 6 knots on 5 sals. oil.
Length of this iron ves-
sel 131 feet, width 21
feet, depth 10ft. 7in.,
mean draft fully loaded
10 feet.
Particulars and Prices from
Used in Large Numbers by U.S.A. Navy Dept.
DANGAR, GEDYE & GO. LTD.
9-13 YOUNG STREET,
Circular Quay. SYDNEY.
—
MINING & CONCENTRATION PLANTS FOR ALL ORES
We are Sole Australasian Agents for
“Dorr” Machinery^
DORR MECHANICAL CLASSIFIERS, Essential with all
Ball and Tube Mill Installations for Close Sizing.
DORR THICKENERS for continuous thickening
before Flotation.
DORR AGITATORS for perfect contact of solvents.
THE DORR SYSTEM OF CONTINUOUS DECANTATION
HAS REVOLUTIONISED CYANIDING, CHEMICAL
MANUFACTURE and LEACHING.
Send lor Booklets, Data, Prices, etc.
We act as consultants on DORR PRACIICE.
'» - U ;
THICK $
DORR TH.C KENER.
IN STOCK—
“HYDROMAX” TELESCOPE STOPERS and HAND
HAMMER DRILLS- British Built and Best in
the World.
RECIPROCATING DRILLS FOR DRIVING.
MAY BROS.’ FAMOUS ROLLS, JIGS & CRUSHERS.
RICHARDS’ “PULSATOR” JIGS & CLASSIFIERS.
CARD PATENT BALL-BEARING TABLES-The
Supreme Table on Tin and Wolfram.
“CURVILINEAR” TABLES—The Newest, Simplest
and Fool-proof Table.
Hydraulic Classifiers, Screens, Trommels, Lubri-
cants, Explosives, Oil and Water Filters, Valves,
Tuyers and all Mining Requisites.
We design Mining and Concentrating Plants, Flow Sheets, Estimates and Data free on request.
Let us advise you from our extensive experience.
GUTHRIDGE LTD., Milling and Klecftrical Engineers, 350 George Street, SYDNEY.
N.
