

THE SPIRIT SUPERB.
R. «. WATKINS & CO.,
Machinery Merchants, 107 JSL&XXti Sydney,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites.
Specialty : AUCTIONEERS FOR MACHINERY, etc. Sales conducted in all parts of New South Wales. New and Second-hand Plants always available.
We Advance
#*>on all classes of
# yUI/ty security
Trade Bills Discounted
TELEPHONE: CITY 9325
N.S.W. MONT DE PIETE D. & L Co. Ltd.
Head Office: 74 CASTLEREAGH ST., SYDNEY, 74
NEXT TO “ DAILY TELEGRAPH " NEW BUILDING
And at
186 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
159 GEORGE STREET WEST, SYDNEY
29 KING STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
215-217 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
40 ADELAIDE STREET, BRISBANE
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager
m
-35”-
HEALTHY HOME*
Oxidising' Sewag'e Disposal.
Over 400 Successful Installations in New
South Wales. Leading Doctors, Hospitals and
Convents - have this Process Installed. Other
Systems easily converted to Oxidising Process.
Prices based in ratio to number of persons,
as few examples quoted: Six Persons, £4O; 50
Persons, £100; 500 Persons, £275; 1000 Per-
sons, £540. We take over and maintain our
installations from One Guinea per annum.
Tlfye Montgomerie-Neiison Process,
50 Young Street (late Offices of the Education
Department), Sydney. Tei., City 8376.
X
m.
<v.
m
<C
%
3
l
Il\
Nothing
to Argue
About:"
liii,
%.
X* ,oA
G BX C ° (
W. "'Are.the Best”
#
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets
is recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the
digestive organs.
HANSEN’S
ZVCxcvv
cxv
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially prepared Tablets acts
most beneficially when taken daily after
meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HOBART.
Hadley’s
Orient Hotel.
•‘Not the same as others.
There is no way a roofing
could be better than
MALTHOID.
It has successfully withstood every test to which a roofing could he put—consequently Its use has the positive
endorsement of prominent architects and builders.
Use it in place of tiles or galvanised-iron—which costs more than twice as much —and remember it is different from
and superior to all other prepared roofings.
Samples and illustrated booklet mailed post free.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (D. S. Evans, Australasian Manager), Chailis House, Sydney.
MALTHOID
Dampcourse
is absolutely reliable.
Permanently resists moisture and will not bleed
from heat or compression.
3NIU33NIQN3 30A10
GRANVILLE,
N.S.W.
LOCOMOTIVE, GENERAL & AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERS.
RAILWAY ROLLING STOCK OF ALL DESCRIPTIONS.
ROAD METAL &t FARM WAGGONS- IRON & MALLEABLE CASTINGS. SHREDDERJPISCS.
Arthur
<5 (p
machinery:
Head Office,
SYDNEY.
EARTH-HANDLING MACHINERY. —Road Graders, Ploughs and Scoops.
CONCRETE-MIXING MACHINERY.—The famous “AUSTIN” Cube Concrete-
Mixers, in different sizes and capacities.
“ROBEY” Portable Steam Engines, 8, 14 & 16 n.h.p.
“NATIONAL” Gas, Oil and Petrol Engines.
“LEPLASTRIER” “QUICKSET” Pipe Moulds & Collapsible Moulds for Concrete
Culverts. ELEVATING AND CONVEYING MACHINERY.
BRISBANE ENQUIRIES to the AUSTRALIAN MACHINERY CO. LTD., Charlotte Street.
GILBERT LODGE & CO.
109 Pitt Street, Sydney. 115-117 William Street, Melbourne.
Sir W. G. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH & CO. LTD-
KENDALL & GENT LTD.
WM. COOKE & CO. LTD.
BROWN BAYLEY’S STEEL WORKS LTD.
GLOBE PNEUfIATIC ENGINEERING CO. LTD.
WEBSTER & BENNETT.
aiaivdo
TOOTH
Gives a Sense of Clean
Freshness to th^Mouth^
A Concentrated Perfume
but with the Delicacy of
the Fresh Flowers.
FREZONE
LAVENDER
WATER,
The Bulletin
Vok 39.—N0. 1978.]
[Thursday, January 10, 1918.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W, Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Uu»
Australian
Glory I
Egyptian Cigarettes.
Ble id Produced by the elebrated
Nestor Gian clis Fact * y, Cairo.
Special
Price,
- per 100.
Postage Paid.
Or a sample Box of 20 Cigarettes,
1/10. Post Paid.
On receipt of your address we will be pleased to forward you your copy of our
Illustrated Booklet and Price List. Post Free.
A. REBBLEWHITE, (iW and C’garcttc Importer,
Hunter Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
NOT A GERMAN POWDER.
xv
NON POISOMXB ftWDCR.
THE GRHT INSECT DESTKffI'ER
(Hies.
Fleas.
Bugs,
ftoqoitaes
n« 9?
v.
“MUSTDIE”
POWDER must not be mistaken for insecticide
or common insect powders, some of which ai e sold
under fancy names, for “MUSTDIE” contains
an ingredient particularly fatal to that common
house pest aptly termed “The Typhoid Fly.
FREE SAMPLE.
Write to “Mustdie*” Dept. IL, Box 1520
G.P.0., Sydney, for a trial tin, forwarded post free;
or send 9d. in stamps for a full-size tin.
“MUSTDIE” is sold everywhere by Chemists, Grocers, Storekeepers.
9cl. per tin.
The Red Page
Exit Santa Claus
“Country Ped” happily suggests an Aus-
tralian Santa Claus; and, more happily still,
christens him “Uncle Billjim.” This page
eagerly accepts the suggestion.
“Santa Claus” is an American corruption
of the Dutch form of St. Nicholas. St.
Nicholas was a bishop who bished in Asia
Minor about a.d. 300. He became the patron
saint of the place that once was Russia;
and his private life must have been rather
mixed, since he became the patron saint
also of seafaring men, thieves, wirgins and
children. How St. Nicholas travelled from
a hot place like Asia Minor to the Arctic
regions is not explained: but his history is
dubious enough to warrant patriotic Aus-
tralians in interning him at once. There
is, especially, his. connection with Germany;
and somehow he has the look of a ITun. No
doubt when his history is investigated it will
be found that the modern Santa Claus was
merely a cleverly-disguised German commer-
cial traveller for the sale of made-i«-Ger-
Imany toys in every country of the world.
But Australia, at last, has found him out.
He with his absurd idea of a plum-pudding
diet on the hottest day of the Australian
year, and his preposterous* costume of furs!
It is time we interned him—and the easiest
way to do it is by a fairy tale for Australian
kiddies.
THE LEGEND OF UNCLE BILLJIM.
Once upon a time there was a good, kind
fairy named Uncle Billjim ; and 'lie was very
sad because he had no nephews and no
nieces. He was the only orphan uncle in
the world, and no child had ever called him
Uncle. He was saddest at Christmas time,
because all the other uncles used to give toys
and lollies to all their nephews and nieces
and take them to the pantomime and the
pictures, and" give them lovely rides on their
backs. But poor Uncle Billjim had no little
girls or boys to give presents to. lie used
to cry all Christmas Day, and got his feet
so wet with his tears that he had to change
his socks. -
Uncle Billjim lived in a place called the
MacdonneJl Ranges, ’zactlyin the middle of
Australia. He lived in a humpy beside a water-
hole all by himself. He went there because
he was so sad. All this was such a long,
long time ago that there were no kiddies in
ali Australia—except black piccaninnies;
and even they didn’t know that he was there.
And if they had seen Uncle Billjim they
would have run away quicker than a boom-
erang, because the black piccaninnies knew
that the Bunyip lived in the Macdonnell
Ranges. The Bunyip lives in ’zactly the
centre of Australia, so that if he has to
catch a naughty boy or a sulky girl, all he
has to do is to take'one jump and then he
grabs that child wherever it is, and one
jump back with it to the Macdonnell Ranges.
What the Bunyip does to the naughty child
I don’t know, but when he brings them back
to their homes—and he only takes one jump
each way—they stay good for always and
always. ■ „ .
Once upon a time the Bunyip used to
gobble the naughty children all up; but
when Uncle Billjim came to live by the
waterhole where the Bunyip wallowed and
sploshed, Uncle Billjim was kind to the
Bunyip and fed him on chocolates and ice-
creams and the icing on the dish that was
left over when Uncle Billjim made his cakes.
And the Bunyip liked the taste of
all these things so much that ever after at
breakfast he simply wouldn’t finish up his
plateful of naughty children : he said it gave
him a pain in his tummy. And that’s how
Uncle Billjim cured the Bunyip of gobbling
up naughty children. Now the Bunyip just
talks to the naughty children in a stern
voice, and if they promise to be good as gold
he jumps back with them and. pops them
into their beds, and they wake up as good as
if it was their birthday.
Uncle Billjim was kind to animals —except
snakes. He was a very, very long map, with
a kind face and. a big black bushy beard.
And he smoked an old black pipe. He had
an old buggy and a big waggon. But he
hadn’t any horses, so he asked ten kan-
garoos to pull his buggy when he went for a
drive, and when they got tired ten emus
would pretend to be his horses. He liked
the emus best because he could never teach
the kangaroos to jump all at the same time,
and it was dreadfully bumpy and wobbly
in the buggy. But when Uncle Billjim
wasn’t in a hurry he used to harness up his
bullock-team to the waggon.
He had two pets, Billy Bluegum, a dear
little grey bear that lived in a gum-tree, and
Captain Kook, his tame kookaburra, who was
ahvays laughing. And Uncle Billjim was
very, very clever at making toys. His
humpy-was filled to the top with toys, and
Billy Bluegum and Captain Kook used to take
turns, to ride on the big rocking-horse that
had to be put on the top of the chimney
because there was no room for it inside. And
Billy Bluegum used to scoot down the roof
on the newest scooter, /ind Captain Kook
used to wind up all the toy trains with his
beak, and the Bunyip used to put all the
kewpies to by-bye in their new Cots, and
dress all the new dolls.
And on Christmas Eve Uncle Billjim used,
to watch them, and then lie would cry and
cry. yes. and howl, because he didn’t know
I any little buys or girls that he could give liis
nice new toys to for Christmas. And. though
Captain Kook tried hard to cheer ' Uncle
Billjim up by laughing his hardest and tell-
ing him to kook-kook-kook-kook-kook his
dinner, Uncle Billjim simply cried so much,
and the tears fell down so quickly that the
Bunyip had to put tip liis ’brella, and all the
Gum-Nyts ran away home to their mummies.
And then one day a Black Swan ca,me
sailing down to Uncle Billjim just as'he was
boiling liis quart-pot for his.tea. Uncle Bill-
jim said, “Hullo, Blaekie!” and the Black
Swan said, “llullo, Uncle BilljiryV’ “Unate
Billjim said: “Where did you ctWne ffom?’
And the Black Swan said that, he had
flown front away over the plains, right from
the edge of the big sea. And then Uncle
Billjim noticed that the Black Swan had a
paper parcel in his pocket under his left
wing, and the Black Swan said: “Uncle Bill-
jim, I’ve brought a baby for you !”'
And he gave it to Icicle Billjim p and
when he untied the string, what do you think
he found inside? It was a dear little doll!
“It isn’t a baby,” Uncle Billjim said, “it’s
a doll.” But of course a Black Swan couldn’t
he expected to know the difference between
a doll and a baby-—that is, if there is any
difference, really! And Uncle Billjim
asked the Black Swan where he had found the
dear little doll. - ' And the Black Swan told
him that he had picked it up far away in a
great big town.
Uncle Billjim got so excited that he
knocked over the quart-pot and spilled it all
over Billy Bluegum. It was really Billy
Bluegum’s fault, because Uncle Billjim had
tolded and toUed Billy Bluegum never—not
ever —to go near the fire. And Uncle Bill-
jim said Billy Bluegum would remember to
do as he was told next time.
Then Uncle Billjim said: “I never knew
there were any other dolls in Australia.
And where there are dolls there must be
children to play with them.” And the Black
I Swan said he had seen lots and lots.
Uncle Billjini was very glad to hear that.
“If there’s lots of children over there,” lie
said, “tligre must be some who haven’t got
any uncles, and I could send them some of
my toys.’”
Now the Black Swan didn’t know that
Uncle Billjim . made toys. But he looked
inside the humpy, and what do you think lie
saw? Rows and rows of dolls, and trains
that wound up. and hobby-horses that you
could ride, and balloons, and crackers, and
Christinas stockings with the lollies right
down at the bottom, and boxes and boxes or
chocolates!
And tlie Black Swan laughed. Why,
Uncle Billjim.” he said, flapping his wings
so much that liis pipe fell out of the other
pocket, “I’ve never seen sueli lovely toys any-
where ; “and I’m sure that no daddies or
uncles could give children such beautiful
toys as these! Why don’t you load up your
buggy or your bullock-waggon with these and
drive away to the kiddies-over there?”
And Uncle Billjim said, “My oath !”
And he sent Captain Kook to round up
the kangaroos and the emus and the bullocks,
and he harnessed them up and filled the
buggy and the waggon full up with all the
toys‘lie had made. Uncle Billjim drove the
buggy, and Billy Bluegum was the bullocky
with a whip made out of a snake; and when-
ever the bullocks got tired Captain Kook
flew up and said things to them.
But before saying “Gee up !” Uncle Bill-
jim filled his pipe and asked the Bunyip,
who was sulking because there wasn’t room
for him in the buggy, for the names of all
the boys and girls who had been naughty
that year—and there were no presents for
them !
Then Uncle Billjim started off in the
buggy, and Billy Bluegum followed with the
bullock-waggon.' And they arrived on the
roofs of all the children's houses on Christmas
Eve.
And the Black Swan had flown off and
told all the other Black Swans to fly to the
chimneys and listen that night to the chil-
dren’s messages up the chimneys. Of course
the kijldies couldn’t see the Black Swans in
the black night because the Swans were
Blacker than the night. And when Uncle
Billjim- arrived on the roofs, the Black Swans
I told him just what the children wanted : and
he slid down the chimneys with his toys
and popped them into the stockings and the
pillowslips. Uncle Billjim was so thin that
he got down the thinnest chimney quite easy,
though his black beard got blacker and
blacker, until he was able to use it to polish
his boots wiffe.
But whenever Uncle Billjim came to a
house where he smelt turkey or plum-pud-
ding lie never left a single toy there. Because
if Australian kiddies are silly enough to eat
turkey and plum-pudding for the Christmas
dinm” in the middle of summer. Uncle Bill-
jim simply won’t be their Uncle Billjim—so
there!
And next year there were so .many chil-
dren wanting Christmas presents that Uncle
Billjim, though he worked harder and
harder, could not make enough toys. So
what ,do you think he did?
There was a big war going on then, and
lots of children saw their daddies-and their-
lincles going away in a big ship to fight for
Australia. And "some of them never came
buck any mure. Ana lueir mummies cried
and cried ; and the kiddies cried, too. And
their mummies told them that their daddies
and their uncles had been killed by the
naughty German.
But those dear brave daddies and dear
brave uncles did come back to Australia.
They were turned into fairies, and they all
went to call on Uncle Billjim, to thank‘him
for giving so many presents to their kiddies
while they: were away lighting for Australia.
And they asked Uncle Billjim if they
couldn’t stay with him at his humpy, ’zackly
in the. middle of Australia, and make toys,
heaps and heaps of toys for their kiddies.
And Uncle Billjim and Billy Bluegum and
Captain Kook and the Gum-Nuts, and even
the Bunyip. all said “My. oath !” and built
one hundred and seventy-three new humpies
for them.
And there the daddied and the uncles who
never came back all are to-day, busy making
toys «lbr their kiddies and all the other
kiddies, in Australia.
And Uncle Billjim isn’t lonely or sad any
more, because now he’s got a million nephews
and nieces all over Australia. And the chil-
dren are getting so good that the Bunyip
has quite forgotten how a kiddie tastes, and
he spends all his time giving the Gum-Nuts
bonzer rides on his back; and he’s so big
that he has room on his back for one
sixty-two thousand, five hundred and®
twelvety-twelve Gum-Nuts, not counting the
Gum-Nuts that ride in his seventeen ears.
Sex
I Of tlie many books, upon Sex the best for
the general reader is An Introduction to the
Physiology and Psychology of Sew, by S.
Herbert (Black, per Dymo/.'s Library). It
is a simple and frank scientific treatment of
a subject that still in many, quarters is
regarded as “unclean/’ It fills the gap be-
tween the technical treatises and the "popu-
lar” books which are useful, and indeed,
valuable, but necessarily speak in general,
and therefore vague, terms.
‘‘The phenomena of sex have at all times
been so shrouded in a veil of mystery that
an open and free approach to the sex pro-
blem has been well-nigh impossible. Though
the- primative taboos connected with sex-
phenomena are ho longer felt in the old
religious sense—as something uncanny or
holy—the teaching of the last 1900 years,
with its emphasis on the spiritual side of man
to the utter neglect of his body, has tended
to keep up this half-evasive, half-ascetic at-
titude towards sex....lt will not do any
longer 'to treat all matters of sex as un-
clean. The conspiracy of silence so long
maintained has proved an utter failure. In-
nocence of mind, based upon ignorance, has
not brought about, as was hoped, purity of
soul; on the contrary, leaving youth un-
guided, it has led it astray. Things thus
become defiled which should have been nat-
ural. pure-ami beautiful.”.
The author treats lucidlv and with detail
of the Biology. Physiology and Psychology of
Sex, the Physiology of reproduction, and
cognate subjects. The language is neces-
sarilv scientific.; but the terms are clearly
explained with the assistance of numerous
diagrams.
With th«' scientific dictum that the female
remains throughout life nearer the infantile
type than does the male, we are familiar;
but the author does not deduce from that
fact evidence of the inferiority of the
female. Though “the child possesses a rela-
tively larger head and abdomen, but a rela-
tivel'v smaller chest, limbs and face than
adult man, and in all these points woman
is nearer to the child, as also in the more
infantile formation of the skull, this rela-
tively early arrest in growth cannot be in-
terpreted as an inferiority in woman.”
While the woman remains nearer the in-
fantile type, “man, during his development,
approaches more the simian (ape-like) and
senile type Just as the young ape is in
comparison more human than the adult ape.
so the human‘child is really in advance of
the human adult type, which retrogresses
somewhat with age to the simian and senile
form. In this respect woman leads in the
evolution of the race, and man follows.”
This pronouncement should cheer Her.
Woman's vital capacity is less than man’s;
but she bears illness and injuries better, and
has a longer life. Man’s response to sense-
impressions is more rapid and precise than
woman’s. Man’s working power is quicker
and more effective ; he is capable of power-
ful spurts; but woman's output of energy
is more continuous, and she tires less
quickly than man.
The author agrees with Weininger’s well-
known conclusions. Herbert asserts that
“the latest discoveries in the causation of
sex do give a .good deal of countenance to
the sex theory propounded by AVeininger.”
There i& no such thing as absolute femini-
nity or absolute masculinity. The sex char-
acters-.of an individual are always mixed in
varying degrees. “There exist innumerable
gradations of sex, and -we must recognise
intermediate mental types.”
The problem of abstinence is acutely dis-
cussed. Herbert says that the upholders
of the ascetic ideal are faced with a funda-
mental fact of sex life which no cavilling
wili -uvmi 'against. “indeed, the problem
of abstinence, from this point of view, be-
comes insoluble. -Instead of asking whether
abstinence is possible, it would be much more
pertinent to ask whether, if possible, it
be good. Traditional opinion looks
too much upon the sex impulse its a sepa-
rate phenomenon of human' life which may
be disregarded at will until such time as it
can find proper expression in a legalised
form. According to the' prevailing notion,
the current of sex life may be dammed up
without detriment, personal or social....
But holding up too long love’s vitalising
power may lay bare the whole personality.
We cannot shut out the most potent energis-
ing factor of life without at the .same time
stunting the emotional and spiritual capa-
city of man.... The persistent disregard of
the sex impulse* may cause a veritable
‘atrophy’ of personality. . . .Abstinence, then,
which does not allow for the natural growth
of the erotic emotions, far from being a true
ideal, must be condemned at best as an
‘empty virtue.’ Indeed, the idea of sexual
abstinence is an ill-conceived notion which
cannot be sustained either on physiological
or on spiritual grounds. .. .Continence, in-
stead, of aiming to miss love, should rather
be a disciplined cultivation of love. It is
self-control which forms the central idea of
chastity.”
Yet the author points out tin* difficulty
caused by the necessity that sexual conduct
must be in harmony with the social code of
morality. So he suggests that- total absti-
nence should be an unquestionable rule in
the early years of adolescence. Every
earnest youth can, if he would, preserve his
bodily purity at least up to the age of 21.
The problem of life-long abstinence the
author leaves to the social reformer. And
though the author recognises that sex con-
duct in marriage needs discussion, lie realises
that it would be futile to formulate any
rules.
Appended is a useful bibliography of
works upon sex.
Re-naming Our Birds
Several birdologists (blessed word!) have
responded to the suggestion in a recent Red
Rage that it 'is high time many Australian
birds were re-christened. As “E.S.Si” said
in the Abo. page, there are three classes of
names that need sub-editing: indelicate
titles, complicated titles, and titles that do
not aid identification. The Red Rage’s con-
cern' in this Abo. matter is for the poets and
the kiddies. A bard cannot write enthusias-
tically about the black-vented ground-bird, or
the White-shouldered caterpillar-eater, or the
pied bell-magpie; nor can the school child
take a familiar interest in the owners of
SUch preposterous monnikers. And the poet
who rightly uses the kiddies’ name for a
bird may discover that he thereby makes his
poem unintelligible, since the kiddies in the
neighboring State may have given that bird
a different name; or may have called
another bird by that name. Thus many of
Our birds are barred from being immortal-
ised in our poetry. And they are worth
that honor.
Various suggestions have been made by
our birdologists for overcoming this diffi-
culty. After consultation with the Abo.-
editor, and with a birdologist, this Rage has
made arrangements'to select and standardise
the best names for our familiar birds. The
procedure, will be as follows: A list of names
that cry out for alteration is being compiled
by a birdologist. When that is published this
Rage will invite . all birdologists. school-
teachers and kiddies to suggest local or
better names. Especially valuable, as
“Wart” has suggested, will be the native
names of birds, the names given by school-
kiddies (our real poets), and the names given
by the birds themselves —the often-musical
sound of their call.
This Page will soon be in a position to
publish that selected list of Australian birds
that need re-naming. The suggestions sent
in to this Rage wilt not be published, but
will be forwarded to a small committee of
our leading birdologist contributors to the
Abo. page, to which will be added at least
a couple of Australian poets who ar.e inter-
ested in this subject. The committee will
take a preferential ballot for the best of the
suggested names; in case of a slight diver-
gence of opinion the casting vote —merely in
order to achieve finality—will rest with this
Rage ; though when there is no agreement
the matter will be left open in the hope of a
future happier title.
Two charming new books of fairy stories
are Christmas Talcs of Flanders, illustrated
by Jean do Bossehere (Heinemann, 12s. 6d.)
and Serbian Fairy Tales, illustrated s by
Sidney Stanley (Heinemann, Os.). Both are
written in language that kiddies understand,
and both take tin- child-reader out of the
worn track of the traditional fairy-tale. The
illustrations of Sidney Stanley are delight-
ful, hut owe much to the Arthur Rackham
tradition; but in the work of Jean de
Bossch&re, a Flemish artist, there is an alto-
gether new note in fairy-tale illustration.
The color work is gloriously barbaric and
brilliant enough to satisfy any kid ; but its
chief charms are its naivety, almost medieva
in character, and its originality in the ex-
ceptions of fairy-folk, witches and devils.
This Flemish artist puts in everything that
the child expects to see in a picture; thus
he illustrates in one picture all the events of
the story, making them happen simultane-
on sly, and when he shows the outside ot a
house he obligingly shows what, is happening
inside as well. And he fills every corner of
his pictures;with the detail that kiddmslove.


<a
ANTHONY HORDERNS'for SILVERPLATE
Cxi 78.—Sugar Bowl and
Spoon, Silver-plated o n
Britannia metal .. .... 18/6
Cxl22. —Sugar Scuttle and
Scoop, Silver-plated on Britan-
nia metal, pretty chased design—
-17/6
SILVERPLATE Satisfaction
in the truest sense is
= always obtainable at the
New Palace Emporium, where
the stocks are large, the designs
the newest, and the cost the
lowest, governed as it is by
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
Cxl7s. —Sugar Scuttle
and SCOOP, Silver-plated on
Britannia metal 27/6
Cx67.—Nut Dish & Cracks,
Silver-plated on Nickel Silver —
32/6
as*
m
Cx6s. Cake Basket, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver —
35/-
V-
Cx46. — lnkstand, Handsome Engraved Design, suitable
for School Presentation 37/6
Cxi 09. — Egg Frame, Silver
plated on Nickel Silver, 4 Gold-
lined Cups and Spoons.... 30/-
•mat
Cxi 4 7.—Oak Spirit Stand,
with Silver-plated mounts, cut-
glass bottles—2 bottles... 63/-
3 bottles 72/6
i : ; l;:!i| l in; i..:
CxloG. —Tea Spoons and Tongs,
in case, Silver-plated, "assorted designs, 9/6,
11/6, 12/6, 14/6, 15/6, 17/6, 21/-
Cxl43. —Biscuit Box,
Silver-plated Mounts, 13/6
Cxlo3. Tray, Silver-plated on Nickel Silver—•
12in 32/6. 14in 40/-
Cxi74. Cake Basket, Silver-plated on Bri-
tannia metal, plain design 30/-
Cx168.-
elled
—Bake Dish, Silver-plated, with loose,
lining • • • •
F.nam-
-30/-
Cxl37. —Oak
Biscuit Box,
Silver-plated Mounts,
22/6.
Postage
must be
added
to the
Prices
Quoted.
Cxi 13.—Dinner Cruet,
Silver-plated on Nickel Sil-
ver, cut-glass bottles —
4 bottles ... 63/-
6 bottles 75/-
Cxl64. Carvers, in handsome Velvet and Silk-lined
eases, best Sheffield Steel, 3 pieces, with Stag handles—
-12/6, 15/6, 20/-, 21/-, 22/6, 27/6
Cxl62. Cake Forks, Silver-plated, half-dozen in
beautiful Silk-lined case, pretty design .. 11/6
Other choice designs, 9/6, 11/6, 12/6, 13/6
i
m
R
88
Cxls9. —The Newest Novelty for Fruit Salad,
assorted designs 27 /g
v
2666.—50 up Spoons, in Oak Case, Silver-plated
on Nickel Silver, plain Old English design. . 25/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS Ltd.
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


RISI^ g
ASIA
1
Ariel Ascendancy in Australasia
Firmly Established.
An Ariel Agent in New Zealand says:
“When things are normal again we anticipate a good demand
for Ariels. Without exception every rider we have is a
satisfied one.”
Ariel Works Ltd. 1 36 Bournbrook, Birmingham, Eng.
Agents: TURNER BROS.
SYDNEY: 363 George Street. ADELAIDE: 152 Rundie Street.
MELBOURNE : Elizabeth Street.
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you
let the Ravisher of Belgium win
lifting a hand?
going to
without
X
\
a*
/
r
&
mb
s3s
6
cs
Millions
of Packets
of this famous War-time Sweetmeat are
sent to the soldiers, sailors and aviators
at the front.
If you have a friend there, see that every
parcel or letter contains a few bars or a
packet of W RIG LEY’S, the great chew-
ing sweet that is used around the world.
Made in Australia —Two Flavours
Use it yourself, regularly—for
teeth, breath, appetite, diges-
tion and nerves.
3d. per packet of 5 .
big bars —wherever
confections are
sold. Or send 3
penny stamps for
sample packet to J.
C. Gambles & Coy,
Commerce House,
Melbourne.
&
©
Chew it
'after every meal
The Flavour Lasts
*4
c
Tile M odern
.22 Cal.
peatmg
Rifle
A modern .22 caliber
repeating rifle must
combine accuracy
with convenience and
safety. The Remington
UMG Repeater has a solid
breech, is hamraerless, easily
taken apart and shoots with unfailing
accuracy. Examine one at your dealer's or
send for descriptive catalogue free upon request,
REMINGTON ARMS UMC CO.
D. D. BRYANT, Manager
Box 686, Melbourne
UMC
A Natural Remedy
Time was when disease was thought to be due to the
direct influence of evil spirits, and exorcism and magic
were invoked to cast it out.
Science has taught us wisdom. The evil spirits exist
still. We call them “Disease Germs,” and they also
must be cast out. Once lodged in the stomach or
intestines, fever with its hallucinations, or biliousness with
its aches and pains, is the result.
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
is the approved remedy for driving out disease germs.
Its accion is quick and thorough. It clears the intestines,
rouses the torpid liver to new life, stimulates the mucous
membrane to a healthy action, and cleanses and invigorates
the whole digestive tract.
Be prepared for emergencies by always keeping a
.bottle in the house.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd.,‘Fruit Salt' Works, London, England
SOLD BY CHEMISTS AND STORES EVERYWHERE.
vc
THE BEST
ASMOKE
' is
YELLOW
ASTER
TOBACCO
PE
Marine Engines
For All Boats
CalUe 14H.P. Aristocrat Motor
Is Electrically Started,
Electric Lights
Caille Five
Speed Row-
boat Motor
With Starter
Clamps to Any
Rowboat and
Drives It 7 to 10
Miles an Hour
Callle 8 H.P. Unit Power Plant
Reversing Gear on Same Baso as Engine
A most complete
line of marine
motors from - to
30' h.p. This em-
bodies one- to four-
cylinder designs in
standard and
heavy-duty types.
Also the most per-
fect rowboat motor
ever produced.
Catalogs giving de-
tails gladly mailed
on request. When
writing, please
state which type of
engine interests
you and advise us
of the service you
wish it to perform.
Satisfaction
Guaranteed.
Delivery from Stock;
also Spare Parts.
Sole Australasian Agents:
BENSON BROTHERS LTD.
76-78 Liverpool Street, Sydney; 71-75 Queen’s BridgeStree^M^oonine^


Nothing contributes
more to secure happy
temper in a child
than correct feeding.
Get the diet right, and baby
is as happy as the day is long.
Mellin’s Food is adapted for use with
the youngest babe, is light, easily
digested, safe. Besides, “Mellin’s”
is a no-worry food—hot water and
fresh cow’s milk, and it’s ready.
Melliiis
Food
Baby’s Feeder !s Important. Mellln's Feeding
Bottle is unique; hygienic,efficient,easily cleaned.
A Sample Bottle of Mellin’s Food, with Handbook
for Mothers, “The Care of Infants.” sent Free.
Messrs. Gollin & Co. proprietary. Ltd.
Sydney
JJquapem
(HARROGATE, ENGLAND)
BRITISH APERIENT MINERAL WATER
Supplants Apenta, Hunyadi Janos and other
German and Austrian Waters.
Editorial Note from “ Lancet,” March 20,1915 :
“The water is drawn from a spring at
Harrogate. The constituents are well
balanced in accordance with Therapeutic
requirements.” Sold by all Chemists.
Distributing Agents :—R. E. JONES & GO.,
Daily Telegraph Buildings, King St., Sydney.
Bottled by CAMWAL, Limited , at their
Spring, HARROGATE, England.
v
Your boy at
the Front !
He may not like to ask
you for them, but
Cigarettes are every-
thing to him out
there. He’s worthy
of the very best,
so buy him some
“ De Reszke ’’ Cigar-
ettes. l J ost the i arcel
yourself. Then you
know they must
reach him safely.
Sold Everywhere.
cv
cv
Economy is determined by
the value you obtain for
the price you pay. When
you buy a Venus Pencil
you’re buying something
more than a stick of lead
in a wooden jacket.
You're buying efficient and
all-enduring pencil service.
Of all Stationers, Stores,
&c., throughout the World
cxv
cv
Imk S||J||
.*r
m
m
'/Y>/A
maim tu-sAj
t\Qm
rtix
6REV
HAIR
If Dr. Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is
unobtainable locally it will be posted direct
in plain wrapper on receipt of 4/6 by
DUERDIN & SAINSBURY, Melbourne.
K. W. BRADLEY, Worando Buildings, Adelaide
T. L. SEEF, 16 City Buildings, Brisbane.
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
NAZETHA
THE CHEAT COLD CURE
in the Little Bottle.
The most effertive and
pleasing Cure for
Head Colds, Catarrh,
Bronchitis and All
Congested Air
Passages.
For 1/6 a Bottle from your Chemist.
If not available, write to—
W. D. THOMSON, York Chambers, Market St., Sydney
GIBSON & ROBINSON, 189 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
PRITCHARD & CO., 63 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
A. P. MILLER & SON, Chemists, Hobart.
Who will forward, post free.
'vs
m
va r
i.
r t
ftftir fvSi
[X
xc
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BV
APPOINTMENT
vxc
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
PRICE 1/- PER BOTTLE.
Of all Chemists, Grocers, Etc.
SCRUBB & CO. (AUSTRALIA), LIMITED,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
v
TEL. U 7114.
T. PURCELL ®. CO.,
Manufacturing Engineers,
Queen Street, Auburn.
Manufacturers of all Kinds of Oil Engines for Farming and General Use.
Makers of all Kinds of Motor-car and Lorry Parts.
The Largest Machine=Tool Shop in the Commonwealth.
Ask for Quotations for any Machinery Repairs.
■t
ChangeTyres
in 5 Minutes
by the Clock
Firestone rims for
light cars are built by tyre
makers, with the idea up-
permost of giving the tyre
the utmost protection a
firm, true, unyielding bear-
ing surface, giving even
wear and extra mileage.
firestone
Light Car Wheels
Four wheels and spare rim, are moderate in price.
A car can be equipped by anyone in an hour’s time.
Tyre changing is then a matter of five minutes,
owing to the construction of Firestone rims. Loosen
5 bolts, and slip off tyre. Ask for prices.
Grimley, Ltd., Sydnev, New South
Wales.
Alexander Mair & Co., Melbourne,
Victoria ; and Tasmania.
Duncan & Fraser, Ltd., Adelaide,
South Australia.
Anderson & Adams, Ltd., Perth,
West Australia.
Harvey Frost Vulcanizing Co.,
Ltd., Brisbane, Queensland.
A. Hatrick & Co., Ltd., Wanganui
and Wellington, New Zealan-'
Obtainable at all Garages. Write for Illustrated Literature.
Firestone Quick Detachable Rims are made
also for all types and sizes of tyres.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Song of the Rebels.
They were on the grey way, and we were on
the red.
Blooms upon the lone way were whiter at
our tread.
Glory on the hard way light about us shed.
Scaffolds set for scorning and thrones set fox-
shame—•
Each a rope about his neck, down the road
we came,
Rebels of the ages death could never tame.
Gold was on the grey road; blood was on the
red.
Where’s the child we fathered? Whei-e’s the
maid we wed?
Phelim goes with William Tell, a price upon
his head ! /
Black against the dawning up that road we
came.
Hangs the Rebel Chieftain on a cross of
blame.
Gold is with the treason; God is with the
• shame!
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Fairy Song.
Oh, once I walked with fairy folk and they
made me very wise.
They curved my lips for laughter, put the
sight into my eyes.
So I could see the small thing, the fine thing,
the true thing.
So I could weep the happy tears the Little
People bring.
But now they all have left me and shadows
come instead,
Red Tain and Heartache, and Love with
drooping head.
Oh, take me to the thoi*n-bush and let me
step the ring
That I may find again the joy the Little
People bring.
N.S.W.
MARGARET FANE.
A Pleasure Trip.
From the City of Fact and Duty,
Dust and duty,
Things of prose,
Over the sea towards realms of beauty,
Fancy-freighted, my dream-boat goes.
Bales of magic and rich-hued splendor,
Star-gemmed splendor,
All that seems
Tempting, taunting, triumphant, tender,
Forms the freight of my ship o’ dreams.
Mine a voyage that has no ending,
Needs no ending;
Darker blue
With the blue of the skyline blending
Hints of the Land of Dreams Come True.
But my boat, though it’s sailing, sailing,
Ever sailing,
Never will
Reach the Land of our Dreams’ Unveiling,
Nestling there by the far green hill.
Less than joy of the quest the goal is;
Far the goal is,
Faint the breeze;
Happy ever to sail my soul is,
Di-eam-drugged, over the magic seas!
victoria.
HARRISON O'
Poesy.
Spirit of song! fair-falling wonder-light
Of Dove and Youth and .Toy, ah ! leave me
not
Again, to face unfriended Pain’s hot night
And plant with plaintive moans my soul’s
grave-plot!
Shut not the doors of Beauty, nor debar
Me the green ways of majesty and power
Which from the topmost tip of some still
star
Flame like the young heart of the rarest
liower.
Let me remain in meekest waiting here
Low at your feet, so perfect that I dare
Not even touch them in down-humbled fear
With the soft tresses of my sweeping hair.
I have been lone and melancholy long.
Lifting a strain of faint and tuneless tears
Upon the air; and not a sound of song
Clear-eompanied my sorrow through the
years.
I did not know, O sweetest poesy,
That you were singing round my heart all
day
Close-calling me to meet a company
Of tender friends beneath your sacred bay—
Friends with the hearts of children and the
eyes
Of far, tall saints who hold a Heaven above.
Oh. let me stay with them. fox*, all unwise.
My soul has dared to claim one for its love!
N.S.W.
ZOA CROSS.
The Secret Song.
Upon the evening silken-soft with rain
A hidden bird sings sweetly to its mate.
So. when my head upon your breast has lain.
I grow articulate.
In trills of mirth with passion's undertone.
The bird within the hedge pours out in
song
Such rapture as my trembling heart has
known
The Summer long.
Oh. rhapsody upon the secret bough.
Drunken to glory with the hedgerose wine
Your song grows pallid, as I whisper now ’
His heart is mine !.
N.S.W.
NORA McAULTFFE.


m
rSlfj
ml
m
m
Pure Seasoned Para Rubber—
Finest Egyptian Cotton Fabric-
Knowledge of Australian Road and Climatic Conditions—
Cong Experience in tbe Manufacture of Rubber Goods, and
Tbe Earnest Endeavour to produce tbe Perfect Australian Tyre—
j ' V • .. ■ • . r • '. ■ : -
These have all helped to make Perdriaus to-day the best of all tyres for Australian Roads.
PERDRIAU Tyres
are better now than the Perdriaus of a few years ago, and if, some time hence, there
are going to be better tyres than the Perdriaus of to-day, then it is Perdriau who
will make them.
So, keep the Home Tyres Turning, and let them always be Perdriaus.
Obtainable through all Oarages or from the Manufacturers —
Perdriau Rubber Co. Ltd.
All
States.
BE YOUR OWN VET.
You remember that good animal you could have saved if the 'vet. had just
right handy, and you could have saved it yourself if you d just had the right
little instrument.
A fraction of the amount of your loss would provide you against a repetition.
DENYER’S
INSTRUMENTS
VETERINARY
and SPECIALTIES
are famed throughout Australia. They embrace the very latest, , ™° st
safe and humane appliances. A good, handy kit can be purchased o
a! l.v small sum, and you’re ready for any emergency tor all time.
Don't hesitate —write us at once for our instructive Free Cata-
logue of Horse, Cattle, Sheep. Dog and Poultry Specialties.
DENYER BROS
VET
►UPPLY HOUSE
GEORGE 5T
D
YER
3
aonkts##*
Up with the Sun.
Out on the track of ’roos or wallabies.
That’s the programme for numbers of
sports everywhere. And when mid-day
comes they sit down to a hearty meal
of
Camp Pie
There’s nothing like it to “ kill” hunger.
Whether you take a whole tin with you
or just slice some for sandwiches be-
fore leaving, you’ll find “REX” CAMP
PIE both satisfying and tasty.
It is all meat, no crust, and
there’s a fine jelly packed
in the tin.
Get on the trail of “ REX” CAMP PIE
for allyour outings. It is ready to eat
from the tin.
Sold bp all Grocers.
cae
’I
' ' •
"REX”
HAM PATE and
"REX"
VEAL & TONGUE PATE
make the tastier t of
sandwiches. They
are all pure meat,
cooked to perfection.
Packed in perfect
tins.
ate,
FOGG ITT, JONES & CO. LTD.
Packers of “ Rex ” Pure Food Products
Curers of ‘'Rex” Hams and Bacon J 72
Goodrich Full-size
Black Safety Tyres
WHY GOODRICH?
Because it is the strongest, biggest and
longest wearing tyre.
The great 500 miles speedway race, at
an average speed of 11 5 miles per hour,
was won on Goodrich Tyres, without
even one puncture.
Goodrich were the only tyres to stand
this grinding, pounding, tyre-racking test.
Proving conclusively, that Goodrich aie
the best tyres on the market to-day.
DUVAL ®. CO.
145 Collins St, 13 Castlereagh St, 300 Adelaide St,
MELBOURNE, SYDNEY, BRISBANE.
Cornell Ltd., Adelaide; A. C. MacCallum, Perth ; Robt. Nettlefold, Hobart
«Best in the Long Run.”


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Voi-. 3 .-No. 1978.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 10, 1918.
I’mcE 6d.
THE DUET WITH THE ACCOMPANIMENT OF SIZZLE.


The Bulletin
THE NATIONAL AUSTRALIAN NEWSPAPER.
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosnian, for The
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the Office of the
Co., 214 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only.)
For £1 6s. 6d. per annum you can have lue
Bulletin sent regularly to you every week for a
year, including Special Christmas Number, to any
addkess in Australasia, post paid.
Post free to any address abroad, £1 10s. per
annum.
Cheques, drafts, etc., which should be crossed, and
nil Business Communications to be addressed to the
Manager.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be
refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the
publishers. The right to reproduce or translate any
part of the contents of this number is hereby expressly
reserved by the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read, and, where practic-
able, acknowledge in the “Correspondence” column all
contributions submitted, whether in the term of Politi-
cal, Social or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or
Sketches (those dealing with Australian subjects, and
not exceeding two columns in length, or, say, 8000
words, are specially acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters
or Newspaper Clippings. All communications will be
regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when
the address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But
no MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these
conditions are observed. When MS. is forwarded
without stump* lor return it will be understood that
the copy is to be destroyed if not acceptable. Per-
sonal applications for return of MS. cannot receive
attention. The Bulletin desires, further, those
sending MS. to distinctly understand that it is not
responsible for the preservation or transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original
humorous or other topical drawings in line or wash,
of sufficient merit and interest and adapted for
direct reproduction, or any interesting photograph
illustrative of a current event, will be paid for same
on acceptance. Any picture containing a good idea
but unfitted for direct reproduction — i.e., any picture
which has to be re-drawn —-will be paid for as a
suggestion only. The conditions under which such
artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
To Travellers Abroad.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon
and Gotch, Lndgate Circus.
South Africa. — The Central News Agency, Cape-
town, Durban and Johannesburg; Dawson and Son,
Capetown and Johannesburg; and others.
Canada. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver,
8.C.; G. S. Forsyth and Co., Ml Hastings Street,
Vancouver, B.C.
U.S.A. — N. Wheatley, News Dealer, Kearney and
Market Streets, San Francisco: Childs News Agency,
corner Fifth and D Streets, San Diego, Cal.: Queen
City News Co., Randolph and. Clark Streets, Chicago,
U.S.A.; J. Roland Kay Co., Conway Building. U.S.A.
Honolulu.— Home News Agency, 763 Richards
Street, Honolulu.
Egypt. —lgnace Horn, Port Said, Egypt; M.
Houng, Cairo, Egypt.
Hono Kong. — Brewer arid Co., Pedder Street,
Hong ICong.
Ceylon. — W. G. P. Perera, 16 Baillie Street, Fort
Colombo.
Papua. —Whitten Bros., Samarai.
Postage Bates.
Single copies of The Bulletin ( registered as a News-
paper) : Throughout the Commonwealth, Maoriland,
Fiji, British Papua, Norfolk and Lord Ilowe Islands,
10oz., Id.; United Kingdom, All Sea Route, 160 z.,
Id. Only one newspaper should be enclosed in each
packet — otherwise: Boz., Id.; Bioz. to 10oz., 2id.;
Woz. to 120 z., 3d.; elsewhere, joz., Id., and id. each
additional 2oz.
J7^sBtzZZei!z4i.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 10, 1918.
THE STATE AND COAL AND A GOLD
BRICK.
A beautiful little yarn, described by Sydney
Telegraph as “a feeler,” was surreptitiously
handed round by the Holman Government
for the public to sample on the last day of
the year. It was all about a project for
setting up a State coal monopoly by reliev-
ing Private Enterprise of its interest in
existing mines and appurtenances, and run-
ning the grimy business as a public enter-
prise. Casual mention was made of the
fact that this would involve a preliminary
capital investment of £14,000,000 and that
the money could be provided by the issue of
long-dated debentures. There was the
further explanation that by this means the
State could make a profit ranging up to
about £2,000,000 a year, thus finding a sub-
stitute for the Federal grant of 255. a head,
which under existing arrangements will
evaporate in a couple of years. Appended
was an assurance that the mineowners had
confided to some unspecified person their
opinion on the subject. The opinion was
that “so far they had not viewed the pro-
posal seriously.” Whether they might be
prevailed upon to do so next week was
apparently not discussed. But The Bul-
letin is disposed to suspect that if they
were suddenly called upon to exchange their
interests in the mines for a mortgage on
the nation they would become very serious
citizens indeed, and be ready with an answer
before the next shift went down. The
reason for entertaining this suspicion
is twofold—first, there is little room
for difference of opinion about the rela-
tive value of the two investments, and
next, if the project was one likely
to stir up rancorous opposition on the
part of the mineowners the Holman Gov-
ernment would not be looking for bother. To
The Bulletin the idea .of this or any
other Government proceeding to hand over
£14,000,000 in cash, debentures, p.n.’s or
other negotiable scraps of paper to the mine
proprietors of N. S. Wales in exchange for
holes in the earth, equipment and coal
measures, is almost too ghastly for* expres-
sion. It would, be a boodling deal equalled
in audacity and magnitude only by the hare-
brained project to find millions for Australian
landowners in connection with the Federal
scheme, or whatever it is. of “repatriation.”
Yet it is one in connection with which the
perpetrators of the Norton Griffiths
abomination might find agreeable exercise
for their talents.
There is one great and, in the judgment
of The Bulletin, unanswerable objection to
any such project being proceeded with now.
It is that the country is at war. The issue
of the war is in grave doubt. Assuming for
purposes of argument the coal-mines of N. S.
Wales to be to-day worth £14,000,000 to
shareholders and private owners, does any
sane inhabitant of the Commonwealth sup-
pose that in the event of the war going the
wrong way the security these people
have for their investments would still
be worth what it is alleged to be
worth now? Certainly no director of
a coal-mining concern having the prevision
of a rabbit could be found optimistic enough
to be deluded with any such belief. Where,
then, can justification be found for inviting
colliery owners to exchange an investment
subject to the risks shared in common by
all the community for one in which they
would stand on comparative velvet, while the
workers and taxpayers struggled with the
depreciated asset fobbed off on to shoulders
that were already heavily weighted? In all
probability there is not a single business
undertaking in the whole of Australia which
would not be readily disposed of this morn-
ing, on the basis of current valuations, for a
security which reduced the risks of the day
after to-morrow to zero and granted security
from the taxation which must inevitably
come. To the State a transaction of the
kind would merely mean that the seller capi-
talised his profits on the formula of a loan-
made boom and marched off with the swag.
This might have seemed good enough in times
of peace, when Cohen was available to sup-
ply the money and nobody cared about any-
thing except a prolongation of the spree;
but now, with an enemy clamoring for onr
vitals, a debt of colossal size on the
premises, and the day after to-morrow
shrouded in obscurity, to think about it is
just plain madness.
* * * *
That Private Enterprise should be yearn-
ing to get out of the coal-producing business
can be understood. But that the electors
could be induced to give assistance by
becoming responsible to it for its half-
yearly dividend is only made to look possi-
ble by subscribing to the theory that the
public’s ears have been outgrowing its com-
monsense. As managed by P. Enterprise
the production of coal is an undertaking
conducted in the interval of strikes —an
exasperating, uncertain business. With such
assistance as the State could give in the way
of regulation, P. Enterprise has made a mess
of it. But what reasonable grounds are
there for supposing that if the State alone
applied itself to the job, it would produce
any better results? Not one! It is no use
expecting that there would be fewer strikes
under State management. The martu of
events in Australia has shown that old-time
hopes on this score were a delusion. Also, it
is fatuous to imagine that because the State
manages an undertaking—even a monopo-
listic one —there will be no loss. Immense
losses have been made and are now being
made on railways. The history of the Post
Office is a record of money escaping down a
sink. In N. S. Wales thousands of pounds
a year are being taken out of the public
pocket to make good the losses on irrigation
settlements, the fishing business, joinery
works and so on. In other States the same
disastrous story prevails—and at a time,
too, when the revenues of the community are
being amplified by the distribution of barrow-
loads of borrowed cash, and public and
private credit is inflated like a balloon. All
this is no sound argument against the theory
of public ownership. But it has a very
material application to the practice thereof.
A wad of £14,000.000 added to the public
debt would be no academic circumstance, nor
would the balance-sheet relating to it be
merely theoretical.
The interests of N. S. in the coal
measures of the State do not require that
the mines should pass into the hands of
blundering party Governments, or that mil-
lions of capital should be converted into tax-
free debt for the special benefit of a class
of functionless bondholders and holders of
mortgages on the future national earnings.
The bait held out that by this means a sub-
stitute would be provided for Federal capita-
tion is worth scarcely a single sniff. It is
a proper thing that the State in its capacity
of a great user of coal should, like other big
coal users, produce what it wants —that it
should be independent, if possible, of the
vagaries of the existing system of supply.
It is even justifiable that the State should
be a retailer of coal to the public. But the
State can do all these things without leap-
ing in to ransom Private Enterprise and
give an everlasting indemnity against the
■ consequences of what to a very large extent
are the failures of the system it has built
up for itself. There are coal deposits for
the State to try its hand on. Why leave
them untouched? Why multiply the possi-
bilities of a failure against which neither the
State nor the individual would have even a
shadow of protection or redress? Blither
about, the vast fundamental changes coming
! to. Society, the failure of commercialism, the
■ elimination of capitalism, and the onward
: march of Socialism is all very well, but it
has no application to this. Capitalism is
not eliminated by issuing a debenture. Paint-
ing up a new sign over the door and run-
ning the old business inside does not change
Individualism into Socialism, nor is Social-
: ism a condition of affairs to be purchased with
a p.n. on valuation of stock, plant, fittings
and compensation for severance. This thing
is a business transaction only, and if the
• people of N. S. Wales consider that the
■ time is ripe or the inducement adequate to
find a capital investment of £14.000.000 for
going into another business th ,:, '' , op-n depend
trnon having m ; ghty little- with
either the politician or the seller.
RACE.
The animal Man is of a single species,
belonging to a single genus, which is the
sole representative of a single family. Zoo-
logically, Homo sapiens stands one and in-
divisible and separate from all others; and
the facts that there are negro noses and
Mongol eye's as well as Methodist whiskers
gnd Sinn Fein foreheads, and that the skin
pigmentation runs through all shades of
black and tan and olive to pure rosy-white,
are not of sufficient weight to alter the scien-
tific classification. Similarly, greyhound, toy
poodle, bulldog and St. Bernard are all plain
dog —Canis familiar is —and all, with black
noses or pink, were bred from the same
scavenger that skulked around the cave-man’s
refuse-tip. Man by his habits, the climate
he chose to live in, the food he ate and
possibly even by the thoughts he thought
altered his countenance and his color and
created those minor differences which to a
superficial view seem so great; but, hard as
the theory may be to accept, he never
changed any of those plain fundamentals
that link the whole race, savage and civil-
ised, together. Yet the essential differences
of race are very great, as Man soon dis-
covered when his primitive communities and
tribes and kingdoms touched those of peoples
who had been separated from them over long
periods of time. The primal universal lan-
guage had broken into a thousand fragments,
each developing along different lines, and the
speech of the foreigner was as alien as his
color or his features. But there was some-
thing more alien than any of these. The
long ages of division and remoteness from
one another had changed the processes of
thought and the race instincts. It was pos-
sible for men of all kinds to learn each
other’s mode of speech. But it was a prac-
tical impossibility for varieties of the human
race which had been long isolated to get (o
the subtleties of thinking that lay behind
that speech ; and the more complete the for-
mer division and the longer the racial isola-
tion the greater the difficulty became. Thus,
a Russian and a Servian to-day, having both
sprung from the same Slavonic ancestry,
may be expected to understand one another
much better than, say, a Greek and a Turk,
who, though close enough to each other's
throats for a few centuries, were separated
by mons of time and the breadth of half a
continent in their original race development.
Similarly, an Englishman and a lowland
Scot are much nearer in processes of thought
than a lowland Scot and the other sort of
Scot from beyond the Grampians. In the
days when tribes took up their beds and
their cows and wandered with greater fre-
quency and ease than is found possible to-
day, the sudden jar of incomprehension
between race and race led to surprising re-
sults. A dozen times the wandering com-
munity touched the borders of some people
distantly related to itself and came to a
direct and easy understanding with those
folk who thought very much as it did. Then
it came into contact with another race which
probably at first felt friendly enough but did
not understand. It accused those other
people of not playing the game; it grew
angry at the breaches of what deemed
natural rules; finally, it felt that it had a
moral right to destrov a thing so destitute
of all decency, and started to kill the alien.
Thus racial hate began, and out of racial
hate racial pride and many other noisy
things which were destructive of settled
thought and national purpose. To ignore
race in the business of getting the world into
focus and settling civilisation on a perma-
nent basis is a tremendous blunder; and it
is a blunder that seems likely enough to be
made when the war-clouds break and the
first tentative Parliament of Man is con-
sidering universal peace. The easy contempt
of those who imagine they know of short-
cuts to the Millennium for the different
makes and shapes of the human intelligence
and the human soul is a thing that contains
a secret poison; and the world’s best hope is
in keeping that poison out of the dove-and-
olive stew which the war-fires are cooking.
* * * *
The observation that blood will tell has a
bitter meaning very different from that usu-
ally attributed to it. For centuries the blue-
blooded have sat in the high places of
Europe to govern those whose blood was a
natural red; and the irony of the thing is
scarcely even now appreciated by people
who profess the science of statecraft. The
blue blood showing under the white skin
was in France, Italy and Spain the mark
of the northern savage who broke in on the
fields of an older civilisation and imposed
by the strong arm his barbarous law on
nations finer, more cultured and more intel-
ligent than his own. Goth, Visi-Goth,
Frank. Lombard, Vandal —all the names that
carried horror and shame from Central
Europe to the quiet lands beyond—brought
up at once visions of blue blood that recked
nothing of the spilling of red blood. Igno-
rant, brutal, arrogant, despising all the finer
things of life and utterly out of touch with
those over whom they lorded it, the Teuton
conquerors created a tradition of hate and
contempt for all authority which even now
works mischief in the heart of modern
democracy. They provoked the race hatred
in an exaggerated degree; and when the race
difference was wholly forgotten, save in the
phra.se “blue-blooded,” the detestation lived
on between class and class. The Teuton of
to-day is a very different person from the
rude Frank and still ruder Vandal; but the
fact that his modes of thought are utterly
unlike those of the bulk of the European
peoples has been made painfully evident in
the present war. To allow the Teuton mind
to govern the minds of Slavs, Celts or Latins
is simply to invite further tragedy in the
future. Broadly it may be stated that an
alien race can never successfully impose its
laws and customs upon a people, without
some element of world-loss and world-shame.
France provoked the tragedy. of 1870 by in-
terference in German affairs; the attempt of
England to hold down France in the fifteenth
century led to the great national uprising
and the holv wars of Joan of Arc; Turkish
rule ov'er Europeans was an abomination.
But the best examples of the evils of alien
government were seen under the Roman
Empire. The Latin races were closely akin
to +he Greek and . Celtic, and so Roman law
administered by Latins fitted the Greek and
Celtic peoples as a garment for which they
had been measured ; but that same law in
Asia required to be continually reinforced
by the march of armed legions. Under the
svstcm that made the meek and dust-eating
Jew chafe and foam, the Celtic Briton found
the utmost content and happiness. The
harmony and the discord followed the broad
race Lues; and trouble was always present
where the conquered, owing to something in
his make-up and thinking arrangements, was
unable to understand the conqueror. With
regard to the exploitation by white men of
dark-skinned races during the past century
or two under the guise of rule and law, the
same story of the impossibility of inter-racial
understanding would probably be told if the
black or tan person got a hearing. In some
cases he is too dead to speak; in others his
anger has made his speech too incoherent to
be understood ; but wherever he is numerous
and his exploiters few he is dangerous to
them and to the world. The bitterest Euro-
pean wars were waged over religion. Race
is in a very real sense a religion in that it
rests on the deepest and most firmly-rooted
feeling; and the race-war now raging be-
tween the Teuton —an alien in brain-shape
and tradition —and the European has taken
on a religious significance as great as any
that marked the Crusades. On all the evi-
dence, it is perfectly clear that if the poli-
tical boundaries of the future ignore the race
boundaries, the seed of hate will be left
which must some day grow into other har-
vests of blood.
» * * *
Yet a division of the world along its lines
of race-cleavage would achieve some very
strange results; for while, as in the case of
Russia, enormous territories would be some-
times placed under one government, in other
cases a mere fragment of country—perhaps
a single village with a thousand acres of the
surrounding fields—would be erected into a
sovereign State because there was nothing
occupied by people of a similar race con-
tiguous to it. The pepper-pot aspect of
portions of the globe, if treated in this way,
must appear ridiculous to people who have
been thinking in terms of empires and vast
federated republics; but there can be no
question about the “greatest good of the
greatest number,” which is held to be the
aim of political economy, if such race bound-
aries were fairly recognised. If the dis-
armament of the nations and a universal
police control of the planet were made the
first condition of the Great Peace which is to
follow the Great War, there could be nothing
ridiculous about the smallest natural State
of uniform race having the right to govern
itself. All the federations and the powers
of which statecraft has conceived have been
thought of in terms of territorial expansion
for one reason only. In the days of the
most profound peace, war has always been
among the immediate possibilities; and only
vast agglomerations of men occupying great
areas could make adequate preparation for
war. But with war thrown on the scrap-
heap and a provision made for an inter-
national police system which would quell a
local outburst of madness before it could
get up steam for a general upheaval, there
would be no disadvantage in having any
number of small self-governing communities.
All the arguments that were ever advanced in
favor of Local Government in the most
progressive countries hold with double force
for the complete autonomy of small States
once the possibility of war is eliminated.
Beyond doubt there must come a time when
even racial lines will fade away, though as
they more or less depend on the physical
shape of the brain, that time may be some-
what delayed. The Teutonic peoples—by
their original skull formation aliens among
the peoples of Europe—were almost accepted
on a footing of equal brotherhood by the rest
before the blood-lust of the Kaiser got loose ;
and even Serb and Bulgar may someday come
to understand one another. But the road to
understanding is the road of racial freedom.
Grant that, even if it means recognising the
complete independence of a single parish in
the middle of a wide, homogeneous State, and
nine-tenths of the troubles of humanity are
wiped out for ever. You can’t make men of
different race-patterns see and think alike;
but by saving them from having their corns
trodden on as a regular pastime, you may
keep them from wanting to cut each other’s
throats.
WHEAT ON ITS DEATH-BED.
The fact that the wheat area of N. S. Wales
will be smaller this year than last is a
regrettable event, but it isn’t so surprising
that it need keep anybody awake at night.
The fertile, fairly-watered and proud Ma
State is accustomed to that sort of thing. If
there was a Minister of the right kind for
Keeping People on the Land —not Putting
Them There, for any fool can do that —some-
thing good might ensue. (Solomon, by the
way, is often quoted as a shining example of
wisdom, but Solomon was an ass with the
One Big City craze, only in his case it was
Jerusalem instead of Sydney or Melbourne or
Adelaide, and his policy of getting people off
the land left the Hebrew empire a wreck.)
So far as N. S. Wales is concerned, land-
settlement is the professed aim and struggle
of every Government, and has been so for
very many years; yet—and this has also
been the case for very many years—people
insist on getting off the land faster than they
are put on. Every day Sisyphus gives
another shove to the stone of settlement on
the way uphill, and always he sees the bigger
stone of depopulation scoot breathlessly past
on the way down. An enormous amount of
land has been sold to settlers on easy terms,
and a good deal has been given away gratis,
but the only good word to be said about these
efforts is that they have done something to
disguise the exodus, and to make things look
a shade less horrible on paper than they
really are. And Victoria is in much the same
condition —only worse, because having little
Government land left it can’t so well shove
the new settler to the front to disguise the
old one who is making for the rear.
Just now Western Europe is screaming
for wheat to feed its armies and replace its
devastated crops. This ought to be a glori-
ous time for the farmer, but it isn’t. He


has the blessing of even more State interfer-
ence than usual, and this ought to make him
feel good, but it doesn’t. He should have
had Christmas rejoicings, but he hadn’t.
When he gets his Avheat crop off the land he
sends it to the port which the Government
directs, and that is in almost every case
good old Sydney, be the same the most con-
venient outlet or otherwise, the railway sys-
tem being faked with Hun ingenuity to that
end. By way of another development the
bucolic one has to sell his wheat to the
Government at the Government’s own price.
This is supposed to be a kindly device to
prevent the man on the land being fleeced
by Private Enterprise, and it Avas so in-
tended, but the scheme was promptly
muddled by Ministries largely composed of
city lawyers, and no great benefit has
accrued. There has been no luck at all in
the way of securing the best prices. Too much
of the payment has been made by the Govern-
ment’s lOU, which the impecunious farmer
usually sells to Private Enterprise at the
best price he can get. And there is a great
lack of good fortune in moving the goods
away in haste to their hungry destination,
though there is certainly talk of building
four vessels of 5000 tons each to accelerate
proceedings “provided arrangements can be
made with the unions.” Failing arrange-
ments with the unions, one despondent poli-
tician suggests getting ships built in China
by pig-tailed labor. The unions, being a
Government within a Government, like the
Jacobin Club of Paris under the Revolution,
have the deciding voice.
* * * *
Meanwhile the grower of the staff of life
has a cold feeling like an icecream on the
back, and a sinking feeling like indigestion
in the front. He fears that the whole scheme
may break down somewhere like various
Superannuation Funds and other projects,
and that he may be left by the way-
side with his certificates on the long dry
road to Jericho. Of course, his positiob is
not much worse than usual so far as matters
have gone; but at a time when the demand
for his commodity is unprecedented and he
has the additional blessing of interference
by a Government largely composed of city
lawyers, it doesn’t seem any better than
usual. Some of him has been heard to
describe the wheat certificates as a compul-
sory and depreciated State-paper currency
with no, fixed gold reserve behind it, but
these remarks were possibly made over a
pot of beer in a public-house and didn't
count. Some of him says that there are
skilled and hard-working Avheat-groAvers avlio
have £3OOO invested in land and plant, and
who make less than the pay of many city
trades-unionists. These statements may be
evidence of a soured disposition, but there is
a big hunk of truth behind them. The main
point of the complainant’s case, however, is
that, for 20 years, population has been van-
ishing over most of the valuable section of
the Ma State—the one between the Darling
and the sea —despite all manner of alleged
land-settlement policies and other lofty slush,
and that other States show similar move-
ments. Everybody would know what to do if
the soil was worthless. It could be solemnly
cursed by two archbishops, Anglican and
Roman; by the Moderator of the Presby-
terian Assembly, by the Presidents of the
Methodist and Baptist Conferences, by the
General of the Sal. Army, by the Head Uni-
tarian, and by a leading street preacher.
Then it would naturally be abandoned and
the subject would drop. But the soil isn’t
worthless, so the case plainly calls for a com-
mittee of inquiry. And the old gang of city
lawyer-politicians who have run the show up
to now should be disqualified from sitting on
the committee or selecting its members. The
folk in the country should organise a move-
ment of their own, and hold their own in-
quiry, and do any insurrection or upheaval
that is necessary on their own account. And
they should be quick about it. If a great
industry is shuffling towards its death-bed its
depositions should be taken before it becomes
speechless.
THE DOWNS—ON TOUR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[ have been touring a little of the Darling
Downs, playing one-night stands. Mine was
the villain’s end of a drama about a race-
horse—Conscription; out of Australia by
Christmas.
On the way to Warwick I saw the finish-
ing touches on hero worship; for all these
places now talk of Ryan and Hansard No.
37: of Hughes, who said to Ryan “I’ll have
yer,” and of Ryan who said nothing at all
and had Hughes —with 20 guineas costs.
Such a season is it on the Downs —great
fields of tall maize green against the red
and chocolate and black ribbons that are
roads; lucerne in continuous regeneration,
and grassy wildernesses of flowers and fat
cattle —that the cockies are ready to raise
a bitter wail of rust in the wheat. Our
country of extremes and surprises can
always find work for Discontent.
The State Opposition, afraid of the Aus-
tralian voters disfranchised by alien parent-
age for the Commonwealth but not for the
State, walked as delicately as Agag around
Conscription. But all the parsons of the
Downs had a “devotional” meeting at
Toowoomba Town Hall to celebrate the fall
of the Holy City, and the politicians of the
Opposition talked lovingly of the New Jeru-
salem—which is popular with everybody but
the Jews, who will never go back to wail
because they are too comfortable on the
Stock Exchanges of the world and have
nothing to wail for. They sang many hymns,
one carrying the words —
Brothers, we are treading
Where the Saints have trod.
Then Toowoomba remembered that a few
days before the Premier had been one of the
Saints who trod there in the Town Hall,
and Toowoomba grinned. Big men these
men of the kindly Downs; and Toowoomba,
one of Australia’s most bountiful of gardens,
has but one error—people born even here
must die. I made a neW friend in a fox-
terrier on the Lands Office steps, the faith-
ful hound of a Lands officer transferred;
he had fretted himself v to a skin stretched on
bones in his despair of waiting.
Warwick is the centre of a great area of
Downs country, its river curving and retwin-
ing on itself through fields of lucerne deep-
rooted in the black soils that are bursting
Avith fatness. The Dividing Range holds a
great cup filled Avith the variant greens of
maize and lucerne; Mt. Sturt a sudden por-
poise-back on the skyline, whence the early
men saw Cunningham’s Gap. Where there
is fallow there is a great heap of corncobs
rotting back to the earth that grew them;
homes of beauty and plenty from the Range
to Killarney, and the curving Condamine
flowing through its lines of willoAvs. Once
much of this was the run of the Canning
Downs, employing few men, carrying 160,000
sheep and 20,000 cattle. Now it feeds
260,000 sheep, 100,000 cattle and 8000
people. Here was murder done; a middle-
aged egg throAvn at a discredited politician
was made by hysteria and press agency to
be the attempted assassination of a demigod.
There was something to be said for the
politician, seeing that he had to keep pace
Avith Irvine, and Irvine has a safe seat and
may dare and dare and dare yet again with
safety. Thus grow tAvo neAV definitions for
my political dictionary :
A statesman is a politician whose seat is safe as
the Pyramids. A politician may he a statesman
whose seat is on the Pyramid inverted.
Eggville on the Condamine is fat with
money: Avith a hotel opulent of silky oak;
Avith 10-feet high geraniums; pine, magnolia,
poinciana; plane trees shaking their green
seed bolls in the light airs; pepper trees
and grapes, and our own good eucalypts;
fruit and lucerne; ruddy children; bright
eyes of the Condamine women; and great
sunflowers looking over garden walls, not
singly, but by battalions. The big men
laugh joyously at the exaggeration of the
Battle of Eggville—these assassins who
attempt to kill men with kindness. Sergeant
Kenny is a gigantic man who, younger,
could have played Denys in “The Cloister
and the Hearth”: a man of such tonnage
now that he made me feel that I go but 29
inches round the chest. After the egg was
thrown and William Hughes had rushed
around wildly, this immense man caught the
little man by the arm. saying indulgently:
“Just Avait; I’ll get you a hearing.” W. M.
Hughes may not have heard him aright.
He may have believed that Kenny said “I’ll
get you a hiding.” The size of the inter-
A r ener may not have been reassuring. But
the story of the Warwick egg is all ridicu-
lous—exaggerated as that story of the hen
feeding at a stack and struck on the head
by a falling pea. “The sky has fallen.” said
the hen. “and I must go and tell the king.”
Stanthorpe, settled by tin prospectors, is
growing to one of the great stone-fruit
regions of Australia. Fair orchards of plum
and peach and apple and apricot are in this
granite country Avhere the boulders thrown
about the slopes as if spilled from a hand
can be as small as a dog or as big as a
waggon.
As a consequence of the good stock that
folloAA’ed the tin, and of the dmne air and
the neAV cult of the dairy and the orchard,
the girls of the Border, smaller than their
sisters of Toowoomba, have skins of peaches
and cream. And the business of the orchard
—most human and pleasant of all the work
of the land —is adding to itself every year.
The Government has a Returned Soldiers’
Settlement at Pikedale—Paradise after the
filth and agony of war.
That night at dusk the local bellman
announced myself and Mary Pickford. He
is an old. thin man who Avalks with one leg
stiff. He rang his bell and mixed the
announcements, giving me the Treasurer’s
surname as a front name, and sheering clear
of my own surname with great success.
“To-night, to-niglit.” he cried. “Mary
Pickford pictures. To-night, to-night! the
Honorable Theodore Bareford.”
I followed him up the street grinning at
the Amriants he gaA T e it as people in the
crowd attempted to give him wisdom.
“The Honorable Theodore Barefoot ;
the Honorable Theodore Bedgood ; the
Honorable Theodore Bugford”
“Ah.” said I. “courage! Up. heart — there
is still hope !”
“ —the honorable Ralph Bugford.”
“Better and better!”
At last he concluded triumphantly. “The
Honorable Randolph Dogford.”
We let it go at that. But two girls made
of peaches and cream have since written to
me as “The Honorable Theodore Bare-
foot.” and the mis-name looks like sticking
at Stanthorpe, as “Eggville” will live on the
Condamine.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Billjim is Still in France.
Roughly speaking, out of every dozen elec-
tors in the Commonwealth six voted against
Conscription, five in favor of it, and one
stayed at home or went swimming. Probably
the odd citizen out didn’t care 2d. about what
happened, or was “full up of politics,” and
is in the same frame of mind still. The five
were certainly anxious that the Australian
army should be reinforced. The six were
opposed to the reinforcements being obtained
in a particular way. But as most of them
violently objected to the charge of desiring
to see the army wither away, and insisted
upon the efficiency of the voluntary system
to fill the bill, there is good reason for believ-
ing that a very large majority of the popu-
lation stands on common ground so far as
the prosecution of the war is concerned.
Their point of agreement is that the army
should be reinforced. Unless the conscrip-
tionists are to see their No. 1 desire baulked
and the voluntaryists to contemplate their
faith shattered, it is not much use sitting-
down paralysed, imagining that the end of
the section has been reached and that there' is
nothing to do except watch a degrading
wrangle among a crowd of politicians. If
the voluntaryists cannot co-operate with the
conscriptionists on- compulsion, there is
nothing to prevent the conscriptionist help-
ing the voluntaryist, for both are at rock-
bottom after the same thing. Now, what is
going to be done about it? Is the ground
common to both sides going to be taken?
Are the voluntaryists going to prove their
sincerity and the effectiveness of their scheme?
This paper hopes so, anyway—hopes that
the hatred-mongers will somehow be pushed
aside and Australia given a chance to work
Avith reasonable unity of purpose. That the
Australian people will ulloav this army of
ours to weaken towards extinction is too
horrible to believe. Not only would the
shame of it be inexpiable, but the revela-
tion of popular indifference to the nation’s
fate would be almost incredibly tragic.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
A Cocked Hat which Wants to Be a
Man.
His Ex. Galway, who sheds the radiance of
a Cocked Hat over S. Aus., has been again
listening to harsh words about himself, this
time because he expressed the opinion that
the Referendum figures Avould make joyful
reading in Germany. The effect of his re-
marks Avas to stir the Adelaide Laborites to
fury. They had heard the same thing said
by dozens of other people and took no notice.
But when Galway started —whew ! Yet
the angry critics of the Cocked Hat are per-
fectly right; It is no part of Galavay’s job
to push a commentating tongue forward
either before or after questions of public
policy have been decided. It is his job not
to do so—to efface himself, to rub himself
out. He is paid a substantial salary to be
“a symbol,” and symbols that want to argue
the point are not playing the game. Of
course it is a dreadful thing to take a person
of adult age and condemn him to mumble
platitudes about poultry and poodles when
his soul is bursting to give expression to the
robust thoughts which come Avith mature
years and reflection to the agile mind. It
all looks like a survival of the savage custom
of fattening up a likely-looking citizen for
lunch. But there it is—the dismal, corrod-
ing job and the resplendent clothes and £IOO
a Aveek and no rent to pay, and Galway
must take the lean Avith the fat. Having
bartered away his individuality as a citizen
for the emoluments and trappings of a tin-
pot greatness, he must stick to the bargain.
Still, if he feels inclined to butt into the
argument The Bulletin hopes he will not
be deterred by any base considerations of
cash or by the wrath of the Adelaide Trades
Hall. The spectacle of a Governor throwing
off his Cocked Hat and bursting free from
the integuments of a Windsor uniform and
Avrangling over bones and pledges with Libs
and Labs would be a joyous circumstance.
That he would lose his billet matters nothing.
What are billets to patriots? Australia cannot
afford to pay him, anyway; but it can easily
afford three cheers for a citizen Avho has
something to say even if he has nothing to
do. This paper earnestly puts it to Gal-
avay that, in this hour of Empire crisis, the
man with a gag in his mouth is a futility,
and that he should insist upon talking at the
top of his voice about everything in which
he is interested. The next thing to hap-
pen would be grateful and comforting all
round, and Galway would be justified as a
leader of reform and wrecker of an extrava-
gant imposture.
A New Scheme for Bleeding the
Country.
Recently the N. S. Wales Government
didn’t kick Avith sufficient Adolence a pro-
posal that districts wanting public works
should skirmish up the loan capital for the
usual permanent and reproductive jobs. The
inevitable soon happened, and a shire presi-
dent can’t show his whiskers in the city iioav-
adays without being bailed up by a very
friendly person who knoAvs a man avlio is
Avell acquainted Avith a capitalist avlio has
quarter of a million to lend for Avorks in the
president’s district. There are always a
few works of national importance xvaiting
to be done in the president’s district, and
the president is urged to take the first train
back and work up a local agitation in favor
of one or the lot of them and kick the local
member into action and proceed to lay hold
of the ear of the Minister. Sometimes the
person Avho gets tangled in the president’s
Avhiskers merely wants liquid refreshments,
and the capitalist is vague and remote; at
other times he Avants anything from 1 per
cent, to 24 per cent, by way of commission,
to be raised in the district. It might save a
lot of presidents a lot of free drinks if the
Government announced loudly Avhat its
policy is in this matter. There can be only one
answer, of course. No Government Avith
any self-respect will permit money to be
raised for public purposes on such terms.
If it is Avorth something to local people to
have a job done, then the Government might
recover the benefit by betterment tax or
otherAvise. But that it should be raked off
by the shark who introduces the money to
the Treasury is as unthinkable as it is that
the construction or non-construction of a
public Avork in any district should depend
upon the inhabitants paying a fee to an
agent. A scheme of that sort would open
the door to some nice scandals.
Some New Gags Wanted.
Now that the Win-the-War gag sounds thin
and tinny and the facts behind it grow dis-
tressful to the public nostril, the time is
ripe for somebody to get to the front with
a Buikl-a-Sbip party or a Give-a-Bun-to-a-
Soldier party. The hyphenated gag is good
while it is fresh; but it Avants renewing
frequently to catch the public fancy. Be-
sides, Winning the War is obviously a bit
beyond Australia’s reach. Building a Ship,
on the other hand, is quite a decent national
aim. Certainly it is part of the Win-the-
War programme; but it has been that for a
long time, and the ship is still something
in a politician’s mouth. If a Build-a-Ship
party got into office its pledge could be
definitely kept with hammers and steel; and
the public that voted for it could see the
pledge swimming about in the Avater. Short
of a decent and well-organised system of
compulsory citizen service, the building of
a ship is about the best thing Australia
could do for the Allies. Hunger hits harder
than cannon; and every ship built means
bread for the hungry. Then there is the
Give-a-Soldier-a-Bun idea. This Avould call
out a tremendous lot of enthusiasm in cer-
tain quarters. Repatriation, like shipbuild-
ing. is still largely warm air; but the party
that enuld keep its whole pledge and carry
out its whole policy by presenting a bun
to a returned hero would be able to walk
with a righteous pride in something defi-
nitely accomplished, such as politicians sel-
dom know. If the field were fairly divided
between the Build-a-Ships and the Give-a-
Buns the election contest would be of keen
interest. For one thing, no doubt, we
should have to be prepared: the Give-a-Buns.
if they proved victorious, might be afraid
to hand over the food until a referendum
had been taken; and you can’t tell what
might happen, for the Build-a-Ships would be
sure to expatiate on the special military
virtues of crumpets. However, we should
have to put up with possibilities like that.
The essential thing is to insist on the parties
wrangling about something they can do.
Hughes can’t Win the War; so it is not
honest to make that the party cry. Let
him and every other politician undertake to
do something that is possible, and then we
can dump those who don’t do the job we
hired them for.
Some Remarks by a Conscript.
Deak Bulletin, —I am in a sense a con-
script soldier of Australia —not one of those
senior cadets who live mostly on the old
man’s earnings and who sit down on the
grass when ordered to “form fours” or
“shoulder arms” and say “cock-a-doodle-do”
to the officer, but a mere soldier of indus-
try. I started with a good knowledge of
agriculture, plenty of energy, and more cash
than most beginners possess. I bought a
good farm in the N. S. Wales wheat belt
(there is still a mortgage on it, but not a
very large one), and I bought up-to-date
machinery (it also carries a mortgage, but
that is the case everywhere, for the whole
farm-machineryi business is time-payment).
Then I bogged in, and apart from two bad
years, Nature treated me well enough. But
just as it had begun to treat me well a
plausible barrister and his friends in the
city did the conscription act on my crop.
Their favorite device is to guarantee about
4s. per bushel delivered at the railway
station, with the chance of a little more at
some remote or unspecified date in the future.
In Canada and the U.S.A. (so I read) the
wheat is conscripted at about 9s. per bushel,
so on that basis the Government takes half
my substance in one act. lam paid mostly
by the State’s unsecured promissory-note. I
haven’t even a lien on the plausible barris-
ter’s deficit. In addition to all this conscrip-
tion I have to pay the ordinary taxes and to
destroy rabbits. I devoutly wish Hughes
had to destroy rabbits. The spectacle of
Hughes destroying rabbits would gladden
my soul. And I would rejoice if he had to
deposit his earnings at the nearest rail-
way station, and take half of them out in his
own unsecured promissory-note, with a
vague promise of some more by-and-bye.
Last year was a good .one, and I had about
£6O over and above expenses, which was
mighty small interest on my investment. The
cost of production is going up steadily, for
assistance is almost unprocm*able, partly
through recruiting and partly through the
number of men employed on loan works. I
might let my land and go to the war, or I
might leave a man in charge and go to the
Avar, but Avhether the tenant would pay the
rent, or whether either of them would or
Avould not give up the struggle and quit after
selling the machinery, is unknown to me. Or
I might sell the whole caboodle and go to
the Avar, but buyers of wheat lands are not
so plentiful or so gav as they Avere before the
conscription. I am half inclined to go in
for hogs, because they would remind me of
our own Ministry, but they might meet
with no better luck than the Avheat, and the
cash outlay for the baby-hogs to stock the
place Avould be a serious item just noAv. You
can’t raise hogs from seed, though Hughes
may think so. If we Avere not such a scat-
tered flock we might organise a strike after
the good old Broken Hill style—refuse to
deliA-er the wheat until we got a living Avage.
and picket the mortgagee, and possibly hold
up the country stores for supnlies on credit,
and I would simply love to see a picketed
mortgagee. But all this is too much to hope
for. The vast distances are against us unless
the Governments ran special trains to facili-
tate our insurrection, which I suppose they
wouldn’t. And to think that if I were 10
years younger I Avould be a senior cadet
smoking a cigarette on compulsory parade,
and Avhen the platoon officer issued an order
I Avould simply ask after bis poor feet. —
Yours (getting tired of it), Bildad.
War Rumors.
The man next door assures The Bulletin
that he has it on the authority of the man
in the house next but one to the corner, who
has a son in a munition-factory in York-
shire, that the Turks evacuated Jerusalem
as a preliminary to joining the Allies and
attacking the Germans in the rear. The
man who brings the ice has information that
Kitchener is a prisoner in Germany,
Avhither he Avas transported in an aeroplane
some months before the supposed disaster
north of the Scottish islands. You’ve
observed, of course, that Avhen Kitchener’s
sister said he was alive the Prime
Minister didn’t contradict her; and
somebody who had a moustache, very
like his was seen among the prisoners
in Germany by an American —name and
address not given—before Wilson threAv
down the iron glove. All the steady five
o’clock drinkers at the pub round the
corner were solidly agreed a feiv weeks back
that Brusiloff is Hector MacDonald ;
though since the Russian general had his
leg amputated opinion has A'eered round to
the view that it is pot he but Wang Chi Pu,
the OA\ r ner of a furious army somewhere in
the backblocks of China, Avho really Avalks
in the Scotchman’s kilts. Smith —the
Smith with the assorted whiskers and rac-
ing instincts —has been in communication
with the Balkan States and explains the
silence Avith regard to affairs at Salonica
by the statement that Bulgaria is already
out of the war and has signed a secret treaty
by virtue of which she will keep up a pre-
tence of battle until the time has come for
a general advance of all the Allies on Con-


[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior, John'
Barr and E. O’Ferrall, of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney. take the responsibility.]
Every Farmer in the Commonwealth
should, in his own interests, place his insurance business svith the company of farmers established specially to reduce the cost of
farmers’ insurance.
Ti c Farmers’ 8 Settlers’ Co-operative Insurance Co. of A OS Js!i a
affords Absolute Protection at the Standard Premium R.ates
WITH THIS ADVANTAGE:
The policy-holder who takes shares (limited by the amount of his insurance business) is eligible to share in the profits of the Company.
That means:
COST-PRICE INSURANCE TO THE CO-OPERATING FARMER.
WRITE THE MANAGER FOR FDIJ. PARTICULARS.
HEAD OFFICE: 14 MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY. BRANCHES in VICTORIA AND SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
stantinople. This treaty was made at the
instigation of Kitchener ; and that hero
remains somewhere in the retirement of a
Macedonian village waiting to lead the grand
inarch which must destroy forever the
menace of the Baghdad railway. On the top
of all this Jones has discovered —this is in
the strictest confidence —that the Germans
are already successful and that only one
Allied ship contrived to cross the Atlantic
during Christmas week. There is also the
news, spoken in dead whispers by Blobbs, of
that force for the invasion of England which
actually reached the Wash and would have
landed "in Norfolk but for the vigilance of
the coastguard who reported the matter to
the local police. Of minor war events which
don’t get into the paper there are, of course,
any number. The death-roll of the French,
as told in the tram, simply staggers until
you hear the actual numbers of Teutons
who have gone out, as reported at the door
of the State fish-shop; and when to these
is added the tale of famine, pestilence and
internal bloodshed in the Central Empires,
as mentioned on the railway platform, you
feel that war is indeed war and that the
Kaiser has something to live down in his
own country. But your view of the situa-
tion rapidly changes when the man with
tne arm tells you that Messines was only
taken after 17 assaults and the man with
a single eye assures you that Cambrai will
never be taken at all. In all the confusion
of opinion and babel of tongues the thing
that stands out with force is that so many
of the things whispered about ought to be
matter of nublic knowledge in a democracy
like our own. The few men who form a
Ministry have no right, moral or legal, to
keep back information of a kind which may
enable the public to form a correct estimate
of matters with which they have to deal.
How much of the opposition to Conscription
is due to ignorance, fostered by a censor-
ship which, in the very nature of things,
gives rumor an authority it could never
have if the people were let into the war
“secrets” that do not affect the conduct of
the war?
War-winners, Place-hunters and
Thimble-riggers.
Of course Australia has seldom seen any-
thing quite so degrading as the spectacle
presented last week by the Liberal Caucus
sitting at Melbourne and the Hughes Min-
istry secretly wrestling with its pledges to
the people of the Commonwealth. But why
there should have been any surprise at these
proceedings—why any citizen should have
expected the “Win-the-War” Government
to act and speak with the frankness of
honesty—is something this paper leaves for
explanation by the S. M. Herald and the
Argus. The tortuosities of the Hughes
Ministry were merely part of what The
Bulletin has always looked for from any
combination of men associated with the
garrulous little twister, and will continue
to look for with complete confidence that it
will not be disappointed. Hughes can no
more eschew the scheme and the twist than
Joe Cook can induce a fresh crop of foliage
to emerge under his hat. But the conduct
of Hughes has been no worse than that of
the Caucus. Much of what has been re-
vealed about the happenings in the cellar
need not be taken seriously. The
rigmaroles appearing from day to day in
the newspapers were for the greater part
only incidental to party manoeuvring, in
which confusion of the public mind was
considered to be of more importance than
anything else. But the crux of the business
was plain enough—that both the “National”
party and the Hughes Ministry were des-
perately anxious to give the electors a
crooked deal. First there was the Bendigo
pledge of resignation in the event of an Anti-
Conscription vote. It was an unequivocal
pledge, repeated many times and amplified.
Then there were resolutions of the Caucus
expressing confidence in Hughes as leader
and rejecting in the interests of “the Em-
pire” any step which would redeem the
pledge in any real sense. Then a further
direction to the Ministry to get out of the
hole by any means except the only one
honorably available. Amidst all this
Hughes and Cook clung to their jobs
like oysters to a rock. Every day they
looked more disreputable. But they did
not look a bit more disreputable than
the other members of the “National” party
who stood by, giving the little man their
support while he turned and twisted to find
a way —any way—of escape for himself and
them from the trap of his own making.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirbv and D. M. Wrioiit, 214
George-street, Sydney,]
Is the Dove Looking for Somewhere to
Roost?
The happenings in Russia are probably
more important than anything else, but the
only certainty about them is that they are
behind a curtain. There is war within the
country and war next door. Negotiations
with the German are at a stage which may
mean anything or nothing. The possibilities
are almost illimitable. Meantime it may be
as well to receive the “news” about Russia
with many reservations, an important one
being that what may be read now is possibly
less illuminating than what will be printed
later on. This, however, does not apply to
the speech made by Lloyd George at the
beginning of the week-—in some respects
the most important he has made since the
beginning of the war. Compared with
earlier speeches there is a remarkable change
of tone. Apparently on this occasion Lloyd
George was not going entirely “on his
own.” He was making a statement to which
previous approval had been given by others.
The result is a speech in which the aims of
the Allies are outlined with dignity and,
doubtless, precision. It sounds, too, like a
direct invitation to Germany to reply, and
in some measure intensifies the suspicion
that peace negotiations are in the air some-
where. If they are not, then 1918 will be
a year of ghastly occurrences. On the
Western Front snow and rain have inter-
rupted the timetable, and it seems as if the
submarine is interrupting John Bull’s food
supply rather definitely. The northern
winters are getting colder and more dismal
than ever.
«,
This paper has been feeling sorrier for
Hughes during the past fortnight than ever
it felt before. When he didn’t promptly
resign upon the Referendum going against
him, but started to nose around looking for
ways of escape, the Win-the-War papers—
the people who had formed the Phewsion
and put him in charge—began abusing him
shamefully. They called him a twister, his
Ministry a limpet. They asked him whether
he had the smallest idea of what honor and
honesty meant and hinted that he hadn’t.
This wasn’t playing the game. They had
hired him for this very part; and when he
played it, and played it very well, they pelted
him with eggs. The members of the Phew-
sion party in Parliament had a far juster
sense of what the situation called for. They
didn’t throw names at him. They just
carried a vote of confidence in him; then
stood back saying “Billy’ll get us out!”
And perhaps he will.
[To express the opinions of The Bulletin, by
S. H. Prior, F. J. Kirby and D. M. Wright, 214
George-street, Sydney.]
-♦
From Colonel (Dr.) Nash, N. S. Wales
M.L.C.: —
I yield not to William Morris Hughes or any
man in my loyalty to the Empire, and I have proved
it, without boasting, as citizen and soldier during
more than 30 years. Though I hated each referen-
dum and believed the men who sent it to the country
to be shirking politicians, I spent my days and
nights before the fatal voting hours in endeavor
to persuade men and women to vote Yes because of
a great desire to make soldiers of our manhood, that
they might abroad or at home give help to those
gallant gentlemen (from generals to buglers) who
had voluntarily filled the breach when all but
fighting and working men were a blight upon
national honor and a dead weight for the common
good. During each campaign the majority of the
men and women whom I addressed, from Woolloo-
mooloo to various country parts, were hostile to the
course I advocated; yet on no occasion could I
have desired a better hearing. They were amenable
to truth, argument and reason; but on their faces
they bore the warning: “We shall not stand being
accused, insulted, bullied, policed by men who
have climbed to place and power by flattering us,
cajoling us, and telling us for 25 years exactly the
opposite to their big words to-day imply.” At
every meeting during the last campaign I felt a
something sullen in my audiences, which in the
country amounted to a reign of terror, and I realised
that the number of those listening represented fewer
intending voters of Yes than in 1916.
And that is the conclusion of every impar-
tial person who has spoken up and down the
country. For 12 months past there
has been no greater obstacle to recruiting
than the continuance of Hughes as Prime
Minister; and it would be none the less so
if he were 10 times as earnest as he is What
should we say of the management of an in-
surance company, for instance, which sent
out Archbishop Mannix to canvass for
business among the Orange lodges, or hired
Tom Barker, the I.W.W gentleman, to per-
suade the magnates of Collins-street ?
. ♦- '
The condensed result of Australia’s efforts
at “repatriation” during last year is food for
deep thought and little congratulation. To
the end of December 40.672 soldiers have
returned, of whom 37,230 have been dis-
charged. Many of these have gone back to
old jobs or found new ones; 3252 have been
“repatriated” by the Trustees, and. so far,
£153.000 has been given or lent to Bill —an
average of £47 per head. The items com-
prising this £153,000 call for scrutiny:
£6OOO was spent on trade classes, £2OOO on
surgical aids, £7OOO on vocational training,
£SOOO on plant and machinery, £SOOO on
tools of trade, £4OO on homes. £20.000 on
mixed farming. £12.000 on poultry-farming,
£2OOO on orchards, £40.000 on furniture,
etc., and £50.000 on small businesses. The
figures are incipient, so to speak, but already
it looks as though the Commonwealth’s cash
and the men themselves were not being em-
ployed to the public advantage. Fifty thou-
-and pounds on small businesses and only
£IO,OOO on plant, machinery and tools of
trade doesn’t promise much national profit.
Victoria alone so far supplies details of what
has happened to her “returns.” Of the
11,741 discharged 3979 have been placed in
work, many have found jobs for themselves
or have gone to their old billets, some are
incapacitated and pensioned, some have been
put in “small businesses,” and 255 are “on
the land” —174 on dry and irrigable closer
settlements and 81 on Crown lands. But if
the Repatriation Trustees have not been
overworked in placing the patriots on the
soil, they have at least had a busy time in-
specting the various "desirable blocks, allot-
ments and paddocks” offered on which to
plant Billjim, no less than 1825 having been
offered, of which 989 were promptly declined.
Evidently one side of the “Repatriation”
business is booming, at any rate.
+
“Quartermaster” : I’ve not long signed off
a packet that made a return trip to a former
German possession. How we ever got there
and back is something I’m still thinking
about. Somebody didn’t mean us to. We
struck troubles from the jump. Here they
are:—
(1) Somebody partially succeeded in baring the
electric cables on the ceiling of No. 1 hold, so that
when the current was switched on a fireworks display
would occur over the highly-combustible cargo.
(2) Somebody placed steel wire instead of fuse
wire in the for’ard fuse-box, so that the electric
cable would fire, and it did.
(3) The man who drove one of the winches was—
well, he wasn’t one of us.
(4) No end of trouble was stirred up among the
sailors and firemen, and we went away with a crowd
of pier-head jumpers.
(5) The ship’s main fresh-water tank was mysteri-
ously salted up.
(6) Among the passengers was a full-blooded Ilun
who had been interned.
(7) On the way back a mysterious sickness
troubled at times nearly the whole of the packet’s
staff.
Our cargo consisted principally of things that
go skywards on the slightest provocation.
For the safety of those who have to go to
sea for a living, when will the authorities
wake up? The present system of watching
ships and of issuing passes to go on board
and leave vessels is a farce. I’ve been on
ships where for the first few days the only
watchman was some old man whom to
bluff was: as easy as drinking beer. I’ve
seen the alleged night-watchmen fooling
about the deck all day. One night in New-
castle I had a look round at 1 a.m. and
couldn’t see a soul on deck. When ivill these
blighters realise that we’re at war?
The Australian public never has been in
a position to know much of what has been
going on in Russia ; but it ought to be in-
formed that, in consequence of very recent
Censorship instructions, it will for the future
know a good deal less.
From the report of the Royal Commission
into the land-purchases of the recent
Vaughan Government in S. Aus.: —
Mr. Britten Jones (the Government valuator) was
exercising functions of a highly-judieial nature. He
knew, or he ought to have known, that he was decid-
ing whether it was proper and just that a large
profit on the transaction was to be paid to his
intimate personal friend, Mr. Morris....lf he had
made small errors under these conditions, his con-
duct would have been open to grave suspicion. 'The
schedule which I have prepared shows the magnitude
of the errors which he made. Land which was not
worth £158,000 has been valued by Mr. Jones at
more than £293,000. Such a difference, in my
opinion, cannot be attributed to mistake. The
whole valuation is so exaggerated as to admit only
of the ■ explanation that Mr. Jones wilfully departed
from his duty as Government valuator, and put
untrue values on the land.
Styles, the Minister implicated, resigned
after heaving a brick at the Commissioner;
and there is now a yell in Adelaide to refer
the evidence to a Supreme Court judge. The
proper people to refer it to are the Crown
law officers in order to ascertain whether
it discloses ground for a criminal prosecu-
tion. If they say it doesn’t, then S. Aus.
might have another Commissioner, if it
pleases.
Propputy in Brisbane is exercised over the
new Greater Brisbane Bill served up by the
Ryan Government in the last days of the
session. The main items from Propputy’s
standpoint in the 520 pages are adult fran-
chise and salaried mayors and aldermen.
Mayor at £IOOO and £SOO expenses and 20
aldermen at £3OO each —it makes all good
party heelers lick their lips ; and as it is pro-
posed to elect, the entire bunch at one time,
the elections will, if the Bill passes, make old
Boss Tweed of Noo Yark sit up in his grave.
As a measure for securing effective and
economic municipal government —and the
smellful need for economic and effective
municipal government cries out to Heaven
throughout Queensland —the Bill is a failure.
As a method of providing good jobs for poli-
tical hangers-on it could not be bettered.
The Ryan Government ought to study Ameri-
can experience, and go bald-headed for the
paid Commission system. Perpetuation and
multiplication of political and municipal
jobs is about the last thing that any part of
Australia requires at present.
There was a great “curtailment of sport”
among the ponies in Sydney after the Christ-
mas poultry had vanished. At Victoria Park
on Boxing Day the crowd started to arrive
in time to have a sports meeting during the
morning. In the afternoon there was a
rush to keep the enjoyment going by provid-
ing a dozen races for the little mokes. The
rest of the week was spent getting ready to
do it all over again on ISew Year’s Day. If
sport goes on being curtailed in this way
much longer there won’t be time to think about
any beastly war. But, seriously, how did
things manage to happen like this? llow
came it that, under the guise of curtailing
sport, certain influential pony-race pro-
moters were given, by the Federal authori-
ties, facilities such as they never had before?
Somebody ought to offer an explanation
before the public begins to think the thing
out for itself.
A few remarks by the Labor Call (Mellt.) :
If there ever was a portion of an empire that
stood out as a depot in a war such as this, that por-
tion is Australia. Australia should he the workshop
of the Empire. Instead of this, what do we find 1
Stagnation everywhere, while another neighboring
nation reaps the benefit. Where is the foresight?
Where is the statesmanship ?
Don’t know, unless it is with the ‘‘neighbor-
ing nation.” But what does the Call pro-
pose to dot Four times the present leader
of the Labor party has been Minister for
Customs; and if anybody in particular has
been responsible for the “stagnation every-
where,” it is lie. When does the Call pro-
pose to talk seriously to him about it? Or
will it be prepared, as every Labor paper
has been hitherto, to hurroo as loudly for
the Freetrader as for the Protectionist, and
chance the “stagnation everywhere”?
The death of J. G. Russell in Adelaide
closes a period of great suffering patiently
borne. Russell was English by birth, but
had been in S. Aus. since 18G0. The present
generation has known no other head of the
Local Court and the Court of Insolvency ;
and the practical qualities he showed there,
and previously as Master of the Supreme
Court, made him just the man for the joint
position. So he never rose to the Supreme
Court bench, though he was for a time an
acting-Judge. Over a year ago a compli-
cated rheumatic trouble removed him alto-
gether from the public view; and his best
friends cannot regret the end, especially as
some strange scruple made him refuse the
morphia which might have given relief to
the pain he suffered.
Died at a much too-early 54, Port
Adelaide’s most public-spirited citizen, C. R.
Morris. In his spare time he was a timber
merchant, but most of his days and nights
were given up to public service of almost
every description. He was many times
mayor, and had one turn in the Leg.. Coun-
cil, but couldn’t discover enough practical
good to show for the time he spent there.
John Galsworthy, Antony Hope and
Chas. Gregory Wade all offered knighthood
in a bunch! Who says literature is not
being honored these days! (P.S. —One of
the triplet shook his head. It wasn’t Chas.
Gregory Wade.)
Died of wounds, Lieut. Bluett, who before
putting on a private’s tunic looked after the
Rockhampton Harbor Board’s interests at
Port Alma (Q.). Bluett was a seafarer who
had pushed on till he got a captain’s ticket;
but he was really too public-spirited for a sea
job. His half-way house was at Broome,
where he was pearling for a while ; then he
stepped right ashore, and was soon up
against Ken Grant and struggling for the
Rockhampton seat in the State House.
The Sydney-born Captain A. C. Youdale,
flight-commander, who was killed in France
on December 23, was reckoned one of the
most brilliant airmen that the war has pro-
duced on either side. Besides rapidly climb-
ing to a captaincy, he had frequently figured
in despatches and had won the Military
Cross twice over. He went west at 28.
Three brothers are still at the Front. Their
father is J. B. Youdale, who has been
Sydney agent for the A.M.P. ever since this
paper can remember.
This is what Germany is doing in pre-
paration for the morning after: —
To organise for relentless commercial warfare
when seas are open to trade again, seven of the
largest [German] dye companies have formed iron-
bound agreement running until January 1. 1966. By
this arrangement each unit is pledged to maintain
uniform prices, wage scales and hours of labor.
Profits on dye-stuff products are distributed to com-
ponent companies by fixed percentages. Thus Hoech-
ster Farbwerke, the Badische Anilin and the Bayer
companies each receive the same percentage, '24.82,
for the first two years, and 25.02 thereafter. Casella
Company gets 10 per cent., and three smaller com-
panies divide the remainder.
Thanks be, we, too. are ready. Have we not
our “Never Again” resolutions and our
Shelved Tariff!


GANCIA * S A?TI R SPARHLING sweet
AS SUPPLIED TO THE KING OF ITALY AND ALL ROYALTIES.
rGOLD MEDAL, PARIS. 1900.
AWARDED [ GRAND PRIX, BRUSSELS, 1910.
CIVIL SERVICE STORE AND ALL LEADING HOTELS. ASK FOR IT.
Sole Agents for Australasia : LUBRANO FERRARI, 32 O’Connell St., Sydney-
ALL OTHER ITALIAN WINES KEPT IN STOCK.
The popularity of this British Spirit has been attained by sheer merit. It
is known all over the world to be a Gin of remarkable quality and possessing
medical properties of the highest character.
SEE THAT YOB GET GILBEY’S CIN.
TUCKER & CO., LIMITED, SYDNEY, Sole Agents.
m
NO LEGGINGS REQUIRED
when you wear "JODHPURS”
Peapes’ Jodhpur Riding' Breeches give the correct leg-fitting. They
fit loosely at the thighs and tight round the legs. Cooler than
breeches and leggings— smarter than riding trousers. They were
made in India, where the style originated. Authentic shape and
make.
Khaki Drill, cross and hip pockets, self-strapped knees.... 18/6
Fawn Green Woollen Whipcord, extra strong 37/6
We pay postage. Please state waist, inside-leg and bare-calf
measurements.
Have you had the latest Peapes Catalogue?
PEAPES & CO LTD, „
MEN’S OUTFITTERS,
309 and 311 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY.
r.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Criterion “Peter Pan
Her Majesty's “The Bing Boys Are Here
Palace “Turn to the Right
Wihths’ llippouko.me .... “Jack and the Beanstalk
Lyceum Triangle rla\s
Tivoli Ada Reeve
Union Theatres Moving Pictures
Hoyt’s Moving Pictures
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Dick Whittington
Royal “The Bird of Paradise”
Princess’s “The Story of the Rosary”
Kino’s “Aladdin”
Tivoli Mclntosh’s Vaudeville Co.
lion's Du I.lxii ,V <>i.Y.uriA Moving Pictures
Majestic . Moving Pictures
Melba Moving Pictures
Britannia Moving Pictures
“Aladdin,” at Melbourne King’s, has made
good its pretensions to he the sort of panto,
which is duly expected at Christmas and
received with open mouths by the young of
both sexes. Sweet unreasonableness is
demanded of all pantos., and one of the
happiest absurdities in “Aladdin" is the inva-
sion of Widow Twaukey’s humble abode by
a party of Australian painters and papeiv
hangers who undertake to get things ready
for the visit of the local Emperor. When
these calamities have started to do their
worst to the Twankey premises somebody
reminds TJncle Abanazar that he is a
magician who can change a damaged kitchen
into a parlor fit for an Emperor to sit in
by the simple device of rubbing a ring;
whereupon the absent-minded Ab. orders
an instant reconstruction of the place where
the decorators held their revels, and the
deed is done. There is something splendidly
pantomimic about the idea of a sound, prac-
tical magician wasting time with a crowd
of arrogant paperhangers when he is in a
position to fix up a new villa residence in
half a jiff. But “Aladdin” abounds in the
inexplicable. Nobody knows why Zola
Terrell waves her serpentine arms above a
pot of incense, or behaves like Maud Allan
as regards her feet. Also the sudden appear-
ance through a trapdoor of Dame Twankey
disguised as a fairy queen seems a bit over
the supernatural odds. Such happenings
tend to strengthen the element of mystery,
however, and are in vivid contrast to the
harlequinade, which occurs at matinees only.
The harlequinade consists mainly of Barry
Lupino, a red-hot poker, a file of policemen,
a butcher’s shop and great masses of meat—
including sausages. The ancient combina-
tion of clown, meat, poker and policemen
appeals forcibly to the audience because
Lupino appeals to the kiddies personally and
takes their vote on the question of maltreat-
ing the police. They approve of reckless
thefts of meat. And they are warmly in
favor of applying hot poker to the sergeant.
So the proceedings are acts of wickedness
sandwiched between shouts of joy.
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the demoralising
effects of the Hawaiian climate and a dark
wife are visited upon Louis Kimball seven
times a week. After all, “The Bird of Para-
dise” is something more than a moral lesson
“The Bird of
Paradise.”
Melbourne Royal.
Edwin Lester as
the Missionary.
and an unusual sort
of melodrama. The
story is instructive, as
“The Dictator” was
instructive to the few
Australians who went
to see it. George
Bryant, in the present
play, corresponds to
the Murkan consul in
the comedy that Col-
lier introduced to Aus-
tralia. Bryant is
the strictly commercial
Yankee who is schem-
ing to upset the Gov-
ernment of Hawaii,
and doesn’t much care
whether the reigning
sovereign is deposed in
favor of Muriel Starr
or the monarchy is
changed for a republic.
He gives Muriel the
chance of becoming
Queen, anyhow, and
Muriel’s refusal of the
offer has in it a
solemn warning to
husbands. She learns
that if she took the
easy royal billet she
would have to intro-
duce white women
into her social circle,
and the thought of
white gals giving the
glad eye to her Paul puts the Hawaiian
wife clean out of conceit with her
royal pedigree. The gloomy story lapses
into humor while the Crown is under offer
to Luana. High-priest Atholwood begs her
to accept the bauble for the sake of her holy
ancestry, and the wowser missionary implores
her in the name of civilisation, she having
been taught her Catechism; while Bryant
can only appeal to her simple lack of com-
monsense and cry, “Damn it all, will you
be Queen?” Then the bloomin’ Bird of
Paradise says, “Damn it all, I will not,”
and the matter is as good as settled. The
comedy scene in Act 2 is full of human
nature. Also the thawing of Miss Tien
Hogue when her pet convert proposes to hug
her is a reminder that two years in the
warm Hawaiian climate will set even the
chilliest of highbrow spinsters thinking of
other things than germs and microbes. Her
remark that he might have wanted to hug
her a bit sooner has the true ring of spin-
ster pathos in it.
* * * *
To-morrow is the last night of “For the
King” at Melbourne Princess’s. Allan
Wilkie’s attempt to run an artless, harm-
less little melodrama on its picturesque
appearance and its pretence of historical
interest has not been a howling success. In
“The Bird of Para-
dise,” Melbourne
Royal.
Geo. Bryant as
Captain Hatch.
fact, no gallant ad-
herent of King
Charles I. can hope
for mlicit, of a stage
triumph in this
country, Charles
having been such a
notoriously weak
peg to hang loyalty
on to. So the do-
mestic side of Olive
Cromwell’s charac-
ter is about to be
turned to the wall, .
as it were On
Saturday of this
current week
Wilkie will revive
“The Story of the
Ro s a ry” six
nights only.
“Baby Mine” is
likewise doomed to
disappear on Fri-
day, and the bill at
Melbourne Tivoli
will have a large
gap to fill up. Tne
exact nature of the
filling is not an-
nounced at time of
writing. Belle
Sylvia, the lady
baritone, and Katie
Gourlay, the lassie frae Bonnie Scawtland,
have joined Rogero and the dauntless acro-
bats, and these four items will presumably
be carried over into the next programme.
❖❖ * ❖
Dick Whittington still wanders without
a chart through 17 scenes at Melbourne
Majesty’s. If the lad has any intention of
becoming Gaud Mayor, the callous producer
won’t let him show it for fear of trespassing
on the valuable time allotted for special
songs and features. The panto, is really a
rissole of odds and ends, and as the ingredi-
ents are being constantly varied, no two
rissoles are ever alike. But the human ele-
ments remain the same, and this statement
applies with pungent emphasis to one or two
artists who ought to be different. For in-
stance, the Emperor of Morocco is alleged
to be a terrible potentate, but huge Oliver
Peacock makes him a mere mass whose
personality you could stick on a pin. Maggie
Dickinson is another performer bereft of the
requisite manner for her part. Her dancing
is technically exquisite, but she ought to
cultivate the art of facial expression. Her
legs are walling, but her face is weak.
*❖ * *
“Jack and the Beanstalk” on the film
appears to be extending its season at Mel-
bourne Auditorium. This is the third week
of the panto, picture and the end thereof is
not foreshadowed.
Mrs. Irene Vernon Castle has just finished
her long reign in “Patria” at the Melbourne
Britannia, and a new sensation called “Ras-
putin” has come in for three days. The film
isn’t an actual history of the amorous mystic,
but is a frank Yankee version of his gaudy
career compiled from public statements and
private rumor. “The Whip” is the magnet
at the Melba and keeps the eye attentive
with its overwhelming detail. The producers
seem to have thrown away a whole express
train for the railway smash and engaged a
Melbourne Cup for the racing fixture.
Olga Petrova ventures into the man-killing
industry at Hoyt’s, Melbourne, this w r eek.
As the heroine of “The Law of the Land,”
she is condemned to a lifer wffth a brutal
husband, but finishes her sentence with a
knife after doing five years. Olga suffers
terribly before she presents herself with a
tieket-of-leave. Noo Yurk ragshops have
been emptied to show the munificence of her
grief. Hoyt’s second feature-de-luxe serves
up pretty Vivian Martin as “The Wax
Model.”
* # '!• *
That talky and tiresomely American
comedy, “The New Henrietta,” did not last
long at Sydney Palace —it is getting a habit
of N’Yark importations to wilt early in the
climate of Pitt-street. “The New Henri-
etta” will give up the ghost to-morrow even-
ing, and on Saturday Muggs and Gilly will
revive the atmosphere of crookdom in “Turn
to the Right.”
“The Bing Boys” have arrived with a
bang. The box-office receipts at Sydney
Majesty’s must by now almost equal the
expenditure on electric-light; and if only
Jack Cannot would occasionally forget that
his cane is not a sword or a golf-club, and if
the camel would for once refrain from sneer-
ing at the ballet, this paper would have no
complaints to make.
“Peter Pan” will return to the Never-
Never-Never Land on Friday week; and on
Saturday “The Outcast,” in which Kath-
lene Macdonell made so remarkable a success
at the tail-end of her first season in Sydney,
will be revived at Sydney Criterion for a
brief season.
“The Rajah of Shivapore” has departed,
per elephant, to Brisbane.
The popular-priced panto., “Robinson
Crusoe,” at Sydney Grand Opera House, is
shaking itself down into a big success.
The “Last Nights” sign hangs over the
J.C.W. kiddies’ version of “The House That
Jack Built.” Dilatory parents will now
dress their own clamorous offspring and
hurry along to Sydney Royal. Or, rather,
after argument, it will be decided tliar,
mother shall go, dad being so fearfully tired
this weather.
The panto, that William Anderson reckons
to be the top-notcher in Sydney is going
ahead at the Hippodrome—“ Jack and the
Beanstalk.” The Sundry-Showman whose
job it is to write this par. will take the book
in both hands, blow out the match, cut the
rooster’s head off, and declare that Mabelle
Morgan is the best principal boy in town.
“Winnie Brooke, Widow,” continues to
break into the Sydney Tivoli priory, which
is run for nice, broken-hearted gents, who
are not the usual hair-shirted, sandalled
frumps, but keep their company manners and
dress clothes in good repair and meekly go
out to dine with ladies in very low evening
dress when the holier call of Sassiety is
heard. In the second act hostess Winnie
throws theatrical disguises aside and be-
comes frankly Ada Reeve in about nine
songs; and then the supporting co. earns
its money by sitting round and pretending
to be an audience. Nieman and Kennedy,
the tramp experts, add joy to the bill.
Olga Petrova can let her emotions have a
gallop in the artistically-presented “Law of
the Land,” the Paramount film at Hoyt’s
Sydney house and the Haymarket. To save
her mother’s honor she gives up her young
man and marries Richard Harding, who has
Sydney Criterion.
Kothlene Macdonell as
Peter Pan.
caught mamma
juggling with the
fifth ace. For five
years she endures
her husband’s bru-
talities ; then the
Petrova way of
escape suggests it-
self, and Harding’s
last sneer is cut
off with a neat
little revolver shot.
In “Alimony,” at
the Crystal Palace,
Josephine Whittall
and Lois Wilson
make the story
of the world of
divorcees convinc-
ing even to Aus-
tralians who have
little experience of
this weighing of
dollars in the
scales against home-
life and love. The
Lyceum has an
out-of-door drama
in “One Shot
Ross.” Roy Stewart handles the guns, and
Josie Sedgwick makes a wholesome little
heroine. And the Globe has a pleasant
discourse, “A Bit of Kindling,” a story of
man and girl without one morally-problem-
atic situation.
“Brutus”: Randolph Bedford says: “I
respect the honest opponent.” Will he show
his respect by answering a simple question
to me, an honest opponent of his and Ryan’s
ideas on Conscription? Pie says: “It is just
because Bedford is the democrat he always
has been” that he does so-and-so. I say he
never yet has been a democrat, at least on
Conscription, according to my ideas of what
being a democrat means. I was taught that
democratic government is government of the
people by the people for the people. The
principles on which this government of, by
and for the people was to be run were:
“Equal treatment of each citizen by the
State; equal opportunity to each citizen:
equal service from each citizen; and all the
time compulsion of the individual when the
issues affect the welfare of the State.”
Will Bedford show me where he disagrees
from that teaching, and how, if he doesn’t
disagree with it, he squares his assent to it
with his opposition to Conscription?
“THE BING BOYS,” AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
Lucifer Bing (Jack Cannot) and Oliver
Bing (Leslie Holland) depart on a journey
through a London Revue.
11. V. Vernon, lieut.-colonel, who found a
I).8.0. in his stocking on Christmas morning,
left Sydney as second in command of the Ist
Light Horse in October, 1914, and except for
a spell in hospital has been fighting ever
since. Vernon has twice figured in
despatches—first for services at Gallipoli,
and more recently for work in France, where
he has commanded an Australian artillery
unit since 1916. His only brother, a doctor,
won the Military Cross for conspicuous
bravery at Romani, and his sister, who is a
nurse in Mesopotamia, has been mentioned
in despatches. Their father was that W. L.
Vernon, now deceased, who was the Ma
State’s Government Architect years ago, and
in his spare time was colonel of Light Horse.
When Victorian shire councils come _to
him on the eternal cadge for State assist-
ance, new Works Minister McWhae tells
them to go and raise their own loans. As
he sounds as though he meant it, two shires
have already borrowed a few thousands
apiece and simultaneously raised their rates
by 4d. in the £1 to meet the bills. The
raising of the rates is, however, as McWoe
points out, only half the job: the other half
is the making of honest valuations. Except
in some unaccountable cases an owner does
not overvalue his property for land-tax
purposes, yet not one district’s valuation in
Victoria comes up to this land-tax valua-
tion. In some cases the rate valua-
tions are 40 per cent, below; and
of course these are the districts where the
municipal rate is 6d. or 9d. in the £l, in-
stead of the 2s. 6d. it might be. That is
why Bowser might do a lot worse than fol-
low the Ma State’s new plan of compiling
a Valuation Roll of all properties in the
State to serve as a basis of values for all
purposes. When a valuation has to serve
for resumptions as well as for all tax-assess-
ments there is a tendency to make the thing
honest.
“O. Blin” : To some extent the war has
slain John Bull’s admiration for Cobden,
but it was not until a long while after the
first explosion that the old man lost the
habit of expecting his joss to provide his
war supplies. In August, 1914, Britain was
Germany’s best customer for barbed wire,
and it is a fact that some of the first en-
tanglements erected by British soldiers in
Flanders bore Teuton brands. When the
crisis compelled Bull to make his own wire,
he found that the hitherto unexploited in-
genuity of the local manufacturer was fully
equal to pouring out miles of better
material at a price below the imported cost.
The same thing has happened with regard
to numerous other articles used by Thomas
Atkins; and if the Great Scrap has done
nothing more it has given Britain an educa-
tion in self-reliance. But the ancient belief
in the virtue of the foreign article still crops
up in unexpected places. An xlustralian
soldier interested in machinery was
recently, at a London station, allowed to
inspect the loco, that was the pride of the
staff. Entering the cab with the frankly
elated engineer, the Australian was con-
fronted with the legend: “Constructed in
Berlin” !
For “Poverty Point ” see Page J/0.


Taste begets Bcatity
LADTES! Your personal appearance is a precious
asset, whether in business or society—cultivate it.
Every day you have to face someone with eyes
bent on inspection. You must be prepared to face
the critical world, now that you have become such
a great factor through the wastage of war.
Examine yourself for rough patches, conspicuous
nose pores, excessively oily and shiny tendency, or
if sallow and colorless or unduly tanned. The Aus-
tralian climate is a severe one.
All these conditions can be changed by daily care
and attention. Your skin is always continually and
rapidly changing. That is just the reason for its
treatment. To free your skin of tiny dead particles,
cleanse the pores, bring the blood to the surface and
stimulate the muscular fibres.
This done, then notice how wonderfully refreshed
your skin looks, and how it takes oh the soft, trans-
parent, natural coloring every woman longs for.
If you allow your skin to remain lifeless and
inactive you cannot have that rich, velvety skin
with a radiant color that comes and goes.
Cleanse your skin thoroughly after shopping,
motoring, or a busy day at home, by washing it in
vour usual way with John Strange Winter’s soap—
Savon Marquise. Then rub thoroughly into the pores
with the tips of the fingers John Strange Winter’s
New Face Cream (for oily skins) or Lakshmi Cream
(for dry skins), and tone up with their deliciously
fragrant powder—Poudre Marquise. Finally, having
made those teeth pearly white with John Strange
Winter’s delicately piquant Dental Cream, you will
look and feel 10 years younger.
If you persevere the charm will come to stay. It
is no use just doing it for a couple of days and
neglecting it. If you persist you will reap a bjg
reward. Casual treatment makes for no permanent
good.
Think how many years older your face looks than
skin that is unexposed.
John Strange Winter’s toilet preparations are used
by royalty. They have won six gold medals at
London, Paris and Rome. Their purity and excellence
is vouched for by the Beauties of the world. They
are harmless to the most delicate skin.
Ask for them at David Jones’s, Farmer’s, Hor-
derns’, W. T. Waters’, The Civil Service, Washington
H. Soul’s, Lassetter’s, McCathie's, etc., etc. Send
three stamps for a sample of soap, or dental cream,
or powder (name the tint) and booklet to John
Strange Winter (London. Paris, Rome), 31 Depot,
26-30 Jamieson Street, Sydney.
leTtoman
SAi
I Y % HIGH-CLASS
JSPE£IALTIES
Creams
and
Pastes
for
Cleaning & Preserving
ALL KINDS OF
BOOTS and SHOES.
From All First-class Stores.
Agents—
WARREN & STRANG LTD.,
Barrack St., Sydney;
Russell St., Melbourne.
E. BROWN © SONS LONDON
AOFWIES • ALL - OVER • THE • WORLD
xc
USHER’S
Metropolitan Hotel,
SYDNEY.
This Modern and most Elegantly-
Furnished and Up-to-date Hotel is
complete in every detail, and,
under the management of Host
Usher, the Comforts of a Perfect
Home are assured. The Cuisine
and Service will compare favor-
ably with any Hotel in England,
America or the Continent. Bath
De Luxe in most of Bedrooms.
ARTHUR J. USHER,
-Managing Director.
Society
MINCHINBURY
THAT INCONVENIENT MEMORY.
“What, buy a car now! Look at the price
of petrol! People are selling cars —not
buying them.”
“Yes, dear, that’s what you told me you owed
your success to. —buying when every-
body wanted to sell.”
“Arthur R.”: Billjim is a champion leg-
puller. After a spell in hospital in
Blighty, it is necessary for the convalescent
soldier before returning to France to undergo
a training in mimic warfare in England,
and this is frequently done under the tui-
tion of an 18-year-old Tommy subaltern. In
the sham-fight the latter is always caution-
ing Bill for showing himself over the make-
believe trenches, or for drawing the enemy
lire by discharging blank cartridges at the
wrong time; but the culminating point was
reached the other day when a bunch of war-
stained veterans, without any provocation,
surrendered in a body to a small group of
astonished senior cadets who represented the
Germans.
A North Queensland incident of the Refer-
endum was the voting of two teamsters
camped together 20 miles from Cooktown on
December 19. One was “Yes,” one “No,”
and they debated the policy of “pairing”
to save themselves a 40-mile ride. But,
being good bushmen, neither was willing to
be a blank cartridge, so the “Yes” and the
"No” saddled up and rode to vote and back
again.
* * * *
Either the standards set by the N. S.
Wales Gas Act are all wrong or the big
Australian Gaslight Co. which supplies Syd-
ney and most of its suburbs ought to be
viewed as a common thief. During Novem-
ber 53 tests were made of this co.’s gas by
the department which administers the Act,
and 22 of them were below standard,
whereas of three made of gas from the Manly
Co.’s mains all answered the requirements,
and only one out of 12 from the North Shore
Co.’s supply wasn’t up to Cocker. In one
test the big Sydney Co.’s gas showed 10.1
candle-power instead of the standard 15, and
the average for the whole lot was 14.7.
Actually the average of the tests made at
Grafton showed just twice the illuminating
power of some of the Sydney gas; and so
far as heating is concerned there was not
another co. in N. S. Wales, so far as the
month’s tests went, whose gas was not ahead
of the statutory requirements. If the Law
doesn’t take notice of this, then it will be
scandalously unfair to prosecute the barrow-
man when his 16 bananas in a bag for six-
pence don’t tally more than 10.
From a Casualty Clearing Station: —
Last week we admitted our first Chinese, and the
list we’ve put through since we left Australia runs
to Australians (commonly known as “Diggers,”
“Ossies” or “Cobbers”), Maorilanders, Canadians.
Tommies, Indian troops, Gyppos, Maltese, Greeks,
Russians, S’Africans, a Fijian, an Australian abo.,
French, Belgian, Portuguese, and now Ah Too Soon.
But so far not a Yank has paid us the compliment
of being wounded near our station.
A fortnight ago two men, Jones and Brown, were
admitted, both unconscious, with head wounds.
Jones died the next day and was buried. Two days
later Smith regained consciousness and said he was
Jones. We doubted him, but a cobber from the
same battery backed him up. After a lot of bother
corrections were made, and everything was nicely
smoothed over, when he spoiled everything by dying.
The two had got mixed on the way to the station.
That’s how a man may have the pleasure of read-
ing his own obituary notice.
German respect for the Red Cross —pooh I A
British C.C.S. near us was bombed out a while ago,
25 being killed and 600-odd wounded. In the
same week we were bombed; that was when Sister
Rachel Pratt, of Melbourne, was wounded by a
fragment.
* * * *
“No. 2”: Let me introduce myself to
“Country Ped,” who feels proud when he
reads of the patriotic efforts of Vic. schools
he mentions. I have charge of Cope Cope,
also on the fringe of the Mallee —-average
attendance, 13; gross enrolment, 16. We
have contributed £97 to the Education
Department’s Fund, have purchased £l2O
worth of war certificates, have sent eight
cases of fruit, vegetables and comforts to
Caulfield Military Hospital, have made un-
told socks, scarves, shirts, bags and mittens;
have donated flowers, vegetables, etc., to
sundry private efforts; and the district’s
Billjims have 16 little cobbers who write
to them regularly. These are the personal
efforts of my little flock, and —well, I am
proud too.
* * * *
“Red Lamp”: Dysentery is going to give
trouble m Australia if somebody doesn’t look
out. There are two kinds of the disease —
one bacillary dysentery caused by a special
germ : the other, amoebic dysentery, produced
by a jelly-like dot of protoplasm. Both are
serious diseases, but the amoebic kind has the
unpleasant power of producing abscesses in
the liver long after the acute symptoms have
passed off. A proportion of convalescents
from dysentery of both kinds become carriers,
and are then able to infect others, although
they themselves are apparently quite well.
Bacillary dysentery has caused a big mor-
tality in the South Pacific and in Papua dur-
ing the last few years, and outbreaks have
occurred in the Torres Strait islands and
Northern Australia. Amoebic dysentery is,
so far, rare in Australia, but Australian
troops have been living in its very home in
Egypt and the neighborhood, so that it is
practically certain that we will get carriers
amongst the returning men. It is up to the
health authorities to look out for these dan-
gerous unfortunates after their return to
civil life. A dysentery-carrier working in
the kitchen of a big restaurant would be
NOT TO BECOME A HABIT.
“If you please, sir, I would like the day off to-morrow. I want to get married.”
“Very well, Webster, this time! But don’t let it occur again!”
something to shudder over. And people
appear to be at liberty to prepare the Aus-
tralian public’s food even if they have all the
plagues of Egypt inside them.
* * * #
“Copabella”: This is how we encourage
ourselves to become a nation. Left through
the death of his father with the responsi-
bility of 10 younger brothers and sisters,
and through drought and rabbits tipped off
the ancestral acres, a young Australian of
21 found he had to scratch as a boundary-
rider on a Riverina station. At 24 he was
overseer and confidential man, handling
hundreds of thousands of sheep and the same
number of pounds sterling per year. He
held the job seven years, winning golden
opinions, and, incidentally, a good salary.
When war broke out he tried to enlist, but
was rejected. All his eligible brothers went,
and lie in soldiers’ graves in France. His
mother’s comfort secured by the soldiers’
pensions and insurances, all his brothers
and sisters except the baby started in decent
jobs, he let his fancies lightly turn to
thoughts of love. He found the girl, got his
housekeeper-sister a fresh job, arranged his
wedding, and then told his owner of the
impending change in his affairs. He was
politely but firmly sacked! The owner (him-
self unmarried and not at the Front), while
admitting sorrow in the parting and the
manager’s excellent managerial qualities,
said he “objected to a married manager.”
The wedding is off, and Benedick is looking
for a job. Wasn’t there a Dr. Arthur want-
ing to do something for the encouragement
of race-propagation? That squatter’s
address is available at any time.
* * # *
Larrikinism is still cheap in Sydney. It
seems to be the only article that hasn’t gone
up in price because of the war. The other
day two hoodlums took it into their alleged
heads to batter a medical man whose only
offence was that he was waiting for one of
the Government’s unpaid-for tramcars in
Balmain. A third hoodlum held the doctor
and the episode was decorated with lan-
guage. The assault-and-language youths
were fined £4 and the other one 10s. Medi-
coes are harmless folk. They are called out
at all hours of the night, and have to give
long credit, and often they are not paid at
all, and if one of the clan doesn’t hasten to
the scene of action on foot when a tramway
striker’s wife has the stomach-ache he is
denounced for inhumanity. With cheap
assault added to his other troubles, it seems
that the profesh should be supplied with a
bulldog apiece out of loan funds.
* * * *
A casual gentleman who occurred in a
Melbourne court the other day took barely
one minute to preach Australia a solemn and
weighty sermon. It appeared that he hadn’t
contributed a penny to his wife’s support
for six months, and but little more for years
before that, and as he proposed to go “home
to mother,” in South America, shortly, the
lady wanted the moratorium put an end to
forthwith. In explanation the languid
defendant said he couldn’t make out what
his wife expected. She knew when she
married him that he had an allowance of
£2 per week from “his people”—which was
barely enough for his own needs —and that
he had never been brought up to work. Con-
sequently it was impossible for him to do
anything for her. The fatigued defendant
considered that a sufficient answer; it hadn’t
dawned on him that in a democratic coun-
try the habit of being brought up to work is
just as necessary as the habit of being
brought up to eat. Of course, it isn’t yet
too late to inculcate the former habit; but as
it is one of the “economies” no Australian
State has yet practised, the beaks merely
made the usual order and assured the wife,
when she blurted out “It’s no good to me if
he goes away,” that she must restrain her
feelings and show more respect to the Court.
PUTTING HIM IN HIS PLACE.
“Take an interest in ’sports’?”
“Oh, yes, but they’re all at the Front!”
SMALL TALK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
She had some knitting in her hand;
The evening it was still;
The wowsers danced upon the sand,
The goats upon the hill;
And far away a ragtime band
Played tunes I longed to kill.
She had nine lilies in her hair,
And love within her heart,
But nothing really fit to wear—
She was the usual tart;
And I had got no time to spare
(At eight my train would start).
She had nine lilies on her head —
A most important thing.
She said her parents both were dead,
She told me she could sing.
I could not count the things she said,
Not if I had to swing.
I talked of fish and red balloons,
Of gumboils and green tape;
1 babbled on re harvest moons.
My mouth quite lost its shape
As I discoursed of silver spoons
And habits of the ape.
I never knew I knew so much ,
Until I met that maid ;
Her influence on me was such
That I was not afraid
The robe of Eloquence to clutch
And leave my words unweighed.
I let my train escape; in short,
The 9.12 ass went by ;
I heard the 10.3 dragon snort;
The old moon glimmered high ;
The last balloon, as red as port,
Went sailing through the sky.
The band blew up, the tired moon set,
The goats fled from the hill;
The dancing wowsers, dripping wet,
Slunk home, as wowsers will.
I followed them, but oh, I bet
She's talking—talking still!
N.S.W.
KODAK.


ZANETIC entirely eliminates the danger of un-
readable copies. By using it in penduplicate books,
perfect, permanent pencopies are secured with un-
soiled originals. From stationers, or 5.8., Zanetic
Works, Leicester, England. [1
SOMEWHERE IN FRANCE. NURSE FRANCES, Y.A.D., writes of Clements Tonic.
The proprietors of one of the leading weekly newspapers, Wellington, N.Z., whose letter can be seen if necessary, writes:
“ Nurse Frances has just returned from the firing-line in France and used your Clements Tonic there. I’m sure her
testimony is of very great public value.” Njrse Frances herself writes; “1 should like to tell you how very
pleased 1 am with your Tonic as a nerve restorer. 1 have used it with very beneficial results. Several.of our
nurses in France have also proved its worth. 1 can highly recommend it to any one suffering from brain-fag.”
(Signed) (dl UAAi ) f.
Get Clements Tonic and get good health at the same time. It is invaluable for Anaemia, Nerve Breakdown and Loss of Sleep.
All Chemists and Stores sell it everywhere. It does good because it is good.
Clements Tonic L<td., Rozelle, N.S.W.
Dr. Arthur wants fresh air :
lie Bulletin par. suggesting that Victorian Educa-
tion Minister Baird might investigate the ventilation
in the public schools, I have been trying for years
to get some engineer or mechanic to devise an air
fan which shall be driven by some other motive-
power than electricity or water. Such a fan is
needed more than anything else in the little schools
of the burning Back Country. It is a well-estab-
lished scientific fact
that to produce a feel-
ing of comfort and
coolness the air must
be made to circulate.
It does not matter how
impure it is, as long as
you stir it up life will
be much more endur-
able in it than in the
purest air. It is im-
possible to imagine
ivhat these unfortunate
children suffer during
the long days, cooped
up in these school-
shanties of timber and
iron, while the atmo-
sphere vibrates with
the heat. Now, will
any reader who wishes
to be a permanent
benefactor of his
kind, and perhaps
make money also, in-
vent t h e driving
mechanism for such a
fan and get a model
prepared ? It m ust
have power and must
lie fairly cheap. Clock
work and heavy
weights which the
older boys could wind
up might be one way.
I will welcome com-
munications to Parlia-
ment House, Sydney.
“0.K.”: On this day of writing, the
doughy British Government is still shivering
on the brink of rationing; but it looks as
though circumstances will at last drive it in.
The “voluntary” system has failed in this
matter as in most others, and we are risking
defeat because we are up against a better-
disciplined nation which is not afraid to
adopt the other plan. With us the resources
of systematic economy are undeveloped.
Thusfar the waste of food in England is so
ridiculous that one wonders whether there
can be any genuine German belief, among
the initiated classes, in the probability of
Britain being reduced to starvation by sub-
marine methods. Take, for example, the
case of a collier’s wife at Coalville, fined £5
for wasting bread as recently as the last
week in October. A policeman said he found
over a dozen pounds of bread in Sarah
Cheney’s swill tub, besides several slices of
bacon. Defendant’s husband and three
young sons earned £ll weekly, and from one
baker 62 loaves of 21b. each were purchased
in three weeks. The bread consumption in
the Cheney family averaged 121 b. per person
every week in excess of the Food Controller’s
allowance. The Huns have been practising
economy for three years. Their sacrifices to
patriotism have been compulsory. They do
their best to win the war because their best
is required of them by the Government.
Gott and the Kaiser know whether the Huns
are near the limit of their endurance. But
it is clear that the British have vast reserves
of endurance which have not yet been called
upon. Whether this Government or any
Government is game to call upon those
reserves is another matter —and a horribly
disquieting reflection.
The Vic. Railways run cheap excursions
at holiday-time; but the idea of the Prahran-
Malvern municipal tramways is to get what
it can when it can. This policy of grab
created an uproar at Christmas-time, when
the gazettal of Christmas Eve gave the man-
agement the chance to double its fares as
permitted by law on the Sabbath and "all
public holidays.” Probably a couple of
thousand passengers struck during the day,
giving up their names and addresses as con-
scientious objectors. The Tramways Trust
can’t and won’t prosecute a tenth of these,
so the application of the surcharge comes
hardest on the little shop-flapper, going from
THE BED OF ROSES.
“She married a man with tons of money.”
“Yes. but he’s an awful pig.”
“Oh, well, you know, there’s always some-
thing.”
East Malvern to her long day’s toil behind
the counter in Chapel-street, with not enough
self-confidence to say right out that her
name’s Annie Smith, of 19 Mayblossom-road,
and she won’t put up with such a swindle.
Dear Old Paper, —Why did you gibe
(B. 3/1/T8) because 31/12/T7 was declared
an extra public holiday in N. S. Wales? The
idea obviously is that when any day is a
holiday the day before it shall be a holiday
also. Why not? In my opinion, rent day,
washing day and any day when the tempera-
ture rises above 90° should also be public
holidays.—Yours, etc., H.H.
The N. S. Wales Labor Department has
begun to do its job. The problem of unem-
ployment in Australia isn’t really a problem
of unemployment at all : it is merely a matter
of moving Smith from the job he has finished
or lost to another job that is waiting for him
somewhere else. This business ought to be
in the hands of the Commonwealth, for it
may happen that jobs may be scarce in
most parts of a small State, whereas they
never are scarce in all parts" of a continent.
However, N. S. Wales covers a wide enough
aera to make a reasonable success of a sys-
tem of labor exchanges, and these have now
been established as far north as Lismore
and as far west as Wagga. Last year they
received 26,024 apnlieations from men who
wanted jobs and 21,598 from other men who
wanted jobs done, and 14,944 vacancies were
filled. That probably represents about a
fifth or it may be only a tenth of the work
that is waiting to be^done; and the other
four-fifths (or nine-tenths, as the case may
he) will not be done until every man who
wants a job and every man who wants a job
done get the habit of telling the department,
and the department’s daily lists become as
familiar as the sunset. The whole com-
munity is horrified every few months on
reading that, during the last year or half-
year, 96,543 days of labor were lost through
strikes. It doesn’t raise an eyelash, how-
ever, over the 196,543 labor days that are
lost because Smith hasn’t got a job and
Brown wants a job done but doesn’t know
that Smith is waiting to do it.
A NON-UNION JOB.
THE INPORMANT: “Yes. she was painted by them — scabs, an’ the - didn’t know
’ow ter mix th’ paint.”
From “The Oldest Inhabitant” :
I wonder whether Matthew Henry Stepfien, for a
while our Chief Justice as his father was for many
years before him, will leave us his reflections on
men and matters. Few anywhere in any age have
lived in an atmosphere of law so long. As much as
65 years ago he had, for instance, the experience
which made him careful ever after to demand proofs
so conclusive that he was often a great nuisance to
Crown prosecutors. In that case he was junior to
John Bavley Darvall before Dickinson, J., at Darling-
hurst. In a large house in Woolloomooloo a Mrs.
Miles had in her service a young married woman,
Mary Ann Dunn, whose husband was absent on the
goldfields. One night Mrs. Miles was awakened by
screams, and downstairs the young woman was found
stabbed in many places; Her dying depositions were
taken by Dan Egan, then Mayor. About the same
time a burglary was committed in a house in Surry
Hills, some boots and wearing apparel being stolen.
In the gardens of John Baptist, at the far end of
Bourke-street (the Police Barracks now indicate the
site), a young man named James Brandon was em-
ployed ; he boarded and lodged at Baptist’s. The
attempted murder was the talk of the town, and
a room mate informed the police that Brandon hud
OUT OF THE FRYING-PAN.
“Bill’s the unluckiest man I know. He got
married to avoid Conscription, and now
there isn’t going to he Conscription.”
not slept in liis bed the night of the murder. He
was arrested, declined to say where he slept, and
was brought to the dying woman, who said that he
was “like the man.” The Inspector-General of
Police, Capt. MeLerie, was not satisfied and gave
Mrs. Dunn another view of Brandon. This time
she positively identified him. Mrs. Dunn lingered
some days, and on her death Brandon was sent for
trial. The defence by Darvall and Stephen was
simply “mistaken identity.” At the same sittings
Haggarty, a tieket-of-leave man, was convicted of
two burglaries and sentenced to 10 years. He was
found wearing a pair of boots stolen from the house
in Surry Hills, which the owner identified. In the
yard at Miles's was picked up a hat dropped by
Mrs. Dunn’s assailant, and this hat was identified
by the owner of the boots as being his. Darvall
insisted op Haggarty being placed in the dock along-
side Brandon. The resemblance one to the other
was so complete that the jury had no difficulty in
finding it a ease of mistaken identity. The Sydney
public erected a monument in Devonshire-street
cemetery over the grave of Mary Ann Dunn. It is
now at La Perou.se, but being in soft sandstone the
weather has completely wiped out the inscription.
* * * *
Heavily-censored letters from responsible
Australians who are prisoners in Germany
have been received during the last week or
two. As usual, the Censor’s brush is a
farcical implement, and with a little trouble
it has been possible to ascertain that what
the trustworthy Australians say is, in
effect, that they are being starved and
slaved, and that only the strongest and
luckiest of them can hope to pull through.
When a question of the mealy treatment of
Huns was recently raised in England, Lord
Newton told the House of Lords that four
times as many Huns were interned in Eng-
land as there were British prisoners in Ger-
many. But what is the good of that
superiority if the British Government allows
the Hun Government to bully it with threats
of “reprisals”? Britain holds four times as
many Hun prisoners as the Huns hold of
British prisoners, but the threats are all on
the side of the Power that has the less “re-
prisal” material to work on ; wherefore the
bluffing enemy continues to deride der
Britishers’ lack of backbone. When every
side of the situation is looked at and all the
facts are considered the German tone of con-
tempt seems essentially reasonable.
MY SHIP.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mv Ship of Thoughts is mooring
To Memory’s fragile pier,
And Time’s wild waves are roaring
Like music in my ear.
On old Time’s churned-up ocean
Come ships from Days-Gone-By,
With many a long-lost notion
To bring before my eye.
Shy Curl-Curl’s sunlit shingle.
And Bondi's beach-browned maids
Sail by and intermingle
With Lane Cove’s glens and glades
Then all the bays and islands
From Shark to Cockatoo,
Along with Mosman’s highlands,
Float by before my view.
I would my ship could bear me
To where my heart would be;
Then nought on earth could tear me
From Sydney by the sea.
BALUCHISTAN.
THE EXILE.
ECONOMIC WASTE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Professor Berry is telling them in Melbourne that
instruction in handling the human baby should be
made free, secular and compulsory. Every girl
before marrying' should qualify for the position of a
mother.
Went Mabel early to a school
Of do-mestic economy;
She’d learnt at seven every rule
For victualling the infantry—
How babe should sleep, and how to wind her
Wee, complicated flannel binder.
Mab picked up everything she could
Of giving babs its little bath,
And how to make her mild and good
Without the usage of a lath.
She knew how fell bronchitis seizes,
And all the nursery diseases.
And so at twenty Mab was filled
With schemes to give a baby ease;
She was almost divinely skilled
In all its small soul’s mysteries ;
And then she wed (unwisely maybe)—
Alas, she never had a baby 1
Now Mabel tosses up her nose
At baby science, if you please.
Such labor oft for nothing goes—
Why waste time on dubieties?
Her recipe is straight and able.
“First catch your heir!” says little Mabel.
VICTORIA.
D.


FOOD FOR THE EAGLE.


WINNIN’ THE WAR.


Public Notice.
NOTICE.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Re-
quired from Persons, etc., Insuring
with any Insurance Company not
Registered in New South Wales.
PURSUANT TO THE FIRE BRIGADES ACT 1909
AND THE FIRE BRIGADES AMENDMENT
ACT 1910.
A LL persons, firms, companies and associations being
owners, or agents for any goods or pro-
perty within the Sydney Fire District, and every
other Fire District in the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act 1909 and the Fire
Brigades Amendment Act 1910 have been applied, in
respect of which premiums are paid to an insurance
cofnpany not registered in the State, are hereby noti-
fied that they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales returns show-
ing the amount of such premiums paid by them i..
respect of the said property to such insurance com-
panies during the year 1917.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns is on
or before January 31, 1918; subject to a penalty
not exceeding £1 ner day for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the proportion
of the premium properly chargeable in respect of the
Fire Risk during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Acts.
By order of the Board of Fire Commissioners of
New South Wales. H. M. WEBB, Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
November 30, 1917.
vxc
Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing that you
are buying a Hat which represents maxi-
mum value and maintains its exceptional
VCaring qualities and good appearance to
the end by always asking for Woodrows.
Obtainable at YOUR Mercer's*
mt
/
LEWIS &
WIiITTY
makers!
P. , '.-VKJrx'
s
- >;
saSßsg
Mi
3j”“ ;u- .>:V3S^n£>« E^
s'-
fergc
:.?•!
s*S^flfeS
'■ [For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior, John
Barr and E. O’Ferrall, of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
Victoria Jubilee Technical Institute
(Central Technological Institute, Bombay Presidency),
Bombay, India.
Head of the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Physics.
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post
of Head of the Department of Elec-
trical Engineering and Physics of the
VICTORIA JUBILEE TECHNICAL IN-
STITUTE (Central Technological Institute,
Bombay Presidency). Engagement renew-
able every sixth year. Salary will com-
mence at Rs. 700. Further particulars may
be obtained from the Office of this Journal.
Applications should be made so as to reach
the undersigned on or before the 31st March,
1918.
The selected candidate will be required to
obtain a medical certificate of fitness for
work in India from a medical practitioner
selected by the Board.
D. E. WACHA,
Honorary Secretary of the Board of Trustees,
Victoria Jubilee Technical Institute
(Central Technological Institute),
Byculla, Bombay, India
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Melachrino
Cigarettes
AT ALL TOBACCONISTS
John Mark Davies, President of Vic. Ueg.
Council, has been knighted for his official
services to the cause of Fat. John Mark is
a brother of the late Matthew, the boomster,
who practically bought himself with ill-
gotten gold into the position of Speaker of
the Assembly. Both lawyer brothers arrived
at exalted Parliamentary positions and the
title of “Sir,” but did it in different ways.
Matthew boomed himself along; Mark
merely stodged. Each started his career on
wowser lines, Matthew being president of
the old unregenerate Y.M.C.Ai until the
scandal of his land-boom chicanery and the
revelations re the missing Mace tore his robe
of sanctity to tatters. Mark, who escaped
from the mire of those wild-cat times with
no serious loss of respectability, just stodged
along in a manner that fitted him for the
wig and gown of a Leg. Council President.
He took up the good work which William
Zeal and James Mcßain had carried on
before him. Humorlessness has been the
badge of all the tribe. Davies was as in-
capable of a joke as little wizened Zeal, and
Jamie Mcßain was more incapable of levity
than either.
This is the Scotchman’s turn. At just-on
86 old Simon Fraser is comforted with a
knighthood. Born at Picton, in Nova Scotia,
he came to Victoria in 1853. After a year
or two in Bendigo he returned to Melbourne
and opened a small store, trading in horses
and potatoes. His pile, however, was made
in railway contracting as a member of the
firm of Collier, Barry and Co. He got into
politics in 1874, and 20 years or so later,
having done nothing of any consequence in
the meantime, his friend David Syme pushed
him into the Federal Convention, where he
shone like a brick—good, honest building
material. It’s a weird business, this distri-
bution of titles.
Three of the principals in the Wando
Vale (Q.) charges of corruption which fell
flat only a few weeks ago have already gone
West —F. T. O’Connor, selector, Emerald;
P. T. Gannon, station agent, Hughenden;
and John May, M.L.A. It seems to be
almost as fatal as the old Dean case.
WAR-TIME ECONOMIES.
MISTRESS (to the new cook just arrived ):
“I may as well tell you now, Mary, this
is NOT a menagerie. And I could never
allow that dog about the house!”
MARY: “Oh, Vs all right, mum —’e saves no
end o' washin'-up.”
Back to Australia, Brig.-Gen. G. J. John-
ston, his chest aglitter—“ Colonel Jackson”
of Sydney de Loghe’s “Straits Impregnable.”
De imghe (otherwise Loch) was galloper to
Johnston’s push, the 2nd Field Artillery,
which landed the first gun on Gallipoli.
Johnston, who used to ride to hounds at
15st., is a hardy sport who refused to be
interviewed on his return, saying that he was
a simple gunner with no voters to worry
about. He is going back as soon as possible.
Most of the officers who landed on the Penin-
sula with him have won decorations or
immortality. De Loghe has enshrined a few
of them—“ Captain Yards” (now Lt.-Col.
C. G. N. Miles, D. 5.0.; “Lieutenant Hay”
(Captain G. L. Strachan, M.G.) ; “Lieuten-
f.ut Cliffe” (Major 11. Y. Gatliff, D.S.O. and
despatches, whose younger brother, Captain
Frank, has just been killed in action) ;
“Major Cannister” (Lieut.-Col. 11. O. Caddy,
D. ; “Lieutenant Sands” (Lt. S. T. W.
Goodwin) : and “Major Felix” (Lt.-Col. O.
F. Phillips, D. 5.0.).
Bananaland lost its most picturesque
politician when John May. M.L.A., was
mangled by a train at Eagle Junction the
other day. John was said to have belonged
to an old Kentish family and to have been
educated at Balliol, but he was a lot more
at home at Cloncurry. During the nine
years he represented Flinders he was a great
barracker for his electorate ; but he was un-
tamable. Last election Labor endorsed his
candidature only on his promise to behave;
but consequent on a Labor Council motion
of a couple of months ago, no endorsement
had been given him for the forthcoming
elections. During the recent session he de-
manded that magistrates should be
appointed for Camooweal, ns the local drunk-
and-disorderlies had to travel 200 miles to
the nearest magistrate, and this, added John
with dignity, “is a great inconvenience for
these gentlemen.” Several years ago he won
the Bananaland short-speech record with:
“Mr. Speaker, the motion’s a blanky blank,
and I'm going to vote against the blank.”
He was 72, but didn’t look it. He knew
most things about stock, and some of the
back country swore by him as a vet.
“Tom Collins’s” venerable mother just
failed to reach another Christmas —-and,
according to the family’s best reckoning,
that would have been her hundredth. The
old lady, whose name was Mrs. Judith Fur-
phy, died at Sandhills, Corop (Vic.). By
the way, a second edition of her late son's
“Such is Life” was made available on
December 18.
John Mark Davies, President of the Vic.
Legislative Council, has at last got his
K.C.M.G. He is the sixth President since
Responsible Government (1856), and each
has had a “handle.” The first two, Palmer
and Mitchell, had 14 years’ service each;
James Mcßain had eight; W. A. Zeal (who
resigned expecting to be made President of
the Senate) and H. J. Wrixon, nine; and
Davies seven.
Preached his last sermon, Canon Whyte,
who had been Anglican rector at Lismore
(N.S.W.) for 14 years. Whyte was born in
the Cold Country 62 years ago, but came to
Australia in 1886. Lately-deceased Bishop
Cooper took him from Ballarat and posted
him at Lismore, where he wore an arch-
deacon’s spats for some years. Sectarian-
ism flourishes in the Cow Country, but
Whyte wouldn’t play to that sort of gallery.
The local R.C.’s haven’t yet forgotten that
when the Lismore convent was burnt Whyte
turned his rectory over to the nuns until
suitable quarters of their own could be
found.
The s.s. Ready, 251 tons, trudged up the
Yarra during the Christmas holidays to dis-'
charge her S. Australian wheat. On her
bridge was a five-footer, Captain Marshall
Smith, who had been 70 years at sea. Now.
83, he scorns the brass-bound skipper’s rig,
and navigates in slouch hat and sac suit.
He has been 45 years in the coastal
trade, having arrived in charge of
the sailer J. 11. Hall in 1872. lie
put her in the coal-and-copper run
between Wallaroo and Newcastle,
until, sold for £7OOO, she degene-
rated into a hulk and was con-
demned. He afterwards com-
manded the Jean Bart, sold for
£5OO after stranding in Spencer’s
Gulf, re-floated and re-sold to a
German firm at a profit of £7OOO,
and captured by the British after
war broke out. Later she changed
hands once more for £23,000. As
a ’prentice, Smith helped to carry
supplies to the Crimea.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Apropos the
Melbourne Supreme Court librarian (B.
3/l/’18). In the late ’sixties, Fellows was
leading in an Appeal. On the other side
were Dick Ireland and Hickman Molesworth.
Fellows was sure that in such and such a
volume would be found a reported case to
support his argument. A messenger went
into the Library and asked for the volume.
The librarian hunted everywhere without
results. In despair he posted a notice asking
the borrower to return the book at once. The
Full Court decided against Fellows, in the
absence of his precedent. When Ireland -
rose to retire he handed young Molesworth
the wanted volume, with “Give that to
Fellows when I am gone.” He had been
sitting on the “case” all the time.
MICK PAUL, 241 George-street, Sydney.]
BIDING THEIR TIME.
“They seem to have made up their minds
that they will not go abroad under any
circumstances .”
“Oh, no, dear. They are willing to go in
case of invasion.”
“Nagheer” from the North:—
“McNorth’s” incidental reference to Frank Jardine
in his par. about the demolition of the old Resi-
dency at Somerset (B. 3/1/T8), gives me the chance
to thank God that Australia still has a few of the
men who made the country that the cold-footer lives
WHEN THEY GET MIXED.
THE DEAR LITTLE THING: “Worst of the
seaside, you never know whom you may
meet.”
THE CHARLIE CHAPLIN PERSON: “But most
girls like meeting new faces!”
THE DEAR LITTLE THING: “Yes, but — well,
it’s awkward sometimes if an old one
gets in with the new ones.”
in so happily. In 1866 Frank Jardine and his
brother Alick made their way overland from Rock-
hampton to Cape York with a mob of cattle for the
Somerset settlement, where their father was Police
Magistrate. For the last few hundred miles they
literally fought their way through hostile blacks —
and the black of those days was very different from
his degenerate descendants. After the settlement
was moved to Thursday Island, Frank Jardine re-
mained a( Somerset, and is still there after more
than 50 years. His record in the Straits is that of
a brave, honest gentleman who preferred adventure
and straight-going rather than money and business
success. Fortune was in his grasp many times in
earlier days, but he chose always to let others reap
where lie had sown and to seek fresh fields for him-
self. Strange adventures in uncharted seas, pearl-
ing, searches for wrecked gold, much fighting with
dangerous blacks and sometimes with even more
dangerous whites, the gallant rescue of the Quetta
survivors in the ’Bo’s, and many other stirring inci-
dents have filled his life. The story would make a
thrilling book, and it would be worth Australia’s
while to secure it before it is too late. If Jardine’s
diaries are still extant an endeavor should be made
to secure them as historical documents for the
Commonwealth Library.
Minister for Works Fraser, of Maoriland,
whose name is among the latest list of
knights, is made of good, hard-wearing stuff.
He is 77 —a spare little man
with wiry whiskers sticking out
sideways, and usually decorated
with a pipe thrust out in front
like a bowsprit. In spite of his
irascible temper and incurable
habit of saying “Oh, dammit,
No!” the M.L. Legislature has
known no more decent member
on the personal side and few of
whose honesty it was more cer-
tain. Born in India and edu-
cated in France, he arrived while
still a youth in the Windy Isles,
has been connected with public
affairs more or less continu-
ously ever since, and to his
credit is a long way from being
a rich man.
Two Ballarat School of Mines
men are doing their bit in a
technical way on munition
metals in the Cold Country.
Percy Marmion, who hails from
W.A., ife manager of a zinc
smelter in Wa'es —he studied at
Ballarat in the palmy days
around 1899. And O. E. Jager,
who lately resigned from Cerro
de Pasco, Peru, to go to Eng-
land to “help out,” appears on
the pay roll of a lead works “somewhere in
London” as assistant manager.
Died last week T. H. Ivey, who, joining the
Bank of N. S. Wales in Melbourne in 1862,
climbed up to be assistant general manager,
and after 50 years’ service retired in 1912.
He was 77 and a kindly old gentleman whom
all the staff had a good word for.
“KILLED IN ACTION.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He was my Absalom!
End, and beginning, and all was he;
Passing the rest he was dear to me
Whom he is taken from!
Yet there are things that a man must bear;
So, breaking the seal of the cruel slip
With its stabbing words, I fronted there
My women, with steady lip,
Stiffened my face when the wailing grew;
For weeping for women is well enough,
But a man, though his heart be riddled through,
Is woven of sterner stuff.
fortune of battle, as one might say—-
Well, the world goes round, and the old year flies....
And the dust that blows on the road to-day
Has reddened, too, my eyes.
Brusque, and a trifle late,
I was rising to leave for town,
When, in the stillness, the wife laid down
The message beside my plate.
Faith that was breaking, and drowning hope,
Fought with their fear in the women’s eyes;
Then, as I ripped at the envelope,
Died, as a spent flame dies—
Slipped to the void as the quenched day slips.
Little they needed my words unsaid,
Reading the' truth in my hardened lips
And my half-averted head.
And I—l would bear, from them here afar,
Such grief as the code of a man allows—
You know what the wavs of women are,
Crying about the house!
Thence are my lashes dry:
Seeing this son I sired and loved
Died as the call of his blood behoved,
Died as I’d have him die;
Better he went as good men go,
Ere his yellowing autumn of life began,
Than to mutter, and stiffen, and limp, and grow
To a grey, coarse-fibred man !
There is no thing more pitiful,
I hold it true, than a strong man spent,
Doddering down through a life-end dull
On the path of his ill-content.
Hard by the headland where first he fought
Hector of old and the men of Troy
Laughed to the challenge as brave men ought—-
’Twas so I would have my boy.
If, with his straight-set flanks
And his high-held herd, with never a hint
Of aught but the man in his clear eyes’ glint,
He were here, should I mumble thanks
For the son of my love and my youthful loins?
Ah, maybe yes, for the blood will speak ;
In a father’s heart there are shadowed coigns,
Vnd an old man’s soul is weak !
v ct I shall brave—he would have me so !
The scourging of sorrow that whips and sears,
Nor humble my neck to a puling woe
And a woman’s way of tears.
Fortune of war Will the West bring rain?
How the stems show brown where the rank grass
grew !
The dust that has risen along the plain
Has reddened my eyelids, too!
VICTORIA.
J. ALEX. ALLAN.


ililSil!!!!'!
'
o
I
if
BU
Hi
PENMANT
D
D
*
A
Manufactured Expressly for
CIGARETTE and
PIPE SMOKING
from FINEST VIRGINIA LEAF
By
W.D.& H. O.WILLS
(AUSTRALIA) UP SYDNEY.
THE LAST WORD IN
PIPES
LMN
400
m
LMN
■
fV ery P'P e Quara 'nee <l


BRITISH OWNED AND CONTROLLED.
The Broken Hill Associated
Smelters Pty., Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: COLLINS HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
H. L. SHACKELL, Secretary.
SMELTING WORKS: Port Pirie, South Australia.
COKE WORKS: Bellambi, N.S.W.
BRANCH OFFICES—
LONDON: 8-9 Austin Friars, E.C. 2. ADELAIDE: 62 Brookman’S Building
SYDNEY: 25 O’Connell Street.
PRODUCERS OF
Soft Pig Lead
Corroding Dead
Antimonial Dead
Assay Dead (Bar and Granulated)
Refined Silver (Bar and Granulated)
Lino Metal, Litharge,
Spelter, Zinc Dust,
Antifriction Metal Registered
buyers on a specially favorable
tariff of—
Silicious Silver-Lead Ores
Calamine Ores (High Grade)
Slags, etc., containing gold, silver, or lead
JBHAS
Lead Drosses, etc
Brand.
ALL INQUIRIES TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE SECRETARY.
The Roof of Iron or tha Roof of “ADAMAX”—
Which is it to be ? Iron is costly, rusts and decays.
"ADAMAX ** ASPHALTUM ROOFING
Neither Rusts, Rots nor Decays, and is Fire-safe and Acid-proof. Tt
.costs two-thirds the price of Iron, is more easily and quickly laid, and h
cuts BjO% off freight charges. Write now for the “Adamax” booklet and samples.
WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth & Adelaide.
v
“ THE STEEL OF THE FUTURE.”
Steel Castings for Mines
TRUCK WHEELS. HAULAGE ROLLERS. ROPE PULLEYS.
PINIONS & GEARS. ROPE CLIPS.
Our 12in. dia. Truck Wheels weigh 281 b.
Under Test they Withstand 19 Tons on the Tread before fracture.
Australian Electric Steel Ltd.,
ALEXANDRIA, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The National Mutual Life Associa-
tion of Australasia :
Ex- Writ- Added
Sept., Income. Claims. penses. ten Off. Funds.
1905.. £762,906'£361,053 £138,370 £963 £262,520
1906.. 824,524 395,733 145,836 283,055
1907.. 898,253 374,809 157.512 1993 363.939
1908.. 970,611 407,168 162,342 4691 396,410
1909.. 1,043,801 449,95" 157,147 427 436,270
1910.. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
1911.. 1,198,148 514,596 176.344 4744 502,464
1912.. 1,284,304 520,249 174,664 2016 587,435
1913.. 1,395,866 511,045 175,031 709.790
1914.. 1,479,109 591,062 177,491 710,556
1915.. 1,555.268 697.173 165.655 .-r- «•>•> ' '•/>
1916.. 1,663,128 763,001 168,805 751,322
1917.. 1,770,371 846,497 182,271 )4i,0u3
Go back 10 years and you will find that the
income was almost exactly half of what it
was last year. This means that in 10 years
the society has added to its annual income
an amount equal to the total income at the
end of its first 38 years of life. And yet the
National Mutual isn’t one of those offices
which pride themselves on every year getting
10 or 20 p.c. more new business than they got
the year before. As a matter of fact, in
1907 it issued 11,909 new policies assuring
£3,080,128, whereas last year the total of new
policies was only 10,930, though they were
for £3,505,162, or an average of nearly £7O
more. The truth is that, though quite alive,
the society does not force the pace; it is
pretty clearly aiming nowadays at making
its bonuses more attractive, and that can
only bo done by a steady reduction of the
expense rate, coupled, of course, with conser-
vative management in the matter of risks
and investments. That it commands a good
class of business is plain enough from the
persistence of its policies. Renewal pre-
miums in 1907 were £532,740; last year they
were £1,103,351, an average annual increase,
that is, of £57,061, although the new busi-
ness written each year has averaged only
about £120,000, and the loss of premiums
last year, through policies maturing,
amounted to probably something like £30,000
or £35,000. Even these figures indicate
heavy losses through lapses, but not nearly
so heavy as most offices would show if they
were as frank about the business they lose
as they are about the business, they get.
A result of the steady accumulation of
funds, and therefore the steady increase in
interest earnings, has been a rapid improve-
ment in the expense rate in proportion to
the income. This shows the figures for some
years past:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1905.. £lB 2 9 p.c. 1913. .£l2 10 9 p.c.
1907.. 17 12 11 „ 1914.. 12 0 0 „
1910.. 15 0 3 „ 1915.. 10 13 0 „
1911.. 14 14 4 „ 1916.. 10 3 0 „
1912.. 13 11 11 „ 1917.. 10 5 11 „
But the improvement in interest earnings is
not wholly responsible for the shrinking of
these expense figures. This can be tested in
several ways. Assume that the old or
renewal business costs 7 p.c. of the premiums
and that single premium (mostly annuity)
business costs 3 p.c.; then the balance of the
exes, may be taken to be the cost of the new
business. On that basis of calculation we
get these results: —
Exes. N pw
Chargeable Business
New to New Expense
Sept., Business. Business. Rate.
1900 .. £40,939 £64,767 158.2 p.c.
1910 .. 114,195 119.426 104.6 ~
1914 . . 121,015 112,577 * 93.2 „
1915 .. 118,357 97,229 82.1 ~
1916 . . 126,850 96,229 75.8 „
1917 . . 134,198 105,278 78.4 ~
But probably it isn’t the new business that
has cost so very much less. The old or
renewal business is being much more cheaply
managed. As a matter of fact, no doubt on
account of the increased cost of living, the
actual commission paid on new business is
h'gher than it was a few years ago, but
travelling exes, are less. In 1907 the
society wrote new business producing
£110,071 of annual premiums (exclusive of
a trifle of annuity business), and the com-
mission paid on new premiums was £47.744
plus £26,846 of travelling exes.; total,
£74,590, eciual to 67.7 p.c. For the past year
the new business written produces an
annual revenue of £140,672; commission
amounted to £66,512 and travelling exes.
£11,816; total £78,328, equal to 55.9 p.c. A
big gain is shown in expenses of manage-
ment. Ten years ago these amounted to
£52,099 on a total income of £898.253, or
5.8 p.c. Last year they were £69,506 on a
total income of £1,770.371, or 3.9 p.c. The
office has also gone further than any other
of the first-class in cutting out medical-
examination exes.:—
Proportion op Medical Exes, to New Premiums.
New Medical
Premiums. Exes.
1903 .. £68,456 £7503 10.9 p.c.
1912 . . 120,518 7265 6.0 „
1913 . . 122,897 6737 5.4 „
1914 .. 121,015 6241 5.1 „
1916 .. 118,357 5091 4.3 „
1916 . . 126,850 5463 4.3 „
1917 .. 134,198 6134 4.6 „
After 12 years’ experience the actuary re-
ported that “the ratio of actual to expected
claims under proposals so accepted l without
medical examination] has throughout not
exceeded the ratio of the total business.”
Meantime, while the society has been
earning more profits for its policy-holders
by reducing the expense rate, it has added
a bit by earning a trifle more interest
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1900.. £4 13 2 p.c. 1915.. £4 17 2 p.c.
1910.. 4 12 3 „ 1916.. 4 17 8 „
1914.. 4 16 8 „ 1917.. 4 17 3 „
But actually the improvement has been con-
siderably better than that, because these
figures are net, after deducting rates and
taxes; and rates and taxes are steadily get-
ting larger: 1915, £17,068; 1916, £22,337;
3917. £29,474. Ten years ago they were
£7695. The improvement in the net earn-
ings has, moreover, been coincident with a
striking increase in the quality of the
securities. This comparison shows, in broad
divisions, the nature of the assets: —
1900. 1910. 1915. 1917.
Public securities 3.4 p.c. 5.1 p.c. 8.9 p.c. 16.5 p.c.
Mortgages . . 50.5 „ 55.1 ~ 58.7 ~ 54.8 ~
Foreclosures . . 4.4 „ 1.3 ~ 0.5 „ 0.5 ~
Freeholds . . 12.7 „ 12.8 „ 9.2 „ 8.2 „
Loans on policies 14.3 ~ 9.8 ~ 9.4 „ 9.1 „
Other assets . . 14.7 „ 15.9 „ 13.3 „ 10.9 „
In the past two years £1,486,000 has been
added to the gross assets, and £955 000 of it
has gone into Government securities, pre-
sumably War Loans. It should have been
more.
The effect of the war is shown in the
claims. In 1914 they amounted to almost
exactly 30 p.c. of the total income. In the
past year they were nearly 48 p.c. And,
most unfortunately from an insurance point
of view, the claims were in respect of com-
paratively young policies. The effect will
be to cut into profits available for distribu-
tion as bonuses among the survivors. But
the survivor who grumbles at that, in view
of the circumstances, hardly deserves to be
one.
The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank:—
Net Profits on
Busi- Repurchase
ness of Old Written Re-
Profits. Deposits. Dividends. Off. serves.
June, £ £ . £ £ £
1905.. 48,348 1527 4 n.c. = 21.578 85.991 145,709
1906.. 48,667 1797 41 „ „ 24,275 8,990 162,908
1907.. 58,324 659 5 „ „ 26,972 8,750 186,169
1908.. 61,784 599 5 „ „ 26,972 19,590 201,990
1909.. 62,194 937 6 „ „ 32,366 9,928 222,827
1910.. 71,878 1211 6 „ „ 32,366 22,000 241,550
1911.. 76,180 711 7 „ „ 37,761 21,500 259.180
1912.. 93,381 1413 8 „ „ 43,155 14,000 296,819
1913. .107,694 1315 8 „ „ 43,155 15,700 346.973
1914. .118,036 1315 8 ~,, 43,155 15,700 407.469
1915.. 97,685 2215 8 „ „ 43,155 16,600 447,614
1916. .108,196 2615 8 „„ 45,155 17,000 .498,270
1917. .107,917 3615 8 „ „ 43,155 18,000 548,647
If you don’t want to have contempt for
Federal politicians, don’t compare the ex-
periences of English and Australian banks
and other trading concerns. Australian
banks so far show very little extra payment
on account of taxation. This country is sell-
ing Jno. Bull its wool, meat, metals, etc., at
war prices, and getting payment in many
cases long before delivery is made; yet
instead of meeting a decent proportion of the
war expenditure out of taxation, it is bor-
rowing practically the lot. Down to 1916
the E., S. and A., which has its headquarters
in London, did not show its income and other
tax payments apart from other outgoings.
But you can get a pretty good idea of what
has happened. In the year ended June 30,
1914, “Expenses of management in London
and Australia, including income tax, etc..”
were £162.825. Last year expenses exclud-
ing taxes were £176 596; and taxes, which
were £56,068 in 1915, had moved up still
further to £73.796. As nearly as can be
estimated this bank is now paying £60,000 a
year in special war taxation. If it were an
Australian bank it would not thus far have
paid more than £15.000. Yet Australia, as said
before, is the country to which poor old Jno.
Bull is paying millions upon millions for
products bought at war prices. To no coun-
try in the world should the financing of the
war be so easy ; to none should payment of
so large a oroportion out of current taxes be
possible. It is quite safe to say that, on the
contrary, no country is piling up so large a
debt in proportion to the number of men in
the field: and the whole explanation is that
the people have permitted the reins to fall
into the hands of adventurers who are pre-
pared to do anything, to offer almost any
bribe, in order to remain in office.
But though the E.. S. ard A. is paying out
so much in English war taxes, its gross
profits have also increased so much, mainly
through the enormous growth of war credits,
that net profits are still very nearly as good
as they were just prior to the war. Gross
profit last year, after making provision for
contingencies, was £360,784; in the year
before the war it was £285,861. Circum-
stances have favored this bank. When the
boom of the early ’nineties burst it had to
ask for time to pay its depositors ; and in the
final arrangement the deposits were repre-
sented by four lots of paper, each equivalent
to approximately one-fourth of the debt.
Only one lot was terminable: these were got
rid of long ago. The others are interminable
except that, as to deferred stock, one-fourth
of the annual profits remaining after various
payments have been made must be devoted
to repurchase at market rates. For several
years past £14,385 has been annually set
aside for this purpose; and the table at the
top of these remarks shows the profit which
has been made year by year on the repur-
chase transaction. In 1913 the £14,385
bought £15,700 of the stock; 1914. £15,700;
1915. £16,600; 1916, £17,000; 191.7, £lB,OOO.
As this stock is bought and cancelled a cor-
responding amount is written off premises
account, which has been thereby reduced to
£251,707. The effect, of course, is to leave
the money in the business; it is really
accumulating as an inner reserve. The next
table shows how the old debt now stands;—
1896. 1910. 1915. 1917.
Debenture
stock ..£983,547 £983,547 £983,547 £983,547
Terminable
receipts 891,454 Nil Nil Nil
Pref. insc.
stock .. 889,419 889,419 889,419 889,419
Deferred
stock . . 808,758 759,500 686,000 651,000
£3,573,178 £2,632,466 £2,558,966 £2,523,966
The debenture and pref. stock carry 4 p.c.;
the deferred stock 3 p.c. with an extra 1}
p.c. when profits permit, which in practice
is always. So the E., S. and A. has what
amounts to a pref. capital of two and a half
millions at a shade over 4 p.c., which is ex-
ceptionally cheap money as things have
turned out.
With a capital of £539,437, visible reserves
which are now just in excess of that amount
and 2} millions of money fixed in the busi-
ness, it isn’t surprising that the E., S. and
A. has steadily become more popular with
the depositor. This shows that feature
among others: —
Liabilities.
1914. 1916. 1917.
Notes' £2,756 £1,873 £1,742
Bills, etc. . . . . 549,546 625,107 998,993
Old debt . . . . 2,575,566 2,541,966 2,523,966
Deposits at interest 3,816,818 4,170,605 4,848,251
Free deposits . . 3,041,110 3,494,882 4,311,068
Assets.
Liquid assets . . 4,206,486 4.381,460 7,455,266
Premises .. .. 300,029 269,256 251,707
Advances . . . . 6,452,765 7,243,002 6.086.711
Apart from the old fixed debt the bank thus
owes £10,160.000; and it has no less than
£7,455,266 liquid and semi-liquid, with
£6,338,418 in other forms ; and no reasonable
depositor can want anything better than
that. The E., S. and A. has, in fact, the
foundations for a very big business. It pro-
bably needs a borrowing connection as much
as anything; and in that respect it is no
doubt handicapped by the fact that it has
not only no directors in Australia, but very
few shareholders to use their influence on
its behalf.
The Electric Light and Power Supply
Corporation, Ltd. (Sydney), which started
in 1908 with a deficit of £9876, representing
Parliamentary rights and other preliminary
exes.: —
Profit. Dividends. Written Off. Deficit.
Dec., 1910.. £1,104 —— £530 £11,652
June, 1911.. 1,406 5 p.c. = £1075 531 11,852
Dec., 1911.. 2,321 5 „ „ 1075 680 11,286
June, 1912.. 3,255 7 „ „ 1505 1164 10,700
Dec., 1912.. 3,158 7 „ „ 1505 1000 10,047
Debenture capital exes., £527. . 10,574
Apl., 1913.. 2,666 7 p.c. = 1003 840 9,751
Debenture capital exes., £lO9. . 9,860
Dec., 1913.. 7,020 Nil 3340 6,180
Debenture capital exes., £7531 13,711
June, 1914.. 4,429 7 p.c. = 1795 3000 14,077
Oct., 1914.. 4,795 7 „ „ 1588 10,870
Debenture conversion exes., £504 11,374
Apl., 1915.. 8,826 7 p.c. = 4409 5300 12,257
Oct., 1915.. 11,628 8 „ „ 5776 3500 9,905
Apl., 1916.. 9,523 8 „ „ 6177 4000 10,559
Oct., 1916.. 14,132 8 „ „ 6602 4280 7,309
Anl., 1917.. 11,174 8 „ „ 7405 4929 8,469
Oct., 1917.. 15,226 8 „ „ 8168 5100 6,511
Balmain helped this co. to get a bill through
Parliament in return for an undertaking to
consume the dingy, clattering waterside
suburb’s dead-cat and other garbage ; and from
Balmain the co. has spread over half the
western suburbs, making long contracts with
the local municipal councils, mostly under-
taking to do as well for them as the Electric
Light Department of the Sydney City Coun-
cil is doing at the same time for its cus-
tomers. As the Sydney City Council isn’t
out after profits, the undertaking will mili-
tate against big dividends so far as this co.
is concerned. Shareholders will have to
depend mainly on organisation and other
evidences of good management. In that
matter they have the very valuable help of
Charles Oliver as chairman—the Charles
Oliver who was formerly Chief Railway
Commissioner in N. S. Wales, and who pro-
bably would have been still in that office if
he had been pliable enough.
Starting with a small share capital—for
some time £50,000 or under —the co. soon
found that it could do with a lot more money,
and as it hadn’t yet got to the money-
making stage it had to pay 7 p.c. for a
second lot of debentures —it already had
£50,000 carrying 5 p.c. The holders of
these second debentures were offered the
right to convert into shares; and the option
has been exercised in respect to all but
£lO,BOO. By_ this conversion and by new
issues the share capital has been increased
to £249,200: but only 10s. on the last issue
of 60,000 shares has thusfar been called up.
There is still plenty of construction work to
do; and when it becomes possible to buy
materials there will be plenty of use for the
bit of uncalled capital, and no doubt also for
the 60,000 shares authorised but unissued.
At present the financial position is easy
enough. On October 30 liabilities totalled
£7200. while cash and liquid items amounted
to £33,909.
Whether there is a wide or only a very
moderate margin between the profit and the
S p.c. dividend depends wholly on what is a
fair thing to put aside for repairs and re-
newals of plant. As shown above, for the
past year £5lOO is reserved for depreciation ;
and as that isn’t equal to 1 p.c. on buildings
and 2 p.c. on plant, mains and tools, it
doesn’t look at all adequate. If 1 p.c. is
written off buildings, 7 p.c. off plant. 2 p.c.
off mains, services and meters, and 124 p.c.
off tools, the amount called for would be
£9556. Last year, when the results were
better than usual, there was only about
£7OOO in excess of the dividends. In the
circumstances it is doubtful whether the
profit justifies the 8 p.c.
The Bellambi Coat. Co. (N.S.W.) :
To Re- Re-
Aug., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1907.. 174 p.c. = .630,625 £77,351
£25,000 transferred to capital .. 52,351
1908. . £01,936 17} p.c. = 35,000 £26,930 79,287
1909.. 53,879 15 „ „ 36,250 17,629 96,916
1910.. 57,345 124 „ „ 31,250 20,095 123,011
1911.. 73,961 174 „ „ 43,750 30,211 153,222
1912.. 61.028 17| ~ „ 43,750 17,278 170,500
£150,000 transferred to capital .. 20,500
1913.. 48,770 10 p.c. = 40,000 8,770 29,270
1914.. 53,180 10 ~ ~ 40,000 13,180 42,450
1915.. 37,268 5 „ „ 20,000 17,268 59,718
1916.. 33,910 5 „ 20,000 13,910 73,628
1917.. 54,724 74 „ .. 30,000 24,724 98,352
The profits for the past two years of this
highly-successful N. S. Wales South Coast
colliery include the profits made on the sale
of two of its steamers. The Southern and
Northern fields depend a lot on overseas
trade, consequently scarcity of foreign shin-
ping on the Australian coast made this dif-
ference in the N. S. Wales coal trade in two
years:—
Export to Export to
Foreign Other Home Con-
Output. Ports. States. sumption.
1914. .10,390,622 tons 31.63 p.c. 24.85 p.c. 43.52 p.c.
1916.. 8,127.161 „ 15.14 „ 27.12 „ 57.74 ~
The Bellambi co.’s head office is in Scottish
House, Melbourne, and its very Scawtch
directorate included two shipping hard-head:’
from the Burns, Philp stable —Col. Jame;/
himself and the just-dead Adam Forsyth.
In view of the abnormal trading conditions
—though with its splendid bunkering coal
it is probable the Bellambi co. has not been
affected to the same degree as other collieries
—and also in view of the enormously en-
hanced value of steamers, the directors
decided to sell two of the co.’s colliers.
Late in 1915 the Malachite realised £2500
more than its book value, and during the
past year the sale of the s.s. Bellambi re-
sulted in a further profit of £16,350. Even
then, the balance of profit did not all come
from the hewing of coal. Look at this
table: —
1905. 1910. 1915. 1917.
Liabilities.. ..£39,445 £12,017 £30,947 £24,404
Assets—
Mines, plant,
steamers . . 209,345 265,069 289,177 267,984
Stores and stock 4,591 7,334 12,809 11.254
Liquid assets 55,183 131,375 198,680 263,518
Of those liquid assets, over £208,000 is in
public securities, and a further £25 000 is in
Australian Gas and Orient Steam deben-
tures. A net return of. say, 4| p.c. p.a. on
these investments yields almost £lO,OOO :
and on that basis the past year’s profit
from the mine, after allowing for deprecia-
tion. would be something over £28,000.
which means a return of about 10 p.c. on
the money invested in the mine, plant, etc.
The history of the Bellambi co. is brilliant
alongside that of most other collieries. A
couple of years before the first table begins,
when the co. was paying a dividend of 171
p.c. p.a., 50,000 shares were issued to
holders at par, and £25,000 of reserves were
capitalised; and since then a further
£175,000 has been transferred to capital
from reserves. In the past seven years,
liquid assets in excess of liabilities have
increased from £126,692 to £250,368. So.


xcv
Westinghouse Horizontal
Gas and Oil Engines
offer an economical solution to the medium and small power problem.
They give highly satisfactory service in driving generators for small
electric lighting'installations, industrial and agricultural machinery,
etc. Reliability, economy, simplicity and durability are the features
that have been aimed at and obtained, as proved by the large number
now giving efficient service in all parts of the world.
Ask for
literature from
in
use
Manchester
Head Office for Australia:
Queensland Building, 84, William Street, Melbourne.
Works,:. .TraHord, .Park, lll Maiteh®.ster... i^j (l i aiid..
The General Electric Company has developed and
standardised a mine type of Induction Motor, which
fills the demand for a motor of more rugged mechani-
cal construction than the standard line of induction
motors. These are designed for heavy-duty motor
applications. Write to the Australian General Elec-
tric Company, Sydney and Melbourne, for particu-
lars.— Advt.
* * * *
Follow the lead of experienced men. Alumino-
ferric is used by the N.S.W. Public Works Department,
Sydney Metropolitan, Newcastle and Hunter River
Water Boards, Ardlethan Mines, graziers, etc., for
precipitating impurities and clarifying water in
reservoirs, dams, etc. One pound clarifies 2000/3000
gallons of the most turbid water within three hours.
It is exceedingly cheap, and harmless for either
drinking or boiler water, and is used throughout
Australia. Water is a valuable asset in summer
weather for drinking, concentrating or boiler pur-
poses. Why not use Aluminoferric and have it
clear and crystalline? Sole Agents: Wm. Adams & Co.,
Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Perth. — Advt.
Concentrating machinery for all classes of minerals
can be made locally just as well as they can be
imported from abroad. The Austral Otis Engineer-
ing Company, of Melbourne, specialise in all
machinery for the mill, including crushers, rolls,
grinding pans, tube mills, concentrating tables,
flotation plants, ore samplers, etc. They have
installed numbers of plants in Australia and outside
it, and are always ready to give information on
machinery for milling.— Advt. [4
It has proved its worth for all purposes where
light, strong, durable pipe is required. Pioneer
Wood Pipe, the ideal pressure pipe. Send for illus-
trated catalogue, free upon application. The Aus-
tralian Wood Pipe Company, Limited (head office),
Burns Bay Road (near Fig Tree Bridge), Lane Cove,
N.S.W. Post Office Address, Box 1576 G.P.0.,
Sydney. Contractors to all State Governments.
Factories: Lane Cove River. N.S.W.; Footscray, Vic.;
and Port Adelaide, S.A. — Advt.
Patents. —Have you an idea worth patenting? If
so, write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent
Attorneys, for information. Address, 77 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney, and 383 Flinders Lane, Melb. — Advt.
* * * *
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Head Office, Sydney.
Earth-handling Machinery: Road Graders, Scoops and
Ploughs. Concrete-mixing Machinery: The famous
“Austin” Cube Concrete Mixers in different sizes and
capacities. “Robey” Portable Steam Engines, 8,
14 and 16 nom.-h.p. “National” Gas, Oil and Petrol
Engines. “Leplastrier” “Quickset” Pipe Moulds and
Collapsible Moulds for Concrete Culverts. Queens-
land inquiries to The Australian Machinery Co.
Ltd., Charlotte Street, Brisbane. — Advt.
IDEAS. —Commonwealth and Foreign Patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne, and Adelaide. Thirty years' practice. Write
us for Inventors’ Guide.— Advt.
* * * *
Laboratory Glassware and Apparatus, Assay
Requisites, School Supplies, Ainsworth’s & Oertling's
Balances, Weights, Morgan's Crucibles, Braun’s
Sample Crushers. Furnaces, Pure Chemicals, at
lowest rates. Call or write for particulars. H. B.
Selby & Co., Ltd., 8’ O’Connell Street, Sydney; and
443 Bourke Street, Melbourne.— Advt.
t
(a e^Ktiov
Fire, Marine,
Accident,
Live Stock.
Insure in
1.0. A.
The INSURANCE CFFICE
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Authorised Capital .. £250,000
Subscribed Capital .. 194,235
Paid-un Capital .. .. 96,165/6/6
Cross Premium Income 187,940
Established 1910.
AGENTS WANTED.
Branches in every State.
Write for particulars.
W. U. CAVE, General Manager,
263 George Street, Sydney.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Oua/ity throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.,
MINE OWNERS IRON 8 STEEL MASTERS.
Manufacturers of Pig Iron, Billets, Blooms, Steel Rails,
Structural Steel, Sulphate of Ammonia, etc.
BRANCH OFFICES:
LONDON—3 Great Winchester Street, E.C. ADELAIDE-75 King William Street.
SYDNEY—2S O’Connell Street.
HEAD OFFlCE—Equitable Building, Collins Street, Melbourne.
after paying a handsome dividend, the sur-
plus of liquid assets has increased by
£123,676, while nearly £3OOO net has been
added to the co.’s well-written-down fixed
assets. But this must not be regarded as so
much surplus profit, because there is now
only a big hole where once there
was coal, and that coal represented
part of the co.’s capital. True, the
co. has a very large area of coal land —
about 20,000 acres —and investors are en-
titled to remember that a year’s work doesn’t
take a big scallop out of it. On the other
hand they can’t forget either that the trading
profit for the past four years is, so far as one
can figure it, quite a third less than for the
four years prior to 1912.
Mount Morgan Gold Mining Co. (Q.) :
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
May, 1910.. £1,079,914 £721,722 £358,192
Nov., 1910.. 484,755 408,450 76,305
May, 1911.. 468,538 350,867 117,671
Nov., 1911.. 452,336 381,730 70,606
Mav, 1912.. 537,378 349.985 187,393
Nov., 1912.. 640,712 387,585 253,127
May, 1913.. 499,317 351,314 148,003
Nov., 1913.. 496,936 351,973 144,963
May, 1914.. 459,606 328,217 131,389
Nov., 1914.. 502,382 438,546 63,836
May, 1915.. '503,018 400,215 102,803
Nov., 1915.. 647.038 478,395 168,643
May, 1916.. 617,754 499,616 118,138
Nov., 1916.. 643,990 502,475 141,515
May, 1917.. 657,387 489,697 167,690
Nov., 1917.. 625,161 500,317 124,844
The last two half-years have benefited by
tlie sale of metal previously produced and
disposed of at higher prices than the accounts
took credit for. In the half to the end of
May 797 tons copper were thus sold at a
profit of £59 Bs. 7d. per ton, equal to
£47,400, less realisation and shipping
charges. In the past half 525 tons were
sold at a profit of £63 2s. Id., equal to
£33,100, also less realisation and shipping
charges. The May half thus gave for its
own production a profit of £134,590, and
the past half a profit of £91,716 —or actu-
ally in each case a bit more, since the sur-
plus realisations have been reckoned gross.
In the former half £20,163 was written off
to cover depreciation and £20,422 was pro-
vided for income tax; in the past half-year
£19,661 was struck off for depreciation and
income tax took £5161. Relatively, there-
fore, the past half was much less profitable
than appears from the table, notwithstand-
ing that 180,008 tons were mined in the last
as against 144,453 tons in the earlier half.
The outstanding feature of Mt. Morgan
accounts is still the very high cost of pro-
duction. The copper recovered, including
a negligible quantity from purchased ore,
was 41131) tons; of gold, 48,0810 z. The
cost of production—apart from depreciation,
development, management exes, and income
tax and insurance—was £462,379. Deduct
£195,000, the approximate value of the gold,
and you have £267,379 to be carried by the
copper, or an almost exact £65 per ton. To
that must be added £37,938 for depreciation
(which simply means plant-renewal) and
general exes., equal to another £9 per ton.
Thus at last half-year’s costs the co. could
not produce copper, working the mine as it
did last half-year, for less than £74 per ton. To
that must be added cost of refining and ship-
ping to Sydney. For that, apparently, about
£l2 per ton must be added, which would
bring the total to £B6 per ton, f.o.b. Syd-
ney. This appears to be rather under than
over the mark. Of the copper shipped last
half-year 1399 tons brought £llB 2s. Sydney
and 3239 tons brought £ll6 13s. Sydney.
Assuming that all the half-year’s profit was
got from the half-year’s output, it was equal
to only £3O 7s. per ton; and that would
bring the total costs, landed in Sydney, up
to over £B6 per ton. With ordinary market
conditions this means that Mt. Morgan
could not possibly keep going. In that re-
spect, however, it doesn’t differ from any
other copper-mine of any size in Queens-
land. And the costs are still on the up-
grade. During the half-year the State
Arbitration Court, “although, after care-
fully considering the evidence, the presiding
Judge stated that an increase in the basic
wage was not warranted,” granted a war-
bonus of 6d., which on appeal was increased
to lOd. “The total effect of the bonus, plus
this added award, is an increase in our wage
cost of £25.000 per annum.” At present the
co. can do it all right. During last year
it paid five dividends of £50.000 each —
£250,000. But it will be unexpected good
fortune if trouble can be avoided when the
present war-prices of copper are over. This
seems dead-sure: costs will not fall as
rapidly as market prices. Which is another
way of saying that, unless other economies
can be made, profits will slump. In many
cases they will disappear.
On tonnage the past half-year’s costs are
very little different from those of the pre-
vious year. Working costs then were 51s.
and exes, charged to Profit and Loss account
(management, income tax, depreciation,
development, etc.) 6s. 2d. For the past
half working costs were 51s. 4d. and other
charges 4s. 3d., the reduction in the latter
item being due to the smaller outgoing for
income tax. But this comparison makes the
past half-year’s experience look too favor-
able, because of the larger proportion of
ore lately mined for the concentrating plant.
In all 91,135 tons were fed to this mostly-
new plant. Three products are obtained
jig, table and flotation concentrates. Results
are worth working out: —
Values. Recoveries.
f A r A '
Tons Copper, Gold, Copper, Gold,
Concentrates, p.c. dwt. p.c. p.c.
Jigs . . 9,151 2.48 3.63 11.97 7.08
Tables . . 18,364 2.96 8.67 28.67 34.02
Flotation 4,178 24.11 41.46 53.01 36.96
31,693 6.61 11.54 93.65 78.06
Tailings 59,442 0.20 1.73 6.35 21.94
Total . . 91,135 2.09 5.14 100.00 100.00
A ’weight and three-quarters to the ton of
tailings isn’t much ; still it is over one-fifth of
the gold contents, and there is room for im-
provement. As for reserves, the co. isn't
worrying so much on that account. Of the
180,008 tons mined last half-year only
122,215 tons came from within the measured
reserves; and the latter still stand at
3,942,029 tons, equal at present rate of ex-
traction to 16 years’ supply. But it is doubt-
ful whether the supply from reserves can be
reinforced throughout as it was last half-
year ; and in that case the life will be less
than 16 years. In addition to the mine
reserves the co. had at the end of November
liquid and semi-liquid assets £491,663 in
excess of liabilities; this is inclusive of
stores, but exclusive of £128,772 invested in
Fort Kembla refinery and other shares. There
are 1,000,000 shares in Mount Morgan.
Melbourne Ice Skating and Refriger-
ating Co.: —
Deficit.
Preliminary expenses.. .. £387
Premium on shares, £125 . . 262
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Written Off. Reserves.
1906.. £5732 5 p.c. = £1225 £1457 2788
1907.. 702 Nil 1500 1990
1908 . . 1245 Nil 1500 1735
On pref. shares.
1909 . . 2067 7 J p.c. = 232 1500 2070
1910 . . 2366 7* ~ ~ 375 1042 3019
1911.. 1963 71 ~ „ 375 4607
1912.. 1325 74 „ „ 375 1500 4057
1913.. 2768 7| „ „ 375 1101 5349
1914.. 2950 74 „ „ 375 2359 5565
1915.. 3524 74 ~ „ 375 2715 5999
1916 . . 2070 74 .. „ 431 1518 6120
Pref. Pref. Ord.
10 p.c. 74 p.c. 24 p.c.
1917.. 2085 154 431 613 2425 4582
So far, it has been a disappointing business.
The ice-skating, for which the co. was
primarily formed, was a short-lived craze,
out of which the shareholders got one small
5 p.c. dividend. Then the directors found
that they would have to look to other things
for profit, and that meant more capital,
which, naturally, wasn’t too easily got. First
5750 74 p.c. cumulative pref. £1 shares were
issued; but though ordinaries were kept
without a taste the finances still caused
trouble, until at last shareholders had to be
tempted to take up 4250 more £1 shares
with the bait this time of 10 p.c. cumulative
preference. That paid the bank off; and,
apart from a few pounds of trade debts, the
only liability is now on mortgage (£12,656).
Subject to that mortgage the co. owns a free-
hold which has cost £34,945 and plant which
cost over £20,000: and the gross revenue
from the lot—including rink, cold storage,
ice sales, etc. —was last year only £13,549,
though even that was nearly £3OOO better
than the total for the preceding year. Mean-
time not only running exes, but depreciation
and other charges are very heavy. Yet
under favorable conditions, including a con-
venient site, there ought to be money in the
ice and cold-storage business; a very simi-
lar Sydney co.. whose first idea was also a
Glaciarium, has done extremely well.
One of many similar inquiries:—
The Government is borrowing money in unlimited
quantities and spending it in the same manner.
Now, this money is borrowed on the security of the
whole Commonwealth, and an enormous load of
interest is added every year. I would like to know
why the Government could not issue banknotes in
like manner, as the same security would be behind
the notes as behind the loans, and the notes would
not carry the interest debt. Then private capital
would be available at a lesser interest to promote
other industries. I have put it to many and can-
not get any satisfaction, perhaps because it would
be detrimental to capitalistic ideas of making money
out of this cursed war.
Alas, there is no such easy way out. Imag-
ine a small island whose population, having
no money, used shells for currency—that is,
for convenience in exchanging goods. The
islander paid 20 shells for a hen, one for
an egg. Now suppose there was a great
storm which littered the beach of the
island with hundreds of thousands of those
shells. Next day, instead of giving 20 shells
for a hen, people would be willing to give
100. Call the shells a pound, and the effect
of finding or making all this new currency
would be to increase the price of the fowl
from 20 pounds to 100 pounds. In the
same way with paper: if you have an excess
of it you depreciate it. Suppose the island
has to buy salt from another island and pay
for it in poultry. The exporter would pay
100 pounds for his fowl; but he would find
that the 100 pounds’-worth of fowl would
still buy only the old 20 pounds’-worth of
salt. A note that is backed by gold is a
different proposition. Gold is worth approxi-
mately the same nearly all the world over.
Therefore the note known to be backed by
gold and to be payable in that metal is
worth its face value everywhere, less cost of
sending it home and exchanging it for gold,
which is the international medium. Paper
issued as a loan certificate is payable in
gold at a given date; or, if occasionally in-
terminable, then the interest is payable for
ever in gold, which amounts to the same
thing.
Mount Kembla Collieries (N.S.W.) had
a bad 12 months to June 30; for though
193,137 tons were sold, the output was
51,272 tons less than in the previous year.
The gross profit was £26,280; but after
charging general exes., taxes, etc., the net
profit was only £15,254. The Board paid
5 p.c. (£17,500).
Broken Hill Prop, is now shipping an
average of, roughly, 1000 tons of ironstone
per day from South Aus. to its Newcastle
steel works.
Jones, the live Queensland Minister for
Mines, has shaken up the industry in the
Rockhampton district, where, except for Mt.
Morgan, it has been long asleep. A local
syndicate is dusting the cobwebs off the long-
closed Dee copper-mine. Further up the
Dawson Valley line the drills are locating
a site for a shaft for the State coal-mine,
from which Mt. Morgan has undertaken to
buy 70,000* tons per annum as soon as it
can be raised. On the old Crocodile gold-
field hopeful prospectors are looking for
another Mt. Morgan ; and a syndicate work-
ing a copper show in the Moonmera range
has been given a grant. At Glen Geddes, 20
miles out from Rocky, asbestos pronounced
of A 1 quality is being raised ; and down the
main North Coast line work is proceeding
in the newly-discovered marble deposits, said
by experts to equal the best Italian. A
Government grant of £lOOO was made to
help these people procure the necessary
machinery to get the stone out and on the
ran rket.
At Charters Towers Clark’s has cleaned
up 400 tons for £9304, which represents the
return from gold, concentrates and mill resi-
dues. The previous crushing in October
was 421 tons for £5905. The co. pays a
sixpenny in January, which, following Od.
in December, will make £4500 (Is. on 90,000
shares) from the clean up. It isn’t often
that Clark’s can afford to shell out half the
gross value in dividends, but a magnificent
average of £23 ss. 2d. per ton of stone is
also a bit unusual. The reef being only a
Oin. streak, costs are very high, and when
the crushing stone was worth from £7 to
£lO even thrippennies were far between.
At 6s. per share the market value (=
£27,000) is moderate.
It may be a gold and copper mine, but 27
p.c. arsenic in the concentrates makes it
practically certain that the Golden Crest
(Tas.) is heavily charged with something
else. The battery crushed 128 tons from the
upper levels for 450 z. gold over the plates
and ripples, together with 10 tons of con-
centrates assaying 6oz. gold, 640 z. silver, 27
p.c. arsenic and 3 p.c. copper. Arsenic,
being volatile, can be got rid of by continu-
ous roasting. Unfortunately a small trace
of it in copper greatly diminishes the electri-
cal conductivity of the red metal, and it is
consequently an element disliked by refiners.
The price of tin has produced a few excep-
tions to the prevailing dullness in mining in
the Zeehan (Tas.) district. The Mount
Lindsay, in the Wilson and Stanley rivers
district, has cleaned up in the last five
months tin worth £2150, of which £1590 is
profit, with five light stamps, half a dozen
men and no dressing plant. The lode is 80ft.
wide (hanging-wall not yet reached), with
bands of pyrites and gossan both tin-bearing,
veins of clean tin ore being frequently
obtained. Only the gossan is crushed, and
is pretty easily won. Indications promise
its continuance along the lode east, and also
below r the present adit level, and there are
opportunities for lower adits to cut its course
still further east. But the pyritic bands here,
as in the Renison Bell district, must eventu-
ally be relied on as the main sources of ore,
and they seem rich enough to warrant con-
siderable experiment in their treatment.
The solution of the problem remains, how-
ever, for new manager W. 11. Sutton, who
comes with Straits Settlements experience.
Manager John Corrigan (whose son, by the
way, has just got his lieut.-colonele.v at the
mature age of 241 is off to fresh fields,
leaving the mine with plenty of payable ore
in the face and back to provide during this
year profits similar to those he made last
year for the shareholders, allowing them to
develop their mine without calls. At the
Stanley Reward mine the jiackers are un-
able to keep pace w r ith the output from a
soft vein 6ft. wide at the 50ft. level. The
last clean-up was about 20 tons.
* * * *
The Westonia (W.A.) group had a bad
run for December, and yields for that month
are consequently below average. Edna May
struck an exceptionally heavy inflow of
water at 385 ft., and no doubt operations at
that point are draining the Central’s 321 ft.
level. Owing to recent water developments,
the outlook for the lower levels of both
Edna May and Central is not encouraging.
Deeps has also had an anxious time, as it
was thought probable that the heavy pres-
sure caused by accumulated water in Edna
May might cause a break through into Deeps
workings. Owing to December troubles.
Edna May is “passing” a dividend for the
first time since it got on the list four years
ago.
* * * *
Edna May Consolidated (W.A.) is having
trouble with bad ground, and the position is
likely to be aggravated as stoping proceeds.
Two directors (Staughton and Darling) who
recently visited the mine stated at the last
half-yearly meeting that the manager esti-
mated there were three years’ ore in sight
at 3000 tons monthly (=lOB,OOO tons), and
that “there was no foundation for the story
that the reef is being pushed into the Cen-
tral by an intrusion of greenstone.” As a
matter of fact, no mine at Westonia has
ever had 108,000 tons in sight. Regarding
the greenstone, that rock is in the main
shaft at 210 ft., and, at present rate of
underlie, both greenstone and lode should be
in Central ground at 310 ft.


: m
too street. poin'
(ljifti str t sydo e >
122 w Pitt Street. b | dne y
1,9 a The Strand’ b | dne y
ReH' ingt Liverp°° Ageo«
cxv
HEERING’S
COPENHAGEN
CHERRY
BRANDY.
Est. 1818.
PELLISSON
Cognac Brandy.
BOTTLED IN FRANCE.
a/6 ifie G>f/6ct
( expYessiQJt c f >
GooSi
PAULINE et CIE
ANNOUNCE
GREAT REDUCTIONS.
3rd Floor, Denison House Chambers,
George Street, Sydney.
S 3 Wear* j
( T ossard
U COR<SE,TS
They Lace In Front
Discriminat-
ing Women
Look for
This
Trade Mark.
A SAUCE OF SATISFACTION,
Newman’s
“Better
than Either”
The Only Genuine Worcester Made in Australia-
GET A BOTTLE.
A WOMAN’S
LETTER
DAVEID
JONES
for
SMART
MILLINERY
Sydney, January 7, 1918.
My Dear Akini, —
Our new cocked hat, Sir Walter David-
son, has been causing a wave of inquiry as
to his whereabouts. Possibly his departure
has been kept dark, in the moss-covered
belief that the enemy knows only what we
inadvertently tell him. Anyhow, a question
has been officially put to London ; and mean-
while the old house in Macquarie-street is
having its interior tittivated.
The Scottish Women’s War Hospitals
collect the profits from the New Year’s
Highland Gathering and concert. The rally
at the Agricultural Ground brought out of
mothballs every plaidie within miles. The
G.-G. reserved his for the evening. In the
afternoon he went to the sports in the tame
sac suit and grey bowler of a work-a-day
world. Lady Helen took a front seat in the
official stand with young-gentlemen Clifford
and Haskett-Smith in attendance, while his
Ex. moved round to have a crack with
brither Scots. James Burns was in his
usual place. But this year Adam Forsyth, his
old friend and business colleague, was
absent, having just gone a much-longer
journey. Dugald Thomson, Currie Elies,
David Mitchell and Richard Doyle, life vice-
presidents, would have given Solomon in all
his glory a run for the money in a dress
competition. Long fandangos of tartan rib-
bon hung from them, caught up by huge
golden clasps with a spray o’ heather in the
trimmings.
The concert filled the Town Hall the
same night wi’ the skirl of the pipes as the
sub-regal party—his Ex. in kilts—made a
solemn progress down the centre aisle. Lady
Helen, in mourning for her brother, flashed
a few diamonds. On the musical side John
Lemmone and Maggie Maclann, the Vic-
torian vocalist who recently returned from
Britain, held the honors. Maggie’s saucy
way got the audience by the ear. She could
an she would have gone on selling “Caller
Herrin’ ” till peep o’ day.
Do you remember those exquisite flowers
in ivory and Dresden china which grandma
occasionally showed to irreverent youth?
“But what did you do with them, gra’ma?”
was pert sixteen’s likely question. “Wore
them, my dear—here’s the gold chain that
belonged to the little pink rosebud.” Now
New York belles are wearing exactly the
same tiny flowerets, suspended by an almost
invisible chain round Beauty’s throat. Saw
one that came from U.S.A. as a Christmas
present to a Sydney woman —a blush rose
in ivory, with every petal delicately curled.
The whole thing rather larger than a shil-
ling.
They are not losing time getting the new
Church of England school into shape. Jus-
tice Harvey is acting as secretary to the
little gilt-edged committee which bought
Cranbrook, and a headmaster—£7oo a year
and “preferably in orders” —is wanted to
lick the thing into shape “at latest by July.”
Captain Emden Glossop weds his Alison
McPhillamy on Saturday, January 19. It’s
a blow to the hero-worshippers, but the knot
will be tied in Bathurst.
George Rex and his Mary recently paid
a visit to the Australian War Chest Club in
London. Eggs being what they are—about
sevenpence a piece in England—the King
was apparently impressed with the large
stock in hand, and put the Quartermaster
through his mental-arithmetic. Such ques-
tions as “Are they merely eggs—or fresh
eggs? At what age would you consider an
egg really fresh?” reduced the staff to such
impotence that one member hurriedly told
the Majesties that “the cooks worked eight
hours shifts and four shifts per day.” By
way of restoring the atmosphere to normal
friendly George admired Billjim’s fruit-pies
“with top crusts,” and meekly added that
his ration of flour didn’t run to tops—-he
was only allowed open tarts!
The marriage in St. James’s of Lulu
Burns to Norman Lowe, of Mudgee and
Siam, came as a surprise to most of the
girl’s friends—it often does. Only the other
day or so the dark-eyed girl came out top at
a nurses’ exam., and the Nightingale’s cap
and apron seemed secure for a while. But
Norman Lowe persuaded otherwise. It was
a prettily-trimmed wedding. Two sisters,
Mrs. Laurie, of Bonnie Doon station, and
Mrs. Abbott mothered the bride at the wed-
ding party. Brother-in-law Laurie couldn’t
reach town in time to hand the leading lady
over to her young man—there were up-coun-
try floods —so 11. D. Morton. M.L.A., did
the job. The best girl looked uncommonly
pretty in a white-lace frock over a shimmer
of silk, with a long Limerick lace veil falling
to the tip of the billowy train. Bridesmaid
Islev Morton, in biscuit muslin, sparkled
under the brim of a tuscan hat twined with
forget-me-nots, and Lieut. Cobden Parkes
gave her his arm. (It was Cobden Parkes’s
pa who gave the bride’s grandpa one of the
surprises of his life, making the little man
Treasurer of N. S. Wales. But that was 30
years ago.) Thinking the knot tied, the
’groom made a break to give his lady a kiss.
Emboldened, a male relative in the body of
the church advanced to seize the same privi-
lege. This done, the surprised Archdeacon
D’Arcy Irvine resumed duty.
Y.ou’ll remember the tall, handsome boy,
Lieut. Boulton, of the Cameron Highland-
ers, who was here for a few months on the
Stricklands’ staff? He had been in the fight-
ing since the awful August days of 1914, and
got six months’ leave to recuperate. A
schoolboy when he linked up, he was just 19
when he met the Sydney girls at tennis.
Now —“Killed in action” !
The Alex. MacCormicks are nearing Aus-
tralia on their return from Europe. One
splendid young son was killed some time ago
in France. The other lad has taken his
brother’s place at the Front. There are two
little girls left to play in the palace that
overlooks Rose Bay.
A fine old lady lived long enough to see
the New Year well-aired before she passed
beyond the calendar. Mrs. Isabel Terry,
who died on January 4, was the widow of
the late Edward, M.L.C., the one-time hos-
pitable host of Eastwood, near Ryde. It
was in the days when the now-defunct Syd-
ney Hunt Club chased the scent of aniseed
over the local hills and far away. Mrs.
Terry, who has been in feeble health for
some time, was a Miss Benson, and a Tas-
manian belle in her youth.
The devotions of the comfortable wor-
shippers at fashionable St. James’s are being
led occasionally these days in a cultured
Oxford bleat by a Chinese priest. His name
is James Cheong, and when he isn’t on holi-
day he is curate to parson Ernie Hughes at
Melbourne’s equally-tony St. Peter’s. Cheong
is Australian-born, but of pure Chinese
ancestry. He is an M.A. of Melb. Uni.,
but got a final Oxford polish at Cuddesdon
College, the most exclusive of Anglican semi-
naries. For some years he had the job of
saving his countrymen’s souls at the Mel-
bourne Chinese mission in Lilly Bulk-stleet,
run by his father, Cheok Hole Cheong; but
the usual rumpus between “Highs” and
“Lows” followed, and the mission committee
declared young Cheong black, or something.
Just now he is trying to find a cool spot in
Sydney after Melbourne heat waves, and is
staying with rector Micklem, of St. James’s
—another Cuddesdon graduate.
The keen observa-
tion and wide out-
look of this Austra-
lian woman, Mrs.
Kate Helen Weston,
have been the back-
bone of several books.
Of three novels, “The
Partner s,” “The
Man Macdonald”
and “The Prelude,”
the second has been
the most widely
read. Its Oriental
atmosphere was the
result of a trip to
Ceylon a few years
ago. “The Prelude,”
though essentially
Australian, has un-
fortunately not been
pushed in its native land by the London
publishers. A Victorian by birth, a S’Aus-
tralian by adoption, Kate Weston was
infected in early youth with what Morley
Roberts calls “travel micrococcus.” She
knows Australia better than most of its
daughters; for in her incursions into the
heart of things un north the Queensland
Government has put every travel facility
at her disposal. In 1910-11 she tripped to
Europe and placed her first book, “The
Partners,” with Hutchinson and Co. Over
in Sydney on a holiday, the vivacious lady,
being an optimist, chats earnestly of the
good times to come when the Commonwealth
will support a National Academy of Art and
Literature. “To wear the member’s badge
of such an institute should set Australia’s
seal upon the work of her own sons and
daughters,” she insists. Mrs. Weston is at
present chewing the cud of another novel—
for publication as soon as the war permits.
Judith Fletcher’s camera is responsible for
the little picture.
Rupert Clarke, a heavier weight than of
yore, is going to camp in a flat while his
new Sydney home grows. At present he is
kept pretty busy rhapsodising over the view
down the harbor and out through the Heads.
A married daughter will keep house for dad
when the bricklayers depart.
The Cullens have fled from the muggy
waterfront to the hills. They’re spending
their first summer in the new bungalow that
perches on the brow of a big gully on the
green skirts of Leura.
Chief Secretary Fuller, with his hand-
some wife and daughter, went up to Jenolan
in the holidays to officially open the Orient
Cave. Unofficially it has been on view for
some months. Notes of exclamation punc-
tuate the tripper’s industrious divagations
in this amazing cavern. Senior-guide
Wiburd, whose mole-like explorations at
Jenolan have often brought him within
speaking distance of death, was in charge of
the party.
When Colin Camp-
bell marched to the
relief of Lucknow,
will 4500 men to
ra.se the siege main-
tained b y 60,000,
there was no lied
Cross to assuage the
sufferings of the gal-
lant few, toiling,
panting under the
Indian su n. Yet
many were tough
enough to endure to
the end. And some
are spendin t* their
days reading, under
Australian skies, of
the world’s greatest
war—l9l4-18. Here
is one of the vet-
erans, Edward Hanley—still active, as you
can guess by this photo, that Judith
Fletcher has taken for me. He wears the
medal, with two clasps for Lucknow and
Cawnpore, and in the great march with
Colin Campbell was with the old Ist Madras
Fusiliers. None more spry than this young
man of 87 at the recent military sports for
the Veterans’ Home at La Perouse. Hanley
draws, in addition to his shilling a day
British pension, £3O a year Mutiny pay.
Mabel Chambers, a dainty little girl
who was said to be the only Eng-
lish eligible in Java, was married a
couple of months ago at the Cathedral in
Singapore, her ’groom being Lionel Nicholl,
who used to come this way in P. and O.
boats, and was last in Sydney as chief officer
of the since-torpedoed Ballarat. I shouldn’t
think anybody ever had much less satisfac-
tory courting days. P. and O. boats don’t
go to Java, and when Mabel wanted to have
a few hours with her Lionel, there was
nothing for it but a trip down to Australia.
And you never knew then. Last time, for
instance, a while after the war started, the
brass-bound young man was aboard the
Medina. The ship should have had 10 days
in Sydney. As a matter of fact she had
only three —and the young man had to stay
aboard and work steadily right through.
The poor girl could see him tear a bit of
food, and that was about all. However, she
understands the way of ships and ship-men.
Father is Burns-Philp’s manager in the
Dutchman’s spice-garden.
Another of the young Kangaroos who
kicked Fritz out of German New Guinea got
home for a slice of something on New Year’s
Day. Arthur H. Treloar, second son of
Moran and Cato’s managing director, went
off north as a private, got his first star in
Egypt, and the second at the Somme. He
could support the star but not the trench
feet, so the usual Board sent him home.
Young brother W.J. is still in France.
An interesting old lady, Mrs. Fanny E.
Houison, who died as I was last writing to
you, was a daughter of Mrs. Roberts, of
Concord, who, as a widow, married that old
Parliamentary hand, the knighted John
Lackey. Alexander Houison, her husband,
was a Parramatta native and brother of the
late Dr. Andrew Houison, first president of
the Australian Historical Society. Their
father was an architect in Parramatta as
far back as the forties of last century.
William E. Shaw, who has been a manag-
ing director and lately chairman of the
British-Australasian Tobacco Co. —he is
allied by marriage with the Dixsons —got a
gold watch from the heads of its depart-
ments the other day. He is going to sit
back now in the easy chair of private life.
Mr. Shaw is the generous citizen, you’ll re-
member, who gave his Summer Hill mansion
as an Edith Cavell Memorial Rest Home for
tired nurses.
Two learned lovebirds, Dulcie Jean Read-
ford. 8.A., of Pymble, and Rev. H. W.
Barder. M.A., twittered the usual response
in Christmas week. There was a quiet party
after the performance, as the ’groom’s only
brother was lately killed in action. The
chief bridesmaid was Elsie Campbell, 8.A.,
with Olive Harder to assist.
Mrs. Bartie Paterson has gone to join
her poet in Egypt, where he’s in the remount
limb of the service. So the passport diffi-
culty isn’t so tough as it seems to simple
souls.
Eileen Boyd, the youngster of 10 or 12
years back, came home in good time to wish
her own folk the season's greetings. After
eight years’ absence, and many adventures
since the war, the Sydney contralto is going
to see the sunshine and sing in her native
land for a few months.
While “Happy New Year’’ was floating
round cosy suburban homes, the late George
Rignold’s leading lady of long ago was
“taken up” for having “insufficient lawful
means.” The once-famous comedy actress
has consented —poor soul! —to go to New-
ington. Granted that she doesn’t know how
to either keep money or spend it, has the
Actors’ Benevolent Fund done all it could
for her?
One of the well-known West Maitland
Bruce family has been tied by Randwick’s
big Scotchbyterian parson Talbot to Esme
Carloss, of Coogee. The ’’groom is that
Major Herbert Bruce, of the 18th Battalion,
who won the Military Cross a while ago.
Captain Allen, M.C., was- second best-man,
and with Captain McVean looked after the
bridesmaids when the cake was cut at the
Wentworth. A dash of pink buds gave a
pale-pink blush to the foam of white tulle in
which the new Mrs. Bruce sat down to
supper.
One of the most striking impressions of
Ada Reeve’s show in “Winnie Brooke,
Widow,” at the Tivoli, is an apple-green
parasol. It is the unripe shade, so good to
look at as it dangles over the orchard fence
when youth goes past. There’s an ivory-
tinted creation and a hat with a fluff of
white feathers to complete Ada’s frills.
One of St. Vincent Welch’s four doctor-
sons is on the doorstep of home after being
nearly iU years in khaki—it’s a long, weary
war all right. This son, a lieut.-colonel
now, signed on early in August, 1914, and
was in the Landing. Twice Johnnie Turk
hit him while he was on the Peninsula ; but
it is rheumatism, which came with the muck
of the Somme, that sends him home to the
little lady he had only just settled down
with when the gong sounded. Another of
the boys went off’ with an Artillery lot that
left in ’l5.
Mrs. Herbert Nelson has gone off to the
Stars and Stripes to see only-treasure Gwen
and possibly kidnap the girleen. Lately
Gwen has been acting for the movies, with
Enid Bennett as lead. It’s not all candy
and iced nectar, though. The Los Angeles
filmers, when there’s a big play to work
out, have a habit of calling rehearsals for
5 a.m. The usual Pekoe party at the Aus-
tralia farewelled mamma.
News comes of Marie Narelle —Mrs.
Currie —as a war worker in U.S.A., uplift-
ing her fine voice, besides, for Red Cross
funds. All last summer she was canning
fruit and vegetables, with daughter Kath-
leen as right-hand woman. The States’
housewives won’t take any risks about the
war ending this year, and they’re filling up
the storeroom with home-made provisions
for next winter. A cakeless day—supreme
sacrifice to sweet-loving ’Murkans —has been
added to the weekly occasion on which
Auntie Sam says: “No meat —there’s pump-
kin pie or frilled peanuts.”
Your ear for a moment. The Red Cross
fruit and vegetable depot—7 Wynyard-street,
City—yawns hungrily for donations. Money
or kind—just as you like. During Decem-
ber 700 families were helped by the V.A.D.
girls who hand out the goods.
Yours affectionately,
VANDORIAN.


Hardy Brothers
a/ LTD
JEWELLERS.
AFTERNOON TEACUPS 8 SAUCERS
A very choice selection of Afternoon Teacups and Saucers,
and After-dinner Coffee Sets, in “Royal Doulton,” “Royal
Worcester,” “Crown Derby” and “Coalport” China.
M
v "
k :
HAK&TWfiOS
is
i
D
r-wes
■ uvn-
j
Set of . Six “Royal Doulton” Afternoon Teacups and Saucers, with
Australian flower designs, and Six Solid Silver Teaspoons,
in Morocco Case,
£6 G O
A Copy of the Company’s New Illustrated Catalogue
sent Post Free on request.
13 HUNTER STREET
SYDNEY.
116-118 QUEEN STREET,
BRISBANE.
AND AT LONDON
PHOTOGRAPHY
TAUGHT FREE
HARRINGTONS.
Probably you purchased a Camera or had one
given to you at Xmas time, and would like to
make profitable use of it. We will show you
how, FREE OF CHARGE.
In addition to the pleasure that the photos you
take will give, there are many competitions open
to the amateur photographer, and the beginner
\ I)
with an inexpensive camera is just as likely to
win these as the expert with a camera costing £2o—the one who takes a
clear picture with most human interest in it usually wins the prize.
Bring in some of the snaps you took during the holidays as soon as possible.
We will develop, free of charge, a plate or roll of films either by dish or tank
method, and explain the process, no matter what make of Camera or where
it was purchased. There are no conditions imposed—your success is our
success, hence the offer, so don’t miss this opportunity.
We are Specialists in
Metallurgical & Assay Work.
Our Laboratories are equipped with every facility for the successful carrying
out of all kinds of Metallurgical and Assay Work, and every order is executed
under the personal supervision of a qualified Chemist and Metallurgist from
the laboratories of Messrs. Johnson & Sons, London, Assayers to His Majesty’s
Government and the Bank of England.
Ores, Residues, Sweepings and Waste Products of Jewellers, Dentists,
Engravers and other metal workers economically and scientifically treated.
We buy materials containing Gold, Silver or Platinum, and can supply
those materials or their alloys, in various forms, at lowest market rates.
We invite your enquiries. A ’phone message or letter addressed to any of
our branches will receive prompt attention.
ES
Photographic and Cinematographic Merchants,
Metallurgists, Analysts and Assayers,
386 George St. # 127Bathurst St. 9 Sydney
And at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide ; Auckland
and Wellington, N.Z.
Factories & Laboratories, 57-59 George St. North, Sydney.
4
PE
a
The Instrument of
TO-DAY that supersedes
the Gramophone of
YESTERDAY
THERE is no longer the need to disguise the
defects of reproduction by apologising to your
listeners —“Of course it is only a Gramophone.
Yesterday that need doubtless existed, but
to-day —NOT.
With the advent of the AEOLIAN VOCALIGN
latent possibilities have been developed, the inven-
tor’s dream realised, as this unique instrument
possesses a perfectly natural tone, clearness of effect
in voice and superior musical qualities which establish
the VOCALION once and for all as majestically
supreme.
To these exclusive benefits is added the greatest of all the
GRADUOLA DEVICE, with which you interpret the record,
playing to your own dictates, revelling in the wealth of harmony
amazingly correct and pleasing.
ONLY
20/
For this small monthly payment you can pur-
chase an AEOLIAN VOCALION. Convenient
terms are arranged. The value is exceptionally
good. Each instrument is of beautifully conceived
design and exquisitely finished.
ART CATALOG containing all information sent free on request.
You are incited to call and hear the daily recitals. The more you learn
of AEOLIAN VOCALION the more readily Will you desire to purchase
DISC RECORDS in the latest subjects are always available—
Columbia, Zonophone, and His Master s Voice.
All Kinds of Gramophone Repairs
competently attended to by experts
Send Us This Coupon
with your name and address, and we will mail an interesting
descriptive Catalog, showing the easy terms of payment that
will place a Vocation in your home without, delay.
Please send me Catalog B’ describing the Vocation as
advertised in Bulijetin
Name
Address
71 Co.Pty. Ltd. 384 George St.. Sydney.
m
cM
! 1
=D
as
Liu
iw
iHc
tm
K]
-
lln=
THE CENTRE
FOR THE WORLDS
\ GREATEST
ACHIEVEMENTS
i •» «N o.
* MUSICAL
INSTRUMENTS.
“Aeolian ”
Rec Trade Mara


GRETONIC SOAP
(MEDICINAL and TOILET).
Shampoo for Men. Always rub
the scalp for fully five minutes before
washing’ the hair. A thorough shampoo
once a week with Cretonic Shampoo
Powder or Cretonic Soap and hot
water will usually be found quite suffi-
cient. Men having occupations or offices
where much dirt gets into the hair will
have to shampoo two or three tiijies a
week. Dry the hair with the hands, and
then apply Cretonic Hair Massage,
and you have the best treatment known
to preserve a healthy scalp, relieve
dandruff, scurf, scales and all itching
and irritation. This complete treatment
with the soap and
hair tonic prevents
the hair from falling
out, stimulates its
growth, and restores
its lustre. The Hair
Massage should be used
daily for lifeless, fall-
ing hair. It prevents
early baldness.
/
Sold Everywhere, Price 1/-
FREE SAMPLE and Booklet on request.
THE CRETONIC CHEMICAL CO.. 178 CastlereagH Street, Sydney.
Hotel Sydney
FACING RAILWAY STATION
and
CENTRAL TO EVERYWHERE,
COOL AND COMFORTABLE.
MODERN AND COMMODIOUS.
HALF AN ACRE OF ROOF GARDEN.
THE SERVICE IS UNEXCELLED.
TARIFF:
Inclusive (Weekly) from £3/15/0
(Daily) ~ 11/6
Bed and Breakfast „ ... 6/6
Management—ls. T. CHEESEMAN.
Government Notices.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne, 29th October, 1917.
Tenders for the Supply of a Motor-
driven Hydraulic Pump to H.M.A.
Naval Establishments, Garden
Island, Sydney.
i
riIENDERS will be received, subject to
JL the conditions of tendering, until 12
noon on Friday, sth April, 1918, for the
supply of a Motor-driven Hydraulic Pump to
H.M.A. Naval Workshops, Garden Island,
Sydney.
Tender form, specification and any
further particulars may be obtained on ap-
plication at the Offices of the Director of
Navy Contracts, Navy Office, Melbourne;
the General Manager H.M.A. Naval Estab-
lishments, Sydney; and at the Naval Staff
Office, Brisbane. Birkenhead (S.A.), Fre-
mantle and Hobart.
JOSEPH COOK,
Minister of State for the Navy.
Department of the Navy,
Melbourne,
3rd January, 1918.
Tenders for the Supply of High-tension
Apparatus and Generator Sets for
the Perth Radio Station.
TENDERS will be received until 12 noon
on Friday, 15th February, 1918, for the
supply of the above-mentioned electrical
apparatus to the Perth Radio Station.
Tender forms, specifications and full par-
ticulars may be obtained on application at
the Office of the Director of Navy Con-
tracts, Navy Office, Melbourne ; and at the
Naval Staff Offices, Brisbane, Edgeclift' (Syd-
ney). Birkenhead (South Australia). Fre-
mantle and Hobart.
JOSEPH COOK.
Minister of State for the Navy.
MELBOURNE
CHATTER
Warner's
R ust-Proof
Corsets
Melbourne, January 7. 191 S.
My Dear Yarrie.—
New Year’s Day at Flemington brought
all the Sassiety left over from the holiday
haunts. The chief attraction was General
Monash’s newly-titled dame, with much
monish in devout attendance. The new
knighthood was celebrated with a modiste’s
fclat, the lady sporting something expensive
in steel-blue and black, with an aerated cus-
tard effect about the neck. Mrs. Lloyd,
whose hubby hankers for “Missing Friends,”
was conspicuous in a light biscuit covering
crowned with a sunshade like a marquee.
Typists from Government and other offices
were there in swarms, and they all wore a
month’s salary or more with an air of doing
it as a: general thing. Some of the advance
guard of the new season’s frockers were in
the nature of shock troops. A black and
white striped derangement was a good
Futurist drawing of a paling fence. A more
amazing thing that shouted for destruction
suggested a zebra drowned in a rainbow.
Dashing Phyllis Duckett, who used to be
one of the Glaciarium’s star skaters, has
solved the problem of the Russian ally by
marrying him. Her bridegroom was the fas-
cinating Dr. Micha Klatchko, of Petrograd,
who has been a noted figure on the braes of
Yarra for some time. He has been armed
against the languishing glances of Society
buds by the fact that he has been secretly
engaged to Phyllis these five months past.
Peace-parson Strong married them at the
Australian Church on December 20. The
bride was in a travelling dress of white
cloth and a black tulle bonnet, and was
attended by Katie Ellison. He was sup-
ported by Colonel F. G. Farr. By this time
the international alliance is on its way to
America via Japan, and will finally settle in
Russia —if the Bolsheviks leave any of it
available. She is one of the St. Kilda
Ducketts, who “addled their brass,” as
Learoyd puts it, in ironmongery.
A returned Kerang Billjim tells fiercely
how he saw two of his neighbors go into the
undermanned front trenches. The lads were
marching slowly and almost bent double
under the weight of their packs. “I called
out.” he said, “to Bill, but he was too dog-
tired to turn his head.” The two Kerang
Billjims, with a long record of active service
behind them, had just hurried out of hospi-
tal to give their fighting mates a needed rest.
“I used to squeal out against Conscription,”
says this returned Billjim, “but. by God!”
he snaps, “I quitted the Anti side on the
spot!” Both of the Kerang men were listed
as missing a week after their premature
return.
The knighted Simon Fraser is not usu-
ally thought of as a father of five; but he is.
By his first wife he had two daughters, who
later on changed their names to McVean and
Mcßean. The latter passed away just
before the war. By his present dame he has
a trio of sons.
Returned to Melbourne on the same boat
as his brother-in-law, Brig.-Gen. G. ,T.
Johnston, Captain C. E. Hobson, of the
gunners, a mighty hunter before the war.
He enlisted as a private in 1914. As master
of the Oaklands Hounds he rode Blucher to
victory in that club’s point-to-point steeple-
chase of 1908, and in 1907 he won the Mel-
bourne and Oaklands Hunt Club Cups. He
was seven months in Gallipoli, and was
wounded in France.
At the Austral Salon reception to Mayor-
ess Stapiey the other day little Irma Caron,
looking a mere girleen in her muslin frock,
was introduced to the matron. The cheery
Mayoress explained that she and Irma’s
voice were old friends, for she had often
stood outside the litle artist’s best parlor
window, in a South Yarra street, listening
to the warble which is so mighty big for the
size of the songstress. But Irma Caron is
not living at South Yarra since her return
from Java. She is domiciled at swanky
Ivew these times.
Talking of singers, Gertrude Johnson, late
of the Filipp'ini Opera Co., got back to
Melbourne with her mother last week, just
in time to welcome her Anzac brother, who
has been invalided home after nearly three
years of doing his bit. Gertrude is dream-
ing of more operatic days to come. Filip-
pini is said to be oft to America to form a
syndicate for the running of another and a
larger eo. in Australia. The Queensland
tour offered all the necessary inducement.
Lorna and Toots Pounds, the clever young-
sters of bygone Melbourne panto days, were
lately figuring prominently at the London
Palladium. There’s a brisk market for
Australian precocity in the Smoke.
Marion Marcus Clarke is leading a
strenuous life nowanights. After being a
Yankee missionary in a couple of acts of
“The Bird of Paradise” at the Royal, she
rushes across to the Tivoli and goes through
two acts of “Babv Mine” as a frantic Dago
who has been robbed of her cheeild.
Alf Scarlett, who passed from the stage
to the ranks over two years ago, is home on
leave, wearing officers’ trappings now. He
left Hugh Buckler in Blighty very much
alive. The younger Buckler (brother) fell
in the trenches two years ago.
The gay little panto, “boy,” Winifred La
France, who came home to Australia to play
in “Aladdin,” wears a Gaby Deslys feather
head-dress which has us all goggle-eyed. It
isn’t an unattractive topping, by any means,
especially to a coat of “pearls.” Olive God-
win’s draperies are silvery and ehift'ony ex-
cept in the Kate Greenaway turn ; there a
parasol like a huge pink rose embellishes a
flowered frock and poke-bonnet. One of
Aladdin’s finest dress effects is a Napoleon
costume in white with a touch of scarlet.
Singer Peter Dawson has returned from
S’Africa, where he has been singing in a
vaudeville circuit. He comes to Mclntosh
and opens shortly at Sydney. Peter speaks
warmly of S’Africa and its prospects. At
the Empire, Jo’burg, good stuff is appreci-
ated. The house is a palatial one, with
bars at the back of the auditorium sufficient
to moisten hundreds of lips at the same
time. Margaret Jewell, an ex-pupil of
Melba’s, was charming the Springbok audi-
ence with her ballads; and Hugh Ogilvie,
a Scotch comedian shortly to appear in Aus-
tralia, was having a Harry Lauder success.
Whilst in England Peter made something
like a hundred new records for the gramo-
phones.
Mrs. Hunter-Watts Wilkie having sailed
for the U.S.A. on a visit to sister, her job
as leading lady of the Allan Wilkie co. has
been delivered into the capable hands of
Olive Wilton.
William Desmond, whom the Firm
played opposite Katherine Grey and other
heroines in Australia a few years back,
recently lost his picturesque wife in a Cali-
fornia hospital. Mrs. Desmond, who was
a sister of Nance O’Neil, accompanied her
hubby to Australia, but spent a good part
of the trip in bed. One day she came down
a flight of stairs in a hurry and had the
bad luck to land on the wrong place. Criti-
cal symptoms subsequently developed, and
she nearly lost a leg to prevent blood-poison-
ing. Her sister, Nance, by the way. is
expected back in Australia in June. She
may appear here in “The Wanderer,” a big
Biblical story which has been so thoroughly
Belascoed that it is hardly recognisable.
At Cappelli’s final Athemcum appearance
the audience was treated to an entertaining
bit of comedy. In the scene from “II Bar-
biere di Siviglia,” where Figaro and the
Count Almavira have an interesting tete-ii-
t@te, the golden-voiced tenor was, as a matter
of course, outshone by Rebbotaro’s vivacious,
if audacious, dramatic ability. The popularity
of the veteran baritone evidently worried
Cappelli. Realising he could be convincing
in voice alone, he put all his temper into
song, and the grand scena ended with a fren-
zied, vein-swollen effort to make more noise
than Rebbotaro in their last duet. He almost
succeeded, too; so I can imagine his dis-
gust when flowers and boxes of cigars were
heaped upon the baritone, while one tiny
nosegay, hardly visible to the naked eye, was
timidly handed to the indignant tenor over
the trembling footlights.
Vera Pearce never lets Dick Whittington
want for a suit of clothes. When the sea
heaves Vera and other sundries on a
Morocco-bound shore, she appears as a spot-
less blue and gold-tasselled vision suggest-
ing Lord Fauntleroy designed by a maker of
bonbons. The Firm’s dressmaker also tem-
pers the wind of adversity to other ladies in
the show. Constance Cayley never looks
less than the spoilt kid of a millionaire. In
one scene she gleams through beauteous
open-work tights, and opera-glasses are un-
limbered in vast quantities. But the pretti-
est picture in the panto is Sydney Yates in
the Vogue Ballet. He is an exquisite crea-
ture, Beau Brummelled in pink and black to
represent the style of a Wayback epoch ; and
surrounding him are half-a-dozen charming
girls, one of whom, emerging from a high-
collared green coat, might be next year’s
prize lily.
Miss Adelaide’s whispers :
The New Year has given us a new knight in F.
VV. Young-, retiring Agent-General. But knights go
seven for sixpence these days. What is more to
the point is a batch of war recognitions. Amongst
them are a C.B. for Brig.-Gen. Brand, and a small
C.M.G. for Lieut.-001. Leane, who is one of 11 of
hit> clan at the Front (five brothers and six of the
next generation). D.S.O.’s have come to three
surgeon-colonels—Newland, Downey and Burs ton.
The last-named, son of the Melbourne Burstons,
married one of the William Culross daughters and
was practising in this State when war broke out.
The C'heer-Up Hut is £5OO to the bad, no thanks
to some enterprising thieves who carried off goods
to that value during Christmas week —most of the
loot was special gifts to the Hut. It is not much
over a year since someone tried to set fire to the
place, but they were less successful than the latest
Huns.
The 28th, which, as I hope you remember, is this
State’s birthday, induced the usual jollifications at
Glenelg. They included a luncheon to pioneers, at
which the local Mayor was host. Amongst the
guests were the Governor and Naval and Mili-
tary Commandants. For once there was a fly in the
ointment. Long custom has made the day a
monopoly of Glenelg’s, but this year Port Adelaide
stepped in with races at Cheltenham. The result
was a falling-off in the attendance at the Glenelg
celebrations, and a considerable difficulty occurred
in getting waitresses for the official lunch. It was
an awful situation. Just when it seemed that his
Ex. might have to tear a sandwich for himself off
the ham-bone, the difficulty was solved by the
feminine members of the Glenelg Cheer-Up Society
volunteering for the job. It was a great relief, for
what would England have thought!
Colonel David Fulton, who left here with the
Light Horse in 1914, has been made boss of the
Administration staff at A.I.F. Headquarters, Cairo.
His wife left here a few weeks ago to join him.
(Don’t let anybody pull your arm about women
being refused a passage.)
The Y.M.C.A. lost one of its best war-workers
when the chairman, C. J. Young, died suddenly on
Monday morning. He played a big part in raising
funds for army work last year. Also he was for
a time one of the most active members of the
Wattle Day League’s Ambulance Committee.
Last year some aquatic sports arranged by R. T.
Melrose at a reservoir on Rosebank estate, near
Mount Pleasant, raised £3OO for the Y.M.C.A. fund
—a success which made a repetition of the experi-
ment seem worth while; so Saturday was chosen as
the day, and the Red Cross, the Y.M.C.A. and the
Mount Pleasant Soldiers’ Memorial as the bene-
ficiaries. The cheque is likely to make last year’s
wilt.
At present holidaying- in Melbourne,
Hermione Parnell, M.A., and Freda Bage,
M.Se., both of Brisbane University staff,
but graduates of our own “shop.” Freda
was always prominent in the scientific and
social ’Varsity life, and went to Brisbane
as head of the Women’s Hostel. She is
one of the Cranford Bages, a sister of the
popular Captain Bobby Bage, of Antarctic
fame, who was sniped at Gallipoli. Mrs.
Parnell, who is lecturer in French and
German at Brisbane, was “Herrnie” Ulrich
of this city, and possesses a soldier husband
who renounced a fat professorship for the
A.I.F. and is now in France; also a dis-
tinguished soldier brother, Major Theo.
Ulrich, D.S.O.
St. George’s, Malvern, has had two orange-
blossom jobs lately. First was the Doyle-
Lillies naval wedding; next was military,
Janet Angel murmuring “I will” to Lieut.
Burgess, of Christchurch, M.L. Some time
ago she and her mother ventured to the Fog
to see brother Fred in hospital. Their re-
turn was delayed by the usual war complica-
tions. When mother and Janet did get
aboard, who should be waiting for them but
the very thing, off home on furlough! The
bride will now help him to spend it.
Mrs. Norman Ewing, going back to
Hobart for Christmas after her trip to Mel-
bourne, found her ten-year-old Ethel suffer-
ing from appendicitis, so the Christmas-tree
proceedings had to be postponed until the
interrupter was removed. The Ewings, by
the way, are taking a house at Launceston
for six months. The Bench is empty there,
so the Judge is going up to fill the breach
until something permanent can be arranged.
Captain Harold Dew, of the R.A.M.C., is
the first Australian to win the newest
French war decoration, the Medaille d’Hon-
neur, which is only given for saving life or
carrying out some dangerous duty, such as
attending the wounded under fire. Captain
Dew, who left a resident-surgeon’s job at the
Melbourne Hospital to go to the Front,
started on the glory-trail in April, 1915.
Ethel Cox, grand-daughter of one-time
Agent-General Murray Smith, has been
married in London to Captain Hugh
Barran. Dad Barran is a knight and has
a seat in the House of Commons. Murray
Smith, who isn’t often seen out of his Toorak
home these days, had a trio of girls. The
eldest wedded into the Western District Cal-
vert elan and settled in the Cold Land. The
second followed her example with a Fog-
lander, father of the Ethel in this case.
Alfred Oak-Rhind has booked for a second
honeymoon with Doris Wallings, whose
family drifted to Australia about five years
ago. The first Mrs. Oak-Rhind was a Mel-
bourne girl, Kitty Campbell, whose grand-
dad, the late “Dalmahoy” Campbell, was
first cousin to the Duke of Argyll. She died
about three years ago, leaving a small boy
and girl.
Geoff. LuttreJl, who calls Lady Helen Fer-
guson auntie, has gone into the fish biz. He
is sojourning down Portsea way, and rises at
the crack of dawn to wheedle the elusive
barracouta into his net, after which, in sou’-
wester, waders and a sweater embroidered
with the name of his boat, “The Saucy
Sally,” he dispenses fish amongst the excited
local inhabitants. It is understood that the
Federated Flounders have held an Indigna-
tion Meeting.
The canvases for the Travelling Scholar-
ship founded by baronet William Clarke are
practically secreted from public gaze in a
shed adjoining the Gallery. It is perhaps
as well. Art lovers might have rude things
to say concerning the limitations of the
system of instruction and the methods of
placing winners, whilst experts would scoff
at the display in the nude-to-the-waists. A
bald wowser could take his flock round the
show without stirring any emotion other
than Wonder where the models came from ;
but lie would have to head his boys off one
exquisite flesh piece by Allan, an alluring
feminine hack that might have drifted out
of a French gallery.
M. Jones’s prize effort is a fine example
of texture painting, but lacks life and inspi-
ration. Miss Durran, runner-up, has put
plenty of color into a homely kitchen ex-
terior, but little else. M. Allan’s four figures
stand alone —especially a laughing flapper,
with crossed legs, strumming a guitar, to
the jojy of a small boy on the floor. The
drawing of the figures alone raises this work
above its fellows.
George Dancey has been doing a bit of
decorative art for the Agricultural High
School at Ballarat. His effort is a memo-
rial to High-school students killed in the
war —a riot of color, the chief figure being
an armoi’ed warrior waving his highly-
tinted sword over a prostrate foe. Another
recent Melbourne memorial is a church-
window for the widow of the late William
Montgomery, of The Heart, Gippsland. Bill
Avas one of the very first to run stock among
the big timber in those wilds. The Mont-
gomery daughters, who paid for the fixture,
had the art-work done in England, but an
Australian firm put the bits of glass
together. The window has been fitted in
St. John’s, East Malvern.
Veterinary-Colonel Ivendall will get back
from the war with a C.M.G. The Colonel,
when at peace in Melbourne, is a mainstay of
the Lost Dogs’ Home. life shook his fist
in the. faces of our Bumbles who thought
drowning a good-enough fate for a lost dawg.
and the merciful lethal chamber was in-
stalled. But the Bumbles refused to stand
the cost!
.Gallery students are burning to know who
will fill the instructor’s job vacant by the
passing of poor Fred McCubbin. Max' Mel-
drum is the obvious man for the billet—
unless one is culled from a neighboring State.
In McCubbin’s time the students learned to
draw, at least. It was a pity he had not
the chance to instruct budding talent in the
art of color.
Mrs. Rupert Ivater’s sudden death at St.
Ivilda last week is the third tragic occur-
rence in the family within two years. Her
elder, brother, medical Captain Godfrey
Howitt, passed out suddenly whilst in camp,
and their mother died with equal sudden-
ness some months later. She was one of the
Gordon McCrae clan, and her medical hus-
band was brother to Howitt, the explorer.
Mrs. Kater swung a racquet in the teams
championships of the latter ’9o’s.
The Herbert Powers’ fine boy Vivian has
been killed. The black-edged* news came
along three months after the melancholy
message—“ Missing.” Private Vivian went
into camp in Bananaland after a fight with
typhoid and appendicitis: he had tried to get
into khaki in Victoria and later in N. S.
M ales, but had been rejected. Elder brother
Reggie, S’Rupert’s son-in-law, is still doing
his bit as a British lieutenant in Salonica.
The brothers met in London for four days,
when the British officah had to change into
tweeds—you know—before going round in
the company of an ordinary Billjim. A
whole sermon on militaryism might be
preached on that incident.
Yours sincerely.
JOHANNA.


REXONA and REXONA SOAP
More Popular Than Elver.
To Know the Rexona Remedies is to LiKe Them
MISS VERA
SPAULL
(from a photo,
by K. Stump).
■
iiCwV,
These Young Australians
Advocate REXONA.
Miss Vera Spaull, who has
endeared herself to Austra-
lians in numerous child
parts, is now delighting Syd-
ney people in her first adult
part in “The Rajah of Shiva-
pore,” at the Playhouse.
Miss Spaull is a true Rexona
girl, and writes us as follows:
“Rexona is a glorious
soap, I regard it as abso-
lutely the best I can buy.
It seems to protect the
skin against sun and wind
and removes any tempo-
rary skin blemish caused
by ill-health. I also think
the world of Rexona Oint-
ment. For cuts and skin
troubles of all kinds,
there is nothing to ap-
proach it. It relieves and
then cures so quickly.
Rexona Soap and Rexona
Ointment are indeed twin
blessing's. I find the Soap
is delightful as a sham-
poo. It cleans and in-
vigorates the scalp per-
fectly, and leaves the hair
so soft and glossy. Wish-
ing you success,
“Yours faithfully,
“(Sgd.) VERA SPAULL.”
“It is with the utmost
pleasure that I testify to
the high quality and
beautifying effects derived
from the use of Rexona
Soap.
“The flattering com-
ments and praise be-
stowed upon my little
girl daily by my clients
respecting the loveliness
of her skin is indeed a
great advertisement for
Rexona. As manageress
of my mother’s business
I have for years past
catered for theatricals,
m m
.
& M
MISS. LINDA FULFORD (from a photo.)
and Rexona has been voted, by imported and local artists alike, a most
soothing and refreshing Soap, removing, as it does, any unpleasant or
irritating feeling often caused by the constant use of greasepaints.
“I recommended Rexona Soap, with the highly-satisfactory result of
hearing my guest, Miss Nellie Kolle, and, indeed, everyone in my house,
pronounce it to be the best they ever used.
“(Sgd.) J. FULFORD,
“8 Pitt Street, Cook’s Hill, Newcastle, N.S.W,”
REXONA SOAP GIVES NATURAL BEAUTY TO SKIN AND HAIR
Even the beet of such soaps can only cleanse; they cannot heal and protect the skin. Rexona Soap contains the same soothing heal n ant
septic balsams as Rexona the Rapid Healer, the value of which in the treatment of skin affections K; k. own the woild. pimply use
Rexona Skin and Facial Soap regularly once or twice a day, and see if it does not quickly soothe and cleanse the poies, lessen the tendency to
pimples, and leave the complexion clear, fresli and velvety.
BABY CHANDOS, as Kewpie Doll, in “The Bunyip
(from a photo, from, Grace Bros.’ Studios ).
MORE PRAISE FOR REXONA.
“It gives me much pleasure
indeed in testifying to the
excellent qualities of your
famous Rexona Soap.
“I have used it on my
little daughter, ‘Baby Chan-
dos,’ whose appearance in
‘The Bunyip’ as the Kewpie
Doll aroused such favorable
comment throughout Syd-
ney.
“I have Rexona Soap to a
very large extent to thank
for her bonny, healthy skin
and her glistening, silky
hair. I find that, unlike
other medicinal and toilet
soaps, Rexona gives the skin
a soft, velvet-like feeling,
and its healing properties
keep skin affections, so com-
mon to children, at bay.
“I shall always recommend
Rexona Soap to my friends
and acquaintances, as it does
all and more than is claimed
for it.
“Yours truly,
“(Sgd.) LUCY BEENLEIGH,
“114 Nelson Street,
“Annandale.”
Miss Grace Lavers is one of
the brightest, prettiest and most
tuneful musical-comedy favor-
ites. Miss Lavers uses Rexona
Soap for her beautiful hair, and
joins the Rexona Girls’ Club
with these words: —
“I am delighted with your
Rexona Soap, and am send-
ing you my photograph to
show how much good it has
done my hair. 1 have been
using it now for nearly three
months, and it makes the
hair so soft and fluffy that 1
am always going to continue
to use it.
“Rexona Soap is miles
ahead of anything 1 have
ever tried before. Hair
tonics and shampoos do
nothing like the good that
Rexona Soap does. I should
think that every girl would ,
use it, and I am sure they do \
if they have once tried it. it
is so good for the com-
plexion, too; it leaves the
skin so clear and fresh.
“I have a pot of Rexona
Ointment, too; it really is
a rapid healer. I have
found it excellent for pre-
venting sunburn. I can
assure you I shall always go
out of my w r ay to praise
Rexona. “Yours truly,
“(Sgd.) GRACE LAVERS.”
\ 4
■
#
V •
is
MISS GRACE
LAVERS
(from a photo,
by Monte
Luke).
For all the burns, cuts and knocks of everyday life, Rexona will be found unequalled. Be sure and keep
a tin of Rexona where it can be quickly seen when needed. Rexona is the Rapid Healer, and Rexona Soap is
the facial soap of the century. Don't forget Rexona, 1/6 and 3/-. Rexona Soap, 1/- per tablet.
0
o
o
THE RAPID HEALER


NERVES
are responsible for Headaches, Backache, Insomnia, Anaemia, Neuralgia,
Brainfag, Breakdown, Lassitude, Dizziness, Palpitation, and such-like ailments.
When you suffer from any of these'neurasthenic conditions do not make the mistake
of taking drugs or stimulants. What you need is something to purify and enrich the
blood and nourish the nerves. For this purpose you cannot get anything better than
HEAN S TONIC NERVE NATS
Obtainable from reliable Chemists and Stores. Price: 3/- per box; or six boxes for
17/3. If not stocked in your locality send direct to G. W. HEAN, Manufacturing-
Chemist, 178 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
cv
King
George IV
J WHISKY
IhiTOP'NOrCH'Sctrtch
ABSOLUTOIY'Xtf
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Trooper Bluegum”: When a camel runs
amok it is wise to take cover. One big brute in the
1.C.0. had 24 casualties to his discredit. Another
went mag-noon ’ so often and bit so many adven-
turers that on a nice long trek a couple of the boys
loitered behind with him, planted a bullet where
his brain should have been and reported that “one
camel died on trek.” Quite a lot of eases in the 14th
Australian General Hospital, Abassia, are men who
have been kicked, bitten, thrown or knelt on by
camels. Ordinarily we do not use the nose-peg on
the brutes unless they are fractious, but a “mag-
noon” camel .will not hesitate to break away by
tearing open his nostril. At Maghdaba a big fellow
flew off the handle, cleared the lines and chased the
medical-officer all round the desert. It took a regu-
lar fusillade to stop the pursuer. At Gaza I was
tying up a camel when he tried to bite my head off.
Fortunately he got only my hat in his mouth, but I
thought I was scalped for a minute or two. Still,
there are many Cameliers who would not go back to
the Light Horse if they had the chance. The whole
secret of camel training is kindness ; that’s why the
Australians can do far more with the animals than
the Gvppies can. Of course, the kindest thing to do
to a magnoon camel is to hit him good and hearty on
the knee or the head with a crowbar.
“Selector”: I quite agree with “Wart”
(B. 1/11/’l7) that the southern butcher-bird is
partial to small feathered folk as an addition to his
larder. But in this Queensland Gulf country I have
never seen him as a cannibal. On the contrary, he
often is the guardian angel of the little fellows.
As he sits on the bank of a creek in the shade of a
gidya clump, thinking of his misspent youth,
with birds playing about him, the silence
is often broken by a peculiar sharp call con-
sisting of about half a dozen notes. Instantly every
small bird around becomes still as if turned into
stone. If the observer will cast his eyes skyward
he will see a hawk floating about somewhere handy,
and it was butcher that gave the warning. This
bird has a beautiful note; in fact, I think it ranks
among the first, lie is very chummy, too, and is
always to be found about a camp.
“Dogger”: The man who announced (B.
13/12, 1(1 that aniseed is a good decoy for dingoes
must have picked up his knowledge of this wily ani-
mal in a suburban wood- and coal yard. i have
lived all my life west o’ Bourke, and the only men
whom I have seen fooling about with aniseed have
been raw amateurs at the game. The professional
dogger always has a decoy of his own, the recipe of
which he guards better than his money. Incidentally,
dogging west o’ Bourke is a very profitable game,’
as in addition to a weekly wage most of the stations
pay £2 per scalp for dingoes, ss. for foxes and half
a crown for that imp of mischief the eagle-hawk.
“Barcoo”: Near Nagambie (Vic.) a few
seasons ago two Lincoln ewes’ increase one year was
seven robust lambs. Next season the same two pro-
duced six youngsters. Oakwood station, Ward River
(N.Q.), holds possibly the world’s record for a large
merino flock, 27,000 ewes producing at lamb-marking
the astounding increase of 31,200/ But this station
is noted every normal season for high percentages.
“W.A.C.”: Advise “Te Wliare” (B.
22/11/’l7) to consult an optician before again adju-
dicating on Australian parrot beauty. Has he ever
seen the blue-bellied lorikeet (Blue-mountain), pale-
head parrakeet (Moreton Bay rosclla) or purple-
capped parrakeet? When this trio are in the vicinity
the other shriekers take a back limb and grind their
beaks with envy. But the regent-bird is the matinee
idol of the bush.
* * *
“Gordarth”: You want to go to West
Queensland for mosquitoes 1 The other evening the
new boss was driven half ratty by them. As he passed
Bill he opened out a treat. “Them!” said the hand.
“That's nothing” (viciously slapping at a half-inch
monster at work on his arm). “Wait till a bit later
in the summer and you’ll see ’em canoodling with
the hens.”
A CHRISTMAS MESSAGE FROM ANGLEDOOL.
“Dear sir, when they say ‘Follow the King ’ I wish they would say which one—our local
chap is a bit too hot for me.”
“Henien” : How about this for a record?
Recently 800 wethers were driven from A. Ross’s
Bon View property, near Wellington, to Blinda Vale,
near Dunedoo (N.S.W.), a distance of 28 miles, in
one day. They arrived fit. Incidentally, Ross is a
lineal descendant of the Elder Ross mentioned in
Henry Lawson’s “Fire at Ross's Farm.”
SOME SILLY ASSES ARE SO FORGETFUL.
"Airful ass that fellow What’s-his-name. Told him specially to put something on What-
a yer-call-it for the Thingummybob Handicap, and dashed if he didn’t forget all
about it.”
“P.G.H.” : Re tho record sugarcane-stick.
“Frilled Lizard’s” claim (B. 22/11 /’ 17) on behalf of
a Tweed River stalk weighing 261 b. may lie war-
ranted ; but the frills surrounding it raise suspicion.
Ilis specimen, he says, lost 71b., or just under 27 per
cent, of its weight, in six days. I’ll give in to that
as a record in disappearing. When I wrote re the
25-jlb. wand it was on exhibition in Bundaherg. That
is several weeks ago, and the exhibit is still at the,
ohl stand. To-day I called on the patriarch, who
weighed the sapling again. It is now exactly 101 b.
lighter, the loss in weight being at the rate of 21b.
per week.
“Dippy”: “Things are getting too blanky
civilised here,” said the old hand. “What with
motor-cars and flying-machines and telephones, life’s
becoming a blanky nuisance. The other day when I
got home after a solid 20-mile ride a neighbor called
to say that the postmistress had rung him up and
asked him to tell me that there was an urgent wire
for me. Now, my missus and one of the girls were
in town doing the show, so I’m uneasy, and off I rides
another seven miles to get the telegram. This is
what it said: ‘Norah got first prize for scones; love
from mum.’ ”
“John Quill”: The exploit of the three
Bananaland boys, as related by “Lantana” (B.
6/12/’l7), in killing 16 snakes in one spot recalls
my days as a reptile-stalker. Near Trunkey
(N.S.W.) I killed a tiger-snake with 29 young ones,
and near the same place my brother encountered a
black devil accompanied by 49 babies. About ten
years ago I murdered a five-foot black specimen
near Lake George, down Goulburn way (N.S.W.),
and on applying the tin-opener I found that he had
swallowed, tail first, a reptile almost as big as
himself. The head of the cargo was chewed into
pulp.
“Trapper”: To what dimensions does the
domestic cat grow after going bush? I recently
caught in a rabbit-trap one measuring 43in. from
tip to tip. I also, by the way, arrested a 67in.
gohanna, and I don’t think that he had stopped
growing.
* * * *
“Barcoo”: In 15 to 20 years’ overlanding
on Bananaland stock-routes I’ve learned a bit about
horses’ memories. Three old friends employed in the
ration-cart for 12 years of the period were particu-
larly retentive. Drovers when going over a route
which they have previously covered make the same
old camps, as a rule, and with those three animals
all that was required, even if they had not traversed
that track for four or five years, was to tell the
babbler to keep straight on until his team turned off.
(Sheep and cattle camps are usually from half to
a full mile off the road.) In one instance between
Taroom and the Browne township this team, which
had been along that way only once, and that 10
years previously, distinctly remembered each of the
old camps.
"Norseman’ : Let me crack a whip for
M illie Doyle, who has driven the mails for nigh on
33 years through the mulga country from Bourke to
AVanaaring, 118 miles each way, Ilis voyages run
to about 405,000 miles, and not a white man or a
Binghi or a bag has been lost from the ’bus. lie
leaves the run this year.
“Debo”: Re, “Sarto’s” onion-weed (B.
29/11/1,). The plant is probably Romulea, a bulli-
ons nuisance belonging: to the Ixia tribe. Its home is
South Africa, whence it came to Westralia many
years ago. It is a pest in many a grass plot in the
suburbs of Sydney. The mower only chews the
tough, grass-like foliage, which thereupon adopts a
half-dead appearance the reverse of ornamental. It
spreads by means of abundant seeds and consolidates
its gains by producing quantities of tiny offsets from
the base of the bulb. Unlike the real onion-weed
and the true nut-grass, this plant is no fighter in
cultivated ground. I have it thick in my little grass
plots, but it disappeared for good from the garden
beds within two years of my breaking the Virgin
soil. It cannot stand being turned over when grow-
ing, and there is no need to pick it out of the soil.
So far as lawns and pastures are concerned I have
not seen any remedy suggested, and it behoves
anyone who meets its little pink flower amongst his
grass for the first time to take “Sarto’s” warning
and carefully dig it out, not overlooking the littlu
offsets which readily part from the parent.
THE VERY THING.
“Yes, I’m going to the hall as an Indian;
hut I would like to have some distinc-
tive title.”
“How about White Feather, Chief of the
Cold Feet?”
“Mahomet”: Know of worse sheep to
drove than Lincolns? I reckon they’re the dizzi-
limit.
(Continued on page 24.)
EVATT'S BLOCK: A DRONE OF THE
IRRIGATION AREA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The day is hot, and Saturday, and sorry:
The time is little after three o'clock.
The pub is fourteen miles from Care-and-Worry,
Where toil-tired men are ploughing Evatt’s block.
They brought their ploughs by spring-cart, dray and
lorry—
They mostly come of Riverina stock.
Some are too old, and some found “nothin’ doin’ ”
When trying to enlist, for, it appears,
The smart young doctor dropped on something
new i n
Their well-worn works or in their ('yes or ears—
Because they’d staled too hard through drought and
ruin ;
And ridden through the rain too many years.
W e re men who fought and failed in many places,
And moved and fought again through many ills;
And though you'd never guess it by our faces—
Which almost seem to grin against our wills—
We re making furniture of packing-cases,
And selling what we had to pay our bills!
Our auctioneer, of sad imagination,
Sells grimly our domestic overplus;
lie pauses sometimes in his peroration
(Or litany—or psalm—or syllabus),
And gazes long upon his congregation,
And thinks of things—for he is one of us.
But Evatt s at the Front for all, and this is
the least that we can do, as you’ll agree.
We re men who 11 never share the flappers’ kisses;
And none will know us after victory.
We take our cups of tea from Evatt’s missus,
And plates of bread-and-butter, gratefully.
The time has come at last to cast asunder;
The narrow gathering days have missed the ’bus.
But now, beneath the stars, I sit and wonder
If, free from all domestic fret and fuss,
Dug in the quaking earth, the hell-clouds under,
Somewhere in France does Evatt think of us.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


Make Your Boot Money
Do Double Duty
It is possible, if you choose your foot-
wear right. Boots that wear twice ss
long as ordinary boots, and yet cost no
more, are available to you.
Wear
MURDOCH’S BOOTS
with Armourite Soles
“Armourite” Soles are made by a special
process which toughens and strengthens
the leather, while preserving its plia-
bility. That is why
Murdoch’s Armourite Soles
will Outwear Two
Ordinary Soles.
Get a pair of Murdoch’s Boots, with
“Armourite” Soles —every pair is guar-
anteed. Made in a variety of shapes—-
uppers are made from specially-selected
leathers—Black Box Calf and Tan Calf,
Derby shape, as illustration. Also
medium-round toe—shod with “Armour-
ite” Soles. You assure practical money-
saving when you buy “Armourite”
Boots. Obtainable at Murdoch’s.
ORDER A PAIR TO-DAY.
Send particulars of size, shape, etc., to
Desk R.
MURDOCHS
in Park Street Ltd., Sydney
xc
“COMPLETE OUTFITTERS FOR MEN AND BOYS/’
NORTH
BRITISH
CJyres
Wm
E
I
r-
i
k
I
s&fe*
SMITHV 1
JULIUS
BRITISH
MANUFACTURE
“The Tyres that
are Superior"
As used by the BRITISH,
FRENCH and BELGIAN
WAR DEPARTMENTS,
the BRITISH ADMIRALTY
and THE BRITISH RED
CROSS SOCIETY.
WILLIAM CROSBY & CO.,
Wholesale Agents for
New South Wales.
20 Loft us Street, Sydney,
an unmatched success.
Year after year for many years the 2=stand Portable
wocpefo
“LITTLE WONDER”
Shearing and Crotching Plant
has outsold all other makes of Portable Shearing=plants combined.
Its unequalled combination of power, compactness, efficiency and price has naturally
made it an unmatched success.
OVER 1200 COOPER “LITTLE WONDERS”
are now employed in harvesting the wool throughout Aus-
tralia. No stronger testimonial could be given the surpassing
merits of The Cooper “Little'Wonder” Crutching and Shear-
ing Outfit.
A full 2-brake-horsepower, high-grade, four-cycle oil engine,
fitted with ample water-cooling tank, improved high-tension
magneto, and the latest attachments throughout.
Two complete machines, including the World-renowned
Cooper Air-cooled Handpieces and all requisites and extias
ready for work.
A substantial grinding machine, complete with emery, glue, etc.
All mounted on a strong, rigid hand-lorry ready for work.
The “Little Wonder” is free from vibration, has unlimited space for the
shearers, and is thoroughly practical from top to bottom. It contains just
what our experts throughout the world have found most valuable an< raos
. advisable, after thirty years'' constant work in handling Portable Shearing
Plants.
It is an ideal outfit for crutching and shearing from 500 to 5000 sheep.
It has been imitated, but never equalled.
Write to-day for illustrated catalogue and full particulars.
Cooper Engineering Co. Ltd.
134 Sussex St., Sydney. 486 Collins St., Melbourne.
CLARK & FAUSET Brisbane. W. HART & SONS, Launceston, Tasmania. SIDNEY WILLIAMS & CO., Rockhampton, Queensland.
Perth, W.A. AUSTRALASIAN I. &H. F. CO., Adelaide, S.A. NEW ZEALAND LOAN &M. A. CO. LTD., Rockhampton, Townsville
GEO. P. HARRIS SCARFE & CO.,
and Hughenden, Queensland.
PRICE
£65
AS SHOWN.
2k
ram


Martin’s Pills are sold by all chemists and
stores. Ladies recommend them. Be sure
you get the genuine with the signature:
Martin, Chemist, Southampton.— Advt.
The Federal Mutual
Insurance Company
of Australia Limited.
Fire, Marine, Accident 8 Live Stock,
AGENTS WANTED.
head office —
u MARTIN PEACE, SYDNEY.
VICTORIAN BRANCH —
360-G COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH—
E. S. & A. BANK CHAMBERS,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN BRANCH-
WIDOWS’ FUND BUILDING, GREN-
FELL STREET, ADELAIDE.
CARLTON ALE
FOSTER’S LAGER
“Wee Bobbie” : I've mustered cattle from
Government Gums to the Gulf, sheep from the
Barkly tableland to the Barwon, ostriches in the
Free State, and mules west of the Colorado, but I
never knew that it was possible to muster porpoises
until a few weeks ago. How’s it done? Half a
dozen canoes or so, filled with black brother, go
out and locate a school, which they keep to seaward
of, forming half a circle with the boats. They then
click large shells under the water, and this seems
to have the effect of frightening and bewildering
the sea-pigs to such an extent that they are quite
easily driven to the killing ground.
* * * #
“Eloc”: “Tariff’s” rabbits (B. 6/12/T7)
are not the first to ringbark. About 10 years ago
Budgery station, near Nyngan (N.S.W.), was visited
by a plague of rabbits. The property is 10 miles
square, and was netted on three sides. Feed was
scarce, so the pussies took on the box suckers and
edible scrub. Suckers were ringbarked a foot high,
but scrub, especially currant-bush, vyas stripped.
The bark might have been all right for bunny at
time of eating, but it formed into a ball in his
bingey and he kicked the bucket with great enthusi-
asm. A couple of blokes made good wages skinning
the dead ’uns.
“0.5. H.” : Here’s another shearing record.
B. Goslin, of Blenheim (M.L.), has shorn at Rich-
mond Brook station, in the Marlborough distrir t, for
48 seasons. He is now 75 years old, has been
barbering since 1870, and is still going strong. Any
competitors ?
“John Me.”: The convolvulus vine which
abounds on tropical beaches is a curious vegetable.
Its roots are in dry land well above high-water mark,
but many of its long tendrils stretch down the bare
sand and touch the water. An amphibious vege-
table, so to speak. Native folk-lore alleges that
in the night the vines sneak right out to sea to
catch fish and have a drink. In the sou’-east or
dry season, when everything else is brown and
withered, the leaves of the convolvulus assume a
more vivid green, ar.d the bell-shaped, lavender-
colored flowers become profuse. Although this is
near the end of a long dry season, the beach in
front of my humpy, as I write, is covered with
nourishing convoluli. The flowers and leaves,
crushed and macerated, are said to possess medi-
cinal value, and certain cunning old niggers who
are credited with a knowledge of such things, pre-
scribe one variety of the vine (Hardenbergia
retusa ) to procure abortion.
* * * *
“Joyce”: The medicine-man in the British
Solomons is a person of much importance. I recently
witnessed the treatment he administered to a dark
lady for rheumatism in the neck and shoulders. The
case squatted on the ground with her baby at the
breast while the doc. strutted round chewing butter-nut
and mumbling prayers to expel the bad spirit
responsible for the trouble. He then proceeded to
expectorate venetian-red saliva over the affected
parts. Some of the juice was inadvertently mis-
directed into the piccaninny’s eye, and the cure was
suspended while first-aid was rendered. This was
simply done by the mother spitting in the kid’s
glim and gently rubbing it with her finger. Saw-
bones next gathered some wood ashes, with which he
dusted the rheumy area. He then collected a quan-
tity of leaves, previously heated on stones, and
IN CASE OF ACCIDENT.
BUSH LANDLADY (to commercial hooked for
the 3 a.m. train): “And here's the
alarm-clock, sorr. An’ if it doesn't wake
yea, just poke the little hammer wid ye
finger, and she'll go off!"
vigorously massaged the neck and shoulders for two
or three minutes. This concluded the treatment. I
called on the good woman later in the day, and
found that she was covered with blisters which made
movement a torture; but her faith in a permanent
cure was undisturbed.
ECONOMIC.
THE FIRST MAC: “ Hech , mon, hut the whusky's repeatin' on me terrible."
THE SECOND: “Man, ye’re vera lucky. I'm wislin’ I had the taste of it myself!"
“Condamine” : What is considered enough
flying-foxes to skite about ? Where I am camped
a drove passes overhead each night at dusk.
They extend fully 60 chains and would aver-
age easily one to the square chain and take half an
hour to go over. Allowing a speed of 40 miles per
hour, this would make 96,000. Does that take the
belt?
“Captain” : A doctor at New Britain re-
turning from a village took away a skull with him.
On nearing his bungalow he received a message that
he was urgently wanted a long distance away.
Dismounting, he tossed the headpiece on to the
stretcher-bed of his native boy Cosslo, several other
boys seeing him do it. In a couple of
days he returned, and was told, “Cosslo
him verra sick ; he die finish.” Going to
the hut he found the boy in a state of
collapse, but examination disclosed no
cause for it. All he could get from the
nig. was, “Me die finish, boss. You
savvy.” At a loss the doc. said, “Me no
savvy, Cosslo. Where big fella pain stop
longa you? Me think you gammon.”
Again all he got was, “You savvy, boss.”
Questioning other boys he at last un-
ravelled the mystery. The placing of the
skull on the stretcher had done the busi-
ness. Cosslo, taking it as a straight tip
to get off the earth, was doing his part of
the contract. It took much vigorous
explanation before the boy would touch
food and get going again. Incidentally the skull
had not been removed, but lay at the top of the bed
covered with grass.
* * * *
“Mellish Reef” : We were recently loading
copra at Pepisala, in the Russell group, when a
water-snake with yellow and white bands hove along-
side. I told the boat boys to get their “fighting
stick” and kill the “see-nake.” “No more,” was the
reply. “What name?” I asked. “S’pose see-nake
kai-kai foot b’long boy, boy he die finish.” “Me no
killem,” was the answer. “This feller here he debil-
debil. Me feller boy lookim, me savee. Boy along
place b’long me [Langa Lang, Malaita] he die finish.
This feller see-nake he come makee talk along me.
Altogether boy he savee. He no killim.” Having
delivered the sad news of a death in the family the
snake waved farewell and departed.
“H.W.T.” : I don’t understand why during
the mating season grass parrots are generally seen
in threes. I’ve watched them for years and rarely
observed them running about in pairs.
"F.N.T.” : A citizen of California(U.S.A.)
has discovered that eucalyptus leaves, put under the
mattress, drive “all insects of any kind” to seek
another home. The Defence Department should
start baling the leaves for despatch to the trenches
—or, as soon as arrangements have been completed,
with the approval of the Chief Sec., for a series of
tests at the Melbourne City Watch-house. That is
an historic hunting-ground of the heftier kinds of
parasite, and if the leaves will work there they
will work anywhere.
“John Quill”: As “Te Whare” remarked
(B. 29/11/’l7), black brother wasn’t the worst of
surgeons. But I have never known him to use
ligatures for snakebite. The various nigs. I have
met mostly smothered the wounded limb in mud.
The blacks of Westralia place great reliance in the
curative qualities of fire and ashes. Open cuts are
plastered with a mixture of clay and ashes. All
males are circumcised, and when the tribe wishes
to regulate its population some of them are sub-
jected to a more severe operation. The butchering
is performed with rough stone knives, and the fact
that the casualties are insignificant is a proof of
black brother’s powers of endurance.
“Wandi”: It was long before black bro-
ther could understand the revolver. An old fellow
who had knocked about a station for years still had
such a dread of it that he would edge away quickly
or get behind a tree if one were shown to him.
Asked why he was so afraid of it he said, “Too much
yabba that pfella.” A new hand, who was placed in
charge of Barundali (Q.) in its early days, was
greeted one morning with the yells of a hundred
painted binghis, who were doing a war-dance on a
bare rock a few yards from the door. It wa3 no
use running, so he got a double-barrelled gun and
fired both barrels over their heads. The mob ducked
each time, then jubilated more than ever. They
knew all about guns; the weapon was now empty
and the hutkeeper would have to reload before he
could fire again. The abos. were advancing with
confidence when he pulled out a revolver and began
practice-shooting at a tree on their flank. They
waited till the second shot, then started an exultant
cheer. The cheer, however, died suddenly as the
third shot was fired without reloading, and the change
of expression was as complete as though a daub of
mud had been slapped over the smiles. At the
fourth shot they gasped, and for the moment stood
staring with distended eyes at this debil-debil of a
gun. The fifth broke them up, and before the sixth
rang out the whole crowd was trying to see who
could get to the other side of the range first.
Barundah is near Hornet Bank, where the Frasers
weie massacred; and though other butcheries hap-
pened round about, Barundah was never interfered
with after that demonstration.
“Quail”: James Doyle, of Scone
(N.S.W.), has been telling the Lands Department
how he got rid of 450 acres of prickly-pear. The
property comprised low ridges and creek frontage,
pretty heavily timbered, with soil from which it was
as hard to pull the pear bulbs as it is to tear a
Millions Club eater from a feed at Farmer’s. The
curse, certainly, was low —only 2ft. to 4ft. high—
but so thick in places that it was nearly as tough a
job to get through it as to negotiate a barbed-wire
entanglement. The pest was first knocked down with
a roller (a log about 4ft. in diameter) hauled by
30 bullocks. Next, a crusher, a log Bft. by 3ft.,
flattened on one side, with 6in. x llin. iron spikes
projecting 4in., was dragged over the prostrate
anathema, which was then allowed to grow up to a
height of about 6in., when it was crushed the oppo-
site way. The dose was repeated until the vegetable
porcupine took the count. The cost was about £3
per acre, as compared with from £lO to £l2 for
digging out the pear and then burning it. The
amount would be less in friable soil. In scrubby,
rocky or very hilly land, however, Doyle’s method is
not suitable; and it would be useless with the high,
strong growth of Queensland. Lands Department
officers reckon that by using a caterpillar tractor
instead of a bullock-team the rolling and crushing
could be done at the same time; they calculate that
the caterpillar could wipe out 12 acres of the curse
in eight hours at a cost, including wages, of 6s. 9d.
per acre, and that in places where wood can be used
instead of benzine the bill would not come to much
more than ss. an acre.
“Notip” : I’ve seen some queer-looking bone-
shakers in the bush, but a bike that I met the other
day was the cake-collector. It had a rough-cut
wooden saddle and plenty of twisted wire as a sub-
stitute for nuts. But its amazing feature was
the tyres. Inner tubes had been dispensed with
and the outside covers stuffed with rabbit-skins. Bill
Outback had found another use for bunny.
DOMESTIC SCIENCE.
PARSON : “And your daughter who went to
Sydney for cookery lessons—how is she
getting along?"
MRS. KURFUPS : “Splendid! She was at
Manly when she last wrote — sun-
haking."
GUM-LEAVES IN SINAI.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gum-leaves, just gum-leaves,
All grey-green and faded,
Blew into my dug-out to-day;
Like rest to the weary,
And sleep to the jaded,
They chased the dull war-clouds away.
’Twas a link and a token,
Simple and kindly,
From the bush-land ’way over the sea;
Like a gleam of the love-light
We follow so blindly,
It w'hispered and beckoned to me.
My thoughts went a-winging,
My heart followed after,
Away to the old homestead dear;
I heard bush birds singing,
And clear girlish laugh tor —
Australia seemed cruelly near.
Gum-leaves a-burning
Waft sweet incense o’er me;
In the brazier the ashes gleam red;
While vistas of childhood
And youth stretch before me,
1 live in the days that are dead.
SINAI.
TROOPER BLUEGUM.


NO extravagance can pos-
sibly secure for smokers
better or purer cigarettes than
State Express. Made from tbe
finest tobacco possible to
obtain by tbe cleverest
Tobacco Experts in tbe World
tbey are universally recog-
nised as tbe perfection of
cigarette quality.
v
CIGARETTES
were first introduced to supply dis-
criminating' smokers throughout the
world with cigarettes manufactured
from pure tobacco leaf ONLY, and
to-day State Express are recog'nised
by connoisseurs as the standard of
all that is possible of attainment in
cig'arette production.
No. 333 6d. for lO
STANDARD WEIGHT NOT LESS THAN lO FOR 6d.
Obtainable of all Tobacconists and Stores throughout Australasia.
So/e Manufacturers
Ardath Tobacco Co. Ltd., London, England.
oo /<3
I »n thor qualities
sr^r?
«w
t?ss
13*


Sensational Triumph
for Famous
De Witts
Kidney & Bladder
Pills
It is indeed a
weakness are
triumph, when suffering, pain and
finally and completely overcome.
Regarding kidney and bladder troubles, many remedies claim
to cure, and do, without doubt, give relief for a time, but the one
remedy which wall give you quick relief, and most probably a per-
manent cure, is De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills, for when
once cured by these wonderful little pills our readers say they aie
cured for ever.
“My kidneys were weak right from childhood. As I got
older so they seemed to get worse ; then rheumatism showed itself.
For over 14 years I suffered with this agonising complaint, and had
to go into hospital four times. Then, even worse than this, I had
I'heumatic fever, when it was thought I could never recovei.
Anyway 1 managed to pull round again, but last Maich (1912) I
went down again with my old complaint, and everyone once more
gave me up. We tried everything we. knew of. No one could help
me. Nothing seemed to be of real use. ?
“While I was so ill and in such pain a small box of De Witt’s
Kidney and Bladder Pills was given to my mother. These pills
were so strongly recommended to her that she decided to give them
a fair trial. In two days, to everybody’s surprise, I was able to
move about a little. She sent and got me a larger box of De Witt’s
Pills, and I continued taking them. In six weeks 1 was able to go
to work. De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills had not only given
me quick relief—they had cured me. Now (July, 1912) I can lift
and easily handle half-a-hundredweight of metal, for I have been
working on a metal pot, running white metal. That is considered
one of the hardest jobs in our line.
“My name —Albert Carnenter —is well known, and if anyone
cares to refer to me at 17 Lambeth Walk, Westminster, S. -V., I
shall be pleased to confirm the above statement. Knowing as I
do how invaluable these little pills are to those who suffer from
kidney and bladder complaints, in any form, I only hope that
people who are afflicted as I was will give De Witt’s Kidney and
Bladder Pills a fair trial. If they do I know they will get benefit
a S i did. for 1 have recommended De Witt’s Pills to many people —
some of "them very bad cases —and I have never known them fail.”
Writing to the proprietors two years afterwards. Mr. Carpenter
says: “I feel better than ever before. 1 think this is the best
proof I am cured, especially after taking into consideration the
awful weather we have had lately; I have gone through it without
a cold or a twinge of pain, and am lit to work with anybody.”
This is from a man who had been racked with rheumatism in its
two worst forms —chronic and acute —for years. Just reason it
out! How was it De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills cured him,
Mr. A. CARPENTER (from photo).
Weak and 111 for Years.
De Witt’s made me
a Strong Man.
when every other kind of treatment had utterly failed? Here is
the re'ason: — . . ~ .
Rheumatism is caused by a curious poisonous acid m the
blood This acid, just like tiny pieces of broken glass with rough
edges, settles in the joints and muscles and causes that awful, agon-
ising pain of backache, rheumatism and gout, gravel, and the
burning sensation of inflammation of the bladder, etc. In health
the kidneys pass out this poisonous acid through the bladder by
natural functions, but when'weak or diseased they fail to do their
work. Hence illness and pain.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills strengthen the kidneys
and drive the poisonous, pain-causing acid right out of the system.
To cure rheumatism or any other form of kidney trouble 'you
must positively get rid of the cause—the poisonous uric acid.
Remember, to do this a real remedy must pass through the kidneys
and the bladder and not through the bowels, as most kidney pills
do When you see the urine change to a muddy bluish color—a
feature which distinguishes De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder Pills
from all others —you know beyond all doubt that they have put
their healing touch on the right spot —the kidneys and the bladder.
A wonderful pill straight to the kidneys—that is why De Witt’s
Pills give such amazingly quick relief—every time. A permanent
cure follows in almost every case. Look out for that blue-colored
urine. It means so much.
Kidnev disease is far commoner than most people would
imagine. It is reported that at least six out of every ten people
who “go sick” do so through kidney disease. And, moreover, five
out of every ten sufferers die from this same cause. If people
only knew how to tell whether their kidneys are diseased or not, it
would not be so bad, but thousands upon thousands of men and
women to-day are content to suffer and die in ignorance. Weak
kidneys lead to deadly Bright’s Disease in many cases.
How are you to really recognise Kidney Trouble? Here is
the way:— Have you a nasty taste in the mouth the first thing in
the morning, puffiness under the eyes, general feeling of weakness
and irritability, aches and pains in various parts of the body? Have
you constipation, cloudy urine, or sharp stabbing or aching pains—a
pain “as though my back will break”? These are the sure and
certain symptoms of kidney trouble, and those who suffer from
backache,' rheumatism, gout, sciatica, gravel, stone, cystitis
(inflammation of the bladder), or pains in the muscles and joints,
are all suffering these pains through weak or diseased kidneys, for
these are positively the symptoms of kidney trouble.
De Witt’s Kidney and Bladder rills cure all these symptoms
by the only right and proper method. They cure by going straight
to the kidneys and removing the cause —the poisonous uric acid —
right out of the blood through the bladder. Arid when the cause is
gone, commonsense says the pain, the weakness and the misery
must disappear, as it did in Mr. Carpenter’s case.
De Witt’s Kidney and Ehadder Pills are sold by Chemists
size—most advantageous. TRIAL BOX FREE and plai
»»vith the blue seal on the cork —send your money to E
i o/o otiri nor hnv I.,ar2e size contains two-and-a-half times as many as the 2/9
I£ r- WSK’*' seDUlne De Witt ’ s
i. C. De Witt & Co.. Ltd.. 42-44 Pitt Street, Sydney, who will gladly supply by letum. _
Business, Bobbery, etc.
“Steve Hart” : Recently I came across two
returned soldiers who had been put on a
block each. One of them had already rung
his edible scrub, and the other was destroy-
ing all his buddah. Though rather small it’s
the best fencing timber in the middle-west
(N-S.W.) bar pine; yet Billjim’s show was
not fenced. For goodness sake before we
repatriate our boys by “putting them on the
land,” let’s teach them our edible scrubs, or
they’ll come a cropper with the first drought.
Here are six of the best: kurrajong, rose-
wood, mulga, myall, whitewood and wilga.
All will stand lopping and grow again,
though myall must be cut very sparingly.
* * * *
“X.Y.” : If the porpoise-catching industry
is still carried on anywhere round the coast
it will pay the operators to give attention to
an oil that is obtainable from the fish-pig’s
jaws only. It is the best lubricant known
for watches and other delicate mechanism.
The essential qualities of a good watch oil
are lubricating efficiency, freedom from
water, freedom from gummy substances, no
tendency to spread on metallic surfaces, free-
dom from acid and liability to acid changes,
power to remain fluid at low temperatures
while not becoming too fluid in high tempera-
tures. Porpoise-jaw oil fulfils all these con-
ditions, and is the only oil procurable .in
quantity which does. Mineral oil has an in-
surmountable tendency to creep. Animal and
vegetable oils contain water, which is diffi-
cult to extract, and, besides, they all have a
tendency to decompose. The acid then
attacks the metal, and causes damage. It
might be thought that the preparation of the
perfect oil would require special plant and
skill. It doesn't; but time is required. W hen
the oil is obtained it is in a crude state, and.
in order to refine it, a trip to a low tempera-
ture is necessary. After 12 months of that,
it is exposed in glass vessels to a warm sun
for a similar period. All undesirable in-
gredients either rise as a scum or fall as a
sediment, and the oil is filtered to. free it from
these. It is then fit for the market. I can t
quote the present price, but on latest quo-
tations it should be worth over 20s. per lb.
“Hunter” : Newcastle is expecting a boom
in industries now that the local council is
developing electricity from coal, thanks to
which it can supplv power at 2d. per unit
and lighting current at 4d. A couple ot
sizeable industries are now negotiating tor
the supply of power for making nails, bolts
and other odds and ends, lhe Broken lliil
Prop, has the machinery on hand for turn-
in"' out the wire for nails, and is likely to
make a start soon. Incidentally, the co. is
busy building another blast furnace at 1 ort
Waratah which will double its output ot
pig-iron and bring it up to 1000 tons a day.
Astonishing as.it may seem to Hughes the
Shipbuilder, general-manager Delprat duln t
first call the unions together and ask them
whether they would promise not to strike it
the co. built the works.
* *
Sav this for P.M.G. Webster—there is
never a seemingly-reasonable complaint
made in print about liis department, nor a
suggestion made for its better working, that
he doesn’t have it inquired into. Here is
the latest official memo: —
(1) With reference to the par. by “Murkah” (B.
22/11/’l7) re “telegraphists’ cramp,” the statement
that the Australian figures are considered to he about
(>0 p.c. has, so far as I have been able to ascertain,
no foundation in fact. The percentage of cases in
Victoria is estimated at about 2 or 3 per cent., cer-
tainly under & per cent., and this figure may be
taken as sufficiently correct for the Commonwealth.^
(2) The instructions referred- to by “Murkah
were issued after very careful study of the evidence
given before, and the recommendations of, the Bri-
tish Post Office Committee appointed to inquire into
telegraphists’ cram]), and closely follow those recom-
mendations.
(3) The weight—or, more correctly, the tension
required for the depression of the key used m the
Commonwealth, instead of being heedlessly heavy as
alleged, is slightly less than that advocated by the
British Post Office Committee.
(4) The present position of the key is the correct
one, and any other (such as, for example, that which
the writer appears to advocate and which would
allow an operator to rest his sending arm on the
table) would be much more liable to produce tele-
graphists’ cramp than safeguard the sender against
it. The Committee above mentioned names this
position as one to be specially avoided. |
(5) The two eminent medical men who investi-
gated the matter gave as their opinion that tele-
graphists’ cramp is “a disease of the central nervous
system.”
* * * *
“Lannercost” : A day or two ago I came
across an ash-tray for sale in a Northern
Queensland sugar centre. The tray was ot
bronze, and in the centre was an embossed
facsimile of the Commonwealth’s military
badge, the rising sun, with the words “Aus-
tralian Military Forces.” Isn’t the sanction
of the Minister of Defence essential for the
sale of articles decorated in that, way ? And
what does he propose to do about it t Noth-
ing, as usual? Of course the article wasn t
of Australian manufacture. It wasn’t Eng-
lish or American either.
“Ivirribilli”: We can at least grow wool
in the awful Queensland climate. The other
day a four-tooth Lincoln ram carrying 11
months' wool yielded 261 b. In 1916 the clip
from the same ram was 251 b. A. J. Luke,
of Tantury, Pengarry Junction, reaped the
harvest. f
“Wandi”: One of the institutions of
many Queensland towns is “scalp day.” At
some places the business is conducted in a
paddock, and runs well into the afternoon.
Men come in from all parts, carrying scalps
in carts and harrows, on pack-horses and in
hags. Binghi rolls up with all his relations,
and they bring their hunting and camp para-
phernalia and all their dogs. Officials count
and pay for scalps, attendants consign them
to big log-fires kept burning near by, and
men, women and children who come laden
with picnic-hampers to witness the proceed-
ings add to the jollification which closes the
proceedings.
* * *
“Wart”: Dr. Purdy, formerly Chief Health
Officer of Tasmania, has written home for a
supply of mutton-birds and mutton-bird oil.
The juice, he says, is one of the best reme-
dies for trench feet, and nothing beats the
flesh for winter food in the fighting lines.
The O.A.S. Fund has the job in hand. llow
about some dugong bacon and dugong oil
from Queensland*? That truck should be
quite equal to mutton-bird.
“Kassi-Ivassi”: Does the Papuan house-
boy steal? Yes, always—with the exception
of yours; you could trust him with. untold
socks and beer uncounted. You don’t mean
the last house-boy ; he was signed-off because
you found out he was “planting” kerosene
and gold studs under the tank, and dropping
tins of meat —at one-and-seven —behind the
fowl-house for his friends to fetch away ;
also, he took a pair of your wife’s most inti-
mate frillies, and was seen by credible wit-
nesses wearing them at a native pig-feast.
No, of course you mean the present one;
he wouldn’t touch a thing. The only boy
in the place one could trust: A ’s cooky
robs him wholesale ; K ’s is feeding half
a village; and as for II ——’s ! But
the funny thing is how all those fellows be-
lieve in their own boys; each thinks his is
as honest as —as Curious thing, no name
occurs for a comparison; it must be the
notorious effect of Papua on the memory.
Well, honest, anyhow. But each of them
can see the other is simply harboring a vil-
lain. They’ll all find out by and bye. Mean-
time, yours really is honest.
'* * * *
“Briner”: There is joy in Thirsty Island.
Pearls are short and prices high, necklaces
being in demand for aristocratic mourning.
One worth £40,000 may be modest-looking,
while a thousand-pound diamond necklace
would be “impossible.” Of all sorts they
dropped 15 to 20 per cent, when war began,
but are well up to the old price and look
like passing it. #
“Pick”: Timbermen of the Southern
Monaro (N.S.W.) and Tumberumba forests
have been invited by the Commonwealth
Government to quote price for white moun-
tain ash, presumably for aeroplane con-
struction. Good; but the old hands, while
agreeing about the undoubted virtue of
white ash, are anxious that the South Coast
(N.S.W.) water-gum, which combines the
maximum of strength with the minimum ol
weight, and is extremely bendable, should
not be lost track of by the bird-makers.
What about a trial?
* * *
“F.C.” : Regarding lodge-doctors and their
charges for treating moderately-com for table
citizens who are not members, "l 1 .A.Q. s ex
perience (B. 13/12/’l7) matches mine. 1
called on a suburban med. with a large lodge
practice re little Tot's tonsilitis. Oh, yes
a simple matter, lie had three other chil-
dren to operate on next Sunday morning,
and if I brought the little one up R
wouldn't take 10 minutes. Then I asked
the fee. “Five guineas.” My face must
have told, for he excused himself. limy a
clmi-ge vou 10 guineas in Collins-street tor
it.” he said. “Yes,” 1 chipped in, -and pro-
bably 50 guineas in Tlarley-street. But we.
don’t happen to be there. Oood morning,
doctor.” I subsequently took the child to
a public hospitial. at a cost of one guinea
and a lost day. the little one not being mu
of her mother’s sight for more than five .
minutes. What the public wants is a fixed
scale of charges, much as it wants a whole
lot of hospitals intermediate between the
public institutions and the private hospitals.
An ordinary confinement case in the hitter
gold-mines now leaves little out of a i-"
note, and if they put a drop of arnica on a
bruise, it’s five shillings extra.
The new-fangled methods in Norfolk
Island have upset a local industry. A
settler had started a coffee plantation
there in the good old days of barter, and
secured plenty of cheap labor by getting
the innocent inhabitants to do the work in
return for inexpensive articles. But of late
years the Norfolk Islanders have become
acquainted with real money, and insist on
being paid in it. The coffee bushes are still
flourishing, but there has been a slump in
the handling of the berries. However, Aus-
tralia can always import coffee from Brazil
or Java ; so why worry if the industry can t
pay decent wages and live in Commonwealth
territory ?
* * * *
“N’lmporte”: Things do not always' go
smoothly for the “producers” when sthge-
managing fictitious disputes for the purpose
of getting matters before the Federal Arbi-
tration Court. Not long ago Act I. of a dis-
pute was arranged in N. S. Wales and a
quiet town in Bananaland was chosen for
Act 11. to give the row the necessary inter-
state character. A stop-work meeting was
arranged for a Sunday, and an advocate
was sent from Sydney to address the men.
Unfortunately the local unionists, who in
the past had been noted for their pacificism,
had not been informed that Act 11. was only
farce, and mistook it for tragedy. _ The
first they knew that they were thinking of
striking ’ was when the advocate implored
them not to. But the more he begged them
to abide by Arbitration the more they began
to feel themselves aggrieved, till at length
they wanted to come out there and then .and
wipe the floor with the bosses. The meet-
ing which was intended only as a squib
soon exhibited signs of containing high ex-
plosive, and the advocate had the busiest
few moments of his life in extinguishing the
sudden outburst. Next time a dispute is to
be staged that town is going to be left' out
of the circuit by the industrial mummers.
THE GOLDEN FLEECE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The flock moves slowly down the track
Before the pacing mare ;
Dust drifting upward from the beat
Of myriad lightly trampling feet
Hangs golden in the air.
The thick, choked sound of bleating runs
Before them as they pass;
Behind, the dogs Hot to and fro ;
The leaders linger as they go
To crop the yellowing grass.
Biding behind his straggling, sheep
The musing drover sees
Where some swift shearer in the sky
Has piled the great cloud fleeces high
Above the drowsy trees;
And strewn the blue with vagrant wisps
As the wind's arms he fills,
While fleece by fleece ’tis borne away
To fill some woolshed vast and grey
Beyond the purple hills.
And (musing, dreaming, as he rides)
He sees the lengthening rays
Flame out before the long day wanes
To gild the flock and wrap the plains
In a great aureate blaze ;
And high before him in the west,
By ruffling winds unrolled,
A cloudy token blazing high
In splendor on the sunset sky—
A glorious fleece of gold.
VICTORIA.
SYD. C.


am
m,
m
H ■
■
sSjgSS'"'
m
Wm
i
flPti
fTt®
1
IS
bm
f
I
v. v .‘; •■
,
i
w
■Jf-
Various types of Mine Locomotives are manufactured by
the General Electric Company, and just the correct type of
Locomotive can be secured for any specified set of haulage
conditions.
The rugged, durable character of G.E. MINE LOCOMOTIVES
is evidenced by the fact that they endure under the severe
operating conditions of mine service for many years.
For full information on this subject communicate with
wmm
WENTWORTH AY SYDNEY, G? OF QUEEN & LITTLE GOLLINS ST MELBOURNE.
mm
M
m
■
m
OTHER AGENTS:
BRISBANE <Q.>: The Engineering Supply Co. of Australia (E.S.C.A.I,
Ltd.* corner Edward and Charlotte Streets
PERTH <\V.A.»: Chas. Atkins & Co (W.A > Ltd.. Hay Street
ADELAIDE tS-A.t: Lnbciiaun & Johnstone. 100 Currte Street.
MEW ZEALAND: The National Electrical ffi Engineering Co. Ltd..
Auckland. Christchurch. Dunedin and Wellington.
TASMANIA: Lindsay Tullock A Co- Ltd.. Launceston; Messrs. Oliver
and Oliver. MacQuarte Street. Hobart.
13-TON INSIDE FRAME
LOCOMOTIVE.


A. Saunders’ Pocket Book, Morocco
Leather, with Book and Pencil Silver-
mounted, 15/6.
Others, 20/-, 25/-, 30/-
A. Saunders’ Shaving Stand, Pure Silver-
plated, hand burnished bevelled edge Mirror.
22/6. Others, 20/-, 32/6, 40/-
ALL
ORDERS
POST
FREE.
SEND
FOR
LATEST
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE.
IT’S FREE.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Real
Ebony Hair Brush, Silver-
mounted Fuchsia Design,
finest-qualitv Bristles,
15/6.
A. Saunders’ Real
Ebony Cloth Brush,
best-quality
Bristles, and Sil-
ver Shield,
10/6.
SERVICEABLE
GIFTS.
i
M
I
BRITISH MaTnufTcTu r E
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Dressing Case, Solid English
Calf Leather. Ebony Brushes fitted with every
convenience, £3/5/-
lIP
sg£x.
A. Saunders’ Lady’s Solid Silver Brush and Comb,
in Silk-lined Case, daintily engraved, finest qualitv
Bristles, 25 / -
ALL ORDERS POST FREE.
Our Illustrated Catalogue is Free on Application.
A. SAUNDERS,
Jeweller, 805-815 GEORGE STREET (Opposite Railway Station), SYDNEY.
A. Saunders’ Ebony, Hand
Mirror, Silver-mounted,
Poppy design, bevelled
Mirror, 25/-
A. Saunders’
Real Ebony
Rim Hat
Brush, Silver-
mounted, Finest
Bristles, 8/6.
ALL
ORDERS
POST
FREE.
A. Saunders’ Heal Morocco
Leather Handbag, pleated
front, assorted designs, from
12/6, 15/6,20/-, 25/-.
A. Saunders’ Solid Leather
Collar Box, 6in., 8/6.
7in„ 10/6. Bin., 12/6.
A. Saunders’ Gent.’s Ebony Military Brush, Set
Silver Shields, finest-quality Bristles, in Solid
Leather Case, 257-
Others, 22/6, 30/-, 40/-
xcvx
GIVES INSTANT RELIEF
No matter what your respiratory organs may
be suffering from—whether Asthma, Hay
Fever, Rose Cold, or ordinary Cough— you
will find in this famous remedy a restorative
power that is simply unequalled.
FAMED FOR 40 YEARS
Sold in Tins by all Chemists and Stores
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
I of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION of TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
Used the
World Over
cv
xc
MOTOR
...CARS
EXZERMA
CURES
ECZEMA.
The Very Rev. Father Treand, N.S.H., of Rand-
wick Presbytery, in a letter dated May 21, bears
testimony to the wonderful results achieved by appli-
cation of Exzerma in the case of a Papuan mis-
sionary who was suffering severely from Eczema. He
returned to the mission-field quite cured. All
Chemists, or from S. Fielder, Randwick,
Sydney, 5/- and 2/6.
BOOKS AT THE BIG BOOK STORE.
No Matter What Book You Want I’ve Got It.
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated
with over 50 engravings, new 1915 edition, 2/6 posted. Mm E-NDLAN-.n hd How
to Get Rich, 1/- posted. I)e Lamartine’s Silent Ikienu, 1/0. Ned Donnellys
Art of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, 1/3. How to Dance, 1/-
posted How to Wrestle, 1/3. Moll Flanders, a rare book by De I-oe, l/-
posted. Thurston’s Card Tricks, 1/2. All Zola’s, including Nana, 1/6 eacb
posted. Educating the Horse, 1/-. Ventriloquism Made Easy, 1/3. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, 1/3 posted. How to Strengthen the Memory, 1/1. Bells
Standard Elocutionist, latest edition.4/9 posted. Riddle of the Universe, •>
AND ALL THE RATIONAL PRESS REPRINTS (send for- list). JOYS OF LIFE, I/O-
Nigger Stump Speeches, 1/-. Window Ticket Writing Explained 1/0.
Mechanics’ Workshop llandybook, 1/6. Quadrille Cal t Book, -/-. Adven-
tures of a Flirt, 1/3. Parlor Tricks and Games, 1/3. Fortune-Telling by
Cards. 1/2. Miller’s Sporting Pamphlet, 1/7. The Soke, by Hubert Wales,
1/3. Tricks and Diversions with Cards, illus., 1/3. Beauty’s Secrets, post
free, 1/-. Maria Monk, 1/6. How to Make Love. 1/- pos‘ free. Fowler’s
Science of Life, 12/6. Australian Miner’s Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3/9. Mahomet’s Fortune-Telling Book of Fate (Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price
1/-, posted 1/3. How to Become Quick at Figures, 1/1. Will Power (Personal
Magnetism), 4/- posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3/6 posted. Carlisle’s
Freemasonry, 4/3 poste Mysteries of Paris, 1/6. History of the Rod
(Flagellations and the Flagellants), scarce, 12/-. Practical Gas and Oil Engine
Handbook, 5/-. Not Guilty (Blatchford), lOd. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d. and
1/6. God and My Neighbor, 9d. Britain for the British, 9d. How to Read
Faces, 1/6. How to Train for all Sports, 1/3. Diseases c Horses. 1/6.
French Polishing and Staining, 1/6. Photography Self-taught, 1/3. How to
Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, 1/2. New Tricks with Coins, 1/3 posted.
House Painting & Papering, 1/3. Prof. Fowler's Human Science. 12/6. Aus-
tralian Pastrycooks’ Guide, 1/6. SEND A TRIAL ORDER TO-DAY.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK,”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human Nature as
it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thousand questions that occur to
the minds of young and old, but about which they feel a delicacy in consulting their
physician. Chapters are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning
marriage, which makes it a very superior guide to the action of men and women
both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who anticipates a bright future,
and wishes to enjoy married life in its fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the
information embraced in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged, cloth-covered
edition of this great work. It will be posted to ANY address for TEN
SHILLINGS.
Only a Small Idea of my Stock can be got from this Advt.
Write for my Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the AsKing.
remit in stamps, money order or postal note of any
COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY. ANY BOOK
ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
SIR ROBERT BEAR, 67 & 69 Market St. Sydney (only).


jLeital Notices.
IN DIVORCE.
T N THE SUPREME COURT OF
L NEW ZEALAND.
'HAMILTON DISTRICT.
No. 52.
Between VERA MYRTLE JUDEL of
Hamilton in the Provincial District or
Auckland Married Woman the wire o
Cecil William Jude last of lakaka m
the Provincial District of Nelson Lab-
orer and now of parts unknown i eti-
tioner and the said CECIL WILLIAM
JUDE Respondent.
TO CECIL WILLIAM JUDE last of
Takaka in the Provincial District of A el-
son in the Dominion of New Zealand
Laborer and now of parts unknown:
WHEREAS Vera Myrtle Jude of
Hamilton in the Provincial District of
Auckland in the said Dominion claiming
to have been lawfully married to you on
the 18th day of May 1911 has iiled her peti-
tion against you in our said Court praying
for a dissolution of her marriage with you
wherein she alleges that on or about the
sth day of April 1912 you wilfully deserted
her without just cause and for five years
and upwards—namely from that date down
to the present time —you have continued to
desert her without just cause AND
WHEREAS an order for substituted ser-
vice has been made
TAKE NOTICE that unless on or before
the 25th day of February 1918 you hie an
answer to the said petition and enter an
appearance in our said Court at Hamilton
aforesaid the said Court will proceed to
hear the said charge and to pronounce
sentence thereon notwithstanding your
absence and that if you do not enter such
an appearance you will not be allowed to
address the Court either in person or by
counsel at any stage of the proceedings.
Dated at Hamilton the 15th day of
September 1917.
H. J. DIXON Deputy Registrar.
This Citation was extracted by Charles
Edward Armstrong Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner. The Petitioner’s address for ser-
vice is at the offices of Messieurs Watts
Hunt & Armstrong, Solicitors, Frear’s
Buildings, Garden Place, Hamilton.
Any friends of the above-named
Respondent Cecil William Jude who may
see this advertisement are requested to imme-
diately bring the same before his notice.
[Seal.]
Motor
Lighting:
and ignition that you can rely on under all
circumstances is available to users of
©
Sgf
§jl
The EDISON
STORAGE
BATTERY.
The Edison is wonder-
fully durable, lasting
many years with prac-
tically no attention,
gives no charging
troubles, and is the
only nickel-iron-alka-
line battery made.
Full details mailed
post free on request.
THOMAS A. EDISON, LTD.,
364-372 Kent Street, Sydney.
Be a Successful Artist.
"THERE'S MONEY IN THE PEN."
You can
learn draw-
ing in your
own home,
with Harry
J. Weston
as vour
teacher.
In a few
months you
may be
earning
good money
in your
spare time,
if you start
study ing
the Weston
Postal
Course of
D r a w i ng
NOW.
Th e Wes-
ton Course
c a rries
s t u d e nts
through
1 J
every phase
of Commercial Art, and so thorough and
explicit are the instructions, so helpful and
personal Mr. Weston’s criticisms, that rapid
progress under such able tuition is certain.
“THERE’S MONEY IN THE PEN.”
The above is the title of the booklet which
describes in full the Weston Postal School of
Drawing, and tells about the possibilities of
Drawing both as a profession and as a
pastime. We should like you to have a copy.
Send us your name and address, including
three penny stamps to cover postage.
The Harry J. Weston
POSTAL SCHOOL OF DRAWING,
24 Waltham Buildings, Bond Street, Sydney.
Amusements.
Harry Rickards Tivoli Theatres Ltd.
Governing Director .... HUGH D. McINIOSH.
! I*l VOLI THEATRE. SYDNEY
Nightly at 8. Matinees Monday, Wednesday and
Saturday at 2.30.
ADA REEVE,
In her famous Musical Play,
WINNIE BROOKE, WIDOW.
“|“IVOEI THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
HUGH D. McINTOSH presents the Sparkling
Comedy,
BABY MINE,
Also DELMORE AND LEE, ROGERO. REYNOLDS
AND WHITE, and BELLE SYLVIA.
I Prices: 4/-, 3/-, 2/- & 1/-.
CR 1 T E R I O N THE A T R E. SYDNEY.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING.
| Matinees Every Wednesday and Friday at 2.
KATHLENE MACDONELI.
With CHARLES WALDRON
In .T. M. Barrie’s exquisite Fairy Play,
PETER PAN.
He R Ma.l E STY’S. SYDNEY
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
Matinees Wednesday and Saturday.
The Brilliant Spectacular Revue,
THE BING BOYS ARE HERE,
A Gorgeous Spectacle eclipsing anything hitherto
staged.
i P AIACE THEAT RE. SYI)N E Y.
SATURDAY NEXT.
MATINEE WEDNESDAY.
J. AND N. TAIT’S
NEW COMEDY COMPANY
in
| TURN TO THE RIGHT.
“Makes you feel warm and all human inside.”
7
TUI ANGLE PLAYS AT
THE LYCEUM.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Continuous Day Sessions: II a.m.
to II p.m. Full Evening Session:
Curtain-raiser at 7.30; Overture
at 8 p.m. Box Plan at Paling’s.
if. ■ '■ .. ■ v
UNION THEATRES LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
You haven’t seen Sydney until you’ve visited the
UNION PICTURE THEATRES
In GEORGE STREET.
CRYSTAL PALACE, LYRIC, EMPRESS.
The Finest Picture Theatres in Australasia, show-
ing select programs of the world’s best films.
Continuous Performances, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. to 1/-
GREATER J. D. WILLIAMS AMUSEMENT CO. LTD.
W. Barrington Miller, General Manager.
I
WEAR
ABBEY
SHOES _
—the footwear that is becoming
ever more popular with well-
dressed men. They are highest-
grade in QUALITY. DESIGN
and FINISH, and will give the
utmost in LONG SERVICE.
Being made in half- and full-sizes,
and in narrow, medium and wide
fittings, you are assured perfection
of fit.
We illustrate a special Patent
Kid Button Boot, with Perforated
Golosh, and Fawn Cloth Legs.
Price - 50|-
Postage extra.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOG.
ABBEY,
313 George Street,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter St.
222 Pitt Street,
Opposite Palace Theatre, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
THE LARGEST AND MOST SUCCESSFUL MUTUAL LIFE OFFICE IN THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
HEAD OFFICE . . 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman; Hon. J. T. Walker. Deputy-Chairman; Hon R. J.
Black, M.L.C.; Hon. Sir Jas. Burns, K.C.M.G., M.L.C.; Adrian Knox, Esq., I\.C.; Samuel Hordern,
Esq.; Richard Teece, Esq.
C. A. ELLIOTT, F.1.A., Actuary. H. AV. APPERLY, General Manager.
Accumulated Funds, £86,500,000. Annual Income, £5,117,000.
DISTRIBUTES A CASH BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Amount divided for one year, 1916 ..£868,207. Total Bonuses distributed ..£21,560,000
The Society issues every desirable form of policy Contract from £5 upwards.
AVrite for prospectus and full information without delay.
Amusements.
WIRTHS’ HIPPODROME THEATRE,
Haymarket.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S Up-to-date, Topical, Bright
and Merriest of all Pantomimes,
.TACK AND THE BEANSTALK,
MABELLE MORGAN, Australia’s Own,
as PRINCIPAL BOY.
HARRY FARROW as DAME.
Prices to Suit Everybody.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
Their Gorgeous Pantomime Extravaganza,
DICK WHITTINGTON.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
Til EAT RE ROY A L, .MELBOURNE.
Direction J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J. C. WILLIAMSON LTD. present
MURIEL STARR
in
THE BIRD OF PARADISE.
KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
MATINEES SATURDAYS, WEDNESDAYS AND
ALL HOLIDAYS.
J. & N. TAIT AND BAILEY & GRANT’S
GORGEOUS CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME,
ALADDIN and THE WONDERFUL
LAMP.
Plans at Allan’s. Prices: 6/- R. Stalls, 5/- D.C.,
Stalls 4/-, Gallery 2/- and 1/-. Plus Tax.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction BEN & JOHN FULLER.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, JANUARY 12.
Welcome Reappearance of
ALLAN WILKIE AND CO.
in Walter Howard’s Romantic Story,
THE STORY OF THE ROSARY.
Popular Pi'ices. Plans at Pianola.
|y|.VJESTIC THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
COMMENCING NEXT SATURDAY.
CASSIDY,
Larry Evan’s story, adapted to the screen by Triangle,
with
DICK ROSSON.
And
THE HEART OF EZRA GREER.
Matinfies daily at 2.30. Nights at 8.
Amusements.
|_| OYT’S THEATRES, MELBOURNE.
DE LUXE. BOUIIKE STREET.
Continuous Daily from 11 a.m. to G p.m.
Every Evening, Three Hours’ Show, from
8 to 11.
OLYMPIA.
Every Evening. Matindes Saturday at 2.30.
FAMOUS PLAYERS-LASKY, MAX
SENNETT, ARBUCKLE, etc.,
FEATURES.
THIS WEEK’S FEATURES:
MADAM PETROVA in
LAW OF THE LAND.
Also VIVIAN MARTIN in
THE WAX MODEL.
Prices as usual.
THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
PRESENTING THE TRIANGLE PROGRAMME.
Continuous Sessions, 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
Prices: 3d. and 6d.
|y| EI.HA THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Showing the pick of the world’s films, including
the productions of CHAPLIN, VITAGRAPH, PATIIE,
WORLD, FOX and SELZNICK.
IT’S GREAT
vxc
how I find I can
get away for my
week-end on my
SMITH
MOTOR
WHEEL
and am having much better health in
consequence.
On sale by all the following firms.
Write, or call for particulars.
R. R. Russack, 377 a Elizabeth St., Syd-
ney; Philip Frankel & Co., Edward St.,
Brisbane; Eyes & Crowle Etd., Pirie
St., Adelaide: Geo. C. Carter. Box 300
G.P.0., Perth, W.A.; Darby Auto.
Supplies Co. Pty., Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
SE
Lime Juice I
Brings to your tips the juice of
the lime fruit .
It is a drink that is always cooling and refreshing.
The children love it. Order a few bottles to-day.
Large supplies have been lately shipped from London.
MONTSERRAT is sold by all leading Storekeepers.
'/a
*
V' .
.O.
M
A Smile After Shaving
Comfort during—and
after—your shave
comes with
COLGATE'S
x SHAUINC CREAM
Its rich, softening lather helps the razor,
and leaves the face cool and refreshed.
The feeling of a clean, smooth skin. is
only one reward of saying ‘
when you buy a shaving preparation.
Just try Colgate’s Cream for your shave
. to-morrow morning.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Also Makers ol the
Famous
Shaving Stick and
Rapid Shave Powder


[For any paragraphs that require a signature and
are not signed by anybody else, S. H. Prior, John
Barr and E. O’Fbrrall, of 214 George-street, Syd-
ney, take the responsibility.]
A HANDY REMEDY FOR INDIGES-
TION AND DYSPEPSIA.
For a long time it has been recognised
that bisurated magnesia forms the best of
all remedies for indigestion, dyspepsia, heart-
burn, flatulence and other forms of digestive
and stomach trouble, many remarkable cases
having been reported by those who have
made a practice of taking half a teaspoonful
of this simple antacid in a little water after
meals. Only one difficulty stood in the way
of the universal adoption of this method of
treatment, and that was, in the original
powder form bisurated magnesia was not
adapted for use by those who were compelled
to take meals away from home. But even
this slight difficulty has at last been over-
come, and the genuine bisurated magnesia is
now available in the form of small compressed
tablets, put up in handy pocket flasks, and
obtainable of high-class chemists every-
where. — Advt.
11l 11
***>
iIiNIII
\Wi!
LLWii
I.V.]
ft
Hoyt’s Show Paramount Pictures.
Another Testimony to the Power and Purpose of Paramount Productions
—in fact, a remarkable tribute, since two of Sydney’s and one of Melbourne’s leading houses will bring to the thousands the stories that have
flashed across the world —that are being interpreted by artists like Mary Pickford. Mme. Petrova, Pauline Frederick. Louise Huff. Vivian
Martin, Marguerite Clark, Billie Burke, Geraldine, Farrar, Dorothy Davenport, Enid Bennett, Julian Eltinge, Wallace Reid, Wm. Hart, Jack
Pickford, Doug. Fairbanks, Geo. Beban, and House Peters. And you’ll surely want to see these pictures at your theatre.
Now is Your Opportunity to see that you do. Ask your theatre manager to show PARAMOUNT-and give Him your reason.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Anybody heal’d any politician mention
reinforcements during the last fortnight or
three weeks?
Any day disclosures may be expected from
the Northcliff pi-ess of the German inti-igues
in Britain and Ireland which the Govern-
ment has been so slow to deal with. France
and Italy have ui-gent political reasons fox-
wanting revelations of how enemy influences
have been working in England, and the
Daily Mail was on the job three months
"°'o. when Northcliff l-efused to join the
Ministi’y.
THE OUTCAST.
Either the Peake Government should have
left the Vaughan Ministry’s land transac-
tions alone or it should have appointed no-
body less than a Supreme Court judge to
inquire into them. Actually it appointed a
minor Special Magistrate; and when he
reported that Styles, the Chief Seeretai'y in
Vaughan’s Ministry and Minister of Gduca-
lion in Peake’s, had “betrayed liis trust”
and assisted his friend the agent to make a
. profit of * £4OOO out of the Government,
Styles replied:—
Surely any improper conduct which Mr. Webb
thinks I have been guilty of pales into insignificance
alongside the impropriety of a Commissioner who,
while the hearing is proceeding, applies to the
Cabinet, half of which is composed of men who are
being judged by him, for a rise in salary.
Styles doesn’t say anything about the pro-
priety of “a Cabinet, half of which is com-
posed of men who are to be judged,” appoint-
ing a man who could be sacked if his report
didn’t suit, or could be given a higher salary
if his report turned out to be just the thing.
Says a “social” reporter in a London
Jeames publication :
I wonder if the two Canadian Tommies who sat
in the fourth row of the stalls at Drury Lane on
Wednesday afternoon knew that only a lady-in-wait-
ing separated them from the Princess Mary ? These
indeed are democratic days !
True enough. Not long ago some? common,
hairy soldiers had the temerity to even
separate a whole royal family from its throne
and perks ! Democratic days indeed —and
not done with yet, bless you.
THE PROOF.
“I know that Bert isn’t struck on you even
if he did take a long time to tie your
shoelace.”
“How do you know?”
“He tied it in a double knot so it wouldn’t
come undone again!”
From the S. M. Herald (5/1/T8) :
We have talked about shipbuilding, we have talked
about erecting . grain silos and elevators, we have
talked about this and that; we have talked,- and
calked, and talked, and done nothing. We have
talked of organising the nation for war purposes.
The Prime Minister has received deputations and
talked to them, promising to do this thing and that
thing. He has made no end of speeches, saying this
would be done and that would be done. And what
has been done? Australia at war has been a sorry
spectacle. With a Government that takes things so
easily is it to be wondered at that the people do
nothing, that they live and move as if there were no
war at all, and as if all they were expected to do
was to eat, drink and be merry ? We perish under
the everlasting deluge of talk.
And what does the lleeald propose to do
to escape the deluge? Simply to retain in
office the man whb has said this would be
done and that would be done and has done
nothing! With the Herald it is all just
talk, too.
We had the Hughesiliers in 1917. We
are threatened with the Hughesiliars in
1918.
The latest Appropriation Act of the Ryan
Government provides some interesting ex-
amples of relative values from the Queens-
land political point of view. The State
Fisheries business receives £34,000, and
Prisons get £32,404. State butcherishops
require £208,000, but a saving has been
effected on Lock Hospitals, for which the
thrifty sum of £2OO has been provided. Pay-
ment of members takes £20.000 of the trifle
of £52,000 for Parliamentary salaries, and
as it is obviously impossible to have every-
thing, the Government Analyst, an obscure
person who works in a smelly laboratox-y at
things like adulterated foods, has to be con-
tent with £4239 to waste. The Babinda
Hotel, only oasis in the Northern deserts,
needs £15,700, while Public Health gets
£15,000, and at £lOO less than one pub
calls for Public Health must be spread pretty
thin over 617,000 square miles of territory.
The N. S. Wales “Nationalist” Government
is wearing itself out helping to win the war.
Last half-year it spent £3,034,485 of loan
capital. That is to say, while the people
were being urged to put by even their six-
pences in order to pi-ovide money to win the
war. this Win-the-War Government was
actually competing with the Commonwealth
for loans and mopped up over three millions.
Money is said to be quite as important as
men in this fight; yet if George Fuller and
Holman sent out spruikers in opposition to
the recruiting-officers, and snapped up men
who were hovering on the verge of kliaki —
well, George Fuller and Holman would be
regarded as plain enemies of the Empire,
for whom hanging is the supi’eme punish-
ment.
The economist is rarely popular. Bowser,
the new Vic. Premier, is already known in
the departments as the Bow-Wowser.
Among front-rank Australian papers it
was the S. M. Hekald that cut the poorest
figure during the “crisis” over the pledge.
Almost without exception the others knew
what honor demanded; but apparently the
lleeald hasn’t any longer any use for such
inconvenient things as morals:—
It is incumbent on Mr. Hughes’s critics, whether
Nationalists or members of the official Labor party,
when they remind him of his pledge, to show that
they can find a substitute to carry on the Govern-
ment.
A few months ago the Herald joined in
the world-cry of horror when Germany tore
up a scrap of paper on the ground that it
was inconvenient to observe its terms. To-
day the Heeald stands frankly alongside
the German and says it is incumbent on
Germany’s critics to show how she could
have done what she wanted to do in any
other way. It is a pretty long descent from
the principles on which old John Fairfax
built the Herald.
Sweden hesitates on the horizon, balanced
now on one leg and now on the other, and
wonders whether it should go into the war
or not. Almost certainly it won’t go in.
Sweden’s territories south of the Baltic are
now part of Germany. Finland has gone‘to
Russia and Petrograd was built on the lost
land, with its great Isaac cathedral, and the
equestrian statue of Peter the Great in front
thereof, the horse balanced on its hind legs
anti its tail supported on a serpent. Sweden
went out of business as a Great Power when
the last of its big kings died. Like Portugal
and Macedonia and Normandy, the mother
country wasn’t big enough for the job it
Undertook. It was like a church balanced
on a threepenny-bit, and when the w nd blew
on it there was a fall. Any attempt to re-
sume the Great Power business now would
certainly spell failure and probably suicide.
The Vic. Closer Settlement Board lias been
having another whack at solving the re-
turned-soldier problem by buying £40.000
worth of Western District dairying country,
with Lands Minister Frank Clarke standing
by to offer loud applause. The area has
been acquired from one of the Purrumbete
Manifolds, the price paid was £l7 an acre,
and the property is to be divided up into
100-acre farms for married soldiers. It may
turn out all right, though £l7 an acre, plus
cost of building, fencing, stocking and the
purchase, of farm-plant, is a lump to pay for
cow land anywhere. Moreover, the history
of subdivision for dairy-farming in the West-
ern District, whether by the State or Private
Enterprise, under freehold, leasehold or
sharehold conditions, makes far from cheer-
ful recounting. What about neglected but
naturally-blessed Gippsland, where there are
few wealthy squatters with land to sell, as a
field for the returned soldier’s nationally-
aided endeavors?
IDENTIFYING HIM.
DRUNK (to acquaintance just returned from
France) : “ Remem'er you? Why (hie),
’course I remem’er you! Lesh shee
now, wozzit you (hie) or your brother
woz killed, Febroowerry nineteen hun-
dred an’ fifteen?”
Australia is paying the bill all right.
From November 1 special war-taxes bring
in an extra 2d. on every sixpenny telephone
message, and Id. in the Is. on all railway
tickets costing over Is. 6d.; an extra Id.
stamp goes on every post-card and letter-
card ; 3 per cent, extra is imposed on all
railway freights, 10 per cent, on sleeping-
car tickets, 2d. on every telegram costing
over 6d., 10 per cent, on all sporting and
social club fees, 1 per cent, on all insurance
policies excepting life, besides a lot of other
items. At least, that is what Australia
would be doing if its politicians weren’t
time-serving log-rollers, intent on catching
votes and passing the bill on to the kid. It
is the U.S.A. that is actually doing these
things, and conscripting life as well as wealth
with a vim.
HORRIBLE TRAGEDY.
BILL: “And was it much of an explosion?”
JIM: “ Gripes , yes! When they dug me out
me wrist-watch was broke!”
Commonwealth Ministers who lately went
through the country hinting at the know-
ledge of dreadful things they knew but
couldn’t tell, and declaring that the military
position was “absolutely rotten” and “preg-
nant with disaster and even early disaster,”
put the Maoriland Government in an awk-
ward position. In Maoriland, where there
is no occasion to construct bogeys to get
reinforcements, the people began to make
trouble because the Government had been
keeping them in the dark; whereupon the
Minister for Defence was driven to announce
that the Australian yarns were all flam—
that the British Government had not sent
any war information that hadn’t been dis-
closed. From first to last the ques-
tion of universal service has been mis-
handled. It has been put forward as an
essentially abominable thing that could only
be appealed to as a last, desperate resource,
instead of as the democratic thing which re-
quires no other justification than that the
country needs men for its defence. That
was the basis on which the Labor party
adopted it years ago. We shall have to get
back to that view of it if we are to maintain
the system. And if we don’t maintain it,
God help Australia!
MY EMPIRE PRAYER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I prayed a prayer; on Sunday last
I prayed a little prayer.
My hands were locked together fast,
And solemn was my air ;
And these my words: “O Lord, Who died
To cleanse the world from sin,
Give strength and judgment to our side:
lie Thou our mentor and our guide
And teach us how to win.”
Let our ideas of what is Right
Be boirowed from the Poe.
The victor in this world-wide fight
Must strike the hardest blow.
No referee, my sporting friend,
With veto intervenes —
All foul is fair, the Huns contend.
What horrors make this war to end
Will justify the means.
Let Germans everywhere be taught
That quo deserves a quid;
Let Germans everywhere be brought
To curse what Germans did ;
For they who bi’ag of “Vill to vin,”
And truth and treaties flout,
And live abroad and save their skin,
Will never see their German sin
Unless it finds them out.
I prayed my prayer on Sunday last
For what it might be worth.
At bloody war 1 gaze aghast,
And hope for peace on earth ;
But still must Kaiser William’s sword
Be mightier than the pen,
Till Huns in arms, with one accord,
Crv “Damn and blast our Cause, O Lord!”
And hosts of humbled Huns abroad,
To sanity at last restored,
Breathe forth a loud Ainen.
VICTORIA.
EDMUND FISHER.


The CHAPPELL
Grand Plano.
Finest British-
make.
vcx
Buy Your
New-Year Piano
at PALING’S.
vc
The VICTOR
Flayer Piano.
The instrument
all the family
can play.
The Best Piano Investment —
at Paling’s Piano Warehouse.
HpHE purchase of a Piano or Player Piano seldom
* occurs more than once in a lifetime, and
although in buying every day commodities the
purchaser may depend on his own judgment as to
the Quality and Value, it is quite another matter
when it comes to the purchase of a Piano or
Player Piano.
Place your confidence in a firm of high-
standing in the Piano business in PALING’S, a
firm whose name and reputation have been known
all over Australia for over 64 years. Why not
call to=day and inspect our beautiful instruments ?
Catalogue and particulars are free.
a<c£
EASY TERMS.
W. H. PALING & GO. LTD.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
And at BRISBANE, TOOWOOMBA, NEWCASTLE and LISMORE.
Engineers, Farmers and Skilled Workmen should know the
OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING and CDTTING PROCESS.
The Oxy-Acetylene process is the latest addition to the engineer’s workshop and to the skilled worker’s bench. It is simple of working and
portable, so that cutting or welding may be done at the bench, in the field or by the roadside.
CUT OUT COST OF NEW MACHINERY.
All Engineers should at once write us for free catalogues and illustrations showing the remarkable variety of work that can be done with Oxy-Acetylene. Following
are a few of the broken and worn machinery parts our process will make new again :
Cracked or broken Aluminium Crank or Gear Cases, Differential Boxes, Steering Wheels, Pipes, Cylinders, Pistons, Cranks, Clutches, Cardan Shafts, Band Brakes. Worn
Iveyways in Shafts. Pieces welded to broken Gears and New Teeth Cut, etc.
Broken Machinery of any kind can be welded, including Cast Iron, Wrought Iron, Mild Steel, Brass, Copper, Gun Metal, etc., which cannot be repaired by any other
process.
f %*
•• ;
m
■met
v-
■tin. Steel Shaft, in head of 12001 b. Press and
frame, back of shaft-box, llin. wide and 2in.
and 4in. thick, welded where chalk-marked.
Not possible of repair by ordinary methods.
Repaired in a few hours by our process, sav-
ing the cost of a new press and big loss of
time.
Oxy-Aeetylene Welding applied to Pipe Work,
Ammonia Refrigerating Coils.
Farmers, do not scrap your broken parts, but get them
welded by our process at the nearest engineer’s.
gj
m
Poppet-head dismantled in Tasmania
to be erected in New South Wales.
Approximately 12,000 rivets were cut
out with the Oxy-Acety lene Metal-
cutter, without damage to the struc-
ture. This work wars carried out by
A. Li. West & Co., of Sydney.
THE COMMONWEALTH OXYGEN CO. LTD.
The Permanent Trustee Building,
25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Agents MELBOURNE: Fyvie & Stewart, Collins House, Collins Street.
BRISBANE: Evans, Deakin Co., 172 Edward Street.
ADELAIDE: Alex. Ingram & Co., Wyatt Street.
PERTH: Geo. Wills & Co., Ltd., Murray Street.


The optimism for 1918 must be the kind
that inspires to courage, stoicism and faith
in the right and great deeds, urges that great
deed-inspiring snirit, King George IV. top-
notch Scotch. — Auvt.
RESCH’S Dinner Ale,
Lager & Pilsener Beers
West Australian Agents: RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Harvey’s Special li i sky
Sole Agents : RESCHS, LlfllTED, Redfern, Sydney.
SPECIAL MILITARY WIRELESS CLASS .
AN EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN A TECHNICAL UNIT.
Our Instructors have arranged a Special Class for those desirous of serving the Empire in the Army.
The Tuition extends over four months —Instruction three evenings a week. The course will be made
quite practical, use being made of the installations in the school, also of an aircraft set now being
installed especially for this course. The instruction will include that essential for the Cavalry
and Motor-car Stations, Aeroplane Apparatus, etc., etc.
A SPECIAL RATE OF £8 FOR THE FULL COURSE has been decided on.
All particulars on application to THE MARCONI SCHOOL OF WIRELESS, Dept. C, 97 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE THE EMPIRE.
SHIRTS
MADE IN OUR OWN WORKROOMS.
Reinforced Necks—Sleeve Lifts.
AH Woven Colored Stripes 8 Fast Colors.
The “OXFOR,” made from the well-known Oxford Shirting; White Grounds, with varied Stripes
of Black, Blue and Brown.
The “ZEFFA,” made from lighter Zephyr Shirting; White Grounds, with varied stripes of Black,
Blue or Brown. Self, Navy, Sky and Black Grounds, with White Hairline stripes.
“OXFOR” Xo. 1 7/6; 3 for 21/-
“ZEFFA” Xo. 1 5/6; 3 for 16/-
“ZEFFA” Xo. 2 7/6; 3 for 21/-
“ZEFFA” Xo. 3 8/6; 3 for 25/-
“ZEFFA” No. 4, with extra Culls 16/6; 3 for 30/-
Q
&
**CF
Above lines made with soft double cuffs or stiff cuffs.
WE PAY POSTAGE.
HENRY BUCK & CO
MELBOURNE.
Write lor Catalog B, of Hats, Underwear, etc.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
VICTORY
ASSUPED
WITH
MICK SIMMONS
GLOVES
Best performance registered on the flat
at Randwick during the holidays? Hard to say, but
Cetigne’s win in the Villiers Stakes was in the nature
of a miracle and Poitrel’s annexation of Tatt.’s Cup
a particularly' fine effort. Neither can Sobrina be
denied very honorable mention for tire exhibition of
galloping in the Denman Stakes. Among the sprinters
Oolugo and Some Boy take the crumpet. The best
exhibition of horsemanship is more easily fixed. The
way Jimmy Pike made Sweet Corn and Lord Xager
hit the mark was good enough for anything.
A dozen for Tatt.’s Cup at Randwick on
New Year's Day, and most of the money for one —
the imported . Chantemerle (Bst. 131 b.). The
favorite was at 5 to 2 and evens, Poitrel (7st. 111 b.)
at 7 to. 2 and occasionally 4’s, with Cisco (9st. 31b.),
Wedding Day (Bst. 31b.), and Bombita (9st. 31b.)
in occasional demand, and the rest in about as much
request as a speech about military service. On the
previous Saturday Chantemerle pulled up with a
limp after the Summer Cup, in which he arrived
ahead of Poitrel, but was placed second on protest.
So it all boiled down to this: (1) Whether the leg
would be all right again by Tuesday, and (2)
whether, if the boring-over which lost the five-
furlongs race was omitted, Chantemerle could not
win at a mile and a half. Well, the leg had recov-
ered, and in the judgment of the stable, Ikey and
the public generally, the thing looked something like
a certainty. They all fell in. The three-year-old
buried the favorite at the end and justified the view
of those-who held that, had he got a fair run in
the Summer Cup, he would have done it then, too.
Hitachi tried to win from end to end, and landed
into the straight just clear of Chantemerle, who to
the writer seemed to run none too kindly round the
back; then Cisco, with Poitrel next. At the leger
the favorite closed on Hitachi, and Foley, pushing
Poitrel towards an opening on the rails behind
Cisco, got blocked. “Chantemerle, easv!” yelled the
crowded stands, and rocked with delight—just as
Poitrel, pulled over to the outside, started to seri-
ously argue the point. There w 7 as scarcely more
than half a furlong to go and a clear length to
catch up, but the colt came away like a greyhound
and struck the line with a length of daylight to
spare, leaving Hitachi to worry the failing Chante-
merle out of second money. A great race. The
watch said “321.”
* * * *
Poitrel, winner of two Cups and the Holi-
day Handicao at Randwick during the Christmas
and New Year meetings, is a strongly-built chestnut
whose muscular conformation vhe,. standing alone
makes him look rather lower in stature than he
really is. That the colt is a very fine stay'er seems
certain. The next thing to find out about him is
how he stands at w.f.a. in relation to Bronzetti and
one or two of the three-year-olds that were in the
, public eye and astern of Biplane during the Spring.
Meantime Poitrel cannot be regarded as much of a
justification for racing two-year-olds. Last season
he did very little while being matured, and did not
even get a place. Of more than one of the two-
year-olds that have done better this season it will
be possible as usual to next year announce the
“disappearance of their early form.”
The hurry-up at Randwick on the first
day' of the year was just as emphatic as during the
week before. In the Nursery Handicap, 51 furlongs,
a Son of the March colt named Peat, an outside
chance, ran home a winner in lmin. 7|sec., thus
establishing a new record for the course. Rosedell,
making her own pace, scampered over six furlongs in
the Flying in “Ilf.” Frank E. did the New Year’s
Gift mile in “38” ; and Poitrel did the Cup in
record time for that race. Of course, all this proves
very' little more than that the ground was remark-
ably fast; but no wins have gone at Randwick
lately to anything which dawdled on the trip. Even
a race for “Novices” over threequarters of a mile
terminated in “13f.”
* % * * *
The imported horse Snow King has been
a bit of a boom around Sydney all the season, mainly,
perhaps, because of being in the Quinologist-Bursar
stable; but he didn’t do anything hopeful at Rand-
wick during the holidays. His best effort was to
finish third, five lengths behind Bombita, in the
A.J.C. Handicap, and he finished swerving all over
the course. In the Denman Handicap, also a mile
and a quarter, he never had the chance of the late
lamented Buckley'.
The oldest inhabitant of Israel can remem-
ber no more disastrous happenings at Randwick than
those of the last fortnight. Both the A.J.C. and
Tattersall’s meetings will for a long time be remem-
bered by the ring as something in the way of an
evil dream. On the four days Ike got only one real
turn-up, and during the last afternoon two odds-on
chafes prevailed. The brotherhood always looks to
mal™ a kill at Randwick, and is seldom disapnointed.
This timeI—well, 1 —well, it was the public that bore away
the bacon.
Mick Hines, who now trains Colugo, win-
ner of the Villiers, was a jockey before he took to
training at Randwick, and some years ago rode with
much success in the sou’-east of N. S. Wales. For
a long time he was head jock for Mick Nash, at
Yass, and left the saddle with disgust when the
crouch seat was instituted. Hines was a “straight
up and down” rider, and refused to join the hunch-
back brigade.
Announced with apparent definiteness last
Week that Desert Gold is crossing the Tasman to
have a go at Caulfield, Flemington and Randwick —
presumably' in the autumn. All Australian racing
men are anxious to see this great mare as a change
from reading about her, and if she turns up the
rush for front seats will be something in the way of
a record. Owner Lowry is understood to be threaten-
ing that any profit from the trip will go towards
making provision for sick and wounded Maoriland
soldiers. Good for Lowry! It is also stated that
Biplane is to be again brought over to the Com-
monwealth. If the two arrive, it will be as hard to
find a citizen at Easter time who is not talking
horse as it has been to find a politician who men-
tioned reinforcements after the referendum was
done with.
Among the youngsters running at Sydney
meetings last year and suspected of being likely to
furnish into a Derby animal was Kennaquhair. The
suspicion turned out wrong. A later guess that the
nag may be a more than ordinarily useful “handi-
capper” may be nearer the bull’s-eye. Anyway,
Kennaquhair has won twice within the last month,
and by' running second in the Club Handicap, a mile
and a quarter, at Warwick Farm on Saturday,
attracted further attention. He carried 7st. 711). and
was beaten by lvenilera, 9st., one of the Kenilworth
family', from the Martini-Henry mare Amera ; but he
had all the worst of the trip and was doing much
the best at the end. The main point about this is that
Kennaquhair with fist. 121 b. in the Anniversary' Handi-
cap has been given a chance to show 1 how he can get
along in better company. On Saturday’s run he looks
a possibility.
When E. J. Watt and L. K. S. Maekinnon
decided to part with a joint thousand for a juvenile
three years ago they' didn’t reckon the first race the
nag would win was going to be a tinpot event at
Newcastle. But that is what happened, and the
next was a welter at Warwick Farm (Sydney') on
Saturday. Meanwhile the original buyers had got
tired of finding the oats and got rid of the disap-
pointment for £3OO. Yet this prad, Indian King, by
Mountain King—Bee Bee, is well enough bred to win
anything, and might have done so if he hadn’t been
mad enough to want to leap over the grandstand
whenever he noticed it.
* * * *
During the last bit of the Farm Stakes at
Warwick Farm < Sydney) on Saturday the stipes
contracted a suspicion that Pripet had been seized
with paralysis or something. Wherefore they con-
sulted the rider, McCabe, and asked for a diagnosis,
it having seemed as if when the mare realised that
the odds-on chance Girilah was close behind,
attended by the next-best favorite, Earlstine, she
didn’t take any further interest in the proceedings
and left it to them. The result was an adjournment
for further consideration, and at (he beginning of
the week Chris O’Rourke, the animal’s trainer, and
McCabe were given 12 months’ holiday. Pripet won
a couple of races at Muswellbrook in August. On
Saturday she started at 20’s.
A scheme of totalisator betting new to
Sydney was started at the ponies on Saturday ; divs.
were paid on first, second and third, the cut being
on a basis of 50, 30 and 20 per cent, when nine
or more horses start. Incidentally', place and con-
cession fielders were not allowed to operate. The
public took to the idea fairly well, and there were
times when the supply of tickets ran out. But you
can’t prophesy the annihilation of Ike on a turnover
of £6351 in 10 races.
* * * *
“Quill”: Rules for running the two-divi-
dend tote (eight or fewer starters) and three-
dividend arrangement (nine or more) at Sydney'
pony-courses have a queer feature. In the event of
the second horse not being backed in a two-
dividend race, the money in the pool goes to the
backers of the winner. That looks all right. But if
the winner isn’t backed the money in the pool does
not go to the backers of the second. All they get
is 25 per cent, of the investment, the remaining 75
per cent, being divided among all other investors.
In a three-dividend race the rules provide that if
neither second nor third horse is backed ticket-
holders on the winner take the lot. If the winner
and the second horse are not backed backers of the
third get 20 per cent. If the winner and the third
horse are not backed the second nag pays no bigger
dividend than if they had been. Why the backers
of winners should carve up the duck if there are no
seconds and thirds, while the backers of the other
placed horses get merely a bone if there are none
on the first, isn’t very clear. If it ever happens
that nobody is on the first the row will blow a hole
in the gates of Heaven.
* * * *
“Trot”: Just compare what happens to
the totalisator in Maoriland with the fiasco in N. S.
Wales. On Boxing Day at Randwick the machine
showed a turnover of £21,647. At the Auckland
Racing Club’s meeting on the same day £80,945
was invested. Also on the same day a country
outfit like the Manawatu Racing Club handled
£48,401, and at New Plymouth £24,112 was
counted. Now as the money in the school at Auck-
land is a trifle compared with that at Randwick, the
sum the machine would get if Ike were off the Rand-
wick premises can at least be guessed at. At
Warwick Farm (Sydney) on Saturday the machines
handled £1619. At a meeting at a trumpery little
M.L. township called Ashburton ori Boxing Day
£13,500 was produced. Yet there was more cur-
rency to the inch at Warwick Farm than Ashburton
has to the square mile.
Adelaide’s totalisator figures for 1917 show
a marked improvement on 1916. The totals going
through the machine on metropolitan courses (that
is, counting no further afield than Gawler and Oak-
bank) are for the last four years (in thousands)
479, 437, 412, and this year 426. This last figure
means, at 71 and 21 commission, about £32,000 to
the racing clubs, and £10;000-odd to the Govern-
ment. And a body of backers that gets back from
the bookmaker, year in and year out, 90 per cent, of
what it stakes with him, may consider itself dam-
lucky. \
“Try” : The Bags knew something at the
Bungaree (Vic.) Boxing Day meeting—or thought
they did. When the Open Trot came on for decision
they unanimously shut up. Punters running around
with uninvested wads asked whaffor. They got it
straight. McShortodds had noticed that at meetings
at which one trot was included in the programme
there were too many horses that seemed to be non-
triers. The nathty remark seemed to call for further
comment, but the silence was profound.
Floater” : The bookies’ paddock at Flem-
ington affords no quainter spectacle than the aged
Mossy Isaacs tutoring his son in the old profession.
Sonny plies for doubles, and the old man stands
by to prevent him'being rash in the matter of odds.
But Mossy' need have no misgivings in that
respect; for Sonny was not given that nose for
nothing. ,
The strong and progressive Racing Club
of Port Adelaide has a pleasantly-persuasive way
with it. In handing the Port Cup, presented by
last y'ear’s winner, to this year’s winner, the chair-
man said, according to the local papers: “The club
was indebted to Mr. B. for his handsome trophy.
They only regretted that he did not have a horse
good enough to capture it himself. Mr. B. was a
sportsman of the right kind, and followed the good
example of previous winners in offering a trophy'
for the winner of the succeeding Cup. He now had
pleasure in handing it to Mr. O.” Mr. O.’s reply,
after standing listening to this address, can be
guessed at once. He had “much pleasure in offering
a similar cup for next year’s race.”
The Pistol horse Bangonie has taken the
Port Adelaide Cup for the second time, after an
interval of three years. In 1914 he carried 61b. less
than__on his latest outing. The old chap has started
in 67 races and has been first past the post on onlv
eight occasions. Yet quite a lot of punters grudged
him his eighth win.
At the break-up sale of William Brown’s
Segenhoe stud (N.S.W.) last week everything was
sold except the famous old mare Chand Bee Bee, who
gave Brown the.best winner he ever owned —Piastre.
She is old and useless these days, but will finish at
Segenhoe, for no one has enough cash to buy her.
The sale produced £38,000, the largest items in the
bill being 9000 guineas given by H. S. Thompson,
of Oakleigh, for the stallion Tressady', and 3000 handed
over by J. 11. S. Barnes, of Bananaland, for Thana,
who is still in training. The stallion was well worth
the money. Whether the mare was will be found out
later. Meanwhile Barnes can certainly be reckoned
a very plucky buy'er. Other good prices paid during
the day for horses in training: 1050 gns. for Colbert,
1550 for Amadis. The imported colt Polycraft
brought in 900 gns. He had cost more than double
that. Top price among the brood mares: 1250 gns.
for the W’allace mare Perdita with a Tressady colt.
A yearling brother to Garlin induced E. J. Connell,
of Wondi, Bananaland, to part with 1100 gns.
Piastre added 500 to the total.
Albert Lloyd dragged the heavyweight
championship from Jimmy Clabby at Sydney
Stadium on New Year’s night, a circumstance which
doesn't make Albert look any' more like a champion
than he did before. James is not the James of old
by a long way, otherwise would Mr. Lloyd, powerful,
hefty specimen of manhood though he is, be his
meat easily. The disturbance went the whole way,
and at the end Arthur Scott’s arithmetic was against
Clabby, and justly so. Meanwhile claimants for
Lloyd’s scalp are clamoring for a chance to get it.
Melbourne and Brisbane stadiums are
closing down. The premjses at Rushcutter’s Bay r ,
Sydney, will continue in use for the present, at any
rate, but it looks fairly certain that prolongation of
the war means putting up the shutters there, too.
Home-grown material is getting scarce, public in-
terest in what is available is not keen, and, of
course, the outside pug who arrived with a loud
noise and multitudinous valets has ceased to tran-
spire. And as the visiting artist is, after all, the linch-
pin of the k.o. industry, the boom has had a quiet
funeral. Australian Stadiums, Ltd., has a capital of
£92,ooo—mostl.v water and hot-air.
“Mujik”: In the history of bash what
incident stands out as the brightest example of heroic
wallop? Someone says the performance of David
with his little shanghai; another that the perform-
ance of Samson who borrowed a jawbone from a
local donkey and slew the population of Philistia.
Further achievements suggested are those of W.
Tell and Horatio, and the Old Guard at Waterloo,
and Sergeant Kenny at Warwick (Q.). But these all
take a back seat in historical importance. The
solar plexus punch with which Bob Fitzsimmons
flattened out James Corbett overshadows the lot.
Anyway, if you don’t think so, just count up the
number of times you have read about how Bob got
him on the apex of the bingey, and then question
the first Australian citizen you meet, and see what
the result is.
According to a New York estimate, Bob
Fitzsimmons made £lOO,OOO during his career. He
was always “dead-easy” for the cadgers and fly-coves,
and died a poor man.
At Glen Innes (N.S.W.) the New Year
commenced with Jack Beamish winning a club-
swinging contest, from which Martin Dobrilla, pro-
bably appalled by the boresome futility of the pro-
ceedings, retired an hour before the scheduled time.
John persisted and wound up with some fancy
strokes at the end of 821 hours.
* * * *
Country week lawn-tennis carnival com-
menced at Double Bay. Sydney, on Saturday. The
city players proved too good for the countrymen,
with the exception of the team from Toowoomba
(Q.), which includes sons of G. P. Barbour, all-
rounder in the long ago at Sydney University.
* * * *
The centuries are mounting up in Sydney
cricket. M. A. Noble and W. S. McCloy made 118
each for Paddington on Saturday, and brought the
total this season to 21, which easily' beats the 14 in
’l6-’l7, and is sailing strongly after the 29 in ’l4-
’l5 and the 31 in ’l5-16. The difference is that
there’s little ginger in the bowling and fielding these
days—a double factor mighty helpful to the bat.
W. H. Devine (East Sydney Harriers),
who took the silver plate hanging to the 100yds.
handicap at the Highland Sports at Sydney last week,
has won all the “open” sprints this season. The
A. A. A. tabled three handicaps—Pratten Park,
lOOy'ds. : Eight-hour, 120yds. ; and Highland, 100yds.
—and a vision of Devine’s flying legs is all the
other competitors got. Burly policeman IV. O’Reilly
also enjoyed himself in the field games among the
kilties, winning with the 161 b. shot (36ft. llin.)
and the 161 b. hammer (85ft. 10in.), and coming
second with the caber (19ft. 6in.).
Judge Backhouse took the bit between his
teeth last week and resigned the presidency of the
Anniversary Regatta as a method of showing how he
felt about the decision to hold the fixture at Sydney
on January 26. Since the war-clouds burst, the
regatta has been a nominal affair—a few sculling
and rowing events for which the prizes were certifi-
cates—held merely to preserve the continuity since
1837. This year the fixture will be of the same
character. But like many other citizens the old
president doesn’t feel comfortable among the “sports”
he has to meet in wartime, so he does the proper
thing by going out.
“Cobber”; Lieut. E. W. Mattner, who
obtained the M.M. and a bar, the D.C.M. and M.C.
in 1917, was a fine youngster in the playing fields
prior to hopping it to the Great Game. At the
Adelaide High School he was best all-round (football,
cricket and tennis) ; he also swims, rows, shoots and
rides well. At football he was, in 1913, Gold Medal-
list of the Hills Association, and always seemed to
find joy in smashing a collar-bone, spraining some-
thing or getting knocked out. He now works off his
full head of steam on Fritz, who was responsible for
the death of his friend, Lieut. G. A. Munro, killed
at the Landing. Incidentally, Mattner’s two enlist-
ment mates, Bombardiers Carthew and Shepherd, of
the 18th Battery, both schoolteachers, have each
received the M.M.
Major Claude J. Tozer, of the Army
Medical Corps, lately handed the D. 5.0., had seen
service in Gallipoli and France before being severely
wounded. In the days when people watched cricket
matches Tozer was a medical student who carried
the Sydney ’Varsity team to the .Premiership, besides
taking part in inter-State games.
Ridgeway, the abo. skipper of the black
crew which sailed the Verona in Sydney Harbor
recently, cannot, swim. The fact that he has only
one leg may account for it. When on the water he
wears round his body a collapsible lifebuoy with a
mouthpiece into which he blows when the boat
capsizes. The bite of a red spider was responsible
for the loss of the leg.
“Magneto”: On the New Year holiday
three men were drowned in Botany Bay through a
sea swamping their motor-boat. It is a constant
marvel to me that accidents of this sort are so few.
In truth they are not so few, but by good luck most
of the boats that come to grief outside harbor limits
are near enough to assistance to escape loss of life.
According to the law, vessels “plying for hire” and
propelled otherwise than by steam or oars, must, as
long as they remain in smooth water, carry a full
equipment of gear, and in addition be fitted with
buoyancy tanks to float the deadweight of "the engine
and one-fourth extra. Outride smooth water they
need not carry anything, as the law considers them
unsafe to go into a seaway, and settles the matter
by the simple process of pretending that they don’t
go. Apart from the ordinary motor-boat there is
also the “motor-yacht.” Not only do these vessels
career about the estuaries of Botany, Broken Bay,
Port Hacking and Port Stephens, but they often
take advantage of a fine day to make a run to deep
water. None, or hardly any, of these have buoyancy-
tanks equal to floating the machinery, so you may
say that they are manned by members of the Suicide
Club. The average motor-boat in a seaway is little
better than a death-trap. Its life-saving apparatus
consists generally of an absurd dingh.y capable of
accommodating one small ’possum. Of the regulation
air-cases, distress signals, life-jackets, fire-extin-
guishers and mooring-anchors most of the craft arc
quite innocent. As long as the sea is smooth and the
engine keeps going their equipment is adequate
enough; but when, as in the Botany fatality, a sud-
den squall hits up a lumpy sea and the engine
stops at a critical moment, the only chance for the
occupants is that someone rushes to the rescue. Out-
side the Heads the keen-sighted coastguard staff
have been the means of rescuing dozens of these
craft.
“Nimrod”’: If “303” (R. 13/12/’l7) will
look up his first par. he will see that it was not
magazine rifles he was talking about, but breech-
loading rifles. He said these were first used in
the American Civil War, and in support of that
erroneous statement he quotes Henry VIII.! That
pot-bellied potentate never had a breech-loading
rifle, or any other rifle. He had smooth-bores. As
to smokeless powder, Schultze has nothing to do
with the argument, for his little lot was shot-gun
powder of the semi-smokeless class —useless in rifles.
Where “303” errs is in confusing early' experiments
with practical results. It is not the man who first
tries to do a thing, but the man who really does it,
that matters. “303” says that it is no use arguing
with me. Perhaps he’s right, for I once lectured
for an hour without notes on the subject to a partl.v-
military audience, -without being convicted of an
inaccuracy.
“Lee-Enfield” : Concerning the cost of .303
cartridges. A recent District Order gives the prices
to lie charged for .303 ammunition at £7 ss. per
1000 in packets and £7 11s. Bd. per 1000 in
chargers, both prices including cost of boxes. Now
£7 ss. per 1000 works out roughly at lfd. each, or
nearly' Is. 6d. per packet of 10. Rifle clubs are
supplied at the cost of 6d. per packet, in order to
encourage rifle shooting. But do people who make
remarks about waste of money at Randwick
and other ranges remember that in the present war
practically all our snipers are men who enlisted
from the rifle clubs and learned their shooting on
rifle ranges ? As to wallaby- and kangaroo-hunters
“losing” rifle-club shots, I think Lieut. F. L. Claye,
Lieut. IV. A. Clarke and Charley Edwards would
hold their own in shooting at moving and disappear-
ing targets with the best of wallaby- and kangaroo-
killers.
“Tarwin”: Can any executioner beat the
cocky at Stockyard Hill (Vic.), who let fly with
Number 10 shot at a flock of sparrows and slaughtered
68 ?
Birtles has achieved an interesting over-
land record. Leaving Fremantle in a Maxwell on
December 14 he arrived in Adelaide on the 19th,
after a journey of five days six hours. The pre-
vious best for the distance (1753 miles) was put up
by Fraser and Armstrong in their run between
Fremantle and Sydney. Though they reached Sydney'
in the fine time of eight days, 23 hours and 35
minutes, they were 16 hours longer than Birtles in
the scoot to Adelaide.


xv
Let Me Make You Stronger
and Healthier
by my perfectly natural and interesting system of scientific
exercises.
Exercise is the natural stimulant of the body. It
strengthens every nerve, muscle and sinew. It expels all
impurities, and nourishes with rich, pure, virile blood laden
with life-prolonging oxygen
BUT in order to obtain these benefits, you must learn the
correct and scientific method of physical culture. You
cannot read until you’re taught—you cannot exercise
properly until you learn the correct methods!
My instruction will strongly appeal to you, on account of
its simplicity and the rapid results it secures. 1 aim at
building up the muscles, both internal and external, in a
thorough and scientific manner. No one part is built up
at the expense of another, but your weak spots will have
special attention.
My Postal Course of Health
and Strength Culture
will bring you renewed health and strength. The exercises
you receive will be those most suited to your individual
physique, just as the particulars you furnish tell me you
require.
Mv booklet, entitled “HEALTH AND STRENGTH FROM
SELF-CULTURE,” tells all about my methods, fees, etc. I
should like to send you a copy. Just write your name and
address across this advertisement, and send it to me, with
three penny stamps for postage. I will know what you
mean.
REG. L. (“Snowy”)
BAKER
“The all-round Champion Athlete of
Australia,”
669 BELMONT BUILDINGS, SYDNEY.
iC. bn.
1
17
Wherever j
You Need |
Current I
COLUMBIA j
Batteries
v are used to
A run engines and
tractors, motor '
cars and motor I
boats. They '
ring bells; oper- j
ate telephones
and signals; light
lanterns and portable lights. <
Columbia;
Batteries I
are all-round utility batteries. They '
operate as well for heavy as for light i
work. They are portable, compact,
non-corrosive—easily connected in the
circuit. Dependable, uniform, strong.
Columbia Batteries sent abroad are i
so constructed as to give satisfactory j
results under every
climatic condition.
They are protected by
moisture-proof cartons
and carefully packed.
Dealers : I in m e-
diate deliveries can
be made. Secure
Catalogues and
Terms from your
dealer or from 11s :
National Carbon
Company
Cleveland, Ohio, U. S. A.
Export Department
Cable Address:
“Carbon Cleveland”
m
'*&r'cify
<sSgl/SP
«in***?
!lfe#SHr«eture4-*S
Samson Telephones
T 360.
T 550.
T 564.
T 360. —5-MAGNET BRIDGING
WALL SET. Complete... £4/5/-
T 550. —4-M AGNE T PORTAB LE
SET. Complete £3/15/-
T 564. —5-MAGNET B It I D G I N G
MINING SET £6/15/-
Everything for the Telephone can be obtained
from
Ramsay Sharp S Co. Ltd.
217 George Street, SYDNEY.
■a
EH
i II
m
k
THE COMFORT
OF TOWER
i/Sl f f wyv
T 2
‘ J
of the Road”
CATALOG
WITH
PLEASURE
MELBOURNE!
Rhodes Motor Cycle Co. Pty. Ltd., 109-1 13 Russell St.
SYDNEY!
Milledge Bros., 1 56 Castlereagh Street.
BRISBANE:
Canada Cycle & Motor Agency Ltd., Adelaide & Creek St..
PATON
ADELAIDE:
Eyes & Crowle Lid , 75-79 Pine Street.
LAUNCESTON:
John King & Sons Ltd.. Charles Street
PERTH:
Armstrong Cycie& Motor Agency,Hay St.
IwH PP?
lit
mHi ■
British -Made
Crushing,
Grinding,
Mining and
Cement
Machinery,
Ball Mills,
Tube Mills,
etc.
Write for Particulars and Quotations.
NOYES BROS.
(MELBOURNE) PTY. LTD., 499 Bourke
Street, Melbourne.
(SYDNEY) LTD., 115 Clarence Street,
Sydney.
STEWART DAWSON’S
The World=famed House for Quality Gems.
sc
m
m
A
tt'UZZAJ.
The House for Best Values and "Varieties,
whether in Engagement or Dress Rings.
Every taste and idea of expenditure is filled.
Designs unique and exclusive are outs; Hiding
features of our inimitable
DIAMOND RINGS.
The World’s Diamond Markets contribute to
the satisfaction of our World-over Clientele.
Extensive buying for ready cash makes pos-
sible our Low Prices and Splendid Value,
Call and inspect, or
WRITE FOR RING CATALOGUE.
STEWART DAWSON’S
Always Reliable, World-wide Reputation,
SYDNEY.
STRAND CORNER, GEORGE STREET.
SAFEGUARD YOUR HEALTH
qTJ.CoIIIs Brownes
CWorodyae
The Original and Only Genuine.
THE BEST MEDICINE FOR
Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
and in the Cough of ISRONCHITIS and
CONSUMPTION.
Checks fc'EVEIUSH-
NESS and effectually
cuts short all attacks
of SPASMS and
COEIC.
A well-proved palliative
in the pains of GOUT,
NEURALGIA, TOOTH-
ACHE. RHEUMATISM.
acts uke a charm in
Diarrhoea & Simple Dysentery.
Of all Chemists. Prices in England, 1/3, 8/-, of:
Made in England.
Music where you want it!
“His Master’s Voice” made it
possible to have the music you
want just WHEN you want it—
but even more than that, the
portable models enable you to
enjoy music anywhere; in the
open air during Summer; at
the fireside during Winter; and
on your holiday outings. Be
sure you get
xcv
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
Instruments
—the familiar Dog trade-mark is the guarantee! The “Tasman
No. 2” model (illustrated), in Polished with Nickel-plated
Fittings, is an ideal instrument for portable use. It is hornless,
compact and very strongly made. The name “His Master’s Voice
vouches for the tone-purity and reproduction!
m
“GRAMOPHONE’
rtenistered Trade Mark
Price - - £.16/16/-
And in Mahogany, £lB/5/-
Instrument catalogue, record lists and name of
nearest accredited dealer on request.
The Gramophone Co. Ltd.,
163 Pitt Street Sydney.


BARCOO ROT
BAD LEGS, CARBUNCLES, BUNIONS,
ABSCESSED, PILES, VARICOSE ULCERS.
ECZEMA. MOSQUITO and OTHER INSECT
BITES MAY be SPEEDILY CURED with
Albert’s Grasshopper Ointment
The proprietors of this 50-year old remedy for skin
and blood ailments have an absolute confidence in
its unsurpassed virtues. They believe it to be a
safe and perfect cure for these ailments ; they know
it to be; and the vast number of testimonials
received prove it to be. It positively draws the
poisons which produce these ailments out of the
system. As an aperient and blood purifier the
Grasshopper Pills are equally effective, and should
be taken in conjunction with the Ointment. Sold
by all Stores anu Chemists, and stocked by all the
Wholesale Houses in the Commonwealth.
xc
A
Crown
Deal.
Government
Purchase
of
Rabbit
SKins.
Prices lOd. to 27d. lb.
Consign to
WINCEICOMBE, CARSON
SYDNEY. LTD.
[2
AMERICA’S
PIONEER
DOG
REMEDIES.
Book on
Dog Diseases
and How to Feed
Mailed Free to
Any Address
by the Author,
H. Clay Glover Co. Inc.,
118 West 31st Street,
New York, U.S.A.
Little Friends
of the Liver
They’re little blit they’re good: they’re gentle
and they’re kind : they’re full of health that
leads to health and please be sure they’re
signed:—
Carter’s Little Liver Pills bear the
above signature.
v
Carters
ITTLE
■ IYER
PILLS*
Purely
Vegetable :
famous for
two genera-
tions.
Small Pill,
Small Doss,
Small Prica,
BELLEVUE HOTEL,
Opposite
Queensland Club
and Parliament
Houses.
BRISBANE.
Overlooking Botanical Gardens.
E
is the new
Sauce imported
from England.
It is made by blending to-
gether the most delicious
Oriental fruits and spices,
with Pure Malt Vinegar by a
secret process.
H.P. being thick and fruity,
does not flow all over the plate.
Buy a bottle to-day.
xcv
An Imitation is Not a Substitute—
If it were it would Not be an Imitation
It is impossible to emphasise the mutual importance of this fact.
The Ready-roofing- business has become a game of
Follow Master
with more than three hundred trailers following every move made by
RU-BER-Olf), mimicking everything but the quality.
These imitations resemble the parisitic vines that sap the life of the
great oak —they try to live upon what they cannot produce.
The Manufacturers of
Ru-BER-On
COSTS MORE - WEARS LONGER
THOUGHT FIRST —ACTED FIRST. RUB-ER-OID GREW
ON ITS MERITS—IT SELLS ON ITS MERITS ENTIRELY.
“No roof roofs like RU-BER-OID roofs” is a bold claim. It
may savor of egotism, but fortunately it is just the plain,
unvarnished truth.
MAY WE SHOW YOU THE PROOF?
Send for Samples and Prices to—
Agents: E. RICH & CO. LTD., Brisbane.
A. W. SANDFORD & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
KINGLOC LTD., Camperdown, Sydney.
BROOKS, ROBINSON & CO., LTD., Melbourne.
NEURALGIA!
It is so easy to catch those debilitat-
ing Colds, Influenza, Rheumatism,
Neuralgia, etc. Help yourself to
avoid these by taking
Dhosfo
I THE ROYAL 1
rmo
ROYAL TONIC
PROVED FOR 50 YEARS
All Chemists
1/- - 2/6 - 4/6
Ashton QC Parsons Ltd.
London and Melbourne
OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING REPAIRS
We desire to announce that we are making a specialty of the above, and give below
a few instances showing how we can assist you, and save you money.
CONTRACTORS—Cutting girders, iron or steel structural work.
FACTORIES Boilers—corrosions, pittings, etc. All broken or worn
parts of machinery.
FARMERS -Agricultural machinery narts welded.
MOTORISTS -Broken or worn motor parts, cracked chassis, cracked
cylinders, gear boxes, crank cases, etc.
CARBON REMOVED FROM CYLINDERS, 2/6 per cylinder,
WHILE YOU WAIT.
EVERYBODY Broken bedsteads, mangles, sewing-machines, gas-stoves,
etc.; in fact, any broken castings or parts, whether
BRASS, COPPER, CAST-IRON OR STEEL.
QUOTATIONS GIVEN. PRICES AND WORKMANSHIP WILL BE FOUND SATISFACTORY
PORTABLE PLANTS AND EXPERIENCED MEN SENT ANYWHERE.
NOTE ONLY ADDRESS-
ESTABLISHED 19!
A. L. WEST (& CO.
Specialists in
Oxy-Acetylene
Welding,
TOP OF WENTWORTH AVENUE, SYDNEY.
Tel. City 4178
THE thing that the people should have
been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravishcr of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
“Scripti”: The R.C. Church at Kilmore
(Vic.)observes the custom of separating the
sexes, too. It has been in operation ever
since the town was mainly a resting-place
for the gold escorts from Bendigo to Mel-
bourne.
There is a new Australian brigadier-gen-
eral, Owen Forbes Phillips, son of the late
Dr. A. O. H. Phillips, of Warwick (Q.). He
left with the first contingent as major of
artillery, was at the Landing, and the
beginning of 1917 found him in France with
the D.S.O. With his new rank he has taken
command of the 2nd Divisional Artillery.
The big job of editing “Hamlet” in the
Australian series of Shakspeare’s plays has
been entrusted to William Henry Williams,
Professor of English in the Speck’s Univer-
sity. It’s a well-deserved honor, for he has
a long list of finely-edited English classics to
his credit. He has been turning out well-
fitted Australians at Hobart since 1893. For
nine years before that he was headmaster at
Newington, Sydney.
Rufus Underwood, M.L.A., who fills the
gap in the honorary ranks of the Westralian
Coalition Government caused by the defeat
of Thomas for Bunbury, is a rough dia-
mond. He hasn’t any tact to spare, but he
has plenty of courage and scorns the poli-
tical art of trimming. The member for
Pilbarra makes up his own mind and doesn’t
care a bean for the consequences. He was
about the first of the local Laborites to
declare publicly for Conscription, and he
was an active advocate while Scaddan,
Collier and others were flying kites in the
vicinity of the Trades Hall.
Thus Fred Deist, who joined the Aus-
tralians in France in August last to make
picture-records of the big campaign :
The life of an official artist has its drawbacks.
Neither party seems to have the smallest regard for
the artistic temperament. Fritz is especially horrible
about it. Should he miss you with his guns by day
he will be sure to have a pot at you with his bombs
by night. Of course there’s tons of good material —-
too much ; one is inclined to get rattled with it. And
with other things. Like Dyson, 1 have lost part of
a drawing: a screeching Hun shell simply obliterated
my middle distance. I was working, by the way, at
a dressing-station. I ought tb have known better;
for glad as I should be to think kindly of the beast,
I can’t overlook the fact that he pays particular
attention to such places.
“Croson”: Judging by appearances the
Victorian and other fruit-growers will pre-
sently be squealing about the impossibility
of getting rid of this season’s anole crop,
and urging the Federal Government (if
there be one)to buy it or pool it or do some-
thing else with it. They’ll get my sympathy,
I don’t think. At Victoria market, just be-
fore Christmas, peaches were bringing from
3s. to 10s. per case of 361 b. to 401 b., which
means from Id. to 3d. per lb. On Christmas
Eve, right in the middle of the Vic. peach-
growing districts, my little maid sought
some. There are three fruitshops in the
place and each asked Is. a lb. for eatable
peaches and Bd. a lb. for fruit that the
Doncaster man would be ashamed to offer
me. Of course these distributors ought to
be hanged, but that wouldn’t remedy the
case. The grower seems to suffer from the
hallucination that all he has to do is to pro-
duce fruit. Doesn’t the difference between
Id. and Bd. and between 3d. and 18d. suggest
that there exists in every suburb a large
orifice into which he might drop with im-
mense pecuniary advantage?
The British Commission into the moving-
picture business reports, after listening to
evidence for the best part of a year, that
it is convinced of the “value of the picture
house as a cheap amusement for the masses,
as an influence in decreasing larrikinism,
and as a counter-attraction to the hotel.”
There is a certain connection between juve-
nile crime and the flicker, but this evil is
declared, after close examination, to be of
limited extent. The Commissioners are
much more strongly of opinion that “an in-
jurious effect is produced on young minds
by the excessive sensationalism and frightful-
ness of some of the films presented and the
wrong ideas of life and conduct they sug-
gest.” They advise State support and official
countenance to the picture industry both for
its own protection and in the national in-
terests. But “we want to place it in a posi-
tion of real dignity, and make it one of the
assets of our national entertainment and
recreation.” They therefore recommend a
State Censor assisted by an advisory council
representing all the public interests con-
cerned. And a censorship of posters, it is
urged, is as necessary as a censorship of
films.
Louis Esson explores London: —
It’s a relief, after picture-sliow T and polite Ameri-
can vaudeville, to enter a venerable institution like
an English music-hall. To my notion Americans are
entirely lacking in humor; their substitute is a kind
of impersonal sharpness or mechanical exaggeration
that soon becomes painfully monotonous. English
humor is based on character, the real “humors” of
men and women ; and the stream that can be easily
traced from Chaucer to Dickens has still an occasional
trickle through the London ’all. The Coliseum and
Palladium may have the best individual turns, such
as George Robey and Wilkie Bard, Ellen Terry and
Marie Lloyd, but they have not quite the same
genial atmosphere that prevails in some of the older,
smaller and shabbier halls where the gentleman joins
in the chorus and the lady calls for her pot. The
patriotic song makes but a slight appeal to the true
Cockney. He is the poorest flag-flapper in the world,
as the American is the most conscientious. He
much prefers to hear of his “troubles.” A favorite
at present is a song by Ernie Mayne all about Gov-
ernment ale. Ernie is a slow, heavy man, a lion
comique of the old school, with a voice like a fog-
horn ; and he has three solid verses about this “lovely
stuff” that (contemptuously) you can drink from
January to October and still be sober, with a swell-
ing chorus of “Lloyd George’s Be-er!” In New York
a tall, intellectual, hollow-voiced individual would
stand in front of a highly-colored picture and long
for his Indiana home.
THE GREY LOTHARIO.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“The Chief Justice granted a decree nisi in Perth
to-day allowing costs against a co-respondent aged
75.”
Young love is sweet, but love is gay
And love is charming ever.
Though seventy-five is late-a-day—•
Well, better late than never !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


ONE TOOCH OF MEGGITT’S MAKES the WHOLE FARM KIN
Pr.
21
m
7
e.
N
K
V/
\
/
H!
—=OJv
pi
*v
\ *
4
A
i
f
V
SC
Because Good Digestions Wait on Appetite and Health on Both
MEGGITT’S LINSEED OIL MEAL is all food and all digestible.
It aids digestion, and therefore imparts greater value to other foods.
It has been in use 200 years in England, where it is the standard food for all classes of stock.
CALVES thrive on it.
COWS produce good milk from it—better and richer in solids and fats, and free from taint.
PIGS fatten quickly.
POULTRY—Egg production, plumage and general health greatly improved.
SHEEP do well on small quantities.
HORSES look, feel and work better when it is added to their food.
Mr. A. E. WHITELAW,
at first as to the value of your
being served out in small quantities it produces „ ... ...
not get them out of your way. My experience at feeding times is that the animals cannot get it quick enough.”
PAMPHLETS INSTRUCTING HOW TO FEED MAILED FREE.
FROM ALL STORES, or full particulars from Agenis—
QUEENSLAND: R. S. Exton & Co. Ltd., Queen Street, Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Harrisons, Ramsay Pty. Ltd., 666 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA : Clarkson Ltd., Rundle Street, Adelaide.
WEST AUSTRALIA: Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd., King Street, Perth.
TASMANIA : F. W. Heritage & Co., Hobart and Launceston.
NEW ZEALAND: Blair Reed & Co. Ltd., Nathan’s Buildings, Wellington.
, or
MEGGITT LTD., 26 Ring' Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W


TASMANIA
Jj “The Playground
/ of Australia/*
:: The Ideal ::
Holiday Resort.
The Angler's
Paradise.
All Information, Guidebooks,
etc., from T asmanian
Government Tourist
Branches in Mainland
Capitals :
Sydney: 262GeorgeSt.
Melbourne:
59 William St.
Brisbane: 41 Queen St.
Perth: 50 William St.
The HOBART and
LAUNCESTON Bureaux
arrange all local trips & book
to all parts of Tasmania.
ACCOMMODATION
ARRANGED.
Illustrated Guidebook
(containing Accommodation List),
3d.: posted 6d.
E. T. EMMETT, Director,
TAS. GOVT. TOURIST BUREAU,
Treasury Buildings, HOBART.
THE DEAF
HEAR! <
i
Welcomed and en-
dorsed by the lend-
ing Aurists of the
day.— The Latest
Scientific Hearing Instru-
ment—the Perfected New
xcv
1916 Thin Receiver Model
Mears Ear Phone
many times as efficient
, , ... . and powerful as the old
model. degrees of sound in eight
adjnstmen.s, instantly changed by a touch of
the. finger to suit the hearing on every occasion,
and for all stages of deafness.
Cott and test it free, or write for illustrated
booklet and particulars of our Special Trial Offer.
A. E. SLADE & CO., Australasian Agents,
Bernard’s Buildings, 387 GEORGE STREET.
Tel. 3916 City. SYDNEY.
Mears Ear Phone Co. Inc. ,45 West 34th St. New York
Hansen’s Rheumatic R^y
“For three months I suffered from chronic
Rheumatism, and was given up by doctors. Mr.
Hansen’s ‘Rheumatic Remedy’ cured me in three
weeks.” (Signed) A. REYNOLDS.
(Witness) C. A. ROSLER, J.P.
ALL CHEMISTS, 5/-
Wholesale : ELLIOTT BROS., SYDNEY;
ROCKE, TOMPSITT, MELBOURNE.
CJJot ZXJeelc~en.cC cxrAofic/m/
D/MD cJQNES 1 ’
■EfflSßMryyiT CASES’
MCfIDR LUNCHKTOE^
tim&Mii tsmvaS
gjmmm
stssSS
e r, v : : >/
1,,. V.■ • v.'
il
t ;, ■ ;• '• .'. *.. ff
.-••• • >-.v
L-••
Kill
... 1 »
l*l!°X s iT9?! !PV
?:::•
:::
: :• • •*:: • • • •* .*: • •*:::: •• •*::
ns&sis&xss&ssH&sgsSirnn
■ .
.••••'.■fffcl.';::
5::;
iiiiww/ rnmmwm!
: IffirflgS
::: • * •*:::: jof* • i
HiKSsssflUislffl
u.
oi
tmiwmmm
'm.
b}|iio.ldr*/|r
Mi
'sw
,J. Y. i.— Motor Lunch Kit, fitted for 6 persona, as illustra-
tion, with best quality cutlery, enamel ware, vacuum flasks,
food tins, etc. Case has 3-ply veneer, foundation and is
covered with strong waterproof canvas, lined washable
,check lining. Size 22 xl5 x 6 ins. 7 gns.
J
'J'HE variety of Suit Cases,
Kit Bags, Lunch Kits, etc.,
at David Jones’ is such that
whatever you require can be
quickly and satisfactorily selected. In
purchasing from David Jones’ there is
always the assurance that their travel-
ling goods nbt only look distinctive and
superior but will retain their appearance
and shape after constant use.
A splendid assortment of week-end and
holiday Bags, which you are invited to
inspect, is now displayed on ground floor.
Illustrated here are four examples.
J.Yt 5. Ladies' Strong
Leather Blouse Case, lined
poplin and fitted with pocket
in sid or round sides.
Lengths 18 20 22 24 ins.
Prices 45/- 52/6 57/6 62/6
J.Y. 8. Regulation size Cabin
Trunk, made of highest grade
compressed Cane, covered
brown waterproof canvas:
made on strong steel frame.
Lengths 30 36 40 ins.
Prices 80/- 95/- 102/6
J.Y. 6.—Motor Trunk matje
of selected fibre and covered
with green Willsden canvas,
lined, with striped cloth, and
fitted with inside tray.
Lengths 24. 27 30 ins.
Prices 45/- "50/- 55/-
J.Y. 9.—Cabin Trunk, made
on strong composition foun-
dation, covered with brown
waterproof canvas, hardwood
batons across bottom, tray
inside.
Lengths 30 36 in 9
Prices 37/6 47/6*
J.Y. 7.--Hunting Kit Bag,
made of best cowhide on steel
frame, drill lined, two straps
all rouod. solid nickel mounts.
Lengths 20. 22 24 ins.
Prices 35/6 38/6 42/-
J.Y. 10.—A Travelling Kit
into which can be • fitted
practically any toilet article.
Made of waterproof fabrics.
Prices of those illustrated
are. from left to right. 5/11,
10 6, 21/- respectively.
J.Y. 2.-The " D. J. " Suit Case
made of polished cowhide on
strong steel frame, having strong
handle and hand-sewn edges.
Lengths 20 22 24 26 ins.
Prices 32/6 35/- 38/6 42/-
J.Y. 3. Ladies’ Cowhide
Attache Case lined strongsilesia,
nickel locks, stout handle.
Lengths 12 14 16 18 ins.
Prices 15 6 18 6 21 23 6
J.Y. 4. Men's Solid Leather
Kit Bag made on steel frame,
lined strong cloth, nickelled end
clips.
Lengths
12 14 16 18 20 ins
Prices
14/- 17/- 19/6 22 - 25/-
cx
CJe Pay
Carriage.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be
taken of communications insufficiently stamped.
Name and address must appear on the MSS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions volun-
tarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned
tinless stamps accompany.
•T. 8.: Don’t worry ; we have always been
prouder of our defeats than of our victories. When
we find ourselves with the majority we begin
to suspect that we have been dawdling behind....
Bundarra Road: And what do you think would
happen to any paper that did advocate that policy?
Don t you know what being at war and having allies
meanst.... Mespot.. We won't swear it’s poetry; but
there’s a picture in it: —
MESPOTAMIA: THE GARDEN OF EDEN.
When we were children years ago we sat as still as
mice
Upon our parent’s loving knee hearing tales of
Paradise j
Of Adam and Eve in Eden, the serpent and the
apple tree,
And we longed in imagination these wondrous sights
to see.
Now suddenly, all unexpected, we find our hopes
realised ;
But what has become of our ideals, those tales so
dearly prized ?
Is this land of one-eyed bipeds, mosquitoes, flies and
lice,
Mud huts, bad smells and date-trees our beautiful
Paradise?
Is this the land of Old Adam and our beautiful
Mother Eve?
If so, dear reader, don’t blame them for sinning and
having to leave ;
For them it was a day of rejoicing when the Angel
said, “Hop it, you two” ;
And when the order comes, “Peace declared, push
off,” I’ll bound like a kangaroo.
....Australia’s National Poet: You’ve jumped the
claim if that's the best title you’ve got to it....
P.L.8.: Just easy commonplace. .. .W.J.C.: There’s
an idea there ; but you haven’t handled it..-. .S.K.:
“Eat” misses.... S.E.M.: You say, “We wake up in
eternity that puts an end to time.” Now put a wet
towel round your head and tell us what that means.
. ...A.G.S.: The “Elfin Revellers” fall down too
often.... W.A.: Not an idea in it.... Blind Soldier:
Sorry; but it’s not printable... .E.S.: We’re not
much interested in the “waves of the Rhine” just
now as pleasant objects of contemplation. The verse
is commonplace. .. .M.M.: “War” doesn’t shout for
publication... .J.0.F.: Goes heavily. .. .Black Bon-
net: You were answered before. .. .J.M.: The verse
lumps and bumps and thumps.... Fourth Brigade:
Li pips along lamely N.A.E.: The first stanza of
the “Hill Child” sets the meaning of the rest all
astray.... Sara Elizabeth: That success seems to
worry you. There won’t be much “boost” coming
your way till you learn to write better than the
office cat.... Learner: Thanks for copious observa-
tions and advice. Your work may be as good as
Longfellow’s ; but who told you we would regard his
stuff as suitable? Length and commonplace verbiage
bar the “Kaiser” from Heaven.... F.J.: What do
you mean by “original”? There’s nothing new or
exciting there.. . .Jamie Kydoodle: Your anticipa-
tions were correct.... J.F.M.: No use.... J.L.M.:
“The Reason Why” is easy, careless verse with no
punch... .Bill Badd: “Silence” is too thin....
E.M.: Nothing. .. .Lila M.: We can’t use it; but
the writer referred to may see it... . J.M.S.: “Lion-
Man” not our style... .G.R.H.: “Tiny” misses....
Ne’er-do-well: Not enough yarn in it. .. .E.L.S.:
The “Kiss” fails... .J.C.: Doesn’t move u 5....
J.E.R.: Ah, this ought to shake them up :
Some lonesome Poet, with no kindred sprite,
In bush, or room, his best ideas does write;
Not that sad trash which please the shallow mind—
Australian “Poets” well attend that kind.
. ...R.M.8.: Fairly loud bray, but not convincing.
.. . .E.D.: “Peace” doesn’t strike us... .Dolores:
What d’you mean by “last Xmas year” and “this
Xmas year” ?....Hope: Very poor. . . .E.R.: “The
Soldier” is all out of scansion and occasional lines
mean nothing at all. .. .Duckfoot: Couldn’t you con-
trive a smarter insult than that ?. .. . Tien Number:
Not up.... Raven: Won't d 0.... Reject: The ideas
have been worked to death and the verse wobbles.
. ...O.B.: “Our Flag” stirs our patriotism down to
the last inkspot:—
Now that the Aussie’s Sons are the ones for the Huns,
May it for ever be known to our State
That we are well up to the Huns, with our guns,
And that we’ll see that they'll receive their fate.
....R.L.8.: Some of the verse is clever, but it
belongs to the man who wrote it. .. .G.R.H.:
“Excusion Fares” doesn't make its meaning clear.
. ...H.V.P.: A sovereign State is, briefly, one with
the right to make laws for itself. Tasmania is such
a State.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
F.W.W.: That “last man” joke has been arriving
two at a time ever since it was invented; but yours
is the blue-ribbon drawing... .D.McG.: Yes, we
believe .you’re only 16 G.M.: Commendable
second attempt; but you’ve a long way to g 0....
C.H.J.: The B. published that joke 15 years ago.
. ...P.W.R.: Thanks, but thefe’s no point in it....
R. : Quite hopeless... .A.W.: Drawing fails, and
the joke is ancient. .. .A.F.: Both drawings miss;
and the “good business” joke has been overworked
in 499 other ways... .G.P.: Nothing in them....
A.H.: Try us with something less elaborate
S. : Too stiff and angular; and the masses of thin
scratches make the drawing useless for reduction.
Killed in action in France, while serving
as chaplain to Maoriland troops, G. S. Bryan-
Brown, who before the war was a master at
Christchurch College and was chairman of
the Student Christian movement in the
Shaky Isles. Brown was assisting with the
wounded in an advanced-aid post when a
Hun shell dropped on the position and
sounded the Last Post for him and three
others.
Arthur Weston, one of the latest batch of
Military Medallists, and recommended for a
commission, was a store-clerk at Gilgandra
(N.S.W.) till the Anglican bush brother-
hood got hold of him; and he was a lay
brother at Berwarrina, preparing for the
Anglican priesthood, when the call came to
preach a bit of practical Christianity to the
Hun. This “Brotherhood of the Good Shep-
herd has sent three priests with the A.I.F.
chaplains (including Martin Andrews,
M.C.) and three lay brothers as privates.
- l at ter, Douglas Ja.ckson, was
killed at Pozieres. Weston’s brother is a
deacon in _ the brotherhood, now doing his
final training at Armidale College; and his
sister is married to Parson James Benson,
who served his time in the brotherhood, and
now has a parish up Bathurst way.


•CHUNDER”
TAKES A TRIP HOME. At the War.
**&"*****
( ., iufrv .
‘"^'^Wssww*"''' *
-.. >•*«•"' <?*«
. '.%»*. _ . ■«*&«
3SBU-—«,
7
Mi»*'
-* f!r
i ■*
X,
\1
fc'V s/y 4? Jyfi
■<■ r *>\r
fvfi'W
/t‘X/r'.A
w/J&wm
I
■>,'>•■/v;
/»v
A*. V
V
r*
a
#
y*
M
%**»s*
.peJ****'-
v
i'rL*
,r'V
sc#
'«litS*
fcp-'
■y. ‘ ..' ***->*
-®>
*<&
.S&-
.
-> /,. . at '
■kww*’*? 8
m
«W?.,
-«>a** r
;i^AW,V.
yvc
,#**
&M********
a#**
-xe*-
i*v'*r3r .A
'
WZ***** +Zd>
>\ - -':
KS
a
H
■ ' if »-a T.V>
'•:;X:X k**ssBSg*
**
✓
c; .
iZviYir** 0
y
*3®Fj
N
<L
c->
/
.
±^>
« o £
£~
r>
**“
fc.
o
W-'*- .^‘-^c . .,. „ rlTf wn<> ;
- ***
“Cobra, Sfre Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Likes some fish
For breakfast too.
When the ‘‘sub”
Comes up to rest
All the sailors
Do their best.
“We’ve got one!”
Cry Dog and Bear.
Chunder hauls
His dripping share
From the sparkling
Morning sea.
“COBRA" fishing,
You’ll agree !


Shipping.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D,
Via DURBAN and CAPETOWN.
New and Luxurious Steamers all fitted
with Wireless Telegraphy. Cnbines-de-
Luxe. Staterooms with bedsteads and
private Bathrooms.
Single-berth Rooms.
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
For all information regarding sailing
dates, and First-. Second- and Third-class
fares,
Apnly
ORIENT S, N. CO., Ltd.,
Tel.—City 4246,
4810!
2,4, 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Australian Steamships Line
FAST PASSENGER and CARGO SERVICE.
Sailings as follows (circumstances permitting) :
SYDNEY
HI! I SHANE
MARYBOROUGH
GLADSTONE
IHJNDABERG
‘ROCKHAMPTON
(Pt. Alma Wharf.)
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
COOK TOWN
and other North
Queensland ports.
NORTH.
BOMBALA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 16.
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 19.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Melbourne, Jan. 23.
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 26.
MELBOURNE
(Transhipping fur
S.A. and W.A. ports) I
SOUTH.
COOMA (4000 Tons).
Leaves Sydney, Jan. 19.
"Passengers only.
Full Particulars re Fares. Freights, etc., from
HOWARD SMITH LIMITED, Managing Agents.
Offices at all Ports.
Bunking, Public Companies. St c.
THE
Bank of Queensland Limited
Authorised Capital, £1,000;000.
Directors: THOS. WELSBY (Chairman) ; The Hon.
Sir ALFRED S. COWLEY, lit. (Deputy Chairman).;
WILLIAM DAVIES; E. H. MACARTNEY, M.L.A. ;
Hon. Sir ROBERT PHILP, K.C.M.G.; Hon. A. J.
TIIYNNE. M.L.C.
General Manager: J. MACKENZIE LEES.
Head Office: Brisbane.
Sydney Office: 253 George Street.
Melbourne Office: 41 Queen Street.
London Office: 4 Queen Victoria St., E.C.
Branches throughout QUEENSLAND and in NEW
SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
TRANSACTS ALL USUAL BANKING BUSINESS
THE QUEENSLAND NATIONAL BANK.
LIMITED.
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Paid-up Capital 480,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. .. .. 222,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock 3,091,669 4 5
All new business since 1893 specially protected.
Directors —Geo. Edwd. Sunning, Esq. (Chairman) ;
Hon. G. W. Gray, M.L.C.; James Love, Esq. ;
Jas. Milne, Esq. ; AV. H. Hart, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
IIICA1) OFFICE ... BRISBANE.
Branches—London, Melbourne, Sydney and
throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland. Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
THE AUSTRALIAN BANK OF COMMERCE
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £2,000,000
Capital Paid Up £1,198,679
Reserve Fund £105,000
Directors: MARK SHELDON, Esq., Chairman;
GEORGE J. SLY, Esq., LLD. ; FRANK N.
YARWOOD, Esq.; HERBERT R. LYSAGHT,
Esq. ; GEORGE F. TODMAN, Esq. ; Hon. F.
JAGO SMITH, M.L.C.
General Manager-. C. M. C. Shannon.
HEAD OFFICE, SYDNEY (Corner George and King
Streets). Manager: E. P. Carr.
BRANCHES:
BRISBANE (264 Queen Street). Inspector for
Queensland: J. N. H. Brown.
Manager: G. H. Howell.
MELBOURNE (325 Collins Street).
Manager: M. B. Finney.
LONDON (37 Threadneedle Street, E.C.).
Manager: A. F. Jenkins.
And at 85 Places throughout New South Wales
and Queensland. Agents throughout the rest of
Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand, and at all
Chief Cities throughout the 'World.
Every Description of Banking Business Transacted.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Corner GHORGE and WYNYARD
STREETS. '
Guaranteed Slock.. .. .. £529,988
Preference Snares.. .. .. 750,000
Ordinary Shares ( £1,500,000)
Paid-up 1,000,000
Uncalled Capital . . .. . . 500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits 2,246,595
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, Mew Z,ea
land. Fiji, Samoa, Great
Britain and Inland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest lor
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking busineea.
G
EORGE
St. Hilda,
HOTEL,
Melbourne*
Largest Hotel Accommodation 6a Australia.
Shipping Ac.
Canadian-Australasian Royal
Mail Line to Canada.
THE LARGEST, NEWEST, FASTEST AND BEST-EQUIPPED STEAMERS TRADING BETWEEN '
AUSTRALIA AND THE AMERICAN CONTINENT.
ACCELERATED SERVICE.
IHE “ALL-RED" ROUTE TO ENGLAND, in conjunction with the CANADIAN PACIFIC
RAILWAY, Across the Famous CANADIAN ROCKIES, PRAIRIES, GREAT LAKES,
NIAGARA FALLS, Etc.
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO VANCOUVER, VIA AUCKLAND (N.Z.), SUVA (FIJI) AND
HONOLULU.
THROUGH BOOKINGS TO ALL CANADIAN. UNITED STATES AND
EUROPEAN POINTS.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION
Royal Mail Line to San Francisco
MONTHLY SAILINGS TO SAN FRANCISCO, VIA WELLINGTON (N.Z.), RARATONGA
AND PAPEETE (TAHITI).
Through Bookings to Any Part of the United States, Canada, or Europe.
Around the World and Around the Pacißc Tours, Returning by Any Available Line.
SAILING DATES WILL BE SUPPLIED ON APPLICATION.
EXCURSION to HONOLULU,
A BENEFICIAL SEA TRIP THROUGH PLACID SEAS.
An Unrivalled Holiday in the Largest and Finest Steamers.
A Tour of Seven Weeks, allowing several days’ stay in Honolulu.
Waikiki Beach—“ The Home of Surfing.”
GLORIOUS SCENERY— PERFECT WEATHER—MAGNIFICENT HOTELS.
For illustrated pamphlets and all information regarding above services, apply,
UNION STEAM SHIP CO. OF N.Z. LTD., 259 George Street, Sydney.
HOLIDAY TOURS TO
*
ms
' - - '-ai <m
THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDS
Beautiful Scenery, Smooth Water,
Interesting Peoples and Comfortable Steamers.
Five and Seven Weeks’ Trips to Papua, New
Guinea, Solomon Islands and other Croups.
Send, for further 'particulars to
BURNS, PHILP g CO. LTD., 9 Bridge St., Sydney.
BANK
OF NFW SOUTH
Established 1817.
WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund
Reserve Liability
Directors:
£3,904,860
£2,875,000
£3,904,860
£10,684,720
The Hon. Sir Charles K. MacKellar, K.C.M.G.
M.L.C., President.
The Hon. James T. Walker.
The Hon. Edmund W. Fosbery, C.M.G., M.L.C.
The Hon. Reginald J. Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Charles Binnie Esq.
Robert L. Faithfull, Esq., M.D.
Auditors: W. H. Palmer, Esq.; S. E. Laidley, Esq.
Head Office —George Street, Sydney. London Office—29 Threadneedle Street, E.C.
335 Branches and Agencies in the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji, Papua and London.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the world.
Cable remittances made to, and drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills
negotiated and collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued, negotiable throughout the World.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Commonwealth
■ HEAD OFFICE
v
JBaitMustralta
SYDNEY. |
Open
for all
General Banking: Business
in the
principal
Cities and Towns of Australia, London, Tidworth (Salisbury Plain), and Rabaul.
Cable remittances made to. and drafts drawn on foreign places direct. Foreign
bills negotiated and collected. Letters of credit issued to any part of the world.
Banking and Exchangee Business of every description transacted within the Common-
wealth, United Kingdom and abroad. Current accounts opened. Interest paid on
fixed deposits. Advances made against approved securities.
Savings Bank Department
1/-
Minimum
Deposit
At a.ll Branches, and over
2600
Agencies at Post Offices
in Australia and Papua.
Interest at
per annum
up to £3OO
3%
INTERSTATE and INTERNATIONAL Savings Bank Facilities.
JAMES KELL. Deputr Governor. June, 1916 DEVISO.V MILLER. Governor
Your New Year Present to the Children
may be practical and pleasing. Open an account in their name and
present them with a Savings Rank Pass Book.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
HEAD OFFICE: 11 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
The STATE Savings Institution.
Deposits received from 1/- upwards.
interest limit £5OO.
The Bank that Pays
31°
4/o
Interest on Savings.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
SYDNEY AND ALL QUEENSLAND
PORTS.
BRISBANE
TOWNSVILLE
CAIRNS
Transhipping to all
other Queensland
Ports.
S.S. PARINGA, Jan. 12.
S.S. RUPARA, Jan. 19.
S.S. MORIALTA, Jan. 2G.
Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after
the first Port of call with other Inter-State Companies
on all services subject to conditions, which can be
ascertained on application at the Company's Ollice.
G. S. YUII,I, * CO.. LTD.,
Agents. 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Huddart Parker Line.
Magnificent Fast Passenger Steamships
T.S.S. ZEALANDIA,
7000 tons, sails every four weeks, from Sydney, Mel-
bourne and Adelaide to West Australia and vice versa,
as advertised in daily newspapers.
STEAMERS TO NEW ZEALAND.
Regular sailings between Sydney and Melbourne to
New Zealand ports and vice versa; particulars to
be obtained on application.
STEAMERS TO TASMANIA.
Prom Sydney to Ilobart and vice versa every three
weeks. S.S. Rotomahana between Melbourne and
Launceston twice weekly.
For full particulars, apply
HUDDART PARKER LIMITED,
Collins Street, Melbourne; Ceorge Street, Sydney.
Frequent Sailings
IN SOLTI) COMFORT
and
IN FASTEST TIME
to
AMERIC A—C ANA D A
and
GREAT BRITAIN
29 Days to London.
Interchangeable Tickets.
SAILINGS UPON APPLICATION.
Apply:- OCEANIC STEAMSHIP CO.,
44 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Telephone: City 2282.
Federal & Shire Lines
Regular and Frequent Services between Australia and
United Kingdom.
Fast Modern Passenger Steamers.
Twin Screw —12,500 tons.
SUPERIOR ACCOMMODATION.
Large airy Cabins and spacious Promenade Decks.
Commodious Lounge and Smoke Rooms. WIRELESS
TELEGRAPHY. Excellent Cuisine.
FOR FULL INFORMATION, PAMPHLETS, etc.,
Apply to
BIRT & CO. LTD., Sydney and Brisbane ; MACDON-
ALD, HAMILTON & CO., Brisbane; McILWRAITH,
McEACHARN & CO. PTY. LTD., Melbourne and
Newcastle; ELDER, SMITH & CO. LTD., Adelaide;
H. JONES & CO. LTD.. Hobart.
THE North Coast Steam
Navigation Co. Ltd.
The Company's magnificent Steamers trade regu-
larly to:—
TWEED, RICHMOND, CLARENCE, BELLINGER,
NAMBUCCA, MACLEAY AND MANNING
RIVERS; also to BYRON BAY, COFF’S
HARBOR and WOOLGOOLGA.
Combination Tickets are issued in conjunction with
the N. S. WALES and QUEENSLAND RAILWAYS,
to include first- or second-class rail to BRISBANE,
thence to Tweed Heads —steamer to Murwillumbah,
rail to Byron Bay, Richmond or Clarence Rivers,
there connecting with one of the Company's up-to-
date liners for SYDNEY, or vice-versa.
ROUND TICKETS. —First-class rail and saloon on
steamer, £6 11s.; second-class rail and steerage on
steamer, £ 4 ss.
For Guide and all particulars apply:—
BOOKING OFFICE, 261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
ROBERT A. BELL. Managing Director.
GAPILLARINE
xcv
Crows
Moustaches
Quickly!
Capillarine has stood the test of years as a
genuine moustache-producer, and now that
the military have popularised the moustache
once more, its efficacy is being daily experi-
enced by hundreds of users.
PRICE 10/6 JAR—POST FREE.
CRAIG & AITKEN,
654 George Street, SYDNEY.
Established over SO years.
LL AUSTRALIANS visiting London
should read the British Austral-
asian, 6d. weekly—an illustrated paper
containing mail and cable news from Aus-
tralia and news of Australians in Europe
; and at home. Australians are cordially in-
I vited to visit the British Australasian
| Reading Room at the Offices. 115 High llol-
i born. London. W.C., where they can see the
I home papers, meet their friends, use the
j telephone, and obtain 1 information without
• charge. : T


AN UNDIGESTED DINNER.
Worse than a badly-cooked dinner is a
dinner that you can’t digest. Do you know
what it is to turn away from the best food,
ill-humored and without appetite, though
you know that it is dinner-time and that
you need food to sustain you? This is
Nature’s way of telling you that your diges-
tion is out of order. Your stomach is not in
a fit state to absorb food if you eat it, or your
blood able to carry the necessary nourish-
ment to your nerves, brain and muscles.
First of all, put off eating until you are
hungry. If you eat when you are, not
hungry you can’t digest the food.
To put your blood in the right state to
derive good from your food, take Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills. Without any purga-
tive or weakening effect they purify your
blood and enrich it, so that you not only
have an excellent appetite for food, but are
able to digest it comfortably and get benefit
from it.
So many dyspeptics have been helped by
this simple treatment that every sufferer
from stomach trouble should try it.
Free booklet, “What to Eat and How to
Eat,” will be sent on request by the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co., Box 594, G.P.0.,
Sydney. Your own chemist sells these pills,
or a box will be sent by mail, post paid, on
receipt of 2/9; six boxes 15/3. — -Advt.
SCHUTE, BELL & CO. LTD.
Sell WOOL and SKINS.
Personal attention a feature of the business.
Offices: 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Family Cases of
Forks, Spoons and Knives.
We are carrying the largest stock of these in the Commonwealth.
Cases of t> Spoons and Forks and Knives.
Cases of 12 Spoons and Forks.
Cases of every possible combination.
Cases of every possible design.
Our Spoons and Forks are all made by the new process that
gives them extra hardness and perfect symmetry. They are all of
a quality that will wear for forty years, and yet our prices are as
low as those quoted for inferior qualities.
Amongst the cases are many with rustless knives—some with
all silver, some with white handles.
Fairfax & Roberts Ltd.,
Plain Figures.
Cash Only.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 & 25 Hunter Street.
Extra heavily plated on special
hard white metal. Spoons
and Forks and Rustless Steel
Knives, 47 pieces in handsome
oak case £l2/10/-
Less 20% discount.. 2/10/-
ORLIC
MALTED
MILK
MALTED BARLEY—WHEAT & MILK '
Are the constituents of Horlick's Malted Milk. These “ft"
to build up the human frame and bring back health, streng noticeable
a cup of Horlick’s, an increase of mental and physical power is at once noticeable.
There is nothing to equal Horlick’s as a Delicious Food-Drin .
GET HORLICK’S AT THE SODA FOUNTAIN.
I
WAHts
INVM-
Ct>ol m« OB MttJt
535
> v\\\ ,WV
&
\A
jfe^
K
*tsnrz
SECT
m
m
am
am
1..
m.
W
Wt
i
»l« 5
R fe-
»**-‘ U Qe£ r?
HEART OF EMPIRE SERIES.
No. 1.
THE HORSE
GUARDS
The Guard House in front
of Whitehall Palace was
originally built in 1641. The
present building was erect-
ed in 1751-3, and was used
as Headquarters by the
Secretary of State for War,
the Commander-in-Chief
and his Staff until 1872.
The Clock was famous for
its accuracy, and, in olden
times, was used as the
standard of time (as
Greenwich is now).
555
jn
///
MILES OF AVON ” tours London and gives en route some little*
known particulars of famous places in the Heart of the Empire.
It is interesting to know that the War Office of to-day is situated
almost opposite the Horse Guards and has requisitioned huge supplies
of strong, enduring and dependable AVON TYRES ever since the
outbreak of war. And, although hundreds of Avon employees are
now in the firing line proving the “mettle of their pasture,”
the supplies of Avon Tyres are fully maintained by their
comrades and are helping the Allies along the road to Victory.
Fit British AVONS to Your Car.
N.S.W. Agents—HAMMOND & CO., 212 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Victorian Agents—H. C. PANNIFEX, 26 Market Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents—The Queensland Motor Agency, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
The prices advertised are those at which the
books are published in London . Prices outside
the British Isles must be fixed by the importing
bookseller .
RECOLLECTIONS,
By VISCOUNT MORLEY, 0.M.,
In 2 Vols., 255. net.
John Keats: llis Life and Poetry, his
Friends, Critics and After-Fame.
By SIR SYDNEY COLVIN. With
Portraits and other Illustrations.
18s. net.
The Daily Telegraph: “The life-story of
Keats is one of the most moving: and pathetic
stories in the literature of the world. It is
presented here with rich sympathy, with sure
discrimination, and with perfect understand-
ing.”
THOMAS HARDY.
Moments of Vision and Miscel-
laneous Verses. By THOMAS
HARDY. 65.. net.
Six Women and the Invasion. By
GABRIELLE arid MARGUERITE
YERTA. With Preface by Mrs.
HUMPHRY WARD. 6s. net.
A description of life in a village near Laon
during the War, which as written at first
hand is of real value. It gives a vivid account
of the inrush of the German army, the flight
of the poor women, its failure, and their en-
forced return to their own homes. The exac-
tions and barbarities of the German soldiers
are set forth in detail, culminating in the
final brutalities of the deportation.
While Shepherds Watched. By
RICHARD A. MAHER, Author of
“The Shepherd of the North,” etc.
(11,000). Fully Illustrated, 6s.
Gold Must be Tried by Fire. By
RICHARD A. MAPIER, author of
“The Shepherd of the North” (11th
Thousand). 4/6.
Bromley Neighborhood. A Novel by
ALICE BROWN, author of “The
Prisoner” (15th Thousand), etc. 4/6.
His Family. A Novel by ERNEST
POOLE, author of “The Harbor”
(100th Thousand), etc. 4/6.
The Empty House. 4/6.
This new novel tells the frank story of one
woman’s experience in marriage, and how her
refusal to have children reacted on her life
and temperament.
Orders for the above five books to be sent
to the Melbourne Depot, 109 Russell Street.
Macmillan’s
Empire Library.
ss. per volume.
659. The Dwelling-place of Light.
By WINSTON CHURCHILL,
author of “Richard Carvell, “A Far
Country,” etc.
The Morning Post: “Janet fighting for her
liberty is a fine, even noble, character of
honesty. Mr. Churchill’s is a sincere and im-
pressive study of her.” s
661. The Green Mirror. By HUGH
WALPOLE, author of “Fortitude,”
etc.
660. Summer. By EDITH WHAR-
TON, author of “The House of
Mirth,” etc.
The Pall Mall Gazette : “In this story Mrs.
Wharton has given us a little masterpiece....
The story is finelv told, and grips the reader
from start to finish.”
662. Christine. By ALICE CHOL-
MONDELEY.
Land and Water: “One of the most vital
and intense condemnations of Germany that has
been or will be produced.”
W. & A. K. Johnston’s War Map of
Palestine. 26 x 22 in. Printed in
Colors. Unmounted 6d. net. Cloth
Folded, Is. 3d. net.
Complete Catalogues of Macmillan’s Empire
Library, etc., will be sent on application.
To be Obtained from All Booksellers.
MACMILLAN SCO.LTD.
MELBOURNE & LONDON, W.C. 2.


THE GRESHAM,
BRISBANE’S LEADING HOTEL,
Under the new management of T. M. Ahern, the
following improvements have been completed : New
Commodious Lounge, whole of Ground Floor;
New' Dining-room, seat 150 persons ; New Kitchen ;
New Automatic Elevator; New Hot-water Sys-
tem throughout; New Bathrooms & Lavatories.
ft
THAT
means
comfort—the
comfort that is on-
ly possible with the
BROOKS
the saddle with the compensating
springs, which absorb all vibra-
tion, yet eradicate entirely any
tendency to bounce.
ASK YOUR DEALER.
xcv
Self-Aligning Ball-Bearing
PLUMMER BLOCKS.
The Only Power Saver.
':- k - -
SAVE SO to 90
per cent, of
Friction over
Ordinary
Journal
Plummer
Blocks.
GARDNER, W/ERN
& CO.
Melbourne 57 Queen Street.
Sydney 225 Clarence Street.
Brisbane 369 Queen Street.
SAVE 95 per
cent. Lubricant
over Ordinary
Journal
Plummer
Blocks.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Stargazer”: One important point was
overlooked in arguing the burning question,
“Have Australian theatrical managers given
Australian authors a fair show ?” A long
list of Australian writers who have had
their products staged hus been flaunted ; but
I contend that of recent years only in very
rare instances has an Australian author’s
[>lay been produced. As a rule the writer’s
drama is not put on the stage at all—noth-
ing remotely resembling it. The alteration
is not merely the adaptation of literary
means to dramatic ends; it is wholesale and
ruthless readjustment and re-writing, utterly
barren of talent or originality. In no in-
stance I can recollect has a management
produced an Australian work so as to main-
tain its inherent quality. Precisely the
same sousing of vulgarity occurs, much the
same wedding of Australian material to
fatuous English conventions. The excuse
that the dramatic verities demand all this
is regularly made, but the real reason for
the faking springs from the almost insane
conservatism of managers whose life has
been spent in acting customary stuff in a
customary way. In a case of my own I
travelled from one metropolis to another to
see to the production of a play allegedly
mine, and going into the theatre unannounced
watched a rehearsal for fully 15 minutes
without discovering that it was my matter
that was being handled.
“Ato”: A fat Hamlet is a grotesque idea;
to be a brooder one must be lean. How then
to account for Queen Gertrude’s remark that
Hamlet was “fat and scant of breath”?
Here is the explanation. Shakspeare wrote
“faint and scant of breath.” Look up the
originals of sixteenth-century MSS. and you
will see how free were the spellings of words
and how general were the abbreviations.
When the bard meant “faint and scant of
breath” he possibly wrote, being at the end
of a line and short of space, “fnt” for
“faint.” Then the careful compositor cor-
rected the MS. by changing the “n” to an
“a,” thereby setting the commentators for
300 years seeking for a reason why Hamlet
was obese.
“0.K.” on the unpopularity of legropes:—
One smiles sardonically at the cabled reference to
the late Kendall’s last will and testament. Deceased
left portion of his property ( £66.251) to theatrical
charities, and bequeathed his house in Yorkshire to
Marie Lohr. Not a word about Mrs. Kendall—“the
mother of the British drama”—and the family, two
or three members of which have been seen in Aus-
tralia. Years ago a son played with the Broughs,
and more recently we had Dorothy Grimston, a
daughter, engaged by J.C.W. Now, the late Willie
Kendall owed all his success to his wife, Madge
Robertson, sister of Tom the dramatist. She married
him when he was the handsome young man of the
old Haymarket Theatre Co., and afterwards they
were coupled in many Bancroft productions ere they
went into management and made a fortune. From
the very outset Mrs. Kendall kept a tight rein on
hubby and checked his inclination to the flowing
bowl. But for the restraining influence of Madge,
who was a bit of a wowser as actresses go, the too
genial Kendall would without a doubt have
been downed by dissipation. Madge not only
ran the show; she was also the star attrac-
tion in all the years of their acting together.
Somehow the case seems to exemplify the
difference between a good fellow and a good
woman. It reminds one of an old Bulletin drawing
of a stout, elderly, bulbous-nosed man sharing a
bottle with a bit of fluff at a restaurant table. Said
the lively lady: “I suppose, if the truth were known,
your wife is much too good for you.” “She is, she
is,” said the old sinner. “Much too good. She's
a Christian Endeavorer.”
“S.”: Hans Phillips sadly disagreed with
the idea that nothing succeeds like success,
lie argued that his greatest success was his
most grievous misfortune. He made his hit
as Corkett, the Cockney clerk in “The
Silver King.” “That fixed me,” said he.
“In larger communities a success like that
wouldn’t do an artist any harm; here it
rams him into a groove that leads nowhere.
I was regarded as an exponent of Corkett-
like characters, and the demand for Corkett-
like characters is trifling in this country.
I have been waiting 20 years for my reputa-
tion to die, but it’s indestructible. I’ve
heard actors lament how quickly the people
forget their favorites. If they only would
I might have a chance to come again as
Hamlet. But Corkett’s one of the immor-
tals. I know that when I’m stowed under
they’ll put on my stone ‘Cbrkett, R.I.P.’
As if I haven’t had ‘rest’ enough.”
“8.J.”: This holiday season Australian
mummers get better chances than have come
their way for years, war having shut down
on the importation of mediocrities. Both
the big Melbourne pantos have Australians
for principal “boy” and girl—-Vera Pearce
and Pauline Bindley in “Dick Whittington,”
and Winifred La France (who in pre-war
days took her talents to Uncle Sam owing to
lack of appreciation locally) and Olive God-
win in “Aladdin.” The latter show also
features a couple of Australians (Bailey
and MacDonald) among its principal
comedians; while the Williamson people
employ Australians —Maggie Dickinson and
Constance Cayley-—as high-kicker-in-chief
and second “boy.”
“Vic” : The first cast of “The Silver King”
in Melbourne was, I believe, the best that
was ever called. Denver, Titheradge;
Spider, Garner; Jaikes, Day; Coombe, Red-
wood ; Three Gossips, E. Marshall (Fred’s
brother), Sefton and Daniels; Cripps.
Leake; Corker, just-dead Ilans Phillips;
Cabman, Bryan; Detective, Whyte; Ware,
Cates; Pottle, Hoskins; . Nellie Denver,
Annie Mayer; Olive. Blanche Stammers.
“Harrison O.”: “Baby Mine” is adver-
tised as the most hilarious comedy ever seen
in Melbourne. On the night I attended the
“The Rajah of Shiva-
pore,” on tour.
Chunder (Frank
Hawthorne).
Tivoli shrieks re-
sounded through
the thl-ee acts.
Whenever patrons
showed a yawning
comprehension of
the tren<| of events
behind the foot-
lights, someone in
the cast would
scream, and an
assortment of
shrieks, yells and
the sound of fall-
ing human flesh
off-stage . would im-
mediately super-
vene. At times it
seemed that a wool
sale was being held
in the heroine’s
bedroom and a
meeting of the
Richmond Council
outside on the fire-
escape. Apparently
the disturbances
were contrived as
a sort of prophy-
lactic against any-
thing of the kind
in front. I left
the theatre con-
vinced that, what-
ever critics may urge against the Yankee
drama, its art is sound—sound that signifies
nothing.
“Monk”: Just-dead Hans Phillips was a
son of Alfred Phillips, who acted Crabtree, in
“School for Scandal,” at the opening of the
Melbourne Royal, 1855. The mother of
Hans does not appear on the bill of that
occasion, but she was truly great as Mrs.
Candour. Mrs. Malaprop, and similar charac-
ters. Her father was a notable Irish
comedian named Gardiner.
Ada Reeve’s first hubby, the broadly-
liumorous Bert Gilbert, is still keeping the
ball rolling in England. A new farce,
labelled “Where’s the Chicken?” announced
as hatched and penned by him, was pro-
duced a few weeks ago at the Middlesex,
which is one of Stoll’s vaudeville houses in
Drury Lane. Gilbert is, of course, the boss-
rooster.
“First Old Man”: The original Peter Pan
in England was Australian JVna Bouci-
cault ; in America, Maude Adams; a coun-
trywoman of the latter, Tittell Brune, was
the first to play the part here. Curious how
it has been associated with American per-
formers all the time. Pauline Chase scored
with it annually for five or six seasons in
London; now after Tittell Brune comes
Kathlene Macdonell—all three hailing from
the States. But I’ll risk saying not one of
the trinity is in it with our own Lizette
Parkes, whom I saw in the doublet and hose
of “the boy who wouldn’t grow' up” in
Maoriland a few years back.
“THE BING BOYS," AT SYDNEY
MAJESTY’S.
The old ladies of Binghampton give a dance
interpretive of Youth at the unveiling of a
statue.
Ilans Phillips’s last appearance was at
the Melbourne Bijou once more, as one of
the boys in “Our Boys,” produced by Horace
Liugard. But there was hardly anybody
present on that dismal occasion, and at the
end of the brief season Ilans left the Point
for good.
“L.E.” (London) : Met our old friend
Datas, the man of .memory, travelling from
Liverpool to London. In the smoking
carriage that contained, among others, two
youths-—a sailor and an airman—an elderly
Canadian in khaki and a Tommy from
Xalonica, Datas gave an impromptu per-
formance. “Australia —do you know Ben-
djgo, Ballarat, Gtindagai, Warrnambool,
Ivoolgardie, Charters Towers, Bathurst.
Bourke, Warragul, Young and Jackson’s?
Even at my age I’d like to be there now.
Give me the bush, every day’s a summer’s
day; there’s no need to work, you can’t
starve—God’s own country, gentlemen. Give
me Australia, eggs and sausages for break-
fast, and off you go.” Datas has still a
romantic memory of his Australian days;
and at the end of every speech, in which he
rattled off long lists of stations, pubs, public
characters and dates of sporting events, he
would turn to the bewildered company and
conclude impressively, “That’s Australia,
gentlemen.” He was in excellent form; and
though lie said his memory was not as good
as it used to be, lie was able to repeat, in
one long breath, all the Derby winners from
the Conquest and the official list of Marie
Lloyd’s husbands.
When Irma Caron was on the way back
from Java with her little concert co. Macas-
sar called her up by wireless the day before
the boat reached the island, and made her
an offer to land and sing at the local club—
the one white-man’s meeting place in the
rich little Dutch possession. It was after 10
o’clock before the party got ashore, and mid-
night found the star still shining in the
gorgeous little marble-floored concert hall.
“O. Blin”: Barry Lupino, who is caper-
ing in “Aladdin” at Melbourne King’s, began
his hilarious record in London in 1886 when
he was carried on in the Drury Lane pro-
duction of “Cinderella.” Up to this year
he had played every male character in panto,
barring the bad Baron and the principal
boy. He has now added the villain to his
record, and there is no physical reason why
he should not slay a sad convention by tak-
ing on the tights of the principal lad. With
his curly hair, trustful orbs and cherubic
expression, he looks like one who was des-
tined to be a hero among girls called Phyllis.
“0.K.”: Time has done wonders for
Francie Adler, the grand-daughter of the
Simonsens. A Melbourne man who knows
the business writes from New York: —
Have just been hearing “Francesca Da Rimini,”
adapted from Gabriele D'Annunzio’s tragedy, music
by Zandonai. and I reckon it the most magnificent
opera . nave met, for scenery, singing and orches-
tration. Frances Alda was the prima donna, and she
made a wonderful success. Frances is going to be
a'nother great credit to Australia. She has been in
America for many years, but it was only this season,
if I am not mistaken, that she got her real big
chance at the Metropolitan. \Ye heard her with
John McCormack in “La Boheme”. last week. Now
she has done this work, and 1 think we will hear
big things of her.
Coming from a man of less experience in
musical matters this criticism of the little
Adler lady would be less impressive. The
last time I heard her she was doing a turn
in Rickards vaudeville and was suiting un-
enlightened audiences with easy ballads and
fake falsetto notes. She wasn’t an accom-
plished singer and she was putting up a big
bluff on their ignorance. Previously Francie
had been singing in a Williamson show,
where she usually sounded out of tune,
owing partly to the distinctive quality of
her voice. Old Martin Simonson and his
wife had a high opinion of the possibilities
of their wayward grand-daughter, but a very
poor opinion of her chance of ever turning
the voice to great account. She wouldn’t
stick to her studies, and finally they refused
to teach her. Rut all the time it was pos-
sible for her to develop into a brilliant
artist, and seemingly she has clone it.
Comedian George Graves, who knows as
much about the art of getting the public ear
as any mummer in the business, advises the
“reserved force” school of actors liow to
broaden their effects to suit a broad environ-
ment. “When I am acting in a vast theatre
I keep well forward to the footlights and
bark into the chasm,” says Graves.
The piecemeal performance of “Sweet
Nell”—one act per week—which was a fair
success at the Tivolis here, had been tried
with other plays at London Coliseum and
proved a failure. It was only personal popu-
larity that carried Nellie Stewart through
her four-act season. The revival of old stage
stories in serial form is not practicable, even
in dumb show at the movies. Otherwise we
would have had “Silver King” screened in
five closes long ago.
“Petronius” (London) : When you con-
sider the tripe this great city rushes, you
begin to despair when you observe how dead-
as-mutton Gilbert and Sullivan is in London
itself. Occasionally it has a resurrection in
a suburb. The last I attended yvas at Iven-
nington Theatre, where “Princess Ida” ran,
or rather limped, for a week, and the “Kiss-
me” song was the only item that could be
relied on to get a hand.
“J.F.H.” (London) : Marie Lohr is busy
preparing for her first London campaign as
runner of a theatre of her own. From many
plays submitted she has selected for her
debut as actress-manageress one by W.
Somerset Maugham. But she will be handi-
capped in one way—the author will not be
able to attend rehearsals. Maugham has been
doing his bit for some time in the war zones,
and when last heard of was “somewhere in
Russia”—an address that isn’t much use for
telegraphic purposes. He’s a surgeon.
“Ibsenshaw”: Following on his annual
“Peter Pan” production in London, this year
Dot Boucicault promises a new three-act
comedy by Pinero. Presumably no Lords or
Dooks will figure in the bill, for the play
is described as “an idyll of Suburbia” : but
it hadn’t worn its christening robe when
last heard of.
Cicely Courtneidge, who got a favorable
start under dad’s musical-comedy manage-
ment, is doing a capital turn in English
vaudeville. A feature is made of the fact
that Cicely was born in Australia. Nowa-
days this is a mighty good country for theatri-
cal artists to have been born in. Some people
who were not launched within thousands of
miles of it are billed as Australian—in
America and S’Africa.
Dolly Tester, the chorus girl whom the
notorious Marquis of Ailesbury married in
the long ago. died recently in Scotland at
the , home of her second husband, a wealthy
flax-spinner.
THE QUEST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
is an Australian-born, but none the less
a phenomenon. After lie concludes his engagement
here he will fake his remarkable act to London.”
The manager sly with a critical eye
Goes searching the wide world through,
From the East to the. West lie follows, in quest
Of a vaudeville turn that's Hew ;
A flexible freak, or a high-toned shriek,
Some prodigy drawing a thousand a week,
To gratify me and you.
From old Dublin Bay unto Salem, N.J.,
From the Bowery dives to Hongkong,
lie’ll sieve every show for a pert serio,
Or a champion pug gone wrong;
For a marionette, or a blue soubrette,
A lady in beads and. a yard of net,
Who sings of the Continong.
Where the Kybosh Girls, in peroxide curls,
Gyrate ’neuth the sizzling limes,
And the red-nosed blokes crack liiossg-rown jokes
From obsolete pantomimes,
The manager keen with a.cynical mien
From the seats of the mighty reviews the scene,
To pounce on a prize betimes.
But the wily one knows, as he samples the shows,
Which stunts we are safe to applaud—
That all native performers we label barnstormers
Who act with intent to defraud;
Phenomena, mag in Australia .stay,
But as alien artists we never gainsay,
It’s safer to snare ’em abroad.
QUEENSLAND.
NORMAN CAMPBELL.
THE PRODUCE MARKET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Wanted 50 well-proportioned young women for
musical entertainment. Apply producer, Theatre.”
We saw them in a long-drawn queue,
The fair, the dark, the short, the tall,
The well-proportioned damsels who
Responded to the printed call.
“And so,” observed the cynic spark, “it
Is thus they bring their calves to market!”
victoria.
S. S.


1
'.7
V
m
vvm
«»Wk
: .
gpi Pg
!•':
'
,vs
BKr
'v:
® -i
“ ' *'
m
mm
m
m
m
m
,
:
a
m
. :i ■
mm
■ i
The Motor Car, the efficient and
modern method of travel, is now
more than ever supplanting other
means of transit.
It is an undeniable business necessity
for the man who has any road
travelling to do.
Your travels in the year just begun
may be only in a circumscribed area
—or they may take you to the
borders of the State you live in —or
beyond that even.
But no matter where the roads may
lead, the Studebaker Series 18 Tour-
ing Car is at home anywhere, whet-
her over the mountains across the
wide stretches of open country, or
on the asphalt and macadamised
roads of city and suburbs.
The splendid Power of the Studebaker
Series 18 Car will never fail you
power ample for every road and all
conditions of travel — reserve power
too, for the unexpected emergency.
The Studebaker 7 passenger, 6 cyl-
inder Car ensures Comfort, for only
easy riding can result from its excel-
lence of design and constructional
features.
One of the distinctive qualities of Studebaker
Series 18 Car is its Economy of operation.
The chassis is a masterpiece of motor engin-
eering. With enormous strength it combines
light weight and exact balance, making for
both tyre and petrol economy.
And, as to Price, a comparison of the Stude-
baker Series 38 with all 6 cylinder, 7 passenger
Cars of equal, or even lesser excellence of
make and equipment throughout, will prove
that the price now asked for Studebaker 6
cylinder Car is from £lOO to £2OO less.
The Studebaker Series 18 Cars in 6 cylinder
7 passenger, and 4 cylinderS passenger models,
are now obtainable from limited stocks held
by all State Importers, and from more than
173 Studebaker dealers th roughout Australia.
Owing to the fact that the shipping position is
becoming daily more acute, we cannot absol-
utely guarantee immediate deliveries for an
indefinite period, though at present we
have a full range of models available.
Our advice given in all sincerity to intending
buyers is to purchase now while we have a
selection of cars for you to choose from.
THE STUDEBAKER CORPORATION OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
j : . V . ! ‘ l ; • • - ’ ■ *•
Head Office, 177 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. S. A. Branch at 1 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Turner Bros., 398 Street, Melbourne.
Armstrong C. & M. Agency, Hay Street, Perth.
C. C. M. £s A. Ltd., Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Adams Limited, Tuam Street, Christchurch, (K.Z,)
ESTABLISHED 1852


London's Beauty Writers.
Weekly Selections from Noted Beauty
Experts Writing for the English Press.
Simple and Effective Methods.
By Olga Amsdkll, Special Correspondent,
London, Eng.
Grey Hair—Home Remedy.
There are plenty of reasons why grey hair
is not desirable, and plenty of reasons why
hair dyes should not be used. But, on the
other hand, there is no reason why you should
have grey hair if you do not want it. To turn
the hair back to a natural color is really a
very simple matter. One has only to get from
the chemist two ounces of concentrate of tam-
malite and mix it with three ounces of bay
rum. Apply to the hair with a small sponge
for a few nights and the greyness will gradu-
ally disappear. This liquid is not sticky or
greasy, and does not injure the hair in any
way. It lias been used for generations with
most satisfactory results by those who have
known the formula.
Blackheads Fly Away.
A practically instantaneous remedy for
blackheads, greasy skins and enlarged pores,
recently discovered, is now coming into gen-
eral use in the boudoir. It is very simple,
harmless and pleasant. Drop a stymol tablet
obtained at the chemist’s, in a tumbler full of
hot water. After the effervescence has sub-
sided bathe the face in the liquid, using a
small sponge or soft cloth. In a few minutes
dry the face and the offensive blackheads will
come right off on the towel. Also the large
oily pores immediately close up and effaee
themselves naturally. The greasiness dis-
appears and the skin is left smooth, soft and
cool. This simple treatment is then repeated
a few times at intervals of four or five days
to ensure the permanence of the result.
Emergency Complexions.
Even a complexion which is hopelessly dull
or greasy can be made beautiful in a moment
by a perfectly harmless home recipe. If you
have no cleminitc in the house, get about an
ounce from your chemist, and add only
enough water to dissolve it. The process de-
fies detection, and the result is an immediate
appearance of velvety, youthful “bloom”
wliiqh. every woman desires. The effect will
last all day under the most trying conditions,
indoors or out, and renders powdering quite
unnecessary. This simple substance is also
very good for the skin, and no possible harm
can come from its regular use.
Effectually Killing Superfluous Hair.
Many women know how to remove ugly
growths of superfluous hair temporarily, but
few know how to remove it permanently. For
this purpose pure powdered pheminol may be
used. Get about an ounce from your chemist
and apply a little directly to the objection-
able hair. _ The purpose of the recommended
treatment is not merely to remove the super-
fluous hair instantly, but also to kill the hair
roots completely in a comparatively short
time.
How Nature Makes New Complexions.
It is well known that the human skin is
constantly undergoing a tearing down and
building up process. With advancing years or
waning vitality this tissue-change lags: the
lifeless, soiled surface skin stays on so long
that its owner gets a “poor complexion.”
Commonsense tells us this dead skin cannot
be _ enlivened or beautified by • any cosmetic,
lotion or powder. The natural thing to do is
to actually remove the offensive skin—remove
the bad complexion. It has been found that
ordinary mercolized wax completely absorbs
the _ devitalised skin, in minute particles, so
gently, gradually, as to cause no inconveni-
ence. Mercolized wax, which any chemist can
supply, is put on at night like cold cream,
and washed off in the morning. If you would
have a brilliantly beautiful and vouthful com-
plexion. just use this simple treatment.
How to Have Thick and Pretty Hair.
Soaps and artificial shampoos ruin many
beautiful heads of hair. Few. people know
that a teaspoonful of good stallax dissolved
in a cup of hot water has a natural aflinitv
lor the hair and makes the most delightful
shampoo imaginable. It leaves the hair bril-
liant, soft and wavy, cleanses the scalp com-
pletely, and greatly stimulates the hair-
growth. The only drawback is that stallax
seems rather expensive. It comes to the
chemist only in sealed quarter-pound pack-
ages, which retail at about, four shillings.
However, as this is sufficient for 25 or 30
shampoos, it really works out very cheaply
in the end. ra.
QUEENSLAND’S HOT SPRINGS
FOR RHEUMATISM
CHRONIC INDIGESTION g GOUT.
Testimonials and Particulars—
LINGLEY’S HOTEL, Muckadilla.
The Most Perfect
Garment Marker
Knocks Marking-Ink Silly.
ASK YOUR DRAPER
WOVEN
'names,
'accept no *
SUBSTITUTES
MADE IN AUSTRALIA.
12 dozen, 7/6 ; 6 dozen, 5/-; 3 dozen, 3/6.
xcv
Keep Cool.
Latest Improved Model.
Runs on Methylated Spirits.
No Springs to get out of
order.
A Fan producing a perfect
cool breeze.
Price £7/10/-
Write for catalogue.
BRANDT BROS. LTD.,
AIR GAS ENGINEERS,
236 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
with a new year ahead starts off well to the
front with highest quality in
Shirts, Collars & Pyjamas.
During 1917 men have looked upon the name
PEL AC 0 as a symbol of highest grade and
best value in Shirts, Collars and Pyjamas.
Throughout 1918 the same high standard of
workmanship and finish will be maintained,
and Pelaco garments will as usual be of a
quality unequalled at the same or a higher price.
Made in Australia.
V
VM
%
w
v\
\W\>
N
>
<jft
to*
V
5*
\N
Wt
z.
Without constant, every-day health, vigour is impossible —
your body must be kept to concert pitch. Your mind cannot be
alert and vigorous if your body is slack, listless and enervated.
Every day, as regularly as you wind up your watch, you
must wind up your system, in order that, purified
and vitalized, it shall run smoothly all day long.
Every morning the Kruschen habit —a half teaspoonful
of Kruschen Salts taken in hot water when rising—adds
to your life the pleasure that comes of a constant sense
of good health and abundant vigour.
xc
MAKERS ESTABLISHED IN MANCHESTER 1754.
ENTIRELY BRITISH FOR 160 YEARS
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle.
Of all good chemists, grocers, and stores throughout
Australia. Wholesale Distributing Agents,
Messrs. H. & W. GREAR, 287-289 Clarence St., Sydney.
Sole Proprietors, E. GRIFFITHS HUGHES (Kruschen), Ltd.,
68 Arcade,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND,
AUSTRALIAN
PRICE
2/6
per bottle.
Toy Dog Lovers 8 Breeders.
pOR SALE.—ALL-BLACIi PUG PUPS, Corrard
prize-winning stock; splendid heads, short
bodies. BLACK AND FAWN PUG STUD DOGS
AND BROOD BITCHES; PURE WHITE POMER-
ANIAN PUPS AND BROOD BITCHES; YOUNG
ORANGE POM. DOGS and handsome young PEKIN-
ESE DOG. Bargains—no reasonable offer refused.
Inspection invited.
KIRNBANK, Arthur Street, Croydon, N.S.W.
When Father O’Donnell, the eloquent
Conscriptionist, resigned from the Wynyard
(Tas.) Town Council in order to enlist, his
fellow councillors decided to make him a
presentation. Knowing the hardships that
soldiers have to undergo the fathers of the
hamlet sent the new recruit into chmp with
a brand-new rug and an umbrella!
A young Australian named Frank Kald
was discovered at Tailem Bend (S.A.) in
the early morning of December 13 riding on
the rear buffer of the brake-van attached to
the “up” Melbourne express. The 14-year-
old had got abroad at Kaniva, and' had
ridden the whole 135 miles on the buffer. He
left at 2.28 a.m. (Vic. time) and was hauled
off at 6.7 a.m. (S.A. time). It takes some
doing, considering that the old ’bus knocks
up about 40 to 50 miles per hour at times
and the track is not the smoothest. The
police, took him over, and it is to be hoped
his grit gets the right encouragement.
“J.F.H.”: Among the astonishing results
of the war is a boom in the book market in
big English cities—“due,” one publisher
says, “to the stay-at-home habits enforced
by war conditions.” But it is only the emo-
tions that demand feeding. One of the great
London circulating libraries says: “We have
more subscribers than ever. We can hardly
supply them with all the books they want.
Love and stirring-adventure stories are most
in demand.” _ And poetry. In the highly-
strung condition of the public, there is a
very noticeable inclination towards verse.
The play-acting of Hughes has cost the
Commonwealth £5OO for yet another new
motor-car. When the Priminister came back
from Sydney on a recent occasion a “demon-
stration” was arranged by his stage-mana-
ger, and about three tons of supers, crammed
themselves into the car. When this scene
was over the vehicle looked as though it had
been looping-the-loop over the scenic railway
at Luna Park; and the Commonwealth
Gazette for the 12th ult. contained the in-
formation that the G.-G. had approved the
purchase of another Vinot for the Priminis-
ter’s use.
“Seaweed”: “Barnacle’s” mention of the
old custom of towing the Newcastle lifeboat
to the rescue (B. 20/12/’l7) reminds me of
a yarn my grandpa used to tell. At the
latter end of the ’forties the schooner Zone
was in distress off the port. There was a
terrific gale blowing, but the lifeboat took the
crew off safely. The tug Bungaree was tow-
ing, and on the return journey the lifeboat
capsized. For half an hour the skipper of
the tug, being unaware of the accident, kept
plugging on with his tow bottom up. Before
assistance was rendered four men were
drowned, including the deputy-harbormaster,
Capt. Lovett. Grand-dad was one of the life-
boat’s crew on that trip. He later on had
his foot torn off while on a similar job.
“Rio”: Conditions have lately been pub-
lished under which members of the expedi-
tionary forces of the Dominions may obtain
commissions in the Indian Army. One,
approved by the Government of Great
Britain, is:—
The number of vacancies allotted to the several
self-governing Dominions is based upon the numbers
serving in the field, and is as follows: Australia 13,
Canada 12, Maoriland 3, S’Africa 2 ; total 30.
Yet Ministers while publishing these docu
ments were contending that Canada had
done more than Australia, not only actually
but comparatively. However, there won’t
be any prosecution for making false state-
ments from that side of the fence.
“Copabella”: This is the Sunshine brand
of .Repatriation. The village of Sunshine
(Vic.) has a very efficient little Technical
College—a practical place, with workshops,
etc.—substantially encouraged by the McKay
harvester firm, which allows its apprentices
so many hours off a week to attend. When
the soldiers began to come back the college,
which is run by an enthusiast named Baxter,
asked Millen.if it might be allowed to do its
bit. It was invited to submit a self-support-
ing scheme, and chose one that would pay
two special instructors for soldiers. Under
it the McKay firm supplies the college
with castings at cost price, guaranteeing
their commercial faultlessness. These the
soldiers work up, and McKay then buys
back the completed article, if usable, at 50
per cent, above the wages-board piece-rates.
So far —one term —28 soldiers have gone
through the instructors’ hands, one onlv
being cast forth as unsuitable, and then it
was not a question of skill; 1836 articles
have been turned out by the learners, and
only 22 have been rejected, several of these
for flaws in material, not in craftsmanship.
The college has made a gross profit of £l4
and is sanguine that as the scheme develops
it will be able to carry itself. The regular
staff of the college assists by giving its ser-
vices for the soldiers’ technical instruction.
Any other patriot want to do
besides talk?
THE NEW YEAR BLANK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Not the tribe of Jacob vainly trying bricks to make
With the Gyppie gangers cutting down their hay;
Not the Yankee writer working out some plan to
fake
A thirty-minute sketch to make a play;
Not the politician thinking out some newer dope,
Nor the expert summing up the Bolshevik
Tackles anything so arduous as the pressman’s forlorn
hope—
Filling up his blessed rag in New Year week !
“Holiday Fatalities” the only headline stuff,
“Suburban Fires” the only thing in pars;
Not a court or Parliament, a row or hop to puff,
E’en Mannix isn’t opening bazaars!
Everybody’s bolted where there’s cool and shade and
wet,
On a dolce-far-niente down the bay—
All except the pressman with a paper to beget
In the newsless, Hughesless New Year holiday!
Now the long-held war-verse finds at last a resting-
place,
And the Y.M.C.A. puffster gets a show;
Poor dead “Anxious Mother” gets her bit of letter-
space,
Along with old “Pro- Bono Publico” ;
“Crop Returns” and “Trade Statistics,” “Country
Notes” and news
From the bottom of the pin-file shyly climb ;
Every crank and Quixote gets his chance to air his
views,
And the world of letters knows it’s New Year time.
VICTORIA.
C. L. GRIFFITHS.


STOPAIN
A BOON TO MOTHERS.
After much thought and experiment
we have at last succeeded in completing
what we believe is the most successful
treatment known for toothache. We
have placed it on the market under the
name of
STOPAIN
A Toothache Gum.
Besides being the latest and most
successful treatment for toothache,
Stopain is both simple and economical,
It is in the form of a gum and all you
have to do is to fill the cavity of the
tooth with it. It excludes the, air and
stops toothache immediately.
No more burnt gums or blistered
tongues by liquid “cures” and this
alone means a lot to mothers.
Not only does Stopain relieve the pain,
but it also assists to preserve tlie tooth
until dental aid can be obtained, thus
making it invaluable to families in the
country who are often a day’s journey
from the nearest dentist.
Stopain is a boon to mothers. No
home should be without Stopain ; it is so
convenient and never fails to bring relief.
Stopain has been tried by thousands of
people and we have never yet kjiown it
to fail when used according to directions.
Get it now for you never know when it
may be needed.
Stopain is sold by most retailers at Is.
per box, but if yours hasn’t got it in
stock it will be sent, to any address
postage paid, upon receipt of price by
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet & Riley Streets, Sydney.
Try This Com Cure.
You will never know how easy it is to
get rid of corns until you have tried
Handy Corn Cure. Nothing like it has
ever been produced.
Oh! My! Corn-pains in ovary nerve!
It will dumbfound you, especially if
you have tried everything else for corns—
applied in two seconds, and if it does
not cure your corns we will refund your
money.
If you have ever made a fat bundle of
your toes with bandages; used thick,
corn pressing rings ; corn pulling salves
or liquid medicines that took off more
toe than corn—well, you will appreciate
Handy Corn Cure. Try Handy Corn
Cure for any corn, callous, wart or
bunion. It never fails.
Sold bv retailers at Is. per box ; 3
boxes for 2s. 6d. Posted to any address
upon receipt of price bv
SUNSET DRUG CO.,
Cr. Goodlet and Riley Sts., Sydney.
NOT EXACTLY
SICIf - BUT
FEELING dull, tired, worn, run
down, no appetite and don t
care what happens.
It’s your liver. It is torpid--not
doing its duty--and, of course, you
are constipated. The bodily waste
loaded with poison, is being retain-
ed in the bowels and partly re-
absorbed into the blood.
No wonder you feel heavy and
listless. What you need is
GIAMBERLAINSTABLETS
Jo, the Stomach t> Livlr
They will start your liver to
working, end constipation, cleanse
your bowels of all foul waste and
tone up the whole system.
They are good for indigestion,
biliousness, sick headache and all
disorders arising from the stomach
and liver.
•a*
TV
ft
0?>
X
r
F^
}
J
u.
*
~^g
«8BMSM8»5B
BE PREPARED
Like tnanv other dangerous maladies diarrhoea often comes on unexpectedly and frequently
before the patient is aware of it some serious disorder has developed. During the warm
weather attacks of this kind are very frequent and often so swift in their results that life is in danger before the physician
Those who have the interests of their family at heart keen a bottle of Chamberlain s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy on
hand for immediate use in cases of this kind. It is without doubt the best medicine prepared for diarrhoea, \sen erv an
other disorders of the bowels. If given at the first unusual looseness of the bowels the attacic may be avoided but even in
advanced stages it is a quick and most effective remedy. .. .
Never leave home without a bottle of Chamberlain’s Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy in vour luggage. The excitement
incidental to travelling and change of water and food often bring on diarrhoea, colic and pains in the stomac i or w 11c 1
speedy relief must be obtained aiui Chamberlain's Colic and Diarrhoea Remedy can always ne relied upon to do tins.
Mitchell.
A roomy 7-passenger, six-
cylinder, 48-horsepower
motor, 127-inch wheelbase,
Si extra features, including
cantilever springing.
vxc
Two Sizes .
SIXES,
MitcHell Junior.
A 5-passenger, six-cylinder,
40-horsepower motor, 120-
inch wheelbase, 31 extra,
features, including canti-
lever springing.
THE MITCHELL is a Car of Superlative Value. You Get More for Your Money.
The unique extra value of the Mitchell has been made possible for you without
extra cost by the efficiency of the Mitchell plant, now covering 45 acres. Cost of
production has been cut down and all extra values are paid for by factory savings.
Nowhere else in the world can a car like the Mitchell be built at the Mitchell cost.
The Mitchell sells in America for less than any other car of its class, whilst
in Australia we Quote you less than any other car costing the same in America.
This shows a double advantage in price alone, which, taken with the unique value
of the car itself, makes it a car-proposition which stands alone.
agents.
NEW SOUTH WALES—
F. H. Gordon & Co.,
133-137 Castlereagh St.,
Sydney.
VICTORIA—
Jas. A. Mnnro & Co.,
493-503 Elizabeth St.,
Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA —
Orchard Ralph & Co.,
105 King William St.,
Adelaide.
y.-wowwww
' " , Vi tyyZssZ/ZMtSSVM.'/S >r//WS"s}j/frX
r&an
SMS
KSS
gag
'V.' - &?, '£
w
im
■
mm
m
m ■:■ | ,mmu
>c g<
AGENTS.
QUEENSLAND —
Q’land Motor Agency Ltd.,
Adelaide St.,
Brisbane.
WEST AUSTRALIA—
Bradley & Williams,
853-857 Hay St..
Perth.
TASMANIA—
L. O. Hildyard,
159 Macquarie St.,
Hobart.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
mm
*5
i
mm,
A Book of
192 Pages
O A L_ l_E O
“POCKET
QUEENSLAND"
PROFUSELY
ILLUSTRATED.
Telling all abouf fbe
Millions of Acres
of ferhle land for
intending seiHers
will besenfyou
by filling in fhe
Coupon below.
Afome .
/>tf(/ress
QV££nSLAHD //*r£LL/C£/VC£
A TOURIST aUf*£AC/.Bff/SBAH£
Petrol
posts too much. Economise by using “GASO-
liETTB.” Adds 40% to your mileage. You
simply put it in your tank at the rate of half
an ounce to the gallon—costs 3d. per gallon
to do it, and you get 40% more mileage.
Sold in tins: Boz., 4/6 posted;
200 z., 10/9. Full directions.
DARBY AUTO SUPPLIES
334 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Millars’ Timber and
Trading Company Limited
We Supply—
JARRAH and Tasmanian Hard-
wood Riles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’
Scantling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, etc.
PINNERS’ HALL, LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6S* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the wo’-’ '
Every Tooth Perfect
In three words you have the experi-
ence of users of
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH POWDER.
The oxygen does it. This "Teat puri-
fier of mouth and teeth goes forth into
fevery crevice and cavity where germs
i lodge. The oxygen destroys bacteria
and neutralises acid secretions; it
cleanses and sterilises the mouth and
teeth.
Calox tones up the gums, is pleasing
to the taste, and free from all gritty
substance.
Try Calox Free
Your name and address
attached to this ad. and
mailed to Geo. Wills and
Co., Melbourne and Syd-
ney, with two penny
I stamps to cover postage,
will bring you back a
sample tin of Calox.
Calox is procurable from
All Chemists
and Leading Stores.
F. 10-1-18.
A
(T*h** m**x)
THE OXYGEN
TOOTH. POWDER
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who Will quote you price foi it.
“THE, SHAVE, FOR ME!”
vc
xv
xc
“What’s the use of experimenting with Novelty Razors? Ther
nothing beats the good old
‘ PLUM * RAZOR.
There’s no other blade so finely tempered or that keeps its edge
long. The ‘Plum’ gives the shave for me.’-’ Invest in one to-day.
PRICE 10/6—POST FREE.
We keep it in perfect order for two years, free of charge.
Single Razor, Vulcanite Handle, 10/6.
Pair in Double Case, 21/-
Sing'le Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Double Case, 30/-.
All the above Post Free.
This line makes a handsome present.
Send for Our Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG &. AITKEN
654 GEORGE. STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED OVER 30 YEARS.
m
i
i
vxc
stand for health in your cows, horses, sheep and
other animals. They keep them fit and strong
Summer and Winter, rain or shine.
They are found in every well-equipped dairy,
stable and pen. Try them once, you’ll use
them always. For all animals.
IN 51b. BLOCKS, WITH LOOPS FOR HANGING.
2/- each, or 22/6 per case of 1 dozen.
AT ALL SADDLERS, BLACKSMITHS,
PRODUCE MERCHANTS and STORES.
MURPHY’S PILE PILLS
(Non-aperient)
Have permanently cured thousands of cases
of Internal and External Bleeding Piles, some
after suffering over 40 years.
Made and Sold by A. MURPHY, Woy
Woy, N.S.W., Sole Propr.
PRICE 3/- pei* Box, or a Course of
8 Boxes £l. Postage Free-
Under Plain Cover.
On Sale at all Leading Druggists, Chemists
and Storekeepers throughout the States.
CHAMPION CURE of the WORLD
for BLEEDING PILES. Ebtab. 1891.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries.
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
The Remedy used by Army and Navy men.
pß’d since i CURES Write for Book
AUSTRALIAN BLIGHT, FALLINC EYELASHES, WEAK SICHT.
S. GREEN, 210, Lambeth Road, London. England
Insist on “ Singleton’s refuse all substitutes.
f% ARE you n
RuptureD
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
and cumbersome spring trusses? Do you
want to obtain an Appliance that is not only
COMFORTABLE TO WEAR, but one THAT
WILL HOLD A RUPTURE UNDER ALL
CONDITIONS? Then write to us, and we
will send you particulars and testimonials
regarding our Patent
AIR CUSHION APPLIANCE.
Never mind if you have tried everything else.
This is something ENTIRELY NEW: it is,
in fact. THE BEST RUPTURE APPLIANCE
YET INVENTED. It does away altogether
with galling steel springs and chafing leather
understraps. The pad is made of soft rubber,
which exerts a GENTLE yet FIRM PRES-
SURE on the CORRECT SPOT. To show
what we think of the Appliance,
WE GIVE A FREE TRIAL.
in every instance. The prick is within the
reach of all. Can you ask for more?
PERFECT EASE, COMFORT and SECURITY,
FROM THE FIRST DAY’S USE.
It is suitable for men, women and children.
DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET POSTED FREE.
THE WINSLOW CO.,
349 Collins St., Melbourne, Vie.
The Secret of a Successful Shave
is now admitted by those who have given the matter
careful thought, to depend almost entirely on the kind of
shaving soap used. After three years of experimenting,
M^nnfrfis
SHOVING OreflM
has stood the severest tests, and shown itself to be the
ideal shaving medium.
OBTAINABLE AT ALL LEADING CHEMISTS AND STORES
Enclosed in a
collapsible tube,
it can be kept
clean and asep-
tic. Concentra-
ted and free from
caustic, a very
small amount
will produce a
rich creamy lath-
er that will not
dry on the face,
or burn the skin.
It will soften the
toughest beard
without the mus-
sy “rubbing in”
and the “morn-
ing hot-water,"
that were, here-
tofore, consid-
ered essential.
Antiseptic Rapid
Economical
"f U u*g
G tW mRD Pitting
CHEMICm.
fl^w»RK.nj.us^
wmx&iZ :s6gm-&
m&swsam®
-^r
H£RJ
f
G. MENNEN CHEMICAL CO.
109 Pitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
17 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
✓
//
G. MENNEN
CHEMICAL CO
Enclosed please
find penny stamped
envelope for free
sample of Mennen'a
- Talcum for Men.
i# ' '
Name-Z
Address
City


Clear Year Coif lexica
While You Sleep
On retiring gently smear the face
with Cuticura Ointment. Wash off in
five minutes with Cuticura Soap and hot
water, using plenty of Soap and con-
tinue bathing a few minutes with Soap.
Rinse with tepid water. The cleansing,
soothing influence of this treatment on
the pores extends through the night.
It may be repeated on rising.
Sample Each Free by Mail. Address post-
card: “R. Towns & Co., Sydney, N. S. W.”
Sold throughout the world.
CHRISTIE^
SPEUAUSE
TWO
L/NES
S
I# 5
[J P
U* WRITE
CATALOGUE
PATTERNS*
MATERIALS
TO
CHRISTIES
The STRAND
II
520 GEORG ES T SYDNEY
ZC /WASTER 3 T NEWCASTLE
'CARTRIDGES'
Always Reliable
ELEY ‘UNIVERSAL*
A Light-Brown Cartridge,
loaded with 3 drs. T.S. Black
Powder and ij oz. of shot.
vxc
r
ELEY
•380
Automatic
Hammerless
for Webley & Scott or
Colt Automatic Pistols
ELEY 38
S&W Revolver
AGENT: ALBERT ADAMS,
420, George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wholesale only:
ELE Y BROS. L? LONDON
If any illustration appearing in The
Bulletin takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price for it.
Sold by
Stationers and
Jewellers
Everywhere .
Australian Prices:
Safety Pattern
with slip • on
cap from 15/-
Standard Pat-
ternwithslip-on
cap from 12/6
Illustrated
Catalogue sent
Post Free on
request.
You can have a “Swan 99 that
will suit you better than any
other pen you are using .
Every person’s handwriting is peculiar. Every-
one feels that only one type of pen point will
suit his own style of writing. After obtaining
the point he likes, he becomes so attached to
his pen that he cannot write without it. No
other pen will serve his purpose.
&
»WAM
I©
Get one to-day and it becomes in a few days
not A fountain pen but YOUR pen—a writing
instrument peculiarly your own.
MABIE, TODD & CO., LTD.,
79 & 80, High Holborn, London, Eng.
Manchester; Paris, Zurich, Toronto, &c. Sydney—(Wholesale only),
225 a, George Street. London Factory —3l9-329, Weston
Street, S.E. Associate House—Mabie, Todd & Co.,
Inc., New York and Chicago.
v
Australian Branch:
J. A. BURKE, 5 Primrose Buildings, 255 a George Street, Sydney.
0
UUJJJJ
«
Wl
SCIENCE & EXPERIENCE
must precede progress to attain per-
manent success. The scientific and
experimented work undertaken bjr the
SUNBEAM
Company has been continuous and is reflected
in the present productions, and also in the
SUNBEAM-COATALEN
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
which has earned for it the title
Supreme on land and in the air.
The Sunbeam Motor Car Co., Ltd.
EXPORT DEPARTMENT - 54-62, Oxford St., London, England
WORKS m ~ Wolverhampton, England
xcv
PRICES
xc
vcx
for safety
and health.
.* PRICES
EXP° RT
lights
( 93 AWARDS )
| %The sensible light
Jx,r Bedroom & Nursery.
Price’s patent candle 'company ltd.
London. Liverpool. Manchester, Glasgow.
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have Tup
Bulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
uost paid. To any address abroad, £1 ICs.
per annum, p>ost free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney**
The Inky Way.
“Henry Horsecollar” : If Russia definitely
abandons Britain in this war it has some
justification in the British literary potboiler.
For many years the threepenny horror-
monger has used Russia as a frequent back-
ground, it being a handy place where any-
thing might happen. It is depicted as a
land which possesses 1500 grand dukes, all
wicked and supercilious. There • are about
a cubic mile of counts, mostly employed in
gambling at Monte Carlo. The rest of the
population consists of beautiful young
females deeply embedded in conspiracy; mil-
lions of male conspirators carrying dyna-
mite round in a faded tail pocket; millions
of police agents watching them from around
the corner; and political prisoners past
counting. There are, of course, one or two
folk doing plain, hard work, but they are
too few to signify. In a recent yarn of this
sort Be Queux told of a lovely Russian girl
drifting around London with a beetle-
browed ruffian close behind her. Her wealth
was obviously enormous. The lofty English
hero scraped acquaintance with her in a
park and aspired to her hand or her foot
or something. Taking advantage of his
devotion and mental decay the lady beguiled
him into carrying a tin of kerosene over
the Russian border for her, and on account
of the infernal machine in the tin a roomful
of police at once ordered him to Siberia.
Just then the tin blew up and killed every-
body except the hero, who stepped lightly
over the ruins and went back to London.
There he again met the cause of all the
trouble. She was the Czar’s daughter, bent
on blowing up pa for the good of her coun-
try. This sort of literature —and it is
turned out by the ton in England—is enough
to make the mildest Nihilist wild and to irri-
tate a small, elderly Bolshevik with blue
spectacles.
* * * #
Spiked his last ’gram, William Jones, Bris-
bane Courier’s cable sub. for 40 years. A
Cockney by birth, he arrived in Bananaland
67 years ago. At the age of 12 he was
apprenticed to the case on the first issue of
Maryborough Chronicle. Later he trans-
ferred to the Courier comp.-room and grad-
uated to a blue pencil. Two sons have been
on the Big Job almost from the first call.
* * * *
“Ethel Jones”: I was wrong when I said
that the first petticoat that strayed into
Australian Parliamentary press galleries
was Stella Henderson’s (B. 15/11/T7). I
am corrected by Stewart Kelly (Christ-
church, M.L., Press) and by that well-
known traveller in the Inky Wilds. J.
Liddell Kelly. They assure me that Miss
Nellie Kelly, who has since gone over the
Great Divide, was in the Maoriland gallery
for nearly a month, representing the Oamaru
Mail, before Miss Henderson put her pencil
to the job for the Lyttelton Times.
“Chinquapin” : In khaki with the infantry
reinforcements, Len Watson, easily the best
industrial reporter that Melbourne Herald
ever had. He carried the Trades Hall in his
pocket, and was thoroughly trusted by a
push who are slow to give their trust to
any man. He was a miner and a tram-
way attache before he was a pressman, and
his inky wayfaring embraced Broken Hill
and Adelaide. Of the nervous type which
braces hard for an emergency and best
acquits itself when under the severest strain,
Watson should be an early candidate for an
officer’s stars.
* * * *
“W.M.”: There was method in the Mel-
bourne Labor Call’s madness of splatter-
ing its pages with “Don’t Argue—Vote No.”
A newspaper is not allowed to indicate
where it has been censored; but even
Hughes hadn’t thought of gazetting a regu-
lation telling the Labor Call that it
mustn’t fill up the hiatuses with “Don’t
Argue—Vote No.”
Genial old Tom Paterson, for many years
secretary of the Agricultural Society, has
been moved by the death of Sumner Locke to
recount the story of his first acquaintance
with her. In 1908 he met her at Cowes,
Phillip Island, where she was holidaying
with a girl friend. He took her for a mere
chit, but her ihature ideas disillusioned him,
and during a lively literary chat she won
his heart with the exclamation, “By Jove,
we’re pals!” (Can’t you imagine how
Sumner would say it?) She said she was
going to America, and he promptly christ-
ened her “Cigarette.” Though he said he
was “past that stage,” she insisted on some-
thing for her autograph-album < they were
all the go thenadays), and he wrote
You plucky little Cigarette,
Pursue the course that you have set,
And you’ll win through—you will, you bet!”
Poor little girl! Time grudged her a broken
quatrain where a chant royal had been
fairer.
ICHABOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ib it gone? Is it broken or busted?
Has it fled on invisible wings?
Many years in its strength have 1 trusted
As stronger than princes or kings.
I listened each day to its thunder,
And welcomed its lightest caress;
Was it merely a myth, now, I wonder,
That oft-mentioned Power of the Press?
My pennies I recklessly wasted,
The trouble of thinking to save;
And having my viewspaper tasted
Became very promptly its slave.
I worshipped its eloquent minions,
My bronze I was willing to pay
To purchase the soundest opinions
To add to my stock day by day.
It never had doubts of to-morrow;
It knew just how things would befall;
Its confident tips I would borrow ;
I loved all its prophecies tall;
But now like a rose when it withers
It seems; than the dust it is less.
I'll slay the next blighter who blithers
To me of the Power of the Press!
VICTORIA.
HARRISON O.


War Savings Certificates
Obtainable at all Banks, Savings Banks, or Money Order Post Offices
17 6 will purchase a Certificate for £1
£4 7 6 „ „ £5
£8 15 0 „ „ £lO
£43 15 0 „ „ £5O
£B7 10 0 „ „ £lOO
£875 0 0 „ „ £lOOO
Payable 3 years from date of purchase.
Certificates are payable to bearer, are exempt from Wealth Levy,
Commonwealth and State Stamp Duty, and Interest is free of Income Tax.
6 ? War Savings Stamps 2/6
Obtainable at all Branches of Commonwealth Bank of Australia and all Post
Offices. Booklets supplied free in which to affix stamps. When value reaches 17/6
they can be exchanged for £1 certificate.
Save and benefit yourself. Buy Certificates and benefit your country.
Commonwealth Bank of Australia. October, 1917
v
"ROBERTS MOTORS FOR BOATS
16 H.P., Bore Si inch,
Stroke 4 inch.
8 H.P.,
Bore Si inch.
Stroke 4 inch.
4 11. P„
Bore Si inch,
Stroke 4 : nch.
Staunch, Sturdy, Dependable
2-Cycle \\ orking steadily all over the world for all purposes.
Roberts Harine Standard Type 4=16 h.p. Slow speed,
heavy duty type, 8 h.p. Roberts Famous Aeroplane and
Racing Motois. We are open for dealers for this territory •
will be glad to furnish specifications and terms.
ROBE SS.TS MOTO XLS
Roberts Motor Manufacturing: Co., 11 Broadway, New York City USA
CABLE ADDRESS: “ROMOCO.” ' i 2 ‘
OSTER
SCREWING
TACKLE
Ik
w
301, A,
lin. to 4in.
Screws,
Tubes,
Bolts,
Nipples.
P OR ECONOMY in all-round
1 tube-screwing use the time-
saving
OSTER
SCREWING
MACHINES
and save money over hand-
screwing. Furnished in four
sizes for belt- or motor-drive.
Dies and extra parts carried in
stock here. Ask for catalog.
Australasian Representative:
CHARLES WRIGHT, Box 251, G.P.0.,
Melbourne, Victoria.
THE OSTER MFG. CO., Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
milE thing that the people should have
I been allowed to realise from the outset
is that WE MAY GET A LICKING. We
still may get a licking. Are you going to
let the Ravisher of Belgium win without
lifting a hand?
cxvxc
WORKffISHI^
4/
Marine, Stationary & Portable Engines.
Adopted by the Governments of Australia and Defence Department.
SUPPLY OF OIL FUEL GUARANTEED.
NELSON 8 ROBERTSON,
Loftus Street,
SYDNEY.
v
xcv
|j
It’s Great Sport to get ’em on the wing 0
We’ll Supply Your Needs Better than any other Store.
Owing- to market fluctuations,
prices here quoted only hold
good for two weeks from date.
C
8,30. C. G. Bonehill’s “Special” D.8.8.L.
Hammer Gull, 12-gauge, top lever, 30in. barrels,
right modified, left full choke, bar locks rebounding,
roiid strikers, high-filed rib, chambered for 2Jin. cartridges, side clips, nitro-proof,
pistol grip, cross-bolt. Weight, about 7Jlb Freight paid’
£7/1 51-
cv
cxvx
cv
J 637. Stevens Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
ornamented, case-hardened frame, top lever, cross-
bolt, high-pressure compressed steel barrels, right
modified, left full choke, matted rib, barrels and lug forged from one piece, walnut stock, pistol
grip low hammers rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested for nitro powders; weight
of 12-gauge to 8} lb., 16-gauge, 7£ to 8 lb.— £AIt r\ I
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid, 3 / I\J/ •*
12- or 16-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £4/15/-
WE REPAIR. GUNS and RIFLES.
“SWEET CROP”
Cigarettes, really
delightful. 6d.
pkt., post free.
10 pkts. 5/-, post
free.
xc
818. Cashmore’s 12-gauge D.8.8.L. Gun, Solid bar action, 30-incli steel barrels,
extension rib, left .choke, cross bolt, L>. & E. fore-end, pistol grip, wal-
nut stock; weight about Freight paid,
£9/9/-
Same as above, but with 32-inch barrels
Freight paid, £9/15/-
m
WM
3
ft Mk
f/M
I lilil
ffl&i m
m
1 m\
* JLlIu
rwis!
iMmWmm
mmm®
Sm ° ke Sunol Tobacco
Awarded 4 Gold Medals.
2oz. Sample 1/-, Post Free.
826. C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun, 12 or
10-gauge, top lever, double bolt. .'soin. barrels, left
choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, Greener cross bolt, nitro proof; weight of 12
711 b.; of 16-gauge, about 011 b
gauge about
Freight paid,
£7/7/-
vcxv
cx
“SURE CATCH” ANGLERS’ GUIDE
(B 2), post free to any address.
636. Riverside Arms Co. D.8.8.L. Guns,
top lever, ease-hardened frame, cross-bolt, blued
steel barrels, right modified, left full choke, matted
rib, rebounding locks, low hammers, pistol grip, rubber butt-plate, snap fore-end, tested
for nitro powders; weight of 12-gauge 7A to 8 lb., 16-gauge 7£ to 7f lb.—* C* '1 n /
12- or 16-gauge, with 30-inch barrels Freight paid,«SrfO/iv^/
12-gauge, with 32-inch barrels Freight paid, £3/15/
vxc
SPORTING REPAIRS
A SPECIALTY.
832. “The Cert” D.8.8.ti. Gun, 12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30in. steel
extension rib, rebounding locks, left cboke, snap fore-end, pistol grip,
walnut stock; weight, about 71b Freight paid,
barrels.
60/-
Harrington and
Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun, 12-
gauge, top action.
solid case-hardened locks, decarbonised steel barrel. 30in. pistol grip,
walnut stock: weight, about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as
an ordinary Double-barrel Gun.
v
bi Non-Ejector, 27(0; 82-Auto-Ejector, 32/0
Postage—2/6 N.S.W. ;
4/8 Inter-State.
1C
c
msTwmm greatest
SPORTS OUTFITTERS-
7mr\ TOBACCONISTS
rap
City Sports Depot
119 King St also at
Newcastle l Brisbane


“Pas” Caricatures Himself
cxv
xc
vxc
and ::
Praises
Dr. Sheldon’s
Digestive Tabules
it is with mingled emotions that we see how a Cartoonist
caricatures us, for while we think we know ourselves, it some-
times shocks us to see how others see us. The noted Carica-
turist “Pas” (Donald Macdonald) has favored us with a
caricature of himself. He has added a few words, giving his
experience of the use of DR. SHELDON'S DIGESTIVE
TABULES, which we feel sure will carry great weight with
all our readers, coming from this eminent artist.
“My profession demands such alert attention and
close observation that I have freouently, in following a
study, quite forgotten the flight of time. Then hurrying
over meals I have naturally suffered from severe twinges
of indigestion. In New Zealand a leading chemist gave
me some of your Digestive Tabules, and from that time
I have always carried a few in my pocket; and, as anti-
dotes to the effects of worry. I have never known any-
thing like them.” —Yours faithfully,
Perfect Digestion Means Perfect Heaithj
Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules are sold everywhere at. 1/6 per
tin of 36 Tabules and 2/6 per tin of 80 Tabules. Buy a tin, eat a
good square meal, and then take the Tabules according to
directions, and note the result. You will forget all about it if
you are not careful, for there will be no pain or disturbance
and the food will be digested just as it used to be when your
stomach was well and strong. Furthermore, your stomach will
soon be restored again, if you keep on taking them, just as
thousands upon thousands of other stomachs have been, by the
sole and exclusive use of DR. SHELDON’S DIGESTIVE
TABULES.
D» SHELDON’S,
fABULEs
DIGEST
WHAT YOU EAT’
Ofall First-class Hatters throughout the Commonwealth
WHOLESALE OfTRESSsC?U?LONDON ENGLAND
The
TRESS,
reg? mark
guarantees
Q u §( if y,
Finish
K^Characrer
and Ml
SaPS
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED.
HEAD OFFICE: Collins Street, Melbourne. ESTABLISHED 1858.
Capital Paid Up, £1,498,220. Reserve Fund, £675,000.
Reserve Liability of Shareholders, £715,464.
Directors: Sir JOHN GRICE, Chairman; EDWARD TRENCH ARD. Esq., Vice-Chairman
H. M. STRACHAN, Esq.; J. NEWMAN BARKER, Esq. Chief Manager: E. H. WREFORD.
Sydney Office, 60 Pitt St.; and George St. City Office, 350 George St.
Manager: R. 8. GREGSON. Accountant: M. T. COSTELLO.
Branches in Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia, New South Wales.
LONDON OFFICE: 5 Bishopsgate, E.C.
FOR £1 6s. 6d. you can have The
Rulletin sent regularly to you every
week for a year to any address in Australasia,
post paid. To any address abroad. £1 lOs.
per annum, post free. Cheques, drafts, etc.,
and all business communications should be
addressed to The Manager, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
I Know a Rose.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I KNOW where there’s a rose,
A rose, and only one,
The whitest rose that blows,
And it is all alone ;
And no one truly knows
Where all its mates have gone.
The souls of many flowers
The drops of attar bold ;
The breath of dewy bowers
And gardens green and old,
In garlanded bright hours
Is loosed from every fold.
They brighten some sad mound,
Some on the dead - are cast,
The bride with some is crowned;
Some linger to the last,
And crumble on the ground,
While mourning winds go past.
Their leaves go dry and sere,
Wind-blown across the grass;
Like all things lovely here
They have their day and pass;
Like faces fair and dear
They pale and fade, alas!
Oh, shall I leave the flower
To be neglected so,
Until in some sad hour
The bitter wind shall blow,
And in a scented shower
It sheds its life of snow?
Oh, white, immaculate,
Beloved of dew and sun,
With the wild bee for a mate
Upon your stem unwon,
’Twere sure a cruel fate
To see you thus undone.
And if I let you be,
Some other hand may break
My white rose from the tree;
No other hand must take
The rose that blooms for me.
So white rose for your sake,
While yet inviolate,
No vestal charm has died,
And lest it grow too late,
I shall take you in your pride—
Shall make myself your fate,
And you shall be my bride.
N.S.W.
P. E. QUINN.
A Family Affair.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN I got home that night my wife
met me at the garden-gate. This in
itself is ominous, because we have
been married for some years now—quite
long enough, at any rate, to get over the
semi-public kiss-at-the-gate stage.
“Why, whatever’s up?” I asked.
“Nothing, dear. How absurd you are!
Only—only, Uncle Henry’s here.”
I knew what that meant. If Uncle Henry
was on a visit, it meant also that Aunt
Mary and their daughter (my niece-in-law,
as Julia insisted-—Julia is my wife’s first
name—-on me calling her) would also be
on a visit. It meant that our cottage was
full, and that my small stock of cigars and
whisky would be ruthlessly depleted. It
also meant that I should have to give up my
comfortable bed to Uncle Henry and camp
out on the verandah, where the mosquitoes
would get at me, and, possibly, Jones’s cat
would chase our cat over my sleeping form —
that is, if I could sleep between the time the
trams stopped running and the hour that the
milkman came round.
All this flashed through my mind before I
got into the house and found my wife’s uncle
and aunt and niece comfortably disposed
about the dining-room.
“Whatever brought them down?” I whis-
pered to my wife as soon as our formal
greetings were over, and 1 could take off my
boots. I might add that I had to do this in
the wash-house —a place I abominate.
“Good gracious, Clarence—pass me the
cruet, dear. How do / know? Aren’t you
pleased to see them?”
I immediately said that if there was one
thing that completed my happiness it was to
have the whole lot stopping with us. “And
why ever," I said gaily, “didn’t your sister
Clara come with them?”
“Clara will be here in the morning, Clar-
ence.”
“The Devil! Oh, will she? That’s —er—
that’s good, dear.” Fortunately, Julia was
bending over the stove, and so missed the
gesture I made.
“Yes. She’s staying at the Carters’ to-
night, and she’s going to have her teeth seen
to, and then come to us to-morrow.”
“I see,” I said, and went into the bath-
room.
After dinner —which went off with con-
siderable eclat, as the papers say—except for
the potatoes, which were a trifle on the hard
side (Julia is an excellent cook, but her idea
of potatoes is the strange Irish one of “a
heart” in them, which I loathe), Aunt Mary
said significantly from her easy chair:
“Clarence, do you know the date?”
Now, as a general rule, I have a fair
idea of the date, but, strangely enough, that
day I was uncertain. It wasn’t the anniver-
sary of the Battle of Hastings.
“The 4th, I think—or is it the sth? Let’s
see; where’s the paper?”
“Clarence!" said my wife. “Surely you’ve
not forgotten?” Then, turning meaningly
towards her aunt, she added, as I thought,
rather inconsequentiallv: “It’s just like the
men ! No man has anv feeling !”
Aunt Mary’s nod showed cordial agree-
ment.
“But,” I said, slightly puzzled, “what is
there at all important about the date?”
My wife gave a sort of muffled shriek and
threw herself on to Aunt Mary’s neck ; and
Aunt Mary half-rose and glared first at me
and then at Uncle llenrs, who, coward-like,
looked down his nose, drummed his 1 fingers
on the table and said nothing.
I turned to my niece-in-law, who, if a bit
skittish, has brains and self-possession. My
wife and her aunt were making noises such
as agitated women always make. “Edie,” I
said, “what do they mean?”
“Rats!” she said. “As if you didn’t
know! Why, next Thursday’s the anniver-
sary of grandma’s death!”
Julia and Aunt Mary sobbed in unison.
“Of course!” I said. “April the eighth.
How could I have forgotten!”
“I d-d-don’t-don’t believe you d-d-did for-
get,” sobbed my wife. “It’s like a man ! Oh,
poor, darling m-mother!”
I had forgotten. Next Thursday, the day
after to-morrow, w r ould be the Bth of April,
the fifth anniversary of my respected mother-
in-law’s taking-otf, due to an attack of
pneumonia supervening on influenza—the
said influenza having been contracted at a
meeting of the Women’s Liberal League, of
which body the late. Mrs. Wooster had been
a guiding light and a pillar of strength.
“Well, I’m very sorry, I’m sure,” I began
lamely.
Aunt Mary bridled, and my wife sniffed
loudly.
It was then that Uncle Henry broke his
silence.
“You see, my boy, it's this way. Julia
wrote us to come down” (I glanced at my
wife, but she had her face hidden on Aunt
Mary’s ample bosom), “as this year we are
to have a—er —a —well, a pilgrimage to the
grave” -
“Pilgrimage to the grave?” I echoed.
“Yes —a pilgrimage to the grave, and a
special ‘ln Memoriam’ notice in the Herald
---not the ordinary short one, you know, but
a proper one from all the family—one [he
looked at his wife and I looked at mine] — er
—with true feeling”——
“With poetry and pathos in it,” said Aunt
Mary decisively. Julia broke out afresh at this.
“Oh, I see," I said. “And you want me
to compose it?”
“No !” snapped my wife.
“ Indeed, no !” said her Aunt Mary even
more decisively.
“We’re all going to write it, Uncle Clar-
ence,” said my niece-in-law.
“It will be a family affair.” said Uncle
Henry with due gravity. “Something ex-
pressing our— er —our immortal sympathy
for poor, dear— er —Sophia.”
How the old scoundrel affected a sigh I
don’t know, but he did it. Uncle Henry had
never cared for his dead sister-in-law. Quite
the contrary, as I happened to know.
“Oh, very well,” I said. “Anything for
a quiet life. Tell me the programme.”
“Yes, tel] him, Uncle!” said Julia with
acerbity. “Tell him, and he’ll —he’ll (sob)
forget all about it to-morrow!”
So Uncle Henry told me. Together with
Clara, who would be here to-morrow, we
were all to compose one grand; united In
Memoriam notice of and about the late
Sophia Julia Blenkinsop-Wooster, relict of
the somewhat-earlier-deceased Major Howard
Trevelyan Blenkinsop-Wooster, late R.E.,
who departed, etc., etc. The “In Memoriam”
notice, when finally passed and approved, was
to appear in that solemn corner reserved for
the dead, the long-dead, and the occasionally
anciently-dead, in that solemn paper the
Morning Herald. It was to appear, of
course, on the morning of April 8, and on
that day Uncle Henry, Aunt Mary, my wife,
her sister Clara and my niece-in-law Edie
and I —all the surviving relatives within
cooee, in fact —were to make a pilgrimage to
Rookwood Cemetery—and lay wreaths on
the grave of my once excellent but slightly-
overwhelming mother-in-law.
The programme seemed ideal to everyone
but me.
“It means my losing a day at the office,” I
said. “Couldn’t you”
"There!" cried my wife. “What did I
tell you ? Selfish to the core ! He’s just like
all the men! He’s just like all the men!”
“But really, Julia”
“Clarence,” said Aunt Mary severely, “I’m
ashamed of you! If you have not got any
human feelings, pray think of your poor,
innocent wife.”
At this, Julia again hove herself on to her
aunt’s neck.
“Of course, you must come, my boy,” said
Uncle Henry. “I'm giving up a day.”
“But you don’t have to work for your
living,” I said. (Uncle Henry is “retired,”
as Aunt ,Mary explains proudly to her
acquaintances. He had sold the Bogalong
Boiling-Down Works in the days when such
things paid.)
“It doesn’t matter,” said Aunt Mary
scornfully. “What are we here for, if not to
pay respect to the dead?”
Echo answered: “What, indeed?”
So it was settled that I had to go!
That being the night of the 6th April we
were all to assemble on the next afternoon
with our respective contributions to the “In
Memoriam” notice, Clara included —who had
been duly posted as to what was required of
her—and then / was to take it down to the
S. M. Herald office and insert it, and pay
for it.
I made a mental calculation. I feared,
nay I lcneic, that Grief is prolix, and by the
time the In Memoriam notice would be
completed it would probably be half a
column long—perhaps more! And I knew
that “poetry was a shilling a line extra”-—•
quite apart from the family history and
“detail” that would be crowded in. I gently
hinted that everybody’s effofts should be
made as brief as possible, as the cost
“Clarence,” cried my wife, “you are
mercenary, as well as selfish.”
“Good God, Clarence!” burst out Uncle
Henry. “What’s a pound or two at such a
time as this?”
And I said weakly that I didn’t know.
But I did.
Next day was Wednesday, and being a
half-holiday for me (did I say that our
people are shipping-butchers?) I had the
whole afternoon away from my account-
books and to spend in the bosom of my wife’s
family, composing an In Memoriam notice
to or of the late Mrs. S. J. Blenkinsop-
Wooster. I did not regard the prospect too
sanguinely, as that sort of thing is not in
my line. What has a butcher’s book-kee—
accountant —to do.with poetry, and pathos,
and all that? Besides, I had intended to go
fishing with Tompkins, our refrigerating
engineer. So I was not in a sunny temper.
The table w T as cleared, and we all sat
round it, including Clara, who had duly been
delivered from the dentist, and who/ being
mindful of the solemnity of the occasion, had
brought her Prayer Book with her. Nobody
(Continued on next page.)


w
L •
w
Zam-Buk
and Heals Soothes
Swelling and Achinl —Strengthens and Stimulates the Feet.
ZAM-BUK has proved a splendid cure for foot troubles. When
the feet ache or smart, and feel hot, tired and swollen, wash
them in warm water, and then rub the soles, ankles and
insteps freely with Zam-Buk. As Zam-Buk’s potent, healing juices
sink through the skin they soothe the tissues, strengthen the
tendons, and bring real “foot comfort.” Chafed and blistered parts
are strengthened or healed, and hard growths are softened. Zam-
Buk comforts and heals hot, swollen, sweating feet, galled spots, and
takes away the pain of corns and bunions. There is nothing so good
for the feet as Zam-Buk, the ideal soother and perfect healer.
Sore Heels and Tender Feet.
“Being an insurance traveller,” says Mr.
W. Sims, of 139 Tvnte Street, North Adelaide,
“I am a lot on my feet, and very often
suffer from sore heels and tender feet. Upon
the application of your Zam-Buk Healing
Balm the soothing effect is wonderful, and
in a short time my heels are quite sound
again. 1 always have Zam-Buk in the house
for the use of my wife and children in case
of burns, scalds, etc., and have great pleasure
in recommending it to fellow-sufferers.”
Rash on His Face.
Mrs. E. M. Wilkins, 9 Cowell Street, Fitz-
roy, Vic., says:—“My little boy, Edgar, had
a pimply rash on his face. The pimples dis-
charged and were very sore. I took him to
a doctor, but Edgar did not seem to get
better. I then began to use Zam-Buk, which
at once soothed the distressing irritation and
dried up the discharge. The sore was a very
deep-rooted one, but Zam-Buk completely
healed it.”
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
Keep a pot of Zam-Buk handy for sunburn, rashes, insect bites, prickly-heat,
heat swellings, cuts, burns, bruises, chafings; sore legs, backs, ankles or feet;
pimples, eruptions, etc. Of all chemists and stores, or post free from C. E.
FULFORD (Australasia) LTD., 39 Pitt Street, Sydney, for 1/6 per pot, or 3/6
large size. Zam-Buk is Nature’s own ever-ready healer.
vxc
RUB IT IN!
C.BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Priae Medals.
xcv
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Works : Birmingham, England
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box. &
t? J
THERE is something most satisfactory about
having on the right shoes for the occa-
sion in hand. One feels comfortable,
smart, confident. And for any and every
occasion nothing could be more suitable or more
charming than patent leather, which always
looks well and goes so beautifully with every
colour and every fabric. Indeed, this little
shoe here illustrated will add no small share
of smartness and tone to one’s spring suit or
summer gown. And it is only one style of
many equally desirable, equally charming. For
Bostock shoes, besides being the last word in
smartness, all have a certain individuality which
sets them apart amongst ready-made shoes,
gives them the personal quality and the dis-
tinctive tone of shoes made specially to measure.
Bostock Nc.
P 6377
829
i
None genuine
unless stamped
“Bostock.”
Sold at all leading stores.
the name “Bostock” on
Look for
the soles.
was actually in the chair, so to speak, but
Aunt Mary dominated the meeting, with my
wife a good second, as it were. Pens, ink
and paper were put out, and Julia added to
the impressiveness of things by providing her
old school-dictionary.
“Now, who will begin?” asked Aunt Mary,
her stern gaze travelling rapidly over us in
turn. “/ think you had better read out
your ideas, first Cmrence.”
“Why, Aunt,” I replied, “I’m afraid I
haven’t got any. I was leaving it to you, you
know.”
There was quite an uproar at this remark
of mine. Julia said I wanted to throw cold-
water on the whole thing, and Uncle Henry
thought I was trying to back out.
“Back out!” I retorted. “I’ve got to shell
out, I can see !”
Aunt Mary, when she could make herself
heard, said that, after all, as I was to pay
for putting the notice in the paper, perhaps
I might be let off composing anything. I
could not be expected to have any literary
accomplishments. This hit at my occupation
did not disturb me in the least.
“Ladies first!” cried Uncle Henry with
an air of gallantry. “Julia, you lead off and
read us what you’ve said about your sainted
mother in Heaven.”
With frequent stoppages, caused by her
poignant feelings and the fitful passage of a
handkerchief to her mouth and eyes, my wife
read the following:
In Alemoriam Notice.
Blenkinsop-AVoosteii. —ln everlasting memory of
my darling mother, Mrs. Sophia Julia Blenkin-
sop-Wooster, who departed this life April Bth,
1911. Inserted by her loving daughter Julia
Vivienne O’Hagan and Clarence O’Hagan (son-
in-law). A bud in Heaven.
Dear mother, when I painted your chest
With the stuff the doctor gave me,
How little I thought you would soon be at rest
In the tomb where they have laid thee!
Five weary years since then have passed and gone,
And yet we can’t forget you altogether.
We will ever to thy memory fondly cling
Of the mother and mother-in-law we have lost
for ever.
If it had not been altogether out of place
on such an occasion, I believe that Uncle
Henry would have said “Encore!” He was
positively enraptured with his niece’s com-
position, and lavished unstinted praise upon
it. When Edie, who doted on poetry, said
that there were several mistakes and false
rhymes in it, her fa'.her ordered her to hold
her tongue.
“But, Dad,” she began.
“Be quiet, Edie!” commanded her mother.
“We shall soon see if you can equal your
cousin’s attempt. I think it is simply beauti-
ful !”
“All right, Ma !” said Edie. “Think away!
I know what the readers of the Morning
Herald will say!”
“What does that matter, Miss?” inquired
Uncle Henry, loftily, of his daughter. “Do
you suppose anybody cares what they say?”
At this crushing truth Edie was silent.
“Clara, dear,” said Aunt Mary to her other
niece, “we will hear you next. I’m quite
sure your notice will be in the proper spirit.”
Here Aunt Mary glanced disdainfully at me.
Clara, in her little, chirpy, bird-like voice,
read:
Wooster. —In sad but ever-loving remembrance of
my darling mother, Mrs. S. J. B. Wooster, who
etc., etc.
Gone but not forgotten.—G.R.H.S.
Inserted by her daughter Clara.
“Is that all?” asked Aunt Alary with
marked emphasis on the last word.
“What, no poetry?” cried Uncle Henry.
“Yes —no!” said Clara, answering both
questions.
“Oh, but this will never do, Clara !” cried
Aunt Mary, taking the writing in her hand.
“It must be ‘Blenkinsop-Wooster’—not just
‘Wooster’!”
“What does G.R.H.S. mean?” asked Uncle
Henry.
“I —I —don’t know,” faltered Clara. “I
I put it in because I’d seen it done before!”
“Good gracious, Clara!” cried my wife.
“Why, it might mean am/thing!”
“It must mean something,” said Uncle
Henry, smtentiously.
Aunt Mary repeated the mystic letters to
herself in an audible tone, as of one deeply
pondering—“G.R.H.S. ? G.R.H.S. ?”
Uncle Henry, after staring at his wife,
was suddenly “stung by the splendor of a
sudden thought.”
“I’ve got it!” he cried. “G.R.H.S. —Gone
Right Home Slick!”
“Nonsense, Uncle!” said my wife. “That
would be slang ”
“Yes!” said Edie. “And even the Morn-
ing Herald does not allow slang in its
obituary columns!”
“Well, Miss,” said Uncle Henry tartly,
“as you’re so very clever, perhaps you’ll
explain it to us. What does it stand for?”
“Oh, don’t ask me!” (I’m not sure, but
I think Edie winked at me across the table.
She was quite capable of it.)
“Well, it’s got to come out,” said Aunt
Alary.
She took up a pen and scored out the
offending letters, saying as she did so: “I
don’t like these fatalistic signs and hippo-
griffs, or whatever they are. Neither did
Sophia.” Then she filled in the “Blenkin-
sop” before “Wooster,” and, remarking that
it was “a pity there was no poetry,” returned
the writing to the embarrassed Clara.
“Clara,” I whispered, “you’re right, and
she's wrong. No poetry is needed —at a
shilling a line extra !”
“I will now read mine,” said Aunt Mary,
rising majestically, paper in hand. “As
Sophia’s only sister, I might explain that I
have knowledge— intimate knowledge—of our
family and connections which has never been
made known yet, but which shall be made
known now.” And she read :
Special In Memoriam Notice.
Blenkinsof-M ooster. —To the affectionate memory
of my sister, Sophia Julia Blenkinsop-Wooster,
of Newtown Villa, Avoca Street, Darling-hurst,
Sydney, New South Wales: third child and eld-
est daughter of the late William Skewbald Botts,
of Jingalong Park, near Bendigo, Victoria (son
of the late Philip St. Elmo Botts, 4th Groom
of the Royal Bedchamber, 1821-1827), and
widow of the late Major Howard Trevelyan
Blenkinsop-\yooster, R.E., eldest son of 'the
late Rev. Norman Plantagenet Blenkinsop-
Wooster (sub-dean of the Chapel Royal to His
Gracious Majesty George IV.), who passed away,
etc., etc. R.I.P. Inserted by Mrs. Jlarv Botts-
Lee and by her husband, Henry Lee (formerly
of Bogalong).
No one can ever possibly tell
Why it was, Sophia, ill you fell!
All that we know is to me you were dear.
Leaving me to mourn with Henry down here!
God saw you were weary and full of fatigue,
So He took you away from the Liberal League.
I suppose He knows best, but it’s hard on us, dear,
Leaving me alone with Henry down here !
If it wasn’t for Edie, and just one or two,
I should much prefer being in Heaven, Sophia,
with you!
Your ever-loving sister, Mary.
Uncle Henry’s face during his wife’s reci-
tation was a sea of emotion. Waves of
thought corrugated his brow. As Aunt Mary
finished, he made as if to rise and speak, but
by a mighty effort he controlled his feelings,
and sank back into his chair, muttering:
‘‘ Well! Well!” —observations Aunt Mary
fortunately mistook for sounds of approval.
The composition was almost unanimously
regarded as a masterpiece. I say “almost,”
because Edie’s expression conveyed to my
mind a suspicion that she shared her father’s
evident doubt as to the wisdom of Aunt
Mary baring her feelings coram populo. In
the middle of a chorus of congratulation,
Clara’s voice was heard asking why Aunt
Mary had inserted the letters “R.1.P.” after
the personal history of the Blenkinsop-
Woosters and the Botts.
“It is only the customary intimation, my
dear Clara,” said Aunt Mary.
“Why, mother!” cried Edie, “you’re worse
than Clara. ‘R.I.P.’ means ‘Rest in Peace.’
All the Roman Catholics use it!”
“I will thank you to hold your tongue.
Edith,” said her mother frigidly. “R.1.P.,”
if you wish to know it, stands for Really
Important People. Mrs. Saxby-Jones told
me that.”
“Of course, it does!” cried Uncle Henry.
“Hold your tongue, Miss!”
I thought Edie would have burst a blood-
vessel. I nearly burst one myself.
There remained only Uncle Henry. In an
important voice he read us his laboriously-
constructed send-off to my deceased mother-
in-law. It was short and to the point—much
like Uncle Henry’s own business career :
Blenkinsop-Wooster.— A loving tribute to the
memory of my dear sister-in-law, the late Mrs.
Sophia Blenkinsop-Wooster, who died, etc., etc.
This is the day of memory to all —
This is the day everybody ought to recall —
This is the day we got the telegram to say
That the doctor had given you up and the Lord
had called you away!
Inserted by your loving sister and brother-in-law,
Mary and Henry Lee, arid little Edie. (Present
address, Roy Street, Doggabri.)
“Well, Dad,” said Edie, “I think that’s
the best of all. Grandma will know where
to find us, anyhow.”
Aunt Mary looked up sharply, but her
daughter’s face was like a mask.
The combined In Memoriam cost me
£3 18s.
EDWARD MAcCULLOCH.
Guides.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY dislike of the genus guide had
birth in Egypt. I loathed, their
babbling tongues and their sullied
raiment. I hated their oily manner, their
patter learned by rote, their walking staves,
their donkeys and everything that was theirs.
In France I had experience of many
guides—men who could see in the blackest
night and find their way by marks which
were not there, and men who could not fol-
low a straight duck-board.
London did not remove my desire to pray
fervently for guides’ salvation. After be-
ing drafted, penned and docketed like the
sheep who come to the saleyards, I was at
length set free. I had determined to eschew
all guidance. But it was thrust upon me. We
were strolling through the Abbey when an
importunate person besought us to follow in
his train. Around we went, blurring one
faint impression with another till all became
a hazy dream set to a monotonous drone.
How it hurt, that clattering of shoes on
holy ground, that chattering of tongues where
all should have been silence!
At the Tower.
“The 81-loody Tower! If hany of you
’ave never been in a Royal bed-chamber
before, you har in one now ! The ’inges is
the hidentical ones which swung when the
murderers hentered to smother the princes.
The princes is interned at the foot of the
stairs. This way for the Harmory.”
I finished my journey alone.
In the aisle of St. Paul’s I met a courte-
ous gentleman whose well-filled mind over-
flowed for the benefit of the stranger
Billjim. But from below in the crypt
there came creeping a son of igno-
rance who would not let me be. Why
should I look at the mural tablet of
Richard Seddon when there was the massive
tomb of Nelson to be “explained”? Why
ponder over the carved record of the great-
hearted George Grey when there was the
sarcophagus of Wellington to talk about?
Why ask to see the memorial raised to our
ripe scholar, our perfect Australian gentle-
man, W. B. Dailey, when he could show me
the great sombre car made from the spoil
captured by him “who never lost an English
gun”?
He grew petulant. Other visitors walked
exactly “this way.” Who was I to alter the
established order of things?
My last encounter was before the Houses
of Parliament.
I wanted to stand and let those frescoes of
the Civil War —of Speaker Lenthall bending
his knee and exalting his heart before
Charles; of the Independent Preachers ad-
monishing the train-bands of London ; of the
Defence of Basing House—l wanted to let
those things sink, sink into my memory. I
wanted to see Chatham and Fox and Glad-
stone in marble and picture them in the flesh.
I did not want to listen to a fool’s babbling
as to the time and place for the putting off
of robes and the pulling on of garters.
“But you won’t understand anything if
you don’t have a guide.”
I looked at the statue of the Lord Pro-
tector of the Commonwealth and I looked
at my annoyer. My lips said nothing, for I
wished to exalt the name of Australia by my
conduct and prove that we shall inherit the
earth because we are meek. But I turned
again from the form of “Old Noll” to the
lack of form possessed by my well-fed. ill-
bred huckster, and my look' said plainly.
“The Curse of Cromwell on you. Shallow-
pate. and on the whole generation of
guides!”
JAM.


xcv
WESTINGHOUSE
Morse Silent Rocker-Joint
CHAIN DRIVES
Ensure minimum wear—
Maximum life and highest effi-
ciency.
Chains in stock—wheels manu-
factured to suit requirements.
Write for particulars and Book-
let BM 414.
THE WESTINCHOUSE BRAKE CO, OF AUSTRALASIA LTD,,
Queensland Agents—HOLMES & CHURCH, Brisbane.
N.Z. Office—93-107 Featherston Street, Wellington.
Victorian Office—99 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Jiu I M»] a »MY I yi Pi t rottY/My*
This Task Need Not
Be Disagreeable
Shake a little Sani-Flush in-
to the bowl every few days.
It will keep it spotless, white
and free from odor. No dip-
ping —no scrubbing. Not a
general cleanser made for
cleaning toilet bowls only.
Sani-Flush
Ask Your Dealer
Your dealer has Sani-Flush
or can get it quickly; or write
us a card giving your dealer’s
1
;v‘i
m
cvvcx
name and
we will
have you
supplied.
Sani-Flush
sh o uld be
used wher-
ever there are
toilet bowls in
residences
and all other
buildings.
Does notin-
jureplumbing
connections
The Hygienic Products Co.
Lower Cuba St.,
Wellington, N.Z.
xvc
324
Obtainable from
DANIvS & SONS PROP’Y Ltd.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
IMPORTANT.
Look to Your Teeth.
There are no teeth like those furnished by
Nature. For service, comfort and good
health artificial teeth cannot be com-
pared with a natural set.
Sensible people will accordingly try to pre-
serve their teeth as long as possible by
keeping them clean. Cold water and soap
and water are useful, but are somewhat
ineffectual. Rough powders, such as cuttle-
fish, crabseyes, crude chalks and charcoal
are too severe on the enamel.
EUDENTA TOOTH PASTE is scientifi-
cally prepared to clean the teeth, sweeten
the breath, harden the gums and disinfect
the mouth (thus preventing decay).
EUDENTA is therefore regarded as “the
perfection of dental luxuries.” 1/- tube every-
where. Post free, 1/3. Free sample posted.
ROCIvE. TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne
THE THREE PILED
RIFLES AND LETTERS
B.S.A. APPEAR ON ALL
GENUINE B.S.A.
FITTINGS BICYCLES.
TRADEMARKS
B.S.A.
?r
M
Every
cycle ride a
joy ride
if your bicycle is built of
genuine B.S.A. Fittings.
Don’t risk a breakdown by
riding a cheap “pattern 1 ’
machine—make satisfaction
certain and the ride enjoy-
able both for your friends
and yourself by riding, a
B.S.A.
RIDE A BICYCLE
BUILT OF GENUINE
“THOROUGHLY BRITISH.”
All genuine B.S.A. Fittings are
guaranteed interchangeable .
B.S.A. Handbook Free.
D. Y. RENNIE,
(representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
Australian Buildings, MELBOURNE.
JJIOR 01
SICK AND WOUNDED
BOYS.—When you have finished with
this paper, kindly post to Colonel Murdoch,
Red Cross Commissioner, 54 Victoria Street,
London, E.C.
THE 6UPPENT CALL
m,
S™ 0, s OME
f
THE HOME AND OVEPSEAS PEMEDY.
We have just landed a large stocK of the
well-Known American Brand of
MOSLER SUPERIOR SPARKING PLUGS
suitable for the “Ford” Engine.
These Plugs are a distinctly High-grade line, and we are offering them at the low
price of 2/9 each. (Special Prices for Quantities.)
This replenishment of our stocks comes at a most opportune time, on account of
the great scarcity of “Ford” Plugs.
PRICES OF OTHER MAKES OF PLUGS ARE:—
“LODGE” Sparking Plugs, in Metric, *4 in., % x 18, A.L.A.M. . . 5/- each.
for “Fords,” 5/- each.
“SPHINX” Sparking Plugs, 3 point in Metric, and %in. ....... 4/- each.
“CHAMPION” Sparking Plugs, Hy. Stone, 5/- ea.; in Metric, %in., % x 18.
„ „ ~ “Reliance,” Sparks in water .... 5/6 each.
Platinum Points 6/6 each.
“REFLEX” Sparking Plugs, No. 1, 3/-; “Giant,” 4/-; “Extended,” 3/3 each.
„ „ „ No. 1, Mica, 3/9; Giant Mica 5/- each.
“MOSLER,” Sparking Plugs, “Vesuvius,” for Buick, 4/6; for Metz, 4/6;
and Ordinary, 4/6 each.
Robert C. Swan & Company Limited,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STEEL CASTINGS—SpeciaI Good Quality
o
*
We have made about 300 CAST-STEEL LOCOMOTIVE and
CARRIAGE-WHEEL CENTRES for THE VICTORIAN RAILWAYS,
and have made or are making large quantities of CAST-
STEEL WHEELS and TYRES for THE PRAHRAN and MALVERN
TRAMWAYS TRUST (Melb.), ADELAIDE MUNICIPAL TRAM-
WAYS TRUST, HOBART TRAMWAY TRUST, etc. These
concerns require STEEL CASTINGS OF UNDOUBTED
RELIABILITY, and they are obtaining them from us.
We make Steel Castings up to 8 TONS in weight, SUITABLE FOR ALL PURPOSES
AND TO MEET ANY STANDARD SPECIFICATION. . Send your enquiries to us.
xcv
Victoria Street,
Richmond, Victoria.


MANGROVITE"
LEATHER
vn
IS UNSURPASSED IN QUAtITY.
“MA.NGKOVITE” Rawhide, which
differs from all other so-called Rawhide
Belting, is often referred to by users, whose
transmission troubles have been overcome by
if alone, as the World's Best Belting.
Manufactured only bv
MANGROVITE BELTING Limited,
Late Charles Ludowici,
49 Wynyard Square, nr. G.P.0., SYDNEY
Advice and Price List on application.
Ultra Capital High-Speed Steel
CAPITAL
“ULTRA CAPITAL”
HIGH-SPEED STEEL
for Tool Holders and
Automatic Machines.
READY FOR USE. ONLY REQUIRES GRINDING.
The Eagle 8 Globe Steel Co. Ltd.,
Dannemora Steel Works, SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND.
Hardened Ready in Short
Lengths for Use in Tool
Holders and Boring Bars,
etc.
IN CARDBOARD BOXES OF
HALF-DOZEN PIECES-
Fx3" £x3" | x 3" f 6 "x4" fx4"
PRICES ON APPLICATION.
THE EAGLE 8 GLOBE STEEL CO.
379 Kent St.,
SYDNEY.
264 Latrobe Street, Melbourne.
Charles Atkins & Co. Ltd., Adelaide.
Fremantle. Kalgoorlie.
John Reid & Nephews, Brisbane.
DICK’S BA LATA BELTING.
The DICKBELT
has again proved its superiority and economy
by its acceptance in the following important
tenders for 1916-17 :
N.S.W. Railways.
N.S.W. Tender Board for Dock-
yard.
Victorian Railways.
Victorian State Coal Mine.
Broken Hill Proprietary Mine.
Has maximum strength, life, evenness.
Has minimum stretch and slip.
Therefore ensures economy in cost, power and
machinists’ time.
Sole Agents:—
i JAMES HARD/E & CO.,
Sydney, Melbourne & Adelaide .
PAUL & GRAY LTD., Newcastle. [1
SOMETHING
BETTER!
If Engineers and Steam-plant Owners would only
realise the importance of EFFICIENTLY insulating
their Boilers, Steam PipeS, etc.* more attention might
be paid to this particular matter. Great economies
can be effected in this direction, in some cases the coal
consumption being reduced as much as 50%. But the
insulating material must be of the very best.
Carbonate of Magnesia is to-day recognised as the best
non-conductor of heat. Newail's Coverings are com-
posed of 85% of this material, and 15% Asbestos—the
Asbestos being used for binding purposes only—and in
addition possess innumerable advantages over all other
forms of lagging. Newail’s Coverings are used, practi-
cally exclusively, by the British Admiralty, N.S.W.
and Victorian Governments, and have been used
throughout the Ultimo. White Bay, Melbourne', Perth
and Canberra Power Stations.
“NEWALL’S” MAGNESIA
STEAM PIPE & BOILER
COVERINGS.
SECTIONAL FOR PIPE, BENDS, TEES & FLANGES.
PLASTIC FOR BOILERS, HEATERS, etc.
J. WILPRIPGE & SINCLAIR Ltd., 97 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at Melbourne, Brisbane,
Perth; and Auckland, N.Z.
PERMASITE
Quality ALL AUSTRALIAN PRODUCTIONS.
GYPSUM and
PLASTER OF PARIS.
PERMASITE MANUFACTURING CO. PTY. LTD.,
9 QUEEN STREET, MELBOURNE. [l
OIL-ENGINE BUYER'S!
Before placing your orders elsewhere, inquire our prices for the
most Up-to-date Oil Engines ever seen in Australia, viz.:—
'.iff!!.,:
V. W •••'• V->
ML
m
s.fcj!EßE>\l
&
“Big Chief”.*“Field W”
(America’s Best)
Fitted with Webster Mag-
neto. Regular Pulley and
Usual Accessories. Each
thoroughly tested.
“BEST TERMS on EARTH.”
LOWEST PRICES.
R.L.Scnitton&Co.L' 1 :
161 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Li ifiTCTi in r« sgm i
"
Oft
G
KAbtt
%
v;
o
o
ft
mnW
Broken Castings
any size, can be reliably repaired by Brazing: with aid
of
Patent Lava Fiux
Tensile and Torsional Strain maintained.
Heat necessary to weld destroys cast-iron.
Sold in tins: lib., 50/-; 51b., 25/-: 20z., 7/6.
lib. Flux will braze broken easting 15 feet long by
1 inch thick—instructions round each tin.
Employed by Victorian State Departments and all over
Commonwealth. Ask your hardware firm or applv to us.
REPAIR YOUR OWN OASTS. NO EXPERT KNOWLEDGE REQUIRED.
CAST-IRON BRAZING CO. (Reg.)
45 Sty eraser Street, St. Hilda, Victoria.
j-
fH
< i{ ~
:
ELECTRIC LIGHT FOR ALL
DELCO-LICHT -8“"* tHlu u >
Full Particulars from and Stocks on Hand—
SOLE AGENTS :
N.S.W. and VICTORIA
WARBURTON, FRANK! LTD.,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
QUEENSLAND—
SMELLIE & CO. LTD.,
BRISBANE.
:
isfeg 2-Stand Shearing Plant
The Outfit that “Swept the Poll” in the 1917 Season.
EASTLAKE BROS., Wombat, Young, write:—Plant worked
splendidly. The Leather Cone Clutch is a great improvement. .. .
gives same smooth drive as a big wdolshed plant. . . .The type ‘Z’
Kerosene Engine is a little beauty. We use it also for driving
chaff cutter and elevator.”
SCORES OF SIMILAR TESTIMONIALS RECEIVED.
Order Your Plant for 1918 now to ensure getting it.
DANGAR, CEDYE S CO. Ltd., 9 -13 Young St., Sydney
PIONEERS of SHEEP-SHEARING MACHINERY.
jfSELF LUBRICATING
ONE PEICE SPINDLE
wiJ-h long bearings
both ends
LEATHER FRICTION
cone engages smoothly -
aryd -silently
New improved Lister Bracket
for 2 Stand Combined Plante
NOTE THE FEATURES OF THIS
EISTER BRACKET:
Works without Rattle or Harshness.
No other 2-Stand Bracket compares with
it.
BILLETT’S PATENT HOT-AIR TUYERE
EFFECTS A SAVING OF 30 PER CENT. IN LABOR AND FUEL.
GIVES A QUICK,
CLEAN FIRE.
WORKS WITHOUT
WATER.
xcvcxv
HEATS THE IRON IN
ONE-THIRD LESS TIME.
HENCE LESS HEAT AND
FATIGUE FOR SMITH.
Owing to Larger sales we are able to announce a further Reduction in Prices.
No. 1, Suitable for Coach builders, 25-
No. 2, General Work, 30 - No. 3, Heavy, 401-
net P. 0.8. SYDNEY. IP YOUR STORE CANNOT SUPPLY WRITE DIRECT.
Victorian Agents : McPHERSON PTY. LTD., Melbourne.
“GUTHRIDG” GARBAGE DESTRUCTOR
Will Burn up Refuse of
all kinds, wet o * dry,
without giving off any
offensive odor.
No skill necessary to
operate, and no expense.
Supplied to nearly every
State School in New
South Wales.
xvc
USED BY BOARDS OF
HEALTH FOR BURNING
RATS, AND BY SYDNEY
UNIVERSITY FOR CAR=
CASES OF ANIMALS
and OTHER OFFENSIVE
MATTER.
ADOPTED WITH GREAT
SUCCESS BY MANY
HOSPITALS.
SMALL, SIZE FOR COTTAGES, 50/- All Stores.
; N« GUTHRIDGE LTD., 10-12 Georg'e Street, Camperdown, Sydney
